9 Macronutrient
KEYWORDS: hiv, patients, treatment, supplementation, nutritional, art, weight, months, hiv patients, bmi, food, lns, mass, trial, infection


insecurity is associated with unsafe sex . Although HIV often thrives in the context of socioeconomic inequality rather than being strictly poverty driven, poor individuals are much more vulnerable to the consequences of HIV. For both TB and HIV, even early disease stages may reduce work capacity and result in household food insecurity, in addition to leading directly to negative energy and nutrient balances. Furthermore, undernutrition may increase susceptibility to HIV and TB infection, and it is certainly a risk factor for development of TB disease (i.e., a flare-up of latent TB). Thus, as a consequence of poor nutritional status prior to exposure, as well as the indirect and direct effects of the infection and disease, TB and HIV patients are often wasted when diagnosed and treatment is initiated. It is important to note that even patients with normal and high BMI may have lost lean mass (i.e., muscle and organ mass), as well as fat mass and specific nutrients. A study among TB patients in Mwanza, Tanzania, found that TB patients starting treatment had a mean weight deficit of 10 kg and a mean grip strength deficit of 7 kg, based on comparison with age- and sex-matched neighborhood controls . HIV co-infection was not associated with increased deficits, probably reflecting that the risk of TB disease occurs early in the course of HIV infection, as compared to other opportunistic infections (Fertel and Pitchenik, 1989). Deficits of weight and muscle strength are likely to be smaller among HIV patients when starting ART but depend on ART eligibility criteria, treatment lag time, and the proportion of patients with TB and other opportunistic infections. gEnEraL and diSEaSE-SpEcific outcomES which may translate into effects on human capital. In addition, nutritional deficiencies may affect a range of disease-specific outcomes among individuals who are exposed to TB or HIV, who have latent or symptomatic infection, or who are receiving treatment for these infections, as shown in Table 9.1. During treatment of either TB or HIV, nutritional deficiencies—or lack of food to go with the medicine—may affect adherence, absorption, and metabolism of the drugs. These factors may result in too high or too low drug concentrations, which may result in toxicities or impair effi- cacy and lead to treatment failure and resistance. Nutritional deficiencies may also directly affect immune functions and the infectious agent. As proof of principle, low intake of zinc results in what amounts
