9 Macronutrient
KEYWORDS: hiv, patients, treatment, supplementation, nutritional, art, weight, months, hiv patients, bmi, food, lns, mass, trial, infection


lead to treatment failure and resistance. Nutritional deficiencies may also directly affect immune functions and the infectious agent. As proof of principle, low intake of zinc results in what amounts to a dietary thymectomy—that is, disappearance of the thymus, a key immunological organ in both young animals and children (Schonland, 1972). Additionally, host selenium deficiency has been shown to turn avirulent coxsackie virus virulent in a laboratory animal model . The effects of a nutritional intervention do not necessarily negate the effects of the deficiencies it targets. Even if a deficiency is considered harmful, the nutritional intervention aimed to correct it may paradoxically also be harmful. This has mainly been a concern in relation to micronutrient supplementation, where iron supplementation has been shown to increase infectious disease mor- bidity in children living in areas with a high incidence of malaria . Harmful effects of nutrients given in a food matrix may be less likely, unless very high amounts are given, but the possibility cannot be precluded. Similarly, giving energy to starved individuals may also be harmful, as it may lead to the potentially fatal refeeding syndrome (Heimburger et al., 2010; Koethe et al., 2013). A nutritional intervention, therefore, cannot simply be assumed to be beneficial or even harmless but should be tested in rigorously conducted trials before being implemented. Macronutrient Supplementation to HIV and TB Patients during Treatment 311 TABLE 9.1 Potential General and Disease-Specific Effects of Nutritional Deficiencies Child growth and development Risk of infections Risk of chronic diseases Human capital Working capacity Intelligence and educational achievement Quality of life Survival HIV-specific Natural history Sexual transmission Treatment outcomes Mother-to-child transmission Progression of HIV infection Opportunistic infections Drug absorption, metabolism, efficacy, toxicity, resistance Adherence to HIV treatment Risk of metabolic syndrome Mortality TB-specific Natural history Primary, latent infection Overt TB disease Progression of disease Treatment outcomes Drug absorption, metabolism, efficacy, toxicity, resistance Resolution of lesions Sputum conversion, cure, recurrence, and relapse Mortality WHy nutritionaL Support during trEatmEnt? Among TB patients starting treatment, both low BMI and poor early weight gain have been asso- ciated with increased mortality (Zachariah et al., 2002; Hanrahan et al., 2010) and other adverse treatment outcomes (Khan et al., 2006; Krapp et al., 2008). Similarly, among HIV patients, low BMI at the start of ART is a predictor of mortality (Lawn et al., 2008; May et al., 2010; Gupta et al., 2011), as is low weight
