9 Macronutrient
KEYWORDS: hiv, patients, treatment, supplementation, nutritional, art, weight, months, hiv patients, bmi, food, lns, mass, trial, infection


HIV patients, low BMI at the start of ART is a predictor of mortality (Lawn et al., 2008; May et al., 2010; Gupta et al., 2011), as is low weight gain during the early stage of treatment (Madec et al., 2009; Koethe et al., 2010; Sudfield et al., 2013). For example, among 40,000 adult HIV patients starting ART in Lusaka, Zambia, a very clear inverse relationship was seen between initial BMI and mortality (Koethe et al., 2010). Compared to those with BMI above 18.5 kg/m2, mortality was roughly two, three, and five times higher in those with BMI of 17 to 18.5, 16 to 17, or below 16 kg/m2, respectively. Although such findings from observational studies certainly suggest a role for nutrition, it is important to note that the low BMI and poor weight gain could reflect disease severity and treatment failure, although attempts have been made to adjust for these factors. Yet, although possible effects on mortality spur an interest in nutrition, there are many other important potential outcomes to be considered. Most TB and HIV patients will gain weight when put on treatment. Unfortunately, this often leads clinicians to wrongly conclude that the drugs are effective in solving the nutritional problem that the patient may have had, and they consequently see no need for nutritional support. In fact, such a judgment accords with the WHO recommendations for TB patients, as long as weight is not declining and BMI is above 18.5 after the first two months of treatment (WHO, 2013). For example, if an adult TB patient with moderate undernutrition gains 2 kg of weight during the first two months of TB treatment, after which the BMI is 19, then the patient is considered to have nutri- tionally recovered. If this patient, however, had originally lost 10 kg, then the aim would obviously be to regain not just the weight lost but also the lean mass (i.e., muscles and organ tissues, which 312 Nutrition and HIV: Epidemiological Evidence to Public Health are essential to a range of body functions). If the regain of weight is inadequate, or if the lean mass that was lost is replaced by fat, then the patient will not recover the body functions lost and may be further at risk of diabetes and other chronic diseases. It is therefore not correct to argue that treatment of the infection, which initially caused the weight loss,
