9 Macronutrient
KEYWORDS: hiv, patients, treatment, supplementation, nutritional, art, weight, months, hiv patients, bmi, food, lns, mass, trial, infection


and may be further at risk of diabetes and other chronic diseases. It is therefore not correct to argue that treatment of the infection, which initially caused the weight loss, and a subsequent weight gain will solve the nutritional problems of the patient. In fact, in the short term it will actually increase the requirement for energy and nutrients as the patient tries to regain the lost lean and fat mass. CURRENT EVIDENCE tubErcuLoSiS Only few trials on the effect of food supplementation among TB patients at the initiation of treat- ment have been conducted. A Cochrane Review from 2011 identified six trials assessing the effects of macronutrient supplements . In Singapore, 36 TB patients were randomized to receive either a high-energy commercial nutritional supplement for six weeks with counseling or counseling alone . The supplementation resulted in a greater weight gain and, importantly, greater gains in lean mass and grip strength. Recruitment and supplementation began up to two weeks after the start of TB treatment. The patients were initially given 600 kcal/day, which increased to 900 kcal/day after one week, if tolerated. In Timor-Leste, 270 new TB patients were randomized to receive nutritional support or nutritional advice only for 32 weeks (Martins et al., 2009). For the first eight weeks, a daily bowl of feijuada—a local stew with meat, red kidney weeks, a food parcel containing unprepared red kidney beans, rice, and oil was given. The interven- tion had no effect on treatment completion or adherence but resulted in a modestly higher weight gain (10.1% vs. 7.5% of baseline weight). In Andhra Pradesh, India, 100 TB patients, who had started treatment within two weeks were randomized to receive nutritional supplementation or nutritional advice only for three months (Jahnavi and Sudha, 2010). The supplement was locally produced sweet balls made from wheat flour, caramel, groundnuts, and vegetable ghee, which provided 6 g protein and 600 kcal energy, as well as 100 g of sprouted grains and nuts for vitamins and minerals, provided daily. The inter- vention group had greater weight gain after three months (3.4 kg vs. 1.1 kg, or 8.6% vs. 2.6%). In Tamil Nadu, India, a pilot study was carried out among 103 TB patients, of whom 22 were HIV co-infected . The patients were randomized to either a local cereal–lentil mixture that provided 930 kcal and a micronutrient supplement or no supplementation. There was no effect on
