9 Macronutrient
KEYWORDS: hiv, patients, treatment, supplementation, nutritional, art, weight, months, hiv patients, bmi, food, lns, mass, trial, infection


were HIV co-infected . The patients were randomized to either a local cereal–lentil mixture that provided 930 kcal and a micronutrient supplement or no supplementation. There was no effect on compliance to or completion of treatment or on body composition after one year. In Mwanza, Tanzania, two trials were carried out among 1250 TB patients, of which 50% were HIV co-infected (PrayGod et al., 2011a, 2012). Those with culture-positive TB and HIV co-infec- tion were randomized to receive either one (150 kcal/d) or six (880 kcal/day) biscuits daily for the first two months of treatment . The higher energy supplement had no overall effects on body weight or grip strength after two months but was associated with 1.3 kg greater grip strength after five months. However, subgroup analysis showed that, among those with CD4 counts above 350 cells/µL, the intervention increased weight by 1.9 kg at two months and grip strength by 2.3 kg at five months, whereas there was no effect among those with low CD4 counts. Hiv infEction In Malawi, 491 adult HIV patients starting ART were randomized to supplementation with LNS or a corn–soy blend that provided 1360 kcal/day for three months . Only patients with BMI below 18.5 were included. At the end of the three-month supplementation period, those receiving LNS had 0.5 greater increase in BMI and 0.7 kg greater increase in lean mass, measured Macronutrient Supplementation to HIV and TB Patients during Treatment 313 using bioimpedance. There was no difference between the groups in mortality (27% vs. 26%) or other secondary outcomes, such as CD4 count, HIV viral load, adherence to ART, or quality of life. A Cochrane Review of macronutrient intervention trials among HIV patients included only trials using unsupplemented control groups . No published trial data among adults were included from HIV-prevalent, food-insecure settings; however, unpublished data from a trial in Kenya of malnourished HIV patients starting ART were described. In this trial, 1057 HIV patients, stratified according to ART status (pre-ART patients and patients initiating ART within five weeks of recruitment), were randomized to receive a supplement of 300 g/day of fortified, blended food or no supplement for six months; both groups received nutrition counseling for 12 months. The fortified, blended food was based on maize and soy, with whey protein concentrate, and provided 1320 kcal/day. The trial found that, after the first three months, supplementation increased weight gain by 1.22
