9 Macronutrient
KEYWORDS: hiv, patients, treatment, supplementation, nutritional, art, weight, months, hiv patients, bmi, food, lns, mass, trial, infection


food was based on maize and soy, with whey protein concentrate, and provided 1320 kcal/day. The trial found that, after the first three months, supplementation increased weight gain by 1.22 kg in pre-ART patients and 1.12 kg in ART patients compared to no supplementation. In Ethiopia, 318 HIV patients starting ART were included in the ARTFood trial, which compared the effect of LNS with whey and soy protein for the first three months of ART or the subsequent three months . HIV patients eligible for ART were included if BMI was above 16, yet those with BMI between 16 and 17 were randomized to the early supplementation group only. Thus, it was possible to compare the effect of LNS with whey or soy to no supplementation for the first three months among patients with BMI above 17. After three months, those receiving LNS had increased their weight by 2.05 kg in addition to the 0.87-kg weight gain seen among participants receiving only ART. Furthermore, those on early supplementation gained 0.90 kg of lean body mass, assessed by the deuterium dilution technique, compared to individuals in the control group, who in effect did not gain lean mass at all. After six months, when all groups had completed three months of supplementation, those receiving the delayed intervention had a 1.2-kg greater weight gain compared to those receiving supplementation early. This secondary comparison was complicated by the fact that those receiving early supplementation actually lost weight during the subsequent three months; however, this weight loss was accounted for by loss of fat mass, whereas lean mass accretion contin- ued. Actually, consumption of the supplement was reduced during the first few weeks after the start of ART ; hence, intake was greater in those with delayed supplementation, but this only partially explained the difference in weight gain. At six months, there was no difference in lean mass, but grip strength and physical activity were higher in the early supplemented group. In addition, at three months, those receiving the LNS with whey had a significant increase in CD3 and CD8 and a marginally significant increase in CD4 when compared with the delayed supplementation group. The differences between the LNS with whey or soy, however, were not significant. In contrast to other studies, this trial did not exclude patients with BMI above a certain cut-off and found that the effects of nutritional supplementation were not modified
