9 Macronutrient
KEYWORDS: hiv, patients, treatment, supplementation, nutritional, art, weight, months, hiv patients, bmi, food, lns, mass, trial, infection


not significant. In contrast to other studies, this trial did not exclude patients with BMI above a certain cut-off and found that the effects of nutritional supplementation were not modified by BMI. In Tanzania and Zambia, the NUSTART trial assessed the effects of not only macro- and micro- nutrients but also bulk minerals, such as phosphorus, potassium, and magnesium, given in LNS. Patients starting ART with BMI below 18.5 were randomized to receive 30 g of LNS from recruit- ment until two weeks after the start of ART and then 250 g of LNS from weeks 2 to 6 of ART, with additional macro- and microminerals, as well as vitamins. The control group received similar amounts of LNS, with no added vitamins and minerals. This trial was based on the paradoxi- cally high early mortality among HIV patients starting ART, despite indications that the drugs are effective in reducing viral load, and the observation that mortality is predicted by low serum phos- phate, a common metabolic abnormality associated with malnutrition. This led to the hypothesis that mortality was due to ART-related hypophosphatemia, similar to refeeding hypophosphatemia, seen when starved individuals receive too much energy too early. Both groups gained about 5 kg between referral for ART and 12 weeks of ART, and high-energy supplements were associated with greater increases in anthropometric measures in the group with high vitamins and minerals . However, there was no difference in mortality rate, which was high in both groups (NUSTART Study Team et al., 2015). 314 Nutrition and HIV: Epidemiological Evidence to Public Health RESEARCH GAPS SuppLEmEntation productS and approacHES A wide variety of intervention products have been used with few direct comparisons between them. In the trial in Malawi , LNS improved anthropometry more than a corn–soy blend. In the NUSTART trial, LNS with high levels of vitamins and minerals had modest benefits for anthropometry over and above unfortified LNS . In the ARTFood trial, there were no significant differences between LNS that contained whey or soy protein. Overall, it appears that high-nutrient, energy-dense LNS are a good choice in the short term for patients who begin ART in a malnourished state. However, long-term supplementation with these products is unlikely to be sustainable, so they are suitable only for acute care. Longer term nutritional inter- ventions will require other foods or other approaches, such as food vouchers or livelihood support. incLuSion critEria—aLL or
