9 Macronutrient
KEYWORDS: hiv, patients, treatment, supplementation, nutritional, art, weight, months, hiv patients, bmi, food, lns, mass, trial, infection


so they are suitable only for acute care. Longer term nutritional inter- ventions will require other foods or other approaches, such as food vouchers or livelihood support. incLuSion critEria—aLL or LoW bmi? Nutritional intervention studies for HIV or TB usually target patients with low BMI or food inse- curity, or some combination of the two. The inclusion criteria should depend, in part, on what type of intervention is planned. BMI is easier to measure precisely as a trial or programmatic outcome compared with food insecurity. It is important if nutritional interventions for HIV or TB are to be included in policies and scaled up that there is a strong evidence base from trials with clear aims and inclusion criteria and evaluations that clearly address the aims, something that has not always been the case in the past. timing of SuppLEmEntation Both the ARTFood (Olsen et al., 2013, 2014) and NUSTART trials found that appetite was depressed in the first couple of weeks after starting ART, presumably in response to the drugs themselves. This appetite depression likely reduces the potential benefits of nutritional supplements started at the time of starting ART, which is the most frequent approach in current con- trolled studies. Findings from the ARTFood trial, described above, also suggested some benefits of delaying supplementation until after viral load has declined. From a nutritional standpoint, it might seem sensible to delay the nutritional support until several weeks after starting ART. Research is needed to determine the optimal timing of supplementation. However, this may not always be provided, are not scheduled within the first few weeks after starting ART in all ART programs. An alternative approach, which needs to be investigated, would involve slowly increasing the amount of supplementation after initiating ART. infLammation The NUSTART trial found that increases in anthropometric measures and lean mass were associ- ated with decreases in systemic inflammation, as measured by C-reactive protein (CRP) (NUSTART Study Team et al., 2015; Rehman et al., 2015; PrayGod et al., 2016). Fat mass deposition, in contrast, was not associated with changes in CRP. This is similar to a finding of the ARTFood trial in which lean mass deposition at three months of ART was greater in patients who had obtained an undetect- able HIV viral load. In both cases, it appears that ongoing infection and inflammation inhibit lean tissue deposition and, perhaps, result in fat deposition instead. In view
