9 Macronutrient
KEYWORDS: hiv, patients, treatment, supplementation, nutritional, art, weight, months, hiv patients, bmi, food, lns, mass, trial, infection


obtained an undetect- able HIV viral load. In both cases, it appears that ongoing infection and inflammation inhibit lean tissue deposition and, perhaps, result in fat deposition instead. In view of the need for lean mass in the short term and the potential adverse effects of fat deposition in the long term, it is important to investigate the reasons for ongoing inflammation and its effects on tissue deposition in patients being treated for HIV or TB. Macronutrient Supplementation to HIV and TB Patients during Treatment 315 riSk of cHronic diSEaSES Interventions for HIV and TB in low-income countries have focused on acute care and nutritional deficiencies; however, HIV is now becoming a chronic disease, and there is evidence that long-term ART can increase the risks of lipid abnormalities, diabetes, hypertension, and cardiovascular dis- ease . There is also evidence that severe infections themselves (i.e., not just the treatments) can have similar long-term risks. Currently, not much is known about the development of such risks in patients from low-income countries who have been treated for HIV or TB or about how to manage these risks. However, these chronic diseases in other situations can be mitigated by nutritional interventions, so there is a need to determine what interventions may work and be acceptable in low-income settings. pErcEptionS, accEptabiLity, and programmatic iSSuES Although the ARTFood and NUSTART trials both found good adherence to LNS products, several nutritional programs have reported problems with low adherence to supplementation among HIV patients. It is therefore important to consider how supplementation can be scaled up so that it can be implemented through the normal HIV care facilities. There is a continued need to determine the optimal duration and amount of supplementation. The ARTFood trial showed beneficial effects of three months of supplementation with 200 g/day of LNS, although other experiences from supple- mentation programs suggest that larger amounts of LNS for extended periods may not be feasible (Kebede and Haidar, 2014). Other barriers to adherence have been identified as patients’ concerns about the risk of HIV disclosure and, in some settings, patients’ dislike of the taste of LNS, which is often very different from their usual foods. On the other hand, the fact that LNS products are distinct from household foods and provided with medical treatment can facilitate patient adherence and reduce the risk of supplements being shared among household members . It is crucial to consider
