RESEARCH LETTERS
KEYWORDS: argenteus, staphylococcus, aureus, species, staphylococcus argenteus, france, care, finger, performed, tertiary, case, tertiary care, reported, infection, emerging


nov., two ascosporic yeast species isolated from the gut of beetles. Int J Syst Evol Microbiol. 2015;65:3580–5. PubMed Staphylococcus argenteus (formerly S. aureus clonal ijsem.0.000460 complex 75) is an emerging species in the S. aureus 10. Clinical Laboratory Standards Institute. Reference method for broth dilution antifungal susceptibility testing of yeasts, complex (1). Several studies reported sporadic cases of 3rd edition, approved standard (M27–A3). Wayne (PA): The S. argenteus infections mainly in Asia, Oceania, and the Institute; 2008. Pacific Islands (2) but rarely in Europe (3). We report the clinical characteristics of a community-acquired bone and joint infection with S. argenteus in a child living of Medical Education and Research, Medical Microbiology, 2nd Fl, in France. Sector-12, Chandigarh, India; email: , At the end of July 2017, a 9-year-old boy with no unusual medical history or previous local trauma was hos- pitalized because of acute signs of infection of the third finger on his right hand. He was first seen in a local hos- pital and given an initial diagnosis of cellulitis (arthritis). Two days later, he was admitted to the emergency pediat- ric ward of a tertiary care hospital where a surgical joint exploration was performed and confirmed the diagnosis of arthritis associated with an abscess of the extensor ten- don sheath (Table). Surgical microbiological samples cultured on blood agar plates (aerobic conditions at 37°C for 24 h) grew a strain that was identified by matrix-assisted laser desorption/ ionization time-of-flight mass spectrometry (Microflex LT, Bruker, France) as having log scores ranging from 1.39 to 1958 Emerging Infectious Diseases • www.cdc.gov/eid • Vol. 24, No. 10, October 2018 RESEARCH LETTERS 1.87 (corresponding to S. aureus, S. simiae, or S. epidermi- Because there was no initial reliable identification of dis). These scores were lower than those required for reliable this strain, we performed molecular tests. The strain was identification of species (2.3) or genus (2.1) levels. Anti- negative for nuc, lukS-PV, mecA, mecC, tst-1, and spa microbial drug susceptibility testing (Vitek2; bioMérieux, genes. The V3 region sequence of the gene coding for Marcy l’Etoile, France) identified resistance to penicillin G. 16S rRNA showed 100% identity with that for S. aureus. Table. Clinical characteristics and timeline for patient with community-acquired Staphylococcus argenteus sequence type 2250 bone and joint infection, France, 2017* Characteristic Jul 30 Aug 2 Aug 8 Sep 5 Nov 2 Hospital Local Tertiary care Tertiary care Tertiary care Tertiary care Clinical
