RESEARCH LETTERS
KEYWORDS: argenteus, staphylococcus, aureus, species, staphylococcus argenteus, france, care, finger, performed, tertiary, case, tertiary care, reported, infection, emerging


GEN, gentamicin; MRI, magnetic resonance imaging; ND, not determined; OFX, ofloxacin; RIF, rifampin. †Reference range 4.5–13.5 × 109 cells/L. ‡Reference value <5 mg/L. Emerging Infectious Diseases • www.cdc.gov/eid • Vol. 24, No. 10, October 2018 1959 RESEARCH LETTERS Microarray analysis (S. aureus Genotyping Kit 2.0; Alere such as Panton-Valentine leucocidin and enterotoxins, Technologies GmbH, Jena, Germany) assigned this strain have been described in S. argenteus isolates (4,8–10). to the clonal complex 2250/2277 of one of the main clus- In contrast to reports from Aboriginal communities in ters of S. argenteus (2,4). The patient was discharged and Australia (6) and remote populations in the West Pacific received an oral antimicrobial regimen for 6 weeks; healing region (online Technical Appendix Table), resistance to was closely monitored (Table). methicillin was not detected in strains from the case- Five weeks later, the patient was hospitalized because patients in this study. of recurrent signs of infection (Table). Magnetic reso- In contrast to S. aureus, the effect of carriage of S. ar- nance imaging of the right hand showed osteitis (online genteus has not been studied. For our case-patient, screen- Technical Appendix Figure, panel A, ing for S. argenteus nasal carriage was not performed. gov/EID/article/[DATE]-0727-Techapp1.pdf). A sec- However, a recent study of foodborne illness outbreaks re- ond surgical procedure was performed (Table). Cultures ported the ability of this bacterium to spread in the environ- of surgical samples remained sterile after 10 days and a ment and colonize food handlers (8). 16S rDNA PCR result was negative. Histologic analysis S. argenteus is an emerging species for which its clini- showed chronic osteitis (online Technical Appendix Fig- cal spectrum remains poorly described. Further studies are ure, panel B). An oral drug regimen, including clindamy- needed to better address the global prevalence and clini- cin and ofloxacin for 6 weeks, was prescribed. Long-term cal role of this bacterium, including its potential effects in outcome was good (Table), despite persistence of stiffness chronic human infections. in the finger. This rare case of osteomyelitis caused by S. argenteus Acknowledgments highlights the difficulties in correctly identifying this spe- We thank the parents of the boy for providing written consent to cies. As with S. schweitzeri, S. argenteus is an emergent report the case; the technical staff of the Laboratory of Infectious species that has been described as part of the S. aureus Agents and Hygiene of the University Hospital of Saint-Etienne species
