RESEARCH LETTERS
KEYWORDS: argenteus, staphylococcus, aureus, species, staphylococcus argenteus, france, care, finger, performed, tertiary, case, tertiary care, reported, infection, emerging


case; the technical staff of the Laboratory of Infectious species that has been described as part of the S. aureus Agents and Hygiene of the University Hospital of Saint-Etienne species complex (5). S. argenteus was first described in and the National Reference Centre for Staphylococci, Lyon, 2002 as a CC75/sequence type T1223 clone of S. aureus in France for assistance; and Philippe Michelucci for English Aboriginal communities in Australia (6). This species was editing of the manuscript. named S. argenteus in 2011 because of its lack of staphy- loxanthin production (1). Most studies reported prevalence histologic data; E.H. performed surgery; F.G., A.C., and A.T. rates for S. argenteus among strain collections of 0.16%– analyzed the bacterial strain; and F.L., E.B.-N., and P.O.V. 18.6% according to geographic distribution, with a clear critically revised the manuscript and made final corrections. predominance in Asia and the West Pacific region (1,5–7) All authors approved the final manuscript. and a rare description in Europe (3). In our case, no epidemiologic link to Asia or the West Pacific region was observed. The clinical spectrum of in- About the Author fections with S. argenteus remains poorly described, but Dr. Rigaill is a microbiology fellow at the University Hospital varies from asymptomatic nasal carriage (8) to communi- of Saint-Etienne, Saint-Etienne, France. His primary research ty-acquired infections, including skin and soft tissue in- interest is identifying the determinants of S. aureus carriage. fections (1,6), bacteremia (1,9), and foodborne illness (8). Apart from 2 cases of bacteremia reported by Dupieux et 1. Tong SY, Sharma-Kuinkel BK, Thaden JT, Whitney AR, Yang S-J, poorly detailed (online Technical Appendix Figure). To Mishra NN, et al. Virulence of endemic nonpigmented northern the best of our knowledge, only 1 case of osteomyelitis Australian Staphylococcus aureus clone (clonal complex 75, S. has been reported (7). argenteus) is not augmented by staphyloxanthin. J Infect Dis. Previous cases and the case we report indicate that 2013;208:520–7. 2. Moradigaravand D, Jamrozy D, Mostowy R, Anderson A, S. argenteus could be responsible for invasive infec- Nickerson EK, Thaipadungpanit J, et al. Evolution of the tions that are difficult to manage. S. argenteus was ini- Staphylococcus argenteus ST2250 clone in northeastern tially considered to be less virulent than S. aureus on Thailand is linked with the acquisition of livestock-associated the basis of a study in Australia, which reported that this staphylococcal genes. MBio. 2017;8:e00802–17. species was associated mainly with skin
