Diagnosis and Clinical Management of Monogenic Diabetes
KEYWORDS: diabetes, monogenic, monogenic diabetes, mody, pubmed, crossref, genetic, pubmed crossref, testing, neonatal, neonatal diabetes, clinical, genetic testing, free, free article


ABSTRACT Monogenic forms of diabetes are responsible for 1-3% of all young-onset diabetes. The multiple genes involved can cause one or both of the main phenotypes- congenital (neonatal) diabetes or MODY (maturity-onset diabetes of the young). The timely and accurate genetic diagnosis of monogenic diabetes provides an opportunity to target therapy to the underlying gene cause, refine management, and identify affected and at-risk relatives. As there is clinical overlap of monogenic diabetes with type 1 and type 2 diabetes, presenting clinical and laboratory features warrant careful attention to aid in diabetes classification and to identify those individuals who warrant genetic testing. These include those negative for islet cell autoantibodies with persistent c-peptide, suggesting a diagnosis other than type 1 diabetes. While obesity does not preclude monogenic diabetes, certainly individuals lacking obesity and other features of metabolic disease should be referred for diagnostic genetic testing. Understanding who and how to refer for genetic testing and how to interpret test results is key to precision medicine in diabetes. The most common forms of monogenic diabetes have specific therapies and management strategies that can optimize glycemic control and minimize complications resulting in improved health outcomes for affected individuals. For complete coverage of all related areas of Endocrinology, please visit our on-line FREE web-text, WWW.ENDOTEXT.ORG . INTRODUCTION The most common forms of diabetes- type one (T1DM) and type two (T2DM)- are polygenic disorders. There are many identified genes, wherein certain variants cause a genetic predisposition to the development of diabetes. However, they are insufficient to cause disease without additional contributing environmental factors. In contrast, monogenic forms of diabetes are due to highly penetrant variants in single genes or chromosomal abnormalities that are sufficient by themselves to cause diabetes. Phenotypic overlap between monogenic diabetes and polygenic forms means that clinicians must thoughtfully consider diabetes classification in each patient, at diagnosis and thereafter, and order genetic testing to confirm clinically suspected monogenic diabetes. This chapter will focus on understanding the following important clinical factors for pediatric and adult patients: Why test? How to test and interpret results. Who to test? How to treat and manage specific subtypes of monogenic diabetes. WHY SHOULD YOU DO GENETIC TESTING FOR MONOGENIC DIABETES? There are two main clinical phenotypes of monogenic diabetes- neonatal diabetes (also called congenital diabetes) and MODY ( M aturity- O nset D iabetes of the Y oung). Neonatal diabetes has a prevalence of 1:90,000 – 1:250,000
