Diagnosis and Clinical Management of Monogenic Diabetes
KEYWORDS: diabetes, monogenic, monogenic diabetes, mody, pubmed, crossref, genetic, pubmed crossref, testing, neonatal, neonatal diabetes, clinical, genetic testing, free, free article


monogenic diabetes- neonatal diabetes (also called congenital diabetes) and MODY ( M aturity- O nset D iabetes of the Y oung). Neonatal diabetes has a prevalence of 1:90,000 – 1:250,000 and MODY accounts for 1-3% of diabetes diagnosed under 30 years of age (~0.4% of all diabetes) ( 1 - 3 ). Both of these broad phenotypes include syndromic diabetes and there is overlap of causative genes- with MODY, by definition representing autosomal dominant diabetes and neonatal diabetes being caused by a number of overlapping ‘MODY genes’ as well as having several genetic causes unique to congenital forms. There are over 20 known genetic causes of neonatal diabetes mellitus and 14 genes that have been implicated as causes of MODY ( Table 1 ). While monogenic diabetes is uncommon, accurately diagnosing monogenic diabetes through genetic testing has important clinical and economic considerations for the patient, and often for first-degree relatives as well. For the most common subtypes of monogenic diabetes, gene-directed management improves outcomes, alerts the physician of non-pancreatic features that may accompany diabetes, and identifies affected and at-risk family members who may benefit from diagnostic or predictive genetic testing, respectively. Table 1. Genetic Causes of Monogenic Diabetes View in own window Common Causes of Neonatal Diabetes Common Causes of MODY KCNJ11, ABCC8, INS, 6q24 GCK, HNF1A, HNF4A, HNF1B chromosome abnormalities Rare Causes of Neonatal Diabetes Rare Causes of MODY GATA6, EIF2AK3, PTF1A, GLIS3, FOXP3, PDX1, NEUROD1, KLF11*, CEL, GCK, PDX1, HNF1B, GATA4, SLC2A2, SLC19A2, PAX4*, INS, BLK*, ABCC8, NEUROD1, NEUROG3, NKX2.2, RFX6, IER3IP1, KCNJ11, APPL1 MNX1, ZFP57, STAT3 * Evidence for these as MODY genes is limited There have now been several economic evaluations of genetic testing for monogenic diabetes. In children, testing for monogenic diabetes has been found to be cost-saving, a rare feat in medicine ( 4 - 6 ). The addition of cascade testing in MODY- that is testing of first-degree relatives of affected individuals- further enhances this cost-effectiveness ( 6 ). In adults, routine screening for monogenic diabetes has not yet proven to be cost-effective, which is due to both the absolute number of affected adults and the high percentage of T2DM, where costs of gene-targeted therapy compared to some T2DM regimens, particularly metformin alone, are not substantially different ( 7 , 8 ). However, results strongly suggest that testing only those patients with a high pre-test probability of monogenic diabetes would be cost-effective (
