Diagnosis and Clinical Management of Monogenic Diabetes
KEYWORDS: diabetes, monogenic, monogenic diabetes, mody, pubmed, crossref, genetic, pubmed crossref, testing, neonatal, neonatal diabetes, clinical, genetic testing, free, free article


are not substantially different ( 7 , 8 ). However, results strongly suggest that testing only those patients with a high pre-test probability of monogenic diabetes would be cost-effective ( 7 ). Thus, genetic testing for adults should still be carried out when careful consideration of the clinical picture is inconsistent with a diagnosis of T1DM or T2DM and is suggestive of MODY or another form of monogenic diabetes. HOW SHOULD GENETIC TESTING FOR MONOGENIC DIABETES BE CARRIED OUT? Medical insurance coverage for genetic testing varies not only by insurance company but also by disease. Thus, a prior authorization should be sought before ordering diabetes genetic testing and patients should be instructed to contact their insurance companies to clearly understand any co-pays for which they will be responsible. Some commercial testing companies offer patient protection programs to limit out-of-pockets expenses but typically patients must enroll in such programs prior to ordering genetic testing. In the past, genetic testing was accomplished through Sanger sequencing, typically of one gene at a time until a causative mutation was determined or all relevant genes were tested without detected abnormality. This process was labor and time intensive and costly. Now, monogenic diabetes panel are frequently used in place of Sanger sequencing of a single gene ( 5 , 9 , 10 ). There are a number of CLIA-certified commercial labs offering monogenic diabetes panels, including Ambry, Athena Diagnostics, Blueprint Genetics, Prevention Genetics, Invitae, and GeneDx (this list is non-exhaustive and will change over time). Laboratories at some academic institutions also have the capability to provide CLIA-certified genetic testing for monogenic diabetes. The genes carried on panels vary by laboratory and are often divided into a neonatal diabetes panel and a MODY panel. In general, gene panels will be the appropriate test to order because of the overlapping clinical features between various types of monogenic diabetes, but there are cases where the clinical features clearly fit with a distinct gene. Research-based genetic testing for monogenic diabetes is available through a number of different studies. The methodology does not differ from that used in clinical laboratories, but results are not CLIA certified. While it is at a provider’s discretion to act on research findings based on clinical judgment, CLIA confirmation of the finding is advised. In such cases, clinicians must specify that they are confirming a previous research finding so that labs will only sequence the affected
