Diagnosis and Clinical Management of Monogenic Diabetes
KEYWORDS: diabetes, monogenic, monogenic diabetes, mody, pubmed, crossref, genetic, pubmed crossref, testing, neonatal, neonatal diabetes, clinical, genetic testing, free, free article


judgment, CLIA confirmation of the finding is advised. In such cases, clinicians must specify that they are confirming a previous research finding so that labs will only sequence the affected gene and look for the specific variant identified. This testing is also appropriate for cascade genetic testing of first-degree relatives. Confirmation of a known genetic finding is relatively inexpensive and typically approved by insurance (authors’ practice experience). HOW SHOULD GENETIC TESTING RESULTS BE INTERPRETED? Content of genetic testing reports can vary widely based on the laboratory ( 11 ). There is a growing recognition by experts in monogenic diabetes and laboratories themselves that hard-to-interpret genetic testing reports are a disservice to clinicians and patients. It is likely that in the relatively near future, testing reports will be easier to interpret. Until then, recommendations for interpretation include: Look at the classification of any variants found as well as any provided references of the published literature relevant to the genetic finding. Terminology used includes pathogenic, likely pathogenic, variant of uncertain significance (VUS), likely benign, and benign. Determine if testing includes gene dosage analysis. Sanger sequencing and some panels will not detect partial or whole gene deletions. However, many laboratories will employ additional methods to detects deletions, such as Multiplex Ligation-dependent Probe Amplification (MLPA) or exon-level array comparative genomic hybridization (CGH). If this has not been included, and genetic testing returns negative in a highly suspicious case, additional testing for copy number variation is warranted. It is important to understand that due to the redundancy in our genetic code, many gene variants are tolerated with no effect on gene production, transcription, or expression. Thus, a variant in a known monogenic gene in a patient with suspected monogenic diabetes does not mean that the variant is causing their diabetes ( 12 ). Additionally, some genes and some variants reported in the published literature that were once thought to cause monogenic diabetes have subsequently proven to be non- causal or have come into question, but they persist in the literature. ClinGen is a NIH-funded resource that defines the clinical relevance of genes and variants ( https://www.clinicalgenome.org ). There are gene curation expert panels and variant curation expert panels for monogenic diabetes. Currently the work of the gene curation panel is focused on the 14 genes designated as MODY, a number of which have questionable data to support them as legitimate monogenic diabetes genes ( BLK
