Diagnosis and Clinical Management of Monogenic Diabetes
KEYWORDS: diabetes, monogenic, monogenic diabetes, mody, pubmed, crossref, genetic, pubmed crossref, testing, neonatal, neonatal diabetes, clinical, genetic testing, free, free article


the gene curation panel is focused on the 14 genes designated as MODY, a number of which have questionable data to support them as legitimate monogenic diabetes genes ( BLK , KLF11 , PAX4 ). Seek advice from an expert in monogenic diabetes for any level of uncertainty in interpretation of test results before discussing results with the patient and particularly before making changes to diabetes management ( ude.ogacihcu@setebaidcinegonom ). WHO SHOULD YOU TEST FOR MONOGENIC DIABETES? There are many examples of systemic screening for monogenic diabetes in various populations and the result is always the same: if you conduct genetic testing among those diagnosed as T1DM or T2DM, you will find monogenic diabetes cases ( 2 , 13 - 16 ). While the clinical overlap between different forms of diabetes can make accurate classification challenging, there are several clinical and laboratory features that should prompt consideration of genetic testing for monogenic diabetes ( Table 2 ) ( 17 , 18 ). All children with diabetes onset before 6 months of age should receive immediate genetic testing for monogenic diabetes as a genetic cause is very likely. Beyond 6 months, T1DM becomes the predominant diagnosis; however, a percentage of infants will still have a monogenic etiology, and many advocate for genetic testing in all cases diagnosed under 12 months of age ( 19 ). Another approach is to test these children for pancreatic autoantibodies, which, if positive, would be consistent with autoimmune type 1 diabetes. Those with negative autoantibodies should undergo testing for monogenic diabetes ( 18 ). Importantly, there are monogenic causes of early-onset autoimmune diabetes with additional features that suggest a single gene defect ( 20 ). A type 1 diabetes genetic risk score along with age can be helpful in discriminating these monogenic autoimmunity cases from polygenic type 1 diabetes ( 21 ). While treatment of monogenic autoimmune diabetes will continue to be replacement doses of insulin, accurate genetic diagnosis will help with prognostication and clinical management decisions. Table 2. Clinical Features That May Indicate Monogenic Diabetes View in own window Age Diagnosis of diabetes <6 months of age is strongly suggestive of congenital/neonatal monogenic diabetes MODY onset typically occurs in pubertal children or young adults (diagnosis is typically but not always <35 years) Body habitus Obesity does not preclude a monogenic cause of diabetes, but rates of obesity in monogenic diabetes are the same as population
