Diagnosis and Clinical Management of Monogenic Diabetes
KEYWORDS: diabetes, monogenic, monogenic diabetes, mody, pubmed, crossref, genetic, pubmed crossref, testing, neonatal, neonatal diabetes, clinical, genetic testing, free, free article


diabetes ( 8 ). However, the same clinical features of body habitus, features of insulin resistance or metabolic syndrome, paired with personal and detailed family history are useful to screen in people for additional evaluation. Age at diabetes onset is also an important consideration, as MODY onset is rarely beyond 35 years of age. There is a prediction model for MODY, known as the MODY calculator, which is available by website and as an app ( https://www.diabetesgenes.org/exeter-diabetes-app/ ). The calculator was developed in an European white population and so must be used with caution for other groups, but on-going work will help to clarify its use in non-white populations ( 23 ) ( 24 ). Importantly, until universal genetic testing is available for diabetes classification, some cases will be missed by applying these ‘clinical filters’ for selecting patients for testing, particularly those who have both monogenic diabetes and obesity. Because of the selection bias that results from excluding obese patients from testing, the impact of obesity on management and outcomes of specific subtypes of monogenic diabetes is not well understood. HOW SHOULD YOU MANAGE SPECIFIC SUBTYPES OF MONOGENIC DIABETES? Several of the common forms of monogenic diabetes have specific management as discussed below and in Table 3 . KATP-Related Neonatal Diabetes Mutations in the KCNJ11 and ABCC8 genes, encoding the subunits of the KATP channel, most commonly manifest as neonatal diabetes, and can cause permanent or transient forms (mutations in KCNJ11 and ABCC8 are also rare causes of MODY) ( 25 , 26 ). Transient forms have a median onset of 4 weeks and remit at a median age of 35 weeks, but may relapse later in life. Neurodevelopmental difficulties are a common feature of mutations in these genes. KATP-related neonatal diabetes can usually be treated with high doses of sulfonylureas, which also helps with the neurodevelopmental phenotype ( 26 ). Frequently people can achieve excellent diabetes control on sulfonylureas ( 27 ). More severe mutations and longer duration of misdiagnosis are associated with decreased success in transitioning from insulin therapy to sulfonylureas ( 28 ). 6q24-Related Transient Neonatal Diabetes 6q24-related transient neonatal diabetes is an imprinted disorder diagnosed through methylation analysis of the 6q24 differentially methylated region of chromosome 6. It has a more severe phenotype than KATP-related transient neonatal diabetes with severe intra-uterine growth restriction and earlier diabetes onset, but earlier remission. Diabetes onset occurs in the first
