Diagnosis and Clinical Management of Monogenic Diabetes
KEYWORDS: diabetes, monogenic, monogenic diabetes, mody, pubmed, crossref, genetic, pubmed crossref, testing, neonatal, neonatal diabetes, clinical, genetic testing, free, free article


congenital hyperinsulinemic hypoglycemia may occur in affected infants Diabetes onset is typically in adolescence or young adulthood Low apolipoproteins and triglycerides Sulfonylureas are first line therapy DPP4 inhibitors have also been shown to be effective in HNF4A-MODY HNF1B-MODY (previously referred to as MODY5) HNF1B, Hepatocyte nuclear factor 1-beta Developmental renal disease, especially cysts, genitourinary malformations, gout, pancreatic insufficiency Elevated liver enzymes Elevated uric acid Low magnesium Most patients will require insulin therapy Oral hypoglycemic agents may be successful GCK-MODY (previously referred to as MODY2) GCK, Glucokinase Mild, non-progressive hyperglycemia is present at birth Diagnosis is often incidental (routine screening or investigation for an unrelated symptom) FBG typically ranges from 99-144 mg/dL HbA1c ranges from 5.6-7.6% HNF1A-MODY HNF1A-MODY is the most common form of MODY worldwide. It is characterized by a progressive insulin secretory defect with diabetes onset often in adolescence or young adulthood ( 32 , 33 ). Laboratory features include a low renal glucose threshold resulting in glucosuria at lower-than-expected blood glucose levels ( 34 ). There is often a large incremental increase between fasting and 2-hour glucose on oral glucose tolerance tests. Additionally, hsCRP levels are lower than in other diabetes types ( 35 ). Cardiovascular disease is higher in individuals with HNF1A-MODY compared to their unaffected relatives. Thus, despite a typically high HDL level, related to the activity of the transcriptional factor, statins should be considered in individuals with HNF1A-MODY ( 36 ). Hepatic adenomas can also be a feature of HNF1A-MODY, and liver adenomatosis has been reported in 6.5% of those with HNF1A-MODY in one study. While routine screening for liver adenomatosis in HNF1A-MODY hasn’t been a universal recommendation, it can present with intra-abdominal or intratumoral bleeding in 25% of cases, making asymptomatic screening clinically reasonable ( 37 ). First line diabetes treatment for HNF1A-MODY is low-dose sulfonylureas, which partly bypass the defective insulin secretory response ( 38 ). Individuals with HNF1A-MODY can be very sensitive to sulfonylureas and experience hypoglycemia even on very small doses. Guidelines for transitioning patients can be found here . Studies of HNF1A-MODY have shown good maintenance on sulfonylurea therapy and lower rates of diabetes-related complications. Predictors of treatment success include shorter duration of diabetes, lower HbA1c, and lower BMI at the time of genetic diagnosis and less weight gain over time ( 39 , 40 ). Meglitinides can be used in place of sulfonylureas, as they have a similar mechanism
