Diagnosis and Clinical Management of Monogenic Diabetes
KEYWORDS: diabetes, monogenic, monogenic diabetes, mody, pubmed, crossref, genetic, pubmed crossref, testing, neonatal, neonatal diabetes, clinical, genetic testing, free, free article


the time of genetic diagnosis and less weight gain over time ( 39 , 40 ). Meglitinides can be used in place of sulfonylureas, as they have a similar mechanism of action but bind less strongly to the receptor ( 41 ). GLP-1 agonists and DPP-IV inhibitors have also been studied in HNF1A-MODY, and have been shown to be efficacious and may be useful adjunctive therapy ( 42 , 43 ). These can be used for adjunctive therapy in cases where glycemic control is inadequate with sulfonylurea monotherapy or when hypoglycemia precludes use of sulfonylureas and meglitinides (typically early in diabetes). HNF4A-MODY HNF4A-MODY is similar in phenotype to HNF1A-MODY, but much less common (5-10% of MODY) ( 33 ). One distinct feature is a family history of macrosomia in about half of affected individuals and diazoxide-responsive hypoglycemia in neonates due to hyperinsulinism, which can last for days to years. This hyperinsulinemic hypoglycemia occurs in ~15% of HNF4A-MODY but has only rarely been reported to occur in HNF1A-MODY ( 44 ). Again, first line treatment for HNF4A-MODY is a sulfonylurea ( 45 ). DPP-4 inhibitors and GLP-1 agonists have also been studied to a limited extent in HNF4A-MODY ( 46 , 47 ). HNF1B-MODY Heterozygous mutations in the HNF1B gene present with variable phenotypes which include isolated developmental cystic kidney disease, isolated diabetes, the combination of both (known as RCAD- r enal c ysts a nd d iabetes), and may additionally have a number of other features. These include asymptomatic elevation of liver enzymes, genital tract malformations, hypomagnesemia wasting, hyperuricemia and gout. Typically, there is hypoplasia of the pancreas which is frequently accompanied by pancreatic exocrine dysfunction, which can be subclinical or overt ( 48 , 49 ). Importantly, the same gene variant can lead to any of the above presentations. It is not uncommon to have families with a mixture of phenotypes. Thus, a family history of cystic renal disease in a patient presenting with young-onset diabetes atypical for either type 1 or type 2 diabetes should prompt consideration of this gene. Unlike the other hepatic nuclear transcription factor-MODY subtypes, HNF1B-MODY is not typically sensitive to sulfonylureas ( 50 ). There have not been rigorous studies of other non-insulin therapies in HNF1B-MODY. The majority of affected individuals require insulin therapy ( 51 ). The HNF1B gene resides on the long arm of chromosome 17. Deletions of 17q12 lead to neurologic
