Diagnosis and Clinical Management of Monogenic Diabetes
KEYWORDS: diabetes, monogenic, monogenic diabetes, mody, pubmed, crossref, genetic, pubmed crossref, testing, neonatal, neonatal diabetes, clinical, genetic testing, free, free article


in HNF1B-MODY. The majority of affected individuals require insulin therapy ( 51 ). The HNF1B gene resides on the long arm of chromosome 17. Deletions of 17q12 lead to neurologic features, including cognitive impairment and autism spectrum disorder and may also include HNF1B-MODY ( 52 , 53 ). There is a 17q12 foundation that such patients can be directed to for additional support as their neurologic features are often challenging. GCK-MODY GCK-MODY is the second most common subtype of MODY and is distinctive from other MODY types and polygenic forms of diabetes. It is characterized by stable, mild hyperglycemia owing to an increased set-point for glucose stimulated insulin release. HbA1c ranges from 5.6-7.6%( 54 ). The microvascular and macrovascular complications typical of other polygenic and monogenic forms of diabetes are exceedingly rare in GCK-MODY ( 55 ). Pharmacologic treatment is not effective or needed for GCK-MODY, with the exception of pregnancy in a woman with GCK-MODY ( 56 ). In pregnancy, appropriate management is predicated on the genotype of the fetus. If the fetus inherits the GCK mutation, mildly elevated maternal blood glucose levels are sensed as normal by the fetus and treatment is not needed. If the fetus does not carry the mutation, the mildly elevated maternal blood glucose levels will prompt increased insulin secretion by the fetus which can lead to macrosomia. Unfortunately, fetal genotype is usually unknown, although this should change with advancing fetal cDNA applications. Current practice is to infer fetal genotype based on abdominal circumference (FAC) on second trimester ultrasound, with a FAC >75% suggestive of unaffected status. In these cases, insulin therapy should be considered. However, blood glucose targets should be adjusted to higher levels than typical for pregnancy to account for the counterregulatory response that is altered in GCK-MODY ( 57 ). It is important to note that best management of GCK-MODY in pregnancy is debated, with some favoring universal early insulin administration. However, given the risks of maternal hypoglycemia, risk of impaired fetal growth in affected babies, and lack of demonstrated efficacy, these authors endorse the former management, guided by known or inferred fetal genotype ( 58 ). ADDITIONAL BENEFITS OF ACCURATE MONOGENIC DIABETES DIAGNOSIS There are several monogenic diabetes subtypes where insulin is the best or only treatment available. Additionally, for those subtypes with genetically-targeted therapy discussed above, not all affected individuals will respond or be maintained on these therapies and
