Diagnosis and Clinical Management of Monogenic Diabetes
KEYWORDS: diabetes, monogenic, monogenic diabetes, mody, pubmed, crossref, genetic, pubmed crossref, testing, neonatal, neonatal diabetes, clinical, genetic testing, free, free article


insulin is the best or only treatment available. Additionally, for those subtypes with genetically-targeted therapy discussed above, not all affected individuals will respond or be maintained on these therapies and insulin may be necessary. However, genetic testing for accurate diagnosis is still beneficial for multiple reasons. Establishing a molecular diagnosis can often provide a unifying diagnosis for multiple, seemingly unrelated medical conditions, such as in the case of HNF1B-MODY. It also allows for earlier and proactive medical surveillance of extra-pancreatic manifestations, such as early referral to developmental specialists for children with KATP-related neonatal diabetes and neurodevelopmental challenges. Additionally, at-risk and affected family members can be identified and conception counseling can be provided. CONCLUSIONS The substantial worldwide burden of diabetes, in terms of sheer numbers and also cost, make it imperative that outcomes are optimized. Early accurate classification to direct management is a crucial step. Since the conception of the Precision Medicine Initiative in 2015, more attention and excitement has been garnered toward tailoring treatment to the individual characteristics of patients. Monogenic diabetes represents an opportunity to use a precision medicine approach to improve therapy selection and management of diabetes to improve glycemic outcomes for affected individuals, often while lowering burden and cost of care ( 59 ). The lessons that we learn from the continued investigation into the single gene causes of diabetes will inform our understanding of polygenic diabetes, including how to best subclassify the heterogeneous presentations of type 2 diabetes to guide first-line therapy selection and add-on therapies, expanding the scope of precision medicine in diabetes. REFERENCES 1. Kanakatti Shankar R, Pihoker C, Dolan LM, Standiford D, Badaru A, Dabelea D, Rodriguez B, Black MH, Imperatore G, Hattersley A, Ellard S, Gilliam LK., SEARCH for Diabetes in Youth Study Group. Permanent neonatal diabetes mellitus: prevalence and genetic diagnosis in the SEARCH for Diabetes in Youth Study. Pediatr Diabetes. 2013; 14 (3):174–180. [ PMC free article : PMC4101463 ] [ PubMed : 23050777 ] [ CrossRef ] 2. Shepherd M, Shields B, Hammersley S, Hudson M, McDonald TJ, Colclough K, Oram RA, Knight B, Hyde C, Cox J, Mallam K, Moudiotis C, Smith R, Fraser B, Robertson S, Greene S, Ellard S, Pearson ER, Hattersley AT. UNITED Team. Systematic Population Screening, Using Biomarkers and Genetic Testing, Identifies 2.5% of the U.K. Pediatric Diabetes Population With Monogenic Diabetes. Diabetes Care. 2016; 39 (11):1879–1888. [ PMC free article : PMC5018394 ]
