Chapter 6: Other Specific Types of Diabetes
KEYWORDS: diabetes, insulin, patients, type, risk, syndrome, type diabetes, glucose, increased, resistance, insulin resistance, cystic, disease, clin, prevalence


6–1 CHAPTER 6 OTHER SPECIFIC TYPES OF DIABETES Gregory P. Forlenza, MD, Antoinette Moran, MD, and Brandon Nathan, MD Dr. Gregory P. Forlenza is Assistant Professor of Pediatrics at the Barbara Davis Center for Diabetes at the University of Colorado School of Medicine, Aurora, CO. Dr. Antoinette Moran is Professor of Pediatrics and Division Head of Pediatric Endocrinology and Dr. Brandon Nathan is Associate Professor of Pediatrics at the University of Minnesota, Minneapolis, MN. Received in final form March 23, 2016. SUMMARY Although type 1 and type 2 diabetes represent the vast majority of affected individuals with the disease, not all cases of diabetes fit neatly into these categories. A smaller in magnitude, but clinically significant, subset of patients may develop diabetes from a different pathophys­ iology. These forms may occur at any stage of life and be acquired environmentally, iatrogenically, as a result of a genetic mutation that predisposes to type 1, type 2, or a combined form of diabetes, or in other metabolic disorders where hyperglycemia is more likely to develop. Congenital viral infections, predominantly rubella and cytomegalovirus (CMV), have historically been linked to diabetes. Although they are presently not observed often in the United States, rubella continues to represent a potential important etiology given fluctuation in vaccination rates. Multiple other viruses have been implicated as potential pathogens in triggering the autoimmune response or through direct infection of the pancreas. Cystic fibrosis-related diabetes (CFRD) affects 12% of children with cystic fibrosis and 33% of adults with cystic fibrosis. CFRD is an important comorbidity to diagnose and treat, as patients with CFRD are at increased risk for mortality and treatment with insulin improves clinical outcomes. Pancreatitis-related diabetes may account for 0.5%–1% of all new cases of diabetes in the general population. Some of these individuals will seek elective pancreatectomy due to persistence of pain associated with pancreatitis flares and poor quality of life. Islet autotrans­ plantation continues to develop as a procedure to prevent diabetes in these patients. Hemochromatosis, a disorder of iron metabolism, is present in 0.5%–1% of the population in the United States. Within this population, 7%–40% will eventually develop diabetes. These patients have evidence for both increased insulin resistance and insulin deficiency, which can lead to clinical diabetes. Drugs associated with diabetes represent perhaps one of the most important other types of diabetes given the sheer numbers of pharmacologic agents implicated and the numbers of patients
