Chapter 6: Other Specific Types of Diabetes
KEYWORDS: diabetes, insulin, patients, type, risk, syndrome, type diabetes, glucose, increased, resistance, insulin resistance, cystic, disease, clin, prevalence


clinical diabetes. Drugs associated with diabetes represent perhaps one of the most important other types of diabetes given the sheer numbers of pharmacologic agents implicated and the numbers of patients treated. Glucocorticoids are the most commonly encountered and most frequently identified agents that result in diabetes. In addition, other immunosuppressive agents used in transplant medicine, phar­ macologic agents used in cardiovascular disease prevention, some antimicrobial and antiviral agents, hormone replacement therapies, and environmental pollutants have all been linked to development of diabetes. Diabetes can also be part of an immune-mediated syndrome or underlying endocrinopathy. These forms may occur in disorders with a single gene defect (e.g., APS-1 or IPEX syndrome) and highlight the importance of screening for other endocrinopathies. Increased secretion of several hormones, including cortisol, growth hormone, thyroid hormone, aldosterone, epinephrine, and gut hormones, can also result in diabetes. Thus, patients with hypersecretion syndromes should be screened for diabetes as a comorbid condition. Several relatively common genetic syndromes are associated with an increased risk for either type 1 or type 2 diabetes. Diabetes can be particularly challenging in populations with these syndromes, which are often associated with developmental delays, making preven­ tion efforts paramount. Screening and treatment should be part of routine management in those syndromes where diabetes has been most strongly linked. Other unique associations have emerged representing the last grouping of other diabetes forms. Diabetes occurs in up to 25% of transplant recipients. Risk is predominantly modified by the type of agent used posttransplant and inversely correlated with length of time from transplant. Infants with a history of intrauterine growth retardation are more likely to have characteristics of type 2 diabetes later in life, illustrating the importance of in utero nutrition and fetal programming. Similarly, children and adults with severe malnutrition may also develop diabetes that is distinct from other forms. Mutations in mitochondrial DNA can result in another form of maternally inherited diabetes, either as part of a distinct neurologic syndrome or on its own. 6–2 DIABETES IN AMERICA, 3rd Edition INTRODUCTION Although type 1 and type 2 diabetes represent the vast majority of affected individuals with disease, not all cases of diabetes fit neatly into one of these two common categories. A smaller in magni­ tude, but clinically significant, subset of patients may develop diabetes stemming from a different pathophysiology. These forms may occur at any stage of life and be acquired environmentally, iatrogenically, as
