Chapter 6: Other Specific Types of Diabetes
KEYWORDS: diabetes, insulin, patients, type, risk, syndrome, type diabetes, glucose, increased, resistance, insulin resistance, cystic, disease, clin, prevalence


monoclonal gammopathy, skin changes) syndrome Unclear; increased levels of cytokines Glucose intolerance or diabetes in 50% of patients with POEMS Congenital syndromes with long-term risk for diabetes Down syndrome Unclear; increased risk of both autoimmune processes and obesity and insulin resistance Threefold to fourfold increased relative risk compared to general population Bardet-Biedel syndrome Unclear; increased obesity Unknown Alstrom syndrome Unclear; increased insulin resistance and obesity Up to 68% develop type 2 diabetes by late adolescence. Prader-Willi syndrome (PWS) Related to insulin resistance and obesity 7%–24% of patients with PWS Turner Syndrome Increased risk for autoimmune conditions and insulin resistance Fourfold increased risk of type 1 diabetes; threefold to fourfold increased risk of type 2 diabetes Williams syndrome Unknown Unknown Unique populations at risk for diabetes Transplant recipients Unclear and variable; increased insulin resistance and insulin deficiency; medication-related 2%–25% of posttransplant patients Intrauterine growth retardation patients Increased insulin resistance 47% increased risk of diabetes over the lifetime Malnutrition Unclear Very rare in the United States Mitochondrial disorders Impaired islet cell function Up to 1% of diabetes patients Type 1b diabetes Unclear; insulin-deficiency, resulting in DKA Increased risk in select ethnicities Chapter 1 Classification and Diagnosis of Diabetes summarizes all types of diabetes as classified by the American Diabetes Association; types of diabetes arising from single gene defects are described in Chapter 7 Monogenic Forms of Diabetes. Patients with any form of diabetes may require insulin treatment at some stage of their disease. Such use of insulin does not, of itself, classify the patient. APS, autoimmune polyendocrine syndrome; CFRD, cystic fibrosis-related diabetes; CMV, cytomegalovirus; DKA, diabetic ketoac­ idosis; GH, growth hormone; GLUT, glucose transporter; HIV, human immunodeficiency virus; IPEX, immunodysregulation polyendocrinopathy enteropathy X-linked; POEMS, polyneuropathy, organomegaly, endocrinopathy, monoclonal gammopathy, skin changes syndrome; PWS, Prader-Willi syndrome. SOURCE: Original table constructed by G. Forlenza, A. Moran, and B. Nathan. 6–4 DIABETES IN AMERICA, 3rd Edition VIRAL INFECTIONS AND DIABETES CONGENITAL VIRAL INFECTIONS Congenital viral infections may play a direct role in causing diabetes, at least in a small subset of patients. In utero expo­ sures to rubella and, to a lesser extent, to cytomegalovirus (CMV) have been linked to subsequent development of diabetes. These cases are now extremely rare in the United States, related most notably to the MMR (Measles, Mumps, and Rubella) vaccine that has dramatically reduced the occurrence of congenital rubella in the Western world. The most recent estimates from the Centers
