Chapter 6: Other Specific Types of Diabetes
KEYWORDS: diabetes, insulin, patients, type, risk, syndrome, type diabetes, glucose, increased, resistance, insulin resistance, cystic, disease, clin, prevalence


most notably to the MMR (Measles, Mumps, and Rubella) vaccine that has dramatically reduced the occurrence of congenital rubella in the Western world. The most recent estimates from the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention report an incidence of one congenital rubella infection case per year in the United States, with the majority of such cases occurring in children whose mothers were born outside the United States (1). Given the potential reemer­ gence of viral disease in unvaccinated populations (2), congenital viral infections, rubella in particular, still represent an important form of diabetes to consider. Perhaps more importantly, a number of viruses, acquired outside the newborn period, have also been implicated in the pathophysiology of autoimmune, inflam­ matory forms of diabetes. Although the proposed mechanisms for this relationship are varied and not yet validated, viruses remain an important proposed etiology behind changes in incidence patterns in the United States and globally. Congenital Rubella The virus most strongly linked to diabetes is rubella. Congenital rubella infection, particularly when acquired during the first trimester, is a potentially lethal disease to the fetus. In those infants that survive, the congenital rubella syndrome (CRS) includes deafness, cataracts, and cardiac defects. A variety of other associations, some occurring later in childhood, have been described (3), including diabetes. Estimates for the prevalence of diabetes among survivors of congenital rubella vary widely. Some studies report no increased risk of diabetes (4,5). In contrast, in Australia, 20%–22% of survivors of a 1940–1941 congenital rubella outbreak cohort developed diabetes compared to 13% of controls (6,7,8). In the United States, the 1962–1965 rubella epidemic resulted in a reported 20,000 cases of CRS (1). Of these survivors, 12% were reported to be either treated with insulin for a diagnosis of diabetes or to have abnormal oral glucose tolerance (9). In another U.S. cohort, 22% of congen­ itally infected individuals developed diabetes or glycemic abnormalities (10). Differences among these studies are likely related to the severity of individual CRS (11), as well as differences in case reporting and data collection. The underlying pathophysiology for rubel­ la-associated diabetes is still controversial. Reflecting this confusion, the International Society for Pediatric and Adolescent Diabetes categorizes diabetes associated with rubella as not specifically a form of type 1 or type 2 diabetes. Proposed mechanisms for diabetes related to rubella infection include both a direct viral effect on the beta cell and increased insulin resistance (4). In
