Chapter 6: Other Specific Types of Diabetes
KEYWORDS: diabetes, insulin, patients, type, risk, syndrome, type diabetes, glucose, increased, resistance, insulin resistance, cystic, disease, clin, prevalence


type 1 or type 2 diabetes. Proposed mechanisms for diabetes related to rubella infection include both a direct viral effect on the beta cell and increased insulin resistance (4). In vivo, the rubella virus has been shown to disrupt insulin secretion (12), and this may occur through multiple mechanisms. Direct infection and resulting insulitis may occur in rubella and other viral infections (12,13,14,15), though this is not always observed. Autoimmune markers have been observed with an increased frequency in some (13), but not all studies (14). Therefore, predisposition to autoim­ mune diabetes following rubella may occur predominantly in those individuals already at an increased risk based on their human leukocyte antigen (HLA) haplotypes (9,15). Increased insulin resistance and a clinical picture more like type 2 diabetes have also been described in survivors of congenital rubella infection. In the Australian cohort, diabetes did not develop for decades, and the majority of patients were treated with diet alone or oral medication (6,7,8). Hyperinsulinemia associated with abnormal glucose tolerance has been shown in nonobese subjects with a history of intrauterine rubella infection (9). Intrauterine growth restriction is frequently associated with congenital viral infection and is associ­ ated with insulin resistance later in life (16), potentially offering a mechanism by which congenital rubella infection might predispose affected individuals to insulin resistance and later risk for type 2 diabetes (see the section Intrauterine Growth Retardation). Thus, data suggest some increased risk of diabetes following congenital rubella infec­ tion. This may be related to a combination of both direct viral-mediated in utero damage to beta cells and an element of postnatal insulin resistance related to intrauterine growth restriction. The diabetes phenotype of an individual may ultimately be dependent upon the severity of these insults, as well as genetic predis­ position to additional risk factors for beta cell dysfunction and insulin resistance. Congenital Cytomegalovirus CMV is one of the most common perinatal viral pathogens worldwide. In the most severe cases, intrauterine CMV infection can result in fetal demise, and amongst survivors, 10%–15% develop hearing loss, cognitive delays, and significant neuro­ logic impairment. Approximately eight out of every 1,000 infants born in the United States will be infected with CMV, and two of these infants (equal to 5,000 infants each year in the United States) will have permanent comorbidities related to their infection (17). The link between congenital CMV infec­ tions and childhood diabetes is weak. It was
