Chapter 6: Other Specific Types of Diabetes
KEYWORDS: diabetes, insulin, patients, type, risk, syndrome, type diabetes, glucose, increased, resistance, insulin resistance, cystic, disease, clin, prevalence


infants each year in the United States) will have permanent comorbidities related to their infection (17). The link between congenital CMV infec­ tions and childhood diabetes is weak. It was first proposed following a case report of a child infected with CMV in utero who developed diabetes at age 13 months (18). Further evidence was provided by demonstrating that CMV can directly infect beta cells of infected infants (19), though subsequent in vitro experimenta­ tion did not show a deleterious effect on fetal beta cell function (20). To this point, epidemiologic data have not supported an association between CMV infection and later diabetes (21,22). Similar data have not yet been published in the United States, but registry efforts, such as the Other Specific Types of Diabetes 6–5 Type 1 Diabetes Exchange (23) and the SEARCH for Diabetes in Youth study (24), may further clarify this issue. OTHER INFECTIONS Viral infections occurring after the newborn period have been postulated to play a role in the etiology of diabetes, though this remains a controversial area of study (25,26). Although not completely understood, the proposed viral-mediated mechanisms include the concepts of: molecular mimicry, where viral antigens such as those present on enteroviruses, are sufficiently similar to beta cell antigens to allow crossreactivity; gastrointestinal viral infections leading to changes in gut permeability and/or gastrointestinal flora; direct beta cell or nearby pancreatic tissue infection; or a general state of inflammation and immune activation, which “spills over” to the pancreas (27,28). These hypotheses suggest that in at-risk individuals, the immune system can be “fooled” by viruses into an inflammatory response against beta cells. Enteroviruses (i.e., Coxsackie virus B), rotovirus, CMV, and mumps exposures have all been associated with eventual onset of type 1 diabetes in this regard. A nonspecific viral-like illness is often observed prior to the onset of clinical disease, further complicating the etiologic picture. These clinical observations may represent the “stressful event” in individuals who already have underlying autoimmune insulitis that leads to clinical presentation rather than a direct infection of the pancreas. This topic is discussed in further detail in Chapter 11 Risk Factors for Type 1 Diabetes. CYSTIC FIBROSIS-RELATED DIABETES Cystic fibrosis-related diabetes (CFRD) is the most common comorbidity in persons with cystic fibrosis (CF). It can occur at any age but is more common as patients get older. CFRD occurs equally between men and women and has been reported in <5%
