Chapter 6: Other Specific Types of Diabetes
KEYWORDS: diabetes, insulin, patients, type, risk, syndrome, type diabetes, glucose, increased, resistance, insulin resistance, cystic, disease, clin, prevalence


cystic fibrosis (CF). It can occur at any age but is more common as patients get older. CFRD occurs equally between men and women and has been reported in <5% of children with CF age ≤10 years, 15%–20% of adolescents, 40% of those in their twenties and thirties, and approaching 50% of those age >40 years (Figure 6.1) (29). In CF centers across the United States, the median prevalence of CFRD is approximately 12% in individuals age <18 years and 33% in adults (30). Based on 2013 estimates from the Cystic Fibrosis Foundation patient registry, just over 28,000 individuals (50.3% children) have been diagnosed with CF in the United States, equating to an absolute number of 1,700 and 4,600 cases of CFRD in children and adults, respectively. In addition, 10%–30% of women with CF without CFRD develop gestational diabetes during pregnancy (31,32). Risk of diabetes in CF is increased by the use of glucocorticoids or multiple other factors associated with worsening pulmonary disease (33). Lung transplant recipients, who use other immuno­ suppressives in CF, represent another high-risk group (34). There are important differences among CFRD, type 1 diabetes, and type 2 diabetes (Table 6.2), which necessitate a unique approach to diag­ nosis and management. PATHOPHYSIOLOGY Reduced beta cell mass leading to insulin insufficiency is present in essentially all CF patients. Several proposed mecha­ nisms may account for the loss, including increased oxidative stress leading to beta cell injury, a dysfunctional CFTR protein, and collateral loss of islets as exocrine tissue is destroyed (35). Function of the remaining beta cells is influenced by genetic susceptibility (36) and, perhaps, the CF chloride channel defect itself (37). Variable insulin resistance-related inflammation and infection are not as important as insulin insufficiency in the pathogenesis of CFRD, but they assume a greater role during periods of stress, such as acute pulmonary infectious exacerbations. DIAGNOSIS The diagnostic criteria for CFRD were updated in 2010 in North America by the CFRD Guidelines Committee in a position statement cosponsored by the ADA and the Cystic Fibrosis Foundation and endorsed by the Pediatric Endocrine Society (38). The onset of CFRD is defined as the date a person with CF first meets diabetes diagnostic criteria, even if hyperglycemia subsequently abates. During a period of stable baseline health, the diagnosis of CFRD can be made in CF patients according to standard ADA criteria. It should be noted, however, that low or
