Chapter 6: Other Specific Types of Diabetes
KEYWORDS: diabetes, insulin, patients, type, risk, syndrome, type diabetes, glucose, increased, resistance, insulin resistance, cystic, disease, clin, prevalence


During a period of stable baseline health, the diagnosis of CFRD can be made in CF patients according to standard ADA criteria. It should be noted, however, that low or normal glycosylated hemoglobin (A1c) levels do not exclude the diagnosis of CFRD, because A1c is often spuriously low in CF, perhaps due to more rapid red FIGURE 6.1. Prevalence of Cystic Fibrosis-Related Diabetes, by Age and Sex, 2008 Among 527 patients followed at the University of Minnesota. SOURCE: Reference 29, copyright © 2009 American Diabetes Association, reprinted with permission from the American Diabetes Association 6–6 DIABETES IN AMERICA, 3rd Edition TABLE 6.2. Characteristics of Type 1 Diabetes, Type 2 Diabetes, and Cystic Fibrosis-Related Diabetes FEATURE TYPE 1 DIABETES TYPE 2 DIABETES CYSTIC FIBROSIS-RELATED DIABETES Underlying pathophysiology Insulin deficiency Primarily insulin resistance with variable insulin insufficiency Primarily insulin insufficiency, with features of insulin resistance Exocrine deficiency Absent Absent Present Risk for ketoacidosis Common Rare Rare Risk for microvascular complications Common Common Common, but milder Treatment Insulin only Diet, oral hypoglycemic agents, glucagon-like peptide-1 agonists, insulin Insulin only Dietary guidelines Well-balanced diet, account for carbohydrate consumption Lower calorie, balanced diet with limited carbohydrate consumption High calorie, well-balanced diet, account for carbohydrate consumption SOURCE: Original table constructed by G. Forlenza, A. Moran, and B. Nathan. blood cell turnover. Diagnosis of gesta­ tional diabetes in a CF patient should be made based on the recommendations of the International Association of Diabetes and Pregnancy Study Groups (39). CF patients with gestational diabetes are not considered to have CFRD, but they require CFRD screening 6–12 weeks after the end of the pregnancy. SCREENING CFRD develops insidiously, so screening is important. The North American CFRD Guidelines Committee determined that the 2-hour 75 g (1.75 g/kg) oral glucose tolerance test (OGTT) is the screening test of choice for CFRD (38). Nearly two-thirds of patients with CFRD do not have fasting hyperglycemia (29). It is important to identify these individuals because they are at high risk for significant lung function decline (40) and because insulin therapy has been shown to improve nutritional status in this population (41). Annual screening for CFRD should begin by age 10 years. During acute pulmonary exacerbations requiring intravenous anti­ biotics and/or systemic glucocorticoids, patients should be screened for CFRD by monitoring fasting and 2-hour post­ prandial glucose levels for the first 48 hours. Screening for CFRD by measuring mid- and immediate post-feeding plasma glucose
