Chapter 6: Other Specific Types of Diabetes
KEYWORDS: diabetes, insulin, patients, type, risk, syndrome, type diabetes, glucose, increased, resistance, insulin resistance, cystic, disease, clin, prevalence


should be screened for CFRD by monitoring fasting and 2-hour post­ prandial glucose levels for the first 48 hours. Screening for CFRD by measuring mid- and immediate post-feeding plasma glucose levels is recommended for CF patients on continuous enteral feedings. Women with CF who are planning a preg­ nancy should be screened for preexisting CFRD, and screening for gestational diabetes is recommended at both 12–16 weeks and 24–28 weeks gestation, using a 2-hour 75 g OGTT. There is emerging evidence that mid-OGTT glucose levels may be even more predictive of clin­ ical decline than the 2-hour level, and thus, consideration should be given to measuring glucose levels every half-hour during the 2-hour test (42,43,44,45). The role of continuous glucose monitoring is not yet clear. Glycemic elevation can be detected by continuous glucose monitoring in patients with CF long before the OGTT diagnosis of diabetes, but the clinical signif­ icance of these brief elevations in glucose excursion remains unknown (42,46). MANAGEMENT Persons with CFRD should be treated by a multidisciplinary team with expertise in diabetes and CF and should receive ongoing diabetes self-management education. Insulin is the only recom­ mended medical treatment (38). Insulin stabilizes lung function and improves nutritional status in patients with CFRD (29,41,47). Patients with CFRD should strive to attain plasma glucose goals per the ADA recommendations for all people with diabetes, bearing in mind that individualization is important and higher insulin doses are required during times of acute illness. Oral diabetes agents are not recommended outside the context of clinical research trials. CFRD dietary recommendations are very different from those for people with type 1 or type 2 diabetes (Table 6.2). CF patients require a high-calorie, high-salt, high-fat diet. Caloric restriction is almost never appropriate. For patients on insulin therapy, carbohydrate counting is useful for determining the pre-meal insulin dose. Small, uncontrolled studies suggest that patients with impaired glucose tolerance might benefit from insulin therapy with weight gain and improvement in pulmo­ nary function (47,48,49,50), but this has not yet been proven in controlled trials and, thus, is not standard of care (38). COMPLICATIONS AND PROGNOSIS Ketoacidosis is rare in CFRD because of the persistence of endogenous insulin and because glucagon levels are low. Severe hypoglycemia is not a common problem, but education about the symptoms, prevention, and treatment of hypo- glycemia, including the use of glucagon, is recommended for patients with CFRD and their care partners.
