Chapter 6: Other Specific Types of Diabetes
KEYWORDS: diabetes, insulin, patients, type, risk, syndrome, type diabetes, glucose, increased, resistance, insulin resistance, cystic, disease, clin, prevalence


not a common problem, but education about the symptoms, prevention, and treatment of hypo- glycemia, including the use of glucagon, is recommended for patients with CFRD and their care partners. Diabetes micro­ vascular complications occur in CFRD, but they are usually relatively mild in nature (51,52). Annual monitoring for diabetes microvascular complications is recom­ mended using ADA guidelines, beginning 5 years after the diagnosis of CFRD or, if the exact time of diagnosis is not known, at the time that fasting hyperglycemia is first diagnosed. Blood pressure should be measured at every routine diabetes visit and hypertension treated per ADA guidelines (but without salt or protein restriction). Death from macrovascular complications has not been reported in CF. Several studies showed an insidious decline in clinical status in the years before the diagnosis of CFRD, in the insulin-insufficient, prediabetic state (53,54,55,56,57,58). Following the recogni­ tion of diabetes as a potential comorbidity in the 1970s, increased mortality was Other Specific Types of Diabetes 6–7 documented in these patients compared to those without diabetes (53,59,60,61,62). Those with CFRD, like all CF patients, almost always die from pulmonary failure. Diabetes has been directly implicated in the pathophysiology of CF lung function decline because of both the catabolic effect of insulin insufficiency on nutritional status and muscle mass (63,64,65,66) and the negative impact of chronic hyper­ glycemia on lung function (43,67,68,69), the latter of which may create a proinflam­ matory, bacteria-permissive environment. The catabolic effect of insulin insufficiency may be most important in growing chil­ dren (70,71,72). In 2009, routine screening and early institution of insulin therapy were shown to significantly reduce the excess mortality associated with diabetes in CF (29) and improve nutritional status even in patients very early in the course of diabetes with normal A1c and normal fasting glucose levels. Thus, while the risk of microvascular and macrovascular complications is not a compelling reason for early diagnosis and aggressive institu­ tion of insulin therapy in CF, the positive impact of insulin therapy on nutritional status, lung disease, and survival necessi­ tates that patients at a minimum achieve ADA goals. Ongoing studies are deter­ mining whether even more aggressive goals are appropriate in CF. DIABETES DUE TO PANCREATITIS AND TOTAL PANCREATECTOMY DESCRIPTION OF DIABETES DUE TO PANCREATITIS Diabetes due to disorders of the exocrine pancreas is characterized under other specific types of diabetes by the ADA (73). In 1980, the prevalence of diabetes
