Chapter 6: Other Specific Types of Diabetes
KEYWORDS: diabetes, insulin, patients, type, risk, syndrome, type diabetes, glucose, increased, resistance, insulin resistance, cystic, disease, clin, prevalence


DIABETES DUE TO PANCREATITIS Diabetes due to disorders of the exocrine pancreas is characterized under other specific types of diabetes by the ADA (73). In 1980, the prevalence of diabetes due to pancreatitis was estimated at the relatively low rate of 0.5%–1.15% of all cases of diabetes in the United States and Western world (74,75). Data from select populations and other more recent studies from 2011, however, have indicated that the prevalence of pancreatogenic diabetes may be significantly higher, in the range of 5%–10% of all cases of diabetes (76,77). Chronic pancreatitis (CP) comprises approximately 75% of all other non-type 1 or type 2 cases of diabetes (78). Among patients with established CP, the prevalence of diabetes has been estimated at 26%–80% of patients, depending on duration and severity of disease (79). Advances in beta cell biology have elucidated newer etiologies of pancreatogenic diabetes as a pathologically distinct form of diabetes that to this point has been underrecognized (80,81). Pathophysiology Unlike the distinct mechanisms known to occur in the more common forms of type 1 or type 2 diabetes, diabetes associated with pancreatitis is character­ ized by a unique constellation of insulin deficiency, pancreatic polypeptide (PP) deficiency, and hepatic insulin resis­ tance. PP is secreted predominantly by the F cells in islets at the head of the pancreas, and its prolonged absence promotes hepatic insulin resistance in human and animal studies (76). Patients whose pancreatic head has been lost or damaged due to trauma, complete or partial surgical removal, or chronic fibrosis are predisposed to PP deficiency and subsequent insulin resistance. Chronic inflammation, particularly in those who carry high-risk alleles for genes associated with inflammation, place the beta cell at risk for eventual damage, loss of insulin secretory capacity, and development of diabetes (79,82). In patients with pancre­ atitis, the inflammatory and destructive process, unlike that of type 1 diabetes, is not selective and also results in loss of glucagon-producing alpha cells and PP cells (79). In addition, in patients with CP, the intestinal glucoregulatory hormones of glucose-dependent insulinotropic peptide and glucagon-like peptide 1 have impaired production, secretion, and/or binding (76,83). Some studies have shown that these deficits are reversible with pancre­ atic enzyme replacement, suggesting that malabsorption also plays a role in the deficit of these hormones (83). Taken together, this complex mixture of islet cell destruction, insulin resistance, and coregulatory hormone dysfunction produces a complex endocrine phenotype and
