Chapter 6: Other Specific Types of Diabetes
KEYWORDS: diabetes, insulin, patients, type, risk, syndrome, type diabetes, glucose, increased, resistance, insulin resistance, cystic, disease, clin, prevalence


a role in the deficit of these hormones (83). Taken together, this complex mixture of islet cell destruction, insulin resistance, and coregulatory hormone dysfunction produces a complex endocrine phenotype and a form of diabetes that is distinct from other forms of diabetes. Diagnosis and Clinical Characteristics Diagnosis of diabetes in patients with CP follows standard ADA guidelines for the diagnosis of diabetes (73). While the underlying diagnosis of diabetes remains straightforward, the classification of this type of diabetes remains complex and controversial. Diagnostic criteria have been proposed but have not been formally adopted or accepted (79,84). Despite the clinical similarities in insulin resistance, impaired counterregulatory hormone function results in pancreatitis- related diabetes being a more erratic form of diabetes, in which hyperglycemia and hypoglycemia fluctuate more readily and tight glycemic control is more challenging. In severe forms of pancreatogenic diabetes, hypoglycemia unawareness is more common, with a high risk of life-threatening hypoglycemia due to the absence of pancreatic alpha cells (glucagon secretion) (76). Despite this risk of severe hypoglycemia, patients with pancreatitis-related diabetes experience significant hyperglycemia and are at risk for microvascular complications, such as retinal and renal diseases, with rates approaching those seen in patients with type 1 diabetes (76,85). Depending on the extent of hypergly­ cemia and insulin resistance, patients with pancreatitis-related diabetes require therapy with an oral medication, such as the sensitizing agent metformin, and/or multiple daily injection therapy with long-acting and rapid-acting insulin analogues in a basal bolus fashion. Other medications used to treat type 2 diabetes can be considered, though few studies have been conducted to guide selection of one agent or class of agents over another. The conventional approach for oral agents favors metformin due to its well-established added benefit of decreasing the risk of pancreatic cancer (79,86,87,88,89), a known risk in this 6–8 DIABETES IN AMERICA, 3rd Edition group. Other oral agents should be used with caution given the increased risk of osteoporosis (79) associated with thiazo­ lidinediones and uncertain long-term outcomes with sulfonylureas (76). Incretin- based therapies are not well studied and should be used cautiously given the asso­ ciation with pancreatitis (79). HEREDITARY/GENETIC PANCREATITIS In addition to risk for development of diabetes, patients with CP often experience debilitating pain, narcotic dependence, and diminished quality of life. Increasingly, patients with CP are found to have an underlying genetic cause for their disease, resulting in classification of their pancreatitis as hereditary/genetic pancreatitis (HGP).
