Chapter 6: Other Specific Types of Diabetes
KEYWORDS: diabetes, insulin, patients, type, risk, syndrome, type diabetes, glucose, increased, resistance, insulin resistance, cystic, disease, clin, prevalence


and diminished quality of life. Increasingly, patients with CP are found to have an underlying genetic cause for their disease, resulting in classification of their pancreatitis as hereditary/genetic pancreatitis (HGP). The most common mutation associated with CP is a mutation of the cationic trypsinogen gene (protease, serine 1 or PRSS1). This mutation may account for up to 80% of patients with symptomatic HGP. All patients with CP are at significantly increased risk of devel­ oping pancreatic ductal adenocarcinoma (90,91,92). First symptoms of HGP typi­ cally present in childhood with pancreatic pain progressing to acute pancreatitis and eventually CP by the third decade of life (93). Patients afflicted with CP may seek total pancreatectomy (TP) for removal of the tissue associated with the pain and carcinoma risk (94). This procedure, when paired with islet autotransplantation (IAT), offers the benefit of pain control, reduced cancer risk, and the potential for preserved glycemic control. The surgical approach of pancreatec­ tomy with isolation, purification, and infusion of the patient’s islets has been well described (93,95,96,97,98,99,100). During the period of islet engraftment, the islets are particularly vulnerable to overstimulation by hyperglycemia in an anoxic environment, which contributes to beta cell loss (100,101,102). Thus, for the immediate posttransplant period, narrow- range glycemic control with a target blood glucose of 70–140 mg/dL (3.89–7.77 mmol/L) is essential for optimal islet engraftment and survival (100,103). Cohort studies of patients have shown that following TPIAT, 80%–99% of patients denied the presence of pancreatitis pain and >80% denied the presence of any pain (93,95). Significant improvements across all quality-of-life measures have been observed after TPIAT procedure, with >85% of patients indicating that their health improved in the year after TPIAT (95). Success of TPIAT, however, is most often correlated with long-term insulin independence. Although no single factor is predictive of insulin independence after TPIAT, the number of islet equivalents transplanted is the greatest predictor of long-term insulin independence with 2,000–5,000 IEq/kg often considered the threshold for improved outcomes (104). Prior pancreatic surgery is an important factor negatively impacting islet yield and insulin independence (104). After TPIAT, most patients have decreasing insulin demands for the first 3–12 months as islets engraft and insulin production improves. By 2 years posttransplant, approximately one-third of patients are insulin-independent, one-third require only minimal insulin therapy (once daily basal insulin), and one-third are insulin-dependent in a manner similar to type 1 diabetes patients undergoing islet allotransplantation (Figure
