Chapter 6: Other Specific Types of Diabetes
KEYWORDS: diabetes, insulin, patients, type, risk, syndrome, type diabetes, glucose, increased, resistance, insulin resistance, cystic, disease, clin, prevalence


Type 1 (classic) HFE, AR Decreased hepcidin Liver fibrosis, cirrhosis, onset at age 30–40 years Variable Type 2A (juvenile) HJV, AR Inhibition of hepcidin expression Cardiomyopathy, hypogonadism, onset at age <30 years Severe Type 2B (juvenile) HAMP, AR Decreased hepcidin Cardiomyopathy, hypogonadism, onset at age <30 years Severe Type 3 TfR2, AR Abnormal sensing of iron, decreased hepcidin Liver fibrosis, cirrhosis, onset at age 30–40 years Variable Type 4 SLC40A, AD Decreased iron export from macrophages, rare hepcidin resistance Anemia Mild AD, autosomal dominant; AR, autosomal recessive. SOURCE: Reference 113, copyright © 2013 Taylor & Francis, reprinted with permission red blood cell transfusions are common. Estimates for prevalence of iron overload among adult patients with sickle cell disease or thalassemia requiring repeated transfusion and in patients who have undergone stem cell transplantation are 9.7% (120) and 23% (121), respectively. Up to 32% of patients undergoing hemato­ poietic stem cell transplantation requiring repeated transfusion meet criteria for iron overload (122). Both insulin deficiency and insulin resis­ tance (123,124) have been implicated in the pathophysiology of diabetes in hemo­ chromatosis. Knockout HFE mice develop increased islet iron deposits, increased markers of oxidative stress, and increased rates of apoptosis leading to decreased insulin secretory capacity when fed a diet high in iron (125). Insulin clamp studies also support a primary insulin secretory defect as the main factor responsible for progression to glucose intolerance (117). Increased body mass index (BMI, kg/m2) also seems to be associated with progression to diabetes, so some effect of insulin resistance cannot be discounted. However, studies of hemo­ chromatosis patients with normal glucose tolerance demonstrate no difference in measures of insulin resistance (and insulin secretion) compared to matched, healthy controls (117). The severity of hepatic disease (presence of cirrhosis or fibrosis) appears to correlate with the prevalence of diabetes (117), though this has not been found in all cohorts (119). Thus, definitive conclusions regarding a central defect to this point are limited by small numbers, the confounder effect of hyperglycemia on insulin resistance in patients already diagnosed with diabetes, and ascertainment bias. Independent associations of decreased insulin sensitivity in patients with type 2 diabetes and increased iron stores have been noted (126). This has led to consideration of whether some patients with type 2 diabetes may have undiagnosed hemochromatosis. Although some small observation studies have identified an increased prevalence of gene mutations in HFE among individuals diagnosed with type
