Chapter 6: Other Specific Types of Diabetes
KEYWORDS: diabetes, insulin, patients, type, risk, syndrome, type diabetes, glucose, increased, resistance, insulin resistance, cystic, disease, clin, prevalence


some patients with type 2 diabetes may have undiagnosed hemochromatosis. Although some small observation studies have identified an increased prevalence of gene mutations in HFE among individuals diagnosed with type 2 diabetes (127), in larger case-control studies matched for age, weight, and sex, no such associations have been found (128,129). To this point, there have been no calls to screen for hemochromatosis among the type 2 diabetes population at large. Consideration of screening should be made in individuals with type 2 diabetes and symptoms suggesting iron overload or with a positive family history for hemochromatosis. Treatment of diabetes in patients with hemochromatosis is complex and is, at least in part, dependent on stage of disease and progression of end-organ failure. In those individuals in whom diabetes has been diagnosed, exogenous insulin therapy should be provided for management. Lowering iron levels through phlebotomy can improve insulin sensitivity and secretion in patients with prediabetes but may be less efficacious in those with more advanced disease (118,130). Phlebotomy and subsequent iron depletion are associated with improved survival rates (Figure 6.3) (112). DRUG AND CHEMICAL-INDUCED DIABETES Multiple classes of pharmaceuticals have been associated with dysglycemia and progression to diabetes. Identifying the impact of specific drug classes can be challenging, since the disease processes they target are often independently associated with diabetes. In addition, treatment of some disorders requires a polypharmacy approach, making it difficult to isolate effects of one drug from another. For example, although hypertension itself is associated with an increased risk of diabetes (131), some drugs used to treat hypertension are independently associated with hyperglycemia (thiazides and beta blockers), while others are not (calcium channel blockers, angiotensin-converting enzyme inhibitors, angiotensin receptor blockers). Thus, in most instances, causality cannot be proven conclusively between exposure to a medication and the occurrence of diabetes, and most reports do not fulfill rigorous criteria (Bradford-Hill) for cause-effect relationships. Moreover, additional confounders within this population (e.g., presence of a family history of diabetes) may also play a significant role in any relationship. A synopsis of the drugs most commonly associated with hyperglycemia or diabetes and their proposed mechanisms is provided in Table 6.4. Other Specific Types of Diabetes 6–11 TABLE 6.4. Summary of Drugs Associated With Diabetes DRUG CLASS SPECIFIC AGENTS PROPOSED MECHANISM PARTICULAR POPULATIONS AFFECTED Glucocorticoids More potent (dexamethasone, methylprednisolone) Mechanism unknown Transplant recipients Calcineurin inhibitors Tacrolimus, cyclosporine > sirolimus Inhibit beta cell growth and function Transplant
