Chapter 6: Other Specific Types of Diabetes
KEYWORDS: diabetes, insulin, patients, type, risk, syndrome, type diabetes, glucose, increased, resistance, insulin resistance, cystic, disease, clin, prevalence


diabetes (136,137). Risk for progression to diabetes is also modi­ fied by age, BMI, and ethnic background (138). Although a family history for type 2 diabetes may also impart risk (139), this has not been demonstrated in all studies (140). Excess glucocorticoids resulting in Cushing syndrome is reviewed in the section Endocrinopathies Associated With Diabetes. CALCINEURIN INHIBITORS The three primary calcineurin inhibitors— cyclosporine, sirolimus, and tacrolimus— have all been associated with diabetes. These drugs are used in transplant medicine as immunosuppressive agents to prevent graft rejection. A greater incidence of posttransplant diabetes has been noted for both cyclosporine and tacrolimus compared to sirolimus. See the section Transplant Recipients for additional discussion. ATYPICAL ANTIPSYCHOTICS Although schizophrenia itself is associated with an increased risk of diabetes, medications used to treat psychosis have a longstanding history of imparting risk as well. Second-generation antipsychotics, known as atypical antipsychotics, have been heralded for their effective treatment of psychotic disorders, while minimizing extrapyramidal side effects. However, there is a twofold greater increase in weight gain, hyperglycemia, and dyslipidemia in patients treated with this class of drugs (141). Several drugs within this class, including clozapine, olanzapine, risperidone, and quetiapine, have all been linked to weight gain and hyperglycemia. Other reports have reviewed each individual drug profile and their relative risks for diabetes (142). The drugs with the greatest consistent risk for diabetes are clozapine and olanzapine, while risperidone carries less risk. Although each of these drugs is associated with individual risks for weight gain (Figure 6.4) (143), the effect on blood glucose levels appears to be independent of weight. The etiology behind this effect on beta cell function and/or insulin resistance is not well understood. BETA BLOCKERS The risk for incident diabetes in patients on beta blockers is increased compared to other antihypertensive agents (other than thiazide diuretics) (144). A 22% increased risk for new diabetes in patients treated with beta blockers compared to other antihypertensives was identified in a meta-analysis of 94,492 patients (145). 6–12 DIABETES IN AMERICA, 3rd Edition FIGURE 6.4. Meta-Analysis of Weight Gain With Atypical Antipsychotics Meta-analysis displaying mean and 95% confidence interval for effect of atypical antipsychotics on weight after up to 12 weeks of treatment. SOURCE: Reference 143, copyright © 2012 Nature Publishing Group, reprinted with permission Nonselective beta blockers (e.g., propran­ olol) appear to cause this hyperglycemic effect through their nonselective beta blockade of the beta 2 adrenoreceptor. Beta 1-selective
