Chapter 6: Other Specific Types of Diabetes
KEYWORDS: diabetes, insulin, patients, type, risk, syndrome, type diabetes, glucose, increased, resistance, insulin resistance, cystic, disease, clin, prevalence


Nature Publishing Group, reprinted with permission Nonselective beta blockers (e.g., propran­ olol) appear to cause this hyperglycemic effect through their nonselective beta blockade of the beta 2 adrenoreceptor. Beta 1-selective blockers do not impart the same effect. An analysis from the Nateglinide and Valsartan in Impaired Glucose Tolerance Outcomes Research (NAVIGATOR) study showed no increase in diabetes among patients started on beta blockers. This apparent change in associ­ ation may be related to the more current use of selective beta 1 receptor blockers (146). Thus, through the blockade of beta 2 receptors, beta blockers can inhibit insulin secretion but also may have an effect on raising insulin resistance (147). THIAZIDE Thiazides are commonly used for control of blood pressure and as a mild diuretic. The association between thiazide diuretics and hyperglycemia has been observed for over 50 years (148). In a meta-analysis of over 143,000 patients, incident diabetes was more likely to occur with the use of thiazide diuretics than any other antihypertensive agent (144). Hyperglycemia likely stems from the hypokalemic effect of thiazide diuretics (149). Hypokalemia inhibits the secretion of insulin and increases insulin resistance (150). Lower doses of thiazides do not impart the same risk for hyperglycemia (151). Similarly, diazoxide, which has avid binding affinity for the sulfonylurea receptor, inhibits insulin release and, thus, is frequently used in infants with congenital hyperinsulinism. Higher doses can result in excessive insulin inhibition and subsequent hyperglycemia. HMG CO-A REDUCTASE INHIBITORS Statins, widely heralded for their primary effect of reducing low-density lipo protein (LDL) cholesterol and improving outcomes among individuals with heart disease, have had inconsistent asso­ ciations with elevated glucose levels (152,153). However, there is growing evidence of a modest, yet potentially important relationship. A meta- analysis suggested a modest 9% increase risk for incident diabetes among statin users, equivalent to an overall increase of one case of diabetes for every 255 treated patients over a 4-year span (154). Furthermore, a Dutch study of type 2 diabetes patients found an increase in A1c of 0.3% in those treated with either ator­ vastatin or rosuvastatin (155). The more potent statins (atorvastatin, simvastatin) and more intensive regimens appear to be associated with greater risk compared to less potent agents and regimens (156). Although causality has not been clearly established, statins appear to decrease the uptake of peripheral glucose through their effect on cholesterol content of glucose transporters (GLUT) (157). In 2012, the U.S.
