Chapter 6: Other Specific Types of Diabetes
KEYWORDS: diabetes, insulin, patients, type, risk, syndrome, type diabetes, glucose, increased, resistance, insulin resistance, cystic, disease, clin, prevalence


causality has not been clearly established, statins appear to decrease the uptake of peripheral glucose through their effect on cholesterol content of glucose transporters (GLUT) (157). In 2012, the U.S. Food and Drug Administration (FDA) required a change to the safety label for all statin classes of medications, warning about the potential risk for increased glycated hemoglobin and fasting blood glucose levels. The proven benefits of cardiovascular risk reduction with statins probably still outweigh any potential for the effect of this drug class on glucose control. NIACIN Niacin is used in the treatment of hyper­ triglyceridemia and to assist in raising high-density lipoprotein (HDL) levels. In the Coronary Drug Project, in which men with a history of myocardial infarction were treated with niacin as an arm of therapy, a significant 37% increased risk in new cases of diabetes was found compared to placebo (158). Long-term treatment with niacin results in small but significant increases in fasting glucose levels (158,159). Among patients with preexisting diabetes taking niacin, a small but significant increase in A1c levels (0.3%) may occur (160). Similar effects of increased fasting glucose and insulin levels have been found in postmenopausal women treated with niacin (161). HIV ANTIRETROVIRAL THERAPY A warning by the FDA regarding the class of medications known as protease inhib­ itors and risk of hyperglycemia was first issued in 1997. Preceding this warning were numerous reports of hyperglycemia occurring in patients taking this newly established class of agents used in the treatment of HIV-positive patients. Although individuals with HIV do not appear to be at an overall increased risk for development of diabetes, the duration of antiretroviral therapy imparts significant risk (162,163). Risk in this population is also correlated with age, BMI, and presence of lipodystrophy. HIV-related lipodystrophy carries several features of the metabolic syndrome (Table 6.5) (164) and is known to associate with cardiovascular disease risk and type 2 diabetes. Among the group of nucleoside reverse transcriptase inhibitors, stavudine imparts the greatest risk for development Other Specific Types of Diabetes 6–13 TABLE 6.5. Similarities Between the Metabolic Syndrome and Lipodystrophy Due to HIV Highly Active Antiretroviral Therapy VARIABLE METABOLIC SYNDROME HIV-ASSOCIATED LIPODYSTROPHY Hyperinsulinemia Present Present Dysglycemia Present Present Central adiposity Present Present Hypertension Present Present Atherogenic lipid profile* Present Present Hyperuricemia Present Unknown Prothrombotic state Present Present Proinflammatory state Present Present HIV, human immunodeficiency virus. * Low high-density lipoprotein (HDL), high triglycerides, and increased small,
