Chapter 6: Other Specific Types of Diabetes
KEYWORDS: diabetes, insulin, patients, type, risk, syndrome, type diabetes, glucose, increased, resistance, insulin resistance, cystic, disease, clin, prevalence


Atherogenic lipid profile* Present Present Hyperuricemia Present Unknown Prothrombotic state Present Present Proinflammatory state Present Present HIV, human immunodeficiency virus. * Low high-density lipoprotein (HDL), high triglycerides, and increased small, dense low-density lipoprotein (LDL) particles SOURCE: Adapted from Reference 164, copyright © 2007 Nature Publishing Group, reprinted with permission of diabetes, where each year of its use is associated with a 19% increase after adjustment for risk factors and lipids (165). This class of drugs may increase insulin resistance directly through inhibition of GLUT4 glucose transport or indirectly through induction of lipodystrophy or damage to mitochondrial DNA. PENTAMIDINE Pentamidine is used in the prevention of Pneumocystis carinii infection in immuno­ compromised patients. Its use has been linked to hypoglycemia in the acute phase of treatment. However, hyperglycemia and even diabetic ketoacidosis have been described during chronic therapy among AIDS patients (166,167). Compared to an alternate treatment, parenteral pentamidine resulted in a significantly higher percentage of patients experiencing dysglycemia, including 32% who developed diabetes (168). Greater risk occurs in patients treated with higher doses and in those with underlying renal impairment. A similar, but less severe, effect may be observed using aerosolized pentamidine (169). GROWTH HORMONE Growth hormone (GH), a counterregula­ tory hormone with antagonistic effect to insulin, increases gluconeogenesis and decreases peripheral glucose uptake (increased insulin resistance). In both GH-deficient patients (170) and those with acromegaly (171), there have been increased rates of diabetes (see the section Acromegaly). The availability of recombinant human GH in the early 1990s prompted concerns about the potential for GH-related deleterious meta­ bolic effects. A 2000 report found an increased rate of type 2 diabetes among children treated with GH therapy (172). This was confirmed in a subsequent analysis from the Genetics and Neuroendocrinology of Short Stature International Study (GeNeSIS), a multinational observa­ tional study of children treated with GH, compared to a reference cohort of age-matched children enrolled in the SEARCH for Diabetes in Youth study, a multicenter epidemiologic study conducted in six U.S. centers (173). In this study, among 5,591 patients in the United States treated with GH, five new cases of type 2 diabetes were identified versus an expected number of 0.59 cases (equiva­ lent to a significant standardized incidence ratio of 8.5). This increase was observed exclusively in children with a diagnosis of GH deficiency versus other diagnoses. Among all children in this GH registry (international), an increase was also observed
