Chapter 6: Other Specific Types of Diabetes
KEYWORDS: diabetes, insulin, patients, type, risk, syndrome, type diabetes, glucose, increased, resistance, insulin resistance, cystic, disease, clin, prevalence


8.5). This increase was observed exclusively in children with a diagnosis of GH deficiency versus other diagnoses. Among all children in this GH registry (international), an increase was also observed in girls with Turner syndrome. In an international database of GH-deficient adults started on GH, a sixfold increase in the observed versus expected cases of type 2 diabetes was found (174). There was no impact of GH dose or insulin-like growth factor 1 (an indirect marker of GH therapy) on diabetes risk. Greater risk was observed in those patients who were older or had higher BMI, higher blood pressure, and higher triglycerides, indicating that traditional risk factors still modify degree of risk in this population. Among adults on GH therapy, when an approach of individualized dosing using appropriate titration for clinical effect rather than a strict weight-based approach was used, no increase in hyperglycemia was typically observed (175). Mechanistically, the potential impact of GH on diabetes risk occurs through alterations in insulin resistance, as demonstrated in studies of children with idiopathic short stature or born small for gestational age (176,177). To this point, no effects on increasing glucose levels or new cases of diabetes have been identified in any study of children treated for idiopathic short stature (178). ORAL CONTRACEPTIVES AND PROGESTINS Subtle changes to carbohydrate metabo­ lism can occur in women using combined estrogen/progesterone oral contraceptive pills. Modest increases in rates of impaired glucose tolerance, fasting glucose, and insulin have been identified in oral contraceptive users (179,180). This effect appears to be predominantly related to the progesterone, rather than the estrogen, component. In a 2012 report, approximately 10.6 million women in the United States used an oral contraceptive pill (181). Despite this potential risk, a link between clinical diabetes and oral contraceptive use has been inconsistent at best, perhaps in part related to the difficulty involved in controlling for other variables and confounders. No increase in cases of diabetes were identified in two prospective studies using estrogen/proges­ terone combinations (182,183). Moreover, glycemic control does not deteriorate among women with previously diagnosed diabetes taking an oral contraceptive (184). ENVIRONMENTAL TOXINS AND POLLUTANTS Environmental toxins and triggers encom­ pass a wide array of naturally occurring pathogens (e.g., viruses; see the section Congenital Viral Infections) and man-made toxins, contaminants, and pollutants that 6–14 DIABETES IN AMERICA, 3rd Edition potentially could lead to or accelerate the development of type 1 or type 2
