Chapter 6: Other Specific Types of Diabetes
KEYWORDS: diabetes, insulin, patients, type, risk, syndrome, type diabetes, glucose, increased, resistance, insulin resistance, cystic, disease, clin, prevalence


rare X-linked condition caused by mutations of the FOXP3 gene located on chromosome Xp11.3-q13.3 (195). This mutation results in a loss of the functional CD4+CD25+ T regulatory cells, which are essential to the prevention of auto­ immunity (196,197,198). Patients with IPEX have a phenotype consisting of immunodeficiency, polyendocrinopathy, and enteropathy. IPEX is exceedingly rare with fewer than 150 affected individ­ uals reported in 2011. Type 1 diabetes is frequently seen as part of the IPEX syndrome, with up to 60% of reported subjects affected, most commonly within the first year of life (195,199). Islet-specific antibodies (e.g., islet cell antibodies, glutamic acid decarboxylase [GAD] antibodies) are common in patients with IPEX (195). Patients typically present early in life with a triad of autoimmune enteropathy, autoimmune endocrinopathy, eczematous dermatitis, and immune dysfunction (196,200). TABLE 6.6. Features of Autoimmune Polyendocrine Syndromes Types 1 and 2 TYPE 1 TYPE 2 Addison’s disease* Addison’s disease* Alopecia Alopecia Myasthenia gravis Asplenism Autoimmune bronchiolitis Autoimmune thyroiditis Autoimmune thyroiditis* Chronic active hepatitis Chronic candidiasis* Dental enamel and nail dystrophy Idiopathic heart block Ectodermal dysplasia Graves’ disease Graves’ disease Hypogonadism Hypogonadism Hypoparathyroidism* Stiff man syndrome Parkinson’s disease IgA deficiency IgA deficiency Serositis Keratitis Malabsorption syndrome Celiac disease, dermatitis herpetiformis Pernicious anemia Pernicious anemia Pure red cell aplasia Idiopathic thrombocytopenia Hypophysitis Type 1 diabetes Type 1 diabetes* Vitiligo Vitiligo * Primary hallmarks of disease SOURCE: Adapted from reference 188, copyright © 2014 Elsevier, reprinted with permission Other Specific Types of Diabetes 6–15 RARE FORMS OF IMMUNE- MEDIATED DIABETES Distinct from type 1 and type 2 diabetes, the ADA classifies several entities as “other specific types” of diabetes (73). Among these rare forms of diabetes are other types of immune-mediated diabetes, including Stiff man syndrome and anti- insulin receptor antibodies. Stiff man syndrome is an organ-spe­ cific autoimmune disorder in which patients are frequently seropositive for a neuroendocrine antibody against the GAD 65 kD isoform (201). In addition to characteristic neurologic findings (chronic fluctuation of truncal and limb muscle rigidity and spasms), approximately 33% of patients with Stiff man syndrome develop diabetes, with approximately 43% of GAD-seropositive patients developing diabetes (201). Another uncommon immune-mediated form of diabetes involves the formation of anti-insulin receptor antibodies, a process termed type B insulin resistance syndrome. Anti-insulin receptor antibodies may exhibit agonistic or antagonistic actions on the insulin receptor resulting in hypo- or hyperglycemia. Antagonistic antibodies have been documented in patents with systemic lupus erythema­
