Chapter 6: Other Specific Types of Diabetes
KEYWORDS: diabetes, insulin, patients, type, risk, syndrome, type diabetes, glucose, increased, resistance, insulin resistance, cystic, disease, clin, prevalence


with pheochromocytoma (216,217,218). Some small series have found diabetes prevalence rates up to 35% (208,216,219). Use of alpha-blocking agents improves insulin secretion and glucose tolerance, and surgical removal of the tumor improves insulin resistance (216,218,220). PRIMARY HYPERALDOSTERONISM Primary hyperaldosteronism is associ­ ated with glucose intolerance in about 25% of patients (221). From 2000 to 2010, understanding of the role of the renin-angiotensin-aldosterone axis in insulin resistance has undergone a para­ digm shift. It was previously thought that aldosterone excess produced potassium depletion, which blunted insulin secre­ tion. More recent research has shown that elevated plasma aldosterone levels directly contribute to insulin resistance (222). Aldosterone can impair insulin signaling in cardiovascular and renal tissue, fat, skeletal muscle, and in the liver (222). THYROID DYSFUNCTION Glucose intolerance is common in hyperthyroidism, though the mechanism for hyperthyroxinemia on dysglycemia remains unclear. Diabetes diagnosed by OGTT was identified in 11% of newly diagnosed Graves’ disease patients (223). Both impaired insulin secretion and decreased peripheral insulin sensi­ tivity contribute to this association (224). Hyperthyroidism may worsen glucose intolerance through increased hexose intestinal absorption, decreased respon­ siveness to insulin, and increased glucose production (208). Increased insulin resis­ tance also occurs in subclinical or frank hypothyroidism (225). TUMORS OF ENDOCRINE PANCREAS OR GUT Glucagonoma and somatostatinoma are tumors that produce glucagon and somatostatin, respectively. The overproduction of hormones in these rare tumors often leads to glucose intolerance or overt diabetes as these hormones are potent insulin counterregulatory agents (208). The incidence of both glucagonomas and somatostatinomas 6–16 DIABETES IN AMERICA, 3rd Edition are exceedingly rare at 0.1–1 case per 1,000,000 individuals. Patients with somatostatinomas arising from the pancreatic head rather than duodenum (50%–66% of all patients), typically have classic triad of diabetes, steatorrhea, and cholelithiasis (226). Diabetes occurs in 30%–90% of patients with glucagonomas (also characterized by rash) (227,228). Surgical resection of the tumor and any metastases is the preferred therapy for both conditions (228). POEMS SYNDROME POEMS syndrome (polyneuropathy, organomegaly, endocrinopathy, mono­ clonal gammopathy, skin changes) is a rare paraneoplastic syndrome due to an underlying plasma cell disorder. Detailed understanding of the pathogenesis is lacking, though increased levels of cyto­ kines, particularly vascular endothelial growth factor, are common in the disorder (229). Endocrinopathy is a major feature of POEMS syndrome, with glucose intolerance or diabetes occurring in approximately half of cases (229). CONGENITAL SYNDROMES WITH LONG-TERM RISK FOR DIABETES A large number of congenital syndromes are
