Chapter 6: Other Specific Types of Diabetes
KEYWORDS: diabetes, insulin, patients, type, risk, syndrome, type diabetes, glucose, increased, resistance, insulin resistance, cystic, disease, clin, prevalence


feature of POEMS syndrome, with glucose intolerance or diabetes occurring in approximately half of cases (229). CONGENITAL SYNDROMES WITH LONG-TERM RISK FOR DIABETES A large number of congenital syndromes are associated with an increased risk for development of diabetes. Although a discussion of each is beyond the scope of this text, the most commonly associated disorders are discussed here. Both type 1 and type 2 diabetes have been described occurring at an increased frequency in several congenital genetic diagnoses compared to the general population. As these associations have become increas­ ingly recognized, recommendations for screening and treatment have emerged as important components of care in these select populations. In addition, advances in genetic mechanisms for these disorders have brought new genes to light as poten­ tial regulators of glucose metabolism and diabetes risk. DOWN SYNDROME Down syndrome (DS), or trisomy 21, occurs in just under 1 out of every 700 births in the United States (230). Collectively, the prevalence of diabetes among children and young adults with DS is estimated to be threefold to four­ fold higher compared to the general population (231,232,233), though some have estimated close to a tenfold increase (234). Individuals with DS are at an increased risk for autoimmune disorders, including thyroiditis (235), celiac disease (236), and type 1 diabetes, where autoantibodies are present in a greater proportion of children with DS compared to an age-matched healthy population (237). An estimated 0.3%–11% of individuals with DS develop type 1 diabetes (234). A Dutch popu­ lation study found a prevalence of 3.4 cases per 1,000 individuals below the age of 9 years (232). Although high-risk HLA haplotypes are similar between the DS population and those with type 1 diabetes (237), other mechanisms accounting for the increased risk, including a susceptibility gene on chro­ mosome 21 (238), have been proposed. Type 1 diabetes can occur at any age during childhood or adulthood in DS, but there is a propensity for the onset to occur in younger children compared to the type 1 diabetes population as a whole (239). BMIs in the overweight and obese category are certainly more common in the DS population, but a parallel trend in cases of type 2 diabetes has not been described to this point (240). Perhaps related to this lack of an association with type 2 diabetes, pedi­ atric recommendations have not included routine diabetes screening in the DS population (241). BARDET-BIEDEL
