Chapter 6: Other Specific Types of Diabetes
KEYWORDS: diabetes, insulin, patients, type, risk, syndrome, type diabetes, glucose, increased, resistance, insulin resistance, cystic, disease, clin, prevalence


this point (240). Perhaps related to this lack of an association with type 2 diabetes, pedi­ atric recommendations have not included routine diabetes screening in the DS population (241). BARDET-BIEDEL AND ALSTROM SYNDROMES Bardet-Biedel (BB) syndrome is a hetero­ geneous ciliopathy, characterized by morbid obesity, retinal cone dystrophy, hypogonadism, and developmental delay (242). BB occurs with an overall prevalence of 1 in 140,000–160,000 newborns, though close to a tenfold increase is observed in Newfoundland, Canada, and in regions of Kuwait (243). BB historically has been associated with insulin resistance and/or diabetes, though most of these data are observational (244,245,246). Data from 2011 suggest that despite increases in measures of visceral adiposity and impairment in leptin signaling, adolescents and young adults do not have evidence for glycemic disturbances or increased measures of insulin resistance (as measured by the homeostasis model assessment of insulin resistance) compared to age- and BMI-matched controls (247). Moreover, patients with BB have upregulation of protective adipokines and anti-inflamma­ tory cytokines that are probable additional factors in promoting enhanced insulin sensitivity and reduced tendency toward diabetes (248). Seventeen genes have been linked to BB, and specific mutations may account for some of the individual variability in insulin resistance within the BB population (247) and perhaps the sporadic cases of diabetes reported. Alstrom syndrome is a very rare auto­ somal recessive genetic disorder caused by mutations in ALMS1 (249,250) that shares many phenotypic features of BB, including early-onset obesity and cone-rod retinal dystrophy. As of 2014, over 900 cases had been reported worldwide. Unlike BB, Alstrom syndrome is associated with early development of insulin resistance, components of the metabolic syndrome, and progres­ sion to type 2 diabetes in childhood or early adulthood (251,252,253,254). Approximately 68% of patients eventually develop type 2 diabetes, with a mean onset of age 16 years (254). PRADER-WILLI SYNDROME Prader-Willi syndrome (PWS) is a genetic imprinting disorder, resulting from loss of a paternal region of chromosome 15. Infants with PWS exhibit poor motor tone, decreased arousal, and failure to thrive, often requiring tube feedings for several weeks to months. This period is followed by progressive obesity characterized by an insatiable appetite and difficult-to- control eating behaviors. Short stature Other Specific Types of Diabetes 6–17 secondary to deficient GH secretion, delayed puberty, possible central adrenal insufficiency, delayed motor and cognitive development, behavioral difficulties, and sleep disturbances are additional features of this disorder. Given the severe obese
