Chapter 6: Other Specific Types of Diabetes
KEYWORDS: diabetes, insulin, patients, type, risk, syndrome, type diabetes, glucose, increased, resistance, insulin resistance, cystic, disease, clin, prevalence


to deficient GH secretion, delayed puberty, possible central adrenal insufficiency, delayed motor and cognitive development, behavioral difficulties, and sleep disturbances are additional features of this disorder. Given the severe obese phenotypes in PWS, the prevalence of diabetes has been assessed among adults. Diabetes prevalence has been reported in a range of 7%–24% (255,256,257), a rate that is generally higher than expected for other obese adults. Not surprisingly, the risk of diabetes increases over time and with higher BMI among adults (255). Metabolic studies incorporating oral and intravenous glucose tolerance tests have consistently described a relative hypo­ insulinemic state compared to age- and BMI-matched controls, though with lower insulin resistance (258,259,260), which may be driven in part by higher levels of adiponectin. Despite these well-described metabolic abnormalities in adults, frank diabetes has not been reported in regis­ tries of children with PWS (261), and only rare case reports of type 2 diabetes (262) or abnormalities in glucose tolerance (261) have been described. Although there certainly appears to be a progres­ sive increase in risk for diabetes as they move into adulthood, risk for type 2 diabetes during childhood does not appear to be significantly different in PWS compared to other obese children (263). TURNER SYNDROME Turner syndrome, a genetic disorder arising from complete or partial X monosomy has several well-described phenotypic abnormalities. Compared to the general population, females with Turner syndrome are at an increased risk for a multitude of autoimmune disorders, including autoimmune thyroid disease, juvenile rheumatoid arthritis, vitiligo, psoriasis, inflammatory bowel disease, and celiac disease. A fourfold increased risk for type 1 diabetes was observed in a Danish population (264), whereas other registries have identified no such increase (265,266). This discrepancy may be in part related to the stringency to which a diagnosis of type 1 diabetes is made, including appropriate screening with diabetes autoantibodies. A severalfold increased risk for both type 2 diabetes and impaired glucose tolerance is known to exist among adult women with Turner syndrome (267). This progression towards diabetes appears to begin early in adolescence. Asymptomatic girls with Turner syndrome are more likely to have abnormalities on an OGTT compared to age- and BMI-matched controls (268). Although an increase in insulin resis­ tance in adolescent girls (269) and adult women (270) has been described, there is growing evidence that an abnormality in beta cell secretory function (271,272) accompanies abnormal glucose tolerance in this population. Risk
