Chapter 6: Other Specific Types of Diabetes
KEYWORDS: diabetes, insulin, patients, type, risk, syndrome, type diabetes, glucose, increased, resistance, insulin resistance, cystic, disease, clin, prevalence


girls (269) and adult women (270) has been described, there is growing evidence that an abnormality in beta cell secretory function (271,272) accompanies abnormal glucose tolerance in this population. Risk appears to be greatest among women with a karyo­ type of isochromosome Xq, followed by complete 45 X,O or with a deletion of the short arm of the X chromosome (266). Traditional cardiovascular risk factors, including dyslipidemia, adiposity, hyper­ tension, and insulin resistance appear to occur with greater frequency in this population (272,273) as well, and adult women with Turner syndrome are at greater risk for premature atherosclerotic disease (267). WILLIAMS SYNDROME Williams syndrome is characterized by distinctive facial dysmorphism, supra­ valvular aortic stenosis, developmental delay, and transient infantile hypercal­ cemia. Williams syndrome results from deletions in the long arm of chromosome 7 (7q11.23), comprising approximately 23–25 genes (274). The prevalence of Williams syndrome is estimated at 1 in 7,500 individuals (275). Within this popu­ lation, diabetes has been reported at a relatively high prevalence. Among 28 adult Williams syndrome patients (mean age of 36 years) without a previous diag­ nosis of diabetes, 36% were identified as having diabetes and another 39% with impaired glucose tolerance on OGTT (276). Importantly, this propensity towards a type 2 diabetes phenotype may occur in adolescence and is independent of typical type 2 diabetes risk factors. UNIQUE POPULATIONS AT RISK FOR DIABETES TRANSPLANT RECIPIENTS Advances in transplantation medicine have expanded treatment availability to previously untreatable disorders and improved long-term survival rates. However, formerly unrecognized compli­ cations and sequelae, including diabetes, have emerged in the posttransplant population. Development of diabetes is a well-described phenomenon in individuals undergoing either solid organ or bone marrow transplantation. Impaired glucose regulation in this population stems from a combination of insulin resistance and insulin secretory deficiency (277,278). Posttransplant diabetes is associated with a significant increase in morbidity (increase in cardiovascular events and loss of graft function) and mortality (279). Given the growing population of transplant recipients, this form of diabetes represents an important entity for preven­ tion and management strategies. Differences in patient populations, type of procedure performed, and posttrans­ plant medication regimens have made it challenging to estimate the prevalence of posttransplant diabetes and define modifiable risk factors (280). Prevalence of diabetes posttransplant varies, with estimates ranging from 4% to 25% in post-kidney transplant patients and 2% to 25% in liver transplant recipients (280). Diabetes risk increases with time
