Chapter 6: Other Specific Types of Diabetes
KEYWORDS: diabetes, insulin, patients, type, risk, syndrome, type diabetes, glucose, increased, resistance, insulin resistance, cystic, disease, clin, prevalence


Prevalence of diabetes posttransplant varies, with estimates ranging from 4% to 25% in post-kidney transplant patients and 2% to 25% in liver transplant recipients (280). Diabetes risk increases with time after transplantation (279). Similar to the risks for type 2 diabetes in the general popula­ tion, older age, positive family history for type 2 diabetes, ethnic background, and obesity are also established risk factors in transplant recipients. Beta cell function can be directly impaired by CMV, and viremia following transplantation has been associated with a significant increase in hyperglycemia (281). Similarly, chronic hepatitis C infection, common in the dialysis population, is associated with an increased risk for diabetes (282). 6–18 DIABETES IN AMERICA, 3rd Edition Several medication classes used to prevent organ rejection have well- established risk profiles for increasing risk of hyperglycemia, either through effects on insulin resistance or directly on beta cell function (see the section Drug and Chemical-Induced Diabetes). Choice of immunosuppressive regimen may help explain up to 74% of the variability in posttransplant diabetes incidence (283). Corticosteroids are perhaps the most widely used class that falls in this category. High doses or prolonged courses required in cases of acute rejection or graft versus host disease increase risk for diabetes. Lower doses of prednisolone (5 mg or less) following kidney transplant reduce the incidence of diabetes without an increase in graft loss (284). Calcineurin inhibitors (cyclosporine, tacrolimus, and sirolimus) have also been associated with an increased risk for diabetes. This class of agents may impart a direct toxic effect to beta cell function. The diabetes risk associated with tacrolimus increases significantly in kidney transplant recipients (Figure 6.5) (279) and is greater than cyclosporine in kidney, liver, and lung transplant recipients (285,286,287,288). Moreover, conversion from tacrolimus to cyclosporine has been associated with resolution of diabetes in both kidney and liver transplant recipients (289,290). INTRAUTERINE GROWTH RETARDATION Individuals born with a history of growth retardation in utero are at an increased risk for development of type 2 diabetes. An inherent impairment in insulin secre­ tion is present among fetuses and infants with intrauterine growth retardation. This impairment persists over time and can result in significant insulin secretory abnormalities as an adult (291). Low birth weight is associated with a 47% increased risk for type 2 diabetes compared to normal weight births (292). Thus, adults who were born with intrauterine growth retardation and have additional risk factors for type 2
