Chapter 6: Other Specific Types of Diabetes
KEYWORDS: diabetes, insulin, patients, type, risk, syndrome, type diabetes, glucose, increased, resistance, insulin resistance, cystic, disease, clin, prevalence


47% increased risk for type 2 diabetes compared to normal weight births (292). Thus, adults who were born with intrauterine growth retardation and have additional risk factors for type 2 diabetes (e.g., genetic predisposition, factors that increase insulin resistance) are at particular risk for progression to impaired glucose tolerance or type 2 diabetes and should be screened according to ADA standard screening guidelines. MALNUTRITION Though rarely encountered in the United States, malnutrition can be associated with diabetes. Malnutrition-related diabetes is also known as tropical diabetes, as most individuals with diabetes are from tropical countries. This form of diabetes is most often identified in young, malnour­ ished male adolescents and adults (age 10–30 years) from poverty-stricken, developing countries. Subtypes have been described, delineated by the presence of pancreatic calcifications and variable exocrine deficiency (fibrocalculous pancre­ atic diabetes). These patients are both insulin resistant and insulinopenic but do not develop ketoacidosis. Although mal nu­ trition and protein deficiency are believed to be central to pathophysiology, other environmental and genetic factors are also likely to play a role. MITOCHONDRIAL DIABETES Mitochondrial diabetes represents a rare form of diabetes, stemming from a number of described mutations in mitochondrial DNA, but most often the A3243G mutation. Mitochondrial diabetes accounts for approximately 1% of all cases of diabetes in adults (293,294). There is typically a strong clustering of familial diabetes cases with a maternal trans­ mission pattern. Diabetes presentations can be variable, from an insidious onset similar to a patient with type 2 diabetes to more profound insulin-deficient states. Diabetes onset can occur at a variety of ages but most commonly in early- to mid-adulthood. Mitochondrial diabetes cases are united by the presence of sensorineural hearing impairment in most affected individuals, as well as progres­ sive loss of insulin secretory capacity. Some cases have been identified as part of the MELAS syndrome (mitochondrial myopathy, encephalopathy, lactic acidosis, and stroke-like episodes), though this phenotype is often not present in affected individuals. TYPE 1B DIABETES Although not considered an immune- mediated form, type 1b diabetes, also referred to as idiopathic or Flatbush diabetes, is marked by severe insulin deficiency and ketoacidosis similar to autoimmune type 1a diabetes. However, this form of diabetes is highlighted by the absence of known diabetes auto­ antibodies. Type 1b is more frequently identified in males of African American, Indian, Japanese, and Latino descent. FIGURE 6.5. Posttransplant-Associated Diabetes Risk With Use of Tacrolimus SOURCE:
