El Baassiri et al. Journal of Neuroinflammation (2024) 21:124 Journal of Neuroinflammation
KEYWORDS: tbi, brain, gut, intestinal, injury, dna, outcomes, levels, ghrelin, cells, following, role, axis, various, increased


El Baassiri et al. Journal of Neuroinflammation (2024) 21:124 Journal of Neuroinflammation REVIEW Open Access Dysregulated brain-gut axis in the setting of traumatic brain injury: review of mechanisms and anti-inflammatory pharmacotherapies Mahmoud G. El Baassiri1, Zachariah Raouf1, Sarah Badin1, Alejandro Escobosa1, Chhinder P. Sodhi1 and Isam W. Nasr1* Abstract Traumatic brain injury (TBI) is a chronic and debilitating disease, associated with a high risk of psychiatric and neu- rodegenerative diseases. Despite significant advancements in improving outcomes, the lack of effective treatments underscore the urgent need for innovative therapeutic strategies. The brain-gut axis has emerged as a crucial bidirec- tional pathway connecting the brain and the gastrointestinal (GI) system through an intricate network of neuronal, hormonal, and immunological pathways. Four main pathways are primarily implicated in this crosstalk, includ- ing the systemic immune system, autonomic and enteric nervous systems, neuroendocrine system, and microbi- ome. TBI induces profound changes in the gut, initiating an unrestrained vicious cycle that exacerbates brain injury through the brain-gut axis. Alterations in the gut include mucosal damage associated with the malabsorption of nutrients/electrolytes, disintegration of the intestinal barrier, increased infiltration of systemic immune cells, dysmo- tility, dysbiosis, enteroendocrine cell (EEC) dysfunction and disruption in the enteric nervous system (ENS) and auto- nomic nervous system (ANS). Collectively, these changes further contribute to brain neuroinflammation and neu- rodegeneration via the gut-brain axis. In this review article, we elucidate the roles of various anti-inflammatory pharmacotherapies capable of attenuating the dysregulated inflammatory response along the brain-gut axis in TBI. These agents include hormones such as serotonin, ghrelin, and progesterone, ANS regulators such as beta-blockers, lipid-lowering drugs like statins, and intestinal flora modulators such as probiotics and antibiotics. They attenuate neu- roinflammation by targeting distinct inflammatory pathways in both the brain and the gut post-TBI. These therapeutic agents exhibit promising potential in mitigating inflammation along the brain-gut axis and enhancing neurocognitive outcomes for TBI patients. Keywords TBI, Brain-gut axis, Intestinal inflammation, Microbiome, Enteroendocrine cell Background course, the underlying mechanisms are yet to be fully approximately 190 Americans dying each day from TBI- bidity and mortality, contributing to various neurodegen- Parkinson’s, chronic traumatic encephalopathy, depres- sion and epilepsy . Recently, the gut has emerged as a *Correspondence: crucial player in the pathogenesis of TBI, where TBI has Isam W. Nasr been shown to induce detrimental changes along the GI tion and cognitive outcomes via the gut-brain axis . In © The Author(s) 2024.
