El Baassiri et al. Journal of Neuroinflammation (2024) 21:124 Journal of Neuroinflammation
KEYWORDS: tbi, brain, gut, intestinal, injury, dna, outcomes, levels, ghrelin, cells, following, role, axis, various, increased


tissue damage and neuronal injury . TBI or anti-inflammatory phenotypes and can secrete various leads to a wide spectrum of consequences, ranging from chemokines, cytokines and growth factors . These immediate clinical deterioration to more severe cogni- changes influence the local tissue microenvironment tive outcomes. Clinical manifestations involve focal and and modulate secondary cellular damage or tissue repair diffuse brain swelling, vasospasm , hemodynamic . Astrocytes undergo a process called reactive astro- perturbations (hypotension , hypoxia ), meta- gliosis, which involves molecular, structural and func- bolic derangements (hypoglycemia/hyperglycemia) , tional changes . They regulate the neuroinflammatory increased intracranial pressures (ICP) and coagulopathy responses, scar formation, blood–brain barrier perme- disorders . Moreover, TBI induces acute and chronic ability and synapse remodeling . At the same time, cognitive disorders, characterized by attention-deficits, activated microglia can migrate toward the lesion site memory problems and executive dysfunction . At to phagocytose debris and modulate the inflammatory the cellular level, the rapid release of damage-associated profile by secreting various cytokines and chemokines molecular patterns (DAMPs) shortly after TBI initiates a . Microglia can have distinct roles in neurodegenera- dysregulated neuroinflammatory response. This involves tion and tissue repair depending on their activation state cytes, oligodendrocytes, neurons) and the recruitment favor the production of cytokines that exacerbate neural of various immune cells into the injury site (monocytes, injury, while the anti-inflammatory microglia acquire a neutrophils, B and T-cells). DAMPs bind to “pattern phagocytic role and promote repair by releasing neuro- recognition receptors”, such as nucleotide-binding oli- trophic factors . Recently, their role has expanded gomerization domain-like receptors and toll-like recep- to show that changes in the gut microbiome after TBI tors, leading to an increase in inflammatory chemokines, can also alter microglial phenotypes in the brain and ulti- cytokines and reactive oxygen species (ROS). This trig- mately influence TBI outcomes . The chronic activa- gers a positive feedback loop that intensifies the inflam- tion of both astrocytes and microglia leads to increased matory response by recruiting additional immune cells peripheral immune cell infiltration through the perme- to the injury site . The hallmark features of TBI able BBB, further exacerbating cognitive outcomes and include neuronal injury, axonal damage, mitochondrial increasing risk of morbidity and mortality . dysfunction, excitotoxicity, oxidative stress, and blood– Brain‑gut axis disruption following TBI brain-barrier (BBB) disruption . BBB breakdown occurs due to endothelial cell death, degradation of tight TBI is a systemic disease
