El Baassiri et al. Journal of Neuroinflammation (2024) 21:124 Journal of Neuroinflammation
KEYWORDS: tbi, brain, gut, intestinal, injury, dna, outcomes, levels, ghrelin, cells, following, role, axis, various, increased


excitotoxicity, oxidative stress, and blood– Brain‑gut axis disruption following TBI brain-barrier (BBB) disruption . BBB breakdown occurs due to endothelial cell death, degradation of tight TBI is a systemic disease that impacts various periph- junction proteins, basement membrane damage, redistri- eral organs, including the lungs, GI tract, liver and kid- bution of aquaporin 4 (AQP4) channels, and swelling of neys [34–37]. TBI survivors have an increased risk of astrocytic endfeet, leading to brain edema and increased death from septicemia , pneumonia and diges- ICP . Excitotoxicity involves the heightened release tive diseases compared to their healthy counterparts. of glutamate into the extracellular space, followed by the Furthermore, TBI induces gastroparesis and intestinal entry of calcium (Ca2+) into the cells, initiating a pro- dysmotility, resulting in feeding intolerance, where 50% grammed cell death . Additionally, the imbalance of patients with severe TBI experience feeding intoler- between increased metabolic demands and decreased ance within the first week after injury . A single- mitochondrial adenosine triphosphate (ATP) produc- center observational study conducted by McConnochie tion further aggravates the inflammatory response. et al. demonstrated that around 52% of TBI patients often experience delayed bowel defecation, which was defective phagocytosis . This is characterized by associated with longer intensive care unit (ICU) stays impairments in respiratory burst and phagocytosis in and higher gastric residual volumes . A retrospective neutrophils and monocytes, as well as decrease in per- study also revealed that patients with TBI are 2.5 times centage of perforin-positive NK cells . Addition- more likely to die from digestive disease-related condi- ally, TBI induces thymic involution, leading to chronic tions and 12 times more likely to die from septicemia T-cell lymphopenia . These alterations result in a compared to the general population . Another retro- shift in systemic immunity towards an anti-inflamma- spective study demonstrated rates of fecal incontinence tory state, which could explain the increased risk of up to 70% in patients with acquired brain injury admit- nosocomial infections in hospitalized patients follow- ted to rehabilitation centers . Fecal incontinence ing TBI . While these changes may be necessary to also significantly correlated with the presence of frontal combat TBI effects acutely, the chronic stress response lobe lesions and hemodynamic instability . Further- leads to a prolonged hyperinflammatory state that more, abdominal pain, distention and constipation were can trigger multi-organ dysfunction and, ultimately, also common symptoms in patients even two years after lead
