El Baassiri et al. Journal of Neuroinflammation (2024) 21:124 Journal of Neuroinflammation
KEYWORDS: tbi, brain, gut, intestinal, injury, dna, outcomes, levels, ghrelin, cells, following, role, axis, various, increased


leads to a prolonged hyperinflammatory state that more, abdominal pain, distention and constipation were can trigger multi-organ dysfunction and, ultimately, also common symptoms in patients even two years after lead to death . Interestingly, TBI has also been their initial brain injury . Therefore, current guide- shown to increase age-related microglial phenotypes, lines recommend initiating enteral nutrition within as depicted by lipid accumulation in microglia for up to 24–48 h to attenuate TBI-induced intestinal dysfunction one year after injury . All these acute, subacute and and improve patient prognosis . Various distinct and chronic changes in the neuroimmune responses exac- overlapping pathways are also involved in TBI-induced erbate inflammation and accelerate immune aging and intestinal dysfunction, including systemic immune dys- neurodegeneration . regulation, ANS dysfunction, intestinal flora dysbiosis To assess the impact of the systemic immune system on and neuroendocrine system disruption (Fig. 1). gut inflammation following TBI, our group have demon- strated that knocking out peripheral inflammatory C–C Systemic immune dysregulation chemokine receptor type 2 (Ccr2)-dependent monocytes reduce levels of intestinal tumor necrosis factor alpha TBI detrimentally affects the GI tract through systemic (TNF-α), interleukin-1β (IL-1β) and lipocalin-2. Addi- pathways by modulating the peripheral immune system tionally, TBI induces a significant increase in the expres- . TBI triggers the activation of the hypothalamic– sion of intestinal toll-like receptor 4 (TLR4) shortly after pituitary–adrenal (HPA) axis and sympathetic nervous injury, which could explain aggravated intestinal inflam- system, resulting in elevated levels of glucocorticoids/ mation. Notably, Ccr2ko mice showed decreased levels of cortisol and catecholamines, respectively . This intestinal TLR4 on days 1 and 3 post-injury . These surge in cortisol can ultimately lead to a leaky gut by findings suggest a critical role for the systemic innate increasing the intestinal barrier permeability . immune system in modulating the bidirectional commu- Subsequently, the translocation of luminal pathogenic nication between the brain and the gut post-TBI. In addi- bacteria across the disintegrated barrier can induce a tion to the innate immune system, adaptive immunity, systemic inflammatory response syndrome (SIRS) and especially T-cells, has been shown to modulate the neu- further aggravate systemic inflammation by releas- roinflammatory response along the brain-gut axis . ing numerous cytokines and chemokines into the sys- T-cells infiltrate the brain as early as 5 days post-TBI , temic circulation . TBI leads to an acute increase in and granzyme+ CD8+ T-cells have also been detected proinflammatory mediators such
