El Baassiri et al. Journal of Neuroinflammation (2024) 21:124 Journal of Neuroinflammation
KEYWORDS: tbi, brain, gut, intestinal, injury, dna, outcomes, levels, ghrelin, cells, following, role, axis, various, increased


the brain as early as 5 days post-TBI , temic circulation . TBI leads to an acute increase in and granzyme+ CD8+ T-cells have also been detected proinflammatory mediators such as TNF-α, IL-1β and 8 months after TBI . Daglas et al. demonstrated that IL-6, which have been associated with worse cognitive pharmacologic and genetic depletion of C D8+ T-cells outcomes . Elevated levels of IL-1β were linked to improves neurologic outcomes and produces a neuro- impaired working memory in the acute phase, while protective Th2/Th17 immunologic shift . Recent increased levels of chemokine ligand 2 (CCL2) cor- studies have also shown that the gut microbiota modu- related with greater severity of post-concussive symp- late the trafficking of effector T-cells from the gut to the toms . Further studies demonstrate that an increase leptomeninges, impacting injury outcomes in both stroke in cytokine score load shortly after injury correlates and TBI models . T-cell trafficking is thought to be with unfavorable Glasgow Coma Scale (GCS) scores modulated by changes in the microbiome following CNS at six and twelve months post-TBI . Moreover, ele- injury, which ultimately regulates microglial functions in vated blood cortisol levels can elevate the risk of infec- the brain . Further research is warranted to under- tions by inducing peripheral immunosuppression . stand the role of intestinal innate and adaptive immu- TBI results in increased levels of circulating neutrophils nity, particularly macrophages/monocytes and T-cells, in and a decrease in circulating monocytes, T-cell lym- modulating neurocognitive outcomes post-TBI. phocytes and natural killer (NK) cells, accompanied by Fig. 1 Bidirectional cross-talk between the brain and gut in TBI. TBI induces tissue and cellular disruption, leading to the release of various inflammatory cytokines, chemokines, complement factors and damage-associated patterns (DAMPs), which promote diverse cellular responses: proinflammatory cytokines. b Astrocytes contribute to the inflammatory response and undergo reactive gliosis, leading to the formation of a protective glial scar to limit injury spread. c Increased production of reactive oxygen species (ROS), excessive release of excitatory glutamate, and reduced blood flow to the brain promotes neuronal apoptosis and neurodegeneration. d Blood–brain barrier breakdown leads to the infiltration of various immune cells, such as neutrophils, monocytes and T-cells, into the brain parenchyma to aid in debris clearance. However, excessive infiltration can exacerbate tissue damage and worsen neurologic outcomes. I TBI affects the gut through several pathways, including the activation of the hypothalamic–pituitary–adrenal (HPA) axis, which
