El Baassiri et al. Journal of Neuroinflammation (2024) 21:124 Journal of Neuroinflammation
KEYWORDS: tbi, brain, gut, intestinal, injury, dna, outcomes, levels, ghrelin, cells, following, role, axis, various, increased


debris clearance. However, excessive infiltration can exacerbate tissue damage and worsen neurologic outcomes. I TBI affects the gut through several pathways, including the activation of the hypothalamic–pituitary–adrenal (HPA) axis, which releases cortisol, and sympathetic arm of the autonomic nervous system (ANS), which releases catecholamines, leading to gut intestinal barrier disintegration. e This allows the translocation of pathogenic bacteria from the gut lumen into the intestinal parenchyma, exacerbating microbial dysbiosis. f The enteric nervous system (ENS) becomes dysfunctional, with reactive gliosis in enteric glial cells, leading to dysmotility. g These changes also result in decreased expression of enteroendocrine cells (EECs), reducing their secretion of anti-inflammatory hormones such as serotonin. h Inflammatory immune cells, including T-cells and monocytes, infiltrate the intestinal epithelium and further increase gut inflammation. The gut sends signal back to the brain through various pathways: (II) Decreased release of microbial metabolites such as short-chain fatty acids (SCFAs) and bile acids, as well as reduced anti-inflammatory hormone secretion from EECs, worsen this detrimental cycle. Furthermore, the impairment of afferent and efferent vagus nerve pathways disrupts brain-gut homeostasis and exacerbate the neuroinflammatory response in the injured brain. These overlapping and interrelated pathways offer potential therapeutic targets for mitigating TBI-induced neuroinflammation and improving neurologic outcomes. Created with www. Biore nder Autonomic and enteric nervous system dysfunction following TBI when compared to placebo . There- In addition to the HPA-axis, the CNS exerts its effects fore, dysautonomia plays a crucial role in mediating TBI on the gut through branches of the ANS. All divisions of outcomes post injury, and therapies should be targeted at the ANS innervate the GI tract, including the parasym- attenuating the sympathetic storm with the potential use pathetic nervous system, sympathetic nervous system as of beta-blockers. Additionally, there should be a greater well as the intrinsic ENS . The bidirectional brain-gut focus on stimulating the parasympathetic vagus arm and axis serves as a conduit through which ANS exerts its studying its impact on immune cellular responses in the influence on the ENS. TBI is associated with sympathetic brain and gut, in addition to functional outcomes includ- hyperactivity, resulting in a surge of circulating catecho- ing intestinal permeability, gut motility and neurobehav- lamine levels that significantly impact various peripheral ioral outcomes. organs, particularly the GI tract . Increased catecho- lamine levels persist for weeks after injury and play a Intestinal flora dysbiosis critical role in inducing systemic immunosuppression, The impact
