El Baassiri et al. Journal of Neuroinflammation (2024) 21:124 Journal of Neuroinflammation
KEYWORDS: tbi, brain, gut, intestinal, injury, dna, outcomes, levels, ghrelin, cells, following, role, axis, various, increased


outcomes. organs, particularly the GI tract . Increased catecho- lamine levels persist for weeks after injury and play a Intestinal flora dysbiosis critical role in inducing systemic immunosuppression, The impact of the gut microbiota on behavioral outcomes ity and mortality rates . TBI induces a sympathetic suggesting that alterations in the gut play a crucial role storm of systemic epinephrine, which redirects blood in the pathophysiology of TBI . The impact of TBI on away from the GI tract, resulting in gut dysmotility and microbiome diversity and richness has been extensively gut also disrupt ENS homeostasis, which is primarily 90]. TBI leads to an increase in pathogenic bacteria and cholinergic in nature . A study by Ma et al. demon- a decrease in protective populations . These changes strated ENS dysregulation four weeks post-TBI, depicted have been shown to manifest as early as 2 h post-TBI by an increased activation of enteric glial cells (EGCs) in and can persist for years after the initial injury. the colon. This process, known as reactive gliosis, may Various factors could contribute to microbial dysbiosis, further contribute to intestinal dysmotility . As for including changes in intestinal motility and alterations the parasympathetic nervous system, the vagus nerve is in paneth cells expression. Reduced gut peristalsis shifts the major regulator of bidirectional neuroimmune inter- microbial composition into a pathogenic state, and this actions between the brain and the gut . The vagus in turn can worsen gut motility, triggering a detrimental nerve sends signals from the brain to the gut through cycle between dysmotility and dysbiosis . Addition- postganglionic efferent neurons that regulate the secreto- ally, Paneth cells are another type of epithelial cells found motor function of the gut by secreting Acetylcholine the in the intestinal crypts that secrete various antimicro- (Ach), thereby promoting gut motility . Furthermore, bial peptides, including lysozyme and α-defensins . Ach also binds to the α7 subtype of the nicotinic acetyl- They have been also shown to regulate the composition choline receptor (α7nAChR) located on intestinal mac- of bacterial microbiome in various intestinal diseases rophages and decreases the production of inflammatory such as inflammatory bowel disease (IBD) and irritable cytokines . Recent findings have also highlighted that bowel syndrome (IBS) . In the setting of TBI, Yang extracellular choline acetyltransferase (ChAT), the rate et al. demonstrated a significant correlation between limiting enzyme in Ach biosynthesis, reduces systemic decreased expression
