El Baassiri et al. Journal of Neuroinflammation (2024) 21:124 Journal of Neuroinflammation
KEYWORDS: tbi, brain, gut, intestinal, injury, dna, outcomes, levels, ghrelin, cells, following, role, axis, various, increased


(IBS) . In the setting of TBI, Yang extracellular choline acetyltransferase (ChAT), the rate et al. demonstrated a significant correlation between limiting enzyme in Ach biosynthesis, reduces systemic decreased expression of lysozyme antimicrobial peptides inflammation and inhibits the release of proinflammatory and increased translocation of pathogenic microbiome cytokines. This effect was observed following vagus nerve across the disintegrated epithelial barrier . These stimulation or administration of a bioactive recombinant changes suggest a critical role for paneth cells in modu- form of ChAT, as evidenced by reduced levels of serum lating the microbiota-gut-brain axis following TBI. proinflammatory markers TNF-α and IL-6 in a DSS coli- The influence of gut microbiota on the brain is medi- tis model in mice, two weeks post-injury . In turn, ated mainly through vascular, neural and immune path- the vagus nerve carries information from the gut to the ways. TBI results in mucosal damage and increased brain through its afferent neurons which regulate brain epithelial barrier permeability which facilitates the trans- neuroinflammatory outcomes. Visceral afferents respond location of luminal pathogenic bacteria into the intes- to various mechanical and chemical stimuli , includ- tinal parenchyma . The intestinal microbiota also ing changes in microbiome diversity , neuropeptides transforms dietary components into various metabolites and hormones secreted by enteroendocrine cells (EECs) including short-chain fatty acids (SCFAs), tryptophan , as well as sensitization to inflammatory mediators. metabolites, and bile acid metabolites . These micro- The importance of vagus nerve function is highlighted in bial metabolites can either influence the brain directly vagus nerve stimulation (VNS) preclinical trials, which by binding to receptors on vagal afferents, or indirectly demonstrated improvements in cognitive outcomes by entering the systemic circulation and modulating cell–cell interactions between gut microbes and cells express the α-synuclein misfolded proteins which directly in the central nervous system (CNS), primarily astro- connect to α-synuclein–containing nerves, forming a cytes, microglia and neurons . In a study Xiong neural circuit between the gut and the nervous system et al., it was demonstrated that administrating SCFAs . More research is expected down the line to study such as butyrate and acetate for six months following the impact of EEC changes during acute and chronic TBI reduced microglial activation and promoted an anti- timepoints post-TBI, alongside the various hormones inflammatory microglial phenotype, while also attenu- they produce especially serotonin, ghrelin and GLP-1 ating T-cell activation and cytotoxic-related pathways which are primarily characterized as
