El Baassiri et al. Journal of Neuroinflammation (2024) 21:124 Journal of Neuroinflammation
KEYWORDS: tbi, brain, gut, intestinal, injury, dna, outcomes, levels, ghrelin, cells, following, role, axis, various, increased


timepoints post-TBI, alongside the various hormones inflammatory microglial phenotype, while also attenu- they produce especially serotonin, ghrelin and GLP-1 ating T-cell activation and cytotoxic-related pathways which are primarily characterized as anti-inflammatory . Similarly, the administration of antibiotics, specifi- agents. cally amoxicillin-clavulanic acid, was linked to decreased In summary, the bidirectional communication between infiltration of T-cells into the brain two days after TBI the brain and gut occurs through systemic immune path- . The interactions of various microbiome metabolites ways, neural networks, endocrine hormones, and the and brain immune cells such as microglia and T-cells, microbiota axis, thereby inducing detrimental changes may ultimately impact cognition and neurobehavioral along the GI tract post-TBI. These changes further exac- outcomes. Therefore, therapies targeted towards promot- erbate brain injury, as illustrated in Fig. 3. Strong evi- ing a healthy microbiome are essential in ameliorating dence supports the role of diverse therapeutic agents the hyperinflammatory response along the brain-gut axis in breaking this deleterious cycle and reducing inflam- and improving cognitive outcomes following TBI. mation through distinct mechanisms in the brain and the gut. In this comprehensive review, we highlight the Neuroendocrine system disruption anti-inflammatory role of various therapeutic modalities, including hormones such as (1) serotonin; (2) ghrelin; (3) Previous research focused on investigating brain-gut progesterone; ANS modulators such as (4) beta-blockers; bidirectional communication following TBI, empha- lipid-lowering agents such as (5) statins; and intestinal sizing the role of the HPA-axis, ANS, cellular immune flora modulators such as (6) probiotics/antibiotics. We responses and the microbiome axis. However, a thor- describe how these therapeutic interventions attenuate ough examination of the neuroendocrine axis is war- the hyperinflammatory response along the brain-gut axis ranted, given the gut’s capacity to release a diverse array following TBI. of hormones that can ultimately influence cognitive out- comes . EECs are specialized cells lining the intesti- nal epithelium which form the largest endocrine system Therapies attenuating brain‑gut axis disruption in the body. They play a pivotal role orchestrating the following TBI crosstalk between the brain and the gut by releasing vari- Serotonin ous hormones and peptides including 90% of the body’s In the brain, serotonin is produced by neurons originat- serotonin, ghrelin and glucagon-like peptide 1 (GLP-1), ing in the raphe nucleus located in the brainstem. Sero- neuropeptide Y and cholecystokinin . EECs tonin works as a neurotransmitter known for its role in can also influence the brain directly through excitatory regulating mood;
