El Baassiri et al. Journal of Neuroinflammation (2024) 21:124 Journal of Neuroinflammation
KEYWORDS: tbi, brain, gut, intestinal, injury, dna, outcomes, levels, ghrelin, cells, following, role, axis, various, increased


in the brainstem. Sero- neuropeptide Y and cholecystokinin . EECs tonin works as a neurotransmitter known for its role in can also influence the brain directly through excitatory regulating mood; however, it has also been shown to be synaptic connections with the vagus nerve and/or involved in other processes such as neurogenesis and indirectly by releasing various hormones into the sys- plasticity [107–109], cognition , memory , temic circulation , thereby forming an interface inflammation , and gut motility . Seroto- between the brain and the gut. Our group was the first nin and kynurenine, which are upregulated in inflamma- to show substantial reductions in the expression of EECs tory states, are both synthesized from tryptophan and three days following TBI as demonstrated by a significant compete for its availability. Most of the tryptophan in the downregulation in the expression of chromogranin A body is used for the synthesis of kynurenine, and only (ChgA), which is the main marker of EECs (Fig. 2A–C). a minority is used for serotonin. Tryptophan hydroxy- We have also shown reduction in the transcription fac- lase (TPH) is the rate-limiting enzyme of 5-HT (sero- tors implicated in the differentiation of Leucine-rich repeat-containing G-protein coupled receptor 5 (Lgr5+) tonin) synthesis and is present both in the CNS and the peripheral organs. Serotonin cannot cross the BBB, and intestinal stem cells into mature C hgA+ cells, including as such, it is synthesized via TPH1 in the EEC of the gut, notch receptor 1 (Notch1), atonal bHLH transcription which are responsible for the synthesis of 90% of the ser- factor 1 (Atoh1), and neurogenin 3 (Neurog3) (Fig. 2D, otonin in the body and via TPH2 in the CNS [107, 112, E). The involvement of EECs in brain-gut communication 113, 115]. There are a total of 14 known serotonin recep- has been also studied in various neurologic and psychiat- tors that are divided into 7 classes, 5-HT to 5-HT . The ric disorders such as Parkinson’s disease and schizophre- 1 7 receptor that 5-HT activates, its location in the body, and nia . In Parkinson’s, EECs have been shown to Fig. 2 TBI induces enteroendocrine cell loss and decreases EEC differentiation. male C57BL/6 mice were used at the age of 4–6 weeks to induce moderate-severe TBI as previously described . Mice were sacrificed three days later, and the ileum was harvested to investigate the expression of EECs. Intestinal tissues
