El Baassiri et al. Journal of Neuroinflammation (2024) 21:124 Journal of Neuroinflammation
KEYWORDS: tbi, brain, gut, intestinal, injury, dna, outcomes, levels, ghrelin, cells, following, role, axis, various, increased


of 4–6 weeks to induce moderate-severe TBI as previously described . Mice were sacrificed three days later, and the ileum was harvested to investigate the expression of EECs. Intestinal tissues were fixed overnight with 4% paraformaldehyde and processed for paraffin embedding. Subsequently, 5-μm tissue sections were cut from paraffin blocks using a CUT 6062 microtome (SLEE Medical GmbH, D-55129 Mainz, Germany) and stained for DAPI (blue) and chromogranin A (ChgA) (green). ChgA+ cells were counted using ImageJ2 software. Scale bars, 50-μm. A–C Representative confocal images showing decreased intestinal ChgA expression in TBI mice when compared to sham on post-injury day (PID) 3. D An illustration of EEC differentiation pathway in the intestine. TBI reduces the expression of key transcription factors implicated in the differentiation of L gr5+ intestinal stem cells into ChgA+ mature EECs, including E Notch1, F Atoh1, and G Nuerog3, as measured by quantitative reverse transcription polymerase chain reaction (qRT-PCR). The mRNA levels are expressed as relative to housekeeping gene Rplp0 expression. Statistical significance was determined by student’s t-test using GraphPad Prism 10 software. Each dot on the graph represents a different mouse. Error bars indicate the mean ± SEM. *p < 0.05, **p < 0.01, ***p < 0.001 the concentration it activates it with, determine the effect responsible for kynurenine synthesis, shifting trypto- it exerts . phan away from serotonin synthesis. Although seroto- Altered serotonin levels have been observed in TBI nin levels were not significantly decreased, there was a patients, which could be explained by alterations in significant decrease in the serotonin/tryptophan ratio, tryptophan metabolism . Zhang et al. showed that with a decrease in the mean and total length of seroto- a rabbit subjected to controlled cortical impact had nin fibers compared to sham . These alterations in increased inflammation and upregulation of the enzyme 5-HT levels could contribute to brain dysfunction, as Fig. 3 TBI induces gut dysfunction via the brain-gut axis. This illustration depicts the intricate pathways through which TBI disrupts gut function via the brain-gut axis. Four main pathways contribute to the cross-talk between the brain and gut, including the systemic immune system, autonomic and enteric nervous systems, neuroendocrine system, and microbiota axis. In a healthy gut (left), (i) a balanced microbial flora transforms dietary components into various metabolites, including short-chain fatty acids (SCFAs), tryptophan metabolites, and bile acids. SCFAs, particularly acetate, propionate and butyrate exert various beneficial effects on brain function
