El Baassiri et al. Journal of Neuroinflammation (2024) 21:124 Journal of Neuroinflammation
KEYWORDS: tbi, brain, gut, intestinal, injury, dna, outcomes, levels, ghrelin, cells, following, role, axis, various, increased


flora transforms dietary components into various metabolites, including short-chain fatty acids (SCFAs), tryptophan metabolites, and bile acids. SCFAs, particularly acetate, propionate and butyrate exert various beneficial effects on brain function by acting as energy substrates for neurons and microglia. They have the ability to directly influence the brain by entering the systemic circulation and crossing the blood–brain-barrier or indirectly by binding to receptors on vagus nerve endings; (ii) Additionally, enteroendocrine cells (EECs), the largest endocrine system in the body, regulate digestive processes by secreting various hormones, such as like serotonin, ghrelin and glucagon-like peptide 1 (GLP-1), in response to luminal stimuli. These cells communicate bidirectionally with the CNS by sending hormonal signals to the brain via the blood stream or and neural signals through vagal afferent pathways; (iii) An intact vagus nerve also releases acetylcholine (Ach), which binds to the α7-subtype of the nicotinic acetylcholine receptor (α7nAChR) located on intestinal macrophages and decreases the production of inflammatory cytokines. Ach also binds to muscarinic receptors located on smooth muscle cells in the GI tract facilitating peristalsis and Ach also stimulate excitatory motor neurons in the ENS which further enhances gut motility; (iv) In normal homeostasis, immune cell activation is balanced, cortisol secretion follows diurnal rhythms and catecholamine levels remain within physiologic ranges, collectively maintaining a stable circulation and tissue perfusion. However, TBI-induced intestinal dysfunction triggers a cascade of changes (right). (I) The microbiome shifts towards a pathogenic state, with bacteria translocating into the intestinal parenchyma through the compromised intestinal barrier; (II) EECs become dysfunctional, reducing their expression, differentiation and secretion of anti-inflammatory hormones; (III) Concurrently, vagus nerve dysfunction occurs, resulting in decreased Ach, which can polarize macrophages into a proinflammatory state and heighten inflammation; and (IV) The activation of hypothalamic–pituitary–adrenal (HPA) axis during TBI increased circulating catecholamines and cortisol, leading to a leaky gut and mucosal damage. Furthermore, systemic monocytes and T-cells infiltrate the gut and exacerbate inflammation by upregulating proinflammatory cytokines. In addition, reactive gliosis in enteric glial cells (EGCs) results in intestinal dysmotility. Finally, Paneth cells reduce their secretion of antimicrobial peptides, further exacerbating microbiome dysbiosis. These intricate changes collectively aggravate brain inflammation and neurodegeneration through the gut-brain axis. Created with www. Biore nder cognitive impairment was demonstrated to be mediated TBI patients comes from preclinical models. Weaver by 5-HT in the hippocampus in a tryptophan depletion et al. showed that mice subjected to severe controlled of serotonin in
