El Baassiri et al. Journal of Neuroinflammation (2024) 21:124 Journal of Neuroinflammation
KEYWORDS: tbi, brain, gut, intestinal, injury, dna, outcomes, levels, ghrelin, cells, following, role, axis, various, increased


be mediated TBI patients comes from preclinical models. Weaver by 5-HT in the hippocampus in a tryptophan depletion et al. showed that mice subjected to severe controlled of serotonin in treating or altering the outcomes of TBI intraperitoneal (IP) fluoxetine (5 mg/kg), had decreased is under study . Data about the efficacy of colonic permeability and improved motor coordination selective serotonin reuptake inhibitors (SSRIs) in treating starting day 4 post-TBI compared to those treated with placebo . Craine et al. studied the role of chronic IP occurs because of inflammation and impaired motility in milnacipran treatment (30 mg/kg/day), a serotonin-nor- TBI is another factor that explains the changes in 5-HT epinephrine reuptake inhibitor (SNRI), in improving cog- levels . Studies involving alterations in gut micro- nition in male rats subjected to frontal lobe injury. After biota whether in induced or in disease states such as IBS TBI, rats treated with milnacipran performed signifi- have been correlated with changes in 5-HT levels and in cantly better in attentional set-shifting tasks compared behavior [135–137]. Similarly, people who suffer from to those treated with placebo, and their performance was schizophrenia or depression harbor patho- comparable to that seen in sham rats . In humans, genic microbiota and reduced 5-HT levels a systematic review conducted by Yue et al. demon- than controls highlighting the bidirectional interaction. strated that the administration of SSRIs was associated In the GI system, serotonin has been shown to play a with improvements in depressive symptoms following role in regulating motility through 5-HT and 5-HT4, TBI . In addition to TBI, many CNS disorders and peristalsis through its action on 5-HT on the inter- 2B have been associated with altered levels of 5-HT. For stitial cells of Cajal (ICC), which are the cells responsible example, patients with Alzheimer’s disease (AD) were for initiating rhythmic contraction [112–115]. In addi- found to have decreased total levels of 5-HT and 5-HT tion to TBI and other neurological diseases, alterations receptors [120–122], and a decrease in 5-HT along with in 5-HT levels have been extensively described in intes- an increase in kynurenine was associated with increased tinal diseases such as IBDs , celiac disease [144, cognitive dysfunction and inflammation . Similarly, 145], colitis , and diverticulitis . Serotonin has in Parkinson’s patients, 5-HT depletion was associated been shown to improve esophageal motility in cases of with worse cognitive functioning [124–126]. In healthy dysfunction ,
