El Baassiri et al. Journal of Neuroinflammation (2024) 21:124 Journal of Neuroinflammation
KEYWORDS: tbi, brain, gut, intestinal, injury, dna, outcomes, levels, ghrelin, cells, following, role, axis, various, increased


and diverticulitis . Serotonin has in Parkinson’s patients, 5-HT depletion was associated been shown to improve esophageal motility in cases of with worse cognitive functioning [124–126]. In healthy dysfunction , increase stool frequency and improve individuals, acute serotonin depletion achieved through its consistency in patients with inflammatory bowel syn- tryptophan depletion has been associated with impaired drome associated with constipation . Interestingly, verbal memory and emotional processing . This chronic treatment with SSRIs has been associated with evidence is further supported by the impact of SSRIs in decreased gut motility and delayed transit both in mouse alleviating some of these conditions. Preclinical studies and human studies , highlighting the complex- showed that treatment with SSRIs decreased amyloid- ity of serotonin signaling. 5-HT has been also shown to beta plaques in female mice with AD, which was asso- regulate inflammation in the gut by exerting both pro- ciated with improved cognitive function, learning and inflammatory and anti-inflammatory effects through memory . There is also evidence that longer treat- various receptors found on immune cells . Given ment duration with SSRIs is protective against dementia that intestinal epithelial cells express the serotonin reup- . The mechanism of how serotonin can improve take transporter (Sert) on their apical membranes these conditions is not fully understood, as preclini- and considering that TBI increases the expression of cal models show that agonism of different 5-HT recep- these receptors in the intestinal epithelium of colonic villi tors can result in either a positive or negative impact on , administering SSRIs such as fluoxetine presents a memory and cognition . promising avenue to explore the impact of intestinal ser- Since the gut is the main source of 5-HT in the body, otonin on gut-brain axis interactions and neurobehavio- it is not surprising the serotonin levels are altered in TBI ral outcomes following TBI. patients. Mercado et al. show that male mouse models subjected to moderate TBI have a significant decrease in Ghrelin TPH1 in the duodenum and colon by 0.9-fold and 0.5- First characterized in 1999, ghrelin is an orexigenic fold, respectively. Additionally, there was a reduction in peptide hormone mainly produced by P/D1 cells in the serotonin expression in the colon on immunofluorescent stomach with small amounts also released by the small staining accompanied by a significant increase in colonic intestine, pancreas and brain. Ghrelin is well known for serotonin reuptake transporters (Sert) compared to its
