El Baassiri et al. Journal of Neuroinflammation (2024) 21:124 Journal of Neuroinflammation
KEYWORDS: tbi, brain, gut, intestinal, injury, dna, outcomes, levels, ghrelin, cells, following, role, axis, various, increased


amounts also released by the small staining accompanied by a significant increase in colonic intestine, pancreas and brain. Ghrelin is well known for serotonin reuptake transporters (Sert) compared to its effects on pituitary regulation, hunger, and satiety sham. This was reflected as an overall significant decrease [154–156]. More recently, its anti-inflammatory prop- in 5-HT level in the peripheral circulation . Further- erties have become better understood . Inves- more, our group was the first to demonstrate a significant tigation into the role of exogenous ghrelin in models of downregulation in the expression of EECs along the intes- brain injury has uncovered several mechanisms through tinal epithelium, particularly the ileum, following severe which ghrelin can simultaneously ameliorate GI dysfunc- unilateral TBI in male mice. This results in decreased tion and exert various neuroprotective effects. The neu- levels of serotonin synthesis genes, especially dopa decar- roprotective effects of ghrelin have been linked to BBB boxylase, another essential enzyme responsible for sero- preservation, reduction in oxidative damage, as well as tonin synthesis . The long-term gut dysbiosis that other neuroprotective mechanisms. In a weight drop (WD) model of TBI, IP administration of ghrelin (20 μg ghrelin as a protective agent that acts on and through the total) in male mice was found to reduce neuronal degen- brain-gut axis. eration and decrease vascular permeability and perivas- Ghrelin’s ability to reduce GI dysfunction following cular expression of AQP-4 . Increased AQP-4 has CNS injury has been attributed to several mechanisms, been shown to be linked to cellular edema following TBI including a link with the vagus nerve, preservation of the which contributes to TBI-induced neuronal dam- intestinal barrier, and activation of the mammalian tar- age. In this study, S100B -a neurobiochemical marker of get of rapamycin (mTOR) pathway following ischemic brain damage- was also found to be reduced in the serum injury. Evidence supports the role of ghrelin in mediat- of mice that receive ghrelin alongside TBI , ing protective responses of the gut-brain axis following adding evidence that ghrelin prevents neuronal damage TBI. Bansal et al. showed that the administration of 2 and apoptosis following trauma through preservation of doses of IP ghrelin (20 μg/kg total) right before and after the BBB. The protective role of ghrelin in TBI was linked severe WD TBI preserved intestinal barrier integrity, to fibroblast growth factor (FGF) where a study by Shao restored villous architecture and reduced ileal
