El Baassiri et al. Journal of Neuroinflammation (2024) 21:124 Journal of Neuroinflammation
KEYWORDS: tbi, brain, gut, intestinal, injury, dna, outcomes, levels, ghrelin, cells, following, role, axis, various, increased


role of ghrelin in TBI was linked severe WD TBI preserved intestinal barrier integrity, to fibroblast growth factor (FGF) where a study by Shao restored villous architecture and reduced ileal levels of et al. found that both FGF-binding protein (FGF-BP) and TNF-α .They also demonstrated that the beneficial basic FGF (bFGF) were downregulated in the ipsilateral effects of vagus nerve stimulation (VNS) following TBI hemisphere following treatment with IV ghrelin (20 μg/ may be mediated through ghrelin . VNS was kg) in a TBI rat model. The group proposed that ghre- shown to both increase serum ghrelin levels and decrease lin attenuates brain injury by competitively inhibiting serum inflammatory cytokines following TBI. Exog- bFGF/FGF-BP-induced neovascularization. However, it enous ghrelin was found to mimic the response seen to remains to be investigated whether this discovered rela- VNS by decreasing circulating TNF-α. Importantly, the tionship between ghrelin and both bFGF and FGF-BP is protective effects of VNS were abolished when a ghrelin causative or competitive . An alternative mechanism receptor antagonist was administered alongside VNS, has been identified in relation to ghrelin’s protective role highlighting a potential ghrelin-dependent mechanism against brain injury during sepsis. Sun et al. found that through which VNS works during TBI. The localiza- PI3K/Akt signaling activation mediates ghrelin’s ability to tion of ghrelin receptors to the dorsal motor nucleus of attenuate brain edema, neuronal apoptosis and enhanced the vagus in the brain supports this link . Further- BBB integrity . Phosphoinositide 3-kinases (PI3K) more, the administration of 1 dose of intravenous ghre- activation results in the production of phosphatidylino- lin (20 μg/kg) 30 min following severe TBI in male rats sitol 3,4,5 trisphosphate (PIP3) and phosphatidylinosi- improved intestinal motility and preserved ileal mucosal tol 3,4 bisphosphate (PIP2), leading to the activation of architecture . Aside from its important and well- Protein kinase B (Pkb/Akt). Akt promotes cell survival established anti-inflammatory role, ghrelin has been by phosphorylating both glycogen synthase kinase 3beta shown to attenuate intestinal barrier dysfunction follow- (GSK-3beta) and the Bcl-2 family . These two ing intracerebral hemorrhage (ICH) in mice . In a molecules are tied closely to neuronal survival, highlight- male mouse model of ICH, 2 doses of IP ghrelin (20 μg ing a potential mechanism through which ghrelin exerts total) markedly reduced ileal mucosal injury at both his- its neuroprotective effects during sepsis. Lastly, ghrelin tological and ultrastructural levels. Ghrelin also reduced has been
