El Baassiri et al. Journal of Neuroinflammation (2024) 21:124 Journal of Neuroinflammation
KEYWORDS: tbi, brain, gut, intestinal, injury, dna, outcomes, levels, ghrelin, cells, following, role, axis, various, increased


mechanism through which ghrelin exerts total) markedly reduced ileal mucosal injury at both his- its neuroprotective effects during sepsis. Lastly, ghrelin tological and ultrastructural levels. Ghrelin also reduced has been shown to be exhibit neuroprotective proper- the increase in intestinal permeability commonly seen ties in cerebral models of ischemia–reperfusion injury following ICH by upregulating intestinal tight junction- (IRI) . When compared to IRI controls, treatment related proteins Zonula occludens-1 (ZO-1) and clau- with un-acylated ghrelin in rat and mice models of cer- din-5 . The activation of the mTOR has also been ebral IRI resulted in decreased injury, apoptosis, inflam- implicated in the gastro-protective mechanisms of ghre- mation and BBB disruption through the reduction of lin. Zhang et al. found that ghrelin increased the phos- oxidative damage . Ghrelin has also been found phorylation of mTOR following superior mesenteric to reduce neutrophil infiltration following spinal cord artery (SMA) occlusion . This finding did not occur injury (SCI), resulting in less lipid peroxidation and DNA when the specific ghrelin antagonist, growth hormone- damage following the insult . However, despite releasing peptide 6, was co-administered. Ghrelin’s ability these potential protective roles, investigation into ghrelin to activate mTOR was ultimately correlated with findings has not yielded universally positive findings. For example, of attenuated organ injury and increased survival in mice Ersahin et al. found that IP ghrelin (10 μg/kg/day) did not that received ghrelin treatment alongside SMA occlusion reduce neurological deterioration following SCI in rats . There are several mechanisms through which ghre- . This divergence in available data emphasizes the lin can ameliorate both brain and gut injury following an need for further investigation into the potential role of insult. The lack of a consistent mechanism throughout the highlighted papers supports the hypothesis that ghre- decay-accelerating factor (CD55), a potent inhibitor of lin’s pleiotropy contributes to its beneficial impact. the neuroinflammatory cascade . One systematic review found that progesterone admin- istration immediately after experimental brain injury Progesterone reduced the lesion volume , but a more recent sys- Progesterone is a steroid hormone primarily produced tematic review showed that it did not reduce mortality by the gonads and the adrenal cortex that regulates uter- or adverse outcomes after TBI . Due to the prom- ine function and female reproduction . However, ising results of numerous preclinical studies, researchers research suggests that progesterone plays a role beyond conducted phase II clinical trials to study
