El Baassiri et al. Journal of Neuroinflammation (2024) 21:124 Journal of Neuroinflammation
KEYWORDS: tbi, brain, gut, intestinal, injury, dna, outcomes, levels, ghrelin, cells, following, role, axis, various, increased


prom- ine function and female reproduction . However, ising results of numerous preclinical studies, researchers research suggests that progesterone plays a role beyond conducted phase II clinical trials to study the efficacy of the female reproductive tract, including the CNS, where progesterone in human subjects following acute TBI. In it is secreted by neurons and glial cells. Its effects include the first phase II trial in Atlanta, GA named ProTECT, promoting neurogenesis and myelination and improv- progesterone was shown to decrease mortality on post- has been extensively described in multiple CNS diseases trial was conducted in Hangzhou, China, which dem- including TBI, Parkinson’s disease and AD, where it has onstrated improved functional outcomes and recovery been labeled as neuroprotective due to its anti-inflam- at 3 months post-injury . Ultimately, two phase III matory properties . The therapeutic benefits of pro- clinical trials (ProTECT III and SyNAPSe) failed to con- gesterone were explored in TBI , stroke and firm the previous promising pro-regenerative results. neurodegenerative diseases’ animal models , where Nonetheless, research critics attributed its failure to the progesterone receptors are expressed in various CNS reliance on subjective measures and the lack of objec- cells such as neurons, astrocytes and oligodendrocytes, tive measures to accurately evaluate the outcomes. Issues in addition to Schwann cells in the peripheral nervous with medication dosage and the tendency to overvalue system . Studies have shown that early administra- false positive results in preclinical trials were also iden- tion of progesterone post-TBI reduces the expression of tified . However, a notable oversight in launching proinflammatory cytokines , repairs BBB , pro- the trials was the failure to understand how progester- motes myelin and axonal regeneration , attenuates one affects gut motility and the subsequent tempo- oxidative damage of mitochondria , and improves ral changes in the gut’s immune profile , which cognitive and motor outcomes . Progesterone also could potentially influence neurological outcomes. Even ing the expression of nerve growth factor and brain- gesterone may still be regarded as a crucial targeted derived neurotrophic factor (BDNF) . pharmacological therapy, especially in the absence of any Guo et al. demonstrated that subcutaneous (SQ) FDA-approved drug for treating TBIs. administration of progesterone (16 mg/kg) decreased Progesterone’s neuroprotective quality has led brain edema 3 days following TBI in male rats by increas- researchers to study its role in TBI-related intestinal ing the expression of AQP4 water channels near the
