El Baassiri et al. Journal of Neuroinflammation (2024) 21:124 Journal of Neuroinflammation
KEYWORDS: tbi, brain, gut, intestinal, injury, dna, outcomes, levels, ghrelin, cells, following, role, axis, various, increased


has led brain edema 3 days following TBI in male rats by increas- researchers to study its role in TBI-related intestinal ing the expression of AQP4 water channels near the dysfunction. Chen et al. showed that SQ progesterone lesion site . Other studies also revealed that proges- (16 mg/kg) administration for 5 days helped preserve terone attenuates the neuroinflammatory response fol- ileal mucosal integrity and decrease inflammation fol- lowing TBI by lowering the activation of the transcription lowing TBI by lowering the proinflammatory cytokines factor NF-κB and the expression of the proinflammatory IL-1β and TNF-α, as well as reducing cellular apopto- cytokines TNF-α and IL-1β . Ultimately, this sis . Then, they also discovered that progesterone leads to a reduction in the activation of cFos, a transcrip- decreased the activation of transcription factor NF-κB, tion factor known to promote apoptosis and inflamma- which was thought to be responsible for its therapeutic tion . Consistent with these results, Yao et al. effects . Subsequent investigations revealed that the demonstrated that progesterone administration follow- antioxidant transcription factor nuclear factor erythroid ing moderate lateral fluid percussion injury (FPI) in male 2-related factor 2 (Nrf2) also alleviates intestinal inflam- rats decreased the proapoptotic genes Bad and Bax’s mation following TBI by decreasing the activation of expression and increased the anti-apoptotic gene Bcl-2 NF-κB , leading to the possibility that progesterone . Furthermore, progesterone increases circulating decreases NF-κB activation by modulating the Nrf2 path- endothelial progenitor cells (CD31 and CD34) which way. In addition, Jin et al. observed an elevation in intes- facilitates neural regeneration and vascular remod- tinal permeability following TBI in Nrf2-deficient mice, eling, leading to improved cognitive outcomes . An which consequently led to increased levels of plasma alternative mechanism by which progesterone exerts its endotoxins. This, in turn, resulted in decreased levels of therapeutic effects involves the activation of complement antioxidant and detoxifying enzymes . Furthermore, it is worth mentioning that Nrf2-deficient mice exhib- 2 receptor blocker), can also act on alpha-1 receptors, ited increased levels of intercellular adhesion molecule-1 thereby altering the expected outcome . (ICAM-1) expression, while progesterone therapy suc- A study by Lopez et al. subjected male mice to severe cessfully decreased ICAM-1 expression following TBI TBI via controlled cortical impact and tested the effects . These studies demonstrate the restorative syn- of treating them with the non-selective beta-blocker ergistic effects of progesterone and the Nrf2 pathway in
