El Baassiri et al. Journal of Neuroinflammation (2024) 21:124 Journal of Neuroinflammation
KEYWORDS: tbi, brain, gut, intestinal, injury, dna, outcomes, levels, ghrelin, cells, following, role, axis, various, increased


controlled cortical impact and tested the effects . These studies demonstrate the restorative syn- of treating them with the non-selective beta-blocker ergistic effects of progesterone and the Nrf2 pathway in propranolol for two and fourteen days . Pro- preserving mucosal integrity. More studies are necessary pranolol treatment led to decreased penumbral leukocyte to fully elucidate the precise mechanisms underlying the migration in a dose-dependent manner and improved effects of progesterone on the Nrf2 pathway via proges- weight recovery at both timelines and decreased cerebral terone receptors. Later, Zhou et al. conducted in vitro edema and albumin leakage at two days. Other preclini- experiments which demonstrated that progesterone cal trials revealed decreased p-tau accumulation , effectively reduced gut permeability by upregulating the improved cerebral oxygenation and perfusion , res- expression of the tight junction occludin . In addi- toration of cerebral autoregulation , decreased hip- tion, gut dysfunction is observed in brain disorders like pocampal necrosis , higher neurologic scores [212, subarachnoid hemorrhage (SAH) and Parkinson’s dis- 219] and improved behavioral , cognitive and mem- ease, and the use of progesterone has been shown to alle- ory performances with beta-blocker treatment. viate intestinal inflammation, suggesting its protective Beta-blockers are hypothesized to act by (a) providing a role in brain-gut axis dysfunction. In a male rat model neuroprotective environment by increasing protective of SAH, IP administration of progesterone (16 mg/kg) proteins, such as heat shock protein 70 (HSP-70) and for 5 days reduced the expression of proinflammatory downregulating ubiquitin carboxyl-terminal hydrolase cytokines IL-1β, TNF-α and IL-6 and restored mucosal L1 (UCHL-1), which is involved in oxidative damage integrity in the ileum . In a mouse model of Parkin- ; (b) decreasing calcium entry into the cell, which son’s disease, the use of progesterone also demonstrated decreases apoptosis ; (c) modulating microglial anti-inflammatory effects in the ileal tissues . In function and synaptic plasticity ; and (d) inhibiting conclusion, these studies demonstrate the synergistic role pro-inflammatory IL-6 signaling . of progesterone in mitigating brain and intestinal inflam- The success seen with beta-blocker treatment in mation following TBI. preclinical trials translated well into clinical studies. Observational studies showed a significant decrease in mortality in TBI patients treated with beta-blockers, par- ANS modulators ticularly propranolol, compared to those administered Beta‑blockers placebo and better long-term neurologic function- Catecholamines, namely norepinephrine (NE), exert their ing . Results were associated with increased length effects through the activation of
