El Baassiri et al. Journal of Neuroinflammation (2024) 21:124 Journal of Neuroinflammation
KEYWORDS: tbi, brain, gut, intestinal, injury, dna, outcomes, levels, ghrelin, cells, following, role, axis, various, increased


compared to those administered Beta‑blockers placebo and better long-term neurologic function- Catecholamines, namely norepinephrine (NE), exert their ing . Results were associated with increased length effects through the activation of beta-receptors: beta1-3 of hospital stay with inconsistent results on length of ICU and alpha-receptors: alpha1-2 . Beta1-3 recep- stay . The adverse effects of using beta- tors are found in various organs in the body, where they blockers included a longer time on the ventilator and lead to increased cardiac contractility, increased heart increased infection rates ; however, both beta- rate, vasodilation, and bronchodilation. They also play a blocker and placebo groups experienced similar rates of role in regulating lipolysis in white adipose tissue, ther- cardiopulmonary adverse events such as hypotension, mogenesis in brown adipose tissue and mobilization of bradycardia, heart blocks, arrest, and bronchospasms hematopoietic progenitor cells . It has been shown . Asmar et al. demonstrated that beta-blockers, that TBI patients experience sympathetic hyperactiv- particularly propranolol, play a role in alleviating the ity, causing a catecholamine surge [213–218]. This surge dysregulation in body temperature after TBI by sig- causes secondary insults, which manifest as posttrau- nificantly decreasing the number of hyperthermic epi- matic hyperthermia , increased inflammation sodes, lowering the median temperature, and spacing and leukocyte migration , impaired cerebral out the episodes. The results were more pronounced in homeostasis and perfusion , and cardiovascular dys- patients with severe head injury, and these patients fur- function , and has been associated with increased ther showed decreased lengths of ICU stay and higher mortality . In light of such evidence, the use of Glasgow Coma Scale scores at discharge . In a pro- beta-blockers to alleviate secondary damage caused by spective randomized controlled trial, Khalili et al. showed TBI gained interest. Beta-blockers can be selective to that treating patients with severe isolated TBI with pro- one type of receptor, such as metoprolol (beta-1 recep- pranolol resulted in decreased mortality and improved tor blocker), or act non-selectively on all beta-receptors, functional outcomes at 6 months compared to placebo such as propranolol. Some, like labetalol (beta-1 and (Level II evidence) . The Eastern Association for the Surgery of Trauma (EAST) recommends the use of beta- isolated moderate to severe TBI . Importantly blockers in adult TBI patients with no contraindications the COMA-TBI study highlights the differences in the and only in an ICU setting where cardiovascular side predictive use of both
