El Baassiri et al. Journal of Neuroinflammation (2024) 21:124 Journal of Neuroinflammation
KEYWORDS: tbi, brain, gut, intestinal, injury, dna, outcomes, levels, ghrelin, cells, following, role, axis, various, increased


Importantly blockers in adult TBI patients with no contraindications the COMA-TBI study highlights the differences in the and only in an ICU setting where cardiovascular side predictive use of both epinephrine (Epi) and norepi- effects, primarily hypotension, and bradycardia, can be nephrine (NE), with admission levels Epi associated with monitored and treated promptly . higher rates of unfavorable outcomes and mortality and Evidence shows that TBI is associated with increased changes in NE associated with higher mortality risks. intestinal permeability, which correlates with increased The differences in the predictive value of each of these mortality, that is significantly reduced with beta-blocker catecholamines may well be due to their affinities for treatment . Lang et al. also showed that male adrenoceptor sub-types. higher intestinal TNF-a levels, decreased ZO-1 protein been investigated extensively in the setting of severe TBI expression, which forms tight junction in the intestine, with the hopes that these agents may attenuate sympa- and worse mucosal damage on ileum histopathology thetic hyperactivity following brain injury . Cloni- compared to sham rats. All these changes were reversed dine (alpha-2 agonist), in combination with propranolol, significantly when the rats were treated with 1 dose of has been studied in patients with severe TBI as it reduces IP labetalol (beta-1 and 2 receptor blocker) right after levels of circulating catecholamines and decreases lev- TBI . Gut dysfunction seen in TBI can also induce els of cerebral vasoconstriction without altering cerebral changes in the brain via NE signaling that can further blood flow . To date, several studies, including the exacerbate gut dysfunction as NE plays a bidirectional “DASH After TBI Study” and the Nordness et al. role in the brain-gut axis. For instance, rat models show pilot study have found that while adrenergic block- that gastric distension induces a signification increase ade with propranolol and clonidine is safe and feasible, in NE in the ventral bed nucleus of the stria terminalis the drugs do not alter ventilator-free day numbers in (vBNST), which is known to be involved in response to patients with severe TBI. stress. In turn agonism of beta-receptors in the vBNST leads to a significant decrease in gastric emptying and small intestinal transit, which is reversed with the admin- Statins istration of beta-blockers . Since their discovery in the early 1970s, statins have become the mainstay treatment for patients with high Alpha‑agonists/antagonists cholesterol levels . As research advanced, the use
