El Baassiri et al. Journal of Neuroinflammation (2024) 21:124 Journal of Neuroinflammation
KEYWORDS: tbi, brain, gut, intestinal, injury, dna, outcomes, levels, ghrelin, cells, following, role, axis, various, increased


istration of beta-blockers . Since their discovery in the early 1970s, statins have become the mainstay treatment for patients with high Alpha‑agonists/antagonists cholesterol levels . As research advanced, the use of statins expanded due to their anti-inflammatory proper- In the setting of the brain-gut axis, alpha-adrenergic ties where they have been shown to be effective in the receptor modulation remains relatively unstudied. management of coronary artery disease , arthritis Despite the lack of bi-directional data on the therapeu- , brain injuries and intestinal inflammation tic action of alpha receptor modulators, their action on . The protective role of statins in the CNS follow- the brain following TBI is of significant interest in both ing brain injuries has been widely described [243–245]. Statins have been shown to attenuate neurodegeneration male rats, the alpha-2 adrenergic agonist mafedine pro- by decreasing neuronal death, apoptosis, microglial acti- motes the restoration of interhemispheric connectivity vation and astrogliosis . Statins also promote neu- in remote brain regions and intrahemispheric connec- rogenesis, synaptogenesis and angiogenesis in the brain, tion within the unaffected hemisphere post-TBI day 7 particularly in the boundary zone of the lesion and the . The authors also found that mafedine improved hippocampus . Studies have shown that statin use cortical response to photic and somatosensory stimula- after TBI is associated with decreased risk of death and tion . Alongside alpha-2 agonists, the role of alpha-1 improved function and capacity at 12 months post-injury antagonists is also being actively explored in the setting of TBI. Kobori et al. have shown that IP administra- improved functional recovery at 3 months post injury, tion of the alpha-1 antagonist (2-[b-(4-Hydroxyphenyl) although they had no effect on brain contusion volume ethyl]aminomethyl-1-tetralone hydrochloride (HEAT)) . Rat animal models also showed enhanced spatial (0.1 mg/kg) improved working memory in male Sprague memory function with atorvastatin treatment following Dawley rats post-TBI day 14 . Such studies suggest TBI . A systematic review by Sultan et al. sug- that modulation of alpha adrenoceptors and, by exten- gested that statins display a neuroprotective role, par- sion, norepinephrine signaling may benefit TBI patients. ticularly in improving cognitive outcomes and reducing These findings add to existing clinical data from the the risk of dementia . Statins were also shown to COMA-TBI study showing that elevated catecholamines reduce beta-amyloid peptide levels post TBI, which may are associated with unfavorable outcomes following play a role in the improvement
