El Baassiri et al. Journal of Neuroinflammation (2024) 21:124 Journal of Neuroinflammation
KEYWORDS: tbi, brain, gut, intestinal, injury, dna, outcomes, levels, ghrelin, cells, following, role, axis, various, increased


were also shown to COMA-TBI study showing that elevated catecholamines reduce beta-amyloid peptide levels post TBI, which may are associated with unfavorable outcomes following play a role in the improvement in cognitive outcomes and vascular cells . In addition, Ozacmac et al. revealed decreasing the risk of AD in TBI patients . that daily PO atorvastatin (10 mg/kg) 3 days before IRI The anti-inflammatory effects of statins are numerous, promoted gut motility and ileal contractility possibly due such as reduction in the expression of proinflammatory to a decrease in oxidative stress, neutrophil accumula- markers TNFα and IL-1β, as well as a decrease in the tion and tissue malondialdehyde expression, as well as an activation of microglia and astrocytes, as evidenced by a increase in reduced glutathione levels . An alterna- decrease in the expression of cluster of differentiation 68 tive mechanism in which statins exert their protective (CD68) and glial fibrillary acidic protein (GFAP), respec- effects in the gut is by modulating the gut microbiome. tively . Statins reduce astrogliosis by modulat- A growing body of evidence suggests that TBI alters the ing caveolin-1 expression and epidermal growth factor composition of the gut microbiome and promotes path- receptor in astrocyte lipid rafts . Statins also upreg- ogenic bacteria over commensal bacteria mainly due to ulate the expression of vascular endothelial growth factor intestinal dysmotility and increased paracellular perme- (VEGF) and BDNF in the dentate gyrus of the hippocam- ability, therefore, aggravating disease progression . In pus through Akt-dependent signaling pathways, upregu- turn, the vagus nerve can reciprocally affect the CNS by lating the expression of GSK-3beta and cAMP response sensing the microbial products through its afferent fibers element-binding proteins, ultimately increasing cellular . This leads to a deleterious cycle between the injured proliferation and enhancing neurogenesis . In addi- brain and the dysbiotic gut. One possible way to halt this tion, daily oral simvastatin administration (1 mg/kg/day) inflammatory cycle is through the use of statin therapy. reduces neuronal apoptosis following TBI in male rats Statins have been shown to promote healthy gut flora and through increased Akt phosphorylation and activation of ameliorate gut dysbiosis . Studies have also shown its downstream targets, such as Forkhead transcription that statins demonstrate anti-inflammatory effects in IBD factor 1, inhibitory-kappaB, and endothelial nitric oxide and are linked to a decreased requirement of steroids synthase, while attenuating the activation of caspase-3. . The potential use
