El Baassiri et al. Journal of Neuroinflammation (2024) 21:124 Journal of Neuroinflammation
KEYWORDS: tbi, brain, gut, intestinal, injury, dna, outcomes, levels, ghrelin, cells, following, role, axis, various, increased


effects in IBD factor 1, inhibitory-kappaB, and endothelial nitric oxide and are linked to a decreased requirement of steroids synthase, while attenuating the activation of caspase-3. . The potential use of these drugs is promising All these effects lead to improved neuronal survival and interesting. More studies are encouraged to better and function . Furthermore, statins decrease brain elucidate how statin therapy regulates the brain-gut axis edema following injury by reducing BBB permeability in the context of TBI. due to a decrease in ICAM-1 and neutrophil infiltration . Taken together, these findings suggest that statins Microbiome modulators play a beneficial role in attenuating the neuroinflamma- Antibiotics tory response post-TBI and improving outcomes. Recent investigations indicate that gut microbial dys- The protective role of statins along the brain-gut axis biosis impacts intestinal function not only in diseases is emerging. First, it is significant to note that cluster of like IBS and IBD but also in neurologic conditions such differentiation 40 (CD40), a transmembrane receptor as TBI and strokes . TBI promotes the pres- of the tumor necrosis factor receptor family, is strongly ence of pathogenic bacteria over commensal bacteria, implicated in intestinal inflammation in various diseases leading to heightened intestinal inflammation, increased such as TBI, IRI and IBD . In a rat model of TBI, Hu barrier permeability and dysmotility . To gain et al. demonstrated that the expression of CD40 increases a better understanding of alterations in the microbiome in the jejunum which is positively correlated with an and their implications on brain inflammation after TBI, increase in the activity of NF-κB and levels of TNF-α, vas- studies have utilized various antibiotic combinations to cular cell adhesion molecule-1 (VCAM-1) and ICAM-1 deplete the microbiome, in addition to the administra- . Ultimately, studies revealed that one dose of IP tion of beneficial probiotic strains to promote a healthy (30 mg/kg) rosuvastatin right after TBI attenuated jeju- intestinal flora. Many animal studies initially utilized nal injury by reducing the expression of TNF-α and IL-1β germ-free (GF) mice to elucidate relation between micro- and blocking the CD40/NF-κB pathway. Statins also alle- bial dysbiosis and the host’s physiologic response [71, viated TBI-induced intestinal morphometric alterations 269]. A study by Simon et al. demonstrated that admin- by preserving normal mucosal architecture and maintain- istering a combination of antibiotics (1 g/L of ampicillin, ing villous integrity . Furthermore, in vivo (experi- metronidazole, neomycin and vancomycin) two
