El Baassiri et al. Journal of Neuroinflammation (2024) 21:124 Journal of Neuroinflammation
KEYWORDS: tbi, brain, gut, intestinal, injury, dna, outcomes, levels, ghrelin, cells, following, role, axis, various, increased


admin- by preserving normal mucosal architecture and maintain- istering a combination of antibiotics (1 g/L of ampicillin, ing villous integrity . Furthermore, in vivo (experi- metronidazole, neomycin and vancomycin) two weeks mental murine colitis model) and in vitro (intestinal before TBI in male mice improved intestinal barrier epithelial cells) studies both reconfirmed the anti-inflam- permeability, as evidenced by increased ZO-1 staining matory properties of statins by blocking the activity of along the cecum epithelium. This resulted in decreased NF-κB, inhibiting the phosphorylation of IκB and eventu- microglial activation, increased hippocampal neuronal ally lowering the expression of TNF-α . Statins have density, reduced lesion volume, and improved learning also been shown to decrease CD40 expression in human outcomes . Conversely, another study by Celorrio et al., using the same antibiotic regimen for two weeks reductions in serum inflammatory C-reactive protein before injury, showed worsened neuronal loss in the hip- levels in patients taking Lactobacillus reuteri daily for pocampus, triggering a more pronounced fear response 8 weeks compared to the placebo group . Further- in adult male mice . The opposing outcomes may more, a systemic review and meta-analysis conducted by be attributed to various factors, including differences Du et al. showed that early enteral nutrition with probiot- in mice intestinal flora in distinct animal facilities, vari- ics after TBI reduced mortality and decreased GI compli- ations in diet impacting the host microbiome, and dif- cations such as constipation, abdominal distention, reflux ferences in injury severity and time points of behavioral and stress ulcers . analysis . Celorrio et al.’s study also revealed Probiotics also stimulate the release of SCFAs, such the intricate interplay between the gut microbiome and as acetate, butyrate, and propionate, into the peripheral the immune system. Antibiotic administration for 1 week circulation which can ultimately cross the BBB and ame- after TBI reduced the infiltration of peripheral mono- liorate brain inflammation by decreasing the expression cytes and T-lymphocytes into the brain while increasing of proinflammatory cytokines and promoting neuro- microglial inflammatory markers 3 days after injury. The genesis [279–281]. A study by Li et al. demonstrated the heightened expression of proinflammatory surface mark- neuroprotective effects of Clostridium butyricum (Cb), a ers (TLR4 and MHCII) by microglia, along with altera- butyrate-producing probiotic, after TBI via the brain-gut tions in their morphology toward an amoeboid shape, axis by increasing the levels of GLP-1 and glucagon-like correlated with decreased neurogenesis in
