El Baassiri et al. Journal of Neuroinflammation (2024) 21:124 Journal of Neuroinflammation
KEYWORDS: tbi, brain, gut, intestinal, injury, dna, outcomes, levels, ghrelin, cells, following, role, axis, various, increased


altera- butyrate-producing probiotic, after TBI via the brain-gut tions in their morphology toward an amoeboid shape, axis by increasing the levels of GLP-1 and glucagon-like correlated with decreased neurogenesis in the dentate peptide 1 receptor in the colon. Intragastric Cb supple- gyrus and increased neuronal degeneration in the CA3 mentation (109 CFU/ml), once daily for 2 weeks pre and region of the hippocampus . Benakis et al. also post-TBI, improved neurological outcomes in male mice demonstrated that alterations in the intestinal flora of by attenuating neurodegeneration, decreasing apopto- male mice induced by a two-week course of amoxicillin- sis and enhancing BBB integrity . In parallel, the clavulanic acid (1 g/L) resulted in reduced ischemic brain administration of the probiotic Lactobacillus acidophi- injury. This reduction was attributed to an increase in lus (LA) (1 × 1010 CFU) for 7 days after weight-drop TBI intestinal regulatory T-cells and a decrease in the infil- shifts the microbiome towards a healthier profile in male tration of IL-17 + γδ T cells into the brain, observed 16 mice. LA improved neurological outcomes by decreasing h post-injury . Targeting the gut-microbiota-immune the activation of astrocytes and microglia, and reduced axis offers a promising approach to improve recovery fol- brain edema by preserving the BBB integrity. LA supple- lowing TBI. mentation also decreased the expression of gram nega- tive bacteria receptors in the brain, mainly TLR4 . In an effort to better understand microbiome changes, administration of a combination of probiotics (Bifido- the administration of probiotics has been widely experi- bacterium longum, Lactobacillus bulgaricus, Streptococ- mented in TBI models. Probiotics regulate microbial cus thermophilus) for 21 days after severe TBI attenuated populations in the gut lumen by favoring the colonization systemic inflammation by lowering the levels of IL-4 and of beneficial bacteria and reducing pathogenic popula- IL-10 and reducing the risk of nosocomial infections tions . They enhance epithelial cell differentiation .These studies emphasize the link between the host and proliferation and maintains epithelial barrier integ- gut microbiome and immune responses in the brain fol- rity, thereby limiting the translocation of harmful bacte- lowing TBI. The utilization of antibiotics/probiotics holds ria into the intestinal parenchyma . A study by Ma substantial therapeutic potential in TBI management, et al. showed that the supplementation of probiotics, with further studies warranted to better elucidate their specifically LA for 7 days after weight-drop TBI, has pro- effects on brain inflammation and
