El Baassiri et al. Journal of Neuroinflammation (2024) 21:124 Journal of Neuroinflammation
KEYWORDS: tbi, brain, gut, intestinal, injury, dna, outcomes, levels, ghrelin, cells, following, role, axis, various, increased


al. showed that the supplementation of probiotics, with further studies warranted to better elucidate their specifically LA for 7 days after weight-drop TBI, has pro- effects on brain inflammation and behavioral outcomes. tective effects on the ileum after TBI. This was revealed by improvements in intestinal barrier function and the Microbial metabolites gut’s absorptive capacity for nutrients and electrolytes Studies have also revealed that TBI induces alterations . The effects of LA also included improvements in gut microbial metabolites, including SCFAs and bile in ileal villous architecture and enhanced ileal motil- acids. Among these metabolites, SCFAs such as butyrate, ity through the restoration of the gut’s pacemaker cells, propionate and acetate play a crucial role . They known as the interstitial cells of Cajal (ICC), by increasing serve as alternative energy sources for the injured brain levels of myosin light chain kinase protein and promoting and help regulate mitochondrial homeostasis . smooth muscle contraction . Lactobacillus reuteri A study by Opeyemi et al. demonstrated a significant was also utilized in clinical trials involving military vet- decrease in fecal SCFAs concentrations 24 h and 28 days erans with mild TBI. Results demonstrated significant post-TBI in adult male mice. This decrease correlated with worse learning outcomes, while the administration and polytrauma necessitate antibiotic administration of SCFAs improved spatial learning in these mice . , yet the neurological consequences of such Furthermore, the role of bile acids has been studied in interventions remain poorly understood. Very few clini- various neurological diseases, such as intracranial hem- cal studies have examined the impact of antibiotics on orrhage and ischemic stroke . The administra- TBI outcomes and there are currently no general guide- tion of tauroursodeoxycholic acid has been shown to lines on the administration of antibiotics . In the improve neurologic function and decrease infarct size context of TBI-induced gut microbial dysbiosis, there is two and seven days after reperfusion . In the con- a need to develop well-controlled clinical trials to explore text of TBI, You et al. demonstrated decreased levels of the effects of antibiotic administration on changes in bile acids in serum and fecal samples one day after TBI infection rates and neurological outcomes over the in adult male mice . Moreover, Zhu et al. conducted long-term. a prospective study which showed decreased levels of A primary challenge in microbiota research in TBI plasma bile acids in TBI patients . Therefore, sup-
