El Baassiri et al. Journal of Neuroinflammation (2024) 21:124 Journal of Neuroinflammation
KEYWORDS: tbi, brain, gut, intestinal, injury, dna, outcomes, levels, ghrelin, cells, following, role, axis, various, increased


Zhu et al. conducted long-term. a prospective study which showed decreased levels of A primary challenge in microbiota research in TBI plasma bile acids in TBI patients . Therefore, sup- originates from the widespread variability in sample plementation of microbial metabolites byproducts such collection and processing methods, including targeted as bile acids and SCFAs present promising therapies for sequencing and metagenomic sequencing . Moreo- mitigating neuroinflammation post-TBI. ver, the heterogeneity in individual’s dietary patterns and pre-existing microbiome diversity present addi- Mycobiome tional challenges in detecting microbiome variations In addition to the dominant bacterial microbiome, the . Although preclinical animal models offer con- gut mycobiome (fungal microbiome) emerges as another trolled experimental conditions such as standardized crucial therapeutic target, regulating brain-gut homeo- environments, their findings pose challenges in transla- stasis. Imbalances in the mycobiome have been observed tional efforts . Another significant aspect is the time in various intestinal diseases including IBS , IBD required for probiotics to exert their effects on neurocog- and colorectal cancers . Visceral hypersen- nitive outcomes, potentially spanning years . Thus, sitivity in IBS has been associated with increased fun- well-designed long-term clinical trials are necessary gal dysbiosis . While their role is still understudied to fully comprehend the impact of microbiome in TBI. in traumatic brain injury, a recent prospective obser- Addressing these limitations is essential for developing vational cohort study conducted by Park et al. revealed effective therapeutic interventions. dysregulated mycobiome balance in critically ill trauma Tables 1 and 2 present a summary of various anti- and sepsis for up to two to three weeks after intensive inflammatory agents that attenuate brain and gut inflam- care unit hospitalizations. Dominance in Candida spp mation following TBI. population and reduction in commensal fungal species Brain‑gut axis dysfunction in military veterans correlated with heightened vulnerability to infections . Interestingly, another study by Hunag et al. dem- Military veterans provide a unique human model for onstrated that changes in gut mycobial abundance in studying the impact of traumatic brain injuries on the gut mice three days post-TBI were linked to dysfunctional in a realistic environment . Following military occu- regulation of N6-methyadensoine (m6A), which is crucial pational training involving blast exposure, a significant in posttranscriptional modification of eukaryotic mRNA increase in intestinal permeability and evidence of gut . Given the intricate relationship between bacterial bacterial translocation into the circulation were observed and fungal microbiomes, more studies are warranted
