El Baassiri et al. Journal of Neuroinflammation (2024) 21:124 Journal of Neuroinflammation
KEYWORDS: tbi, brain, gut, intestinal, injury, dna, outcomes, levels, ghrelin, cells, following, role, axis, various, increased


of ing the gut microbiota and immune system activation the inflammatory cytokine TNF-α, alongside reports of . Animal studies reveal notable differences chronic pain, fatigue and sleep difficulties . The Vet- in gut microbiome composition between males and erans in the US Veteran Microbiome Project (US-VMP) females, with females demonstrating greater diversity demonstrated a significant association between microbi- . Although the impact of sex on the microbi- ome composition, episodes of gastroenteritis and symp- ome in TBI is underexplored, studies in other diseases toms of severe depression . Additionally, an RCT suggest that females are more susceptible to autoimmune conducted on OEF/OEI/OND veterans revealed that diseases due to microbial alterations . Similarly, daily administration of Lactobacilli Reuteri for 8 weeks the higher prevalence of IBS in women may be linked resulted in a decrease in plasma CRP levels compared to microbiome changes driven by estrogen-mediated to untreated groups, indicating the potential of micro- responses or compromised gut barrier function . To biome-targeted interventions in mitigating post-TBI comprehensively understand the sex’s impact on brain- tary veterans and US Marines did not find significant dif- female representation are warranted. ferences in gut microbial diversity and permeability after The complexity of immune response post-TBI presents moderate/severe TBI . These conflicting find- another challenge . The evolution of immune cell ings underscore the complexity of studying the microbi- activation over time involves both beneficial and detri- ome in real-world settings. Numerous limitations exist in mental components, making attempts to target specific such studies due to challenges in identifying true control immune pathways often unsuccessful . Furthermore, participants, variations in the timing of stool collection, the existing classification of M1/M2 microglia based and differences in diet regimens and medications, which on in vitro cell culturing excludes the diverse array of significantly impact the microbiome . Efforts to cytokines and cellular signals encountered by these cells address these limitations and refine study methodologies in vivo, particularly in a complex disease like TBI . are crucial for advancing our understanding of the brain- A shift away from M1 and M2 classification towards gut axis in the context of TBI in military populations. incorporating transcriptomic and proteomic profiling for better analysis is needed . Additionally, inflam- Why do TBI treatments keep failing? mation in TBI is not confined to the CNS; there is also Despite extensive TBI research and significant invest- global systemic immune dysfunction that remains under-
