El Baassiri et al. Journal of Neuroinflammation (2024) 21:124 Journal of Neuroinflammation
KEYWORDS: tbi, brain, gut, intestinal, injury, dna, outcomes, levels, ghrelin, cells, following, role, axis, various, increased


TBI treatments keep failing? mation in TBI is not confined to the CNS; there is also Despite extensive TBI research and significant invest- global systemic immune dysfunction that remains under- ment in various therapies, there remains a lack of effec- studied . The gut, which harbors the largest immune tive treatments to attenuate disease progression . reservoir, exhibits significant alterations in macrophage inflammatory effects observed in preclinical animal mod- standing of interactions between intestinal immunity and els due to several challenges . First, TBI is inherently brain immune cells . heterogenous and triggers complex pathogenic pathways, Most drugs lose efficacy with increasing intervals rendering it a highly intricate disease to manage . In between injury time and initiation of treatment . basic science, most of the research is focused on specific Moreover, certain treatments, such as probiotics, cellular processes in the brain, often missing the broader require prolonged administration periods, potentially picture of the disease . Additionally, each model uti- spanning years before cognitive improvements are lizes different injury paradigms and anatomical locations observed . The therapeutic time window in treat- to induce injury. It is essential to recognize that focal ment of TBI remains a significant focus of investiga- contusion, concussion, and blast injuries elicit distinct tion to advance the development of TBI therapies and inflammatory pathways in response to injury . The successfully translate from preclinical to clinical set- tendency to extrapolate inflammatory models from focal tings . While animal models often receive therapy issue due to each injury type’s unique inflammatory pro- trauma centers typically enroll patients 4–7 h after files . moderate to severe TBI . Additionally, individu- Another key challenge in TBI research is the overrep- als with mild injuries may delay treatment until they are cal models . Sex differences in TBI responses are 338]. The significance of the therapeutic time window was underscored by the failure of progesterone treat- Conclusion APSE . Both trials recruited patients within 4 and of various pharmacotherapies targeting inflammation 7 h after TBI, respectively, failing to replicate the ben- along the brain-gut axis in TBI, which include hormones efits observed in preclinical animal models where pro- such as serotonin, ghrelin, and progesterone, alongside gesterone was administered within an hour of injury ANS modulators like beta-blockers and alpha-adrenergic tance of therapeutic window in initiating treatment. tinal flora modulators such as probiotics and antibiot- Preclinical models are encouraged to investigate
