El Baassiri et al. Journal of Neuroinflammation (2024) 21:124 Journal of Neuroinflammation
KEYWORDS: tbi, brain, gut, intestinal, injury, dna, outcomes, levels, ghrelin, cells, following, role, axis, various, increased


hour of injury ANS modulators like beta-blockers and alpha-adrenergic tance of therapeutic window in initiating treatment. tinal flora modulators such as probiotics and antibiot- Preclinical models are encouraged to investigate drug ics (summarized in Tables 1 and 2). They enhance gut efficacy with progressively delayed dosing post-injury function by mitigating inflammation, preserving intes- to simulate real-life settings. tinal barrier integrity, promoting motility and favoring In addition to treatment timing, understanding the a healthy microbiome. Importantly, these pharmaco- optimal duration of treatment is essential for eluci- therapies also impact neurological outcomes directly by dating long-term outcomes . While some drugs, crossing the BBB or indirectly by modulating immune, such as beta-blockers, have demonstrated significant hormonal and neural pathways. improvements with short-term administration, even With the gut serving as the largest immune reservoir, as brief as two days or two weeks, others, like probiot- housing the body’s second “little brain”-the ENS , ics, may require prolonged treatment periods to exert and hosting a diverse microbiome, it emerges as a focal neuroprotective effects, especially for chronic condi- point in understanding TBI pathogenesis. Deciphering tions like TBI . A comprehensive the complex interplay between microbial dysbiosis, ENS understanding of the temporal and spatial dynamics disruption, EEC dysfunction, ANS dysregulation and of immune, hormonal and neural pathways within the intestinal immune cell activation is crucial to develop brain-gut axis is imperative for evaluating the effects successful TBI therapies, which have been elusive for dec- of chronic treatment regimens post-TBI . Current ades. This entails understanding the temporal changes in animal studies predominantly focus on acute changes, immune system activation across the brain and the gut, missing potential chronic alterations that may influ- as well as elucidating the effects of gut microbial metabo- ence drug efficacy and subsequent neurologic outcomes lites and hormones, and the role of autonomic nervous . Persistent microbiome alterations observed for system and systemic inflammation in the pathophysi- years post-TBI emphasize the potential necessity for ological process of acute and chronic TBI. extended treatment durations to mitigate brain injury Abbreviations consequences . Studying the therapeutic window TBI Traumatic brain injury for treatment, the duration of treatments, and their GI Gastrointestinal system ENS Enteric nervous system impact on brain-gut homeostasis is crucial for the ANS Autonomic nervous system development of successful TBI therapies . ICP Intracranial pressure ROS Reactive oxygen species tered, including the nonuniform population of patients BBB Blood–brain-barrier with comorbid diseases
