i29
KEYWORDS: ibs, etal, pain, patients, afferent, brain, functional, cortex, gastrointestinal, visceral, hypersensitivity, activation, gastroenterology, intestinal, sensory


i29 VISCERAL PERCEPTION Role of the brain and sensory pathways in gastrointestinal sensory disorders in humans H Mertz ............................................................................................................................. Gut2002;51(SupplI):i29–i33 Several features of the irritable bowel syndrome (IBS) augmentedcentralautonomicoutfloworperiph- suggest involvement of the emotional limbic system in eralsensory-motorreflexes. the brain. Abnormalities which upregulate afferent (sensory) signal intensity anywhere in this system, from INTRODUCTION Gastrointestinalsensorydisordersarecommonly the gastrointestinal tract to the brain, could induce referred to as gastrointestinal motility disorders hypersensitivity, leading to the pain and discomfort that or functional gastrointestinal disorders. Over characterise IBS and other functional disorders. stimulation of the sensory limb of the multiple sensorimotor reflexes that exist in the gastro- Functional gastrointestinal disorders are likely to be intestinaltracttriggersamotorresponse,andfor heterogeneous given the complexity of the afferent this reason sensory abnormalities often coexist system, and a number of different perturbations are withmotordisturbances.Bothsensoryandauto- nomic control of gastrointestinal motility are possible. Intestinal hypersensitivity to pain and thoughttobemodulatedbythecentralnervous discomfort and associated reflex alterations in motility system(CNS). might explain the symptoms of functional bowel IBS is the most commonly encountered func- tionalgastrointestinaldisorder.Itischaracterised diseases. bysymptoms,definedbytheManningandRome .......................................................................... criteria,whichareaccompaniedbyhypersensitiv- itytodistensionoftherectum,colon,andsmall intestine,abnormal motor patterns in the small SUMMARY andlargeintestine,andincreasedintestinalreac- Several features of the irritable bowel syndrome tivitytopsychosocialstressors.1–5Thereisanota- (IBS) suggest involvement of the brain’s emo- ble increase in the prevalence of significant tionallimbicsystem:higherprevalenceofanxiety psychosocial stressors among patients with IBS andpsychosocialstressors,augmentedintestinal whoseekmedicalcare.6 stressresponses,andresponsetocentrallyacting The other two relatively common functional medication. Recent brain imaging data suggest gastrointestinaldisordersarefunctionaldyspep- pathways involved in visceral pain perception sia and non-cardiac chest pain. These disorders overlapwithlimbicpathways,whichmayexplain sharethesamemotor,sensory,andpsychosocial how psychological factors interact with IBS. patterns described for IBS. It is not surprising Intestinaldiscomfortreachesawarenessvianeu- therefore that some patients have symptoms of ral connections termed the “brain-gut axis”. more than one of these disorders at one time, Abnormalities which upregulate afferent (sen- switch from one disorder to another over time, sory) signal intensity anywhere in this system andsomehavevisceralhypersensitivityinmulti- could induce hypersensitivity,pain,and discom- pleorgansatthesametime.7 fort.Theseincludestimulusamplificationinthe intestinaltractpriortotheprimaryafferentnerve or hyperresponsiveness of the afferent nerve SENSORYFEATURESOFFUNCTIONAL itself.Abnormalitiesinthedorsalhornofthespi- GASTROINTESTINALDISORDERS nalcordmayexplainthewidenedviscerosomatic Hypersensitivity to visceral distension has been referralpatternsseeninIBS.Descendingmecha- widely demonstrated in IBS (fig 1).3489 The nisms of pain inhibition may also be compro- hypersensitivity appears relatively specific for mised. Impaired endogenous opiate mediated painanddiscomfortratherthanfornon-noxious inhibitionoftheprimaryafferentnervecouldfail sensations such as stool and gas, and is seen to suppress afferent messages from the gastro- whethermeasuredbyvolumeofdistension,pres- intestinal tract.In the brain,increased thalamic sureofdistension,orwalltension.3Rapidphasic activationhasbeenseeninIBSwhichcouldindi- distension is more likely to detect intestinal cateincreasedafferentoutputfromlowerlevels. hypersensitivitythangradualdistension. ....................... Activation of the anterior cingulate cortex, the limbiccentrethatencodespainsuffering,appears Correspondenceto: DrHMertz,Vanderbilt tobeenhancedinIBS,especiallyundertheinflu- ................................................. UniversityMedicalCenter, ence of anxiety.
