6 Micronutrients and Perinatal
KEYWORDS: dna, nimativ, vih, eht, women, hiv, erew, vitamin, shtnom, hiv-infected, nemow, skeew, pregnant, outcomes, pregnant women


Outcomes in HIV-Infected Pregnant Women Julia L. Finkelstein and Saurabh Mehta 208 Nutrition and HIV: Epidemiological Evidence to Public Health Standard of carE Iron and folic acid supplementation is part of standard prenatal care for the prevention of anemia and neural tube defects (WHO, 2012). Current WHO guidelines recommend daily prenatal iron– folic acid supplements (60 mg iron and 400 µg folic acid) throughout pregnancy. Iron supplementa- tion is recommended once daily to prevent anemia (hemoglobin [Hb] < 11.0 g/dL during the first and third trimesters and Hb < 10.5 g/dL during the second trimester), and twice daily for the treat- ment of severe anemia (Hb < 7.0 g/dL) (WHO, 2012). To date, there is limited evidence to suggest that the dose and administration of prenatal folic acid should differ in the context of HIV/AIDS. However, there is increasing concern regarding the safety and efficacy of iron supplementation in the context of HIV. Current WHO guidelines for universal prenatal iron supplementation do not differ in settings with endemic infectious diseases, and there are no specific guidelines for HIV- infected individuals. This is discussed in detail in Chapter 3 of this volume. objEctivES In this review, we focus on the interplay of micronutrient deficiencies and HIV in the context of pregnancy. We begin with a brief review of the role of micronutrients in pregnancy in HIV-infected women. We then examine the efficacy and safety of micronutrient supplementation in HIV-infected pregnant women, including maternal, pregnancy, and neonatal outcomes, with an emphasis on evi- METHODS SEarcH StratEgy and SELEction procESS We conducted a structured literature search using the MEDLINE® and Cochrane Library electronic databases. Relevant Medical Subject Heading (MeSH®) terms were used to identify published stud- ies through January 1, 2015. The MeSH terms used are shown in Figure 6.1, which summarizes the search strategy. All randomized trials of maternal micronutrient supplementation and perinatal outcomes in HIV-infected pregnant women were included. Initial inclusion criteria for this review were the availability of an abstract and the inclusion of data on micronutrient supplementation, pregnancy, and HIV/AIDS. Micronutrient Supplementation The following micronutrients were considered for inclusion in this review: vitamin A carotenoids; vitamins C, D, E, and K; vitamins B (thiamine), B (riboflavin), B (niacin), B (pantothenic acid), 1 2 3 5 B (pyridoxine), B (biotin),B (folic acid), and B (cobalamin); inositol; and minerals (boron, cad- 6 7 9 12 mium, calcium, chromium, cobalt, copper, iodine,
