6 Micronutrients and Perinatal
KEYWORDS: dna, nimativ, vih, eht, women, hiv, erew, vitamin, shtnom, hiv-infected, nemow, skeew, pregnant, outcomes, pregnant women


or infant significantly increased the risk of vertical HIV transmission and infant mortality compared to pla- cebo. However, vitamin A administered to both the mother and infant did not increase the risk of these outcomes compared to the placebo. Additionally, all three vitamin A regimens resulted in a twofold increase in the risk of mortality among infants who were not infected with HIV at six weeks postpartum (p < 0.05) compared to the placebo . Zinc The effect of maternal zinc supplementation on pregnancy outcomes was examined in HIV-infected women in a randomized trial in Tanzania . Investigators enrolled 400 HIV- infected pregnant women and randomized them to receive daily zinc supplementation (25 mg) or placebo until six weeks postpartum. All women also received iron (60 mg) and folic acid (400 μg), in accordance with national and international guidelines. There were no significant differences in the risk of MTCT of HIV or maternal HIV-1 viral load (p > 0.05) between the zinc- and placebo- supplemented groups. However, maternal zinc supplementation significantly increased the risk of maternal wasting (mid-upper arm circumference [MUAC] < 22 cm) compared to placebo, with a 2.7 times greater risk during the follow-up period (mean, 22 weeks; RR, 2.7; 95% CI, 1.1–6.4; p = 0.03) and a 4-mm mean reduction in MUAC during the second trimester (p = 0.02) (Villamor et al., 2006). Furthermore, zinc supplementation had no significant effects on maternal CD4, CD8, or CD3 T-cell counts or the risks of low birthweight, preterm delivery, fetal death, or neonatal mor- tality compared to placebo (p > 0.05). Maternal Hb concentrations increased in both the zinc and control groups, although this effect was blunted in the zinc-supplemented group (mean increase, zinc: 11.5 ± 17.9 g/L vs. placebo: 15.2 ± 18.6 g/L). This finding may be attributable to zinc’s inter- ference with enteric iron absorption (via DMT1 and ferroportin-1) (Fawzi et al., 2005; Villamor et al., 2006). Micronutrients and Perinatal Outcomes in HIV-Infected Pregnant Women 237 Selenium The effect of selenium supplementation on maternal HIV disease progression and adverse preg- nancy outcomes was investigated in a trial in Tanzania . A total of 913 women were enrolled at 12 to 27 weeks of gestation and randomized to receive daily supplements of sele- nium (200 μg elemental selenium, selenomethionine) or placebo until six months after delivery. All women also received iron (60 mg) and folic acid (400 μg), in
