6 Micronutrients and Perinatal
KEYWORDS: dna, nimativ, vih, eht, women, hiv, erew, vitamin, shtnom, hiv-infected, nemow, skeew, pregnant, outcomes, pregnant women


tion used in the original TOV. In addition, all women received iron (60 mg ferrous sulfate) and folic acid (400 μg) in accordance with WHO and Tanzanian standard of care guidelines. There were no significant differences in the effects of multivitamins at the multiple RDA level on the risk of low birthweight (11.0% vs. 10.2%; p = 0.75), gestation duration, birth length, head circumference, pla- cental weight, risk of small-for-gestational-age infants, or risk of preterm birth (p > 0.05) compared to multivitamins at the single RDA level . Findings from randomized trials on micronutrient supplementation in HIV-infected pregnant women are summarized in Table 6.1. DISCUSSION In summary, micronutrient deficiencies are prevalent in HIV-infected pregnant women and asso- ciated with increased risk of adverse health outcomes for both the mother and infant. Multivitamin supplementation (including vitamins B-complex, C, and E) has consistently demonstrated ben- eficial effects on the risk of adverse pregnancy outcomes among HIV-infected women, includ- ing prematurity, low birthweight, small-for-gestational-age infants, and fetal death. For vitamin A, the evidence from observational studies of a potential beneficial association with pregnancy outcomes in HIV-infected women has either not been supported or has been directly contra- dicted by randomized controlled trials. This is probably partially explained by the limitations Micronutrients and Perinatal Outcomes in HIV-Infected Pregnant Women 239 of the observational study design. The observed associations between micronutrient deficiencies and HIV-related outcomes may be due to reverse causation; that is, HIV infection may lead to decreased nutrient absorption, impaired metabolism, and increased excretion, resulting in lower serum micronutrient concentrations and an apparent deficiency, whereas altered concentrations of micronutrients may be attributable to the acute phase response to infection, rather than actual micronutrient status. Micronutrient concentrations were also often assessed at a single time-point and associated with HIV-related outcomes, which may obscure findings between both HIV and host nutritional status, which change over time. Several vitamin A-specific mechanisms may also explain the increased risk of vertical HIV transmission in vitamin A trials in Tanzania and Zimbabwe (discussed in Chapter 1 of this volume), as well as controversies regarding infant feed- ing and HIV (see Chapter 7 of this volume) and pediatric health in HIV/AIDS (see Chapter 8 of this volume). Based on these findings, vitamin A supplementation at doses above the single RDA level is not recommended for HIV-infected pregnant women. In addition, findings from a trial of selenium supplementation had no significant
