6 Micronutrients and Perinatal
KEYWORDS: dna, nimativ, vih, eht, women, hiv, erew, vitamin, shtnom, hiv-infected, nemow, skeew, pregnant, outcomes, pregnant women


findings, vitamin A supplementation at doses above the single RDA level is not recommended for HIV-infected pregnant women. In addition, findings from a trial of selenium supplementation had no significant effects on HIV disease progression and pregnancy outcomes and may even increase HIV-1 viral load in breast milk in women who are not receiv- ing ART. There is currently no strong epidemiological evidence to support the use of selenium or other micronutrient supplements, such as zinc or vitamin D, to prevent adverse perinatal out- comes in HIV-infected pregnant women. micronutriEnt doSE and adminiStration Current epidemiological evidence supports the use of multivitamin supplements B-complex, C, and E (in addition to iron–folic acid) in HIV-infected pregnant women to reduce the risk of adverse pregnancy outcomes. However, to date, there is limited evidence of an additional benefit of higher dose multivitamins (above the single RDA level) on these outcomes. Further studies on the spe- cific effects of micronutrients in different combinations, doses, and administration are required to inform micronutrient interventions in HIV-infected pregnant women. To date, there is limited evidence on the effects of micronutrient supplementation among HIV- infected pregnant women on ART or MTCT of HIV. Although some trials have been conducted among women receiving a single dose of nevirapine at delivery or among a subsample of women with advanced HIV disease stages receiving ART, the majority of trials included in this review were conducted among ART-naïve women. It is not clear if the observed effects of multivitamin supplementation in HIV-infected pregnant women can be generalized to non-pregnant women or individuals on ART. The importance of ensuring universal access to ART cannot be overempha- sized. Further research is urgently needed to examine the role of micronutrient supplementation as an adjunct to essential ART and to elucidate potential micronutrient–ART interactions and their implications for health outcomes in the mother and infant. Randomized trials of the effects of micronutrient supplementation on perinatal outcomes in HIV-infected pregnant women have not been sufficiently powered to elucidate the specific effects of micronutrients in the context of ART, comes. The safety and efficacy of micronutrient supplementation among HIV-infected pregnant ing effects on longer term maternal and child health outcomes. Micronutrient supplementation is unlikely to be a stand-alone mantra for success in prevent- ing adverse pregnancy outcomes in HIV-infected women. Vulnerable groups such as HIV-infected women are likely to have multiple micronutrient deficiencies, particularly in resource-limited set- tings. The
