Atrial fibrillation: diagnosis and management
KEYWORDS: atrial, fibrillation, atrial fibrillation, people, committee, risk, evidence, recommendations, anticoagulation, ablation, stroke, bleeding, practice, control, treatment


to assess stroke risk in people with any 2 2 of the following: • symptomatic or asymptomatic paroxysmal, persistent or permanent atrial fibrillation • atrial flutter • a continuing risk of arrhythmia recurrence after cardioversion back to sinus rhythm or catheter ablation. [2021] See the section on review of people with atrial fibrillation for advice on reassessment of stroke risk. For a short explanation of why the committee made this recommendation and how it might affect practice, see the rationale and impact section on stroke risk. Full details of the evidence and the committee's discussion are in evidence review C and D: tools to predict stroke in people with atrial fibrillation. Bleeding risk 1.2.2 Assess the risk of bleeding when: • considering starting anticoagulation in people with atrial fibrillation and • reviewing people already taking anticoagulation. Use the ORBIT bleeding risk score because evidence shows that it has a higher accuracy in predicting absolute bleeding risk than other bleeding risk tools. Accurate knowledge of bleeding risk supports shared decision making and has practical benefits, for example, increasing patient confidence and willingness to accept treatment when risk is low and prompting discussion of risk reduction when risk is high. Although ORBIT is the best tool for this purpose, other bleeding risk tools may need to be used until it is embedded in clinical pathways and electronic systems. [2021] 1.2.3 Offer monitoring and support to modify risk factors for bleeding, including: • uncontrolled hypertension (see NICE's guideline on hypertension in adults) • poor control of international normalised ratio (INR) in patients on vitamin K antagonists • concurrent medication, including antiplatelets, selective serotonin reuptake inhibitors (SSRIs) and non-steroidal anti-inflammatory drugs (NSAIDs) • harmful alcohol consumption (see NICE's guideline on alcohol-use disorders: diagnosis, assessment and management of harmful drinking and alcohol dependence) • reversible causes of anaemia. [2021] Discussing the results of the risk assessment 1.2.4 Discuss the results of the assessments of stroke and bleeding risk with the person taking into account their specific characteristics, for example comorbidities, and their individual preferences. For further guidance, see the section on enabling patients to actively participate in their care in NICE's guideline on patient experience in adult NHS services. [2021] For a short explanation of why the committee made these recommendations and how they might affect practice, see the rationale and impact section on bleeding risk. Full details of the evidence and the committee's discussion
