Atrial fibrillation: diagnosis and management
KEYWORDS: atrial, fibrillation, atrial fibrillation, people, committee, risk, evidence, recommendations, anticoagulation, ablation, stroke, bleeding, practice, control, treatment


support for people having anticoagulation treatment in NICE's guideline on venous thromboembolic diseases － support networks (for example, cardiovascular charities). [2014] 1.4.2 Follow the recommendations in NICE's guideline on shared decision making. [2014] Medicines adherences and optimisation 1.4.3 To support adherence and ensure safe and effective medicines use in people with atrial fibrillation, follow the recommendations in NICE's guidelines on medicines adherence and medicines optimisation. [2021] 1.5 Referral for specialised management 1.5.1 Refer people promptly at any stage if treatment fails to control the symptoms of atrial fibrillation and more specialised management is needed. This should be within 4 weeks after the failed treatment or after recurrence of atrial fibrillation after cardioversion. [2014] 1.6 Stroke prevention Anticoagulation 1.6.1 When discussing the benefits and risks of anticoagulation use clinical risk profiles and personal preferences to guide treatment choices. Discuss with the person that: • for most people the benefit of anticoagulation outweighs the bleeding risk • for people with an increased risk of bleeding, the benefit of anticoagulation may not always outweigh the bleeding risk, and careful monitoring of bleeding risk is important. [2021] 1.6.2 When deciding between anticoagulation treatment options: • Discuss the risks and benefits of different drugs with the person and follow the recommendations in NICE's guideline on shared decision making. • Follow the recommendations on patient involvement in decisions about medicines in NICE's guideline on medicines adherence and patient decision aids in NICE's guideline on medicines optimisation. • Take into account any contraindications for each drug and follow the guidance in the British National Formulary and the MHRA advice on direct- acting oral anticoagulants, in particular for advice on dosages in people with renal impairment, reversal agents and monitoring. [2021] 1.6.3 Offer anticoagulation with a direct-acting oral anticoagulant to people with atrial fibrillation and a CHA DS -VASc score of 2 or above, taking into account the risk 2 2 of bleeding. Apixaban, dabigatran, edoxaban and rivaroxaban are recommended as options, when used in line with the criteria specified in the relevant NICE technology appraisal guidance (see the section on direct-acting oral anticoagulant treatment options). [2021] 1.6.4 Consider anticoagulation with a direct-acting oral anticoagulant for men with atrial fibrillation and a CHA DS -VASc score of 1, taking into account the risk of 2 2 bleeding. Apixaban, dabigatran, edoxaban and rivaroxaban are recommended as options, when used in line with the criteria specified in the relevant NICE
