Atrial fibrillation: diagnosis and management
KEYWORDS: atrial, fibrillation, atrial fibrillation, people, committee, risk, evidence, recommendations, anticoagulation, ablation, stroke, bleeding, practice, control, treatment


taking into account the risk of 2 2 bleeding. Apixaban, dabigatran, edoxaban and rivaroxaban are recommended as options, when used in line with the criteria specified in the relevant NICE technology appraisal guidance (see the section on direct-acting oral anticoagulant treatment options). [2021] 1.6.5 If direct-acting oral anticoagulants are contraindicated, not tolerated or not suitable in people with atrial fibrillation, offer a vitamin K antagonist. See the section on self-monitoring and self-management of vitamin K antagonists. [2021] 1.6.6 For adults with atrial fibrillation who are already taking a vitamin K antagonist and are stable, continue with their current medication and discuss the option of switching treatment at their next routine appointment, taking into account the person's time in therapeutic range. [2021] 1.6.7 Do not offer stroke prevention therapy with anticoagulation to people aged under 65 years with atrial fibrillation and no risk factors other than their sex (that is, very low risk of stroke equating to a CHA DS -VASc score of 0 for men or 1 for 2 2 women). [2021] 1.6.8 Do not withhold anticoagulation solely because of a person's age or their risk of falls. [2021] Direct-acting oral anticoagulant treatment options 1.6.9 For direct-acting oral anticoagulants recommended as options in NICE technology appraisal guidance for preventing stroke and systemic embolism in some people with atrial fibrillation, see the guidance on: • edoxaban (TA355, 2021) • apixaban (TA275, 2021) • rivaroxaban (TA256, 2021) • dabigatran etexilate (TA249, 2021). For a short explanation of why the committee made these recommendations and how they might affect practice, see the rationale and impact section on stroke prevention. Full details of the evidence and the committee's discussion are in evidence review G1: anticoagulant therapy for stroke prevention in people with atrial fibrillation and evidence review G2: anticoagulant therapy health economics analysis. Assessing anticoagulation control with vitamin K antagonists 1.6.10 Calculate the person's time in therapeutic range (TTR) at each visit. When calculating TTR: • use a validated method of measurement such as the Rosendaal method for computer-assisted dosing or proportion of tests in range for manual dosing • exclude measurements taken during the first 6 weeks of treatment • calculate TTR over a maintenance period of at least 6 months. [2014] 1.6.11 Reassess anticoagulation for a person whose anticoagulation is poorly controlled shown by any of the following: • 2 INR values higher than 5 or 1 INR value higher than 8
