Atrial fibrillation: diagnosis and management
KEYWORDS: atrial, fibrillation, atrial fibrillation, people, committee, risk, evidence, recommendations, anticoagulation, ablation, stroke, bleeding, practice, control, treatment


Reassess anticoagulation for a person whose anticoagulation is poorly controlled shown by any of the following: • 2 INR values higher than 5 or 1 INR value higher than 8 within the past 6 months • 2 INR values less than 1.5 within the past 6 months • TTR less than 65%. [2014] 1.6.12 When reassessing anticoagulation, take into account and if possible address the following factors that may contribute to poor anticoagulation control: • cognitive function • adherence to prescribed therapy • illness • interacting drug therapy • lifestyle factors including diet and alcohol consumption. [2014] 1.6.13 If poor anticoagulation control cannot be improved, evaluate the risks and benefits of alternative stroke prevention strategies and discuss these with the person. [2014] Self-monitoring and self-management of vitamin K antagonists NICE has developed diagnostics guidance on atrial fibrillation and heart valve disease: self-monitoring coagulation status using point-of-care coagulometers (the CoaguChek XS system). Antiplatelets For guidance on antiplatelet therapy for people who have had a myocardial infarction and are having anticoagulation, see antiplatelet therapy for people with an ongoing separate indication for anticoagulation in NICE's guideline on acute coronary syndromes. 1.6.14 Do not offer aspirin monotherapy solely for stroke prevention to people with atrial fibrillation. [2014] Review of people with atrial fibrillation 1.6.15 For people who are not taking an anticoagulant, review stroke risk when they reach age 65 or if they develop any of the following at any age: • diabetes • heart failure • peripheral arterial disease • coronary heart disease • stroke, transient ischaemic attack or systemic thromboembolism. [2014] 1.6.16 For people who are not taking an anticoagulant because of bleeding risk or other factors, review stroke and bleeding risks annually, and ensure that all reviews and decisions are documented. [2014] 1.6.17 For people who are taking an anticoagulant, review the need for anticoagulation and the quality of anticoagulation (taking into account MHRA advice on direct- acting oral anticoagulants about bleeding risk and the need to monitor renal function in patients with renal impairment) at least annually, or more frequently if clinically relevant events occur affecting anticoagulation or bleeding risk. [2014] Left atrial appendage occlusion 1.6.18 Consider left atrial appendage occlusion (LAAO) if anticoagulation is contraindicated or not tolerated and discuss the benefits and risks of LAAO with the person. For more information see NICE's interventional procedure guidance on percutaneous occlusion of the left atrial appendage in non-valvular atrial
