Atrial fibrillation: diagnosis and management
KEYWORDS: atrial, fibrillation, atrial fibrillation, people, committee, risk, evidence, recommendations, anticoagulation, ablation, stroke, bleeding, practice, control, treatment


the person's 2 2 preferences. [2021] For a short explanation of why the committee made these recommendations and how they might affect practice, see the rationale and impact section on stopping anticoagulation. Full details of the evidence and the committee's discussion are in evidence review H: discontinuing anticoagulation in people whose atrial fibrillation has resolved. Terms used in this guideline This section defines terms that have been used in a particular way for this guideline. People with atrial fibrillation presenting acutely People presenting with atrial fibrillation of definite recent onset or with destabilisation of existing atrial fibrillation. This does not include people with atrial fibrillation that has been discovered incidentally, for example through pulse palpitation before routine blood pressure measurement. Pill-in-the-pocket strategy The person self-manages paroxysmal atrial fibrillation by taking antiarrhythmic drugs only when an episode of atrial fibrillation starts. Paroxysmal atrial fibrillation Episodes of atrial fibrillation that stop within 7 days, usually within 48 hours, without any treatment. Recommendations for research As part of the 2021 update, the guideline committee made 4 new research recommendations (marked [2021]). Research recommendations retained from the 2014 guideline are labelled [2014]. Key recommendations for research 1 Tests to diagnose persistent atrial fibrillation What is the diagnostic accuracy of key index tests (such as the KardiaMobile heart monitor (AliveCor), MyDiagnostik, Microlife BP monitors, iPhone plethysmography and pulse palpation) compared with the gold standard of 12-lead ECG in people with risk factors for or symptoms of atrial fibrillation? [2021] For a short explanation of why the committee made the recommendation for research, see the rationale on detection and diagnosis. Full details of the evidence and the committee's discussion are in evidence review B: accuracy of tests for detection. 2 Tests to diagnose paroxysmal atrial fibrillation What is the diagnostic accuracy of key index tests compared with the gold standard of prolonged ambulatory monitoring in people suspected of having paroxysmal atrial fibrillation? [2021] For a short explanation of why the committee made the recommendation for research, see the rationale on detection and diagnosis. Full details of the evidence and the committee's discussion are in evidence review B: accuracy of tests for detection. 3 Stopping anticoagulation after ablation What is the clinical and cost effectiveness of stopping anticoagulation in people whose atrial fibrillation has resolved after ablation? [2021] For a short explanation of why the committee made the recommendation for research, see the rationale on stopping anticoagulation.
