Atrial fibrillation: diagnosis and management
KEYWORDS: atrial, fibrillation, atrial fibrillation, people, committee, risk, evidence, recommendations, anticoagulation, ablation, stroke, bleeding, practice, control, treatment


anticoagulation in people whose atrial fibrillation has resolved after ablation? [2021] For a short explanation of why the committee made the recommendation for research, see the rationale on stopping anticoagulation. Full details of the evidence and the committee's discussion are in evidence review H: discontinuing anticoagulation in people whose atrial fibrillation has resolved. 4 Stopping anticoagulation after resolution of postoperative atrial fibrillation What is the clinical and cost effectiveness of stopping anticoagulation in people whose postoperative atrial fibrillation after cardiac surgery has resolved? [2021] For a short explanation of why the committee made the recommendation for research, see the rationale on stopping anticoagulation. Full details of the evidence and the committee's discussion are in evidence review H: discontinuing anticoagulation in people whose atrial fibrillation has resolved. 5 Cognitive behavioural therapy for people with atrial fibrillation What is the clinical and cost effectiveness of cognitive behavioural therapy compared with usual care for people with newly diagnosed atrial fibrillation? [2014] Other recommendations for research 6 Rate-control drug treatment for people aged 75 and over with atrial fibrillation What is the comparative effectiveness of the 3 main drug classes used for rate control (beta-blockers, calcium-channel blockers and digoxin) in people aged 75 and over with atrial fibrillation in controlling symptoms, improving quality of life and reducing morbidity and mortality? [2014] 7 Stroke risk assessment Can routine data from UK primary care databases clarify stroke risk in people with atrial fibrillation according to baseline risk factors and treatment? [2014] Rationale and impact These sections briefly explain why the committee made the recommendations and how they might affect practice. Detection and diagnosis Recommendations 1.1.2 and 1.1.3 Why the committee made the recommendations The evidence did not support changing the recommended diagnostic tests to either replace 12-lead ECG as the test to confirm persistent atrial fibrillation or replace pulse palpation as the initial step for persistent atrial fibrillation in a 2-step strategy. The committee clarified that 12-lead ECG should be used as the test to confirm atrial fibrillation, to prevent the use of less accurate ECG devices, such as mobile and lead-I ECG devices. The committee agreed that, although the evidence showed that accuracy varied, there was some evidence that new devices were accurate and showed promise. It was noted that NICE has produced diagnostics guidance on lead-I ECG devices for detecting symptomatic atrial fibrillation using single time point testing in primary care. The committee made
