Atrial fibrillation: diagnosis and management
KEYWORDS: atrial, fibrillation, atrial fibrillation, people, committee, risk, evidence, recommendations, anticoagulation, ablation, stroke, bleeding, practice, control, treatment


promise. It was noted that NICE has produced diagnostics guidance on lead-I ECG devices for detecting symptomatic atrial fibrillation using single time point testing in primary care. The committee made a research recommendation on tests to diagnose persistent atrial fibrillation to encourage further high-quality research in this area to guide future practice. The committee agreed that the evidence on tests to detect paroxysmal atrial fibrillation was not clear enough to warrant a change in practice from the 2014 recommendation. However, the evidence did show that longer durations of detection increased accuracy. The committee made a research recommendation on tests to diagnose paroxysmal atrial fibrillation. How the recommendations might affect practice The recommendations reflect current good practice and are unlikely to have an impact on practice. Return to recommendations Stroke risk Recommendation 1.2.1 Why the committee made the recommendations The committee decided to prioritise identifying people above or below a certain risk threshold (discrimination) in its interpretation of the evidence rather than estimating a person's risk of stroke in absolute terms. The evidence suggested that a score of 2 or more is the ideal threshold for the CHA DS -VASC in terms of indicating the need for anticoagulation. (Men with a 2 2 CHA DS -VASc score of 1 were regarded as being at intermediate risk, and a group in 2 2 whom anticoagulation should also be considered.) The evidence showed that this threshold of 2 or more offered a good combination of high sensitivity (0.92) and adequate specificity (0.23). The high sensitivity means that the tool would correctly identify almost everyone who would later have a stroke if they did not receive anticoagulants. Importantly, this will allow them to be prescribed anticoagulants to reduce their risk of stroke. The adequate specificity means that 23% of the people who would not later have a stroke (even when not taking anticoagulants) would be correctly identified as not needing anticoagulation. This would prevent these people from having adverse events from anticoagulants. It also means that 77% of people who would not later have a stroke (without anticoagulation) would be wrongly identified as needing anticoagulation. However, this was thought to be acceptable given the perceived lesser harms from unnecessarily giving anticoagulants compared with not giving anticoagulants to people who need them, together with the inevitable trade-off between sensitivity and specificity. The ATRIA stroke risk score was shown to have better overall accuracy, but although
