Atrial fibrillation: diagnosis and management
KEYWORDS: atrial, fibrillation, atrial fibrillation, people, committee, risk, evidence, recommendations, anticoagulation, ablation, stroke, bleeding, practice, control, treatment


intracranial haemorrhage. The discrimination data showed little difference between tools in predicting major bleeding, with some outcome measures showing no difference and others showing a slight benefit for either ORBIT or HAS-BLED. Evidence showed that ORBIT had a significantly higher specificity and a slighter lower sensitivity than the other tools, but the committee agreed that the lower sensitivity would not be a drawback when used to inform discussions of risk. The committee agreed that the evidence overall, and particularly the calibration data demonstrating higher accuracy of absolute risk, strongly supported ORBIT as the tool of choice. The committee agreed that NICE's previous advice on monitoring and addressing modifiable risk factors was still relevant and added reversible causes of anaemia because it is a component of the ORBIT tool. How the recommendations might affect practice Use of the ORBIT score is a change in practice, which will take time to implement. The committee considered that the more accurate prediction of the absolute risk of bleeding is a real advantage in supporting patients and clinicians in shared decision making, which should lead to better clinical outcomes. The committee considered carefully a number of practical issues set out in this section. Overall, the committee concluded that this change is one that is worth making. One potential concern discussed by the committee is that ORBIT does not include all of the modifiable risk factors included in HAS-BLED so does not serve as a reminder of these to clinicians. However, the committee considered that fully investigating modifiable risk factors is established clinical practice, regardless of the tool used. Another potential challenge is that ORBIT is not the recommended bleeding risk tool for other conditions (such as venous thromboembolism). Therefore, an initial transition period may be needed for training and education in both primary and secondary care while healthcare professionals become familiar with the tool. This will have a resource impact, although it will be time limited. The committee also noted that use of the ORBIT tool, and access to online versions, is straightforward. Finally, the committee also discussed that, unlike HAS-BLED, ORBIT is not embedded in GP systems, which may cause some initial practical difficulties. However, because this will involve changes to centralised software, it is thought that it will be straightforward to implement and ORBIT will quickly be included in GP systems. Neither tool is included in hospital systems although both are widely available
