Atrial fibrillation: diagnosis and management
KEYWORDS: atrial, fibrillation, atrial fibrillation, people, committee, risk, evidence, recommendations, anticoagulation, ablation, stroke, bleeding, practice, control, treatment


non-paroxysmal atrial fibrillation should continue to be considered for people who are sedentary. Based on their experience, the committee agreed that it may also be considered as a treatment option when other rate-limiting drugs are not suitable, so they expanded the recommendation in the previous guideline to also cover these circumstances. The committee were aware that some clinicians feel that digoxin monotherapy is often better than alternatives for improving symptoms; however, the lack of evidence currently available meant that the recommendation for digoxin was not expanded to cover further groups of people. In the absence of new evidence, the committee also agreed with the existing recommendation for combination therapy options if initial monotherapy fails, which is consistent with the committee's experience and current practice. There was a lack of evidence on long-term rate control, and the committee were aware of numerous serious side effects associated with the long-term use of amiodarone (including thyroid, lung and nerve damage), many of which are irreversible. The committee noted that although the most common side effects were less severe, the occurrence of severe side effects was unpredictable and long-term rate control with amiodarone should be avoided. Amiodarone should only be used as an interim therapy, for example while waiting for cardioversion, and would not usually be taken for longer than 12 months. How the recommendations might affect practice The recommendations reflect current practice. Digoxin monotherapy may now be an option in non-paroxysmal atrial fibrillation if comorbidities or patient preferences limit other rate-control drug choices. However, the committee agreed that this already happens in practice. Return to recommendations Left atrial ablation Recommendations 1.7.19 to 1.7.20 Why the committee made the recommendations Ablation may be a treatment option if antiarrhythmic drug treatment has not been successful or is not tolerated. The committee reviewed new clinical and health economic evidence for the different types of ablation for people with paroxysmal atrial fibrillation and agreed that the catheter ablation techniques were the most clinically effective ablation options. Thoracoscopy and the hybrid techniques led to lower recurrence, but they also led to more serious adverse effects. There were no clear differences in efficacy between the 4 catheter ablation techniques: radiofrequency point-by-point, radiofrequency multi-electrode, laser and cryoballoon ablation. A new economic model was developed for the guideline using the clinical evidence from people with paroxysmal atrial fibrillation. It showed that radiofrequency point-by-point ablation was more cost effective over a lifetime
