Atrial fibrillation: diagnosis and management
KEYWORDS: atrial, fibrillation, atrial fibrillation, people, committee, risk, evidence, recommendations, anticoagulation, ablation, stroke, bleeding, practice, control, treatment


economic model was developed for the guideline using the clinical evidence from people with paroxysmal atrial fibrillation. It showed that radiofrequency point-by-point ablation was more cost effective over a lifetime than antiarrhythmic drug treatment and other ablation strategies in people for whom 1 or more antiarrhythmic drug has failed. Cryoballoon, radiofrequency multi-electrode and laser ablation were the second, third and fourth most cost-effective options respectively. The committee acknowledged that the NHS reference cost used for the catheter ablation procedures may not fully capture differences in resource use between the different techniques. However, despite further analysis to adjust costs and account for this, radiofrequency point-by-point ablation remained the most cost-effective option, and other catheter ablation techniques are therefore unlikely to provide a cost-effective use of NHS resources. Based on the economic model results the committee agreed that radiofrequency point-by-point ablation should be considered in people with symptomatic paroxysmal atrial fibrillation if drug treatment is unsuccessful, unsuitable or not tolerated. The committee noted that cryoballoon and laser ablation may be more suitable for some patients because they can sometimes be carried out without general anaesthesia, and cryoballoon ablation may be quicker to perform, with same-day discharge more likely. There is also an increased risk of fluid overload from saline irrigated radiofrequency ablation. They decided that either cryoballoon or laser ablation could be considered if radiofrequency point-by-point ablation is not suitable; for example, if a short procedure time is a priority or for people with a recent history of decompensated heart failure who are at increased risk of fluid overload. Radiofrequency multi-electrode was not included as an alternative due to its lower efficacy relative to cryoballoon and laser ablation and concerns about a higher risk of stroke. There was limited evidence for ablation in people with persistent atrial fibrillation. Despite this, the committee decided that the evidence, combined with their experience and knowledge (also noting the Packer et al. CABANA randomized clinical trial, 2019, which contained a mixed population of people with persistent and paroxysmal atrial fibrillation) was sufficient to support ablation as an option to be considered for those with persistent symptoms that are not alleviated by, or who cannot have, antiarrhythmic drugs. The committee agreed that ablation can be effective in people with persistent atrial fibrillation, and that this population might have as much to gain from ablation as people with paroxysmal symptoms. The committee agreed that the cost-effectiveness analyses of
