Atrial fibrillation: diagnosis and management
KEYWORDS: atrial, fibrillation, atrial fibrillation, people, committee, risk, evidence, recommendations, anticoagulation, ablation, stroke, bleeding, practice, control, treatment


people with persistent atrial fibrillation, and that this population might have as much to gain from ablation as people with paroxysmal symptoms. The committee agreed that the cost-effectiveness analyses of different types of ablation in paroxysmal atrial fibrillation could also be applied to this population. The committee emphasised the importance of discussing the risks and benefits of catheter ablation with the person, in particular the risk of adverse events. The discussion should also include that, in the experience of the committee, the effects of ablation may not be long term. How the recommendations might affect practice The committee noted that the recommendations are likely to reinforce current practice. Ablation is carried out in a relatively restricted population (approximately 1% to 2% of all people with atrial fibrillation currently have ablation) and is usually reserved for people in whom antiarrhythmic drugs have failed. The recommendation is likely to lead to a change in the types of ablation offered, with more people receiving radiofrequency point-by-point ablation and fewer having other catheter ablation techniques. Return to recommendations Preventing recurrence after ablation Recommendations 1.7.22 and 1.7.23 Why the committee made the recommendations Most of the evidence on preventing recurrence after ablation was for amiodarone. The evidence suggested that amiodarone may reduce recurrence of atrial fibrillation after ablation. However, there was evidence of an increased risk of hospitalisation and the committee noted the known side effects of amiodarone, which, although rare, can be severe and life-threatening. There was a lack of evidence for other antiarrhythmic drugs and there were no comparisons between different antiarrhythmic drugs. Therefore, the committee agreed that there was too much uncertainty to recommend one specific antiarrhythmic drug over others. In addition, the studies often made no distinction between people who had been on antiarrhythmic drugs up to ablation and those who had not. There is variation in current practice on whether people who were not previously taking antiarrhythmic drugs should start them after ablation to reduce recurrence. However, the evidence did not support making separate recommendations to clarify this. The committee decided that antiarrhythmic drug treatment should be considered after ablation, but only after discussion with the person, taking into account their preferences for treatment and the potential individual risks and benefits. In particular, the committee noted that people should fully understand the potential adverse events associated with these drugs. While there is some variation, the committee agreed that good current
