Atrial fibrillation: diagnosis and management
KEYWORDS: atrial, fibrillation, atrial fibrillation, people, committee, risk, evidence, recommendations, anticoagulation, ablation, stroke, bleeding, practice, control, treatment


benefits. In particular, the committee noted that people should fully understand the potential adverse events associated with these drugs. While there is some variation, the committee agreed that good current practice is for patients taking antiarrhythmic drugs up to ablation to continue them for 3 months after ablation and reassess the need for drug treatment after this time. How the recommendations might affect practice There is some variation in current practice. Practice is likely to change in some centres both in prescribing and in the need for a more formal reassessment of treatment at 3 months. The impact on use of antiarrhythmic drugs is difficult to predict, but there may be an increase from current levels. Increased resources may be needed for reassessment, but it is anticipated that this could be performed at routine follow-up appointments with a cardiologist. Return to recommendations Rate and rhythm control for people presenting acutely Recommendation 1.8.3 Why the committee made the recommendation The committee agreed that the evidence was too limited in quality and quantity to be able to specify a preferred rate-control drug for acute atrial fibrillation. Although there was some evidence that amiodarone was better than digoxin for rate control, the committee had concerns about the quality of the evidence and the short timeframe used in 1 study, which it agreed could disadvantage digoxin. In addition, there was limited evidence available for morbidity and adverse events for this comparison and no evidence identified for other drug classes. The committee highlighted that the existing recommendations gave no guidance on acute atrial fibrillation with acute decompensated heart failure. Using their expertise and experience the committee agreed that advice on the use of beta-blockers and rate- limiting calcium-channel blockers should be included because they can lead to further deterioration in people with pulmonary oedema caused by heart failure. How the recommendation might affect practice The recommendations do not constitute a change in practice, and so are unlikely to have a resource impact. Return to recommendations Preventing postoperative atrial fibrillation Recommendations 1.10.3 and 1.10.4 Why the committee made the recommendations The committee noted that the most recent studies reviewed showed no benefit from statins in reducing atrial fibrillation after cardiothoracic surgery. This contrasted with analysis of the evidence overall, which showed a small but definite benefit from statins. The committee agreed that the evidence of no effect in the newer studies was important, because these studies
