Atrial fibrillation: diagnosis and management
KEYWORDS: atrial, fibrillation, atrial fibrillation, people, committee, risk, evidence, recommendations, anticoagulation, ablation, stroke, bleeding, practice, control, treatment


aware of the risk of adverse events if amiodarone, a rhythm control drug, is taken long-term. They highlighted that if a rhythm-control strategy is chosen, the need for rhythm control drugs should be reassessed at approximately 6 weeks, in line with current practice, and they should not be continued automatically for long periods of time. The committee agreed that 6 weeks is an appropriate time point to assess the person's recovery, including for example prosthetic valve function, and to check if sinus rhythm has been restored. The committee did not make a separate recommendation for people with pre-existing atrial fibrillation because of a lack of evidence. The committee noted that most people undergoing mitral valve surgery with pre-existing atrial fibrillation would undergo left atrial surgery to treat atrial fibrillation at the same time. How the recommendations might affect practice Rhythm control for the treatment of new-onset atrial fibrillation after cardiothoracic surgery is current practice and amiodarone is most commonly used. This can still be considered, but there may be a reduction in the use of rhythm control in this population and an increase in the use of rate-control drugs instead. Return to recommendations Stopping anticoagulation Recommendations 1.11.1 and 1.11.2 Why the committee made the recommendations There was limited evidence on whether to continue anticoagulation or to stop it and switch to aspirin after successful treatment of atrial fibrillation by catheter ablation. The committee agreed that the evidence was insufficient and that there was too much uncertainty in the results to make a recommendation based on the evidence. The committee therefore developed research recommendations on stopping anticoagulation after ablation and stopping anticoagulation after resolution of postoperative atrial fibrillation to encourage further research. The committee was concerned about the potential withdrawal of anticoagulation in people who had not had ablation or cardiac surgery for atrial fibrillation, but in whom sinus rhythm is now present and atrial fibrillation is no longer detectable. In particular, the committee noted that paroxysmal atrial fibrillation is not always detectable. Based on their experience, the committee made a consensus-based recommendation to ensure that decisions about stopping anticoagulation in this population are based on formal risk assessment of stroke and bleeding risks and patient preference. How the recommendations might affect practice The committee felt that the recommendation would not constitute a change in practice, and that there would not be a resource impact on the NHS. Return to recommendations
