TROPICAL MEDICINE SERIES
KEYWORDS: genital, tuberculosis, schistosomiasis, lesions, amoebiasis, infection, reported, etal, develop, leprosy, infections, disease, men, filariasis, women


Genital manifestations of tropical diseases J Richens ............................................................................................................................... SexTransmInfect2004;80:12–17.doi: Genital symptoms in tropical countries and among bine medical subject headings for individual infections with the headings genital diseases, returned travellers can arise from a variety of bacterial, maleandgenitaldiseases,female,explodingthe protozoal, and helminthic infections which are not usually latter terms to include all their subheadings. sexually transmitted. The symptoms may mimic classic Genital tuberculosis cases are conveniently indexed in Medline under the heading tubercu- sexually transmitted infections (STIs) by producing losis, male genital, and tuberculosis, female ulceration (for example, amoebiasis, leishmaniasis), wart- genital. All abstracts were screened and the full likelesions (schistosomiasis), orlesions of the uppergenital textofindividualarticlesreadforallreviewsand caseseries.Referencesinarticleswereexamined tract (epididymo-orchitis caused by tuberculosis, leprosy, for to check for further pertinent articles. and brucellosis; salpingitis as a result of tuberculosis, Individualcasereportswerenotreadunlessthey amoebiasis,andschistosomiasis).Avarietyofothergenital emphasised special features not previously reported or included useful reviews of the symptoms less suggestive of STI are also seen in tropical literature. The references selected arethose that countries. These include hydrocele (seen with filariasis), reflect the greatest experience in a specific area which can be no less stigmatising than STI, haemospermia or which describe important new developments orobservations. (seen with schistosomiasis), and hypogonadism (which mayoccurinlepromatousleprosy).Thisarticledealsinturn FILARIASIS with genital manifestations of filariasis, schistosomiasis, Twospeciesoffilarialwormcausegenitaldisease amoebiasis, leishmaniasis, tuberculosis and leprosy and in humans. Much the most important is Wuchereria bancroftii, which accounts for 90% of filarial infections and is estimated to infect 100 ........................................................................... millionpeopleinthetropics.Ofthese,40%have disfiguring manifestations and 27 million men hsreviewconcentratesonsixinfectionsthat are estimated to suffer from genital deformity.3 T cause significant genital morbidity in tropi- Genital morbidity in women is much rarer.4 calcountries—namely,Bancroftianfilariasis, Bancroftian (lymphatic) filariasis has been schistosomiasis (especially infection due to ranked the second leading cause of disability in the world by the World Health Organization Schistosoma haematobium) amoebiasis, leishma- (WHO) and ranked second to HIV in Haiti as a niasis, tuberculosis, and leprosy (mostly the public health issue for the community.5 lepromatous form). The main emphasis is on Onchocerciasis, caused by Onchocerca volvulus, is clinicalfeatures.Investigativemethodspertinent remembered by most students of tropical med- to genital disease are covered and the main icineforanunusualcomplicationknownasthe aspects of therapy are mentioned in addition to ‘‘hanging groin,’’ caused by a combination of specific advice about genital complications. For inguinal adenopathy and skin atrophy that moredetailontheinvestigationandtreatmentof resultsinhangingfoldsofskincontaininglymph thesediseases,particularlystandardtherapiesfor nodes.Minordeformitiesofscrotalskinmayalso tuberculosis and leprosy, readers should consult develop. Recent surveys in endemic areas standard texts. A miscellany of other infectious reported hanging groin in 14% in Nigeria6
