TROPICAL MEDICINE SERIES
KEYWORDS: genital, tuberculosis, schistosomiasis, lesions, amoebiasis, infection, reported, etal, develop, leprosy, infections, disease, men, filariasis, women


radical vulvectomy.44 The infection can be sexually transmitted45 and sexual partners of patients with genital amoebiasis should be examined and offered treat- ment. CUTANEOUS LEISHMANIASIS Figure2 Genitalschistosomiasis(GillesHM.ClinicalTropicalMedicine Theleishmaniasesareagroupofdiseasescausedbyprotozoa andCommunicableDiseasesVol2,No1,1987).Reproducedcourtesy of the Leishmania genus that affect 1–2 million people per ofHMGillesandElsevierSciencePublications. yearbetweenlatitudes45˚northand32˚south.Eachspecies www.stijournal.com Genitalmanifestationsof tropicaldiseases 15 Infection of the male genitalia is believed to originate in most cases from renal foci which shed bacteria down the ureters to the prostate, followed by canicular or lymphatic spread to the epididymis, vas, urethra, and testis. Haematogenousspreadtothesesitesisalsopossibleincases ofmiliaryinfection.Sexualtransmissionoftuberculosisfrom women to men has not been recorded although sexual transmission in the opposite direction has been described.51 Casesoftuberculosisepididymitisaccountformostreportsof male genital tuberculosis. Infection on one side is often followed the appearance of disease on the other side. Epididymitiscommenceswiththegradualonsetofswelling, followed by pain. Acute infections have occasionally been described. Tethering to scrotal skin may arise with later development of discharging scrotal fistulae. Involvement of the testis is usually a late feature. Examination shows an enlarged,irregular,nodularepididymis.Tuberculousinvolve- ment of the prostate may manifest with dysuria, frequency, haematuria, and haemospermia. Examination may reveal firm, irregular enlargement, nodularity, or soft areas of necrosis. Confirmation of the diagnosis may be made by detection of acid fast bacilli or positive cultures from urine, semen, pus, or biopsy specimens or by biopsy histology. Commonadditionalfindingsincludeasterilepyuriaandthe demonstration of focal calcification by ultrasound or radi- ology. All patients should be screened for the presence of pulmonary and renal lesions. Treatment is generally with conventional courses of tuberculosis chemotherapy. Surgery Figure3 Genitalamoebiasis:purulent,perforatingulceroftheprepuce may be required to deal with abscesses, obstructive symp- inpatientfromPapuaNewGuinea.Rapidhealingfollowedtreatment withmetronidazole. toms,orfailuresofchemotherapy. hasananimalreservoirandcanbetransmittedtohumansby Female genital tuberculosis sandflybites. Following inoculation organisms are takenup Primary or secondary infertility is the most common by macrophages where they are able to resist degradation. presentation. In developing countries tuberculosis may Theensuing release ofcytokines and cellmediated immune accountfor5–20%oftubalinfertility.52Bothtubesarelikely response to infection leads to the development of lesions. tobeaffectedbutendometrialdiseaseisnotalwayspresent.53 Cutaneous leishmaniasis is usually characterised by chronic Presentationwithpainorabnormalbleedingoccursinpost- localised ulceration developing at the site of inoculation. menopausal women.54 Pelvic tuberculosis can also simulate Genital lesions (fig 4) are rare but have been described in ovarian carcinoma.55 Culture of menstrual fluid was found South America among miners46 and farmers.47 One vulval moreusefulfordiagnosisthanendometrialbiopsyorculture lesion has been reported.48 The diagnosis is confirmed by in one large South African study.52 In this study it was also demonstrating the presence of Leishmania amastigotes in notedthatthechestxraywasnormalin93%ofwomenand smear or biopsy material. Culture and polymerase chain there were no abnormal findings on examination in
