AdvsExp.Medicine,Biology-NeuroscienceandRespiration(2015)4:53–59
KEYWORDS: respiratory, visits, children, antibiotic, antibiotics, infections, urti, tract, acute, number, common, respiratory tract, min, poland, primary


visits mary care and their treatment with antibiotics, (r ¼ 0.57, p < 0.0001) – more often use of which may be overused (Kardas et al. 2005; antibiotics was reflected in more visits to the Windaketal.1996).Fragmentaryandincomplete doctor.Wealsocalculatedthattheannualantibi- information on the epidemiology of URTIs in otic therapy indicator due to URTI correlated children in Poland comes from single studies with the annual indictor for the total number of . Polish recommendations visits (r ¼ 0.52, p < 0.0001) – more often anti- regarding the treatment of respiratory tract biotictreatmentwasprescribedduetoURTI,the infections are based mainly on international data more often visits were made to the doctor. (Commission on Respiratory Tract Diseases, RespiratoryTractInfectionsinChildreninPrimaryHealthcareinPoland 57 Polish Academy of Sciences 2008; Hryniewicz the age of the first antibiotic treatment correlated et al. 2010). That is why our study, although withtheannualindicatorofvisitsduetorespiratory smallandperformedinasinglecenter,addsvalu- tractinfections.Theolderthechildatthetimeof ableinformationonthissubject.Weestimatethat the first antibiotic treatment, the less frequent the URTIs are responsible for about two visits per visitsduetoarespiratorytractinfectionweremade. yeartoprimarycareestablishmentsinPolishchil- Wethinkthatthechild’sageatthetimeofthefirst dren (median 1.8 per year in all age groups, 2.0 visit as well as the age at the time of the first peryearinthefirst3yearsoflife).Itislessthan antibiotic treatment may be useful prognostic reported in the literature. According to the most factors.Thisfindingmaybeexplainedbyreduced commonly cited authors, infants and school personalorenvironmentalpredispositionofachild children suffer from seven to ten common colds toURTIs(e.g.,notattendingkindergarten)orbya annually(JohnstonandHolgate1996).Theexpla- higherparentalthresholdforvisitingapediatrician. nationforthisdifferenceisself-treatmentofgen- Themostimportantfindingofourstudyisthat erallybenignURTIs,e.g.,commoncoldswithout the overuse of antibiotics may result in an consulting a primary care physician. Since the increase in the total number of visits and the symptoms of respiratory infection (sneezing, numberofvisitsduetoURTI.Wefoundastrong cough, or hoarseness) are well known by positive correlation between the indicator of patients and their parents, self-diagnosis, annual overall antibiotic therapies and specifi- followed by self-treatment, is common. Thus, cally therapies due to URTI and the indicator thenumberofprimaryhealthcarevisitsdepends for visits due to URTI. Similarly, the annual not only on the number of URTIs, but also on indicator of antibiotic therapies due to URTI the threshold for consultation with a pediatri- correlateswiththatforthetotalnumberofvisits cian,i.e.,thewillingnesstoconsulttheprimary to the healthcare establishment. These healthcare establishment. Our results are more butalongwiththeresultsofpreviouslarge-scale consistentwiththeresultsobtainedinpreschool studies by Otters et al. (2004) and Fleming children in Norway. In a study by Kvaerner et al. (2003) a conclusion can be drawn that a et al. (2000), URTIs were most common at the reduction in unnecessary antibiotic treatment age of 4. During the past 12 months, 47.7 % of maydecreasethenumberofvisitsduetoURTI. children contracted more than two common Otters et al. (2004) found, in a Dutch national colds,9.5%ofchildrenexperiencedmorethan survey,
