AdvsExp.Medicine,Biology-NeuroscienceandRespiration(2015)4:53–59
KEYWORDS: respiratory, visits, children, antibiotic, antibiotics, infections, urti, tract, acute, number, common, respiratory tract, min, poland, primary


treatment age of 4. During the past 12 months, 47.7 % of maydecreasethenumberofvisitsduetoURTI. children contracted more than two common Otters et al. (2004) found, in a Dutch national colds,9.5%ofchildrenexperiencedmorethan survey, that decreasing antibiotic prescription one bout of acute otitis media, 6.9 % had more rates in children paralleled a decline in the inci- thanonetonsillopharyngitisepisode,and3.2% dence of respiratory tract infections in general hadrhinitisweeklyormonthly. practice. Fleming et al. (2003) showed that a In the present study we demonstrate that the decrease in antibiotic prescription rates is numberofvisitsduetoURTIstronglycorrelated directly related to a decrease in respiratory with the total number of visits, which indicates infections presented in general practice. Other thatvisitsduetoURTIshaveastrongimpacton explanations, like a decrease in the occurrence thedirectcostsofprimaryhealthcareinchildren. of URTIs in the general pediatric population or This was notasurprisesince visitsduetorespi- an increase in the threshold for consulting a ratory infections were responsible for about pediatrician, are less likely because, in our study, 25–40%ofthetotalnumberofvisitstoprimary wecomparedthesamepopulationofchildrenover careestablishmentsinourstudy(mediannumber thesametime.Anotherpossibleexplanationofthis of all visits was 32, median of all visits due to relationshipmayrelatetotheinfluenceofparents; respiratorytractinfectionswas13,andmedianof thosewithalowerthresholdforconsultingdoctors visitsduetoURTIwas8).Wealsofoundthatthe may be the same parents who insist on antibiotic ageofthefirstvisitduetoURTIcorrelatedwiththe treatment. 58 E.Kucharetal. We demonstrate that antibiotics are overused cavity, usually accompanies common colds. andmisusedinrespiratoryinfectionsinchildren Although acute bacterial sinusitis is a relatively in Poland. The majority (57.4 %) of respiratory frequent complication of viral URTI or allergic infectionsweretreatedwithantibiotics.Themost inflammation, it possibly affects only 6–7 % of common non-specific URTIs were treated with children requiring medical care for respiratory antibiotics in 25.8 % of cases. The situation in symptoms(Waldetal.2013). Poland is similar to that observed in other Theweaknessofourstudyisalimitednumber countries. Antibiotic use is generally highest ofpatientsandthefactthatthedatawerecollected amongchildrenandabout70%ofallantibiotics from a single primary healthcare establishment, areprescribedforURTIsinchildren(Finkelstein where the personal preferences of a few doctors et al. 2000; Majeed and Moser 1999). In our couldstronglyinfluencetheresults.Tominimize study, acute tonsillitis was treated with theaforementionednegativeimpactweselecteda antibiotics in 90.7 % of cases, bronchitis in large primary care practice characterized by a 67.5 %, otitis media in 65.9 %, pneumonia in high turnover (i.e., many doctors working for 60.9 %, laryngitis in 22.2 %, and sinusitis in short periods of time). Another weakness of our 12.5 %. The overuse and misuse of antibiotics study is that diagnoses were based on clinical contributetothedevelopmentofresistantbacte- symptoms; however, that is a rule in general riaandhavebeenamajorworldwideconcernfor practice (Hryniewicz et al. 2010; Heikkinen and many years . Results of studies Ja¨rvinen2003).Ourstudywasretrospectivewith conducted at the end of the twentieth century all the inherent biases, but the results are, in
