AdvsExp.Medicine,Biology-NeuroscienceandRespiration(2015)4:53–59
KEYWORDS: respiratory, visits, children, antibiotic, antibiotics, infections, urti, tract, acute, number, common, respiratory tract, min, poland, primary


(Hryniewicz et al. 2010; Heikkinen and many years . Results of studies Ja¨rvinen2003).Ourstudywasretrospectivewith conducted at the end of the twentieth century all the inherent biases, but the results are, in our indicated that Polish primary care doctors over- opinion,morereliablethanthoseoriginatingfrom use antibiotics in acute pharyngitis and URTIs questionnaires. (Windak et al. 1996; Touw-Otten and Johansen 1992). In our study, 84.6 % of children were treated with antibiotics and the first ever antibi- 5 Conclusions otic was prescribed due to respiratory tract infectionsin65.9%ofthem.Themostcommon Respiratory tract infections in children are misuse of antibiotics is the treatment of viral responsible for a substantial amount of primary infections (Mainous et al. 2003; Vaccheri healthcare visits in Poland and antibiotics are et al. 2000; Nyquist et al. 1998; McCaig and overusedintheir treatment. Educationabout the Hughes1995). rational antibiotic use and implementation of With the exception of acute tonsillitis, where carefulandresponsiblemanagementofarational streptococcaletiologyisfrequent,andinafraction useofantibioticsisurgentlyneededsincereduc- of acute otitis media and acute rhinosinusitis, ing the number of antibiotic therapies may where bacteria play a role, the vast majority of decreasethenumberofvisitsduetoupperrespi- URTIs in children are viral. Acute pharyngitis is ratorytractinfectionsaswellasthetotalnumber often the first symptom of an upper respiratory ofprimaryhealthcarevisits. tractinfection.Acuteotitismediaisthemostcom- monconditionforwhichantibioticsareprescribed Conflicts of Interest The authors have no financial or for children in the U.S., although viruses were otherrelationshipsthatmightleadtoaconflictofinterest. detected in most cases, with or without bacterial involvement. Virus RNA was detected in 75 % children(35%rhinovirus,28%RSV,17%coro-
