Hypertension
KEYWORDS: hypertension, patients, pressure, blood, blood pressure, systolic, disease, risk, medication, renal, adults, ace, medications, cardiovascular, diastolic


Hypertension is sustained elevation of resting systolic blood pressure (≥ 130 mm Hg), diastolic blood pressure (≥ 80 mm Hg), or both. Hypertension with no known cause (primary hypertension) is most common. Hypertension with an identified cause (secondary hypertension) is usually due to primary aldosteronism. Sleep apnea, chronic kidney disease, or renal artery stenosis are other causes of secondary hypertension. Usually, no symptoms develop unless hypertension is severe or long-standing, which results in target organ damage to the brain, heart, or kidneys. Diagnosis is by sphygmomanometry. Tests may be done to determine cause, assess organ damage, and identify other cardiovascular risk factors. Treatment involves lifestyle changes and medications, including diuretics, angiotensin-converting enzyme (ACE) inhibitors, angiotensin II receptor blockers, and calcium channel blockers. Hypertension is defined as a systolic blood pressure (BP) ≥ 130 mm Hg or a diastolic blood pressure ≥ 80 mm Hg or taking medication for hypertension. This definition is based on the relationship between blood pressure and cardiovascular events in large populations. Nearly half of adults in the United States have hypertension. Many of these people are not aware that they have hypertension. Approximately 80% of adults with hypertension have been advised to begin treatment with medication and lifestyle modification, but only approximately 50% with hypertension actually receive treatment (1). Even with medication and lifestyle modification, BP is at goal (under control) in only 26% of patients, and, among treated adults whose BP is not at goal, almost 60% have a BP ≥ 140/90 mm Hg (1). High blood pressure is more common in non-Hispanic Black adults (58%) than in non-Hispanic White adults (49%), non-Hispanic Asian adults (45%), or Hispanic adults (39%) (1). Among those for whom blood pressure medication and lifestyle modification have been recommended, control of blood pressure is higher among non-Hispanic White adults (31%) than in non-Hispanic Black adults (20%), non- Hispanic Asian adults (24%), or Hispanic adults (23%) (1). Blood pressure increases with age. About two-thirds of people > 65 years have hypertension, and people with a normal BP at age 55 have a 90% lifetime risk of developing hypertension (2). Although 1/20 hypertension is common with increased age, treatment remains important because higher BP increases morbidity and mortality risk. Special considerations are indicated for hypertension during pregnancy because complications are different. Hypertension that develops during pregnancy may resolve after pregnancy (see Hypertension in Pregnancy and Preeclampsia and Eclampsia). Categories of BP in
