Hypertension
KEYWORDS: hypertension, patients, pressure, blood, blood pressure, systolic, disease, risk, medication, renal, adults, ace, medications, cardiovascular, diastolic


antipsychotics, tyrosine kinase inhibitors, angiogenesis inhibitors, stimulants, corticosteroids, cocaine Vascular anomalies: Coarctation of the aorta Licorice may contribute to worsening of blood pressure control. Diabetes is not considered a cause of secondary hypertension, although patients with diabetes commonly also are hypertensive. Pathophysiology of Hypertension Because blood pressure equals cardiac output (CO) multiplied by total peripheral vascular resistance (TPR), pathogenic mechanisms involve: Increased CO Increased TPR Both In most patients with hypertension, CO is normal or slightly increased, and TPR is increased. This pattern is typical of primary hypertension and hypertension due to primary aldosteronism, pheochromocytoma, renovascular disease, and renal parenchymal disease. In other patients, CO is increased (possibly because of venoconstriction in large veins), and TPR is inappropriately normal for the level of CO. Later in the disorder, TPR increases and CO returns to normal, probably because of autoregulation. Some disorders that increase CO (eg, thyrotoxicosis, arteriovenous fistula, aortic regurgitation), particularly when stroke volume is increased, cause isolated systolic hypertension. Some older patients have isolated systolic hypertension with normal or low CO, probably due to inelasticity of the aorta and its major branches. Patients with high, fixed diastolic pressures often have decreased CO. 4/20 Plasma volume tends to decrease as BP increases; rarely, plasma volume remains normal or increases. Plasma volume tends to be high in hypertension due to primary aldosteronism or renal parenchymal disease and may be quite low in hypertension due to pheochromocytoma. Abnormal sodium transport In many cases of hypertension, sodium transport across the vascular cell membrane is abnormal, because the sodium-potassium pump (Na+, K+-ATPase) is defective or inhibited, or because permeability to sodium ions is increased. The result is increased intracellular sodium and calcium, which makes the cell more sensitive to sympathetic stimulation. Because Na+, K+-ATPase may pump norepinephrine back into sympathetic neurons (thus inactivating this neurotransmitter), inhibition of this mechanism could also enhance the effect of norepinephrine, increasing BP. Defects in sodium transport may occur in children who are normotensive but have a parent with hypertension. Sympathetic nervous system Sympathetic stimulation increases blood pressure, usually more in patients with hypertension than in patients who are normotensive. Whether this hyperresponsiveness resides in the sympathetic nervous system or in the myocardium and vascular smooth muscle is unknown. A high resting pulse rate, which may result from increased sympathetic nervous activity, is a well-known predictor of hypertension. In some patients with hypertension, circulating plasma catecholamine levels during rest
