Hypertension
KEYWORDS: hypertension, patients, pressure, blood, blood pressure, systolic, disease, risk, medication, renal, adults, ace, medications, cardiovascular, diastolic


A high resting pulse rate, which may result from increased sympathetic nervous activity, is a well-known predictor of hypertension. In some patients with hypertension, circulating plasma catecholamine levels during rest are higher than normal. Renin-angiotensin-aldosterone system The renin-angiotensin-aldosterone system helps regulate blood volume and therefore blood pressure. Renin, an enzyme formed in the juxtaglomerular apparatus, catalyzes conversion of angiotensinogen to angiotensin I. This inactive product is cleaved by angiotensin-converting enzyme (ACE), mainly in the lungs but also in the kidneys and brain, to angiotensin II, a potent vasoconstrictor that also stimulates autonomic centers in the brain to increase sympathetic discharge and stimulates release of aldosterone and vasopressin. Aldosterone causes sodium retention and vasopressin causes water retention, elevating BP. Aldosterone also enhances potassium excretion; low plasma potassium (< 3.5 mEq/L [< 3.5 mmol/L]) increases vasoconstriction through closure of potassium channels. Renin secretion is controlled by at least 4 mechanisms, which are not mutually exclusive: A renal vascular receptor responds to changes in tension in the afferent arteriolar wall A macula densa receptor detects changes in the delivery rate or concentration of sodium chloride in the distal tubule Circulating angiotensin II has a negative feedback effect on renin secretion Sympathetic nervous system stimulates renin secretion mediated by beta-receptors (via the renal nerve) 5/20 Elevated angiotensin II levels are generally acknowledged to be responsible for renovascular hypertension, at least in the early phase, but the role of the renin-angiotensin-aldosterone system in primary hypertension is not established. However, in patients with African ancestry and older patients with hypertension, renin levels tend to be low (1). Older patients also tend to have low angiotensin II levels, which may be related to a more volume-dependent salt-sensitive form of hypertension. Hypertension due to chronic renal parenchymal disease (renoprival hypertension) results from the combination of a renin-dependent mechanism and a volume-dependent mechanism. In most cases, increased plasma renin activity is not evident. Hypertension is typically moderate and sensitive to sodium and water balance. Vasodilator deficiency Deficiency of a vasodilator (eg, bradykinin, nitric oxide), rather than excess of a vasoconstrictor (eg, angiotensin, norepinephrine), may cause hypertension. Reduction in nitric oxide, due to stiff arteries, occurs with aging, and this reduction contributes to salt sensitivity (ie, lesser amounts of salt ingestion will raise BP) (2). With reduced nitric oxide, a large sodium load (eg, a salty meal) may increase systolic BP by > 10 to 20 mm Hg. If the
