Hypertension
KEYWORDS: hypertension, patients, pressure, blood, blood pressure, systolic, disease, risk, medication, renal, adults, ace, medications, cardiovascular, diastolic


ingestion will raise BP) (2). With reduced nitric oxide, a large sodium load (eg, a salty meal) may increase systolic BP by > 10 to 20 mm Hg. If the kidneys do not produce adequate amounts of vasodilators (because of renal parenchymal disease), blood pressure can increase. Vasodilators and vasoconstrictors (mainly endothelin) are also produced in endothelial cells. Therefore, endothelial dysfunction greatly affects blood pressure. Pathology and complications No pathologic changes occur early in hypertension. Severe or prolonged hypertension damages target organs (primarily the cardiovascular system, brain, and kidneys), increasing risk of: Coronary artery disease (CAD) and myocardial infarction (MI) Heart failure Stroke (particularly hemorrhagic) Renal failure Death Elevated BP levels lead to the development of generalized arteriolosclerosis and acceleration of atherogenesis. Arteriolosclerosis is characterized by medial hypertrophy, hyperplasia, and hyalinization of small arteries (arterioles), notably in the eyes and the kidneys. In the kidneys, the changes narrow the arteriolar lumen, increasing TPR; thus, hypertension leads to more hypertension. Furthermore, once arteries are narrowed, any slight additional shortening of already hypertrophied smooth muscle reduces the lumen to a greater extent than in normal-diameter arteries. These effects may explain why the longer hypertension has existed, the less likely specific treatment (eg, renovascular surgery) for secondary causes is to restore blood pressure to normal. Thus, earlier diagnosis and treatment of even modestly elevated BP (ie, systolic BP of 120 to 129 mm Hg, even if the diastolic BP is in normal range) may provide benefit, especially in younger patients with a family history of hypertension. 6/20 Because afterload is increased in patients with elevated BP, the left ventricle gradually hypertrophies, causing diastolic dysfunction. The ventricle eventually dilates, causing dilated cardiomyopathy and heart failure, often worsened by arteriosclerotic coronary artery disease. Thoracic aortic dissection is typically a consequence of hypertension; almost all patients with abdominal aortic aneurysms have hypertension. Pathophysiology references 1. Williams SF, Nicholas SB, Vaziri ND, Norris KC. African Americans, hypertension and the renin angiotensin system. World J Cardiol. 2014;6(9):878-889. doi:10.4330/wjc.v6.i9.878 2. Fujiwara N, Osanai T, Kamada T, et al. Study on the relationship between plasma nitrite and nitrate level and salt sensitivity in human hypertension: modulation of nitric oxide synthesis by salt intake. Circulation. 2000;101:856–861. doi:10.1161/01.cir.101.8.856 Symptoms and Signs of Hypertension Hypertension is usually asymptomatic until complications develop in target organs. Even severe hypertension (typically defined as systolic blood pressure ≥ 180 mm Hg and/or diastolic blood pressure ≥ 120
