Hypertension
KEYWORDS: hypertension, patients, pressure, blood, blood pressure, systolic, disease, risk, medication, renal, adults, ace, medications, cardiovascular, diastolic


Hypertension Hypertension is usually asymptomatic until complications develop in target organs. Even severe hypertension (typically defined as systolic blood pressure ≥ 180 mm Hg and/or diastolic blood pressure ≥ 120 mm Hg) can be asymptomatic (hypertensive urgency). When severe hypertension causes cardiovascular, neurologic, renal, and retinal symptoms (eg, symptomatic coronary atherosclerosis, heart failure, hypertensive encephalopathy, renal failure), it is referred to as a hypertensive emergency. Retinal changes may include arteriolar narrowing, hemorrhages, exudates and, in patients with encephalopathy, papilledema (hypertensive retinopathy). Changes are classified (according to the Keith- Wagener-Barker classification) into 4 groups with increasingly worse prognosis (1): Grade 1: Constriction of arterioles only Grade 2: Constriction and sclerosis of arterioles Grade 3: Hemorrhages and exudates in addition to vascular changes Grade 4: Papilledema Diagnosis of Hypertension Multiple measurements of BP Testing to diagnose causes and complications Hypertension is diagnosed by sphygmomanometry. History, physical examination, and other tests help identify etiology and determine whether target organs are damaged. 7/20 Multiple measurements of BP are needed to confirm hypertension because of the inherent variability of blood pressure. Blood pressure typically fluctuates with time of day; in classic diurnal variation, BP is higher by day (especially in the morning) and lower by night. Home blood pressure measurement, using a cuffed device, can help confirm a diagnosis of hypertension (1). Blood pressure measurement The blood pressure used for formal diagnosis should be an average of 2 or 3 measurements taken in the office at different times under these conditions: Patient seated in a chair (not examination table) for > 5 minutes, feet on floor, back supported Upper limb supported at heart level with no clothing covering the area of cuff placement No exercise, caffeine, or tobacco use for at least 30 minutes At the first visit, measure BP in both arms; subsequent measurements should use the arm that gave the higher reading. A properly sized BP cuff is applied to the upper arm. An appropriately sized cuff covers two-thirds of the biceps; the bladder is long enough to encircle > 80% of the arm, and bladder width equals at least 40% of the arm’s circumference. Thus, patients with obesity usually require large cuffs. Blood pressure may be measured by either auscultatory or oscillometric devices. Fully automated validated oscillometric devices may be preferred over the auscultatory method as they provide accurate BP measurements and reduce human error (1, 2). For the auscultatory measurement, the
