Hypertension
KEYWORDS: hypertension, patients, pressure, blood, blood pressure, systolic, disease, risk, medication, renal, adults, ace, medications, cardiovascular, diastolic


devices. Fully automated validated oscillometric devices may be preferred over the auscultatory method as they provide accurate BP measurements and reduce human error (1, 2). For the auscultatory measurement, the clinician inflates the cuff above the expected systolic pressure and gradually releases the air while listening with a stethoscope placed over the brachial artery. As the pressure falls, the pressure at which the first heartbeat is heard is systolic BP. Total disappearance of the sound marks diastolic BP. The same principles are followed to measure BP in a forearm (radial artery) and thigh (popliteal artery). Mechanical devices should be calibrated periodically. Home blood pressure monitoring, combined with periodic clinician in-office measurements, can improve blood pressure control. However, cuffless home devices (such as smart watches) are not adequately precise, and should not be relied upon (1). BP is measured in both arms because BP that is > 15 mm Hg higher in one arm than the other requires evaluation of the upper vasculature. BP is measured in a thigh (with a much larger cuff) to exclude coarctation of the aorta, particularly in patients with diminished or delayed femoral pulses; with coarctation, BP is significantly lower in the legs than in the arms. Variable measurements and hypertension White coat hypertension is defined as BP that is elevated in the office but does not meet the criteria for hypertension based on out-of-office readings in untreated patients. The prevalence is approximately 8/20 10 to 20% of the population and is more common in children, older adults, and women, as well as those with office-based BP close to the diagnostic threshold. White coat effect refers to BP that is elevated in the office but is normal during out-of-office readings, among patients who are on treatment for hypertension. The data about treatment outcomes of patients with white coat hypertension are conflicting. Untreated white coat hypertension seems to be associated with more adverse cardiovascular outcomes compared to normotension. Patients with white coat hypertension have a 3- to 4-fold increased risk of developing sustained hypertension after 7 to 10 years compared to normotensive people (3). White coat effect does not appear to be associated with adverse cardiovascular outcomes. Masked hypertension is defined as blood pressure that is consistently elevated outside the office, but in which office readings do not meet the criteria for hypertension in untreated people. This group of patients may represent 10 to 30% of the
