Hypertension
KEYWORDS: hypertension, patients, pressure, blood, blood pressure, systolic, disease, risk, medication, renal, adults, ace, medications, cardiovascular, diastolic


elevated outside the office, but in which office readings do not meet the criteria for hypertension in untreated people. This group of patients may represent 10 to 30% of the adult population and is more common in men, non-Hispanic Black people, and people with diabetes (4). Masked hypertension and masked uncontrolled hypertension (in those being treated) are associated with increased cardiovascular risk, with mortality similar to the risk in patients with sustained hypertension (5). Home or ambulatory BP monitoring is indicated when white coat hypertension or masked hypertension is suspected. History The history includes the: Duration of hypertension and previously recorded BP levels History or symptoms of coronary artery disease, heart failure, or obstructive sleep apnea Symptoms of, or personal or family history of, other relevant coexisting disorders (eg, stroke, renal dysfunction, peripheral arterial disease, dyslipidemia, diabetes, gout) Use of medications that predispose to hypertension (eg, NSAIDs, estrogen-containing oral contraceptives) Sleep duration Social history includes exercise levels and use of tobacco, alcohol, and stimulants (including medications and illicit drugs). A dietary history focuses on intake of salt and stimulants (eg, tea, coffee, caffeine-containing sodas, energy drinks). Physical examination The physical examination includes measurement of height, weight, and waist circumference; fundoscopic examination for retinopathy; auscultation for bruits in the neck and abdomen; and a full cardiac, respiratory, and neurologic examination. The abdomen is palpated for kidney enlargement and 9/20 abdominal masses. Peripheral arterial pulses are evaluated; diminished or delayed femoral pulses suggest aortic coarctation, particularly in patients < 30 years. A unilateral renal artery bruit may be heard in thin patients with renovascular hypertension. Testing After hypertension is diagnosed based on blood pressure measurements, testing is needed to: Detect target-organ damage Identify cardiovascular risk factors The more severe the hypertension and the younger the patient, the more extensive is the evaluation. For adults newly diagnosed with hypertension, tests should include (1): Urinalysis and urinary albumin:creatinine ratio; if abnormal, consider renal ultrasound Lipid panel, complete metabolic panel (including creatinine or cystatin C, potassium, and calcium), fasting plasma glucose or hemoglobin A1c, thyroid-stimulating hormone ECG Sometimes measurement of plasma free metanephrines (to detect pheochromocytoma) Sometimes a sleep study Depending on results of the examination and initial tests, other tests may be needed. Basic laboratory testing should be repeated at least annually. Renal ultrasound to evaluate kidney size may provide useful information if urinalysis detects albuminuria (proteinuria), casts, or microhematuria, or if serum creatinine
