Hypertension
KEYWORDS: hypertension, patients, pressure, blood, blood pressure, systolic, disease, risk, medication, renal, adults, ace, medications, cardiovascular, diastolic


laboratory testing should be repeated at least annually. Renal ultrasound to evaluate kidney size may provide useful information if urinalysis detects albuminuria (proteinuria), casts, or microhematuria, or if serum creatinine or cystatin C is elevated. Patients with hypokalemia unrelated to diuretic use are evaluated for high salt intake and for primary aldosteronism by measuring plasma aldosterone levels and plasma renin activity. Screening for primary aldosteronism is also recommended for patients with resistant hypertension, obstructive sleep apnea, or early stroke (< 40 years) (1).The prevalence of primary aldosteronism is higher than previously recognized, occurring in approximately 10 to 20% of patients with resistant hypertension (6, 7). On ECG, a broad, notched P-wave indicates atrial hypertrophy and, although nonspecific, may be one of the earliest signs of hypertensive heart disease. Elevated QRS voltage, with or without evidence of ischemia, may occur later and indicates left ventricular hypertrophy (LVH). When LVH is seen on ECG, echocardiography is often done. If coarctation of the aorta is suspected, echocardiography, chest CT, or MRI can confirm the diagnosis. Patients with labile, significantly elevated BP and symptoms such as headache, palpitations, tachycardia, excessive perspiration, tremor, and pallor are screened for pheochromocytoma by measuring plasma free metanephrines and for hyperthyroidism, first by measuring thyroid-stimulating hormone (TSH). A sleep study should be strongly considered in patients whose history suggests sleep apnea. 10/20 Left Ventricular Hypertrophy on ECG Patients with symptoms suggesting Cushing syndrome, systemic rheumatic diseases, eclampsia, acute porphyria, hyperthyroidism, myxedema, acromegaly, or central nervous system (CNS) disorders also require further evaluation. Treatment of Hypertension Weight loss and exercise Smoking cessation Adequate sleep duration (a minimum of 6 hours/night) Diet: Increased fruits and vegetables, decreased salt, limited alcohol Medications: Depending on BP and presence of cardiovascular disease or risk factors Primary hypertension has no cure, but some causes of secondary hypertension can be corrected. In all cases, control of blood pressure can significantly limit adverse consequences. Goal blood pressure for most patients is BP < 130/80 mm Hg Goal pressure in part depends on cardiovascular risk, which is best determined by the PREVENT calculator (1). Patients with a 10-year cardiovascular disease (CVD) risk ≥ 7.5% should be encouraged to achieve a systolic BP < 120 mm Hg (2). BP below 130/80 mm Hg appears to continue to reduce the risk of vascular complications. Even older patients, including frail older patients, can tolerate a diastolic BP as low as 60
