Hypertension
KEYWORDS: hypertension, patients, pressure, blood, blood pressure, systolic, disease, risk, medication, renal, adults, ace, medications, cardiovascular, diastolic


below 130/80 mm Hg appears to continue to reduce the risk of vascular complications. Even older patients, including frail older patients, can tolerate a diastolic BP as low as 60 to 65 mm Hg without an increase in cardiovascular events (3, 4). However, decreasing systolic pressure increases the risk of adverse medication effects (eg, dizziness, light-headedness, possible worsened renal function), and the benefits of lowering BP to levels < 120 mm Hg systolic should be weighed against risks and patient tolerance. Ideally, patients or family members measure BP at home, provided they have been trained to do so and the sphygmomanometer is regularly calibrated. Lifestyle modifications Lifestyle modifications are recommended for all patients with elevated BP or any stage hypertension (2). The best proven nonpharmacologic interventions for prevention and treatment of hypertension include the following: Increased physical activity, ideally with a structured exercise program Weight loss, if appropriate Healthy diet rich in fruits, vegetables, whole grains, and low-fat dairy products, with reduced saturated and total fat content Reduced dietary sodium, optimally to < 1500 mg/day (approximately 3.75 g salt) , but at least a 1000 mg/day reduction Enhanced dietary potassium intake, unless contraindicated due to chronic kidney disease or use of medications that reduce potassium excretion 12/20 Moderation in alcohol intake in those who drink alcohol to ≤ 2 drinks daily for men and ≤ 1 drink daily for women (one drink is about 12 oz of beer, 5 oz of wine, or 1.5 oz distilled spirits) Smoking cessation Adequate sleep duration ( a minimum of 6 hours/night) is also recommended. Short sleep duration (typically defined as < 5 or 6 hours per night in adults, has been associated with hypertension (5). For example, studies suggest that optimizing sleep quality and duration (> 6 hours/night) improves blood pressure control in patients with chronic kidney disease (6). Dietary modifications can also help control diabetes, obesity, and dyslipidemia. Patients with uncomplicated hypertension do not need to restrict their activities as long as blood pressure is controlled. Medications (See also Medications for Hypertension.) The decision to treat with medication is based on the BP level and the presence of atherosclerotic cardiovascular disease (ASCVD) or its risk factors as determined by the PREVENT calculator (1). Patients with a 10-year predicted risk for CVD events ≥ 7.5% using PREVENT are considered to be at increased risk. Antihypertensive medication should be initiated for patients with hypertension
