Hypertension
KEYWORDS: hypertension, patients, pressure, blood, blood pressure, systolic, disease, risk, medication, renal, adults, ace, medications, cardiovascular, diastolic


(1). Patients with a 10-year predicted risk for CVD events ≥ 7.5% using PREVENT are considered to be at increased risk. Antihypertensive medication should be initiated for patients with hypertension who meet any of the following criteria (2): Average BP ≥ 140/90 mm Hg Existing cardiovascular disease (coronary heart disease, stroke, or heart failure) and average BP ≥ 130 mm Hg systolic or ≥ 80 mm Hg diastolic Diabetes, chronic kidney disease or 10-year PREVENT cardiovascular risk ≥ 7.5% and average BP ≥ 130 mm Hg systolic or ≥ 80 mm Hg diastolic Persistent average BP ≥ 130 mm Hg systolic or ≥ 80 mm Hg diastolic after 3 to 6 months of lifestyle intervention An important part of management is continued reassessment. If patients are not at goal BP, clinicians should strive to optimize adherence to the current regimen before switching or adding medications. Treatment of hypertension during pregnancy requires careful medication selection because some antihypertensive medications can harm the fetus. Medication selection is based on several factors, including comorbidities, contraindications, and tolerability. For most patients, when selecting an agent for monotherapy, initial treatment may be with any of the following medication classes: Angiotensin-converting enzyme (ACE) inhibitor Angiotensin II receptor blocker (ARB) Dihydropyridine calcium channel blocker 13/20 Thiazide diuretic (preferably a thiazide-like diuretic such as chlorthalidone or indapamide) Adults with stage 1 hypertension (systolic BP 130 to 139/diastolic BP 80 to 89 mm Hg) may be treated initially with a single first-line medication, with dose titration and sequential addition of other medications as needed to achieve blood pressure control (2). Adults with stage 2 hypertension (systolic BP ≥ 140/diastolic BP ≥ 90 mm Hg) should be treated initially with 2 first line medications: an ACE inhibitor or ARB combined with either a diuretic or a calcium channel blocker. When combination therapy is indicated, starting treatment with single pill combinations improves adherence (7, 8). Signs of hypertensive emergencies require immediate blood pressure reduction with parenteral antihypertensives. Such signs may include seizures or focal neurologic symptoms, retinal hemorrhage, chest pain, dyspnea,or nausea and vomiting. Some antihypertensives are avoided in certain disorders (eg, ACE inhibitors in severe aortic stenosis) whereas others are preferred for certain disorders (eg, calcium channel blockers for patients with angina pectoris, ACE inhibitors or ARBs for patients with diabetes and proteinuria—see tables Initial Choice of Antihypertensive Medication Class and Antihypertensives for Patients With Comorbidities). If the goal BP
