Hypertension
KEYWORDS: hypertension, patients, pressure, blood, blood pressure, systolic, disease, risk, medication, renal, adults, ace, medications, cardiovascular, diastolic


with angina pectoris, ACE inhibitors or ARBs for patients with diabetes and proteinuria—see tables Initial Choice of Antihypertensive Medication Class and Antihypertensives for Patients With Comorbidities). If the goal BP is not achieved within 1 month, assess adherence and tolerability and reinforce the importance of following treatment. If patients are adherent with the regimen, the dose of the initial medication can be increased or a second medication added (selected from among medications recommended for initial treatment). Note that an ACE inhibitor and an ARB should not be used together. Therapy is titrated frequently. If target BP cannot be achieved with 2 medications, a third medication from choices of initial medications is added. If such a third medication is not tolerated or is contraindicated, a medication from another class (eg, aldosterone antagonist) can be used. Patients with such difficult to control BP may benefit from consultation with a hypertension specialist. For resistant hypertension (BP remains above goal despite use of 3 different antihypertensive medications), 4 or more medications are commonly needed. TABLE Initial Choice of Antihypertensive Medication Class Medication Class Indications ACE inhibitors* Youth Left ventricular failure due to systolic dysfunction† Diabetes with nephropathy Albumin:creatinine ratio > 30 mg/gram (> 33.9 mg/mmol) in patients with chronic renal disorders or diabetic glomerulosclerosis 14/20 Medication Class Indications Erectile dysfunction due to other medications Youth Conditions for which ACE inhibitors are indicated but not tolerated because of cough or angioedema Angiotensin II receptor blockers* Diabetes with nephropathy Left ventricular failure with systolic dysfunction Secondary stroke Older age Angina pectoris Arrhythmias (eg, atrial fibrillation, paroxysmal supraventricular Long-acting calcium channel blockers tachycardia) Isolated systolic hypertension in older patients (dihydropyridines)† High CAD risk (nondihydropyridines)† Older age Thiazide-type diuretics† (chlorthalidone or indapamide) Heart failure * Contraindicated in pregnancy. † Reduced morbidity and mortality rates in randomized studies. ACE = angiotensin-converting enzyme; CAD = coronary artery disease. Achieving adequate blood pressure control often requires several evaluations and changes in pharmacotherapy. Reluctance to titrate or add medications to control BP must be overcome. Nonadherence to therapy, particularly because lifelong treatment is required, can interfere with adequate BP control. Education, with empathy and support, is essential for success. TABLE Antihypertensives for Patients With Comorbidities 15/20 Comorbidity Medication Classes Beta-blockers ACE inhibitors Coronary artery disease or risk factors Diuretics Calcium channel blockers ACE inhibitors Chronic kidney disorders Angiotensin II receptor blockers Diuretics ACE inhibitors Diabetes Angiotensin II receptor blockers Calcium channel blockers
