Hypertension
KEYWORDS: hypertension, patients, pressure, blood, blood pressure, systolic, disease, risk, medication, renal, adults, ace, medications, cardiovascular, diastolic


Coronary artery disease or risk factors Diuretics Calcium channel blockers ACE inhibitors Chronic kidney disorders Angiotensin II receptor blockers Diuretics ACE inhibitors Diabetes Angiotensin II receptor blockers Calcium channel blockers ACE inhibitors Angiotensin II receptor blockers Heart failure Beta-blockers Potassium-sparing diuretics Other diuretics* ACE inhibitors Post-myocardial infarction Beta-blockers Spironolactone or eplerenone ACE inhibitors Angiotensin II receptor blockers Risk of recurrent stroke Calcium channel blockers Diuretics * Long-term diuretic use may increase mortality in patients with heart failure who do not have pulmonary congestion. ACE = angiotensin-converting enzyme. Devices and physical interventions Renal artery sympathetic nerve ablation is a potential option for uncontrolled hypertension, using percutaneous catheter-based radiofrequency devices, ultrasound, or the injection of neurolytic agents 16/20 into tissues surrounding the renal vasculature (9). Several industry-funded sham-controlled studies with different patient populations (eg, untreated hypertension [10], treated hypertension [11], or resistant hypertension [12]) have demonstrated statistically and/or clinically significant reductions in systolic blood pressure. However, whether these devices reduce major cardiovascular events remains uncertain, with studies ongoing related to efficacy, patient selection, safety, and long-term impact on quality of life (13). Baroreflex activation therapy has been proposed for management of resistant hypertension, but studies have not provided sufficient evidence to recommend the use of these devices (2). The therapy employs a battery-powered device surgically implanted around the carotid body to stimulate the baroreceptor and, in a dose-dependent manner, lower blood pressure. In one long-term follow-up study of patients with resistant hypertension who were included in earlier pivotal trials, baroreflex activation therapy maintained its efficacy for persistent reduction of office BP without major safety issues (14). Resistant hypertension Resistant hypertension is defined as blood pressure that is not controlled to goal despite adherence to 3 suitably dosed antihypertensive medications of different classes (including a diuretic) and after white coat effect is excluded. Blood pressure that requires 4 drugs to achieve control is also considered controlled resistant hypertension. Use of a mineralocorticoid receptor antagonist can be beneficial in attaining goal blood pressure (15). Secondary causes of hypertension must be excluded as part of the evaluation for resistant hypertension. Hyperaldosteronism or subclinical hypercortisolism has been identified in 15 to 20% of cases of resistant hypertension. Prognosis for Hypertension The higher the blood pressure, and the more severe the retinal changes and other evidence of target- organ involvement, the worse the prognosis. Systolic BP predicts fatal and nonfatal cardiovascular events better than diastolic BP (1,
