Hypertension
KEYWORDS: hypertension, patients, pressure, blood, blood pressure, systolic, disease, risk, medication, renal, adults, ace, medications, cardiovascular, diastolic


the more severe the retinal changes and other evidence of target- organ involvement, the worse the prognosis. Systolic BP predicts fatal and nonfatal cardiovascular events better than diastolic BP (1, 2). Effective control of hypertension prevents most complications and prolongs life. Without treatment, 1-year survival is < 10% in patients with retinal sclerosis, cotton-wool exudates, arteriolar narrowing, and hemorrhage (grade 3 retinopathy) and is < 5% in patients with the same changes plus papilledema (grade 4 retinopathy [3]). 18/20 Coronary artery disease is the most common cause of death among treated patients. Ischemic or hemorrhagic stroke is a common consequence of inadequately treated hypertension. Hypertension on the Eye: A Review of the Pathogenesis, Diagnostic Methods, and Treatment of Hypertensive Retinopathy. Med Sci Monit. 2022;28:e935135. doi:10.12659/MSM.935135 Key Points Only about 50% of patients in the United States with hypertension receive treatment, and about one-quarter of those patients have adequate blood pressure (BP) control. Most hypertension is primary; only 5 to 15% is secondary to another disorder (eg, primary aldosteronism, renal parenchymal disease). Severe or prolonged hypertension damages the cardiovascular system, brain, and kidneys, increasing risk of myocardial infarction, stroke, and chronic kidney disease. Hypertension is usually asymptomatic until complications develop in target organs. When hypertension is newly diagnosed, do a urinalysis, spot urine albumin:creatinine ratio, blood tests (creatinine, potassium, sodium, calcium, fasting plasma glucose, lipid panel, and thyroid-stimulating hormone), and ECG. Determine the 10-year cardiovascular risk, using the PREVENT calculator. Reduce BP to < 130/80 mm Hg for most patients.. Patients, including those with a kidney disorder or diabetes, whose 10-year CVD risk is ≥ 7.5% should be encouraged to achieve a systolic BP < 120 mm Hg. A higher target might be appropriate for frail older patients who become symptomatic at lower pressures. Treatment involves lifestyle changes, especially a low-sodium and higher potassium diet, medication (including thiazide diuretics, angiotensin-converting enzyme inhibitors, angiotensin II receptor blockers, and dihydropyridine calcium channel blockers), and management of secondary causes of hypertension if present.
