Glucocorticoid Receptor
KEYWORDS: gra, receptor, activity, pubmed, transcriptional, glucocorticoid, gene, transcription, protein, human, transcriptional activity, nuclear, binding, glucocorticoids, genes


ABSTRACT The glucocorticoid receptor (GR) is an evolutionally conserved nuclear receptor superfamily protein that mediates the diverse actions of glucocorticoids as a ligand-dependent transcription factor. This receptor is a protein that shuttles from the cytoplasm to the nucleus upon binding to its ligand glucocorticoid hormone, where it modulates the transcription rates of glucocorticoid-responsive genes positively or negatively. Tremendous efforts have been made to reveal the molecular signaling actions of the GR, including intracellular shuttling, transcriptional regulation and interaction with other intracellular signaling pathways. Glucocorticoids are essential for both maintenance of the resting state and the stress response, and are pivotal in the treatment of many disorders, including autoimmune, inflammatory, allergic, and lymphoproliferative diseases. Thus, pathologic or therapeutic implications of the GR, including genetic alterations in the human GR gene, disease-associated GR regulatory molecules, and development of GR ligands with selective GR actions, are of great importance. This chapter provides an overview on such GR-related research activities. For complete coverage of all related areas of Endocrinology, please visit our on-line FREE web-text, WWW.ENDOTEXT.ORG . INTRODUCTION Glucocorticoids are steroid hormones secreted by the adrenal glands. They are important for the maintenance of basal and stress-related homeostasis by acting as end products of the stress-responsive hypothalamic-pituitary-adrenal (HPA) axis ( 1 ). Glucocorticoids regulate a variety of biologic processes and exert profound influences on many physiologic functions ( 2 , 3 ). In pharmacologic doses, glucocorticoids are used as potent immunosuppressive agents in the therapeutic management of many inflammatory, autoimmune and lympho-proliferative diseases ( 4 ). At the cellular level, the actions of glucocorticoids are mediated by an intracellular receptor protein, the glucocorticoid receptor (GR) (its gene name is “nuclear receptor subfamily 3, group C, member 1: NR3C1 ”), which belongs to the steroid/sterol/thyroid/retinoid/orphan receptor superfamily of nuclear transactivating factors with over 200 members in general and over 40 in mammals currently cloned and characterized across species ( 5 ). Human GR consists of 777 amino acid residues ( 5 ). GR is ubiquitously expressed in almost all human tissues and organs including neural stem cells ( 6 ). GR functions as a hormone-dependent transcription factor that regulates the expression of glucocorticoid-responsive genes, which probably represent 3-10% of the human genome and can be influenced by the ligand-activated GR directly or indirectly ( 7 ). EVOLUTION OF GR Nuclear hormone receptors (NRs) form a highly conserved protein family observed even in simple metazoans. They
