Glucocorticoid Receptor
KEYWORDS: gra, receptor, activity, pubmed, transcriptional, glucocorticoid, gene, transcription, protein, human, transcriptional activity, nuclear, binding, glucocorticoids, genes


influenced by the ligand-activated GR directly or indirectly ( 7 ). EVOLUTION OF GR Nuclear hormone receptors (NRs) form a highly conserved protein family observed even in simple metazoans. They are phylogenically differentiated into 7 subfamilies under the evolutional selection pressure, and are still active in the current human population ( 8 ). GR is a member of the steroid hormone receptor (SR) subfamily (subfamily 3) of NRs. This receptor family of vertebrates consists of six evolutionarily related SRs: two for estrogens (estrogen receptor (ER) a and ERβ) and one each for androgens (androgen receptor: AR), progestins (progesterone receptor: PR), glucocorticoids (GR), and mineralocorticoids (mineralocorticoid receptor: MR) ( Figure 1 ). These steroid receptors are also categorized as type I receptors, based on their functional characteristics, such as cytoplasmic localization in the absence of ligand with association to the heat shock proteins, homo-dimerization and recognition of their target DNA sequence (see below), while the other NRs belong to type II to IV ( 5 ). Figure 1. Steroid hormone receptors (SRs: class I receptors) and their homologies expressed as percent identity to the protein sequence of human GR. AR; androgen receptor, ER: estrogen receptor, ER: estrogen receptor, GR; glucocorticoid receptor, MR: mineralocorticoid receptor, PR-A: progesterone receptor-A. Modified from ( 9 ). SRs evolved in the chordate lineage after the separation of deuterostomes and protostomes, prior to or at the base of the Cambrian explosion about 540 million years ago ( 10 , 11 ) ( Figure 2A ). The receptor phylogeny suggests that two serial gene duplications of an ancestral SR gene occurred before the divergence of lamprey and jawed vertebrates ( Figure 2B ). The first gene duplication (duplication #1 in Figure 2B ) created an estrogen receptor (ER) and a 3-ketosteroid receptor, whereas the second duplication (duplication #2 in Figure 2B ) of the latter gene produced a corticoid receptor and a receptor for 3-ketogonadal steroids (androgens, progestins, or both). Therefore, the ancestral vertebrates (e.g., lamprey) had three SRs: an estrogen receptor (ER), a receptor for corticoids (corticosteroid receptor: CR) and a receptor that bound androgens, progestins or both (ancestral PR). At some later time within the gnathostome lineage, each of these three receptor genes were duplicated again (duplications #3, #4 and #5 in Figure 2B ) to yield the six SRs currently found in jawed vertebrates: the ER creating ERa and ERβ, CR yielding the GR and
