Glucocorticoid Receptor
KEYWORDS: gra, receptor, activity, pubmed, transcriptional, glucocorticoid, gene, transcription, protein, human, transcriptional activity, nuclear, binding, glucocorticoids, genes


(duplications #3, #4 and #5 in Figure 2B ) to yield the six SRs currently found in jawed vertebrates: the ER creating ERa and ERβ, CR yielding the GR and MR, and the 3-ketogonadal steroid receptor (ancestral PR) producing the PR and AR. Therefore, the genome of ‘higher’ vertebrates is thought to be the result of three genome duplication events that occurred early in chordate evolution ( 10 , 12 ). Although the timing of these events is not entirely clear, it is most likely that the first 2 duplications occurred before the lamprey-gnathostome divergence and one after ( 10 , 13 ). Figure 2. Evolution of SRs including GR. A: Appearance of the SR member receptors through evolution of the chordate lineage. The first ancestral SR, which is close to the current ER, appeared ~540 million years ago. At lamprey, 3 receptors, ER, PR and CR, emerged. From the ray-finned fishes, all SR members, ER, PR, AR, GR and MR, appeared. Modified from ( 14 ). B: Phylogeny of the SR family genes. Current human SRs including GR were generated through several gene duplications (shown as orange squares). Appearance of the ancestral (Anc) SR1, SR2 and CR are shown with arrows in the phylogeny tree. Blue lines indicate the lamprey-gnathostome divergence. Modified from ( 10 ). The GR and its closest family member MR, both descend from duplication of the ancestral CR ( AncCR ) gene, and emerged in the vertebrate lineage approximately 450 million years ago ( 12 , 15 ) ( Figure 2B ). The GR is activated by cortisol, while the MR is activated by aldosterone in tetrapods and by deoxycorticosterone (DOC) in teleosts. The MR is also sensitive to cortisol, though considerably less so than to aldosterone and DOC ( 12 , 15 ). Like the MR, the AncCR is sensitive to aldosterone, DOC and cortisol, indicating that the specificity of GR for cortisol is evolutionarily derived ( 12 , 15 ). To determine how the preference of the GR for cortisol evolved, Ortlund et al. identified substitutions that occurred during the same period as the shift in GR function ( 16 ). Using maximum likelihood phylogenetics, he revealed that GR retained AncCR’s sensitivity to aldosterone, DOC and cortisol, from the common ancestor of all jawed vertebrates, but the GR from the common ancestor of bony vertebrates obtained a phenotype like that of the current
