Glucocorticoid Receptor
KEYWORDS: gra, receptor, activity, pubmed, transcriptional, glucocorticoid, gene, transcription, protein, human, transcriptional activity, nuclear, binding, glucocorticoids, genes


aldosterone, DOC and cortisol, from the common ancestor of all jawed vertebrates, but the GR from the common ancestor of bony vertebrates obtained a phenotype like that of the current GRs that respond only to cortisol. These findings indicate that the specificity of GR for cortisol evolved during the interval between these two speciation events, approximately 420 to 440 million years ago ( 16 ). Amino acid substitutions found in the modern GR compared to AncGR are not a consequence of the direct introduction of corresponding nucleotide changes, but supported by permissive mutations that enabled the intermediate receptor to tolerate insertion of the final substitutions ( 17 ). Teleosts, one of the 3 subgroups of ray-finned fishes that covers most of the living fishes today, underwent an additional gene duplication event about 350 million years ago ( 18 ). Thus, all fishes that belong to this subclass, including carp and rainbow trout, have 2 GR genes (GR1 and 2 in rainbow trout). However, zebrafish has only one GR gene in contrast to the other teleost families, because this species lost the 2 nd GR gene sometime during the last 33 million years ( 18 ). STRUCTURE OF THE HUMAN GR GENE AND PROTEIN All SRs including GR display a modular structure comprised of five to six regions (A-F): the amino-terminal A/B region, also called immunogenic or N-terminal domain (NTD), and the C and E regions, which correspond to the DNA- (DBD) and ligand-binding (LBD) domains, respectively ( Figure 3 ). D region represents the hinge region (HR), while F region is located in the C-terminal end of the NRs with high variability. GR does not have a F region. The GR cDNA was isolated by expression cloning in 1985 ( 19 ). The human GR gene consists of 9 exons and is located in the long arm of the chromosome 5 (5q31.3) in an inverse orientation and spanning ~160 kbs. Alternative splicing of the human GR gene in exon 9 generates two highly homologous receptor isoforms, termed a and b. These are identical through amino acid 727, but then diverge, with human GRa having an additional 50 amino acids and human GRb having an additional, nonhomologous 15 amino acids ( 20 ). The molecular weights of these receptor isoforms are 97 and 94 kilo-Dalton, respectively. Human GRa is expressed virtually in all organs and tissues, resides primarily in the cytoplasm,
