Glucocorticoid Receptor
KEYWORDS: gra, receptor, activity, pubmed, transcriptional, glucocorticoid, gene, transcription, protein, human, transcriptional activity, nuclear, binding, glucocorticoids, genes


20 ). The molecular weights of these receptor isoforms are 97 and 94 kilo-Dalton, respectively. Human GRa is expressed virtually in all organs and tissues, resides primarily in the cytoplasm, and represents the classic glucocorticoid receptor that functions as a ligand-dependent transcription factor. Human GRb, also expressed ubiquitously, does not bind glucocorticoid agonists and functions as a dominant negative receptor for GRa-induced transcriptional activity (see Section 7. THE SPLICE VARIANT GR-beta ISOFORM) ( 21 ). Figure 3. Genomic and complementary DNA and protein structures of the human (h) GR with its functional distribution, and the isoforms produced through alternative splicing. The hGR (NR3C1) gene consists of 10 exons. Exon 1 is an untranslated region (UTR), exon 2 encodes for NTD (A/B), exon 3 and 4 for DBD (C), and exons 5-9 for the hinge region (D) and LBD (E). GR does not have an F region in contrast to the other steroid hormone receptors. The GR (NR3C1) gene contains two terminal exons 9 (exon 9 and 9) alternatively spliced to produce the classic GR and the nonligand-binding GR isoform. C-terminal gray-colored domains in GR and GR show their specific portions. Locations of several functional domains are also indicated. AF-1 and -2: activation function-1 and -2; DBD; DNA-binding domain; HD: hinge region; LBD: Ligand-binding domain; NTD: N-terminal domain, NL1 and 2: Nuclear translocation signal 1 and 2. The N-terminal domain (NTD) of GRa contains a major transactivation domain, termed activation function (AF)-1, which is located between amino acids 77 and 262 of the human GRa ( 22 , 23 ). AF-1 belongs to a group of acidic activators, such as VP16, nuclear factor of kB (NF-kB), p65 and p53, contains four a-helices, and plays an important role in the communication between the receptor and molecules necessary for the initiation of transcription, including coactivators, chromatin modulators and basal transcription factors [RNA polymerase II, TATA-binding protein (TBP) and a host of TBP-associated proteins (TAFIIs)] ( 24 ). GRa AF-1 is relatively unfolded at the basal state, while it forms a significantly complex helical structure in response to binding to cofactors, such as TBP and p160 coactivators ( 25 , 26 ). TBP-induced conformational change in AF-1 facilitates association of this domain to a p160 coactivator ( 27 ). The DNA-binding domain (DBD) of the human GRa corresponds to amino acids 420-480 and contains two C4-type zinc finger motifs through which GRa binds to
