Glucocorticoid Receptor
KEYWORDS: gra, receptor, activity, pubmed, transcriptional, glucocorticoid, gene, transcription, protein, human, transcriptional activity, nuclear, binding, glucocorticoids, genes


p160 coactivator ( 27 ). The DNA-binding domain (DBD) of the human GRa corresponds to amino acids 420-480 and contains two C4-type zinc finger motifs through which GRa binds to specific DNA sequences, the glucocorticoid-responsive elements (GREs) ( 28 , 29 ). The DBD is the most highly conserved domain throughout the NR family. It has two similar zinc finger modules, each nucleated by a zinc ion coordination center held by four cysteine (C) residues and followed by a-helix ( Figure 4A ). The N-terminal’s first a-helix lies in the major groove of the double-stranded DNA, while the C-terminal part of the second a-helix is positioned over the minor groove ( Figure 4B ). Figure 4. Structure of GR DBD and its interaction with DNA GRE. A: Zinc finger structures in DBD of hGR. Numbered eight cysteine (C) residues chelate Zn2+ to form two separate finger structures. Red-colored amino acid residues form -helical structures. Box with bold line indicates lever arm, while that with dashed line shows D-box. Modified from ( 30 ). B: 3-Dimensional model of the physical interaction between the GR DBD and DNA GRE. The N-terminal’s first -helix of the GR DBD lies in the major groove of the double-stranded DNA, while the C-terminal part of the second -helix is positioned over the minor groove. The image was created and donated by Dr. D.E. Hurt (National Institute of Allergy and Infectious Diseases, NIH, Bethesda, MD). Box with bold line indicates lever arm, while that with dashed line shows D-box. Modified from ( 30 ). The ligand-binding domain (LBD) of the human GRa corresponds to amino acids 481-777, binds to glucocorticoids, and plays a critical role in the ligand-induced activation of GRalpha. The crystal structure of the GRalpha LBD was successfully analyzed by using a point mutant containing a single replacement of phenylalanine at amino acid 602 by serine, and is comprised of 12 a-helices and 4 small β-sheets that fold into a three-layer helical domain ( 31 ) ( Figure 5 ). Helices 1 and 3 form one side of a helical sandwich, while helices 7 and 10 form the other side. The middle layer of the helices (helices 4, 5, 8, and 9) is present in the top but not the bottom half of the protein. This arrangement of helices creates a cavity in the bottom half of the LBD, which is surrounded by helices 3,
