Glucocorticoid Receptor
KEYWORDS: gra, receptor, activity, pubmed, transcriptional, glucocorticoid, gene, transcription, protein, human, transcriptional activity, nuclear, binding, glucocorticoids, genes


the top but not the bottom half of the protein. This arrangement of helices creates a cavity in the bottom half of the LBD, which is surrounded by helices 3, 4, 11 and 12, and functions as a ligand-binding pocket ( 31 - 33 ). Interaction of the LBD with the heat shock protein (hsp) 90 contributes to the maintenance of the protein structure that allows LBD to associate with ligand. Ligand-binding induces a conformational change in the LBD and allows GRa to communicate with several molecules, such as importin a of the nuclear import system, components of the transcription initiation complexes and other transcription factors that mediate the ligand-dependent actions of GRa. The LBD also contains one transactivation domain, termed AF-2. The activity of AF-2 is ligand-dependent. Figure 5. Structure of the GR LBD. The GR consists of 12 -helices and 4 small β-sheets that fold into a three-layer helical domain. Helices 1 and 3 form one side of a helical sandwich, while helices 7 and 10 form the other side. The middle layer of helices 4, 5, 8, and 9 are present in the top but not in the bottom half of the protein, thus creating a ligand-binding pocket (shown as yellow star) in the bottom half of the LBD, surrounded by helices 3, 4, 11 and 12. The image was created with the MacPyMOL software using 3K22 of the RCSB Protein Data Bank (PDB) ( http://www.rcsb.org/pdb/home/home.do ). TRANSCRIPTIONAL AND TRANSLATIONAL REGULATION OF GR ISOFORMS As described above, the human GR gene expresses two mRNAs through alternative use of exon 9a and 9b, and produces two splice variants. The human GRa mRNA further expresses multiple isoforms by using at least 8 alternative translation initiation sites ( 34 ) ( Figure 6 ). Since human GRb shares a common mRNA domain that contains the same translation initiation sites with human GRa ( 19 ), the human GRb variant mRNA seems also to be translated through the same initiation sites to a similar host of b isoforms. They are produced by ribosomal leaky scanning and/or ribosomal shunting from their alternative translation initiation sites located at amino acids 27 (GRa-B), 86 (GRa-C1), 90 (GRa-C2), 98 (GRa-C3), 316 (GRa-D1), 331 (GRa-D2) and 336 (GRa-D3), C-terminally from the classic translation start site (1: for the GRa-A) ( 34 ). Thus, they have different lengths of NTDs but the same DBDs and LBDs. Compared
