Glucocorticoid Receptor
KEYWORDS: gra, receptor, activity, pubmed, transcriptional, glucocorticoid, gene, transcription, protein, human, transcriptional activity, nuclear, binding, glucocorticoids, genes


336 (GRa-D3), C-terminally from the classic translation start site (1: for the GRa-A) ( 34 ). Thus, they have different lengths of NTDs but the same DBDs and LBDs. Compared to GRa-A, GRa-C2 and GRa-C3 isoforms have stronger transcriptional activities on a synthetic GRE-driven promoter, while GRa-D1, GRa-D2 and GRa-D3 demonstrate weaker activities ( 34 ). GRa-B and GRa-C1, however, possess transcriptional activities similar to that of GRa-A ( 34 ). Absence of AF-1 in GRa-D isoforms may explain their reduced transcriptional activity, while ~100 amino acids (particularly 3 polar amino acids) located in the N-terminal portion of AF-1 appear to support increased transcriptional activity of GRa-C isoforms ( 35 ). All human GRa isoforms translocate into the nucleus in response to ligand, while they are differentially distributed in the cytoplasm and/or the nucleus in the absence of ligand and display distinct transactivation or transrepression patterns on global gene expression examined by cDNA microarray analyses ( 34 ). Such isoform-specific transcriptional activity is in part explained by their distinct chromatin modulatory activity, which is evident in the different potencies of the translational isoforms to induce apoptosis in T-cell Jurkat cells ( 36 ). Figure 6. GR isoforms produced through alternative splicing or use of different translational initiation sites. The human GR (NR3C1) gene contains two terminal exons 9 (9alpha and 9beta) alternatively spliced to produce the classic GR (GRalpha-A) and GRbeta-A. C-terminal dark yellow-colored domains in GRalpha-A and GRbeta-A show their specific portions. Using at least 8 different translation initiation sites located in NTD, the human GR (NR3C1) gene produces multiple GR isoforms termed A through D (A, B, C1-C3 and D1-D3) with distinct transcriptional activities on glucocorticoid-responsive genes. Since GRalpha and GRbeta share a common mRNA domain that contains the same translation initiation sites, the GRbeta variant mRNA appears to be also translated through the same initiation sites and to produce 8 isoforms with different lengths of NTD. Modified from ( 20 , 37 ). AF-1 and -2: activation function-1 and -2; DBD; DNA-binding domain; HD: hinge region; LBD: Ligand-binding domain Translational Human GRa isoforms are differentially expressed in various cell lines, tissues and at different developmental stages ( 34 ). For example, GRa-D isoforms are predominant in immature bone marrow-derived dendritic cells (DCs), while GRa-A is a main isoform in mature DCs, and this characteristic expression explains maturation-specific alteration of glucocorticoid sensitivity in these cells ( 38 ).
