Glucocorticoid Receptor
KEYWORDS: gra, receptor, activity, pubmed, transcriptional, glucocorticoid, gene, transcription, protein, human, transcriptional activity, nuclear, binding, glucocorticoids, genes


bone marrow-derived dendritic cells (DCs), while GRa-A is a main isoform in mature DCs, and this characteristic expression explains maturation-specific alteration of glucocorticoid sensitivity in these cells ( 38 ). GRa-A is highly expressed in brains of toddlers to teenagers, whereas peak expression of GRa-D is observed in those of neonates ( 39 ). Thus, these N-terminal human GRa isoforms may differentially transduce glucocorticoid hormone signals to tissues, depending on their selective expression and inherent activities. The human GR gene has eleven different promoters with their alternative first exons (1A1, 1A2, 1A3, 1B, 1C, 1D, 1E, 1F, 1H, 1I and 1J) ( 40 , 41 ) ( Figure 7 ). Therefore, the human GR gene can produce eleven different transcripts from different promoters that encode the same GR proteins sharing a common exon 2 containing the translating ATG codon. 1A1, 1A2, 1A3 and 1I are located in the distal promoter region spanning ~32,000-36,000 bps upstream of the translation start site, while 1B, 1C, 1D, 1E, 1F, 1H and 1J position in the proximal promoter region located up to ~5,000 bps upstream of such a site ( 40 ). Through differential use of these promoters, expression levels of GR protein isoforms can vary considerably among tissues and disease states ( 40 , 42 ). DNA methylation of the human GR gene promoter area is one of the mechanisms that regulate the activity of specific GR gene promoters. Indeed, childhood trauma, which influences development of the borderline personality disorder by affecting the stress-responsive HPA axis, contributes to the alteration of DNA methylation levels of the human GR gene promoter in the brain ( 43 ). Elevated DNA methylation in the human GR gene promoter is also found in the brain hippocampus of the patients with major depression ( 44 ). Furthermore, the methylation status of the human GR gene promoter in the peripheral blood is highly altered during the perinatal period. Interestingly, preterm infants demonstrate significantly lower levels of the DNA methylation compared to full-term infants, explaining in part relative glucocorticoid insensitivity observed in preterm babies ( 45 ). In addition to selective use/activation-inactivation of the specific GR gene promoters, alternative untranslated 1 st exon transcripts differentially control stability and translational efficiency of their existing GR mRNA, and contribute to differential tissue expression of the GR proteins ( 46 ). By employing many splice/translational GR isoforms expressed from different promoters, human GR
