Glucocorticoid Receptor
KEYWORDS: gra, receptor, activity, pubmed, transcriptional, glucocorticoid, gene, transcription, protein, human, transcriptional activity, nuclear, binding, glucocorticoids, genes


of their existing GR mRNA, and contribute to differential tissue expression of the GR proteins ( 46 ). By employing many splice/translational GR isoforms expressed from different promoters, human GR appears to form at least 256 different combinations of homo- and hetero-dimers with varying expression levels and transcriptional activities. This marked complexity in the transcription/translation of the human GR gene allows cells/tissues to respond differentially to the circulating concentrations of glucocorticoids depending on the needs of respective tissues ( 20 ). Figure 7. The human (h) GR (NR3C1) gene has 11 different promoters with specific exon 1 sequences. The hGR (NR3C1) gene has 11 different promoters harboring specific exon 1 sequences. Alternative exon 1s are shown as yellow arrows or arrowheads. The 5’ flanking region of the hGR (NR3C1) gene has proximal and distal promoter regions, which respectively span from ~-37,000 to ~-32,000 and from ~-5,000 to ~0, upstream of the translation initiation site located in the exon 2 (shown as “ATG” and arrowhead), and contain exons 1A1, 1A2, 1A3, and 1I, and 1B, 1C, 1D, 1E, 1F and 1H, respectively. Modified from ( 40 , 41 ). ACTIONS OF GR Nucleocytoplasmic Shuttling of GRa In the absence of ligand, GRa resides primarily in the cytoplasm of cells as part of a large multiprotein complex, which consists of the receptor polypeptide, two molecules of hsp90, and several other proteins ( 28 , 47 - 49 ) ( Figure 8 ). Following ligand binding, the receptor dissociates from the hsps and translocates into the nucleus. The GRa contains two nuclear translocation signals (NL), NL1 and NL2 ( Figure 3 ): NL1 contains a classic basic-type nuclear localization signal (NLS) structure that overlaps with and extends C-terminally from the DBD of GRa ( 50 ). The function of NL1 is dependent on importin a, a protein component of the nuclear translocation system, which is energy-dependent and facilitates the translocation of the activated receptor into the nucleus through the nuclear pore. NL2 spans over almost the entire LBD. In the absence of ligand, binding of hsps with the LBD of GRa masks/inactivates NL1 and NL2, thereby maintaining GRa in the cytoplasm. Inside the nucleus, GRa binds to GREs in the promoter regions of target genes. The interaction of GRa with GREs is dynamic, with the GRa binding to and dissociating from GREs in the order of seconds, while the GRE-bound receptor helps other
