Glucocorticoid Receptor
KEYWORDS: gra, receptor, activity, pubmed, transcriptional, glucocorticoid, gene, transcription, protein, human, transcriptional activity, nuclear, binding, glucocorticoids, genes


target genes. The interaction of GRa with GREs is dynamic, with the GRa binding to and dissociating from GREs in the order of seconds, while the GRE-bound receptor helps other GRas to bind DNA by increasing chromatin accessibility (the mechanism called “assisted loading”), and ultimately up-regulates their steady state association on glucocorticoid-responsive gene promoters ( 51 , 52 ). The above findings were obtained using the multi-copy GREs artificially inserted into the host cell chromatin, but a recent report confirmed them by examining endogenous GREs using a single molecule imaging technique ( 53 ). GRa also modulates transcriptional activity of other transcription factors by physically interacting with them. After modulating the transcription of its responsive genes, GRa dissociates from the ligand and slowly returns to the cytoplasm as a component of the heterocomplexes with hsps ( 54 - 56 ). The ubiquitin-proteasomal pathway degrades ligand-bound GRa in the nucleus, facilitating clearance of the receptor from GREs; thus, this system regulates the transcriptional activity of GRalpha in a negative fashion ( 57 , 58 ). Figure 8. Intracellular circulation of GR. Circulation of GR between the cytoplasm and the nucleus, and its transcriptional regulation on the glucocorticoid-responsive genes in the nucleus are shown in the panel. GR translocates into mitochondria or lysosomes as well. GREs: glucocorticoid responsive elements; TFREs: transcription factor responsive elements; HSPs: heat shock proteins; TF: transcription factor. From ( 59 ). Several mechanisms have been postulated for the regulation of GRa nuclear export [27]. The Ca 2+ -binding protein calreticulin plays a role in the nuclear export of GRa, directly binding to the DBD of this receptor ( 60 - 62 ). In contrast, the CRM1/exportin and the classic nuclear export signal (NES)-mediated nuclear export machinery does not appear to be functional directly on GR ( 50 , 60 , 63 ). Rather, NES-harboring and phospho-serine/threonine-binding protein 14-3-3s can bind the human GR phosphorylated at serine 134, and segregates the nuclear GRa into the cytoplasm ( 64 , 65 ) (see also Section 6. FACTORS THAT MODULATE GR ACTIONS, B. Epigenetic Modulation of GRa, Phosphorylation). In addition to translocating into the nucleus, GRa was reported to shuttle into mitochondria upon ligand activation and to stimulate mitochondrial gene expression by binding to their own DNA ( 66 ) ( Figure 8 ). Exposure of rats to stress or corticosterone induces translocation of GRa to mitochondria and modulates mitochondrial mRNA
