Glucocorticoid Receptor
KEYWORDS: gra, receptor, activity, pubmed, transcriptional, glucocorticoid, gene, transcription, protein, human, transcriptional activity, nuclear, binding, glucocorticoids, genes


by binding to their own DNA ( 66 ) ( Figure 8 ). Exposure of rats to stress or corticosterone induces translocation of GRa to mitochondria and modulates mitochondrial mRNA expression ( 67 ), indicating that this activity of GRa is evident at an animal level. GRa was also shown to move into the lysosome, which leads to the negative regulation of its transcriptional activity ( 68 ). Mechanisms of GRa-mediated Activation of Transcription Classically, GRa exerts its transcriptional activity on glucocorticoid-responsive genes by binding to GREs located in the promoter region of these genes ( 69 ). The optimal tandem GREs is an inverted hexameric palindrome separated by 3 base pairs, PuGNACANNNTGTNCPy, on which each GRa molecule binds one of the palindromes, forming a homodimer on this binding site through multiple contacts between the 2 receptors ( 70 , 71 ). Recent research indicated that sequence variation of GREs, including 3 non-specific spacer nucleotides, influences the 3-dimensional structure of DBD and modulates the transcriptional activity of whole GRa molecule ( 72 , 73 ); Binding of GRa DBD to GRE DNA sequence induces conformational changes in the dimerization surface located in D-loop through the lever arm, which positions itself between the first a-helix and D-loop ( Figure 4A ). Two receptors bound on each GRE half site then communicate with each other with their GRE sequence-specific dimerization surfaces, and ultimately develop net transcriptional activity. These findings suggest that DNA GRE is a sequence-specific allosteric modulator of GRa transcriptional activity through alteration of its protein conformation, explaining in part gene-specific transcriptional effects of this receptor. The GRE-bound GRa stimulates the transcription rates of glucocorticoid-responsive genes by facilitating formation of the transcription initiation complex on the GREs-containing promoter of these genes via its AF-1 and AF-2 transactivation domains ( 74 ) ( Figure 3 ). Actions of AF-1 located in NTD of GRa is ligand-independent, while AF-2 is created on GRa LBD upon ligand-binding ( 75 ). The transcription initiation complex attracted and formed on DNA-bound GRa is a mega protein structure that include over 100 proteins with different activities, such as RNA polymerase II and its ancillary factors, general transcription factors and numerous co-regulatory molecules with/without enzymatic activities ( 74 ). Research studies aimed to identify molecules interacting with GRa AF-2 have led to several proteins and protein complexes, called coactivators or cofactors, that form a bridge between DNA-bound GRa
