Glucocorticoid Receptor
KEYWORDS: gra, receptor, activity, pubmed, transcriptional, glucocorticoid, gene, transcription, protein, human, transcriptional activity, nuclear, binding, glucocorticoids, genes


). Research studies aimed to identify molecules interacting with GRa AF-2 have led to several proteins and protein complexes, called coactivators or cofactors, that form a bridge between DNA-bound GRa and the transcription initiation complex, and assist enzymatically with the transmission of the glucocorticoid signal to RNA synthesis promoted by the RNA polymerase II ( 76 ) ( Figure 9 ). These include: (1) p300 and the homologous cAMP-responsive element-binding protein (CREB)-binding protein (CBP), which also serve as macromolecular docking “platforms” for transcription factors from several signal transduction cascades, including NRs, CREB, activator protein-1 (AP-1), NF-kB, p53, Ras-dependent growth factor, and signal transducers and stimulators of transcription (STATs) ( 77 ). Because of their central position in many signal transduction cascades, the p300/CBP coactivators are also called co-integrators; (2) p300/CBP-associated factor (p/CAF), originally reported as a human homologue of yeast Gcn5, which interacts with p300/CBP and is also a broad transcription coactivator ( 78 , 79 ); and (3) the p160 family of coactivators, which preferentially interact with SRs ( 80 ). These include the steroid receptor coactivator-1 (SRC-1), SRC-2, which consists of transcription intermediate factor-II (TIF-II) and the glucocorticoid receptor-interacting protein-1 (GRIP1), and SRC-3, which consists of the p300/CBP/co-integrator-associated protein (p/CIP), activator of thyroid receptor (ACTR) and the receptor-associated coactivator-3 (RAC3) ( 76 , 80 , 81 ). These 3 subclasses of p160 family coactivators are also called, respectively, as nuclear receptor coactivators (NCoA) 1, 2 and 3. Figure 9. Schematic model demonstrating the interaction and activity of HAT coactivators and other chromatin modulators, which are attracted by GR to the promoter region of glucocorticoid-responsive genes. Promoter-associated GR is cleared by the ubiquitin-proteasomal pathway, which regulates turnover of GR on DNA. Modified from ( 82 ). AF-1 and -2: activation function-1 and -2; CBP: cAMP-responsive element-binding protein (CREB)-binding protein; DRIP: vitamin D receptor-interacting protein; GREs: glucocorticoid response elements; p/CAF: p300/CBP-associated factor; SWI/SNF: mating-type switching/sucrose non-fermenting; TRAP: thyroid hormone receptor-associated protein. The p160 coactivators are the first to be attracted to the DNA-bound NRs and help accumulating p300/CBP and p/CAF proteins to the promoter region, indicating that p160 proteins play a pivotal role in NR-mediated transactivation. A study using the cryoelectron microscopy demonstrated detailed attraction modes of p160 proteins and p300/CBP to DNA-bound and ligand-activated ERa ( 83 ); Each of the tandem ER response elements (EREs)-bound receptors independently attracts one p160 molecule via the transactivation surface of the receptor
