Glucocorticoid Receptor
KEYWORDS: gra, receptor, activity, pubmed, transcriptional, glucocorticoid, gene, transcription, protein, human, transcriptional activity, nuclear, binding, glucocorticoids, genes


p300/CBP to DNA-bound and ligand-activated ERa ( 83 ); Each of the tandem ER response elements (EREs)-bound receptors independently attracts one p160 molecule via the transactivation surface of the receptor created by their AF-1 and AF-2. Then, the two NCoAs attracted to the receptors recruits one p300/CBP molecule to the DNA/receptors/p160s complex through multiple contacts mediated by different portions of the p160 proteins. In addition to physical interaction and subsequent formation of the transcriptional initiating complex on the DNA-bound receptors by these coactivators (that is assembly of transcriptional initiation complex), these molecules have intrinsic histone acetyltransferase (HAT) activity through which they acetylate specific lysine residues of chromatin-bound histones, loosen the tightly assembled chromatin structure and facilitate access of other transcription factors and transcriptional complexes to the promoter region ( 76 ). These HAT coactivators also acetylate specific lysine residues of their own molecules, NRs and other transcription factors, and modulate their mutual protein-protein interaction and/or association to attracted promoters ( 84 - 86 ). The p160 family coactivators and p300/CBP protein contain one or more copies of the coactivator signature motif sequence LxxLL, where L is leucine and x is any amino acid ( 80 , 87 ). LxxLL forms a helical structure, and develops multiple hydrophobic bonds with its leucine residues to the AF-2 surface, which is created by helixes 3, 4 and 12 of the GRa LBD upon binding to ligand glucocorticoid ( Figure 10A ). p160-type coactivators contain 3 LxxLL motifs in its nuclear receptor-binding box (NRB) located in their central portion ( 76 ) ( Figure 10B ). Each of these motifs demonstrates different affinity to various NRs, indicating that specific p160 proteins participate in the transcriptional activity of particular NRs through preferential use of LxxLL motifs ( 88 ). For example, GRa preferentially interacts with GRIP1 p160 protein through C-terminally located 3 rd LxxLL motif of this coactivator ( 89 ). Figure 10. p160 coactivators physically interact with its multiple LxxLL motifs to the AF-2 surface of GR. A: 3-dimensional interaction image of GR AF-2 and the LXXLL peptide. The GR AF-2 surface has three large pockets into which core leucines (L745, L748 and L749) of the LXXLL peptide deeply bury themselves. There are additional intermolecular contacts that are important for peptide binding, including the electrostatic bonds created between (i) R746 (LXXLL peptide) and D590 (receptor), (ii) D750 (LXXLL peptide) and R585 (receptor) and (iii)
