Glucocorticoid Receptor
KEYWORDS: gra, receptor, activity, pubmed, transcriptional, glucocorticoid, gene, transcription, protein, human, transcriptional activity, nuclear, binding, glucocorticoids, genes


intermolecular contacts that are important for peptide binding, including the electrostatic bonds created between (i) R746 (LXXLL peptide) and D590 (receptor), (ii) D750 (LXXLL peptide) and R585 (receptor) and (iii) D752 (LXXLL peptide) and K579 (receptor). From ( 89 ). B: p160-type coactivators (NCoAs) have 3 LxxLL motifs in their NR-binding box (NRB). Linearlized GRIP1 (NCoA2) molecule with NRB located in the middle portion is shown as a representative of the p160-type coactivators (NCoAs). In addition to NRB, GRIP1 has the basic helix-loop-helix (bLHL) and the PAS domains in its N-terminal portion, and p300/CBP-binding domain and one transactivation domain containing the HAT domain in the C-terminus. The AF-2 transactivation domain of GRa also attracts several other distinct chromatin modulators, such as the mating-type switching/sucrose non-fermenting (SWI/SNF) complex and components of the vitamin D receptor-interacting protein/thyroid hormone receptor-associated protein (DRIP/TRAP) complex ( 76 ). The SWI/SNF complex is an ATP-dependent chromatin remodeling factor with a multi-subunit structure in which the ATPase domain functions as the catalytic center ( 90 ). Depending on the energy of ATP hydrolysis, the SWI/SNF complex introduces superhelical torsion into DNA. One of its components, SNF2 binds to AF-2 of GRa directly, functioning as an interface between the GRa and the SWI/SNF complex ( 91 ). The DRIP/TRAP complex is also a multiprotein conglomerate, which consists of over 10 different proteins, including DRIP205/TRAP220/PBP and components of SMCC ( 76 ). The DRIP/TRAP complex may modulate transcription through interaction and modification of general transcription factors, such as TFIIH or the C-terminal tail of the RNA polymerase II. DRIP205/TRAP220 contains two LxxLL motifs through which it binds to the ligand-activated AF-2 directly ( 92 ). Since the DRIP/TRAP complex and p160 coactivators use the same motif for interaction with NRs, they may bind to the same site of these receptors and sequentially interact with them for full activation of transcription. Alternatively, they may interact with a particular set of NRs, or have a different effect on different tissues ( 76 , 81 ). In contrast to the mechanisms of transactivation by AF-2, those of AF-1 are not as well elucidated yet. Using the yeast system, the Ada complex may act on AF-1-mediated transcriptional activation through direct interaction to this module ( 93 ). The SWI/SNF complex, TBP and the HAT coactivators, such as p160 and p300/CBP, also physically interact with AF-1 and mediate its transcriptional activity ( 94 -
