Glucocorticoid Receptor
KEYWORDS: gra, receptor, activity, pubmed, transcriptional, glucocorticoid, gene, transcription, protein, human, transcriptional activity, nuclear, binding, glucocorticoids, genes


module ( 93 ). The SWI/SNF complex, TBP and the HAT coactivators, such as p160 and p300/CBP, also physically interact with AF-1 and mediate its transcriptional activity ( 94 - 97 ). In addition, DRIP150, a component of the DRIP/TRAP complex, and the tumor susceptibility gene 101 (TSG101) interact with the AF-1 of the GRa in a yeast two-hybrid screening ( 98 ). The RNA coactivator, steroid RNA activator (SRA), also interacts with AF-1 ( 99 ). Given that any of these molecules and complexes interact with both AF-1 and AF-2, it is likely that concurrent activation of AF-1 and AF-2 by their common and/or distinct binding partners may be necessary for optimal activation of GRa-mediated transcriptional activity ( 100 ). Several coactivators supporting the particular actions of glucocorticoids have been identified for GRa. The PPARg coactivator-1a (PGC1a) is a ~800 amino acid single polypeptide molecule originally identified as a cofactor physically interacting with PPARg in the yeast two-hybrid screening using a brown adipocyte cDNA library ( 101 ). PGC1a has an essential role in thermogeneration and energy metabolism by controlling mitochondrial biogenesis ( 101 ). It also regulates gluconeogenesis and cholesterol metabolism, as well as blood pressure and muscle fiber determination through physical interaction with various NRs, transcriptional factors and coactivators, such as PPARa, hepatocyte nuclear factor 4, CREB, nuclear respiratory factors, and p160 and p300/CBP coactivators ( 101 ). GRa also interacts physically with PGC1a through the latter’s LxxLL motif and this interaction is important for stimulation of gluconeogenesis through transcriptional stimulation of the 2 key genes respectively encoding the glucose-6-phosphatase (G6P) and the phosphoenolpyruvate carboxykinase (PEPCK) ( 101 ). It is known that longevity-associated histone deacetylase Sirt1 regulates PGC1a activity through its deacetylase activity-dependent or -independent manner ( 102 , 103 ). Sirt1 is shown to interact physically with GRa as well, and PGC1a and Sirt1 cooperatively enhance GR-induced transcriptional activity of glucocorticoid-responsive genes ( 104 ). The CREB-regulated transcription coactivator 2 (CRTC2) is a coactivator previously known to be specific to CREB, and plays a central role in the glucagon-mediated activation of gluconeogenesis in the early phase of fasting ( 105 ). This coactivator functions also as a coactivator of GRa by physically interacting with its LBD outside of AF-2, and is required for glucocorticoid-mediated early phase gluconeogenesis by supporting the transcriptional activity of GRa on the G6P and PEPCK genes, while PGC1a cooperates with GRa
