Glucocorticoid Receptor
KEYWORDS: gra, receptor, activity, pubmed, transcriptional, glucocorticoid, gene, transcription, protein, human, transcriptional activity, nuclear, binding, glucocorticoids, genes


LBD outside of AF-2, and is required for glucocorticoid-mediated early phase gluconeogenesis by supporting the transcriptional activity of GRa on the G6P and PEPCK genes, while PGC1a cooperates with GRa for maintaining a late phase of fasting-induced gluconeogenesis ( 106 ). Presence of numerous transcriptional cofactors that interact with GRa and influence its transcriptional activity indicate that they may have functional redundancy and/or activities specific to each of them, regulating particular sets of GRa-responsive genes. A study employing knockdown of GRalpha cofactors, such as CCAR1 , CCAR2 , CALCOCO1 or ZNF282 , has addressed this important issue: it revealed that knockdown of any of these cofactor molecules resulted in specific impact on the expression of a particular set of glucocorticoid-responsive genes ( 107 ), suggesting that each cofactor molecule has distinct transcriptional regulatory activity on GRa, thus their expression profiles in tissues/organs potentially influence the transcriptional activity of GRa in respective tissues. Emerging Concept on GRa-mediated Transcriptional Repression GRa has long been believed to exert its transcriptional activity by binding to the classic GREs, which consists of inverted hexameric palindrome separated by 3 base pairs. However, Surjit, et al . identified unique DNA sequences also targeted by the GRa DBD, called “negative” GREs (nGREs), which play substantial roles in gene transrepression caused by GRa ( 108 ). The consensus sequence of nGREs is an inverted quadrimeric palindrome separated by 0-2 nucleotide pairs ( CTCC (N)0–2 GGAG A). In the structural study employing the prototype nGREs found in the thymic stromal lymphoprotein ( TSLP ) promoter as a model, 2 GRa molecules bound each palindrome as a monomer with different affinity in a head-to-tail fashion, in contrast to GRa-classic GREs where 2 receptors bind DNA in a head-to-head fashion ( 109 ) ( Figure 11 ). nGREs are ubiquitously present in the genes repressed by glucocorticoids throughout several animal species, facilitating access of the silencing mediator for retinoid and thyroid hormone receptors (SMRT)/nuclear receptor corepressor (NCoR)-repressing complexes on the agonist-associated GRa bound on these sequences. This is a new concept, indicating that direct binding of GRa through its DBD to DNA sequences distinct from those of the classic GREs mediates glucocorticoid-induced transcriptional repression. However, a genome-wide study revealed that classic GREs and the “new” nGREs both contribute to transactivation and transrepression of glucocorticoid-responsive genes, suggesting that GRa-targeting DNA sequences per se are insufficient to confer direction of transcriptional regulation, but epigenetic
