Glucocorticoid Receptor
KEYWORDS: gra, receptor, activity, pubmed, transcriptional, glucocorticoid, gene, transcription, protein, human, transcriptional activity, nuclear, binding, glucocorticoids, genes


and the “new” nGREs both contribute to transactivation and transrepression of glucocorticoid-responsive genes, suggesting that GRa-targeting DNA sequences per se are insufficient to confer direction of transcriptional regulation, but epigenetic factors and subsequent chromatin modification may play critical roles ( 110 ). Figure 11. GR binds nGREs as a monomer. GR binds nGREs as a monomer at each of its half site (A) in contrast to its binding as a homo-dimer to classic GREs (B). nGREs of the mouse TSLP gene is used as an example. Images are from the PDB Website ( www.rcsb.org ). Image data for GR interaction with nGREs and classic GREs are DOI: 10.2210/pdb4hn5/pdb and DOI: 10.2210/pdb3g9m/pdb, respectively. Interaction of GRa with Transcription Factors Glucocorticoids exert their diverse effects through its single receptor protein module, the GRa. In addition to direct regulation of gene expression through GRa/DNA interaction, these hormones affect other signal transduction cascades through mutual protein-protein interactions between specific transcription factors and GRa, influencing the former’s ability to stimulate or inhibit the transcription rates of the respective target genes. The protein-protein interaction of GRa with other transcription factors may take place on the promoters that do not contain GREs (tethering mechanism), as well as on those having both GRE(s) and responsive element(s) of the transcription factors that interact with GRa (“composite promoters”) ( 111 ) ( Figure 12 ). Repression of the transactivation activity of other transcription factors through protein-protein interaction may be particularly important in suppression of immune function and inflammation by glucocorticoids ( 112 , 113 ). Substantial part of the effects of glucocorticoids on the immune system may be explained by the interaction between GRa and NF-kB, AP-1 and probably STATs ( 114 - 116 ). It was also reported that GRa directly interacts with the transcription factors “T-box expressed in T-cells” (T-bet) and GATA-3, which play key roles respectively in the differentiation of T helper-1 and T helper-2 lymphocytes ( 117 , 118 ). GRa also influences indirectly the actions of the interferon regulatory factor-3 (IRF-3) through the p160 nuclear receptor GRIP1, by competing with this factor for binding to the coactivator ( 119 ). These transcription factors are important for the regulation of immune function and the above interactions may explain some GR actions on the immune system. The following subsections will discuss GRa-interacting transcription factors and their effects on GRa-induced transcriptional activity. Figure 12. Three different modes of
