Glucocorticoid Receptor
KEYWORDS: gra, receptor, activity, pubmed, transcriptional, glucocorticoid, gene, transcription, protein, human, transcriptional activity, nuclear, binding, glucocorticoids, genes


may explain some GR actions on the immune system. The following subsections will discuss GRa-interacting transcription factors and their effects on GRa-induced transcriptional activity. Figure 12. Three different modes of transcriptional regulation of the glucocorticoid-responsive promoters by GR. GR may interact with other transcription factors directly or indirectly. Protein(s) or protein complex(es) may intermediate their interaction in the latter case. GREs: glucocorticoid responsive elements; TF: transcription factor; TFREs: transcription factor responsive elements Nuclear Factor-kB (NF-kB) NF-kB is one of the most important transcription factors that regulate inflammation and immune function. NF-kB is stimulated by many inflammatory signals and cytokines ( 115 , 120 ). It is a dimer of various members of the NF-kB/Rel family, including p50 (and its precursor p105), p52 (and its precursor p100), c-Rel, RelA and RelB in mammalian organisms. The heterodimer p65/p50 is a major and the most abundant form of NF-kB. In its inactive form, NF-kB creates a trimer with an additional regulatory protein, IkB in the cytoplasm. A variety of extracellular signals, such as bacterial and viral products (like lipopolysaccharide (LPS)) and several proinflammatory cytokines, induces phosphorylation of IkB by activating a cascade of kinases. The phosphorylated IkB then dissociates from NF-kB and is catabolized, while the liberated NF-kB enters into the nucleus where it binds to the kB-responsive elements in the promoter regions of its responsive genes. Ligand-activated GRa directly binds NF-kB p65 at its Rel homology domain through its DBD and suppresses the transcriptional activity of NF-kB, while NF-kB suppresses GRa-induced transactivation through GREs. Interaction with GRa inhibits binding of NF-kB to its responsive elements or neutralizes its ability to transmit an effective signal ( 121 - 124 ). The LBD of GRa is necessary for this suppressive action ( 125 ). GRa also suppresses NF-kB-induced transactivation by an additional mechanism, in which the GRa tethered to the kB-responsive promoters attracts histone deacetylases (HDACs) and/or modulates the phosphorylation of the RNA polymerase II C-terminal tail ( 126 , 127 ). In addition, ligand-activated GRa increases the synthesis of IkB by stimulating its promoter activity through classic GREs, thus segregating active NF-kB from the nucleus by forming inactive heterocomplexes with IkB in the cytoplasm ( 128 ). A study further indicated that attraction of the p160 coactivator GRIP1 together with GRa to NF-kB is required for glucocorticoid-induced repression of NF-kB-mediated cytokine gene expression in mouse primary macrophages ( 129 ). Activator Protein-1 (AP-1)
