Glucocorticoid Receptor
KEYWORDS: gra, receptor, activity, pubmed, transcriptional, glucocorticoid, gene, transcription, protein, human, transcriptional activity, nuclear, binding, glucocorticoids, genes


of the p160 coactivator GRIP1 together with GRa to NF-kB is required for glucocorticoid-induced repression of NF-kB-mediated cytokine gene expression in mouse primary macrophages ( 129 ). Activator Protein-1 (AP-1) AP-1 is a transcription factor, which regulates diverse gene expression involved in cell proliferation and differentiation ( 114 , 130 , 131 ). It acts as a dimer of the bZip protein family members, in which c-Fos and c-Jun heterodimers are most abundant. AP-1 transduces biological activities of phorbol esters, growth factors and pro-inflammatory cytokines, such as IL-1 and tumor necrosis factor (TNF) a. These compounds/cytokines stimulate different members of the mitogen-activated protein kinase (MAPK) family, e.g., p38 MAPK, extracellular signal-regulated kinase (ERK) and Jun N-terminal kinase (JNK). Once these kinases are activated, they stimulate the synthesis of specific transcription factors involved in the induction of fos and jun gene transcription, as well as enhance the transcriptional activity of both pre-existing and newly synthesized c-Fos/c-Jun proteins. AP-1 and GRa mutually interact and repress each other’s transcriptional activity on their respective responsive promoters. The LBD and DBD of GRa and the leucine zipper domain of c-Jun are necessary for this interaction ( 29 ). Inhibition of the binding of AP-1 to DNA may be one of the underlying mechanisms of GRa-induced suppression of AP-1-mediated transcriptional activity. Furthermore, GRa competes with AP-1 for the p300/CBP coactivator, which has a limited reserve, therefore, AP-1 may not have access to adequate amounts of this coactivator to exert its transcriptional activity fully ( 132 ). cAMP Response Element-binding Protein (CREB) CREB functions downstream of many hormones and bioactive molecules, which bind to the cell surface-located G-protein-coupled receptors that employ cAMP as their second messenger. CREB is also a member of the bZip transcription factors ( 133 ). It forms homo- and hetero-dimers with other proteins of the same family and binds to the cAMP-responsive element (CRE). Stimulation of the above receptors induces the accumulation of cAMP that leads to activation of the cAMP-dependent protein kinase A (PKA). This kinase then phosphorylates CREB at a specific serine residue and promotes recruitment of the transcriptional co-integrator CBP and its specific coactivator CRTC2 to stimulate the transcription of cAMP-responsive genes. GRa and CREB mutually repress the transcription from their simple responsive promoters ( 134 , 135 ). Although direct association of GRa and CREB has been reported in vitro , their physical interaction is still unclear ( 134
