Glucocorticoid Receptor
KEYWORDS: gra, receptor, activity, pubmed, transcriptional, glucocorticoid, gene, transcription, protein, human, transcriptional activity, nuclear, binding, glucocorticoids, genes


their simple responsive promoters ( 134 , 135 ). Although direct association of GRa and CREB has been reported in vitro , their physical interaction is still unclear ( 134 , 136 ). CRTC2 might act as a bridging factor between CREB and GRa, particularly in their synergistic activation of the composite promoters, such as that of G6P , PEPCK and the somatostatin gene, which contain both GREs and CRE sequences ( 106 , 136 , 137 ) (see also Section 5. ACTIONS OF GR, B. Mechanisms of GRalpha-mediated Activation of Transcription). Transforming Growth Factor (TGF) b Downstream Smad6 Members of the Smad family of proteins transduce signals of transforming growth factor (TGF) b superfamily members, such as TGFb, activin and bone morphogenetic proteins (BMPs), by associating with the cytoplasmic side of the type I cell surface receptors of these hormones ( 138 ). Nine distinct vertebrate Smad family members have been identified, which are classified into three groups: receptor-regulated Smads (R-Smads), such as Smad1, 2, 3, 5 and 8, a common-partner Smad (Co-Smad), Smad4, and inhibitory Smads (I-Smads) like Smad6 and Smad7 ( 138 ). Upon binding of TGFb, activin or BMP to their receptors, cytoplasmic R-Smads are phosphorylated by the receptor kinases, translocate into the nucleus and stimulate the transcriptional activity of TFGb-, activin- or BMP-responsive genes by binding to their response elements located in their promoter region as a hetero-trimer with Co-Smad ( 138 ). I-Smads, such as Smad6 and Smad7, act as inhibitory molecules in the TGFb family signaling, by forming stable associations with activated type I receptors, which prevent the phosphorylation of R-Smads ( 138 ). Smad6 also competes with Smad4 in the heteromeric complex formation induced by activated Smad1 ( 139 ). In addition, I-Smads directly suppress the transcriptional activity of TGFb family signaling by binding to promoter DNA and attracting HDACs and/or the C-terminal binding protein (CtBP) ( 140 - 142 ). Since I-Smads are produced in response to activation of the TGFb family signaling ( 143 ), they literally function in the negative feedback regulation of the Smad signaling pathways. Smad6 preferably inhibits BMP signaling, while Smad7 is a more general inhibitor, repressing TGFb and activin signaling, in addition to that of BMP ( 144 ). We found that Smad6 physically interacts with the N-terminal domain of the GRa through its Mad-homology 2 domain and suppresses GRa-mediated transcriptional activity in vitro (
