Glucocorticoid Receptor
KEYWORDS: gra, receptor, activity, pubmed, transcriptional, glucocorticoid, gene, transcription, protein, human, transcriptional activity, nuclear, binding, glucocorticoids, genes


BMP ( 144 ). We found that Smad6 physically interacts with the N-terminal domain of the GRa through its Mad-homology 2 domain and suppresses GRa-mediated transcriptional activity in vitro ( 145 ). Adenovirus-mediated Smad6 overexpression also inhibits glucocorticoid action in rat liver in vivo , preventing dexamethasone-induced elevation of blood glucose levels and hepatic mRNA expression of PEPCK , a well-known rate-limiting enzyme of hepatic gluconeogenesis ( 145 ). Smad6 suppresses GRa-induced transactivation by attracting HDAC3 to DNA-bound GRa and by antagonizing acetylation of the histones H3 and H4 induced by p160 HAT coactivators ( 145 ). Thus, Smad6 regulates glucocorticoid actions as a corepressor of GRa. It appears that the anti-glucocorticoid actions of Smad6 may contribute to the neuroprotective, anti-catabolic and pro-wound healing properties of the TGFb family of proteins through cross-talk between TGFb family members and glucocorticoids ( 145 ). C2H2-type Zinc Finger Proteins (ZNFs) C2H2-type ZNFs constitute the largest class of putative human transcription factors consisting of over 700 member proteins ( 146 , 147 ). In addition to C2H2-type zinc fingers (ZFs), these proteins harbor several structural modules, such as the Broad-Complex, Tramtrack, and Bric-a-brac (BTB)/Poxvirus and zinc finger (POZ), Krüppel-associated box (KRAB) and SCAN domains ( 147 ). These modules are usually located in the N-terminal portion, and function as platforms for protein-protein interactions, whereas ZFs are positioned in the C-terminal area and function mainly as a DNA-binding domain ( 147 ). The BTB/POZ and KRAB domains have transcriptional regulatory activity (mostly repressive), whereas the SCAN domain does not ( 148 ). Among human C2H2-type ZNFs, about 7% have a BTB/POZ domain (BTB/POZ-ZNFs), 43% harbor a KRAB domain (KRAB-ZNFs) and 7% contain a SCAN domain (SCAN-ZNFs) ( 146 ). Sixty-seven % of the human C2H2-type ZNFs have only ZFs without any of these domains (thus, they are “poly-ZNFs”) ( 146 ). Some poly-ZNFs, such as members of the specificity protein (SP)/Krüppel-like factor (KLF) family transcription factors (e.g., SP1, KLF4 and KLF11) cooperate with GRa for regulating the transcriptional activity of specific glucocorticoid-responsive genes in distinct biological pathways, such as monoamine oxidase A expression in CNS and glucocorticoid-mediated skin barrier formation in prenatal fetus ( 147 ). Furthermore, GRa stimulates the transcriptional activity of the KLF9 gene through the GREs located in the promoter region of this gene, and expressed KLF9 plays important roles in glucocorticoid-mediated survival of the newly differentiated hippocampal granule neurons ( 147
