Glucocorticoid Receptor
KEYWORDS: gra, receptor, activity, pubmed, transcriptional, glucocorticoid, gene, transcription, protein, human, transcriptional activity, nuclear, binding, glucocorticoids, genes


gene through the GREs located in the promoter region of this gene, and expressed KLF9 plays important roles in glucocorticoid-mediated survival of the newly differentiated hippocampal granule neurons ( 147 ). One poly-ZNF called CCCTC-binding factor (CTCF) is an architectural protein playing a major role in the formation of chromatin looping, which governs enhancer-gene promoter communication, and ultimately contributes to the tissue/phase-specific expression of glucocorticoid-responsive genes ( 149 ). Although direct evidence of its interaction to GRa is still missing, CTCF interacts with ERa and the thyroid hormone receptors (TRs) and regulates their transcriptional activity ( 150 , 151 ), thus it is highly possible that this molecule also plays roles in the regulation of GRa transcriptional activity. One KRAB-ZNF, the zinc finger protein 764 (ZNF764), which composes of a N-terminally located KRAB domain and seven C 2 H 2 -type ZF motifs in the C-terminal area, was identified as a coactivator of several SRs including GRa, possibly cooperating with other NR coactivators ( 152 ). Indeed, haploinsufficiency of the ZNF764 gene by microdeletion was associated with partial tissue insensitivity to glucocorticoids and developmental abnormalities of androgen-dependent organs in an affected boy ( 152 ). In a genome-wide binding study using ChIP-sequencing, ZNF764- and GRa-binding sites are found in close proximity, indicating that ZNF764 modulates GRa transcriptional activity by incorporated in the transcriptional complex formed on DNA-bound GR ( 153 ). Forkhead Transcription Factors Forkhead transcription factors are characterized by their DNA-binding domain called “Forkhead Box”, and consist of over 100 family members classified from FOXA to FOXR ( 154 ). Among them, FOXO subgroup proteins (FOXO1, 3, 4 and 6 in humans) mediate biological actions of the insulin/PI3K/Akt signaling pathway through phosphorylation of several serine/threonine residues of this subgroup proteins, acting on cell proliferation, cell cycle regulation, oxidative stress, DNA repair, energy and glucose metabolism ( 154 ). Some of forkhead transcription factors (e.g., FOXA1) can act as pioneer factors for other transcription factors including NRs, by opening DNA-binding sites of the latter molecules on the chromatin (see also Section 5. ACTIONS OF GR, E. New Findings on Genome-wide Transcriptional Regulation by GRa) ( 155 ). FOXA3 acts as a pioneer factor for GRa by facilitating the latter binding to DNA possibly through modulation of the chromatin accessibility and is required for glucocorticoid-mediated fat accumulation in adipose tissues ( 156 ). Other Transcription Factors Functional interaction of GRa has
