Glucocorticoid Receptor
KEYWORDS: gra, receptor, activity, pubmed, transcriptional, glucocorticoid, gene, transcription, protein, human, transcriptional activity, nuclear, binding, glucocorticoids, genes


to DNA possibly through modulation of the chromatin accessibility and is required for glucocorticoid-mediated fat accumulation in adipose tissues ( 156 ). Other Transcription Factors Functional interaction of GRa has also been reported with other transcription factors, including the chicken ovalbumin promoter-upstream transcription factor II (COUP-TFII), HNF-6, NR4A orphan receptors (neuron-derived orphan receptor-1 (NOR-1), nuclear receptor-related 1 (NURR1) and Nur77), liver X receptors (LXRs), farnesoid X receptor (FXR), p53, T-bet, GATA-1 and -3, Oct-1 and -2, NF-1 and C/EBPb. COUP-TFII is an orphan nuclear receptor, which plays important roles in neurogenesis as well as glucose, lipid and xenobiotic metabolism. This NR physically interacts with the hinge region of GRa and suppresses GRa-induced transcriptional activity by attracting the corepressor SMRT ( 157 ). Mutual protein-protein interaction of GRa and COUP-TFII was necessary for glucocorticoid-induced enhancement of the promoter activity and the endogenous mRNA expression of the COUP-TFII-responsive PEPCK , suggesting that COUP-TFII may participate in some of the metabolic effects of glucocorticoids through direct interactions with GRa ( 157 ). The hepatocyte nuclear factor 6 (HNF6) is a transcription factor that consists of 2 different DNA binding domains (CUT and homeobox) and plays an important role in the hepatic metabolism of glucose. It represses GRa-induced transactivation by directly binding to GRa DBD ( 158 ). Interaction of another orphan nuclear receptor Nur77 and GRa is critical for the regulation of proopiomelanocortin ( POMC ) gene expression ( 159 ). LXRs consist of 2 isoforms LXRa and LXRb, and play a central role in the regulation of cholesterol/fatty acid metabolism by binding to their metabolites as a ligand, while FXR acts on bile acid metabolism. GRa and these NRs modulate each other’s transcriptional activity by communicating through direct protein-protein interaction ( 160 - 162 ). p53, a transcription factor functioning as a tumor suppressor, physically interacts with GRa in the cytoplasm along with an additional protein Hdm2. GRa and p53 mutually repress each other’s transcriptional activity by increasing their degradation rates ( 163 , 164 ). GRa also interacts with Oct-1 and -2 on the mouse mammary tumor virus (MMTV) promoter and the gonadotropin-releasing hormone promoter ( 165 - 169 ). The POU domain of Oct-1 and the DBD of GRa interact with each other in vitro . NF-1, which also stimulates the MMTV promoter, interacts with GRa and cooperatively modulates the activity of this promoter ( 169 , 170 ). The
