Glucocorticoid Receptor
KEYWORDS: gra, receptor, activity, pubmed, transcriptional, glucocorticoid, gene, transcription, protein, human, transcriptional activity, nuclear, binding, glucocorticoids, genes


with each other in vitro . NF-1, which also stimulates the MMTV promoter, interacts with GRa and cooperatively modulates the activity of this promoter ( 169 , 170 ). The transcriptional activity of GATA-1, a transcription factor that plays an essential role in the erythroid differentiation is repressed by GRa at the experimental cellular levels. NTD of GRa is necessary for the interaction with GATA-1 ( 171 ). The CAAT/Enhancer-binding Protein (C/EBP) is one of the bZip family transcription factors that have diverse effects on proliferation, development and differentiation of embryonic cells/fetus, and influence functions of the liver, adipose, immune and hematopoietic tissues in adults ( 172 ). C/EBPb, also known as the nuclear factor IL-6 (NF-IL6), synergistically stimulates transcription of GRa on the composite promoter that contains both C/EBPb- and GRa-binding sites ( 173 ). GRa, on the other hand, enhances C/EBPb activity on its simple responsive promoter ( 173 , 174 ). Direct in vitro binding of these proteins has been reported. GENOME-WIDE TRANSCRIPTIONAL REGULATION BY GRa Chromatin-based Regulation of GRa Transcriptional Activity GRa regulates expression of glucocorticoid-responsive genes by influencing their transcriptional activity through direct or indirect interaction with their enhancer/promoter regions. In eukaryotic cells, DNA is packed into chromatin by associating with numerous nuclear proteins, such as histones and chromatin-modifying factors ( 175 , 176 ). Double-stranded DNA wraps by 1.67 turns around a histone octamer that consists of 2 copies of each core histones H2A, H2B, H3 and H4, and forms the smallest structural unit called “nucleosome”, which is further compacted into a higher order chromatin. Nucleosome-associated histones possess a highly flexible N-terminal tail whose chemical modifications, such as acetylation and methylation at specific lysine (K) residues, modulate accessibility of GRa to its target DNA sequences residing in chromatin. Chromatin is further packed into the 3-dimensional structure called topologically associated domains (TADs) in which several protein-coding gene bodies, promoters and regulatory elements interact with each other through formation of chromatin looping, and their modes of interaction alter in different cellular circumstances. A poly-ZNF protein CTCF plays a central role in the formation of chromatin looping by cooperating with the cohesion protein complex and other accessory factors, including the transcription factor IIIC (TFIIIC), ZNF143, PR domain zinc finger protein 5 (PRDM5) and chromodomain helicase DNA-binding protein 8 (CHD8) ( 147 , 149 ) ( Figure 13 ). In addition to CTCF, interaction of transcription factors, such
