Glucocorticoid Receptor
KEYWORDS: gra, receptor, activity, pubmed, transcriptional, glucocorticoid, gene, transcription, protein, human, transcriptional activity, nuclear, binding, glucocorticoids, genes


zinc finger protein 5 (PRDM5) and chromodomain helicase DNA-binding protein 8 (CHD8) ( 147 , 149 ) ( Figure 13 ). In addition to CTCF, interaction of transcription factors, such as between GRa and NF-kB, influences formation of chromatin looping possibly through cooperation with CTCF ( 177 ). A study using a new technique called Hi-C (high throughput 3C) further revealed that even chromosomes are packed into the nucleus with some orders shared by many tissues/organs ( 178 , 179 ). Figure 13. Organization of the topologically associated domain (TADs) and chromatin looping promoted by CTCF for differential expression of glucocorticoid-responsive genes. CTCF organizes 3-dimensional chromatin interaction for the formation of TADs and chromatin looping, in cooperating with the cohesion protein complex and other component proteins. Chromatin loop-forming activity of CTCF is essential for differential use of enhancers/promoters by GR-responding genes, and underlies organ/tissue-specific actions of glucocorticoids. Modified from ( 147 ). In rat liver, more than 11,000 GR-binding sites (GBSs) are identified primarily at intergenic distal and intronic regions, but only ~10% of GBSs are located in the promoter area (~2.5 kbs from the transcription start site: TSS), consistent with the fact that distantly located enhancer regions can communicate with the gene promoter through gene looping ( 180 , 181 ). Interestingly, ~80-90% of GRa-accessible sites exists prior to glucocorticoid addition/GRa stimulation, while their distribution is highly tissue-specific, indicating that local tissue factor(s) mainly determine(s) the sets of genes responsive to glucocorticoids by regulating chromatin accessibility ( 180 ). Indeed, some transcription factors, such as C/EBPb, AP-1 and FoxA1, have their binding sites close to GBSs (thus, composite sites) and act as tissue-specific priming factors (or pioneer factors) for the access of GRa to GBSs, respectively in murine mammary epithelial cells, rat liver and human prostate cancer cells ( 181 - 183 ). These pre-existing GBSs are enriched with CpG islands and are generally demethylated, further suggesting that DNA methylation also contributes negatively to the opening of GBSs ( 184 ). However, a study revealed that GRa can act as a pioneer factor for several other transcription factors previously reported to be pioneer factors for GRa ( 185 ). This report indicates that GRa can function both as a pioneer and a dependent factor based on the composition of the binding sites in the regulatory elements and/or local chromatin conditions. Influence of Gene Variation (Single Nucleotide Polymorphisms: SNPs) to
