Glucocorticoid Receptor
KEYWORDS: gra, receptor, activity, pubmed, transcriptional, glucocorticoid, gene, transcription, protein, human, transcriptional activity, nuclear, binding, glucocorticoids, genes


forebrain-specific GR gene knockout developed a phenotype mimicking major depressive disorder in humans, including hyperactivity and impaired negative regulation of the HPA axis, indicating that alteration of GRa actions in the forebrain plays a causative role in the disease onset of major depressive disorder ( 191 ). Paraventricular nucleus (PVN) of the brain hypothalamus is the central component of the HPA axis ( 1 ), thus GR gene knockout mice in this brain region was developed and their HPA axis was evaluated. The results indicated that PVN GR is required for negative regulation of the HPA axis at a basal condition and under stress ( 192 ). GR gene knockout mice specific in the noradrenergic neurons, components of the neural circuit mediating the adaptive stress response together with the HPA axis, were also created ( 1 , 193 ). These mice demonstrated depressive- and anxiety-like behavior upon stress with specificity to duration and gender, indicating that GR in the noradrenergic neurons plays an important role in stress response and associated behavioral changes in addition to its actions in the HPA axis. In mice with cardiomyocyte/vascular smooth muscle cell-specific GR gene knockout, fetal heart function is impaired and causes generalized edema in embryonic day (E) 17.5. Histologically, disorganized myofibrils and cardiomyocytes are found in fetal heart, while altered expression of the genes involved in contractile function, calcium handling and energy metabolism are observed. These results suggest that GRa actions in the cardiomyocytes and vascular smooth muscle cells are important for proper functioning and maturation of the fetal heart ( 194 ). GR gene knockout specific in the vascular endothelial cells revealed that GRa in this tissue mediates a tonic effect of glucocorticoids on blood pressure, possibly by supporting autocrine or paracrine activity of this tissue for releasing vasoactive mediators in response to glucocorticoid treatment ( 195 ). GRa in this tissue is also required for the protective response against sepsis by conferring glucocorticoid-mediated suppression of cytokine and nitric oxide production ( 196 ). Challenge of vascular endothelial cell-specific GR knockout mice with LPS also revealed that GRa in this tissue is required for survival of animals against this compound by appropriately suppressing circulating levels of inflammatory cytokines (TNFa and IL-6) and release of the nitric oxide ( 197 ), indicating the important actions of the vascular endothelial cell-residing GRa for controlling otherwise overshooting inflammatory response. T-lymphocyte-specific GR gene knockout mice revealed
