Glucocorticoid Receptor
KEYWORDS: gra, receptor, activity, pubmed, transcriptional, glucocorticoid, gene, transcription, protein, human, transcriptional activity, nuclear, binding, glucocorticoids, genes


release of the nitric oxide ( 197 ), indicating the important actions of the vascular endothelial cell-residing GRa for controlling otherwise overshooting inflammatory response. T-lymphocyte-specific GR gene knockout mice revealed that GRa-mediated immune suppression mainly through Th1 lymphocytes is also necessary for survival of the mice against Toxoplasma gondii infection ( 198 ). Uterine-specific GR knockout mice generated with the Cre-recombinase expressed under the PR gene promoter revealed that uterine GRa is required to establish the local cellular environment necessary for maintaining normal uterine biology and fertility ( 199 ). The GR gene knockout specific to testicular Sertoli cell identified that GRa in these cells is required to maintain normal testicular Sertoli/germ cell numbers and circulating gonadotropin levels, as well as optimal Leydig cell maturation and steroidogenesis, thus GRa in these cells is required for supporting normal male reproduction ( 200 ). By using a knockin procedure (replacement of wild type genes with their mutants), physiologic importance of the specific GRa functions associated with introduced mutations was evaluated. For example, knockin of the mutant GRa defective in binding to classic GREs (GR dim harboring A458T replacement, which is inactive in transactivation of glucocorticoid-responsive genes harboring GREs, but active in transrepression through protein-protein interaction with other transcription factors), revealed that transactivational activity of GRa is not essential for survival ( 112 ). Indeed, mice harboring GR dim demonstrated partially active HPA axis, full activity in glucocorticoid-mediated development of adrenal medulla, and defective glucocorticoid-mediated thymocyte apoptosis. However, the GR dim mutant receptor was subsequently shown to bind GREs of the N-methyltransferase ( PNMT ) gene, which is a rate-limiting enzyme for the production of catecholamines in the adrenal medulla, and to activate strongly the expression of this gene ( 201 ). Thus, the GR dim mutation cannot completely abolish transactivational activity of GRa, further suggesting that this activity of GRa may be required for survival. In addition, the effect of this mutant receptor on recently identified nGREs is not known, making the original conclusion elusive. FACTORS THAT MODULATE GR ACTIONS New Ligands with Specific Activities Glucocorticoids have two major activities on the transcription of glucocorticoid-responsive genes, namely transactivation and transrepression ( 202 ). The former activity is mainly mediated by binding of GRa to its DNA responsive sequences in the promoter region of glucocorticoid-responsive genes and stimulating the transcription of downstream protein-coding sequences. Mechanisms underlying the latter activity are more complex, mostly
