Glucocorticoid Receptor
KEYWORDS: gra, receptor, activity, pubmed, transcriptional, glucocorticoid, gene, transcription, protein, human, transcriptional activity, nuclear, binding, glucocorticoids, genes


GRa to its DNA responsive sequences in the promoter region of glucocorticoid-responsive genes and stimulating the transcription of downstream protein-coding sequences. Mechanisms underlying the latter activity are more complex, mostly mediated by suppression of other transcription factor activities by GRa. At pharmacologic levels, the transactivation activity is well correlated with side effects of glucocorticoids, such as glucose intolerance and overt diabetes mellitus, central obesity, osteoporosis and muscle wasting ( 202 ). On the other hand, the transrepressive activity of glucocorticoids is associated mostly with their beneficial therapeutic effects, such as suppression of the inflammation and immune activity, and induction of apoptosis of several neoplastic cells/tissues. Thus, significant efforts have been put to produce dissociated glucocorticoids with transrepression but no transactivation activity ( 202 ). RU24858, RU40066 and RU24782 were the first steroids reported to have such selectivity, having an efficient inhibitory effect on AP-1- and NF-kB-mediated gene induction with reduced transactivation activity in vitro ( 203 ). However, they did not have any therapeutic advantage when they were used in vivo . Compound Abbott-Ligand (AL)-438, a derivative of a synthetic progestin scaffold, binds GRa with similar affinity to that of prednisolone and shows the activity equivalent to prednisolone in suppressing paw-edema in a rat experimental model ( 204 ). AL-438 does not increase circulating glucose levels and bone absorption in contrast to prednisolone, indicating that this compound is a promising selective glucocorticoid. ZK216348, the (+)-enanitomer of the racemic compound ZK209614, binds GRa and demonstrates anti-inflammatory activity comparable to that of prednisolone under both systemic and topical applications with much less unwanted effects on blood glucose and skin atrophy ( 205 ). This compound, however, binds PR and AR in addition to GRa, and does not show clear selectivity between transactivation and transrepression in vitro . C108297 functions as a GRa modulator through induction of unique interaction profiles of GRa to some splice variants of the p160 coactivator SRC1. This compound potently enhances GR-mediated memory consolidation, partially suppresses hypothalamic expression of the corticotropin-releasing hormone (CRH), and antagonizes to GR-mediated inhibition of hippocampal neurogenesis ( 206 ). Cortivazol, a pyrazolosteroid, induces nuclear translocation of GRa and stimulates GRa-induced transcriptional activity ( 207 ). Another compound, AL082D06 (D06), the tri-aryl methane, specifically binds GRa with a nano-molar affinity and acts as an antagonist for GRa but not for other SRs, in contrast to RU 486 ( 208 ). CORT-108297 acts also as a
