Glucocorticoid Receptor
KEYWORDS: gra, receptor, activity, pubmed, transcriptional, glucocorticoid, gene, transcription, protein, human, transcriptional activity, nuclear, binding, glucocorticoids, genes


GRa with a nano-molar affinity and acts as an antagonist for GRa but not for other SRs, in contrast to RU 486 ( 208 ). CORT-108297 acts also as a competitive GRa antagonist with high affinity to GRa (Ki 0.9 nM), but almost 1000-fold lower affinity to other SRs, PR, ER, AR and MR ( 209 , 210 ). Two new non-steroidal GRa ligands, GSK47867A and GSK47869A, act as potent agonists with prolonged effects ( 211 ). These compounds bind the ligand-binding pocket of GRa with high affinity and induce both transactivational and transrepressional activities at concentrations ~10-50 times less than those of dexamethasone. Interestingly, GSK47867A and GSK47869A induce very slow GRa nuclear translocation and prolonged nuclear retention that leads to delayed but prolonged activation of the receptor. In computer-based structural simulation, these compounds induce unique GRa LBD conformation at its hsp90-binding site, which may underlie their extended GRa activation by causing defective interaction to hsp90 and altered intracellular circulation of GRa. By employing high throughput screening of 3.87 million compounds with the GR fluorescence polarization binding assay, heterobiaryl sulfonamide 2 was recently identified as a potent non-steroidal GR antagonist ( 212 ). Non-steroidal compounds mapracorat (also known as BOL-303242 and ZK245186) and the plant origin ginsenide Rg1 function as selective agonists with strong anti-inflammatory effects and a better side effect profile ( 213 , 214 ). Compound A (CpdA), a stable analogue of the hydroxyl phenyl aziridine precursor found in the Namibian shrub Salsola tuberculatiformis Botschantzev, exerts anti-inflammatory activity by down-regulating TNFa-induced pro-inflammatory gene expression through inhibition of the negative effects of GRa on NF-kB, but demonstrates virtually no stimulatory activity on GRa-induced transactivation ( 215 ). This compound also suppresses similarly to dexamethasone the transcriptional activity of the T-bet transcription factor, a master regulator of Th1-mediated immune response, and reduces production of the Th1 cytokine interferon g from murine primary T-cells ( 216 ). By sparing AP-1-induced transcriptional activity and subsequent activation of the JNK/MAPK signaling pathway, CpdA does not influence epithelial cell restitution, an indicator of wound healing, in contrast to regular glucocorticoids ( 217 , 218 ). Thus, CpdA appears to be a dissociated compound of plant origin retaining the beneficial anti-inflammatory effect of glucocorticoids, being in part devoid of some of the known side effects of these compounds. CpdA also preserves the anti-cancer effect of glucocorticoids in human T-, B- and multiple myeloma cells, and
