Glucocorticoid Receptor
KEYWORDS: gra, receptor, activity, pubmed, transcriptional, glucocorticoid, gene, transcription, protein, human, transcriptional activity, nuclear, binding, glucocorticoids, genes


Distribution of the amino acid residues of the human GR susceptible to acetylation, phosphorylation, ubiquitination or SUMOylation. Human GR has 4 acetylation sites (lysines: K at amino acid position 480, 492, 494 and 495, shown with “A”), at least 5 phosphorylation sites (serines: S at amino acid position 45, 203, 211, 226 and 395, shown with “P”), 1 ubiqitination site (Lysine: K at amino acid position 419, shown with “U”) and 3 SUMOylation sites (Lysines: K at amino acid position 277, 293 and 703, shown with “S”). Clock physically interacts with GRa LBD through its nuclear receptor-interacting domain (NRID) in its middle portion, and acetylates human GRa at amino acids 480, 492, 494 and 495. Acetylation of GRa attenuates binding of the receptor to GREs, and hence, represses GR-induced transactivation of the GRE-driven promoters ( 244 ) ( Figure 15 ). Since the lysine residues acetylated by Clock are located in the C-terminal extension (CTE) that follows DBD and plays a role in DNA recognition by SRs ( 247 ), it is likely that acetylation of these residues reduces binding of GRa to GREs by altering the action of CTE. The part of the hinge region acetylated by Clock also overlaps with the nuclear localization signal (NL)-1 ( 50 , 244 ), thus it is also possible that acetylation of GRa alters nuclear translocation of this receptor. It is well known that the central master CLOCK located in SCN creates diurnal fluctuation of circulating cortisol, therefore peripheral CLOCK-mediated repression of GRa transcriptional activity in glucocorticoid target tissues functions as a local counter regulatory mechanism for oscillating circulating cortisol ( 248 ). Figure 15. Clock/Bmal1 suppresses GR-induced transcriptional activity through acetylation. Clock physically interacts with GR LBD through its nuclear receptor-interacting domain and suppresses GR-induced transcriptional activity by acetylating with its intrinsic HAT activity a lysine cluster located in the hinge region of the GR (A) through which Clock reduces affinity of GR to its cognate DNA GREs (B). A: acetylation; Bmal1: brain-muscle-arnt-like protein 1; DBD: DNA-binding domain; GREs: glucocorticoid response elements; HR: hinge region; K: lysine residue; LBD: ligand-binding domain; NTD: N-terminal domain. From ( 244 ). In addition to the above findings obtained in in vitro cellular systems, we examined the acetylation status of human GRa and the expression of Clock-related and glucocorticoid-responsive genes in vivo and ex vivo , using peripheral blood mononuclear cells (PBMCs) from healthy adult
