Glucocorticoid Receptor
KEYWORDS: gra, receptor, activity, pubmed, transcriptional, glucocorticoid, gene, transcription, protein, human, transcriptional activity, nuclear, binding, glucocorticoids, genes


examined the acetylation status of human GRa and the expression of Clock-related and glucocorticoid-responsive genes in vivo and ex vivo , using peripheral blood mononuclear cells (PBMCs) from healthy adult volunteers ( 249 ). The levels of acetylated GRa were higher in the morning and lower in the evening, mirroring the fluctuations of circulating cortisol in reverse phase. All known glucocorticoid-responsive genes tested responded as expected to hydrocortisone, however, some of these genes did not show the expected diurnal mRNA fluctuations in vivo . Instead, their mRNA oscillated in a Clock- and a GRa acetylation-dependent fashion in the absence of endogenous glucocorticoid ex vivo , indicating that circulating cortisol might prevent circadian GRa acetylation-dependent effects in some glucocorticoid-responsive genes in vivo . These findings indicate that peripheral CLOCK-mediated circadian acetylation of GRa functions as a target tissue- and gene-specific counter regulatory mechanism to the actions of diurnally fluctuating cortisol, effectively decreasing tissue sensitivity to glucocorticoids in the morning and increasing it at night ( 36 ). Indeed, in another study where we measured mRNA expression of ~190 GRa action-regulating and glucocorticoid-responsive genes in subcutaneous fat biopsies from 25 obese subjects, we found that the levels of evening cortisol were much more important than those in the morning to regulate mRNA expression of glucocorticoid-responsive genes in this human tissue ( 250 ). It appears that higher sensitivity of tissues to circulating glucocorticoids in the evening due to reduced GRa acetylation by CLOCK underlies stronger impact of evening serum cortisol levels to glucocorticoid-regulated gene expression compared to morning levels. The circadian CLOCK system and the HPA axis regulate each other’s activity through multilevel interactions in order to ultimately coordinate homeostasis against the day/night change and various unforeseen random internal and external stressors ( 251 , 252 ). For example, one CLOCK transcription factor Cry2 interacts with GRa and represses its transcriptional activity ( 253 ). Furthermore, GRa binds GREs located in the promoter region of the Per1 , Per2 and other CLOCK components and stimulate their expression, an effect that contributes to resetting of the circadian rhythms by glucocorticoids ( 254 , 255 ). The peripheral CLOCK system residing in the adrenal glands contributes to the creation of circadian glucocorticoid secretion from this organ in addition to diurnally secreted ACTH from the pituitary gland ( 256 ). An important study further revealed new local factors, which also regulate circadian production of glucocorticoids
