Glucocorticoid Receptor
KEYWORDS: gra, receptor, activity, pubmed, transcriptional, glucocorticoid, gene, transcription, protein, human, transcriptional activity, nuclear, binding, glucocorticoids, genes


with the human GRa through its activator component p35, phosphorylates GRa at multiple serines including those at 203 and 211, and modulates GRa-induced transcriptional activity by changing accumulation of transcriptional cofactors on GRE-bound GRa ( 273 ). CDK5 and p35 are expressed mainly in neuronal cells and play important roles in embryonic brain development. Aberrant activation of CDK5 in CNS also plays a significant role in the pathogenesis of neurodegenerative disorders, such as Alzheimer’s disease and amyotrophic lateral sclerosis ( 274 ). We reported that, in addition to GRa, CDK5 phosphorylates MR and strongly suppresses its transcriptional activity ( 275 ). In brain regions, such as hippocampus and amygdala, which do not express 11b-HSD2, MR functions as a physiologic receptor for circulating glucocorticoids, and activation/suppression of MR plays an important role in glucocorticoid-related memory deficits and alterations in mood and cognition ( 276 ). Indeed, MR mediates enhancement of neuronal excitability, stabilization of synaptic transmission, and stimulation of long-term potentiation (LTP) in CA1 hippocampal cells, while MR activation is protective to hippocampal granular cell neurons. Thus, it is possible that CDK5-mediated regulation of MR might underlie development of glucocorticoid-associated pathologic conditions, such as neurodegenerative disorders and mood disorders ( 277 , 278 ). We examined changes of the CDK5 activity in mice under stress, and found that acute and chronic stressful stimuli differentially regulate the kinase activity together with contemporaneous alteration of the GRa phosphorylation in a brain region-specific fashion, indicating that CDK5 and its regulatory effects on GRa is an integral component of the stress response and mood disorders ( 279 ). We also found that adenosine 5’ monophosphate-activated protein kinase (AMPK), a central regulator of energy homeostasis that plays a major role in appetite modulation and energy expenditure, indirectly phosphorylates human GRa at serine 211 through activation of p38 MAPK ( 280 ). Through phosphorylation of GRa, AMPK regulates glucocorticoid actions on carbohydrate metabolism, modifying transcription of glucocorticoid-responsive genes in a tissue- and promoter-specific fashion. Indeed, activation of AMPK in rats reverses glucocorticoid-induced hepatic steatosis and suppresses glucocorticoid-mediated stimulation of glucose metabolism. These findings indicate that the AMPK-mediated energy control system modulates glucocorticoid action at target tissues, and activation of AMPK could be a promising target for developing pharmacologic interventions in metabolic disorders in which glucocorticoids play major pathogenetic roles. The v-akt murine thymoma viral oncogene homolog 1 (AKT1) or protein kinase B, another serine-threonine kinase known to
