Glucocorticoid Receptor
KEYWORDS: gra, receptor, activity, pubmed, transcriptional, glucocorticoid, gene, transcription, protein, human, transcriptional activity, nuclear, binding, glucocorticoids, genes


pharmacologic interventions in metabolic disorders in which glucocorticoids play major pathogenetic roles. The v-akt murine thymoma viral oncogene homolog 1 (AKT1) or protein kinase B, another serine-threonine kinase known to regulate cell proliferation and survival, and aberrantly activated in various malignancies including acute leukemia, also phosphorylates human GRa at serine 134, which is located in NTD of this receptor ( 281 ). This phosphorylation of GRa retains the receptor in the cytoplasm through which activated AKT1 develops glucocorticoid resistance in acute leukemic cells, a major determinant for the prognosis of leukemic patients ( 281 ). AKT1 cooperates with phospho-serine/threonine-binding proteins 14-3-3s for regulating the transcriptional activity of GRa with 2 distinct mechanisms, one through segregation of GRa in the cytoplasm upon phosphorylation of serine 134 by AKT1 and subsequent association of 14-3-3 to GRa, and the other through direct modulation of GRa transcriptional activity in the nucleus ( 65 ). For the latter, AKT1 and 14-3-3 are attracted to DNA-bound GRa, accompanied by AKT1-dependent p300 phosphorylation, histone 3 (H3) serine (S) 10 (H3S10) phosphorylation and H3K14 acetylation at the DNA site in which 14-3-3 acts as a molecular scaffold ( 65 ). The above findings suggest that specific inhibition of the AKT1/14-3-3 activity on the cytoplasmic retention of GR but sparing the activity inside the nucleus may be a promising target for the treatment of glucocorticoid resistance observed in acute leukemia. Furthermore, they may also provide an explanation to somewhat conflicting findings previously reported for the actions of 14-3-3s on GRa ( 64 , 268 , 281 , 282 ). Ubiquitination The ubiquitin/proteasome pathway plays important roles in transcriptional regulation promoted by numerous trans-acting molecules. NRs, including GRa, ERs, PR, TRs, RARs and PPARs, as well as other transcription factors, such as p53, cJun, cMyc and E2F-1, are ubiquitinated and subsequently degraded by the proteasome ( 57 , 283 ). The transcriptional intermediate molecules, such as NR coactivators, chromatin remodeling factors, and some chromatin components, such as histone H1 and high mobility group (HMG) proteins, are also ubiquitinated and lysed by the proteasome ( 57 , 283 , 284 ). Moreover, the proteasome interacts with the C-terminal tail of the RNA polymerase II and is directly associated with the promoter regions of several genes, influencing their transcriptional activities ( 285 ). Thus, ubiquitination and subsequent processing of these molecules by the proteasome appear to regulate the transcriptional activity of GRa,
