Glucocorticoid Receptor
KEYWORDS: gra, receptor, activity, pubmed, transcriptional, glucocorticoid, gene, transcription, protein, human, transcriptional activity, nuclear, binding, glucocorticoids, genes


regions of several genes, influencing their transcriptional activities ( 285 ). Thus, ubiquitination and subsequent processing of these molecules by the proteasome appear to regulate the transcriptional activity of GRa, possibly by facilitating rapid turnover of promoter-attracted and -associated GRa, ultimately down-regulating the transcriptional activity of this receptor. Indeed, mouse GRa contains a PEST motif at amino acids 407-426 (399-419 in human GRa) through which the ubiquitin-conjugating enzyme E2 and the ubiquitin-ligase enzyme E3 recognize their substrates ( 286 ). The lysine residue of the mouse GRa located at amino acid 426 (419 in human GRa) appears to be ubiquitinated, as inhibition of ubiquitination by compound MG-132 enhances the transcriptional activity of wild type GRa, while the mutant receptor with lysine to alanine replacement at amino acid 426 demonstrates elevated transcriptional activity and is insensitive to MG-132 ( 286 ) ( Figure 14 ). Ubiquitination of GRa also influences motility of the receptor inside the nucleus, which was evaluated with the fluorescence recovery after photobleaching (FRAP) technique, possibly by changing association of the receptor to the nuclear matrix through ubiquitination ( 58 , 287 , 288 ). SUMOylation GRa is also SUMOylated. SUMOylation is the reaction conjugating the small ubiquitin-related modifier (SUMO) peptide (~100 amino acid peptide with molecular mass of ~11 kDa) to substrate proteins and conducted by an enzymatic cascade similar to those of ubiquitination but specific to SUMOylation ( 289 ). The human GRa has three SUMOylation sites, at lysines 277, 293 and 703 ( 290 ) ( Figure 14 ). The first 2 sites are located in the NTD and act as major SUMOylation sites, while the last site is positioned in the LBD. SUMOylation of the former 2 sites (K277 and K293) suppresses GRa-induced transcriptional activity of a promoter containing multiple GREs, possibly by influencing the synergistic effect of multiple GRs bound on this promoter ( 291 - 293 ). In contrast, SUMOylation of the 3 rd site (K703) enhances GRa-induced transcriptional activity, which is further enhanced by RSUME (RWD-containing SUMOylation enhancer) by changing attraction of the GRIP1 coactivator ( 294 ). The death domain-associated protein (DAXX), a protein mediating the Fas-induced apoptosis through interacting with the death domain of Fas, was postulated to mediate SUMOylation-induced repression of GRa transcriptional activity ( 295 ). Other molecules, such as HDACs and the protein inhibitors of activated STAT (PIAS) family, which interact with SUMOylated proteins including GRa
