Glucocorticoid Receptor
KEYWORDS: gra, receptor, activity, pubmed, transcriptional, glucocorticoid, gene, transcription, protein, human, transcriptional activity, nuclear, binding, glucocorticoids, genes


SUMOylation-induced repression of GRa transcriptional activity ( 295 ). Other molecules, such as HDACs and the protein inhibitors of activated STAT (PIAS) family, which interact with SUMOylated proteins including GRa ( 296 , 297 ), might also participate in SUMO-mediated repression of GRa transcriptional activity, as the DAXX effect appears to be cell type- and/or cellular context-specific ( 298 ). SUMOylation of GRa is necessary for GRa-induced transrepression through the nGREs (an inverted quadrimeric palindrome separated by 0-2 nucleotide, see Section ACTIONS OF GR, Emerging Concept on GRa-mediated Transcriptional Repression) by facilitating the formation of a complex consisting of SUMOylated GRa, SMRT/NCoR1 and HDAC3 ( 299 ). It is known that phosphorylation of rat GR at amino acid position 246 (226 in the human GRa) by JNK facilitates SUMOylation of the receptor and regulates GRa-induced transcriptional activity in a target gene-specific fashion ( 291 ). 11b-Hydroxysteroid Dehydrogenases (11b-HSDs) There are 2 types of 11b-hydroxysteroid dehydrogenases (11b-HSDs), type 1 and 2 (11b-HSD1 and 2). 11b-HSD1 catalyzes the conversion of the inactive cortisone to active cortisol, thus increases intracellular cortisol levels potentially contributing to tissue hypersensitivity to glucocorticoids. 11b-HSD1 is widely expressed, particularly in the liver, but also in the lung, adipose tissue, blood vessels, ovary and CNS ( 300 ). The transgenic mice over-expressing 11b-HSD1 in adipose tissues develop insulin-resistant diabetes mellitus, significant accumulation of visceral fat and hyperlipidemia, and increased systemic blood pressure, indicating that this enzyme may play a role in the development of visceral obesity-related metabolic syndrome by increasing availability of local cortisol in adipose tissues ( 301 , 302 ). 11b-HSD2, on the other hand, catalyzes the conversion of active cortisol into inactive cortisone, and is expressed in the classic mineralocorticoid-responsive tissues, such as kidney, colon and sweat glands ( 300 ). This enzyme enables these tissues to respond to the circulating mineralocorticoid aldosterone, protecting MR from binding to the excess amounts of circulating cortisol ( 300 ). Chaperones and Co-chaperones GRa forms a heterocomplex with several heat shock proteins (hsps), including hsp90, hsp70, hsp40 and hsp23 ( 69 ). These proteins bind many proteins and help their correct assembly and folding, therefore they are called as chaperones. In addition to hsps, there is an additional protein group called co-chaperones, such as Hop (hsp70-hsp90 organizing protein), SGTA (small glutamine-rich tetratricopeptide repeat-containing protein a), FKBP51 (FK506-binding protein 51) and FKBP52, which support folding function of hsps by forming
