Glucocorticoid Receptor
KEYWORDS: gra, receptor, activity, pubmed, transcriptional, glucocorticoid, gene, transcription, protein, human, transcriptional activity, nuclear, binding, glucocorticoids, genes


group called co-chaperones, such as Hop (hsp70-hsp90 organizing protein), SGTA (small glutamine-rich tetratricopeptide repeat-containing protein a), FKBP51 (FK506-binding protein 51) and FKBP52, which support folding function of hsps by forming a protein complex with the latter molecules ( 69 ). Hsps modulate the transcriptional activity of GRa by influencing maintenance, activation and intracellular circulation of this receptor ( 303 ). Specifically, hsp90, hsp70 and hsp40 organize proper folding of the GRa protein, and are required for the maintenance of its high affinity state against ligand where interaction of hsp90 to Hop as well as that between hsp70 and SGTA are required ( 304 , 305 ). Upon binding of the GRa to glucocorticoids, hsp90 helps the receptor to translocate close to the nuclear pore in the side of the cytoplasm by facilitating GRa’s association to microtubules through FKBP52. After GRa goes through the nuclear pore complex and enters into the nucleus, hsp90 regulates GRa-induced transactivation negatively, possibly by reducing the association of GRa to DNA GREs ( 306 ). However, there are conflicting reports indicating that hsp90 stabilizes the association of ligand-bound GRa to DNA and helps GRa stimulating the transcriptional activity of glucocorticoid-responsive genes ( 307 ). These chaperones also protect GRa from the degradation mediated by the ubiquitin-proteosomal pathway in the nucleus ( 308 ). Receptor-associating protein 46 (RAP46), another co-chaperone associated with several hsps, synergizes with hsp70 to regulate GRa transactivation negatively ( 309 ). Impact of co-chaperones on in vivo actions of GRa was evaluated in humans and mice. FKBP51 is a co-chaperon known as a negative regulator of GRa activity by reducing the latter’s affinity to glucocorticoids, and nucleotide variations in its encoding gene FKBP5 are associated with development of mood disorders and anxiety in humans possibly by skewing the GRa-signaling system ( 310 , 311 ). FKBP51 knockout mice demonstrate reduced basal activity of the HPA axis, a blunted response to acute stress and an enhanced recovery from this challenge ( 312 ). Chemical Compounds There are several chemical compounds that modulate GRa activity. 2,3,7,8-Tetrachlorodibenzo-p-dioxin (TCDD), a wide-spread environmental contaminant that produces adverse biologic effects, such as carcinogenesis, reproductive toxicity, immune dysfunction, hepatotoxicity and teratogenesis, suppresses GRa-induced transactivation possibly by reducing the ligand-binding affinity of GRa ( 313 - 315 ). Geldanamycin, a benzoquinone ansamycin, which specifically binds hsp90 and disrupts its function, suppresses GRa-induced transactivation by inhibiting the translocation of GRa into the
