Glucocorticoid Receptor
KEYWORDS: gra, receptor, activity, pubmed, transcriptional, glucocorticoid, gene, transcription, protein, human, transcriptional activity, nuclear, binding, glucocorticoids, genes


of GRa ( 313 - 315 ). Geldanamycin, a benzoquinone ansamycin, which specifically binds hsp90 and disrupts its function, suppresses GRa-induced transactivation by inhibiting the translocation of GRa into the nucleus ( 308 , 316 ). GRa is also regulated by the cellular redox state. Thioredoxin, a compound accumulated during oxidative stress, enhances GRa transactivation, most likely due to functional replenishment of GRa ( 317 ). Ursodeoxycholic acid (UDCA), one of the hydrophilic bile acids, which acts as a bile secretagogue, cytoprotective agent and immunomodulator, and is used for the treatment of various liver diseases including primary biliary cirrhosis, induces translocation of GRa into the nucleus and causes GRa-mediated inhibition of NF-kB transactivation ( 318 ). Mizoribine (4-carbamyl-1-b-D-ribofurano-sylimidazolium-5-olate), an imidazole nucleotide with immunosuppressive activity binds to 14-3-3 and enhances 14-3-3/GRa interaction, which may further potentiate 14-3-3’s effect on GRa transactivation ( 319 ). For more details of the GRa/14-3-3 interaction, please see Section FACTORS THAT MODULATE GR ACTIONS, Epigenetic Modulation of GRa, b Phosphorylation. NON-CODING RNAS Human genome expresses numerous non-protein-coding RNAs in addition to protein-coding mRNAs. Indeed, over half of the genome sequence expresses RNAs in both directions either as single- or double-stranded RNAs ( 320 , 321 ). Classic examples of the former RNAs are ribosomal RNAs and transfer RNAs, while several distinct new members have been identified recently ( 322 ). Depending on their size, non-coding (nc) RNAs are empirically categorized as short (~200 bs) or long (>200 bs) ncRNAs. The former family includes micro (mi) RNAs, small interfering (si) RNAs, small nucleolar (sno) RNAs, piwi (pi) RNAs and transcription start site (TSS)-associated RNAs, while the latter consists of long intergenic (linc) RNAs, enhancer-associated (e) RNAs, exon-encoding long ncRNAs, circular (c) RNAs, promoter-associated RNAs and others. ncRNAs are also produced from protein-encoding mRNAs through nuclease digestion, such as 3’ UTR RNAs ( 323 ). Recently, some of these distinct classes of ncRNAs have been revealed to regulate mRNA/protein degradation and transcriptional activity of GRa and other NRs. In this subsection, new findings on miRNAs and long ncRNAs will be discussed. Micro (mi) RNAs miRNAs are single-stranded, ~22 b-long RNAs transcribed mainly by the RNA polymerase II either from their own genes or from the intronic sequence of the protein-coding/non-coding genes ( 324 ). Transcribed precursor miRNAs are processed by multiple reactions including digestion by the RNase III enzyme Dicer, and are liberated as mature forms into the
