Glucocorticoid Receptor
KEYWORDS: gra, receptor, activity, pubmed, transcriptional, glucocorticoid, gene, transcription, protein, human, transcriptional activity, nuclear, binding, glucocorticoids, genes


the protein-coding/non-coding genes ( 324 ). Transcribed precursor miRNAs are processed by multiple reactions including digestion by the RNase III enzyme Dicer, and are liberated as mature forms into the cytoplasm. miRNAs are incorporated as binding modules for target mRNAs into the RNA-induced silencing complex (RISC), a multi-protein machinery containing Dicer, Argonaut (AGO), human immunodeficiency virus (HIV)-transactivating response RNA (TAR)-binding protein (TRBP) and the protein activator of the interferon-induced protein kinase (PACT). Binding of the RICS complex mainly to 3’UTR of the target mRNAs through the complemental 6-8 nucleotides of miRNAs leads to degradation of associated mRNAs or to inhibition of their translation to proteins. In addition to functioning inside the produced cells, miRNAs are secreted into extracellular space/circulation as components of the exosome, and act as “hormones” by influencing the functions of distant organs and tissues ( 325 ). This unique action of miRNA was confirmed in vivo using adipocyte-specific Dicer knockout mice supplemented with exosomes obtained from normal animals ( 326 ). Human genome contains over 1,000 miRNAs and some of them are known to regulate expression of the GRa protein, while glucocorticoids/GRa regulate expression of other miRNAs. In a study exploring the miRNAs that mediate ACTH-dependent downregulation of GRa in mouse adrenal glands, 4 miRNAs, miR-96, -101a, -142-3p and -433 induced by ACTH injection, suppress GRa protein expression by ~40% ( 327 ). miR-142-3p reduces GRa expression by directly interacting with its 3’UTR region, and attenuates responsiveness to glucocorticoids in T-cell leukemia cells ( 328 ). miR-124a, -18, -18a and -124 also attenuate GRa protein expression and regulate GRa-induced transcriptional activity in various cells and tissues ( 329 - 331 ). miR-29a mitigates glucocorticoid-induced bone loss in part by reducing GRa expression ( 332 ). Glucocorticoids, on the other hand, modulate expression of some miRNAs, such as miR-449a, -98, and miR-155, which in turn mediate hormonal effects of these steroids ( 333 , 334 ). Systematic screening of glucocorticoid-responsive miRNAs in rat primary thymocytes identified over 200 miRNAs responsive to this hormone, and some validated miRNAs regulate cell death pathway ( 335 ). In myeloma cells, glucocorticoids induce miR-150-5p, which changes expression of the genes involved in cell death and cell proliferation pathways, thus this miRNA mediates in some part the therapeutic effects of glucocorticoids on multiple myeloma ( 336 ). miR-119a-5p is also glucocorticoid-responsive miRNA that mediates anti-proliferative effects of glucocorticoids on osteoblasts by affecting the
