Glucocorticoid Receptor
KEYWORDS: gra, receptor, activity, pubmed, transcriptional, glucocorticoid, gene, transcription, protein, human, transcriptional activity, nuclear, binding, glucocorticoids, genes


in some part the therapeutic effects of glucocorticoids on multiple myeloma ( 336 ). miR-119a-5p is also glucocorticoid-responsive miRNA that mediates anti-proliferative effects of glucocorticoids on osteoblasts by affecting the WNT signaling pathway ( 337 ). Long Non-coding (lnc) RNAs Several lncRNAs regulate the transcriptional activity of GRa and/or other SRs. The steroid RNA coactivator (SRA) is a prototype lncRNA that regulates the transcriptional activity of several SRs ( 99 ). SRA was originally cloned in the yeast two-hybrid assay by using NTD of the PR as bait. It enhances ligand-induced transcriptional activity of AR, ER, GRa and PR. It is found in the complex containing the p160 coactivator SRC1, and regulates transcriptional activity in part by associating with the SRA stem-loop-interacting RNA binding-protein (SLIRP) and the RISC complex ( 99 , 338 , 339 ). Recently, SRA was shown to function also as a repressor of transcription, acting as a scaffold for a repressor complex ( 340 ). The growth arrest-specific 5 (Gas5), which is a multi-exon-containing ncRNA with a poly-A tail, is accumulated in cells whose growth is arrested due to lack of nutrients or growth factors ( 341 ). Gas5 functions as a repressor of the GRa and some other SRs ( 342 ). Gas5 sensitizes cells to apoptosis by suppressing glucocorticoid-mediated induction of several responsive genes, including those encoding the cellular inhibitor of apoptosis 2 and the serum/glucocorticoid-responsive kinase. Gas5 binds GRa DBD and acts as a decoy “GRE”, thus, it competes with DNA GREs for binding to GRa ( Figure 16 ). These findings indicate that Gas5 is a ribo-repressor of the GRa, influencing cell survival and metabolic activities during starvation by modulating the transcriptional activity of GRa. Accumulation of Gas5 upon growth arrest or starvation was previously demonstrated in a cellular context, but a study revealed that fasting of mice also accumulates Gas5 in their metabolic organs, such as liver and adipose tissues, through modulation of the mammalian target of rapamycin (mTOR) signaling pathway, but not in the brain and immune organs including thymus and spleen ( 343 ). Since basal expression levels of Gas5 in the immune organs are much higher than those of the metabolic organs, Gas5 may have a regulatory activity on GRa in the immune system independent to the nutrient/energy availability, as evidenced by the fact that Gas5 is differentially expressed in blood leukocytes of the patients with autoimmune, inflammatory
