Glucocorticoid Receptor
KEYWORDS: gra, receptor, activity, pubmed, transcriptional, glucocorticoid, gene, transcription, protein, human, transcriptional activity, nuclear, binding, glucocorticoids, genes


on GRa in the immune system independent to the nutrient/energy availability, as evidenced by the fact that Gas5 is differentially expressed in blood leukocytes of the patients with autoimmune, inflammatory or infectious diseases ( 343 ). Moreover, Gas5 has been shown to be implicated in glucocorticoid response in children with inflammatory bowel disease ( 344 ), in multiple sclerosis ( 345 - 347 ), in human beta cell dysfunction ( 348 ), as well as in hematologic malignancies ( 349 , 350 ). Similar to Gas5, PRNCR1 (also known as PCAT8) and PCGEM1 bind AR DBD and enhance the transcriptional activity of this receptor ( 351 ). These lncRNAs are highly expressed in the prostate gland, and play a role in the androgen-dependent development of prostate cancer. Their effects on GRa have not been tested as yet. Figure 16. Interaction model of the Gas5 RNA “GRE” to GR DBD and the molecular actions of Gas5 on GR-induced transcriptional activity. A: 3-Dimenstional structure of Gas5 “GRE”-mimic and its interaction model with GR DBD. From ( 342 ). B: Schematic model of Gas5 molecular actions on GR-induced transcriptional activity. Gas5 accumulated in response to growth arrest/starvation binds GR DBD and attenuates GR-induced transcriptional activity by competing with DNA GREs located in the promoter region of glucocorticoid-responsive genes. THE SPLICING VARIANT GRbeta ISOFORM The GRb isoform, which is expressed from the human GR gene through alternative use of its specific exon 9b, is known to have a dominant negative activity on classic GRa-induced transcriptional activity ( 21 , 352 ). This isoform was originally identified in humans, and was also reported in zebrafish, mice and rats ( 19 , 353 - 355 ). Since human (h) GRb shares the first 727 amino acids from the N-terminus with hGRa ( 19 , 356 ) ( Figure 3 ), hGRb shares the same NTD and DBD with hGRa, but has a unique “LBD”. The divergence point (amino acid 727) of hGRa and hGRb is located at the C-terminal end of helix 10 in the hGRa LBD, therefore the hGRb “LBD” does not have helices 11 and 12 of the hGRa. As these helices are important for forming the ligand-binding pocket and for the creation of the AF-2 surface upon ligand binding ( 31 ), GRb cannot form an active ligand-binding pocket, does not bind glucocorticoids, and so, does not directly regulate GRE-containing, glucocorticoid-responsive gene promoters.
