Glucocorticoid Receptor
KEYWORDS: gra, receptor, activity, pubmed, transcriptional, glucocorticoid, gene, transcription, protein, human, transcriptional activity, nuclear, binding, glucocorticoids, genes


the AF-2 surface upon ligand binding ( 31 ), GRb cannot form an active ligand-binding pocket, does not bind glucocorticoids, and so, does not directly regulate GRE-containing, glucocorticoid-responsive gene promoters. In the absence of the hGRb “LBD”, the truncated hGR consisting of the NTD and DBD is transcriptionally active on GRE-containing promoters ( 357 ), thus the hGRb “LBD” somehow attenuates the transcriptional activity of the other subdomains of the molecule on GRE-driven promoters. The dominant negative activity of GRb was first demonstrated in transient transfection-based reporter assays using GRE-driven reporter genes ( 21 , 358 ), but was subsequently confirmed on endogenous, glucocorticoid-responsive genes, such as the mitogen-activated protein kinase phosphatase-1 (MPK-1), myocilin and fibronectin ( 359 , 360 ). Further, GRb was shown to attenuate glucocorticoid-induced repression of the TNFa and interleukin ( IL )-6 genes ( 359 ). We also confirmed this negative effect of GRb on GRa-mediated transrepression using microarray analyses ( 361 ). Several mechanisms explaining this GRb function have been reported, including (1) competition for GRE binding through their shared DBD, (2) heterodimerization with GRa and (3) coactivator squelching through the preserved AF-1 domain ( 21 , 357 , 358 ). All these different mechanisms of actions appear to be functional, depending on the promoters and the tissues affected by this GR isoform. Recently, the human GRb was shown to possess intrinsic transcriptional activity independent to its dominant negative effect on GRa-induced transcriptional activity, while the physiologic role(s) of this activity remain(s) to be examined ( 342 , 361 , 362 ) (see below). Inside the cells, hGRb can localize both in the cytoplasm and in the nucleus ( 363 , 364 ). Similar to the human GR gene, the zebrafish (z) GR gene consists of 9 exons and produces zGRa and zGRb proteins, which contain 746 and 737 amino acids, respectively ( 353 ) ( Figure 17 ). zGRa and zGRb share the N-terminal 697 amino acids, whereas they have specific C-terminal portions, which contain 47 and 40 amino acids, respectively. In contrast to hGRa and hGRb, which are produced through alternative use of specific exon 9a and 9b, zGRa and zGRb are formed as a result of intron retention ( 353 ). zGRa and zGRb use exon 1 to exon 8 for their common N-terminal 697 amino acids. zGRa uses exon 9 for its specific C-terminal portion, while zGRb continuously employs the
