Glucocorticoid Receptor
KEYWORDS: gra, receptor, activity, pubmed, transcriptional, glucocorticoid, gene, transcription, protein, human, transcriptional activity, nuclear, binding, glucocorticoids, genes


zGRa and zGRb use exon 1 to exon 8 for their common N-terminal 697 amino acids. zGRa uses exon 9 for its specific C-terminal portion, while zGRb continuously employs the rest of exon 8 and uses a stop codon located at the 3’ portion of this exon to express its specific C-terminal peptide ( 353 ). Protein alignment comparison of hGRb and zGRb indicated that these two molecules employ exactly the same divergence point, while their b isoform-specific C-terminal peptides show little sequence homology ( 353 ). These pieces of molecular information indicate that hGRb and zGRb evolved independently. Mouse (m), and recently, rat (r) GRb are also shown to produce in the same fashion as zGRb, indicating that intron retention may be a general mechanism for expressing this receptor isoform in organisms, while splicing-mediated expression employed by hGRb is rather unique ( 355 , 365 ). Nevertheless, zebrafish, mouse and rat GRb demonstrated the same functional properties as those of hGRb, namely, inability to bind glucocorticoids, a dominant negative activity on respectively zGRa-, mGRa- and rGRa-induced transactivation of GREs-drive promoters, and a strikingly similar tissue distribution as hGRb ( 353 , 365 ). Thus, hGRb, mGRb, rGRb and zGRb were produced through convergent evolution, most likely developed through a strong requirement of this type of GR isoform in the survival of these species. Indeed, the presence of nonligand-binding C-terminal variants is not unique to the GR. Similar to the human, mouse, rat and zebrafish GR, several other human NRs, e.g. ERb, TRa, vitamin D receptor (VDR), constitutive androstane receptor (CAR), dosage-sensitive sex reversal-1 (DAX-1), NURR-2, NOR-2, PPARα and PPARγ, all have C-terminally truncated receptor isoforms that are defective in binding to cognate ligands and have a dominant negative activity on their corresponding classic receptors ( 366 - 375 ). This suggests that evolution has allowed the development and retention of such alternative NRs, probably because they play important biologic roles. Figure 17. Genomic and complementary DNA and protein structure of the zebrafish GR isoforms. The zebrafish (z) GR gene consists of 9 exons. The zGR gene expresses zGRa and zGRb splicing variants through intron retention ( 353 ). C-terminal gray colored and shaded domains in zGRa and zGRb show their specific portions. They are respectively encoded by exon 9 and the 3’ portion of exon 8, which are also shown in the same labeling in the genomic and complementary
