Glucocorticoid Receptor
KEYWORDS: gra, receptor, activity, pubmed, transcriptional, glucocorticoid, gene, transcription, protein, human, transcriptional activity, nuclear, binding, glucocorticoids, genes


their specific portions. They are respectively encoded by exon 9 and the 3’ portion of exon 8, which are also shown in the same labeling in the genomic and complementary DNA models. Mouse and rat GR are produced with the same mechanism ( 355 ). Modified from ( 352 ). DBD: DNA-binding domain; LBD: Ligand-binding domain; NTD: N-terminal domain; UTR: untranslated region. Biological actions of GRb and associated molecular mechanisms have been examined further during the last years. Using adeno-associated virus-based transfer of GRb to mouse liver, this isoform modulates mRNA expression of many genes in this organ including those related to endocrine system disorders, cancer, gastrointestinal diseases and immune diseases/inflammatory response both in a GRa-dependent and -independent fashions ( 376 ). Specifically, GRb attenuates GRa-dependent expression of the hepatic PEPCK gene and hepatic gluconeogenesis, while GRb stimulates expression of STAT1 through GREs located in the intergenic area close to the latter gene. The latter finding suggests that GRb can regulate gene expression by binding to classic GREs, in contrast to the previous findings obtained with GRE-driven reporter genes. In addition, GRb antagonizes to GRa-mediated suppression of bladder cancer cell migration and myogenesis of cardiomyocytes ( 377 , 378 ). GRb suppresses PTEN expression and enhances insulin-stimulated growth by stimulating the phosphorylation of AKT1 in a GRa-independent fashion ( 379 ). Further, GRb acts as a coactivator of T-cell factor-4 and enhances glioma cell proliferation also in a GRa-independent manner ( 380 ). Several clinically oriented investigations suggest that GRb is responsible for the development of tissue-specific insensitivity to glucocorticoids in various disorders, most of them associated with dysregulation of immune function. They include glucocorticoid-resistant asthma, rheumatoid arthritis (RA), systemic lupus erythematosus (SLE), ankylosing spondylitis, chronic lymphocytic leukemia and nasal polyps ( 381 - 387 ). In these studies, various immune cells express elevated levels of GRb, which correlate with reduced sensitivity to glucocorticoids. Viral infection also stimulates GRb expression: for example, its expression in the peripheral mononuclear cells is strongly stimulated in the infants with bronchiolitis caused by the respiratory syncytial virus infection, and its expression levels are correlated with severity of the disease ( 388 ). Elevated levels of pro-inflammatory cytokines, such as IL-1, -2, -4, -7, -8 and -18, TNFa, and interferons a and g, might be responsible for increased GRb expression in cells from patients with these pathologic conditions, as these cytokines experimentally stimulate the expression
