Glucocorticoid Receptor
KEYWORDS: gra, receptor, activity, pubmed, transcriptional, glucocorticoid, gene, transcription, protein, human, transcriptional activity, nuclear, binding, glucocorticoids, genes


and -18, TNFa, and interferons a and g, might be responsible for increased GRb expression in cells from patients with these pathologic conditions, as these cytokines experimentally stimulate the expression of GRb in lymphocytes, neutrophils or airway smooth muscle cells ( 389 - 394 ). Further, presence of a single nucleotide polymorphism in the 3’ UTR of the hGRb mRNA (rs6198G allele), which increases its stability, and thus, causes elevated expression of the GRb protein, was associated with increased incidence of RA, SLE, high blood pressure, ischemic heart disease and nasal carriage of Staphylococcus aureus ( 382 , 395 - 397 ), possibly through inhibition of glucocorticoid actions by the increased concentrations of GRb. These pieces of clinical evidence further support that GRb has a dominant negative activity on GRa-induced transcription inside the human body, functioning as a negative regulator of glucocorticoid actions in local tissues. PATHOLOGIC MODULATION OF GR ACTIVITY Natural Pathologic GR Gene Mutations that Cause Familial/Sporadic Generalized Glucocorticoid Resistance or Chrousos Syndrome Mutations in the human GR gene result in familial/sporadic generalized glucocorticoid resistance syndrome [see reviews ( 398 - 402 )]. Since this syndrome was first reported by Chrousos et al. ( 403 ), we now call it as “Chrousos syndrome” ( 398 , 404 ). The condition is characterized by hypercortisolism without Cushingoid features ( 403 , 405 ). To overcome reduced sensitivity to glucocorticoids in tissues, affected subjects have compensatory elevations in circulating cortisol and ACTH concentrations, which maintain circadian rhythmicity and appropriate responsiveness to stressors, and resistance of the HPA axis to dexamethasone suppression, but no clinical evidence of hypercortisolism ( 404 ). Instead, the excess ACTH secretion causes increased production of adrenal steroids with mineralocorticoid activity, such as deoxycorticosterone (DOC) and corticosterone and/or androgenic activity, such as androstenedione, dehydroepiandrosterone (DHEA) and DHEA-sulfate (DHEA-S); The former accounts for symptoms and signs of mineralocorticoid excess, such as hypertension and hypokalemic alkalosis. The latter accounts for the manifestations of androgen excess, such as ambiguous genitalia and precocious puberty in children, acne, hirsutism and infertility in both sexes, male-pattern hair-loss, menstrual irregularities and oligo-anovulation in females, and adrenal rests in the testes and oligospermia in males. The clinical spectrum of the condition is broad and a large number of subjects may be asymptomatic, displaying biochemical alterations only ( 404 ). An increasing number of kindreds and sporadic cases with abnormalities in the GR number, affinity for
