Glucocorticoid Receptor
KEYWORDS: gra, receptor, activity, pubmed, transcriptional, glucocorticoid, gene, transcription, protein, human, transcriptional activity, nuclear, binding, glucocorticoids, genes


large number of subjects may be asymptomatic, displaying biochemical alterations only ( 404 ). An increasing number of kindreds and sporadic cases with abnormalities in the GR number, affinity for glucocorticoid, stability, and translocation into the nucleus have been reported ( 406 - 414 ). The molecular defects that have been elucidated are presented in Figure 18 and Table 1 . The propositus of the original kindred was a homozygote for a single nonconservative point mutation, replacing aspartic acid with valine at amino acid 641 in the LBD of GRa; this mutation reduces the binding affinity of the affected receptor for dexamethasone by three-fold and causes loss of transactivation activity ( 411 ). The proposita of the second family had a 4-base deletion at the 3’-boundary of exon 6, removing a donor splice site. This results in complete ablation of one of the GR alleles in affected members of the family ( 412 ). Recent research employing mice with GR haploinsufficiency confirmed that ablation of one GR allele is sufficient to develop generalized glucocorticoid resistance ( 415 ). The propositus of the third kindred had a single homozygotic point mutation at amino acid 729 (valine to isoleucine: V729I) in the LBD, which reduced both the affinity and the transactivation activity of GRa ( 414 ). Several pathologic heterozygotic or homozygotic mutations of the GR gene have been recently identified in the patients as listed in Table 1 ( 403 , 411 - 444 ). Figure 18. Location of the known human GR mutations causing Chrousos syndrome or its mirror image, sporadic glucocorticoid hypersensitivity, in the human GR (NR3C1) gene (A) and in the linearized hGR protein molecule (B). Nucleoside numbers of the mutated sites are determined by the definition employing adenine of the translation initiation site as number 1. Table 1. Mutations in the NR3C1 Gene Causing Familial/Sporadic Generalized Glucocorticoid Resistance (Chrousos) or Hypersensitivity Syndromes View in own window Authors cDNA* Amino acid Molecular Defects Genotype Phenotype Chrousos et al. ( 403 ) Hurley et al . ( 411 ) 1922A>T Asp641Val Transactivation: Decreased Affinity to ligand: Decreased (x3) Nuclear translocation: 22 min Abnormal interaction with GRIP1 Homozygous Hypertension Hypokalemic alkalosis Karl et al. ( 412 ) 4bp deletion in exon-intron 6 GRa number: 50% reduction Inactivation of affected allele Heterozygous Hirsutism Male-pattern hair-loss Menstrual irregularities Malchoff et al . ( 414 ) 2185G>A Val729Ile Transactivation: Decreased Affinity to ligand:
