Glucocorticoid Receptor
KEYWORDS: gra, receptor, activity, pubmed, transcriptional, glucocorticoid, gene, transcription, protein, human, transcriptional activity, nuclear, binding, glucocorticoids, genes


DNA binding: (-) Dominant negative effect: No Transactivation: (-) Heterozygous Adrenal mass Donner et al. ( 444 ) 2317_2318delCT Leu773Val fs⃰ Protein expression: slightly reduced Transactivation: Decreased Dominant negative effect: No Ligand binding: (-) Heterozygous Hypertension We examined the impact of 10 pathologic GRa point mutations (559N, V571A, V575G, D641V, G679S, R714Q, V729I, F737L, I747M and L773P) to the molecular structure of the GRa LBD focusing on its ligand-binding pocket and AF-2 surface by using computer-based molecular simulation, and found some rules on the molecular disruption of these structural units by the mutations ( 89 ); (1) Topology of the peptide backbones is highly preserved in pathologic GRa mutant LBDs ( Figure 19A ). This result suggests that alteration in property and/or positioning of the side chain of replaced amino acids is rather crucial for developing molecular defects. (2) Defects in the ligand-binding pocket of the mutant receptors are driven primarily by loss/reduction (indirectly through structural changes in LBD induced by the mutations) of the electrostatic interaction formed by arginine 611 and threonine 739 of the receptor to glucocorticoid and a subsequent conformational mismatch ( Figure 19B ). (3) Defects of the AF-2 surface that reduce affinity to the LxxLL motif are caused mainly (also indirectly) by disruption of the electrostatic bonds to the non-core leucine residues of this peptide that determine the peptide’s specificity to GRa LBD ( Figure 19C ), as well as by reduced non-covalent interaction against core leucines and subsequent exposure of the AF-2 surface to solvent. Figure 19. Impact of pathologic GR point mutations to the molecular structure of GR LBD. A: Distribution of the pathologic GR point mutations in its LBD and their overall impact on the 3-dimensional LBD peptide backbone. Thickness and color of the overlaid C-traces of the GR mutant receptor LBDs and the wild type GR LBD indicate the areas of least (thin and blue) to most (thick and red) motion over the course of simulation. Locations and side chains of the mutated amino acids are indicated, whereas dexamethasone (shown with the white and red spheres of space-filling model) is located inside LBP. B: Alteration of the electrostatic bond formed by arginine (R) 611 and threonine (T) 739 of pathologic GR mutants to dexamethasone may largely explain the reduced affinity of many pathologic GR mutants to this steroid. The left panel demonstrates superimposed 3-dimensional interaction images of dexamethasone and the key
