Glucocorticoid Receptor
KEYWORDS: gra, receptor, activity, pubmed, transcriptional, glucocorticoid, gene, transcription, protein, human, transcriptional activity, nuclear, binding, glucocorticoids, genes


mutants to dexamethasone may largely explain the reduced affinity of many pathologic GR mutants to this steroid. The left panel demonstrates superimposed 3-dimensional interaction images of dexamethasone and the key residues of all pathologic GRa mutants. Among the key amino acids of pathologic mutants participating in interaction with dexamethasone, R611 is largely deviated in these mutant receptors, which underlies reduced/disappeared electrostatic interaction between this residue and the carbonyl oxygen at carbon-3 of dexamethasone. Q570 and N564 are omitted from these panels. Major changes observed in the electrostatic bond formed by R611 and T739 are indicated with a purple dotted circle. The right panel shows schematic molecular interaction between wild type GRa and dexamethasone. Purple and orange arrows indicate electrostatic and non-covalent bonds, respectively. DEX: dexamethasone. C: Defective non-covalent bonds formed between Q597, D590, K579 and R585 of the pathologic GRa mutants and N742, R746, D750 and D752 of the LxxLL peptide mainly explain reduced interaction of the mutant receptor AF-2s to this peptide. The panel demonstrates 3-dimensional image of the molecular interaction between the LXXLL peptide and key residues of the wild type GRa. The LxxLL peptide forms important electrostatic bonds with its non-core leucine residues (N742, R746, D750 and D752) against the receptor residues (Q597, D590, R585 and K579, respectively) as marked with purple dotted boxes. Pathologic GRa mutants demonstrate significant shift of the side chains of some of these receptor residues among which the side chain of R585 shows the most significant deviation (shown in square inserts). Modified from ( 89 ). GR Gene Mutation-Mediated Hypersensitivity Syndrome Only one mutation has been reported in the GRa NTD that replaces aspartic acid at amino acid 401 by histidine (D401H) (G to C replacement at nucleotide position 1201) ( 430 ). The patient harboring this heterozygous mutation presented with manifestations consistent with glucocorticoid hypersensitivity, in accordance with the in vitro results showing that the mutant receptor hGRaD401H demonstrated a 2.4-fold increase in its ability to transactivate the glucocorticoid-responsive promoters. This condition represents the mirror image of the Chrousos syndrome. Although not in humans, one porcine heterozygotic substitution that replaces alanine at amino acid 610 with valine (A610V) in LBD of the porcine GR causes a gain-of-function phenotype, shifting the titration curve of GR-transcriptional activity to leftward (this suggests increase of the receptor affinity to glucocorticoid) ( 445 ). GR Gene Polymorphisms Polymorphisms of the human GR gene have also been
