Glucocorticoid Receptor
KEYWORDS: gra, receptor, activity, pubmed, transcriptional, glucocorticoid, gene, transcription, protein, human, transcriptional activity, nuclear, binding, glucocorticoids, genes


curve of GR-transcriptional activity to leftward (this suggests increase of the receptor affinity to glucocorticoid) ( 445 ). GR Gene Polymorphisms Polymorphisms of the human GR gene have also been reported ( 446 ). A heterozygous polymorphism replacing aspartic acid to serine at amino acid 363 (N363S) that mildly increases transcriptional activity of the affected receptor in vitro is associated with increased sensitivity to glucocorticoids, weakly correlating with the development of central obesity, and thus, influencing the metabolic profile and the longevity of humans in a negative fashion ( 447 - 449 ). This polymorphism found at amino acid 363 was first described by Karl et al. ( 412 ). The polymorphism in the human GR gene that causes arginine to lysine replacement at amino acid 23 (ER22/23EK: GAG AGG to GA A A A G) is associated with relative glucocorticoid resistance by altering the expression levels of GRa translational isoforms ( 450 ). This polymorphism increases muscle mass in males and reduces waist to hip ratio in females, and is associated with greater insulin sensitivity, and lower total and low-density lipoprotein cholesterol levels, indicating that this polymorphism causes beneficial effects on longevity by reducing glucocorticoid actions ( 451 , 452 ). One recent study examined influence of N363S and ER22/23EK polymorphisms to intelligence quotient (IQ) and behavior of 344 young subjects who have been followed up from their birth ( 453 ). The study found that N363S is not associated with IQ, while ER22/23EK showed significantly higher IQ scores. Both polymorphisms did not show any effects on the behavior scores. Antenatal glucocorticoid treatment reduces IQ scores in the subjects carrying N363S or ER22/23EK polymorphism. The Bcl I GR polymorphism comprises a C to G nucleotide substitution at 646 bp downstream of exon 2 in intron B of the human GR gene that creates a cutting site for the Bcl I restriction enzyme. G-allele of this polymorphism increases tissue sensitivity to glucocorticoids as shown by greater suppression of serum cortisol levels after dexamethasone administration ( 454 ). This polymorphism is associated with development of mood disorders, psychopathology, bronchial asthma, hypertension, hyperinsulinism and obesity ( 455 , 456 ). It is also associated with increased bone resorption in patients receiving glucocorticoid replacement therapy ( 457 ). Although a large study employing adolescents (15-17 years old) did not confirm the association of the Bcl I polymorphisms to changes in several stress-related neurological
