Glucocorticoid Receptor
KEYWORDS: gra, receptor, activity, pubmed, transcriptional, glucocorticoid, gene, transcription, protein, human, transcriptional activity, nuclear, binding, glucocorticoids, genes


replacement therapy ( 457 ). Although a large study employing adolescents (15-17 years old) did not confirm the association of the Bcl I polymorphisms to changes in several stress-related neurological parameters ( 458 ), a study employing 460 subjects with post-traumatic stress disorder (PTSD) found that this polymorphism and another polymorphism rs258747 , located in the 3’-flanking region of the human GR gene and potentially influencing stability of GR mRNA, significantly increase a risk for developing PTSD ( 459 ). In one study, the Bcl I GR polymorphism was associated with lower frequency of insulin resistance in the women with polycystic ovary syndrome (PCOS) in contrast to the findings obtained in normal subjects ( 460 ). A single nucleotide polymorphism that replaces A with G at the nucleoside 3669 (A3669G) located in the 3’ end of exon 9b has been described in a European population ( 461 ). This polymorphism does not change the amino acid sequence but increases the stability of GRb mRNA and increases GRb protein expression, leading to greater inhibition of GRa-induced transcriptional activity and causing glucocorticoid resistance in tissues. The presence of the A3669G allele is associated with reduced central obesity and a more favorable lipid profile in affected subjects ( 461 ). Viral Infection HUMAN IMMUNODEFICIENCY VIRUS TYPE-1 Patients with the Acquired Immunodeficiency Syndrome (AIDS), which is caused by infection of the Human Immunodeficiency Virus type-1 (HIV-1), have several manifestations compatible with increased activity of GRa. They develop reduction of innate and Th1-directed cellular immunity, which is also seen in the conditions of glucocorticoid excess. Patients with AIDS often develop symptoms and signs that manifest in hypercortisolemic states, such as muscle wasting, myopathy, dyslipidemia and visceral obesity-related insulin resistance ( 462 - 466 ). Therefore, it is possible that some HIV-1-related factor(s) may modulate the function of GRa in patients with AIDS. Please see for more details the chapter on AIDS and the HPA Axis in the Adrenal Section of Endotext. We have shown that one of the HIV-1 accessory proteins, Vpr, a 96-amino acid virion-associated protein with multiple functions ( 467 , 468 ), enhances GRa transactivation by functioning as a coactivator ( 469 ) ( Figure 20 ). Indeed, Vpr contains a NR coactivator motif LxxLL at amino acids 64-68. This motif is used by host NR coactivators to bind NRs ( 80 ) (see Section ln ACTIONS OF GR, Mechanism of GRa-mediated
