Glucocorticoid Receptor
KEYWORDS: gra, receptor, activity, pubmed, transcriptional, glucocorticoid, gene, transcription, protein, human, transcriptional activity, nuclear, binding, glucocorticoids, genes


p300 and the NAD+-binding domain of CtBP1 are indicated in grey. Modified from ( 478 ). CREB: CRE-binding protein, HAT: histone acetyltransferase, HDAC5: histone deacetylases 5, NF-B: nuclear factor-B, NAD: nicotinamide adenine dinucleotide, NR: nuclear hormone receptor, p/CAF: p300/CBP-associating factor, pTEFb: positive-acting transcription elongation factor b, Rb: retinoblastoma protein, SF-1: steroidogenic factor-1, STAT2: signal transducer and activator of transcription 2, TFIIB: transcription factor IIB. Another HIV-1 accessory protein, Tat, which functions as a major transactivator of the HIV-1 long terminal repeat promoter ( 479 ) also potentiates GRa activity moderately by increasing accumulation of the positive transcription elongation factor b (pTEFb) ( 480 - 482 ) ( Figure 20 ). Like Vpr, Tat readily penetrates the cell membranes ( 483 ) and may, therefore, modulate the transcriptional activity of GRa in the cells/tissues not infected by HIV-1. Through Vpr and Tat, HIV-1 may facilitate the transcription of genes encoding its own proteins by directly stimulating viral proliferation. On the other hand, by enhancing transactivation of GRa and other NRs, these proteins may contribute to the viral proliferation possibly by suppressing the host immune system, while they participate in the development of several pathologic conditions associated with HIV-1 infection ( 480 , 484 ). ADENOVIRUS Adenoviruses cause illness of the respiratory system, such as common cold syndrome, pneumonia, croup and bronchitis, as well as illnesses of other organs, such as gastroenteritis, conjunctivitis and cystitis. They encode the E1A protein, which is expressed just after the infection and is necessary for the transcriptional regulation of the adenovirus-encoded genes ( 485 ). In addition to the viral genes, E1A regulates the transcriptional activity of a variety of host genes through interaction with the host transcriptional integrator p300 and its homologous molecule CBP ( 77 , 486 ) ( Figure 20 ). In an in vitro system, E1A, in contrast to Vpr, blocks the actions of glucocorticoids on the transcriptional activity of genes, producing resistance to glucocorticoids ( 470 ). E1A also interacts with the C-terminal tail-binding protein 1 (CtBP1), which functions as a transcriptional repressor for numerous transcription factors, by communicating with the class II HDACs and other inhibitory molecules like the retinoblastoma protein (Rb) ( 487 ) ( Figure 20 ). E1A suppresses functions of p300/CBP and CtBP1 by binding to their functionally critical domains ( 77 , 487 ). Although there is no supportive clinical evidence, it is highly possible that
