Open Access Case
KEYWORDS: wilson, serum, disease, liver, wilson disease, copper, kanitkar, mcl, neurological, symptoms, borle, doi, patients, akshata borle, akshata


Kanitkar et al. Cureus 16(4): e58407. DOI 4 of 8 FIGURE 2: MRI STIR transverse section of the brain Yellow block arrows show hyperintensity in the bilateral ganglio-capsular region MRI: Magnetic resonance imaging, STIR: Short tau inversion recovery Based on preliminary findings, a provisional diagnosis of Wilson's was made. To confirm the diagnosis we did a liver biopsy. According to the histological results of the liver sample, there was mild chronic active hepatitis along with cirrhosis of the liver, stage 4 fibrosis according to Batts-Ludwig staging, and grade 2 inflammation. Liver biopsy copper analysis showed copper content of 62 microgram/gm (normal range is up to 45 microgram/gm). Figure 3 shows fibrosis and mild chronic active hepatitis suggesting chronic histopathological changes in Wilson's disease. 2024 Kanitkar et al. Cureus 16(4): e58407. DOI 5 of 8 FIGURE 3: Nodules of varying sizes separated by fibrous septae and inflammatory infiltrate (100 X, low power) The black arrow indicates the fibrous septae Discussion Wilson's disease patients may exhibit slowly progressing cirrhosis, which is typically well compensated. There might be a severe illness (acute liver failure) without any neurological symptoms. Measurements of the liver's copper level in conjunction with a liver biopsy may aid in the diagnosis. Once diagnosis was started followed by 250 mg increments every four days. Similar cases, mostly involving individuals over 40, have been reported , where the first presentation is related to the neurological system without hepatic involvement. The mobilization of copper from the liver, which raises levels of unbound copper and exacerbates neurological symptoms, is assumed to be the cause of this deterioration. The frequency of neurological damage following penicillamine therapy has been the subject of numerous studies. While some research cast doubt on this association, others claim that rates range from 30 to 75% of patients . Improving the patient's condition is the aim of the initial phase of treatment. The first-line medications are penicillamine and trientine. Penicillamine increases urine excretion to as much as 15-45 μmol daily and chelates copper. Penicillamine may cause the neurological symptoms to worsen. Patients who are intolerant to D- penicillamine are administered trientine. For adults, 1-3 g of D-penicillamine orally three to four times a day, one hour prior to meals is given. Children's dosage is 20 mg/kg, administered twice daily. When administered gradually, starting at a dose of 250 mg once daily and increasing by another 250 mg every four to
