Androgens and Cardiovascular Disease in Men
KEYWORDS: men, pubmed, testosterone, cardiovascular, risk, associated, events, study, mortality, free, studies, treatment, cvd, lower, total


by further randomized interventional studies to clarify whether testosterone treatment has beneficial, neutral or adverse effects on the cardiovascular system. For complete coverage of all related areas of Endocrinology, please visit our on-line FREE web-text, WWW.ENDOTEXT.ORG . INTRODUCTION Androgen Physiology THE HYPOTHALAMIC-PITUITARY AXIS Testosterone (T) is the principal male sex hormone or androgen that regulates sexual maturation and secondary sexual characteristics and body composition in adult men ( 1 ). T undergoes conversion into two major bioactive metabolites, dihydrotestosterone (DHT) a more potent ligand for the androgen receptor, and estradiol (E2), a ligand for estrogen receptors ( 2 ). T is produced primarily by the testis, under stimulation of luteinizing hormone (LH) from the pituitary gland, itself under regulation of gonadotrophin releasing hormone (GnRH) from the hypothalamus. The hypothalamic-pituitary-testicular (HPT) axis is under negative feedback regulation via T and E2, acting on the central components of the HPT axis ( 1 , 3 - 5 ). CONSEQUENCES OF ANDROGEN DEFICIENCY Androgens play diverse roles in the body, and androgen deficiency in men results in multiple symptoms and signs extending from loss of libido, lethargy, fatigue, poor concentration to gynecomastia, accumulation of fat, loss of muscle mass, and osteopenia or osteoporosis ( 6 , 7 ). Actions of T are amplified by local conversion to DHT in tissues such as the prostate and skin by the enzyme 5α-reductase ( 8 ). Of note, some of actions of T, such as in bone and adipose tissue, are mediated via conversion to E2 by the enzyme aromatase ( 9 - 11 ). MEASUREMENT OF CIRCULATING ANDROGEN CONCENTRATIONS Immunoassays have been the standard method for measurement of circulating sex hormones: however, these can exhibit non-specificity and method-dependent bias, particularly at lower hormone concentrations ( 12 , 13 ). Mass spectrometry is regarded as the gold standard for assay of T concentrations ( 14 ). Although mass spectrometry is preferred, it is not widely available and validated immunoassays can be informative ( 6 , 7 ). In the circulation, T (and DHT and E2) are bound with high affinity to sex hormone-binding globulin (SHBG), T is also bound with lower affinity to albumin with a small fraction unbound or free ( 15 ). However, whether unbound or “free” T represents a more biologically active form of the hormone in vivo is controversial ( 16 ). A major difficulty is that measurement of free T using
