Androgens and Cardiovascular Disease in Men
KEYWORDS: men, pubmed, testosterone, cardiovascular, risk, associated, events, study, mortality, free, studies, treatment, cvd, lower, total


unbound or “free” T represents a more biologically active form of the hormone in vivo is controversial ( 16 ). A major difficulty is that measurement of free T using equilibrium dialysis is technically demanding and thus rarely performed. Instead, free T is typically calculated, and this result may vary according to the equations used ( 15 - 18 ). Furthermore, established reference ranges for free T are lacking ( 7 , 19 ). Thus, analysis of actions of T in the male body and cardiovascular system involves consideration of not only its bioactive metabolites, but also the accuracy of assays used and the limitations of calculated free T as a biomarker. Androgens and Male Ageing DECLINE IN CIRCULATING ANDROGENS WITH MALE AGING Circulating T peaks in early adulthood and declines gradually across middle and older age, thus older men exhibit lower T and DHT concentrations compared to younger men ( 20 - 22 ). Observational studies have shown longitudinal declines in T and DHT in ageing men, with parallel increases in LH and SHBG ( 23 - 25 ). This phenomenon suggests that in some men, there is progressive impairment of testicular endocrine function with ageing ( 25 ). However, whether older men with symptoms consistent with androgen deficiency and lower circulating concentrations of T compared to younger men, have an androgen deficiency state remains unclear ( 26 , 27 ). The bioactive metabolites of T, DHT and E2 measured with mass spectrometry have been associated with longer leucocyte telomere length, a measure of slower biological ageing, in middle-aged and older men ( 28 , 29 ). However, a study in mostly middle-aged men showed no association between T measured with immunoassay and leucocyte telomere length ( 30 ). Thus, there is considerable interest in the question of whether lower T concentrations might contribute to various manifestations of ill health in ageing men. CONTROVERSIES OVER FUNCTIONAL HYPOGONADISM Men with disorders of the hypothalamus, pituitary, or testes resulting in hypogonadism have symptoms and signs of androgen deficiency, and low circulating T concentrations ( 6 ). These men are classified as having pathological (or classic or organic) hypogonadism, and T treatment is routinely offered to improve symptoms and restore body composition ( 6 , 7 ). However, low circulating T concentrations are found in many conditions where the HPT axis is intact, including ageing, obesity, and systemic illnesses ( 7 ,
