Androgens and Cardiovascular Disease in Men
KEYWORDS: men, pubmed, testosterone, cardiovascular, risk, associated, events, study, mortality, free, studies, treatment, cvd, lower, total


( 6 , 7 ). However, low circulating T concentrations are found in many conditions where the HPT axis is intact, including ageing, obesity, and systemic illnesses ( 7 , 31 ). In this context, low T concentrations result from reduction or suppression of HPT axis function, rather than an intrinsic disorder of the HPT axis, with the label of “functional hypogonadism” applied ( 7 , 31 ). Obesity is closely associated with reduced circulating T and SHBG, and loss of excess weight restores endogenous production of T ( 32 - 35 ). Thus, low T might be a biomarker for the presence of systemic illnesses, rather than a contributing or causal factor. Whether or not, and if so which, men with functional hypogonadism should receive T treatment, remains the subject of debate ( 7 , 19 , 20 ). Androgens and Risks of Cardiovascular Disease AGE AND OBESITY AS COMMON RISK FACTORS Advancing age is an established risk factor for chronic diseases including cardiovascular disease (CVD) and mortality ( 36 , 37 ). Age is a component of all major cardiovascular risk calculators ( 38 ). Similarly, obesity, with its close associations with insulin resistance and diabetes risk, is a robust cardiovascular risk factor, and - unlike age - is a potentially modifiable one, whether via bariatric surgery or incretin-based medical therapy ( 41 - 44 ). This is illustrated by observational studies which show a reduction in cardiovascular events and mortality following bariatric surgery in patients who are obese (mean age 48 years) ( 41 , 42 ). Thus, advancing age and obesity are both associated with low circulating T concentrations, and are also risk factors for CVD. CONFLUENCE OF AGE, OBESITY, LOW TESTOTERONE AND CARDIOVASCULAR DISEASE Given that age and obesity are associated with both low circulating T concentrations and increased risk of CVD, understanding the relationship between these factors becomes vitally important ( 45 ). Demographic change will result in increasing numbers of older men in communities worldwide, who will have lower circulating T concentrations and who are at risk of ill health including from CVD ( 36 ). If low T contributes to CVD risk, either directly or via its association with obesity, then this represents a potential pathway for intervention to preserve health in ageing men. Conversely, if T is a biomarker for CVD, it may still have a role in risk stratification and
