Androgens and Cardiovascular Disease in Men
KEYWORDS: men, pubmed, testosterone, cardiovascular, risk, associated, events, study, mortality, free, studies, treatment, cvd, lower, total


which may underestimate results compared to mass spectrometry ( 70 ), and UK Biobank men were generally healthier than the UK male population as a whole ( 71 ). Therefore, while these results are convincing, their generalizability to different populations in other regions needs to be established. PROSPECTIVE COHORT STUDIES: MASS SPECTROMETRY RESULTS Prospective cohort studies where sex hormones were measured using mass spectrometry are shown ( Table 1 , marked with *). In the Osteoporotic Fractures in Men Study in Sweden (MrOS), a large prospective cohort study of 2,416 men aged 69-81 years, men with higher total T had a lower incidence of CVD events ( 51 ). In HIMS, a later analysis of 3,690 men aged 70-89 years with sex hormones measured using mass spectrometry confirmed the association of low total T with higher incidence of stroke ( 57 ). In these analyses, total E2 was not associated with these outcomes ( 51 , 57 ). Analyses from the Cardiovascular Health Study (CHS) of 1,032 men aged 76 years suggested a U-shaped association of DHT with CVD events and stroke risk ( 55 , 56 ). Of note, an analysis from the Busselton Health Study (BHS) of 1,804 predominantly middle-aged men found no association of sex hormones with incidence of CVD events ( 60 ). Analyses from the Atherosclerosis Risk in Communities Study of 1,558 men aged 63 years found no association of sex hormones with CVD events ( 58 , 61 ), similar to the findings from a small subset of the MrOS USA study ( 66 ). By contrast, in the Men Androgen Inflammation Lifestyle Environment and Stress (MAILES) cohort of 1,492 men followed for 4.9 years, higher total T was associated with a lower risk of CVD events ( 63 ). Furthermore, in a post-hoc analysis of 2,118 men with metabolic syndrome participating in a trial of niacin or placebo plus simvastatin, men who had a baseline total T <10.4 nmol/L had higher risk of the combined endpoint of coronary heart disease death, MI or stroke, compared with men with higher total T concentrations ( 65 ). SUMMARY: ENDOGENOUS SEX HORMONES VS. CARDIOVASCULAR DISEASE Taken together, these epidemiological studies suggest that there may be an association of lower endogenous T concentrations with increased risk of CVD events in middle-aged and older men. However, the studies provide a mix of positive, equivocal and negative results. Major
