Androgens and Cardiovascular Disease in Men
KEYWORDS: men, pubmed, testosterone, cardiovascular, risk, associated, events, study, mortality, free, studies, treatment, cvd, lower, total


association of lower endogenous T concentrations with increased risk of CVD events in middle-aged and older men. However, the studies provide a mix of positive, equivocal and negative results. Major cohort studies using mass spectrometry for assay of sex hormones associated higher total T concentrations with lower risk of CVD events in older ( 51 , 57 ) and middle-aged to older men ( 63 , 67 ). There may be a predilection for lower testosterone, measured by mass spectrometry, to be associated with stroke risk ( 57 ). In one study lower DHT was associated with CVD events including stroke, with a non-linear association ( 55 , 56 ). Inconsistent results in other studies may have been due to smaller cohort sizes and fewer outcome events reducing the power available to detect underlying associations. However, in the largest ever prospective cohort study, the UK Biobank, there was no association of testosterone with a range of CVD events ( 69 ). Overall, epidemiological studies would suggest a possible protective effect of endogenous androgens against CVD events in the older population of men, rather than in relatively healthy middle-aged men. Associations of Androgens with Cardiovascular Mortality PROSPECTIVE COHORT STUDIES: IMMUNOASSAY RESULTS Several of the studies in Table 1 reported CVD-related mortality in addition to events. Other studies where the outcome was based on CVD-related mortality are summarized in Table 2 . Studies almost invariably adjusted for age, and typically adjusted for BMI and other cardiovascular risk factors. In two studies using immunoassay for assay of sex hormones, T was not associated with CVD or ischemic heart disease (IHD) mortality ( 46 , 49 ). However, several other studies using immunoassay for sex hormones did find associations of lower endogenous total T concentrations with increased risk of CVD-related death ( 72 , 74 , 77 , 81 ). Lower calculated free T was also associated with increased CVD-related mortality in some studies ( 76 , 78 , 81 ), but was associated with lower IHD mortality in one study ( 73 ). Lower total E2 was associated with CVD mortality in one study ( 76 ). In an analysis from the UK Biobank of 149,436 men followed for 11.3 years, there was no association of either total or calculated free T with risk of CVD mortality ( 84 ). Table 2. Cohort Studies Examining Associations Between Sex Hormones and CVD-Related Mortality in
