Androgens and Cardiovascular Disease in Men
KEYWORDS: men, pubmed, testosterone, cardiovascular, risk, associated, events, study, mortality, free, studies, treatment, cvd, lower, total


Decrease in total E2 d was associated with all-cause and CVD mortality. * Chasland L, 2017 ( 83 ) 1,649 20 49.8 Higher physical activity and total T b , DHT and E2 were not associated with CVD events. Men with higher physical activity and DHT had the lowest risk of CVD death. Men with lower physical activity and higher E2 had greater risk of CVD death. Yeap BB, 2021 ( 84 ) 149,436 11.3 58.0 Men with lower total T had higher all-cause and cancer-related mortality, no association with CVD deaths. IHD=ischemic heart disease, CVD=cardiovascular disease, CHD=coronary heart disease. * denotes studies where total T, DHT and/or E2 were measured by mass spectrometry; free T was calculated. a T and E2 measured using gas chromatography-mass spectrometry (GC-MS). b T, DHT and E2 measured using liquid chromatography-tandem mass spectrometry (LC-MS), c T measured using GC-MS, d T and E2 measured using LC-MS. PROSPECTIVE COHORT STUDIES: MASS SPECTROMETRY RESULTS Prospective cohort studies using mass spectrometry for assay of sex hormones are of interest. In an analysis from MrOS in Sweden, lower endogenous total T and E2 concentrations were associated with all-cause and non-CVD mortality, but not with CVD mortality ( 75 ). Interestingly, in an analysis from HIMS of 3,690 men aged 70-89 years at baseline, optimal endogenous total T concentrations were associated with survival, and higher DHT predicted lower IHD mortality ( 79 ). The CHS study reported consistent findings with lower DHT concentrations being associated with CVD mortality ( 56 ). An analysis from the European Male Ageing Study found that the combination of sexual symptoms and lower total T was associated with all-cause and CVD mortality, rather than total T or free T on their own ( 80 ). In an analysis from the Concord Health and Ageing in Men Project (CHAMP), longitudinal decreases in total T, DHT or E2 were associated with all-cause mortality, but only the longitudinal decrease in total E2 was predictive of CVD mortality ( 82 ). Finally, in an analysis from BHS in which physical activity and sex hormones concentrations were analyzed, men with higher levels of physical activity and higher DHT concentrations had the lowest risk of CVD death ( 83 ). SUMMARY: ENDOGENOUS SEX HORMONES VS. CARDIOVASCULAR MORTALITY Several cohort studies have reported an association between lower endogenous T concentrations and increased mortality related to CVD, after adjusting for age and
