Androgens and Cardiovascular Disease in Men
KEYWORDS: men, pubmed, testosterone, cardiovascular, risk, associated, events, study, mortality, free, studies, treatment, cvd, lower, total


SUMMARY: ENDOGENOUS SEX HORMONES VS. CARDIOVASCULAR MORTALITY Several cohort studies have reported an association between lower endogenous T concentrations and increased mortality related to CVD, after adjusting for age and other cardiovascular risk factors. Of large studies using mass spectrometry for assay of sex steroids, MrOS in Sweden found an association of lower total T and E2 with all-cause rather than CVD mortality, while HIMS found an optimal total T to be associated with survival ( 75 , 79 ). HIMS found higher DHT was associated with lower IHD mortality ( 79 ), consistent with results from CHS ( 56 ), and in BHS the combination of higher DHT and higher levels of physical activity was associated with lower risk of death from CVD ( 83 ). Declining E2 may also have a role, being associated with CVD mortality in CHAMP ( 82 ). However, in relatively healthy middle-aged men (UK Biobank), there was no evidence of an association between total T and CVD mortality risk ( 84 ). Therefore, allowing for some heterogeneity in cohort characteristics and results, lower endogenous T concentrations, measured using mass spectrometry, may be predictors of CVD related deaths in older men, as might lower or declining concentrations of its bioactive metabolites DHT and E2. However, this may not be the case in generally healthy middle-aged men. Whether lower concentrations of endogenous sex hormones are biomarkers or possibly contributing factors to these outcomes remains unclear from these observational studies, as proof of causality ultimately requires interventional studies and randomized controlled trials (RCTs). MECHANISTIC STUDIES Potential Mechanisms Knowledge of potential mechanisms by which androgens might exert protective effects against atherosclerosis and reduce the risk of cardiovascular events would bridge the findings from epidemiological studies and clinical investigation. There are a substantial number of such studies with diverse models and results, a comprehensive discussion of each being beyond the scope of this chapter (for reviews, see ( 85 , 86 )). Selected studies are discussed briefly in this context. Cholesterol Accumulation in Animal Models Experimental studies in castrated male rabbits fed a high cholesterol diet reported effects of testosterone treatment to reduce accumulation of cholesterol in the aortic wall and to reduce atheromatous plaque area and aortic intimal thickness ( 87 - 90 ). Similar results have also been reported in miniature pigs ( 91 ). Castration of low-density lipoprotein receptor (LDLR)-deficient male mice results in increased
