Androgens and Cardiovascular Disease in Men
KEYWORDS: men, pubmed, testosterone, cardiovascular, risk, associated, events, study, mortality, free, studies, treatment, cvd, lower, total


intimal thickness ( 87 - 90 ). Similar results have also been reported in miniature pigs ( 91 ). Castration of low-density lipoprotein receptor (LDLR)-deficient male mice results in increased fatty steak lesion formation in the aorta compared to non-castrated controls, which is attenuated with testosterone supplementation ( 92 ). At least part of this effect may be mediated via conversion of T to E2. Of note, T and DHT increased calcification of plaque in apolipoprotein E (ApoE)-null mice, even as T had a neutral effect on plaque volume and DHT decreased plaque volume ( 93 ). In testicular feminized mice with a non-functional androgen receptor (AR) and low circulating T concentrations, T supplementation to physiological levels reduced fatty streak formation ( 94 ). Similarly, AR knockout mice (ARKO) showed increased aortic atherosclerosis, and atherosclerotic lesion area that was reduced with T treatment ( 95 ). In wild-type mice, T treatment reduced the presence of necrotic cores within plaque compared with placebo. Therefore, these animal studies suggest an effect of T treatment in reducing cholesterol accumulation and the development of atheromatous plaque, while increasing calcification. However, the actions of sex hormones are complex, being mediated partly via aromatization of T to E2, and occurring at least to an extent via AR-independent mechanisms. Neointimal Formation and Vascular Smooth Muscle Proliferation NEOINTIMAL RESPONSES TO INJURY In a male rabbit aorta model of neointimal plaque formation induced by endothelial denudation, T treatment in vitro inhibited plaque development ( 96 ). In a male porcine model of coronary neointimal plaque formation following moderate angioplasty-induced arterial injury, castrated males exhibited greater intimal area compared to intact males and castrated males treated with T ( 97 ). T inhibited proliferation and increased expression of the cell-cycle regulator p27 kip1 during neointimal formation. However, despite castration of wild-type mice resulting in increased neointimal formation following wire injury, selective deletion of AR from endothelial cells or smooth muscle cells did not affect lesion size ( 98 ). Therefore, effects of T on neointimal formation may be indirect, or mediated by AR-independent mechanisms. VASCULAR SMOOTH MUSCLE Vascular smooth muscle cells contribute to progression of atherosclerotic lesions and formation of the fibrous cap ( 99 ). T was shown to regulate expression of proliferation-associated genes in skeletal myocytes and in myofibers in different muscles ( 100 , 101 ). Its role in smooth muscle cells in the vasculature is not
