Androgens and Cardiovascular Disease in Men
KEYWORDS: men, pubmed, testosterone, cardiovascular, risk, associated, events, study, mortality, free, studies, treatment, cvd, lower, total


regulate expression of proliferation-associated genes in skeletal myocytes and in myofibers in different muscles ( 100 , 101 ). Its role in smooth muscle cells in the vasculature is not well defined. In one study, T exerted a pro-proliferative effect on vascular smooth muscle cells in vitro , with increased DNA synthesis assessed using a thymidine incorporation assay ( 102 ). In that study the effect of T was blocked by the AR antagonist flutamide. In another study, T induced apoptosis in cultured vascular smooth muscle cells, in an AR-dependent manner ( 103 ). In one study, deletion of the AR in vascular smooth muscle cells did not change atherosclerotic plaque size in LDLR knockout mice ( 104 ). However, another study demonstrated that T, acting via the AR in vascular smooth muscle cells, might be involved in promoting vascular calcification ( 105 ). Therefore, T seems to exert indirect effects on neointimal proliferation in response to injury and may play a secondary role in the development and calcification of atheromatous plaque via complex actions in vascular smooth muscle. Inflammation INFLAMMATION AND ATHEROTHROMBOSIS A mechanistic link likely exists between inflammation and atherothrombosis (for reviews, see ( 106 , 107 )). Statin therapy lowered both LDL cholesterol and C-reactive protein (CRP) concentrations, reducing the risk of cardiovascular events in a primary prevention setting in adults with LDL <3.4 mmol/L and high-sensitivity CRP ≥2.0 mg/L ( 108 ). Recently, anti-inflammatory intervention utilizing canakinumab, a monoclonal antibody targeting interleukin-1β, in a secondary prevention setting in adults with high-sensitivity CRP ≥2.0 mg/L demonstrated a modest reduction in major cardiovascular events ( 109 ). However, a major trial using low-dose methotrexate showed no benefit in adults with previous MI or multivessel coronary artery disease and either type 2 diabetes or metabolic syndrome ( 110 ). By contrast, colchicine has shown promise in major RCTs as an anti-inflammatory agent to reduce cardiovascular risk in both acute and chronic secondary prevention settings ( 111 , 112 ). These results underscore the relationship between inflammation and atherosclerosis. TESTOSTERONE EFFECTS ON IMMUNE CELLS Of note, in vitro studies have shown effects of T to reduce production of inflammatory cytokines from monocytes, macrophages and endothelial cells ( 113 - 115 ). Deletion of monocyte-macrophage AR in LDLR knockout mice resulted in reduced atherosclerosis compared to LDLR knockout mice, suggesting a role for AR-mediated actions in inflammatory cells ( 104 ).
