Androgens and Cardiovascular Disease in Men
KEYWORDS: men, pubmed, testosterone, cardiovascular, risk, associated, events, study, mortality, free, studies, treatment, cvd, lower, total


). Deletion of monocyte-macrophage AR in LDLR knockout mice resulted in reduced atherosclerosis compared to LDLR knockout mice, suggesting a role for AR-mediated actions in inflammatory cells ( 104 ). In an elegant study, pre-pubertal castration of male ApoE knockout mice increased atherosclerotic lesion area, which was abolished by an anti-CD3 antibody targeting T cells, linking hormonal and immunologic regulation of atherosclerosis ( 116 ). In that study, both castration and depletion of AR in epithelial cells resulted in increased thymus weight, and mice with depletion of AR in epithelial cells showed increased atherosclerosis and increased infiltration of T cells in the vascular adventitia ( 116 ). These findings support a mechanism by which deficiency of androgen action modulates immune/inflammatory responses to promote atherosclerosis. TESTOSTERONE EFFECTS ON CYTOKINES Older men treated with gonadotrophin-releasing hormone agonists to suppress HPT axis function showed increased concentrations of circulating tumor necrosis factor-α and interleukin-6 ( 117 ). In a randomized cross-over trial of 27 men ranging in age from 36-78 years, T treatment given via intramuscular injections over one month reduced circulating concentrations of tumor necrosis factor-α and interleukin-1β, and increased concentrations of the anti-inflammatory cytokine interleukin-10 ( 118 ). In another study of 20 men with type 2 diabetes, there was an inverse correlation of baseline T and interleukin-6, but T treatment over three months, while reducing waist circumference, did not alter tumor necrosis factor-α, interleukin-6, or C-reactive protein (CRP) concentrations ( 119 ). In the Testosterone Trials (T-Trials), T treatment via transdermal gel over 12 months in men aged ≥65 years did not change concentrations of high-sensitivity CRP or interleukin-6 ( 120 ). In a study of men treated with DHT or with recombinant human chorionic gonadotrophin over three months, neither intervention affected markers of endothelial cell activation or inflammation ( 121 ). By contrast, in a trial of men with metabolic syndrome, men in the T treatment arm showed a reduction in high sensitivity CRP after 12 months of treatment ( 122 ). In a trial of 76 men with newly diagnosed type 2 diabetes, T treatment over 9 months reduced markers of endothelial cell activation and inflammation, namely circulating concentrations of intracellular adhesion molecule type 1, p-selectin, and CRP ( 123 ). Therefore, the results of clinical studies are not wholly consistent. In summary, although the concept that T might exert anti-inflammatory actions protective against atherosclerosis is plausible, more evidence
