Androgens and Cardiovascular Disease in Men
KEYWORDS: men, pubmed, testosterone, cardiovascular, risk, associated, events, study, mortality, free, studies, treatment, cvd, lower, total


123 ). Therefore, the results of clinical studies are not wholly consistent. In summary, although the concept that T might exert anti-inflammatory actions protective against atherosclerosis is plausible, more evidence is needed using a direct measure of atherosclerosis. CLINICAL TRIALS WITH SURROGATE ENDPOINTS Testosterone Effects on Angina and Vascular Function EFFECTS OF EXOGENOUS TESTOSTERONE ON ANGINA Mechanistic studies in cell and animal models provide a plausible rationale for the epidemiological findings associating lower endogenous T concentrations with higher risk of CVD. However, clinical studies are necessary to clarify whether administration of T modulates clinical manifestations of CVD in vivo . Case series from the 1940s reported a beneficial effect of T therapy using intramuscular testosterone propionate to decrease the frequency and severity of angina attacks in an era where nitrate therapy was the mainstay of therapy ( 124 - 126 ). These early reports in men (and a small number of women) describe gradual improvements in symptoms over periods ranging from weeks to months. Conversely, a study in the 1960s found that administration of oral conjugated estrogen (that would suppress the HPT axis and serum androgen concentrations) to men resulted in adverse cardiovascular effects ( 127 ). In any case, as T is the native hormone which is metabolized in vivo to DHT and E2 ( 2 ), it is the preferred treatment for hypogonadal men ( 128 ), and represents the logical candidate for interventional studies. More recent RCTs have revisited the issue of T treatment in men with CAD ( Table 3A ). In studies lasting from eight weeks to 12 months, T supplementation in men with CAD increased post-exercise ST segment depression ( 129 ), time to ischemia on exercise testing ( 130 , 132 ) and in a study in older men with diabetes, reduced the frequency of angina and silent myocardial ischemia during ECG Holter monitoring ( 133 ). These findings suggest either a protective effect of T on the myocardium, or an improvement in exercise capacity. A cross-over study found increased perfusion of myocardium supplied by unobstructed arteries, consistent with a vasodilatory action ( 131 ). Therefore, while existing data are limited, contemporary RCTs support historical observations suggesting a potentially beneficial effect of T supplementation in men with CAD. Table 3. Selected Randomized Controlled Trials (RCTs) of Testosterone Supplementation in Middle-Aged and Older Men Reporting Outcomes Related to Angina (A), Artery Health (B), and
