Androgens and Cardiovascular Disease in Men
KEYWORDS: men, pubmed, testosterone, cardiovascular, risk, associated, events, study, mortality, free, studies, treatment, cvd, lower, total


and older men did not show any effect of transdermal T treatment on endothelial function ( 141 , 142 ). There is a pathway by which T treatment is expected to improve endothelial function as in vitro studies demonstrate stimulation of nitric oxide synthesis in human aortic endothelial cells exposed to T ( 143 ). T might exert beneficial effects in the vasculature via actions to improve endothelial function and arterial stiffness, but additional studies are needed before a definitive conclusion can be made. Testosterone and Atherosclerosis CIRCULATING CHOLESTEROL CONCENTRATION Clinical studies of T have shown consistent results for T treatment to reduce circulating concentrations of total cholesterol to a modest degree ( 144 - 146 ). A trend for T to lower LDL cholesterol has been noted ( 144 ). T treatment appears to lower high density lipoprotein (HDL) cholesterol again to a small degree ( 147 ). HDL cholesterol is involved in reverse cholesterol transport thus exerting anti-atherogenic activity, such that HDL function is an independent predictor of cardiovascular events ( 148 , 149 ). However, T may modulate HDL concentrations without a corresponding effect on HDL function ( 150 ). Of note, in observational studies, endogenous T concentrations correlated with circulating HDL and were inversely associated with total cholesterol ( 151 , 152 ). Thus, the prognostic significance of T-induced changes in lipid profiles, and the effect of T treatment on HDL-mediated anti-atherogenic action in men at risk for CVD remains unclear. CAROTID ATHEROSCLEROSIS Carotid intima-media thickness (CIMT) and the presence of carotid plaque are measures of preclinical carotid atherosclerosis, which can be assessed non-invasively using ultrasound ( 153 ). While low endogenous T concentrations are associated with increased CIMT in observational studies ( 154 , 155 ), it is less clear whether low endogenous T (or E2) predicts progression of CIMT ( 156 - 158 ). One study implicated low-grade inflammation in this process, finding an association of low non-SHBG-bound T with CIMT in older men with CRP ≥2 mg/L, but not in those with CRP <2 mg/L ( 159 ). Two cohort studies observed cross-sectional associations of low T concentrations with greater carotid plaque area ( 158 , 160 ). However, no association was found between baseline sex hormone concentrations and change in plaque area during follow-up, possibly due to increased use of anti-hypertensive and lipid-lowering therapy ( 158 ). One study reported an association
