Androgens and Cardiovascular Disease in Men
KEYWORDS: men, pubmed, testosterone, cardiovascular, risk, associated, events, study, mortality, free, studies, treatment, cvd, lower, total


between baseline sex hormone concentrations and change in plaque area during follow-up, possibly due to increased use of anti-hypertensive and lipid-lowering therapy ( 158 ). One study reported an association of higher T concentrations with reduced CIMT and lower prevalence of carotid plaque in a cohort of community-dwelling men, but not in a cohort of men with angiographically proven CAD ( 161 ). In men with proven CAD, higher DHT was associated with less carotid plaque. Of note, E2 was associated with increased CIMT in community-dwelling men, but with less carotid plaque in men with CAD ( 161 ). One study found that higher E2 was associated with the presence of lipid core in carotid plaques in men, with no association of T concentrations ( 162 ). In a study of men who underwent carotid endarterectomy, the ratio of circulating T/E2 was inversely associated with plaque calcifications, macrophage staining and plaque neutrophil content, as well as plaque IL-6 protein ( 163 ). These findings associate sex hormone concentrations with CIMT and carotid plaque in men. Several interventional studies reporting CIMT as an outcome are summarized ( Table 3B ). Of note, in a RCT of intramuscular T undecanoate 1,000 mg given every 12 weeks to men with metabolic syndrome, there was improvement in CIMT after 12 months of treatment ( 122 ). However, a larger RCT, Testosterone Effects on Atherosclerosis Progression in Aging Men (TEAAM), conducted over three years showed no effect of transdermal T treatment on rates of progression of CIMT ( 164 ). A smaller study, which tested both exercise training and transdermal T treatment over a period of 12 months, found no effect of either intervention on CIMT ( 141 ). Thus, while the RCT data are limited, the effects of T treatment on preclinical carotid atherosclerosis may be beneficial or neutral, but are unlikely to be adverse. See table 3 , part B. CORONARY ATHEROSCLEROSIS Coronary computed tomography angiography (CCTA) has emerged as a non-invasive method for imaging coronary atherosclerosis ( 165 - 167 ). Normal findings on CCTA are associated with a low risk of cardiovascular events, while the presence and extent of CAD demonstrated on CCTA are risk predictors for future cardiovascular events in large epidemiological studies ( 165 - 167 ). Therefore, there is considerable interest in the Cardiovascular sub-study of the T-Trials which reported CCTA outcomes for 73 men treated with transdermal
