Androgens and Cardiovascular Disease in Men
KEYWORDS: men, pubmed, testosterone, cardiovascular, risk, associated, events, study, mortality, free, studies, treatment, cvd, lower, total


large epidemiological studies ( 165 - 167 ). Therefore, there is considerable interest in the Cardiovascular sub-study of the T-Trials which reported CCTA outcomes for 73 men treated with transdermal T and 65 men receiving placebo over a 12-month period ( 168 ). In this study, men in the T-treated group experienced a greater increase in non-calcified and total coronary artery plaque volume, compared to men in the placebo group ( 168 ). However, the groups were unbalanced with men in the T-treated group having considerably lower non-calcified and total plaque volumes at baseline and at the end of the study compared with placebo-treated men. The fact that the two groups of men differed substantively in a key baseline characteristic makes the result of the study challenging to interpret ( 169 ). There was no difference in the rate of change of coronary calcium score between groups, albeit men in the T-treated group had lower coronary calcium scores at baseline and at the end of the study compared with men in the placebo group ( 168 ). The results for coronary calcium scores are concordant with the TEAAM trial that also showed no difference in coronary calcium scores with T treatment ( 164 ). Men in the T-Trials Cardiovascular sub-study overall had a high burden of plaque at baseline with 32% of T-treated men and 38% of placebo recipients having baseline Agatston scores ≥300 ( 168 ). Of note, in the T-Trials Cardiovascular sub-study, data on plaque volume were not analyzed relative to vessel lumen to address the issue of whether vascular remodeling was occurring ( 170 ). Since then, CCTA technology has progressed to allow more detailed and sophisticated analysis of plaque characteristics associated with higher risk of coronary events, which were not applied in that study ( 171 ). While these findings are important and noteworthy, a larger RCT with balanced groups using current CCTA methodology would be needed to clarify the effect of T on coronary plaque characteristics. The findings are a timely reminder that until definitive RCTs are available, the effects of T on the cardiovascular system remain uncertain and may be beneficial, neutral or adverse. TRIALS REPORTING ADVERSE EVENTS Testosterone RCTs and Cardiovascular Adverse Events Selected T RCTs, which have influenced this field, are summarized ( Table 3 , part C). These studies were underpowered for cardiovascular events and the possibility of type 1 and
