Androgens and Cardiovascular Disease in Men
KEYWORDS: men, pubmed, testosterone, cardiovascular, risk, associated, events, study, mortality, free, studies, treatment, cvd, lower, total


adverse events ( 192 ). Diem et al. (2020) examined 38 RCTs of at least six months duration, noting that few exceeded a 1-year duration, there was a lack of power to assess important harms, and limited data for men aged 18-50 years ( 193 ). They concluded that in older men with lower testosterone concentrations, in the absence of organic hypogonadism, T treatment resulted in small improvements in in sexual functioning and quality of life, with long-term safety and efficacy still uncertain. Recently Hudson et al. (2022) analyzed RCTs involving men with T ≤12 nmol/L and minimum duration of three months, identifying 35 studies and obtaining individual participant data from 17 of these with 3,431 participants (including T-Trials but not T4DM) ( 194 ). There was no significant difference in cardiovascular adverse events in testosterone vs placebo-treated men. The authors concluded that their results provide some reassurance about the short- to medium-term safety of T treatment for male hypogonadism ( 194 ). Clearly, the results of the TRAVERSE study, a testosterone cardiovascular safety trial, will be of considerable interest ( 195 ). For now, bearing in mind the limitations of meta-analyses of RCTs using reported adverse events as the endpoint, the weight of the currently available evidence from these sources indicates that T treatment is not associated with risk of cardiovascular adverse events. RETROSPECTIVE CASE-CONTROL STUDIES Retrospective Studies of Testosterone Prescriptions Pending an adequately powered T RCT to clarify its effect on the risk of cardiovascular events, retrospective case-control studies have sought to fill this gap ( Table 5 ). These studies are typically based on health insurance databases recording prescriptions for T and subsequent outcomes in men prescribed or not prescribed T. Limitations of these studies include lack of clinical data such as indications for prescribing, the absence of randomization and the possibility of recall and misclassification bias ( 196 ). Initial studies in male veterans and in men with type 2 diabetes associated T prescriptions with lower mortality ( 197 , 198 ). By contrast, two studies associated T prescriptions with increased risk of major cardiovascular events ( 199 , 200 ). Both have been subject of criticisms: the first over confusing statistical methodology and data inaccuracies (resulting in publication of an erratum), the second over the lack of an appropriate comparison group ( 209 , 210 ). Subsequent studies have associated T prescriptions with no increase
