Androgens and Cardiovascular Disease in Men
KEYWORDS: men, pubmed, testosterone, cardiovascular, risk, associated, events, study, mortality, free, studies, treatment, cvd, lower, total


intramuscular T use not associated with risk for composite endpoint in men without or with prevalent CVD (HR=0.91, 95% CI 0.80-1.04; HR=0.98, 95% CI 0.89-1.09, respectively). MI=myocardial infarction, TRT=testosterone replacement therapy, MACE=major cardiovascular adverse event comprising death, non-fatal MI and non-fatal stroke, TIA=transient ischemic attack. A study by Wallis et al. (2016) found that T treatment was associated with lower mortality overall, but men who had T for a relatively shorter duration of exposure had increased risk, while men with longer duration of exposure had reduced risk ( 204 ). In a study by Cheetham et al. (2017) of men aged ≥40 years diagnosed with low T or with T <10.4 nmol/L, T treatment was associated with a reduced risk of major cardiovascular adverse events ( 205 ). Loo et al. (2019) reported contrary findings: analyzing a cohort of men with no evidence of HPT axis disease via the UK Clinical Practice Research Datalink, they associated use of testosterone with higher risk of a composite outcome of stroke, transient ischemic attack or MI, with the risk highest in the first six to 24 months of T use ( 206 ). In that study all-cause mortality risk was lower with current T use, and higher with past T use. Those findings are not supported by two more recent analyses, involving men with prior heart disease or with multiple comorbidities ( 207 , 208 ). In a study of male veterans with low T concentrations and a history of MI, men receiving T treatment who had a subsequent normal testosterone concentration had a lower risk of death from any cause compared to men receiving T treatment who had a subsequent low T concentration ( 207 ). Those men also had a lower risk of death compared with men who did not receive T treatment. Finally, in a cohort of 204,857 male veterans with a mean age of 60.9 years and 4.7 chronic medical conditions who were followed for 4.3 years, current transdermal T use was not associated with risk for the composite outcome of incident MI, ischemic stroke or venous thromboembolism in men without prevalent CVD ( 208 ). On the other hand, it was associated with lower risk in men with prevalent CVD. In that study, current intramuscular T use not associated with risk for the composite endpoint in men without or with prevalent CVD ( 208 ). In an earlier
