Androgens and Cardiovascular Disease in Men
KEYWORDS: men, pubmed, testosterone, cardiovascular, risk, associated, events, study, mortality, free, studies, treatment, cvd, lower, total


prevalent CVD. In that study, current intramuscular T use not associated with risk for the composite endpoint in men without or with prevalent CVD ( 208 ). In an earlier retrospective cohort study that compared the use of T gel with T injections, T injections were associated with greater risk of cardiovascular adverse events ( 212 ). Bearing in mind the limitations of non-randomized studies and the possibility of bias, and the absence of a control group not receiving T, an additional factor is that more than 90% of the T injections were T cypionate, enanthate or propionate ( 212 ), which are short acting formulations typically requiring fortnightly administration with marked fluctuations in blood concentrations. The analysis would not apply to long-acting depot injections of T undecanoate typically administered every 12 weeks, which provide more stable pharmacokinetics ( 128 ). It is worth noting in this context that a population-based case-control study (involving 19,215 patients with confirmed venous thromboembolism and 909,530 age-matched controls) found an increased risk of venous thromboembolism within the first six months of T treatment but not thereafter ( 213 ). By contrast a systematic review and meta-analysis including six RCTs (2,236 participants) and five observational studies (1,249,640 participants) found no evidence of an association between T treatment and venous thromboembolism ( 214 ). However, the authors of that study noted that the available RCT data might have had inadequate power to detect an increased risk. In summary, earlier findings associating T prescriptions with adverse cardiovascular outcomes were echoed in a more recent study. However, most studies do not show such adverse signals, and associated T use with lower risk of adverse cardiovascular events or mortality, including several recent large studies. There is a suggestion that T treatment which achieves normal T concentrations may relate to lower risk of cardiovascular events and mortality. Bearing in mind the limitations of these retrospective, observational and non-randomized studies, which cannot prove causality, the available data provide some reassurance but are far from definitive. Abuse of Androgenic Steroids Androgenic steroids can serve as appearance and performance-enhancing drugs and are abused by some competitive athletes, recreational sportspersons and body builders ( 1 , 215 , 216 ). The use/abuse of androgenic steroids occurs in contravention of medical advice and applicable sporting regulations, typically without medical supervision using unapproved formulations often in excessive doses ( 216 ). The use/abuse can be interspersed
