Androgens and Cardiovascular Disease in Men
KEYWORDS: men, pubmed, testosterone, cardiovascular, risk, associated, events, study, mortality, free, studies, treatment, cvd, lower, total


steroids occurs in contravention of medical advice and applicable sporting regulations, typically without medical supervision using unapproved formulations often in excessive doses ( 216 ). The use/abuse can be interspersed with periods of non-use. Adverse effects include suppression of the endogenous HPT axis, reduced spermatogenesis and impaired fertility, decreased testicular volume, hair loss and gynecomastia and are well-recognized ( 1 , 215 ). There is also an appreciation that long-term abuse results in cardiovascular toxicity in the form of myocardial dysfunction and accelerated coronary atherosclerosis ( 217 ). However, this study could be confounded as men who abuse androgenic steroids may also consume many other substances and the androgen preparations might have harmful contaminants. Abuse using pharmacological dosing of various products is very distinct from medically supervised T therapy aiming to achieve physiological circulating concentrations of T ( 128 ). Nevertheless, this is a reminder that excessive exposure to androgens carries the risk of harm ( 1 ). DISCUSSION Lessons from the Available Evidence Epidemiological data are consistent with a protective role for endogenous androgens against CVD. In some studies of middle-aged and older men, lower circulating concentrations of endogenous T are associated with higher incidence of cardiovascular events, particularly stroke. Lower circulating T and DHT concentrations have also been associated with higher cardiovascular mortality (discussed in sections 2.1-2.2). Potential mechanisms by which T could exert beneficial actions in the vasculature have been explored in experimental models. These include reduced cholesterol accumulation and modulation of inflammation (sections 3.1-3.4). Clinical studies have reported favorable effects of T treatment on angina symptoms and exercise tolerance, but its effect on subclinical atherosclerosis remains uncertain (sections 4.1-4.2). The T-Trials, T4DM and meta-analyses of existing T RCTs in general do not show any signal for cardiovascular adverse events (sections 5.1-5.2). Retrospective case-control studies have reported contrasting results but in general, men receiving T prescriptions appear to have lower risk of major cardiovascular events and lower mortality compared to men who did not receive T, particularly if T treatment was associated with subsequent normal concentrations of circulating T (section 6.1). It is important to bear in mind that there are contrasting findings, and beneficial associations of T with cardiovascular outcomes may be less evident in healthier middle-aged men. Therefore, epidemiological evidence and mechanistic data could be used to argue for an anti-atherogenic or a protective effect of T on the cardiovascular system, as could the majority
