Androgens and Cardiovascular Disease in Men
KEYWORDS: men, pubmed, testosterone, cardiovascular, risk, associated, events, study, mortality, free, studies, treatment, cvd, lower, total


middle-aged men. Therefore, epidemiological evidence and mechanistic data could be used to argue for an anti-atherogenic or a protective effect of T on the cardiovascular system, as could the majority of retrospective case-control studies. However, this remains to be proven in the context of prospective RCTs of T intervention. Gaps in the Current Evidence Base RCT data are lacking as to whether treatment of middle-aged and older men with T would reduce the risk of cardiovascular events. The T-Trials which used transdermal T gel over a 12-month intervention offer important evidence as to benefits of T treatment for sexual function, anemia and bone density in older men without apparent diseases of the HPT axis, who had lower circulating T concentrations compared with younger men and symptoms suggestive of (but not diagnostic for) androgen deficiency ( 174 , 176 ). T4DM demonstrated the benefit of T treatment to reduce the risk of type 2 diabetes in men at high risk, beyond the effects of a lifestyle intervention ( 175 ). T4DM also showed a beneficial effect of T treatment on sexual function, and on bone microarchitecture and density ( 175 , 218 ). The T-Trials and T4DM are also noteworthy for the absence of any adverse cardiovascular safety signal for T treatment in these populations of men ( 174 , 175 ). However, the findings of the T-Trials Cardiovascular sub-study regarding an increase in total coronary atheroma plaque volume, in men with substantial baseline atheromatous disease, require clarification ( 168 ). Major evidence gaps pertain to the effects of T on the cardiovascular system, as to whether T acts to slow development or progression of coronary or carotid atheromatous plaque in middle-aged and older men, in the differing contexts of either primary or secondary prevention for CVD. If the action of T is to reduce cholesterol accumulation, and to reduce inflammation and neointimal response to injury (sections 3.1-3.4) then these actions may have more impact to prevent or reduce progression of early atherosclerosis, rather than to reverse established disease. The related questions are whether T intervention in a primary prevention setting will reduce growth of coronary or carotid atheromatous plaque, or whether in a secondary prevention setting T intervention would influence the incidence of cardiovascular events. Another important question relates whether transdermal vs depot intramuscular (T undecanoate) formulations of T have similar or differing effects on the cardiovascular system. Neither T-Trials
