Androgens and Cardiovascular Disease in Men
KEYWORDS: men, pubmed, testosterone, cardiovascular, risk, associated, events, study, mortality, free, studies, treatment, cvd, lower, total


the incidence of cardiovascular events. Another important question relates whether transdermal vs depot intramuscular (T undecanoate) formulations of T have similar or differing effects on the cardiovascular system. Neither T-Trials nor T4DM had any cardiovascular endpoints and will not answer the question as to whether T exerts beneficial, neutral or adverse effects on the cardiovascular system. The US multicenter RCT “A study to evaluate the effect of testosterone replacement therapy (TRT) on the incidence of major adverse cardiovascular events (MACE) and efficacy measures in hypogonadal men (TRAVERSE)” commenced recruitment in 2018 of men aged 45-80 years with T <10.4 nmol/L (<300 ng/dl) with evidence of CVD or at increased risk for CVD ( 195 ). TRAVERSE was designed as a cardiovascular safety study with the endpoint of myocardial infarction, stroke or death due to cardiovascular causes, aimed to enroll 6,000 men randomized to transdermal T gel or placebo, and is planned to complete in 2022. TRAVERSE will also examine outcomes of prostate cancer, sexual function, bone fractures, depression, anemia and diabetes ( 195 ). TRAVERSE will address the issue of the cardiovascular safety of T treatment in what would largely be a secondary prevention setting. This leaves unanswered the question of whether T intervention in a primary prevention setting would reduce development or progression of coronary or carotid atheroma. Application to Clinical Practice Current clinical practice recommendations prioritize the identification of men with classical or pathological hypogonadism who are androgen deficient due to diseases of the hypothalamus, pituitary or testes ( 6 , 7 ). In such men, T treatment consistently resolves symptoms and signs of androgen deficiency ( 6 , 7 , 19 ). In men with classical or pathological hypogonadism the benefits of T treatment likely outweigh possible cardiovascular risks. In any case, individualized assessment and management of cardiovascular risk factors and disease should be part of routine clinical care. Of note, the US regulatory agency required labelling to warn of a possible increased risk of cardiovascular events with T, but the European regulatory agency concluded there was no consistent evidence of increased risk of coronary heart disease with T therapy ( 19 ). Until more evidence is available, it may be prudent to adopt a degree of caution in older men who are frail or who have known CVD, and to optimize management of cardiovascular risk factors and disease before starting T treatment. Treatment should aim for
