Androgens and Cardiovascular Disease in Men
KEYWORDS: men, pubmed, testosterone, cardiovascular, risk, associated, events, study, mortality, free, studies, treatment, cvd, lower, total


caution in older men who are frail or who have known CVD, and to optimize management of cardiovascular risk factors and disease before starting T treatment. Treatment should aim for physiological replacement of T using approved formulations and avoid excessive doses ( 128 ). It is beyond the scope of this chapter to discuss controversies regarding the management of men with low endogenous T concentrations due to obesity or presence of systemic illnesses where the HPT axis is intact, but its activity may be suppressed ( 19 , 31 ). However, it is worth noting that in men where a clear indication for T treatment is lacking, the risks and benefits of an intervention need to be considered with special care. Further research is needed to determine whether and how T treatment might impact on the risk of CVD in men. CONCLUSIONS Some epidemiological studies have associated higher circulating concentrations (but within the normal range) of endogenous androgens with lower risk of cardiovascular events and mortality. In men with pathological hypogonadism, the benefits of T treatment likely outweigh putative risks of cardiovascular adverse events. However, the effects of exogenous androgens in the form of T therapy seeking to maintain physiological circulating androgen concentrations on the cardiovascular system remain uncertain. Additional information will be forthcoming once the results of the TRAVERSE trial are known. Current clinical care of hypogonadal men should recognize this evidence gap and allow for individualized assessment and management of pre-existing cardiovascular risk factors and disease in men requiring T therapy. Well-designed and adequately powered RCTs are needed to clarify whether T treatment has beneficial, neutral or adverse effects on the cardiovascular system in the general population of middle-aged and older men. REFERENCES 1. Handelsman DJ. Androgen physiology, pharmacology, use and misuse. In www ​.endotext.org , version of October 5, 2020, published by MDTEXT.COM, Inc., South Dartmouth, MA 02748. 2. Lakshman KM, Kaplan B, Travison TG, et al. The effects of injected testosterone dose and age on the conversion of testosterone to estradiol and dihydrotestosterone in young and older men. J Clin Endocrinol Metab. 2010; 95 :3955–3964. [ PMC free article : PMC2913038 ] [ PubMed : 20534765 ] 3. Finkelstein JS, Whitcomb RW, O’Dea LStL, Longcope C, Schoenfeld DA, Crowley WF. Sex steroid control of gonadotrophin secretion in the human male. I. Effects of testosterone administration in normal and gonadotrophin-releasing hormone-deficient men. J Clin Endocrinol Metab. 1991;
