Androgen Physiology, Pharmacology, Use and Misuse
KEYWORDS: testosterone, androgen, men, effects, androgens, therapy, levels, clinical, treatment, prostate, male, blood, replacement, circulating, disease


ABSTRACT Testosterone, together with its bioactive metabolites dihydrotestosterone and estradiol, determines the development and maintenance of male sexual differentiation and the characteristic mature masculine features. Defects in androgen action at various epochs of life produce characteristic clinical features. From an outline of the biochemistry and physiology of androgen action, the pathophysiology of defects in androgen action are derived and defined. The pharmacology of testosterone and its applications to replacement therapy for pathological hypogonadism as well as for pharmacological androgen therapy based on using either testosterone or synthetic androgens is described. For complete coverage of all related areas of Endocrinology, please visit our on-line FREE web-text, WWW.ENDOTEXT.ORG . INTRODUCTION An androgen, or male sex hormone, is defined as a substance capable of developing and maintaining masculine characteristics in reproductive tissues (notably the genital tract, secondary sexual characteristics, and fertility) and contributing to the anabolic status of somatic tissues. Testosterone together with its potent metabolite, dihydrotestosterone (DHT), are the principal androgens in the circulation of mature male mammals. Testosterone has a characteristic four ring C18 steroid structure and is synthesized mainly by Leydig cells, located in the interstitium of the testis between the seminiferous tubules. Leydig cell secretion creates a very high local concentration of testosterone in the testis as well as a steep downhill concentration gradient into the bloodstream maintaining circulating testosterone levels which exert characteristic androgenic effects on distant androgen sensitive target tissues. The classical biological effects of androgens are primarily mediated by binding to the androgen receptor, a member of the steroid nuclear receptor superfamily encoded by a single gene located on the X chromosome, which then leads to a characteristic patterns of gene expression by regulating the transcription of an array of androgen responsive target genes. This physiological definition of an androgen in the whole animal is now complemented by a biochemical and pharmacological definition of an androgen as a chemical that effectively competes with testosterone binding to the androgen receptor ( 1 ) to stimulate post-receptor functions in isolated cells or cell-free systems. In addition, non-genomic mechanisms of androgen action involving rapid, membrane-mediated nontranscriptional processes in the cytoplasm have been described but not yet fully characterized ( 2 - 4 ). Testosterone is used clinically at physiologic doses for androgen replacement therapy and, at typically higher doses, testosterone or synthetic androgens based on its structure are also used for pharmacologic androgen therapy. The principal goal of androgen
