Androgen Physiology, Pharmacology, Use and Misuse
KEYWORDS: testosterone, androgen, men, effects, androgens, therapy, levels, clinical, treatment, prostate, male, blood, replacement, circulating, disease


together with steroidogenic acute regulatory protein ( 18 ) and translocator protein ( 19 ), which govern cholesterol transport across the mitochondrial membrane. All subsequent enzymatic steps are located in the Leydig cell endoplasmic reticulum. The high testicular production rate of testosterone creates both high local concentrations (up to 1 μg/g tissue, ~100 times higher than blood concentrations) and rapid turnover (200 times per day) of intratesticular testosterone ( 20 ); however, the precise physical state in which such high concentrations of intratesticular testosterone and related steroids exist in the testis remains to be clarified. Secretion Testosterone is secreted at adult levels during three epochs of male life: transiently during the first trimester of intrauterine life (coinciding with masculine genital tract differentiation), during early neonatal life as the perinatal androgen surge (with still undefined physiologic significance), and continually after puberty to maintain virilization. The dramatic somatic changes of male puberty are triggered by the striking increases in testicular secretion of testosterone, rising ~30-fold over levels which prevail in pre-pubertal children and in women or castrate men originating from extra-testicular sources. After middle age, there are gradual decreases in circulating testosterone as well as increases in gonadotrophin and sex hormone–binding globulin (SHBG) levels ( 21 , 22 ) with these trends being absent till late old age among men who remain in excellent health ( 23 , 24 ) but exaggerated by the coexistence of chronic illness ( 22 , 25 - 27 ). In addition there are temporal trends including increasing prevalence of obesity ( 28 - 30 ) and artefactual method-specific changes in testosterone immunoassays that deviate from reference mass spectrometry-based measurements ( 31 , 32 ). These age-related changes from the accumulation of chronic disease states are functionally attributable to impaired hypothalamic regulation of testicular function ( 33 - 36 ), as well as Leydig cell attrition ( 9 ) and dysfunction ( 37 - 39 ) and atherosclerosis of testicular vessels ( 40 ). As a result, the ageing hypothalamic-pituitary-testicular axis progressively increasingly operates with multi-level functional defects that, in concert, lead to reduced circulating testosterone levels during male ageing ( 41 , 42 ). Testosterone, like other lipophilic steroids secreted from steroidogenic tissues, leaves the testis by diffusing down a concentration gradient across cell membranes into the bloodstream, with smaller amounts appearing in the lymphatics and tubule fluid. After male puberty, over 95% of circulating testosterone
