Androgen Physiology, Pharmacology, Use and Misuse
KEYWORDS: testosterone, androgen, men, effects, androgens, therapy, levels, clinical, treatment, prostate, male, blood, replacement, circulating, disease


secretion ( 56 ) and postural influence on hepatic blood flow ( 49 ). The major known determinants of testosterone metabolic clearance rate are circulating SHBG concentration ( 57 ), diurnal rhythmn ( 51 ) and postural effects on hepatic blood flow ( 49 , 51 ). Major genetic influences on circulating testosterone levels mediated via changes in SHBG ( 58 - 61 ) and other mechanisms ( 50 ) have been described as well as environmental ( 28 , 29 , 51 ) factors. Transport Testosterone circulates in blood at concentrations greater than its aqueous solubility by binding to circulating plasma proteins. The most important is SHBG, a high affinity but low capacity binding protein ( 62 ), and other low affinity binding proteins include albumin, corticosteroid binding globulin ( 63 ) and α 1 acid glycoprotein ( 64 ). Testosterone binds avidly to circulating SHBG, a homodimer of two glycoprotein subunits each comprising 373 amino acids with 3 glycosylation sites, 2 N-linked and 1 O-linked and containing a single high-affinity steroid binding site ( 65 ). The two binding sites in the homodimer display dynamic, co-operative binding affinities upon sequential binding of an androgen ( 62 ). The affinity of SHBG for binding testosterone is subject to genetic polymorphisms ( 66 ) but is not altered by acquired liver disease ( 67 ). It remains unknown as to whether it is influenced by other chronic diseases or pregnancy (when circulating levels increase). SHBG is secreted into the circulation by human, but not rodent, liver as well as into the seminiferous tubules of the testis by rodent, but not human, Sertoli cells where it is known as testicular androgen-binding protein ( 68 ), and by the placenta where it may contribute to the rise in blood SHBG during pregnancy ( 69 ). As a product of hepatic secretion, circulating SHBG levels are particularly influenced by first-pass effects on the liver of oral drugs including sex steroids. Circulating SHBG (and thereby total testosterone) concentrations are characteristically decreased (androgens, glucocorticoids) or increased (estrogens, thyroxine) by supraphysiologic hormone concentrations at the liver such as produced by oral administration (first pass effects) or by high-dose parenteral injections of androgens. In contrast, endogenous sex steroids and parenteral (non-oral) administration, which maintain predominantly physiologic circulating hormone concentrations (transdermal, depot implants), have minimal effects on blood SHBG levels ( 70 , 71 ) ( 72 ).
