Androgen Physiology, Pharmacology, Use and Misuse
KEYWORDS: testosterone, androgen, men, effects, androgens, therapy, levels, clinical, treatment, prostate, male, blood, replacement, circulating, disease


on cell surface membranes that can mediate receptor-mediated cellular uptake of SHBG loaded with testosterone by endocytosis ( 87 , 88 ) and might influence tissue androgen action ( 89 , 90 ). Consequently, lacking a physiological basis for the free hormone hypothesis ( 91 ) and with empirical evidence in its favor scarce and speculative, it is refuted by intensive, prospective clinical evaluation ( 92 ). Hence, the biological significance of partitioning circulating testosterone into these derived fractions remains to be firmly established and its clinical application is unknown or possibly misleading. Furthermore, direct measurement of free testosterone requires laborious, manual methods only available in research or specialist pathology laboratories. Where available, they are costly and lack any external quality control programs or validated reference ranges. As a result, calculations purporting to replicate dialysis-based measurements are often substituted for direct measurements. These formulae come in two different formats – equilibrium binding equations requiring assumptions on testosterone binding stoichiometry and arbitrary plug-in binding affinity estimates (Sodergard ( 93 ), Vermeulen ( 94 ), Zakharov ( 95 )) or assumption-free empirical methods (Ly( 96 , 97 ), Nanjee-Wheeler ( 98 )) calibrated directly to dialysis-based laboratory measurements. Direct comparison has proven that empirical equations are more accurate compared with laboratory dialysis-based measurements ( 95 , 96 , 99 , 100 ). Furthermore, calculations of free testosterone using any formula do not contribute significant to mortality or morbidity prognosis for older men’s health beyond accurate measurement of serum testosterone by liquid chromatography-mass spectrometry ( 92 ). Measurement Measuring blood testosterone concentration is an important part of the clinical evaluation of androgen status and for confirming a clinical and pathological diagnosis of androgen deficiency. The circulating testosterone concentration is a surrogate measure for whole body testosterone production rate and the inferred impact of androgens on tissues. However, the reliance on a spot measurement of blood testosterone concentration neglects changes in the whole body metabolic clearance rate as well as other factors influencing net androgen effects at tissue levels. These include the efficiency of blood testosterone transfer into adjacent tissues during capillary transit as well as pre-receptor, receptor and post-receptor factors influencing the testosterone activation, inactivation and action in that tissue. Circulating testosterone levels are also dynamic and feature distinct circhoral and diurnal rhythms. Circhoral LH pulsatility entrains some pulsatility in blood testosterone levels ( 36 ) although the buffering effects of the circulating
