Androgen Physiology, Pharmacology, Use and Misuse
KEYWORDS: testosterone, androgen, men, effects, androgens, therapy, levels, clinical, treatment, prostate, male, blood, replacement, circulating, disease


are also dynamic and feature distinct circhoral and diurnal rhythms. Circhoral LH pulsatility entrains some pulsatility in blood testosterone levels ( 36 ) although the buffering effects of the circulating steroid-binding proteins dampens the pulsatility of blood testosterone concentrations. This is illustrated by comparison with the strikingly pulsatile patterns of circulating testosterone in rodents which lack hepatic SHBG gene expression thereby having no circulating SHBG to buffer testosterone fluctuations ( 101 , 102 ). Diurnal patterns of morning peak testosterone levels and nadir levels in the mid-afternoon are evident in younger and healthy older men ( 54 ) but lost in some ageing men ( 55 ). Consequently, it is conventional practice to standardize testosterone measurements to morning blood samples on at least 2 different days. The advent of steroid radioimmunoassay in the 1970’s made it feasible to measure blood testosterone concentrations affordably with speed and sensitivity. However, cross-reacting steroids and non-specific matrix effects are limitations on modern direct (non-extraction) testosterone immunoassays relative to the high specificity of mass spectrometry-based methods, the reference method ( 103 ). In the next decades, the steep rise in demand for testosterone measurements in clinical practice and research led to method simplications to integrate steroid immunoassays into automated immunoassay platforms. These changes, notably eliminating preparative solvent extraction and chromatography as well as introducing bulky non-authentic tracers, undermine the specificity of unextracted testosterone immunoassays ( 104 ), particularly at the low circulating testosterone levels such as in women and children ( 105 ). Even at the higher testosterone concentrations in men, commercial testosterone immunoassays demonstrate wide discrepancies due to method-specific bias ( 32 ). New generation, bench-top mass spectrometers with higher sensitivity and throughput now overcome these limitations of testosterone immunoassays. Assays to measure blood “free” testosterone levels directly in serum samples have been developed using tracer reference methods of equilibrium dialysis ( 106 , 107 ) or ultrafiltration ( 108 , 109 ) or calculated various formulae based on immunoassay measurement of total testosterone and SHBG ( 93 , 110 ). Similarly, another derived testosterone measure, bioavailable testosterone, is defined as the non-SHBG bound testosterone (in effect the combination of albumin-bound plus unbound testosterone) and can also be measured directly or calculated by a formula from total testosterone and SHBG and albumin measurements. Some estimates of free testosterone, notably the direct analog assay ( 111 , 112 ) and the free testosterone index (
