Androgen Physiology, Pharmacology, Use and Misuse
KEYWORDS: testosterone, androgen, men, effects, androgens, therapy, levels, clinical, treatment, prostate, male, blood, replacement, circulating, disease


formula from total testosterone and SHBG and albumin measurements. Some estimates of free testosterone, notably the direct analog assay ( 111 , 112 ) and the free testosterone index ( 113 ) are invalid for use in men. As measurement of “free” or “bioavailable” testosterone is laborious, calculational formulae with limited validation ( 93 , 110 , 114 ) have been widely used; however, these estimates for “free” ( 115 - 117 ) or “bioavailable”( 118 , 119 ) testosterone are not accurate in large scale evaluation. Overall, the clinical utility of various derived (“free”, “bioavailable”) measures of testosterone arising from the unproven free hormone hypothesis remain to be established; consequently, they have minimal involvement in consensus clinical guidelines for diagnosis and management of androgen deficiency. Metabolism After testicular secretion, a small proportion of testosterone undergoes activation to two bioactive metabolites, estradiol and DHT, whereas the bulk of secreted testosterone undergoes inactivation by hepatic phase I and II metabolism to inactive oxidized and conjugated metabolites for urinary and/or biliary excretion ( figure 2 ) ( 120 ). FIGURE 2. Pathways of Testosterone Action. In men, most (>95%) testosterone is produced under LH stimulation through its specific receptor, a heptahelical G-protein coupled receptor located on the surface membrane of the steroidogenic Leydig cells. The daily production of testosterone (5-7 mg) is disposed along one of four major pathways. The direct pathway of testosterone action is characteristic of skeletal muscle in which testosterone itself binds to and activates the androgen receptor. In such tissues there is little metabolism of testosterone to biologically active metabolites. The amplification pathway is characteristic of the prostate and hair follicle in which testosterone is converted by the type 2 5α reductase enzyme into the more potent androgen, dihydrotestosterone. This pathway produces local tissue-based enhancement of androgen action in specific tissues according to where this pathway is operative. The local amplification mechanism was the basis for the development of prostate-selective inhibitors of androgen action via 5α reductase inhibition, the forerunner being finasteride. The diversification pathway of testosterone action allows testosterone to modulate its biological effects via estrogenic effects that often differ from androgen receptor mediated effects. The diversification pathway, characteristic of bone and brain, involves the conversion of testosterone to estradiol by the enzyme aromatase which then interacts with the ERs α and/or β. Finally, the inactivation pathway occurs mainly in the liver with oxidation and conjugation to
