Androgen Physiology, Pharmacology, Use and Misuse
KEYWORDS: testosterone, androgen, men, effects, androgens, therapy, levels, clinical, treatment, prostate, male, blood, replacement, circulating, disease


testosterone to estradiol by the enzyme aromatase which then interacts with the ERs α and/or β. Finally, the inactivation pathway occurs mainly in the liver with oxidation and conjugation to biologically inactive metabolites that are excreted by the liver into the bile and by the kidney into the urine. The amplification pathway converts ~4% of circulating testosterone to the more potent, pure androgen, DHT ( 50 , 52 ). DHT has higher binding affinity to ( 121 ) and 3-10 time greater molar potency in transactivation ( 122 - 124 ) of the androgen receptor relative to testosterone. Testosterone is converted to the most potent natural androgen DHT by the 5α-reductase enzyme that originates from two distinct genes (I and II) ( 125 ). Type 1 5α-reductase is expressed in the liver, kidney, skin, and brain, whereas type 2 5α-reductase is characteristically expressed strongly in the prostate but also at lower levels in the skin (hair follicles) and liver ( 125 ). Congenital 5α-reductase deficiency due to mutation of the type 2 enzyme protein ( 126 ) leads to a distinctive form of genital ambiguity causing undermasculinization of genetic males, who may be raised as females, but in whom puberty leads to marked virilization including phallic growth, normal testis development and spermatogenesis ( 127 ) and bone density ( 128 ) as well as, occasionally, masculine gender reorientation ( 129 ). Prostate development remains rudimentary ( 130 ) and sparse body hair without balding is characteristic ( 131 ). This remarkable natural history reflects the dependence of urogenital sinus derivative tissues on strong expression of 5α-reductase as a local androgen amplification mechanism for their full development. This amplification mechanism for androgen action was exploited in developing azasteroid 5α-reductase inhibitors ( 132 ). As the type 2 5α-reductase enzyme results in over 95% of testosterone entering the prostate being converted to the more potent androgen DHT ( 133 ), blockade of that isoenzyme (the expression of which is largely restricted to the prostate) confines the inhibition of testosterone action to the prostate (and other urogenital sinus tissue derivatives) without blocking extra-prostatic androgen action. DHT circulates at ~10% of blood testosterone concentrations, due to spillover from the prostate ( 134 , 135 ) and nonprostatic sources ( 136 ). Whereas genetic mutations disrupting type 2 5α-reductase produce disorders of urogenital sinus derived tissues in men and mice ( 137 ), genetic inactivation
