Androgen Physiology, Pharmacology, Use and Misuse
KEYWORDS: testosterone, androgen, men, effects, androgens, therapy, levels, clinical, treatment, prostate, male, blood, replacement, circulating, disease


) and nonprostatic sources ( 136 ). Whereas genetic mutations disrupting type 2 5α-reductase produce disorders of urogenital sinus derived tissues in men and mice ( 137 ), genetic inactivation of type 1 5α-reductase has no male phenotype in mice and no mutations of the human type 1 enzyme have been reported. Whether this reflects the type I enzyme having an unexpected phenotype or an evolutionarily conserved vital function, remains unclear. A third 5α-reductase enzyme (type 3, SRD5A3) has been described ( 138 ) but is widely expressed in human tissues, lacks steroidal 5α-reductase activity and has other roles in fatty acid metabolism ( 139 ). An important issue is whether eliminating intraprostatic androgen amplification by inhibition of 5α-reductase can prevent prostate disease. Two major randomized, placebo-controlled studies of men at high risk of (but without diagnosed) prostate cancer have both shown that oral 5α reductase inhibitors (finasteride, dutasteride) reduced the incidence of low-grade prostate cancer as well as prevalence of lower urinary tract symptoms from benign prostate hyperplasia( 140 , 141 ). The Prostate Cancer Prevention Trial (PCPT) was a major 10-year chemoprevention study randomizing 18,882 men over 55 years of age without known prostate disease to daily treatment with 5 mg finasteride (inhibitor of type 2 5α reductase) or placebo observed a cumulative 25% reduction after 7 years of treatment in early stage, organ-confined, low-grade prostate cancer. Another study randomized over 8231 men aged 50-75 years with serum PSA <10 ng/mL and negative prostate biopsy to either daily treatment with 0.5 mg dutasteride (inhibitor of both type 1 and 2 5α reductases) or placebo for 4 years observed a 23% reduction in incidence of biopsy-proven prostate cancer. Although neither study was designed to determine mortality benefit, both showed no reduction in higher grade, but still organ-confined, cancers. Although this stage selectivity may be explained by diagnostic biases due to drug effects on prostate size and histology ( 142 , 143 ), registration for chemoprevention of prostate cancer was refused by FDA ( 144 ). Overall, the evidence indicates that 5α-reductase inhibition reduces the incidence of early stage, screen-detected and organ-confined prostate cancers but there is insufficient evidence that such treatment reduces mortality from advanced (metastatic) prostate cancer. Whether or not preventive use of prostatic 5α-reductase inhibition in men with high prostate cancer risk proves warranted, novel synthetic androgens refractory to 5α-reductive amplification may have advantages for clinical development.
