Androgen Physiology, Pharmacology, Use and Misuse
KEYWORDS: testosterone, androgen, men, effects, androgens, therapy, levels, clinical, treatment, prostate, male, blood, replacement, circulating, disease


or not preventive use of prostatic 5α-reductase inhibition in men with high prostate cancer risk proves warranted, novel synthetic androgens refractory to 5α-reductive amplification may have advantages for clinical development. The diversification pathway of androgen action involves testosterone being converted by the enzyme aromatase to estradiol ( 145 ) to activate estrogen receptors (ERs) (also see Endotext, Endocrinology of Male Reproduction, Chapter entitled Estrogens and Male Reproduction ). Although this involves only a small proportion (~0.2%) of testosterone output, the higher molar potency of estradiol (~100-fold higher vs testosterone) makes aromatization a potentially important mechanism to diversify androgen action via ER-mediated effects in tissues where aromatase is expressed. The diversification pathway is governed by the cytochrome P-450 enzyme (CYP19) aromatase ( 145 , 146 ). In eugonadal men, most (~80%) circulating estradiol is derived from extratesticular aromatization ( 53 ). The biological importance of aromatization in male physiology was first recognized in the early 1970’s ( 147 ) when the local conversion of testosterone to estradiol within the neural tissues was identified and subseqeuntly shown to have an important role in mediating testosterone action, including negative feedback as well as activational and organisational effects, on the brain ( 148 ). More recently the importance of local aromatization in testosterone action has been reinforced by the striking developmental defects in bone and other tissues of men and mice with genetic inactivation of aromatase, leading to complete estrogen deficiency due to genetic inactivation of the aromatase ( 149 ). This phenotype is also strikingly similar to that of a man ( 150 ) and mice ( 150 ) with genetic mutations inactivating ERα. Furthermore, men with aromatase deficiency treated with exogenous estradioll or other estrogens also demonstrated significant bone maturation. By contrast, genetic inactivation of ERβ has no effect on male mice ( 151 ) and no human mutations have been reported. Aromatase expression in tissue such as bone ( 152 ) and brain ( 148 ) may influence development and function by variation in aromatization that modulates local tissue-specific androgen action. By contrast other tissues, like mature liver and muscle, express little or no aromatase. Nevertheless, despite the importance of aromatization for male bone physiology, other observations indicate that androgens acting via androgen receptors have important additional direct effects on bone. These include the greater mass of bone in men despite very low circulating estradiol concentrations compared with young women (
