Androgen Physiology, Pharmacology, Use and Misuse
KEYWORDS: testosterone, androgen, men, effects, androgens, therapy, levels, clinical, treatment, prostate, male, blood, replacement, circulating, disease


via androgen receptors have important additional direct effects on bone. These include the greater mass of bone in men despite very low circulating estradiol concentrations compared with young women ( 153 ), the failure of androgen insensitive rats lacking functional androgen receptors but normal estradiol and ERs to maintain bone mass of normal males ( 154 ) and the ability of nonaromatizable androgens to increase bone mass in estrogen-deficient women ( 155 , 156 ). Testosterone action on bone and in the brain cannot be accounted for solely as a prohormone for local estradiol production (and action via estrogen receptors α and/or β) and androgen receptor mediated effects are required to manifest the full spectrum of testosterone effects on bone ( 157 , 158 ) and in the brain ( 159 ). Conflicting evidence is available about the need for aromatization to mediate the effects of testosterone on male sexual function. One study using aromatase inhibitor-induced estrogen deficiency showed partial dependence ( 160 ) whereas another using DHT-induced estrogen deficiency showing no requirement of male sexual function for aromatization ( 161 ). Further studies are needed to fully understand the significance of aromatization in maintaining androgen action in mature male animals ( 162 ). Testosterone is metabolized to inactive metabolites in the liver, kidney, gut, muscle, and adipose tissue. Inactivation is predominantly by hepatic oxidases (phase I metabolism), notably cytochrome P-450 3A family ( 163 ) leading ultimately to oxidation of most oxygen moieties followed by hepatic conjugation to glucuronides (phase II metabolism), which are rendered sufficiently hydrophilic for renal excretion. Uridine diphospho (UDP) glucuronosyl transferase (UGT) enzymes UGT2B7, UGT2B15 and UGT2B17 catalyze most phase II metabolism (glucuronidation) of testosterone with 2B17 being quantitatively the most important ( 164 ). A functional polymorphism of UGT 2B17, a deletion mutation several times more frequent in Asian than European populations ( 165 ), explains the concordant population difference in testosterone to epitestosterone (T/E) ratio ( 165 ), a World AntiDoping Agency-approved urine screening test for testosterone doping in sport, which constitutes an ethnic differential, false negative in surveillance for exogenous testosterone doping ( 166 ). The metabolic clearance rate of testosterone is reduced by increases in circulating SHBG levels ( 57 ) or decreases in hepatic blood flow (e.g. posture) ( 49 ) or liver function. Theoretically, drugs that influence hepatic oxidase activity could alter metabolic inactivation of testosterone, but empirical examples
