Androgen Physiology, Pharmacology, Use and Misuse
KEYWORDS: testosterone, androgen, men, effects, androgens, therapy, levels, clinical, treatment, prostate, male, blood, replacement, circulating, disease


or decreases in hepatic blood flow (e.g. posture) ( 49 ) or liver function. Theoretically, drugs that influence hepatic oxidase activity could alter metabolic inactivation of testosterone, but empirical examples of sufficient magnitude to influence clinical practice are rare. Rapid hepatic metabolic inactivation of testosterone leads to both low oral bioavailability ( 167 , 168 ) and short duration of action when injected parenterally ( 169 ). To achieve sustained androgen replacement, these limitations dictate the need to deliver testosterone via parenteral depot products (e.g., injectable testosterone esters, testosterone implants, transdermal testosterone) or oral delivery systems that either bypass hepatic portal absorption (buccal ( 170 , 171 ), sublingual ( 170 , 172 ), gut lymphatic ( 173 )) or use synthetic androgens with substituents rendering them resistant to first pass hepatic inactivation ( 174 ). Regulation During sexual differentiation in early intrauterine life, the testosterone required for masculine sexual differentiation is secreted by fetal Leydig cells. The regulation of this fetal Leydig cell testosterone secretion appears to differ between species. Higher primate and equine placenta secrete a chorionic gonadotropin during early fetal life ( 175 ) that may drive fetal human Leydig cell steroidogenesis ( 176 ) at the relevant time. By contrast, in subprimate mammals male sexual differentiation occurs without expression of any placental gonadotropin and prior to the time when pituitary gonadotropin secretion starts so that fetal Leydig cell testosterone secretion may be autonomous of gonadotropin stimulation during fetal development of most mammalian species ( 177 ). Puberty is a complex series of maturational events originating during fetal life but completing only during adolescence. Recent genetic studies have enlightened the understanding of the physiology of puberty and its timing without yet identifying the ultimate trigger that initiates puberty. All components of the hypothalamo-pituitary testicular (HPT) axis are established during fetal life and its first activation is during the neonatal period manifested as a transient surge lasting several months in circulating testosterone (“mini-puberty”) reaching adult male levels and creating androgen imprinting in non-reproductive tissues. Following the neonatal surge, the HPT axis activity becomes quiescent during a decade of childhood under the restraint of mechanisms revealed by recent genetic studies to involve activities of at least four genes. These studies have identified premature (precocious) onset of puberty arising from inactivating mutations of makorin ring finger protein 3 (MKRN3) ( 178 ) and delta-like homolog 1 (DLK1) ( 179 )
