Androgen Physiology, Pharmacology, Use and Misuse
KEYWORDS: testosterone, androgen, men, effects, androgens, therapy, levels, clinical, treatment, prostate, male, blood, replacement, circulating, disease


studies have identified premature (precocious) onset of puberty arising from inactivating mutations of makorin ring finger protein 3 (MKRN3) ( 178 ) and delta-like homolog 1 (DLK1) ( 179 ) as well as activating mutations of kisspeptin (KISS1) and its receptor (KISSR1) ( 180 ) indicating that these genes are involved in the mechanism of the childhood restraint of puberty. Alleviation of this restraint mechanism at the end of childhood unleashes the hormonal cascade of puberty. Although the ultimate trigger remains elusive, its activation initiates the timely onset of mature patterns of pulsatile GnRH secretion. This involves a complex and still poorly understood integration of a cascade of over 50 genes/proteins ( 180 , 181 ). It is known that monogenic mutations in GnRH receptor, kisspeptin (KISS1 and its receptor), neurokinin B (TAC3 and its receptor), FGF8 or FGF17 and their FGFR1 receptor, prokineticin-2 (PROK) and its receptor (PROKR2) as well as compound heterozygotes and oligogenic inheritance of combinations of known mutated alleles disrupt the normal timing of puberty. Variants include reversible forms of gonadotropin deficiency, and this growing spectrum of underlying genetic susceptibilities probably overlaps and accounts for the variability in timing of puberty onset in the community. Pulsatile hypothalamic GnRH secretion is the final common pathway driving pituitary gonadotrophin secretion that leads to testicular growth and maturation resulting in completion of spermatogenesis and steroidogenesis to produce adult male circulating testosterone concentrations. This results in testicular growth, the earliest and most salient external manifestation of male puberty, being initiated between 9 and 14 years of age with earlier onset defined as precocious and later onset as delayed puberty. The timing of puberty is under strong but complex genetic control with strong patterns detected in familial, twin and community studies ( 182 - 187 ). Disorders in this complex mechanism are relatively common with delayed puberty evident in 2% of adolescents although precocious puberty is rare with a frequency between 1:5000-10,000 involving only 10-20% in males ( 181 , 188 ). The still mysterious suprahypothalamic process initiating puberty involves a developmental clock and multiple permissive processes ( 189 , 190 ) that lift the central neuroendocrine restraint on the final common pathway that drives reproductive function in the mature male – the episodic secretion of gonadotropin-releasing hormone (GnRH) from hypothalamic neurons ( 56 ). Various explanatory theories including the gonadostat, somatometer ( 191 ), neurally-driven changes in GABAergic inhibition and
