Androgen Physiology, Pharmacology, Use and Misuse
KEYWORDS: testosterone, androgen, men, effects, androgens, therapy, levels, clinical, treatment, prostate, male, blood, replacement, circulating, disease


– the episodic secretion of gonadotropin-releasing hormone (GnRH) from hypothalamic neurons ( 56 ). Various explanatory theories including the gonadostat, somatometer ( 191 ), neurally-driven changes in GABAergic inhibition and glutaminergic stimulation ( 192 ), triggering by kisspeptin-1 secretion and activating its receptor GPR54 ( 193 , 194 ) and epigenetic factors ( 195 ) are proposed to explain the restraint and resurgence of the hypothalamic GnRH pulse generator without a comprehensive picture having yet emerged ( 190 ). Hypothalamic GnRH neurons are functional at birth but, after the perinatal androgen surge, remain tonically suppressed during infantile life. Puberty is initiated by a maturation process that awakens the dormant hypothalamic GnRH neurons to unleash mature cirhoral patterns of pulsatile GnRH secretion which in turn entrains pulsatile LH secretion from pituitary gonadotropes. Initially this resurgence of pulsatile GnRH and LH secretion occurs mainly during sleep ( 196 ) but eventually extends throughout the day with a persisting association with an underlying diurnal rhythmn. The timing and tempo of male puberty is under tight genetic control, encompassing nutrition influences on body weight and composition ( 185 ), with a correspondingly growing number of genetic causes of delayed puberty identified ( 197 ). Environmental factors that optimize growth (eg high socio-economic status with better nutrition and health care) may explain secular trends to earlier puberty with increased statural growth ( 198 , 199 ) whereas claims that exposure to hormonally active chemical pollution contributes to earlier puberty ( 200 ) remain speculative ( 201 ) and not supported by available evidence in boys ( 202 , 203 ). Very large UK population-based studies, using voice breaking as a self-reported marker of male puberty, show that both early and late male puberty are associated with a wide-range of adverse health outcomes ( 204 , 205 ). After birth, testicular testosterone output is primarily regulated by the pulsatile pattern of pituitary LH secretion. This is driven by the episodic secretion of GnRH from hypothalamic neurons into the pituitary portal bloodstream providing a direct short circuit route to pituitary gonadotropes. Under this regular by intermittent GnRH stimulation, pituitary gonadotrophs secrete LH in high amplitude pulses at ~60-90 min intervals with minimal intervening LH secretion between pulses with the net effect that circulating LH levels are distinctly pulsatile. This pulsatile pattern of trophic hormone exposure maintains Leydig cell sensitivity to LH to maintain mature male patterns of
