Androgen Physiology, Pharmacology, Use and Misuse
KEYWORDS: testosterone, androgen, men, effects, androgens, therapy, levels, clinical, treatment, prostate, male, blood, replacement, circulating, disease


with the net effect that circulating LH levels are distinctly pulsatile. This pulsatile pattern of trophic hormone exposure maintains Leydig cell sensitivity to LH to maintain mature male patterns of testicular testosterone secretion ( 206 ). LH stimulates Leydig cell steroidogenesis via increasing substrate (cholesterol) availability and activating rate-limiting steroidogenic enzyme and cholesterol transport proteins ( 8 , 18 ). LH is a dimeric glycoprotein consisting of an α subunit common to the other glycoprotein hormones (human chorionic gonadotropin (hCG), follicle-stimulating hormone, and thyrotropin-stimulating hormone) and a β subunit providing distinctive biologic specificity for each dimeric glycoprotein hormone by dictating its specific binding to the LH/hCG rather than the folliclle-stimulating hormone or thyroid stimulating hormone receptors ( 207 , 208 ). These cell surface receptors are highly homologous members of the heptahelical, G protein–linked family of membrane receptors. LH receptors are located on Leydig cell surface membranes and use signal transduction mechanisms involving primarily cyclic adenosine monophosphate as well as calcium as second messengers to cause protein kinase–dependent protein phosphorylation and DNA transcription, ultimately resulting in testosterone secretion ( 209 ). Functionally, hCG is a natural, long-acting analogue of LH because they both bind to the same LH/CG receptor and their β subunits are nearly identical except that hCG has a C-terminal extension of 31 amino acids containing four O-linked, sialic acid–capped carbohydrate side chains. These glycosylation differences confer greater resistance to degradation, which prolongs circulating residence time and biologic activity compared with LH ( 210 , 211 ), a feature that has been exploited to engineer longer acting analog of other circulating hormones such as FSH ( 212 ), TSH ( 213 ) and erythropoietin ( 214 ). Additional fine tuning of Leydig cell testosterone secretion is provided by paracrine factors originating within the testis ( 215 ). These include cytokines, inhibin, activin, follistatin, prostaglandins E 2 and F 2α , insulin-like and other growth factors as well as still uncharacterized factors secreted by Sertoli cells. LH also influences testicular vascular physiology by stimulating Leydig cell secretion of vasoactive and vascular growth factors ( 216 ). Testosterone is a key element in the negative testicular feedback cycle through its inhibition of hypothalamic GnRH and, consequently, pituitary gonadotropin secretion. Such negative feedback involves both testosterone effects via androgen receptors as well as aromatization to estradiol within the hypothalamus ( 217 , 218 ). These culminate in reduction of GnRH pulse
