Androgen Physiology, Pharmacology, Use and Misuse
KEYWORDS: testosterone, androgen, men, effects, androgens, therapy, levels, clinical, treatment, prostate, male, blood, replacement, circulating, disease


negative feedback involves both testosterone effects via androgen receptors as well as aromatization to estradiol within the hypothalamus ( 217 , 218 ). These culminate in reduction of GnRH pulse frequency in the hypothalamus together with reductions in amplitude of LH pulses due to both reduced GnRH quantal secretion as well as gonadotropin response to GnRH stimulation ( 206 ). By contrast, the small proportion of estradiol in the bloodstream that is directly secreted from the testes (~20%) means that cirulating estradiol is under minimal physiological regulation and unlikely to be a major influence on negative feedback regulation of physiological gonadotropin secretion in men. Action Androgen action involves pre-receptor, receptor and post-receptor mechanisms that are centered on the binding of testosterone (or an analog) to the androgen receptor. Testosterone undergoes pre-receptor activation by conversion to potent bioactive metabolites, DHT and estradiol. The steroidogenic enzyme 5α-reductase has two isozymes, types 1 and 2, which form a local androgen amplification mechanism converting testosterone to the most potent natural androgen, DHT ( 219 ). The two isozymes have different chromosomal location and distinct biochemical features but are homologous genes ( 125 ). They are structurally and functionally unrelated to a third 5α-reductase (SRD5A3) which may have physiological role in fatty acid rather than steroidal biochemistry ( 138 , 139 ). This local androgen amplification mechanism is exemplified in urogenital sinus derived tissues, notably external and internal genitalia and the prostate, which characteristically express high levels of 5α-reductase type 2 ( 125 ). Other tissues such as nongenital skin and liver express 5α-reductase type 1. The other form of pre-receptor androgen activation is conversion of testosterone to estradiol by the enzyme aromatase ( 220 ) which diversifies androgen action by facilitating effects mediated via ERs ( 221 ). Consequently, while DHT may be considered a pure androgen because its bioactivity is solely mediated via AR, testosterone has a wider spectrum of action which includes diversification by aromatization and ER mediated effects. These pre-receptor mechanisms provide testosterone with a versatile and subtle range of regulatory mechanisms prior to receptor mediated effects, depending on the balance between direct AR mediated vs indirect actiational and/or ER mediated mechanisms. In addition, tissues vary in their androgenic thresholds and dose-response characteristics to testosterone and its bioactive metabolites. The role of aromatization in androgen action was originally identified by the 1970s in the brain ( 222 ) whereby local expression
