Androgen Physiology, Pharmacology, Use and Misuse
KEYWORDS: testosterone, androgen, men, effects, androgens, therapy, levels, clinical, treatment, prostate, male, blood, replacement, circulating, disease


dose-response characteristics to testosterone and its bioactive metabolites. The role of aromatization in androgen action was originally identified by the 1970s in the brain ( 222 ) whereby local expression of the aromatase enzyme within brain regions leads to local production of estradiol to mediate testosterone effects selectively in that region via ER and not AR mechanisms. Subsequently, the importance of aromatization to androgen action on bone was identified through investigations of inactivating mutations in ERα in men ( 223 ) and mice ( 150 , 224 ). The role of aromatization in the estrogen-mediated effects of testosterone action is clearly shown by studies of Finkelstein et al who use the paradigm of complete suppression of endogenous testosterone production by administration of a depot GnRH analog with a range of doses of add-back testosterone without and with an aromatase inhibitor (anastrozole), the latter to investigate the effects of selective estrogen deficiency ( 225 ). These studies showed that aromatization was important in mediating testosterone effects in reducing fat mass and sexual function but not on muscle mass or strength. However,in another study using a different design, a high dosage of the non-aromatizable androgen dihydrotestosterone (vs. placebo) to induce selective complete estrogen deficiency in healthy men, demonstrated complete preservation of sexual function ( 161 ). Testosterone effects on bone involve dual mediation via indirect mechanisms, via aromatization to estradiol and ER-mediated effects, as well as via direct AR-mediated effects ( 226 ). In male mice, aromatization of testosterone must occur locally within bone as circulating estradiol levels are too low to activate ERs ; however, the role of local vs circulating estradiol effects on male bone remain to be clarified. A much wider role of estrogen action in male health is now identified ( 227 ). In that light the off-label use of aromatase inhibitors carries the risk of adverse effects on brain (manifest as sexual dysfunction), fat, and bone. ANDROGEN RECEPTOR The androgen receptor is required for masculine sexual differentiation and sexual maturation that ultimately leads to development of a mature testis capable of supporting spermatogenesis and testosterone production that form the basis for male fertility. The human androgen receptor is specified by a single X chromosome encoded gene located at Xq11-12 that specifies a protein of 919 amino acids ( 1 ), a classical member of the large nuclear receptor superfamily ( 228 ) which includes receptors for the
