Androgen Physiology, Pharmacology, Use and Misuse
KEYWORDS: testosterone, androgen, men, effects, androgens, therapy, levels, clinical, treatment, prostate, male, blood, replacement, circulating, disease


at Xq11-12 that specifies a protein of 919 amino acids ( 1 ), a classical member of the large nuclear receptor superfamily ( 228 ) which includes receptors for the 5 mammalian steroid classes (androgen, estrogen, progesterone, glucocorticoid, mineralocorticoid) as well as for thyroid hormones, retinoic acid and vitamin D and numerous orphan receptors where the ligand was originally not identified ( 229 ). Androgen receptor expression is not confined to reproductive tissues and it is ubiquitously expressed, athough levels of expression and androgen sensitivity of non-reproductive tissues vary. The androgen receptor gene has 8 exons specifying a protein of 919 amino acids with the characteristic structure of mammalian steroid receptors. It has an N-terminal domain (NTD) that specifies a long transactivating functional domain (exon 1), a middle region specifying a DNA-binding domain (DBD) consisting of two zinc fingers (exons 2 and 3) separated by a hinge region from the C-terminal ligand binding domain (LBD) which specifies the steroid binding pocket (exons 4 to 8). The NTD (exon 1) is relatively long comprising over half (535/919) the overall length of the AR. It has the least conserved sequence compared with other steroid receptors with a flexible and mobile tertiary structure harbouring a transactivation domain (AF-1) that interacts with AR co-regulator proteins and target genes ( 230 ). Its loose, naturally disordered structure ( 231 ) also contains three homopolymeric repeat sequences (glutamine, glycine, proline) with the most important being the CAG triplet (glutamine) repeat polymorphism ( 232 ). The less variable glycine (usually 24 residues) and proline (9 residues) repeat polymorphisms have little apparent independent pathophysiological significance although linkage dysequilibrium between the glutamine and glycine repeat polymorphisms requires haplotype analysis for interpretation ( 232 ). Among healthy people, where the glutamine repeat polymorphism has alleles of lengths between 5 and 35 (population mean ~21), the length of the glutamine repeat is inversely proportional to AR transcriptional efficiency so that this polymorphism dictates genetic differences between individuals in the androgen sensitivity of their target tissues ( 233 ). This genetic variation in in vivo tissue androgen sensitivity is proven experimentally ( 234 ) but, although modest in magnitude, influences physiological responses to endogenous testosterone in prostate size ( 235 ) and erythropoeisis ( 236 ) in carefully controlled studies. Wider epidemiological implications of population variation in the genetic androgen sensitivity as specified by the polyglutamine repeat have been studied in a
