Androgen Physiology, Pharmacology, Use and Misuse
KEYWORDS: testosterone, androgen, men, effects, androgens, therapy, levels, clinical, treatment, prostate, male, blood, replacement, circulating, disease


erythropoeisis ( 236 ) in carefully controlled studies. Wider epidemiological implications of population variation in the genetic androgen sensitivity as specified by the polyglutamine repeat have been studied in a variety of potentially androgen sensitive disorders (reviewed in ( 232 )) including reproductive health disorders and hormone dependent cancers in men and women as well as non-gonadal disorders where there are significant gender disparities in prevalence. In men these include prostate ( 237 ) and other male preponderant cancers (liver, gastrointestinal, head & neck), prostate hypertrophy, cryptorchidism and hypospadias, male infertility ( 238 ) whereas in women they include reproductive health disorders (polycystic ovary syndrome, premature ovarian failure, endometriosis, uterine leiomyoma, preeclampsia) and hormone dependent cancers (breast, ovary, uterus). In addition, studies have also examined risks of obesity and cardiovascular disease, mental and behavioural disorders including dementia, psychosis, migraine, and personality disorders ( 232 ). However, as in many large-scale genetic association studies ( 239 ), the findings remain mostly inconsistent reflecting methdological limitations notably in recruitment, participation and publication bias as well as multiple hypothesis testing all of which tend to inflate spurious associations. Remarkably, the pathological elongation of the polygutamine (CAG triplet) repeat to lengths of over 37 cause a neurodegenerative disease, Spinal Bulbar Muscular Atrophy (SBMA, also known as Kennedy’s syndrome). This is a form of late-onset, slow progressing but ultimately fatal motor neuron disease ( 240 ), one of several late-onset neurodegenerative polyglutamine repeat disorders ( 241 ). Although the extreme length of the polyglutamine repeat does determine mild androgen resistance, these men usually have normal reproductive function including fertility and virilization prior to diagnosis in mid-life ( 242 ). Furthermore, since complete androgen receptor inactivation in humans and other mammals does not cause motor neuron disease and female carriers are protected from symptomatic neurodegeneration, SBMA represents a toxic gain-of-function involving pathological protein aggregates of the mutant AR ( 243 ) like other genetic polyglutamine repeat neurodegenerative diseases do with other proteins ( 244 ). Surprisingly, transgenic mouse models of SBMA suggest that testosterone deprivation by medical castration using a GnRH agonist may slow progression of neuropathy ( 243 ) and that genetic ( 245 ) or pharmacological ( 246 ) administration of IGF-I may slow disease progression. However the first major clinical trial of leuprolide, a GnRH analog, failed to demonstrate neuromuscular benefit in swallowing ( 247 ) and further studies of selected subgroups and
