Androgen Physiology, Pharmacology, Use and Misuse
KEYWORDS: testosterone, androgen, men, effects, androgens, therapy, levels, clinical, treatment, prostate, male, blood, replacement, circulating, disease


disease progression. However the first major clinical trial of leuprolide, a GnRH analog, failed to demonstrate neuromuscular benefit in swallowing ( 247 ) and further studies of selected subgroups and therapeutic targets are warranted ( 248 , 249 ). The DBD (exons 2 and 3) consists of ~70 amino acids with a high proportion of basic amino acids including eight cysteines distributed as two sets of 4 cysteines , each forming a zinc cooordination center for a single zinc atom, thereby creating two zinc fingers. The DBD is highly conserved between steroid receptors reflecting its tightly defined function of forming the two zinc fingers that bind to DNA by intercalating between its grooves. The first zinc finger (exon 2) is directly involved with the major DNA groove of the androgen response element through a proximal (P-box) region whereas the second zinc finger (exon 3) is also responsible for enhancing receptor dimerization through its distal (D-box) region. The hinge region (first half of exon 4) of ~40 amino acids between the DBD and LBD is considered a flexible linker region but may have additional functions involving interactions with DNA (nuclear localization, androgen response element) and protein (AR dimerization, co-regulators) which influence AR transcriptional activity. The LBD (mid-exon 4 to 8) of AR comprises ~250 amino acids which specify a steroid binding pocket which creates the characteristic high affinity, stable and selective binding of testosterone, DHT and synthetic androgens. While the LBD’s overall architecture is broadly conserved among nuclear receptors, the AR sequence diverges significantly to ensure the specificity of binding from other steroid classes and their different cognate ligands. Structural studies of the AR’s LBD shows it has similar tertiary conformation as other steroid receptors (most closely resembling PR) with 12 stretches of α helix interspersed with short β pleated sheets. The most C terminal helix 12 seals the binding pocket and influences whether a bound ligand acts as an agonist or antagonist as well as forming a hydrophobic surface for binding of co-regulator proteins that modify transcriptional activity of the androgen target genes. The LBD also participates in receptor dimerization, nuclear localization and transactivation via its activation function (AF-2) domain. The AR has a predominantly nuclear location in androgen target cells regardless of whether bound to its ligand or not, unlike other steroid receptors which are more often evenly distributed between cytoplasm and nucleus when not bound to their cognate
