Androgen Physiology, Pharmacology, Use and Misuse
KEYWORDS: testosterone, androgen, men, effects, androgens, therapy, levels, clinical, treatment, prostate, male, blood, replacement, circulating, disease


cells regardless of whether bound to its ligand or not, unlike other steroid receptors which are more often evenly distributed between cytoplasm and nucleus when not bound to their cognate ligands. Androgen binding to the C-terminal LBD causes a conformational change in the androgen receptor protein and dimerization to facilitate binding of the ligand-loaded receptor to segments of DNA featuring a characteristic palindromic motif known as an androgen-response element, located in the promoter regions of androgen target genes. Ligand binding leads to shedding of heat shock proteins 70 and 90 that act as a molecular chaperone for the unliganded androgen receptor ( 250 ). Specific binding of the dimerized, ligand-bound androgen receptor complex to tandem androgen-response elements initiates gene transcription so that the androgen receptor acts as a ligand-activated transcription factor. Androgen receptor transcriptional activation is governed by a large number of coregulators ( 251 , 252 ) whose tissue distribution and modulation of androgen action remain incompletely understood. Androgen Insensitivity Mutations in the androgen receptor are relatively common with over 1000 different mutations recorded by 2012 ( 253 ) in the McGill database ( http://androgendb.mcgill.ca/ ) making androgen insensitivity the most frequent form of genetic hormone resistance. As the androgen receptor is an X chromosomal gene, functionally significant AR mutations are effectively expressed in all affected males because they are hemizygous. By contrast, women bearing these mutations (including the obligate heterzygote mothers of affected males) are silent carriers without any overt phenotype because they have a balancing allele as well as their circulating testosterone levels never rise to post-pubertal male levels sufficient to activate AR mediated effects. Germline AR mutations produce a very wide spectrum of effects from functionally silent polymorphisms to androgen insensitivity syndromes that display phenotypes proportionate to the impairment of AR function and, thereby, the degree of deficit in androgen action ( 1 ). These clinical manifestations extend from a complete androgen insensitivity syndrome (CAIS, formerly known as testicular feminization) which produces a well developed female external phenotype in a spectrum spanning across all grades of undervirilized male phenotype to, at the other extreme, a virtually normal male phenotype. The severity of androgen insensitivity can be categorized most simply as complete, partial and mild although a more detailed 7 stage Quigley classification based on degree of hypospadias, phallic development, labioscrotal fusion and public/axillary hair is also described ( 1 , 232 ). The degree of urogenital
