Androgen Physiology, Pharmacology, Use and Misuse
KEYWORDS: testosterone, androgen, men, effects, androgens, therapy, levels, clinical, treatment, prostate, male, blood, replacement, circulating, disease


more detailed 7 stage Quigley classification based on degree of hypospadias, phallic development, labioscrotal fusion and public/axillary hair is also described ( 1 , 232 ). The degree of urogenital sinus derivative development together with testis descent provide clinical clues to the degree of androgen sensitivity. In addition, somatic androgen receptor mutations, notably generated during androgen deprivation treatment of prostate cancer ( 254 ), result in generation and expression of mutations and splice variants of the androgen receptor in a form of accelerated molecular evolution which may result in resistance to androgen effects and/or efficacy of androgen deprivation treatment ( 255 ). CAIS due to completely inactivating AR mutations results in a 46XY individual with a hormonally active testis that secretes abundant testosterone but which cannot activate AR-mediated action so no male internal or external genitalia or somatic features develop. However, testosterone aromatization to estradiol is unimpeded, leading to the development of normal female somatic features including breast and external genital development after puberty. The population prevalence of CAIS is estimated to be at least 1:20,000 male births or 1-2% among female infants with inguinal hernia ( 1 ). The typical presentation of CAIS is a relatively tall, normally developed girl with delayed puberty and/or primary amenorrhea. The clinical features usually include well developed breasts, hips and female fat pattern deposition, acne-free facial complexion with minimal axillary and pubic hair with testes located within an inguinal hernia or in the abdominal cavity. The uterus and fallopian tubes are absent and the vagina is short and blind ending reflecting unimpeded effects of testicular AMH secretion causing regression of Mullerian structures including the upper third of the vagina. Earlier diagnosis is increasingly possible where a prenatal 46XY karyotype is discrepant from a female phenotype on ultrasound or at birth or among female infants presenting with inguinal hernia ( 256 ). The family history may be informative with infertile maternal (but not paternal) aunts consistent with an X-linked inheritance. Laboratory investigations of post-pubertal individuals show elevated blood LH, SHBG (at adult female levels) and testosterone (at adult male levels) prior to gonadectomy. The androgen sensitivity index, the product of LH and testosterone concentrations, is elevated ( 257 ). These features reflect high amplitude and frequency LH pulses due to the absence of effective negative androgenic feedback on the hypothalamus as well as the increased LH drive to maintain high-normal male levels of testicular
