Androgen Physiology, Pharmacology, Use and Misuse
KEYWORDS: testosterone, androgen, men, effects, androgens, therapy, levels, clinical, treatment, prostate, male, blood, replacement, circulating, disease


male phenotype with various grades of labioscrotal formation (varying from minimal posterior partial labial fusion to labioscrotal fusion and bifid, ruggose scrotum) and hypospadias (urinary orofice ranging from perineal aperture to hypospadia with meatus at locations along penile shaft to the corona), micropenis and gynecomastia, each in inverse proportion to the AR function. These features have been combined into a External Masculinization Score (EMS) ranging from 0 (female) to 12 (male) based on degree of scrotal fusion, phallic development, location of urethral meatus and testis descent each scored 0-3 ( 269 ). The biochemical finding in PAIS are similar to those of CAIS but with a wide spectrum of severity from mildly virilized, predominantly female to an undervirilized male phenotype. The increase in blood LH and testosterone are less severe and consistent but the androgen sensitivity index ( 257 ) may help confirm the diagnosis of androgen resistance. Unlike CAIS, which usually presents during adolescence with failure of puberty, PAIS usually presents at birth with ambiguous genitalia requiring a crucial and decisive clinical judgement on sex of rearing to be made rapidly. The expert pediatric endocrinologist must balance the need for early genital surgery and vicarious decision-making against the risk of possible subsequent regret by the affected individual as an adult. This makes for inevitably complex, difficult and contentious choices as the available systematic prospective evidence from long-term follow-up of sex or rearing is still limited. Most intersex individuals due to PAIS, especially those with an EMS of 4 or more ( 270 ), are raised as males ( 269 ). Genital surgery for hypospadias is often required and usually uncertainty remains about the adequacy of the potential for post-pubertal virilization due to either endogenous or exogenous testosterone. If pubertal progression is inadequate, exogenous testosterone may be useful but higher than usual dosage may be required to get satisfactory effects. Long-term follow-up of PAIS raised as males has shown apparently adequate psychosexual function despite phallic underdevelopment, limited somatic virilization and dissatisfaction with outcomes by some patients as adults ( 268 , 271 ). For those to be reared as females, the management is similar to that for CAIS and involves early genital surgery and pre-pubertal gonadectomy to prevent unwanted virilization. Mild androgen insensitivity (MAIS) is the most minor form of androgen insensitivity dsplaying near-normal male phenotype with only subtle changes in hair patterns relative to family norms (less body and
