Androgen Physiology, Pharmacology, Use and Misuse
KEYWORDS: testosterone, androgen, men, effects, androgens, therapy, levels, clinical, treatment, prostate, male, blood, replacement, circulating, disease


Mild androgen insensitivity (MAIS) is the most minor form of androgen insensitivity dsplaying near-normal male phenotype with only subtle changes in hair patterns relative to family norms (less body and facial hair, absence of temporal recession or balding) and/or minor defects restricted to spermatogenesis alone. The blood LH and testosterone concentrations are usually but not always elevated although the androgen sensitivity index, the product of serum LH and testosterone concentrations, is more consistently raised. In common with mutations in many other genes, making a clear distinction between the most minor grades of clinical pathology and a silent, functionally insignificant polymorphism is challenging and depends on reproducing experimentally the functional consequences of the mutation in an authentic biological system. Ideally such verification is performed in vivo (eg in genetically modified mouse models) but, as this is laborious and expensive, it is rarely undertaken. The functional verification of putative mutations is usually undertaken by either in silico prediction of functional effects of structural protein changes from sequence data or in vitro studies of cultured cells or cell-free systems aiming to characterize protein functions. Nevertheless, although informative, the biological fidelity of these surrogate endpoints relative to the in vivo effects on androgen action may remain questionable. All types of mutations have been reported in the AR gene including disruption of the reading frame by deletions, insertions, splice site interruption and frame-shift which usually produce major interference with function as well as the more common single base substitutions with effects ranging from nil to complete functional inactivation. In addition, mutation can produce less common mechanisms of interrupting AR function such as inefficient translation, unstable protein, or aberrant translational start sites all leading to reduced expression of functional AR protein. Mutations occur throughout the AR gene, probably at random; however, those reported are distributed unevenly because the most important functional regions of the gene are sensitive to even minor changes in sequence whereas the more variable regions may tolerate sequence changes without functional consequences. Over 90% of known mutations are single base substitutions which have pathophysiological consequences when they change the amino acid sequence in the functionally critical DBD or LBD regions whereas sequence changes in other regions may not alter AR function thereby constituting silent polymorphisms. For example, despite forming more than half the AR sequence, few functionally important mutations are reported in the NTD (exon1). Those described in exon 1 mostly represent major
