Androgen Physiology, Pharmacology, Use and Misuse
KEYWORDS: testosterone, androgen, men, effects, androgens, therapy, levels, clinical, treatment, prostate, male, blood, replacement, circulating, disease


silent polymorphisms. For example, despite forming more than half the AR sequence, few functionally important mutations are reported in the NTD (exon1). Those described in exon 1 mostly represent major disruptions of the AR protein due to creation of a premature stop codon, a major deletion or frame shift mutation causing mistranslation onward from exon 1 whereas point mutations are more likely to constitute functionally insignificant (silent) polymorphisms. Mutations in the LBD, comprising ~25% of AR sequence, constitute the majority (~60%) of reported mutations whereas mutations in the DBD, representing ~7% of AR sequence, constitute ~14% of cases ( 272 ). The functional effects of these two types of mutations generally differ in that LBD mutations demonstrate various degrees of reduced affinity and/or loosened specificity of ligand binding characteristics whereas DBD mutations demonstrate normal ligand binding but reduced or absent receptor binding to DNA. The profusion of AR mutations has created numerous experiments of Nature with multiple different mutations involving the same amino acid with the physiological consequences depending generally on how conservative is the amino acid substitution. Nevertheless, there are exceptions to such categorization with mutations in regions other than the DBD or LBD sometimes unexpectedly affecting DNA or ligand binding properties presumably through physical interaction effects in the tertiary structure of the AR in its 3 dimensional topography. The familial occurrence of androgen insensitivity due to X-linked inheritance of mutated AR makes carrier detection and prenatal genetic diagnosis feasible. A carrier female has a 50% chance of having a child bearing the mutant AR allele so they would be either a carrier female or an affected male and 50% of her fertile daughters will also be carriers. A specific mutation detection test needs to be established usually involving PCR-based genotyping for point mutations athough other mutational mechanisms may require more complex genotyping methods. For prenatal genetic diagnosis now usually applied to chorionic villus samples, the genetic diagnosis must be rapid, reliable and efficient. However, accurate genetic counselling relies on the a consistent and predictable phenotype for any specific genotype. This is usually, but not invariably, true for AR mutations as the clinical manifestations for the same mutation are usually consistent in CAIS with rare exceptions ( 273 ) whereas for PAIS the phenotype may vary even within a single family with significant implications for sex of rearing and/or need for genital surgery so that skilled genetic counselling is
