Androgen Physiology, Pharmacology, Use and Misuse
KEYWORDS: testosterone, androgen, men, effects, androgens, therapy, levels, clinical, treatment, prostate, male, blood, replacement, circulating, disease


whereas for PAIS the phenotype may vary even within a single family with significant implications for sex of rearing and/or need for genital surgery so that skilled genetic counselling is essential ( 274 ). Discrepancies in the fidelity of phenotype within families, or between unrelated individual bearing the identical mutation, is relatively common in PAIS and may be attributable to somatic mosaicism ( 275 ) or the effect of modifier genes that influence androgen action such as 5α reductase ( 276 ). An exotic, complex DNA breakage repair slippage mechanism has also been described to produce mutiple mutations within a single family ( 277 ). Wider population genetic screening for AR mutations is not currently cost-effective because, despite diminishing costs for increasingly facile genetic testing, the large number of different mutations featuring diverse mechanisms and variable phenotype which still mostly predict a normal life expectancy but a diminished quality of life that is difficult to cost or cure ( 278 ). Acquired androgen insensitivity during life can arise either through postnatal somatic or germline AR mutations or by non-genetic, non-receptor mechanisms that hinder androgen action. Among overt cases of androgen insensitivity, ~30% are absent in the mother’s germline so must arise as a de novo mutation in the postnatal maternal germline ( 275 ) or in the fetal germline soon after fertilization ( 279 ). Somatic AR mutations, arising de novo postnatally in the stem cell pool of repopulating cells, are theoretically possible but have not been reported. Somatic AR mutations are relatively common in prostate cancer usually arising in late stage disease palliatively treated by androgen deprivation when AR mutations and functional splice variants are reported ( 255 ). The switch of highly androgen dependent prostate cancer cells to an androgen deplete milieu may encourage clonal selection of androgen insensitive sublines to proliferate in the terminal stage of the disease. Genetic instability of prostate cancer cells may also contribute to this process although somatic AR mutations are rare in other cancers such as liver ( 280 ) or breast ( 281 ) cancer in the absence of androgen deprivation. Somatic AR mutation in prostate cancer cells are responsible for the paradoxical anti-androgen withdrawal syndromes observed with non-steroidal (flutamide, bicalutamide, nilutamide) or steroidal (cyproterone, megestrol) ( 282 , 283 ) treatment. In this state, anti-androgen withdrawal or switch-over ( 283 ) produces remission of worsening disease attributable to the occurrence
