Androgen Physiology, Pharmacology, Use and Misuse
KEYWORDS: testosterone, androgen, men, effects, androgens, therapy, levels, clinical, treatment, prostate, male, blood, replacement, circulating, disease


nilutamide) or steroidal (cyproterone, megestrol) ( 282 , 283 ) treatment. In this state, anti-androgen withdrawal or switch-over ( 283 ) produces remission of worsening disease attributable to the occurrence of a de novo AR mutation in prostate cancer cells which alters ligand specificity turning the non-steroidal antiandrogens into AR agonists ( 255 , 284 ). The LNCaP prostate cell line widely used in cancer cell biology research harbors a mutated AR (T877A) which occurs relatively frequently in prostate cancer metastases and can cause the flutamide withdrawal syndrome ( 285 ). Since the Nobel prize-winning discovery in the 1940’s of androgen deprivation as palliative treament of advanced prostate cancer ( 286 ), targeting of AR in the treatment of prostate cancer has focused on surgical or medical castration to eliminate AR’s cognate endogenous ligand, testosterone. After transient remission following castration, however, prostate cancers resume growth in the apparently androgen independent terminal, treatment resistant stage of the disease. Although castration eliminates the major (>95%) contribution to overall androgen synthesis, ongoing production of androgens from other tissues expressing steroidogenic enzymes, such as the adrenal ( 287 ) and prostate tumors ( 288 ), has been proposed to explain the late development of apparent androgen independence. Extensive clinical trials of maximum androgen blockade which aims to more thoroughly ablate androgen action by adding anti-androgens to castration, however, have produced only minimal improvement in survival ( 289 ), possibly due to antiandrogens countering the deleterious initial “flare” effect of superactive GnRH analogs used for medical castration. A more effective approach has been the development of abiraterone, a rationally designed, mechanism-based inhibitor of CYP17A1 (17-hydroxylase/17,20 lyase) incorporating a 16-17 double bond to inhibit 17-hydroxylation. Abiraterone has proven effective and well-tolerated in treatment of late stage, apparently androgen independent prostate cancer ( 290 ) although the blockade of glucocorticoid and mineralocorticoid synthesis requires adrenal replacement therapy. In addition, newer androgen receptor blockers also provided promising new therapeutic approaches especially for castration-resistent advanced prostate cancer ( 291 ). Acquired androgen insensitivity may occur without AR mutations by mechanisms such as drugs including non-steroidal (flutamide, bicalutamide, nilutamide) and steroidal (cyproterone acetate), drugs that block part of testosterone activation such as 5α reductase inhibitors (finasteride, dutasteride) or estrogen antagonists or aromatase inhibitors. In addition, drugs may have physiological effects or pharmacological actions that oppose various steps in androgen action such as LH and FSH suppression by estrogens or progestins
