Androgen Physiology, Pharmacology, Use and Misuse
KEYWORDS: testosterone, androgen, men, effects, androgens, therapy, levels, clinical, treatment, prostate, male, blood, replacement, circulating, disease


or aromatase inhibitors. In addition, drugs may have physiological effects or pharmacological actions that oppose various steps in androgen action such as LH and FSH suppression by estrogens or progestins or that cause an increase in circulating SHBG which may influence testosterone transfer from blood into tissues to produce a functional phenocopy of androgen insensitivity. Acquired androgen insensitivity in various disease states is reported with hormonal findings reflecting impeded androgen action which may be reversible with alleviation of the underlying disease. The disease-related mechanisms that impede androgen action vary but the most frequent is increase in hepatic SHBG secretion due to the underlying disease and/or its drug treatments that impede androgen action by reducing testosterone transport from blood to tissues as part of its overall reduction in metabolic clearance rate of testosterone. For example, in hyperthyroidism, increased blood LH and testosterone concentrations with clinical features of androgen deficiency ( 292 ) are mediated by increased circulating SHBG due to thyroid hormone-induced hepatic SHBG secretion ( 293 ) whereas in hypothyroidism the reduced blood testosterone and SHBG are rapidly corrected by thyroid hormone repacement therapy ( 292 ). In epilepsy, anticonvulsant-induced increase in hepatic SHBG secretion appears to be a common denominator in the near ubiquitous reproductive endocrine abnormalities in men with epilepsy ( 294 ). The relative contributions of impaired tissue transfer of testosterone, reduced testosterone metabolic clearance rate ( 295 ) or direct anti-androgenic effects of valproate ( 296 ) remain to be clarified. A similar mechanism of disease- and/or drug-induced increases in hepatic SHBG secretion may explain apparent acquired androgen insensitivity, often reversible with alleviation of the underlying disease, in various other conditions such as gluten enteropathy ( 297 , 298 ), Wilson’s disease ( 299 ), relapsed acute intermittent porphyria ( 300 ), acute alcoholism ( 301 ), chronic liver disease and transplantation ( 67 , 302 ). PHARMACOLOGY OF ANDROGENS Indications for Androgen Therapy Androgen therapy can be classified as physiologic replacement or pharmacologic therapy according to the dose, type of androgen, and objectives of treatment. Androgen replacement therapy aims to restore tissue androgen exposure in androgen-deficient men due to pathological hypogonadism (disorders of the reproductive system) to levels comparable with those of eugonadal men. Using the natural androgen testosterone and a dose limited to one that maintains blood testosterone levels within the eugonadal range, androgen replacement therapy aims to restore the full spectrum of androgen
