Androgen Physiology, Pharmacology, Use and Misuse
KEYWORDS: testosterone, androgen, men, effects, androgens, therapy, levels, clinical, treatment, prostate, male, blood, replacement, circulating, disease


the natural androgen testosterone and a dose limited to one that maintains blood testosterone levels within the eugonadal range, androgen replacement therapy aims to restore the full spectrum of androgen effects while replicating the efficacy and safety experience of eugonadal men of similar age. Androgen replacement therapy is unlikely to prolong life because androgen deficiency, whether due to castration ( 303 - 307 ) or biological disorder ( 308 ) has minimal effect in shortening life expectancy ( 309 ). As an alternative, pharmacologic androgen therapy uses androgens without restriction on androgen type or dose but aims to produce androgen effects on muscle, bone, brain, or other tissues. In such pharmacological treatment, regardless of androgen status, an androgen is used therapeutically to exploit the anabolic or other effects of androgens on muscle, bone, and other tissues as hormonal drugs in various non-reproductive disorders. Such pharmacological androgen therapy is neither constrained to using the natural androgen, testosterone, nor it is limited to physiological replacement doses or their equivalent. Rather, it is judged on its efficacy, safety, and relative cost-effectiveness for that specific indication just as any other hormonal or xenobiotic non-hormonal therapeutic drug. Many older uses of pharmacologic androgen therapy are now considered second-line therapies as more specific treatments are developed ( 310 ). For example, erythropoietin has largely supplanted androgen therapy for anemia due to marrow or renal failure and improved first-line drug treatments for endometriosis, osteoporosis and advanced breast cancer have similarly relegated androgen therapy to a last resort while newer mechanism-based agents in development for hereditary angioedema may displace 17α-alkylated androgens ( 311 , 312 ). Nevertheless in many clinical situations, pharmacological androgen therapy remains a cost-effective option with a long-established efficacy and safety profile. Androgen Replacement Therapy The sole unequivocal clinical indication for testosterone treatment is in replacement therapy for androgen deficient men suffering from pathological disorders of their reproductive system (hypothalamus, pituitary, testis) that prevent the testes from producing sufficient testosterone supply to meet the body’s usual needs. Establishing a pathological basis for androgen replacement therapy requires identifying well-defined disorders of the hypothalamus, pituitary or testis which have a known and clearly defined pathological basis. These disorders can, and often do, lead to persistent testosterone deficiency either due to disorders of the testis, where damaged Leydig cells cannot produce sufficient testosterone, or disorders of the hypothalamus and/or pituitary, where impaired pituitary luteinizing hormone (LH) secretion reduces
