Androgen Physiology, Pharmacology, Use and Misuse
KEYWORDS: testosterone, androgen, men, effects, androgens, therapy, levels, clinical, treatment, prostate, male, blood, replacement, circulating, disease


either due to disorders of the testis, where damaged Leydig cells cannot produce sufficient testosterone, or disorders of the hypothalamus and/or pituitary, where impaired pituitary luteinizing hormone (LH) secretion reduces the sole driving force to testosterone production by Leydig cells. The principal goal of androgen (testosterone) replacement therapy is to restore a physiologic pattern of net tissue androgen exposure in androgen deficient men whose damaged reproductive systems are unable to secrete adequate testosterone to levels comparable with those of eugonadal men. This treatment uses only the natural androgen, testosterone, aimed at restoring a physiologic pattern of androgen exposure using a dose limited to that which maintains blood testosterone levels within the eugonadal range. Such treatment aims to restore the full spectrum of androgen effects when endogenous testosterone production fails due to pathological disorders of the reproductive system (testicular-hypothalamic-pituitary axis). This requires restricting replacement therapy to the major natural androgen, testosterone, which aims to not only replicate physiological circulating testosterone levels but also to provide testosterone’s two bioactive metabolites, DHT and estradiol, so that all 3 bioactive sex steroids are available to androgen target tissues. Synthetic androgens are unsuitable because they are incapable of metabolism to the more potent 5α reduced metabolites or being aromatized to estrogens. The overall goal of such replacement therapy is to replicate the efficacy and safety experience of eugonadal men of similar age by recreating the full spectrum of endogenous natural androgen effects on tissues so as to recapitulate the natural history of efficacy and safety of endogenous testosterone. The prevalence of male hypogonadism requiring androgen repacement therapy in the general community can be estimated from the known prevalence of Klinefelter’s syndrome (15.6 per 1000 male births in 33 prospective birth survey studies ( 313 )) because Klinefelter syndrome accounts for 25-35% of men requiring androgen replacement therapy. The estimated prevalence of ~5 per 1000 men in the general community makes androgen deficiency the most common hormonal deficiency disorder among men. Although life expectancy is not reduced by castration as an adult ( 303 - 307 ) or only minimally (~2 years) shortened ( 308 ) by life-long androgen deficiency, the hormonal deficit causes preventable morbidity and a suboptimal quality of life ( 313 ). Due to its variable and often subtle clinical features, androgen deficiency remains significantly underdiagnosed, thus denying sufferers simple and effective medical treatment with often striking benefits. Only ~20% of men with
