Androgen Physiology, Pharmacology, Use and Misuse
KEYWORDS: testosterone, androgen, men, effects, androgens, therapy, levels, clinical, treatment, prostate, male, blood, replacement, circulating, disease


to its variable and often subtle clinical features, androgen deficiency remains significantly underdiagnosed, thus denying sufferers simple and effective medical treatment with often striking benefits. Only ~20% of men with Klinefelter syndrome characterized by the highly distinctive tiny (<4 mL) testes, are diagnosed during their lifetime ( 314 ) indicating that most men go through life without a single pelvic examination by any medical professional in stark contrast to the usual expectation of reproductive health care for women. The testis has two physiological functions, spermatogenesis and steroidogenesis, either of which can be impaired independently, resulting in infertility or androgen deficiency, respectively, so the term hypogonadism is inherently ambiguous. However, hypogonadism of any cause may require androgen replacement therapy if the deficit in endogenous testosterone production is sufficient to cause clinical and biochemical manifestations of androgen deficiency. Androgen deficiency is a clinical diagnosis with a characteristic presentation and underlying pathological basis in hypothalamus, pituitary or testis disorder, and confirmed by blood hormone assays (see other Endotext chapters for details). The clinical features of androgen deficiency vary according to the severity, chronicity, and epoch of life at presentation. These include ambiguous genitalia, microphallus, delayed puberty, sexual dysfunction, infertility, osteoporosis, anemia, flushing, muscular ache, lethargy, lack of stamina or endurance, easy fatigue, or incidental biochemical diagnosis. For each androgen deficient man, his leading clinical symptoms of androgen deficiency are distinctive, reproducible and corresponds to a specific blood testosterone threshold for any individual but both the symptom(s) and threshold vary between men ( 315 ). Because the underlying disorders are mostly irreversible, lifelong treatment is usually required. Androgen replacement therapy can rectify most clinical features of androgen deficiency apart from defective spermatogenesis ( 316 ). When fertility is required in gonadotropin-deficient men, spermatogenesis can be initiated by treatment with pulsatile GnRH ( 317 ) (if pituitary gonadotroph function is intact ( 318 )) or gonadotropins ( 319 ) to substitute for pituitary gonadotropin secretion ( 320 ) (see also Endotext, Endocrinology of Male Reproduction, Hypogonadotropic Hypogonadism (HH) and Gonadotropin Therapy ). The short half-life of LH would require multi-daily injections rendering it unsuitable for gonadotrophin therapy ( 321 ). Instead practical gonadotropin therapy uses hCG, a placental heterodimeric glycoprotein which has a much longer duration of action allowing it to be administered every two or three days. The chorionic gonadotropin hCG consists of an identical α subunit as LH (also the same as in
