Androgen Physiology, Pharmacology, Use and Misuse
KEYWORDS: testosterone, androgen, men, effects, androgens, therapy, levels, clinical, treatment, prostate, male, blood, replacement, circulating, disease


duration of action allowing it to be administered every two or three days. The chorionic gonadotropin hCG consists of an identical α subunit as LH (also the same as in FSH and TSH) combined with a distinct β subunit that is highly homologous to the LH β subunit except for a C terminal extension of 22 amino acids which includes four O-linked sialic acid-capped, carbohydrate side chains. This C terminal extension markedly prolongs the circulating half-life of hCG relative to LH thereby making it a naturally occuring long-acting LH analog. Both endogenous LH and hCG act on the Leydig cell LH/hCG receptor to stimulate endogenous testosterone production. Pharmaceutical hCG, originally purified from pregnancy urine and more recently its recombinant form, can be administered 2-3 times weekly for several months. Where spermatogenesis remains persistently suboptimal, recombinant FSH may subsequently be added ( 319 ). Once fertility is no longer required and any pregnancy has passed the 1 st trimester, androgen replacement therapy usually reverts to the simpler and cheaper use of testosterone while preserving the ability subsequently to reinitiate spermatogenesis by gonadotropin replacement ( 319 ). The potential value of hCG therapy in gonadotropin-deficient adolescents to produce timely testis growth replicating physiologic puberty ( 322 ), rather than reliance on exogenous testosterone which leaves a dormant testis but remains standard management, has yet to be fully evaluated ( 323 , 324 ). The extension of testosterone replacement therapy to men with partial, subclinical or compensated androgen deficiency states remain of unproven value ( figure 3 ). Biochemical features of Leydig cell dysfunction, notably persistently elevated LH with low to normal levels of testosterone constituting a high LH/testosterone ratio are observed in aging men ( 325 - 327 ), in men with testicular dysfunction associated with male infertility ( 328 ), or after chemotherapy-induced testicular damage ( 329 - 332 ). Although such features may signify mild androgen deficiency, substantial clinical benefits from testosterone replacement therapy remain to be demonstrated ( 333 , 334 ). Furthermore, testosterone administration may have deleterious effects on spermatogenesis so that its potential adverse effect on men’s fertility must be considered with regard to their marital and fertility status. Hormonal male contraception can be considered a form of androgen replacement therapy because all currently envisaged regimens aiming to suppress spermatogenesis (and thereby endogenous testosterone production) by inhibiting gonadotropin secretion, use testosterone either alone or with a progestin
