Androgen Physiology, Pharmacology, Use and Misuse
KEYWORDS: testosterone, androgen, men, effects, androgens, therapy, levels, clinical, treatment, prostate, male, blood, replacement, circulating, disease


of androgen replacement therapy because all currently envisaged regimens aiming to suppress spermatogenesis (and thereby endogenous testosterone production) by inhibiting gonadotropin secretion, use testosterone either alone or with a progestin or a GnRH antagonist ( 335 ) (see also Endotext, Endocrinology of Male Reproduction, Male Contraception ). As a consequence, exogenous testosterone is required to replace endogenous testosterone secretion. FIGURE 3. The Hypothalamo-Pituitary Testicular Axis in Health and Intrinsic and Extrinsic Diseases. Schematic representation of the hypothalamo-pituitary-testicular (HPT) system in health (left panel) and in disease (right panel). Note in the right panel the distinction between organic disorders of the reproductive system causing pathologcal hypogonadism leading to male infertility and/or androgen deficiency and, alternatively, non-reproductive disorders which lead to an adaptive hypothalamic response to systemic non-reproductive disorders. While these non-reproductive disorders may lead to a reduced serum testosterone, that is neither a testosterone deficiency state nor warrants testosterone treatment without convincing evidence of safety and efficacy. Pharmacologic Androgen Therapy Pharmacologic androgen therapy uses androgens to maximal therapeutic efficacy within adequate safety limits but without regard to androgen type, dose, duration of treatment, or gender. In this, the goal is to improve mortality and/or morbidity of an underlying non-gonadal disease through eliciting androgen effects on muscle, bone, brain, or other target tissues. To obtain morbidity benefits requires that androgens must modify the natural history of an underlying disease, a goal not yet achieved in any nongonadal disorder. Morbidity benefits are more achievable in aiming to improve quality of life by enhancing muscle, bone, brain, or other androgen-sensitive function (including mood elevation) as an adjuvant therapy in non-reproductive diseases. Such treatment is judged by the efficacy, safety, and cost-effectiveness standards of other drugs but very few studies fulfill the requirements of adequate study design (prospective design, randomization, placebo control, objective and validated end points, adequate power, and appropriate duration) ( 310 , 336 ). Accordingly, the role of pharmacological androgen therapy is mostly relegated to an affordable but second line, supportive or adjunctive therapy ( 336 ). The range of pharmacologic uses of androgens include: treatment of anemia due to marrow or renal failure; osteoporosis especially where estrogen therapy is contraindicated; advanced ER-positive breast cancer; hereditary angioedema (C1 esterase inhibitor deficiency); and for immunologic, pulmonary, and muscular diseases (reviewed in detail ( 336 )). In anemia due to renal or marrow failure, androgens have proven beneficial effects on morbidity by improving hemoglobin
