Androgen Physiology, Pharmacology, Use and Misuse
KEYWORDS: testosterone, androgen, men, effects, androgens, therapy, levels, clinical, treatment, prostate, male, blood, replacement, circulating, disease


even in eugonadal men ( 346 ), overturning prior belief to the contrary ( 347 ). Testosterone has clear dose-dependent effects, extending from below to well above the physiological concentrations without evidence of a plateau, on muscle size and strength (but not performance function or fatigue) in young ( 348 ) and older ( 349 ) men with similar magnitude of ultimate effect ( 350 ). Nevertheless, ageing reduced the responsiveness of older muscle to testosterone as the same doses produced higher blood testosterone concentrations in older men. The higher blood testosterone concentrations are the result of decreased testosterone metabolic clearance rate due to age-related higher blood SHBG concentrations ( 351 ). Similarly, erythropoeitic effects of testosterone are greater in older men who developed a higher rate of polycythemia ( 352 ). Diverse androgen-sensitive effects including changes in metabolic function, cognition, mood and sexual function were minimal at physiological testosterone doses ( 353 , 354 ). The wide dose-response to testosterone through and beyond the physiologic range suggests that androgens may have beneficial effects in reversing the frailty observed in many medical settings. Whether such effects can be applied effectively and safely ( 355 ) to improve frailty and quality of life in chronic disease or in male ageing remains an important challenge to be determined. Pharmacological androgen therapy for human immunodeficiency virus (HIV) infection in the absence of classical hypogonadism has been investigated for its effects on disease-associated morbidity, notably AIDS wasting. However pharmacologic androgen therapy does not alter the natural history of underlying disease and the objective functional benefits remain modest being confined to reversing some aspects of AIDS wasting. The rationale for pharmacologic androgen therapy in AIDS wasting is that body weight loss is an important determinant of survival in AIDS and other terminal diseases with death estimated to occur when lean body mass reaches 66% of ideal ( 356 ). This leads to the hypothesis that androgens may delay death by increasing appetite and/or body weight. Meta-analysis of randomized, placebo-controlled studies of pharmacologic androgen therapy in HIV-positive men with AIDS wasting indicate modest increase in lean and decreased fat mass with additive effects from resistance training but inconsistent improvement in quality of life ( 357 , 358 ). Among HIV-positive men without wasting there is less improvement in body composition and none in quality of life although, in affluent countries, there is a popular subculture of
