Androgen Physiology, Pharmacology, Use and Misuse
KEYWORDS: testosterone, androgen, men, effects, androgens, therapy, levels, clinical, treatment, prostate, male, blood, replacement, circulating, disease


358 ). Among HIV-positive men without wasting there is less improvement in body composition and none in quality of life although, in affluent countries, there is a popular subculture of androgen abuse ( 359 ). The oral progestin, megestrol acetate, used alone as an appetite stimulant induces profound gonadotropin and testosterone suppression to castrate levels and predominanty increases fat mass rather than reversing the loss of muscle ( 360 , 361 ). It is now well recognized that chronic use of opiates has multiple effects on the human endocrine system ( 362 ), including prominent mu-opioid receptor mediated effects on the hypothalamus resulting in suppression of pituitary LH secretion and thereby testicular testosterone production ( 363 , 364 ). However, despite an open-label study suggesting quality of life benefits for testosterone replacement therapy ( 365 ), placebo-controlled studies show no clinically significant benefit ( 366 , 367 ) possibly due to failure to rectify non-androgenic effects of opiates. A special application of pharmacologic androgen treatment is its use in women with estrogen-resistant menopausal symptoms such as loss of energy or libido. The similarity of blood testosterone in women, children, and orchidectomized men indicates that the term female androgen deficiency is not meaningful in women ( 368 ) with normal adrenal function ( 369 ). In women with adrenal failure due to hypothalamo-pituitary or adrenal disease, DHEA replacement therapy ( 14 ) has significant but modest clinical benefits in some ( 369 , 370 ) but not all ( 371 , 372 ) studies with relatively frequent, mild virilizing side-effects. Similar effects are observed using testosterone instead of DHEA ( 373 ). Well controlled studies of testosterone administration for menopausal symptoms or sexual hypofunction in women with normal adrenal function show strong placebo effects ( 374 , 375 ) but minimal or no consistent symptomatic benefits ( 376 ) despite supraphysiological blood testosterone levels ( 374 ). High-dose testosterone used at male androgen replacement therapy doses ( 377 , 378 ) produce markedly supraphysiologic blood testosterone levels and virilization including voice changes and androgenic alopecia ( 379 - 381 ). Lower but still supraphysiologic testosterone doses and blood levels increase bone density in menopausal women ( 382 ) but produce virilizing adverse effects (hirsutism, acne) in short-term studies. Overall the long-term efficacy and safety risks for cardiovascular disease and hormone dependent cancers (breast, uterus, ovary) for testosterone therapy in women remain
