Androgen Physiology, Pharmacology, Use and Misuse
KEYWORDS: testosterone, androgen, men, effects, androgens, therapy, levels, clinical, treatment, prostate, male, blood, replacement, circulating, disease


adverse effects (hirsutism, acne) in short-term studies. Overall the long-term efficacy and safety risks for cardiovascular disease and hormone dependent cancers (breast, uterus, ovary) for testosterone therapy in women remain unclear ( 383 - 385 ). Studies of testosterone administration as a form of adjuvant pharmacologic androgen therapy in women with chronic medical disorders such as anorexia nervosa ( 386 ), HIV ( 387 ) and systemic lupus erythematosus ( 388 ) have little consistent effect on disease activity or quality of life including sexual function. Many important questions and opportunities remain for pharmacologic androgen therapy in nongonadal disease, but careful clinical trials are essential for proper evaluation ( 336 ). Recent well designed placebo-controlled clinical studies of pharmacologic androgen therapy in chronic disease have been reported. In men with severe chronic obstructive pulmonary disease it produces modest increases in muscle mass and strength with improved quality of life but no effect on underlying lung function ( 389 - 391 ) whereas oral megestrol administration had similar effects despite marked suppression of blood testosterone levels ( 392 ). Similarly, although in an observational study chronic heart failure is associated with lower blood testosterone that is proportional to the decrease in cardiac function and which predicts survival ( 393 ), a placebo-controlled prospective study of testosterone administration showed improvement in effort-dependent exercise capacity but not in left ventricular function or survival ( 394 ). This discrepancy suggests that the lowered blood testosterone is the consequence of a non-specific adaptive reaction of the reproductive hormonal axis to chronic disease (ontogenic regression ( 395 )) rather than a detrimental effect susceptible to being overcome by androgen supplementation. Both testosterone and its non-aromatizable derivative nandrolone, produce increased bone density in men with glucocorticoid-induced osteoporosis with minimal short-term side-effects ( 396 , 397 ). The best opportunities for future evaluation of adjuvant use of androgen therapy in men with nongonadal disease include steroid-induced osteoporosis; wasting due to AIDS or cancer cachexia; and chronic respiratory, rheumatologic, and some neuromuscular diseases. In addition, the role of pharmacologic androgen therapy in recovery and/or rehabilitation after severe catabolic illness such as burns, critical illness, or major surgery are promising ( 398 ) but requires thorough evaluation because detrimental effects may occur ( 399 ). Future studies of adjuvant androgen therapy require high-quality clinical data involving randomization and placebo controls as well as finding the optimal dose and authentic clinical,
