Androgen Physiology, Pharmacology, Use and Misuse
KEYWORDS: testosterone, androgen, men, effects, androgens, therapy, levels, clinical, treatment, prostate, male, blood, replacement, circulating, disease


may occur ( 399 ). Future studies of adjuvant androgen therapy require high-quality clinical data involving randomization and placebo controls as well as finding the optimal dose and authentic clinical, rather than surrogate, end points. FIGURE 4. Serum Testosterone Across the Lifespan in Men and Women. Serum testosterone, SHBG & calculated "free" testosterone in males and females over the lifetime as determined in >100,000 consecutive blood samples from a single laboratory. After Handelsman et al. Ann Clin Biochem 2016. Testosterone Treatment for Male Ageing The prospect of ameliorating male ageing by androgen therapy has long been of interest and recently has been the subject of many observational and short-term interventional controlled clinical trials. The consensus from population-based cross—sectional ( 325 , 326 ) and longitudinal studies ( 27 , 400 , 401 ) is that circulating testosterone concentrations fall by up to ~1% per annum from mid-life onward, an age-related decline that is accelerated by the presence of concomitant chronic disease ( 401 ) and associated with decreases in tissue androgen levels ( 402 , 403 ) as well as numerous co-morbidities of male ageing ( 327 , 404 ) ( figure 4 ). Numerous cross-sectional and longitudinal observational studies show that low blood testosterone is associated with greater all-cause and/or cardiovascular mortality summarized in multiple meta-analyses ( 405 - 412 ). An observational study of older war veterans reported testosterone treatment was associated with better survival ( 413 ); however, bias in the non-randomized design allowing for preferential treatment of healthier men with testosterone may explain those findings ( 414 ). However, as observational studies cannot ascribe causality it remains likely that such reductions in blood testosterone may be a consequence rather than a cause of the increased mortality. Interventional studies have remained too small and short-term to resolve this dilemma. Definitive evidence as to whether androgen treatment ameliorates age-related changes in bodily function and improves quality of life requires high quality, randomized placebo-controlled clinical trials using testosterone ( 415 ), DHT ( 416 , 417 ) or hCG ( 418 ) or synthetic androgens ( 419 ); however, so far the only consistent changes observed in well controlled studies of at least 3 months duration have been small increases in lean (muscle) and decreases in fat mass. The best available summary evidence from meta-analyses indicates no or only inconsistent benefits in bone ( 420 , 421 ), muscle
