Androgen Physiology, Pharmacology, Use and Misuse
KEYWORDS: testosterone, androgen, men, effects, androgens, therapy, levels, clinical, treatment, prostate, male, blood, replacement, circulating, disease


increases in lean (muscle) and decreases in fat mass. The best available summary evidence from meta-analyses indicates no or only inconsistent benefits in bone ( 420 , 421 ), muscle ( 422 ), sexual function ( 423 , 424 ) and detrimental effects on cardiovascular disease/risk factors ( 405 - 412 ) and polycythemia ( 425 ). As a result, the 2004 Institute of Medicine report ( 426 ) recommended a priority to acquire more convincing, target-defining feasibility evidence to justify a large-scale clinical trial to weight potential benefits against risks of accelerating cardiovascular and prostate disease. Arising from that recommendation, the NIH-funded series of inter-related ‘Testosterone Trials’ reported their main result in which 790 older men (>65 years), mostly obese, hypertensive, ex-smokers (ie men with “andropause/lowT” but not pathological hypogonadism), treated daily with testosterone for one year showed a modest improvement in sexual function compared with placebo ( 427 ). The improvement in sexual function, about 1/3 increase over baseline sexual activity, waned during the year’s treatment and there was no concomitant improvement in either vitality or physical activity compared with placebo. The benefit in sexual function was less robust than the effects of PDE5 inhibitors ( 427 ) and of uncertain clinical significance, insufficient to warrant initiating testosterone treatment of older men ( 428 ). These findings do not materially change the unfavorable balance of evidence for testosterone treatment for functional causes of a low serum testosterone in the absence of pathological hypogonadism. Although these results fail to meet the 2004 mandate of the Institute of Medicine (now National Academy of Medicine) for sufficient short-term efficacy to warrant public funding of a large scale efficacy trial, the FDA has mandated an industry-funded safety study (TRAVERSE) to investigate major adverse cardiovascular events involving 6000 patients with a low serum testosteronbe but no pathological hypogonadism randomized to daily testosterone vs placebo gel treated for up to 5 years. The major hypothetical population risk from androgen therapy for male ageing remains increased cardiovascular disease ( 309 ) as was proven unexpectedly by the WHI study for the risks of estrogen replacement for menopause ( 429 ). Cardiovascular disease has earlier onset and greater severity in men resulting in a 2-3-fold higher age-specific risks of cardiovascular death compared with women ( 430 ). The male disadvantage in cardiovascular disease has a complex pathogenesis with androgens having apparently beneficial effects including in regulating
