Androgen Physiology, Pharmacology, Use and Misuse
KEYWORDS: testosterone, androgen, men, effects, androgens, therapy, levels, clinical, treatment, prostate, male, blood, replacement, circulating, disease


age-specific risks of cardiovascular death compared with women ( 430 ). The male disadvantage in cardiovascular disease has a complex pathogenesis with androgens having apparently beneficial effects including in regulating cardiac ion channel fluxes that dictate QT interval length, cardiac ventricular repolarization and lesser risk of arrthymia ( 431 - 439 ) as well as angiogenesis ( 440 , 441 ) which must be integrated with other apparently deleterious effects ( 309 , 442 ). Prospective observational data remains conflicting, with low blood testosterone predicting subsequent cardiovascular death in some ( 443 , 444 ) but not other ( 445 - 447 ) studies. Testosterone therapy for older, frail men may increase adverse cardiovascular events ( 355 ), side-effects that may be under reported ( 448 ) in previous studies not reporting such hazards ( 449 ). Observational data linking cardiovascular disease with low blood testosterone levels may however be the consequence of non-specific effects of chronic cardiovascular disease and/or confounding effects by major cardiovascular risk factors, like diabetes and obesity. The latter interpretations are supported by Mendelian randomization studies which report only non-causal relationships ( 450 , 451 ) albeit with important methodological caveats ( 452 ). Similarly, for the more feared but quantitatively less significant late-life prostate diseases, although their androgen dependence is well established, it is also known that life-long androgen deficiency (Klinefelter’s syndrome) reduces risk of fatal prostate cancer ( 453 ) and prevailing endogenous testosterone levels in healthy men do not predict risk of subsequent prostate cancer ( 454 , 455 ). These epidemiological observations are consistent with either circulating testosterone levels being a biomarker, a non-specific barometer of ill-health, or else that restoring circulating testosterone to eugonadal levels could reduce age-related cardiovascular and prostate disease (the “andropause” hypothesis, also known as “LowT” or”late-onset hypogonadism”). Independent critical analyses have concluded that it is not valid to extrapolate the features of pathological hypogonadism in younger men to older men with possibly age-related hypogonadism ( 456 ). Nor did a comprehensive meta-analysis identify any valid basis for testosterone treatment of such older men ( 457 ). Decisive testing of these alternatives requires an adequately powered, placebo-controlled, prospective, randomized clinical trial ( 426 ). As the decisive safety and efficacy evidence on testosterone supplementation for male ageing remains distant, interim clinical guidelines have been developed by academic and professional societies ( 458 - 461 ) ostensibly aiming to
