Androgen Physiology, Pharmacology, Use and Misuse
KEYWORDS: testosterone, androgen, men, effects, androgens, therapy, levels, clinical, treatment, prostate, male, blood, replacement, circulating, disease


and efficacy evidence on testosterone supplementation for male ageing remains distant, interim clinical guidelines have been developed by academic and professional societies ( 458 - 461 ) ostensibly aiming to restrain the unproven testosterone prescribing which nevertheless escalated over recent decades in Australia ( 462 ), Europe ( 463 , 464 ) and most dramatically in North America ( 465 - 468 ). Consequently, more recent clinical guidelines have curbed the tacit promotion of testosterone precsribing for men without pathological hypogonadism ( 469 , 470 ). At present, testosterone treatment cannot be recommended as routine treatment for male ageing (see also Endotext, Endocrinology of Male Reproduction, Age-Related Changes in the Male Reproductive Axis ). Nevertheless, androgen replacement therapy may be used cautiously even in older men with pre-existing pathological pituitary-gonadal disorders causing androgen deficiency if contraindications such as prostate cancer are excluded. Androgen Misuse and Abuse Misuse of androgens involves medical prescription without a valid clinical indication and outside an approved clinical trial, and androgen abuse is the use of androgens for nonmedical purposes. Medical misuse includes prescribing androgens for male infertility ( 471 ) or sexual dysfunction in men without androgen deficiency ( 423 ) where there are no likely benefits or as a tonic for non-specific symptoms in older men (“male menopause”, ‘andropause”, “late-onset hypogonadism”) ( 426 ) or women ( 368 ) where safe and effective use is unproven. Although there is no exact boundary defining overuse, mass marketing and promotion to fend off ageing in the absence of reliable evidence are hallmarks of systemic misuse of androgens. Androgens have a mystique of youthful virility making them ideal for manipulative marketing to the wealthy, worried well as they grow older. ANDROGEN MISUSE: PATTERNS OF TESTOSTERONE PRESCRIPTION Despite the absence of any new approved indications beyond the treatment of pathological classical hypogonadism, testosterone prescribing has displayed major and progressive increases especially since 2000 ( 472 ). The market for testosterone prescribing has increased 100-fold from $18 million in the late 1980’s ( 465 ) to $1.8 billion in this decade ( 468 ). In Australia, for example, where a national health scheme provides accurate prescription data, striking differences between states, increasing use of costlier newer products and partially effective regulatory curbs on unproven testosterone prescribing were reported ( 462 , 473 ). Similar increases are also described in the USA ( 465 , 467 ), Switzerland ( 464
