Androgen Physiology, Pharmacology, Use and Misuse
KEYWORDS: testosterone, androgen, men, effects, androgens, therapy, levels, clinical, treatment, prostate, male, blood, replacement, circulating, disease


effective regulatory curbs on unproven testosterone prescribing were reported ( 462 , 473 ). Similar increases are also described in the USA ( 465 , 467 ), Switzerland ( 464 ) and UK ( 463 ). A 2013 study of international trends in testosterone prescribing based on per capita sales of testosterone usage and poolingss all products into standardized testosterone usage estimates (per person per month), showed testosterone usage increased in every world region and for 37 of 41 countries surveyed over the 11 years (2000-11) ( 468 ). The increases were most striking in North America where they rose 40-fold in Canada and 10-fold in the USA over only a decade. Other estimates from the US confirm an increase in testosterone prescribing although with a lower increase when based on selective sources such as private insurance databases ( 467 , 474 , 475 ) or the Veterans Administration (VA) system ( 476 ). These lower increases underestimate the national usage, indicating the efficacy of formulary or other restrictions constraining unjustified testosterone prescribing but implies much greater increases in testosterone usage outside those populations served by private medical insurance and the VA system. The increased testosterone prescribing appears to be primarily for older men and driven by clinical guidelines that endorse testosterone prescribing for age-related low circulating testosterone concentration ( 459 , 477 , 478 ), commonly referred to as “LowT” or “late-onset hypogonadism”. The major factors driving these increases include direct-to-consumer advertising as part of a broad spectrum of pharmaceutical promotional activities as well as permissive clinical prescribing guidelines from professional and single-issue societies. The latter have, in concert, tacitly encouraged, facilitated, and promoted increased off-label testosterone prescribing, bypassing the requirement for high quality clinical evidence of safety and efficacy. Prescribing guidelines that systematically eliminated the fundamental distinction between pathological hypogonadism and functional causes of a low circulating testosterone have significantly contributed to legitimizing epidemic-like increases in testosterone prescription overuse based upon highly inflated incidence data for “hypogonadism” ( 468 ). The known prevalence of pathological androgen deficiency (~0.5% of men ( 479 )) equates to a figure of ~15 defined monthly doses per year per 1000 population. Population linkage registry data from the UK ( 453 ) and Denmark ( 314 ) prove severe under-diagnosis of Klinefelter’s syndrome, the most frequent cause of pathological AD. Nevertheless, it is highly unlikely that recent steep increases in testosterone prescribing and
