Androgen Physiology, Pharmacology, Use and Misuse
KEYWORDS: testosterone, androgen, men, effects, androgens, therapy, levels, clinical, treatment, prostate, male, blood, replacement, circulating, disease


Denmark ( 314 ) prove severe under-diagnosis of Klinefelter’s syndrome, the most frequent cause of pathological AD. Nevertheless, it is highly unlikely that recent steep increases in testosterone prescribing and use can be attributed to rectifying the under-diagnosis of KS, which is generally diagnosed in young male adults. Not only does total testosterone prescribing in some countries exceed the maximal amount that could be attributed to pathological AD, there is no evidence the diagnosis of KS has increased in recent years ( 473 , 480 ). By contrast, the estimated population prevalence of “andropause” among older men is up to 40% ( 481 ) or more usually claimed in the range 10-25% ( 326 , 482 , 483 ) with even the lowest estimates of 2-3% ( 484 ) representing major (5-100 fold) increases in potential market size over pathological hypogonadism. ANDROGEN ABUSE (see also Endotext, Endocrinology of Male Reproduction Section, Performance Enhancing Hormone Doping in Sport ) Androgen abuse originated in the 1950s as a product of the Cold War ( 485 ) whereby communist Eastern European countries could develop national programs to achieve short-term propaganda victories over the West in Olympic and international sports ( 486 ). This form of cheating was readily taken up by individual athletes seeking personal rewards of fame and fortune in elite competitive sports. Over decades, androgen abuse has become endemic in developed countries with sufficient affluence to support drug abuse subcultures. Androgen abuse is cultivated by underground folklore among athletes and trainers, particularly in power sports and body building, promoting the use of so-called “anabolic steroids” to enhance personal image and sports performance. A lucrative illicit industry is fostered through wildly speculative underground publications promoting the use of prodigious androgen doses in combination (“stacking”) and/or cycling regimens. The myotrophic benefits of supraphysiologic androgen doses in eugonadal men were long doubted ( 347 ) in the belief that alleged performance gains were attributable to placebo responses involving effects of motivation, training and diet, This belief was overturned by a randomized, placebo-controlled clinical study showing decisively that supraphysiologic testosterone doses (600 mg testosterone enanthate weekly) for 10 weeks increases muscular size and strength ( 346 ). In well-controlled studies of eugonadal young ( 487 ) and older ( 350 ) men, testosterone shows strong linear relationships of dose with muscular size and strength throughout and beyond the physiologic range. The additional dose-dependent increases in
