Androgen Physiology, Pharmacology, Use and Misuse
KEYWORDS: testosterone, androgen, men, effects, androgens, therapy, levels, clinical, treatment, prostate, male, blood, replacement, circulating, disease


) and older ( 350 ) men, testosterone shows strong linear relationships of dose with muscular size and strength throughout and beyond the physiologic range. The additional dose-dependent increases in erythropoesis ( 352 ) and mood ( 488 ) may also enhance the direct myotrophic benefits of supraphysiologic androgen dose. While these studies prove the unequivocal efficacy of supraphysiological androgen dosage to increase muscle size and strength even in eugonadal men, the specific benefits for skilled athletic performance depend on the sport involved with greatest advantages evident in power sports. The overall safety of the sustained supraphysiological androgen exposure in these settings remains undefined, notably for cardiovascular and prostate disease as well as psychiatric sequelae ( 489 ). Progressively, the epidemic of androgen abuse has spread from elite power athletes so that the majority of abusers are no longer athletes but recreational and cosmetic users wishing to augment body building or occupational users working in security-related professions ( 490 ). A remarkable meta-analysis of 271 papers reporting prevalence of androgen abuse within various populations comprising 2.8 million people ( 490 ), deduced a lifetime (“ever use”) prevalence of 6.4% for males and 1.6% for females with higher rates for recreational sports (18.4%), athletes (13.4%), prisoners (12.4%), drug users (8.0%), high school students (2.3%) compared with non-athletes (1.0%). As an illicit activity, the extent of androgen abuse in the general community is difficult to estimate, although point estimates of prevalence are more feasible in captive populations such as high schools. The prevalence of self-reported lifetime (“ever”) use is estimated to be 66 in the United States ( 491 ), 58 in Sweden ( 492 ), 32 in Australia ( 493 ), and 28 in South Africa ( 494 ) per 1000 boys in high school, with a much lower prevalence among girls. Predictors of androgen abuse in high schools are consistent across many cultures include truancy, availability of disposable income, minority ethnic or migrant status and there is significant overlap with typical features of adolescent abuse of other drugs. Voluntary self-report of androgen abuse understates prevalence of drug use among weight lifters ( 495 ) and prisoners ( 496 , 497 ). Abusers consume androgens from many sources including veterinary, inert, or counterfeit preparations, obtained mostly through illicit sales by underground networks with a small proportion obtained from compliant doctors. Highly sensitive urinary drug screening methods for detection of natural and
