Androgen Physiology, Pharmacology, Use and Misuse
KEYWORDS: testosterone, androgen, men, effects, androgens, therapy, levels, clinical, treatment, prostate, male, blood, replacement, circulating, disease


536 ). However, for both, long-term consequences of androgen abuse based on anecdotal reporting are likely to be significantly underestimated due to underreporting of past androgen use and non-systematic follow-up. Few well controlled prospective clinical studies of the cardiovascular ( 537 , 538 ) or prostatic ( 350 , 487 , 539 ) effects of high dose androgens have been reported. Most available clinical studies consist of non-randomized, observational comparisons of androgen users compared with non or discontinued users ( 540 - 552 ). However, such retrospective observational studies suffer from ascertainment, participation and other bias so that important unrecognized determinants of outcomes may not be measured. Given the low community prevalence of androgen abuse, well designed, sufficiently powerful retrospective case-control studies are required to define the long-term risks of cardiovascular and prostate disease ( 553 ). The best available evidence suggests elite athletes have longer life expectancy due to reduced cardiovascular disease ( 554 , 555 ). This benefit, however, is least evident among power athletes, the group with highest likelihood of past androgen abuse, a finding confirmed by a small study finding a greater than 4-fold increase in premature deaths (from suicide, cardiovascular disease, liver failure and lymphoma) among 62 former power athletes compared with population norms ( 556 ). More definitive studies are required, but, at present, largely anecdotal information suggests that serious short-term medical danger is limited considering the extent of androgen abuse, that androgens are not physically addictive ( 557 , 558 ) and that most androgen abusers eventually discontinue drug use. After cessation of prolonged use of high-dose androgens, recovery of the hypothalamic-pituitary-testicular axis may be delayed for months and up to 2 years ( 559 ), creating a transient gonadotropin and androgen deficiency withdrawal state ( 560 - 563 ). This may lead to temporary androgen deficiency symptoms and/or oligozoospemia and infertility that eventually abate without requiring additional hormonal treatments. Although hCG can induce spermatogenesis ( 507 , 564 ), like exogenous testosterone, it further delays recovery of the reproductive axis and perpetuates the drug abuse cycle ( 565 ). There remains anecdotal evidence from experienced observers that prolonged hypothalamic-pituitary suppression by high dose exogenous androgens may not always be fully reversible after even a year off exogenous androgens, resembling the incomplete reversibility of GnRH analog suppression of circulating testosterone in older men after cessation of prolonged medical castration for prostate cancer (
