Androgen Physiology, Pharmacology, Use and Misuse
KEYWORDS: testosterone, androgen, men, effects, androgens, therapy, levels, clinical, treatment, prostate, male, blood, replacement, circulating, disease


even a year off exogenous androgens, resembling the incomplete reversibility of GnRH analog suppression of circulating testosterone in older men after cessation of prolonged medical castration for prostate cancer ( 566 , 567 ). An educational program intervention had modest success in deterring androgen abuse among secondary school footballers ( 568 ) and more effective interventions to prevent and/or halt androgen abuse capable of overcoming strong contrary social incentives of fame and fortune are yet to be defined. Practical Goals of Androgen Replacement Therapy The goal of androgen replacement therapy is to replicate the physiologic actions of endogenous testosterone, usually for the remainder of life as the pathological basis of hypogonadism is usually irreversible disorders of the hypothalamus, pituitary or testis. This requires rectifying the deficit and maintaining androgenic/anabolic effects on bone ( 153 , 569 ), muscle ( 349 ), blood-forming marrow ( 352 , 570 ), sexual function ( 71 , 571 ), and other androgen-responsive tissues. The ideal product for long-term androgen replacement therapy should be a safe, effective, convenient, and inexpensive form of testosterone with long-acting depot properties providing steady-state blood testosterone levels due to reproducible, zero-order release kinetics. Androgen replacement therapy usually employs testosterone rather than synthetic androgens for reasons of safety and ease of monitoring. The aim is to maintain physiologic testosterone levels and resulting tissue androgen effects. Synthetic steroidal and non-steroidal androgens are likely to lack the full spectrum of testosterone tissue effects due to local amplification by 5α reductase to DHT and/or diversification to act on ERα by aromatization to estradiol. The practical goal of androgen replacement therapy is therefore to maintain stable, physiologic testosterone levels for prolonged periods using convenient depot testosterone formulations that facilitate compliance and avoid either supranormal or excessive fluctuation of androgen levels. The adequacy of testosterone replacement therapy is important for optimal outcomes ( 572 ) as suboptimal testosterone regimens, whether due to inadequate dosage or poor compliance, produce suboptimal bone density ( 573 - 575 ) compared with maintenance of age-specific norms achieved with adequate testosterone regimens ( 572 , 576 ). Differences in testosterone-induced bone density according to type of hypogonadism ( 577 ) may be attributable to delay in onset and/or suboptimal testosterone dose in early onset androgen deficiency ( 578 , 579 ) leading to reduced peak bone mass achieved in early manhood. Similarly, the severity of the androgen deficiency also predicts the
