Androgen Physiology, Pharmacology, Use and Misuse
KEYWORDS: testosterone, androgen, men, effects, androgens, therapy, levels, clinical, treatment, prostate, male, blood, replacement, circulating, disease


in early onset androgen deficiency ( 578 , 579 ) leading to reduced peak bone mass achieved in early manhood. Similarly, the severity of the androgen deficiency also predicts the magnitude of the restorative effect of testosterone replacement with greatest effects early in treatment of severe androgen deficiency ( 569 , 572 ) whereas only minimal effects are evident for testosterone treatment of mild androgen deficiency ( 333 , 334 ). The potential for individual tailoring of testosterone replacement dose according to an individual’s pharmacogenetic background of androgen sensitivity has been proposed by a study showing that the magnitude of the prostate growth response to exogenous testosterone in androgen deficient men is inversely related to the CAG triplet (polyglutamine) repeat length in exon 1 of the androgen receptor ( 235 ). However, this polyglutamine repeat is inversely related to ambient blood testosterone levels ( 580 ) consistent with the reciprocal relationship between repeat lengths and AR transactivational activity. Hence this polymorphism is only a weak modulator of tissue androgen sensitivity. Whether the magnitude of this pharmacogenetic effect is sufficiently large and significantly influences other androgen-sensitive end points will determine whether this approach is useful in practice. Pharmacologic Features of Androgens The major features of the clinical pharmacology of testosterone are its short circulating half-life and low oral bioavailability, both largely attributable to rapid hepatic conversion to biologically inactivate oxidized and glucuronidated excretory metabolites. The pharmaceutical development of practical testosterone products has been geared to overcoming these limitations. This has led to the development of parenteral depot formulations (injectable, implantable, transdermal), or products to bypass the hepatic portal system (sublingual, buccal, gut lymphatic absorption, transdermal) as well as orally active synthetic androgens that resist hepatic degradation ( 120 , 581 ). Androgens are defined pharmacologically by their binding and activation of the androgen receptor ( 1 ). Testosterone is the model androgen featuring a 19-carbon, four-ring steroid structure with two oxygens (3-keto, 17β-hydroxy) including a ∆ 4 nonaromatic A ring. Testosterone derivatives have been developed to enhance intrinsic androgenic potency, prolong duration of action, and/or improve oral bioavailability of synthetic androgens. Major ring structural modifications of testosterone include 17β-esterification, 19-nor-methyl, 17α-alkyl, 1-methyl, 7α-methyl, and D -homoandrogens. Most synthetic androgens are 17α-alkylated analogs of testosterone developed to exploit the fact that introducing a one (methyl) or two (ethyl, ethinyl) carbon group at the 17α position of the D ring allowed for oral
