Androgen Physiology, Pharmacology, Use and Misuse
KEYWORDS: testosterone, androgen, men, effects, androgens, therapy, levels, clinical, treatment, prostate, male, blood, replacement, circulating, disease


analogs of testosterone developed to exploit the fact that introducing a one (methyl) or two (ethyl, ethinyl) carbon group at the 17α position of the D ring allowed for oral bioactivity by reducing hepatic oxidative degradative metabolism. In 1998 the first nonsteroidal androgens, modified from nonsteroidal aryl propionamide antiandrogen structures, were reported ( 582 ) followed by quinoline, tetrahydroquinoline and hydantoin derivatives ( 583 ). The identification of a single gene and protein for the androgen receptor in 1988 ( 584 - 586 ) explains the physiologic observation that, at equivalent doses, all androgens have essentially similar effects ( 587 ). The term “anabolic steroid” was invented during the post-WWII golden age of steroid pharmacology to define an idealized androgen lacking virilizing features but maintaining myotrophic properties so that it could be used safely in chidren and women. Although this quest proved illusory and was abandoned after all industry efforts failed to identify such a hypothetical synthetic androgen, the obsolete term “anabolic steroid” persists mainly as a lurid descriptor in popular media despite continuing to make a false distinction where there is no difference. Better understanding of the metabolic activation of androgens via 5α-reduction and aromatization in target tissues and the tissue-specific partial agonist/antagonist properties of some synthetic androgens may lead to more physiological concepts of tissue-specific androgen action (“specific androgen receptor modulator”) governed by the physiological processes of pre-receptor androgen activation as well as post-receptor interaction with co-regulator proteins analogous to the development of synthetic estrogen partial agonists with tissue specificity (“specific estrogen receptor modulator”) ( 588 ). The potential for new clinical therapeutic indications of novel tissue-selective androgens in clinical development remain to be fully evaluated ( 589 ). Formulation, Route, and Dose UNMODIFIED TESTOSTERONE Testosterone Implants Implants of fused crystalline testosterone provide stable, physiologic testosterone levels for as long as 6 months after a single implantation procedure ( 590 ). Typically, four 200-mg pellets are inserted under the skin of the lateral abdominal wall or hip using in-office minor surgery and a local anesthetic. No suture or antibiotic is required, and the pellets are fully biodegradable and thus do not require removal. This old testosterone formulation ( 591 ) has excellent depot properties, with testosterone being absorbed by simple dissolution from a solid reservoir into extracellular fluid at a rate governed by the solubility of testosterone in the extracellular fluid resulting in a standard 800 mg testosterone
