Androgen Physiology, Pharmacology, Use and Misuse
KEYWORDS: testosterone, androgen, men, effects, androgens, therapy, levels, clinical, treatment, prostate, male, blood, replacement, circulating, disease


by simple dissolution from a solid reservoir into extracellular fluid at a rate governed by the solubility of testosterone in the extracellular fluid resulting in a standard 800 mg testosterone dose releasing ~5 mg per day ( 592 ) replicating the testosterone production rate in healthy eugonadal men ( 49 - 51 , 593 ). The long duration of action makes it popular among younger androgen-deficient men as reflected by a high continuation rate ( 594 ). The major limitations of this form of testosterone administration are the cumbersome implantation procedure and extrusion of a single pellet after ~5% of procedures. Extrusions are more frequent among thin men undertaking vigorous physical activities ( 594 ) but surface washing ( 595 ), antibiotic impregnation ( 596 ) or varying the site of implantation or track geometry ( 597 ) do not reduce extrusion rate. Other side effects such as bleeding or infection are rare (<1%) ( 594 ). Recent studies using a smaller (75 mg) implant reproduce these features although requiring administration of a larger number of pellets ( 598 - 600 ). Despite its clinical advantages and popularity, this simple, non-patented technology has limited commercial marketing appeal and, consequently, is not widely available apart from compounding chemists and niche manufacturers ( 598 ). Transdermal Testosterone Delivery of testosterone across the skin has long been of interest ( 174 ). More recently products delivering testosterone via adhesive dermal patches and gels have been developed to maintain physiologic testosterone levels by daily application. The first transdermal patch was developed for scrotal application where the thin, highly vascular skin facilitates steroid absorption ( 601 , 602 ) and scrotal patches showed long-term efficacy ( 603 ) including minimal skin irritation ( 604 , 605 ). However, their large size, need for shaving and disproportionately high increase blood DHT levels due to 5α-reduction of testosterone during transdermal passage led to the development of a smaller non-scrotal patch ( 606 ) effective for long-term use ( 607 ). For non-scrotal patches, the smaller size and application to less permeable non-scrotal (trunk, proximal limb) skin limit testosterone absorption. Although this can be enhanced by heating ( 608 ), in practice this required inclusion of absorption enhancers that cause skin irritation ( 604 , 605 ) of varying severity ( 609 ). Although skin irritation may be reduced by topical corticosteroid cream ( 610 ), the majority
