Androgen Physiology, Pharmacology, Use and Misuse
KEYWORDS: testosterone, androgen, men, effects, androgens, therapy, levels, clinical, treatment, prostate, male, blood, replacement, circulating, disease


gel or solutions have considerable misuse and abuse potential. Testosterone Microspheres Suspensions of biodegradable microspheres, consisting of polyglycolide-lactide matrix similar to absorbable suture material and laden with testosterone, can deliver stable, physiologic levels of testosterone for 2 to 3 months after intramuscular injection ( 638 , 639 ). Subsequent findings ( 640 ) suggest that the practical limitations of microsphere technology such as loading capacity, large injection volumes, and batch variability may be overcome. Oral Testosterone Finely milled testosterone ( 167 , 641 ) or testosterone suspended in an oil vehicle ( 642 , 643 ) have low oral bioavailability requiring high daily doses (200–400 mg) to maintain physiologic testosterone levels. Such a heavy androgen load causes prominent hepatic enzyme induction ( 644 ) without hepatotoxicity ( 645 ). Although effective in small studies ( 646 ), oral testosterone is not commercially available and little used. Sufficiently high oral testosterone doses (400-900 mg daily) also reduce serum SHBG ( 647 ) which may explain the concomitant acceleration of testosterone metabolism ( 167 , 646 , 648 ). Buccal and Sublingual Testosterone Buccal or sublingual delivery of testosterone is an old technology ( 170 ) designed to bypass the avid first-pass hepatic metabolism of testosterone that is inevitable with the portal route of absorption. Once absorbed into the general circulation, however, testosterone is rapidly inactivated in accord with its short circulating half-time. Revivals of this technology include testosterone in a sublingual cyclodextrin formulation ( 649 ) and in a buccal lozenge ( 171 , 650 ). The multiple daily dosing required to maintain physiologic testosterone levels are drawbacks for long-term androgen replacement using such products, and their effectiveness and acceptability remain to be established. Like all transepithelial (nonparenteral) testosterone delivery systems, disproportionate amounts of testosterone undergo 5α-reduction during local absorption, resulting in higher blood DHT levels than those in eugonadal men ( 651 ). Because intraprostatic DHT is produced locally within the prostate and unlikely to be affected by changes in circulating DHT levels as well as the fact that prostate diseases remain rare among androgen deficient men receiving androgen replacement therapy, the higher blood DHT levels appear to pose no real risk of accelerating prostate disease ( 652 ). TESTOSTERONE ESTERS FIGURE 5. Schematic overview of the pharmacology of testosterone esters. Testosterone is esterified through the 17 β hydroxyl group with fatty acid esters of different aliphatic or other chain
