Androgen Physiology, Pharmacology, Use and Misuse
KEYWORDS: testosterone, androgen, men, effects, androgens, therapy, levels, clinical, treatment, prostate, male, blood, replacement, circulating, disease


over months rather than weeks, have been developed. Testosterone buciclate (trans-4-n-butyl cyclohexane carboxylate) is an insoluble testosterone ester in an aqueous suspension that produces prolonged testosterone release due to steric hindrance of ester side-chain hydrolysis slowing the liberation of unesterified testosterone. Although the buciclate ester produces blood testosterone levels in the low-normal physiologic range for up to 4 months after injection in nonhuman primates ( 659 ) as well as hypogonadal ( 660 ) and eugonadal ( 661 ) men, product development has not progressed. Injectable testosterone undecanoate, an ester of an 11 carbon aliphatic fatty acid, in an oil vehicle provides a longer (~12 weeks) duration of action ( 662 - 664 ) now widely marketed as a long-acting injectable depot testosterone product. Due to its limited solubility in the castor oil vehicle, testosterone undecanoate is administered as a 1000 mg dose in a large (4 mL) injection volume at 12 week intervals after the first and one 6 week loading dose or multiple loading doses ( 665 ) or in the USA, 750 mg in 3ml volume administered at the start of treatment and then 4 and subsequently at 10 weekly intervals. Once available, the rapid uptake of long-acting injectables show that they are very popular among younger hypogonadal men whereas transdermal products are more suited for older men in case of need to rapidly discontinue testosterone treatment such as after diagnosis of prostate cancer. The relatively long duration of action is also well suited to male hormonal contraception either alone in Chinese men ( 666 ) or as part of an androgen-progestin combination ( 667 - 669 ). For treatment of androgen deficiency, although its longer duration of action entails fewer injections with advantages for convenience and compliance, the efficacy and safety does not differ from that of the shorter acting testosterone enanthae ( 670 ). Although testosterone esters in oil vehicle are approved for im injection, they can be effectively used by subcutaneous injection ( 671 ) in their marketed formulation or via a pre-filled autoinjector ( 672 ). There is increasing use of subcutaneous injections (1 ml) of medium acting testosterone esters (cypionate or enanthate) in oil vehicle especially for masculinizing female to male transgender ( 673 - 675 ). However, the sc use of larger volume (4 ml) for injecting testosterone undecanoate is feasible but less popular than im injection ( 676 ). Oral
