Androgen Physiology, Pharmacology, Use and Misuse
KEYWORDS: testosterone, androgen, men, effects, androgens, therapy, levels, clinical, treatment, prostate, male, blood, replacement, circulating, disease


( 673 - 675 ). However, the sc use of larger volume (4 ml) for injecting testosterone undecanoate is feasible but less popular than im injection ( 676 ). Oral Testosterone Undecanoate Oral testosterone undecanoate, a suspension of the ester in 40-mg oil-filled capsules, is administered as 160 to 240 mg in two or more doses per day ( 677 ). The hydrophobic, long aliphatic chain ester in a castor oil/propylene glycol laurate vehicle favors preferential absorption into chylomicrons entering the gastrointestinal lymphatics and largely bypassing hepatic first-pass metabolism ( 173 ). Oral testosterone undecanoate is not absorbed under fasting conditions but is taken up when ingested with food ( 678 ) containing a moderate amount (at least 19 gm) of fat ( 679 ). Although oral testosterone undecanoate produces a disproportionate increase in serum DHT which is unaffected by concomitant administration of an oral 5 α reductase inhibitor ( 680 ); such modest increases in circulating DHT would have no impact on prostate size ( 681 ) or apparent risk of prostate cancer ( 454 , 682 ) presumably because DHT of extra-prostatic origin fails to increase intra-prostatic DHT concentrations ( 683 ). Its low oral bioavailability ( 684 ) and short duration of action requiring high and multiple daily doses of testosterone lead to only modest clinical efficacy compared with injectable testosterone esters ( 657 , 685 ). Widely marketed, it may cause gastrointestinal intolerance but has otherwise well established safety ( 682 ). A new formulation of oral testosterone undecanoate was approved for US marketing in 2019 ( 686 ) over four decades after its introduction in Europe ( 687 ) to close the gap in the market for a safe non-hepatotoxic oral androgen. Its limitations in efficacy, notably its capricious bioavailability, make it a second choice ( 657 ), unless parenteral therapy is best avoided (e.g., bleeding disorders, anticoagulation) or a low dose, as for induction of male puberty, must be provided ( 688 , 689 ) as a better option than the hepatotoxic alkylated androgen, oxandrolone ( 690 ). SYNTHETIC ANDROGENS Synthetic androgens include both steroidal and non-steroidal androgens. Synthetic steroidal androgens, most developed by 1970, comprise categories of 17α-alkylated androgens, 1-methyl androgens and nandrolone and its derivatives ( figure 6 ). FIGURE 6. Testosterone and its pharmacological derivatives. Listed are the most common synthetic androgens displaying their structural relationship with testosterone. Steriodal Androgens Most
