Androgen Physiology, Pharmacology, Use and Misuse
KEYWORDS: testosterone, androgen, men, effects, androgens, therapy, levels, clinical, treatment, prostate, male, blood, replacement, circulating, disease


and its derivatives ( figure 6 ). FIGURE 6. Testosterone and its pharmacological derivatives. Listed are the most common synthetic androgens displaying their structural relationship with testosterone. Steriodal Androgens Most oral androgens are hepatotoxic 17α-alkylated androgens (methyltestosterone, fluoxymesterone, oxymetholone, oxandrolone, ethylestrenol, stanozolol, danazol, methandrostenolone, norethandrolone) making them unacceptable for long-term androgen replacement therapy. The 1-methyl androgen mesterolone is an orally active DHT analog that undergoes neither amplification by 5α reduction nor aromatization but it is free of hepatotoxicity. Mesterolone is not used for long-term androgen replacement due to the need for multiple daily dosing, its poorly defined pharmacology ( 691 ) and suboptimal efficacy at standard dose ( 570 , 577 ). For historical reasons, the other marketed 1-methyl androgen methenolone is used almost exclusively in anemia due to marrow failure ( 692 , 693 ) although it has no specific pharmacological advantage over testosterone or other androgens. Nandrolone (19-nor testosterone) is a widely used injectable androgen in the form of aliphatic fatty acid esters in an oil vehicle mainly for treatment of postmenopusal osteoporosis where it is effective at increasing bone density and reducing fracture rate ( 694 , 695 ). It is also the most popular androgen abused in sports doping and in body building. Nandrolone is a naturally occuring steroid but is not normally secreted in the human bloodstream although it occurs as an intermediate in the aromatization of testosterone to estradiol by the aromatase enzyme ( 696 ). This enzyme complex undertakes two successive hydroxylations on the angular C19 methyl group of testosterone followed by a cleavage of the C10-C19 bond to releases formic acid and aromatize the A ring ( 697 ). Nandrolone represents a penultimate step of the molecule undergoing aromatization bound to the enzyme complex with the C19 methyl group excised but a still non-aromatized A ring. Paradoxically, despite being an intermediate in the aromatization reaction, nandrolone is virtually not aromatized after parenteral administration in men ( 698 , 699 ), presumably because it is a very poor substrate for the human aromatase enzyme ( 700 ). It is susceptible to amplification by 5α reductase with its 5α reduced metabolites being moderately activated in androgenic potency ( 701 ). The minimal aromatizability of nandrolone makes it suitable for treatment of osteoporosis in women in whom estrogen therapy is contraindicated due to hormone sensitive cancers (breast, uterus) or for older women, although virilization limits
