Androgen Physiology, Pharmacology, Use and Misuse
KEYWORDS: testosterone, androgen, men, effects, androgens, therapy, levels, clinical, treatment, prostate, male, blood, replacement, circulating, disease


nandrolone makes it suitable for treatment of osteoporosis in women in whom estrogen therapy is contraindicated due to hormone sensitive cancers (breast, uterus) or for older women, although virilization limits its acceptability ( 702 ). Synthetic nandrolone derivatives 7α-methyl 19-nortestosterone (MENT) ( 703 ) and 7α, 11β-dimethyl 19-nortestosterone (dimethandrolone) ( 704 ) are potent, non-hepatotoxic androgens. MENT is being developed as a depot androgen ( 705 ) for androgen replacement ( 706 ) and male contraception in an androgen-progestin combination regimen ( 707 ) while dimethandrolone has potential for male contraception as a single steroid with dual androgen and progestin activity ( 708 ). As nandrolone derivatives, these synthetic androgens are less susceptible to amplification by 5α-reduction ( 700 , 709 ) whereby their 5α-reduced metabolites have reduced AR binding affinity ( 710 ). Disparities in reported susceptibility to aromatization vary from minimal using a recombinant human aromatase assay ( 700 ) whereas greater aromatization is reported using purified human or equine placental aromatase ( 709 , 711 , 712 ). The inability of MENT to maintain bone density in androgen deficient men ( 575 ) may be due to underdosing rather than an intrinsic feature of this synthetic androgen but illustrates the need for thorough dose titration in different tissues for synthetic androgens that may not possess the full characteristic spectrum of testosterone effects. Nonsteroidal Androgens The first nonsteroidal androgen was reported in 1998 ( 582 ) and the first placebo-controlled randomized clinical trial in 2013 ( 713 ). None are yet approved for clinical use but registration studies are underway for enobosarm ( 714 ). Based on structural modifications of the nonsteroidal class of the aryl-propionamide antiandrogens (bicalutamide, flutamide), these compounds offer the possibility of orally active, potent androgens. Subsequently, additional classes of non-steroidal androgen based on structures including quinolines, hydantoins, tetracyclic indoles and oxachrysensones have been reported. Lacking the classical steroid ring structure such androgens are likely to be not subject to androgen activation either by 5α reductase or aromatization but, if taken orally, subject to first-pass hepatic metabolism. Such hepatic metabolism can eliminate in vivo bioactivity of analogs with potent in vitro androgenic effects ( 715 ) whereas metabolically resistant analogs can produce potent and disproportionate androgenic effects on the liver in transit. Many of the novel non-steroidal androgens demonstrate potent androgenic effects experimentally on muscle, bone and sexual function while minimizing prostate effects in experimental
