Androgen Physiology, Pharmacology, Use and Misuse
KEYWORDS: testosterone, androgen, men, effects, androgens, therapy, levels, clinical, treatment, prostate, male, blood, replacement, circulating, disease


androgenic effects on the liver in transit. Many of the novel non-steroidal androgens demonstrate potent androgenic effects experimentally on muscle, bone and sexual function while minimizing prostate effects in experimental animals but none have yet undergone full clinical evaluation. These selective effects may be attributable to the tissue-selective distribution of 5α-reductase as a local tissue, pre-receptor androgen amplification mechanism ( 716 ) or more complex mechanisms involving ligand-induced receptor conformation changes and/or post-receptor co-regulator interaction mechanisms such as define the tissue selectivity and agonist/antagonist specificity of non-steroidal estrogen partial agonists ( 717 ). These features suggest that non-steroidal androgens have potential for development into pharmacologic androgen therapy regimens as tissue-selective mixed or partial androgen agonists (“selective androgen receptor modulators”, SARM) ( 419 , 718 ). Conversely, they are not ideal for androgen replacement therapy where the full spectrum of testosterone effects including aromatization is idealy required, especially for tissues such as the brain ( 148 , 159 ) and bone ( 153 ) where aromatization is a prominent feature of testosterone action. The clinical efficacy and safety of non-steroidal androgens have yet to be reported and none are yet marketed. Whether the hepatotoxicity of antiandrogens ( 719 , 720 ) will also be a feature of non-steroidal androgens remains to be determined. Choice of Preparation The choice of testosterone product for androgen replacement therapy depends on physician experience and patient preference, involving factors such as convenience, availability, familiarity, cost, and tolerance of frequent injections. Preparations of testosterone or its esters are favored over synthetic androgens for all androgen replacement therapy applications by virtue of their long record of safety and efficacy, ease of dose titration and of monitoring of blood levels as well as the possibility that synthetic androgens lack the full spectrum of testosterone effects through pre-receptor tissue activational mechanisms (5α reduction, aromatization). The hepatotoxicity of synthetic 17α-alkylated androgens ( 340 , 341 ) makes them unsuitable for long-term androgen replacement therapy. Cross-over studies indicate that patients prefer testosterone formulations that maintain stable blood levels and smoother clinical effects. This is best achieved by testosterone products that form effective depots for sustained release such as long-acting testosterone implants (6 monthly) ( 657 ) and injectable testosterone undecanoate (3 monthly) ( 721 , 722 ) or shorter-acting daily transdermal gels ( 71 ). These are an improvement over the previous standard of intramuscular injections of older testosterone esters (enanthate, mixed
