Androgen Physiology, Pharmacology, Use and Misuse
KEYWORDS: testosterone, androgen, men, effects, androgens, therapy, levels, clinical, treatment, prostate, male, blood, replacement, circulating, disease


androgen deficiency ( 727 ). In otherwise healthy men, however, additional testosterone at doses equivalent to testosterone replacement doses (eg for male contraception or “andropause”) mood or behaviour changes are not evident ( 354 , 728 - 734 ) or minimal ( 669 ). Even among healthy young men having very high androgen doses there are few mood or behaviour changes ( 488 , 735 - 738 ) except for a small minority (~5%) of paid clinical trial vounteers who display a hypomanic reaction, reversible on androgen discontinuation ( 488 ). However, such adverse behavioural reactions were not observed in larger studies of testosterone administration to unpaid healthy men ( 666 , 669 , 739 , 740 ). The higher prevalence of adverse behavioral effects reported among androgen abusers may be related not only to the massive androgen doses but also to high levels of background psychological disturbance ( 527 ), drug habituation ( 557 ), and anticipation ( 741 ) which predispose to behavioral disturbances reported during this form of drug abuse ( 727 , 742 ). Excessive or undesirable androgenic effects may be experienced during androgen therapy due to intrinsic androgenic effects in inappropriate settings (e.g., virilization in women or children). In a few untreated hypogonadal men, mainly in newly diagnosed older men, initiation of androgen treatment with standard doses occasionally produces an unfamiliar and even intolerable increase in libido and erection frequency. If this occurs, more gradual acclimatization to full testosterone dose with counseling of men and their partners may occasionally be helpful but usually adequate advice before starting treatment is sufficient. Seborrhea and acne are commonly associated with high androgen levels in either the steep rise in endogenous testosterone during puberty or among androgen abusers. In contrast to the predominantly facial distribution of adolescent acne, androgen-induced acne with onset well after puberty is characteristically truncal in distribution and provides a useful clinical clue to androgen abuse ( 743 ). Acne is unusual during testosterone replacement therapy being mainly restricted to a few susceptible individuals during establishment of treatment with shorter-acting intramuscular testosterone esters, probably related to their generation of transient supraphysiologic testosterone concentrations in the days after injection ( 570 , 655 ). Acne is rare with depot testosterone products that maintain steady-state physiologic blood testosterone levels. Androgen-induced acne is usually adequately managed with topical measures and/or broad-spectrum antibiotics, if required, with either dose reduction or
