Androgen Physiology, Pharmacology, Use and Misuse
KEYWORDS: testosterone, androgen, men, effects, androgens, therapy, levels, clinical, treatment, prostate, male, blood, replacement, circulating, disease


with depot testosterone products that maintain steady-state physiologic blood testosterone levels. Androgen-induced acne is usually adequately managed with topical measures and/or broad-spectrum antibiotics, if required, with either dose reduction or a switch to steady-state delivery (gel, long-acting injectable) that avoids supraphysiologic peak blood testosterone concentrations. Increased body hair and temporal hair loss or balding may also be seen even with physiologic testosterone replacement in susceptible men. Modest weight gain (up to 5kg) reflecting anabolic effects on muscle mass is also common. Gynecomastia is a feature of androgen deficiency but may appear during androgen replacement therapy, especially during use of aromatizable androgens such as testosterone that increase circulating estradiol levels at times when androgenic effects are inadequate (e.g., a too low or infrequent dose or unreliable compliance with treatment). Obstructive sleep apnea causes a mild lowering of blood testosterone concentrations that is rectified by effective continuous positive airway pressure treatment ( 744 ). Although testosterone treatment has precipitated obstructive sleep apnea ( 745 ) and has potential adverse effects on sleep in older men ( 746 ), the prevalence of obstructive sleep apnea precipitated by testosterone treatment remains unclear. The risk is rare in younger androgen deficient men, but is higher among older men with the steeply rising background prevalence of obstructive sleep apnea with age. Hence, screening for obstructive sleep apnea by asking about daytime sleepiness and partner reports of loud and irregular snoring, especially among overweight men with large collar size, is wise for older men starting testosterone treatment but not routinely required for young men with classic androgen deficiency. THROMBOEMBOLISM Testosterone treatment of men without pathological hypogonadism were first reported to be associated with an increased risk of venous thromboembolism in a large UK general practice database ( 747 ) especially in the first 3-6 months after starting treatment ( 747 - 749 ). These findings were confirmed in another study ( 750 ) whereas other studies ( 751 - 754 ) considering only overall or cumulative thromboembolism risk without distinguishing early from later time periods following start of treatment, did not report an increased risk. The mechanism for early coagulopathies might be underlying thrombophilia-hypofibrinolysis due to Factor V Leiden, high lipoprotein (a) or lupus anticoagulant who are at risk of early thromboembolism ( 748 ) with recurrence despite adequate anticoagulation ( 755 ); however, whether testosterone treatment increases risk remains unclear. Endogenous testosterone is reportedly a risk
