Androgen Physiology, Pharmacology, Use and Misuse
KEYWORDS: testosterone, androgen, men, effects, androgens, therapy, levels, clinical, treatment, prostate, male, blood, replacement, circulating, disease


at risk of early thromboembolism ( 748 ) with recurrence despite adequate anticoagulation ( 755 ); however, whether testosterone treatment increases risk remains unclear. Endogenous testosterone is reportedly a risk factor for thromboembolism in a two sample Mendelian randomization study ( 756 ) but not confirmed in a 10-year follow-up of 1350 Norwegian men in a population-based study ( 757 ). HEPATOTOXICITY Hepatotoxicity is a well-recognized but uncommon side effect of 17α-alkylated ( 340 ) whereas the occurrence of liver disorders in patients using non-17α alkylated androgens such as testosterone, nandrolone, and 1-methyl androgens (methenolone, mesterolone) are no more than by chance ( 341 ). This is consistent with the evidence of direct toxic effects on liver cells of alkylated but not non-alkylated androgens ( 758 ). The risk of 17α alkylated androgen-induced hepatotoxicity is unrelated to the indication for use, although association with certain underlying conditions may be related to intensity of diagnostic surveillance ( 341 ). It is possible, but unproven, that the risks are dose-dependent although relatively few cases are reported among women using low dose methyl-testosterone ( 759 , 760 ) while clinical management of children using the alkylated androgen oxandolone often omits liver function tests. However, even if the risks are dose-dependent, the therapeutic margin is narrow. By contrast, the rates of hepatotoxicity among androgen abusers who typically use supraphysiological, often massive, doses remain difficult to quantify due to underreporting of the extent of illicit usage and dosage but abnormal liver function tests are common in androgen abusers when checked incidentally as part of other health evaluation. Biochemical hepatotoxicity may involve either a cholestatic or hepatitic pattern and usually abates with cessation of steroid ingestion. Elevation of blood transaminases without gamma-glutamyl transferase may be attributable to rhabdomyolysis rather than to hepatotoxicity if confirmed by increased creatinine kinase ( 761 ). Major hepatic abnormalities are related to use of 17-alkylated androgens include peliosis hepatis (blood-filled cysts) ( 762 ) and hepatic rupture, adenoma, angiosarcoma ( 763 , 764 ) and carcinoma; however, these risks do not apply to testosterone or other nonalkylated androgens such as nandrolone or 1-methyl androgens. Prolonged use of 17α-alkylated androgens, if unavoidable, requires regular clinical examination together with biochemical monitoring of hepatic function, the latter not required for non-alkylated androgens. If biochemical abnormalities are detected, treatment with 17α-alkylated androgens should cease and safer androgens may be substituted without concern. Where structural lesions
