Androgen Physiology, Pharmacology, Use and Misuse
KEYWORDS: testosterone, androgen, men, effects, androgens, therapy, levels, clinical, treatment, prostate, male, blood, replacement, circulating, disease


function, the latter not required for non-alkylated androgens. If biochemical abnormalities are detected, treatment with 17α-alkylated androgens should cease and safer androgens may be substituted without concern. Where structural lesions are suspected, radionuclide scan, ultrasonography, or abdominal computed tomography scan should precede hepatic biopsy during which severe bleeding may be provoked in peliosis hepatis. Because equally effective and safer alternatives exist, the hepatotoxic 17α-alkylated androgens should not be used for long-term androgen replacement therapy. By contrast, pharmacological androgen therapy often uses 17α alkylated androgens for historical reasons rather than the non-hepatotoxic alternatives. In these situations, the risk-benefit analysis needs to be judged according to the clinical circumstances. FORMULATION-RELATED EFFECTS Complications related to testosterone products may be related to dosage, mode of administration or idiosyncratic reactions to constituents. Intramuscular injections of oil vehicle may cause local pain, bleeding, or bruising and, rarely, coughing fits or fainting due to pulmonary oil microembolization (POME) ( 765 ) as a minor variant of accidental self-injection oil embolism ( 766 , 767 ). In a study of over 3000 consecutive injections by experienced nurses, POME occurred at a rate of ~2% ( 768 ) but is often unrecognised or under-reported ( 769 ) due to the transient symptoms. There was also no bruising or bleeding reported even among men using anticoagulants and/or antiplatelet drugs (upper confidence limit of risk ~1%) ( 768 ). Inadvertent subcutaneous administration of the oil vehicle is highly irritating and may cause pain, inflammation, or even dermal necrosis. Allergy to the vegetable oil vehicle (sesame, castor, arachis) used in testosterone ester injections is very rare, and even patients allergic to peanuts may tolerate arachis (peanut) oil. Self-injection by body-builders of large volumes of sesame or other oils may cause exuberant local injection site reactions ( 770 ) or even oil embolism ( 766 ). Long-term fibrosis at intramuscular injection sites might be expected but has not been reported. Oral testosterone undecanoate may causes gastrointestinal intolerance due to the castor oil/propylene glycol laurate suspension vehicle. Testosterone implants may be associated with extrusion of implants or bleeding, infection, or scarring at implant sites ( 594 ). Parenteral injection of testosterone undecanoate ( 721 ) or biodegradable microspheres ( 640 ) involves a large injection volume that may cause discomfort. Transdermal patches applied to the trunk cause skin irritation in most men, some with quite severe burn-like lesions ( 609 , 771 ) with
