Androgen Physiology, Pharmacology, Use and Misuse
KEYWORDS: testosterone, androgen, men, effects, androgens, therapy, levels, clinical, treatment, prostate, male, blood, replacement, circulating, disease


injection volume that may cause discomfort. Transdermal patches applied to the trunk cause skin irritation in most men, some with quite severe burn-like lesions ( 609 , 771 ) with a significant minority (~20%) are unable to continue use . Skin irritation may be reduced in prevalence or ameliorated by concurrent use of topical corticosteroid cream at the application site ( 610 ) while transdermal testosterone gels ( 571 ) or solution ( 621 ) are rarely irritating. Topical testosterone gels can cause virilization via transfer of androgens through topical skin-to-skin contact with children ( 626 - 631 ) or sexual partners ( 623 , 624 ). These problems can be avoided by covering the application site with clothing or washing off excess gel after a short time ( 772 ). Monitoring of Androgen Replacement Therapy Monitoring of androgen replacement therapy involves, primarily, clinical observations to optimize androgen effects including ensuring the continuation of treatment and surveillance for side effects. Once testosterone dosage is well established, androgen replacement therapy requires only very limited, judicious use of biochemical testing or hormone assays to verify adequacy of dosage when in doubt or following changes of product or dosage. Testosterone and its esters at conventional doses for replacement therapy are sufficiently safe not to require routine biochemical monitoring of liver, kidney or electrolytes. Clinical monitoring depends on serial observation of improvement in the key presenting features of androgen deficiency. Androgen-deficient men as a group may report subjective improvement in one or more of a variety of symptoms (some only recognized in retrospect) including energy, well-being, psychosocial drive, initiative, and assertiveness as well as sexual activity (especially libido and ejaculation frequency), increased truncal and facial hair growth and muscular strength and endurance. Individual men will become familiar with their own leading androgen deficiency symptom(s), and these appear in predictable sequence and at consistent blood testosterone thresholds towards the end of any treatment cyce ( 315 , 773 ). Subjective symptoms of genuine androgen deficiency are alleviated quickly, typically within 3 weeks and reach plateau within 2-3 months ( 774 ) whereas persistent symptoms after 3 months may represent placebo responses reflecting the non-specificity of androgen deficiency symptoms and the unusually prominent expectations in the community for testosterone treatment. Objective and sensitive measures of androgen action are highly desirable but not available for most androgen-responsive tissues ( 775 ). The main biochemical measures available for
