Androgen Physiology, Pharmacology, Use and Misuse
KEYWORDS: testosterone, androgen, men, effects, androgens, therapy, levels, clinical, treatment, prostate, male, blood, replacement, circulating, disease


community for testosterone treatment. Objective and sensitive measures of androgen action are highly desirable but not available for most androgen-responsive tissues ( 775 ). The main biochemical measures available for monitoring of androgenic effects include hemoglobin and trough reproductive hormone (testosterone, LH, FSH) levels. In androgen deficient men, hemoglobin typically increases by ~10% (or up to 20 g/L) with standard testosterone doses ( 352 , 570 , 776 ). Excessive hemoglobin responses (hematocrit ≥0.54, or ≥0.50 with higher risk of cardio- or ceberebrovascular ischemia) occur as a rare (~1%) idiosyncratic reaction which is more frequent at older age ( 352 ) explaining the higher prevalence of polycythemia in older testosterone-treated men ( 777 ). Testosterone-induced polycythemia is dose-dependent ( 352 , 778 ) being related to the supraphysiological peak blood testosterone levels observed with shorter-acting testosterone ester injections ( 570 ) or trough blood testosterone during treatment with injectable testosterone ( 778 ) although it can occur at high enough androgen doses in older men even with transdermal products ( 779 ). Such androgen-induced secondary polycythemia is characteristically negative for JAK2 mutations distinguishing it from primary polycythemia rubra vera ( 780 ) and usually resolves with reducing testosterone dose and/or switching to more steady-state testosterone delivery systems (implants, injectable testosterone undecanoate or transdermal gel) ( 781 ) and only very rarely is venesection and/or anticoagulation required. Circulating testosterone and gonadotropin levels must be considered in relation to time since last testosterone dose. Trough levels (immediately before next scheduled dose) may be helpful in establishing adequacy of depot testosterone regimens. In the presence of normal testosterone, negative feedback on hypothalamic GnRH and pituitary LH secretion (in men with hypergonadotropic hypogonadism), plasma LH levels are elevated in rough proportion to the degree of androgen deficiency. In severe androgen deficiency, virtually castrate LH levels may be present, and, conversely, circulating LH levels provide a sensitive and specific index of tissue testosterone effects ( 590 , 655 ) especially with more steady-state testosterone delivery by depot-type products. Suppression of LH into the eugonadal range indicates adequate androgen replacement therapy, whereas persistent nonsuppression after the first few months of treatment is an indication of inadequate dose or pattern of testosterone levels. In hypogonadotropic hypogonadism, however, impaired hypothalamic-pituitary function diminishes circulating LH levels regardless of androgen effects, so blood LH levels do not reflect tissue androgenic effects. Blood testosterone measurements are valuable before treatment for diagnosis
