Androgen Physiology, Pharmacology, Use and Misuse
KEYWORDS: testosterone, androgen, men, effects, androgens, therapy, levels, clinical, treatment, prostate, male, blood, replacement, circulating, disease


impaired hypothalamic-pituitary function diminishes circulating LH levels regardless of androgen effects, so blood LH levels do not reflect tissue androgenic effects. Blood testosterone measurements are valuable before treatment for diagnosis and after start of treatment to check adequacy of dosage if in doubt and, during long-term treatment, only to evaluate changes in treatment dosage or product. During depot testosterone treatment which achieves quasi steady-state blood testosterone levels, trough blood testosterone levels taken prior to the next dose may detect patients whose treatment is suboptimal and whose dose and/or treatment interval need modification. Blood testosterone levels are not helpful for monitoring of oral testosterone undecanoate while pharmacological androgen therapy using any synthetic androgens would lower endogenous blood testosterone levels. Serial evaluation of bone density (especially vertebral trabecular bone) by dual photon absorptiometry at 1- to 2-year intervals may be helpful as a time-integrated measure to verify the adequacy of tissue androgen effects ( 420 , 572 ). Although chronic androgen deficiency protects against prostate disease ( 130 , 782 , 783 ), prostate size of androgen-deficient men receiving androgen replacement therapy is restored to, but does not exceed, age-appropriate norms ( 784 , 785 ). Even prolonged (2 years) high doses of exogenous DHT did not significantly increase age-related prostate growth in middle-aged men without known prostate disease ( 681 ). Between-subject variability in response to testosterone replacement is partly explained by genetic sensitivity to testosterone, which is inversely related to length of the CAG triplet (polyglutamine) repeat polymorphism in exon 1 of the androgen receptor ( 235 ). Furthermore, because neither endogenous blood testosterone nor circulating levels of other androgen predicts subsequent development of prostate cancer ( 454 ), maintaining physiologic testosterone concentrations should ensure no higher rates of prostate disease than eugonadal men of similar age ( 786 ). The potential long-term risks for cardiovascular disease of androgen replacement and pharmacologic androgen therapy remain uncertain. Although men have two to three times the prevalence ( 430 ) as well as earlier onset and more severe atherosclerotic cardiovascular disease than women, the precise role of blood testosterone and of androgen treatment in this marked gender disparity is still poorly understood ( 309 ). Although low blood testosterone concentration is a risk factor for cardiovascular disease and testosterone effects include vasodilation and amelioration of coronary ischemia as well as potentially deleterious effects, it is not possible to predict the net clinical
