Androgen Physiology, Pharmacology, Use and Misuse
KEYWORDS: testosterone, androgen, men, effects, androgens, therapy, levels, clinical, treatment, prostate, male, blood, replacement, circulating, disease


high doses of exogenous DHT does not accelerate mid-life prostate growth rate in middle-aged men without prostate disease ( 681 ) presumably because exogenous DHT does not increase intra-prostatic androgen concentration ( 683 ). Hence local, organ-confined prostate cancer following treatment with curative intent may be an exception to the otherwise absolute contraindication to testosterone for men with a diagnosis of prostate cancer. Precautions and/or careful monitoring of androgen use are required in ( 1 ) initiating treatment in older men with newly diagnosed androgen deficiency who may experience unfamiliar and intolerable initial changes in libido; ( 2 ) men subject to occupational monitoring by drug testing (including elite athletes) who may be sanctioned or disqualified for drug use; ( 3 ) androgen deficient men with residual spermatogenesis who are planning fertility in the near future who may wish to delay or bank sperm prior to starting treatment; ( 4 ) women of reproductive age, especially those who use their voice professionally, who may become irreversibly virilized; ( 5 ) prepubertal children in whom inappropriate androgen treatment risks precocious sexual development, virilization and premature epiphyseal closure with compromised final adult height; ( 6 ) patients with bleeding disorders or those undergoing anticoagulation or antiplatelet treatment when parenteral administration may cause severe bruising or bleeding; ( 7 ) sex steroid–sensitive epilepsy or migraine; and ( 8 ) older and especially obese men with subclinical obstructive sleep apnea. Some traditional warnings about risks of androgen treatment which appear on older product information appear to be rarely or never observed in modern clinical practice. An example of this is hypercalcemia, originally described during pharmacological androgen therapy for advanced breast cancer with metastases ( 799 ) although direct causation was not well established ( 800 ), but this not been reported with androgen use for other indications. Similarly, fluid overload from sodium and fluid retention due to cardiac or renal failure or severe hypertension is rare and probably confined to high dose pharmacological androgen therapy ( 799 ) whereas controlled clinical trials suggest androgens may improve cardiac function and quality of life ( 394 ), rather than having detrimental effects, in men with chronic heart failure. REFERENCES 1. Quigley CA, DeBellis A, Marschke KB, El-Awady MK, Wilson EM, French FF. Androgen receptor defects: historical, clinical and molecular perspectives. Endocrine Reviews. 1995; 16 :271–321. [ PubMed : 7671849 ] 2. Foradori CD, Weiser MJ, Handa
