390 15 November 1969 Medical Education and the State-Christie BDITJISHAL
KEYWORDS: urinary, tract, women, urinary tract, men, symptoms, prevalence, infection, patients, general, tract infection, age, bacteriuria, infections, disease


recorded separately by the all age groups, became common. material studied was derived from a population group com- In younger male urological patients diseases with prising 22,000 adults. About 53% of the population are symptoms of urinary tract infection without bacteriuria females, the age distribution for the sexes being almost equal. were predominant, whereas prostatitis and urinary tract The 10 doctors participating in the study,' representing eight infections were less frequent. In middle-aged men, uro- general practices, had on an average 2,200 adult patients each, lithiasis was especially frequent, while an increasing pro- though the size and composition of the individual practices portion of elderly men had prostatic hypertrophy, urinary varied considerably. tract infections, and recurrent/chronic pyelonephritis. The morbidity rates are recorded as period prevalence rates per year. We ascertained the number of adults (16 years of age and above) who during the survey period from 1 November Introduction 1964 to 31 October 1965 consulted their family doctor once or more, presenting symptoms of renal and urinary tract Information available on the incidence of renal and urinary disease. Patients with gonorrhoea are excluded from the tract diseases in the general population is derived mainly from material. A total of 796 patients (606 women (76%) and 190 men) were recorded. More detailed examinations showed collect morbidity data from general practice, because most that 55 of these patients had no urinary tract disease. urinary tract diseases run such a mild course that the patients health system is based on definite groups of people being classified into three groups of urinary tract infect-ions and registered with the same doctor for reasonable periods of time, related diseases, according to the results of the bacteriological examination of the urine: definite urinary tract infection (more Denmark. Denmark. Participating General Practitioners: Inger Berthelsen, P. Berthelsen, E. § General Practitioner, Rodovre, Denmark. Fan0e, F. Gam, T. Hede, A. E. Pallesen, Inger Smed Pedersen, K. 11 General Practitioner, S0borg, Denmark. Smed Pedersen, P. Simonsen, and K. Zachrau. 15 November 1969 Urinary Tract Diseases-Steensberg et al. BRMTSH 391 MEDICALJOURNAL col./ml.). The value of more than 50,000 col./ml. to indicate Definite Infection significant bacteriuria was chosen after considering limits suggested by other authors (Merritt et al., 1958 ; Effers0e and In 223 (54%) of the 414 women with symptoms of urinary Jensen, 1963). The diagnoses are defined in Table I. Data tract infection and in 34 (56%) of the 61 men
