390 15 November 1969 Medical Education and the State-Christie BDITJISHAL
KEYWORDS: urinary, tract, women, urinary tract, men, symptoms, prevalence, infection, patients, general, tract infection, age, bacteriuria, infections, disease


surgery. (Fig. 2), since, as mentioned later, we must disregard the first In both women and men the symptoms most often encoun- two months of the year. tered were frequency of micturition, dysuria, imperative mic- Of the 61 men with symptoms of urinary tract infection, turition, and cloudy or foul urine; while the men complained 24 (39%) had no growth of bacteria in the urine. The age of weak stream and prolonged micturition more often than the distribution differed only slightly from that of women with women. Clinical examination in 110% of the women showed the same entity. Eighteen men had urethritis and six showed tenderness in the kidney region. A further review of these signs of more widespread disease. The average prevalence rate 25 cases shows that this finding may indicate that the patient for men with symptoms of infection without bacteriuria was suffers from a more serious urinary tract infection. Genital about 2 per 1,000 adult males per year. Urethritis occurred prolapse was found in 11% of the 200 women examined more often in younger than in elderly males. Records of 10 gynaecologically. Prostatic enlargement was present in 270% of the 24 patients were made in the two coldest months of the of the 33 men in whom rectal exploration was carried out. year (January and February). In 87% of the women with infection the urine specimens Three-quarters of the womenwith infectious symptoms with- were taken by means of a catheter. Twenty-five per cent. of out bacteriuria stated that previously they had suffered from the women and 29% of the men had proteinuria according to similar symptoms, 80% were pregnant at the time of the exam- a qualitative examination. Urine microscopy revealed leuco- ination, 800% were of child-bearing age, and 14% had under- cyturia in 77°% of both women and men (5 or more leucocytes gone gynaecological surgery. The symptoms were almost per visual field), whereas 28% of the women and 44% of the identical to those observed in women with definite urinary men had haematuria (5 or more erythrocytes per visual field). tract infection. In 2200. of the 129 women who underwent gynaecologicalexaminationabnormalconditions (fluorvaginalis, Bacteriological examination of the urine of the women showed Escherichia coli in 7000, while the next most frequent vaginitis, etc.) other than genital prolapse were found. Only organism was Staphylococcus saprophyticus in 140% of the 4% had proteinuria, and urine microscopy revealed patho-
