390 15 November 1969 Medical Education and the State-Christie BDITJISHAL
KEYWORDS: urinary, tract, women, urinary tract, men, symptoms, prevalence, infection, patients, general, tract infection, age, bacteriuria, infections, disease


Tract Disease in the Male Table VI. The average prevalence rate for women was 5 and In 48 of the 170 men with urinary tract disease rectal exam- for men about 1 per 1,000 per year. Of the 39 women with ination showed prostatic hypertrophy. The age distribution significant bacteriuria, 10 (26%) had a previous history of abuse and the calculated prevalence rates are given in Table VII. In of phenacetin-containing drugs, as against only 30% of the the 39 non-infected patients the symptoms were characterized, remaining women with definite urinary tract infection. Thirty- as expected, by frequent and difficult micturition. Fifteen, two per cent. of the 53 women had proteinuria, and in the 39 mainly younger, men were classified as having prostatitis. The definitely infected women urine microscopy revealed leuco- entity was rather diffuse, and no significant bacteriuria was cyturia more often than in the remaining 14 patients. The found in any of these patients. Sequels of prostatectomy were types of organism encountered in the 39 women with significant found in eight men, in seven men a diagnosis of sphincter bacteriuria did not differ from those found in the remaining 184 definitely infected women in the study. suffered from epididymitis. Observation for Urinary Tract Disease Other Urinary Tract Diseases The difficulties encountered when trying to establish a final and exact diagnosis in general practice are wellknown (Research Other renal or urinary tract diseases are very infrequent, and 81 (14%) of the 571 women with urinary tract disease and in lated on the basis of the present study. It should be men- 20 (12%) of the 170 men we had to be content with the diag- tioned, however, that papilloma of the bladder was found in nosis of "observation for urinary tract disease." In women, three women and one man and cancer of the bladder in one more than in men, the diagnostic uncertainty was due mainly woman and one man. No cases of renal cancer were found to inadequate bacteriological tests. in this material. Urinary Calculi Discussion Urinary calculi were found in 31 men. Nineteen of these Morbidity data collected in general practices will never pro- had ureterolithiasis, 10 had nephrolithiasis, and two had calculi vide a complete picture of the morbidity of the population. in the bladder. In the group of 13 women with urolithiasis Hence the Sickness Survey of Denmark 1951-1954 (Danish eight had nephrolithiasis and five
