390 15 November 1969 Medical Education and the State-Christie BDITJISHAL
KEYWORDS: urinary, tract, women, urinary tract, men, symptoms, prevalence, infection, patients, general, tract infection, age, bacteriuria, infections, disease


tract are most likely to have a chronic infectious The seasonal variation found in urinary tract infections in urinary tract disease, though significant bacteriuria may not women cannot be taken to indicate the seasonal variation of be found on examination. Other authors' series may also these diseases, since we have recorded the number of persons include cases such as those which we decided toexclude because and not periods of ill-health. Even if the first two months we interpreted them as sequels of gynaecological surgery or as of the year are disregarded, these variations, however, seem to the result of genital prolapse. indicate that there is a maximum during early summer and, We found, as did Andersen (1966), that urolithiasis is about presumably, also during autumn. Loudon and Greenhalgh three times as frequent in men as in women, and the study (1962) found no seasonal relationship, whereas the limited carried out by Ahlgren and LUrstad (1965) showed-and our study of Mou and Feldman (1961) indicateda higherfrequency findings agree-that ureterolithiasis is predominant in men, as of bacteriuria during spring. Possible causes of this may be against nephrolithiasis in women. the inadequate way women often dress and seasonal variations, The General Register Office (1958, 1962) presented the same if any, in their sexual activity. In this connexion it should be average frequency of genital prolapse as that found by us, mentioned that the seasonal variations in the birth curve in though the frequency increased steadily with age. The decrease Denmark show a peak in March and April, corresponding to in the prevalence in elderly women must be ascribed to the a time of conception in June and July the previous year. fact that we recorded mostly women with genital prolapse Theoccurrence of E. coliin 70% andofStaph. saprophyticus accompanied by urinary tract symptoms. Also, elderly women in 14% of the urine specimens, with significant growth in the probably consult their doctor less frequently for complaints. women, corresponds to the findings of Gallagher et al. (1965). from a prolapse, partly because of their less active sexual life. Today there should be no doubt that in youngerwomen definite The average prevalence of prostatic hypertrophy found by We have found that these infections are accompanied by leuco- Morbidity Statistics from General Practice (General Register cyturia and haematuria more often than other urinary tract Office, 1958, 1962) showed a somewhat lower prevalence in infections. Significant growth of bacteria
