Adrenal Suppression
KEYWORDS: adrenal, glucocorticoid, acth, cortisol, suppression, test, insufficiency, patients, dose, glucocorticoids, adrenal insufficiency, hpa, axis, treatment, risk


CLINICAL RECOGNITION Adrenal suppression, a form of secondary adrenal insufficiency (SAI), is a common clinical problem most often due to sudden cessation of chronic exposure to exogenous glucocorticoid administration or, rarely, after correction of endogenous hypercortisolism. It results from the inability of suprahypothalamic and hypothalamic centers of the hypothalamic-pituitary-adrenal (HPA) axis to recover their function and can last from days to months or years, depending on the dose and duration of the exposure to the glucocorticoid and patient’s idiosyncrasy. Exogenous glucocorticoids cause decreased secretion of corticotropin-releasing hormone (CRH) and other adrenocorticotropic hormone (ACTH) secretagogues, such as arginine-vasopressin (AVP) and alter the function of higher brain centers that regulate their secretion. Recovery of adrenal function may take as long as 1 to 2 years. In cases of endogenous hypercortisolemia adrenal suppression develops after the removal of a functional adrenal tumor secreting cortisol, or following successful removal of ACTH-secreting pituitary adenoma or other sources of ectopic ACTH secretion. Interestingly, the period to recover from adrenal suppression after the removal of ACTH-secreting pituitary adenoma caused by prolonged suppression of normal corticotrophs may be a predictor of sustained remission. Regarding the definitions of adrenal insufficiency (AI), it is a disorder characterized by impaired adrenocortical function and decreased production mainly of glucocorticoids. Primary AI (PAI) is characterized, in addition by decreased production of mineralocorticoids (MCs) and/or adrenal androgens that occur in the setting of diseases affecting the adrenal cortex. Secondary AI (SAI) arises in diseases or conditions affecting the pituitary gland and the secretion of ACTH, while the affected hypothalamus resulting in abnormal secretion of corticotropin-releasing hormone (CRH) and other ACTH secretagogues defines the tertiary form of AI (TAI). As adrenal suppression refers to decreases of cortisol secretion from the adrenal zona fascicularis the function of zona glomerulosa remains normal. Thus, hyponatremia is the main electrolytic disturbance observed, while circulating plasma potassium, renin, and aldosterone concentrations are within the normal range. A broad range of severity can be seen as a result of complete or partial HPA axis suppression and concomitant adrenal gland atrophy. The true prevalence of overt adrenal insufficiency (AI) is probably rare as glucocorticoid treatment is gradually tapered before complete discontinuation leaving enough time for HPA axis recovery. However, due to the lack of specific symptoms the exact prevalence of AI following glucocorticoid tapering may be under-reported. Two recent systematic reviews reported that the percentage of patients with AI ranged from 0%
