Adrenal Suppression
KEYWORDS: adrenal, glucocorticoid, acth, cortisol, suppression, test, insufficiency, patients, dose, glucocorticoids, adrenal insufficiency, hpa, axis, treatment, risk


"Critical illness-related cortisol insufficiency"(CIRCI): vasopressor dependent septic shock and early severe Acute Respiratory Distress Syndrome AI: adrenal insufficiency Many synthetic compounds with glucocorticoid activity have been developed in an attempt to maximize the beneficial and minimize the deleterious effects of glucocorticoids. The clinical efficacy of synthetic glucocorticoids depends on their pharmacokinetic, pharmacodynamic and molecular properties, which in turn determine the duration and intensity of glucocorticoid effects. According to their potency synthetic glucocorticoids are subdivided into short-, intermediate-, or long-acting. Treatment modifying factors, such as the age of the patient and the nature and severity of the underlying disease also influence synthetic glucocorticoid effects, duration, and doses administered. The British National Formulary and the National Institute for Health and Care Excellence Clinical Knowledge Summary, both advise gradual glucocorticoid withdrawal in cases of patients that have received more than 40 mg prednisolone (or equivalent) daily for longer than one week; repeated glucocorticoid doses in the evening; glucocorticoids for more than three weeks; a short course of glucocorticoids within one year of stopping long-term glucocorticoid therapy; or have other risk factors for adrenal suppression. PATHOPHYSIOLOGY Supraphysiologic doses of glucocorticoids given even in small doses and/or for only a few days may result in considerable suppression of the HPA axis by decreasing CRH synthesis and secretion. The trophic and ACTH-releasing effects of CRH on pituitary corticotrophs are attenuated and the synthesis of propiomelanocortin (POMC), ACTH, and other peptides, are substantially decreased. In the absence of ACTH, the adrenal cortex temporarily loses the ability to produce cortisol, and when treatment with glucocorticoids is abruptly stopped transient glucocorticoid insufficiency ensues. It has been reported that the suppression of the HPA axis induced by exogenous glucocorticoids may persist for 6 to 12 months or rarely even longer, after treatment is withdrawn. DIAGNOSIS and DIFFERENTIAL DIAGNOSIS To support the diagnosis of adrenal suppression, several predictors of glucocorticoid-induced HPA axis hypofunction have been suggested the best being the duration and dosage of exogenous glucocorticoid administration ( Table 2 ,3). A strong correlation has been found between prednisone maintenance doses above 5mg/d and a subnormal ACTH-stimulation test result. Hence, patients who are more likely to develop HPA axis suppression are those receiving high doses of glucocorticoids (>20-30mg hydrocortisone or equivalent) ( Table 4 ) for a period longer than 3 weeks and patients who have developed overt Cushingoid features. In addition, the timing of drug administration may affect the degree
