Adrenal Suppression
KEYWORDS: adrenal, glucocorticoid, acth, cortisol, suppression, test, insufficiency, patients, dose, glucocorticoids, adrenal insufficiency, hpa, axis, treatment, risk


system (RAAS) accounting for the differences in salt and water balance and clinical presentations compared to primary adrenal insufficiency. Serum cortisol secretion at 08:00h if diagnostic tests are not feasible and until confirmatory testing is available can be considered a valuable screening method when AI is suspected. In patients with a low index of suspicion obtaining an 8AM cortisol and if the serum cortisol is > 15μg/dL, no further testing is needed. Similarly, a serum cortisol value <5 μg/dL suggests AI. DIAGNOSTIC TESTS NEEDED TO DOCUMENT AI Drug history and clinical features cannot be considered reliable tools for the evaluation of HPA axis function in patients treated with synthetic glucocorticoids. Several tests are commonly used in order to assess the degree of glucocorticoid-induced AI or HPA axis recovery ( Table 5 , 6 ). Both the insulin tolerance test (ITT) and the metyrapone test have been employed as they are both highly sensitive. However, the risks involved with these tests do not justify their use compared to the rapid ACTH stimulation test or short synacthen test (SST) that can safely distinguish almost all cases of clinically significant adrenal suppression. To evaluate the adequacy of HPA axis recovery, the SST is used to assess the capability of the adrenal cortex to respond to ACTH. However, because of the supraphysiologic ACTH levels achieved with the conventional SST (250 mcg of ACTH administered), if adrenal suppression is of recent onset, the adrenal gland may have not yet atrophied, and is still capable of responding to ACTH stimulation. In these cases, the low-dose SST (1 mcg of ACTH administered) has been proposed as an alternative as it results in lower plasma ACTH levels and thus less pronounced adrenal stimulation. It has recently been suggested that the low-dose SST is the best test to establish the diagnosis of SAI and TAI, whereas the high SST should be used for cases of primary AI. The use of salivary cortisol is also an effective alternative to serum cortisol when assessed in the high-dose ACTH test. Incremental cortisol response at the first SST was suggested as an important predictive factor of adrenal function recovery in SAI after exogenous glucocorticoid administration. The CRH test can also be used in patients receiving glucocorticoids for prolonged periods, as it can assess both the ACTH and cortisol responses and can distinguish between SAI and TAI. In both conditions, cortisol concentrations are low
