Adrenal Suppression
KEYWORDS: adrenal, glucocorticoid, acth, cortisol, suppression, test, insufficiency, patients, dose, glucocorticoids, adrenal insufficiency, hpa, axis, treatment, risk


:24hr urinary 17-OHCS excretion increase 3-5-fold; serum cortisol>20μg/dL (550nmol/L) at 30’ and 60’; >25μg/dL (690 nmol/L) at 6-8hrs post-initiation infusion; B: at 4hrs >1000nmol/L (36μg/dL) beyond this time, no further increase; SAI : delayed response at 24 and 48hrs than 4hrs; PAI no response at either time ITT iv insulin (0.1-0.15U/kg); Samples 0 30’45’ 60’90’120’ with adequate clinical and biochemical hypoglycemia Physiologic response: >500nmol/L (18μg/dL) overnight metyrapone test 30 mg/kg (max 3g) at midnight; cortisol/ 11-deoxycortisol measured at 8.00h the following morning Physiologic response: Increased ACTH plus peak 11-deoxycortisol >7 mg/dL. ACTH: adrenocorticopic hormone; iv: intravenous; ITT: insulin tolerance test, PAI: primary adrenal insufficiency; SAI: secondary adrenal insufficiency; SST: short synacthen test; 17OHCS: 17-hydroxycorticoids, TAI: tertiary adrenal insufficiency THERAPY Glucocorticoid withdrawal is indicated when the use of the steroid is no longer needed or when significant side effects develop. The suggested method of glucocorticoid withdrawal is dose tapering to avoid the occurrence of AI. Adrenal insufficiency is a potentially life-threatening medical emergency when presenting as adrenal crisis, which requires prompt treatment with hydrocortisone and fluid replacement. Once, clinically suspected, treatment should be initiated and not be delayed while waiting for definitive proof of diagnosis. Blood samples should be obtained for measurement of cortisol concentrations later, and the management approach should be similar to the resuscitation of any critically ill patient. There is currently no consensus regarding rapid or slow tapering of glucocorticoids and exacerbation and/or relapse rates of the underlying diseases. The key action is that glucocorticoid withdrawal should not be abrupt. In clinical practice, patients being on any steroid dose for less than 2 weeks are not likely to develop adrenal suppression and are advised to stop therapy without tapering. The possible exception to this is the patient who receives frequent "short" steroid courses, as in asthma treatment. In longer regimens, the objective is to rapidly reduce the therapeutic dose to a physiologic level of cortisol (equivalent to 10-15 mg/ms/d) ( Table 7 ). However, a recent systematic review of 73 studies demonstrated evidence of AI following low doses and short durations of glucocorticoid administration at less than 5 mg prednisolone equivalent dose/day, less than 4 weeks of exposure, cumulative dose less than 0.5 g, and following tapered withdrawal. Table 7: Tapering After a Long-Term Glucocorticoid Regimen View in own window 1. Reduction by 2.5mg prednisolone or equivalent every 3-4 days over few weeks 2. Slower withdrawal until physiological
