Adrenal Suppression
KEYWORDS: adrenal, glucocorticoid, acth, cortisol, suppression, test, insufficiency, patients, dose, glucocorticoids, adrenal insufficiency, hpa, axis, treatment, risk


Table 7: Tapering After a Long-Term Glucocorticoid Regimen View in own window 1. Reduction by 2.5mg prednisolone or equivalent every 3-4 days over few weeks 2. Slower withdrawal until physiological level achieved (5-7.5mg of prednisolone) 3a. Decrease by 1mg/d prednisolone or equivalent every 2-4weeks (depending patient's general condition) until medication cessation Or 3b. Switch to 20mg/d HC+ Decrease by 2.5mg/d every week until the dose: 10mg/d 4. After 2-3months on same dose SST or ITT 5a. Pass Response discontinuation of GC Or 5b. No HPA axis recovery Treatment continuation+re-assessment GC: glucocorticoid; ITT: insulin tolerance test; SST: short synacthen dose Other tapering regimens suggest switching the patient to an alternate day administration of intermediate action glucocorticoids before cessation of treatment. Irrespectively of the tapering regimen used, if a glucocorticoid withdrawal syndrome, AI or exacerbation of the underlying disease develops, the dose being given at the specific time should be increased or maintained longer. Recent systematic reviews implied that the evidence for the tapering regimens used nowadays is not robust, despite the fact that rapid reduction to a physiologic glucocorticoid dose (5-7.5 mg prednisolone daily or equivalent), and the slow reduction thereafter, is the most frequently used regimen for clinicians. Care should be given during the tapering regimens period on the interpretation of laboratory tests for cortisol levels measurement. The steroid dose before the test should be omitted (hold off evening and morning dose for hydrocortisone or prednisolone, longer for the other synthetic glucocorticoids); if serum cortisol secretion at 08:00h is > 15μg/dL, the tapering regimen changes to a rapid tapering off of exogenous glucocorticoids. Moreover, there are conditions that affect cortisol-binding globulin concentration (CBG) (↓: inflammation, nephrotic syndrome, liver disease, immediate postoperative period or requiring intensive care, rare genetic disorders; ↑: estrogen, pregnancy, mitotane). Systemic estrogens should be discontinued at least for 4 weeks prior to testing; estrogen patches are preferred since they do not affect CBG. Different criteria may apply according to the cortisol assay. FOLLOW-UP Since, there is evidence that AI may persist in 15% of patientsfor more than 3 years after glucocorticoid withdrawal, careful monitoring of patients and gradual glucocorticoid withdrawal should always be performed to avoid manifestations of adrenal suppression and/or an adrenal crisis or reactivation of the underlying disease. In general, plasma ACTH concentrations are not helpful in estimating the optimal glucocorticoid dose whereas mineralocorticoid replacement is not required. All patients treated with glucocorticoids long-term should
