Endocrinology of the Testis and Spermatogenesis
KEYWORDS: cells, cell, sertoli, testis, sertoli cells, pubmed, leydig, spermatogenesis, testicular, sertoli cell, fsh, pmc, development, germ, sperm


ABSTRACT The testes synthesize two important products: sperm for fertility and androgens necessary for sexual function and fertility. The synthesis of both products is regulated by endocrine hormones. Testosterone (an androgen) is indispensable for sperm production, and both testosterone and Follicle Stimulating Hormone (FSH) are needed for optimal testis development and sperm production. Luteinizing hormone (LH) is necessary for androgen production in the testis. Sperm are produced within the seminiferous tubules via the extraordinarily complex and dynamic process of spermatogenesis that requires co-operation between multiple testicular cell types. Spermatogenesis is orchestrated by the somatic Sertoli cells. Outside of the tubules is a layer of peritubular myoid cells that are important for seminiferous tubule function, as well as peritubular macrophages that can contribute to spermatogenesis. Between the seminiferous tubules is the interstitium, comprised of fluid and niches of cells. The interstitial cell niche contains the steroidogenic Leydig cells, responsible for testosterone production, and immune cells, which support numerous testicular functions. This chapter provides an overview of the testis, the process of spermatogenesis, and the testicular somatic cells. The endocrine regulation of these cells and their role in supporting sperm development and androgen production are also considered. For complete coverage of all related areas of Endocrinology, please visit our on-line FREE web-text, WWW.ENDOTEXT.ORG . David de Kretser Dedication for Endotext The authors wish to acknowledge the contribution of Professor David de Krester AC, MBBS (Melb Univ), MD (Monash), FRACP, FAA, FTSE, LLD (Hon. Monash), LLD (Hon, Univ Melb) FRACOG (Hon), FRCOG (Hon), FRACGP (Hon). David is an eminent reproductive endocrinologist who has made extraordinary contributions to the field of reproductive endocrinology and andrology. David’s research into understanding the structure, biology and regulation of the testis has had an enduring impact on our knowledge of the endocrinology of the testis. David wrote this chapter for the first edition of Endotext in 2013 and provided many of the figures in the current version. Abbreviations ALC adult Leydig cells AR androgen receptor cAMP cyclic adenosine monophosphate DHT dihydrotestosterone FLC fetal Leydig cells FSH follicle stimulating hormone FSHR follicle stimulating hormone receptor GDNF Glial cell line-derived neurotrophic factor GnRH gonadotropin-releasing hormone hCG human chorionic gonadotropin HH hypogonadotropic hypogonadism HSD17B 17β-hydroxysteroid dehydrogenase enzyme LH luteinizing hormone LHCGR luteinizing hormone receptor MAPK mitogen-activated protein kinase MHC male hormonal contraception PMC peritubular myoid cells RA retinoic acid SLC stem Leydig cells SRD5A steroid 5α-reductase enzyme SSC spermatogonial stem cells
