Endocrinology of the Testis and Spermatogenesis
KEYWORDS: cells, cell, sertoli, testis, sertoli cells, pubmed, leydig, spermatogenesis, testicular, sertoli cell, fsh, pmc, development, germ, sperm


luteinizing hormone receptor MAPK mitogen-activated protein kinase MHC male hormonal contraception PMC peritubular myoid cells RA retinoic acid SLC stem Leydig cells SRD5A steroid 5α-reductase enzyme SSC spermatogonial stem cells GENERAL ANATOMY OF THE MALE REPRODUCTIVE SYSTEM The Testis The testis lies within the scrotum and is covered on all surfaces, except its posterior border, by a serous membrane called the tunica vaginalis. This structure forms a closed cavity representing the remnants of the processus vaginalis into which the testis descends during fetal development ( Figure 1 ). Along its posterior border, the testis is loosely linked to the epididymis which at its lower pole gives rise to the vas deferens. Figure 1. The relationships of the tunica vaginalis to the testis and epididymis is illustrated from the lateral view and two cross sections at the level of the head and mid-body of the epididymis. The large arrows indicate the sinus of the epididymis posteriorly. Reproduced with permission from de Kretser et.al.1982 in ‘Disturbances in Male Fertility’ Eds K Bandhauer and J Frick, Springer - Verlag Berlin. The testis is covered by a thick fibrous connective tissue capsule called the tunica albuginea. From this structure, thin imperfect septa run in a posterior direction to join a fibrous thickening of the posterior part of the tunica albuginea called the mediastinum of the testis. The testis is thus incompletely divided into a series of lobules. Within these lobules, the seminiferous tubules form loops, the terminal ends of which extend as straight tubular extensions, called tubuli recti, which pass into the mediastinum of the testis and join an anastomosing network of tubules called the rete testis. The seminiferous tubules are very long and coiled, with the average human testis containing approximately 500 tubules, each ranging from 30-70cm long ( 1 ). The adult mouse testis contains an average of 12 tubules, each with an average length of 134 ± 79mm, as measured by 3D image reconstruction techniques ( 2 ). Each tubule is connected to the rete testis at either end, however the tubules often contain branch points that arise prior to birth ( 2 ), likely during morphogenesis of the embryonic spermatogenic cords. From the rete testis, in the human, a series of six to twelve fine efferent ducts join to form the duct of the epididymis. This duct, approximately 5-6m long in the human, is extensively coiled and forms the structure
