Endocrinology of the Testis and Spermatogenesis
KEYWORDS: cells, cell, sertoli, testis, sertoli cells, pubmed, leydig, spermatogenesis, testicular, sertoli cell, fsh, pmc, development, germ, sperm


of six to twelve fine efferent ducts join to form the duct of the epididymis. This duct, approximately 5-6m long in the human, is extensively coiled and forms the structure of the epididymis that can be divided into the head, body and tail of the epididymis ( 3 ). At its distal pole, the tail of the epididymis gives rise to the vas deferens ( Figure 2 ). Figure 2. The arrangement of the efferent ducts and the subdivisions of the epididymis and vas are shown. Reproduced with permission from de Kretser et.al.1982 in ‘Disturbances in Male Fertility’ Eds K Bandhauer and J Frick, Springer - Verlag Berlin. The arterial supply to the testis arises at the level of the second lumbar vertebra from the aorta on the right and the renal artery on the left and these vessels descend retroperitoneally to descend through the inguinal canal forming part of the spermatic cord. The testicular artery enters the testis on its posterior surface, sending a network of branches that run deep to the tunica albuginea before entering the substance of the testis ( 4 ). The venous drainage passes posteriorly and emerges at the upper pole of the testis as a plexus of veins termed the pampiniform plexus ( Figure 3 ). As these veins ascend they surround the testicular artery, forming the basis of a countercurrent heat exchange system which assists in the maintenance of a temperature differential between the scrotally placed testis and the intra-abdominal temperature ( 5 ). Figure 3. The arrangement of the vasculature of the testis in the region of the distal spermatic cord and testis is shown. Reproduced with permission from de Kretser et.al.1982 in ‘Disturbances in Male Fertility’ Eds K Bandhauer and J Frick, Springer - Verlag Berlin. The Distal Reproductive Tract The vas deferens ascends from the testis on its posterior surface as a component of the spermatic cord passing through the inguinal canal. It descends on the posterolateral wall of the pelvis to reach the posterior aspect of the bladder, where its distal end is dilated forming the ampulla of the vas ( Figure 4 ). At this site it is joined by the duct of the seminal vesicle, on each side, to form an ejaculatory duct that passes through the substance of the prostate to enter the prostatic urethra. The seminal vesicles and the prostate, the latter of which opens
