Endocrinology of the Testis and Spermatogenesis
KEYWORDS: cells, cell, sertoli, testis, sertoli cells, pubmed, leydig, spermatogenesis, testicular, sertoli cell, fsh, pmc, development, germ, sperm


side, to form an ejaculatory duct that passes through the substance of the prostate to enter the prostatic urethra. The seminal vesicles and the prostate, the latter of which opens by a series of small ducts into the prostatic urethra, contribute approximately 90-95% of the volume of the ejaculate. During the process of ejaculation, these contents, together with sperm transported through the vas, are discharged through the prostatic and penile urethra. Retrograde ejaculation is prevented by contraction of the internal sphincter of the bladder during ejaculation. Failure of this sphincter to contract results in retrograde ejaculation and a low semen volume. Figure 4. The diagram depicts the relationship between the vas deferens, the seminal vesicles, the posterior aspect of the bladder and the prostate gland. The cytological features of the epithelium of the seminal vesicles is shown: this tissue is androgen dependent. Reproduced with permission from de Kretser et.al.1982 in ‘Disturbances in Male Fertility’ Eds K Bandhauer and J Frick, Springer - Verlag Berlin. AN OVERVIEW OF SPERMATOGENESIS Spermatogenesis is the process by which precursor germ cells termed spermatogonia undergo a series of divisions and elaborate differentiation to give rise to spermatozoa ( 6 , 7 ). This process takes place within the seminiferous epithelium ( Figure 5 ), a dynamic and complex epithelium composed of germ cells and radially-oriented supporting somatic cells called Sertoli cells. These cells extend from the basement membrane of the seminiferous tubules to reach the lumen. The cytoplasmic profiles of the Sertoli cells are extremely complex, with a series of processes surrounding the adjacent germ cells in an arboreal pattern ( 7 - 9 ). Figure 5. The top panel illustrates the typical structure of the human seminiferous epithelium containing germ cells and Sertoli cells. The position of Sertoli cell nuclei within the epithelium is indicated, as is the tubule lumen. The tubules are surrounded by thin plate-like contractile cells called peritubular myoid cells. The Leydig cells and blood vessels lie within the interstitium. The bottom panel illustrates the nuclear morphology of the major cell types found within the human seminiferous epithelium, showing the progress of spermatogenesis from immature spermatogonia through meiosis and spermiogenesis to produce mature elongated spermatids. Abbreviations: Ad: A dark spermatogonia, Ap: A pale spermatogonia, B: type B spermatogonia, Pl: preleptotene spermatocyte, L-Z: leptotene to zygotene spermatocyte, PS: pachytene spermatocyte, M: meiotic division, rST: round spermatid, elST: elongating spermatid, eST: elongated spermatid.
