Endocrinology of the Testis and Spermatogenesis
KEYWORDS: cells, cell, sertoli, testis, sertoli cells, pubmed, leydig, spermatogenesis, testicular, sertoli cell, fsh, pmc, development, germ, sperm


A pale spermatogonia, B: type B spermatogonia, Pl: preleptotene spermatocyte, L-Z: leptotene to zygotene spermatocyte, PS: pachytene spermatocyte, M: meiotic division, rST: round spermatid, elST: elongating spermatid, eST: elongated spermatid. All germ cell micrographs were taken at the same magnification to indicate relative size. Micrograph of seminiferous epithelium was provided by Dr Sarah Meachem. Spermatogenesis can be divided into three major phases: i) proliferation and differentiation of spermatogonia, ii) meiosis, and iii) spermiogenesis where round haploid germ cells develop into highly specialized spermatozoa ( Figure 5 ). As germ cells divide and differentiate through these phases, they do not separate completely after mitosis but remain joined by intercellular bridges ( 10 ). This incomplete cell division in germ cells is driven by ubiquitination of specific proteins ( 11 ). Intercellular bridges persist throughout all stages of spermatogenesis and have long been thought to facilitate biochemical interactions allowing synchrony of germ cell maturation. They are essential for DNA replication, recombination and transposon repression during meiosis, suggesting that transfer of cellular components between individual cells is essential for normal spermatogenesis ( 12 ). Spermatogonial Renewal and Differentiation Spermatogonia are precursor male germ cells that reside on the basement membrane of the seminiferous epithelium. Spermatogonial stem cells (SSCs) divide to renew the stem cell population and to provide spermatogonia that are committed to the spermatogenic differentiation pathway. SSC are pluripotent and have the ability to differentiate into derivatives of all three germ layers ( 13 , 14 ). SSCs and spermatogonia exist within a niche that is responsive to cues from surrounding somatic cells and germ cells ( 15 - 17 ). In general, two main types of spermatogonia, known as Type A and B, can be identified in mammalian testes on the basis of nuclear morphology ( 7 ). Type A spermatogonia exhibit fine pale-staining nuclear chromatin and are considered to include the SSC pool, the undifferentiated spermatogonia (A undiff ) pool, and spermatogonia that are committed to differentiation (A diff ). The A undiff pool is comprised of the SSC, single A spermatogonia (A s ), and interconnected cysts of either 2 (known as A paired, or A pr ) or more (aligned or A al ) undifferentiated spermatogonia that remain connected by intercellular bridges. Once per cycle (see section Spermatogenesis: cycles and waves), the A undiff cells transform into A diff cells, which are then designated A 1 , A
