Endocrinology of the Testis and Spermatogenesis
KEYWORDS: cells, cell, sertoli, testis, sertoli cells, pubmed, leydig, spermatogenesis, testicular, sertoli cell, fsh, pmc, development, germ, sperm


connected by intercellular bridges. Once per cycle (see section Spermatogenesis: cycles and waves), the A undiff cells transform into A diff cells, which are then designated A 1 , A 2 , etc. A diff spermatogonia ultimately divide to produce type B spermatogonia. Type B spermatogonia show coarse chromatin collections close to the nuclear membrane ( 18 ) and represent the more differentiated spermatogonia that are committed to entry into meiosis ( 19 ). Research has focused on dissecting the molecular properties of the various type A spermatogonial subtypes to identify the SSC of the testis and to investigate their clonal behavior as they divide and differentiate. The pioneering technique of spermatogonial transplantation ( 20 - 23 ) has been key to understanding the stem cell potential of different spermatogonial subtypes. A s can divide to renew their population or to produce A pr cells, which represents an initial step towards differentiation. The A pr cells divide to produce A al cells which then divide, but do not undergo cytokinesis, to produce chains (or cysts) of spermatogonia, termed A al4-16 ( 16 ). As the A spermatogonia subtypes progress through these steps and the chain length increases, there are changes in their molecular signatures, the expression of cell surface markers and other characteristics ( 24 , 25 ). Importantly, their propensity to become committed to differentiation also increases, with data in mice suggesting a linear relationship between chain length and ability to commit to differentiation ( 26 ) and that the microenvironment within the SSC niche is key to determining cell fate decisions in spermatogonia ( 15 ). A undiff cells can reversibly transition between self-renewing and differentiation-primed states in response to cues from the niche ( 16 ). There are likely different functional stem cell subtypes within the A s population, such as active and reserve stem cells ( 16 ). There are several models of spermatogonial stem cell division and differentiation that have been gleaned from studies in rodents ( 16 ). In the more simplistic model, a subset of A s cells are proposed to divide completely to produce single SSC with regenerative and self-renewal properties. However other models propose that syncytia of A al spermatogonia can fragment into single cells which can then exhibit SSC behavior ( 27 ), suggesting that most or all A undiff spermatogonia may be able to retain stem cell potential, particularly
