Endocrinology of the Testis and Spermatogenesis
KEYWORDS: cells, cell, sertoli, testis, sertoli cells, pubmed, leydig, spermatogenesis, testicular, sertoli cell, fsh, pmc, development, germ, sperm


fragment into single cells which can then exhibit SSC behavior ( 27 ), suggesting that most or all A undiff spermatogonia may be able to retain stem cell potential, particularly under conditions where regeneration of the spermatogonial population is required ( 16 , 27 ), such as during radiation or chemotherapy. In humans and other primates, type A spermatogonia are classified into two subtypes, A dark (A d ) and A pale (A p ), based on morphology ( 19 ) but can be classified into 4 different states based on transcriptional differences ( 28 ). Some investigators have proposed that the A d spermatogonia are similar to A s in the rodent and thus represent the SSC or reserve spermatogonial population ( 29 - 31 ). Others have suggested that the A p spermatogonia are the true stem cell of the testis ( 32 ), and type A p spermatogonia show characteristics of A s spermatogonia in rodents ( 33 ). Transcriptomics (e.g. ( 34 - 36 )) and protein expression (e.g. ( 37 )) of the spermatogonial subpopulations in humans may provide more information on the kinetics of SSC renewal and differentiation in men. For example, recent studies suggest that, in shorter lived species such as rodents, spermatogonia differentiate into SSC at birth, whereas a subpopulation of fetal-like SSC is maintained in humans, acting as a reserve population that are less susceptible to mutagenesis during the longer lifespan ( 38 ). Meiosis Meiosis is the process by which gametes undergo reductive division to produce a haploid spermatid, and in which genetic diversity of the gamete is assured via the exchange of genetic material ( 39 ). During meiosis I, DNA synthesis is initiated, resulting in a tetraploid gamete. The exchange of genetic information is achieved during meiotic recombination, which involves the induction of DNA double-strand breaks (DSBs) during pairing of homologous chromosomes and the subsequent repair of DSBs using homologous chromosomes as templates. Once the exchange of genetic material is complete, the cells proceed through two successive reductive divisions to yield haploid spermatids. This process is governed by genetically programmed checkpoint systems. Meiosis commences when Type B spermatogonia lose their contact with the basement membrane and form preleptotene primary spermatocytes. Preleptotene primary spermatocytes commence DNA synthesis and the condensation of individual chromosomes begins, resulting in the appearance of thin filaments in the nucleus which identify the leptotene stage
