Endocrinology of the Testis and Spermatogenesis
KEYWORDS: cells, cell, sertoli, testis, sertoli cells, pubmed, leydig, spermatogenesis, testicular, sertoli cell, fsh, pmc, development, germ, sperm


primary spermatocytes. Preleptotene primary spermatocytes commence DNA synthesis and the condensation of individual chromosomes begins, resulting in the appearance of thin filaments in the nucleus which identify the leptotene stage ( 40 ). At this stage, each chromosome consists of a pair of chromatids ( Figure 6 ). As the cells move into the zygotene stage, there is further thickening of these chromatids and the pairing of homologous chromosomes. The further enlargement of the nucleus and condensation of the pairs of homologous chromosomes, termed bivalents, provides the nuclear characteristics of the pachytene stage primary spermatocyte. During this stage, there is an exchange of genetic material between homologous chromosomes derived from maternal and paternal sources, thus ensuring genetic diversity of the gametes. The sites of exchange of genetic material are marked by the appearance of chiasmata and these become visible when the homologous chromosomes separate slightly during diplotene. The exchange of genetic material involves DNA strand breakage and subsequent repair ( 41 ). Figure 6. The diagrammatic representation of the events occurring between homologous chromosomes during the prophase of the first meiotic division shows the period of DNA synthesis, the formation of the synaptonemal complex and the processes involved in recombination. Reproduced with permission from de Kretser and Kerr (1994) in “The Physiology of Reproduction” Ed E Knobil & J D Neill, Lippincott, Williams & Wilkins ( 7 ). The diplotene stage is recognized by partial separation of the homologous pairs of chromosomes that remain joined at their chiasmata and each is still composed of a pair of chromatids. With dissolution of the nuclear membrane, the chromosomes align on a spindle and each member of the homologous pair moves to opposite poles of the spindle during anaphase. The resultant daughter cells are called secondary spermatocytes and contain the haploid number of chromosomes but, since each chromosome is composed of a pair of chromatids, the DNA content is still diploid. After a short interphase, which in the human represents approximately six hours, the secondary spermatocytes commence a second meiotic division during which the chromatids of each chromosome move to opposite poles of the spindle forming daughter cells that are known as round spermatids ( 19 , 42 ). Meiotic maturation in the human takes about 24 days to proceed from the preleptotene stage to the formation of round spermatids. It is well known that advancing maternal age is associated with increased meiotic
