Endocrinology of the Testis and Spermatogenesis
KEYWORDS: cells, cell, sertoli, testis, sertoli cells, pubmed, leydig, spermatogenesis, testicular, sertoli cell, fsh, pmc, development, germ, sperm


human takes about 24 days to proceed from the preleptotene stage to the formation of round spermatids. It is well known that advancing maternal age is associated with increased meiotic errors leading to reduced gamete quality. Studies suggest that paternal age is associated with increased defects in chromosome pairing, however no increase in aneuploidy is observed at metaphase II, suggesting that such errors are corrected during metaphase checkpoints in males ( 43 ). Since female gametes are arrested in meiosis I for many years, but paternal gametes only take days to complete meiosis, it is likely that age has more of an impact on aneuploidy arising during meiosis in females compared to males ( 39 ). Spermiogenesis and Spermiation The transformation of a round spermatid into a spermatozoon is a complex sequence of events accomplished by the process of spermiogenesis. No cell division occurs, but a conventional round cell is converted into a spermatozoon with the capacity for motility. The basic steps in this process ( Figure 7 ) are consistent between all species and consist of (a) the formation of the acrosome (b) nuclear changes (c) the development of the flagellum or sperm tail (d) the reorganization of the cytoplasm and cell organelles and (e) the process of release from the Sertoli cell termed spermiation ( 7 , 44 - 48 ). Figure 7. The changes during spermiogenesis involving the transformation of a round spermatid to a mature spermatozoon are shown. Redrawn with permission from de Kretser and Kerr (1994) in “The Physiology of Reproduction” Ed E Knobil & J D Neill, Lippincott, Williams & Wilkins ( 7 ). Acrosome formation begins when a series of granules from the Golgi complex coalesce. These granules migrate to the nuclear membrane where they form a cap-like structure which spreads over approximately 30-50% of the nuclear surface ( 44 ). Acrosome biogenesis begins with the formation of the acrosomal vesicle early in round spermatid development and progressively extends as a “cap” over the nucleus as round spermatids differentiate further ( 49 ) ( Figure 7 ). The acrosome attaches to the nuclear membrane via the actin-based acroplaxome, and its biogenesis involves Golgi-derived proteins and endocytic vesicles being transporting along microtubule tracks and delivered to the developing acrosome as it spreads across the nuclear surface( 50 ). Once the acrosome is fully extended, round spermatids begin the elongation phase of spermiogenesis. At the
