Endocrinology of the Testis and Spermatogenesis
KEYWORDS: cells, cell, sertoli, testis, sertoli cells, pubmed, leydig, spermatogenesis, testicular, sertoli cell, fsh, pmc, development, germ, sperm


delivered to the developing acrosome as it spreads across the nuclear surface( 50 ). Once the acrosome is fully extended, round spermatids begin the elongation phase of spermiogenesis. At the beginning of this phase, the nucleus polarizes to one side of the cell ( Figure 7 ) and comes into close apposition with the cell membrane in a region where it is covered by the acrosomal cap. Soon after, the spermatid’s chromatin starts to visibly condense, forming progressively larger and more electron dense granules together with a change in the shape of the condensed nucleus. This change in nuclear shape varies significantly between species. The condensation of chromatin is achieved by the replacement of lysine-rich histones with transitional proteins which in turn are replaced by arginine-rich protamines ( 51 , 52 ). The spermatid chromatin becomes highly stabilized and resistant to digestion by the enzyme DNAse. Associated with these changes is a marked decrease in nuclear volume and, importantly, the cessation of gene transcription ( 53 ). Therefore, the subsequent spermatid elongation phase proceeds in the absence of active gene transcription ( 47 ). At the commencement of spermatid elongation, a microtubule-based structure known as the manchette is formed ( 50 ). This is a microtubule network that emanates from a perinuclear ring at the base of the acrosome and extends outwards into the cytoplasm. The manchette is closely opposed to the nuclear membrane, and facilitates nuclear head shaping, likely by exerting a force on the nucleus as it progressively moves distally towards the posterior portion of the nucleus ( 49 , 54 - 56 ). The formation of the sperm flagella commences early in spermiogenesis ( Figure 7 ) in the round spermatid phase, when a filamentous structure emerges from one of the pair of centrioles which lie close to the Golgi complex. The developing flagellum and the pair of centrioles become lodged in a fossa in the nucleus at the opposite pole to the acrosome. The central core of the flagella’s axial filament, called the axoneme, consists of nine doublet microtubules surrounding two single central microtubules, which represents a common pattern found in cilia ( Figure 8 ). These doublet microtubules are comprised of various tubulin heterodimers and are associated with axonemal dyneins that hydrolyze ATP to generate axoneme movement, as well as other regulatory complexes that cooperate to regulate motility ( 57 ). The central axoneme extends
