Endocrinology of the Testis and Spermatogenesis
KEYWORDS: cells, cell, sertoli, testis, sertoli cells, pubmed, leydig, spermatogenesis, testicular, sertoli cell, fsh, pmc, development, germ, sperm


are associated with axonemal dyneins that hydrolyze ATP to generate axoneme movement, as well as other regulatory complexes that cooperate to regulate motility ( 57 ). The central axoneme extends throughout the flagellum ( Figure 7 ). The sperm flagellum is a fascinatingly complex structure ( 50 , 58 - 60 ). The connecting piece, also known as the head-tail coupling apparatus, is a small yet complex structure that connects the spermatid nucleus to the flagellum. In the middle piece, the axoneme is surrounded by outer dense fibers and the mitochondrial sheath ( Figure 7 ). The outer dense fibers are important for axoneme function, including maintaining tensile strength and elasticity, and the helically arranged mitochondria provide ATP to facilitate motility and other metabolic support necessary for sperm function. The septin-based annulus forms during early spermiogenesis ( Figure 7 ) and traverses the axoneme as it guides flagella development, until it ultimately resides between the middle piece and principal piece and functions as a membrane diffusion barrier ( 61 ). The majority of the flagellum is comprised of the principal piece ( Figure 7 ) and is surrounded by the fibrous sheath that has multiple roles in sperm motility and function ( 62 ).The development of the flagellum during spermiogenesis is a complex, multiple-step process that involves a mechanism known as Intra-Manchette Transport (IMT), similar to Intra-Flagellar Transport (IFT) used in other ciliated cells. IMT involves proteins being “shuttled” from the spermatid nucleus down to the developing flagellum via molecular motors travelling along “tracks” of microtubules and filamentous actin and is essential for normal spermatid development ( 56 , 63 ). The mature elongated spermatids undergo a further complex remodeling during spermiation, the process by which the mature spermatids are remodeled and then released from the supporting Sertoli cells (see section SERTOLI CELLS ) prior to their passage to the epididymis ( 46 ). This remodeling includes the removal of specialized adhesion junctions that have ensured tight adhesion of the spermatid to the Sertoli cell during its elongation process, further remodeling of the spermatid head and acrosome and removal of the extensive cytoplasm to produce the streamlined spermatozoon. The spermatid nucleus is “pushed” towards the lumen by the Sertoli cell extending its apical processes. Simultaneously, the spermatid cytoplasm remains stationary, so that the cytoplasm appears to flow down around the spermatid nucleus. Some observations suggest that prolongations of Sertoli cell
