Endocrinology of the Testis and Spermatogenesis
KEYWORDS: cells, cell, sertoli, testis, sertoli cells, pubmed, leydig, spermatogenesis, testicular, sertoli cell, fsh, pmc, development, germ, sperm


extending its apical processes. Simultaneously, the spermatid cytoplasm remains stationary, so that the cytoplasm appears to flow down around the spermatid nucleus. Some observations suggest that prolongations of Sertoli cell cytoplasm send finger-like projections which invaginate the cell membrane of the spermatid cytoplasm and function to ‘pull’ the residual cytoplasm off the spermatid ( 44 ). This final removal of the spermatid cytoplasm during spermiation is important for determining the normal morphology of the released spermatids. The final release of elongated spermatids at the end of spermiation is an instantaneous event and likely involves phosphorylation-dependent signaling cascades within the Sertoli cell resulting in changes in the adhesive nature of cell adhesion molecules ( 46 ), culminating in the Sertoli cell “letting go” of the mature spermatid ( 64 ). The morphological features of spermiation are relatively conserved between species, particularly among mammals ( 65 ). Spermiation is highly susceptible to perturbation by pharmacological modulators and by agents that suppress gonadotropins, reviewed in ( 46 ), and failure of spermiation can be recognized by the presence of mature elongated spermatid nuclei being phagocytosed by the Sertoli cells ( 66 ). Mutations in some genes expressed in spermatids can impair the ability of the Sertoli cell to remove the spermatid’s cytoplasm, leading to an inability of Sertoli cells to release the spermatid ( 46 ). After spermatid disengagement, the remnants of the spermatid cytoplasm form the residual body. The residual bodies contain spermatid proteins and subcellular particles such as mitochondria, lipid and ribosomal particles. Residual bodies are phagocytosed and transported to the base of the Sertoli cell where they are broken down by lysosomal mechanisms. Some components of residual bodies are transported out of the Sertoli cell and across the basement membrane of the seminiferous tubule ( 67 ) into the interstitial fluid. This deposition of residual body components into the interstitial fluid likely facilitates the delivery of many spermatid-derived proteins into the interstitium, and, ultimately, into the circulation ( 68 ). An important function of these sperm proteins may be to interact with interstitial immune cells and promote peripheral tolerance against sperm-specific proteins ( 69 ). Because sperm appears in the body during puberty, long after establishment of immune tolerance, this promotion of peripheral tolerance to a variety of sperm proteins may provide a level of protection against an immune response in the case of damage or injury to the testis
