Endocrinology of the Testis and Spermatogenesis
KEYWORDS: cells, cell, sertoli, testis, sertoli cells, pubmed, leydig, spermatogenesis, testicular, sertoli cell, fsh, pmc, development, germ, sperm


promotion of peripheral tolerance to a variety of sperm proteins may provide a level of protection against an immune response in the case of damage or injury to the testis ( 68 - 70 ) (see section TESTICULAR IMMUNE CELLS). Figure 8. A cross-section through the developing mid-piece of the sperm tail shows the aggregation of mitochondria (arrows) surrounding the outer dense fibers (labelled 1-9) which in turn surround the axoneme composed of 9 doublet microtubules surrounding two central microtubules. Reproduced with permission from “Visual atlas of human sperm structure and function for assisted reproductive technology” Ed A.H. Sathanathan 1996. Spermatogenesis: Cycles and Waves Spermatogenesis occurs in a precisely ordered manner within the seminiferous tubules. A cross section of one seminiferous tubule reveals that a particular spermatogonial cell type is always associated with cells in a particular phase of meiosis and of spermatid development. These ordered cellular associations are referred to as stages and are denoted by Roman numerals (see Figure 9 ) ( 71 ). The stages are distinguished from one another based on recognizable differences in cell morphology. In mice there are 12 distinguishable stages, whereas in rats there are 14 ( Figure 9 ). Human spermatogenesis was previously classified as having 6 stages ( 42 , 72 ), but a more recent study was able to discern 12 stages ( 73 ). The completion of all recognizable stages is termed the spermatogenic cycle ; e.g. the time taken for a single point in the seminiferous epithelium to progress through all stages. Another important consideration is that the stages are organized along the length of an entire seminiferous tubule in a largely consecutive manner; that is, one stage will usually be followed by the next, with the stages generally following a descending order distal from the rete testis ( 74 ). The space along the tubule occupied by a series of all stages, following one another sequentially, is called the spermatogenic wave ( 74 ) ( Figure 9 ). Multiple waves can be visualized along one entire seminiferous tubule ( 2 ), with each wave releasing mature elongated spermatids during spermiation. The purpose of the wave is to generate continual pulses of sperm release to ensure the testes are constantly producing sperm. These pulses of sperm release along the length of the seminiferous tubules allow the testes to continually produce sperm, with the average normo-spermic man able to
