Endocrinology of the Testis and Spermatogenesis
KEYWORDS: cells, cell, sertoli, testis, sertoli cells, pubmed, leydig, spermatogenesis, testicular, sertoli cell, fsh, pmc, development, germ, sperm


are constantly producing sperm. These pulses of sperm release along the length of the seminiferous tubules allow the testes to continually produce sperm, with the average normo-spermic man able to produce approximately 1000 sperm per heartbeat. Interestingly though, the spermatogenic wave along the tubule is not perfectly arranged. In most seminiferous tubules, there are multiple sites at which the stages abruptly reverse, and continue in the opposite order, or even begin at a completely different stage ( 2 , 74 , 75 ). The direction of flow of released spermatids also shows abrupt changes in direction along the tubule, likely in part due to contractions of the surrounding peritubular myoid cells ( 76 ). Nevertheless, the constant waves of spermatid release and flow of fluid through the tubules towards the rete testis ensures the constant delivery of sperm to the epididymis. Another important consideration is that the wave along the seminiferous tubules in marmoset and human testes is arranged in a more complex manner than lower order species. In lower order species, such as mice and rats, one wave is seen along the tubule, and one stage is observed at a cross-section in that tubule ( Figure 9 ). In marmoset and human testes, however, several stages can be observed in one tubule cross section, because multiple waves at different stages intertwine along the length of the tubules, arranged in an irregular ( 77 ) or helical pattern ( 78 , 79 ). Over the last decade, much has been revealed about the initiation and maintenance of spermatogenic cycle in mice, see ( 80 ) for a recent review. The spermatogenic cycle is initiated during the early postnatal period by the commitment of immature spermatogonia to differentiation, specifically the differentiation of A undiff to A diff spermatogonia. This key step is governed by a local pulse of retinoic acid (RA) within the seminiferous epithelium ( 80 , 81 ). During the initiation of spermatogenesis at puberty, the commitment of spermatogonia to meiosis is regulated by RA derived from the Sertoli cells ( 80 ). Spermatogonia differentiate and become committed to meiosis at various points along the tubule, determined by the local production of RA by Sertoli cells at that site ( 81 , 82 ). Therefore, the spermatogenic cycle is initiated by the timed, local production of RA by Sertoli cells. However, during subsequent cycles, once meiotic and post-meiotic germ
