Endocrinology of the Testis and Spermatogenesis
KEYWORDS: cells, cell, sertoli, testis, sertoli cells, pubmed, leydig, spermatogenesis, testicular, sertoli cell, fsh, pmc, development, germ, sperm


( 81 , 82 ). Therefore, the spermatogenic cycle is initiated by the timed, local production of RA by Sertoli cells. However, during subsequent cycles, once meiotic and post-meiotic germ cells appear in the epithelium, germ cells contribute to local RA synthesis within the tubule and thus can contribute to regulating the timing of entry of spermatogonia into the cycle ( 80 , 81 ). The transplantation of rat germ cells into mouse testes drives the spermatogenic cycle to proceed according to the kinetics of the rat ( 83 ), highlighting that germ cells contribute to the timing of the spermatogenic “clock”. Therefore, RA generated by Sertoli cells “sets the clock” during the first wave, however differentiating germ cells “fine tune” the timing of the clock during adult spermatogenesis ( 80 , 81 , 84 , 85 ). It is thus evident that a cycle of spermatogenesis within a particular area, or segment, of a seminiferous tubule is driven by the RA-mediated differentiation of spermatogonia. Yet how the different segments along the length of a tubule co-operate to drive the orderly, sequential wave of spermatogenesis along the length of the tubule remains somewhat mysterious. In order to visualize how spermatogenesis becomes established, Ventela and colleagues transplanted green fluorescent protein (GFP)-expressing mouse spermatogonia into infertile mouse testes and examined the generation of GFP-labelled colonies for several months ( 86 ). They showed that spermatogonia could colonize a particular area of tubule and establish the spermatogenic cycle within that region. Along the length of the tubule, different colonies were established, with each colony cycling through the entire spermatogenic process. As time progressed, the colonies grew along the length of the tubules, each, continuing through their own cycle. Eventually, adjacent colonies fused and then appeared to begin to co-operate with each other, until the tubules began to exhibit the synchronous wave ( 86 ). These observations suggest that adjacent, independently generated colonies may communicate with each other to establish the spermatogenic wave, with RA being a key factor driving the cycle within each colony ( 80 , 81 , 85 , 87 ). However, given the ordering of stages along the tubule is often disrupted ( 2 , 74 , 75 ), the co-operation between adjacent colonies is likely imperfect. A fascinating study suggested that Sertoli cells exhibit cyclic function along the length of the tubules in the embryonic testis, prior to the
