Endocrinology of the Testis and Spermatogenesis
KEYWORDS: cells, cell, sertoli, testis, sertoli cells, pubmed, leydig, spermatogenesis, testicular, sertoli cell, fsh, pmc, development, germ, sperm


co-operation between adjacent colonies is likely imperfect. A fascinating study suggested that Sertoli cells exhibit cyclic function along the length of the tubules in the embryonic testis, prior to the initiation of spermatogenesis, and even in the absence of germ cells ( 88 ). This study suggested that Sertoli cells along the tubule show innate variation in the expression of various proteins, including a retinol binding protein ( 88 ). Thus, it is possible that there could be a “pre-figured cycle” inside the Sertoli cells, generated prior to birth during the development of the fetal testis cords, and that this prefigured variation may drive local conditions that determine where spermatogonia become committed to meiosis at various sites along the tubule after birth. When and how this Sertoli cell clock is pre-figured in the embryonic testis is unclear ( 88 ) and its importance in contributing to the establishment of the spermatogenic wave in adulthood is yet to be established. In summary, the spermatogenic cycle is initiated by a pulse of RA from Sertoli cells at particular sites along the tubules, and this RA stimulates undifferentiated spermatogonia to become committed to differentiation ( 80 ). Once meiotic and post-meiotic germ cells appear in the epithelium, they also regulate the timing of the spermatogenic cycle, likely by contributing to the regulation of the RA pulse ( 80 , 85 ), and perhaps via the production of other factors. The establishment of the spermatogenic wave along the length of the tubule involves the synchronization of cycles in adjacent segments via unknown mechanisms. It is possible that Sertoli cells exhibit subtle functional differences along the length of the tubules, determined prior to birth ( 88 ), that could contribute to the establishment of the spermatogenic wave. Figure 9. The top panel shows a diagrammatic representation of the stages of the seminiferous cycle in the rat and shows the types of germ cell associations which form the stages. The stage is denoted by roman numerals. These stages follow one another along the length of the seminiferous tubule, as illustrated in the diagram in the middle panel, however most seminiferous tubules exhibit areas where the stages do not precisely follow one another according to this cycle. Examples of the histology of the seminiferous epithelium at two different stages are given in the bottom panel. SERTOLI CELLS Sertoli cells are large and extraordinarily complex cells within the
