Endocrinology of the Testis and Spermatogenesis
KEYWORDS: cells, cell, sertoli, testis, sertoli cells, pubmed, leydig, spermatogenesis, testicular, sertoli cell, fsh, pmc, development, germ, sperm


Examples of the histology of the seminiferous epithelium at two different stages are given in the bottom panel. SERTOLI CELLS Sertoli cells are large and extraordinarily complex cells within the seminiferous epithelium. Sertoli cells are the orchestrators of spermatogenesis, playing a major role in testis differentiation in fetal life, helping to determine the spermatogenic potential of the testis during development, and supporting and directing testicular function and spermatogenesis in adult life ( 70 , 89 - 91 ). Sertoli Cell Differentiation and Proliferation Determines Adult Spermatogenic Output The testis originates from the genital ridge, a thickening of the ventral coelomic epithelium, during early embryonic development, and the indeterminate gonads become specified to differentiation into either the female or male pathway. The gonads become committed to testis differentiation via the expression of the Y chromosome-linked gene Sry ( 92 ). The SRY target gene, Sox9 , then becomes expressed in pre-Sertoli cells and, along with other mechanisms, directs transcriptional cascades that promote Sertoli cell differentiation and further specification of the gonad to the male fate ( 92 ). Fetal Sertoli cells aggregate around the primordial germ cells and begin to form the seminiferous cords that become the seminiferous tubules after birth ( 93 ) and the proliferation of fetal Sertoli cells directs seminiferous cord development and length ( 94 ). Various studies have demonstrated that fetal Sertoli cell survival, proliferation and function is an important determinant of adult testis size and spermatogenic potential, reviewed in ( 70 ). In rodents, Sertoli cells proliferate in both fetal and early postnatal life prior to puberty to establish the adult population ( 95 ). In humans there are two waves of proliferation; during the fetal and early neonatal period when the population increases 5 fold, and again prior to puberty when the population increases more than two fold ( 96 ), reviewed in ( 95 , 97 ). Postnatal Sertoli cell proliferation is regulated by numerous endocrine and paracrine factors, including follicle stimulating hormone (FSH), androgens, thyroid hormone, activin and growth factors ( 98 - 100 ) (also see section Endocrine Regulation of Sertoli cells) and is thus vulnerable to disturbance. Alterations to postnatal Sertoli cell proliferation or the cessation of proliferation at puberty alters adult testis size, ( 70 , 100 ). If Sertoli cell numbers are reduced during fetal or postnatal development, they do not appear to regenerate or increase their proliferation
