Endocrinology of the Testis and Spermatogenesis
KEYWORDS: cells, cell, sertoli, testis, sertoli cells, pubmed, leydig, spermatogenesis, testicular, sertoli cell, fsh, pmc, development, germ, sperm


alters adult testis size, ( 70 , 100 ). If Sertoli cell numbers are reduced during fetal or postnatal development, they do not appear to regenerate or increase their proliferation rate to compensate ( 101 , 102 ). Mouse models of Sertoli cell ablation demonstrate that the size of the Sertoli cell population prior to puberty is a strict determinant of adult testis size and sperm output ( 101 , 103 ). Once Sertoli cells cease pre-pubertal proliferation, they begin to differentiate to attain the so-called “terminally differentiated” phenotype that will support germ cell development. The transition from proliferation to differentiation is thus a key switch in Sertoli cell development and can determine the timing of the onset of spermatogenesis as well as the number of Sertoli cells and germ cells ( 104 , 105 ). However, Sertoli cells can de-differentiate in certain conditions of impaired spermatogenesis, reviewed in ( 95 ). For example, a loss of claudin 11 (a protein involved in Sertoli cell tight junctions) causes Sertoli cells to remain proliferative during development and to lose their epithelial phenotype ( 106 ). De-differentiated Sertoli cells in cell cycle are not observed in normospermic men but are present in men after 12 weeks of gonadotropin suppression ( 107 ). Intriguingly, adult Sertoli cells can even trans-differentiate into granulosa cells in the absence of the Sertoli cell transcription factor Dmrt1 ; this activates Foxl2 -mediated female somatic cell programming ( 108 ). Therefore, the maintenance of adult Sertoli cell differentiation is essential for normal spermatogenesis. Sertoli Cell Structure and Function Sertoli cells are highly specialized epithelial cells ( Figure 10 ) that are indispensable for germ cell development, providing physical, metabolic and nutritional support at precisely timed intervals as dictated by the spermatogenic process, see ( 70 , 89 - 91 , 109 ) for reviews. Sertoli cells reside on the basement membrane of the seminiferous epithelium and are characterized by a basally located nucleus that shows deep indentations and a tripartite nucleolus ( 109 ). The Sertoli cell cytoplasm is large and complex, rich in microtubules and actin and intermediate filaments, with numerous cytoplasmic processes/projections that contact the four to five different types of germ cells ( 109 ). Figure 10. The general architecture of the Sertoli cell is shown. Note the thin cytoplasmic processes that extend between the germ cells. The Sertoli cell is in contact with a
