Endocrinology of the Testis and Spermatogenesis
KEYWORDS: cells, cell, sertoli, testis, sertoli cells, pubmed, leydig, spermatogenesis, testicular, sertoli cell, fsh, pmc, development, germ, sperm


Figure 10. The general architecture of the Sertoli cell is shown. Note the thin cytoplasmic processes that extend between the germ cells. The Sertoli cell is in contact with a variety of germ cells and adjacent Sertoli cells when three dimensional perspectives are considered. Sertoli cells interact with one another via a specialized junctional complex that forms between adjacent Sertoli cell plasma membranes towards the base of the cells ( 110 , 111 ). This complex contains different types of adhesion junctions, including gap, tight/occluding and adhesion junctions, along with a specialized actin-based structure termed the basal ectoplasmic specialization. The tight/occluding junctions prevent the diffusion of substances from the interstitium into the inner part of the seminiferous tubule ( Figure 11 ). Because of the location of the junctions, spermatogonia have free access to substances from the interstitium (including the vasculature), however the germ cells “above” this junction, including meiotic and post-meiotic germ cells, have restricted access to factors from the interstitium. These junctions effectively divide the seminiferous epithelium into a basal compartment containing spermatogonia, which has free access to factors from the interstitium and an adluminal compartment containing meiotic and post-meiotic germ cells, the environment of which is strictly determined by the Sertoli cell. As preleptotene spermatocytes migrate from the basement membrane of the tubule into the adluminal compartment, the tight junctions open to allow them to migrate towards the lumen. At the same time, tight junctions reform beneath the preleptotene spermatocytes which have now left the basement membrane and are termed leptotene spermatocytes ( Figure 11 ). The remodeling of these junctions to facilitate spermatocyte translocation coincides with the release of spermatids by the Sertoli cell during spermiation ( 112 ). These inter-Sertoli cell junctions contribute to the so-called “blood-testis barrier” which creates a specialized environment within the seminiferous tubules. The Sertoli cell junctions and the blood-testis barrier are required for fertility ( 113 ). These junctions allow the environment of meiotic and post-meiotic germ cells to be precisely controlled by the Sertoli cell, enabling the timed delivery of factors uniquely required for germ cell development. The inter-Sertoli cell junctions exhibit differential permeability and can exclude different sized molecules depending on their stage and functional status ( 114 ), contributing to the stage-specific regulation of germ cell development. Meiotic and post-meiotic germ cells develop at puberty, long after the establishment of immune tolerance after birth, and thus these
