Endocrinology of the Testis and Spermatogenesis
KEYWORDS: cells, cell, sertoli, testis, sertoli cells, pubmed, leydig, spermatogenesis, testicular, sertoli cell, fsh, pmc, development, germ, sperm


), contributing to the stage-specific regulation of germ cell development. Meiotic and post-meiotic germ cells develop at puberty, long after the establishment of immune tolerance after birth, and thus these germ cells could be recognized as “foreign” by the immune system. Germ cells in the adluminal compartment of the seminiferous tubules are protected from immune system recognition by the creation of an immune-privileged environment. This environment is in part mediated by specialized anti-inflammatory immune cells within the interstitium ( 115 ) (also see section Immune Cell Regulation of Immune Privilege and Tolerance) and the production of immunomodulatory factors, such as anti-inflammatory cytokines, by Sertoli cells ( 110 ). Junctions between Sertoli cells likely play some part in immune-privilege because a loss of androgen receptor in Sertoli cells results in increased permeability in the inter-Sertoli cell junctions and the immune-privileged status of the seminiferous tubules is compromised ( 116 ), However the seminiferous tubules continue to exclude immune cells when Sertoli cell junctions are absent ( 113 ) or even when Sertoli cells are ablated ( 103 ), suggesting that these junctions are not entirely responsible for immune privilege and that peritubular myoid cells may also play a role ( 70 ). Sertoli cells also release many germ cell-specific proteins into the interstitial fluid, likely via multiple mechanisms ( 68 , 117 ). While some germ cell-specific proteins remain sequestered within the seminiferous epithelium, others are released and can promote Treg-mediated immune tolerance ( 69 , 118 ). Therefore, Sertoli cells release germ cell-specific proteins to tolerize the immune system and to provide another layer of immune protection to the developing germ cells, reviewed in ( 117 ). Figure 11. Overview of the contribution of inter-Sertoli cell junctions to the blood-testis barrier. The diagram indicates the seminiferous epithelium with Sertoli cells (blue) and developing germ cells (orange). The position of the inter-Sertoli cell junctions is indicated (purple). Outside the seminiferous tubule is the interstitum (green shaded area), which contains interstitial cells and blood and lymphatic vessels. The inter-Sertoli cell junctions create a molecular weight barrier, preventing passive movement of proteins across them. These junctions effectively divide the testis into two compartments. The basal compartment has free access to substances from the interstitium and vasculature, whereas the adluminal compartment is strictly controlled by the Sertoli cell. The completion of meiosis and spermiogenesis occurs within the adluminal compartment. The inter-Sertoli cell junctions transiently
