Endocrinology of the Testis and Spermatogenesis
KEYWORDS: cells, cell, sertoli, testis, sertoli cells, pubmed, leydig, spermatogenesis, testicular, sertoli cell, fsh, pmc, development, germ, sperm


interstitium and vasculature, whereas the adluminal compartment is strictly controlled by the Sertoli cell. The completion of meiosis and spermiogenesis occurs within the adluminal compartment. The inter-Sertoli cell junctions transiently remodel (junction remodeling) to allow leptotene spermatocytes to translocate from the basal to the adluminal compartments, whilst protecting the functionality of the barrier. Abbreviations: Sg = spermatogonia, Sc = spermatocytes, St = spermatids, eSt = elongated spermatids. Sertoli cells continually change shape and structural features in response to germ cell maturation and the stage of the spermatogenic cycle. They respond to the needs of the developing germ cells by constantly changing the expression of many mRNA transcripts according to the stage of germ cell development ( 119 ). Adhesion junctions between germ cells and Sertoli cells change as germ cells mature ( 120 ) and the Sertoli cell cytoskeleton remodels as the stages progress ( 121 ). A specialized Sertoli cell adhesion junction termed the apical ectoplasmic specialization facilitates tight adhesion to the newly elongating spermatids, facilitating their translocation down towards the base of the epithelium as they elongate, and then transports them back up to the luminal edge as they complete spermiogenesis ( 121 , 122 ). At the end of spermatogenesis, Sertoli cells effectively push the mature elongated spermatid towards the luminal edge, stripping off the spermatid’s excess cytoplasm during the process of spermiation (see section Spermiogenesis and Spermiation), ultimately releasing the spermatid, into the lumen via changes in a specialized adhesion junction known as the disengagement complex ( 46 ). Regulation of Germ Cells Sertoli cells support germ cell survival, development and function during spermatogenesis ( 70 ). They provide structural and nutritional support, for example by providing lactate which is the preferred substrate for germ cell glycolysis ( 123 ). Sertoli cells produce many RNAs and proteins that direct the development of germ cells from their early specification in the fetal testis, through to the production of elongated spermatids in adulthood. The endocrine regulation of germ cell development is covered in other sections (Endocrine Regulation of Spermatogonia; Endocrine Regulation of Meiosis; Endocrine Regulation of Spermiogenesis and Spermiation) but some examples of the specific roles of Sertoli cells in regulating spermatogenesis are given below. A key cell-fate decision in the early embryonic testis is the entry of germ cells into either meiosis and the female pathway of development, or the suppression of meiosis and the entry into
