Endocrinology of the Testis and Spermatogenesis
KEYWORDS: cells, cell, sertoli, testis, sertoli cells, pubmed, leydig, spermatogenesis, testicular, sertoli cell, fsh, pmc, development, germ, sperm


decision in the early embryonic testis is the entry of germ cells into either meiosis and the female pathway of development, or the suppression of meiosis and the entry into mitotic quiescence and the male pathway of development. Sertoli cells direct the specification of germ cells into the male pathway by the expression of various factors that suppress the entry of germ cells into female meiosis ( 124 , 125 ). The Sertoli cells then produce factors that promote the entry of the male-specified germ cells (gonocytes) into mitotic arrest and maintain gonocyte mitotic quiescence throughout fetal life ( 97 , 126 ). After birth, the gonocytes transition into proliferating spermatogonia that will ultimately provide the germ cell “reservoir” for adult spermatogenesis. Germ cell mitosis is re-activated and the gonocytes migrate to the periphery of the cords and acquire a spermatogonia-like transcriptional signature. This process is regulated by a fine balance of Sertoli cell-derived factors including stem cell factor (SCF) and platelet-derived growth factors (PDGF) ( 126 ). A subset of spermatogonia is then triggered to enter spermatogenesis by Sertoli cell-derived factors including RA and estradiol ( 81 , 126 ). Throughout spermatogenesis, the maintenance of the SSC niche is essential for continued sperm production ( 127 ). Sertoli cells are major contributors to this niche because increasing the number of Sertoli cells increases the number of SSC niches ( 128 ). Sertoli cells maintain the SSC niche by producing different factors, notably glial cell-derived neurotrophic factor (GDNF) and fibroblast growth factor 2 (FGF2) ( 89 , 127 ). Sertoli cells support the entry of spermatogonia into meiosis by producing RA in the first wave of spermatogenesis, and by contributing to a pulse of RA throughout adulthood ( 81 , 85 , 87 ). Sertoli cells also support the survival of spermatocytes as they proceed through the long meiotic prophase ( 129 , 130 ) and the final meiotic division into round spermatids ( 130 ). During spermiogenesis, Sertoli cells support the survival of round spermatids, particularly in the mid-spermatogenic stages ( 129 , 130 ). As spermatids undergo complex morphogenesis, they are supported by the formation of specialized adhesion junctions with the Sertoli cells ( 109 ). Interestingly, Sertoli cells project small cytoplasmic processes, known as penetrating processes, directly into the spermatid cytoplasm ( 131 ). The function of these processes is not known but they could presumably be
