Endocrinology of the Testis and Spermatogenesis
KEYWORDS: cells, cell, sertoli, testis, sertoli cells, pubmed, leydig, spermatogenesis, testicular, sertoli cell, fsh, pmc, development, germ, sperm


cells project small cytoplasmic processes, known as penetrating processes, directly into the spermatid cytoplasm ( 131 ). The function of these processes is not known but they could presumably be involved in supporting the later phases of spermiogenesis when the spermatids cease transcription. The final phase of spermatogenesis, spermiation, is mediated entirely by the Sertoli cell ( 46 ). The Sertoli cell apical cytoplasm pushes the spermatid towards the lumen, removes the excess spermatid cytoplasm and ultimately releases the elongated spermatid ( 46 ). Regulation of Other Testicular Cells While it has long been known that a healthy Sertoli cell is required for germ cell development, it is now clear that Sertoli cells support the development and function of other testicular cells. Mouse models of acute and specific ablation of Sertoli cells have revealed the role of Sertoli cells in supporting the function of other testicular somatic cells ( 101 - 103 ). Sertoli cells are essential for the fate and function of the peritubular myoid cells (PMC) (see section PERITUBULAR MYOID CELLS). During fetal and early postnatal life, Sertoli cells maintain the differentiation of PMC which in turn is necessary for the formation of seminiferous tubules ( 102 ). Once PMC have formed before puberty, they remain in the testis even after Sertoli cells have been ablated for up to a year, however Sertoli cells are required to maintain gene expression and function in adult PMC ( 103 ). Sertoli cells also produce endothelin in a stage-specific manner, which regulates contractility of the PMC at specific stages along the tubule ( 132 ). In turn, PMC supports various Sertoli cell functions ( 133 ). Sertoli cells likely regulate the function of cells in the testicular vasculature, because the specific ablation of Sertoli cells reduces the total vascular volume of the adult testis as well as the number of vascular branches and microvessels ( 134 ). These defects result in a reduced fluid exchange between the testicular vasculature and the interstitium and reduced gonadotropin-stimulated circulating testosterone. These studies suggest that Sertoli cells maintain testicular vasculature functions important for the ability of Leydig cells to receive gonadotropin stimuli and/or the release of testicular testosterone into the circulation ( 134 ). During fetal testis development in mice, Sertoli cells are required for the recruitment of monocytes and their differentiation into testicular macrophages ( 135 ). Sertoli cells are well known to produce
