Endocrinology of the Testis and Spermatogenesis
KEYWORDS: cells, cell, sertoli, testis, sertoli cells, pubmed, leydig, spermatogenesis, testicular, sertoli cell, fsh, pmc, development, germ, sperm


fetal testis development in mice, Sertoli cells are required for the recruitment of monocytes and their differentiation into testicular macrophages ( 135 ). Sertoli cells are well known to produce immunomodulatory factors that contribute to testicular immune privilege ( 110 , 136 , 137 ). The ability of Sertoli cells to create an immunosuppressive environment is well established and underlies their potential therapeutic use in cell and tissue transplantation technologies, where they may be able to suppress host rejection ( 138 ). As well as depositing germ cell-derived antigens into the interstitium (see section Sertoli cell Structure and Function), Sertoli cells produce a vast array of cytokines and factors to regulate the phenotypes of testicular macrophages, dendritic cells and T cells to promote an immunosuppressive environment within the testis ( 138 ) and promote tolerance and innate immunity ( 137 , 139 ) (also see section TESTICULAR IMMUNE CELLS ). Finally, it is now well understood that Sertoli cells have a major impact on the development and function of the testosterone-producing Leydig cells ( 70 , 140 , 141 ). In the fetal testis, the newly specified Sertoli cells produce factors required for the commitment of interstitial progenitors to the steroidogenic cell fate ( 142 , 143 ). After birth, adult Leydig cells (ALCs) differentiate under the influence of Wt1 expression in Sertoli cells ( 143 , 144 ). During the neonatal and pre-pubertal period, Sertoli cells direct the number of ALCs in the testis ( 101 , 102 ). In adulthood, Sertoli cells are important for ALC survival and the pulsatile release of testosterone ( 103 , 140 ). LEYDIG CELLS Androgens produced by the testicular Leydig cells are essential for male sexual development and for adult male sexual function and fertility. The steroidogenic Leydig cells lie within the intertubular (interstitial) regions of the testis and are found adjacent to blood vessels and the seminiferous tubules ( 7 , 145 ). There are significant organizational differences in the intertubular tissue between species, reflecting the number of Leydig cells and differing architecture involving blood vessels and lymphatic sinusoids ( 146 ). There are two distinct periods of testicular steroid production in the fetal and adult testis that are produced by two distinct Leydig cell populations; fetal and adult Leydig cells ( 147 ). Fetal Leydig Cell Development Fetal Leydig cells (FLC) first appear after testis determination and, soon after, pre-Sertoli
