Endocrinology of the Testis and Spermatogenesis
KEYWORDS: cells, cell, sertoli, testis, sertoli cells, pubmed, leydig, spermatogenesis, testicular, sertoli cell, fsh, pmc, development, germ, sperm


157 ). These stem Leydig cells (SLC) are multipotent, capable of giving rise to other cell lineages ( 157 ). Distinct cell types can be discerned during postnatal development, including the SLC, progenitor Leydig cells, immature Leydig cells that do not make testosterone, and ALC with the capacity to synthesize androgens ( 157 , 159 - 161 ). An additional generation of Leydig cells appears during puberty in primates; these may contribute to a brief neonatal rise in androgens that could be involved in imprinting androgen-dependent target organs ( 157 , 160 , 162 , 163 ). The Leydig cells that appear during the early neonatal period are functionally immature until puberty, when they acquire an ability to produce testosterone and become ALC ( 164 , 165 ). The postnatal SLC arise from different fetal cell lineages, including FLC that de-differentiate prior to birth and persist in the postnatal testis ( 149 , 157 , 166 ). Under normal conditions, ALC are very long lived and do not appear to divide, but the population can fully regenerate when it is ablated ( 165 ). After ablation in adulthood, ALC regenerate from SLC, including those that are located around the outside of the seminiferous tubules and blood vessels ( 157 ). The SLC associated with the seminiferous tubules exhibit differences depending on the stage of the spermatogenic cycle, suggesting that their function can be influenced by factors from the seminiferous tubules ( 157 ). In the adult testis, ALC exists within an interstitial cell niche, composed of ALC and abundant immune cells, particularly interstitial macrophages (see section Testicular Macrophages, Leydig Cells and Steroidogenesis). The function of ALC is highly dependent on the immune cells in this niche (see section Testicular Macrophages, Leydig Cells and Steroidogenesis). The niche is surrounded by telocytes in multiple species including humans ( 167 ). Telocytes are of mesenchymal origin and possess a small cell body and multiple long projections, and they are speculated to play multiple roles in maintaining functions of ALC and the interstitial cell niche ( 167 ). As ALC are long lived, highly metabolic cells necessary for androgen production, studies have investigated the consequences and mechanisms of Leydig cell aging in various species. In the aged testis, ALC show morphological and functional changes, including elevated ROS, reduced mitochondrial function and reduced steroidogenic enzyme expression and output ( 168 ). Studies in mice suggest
