Endocrinology of the Testis and Spermatogenesis
KEYWORDS: cells, cell, sertoli, testis, sertoli cells, pubmed, leydig, spermatogenesis, testicular, sertoli cell, fsh, pmc, development, germ, sperm


In the aged testis, ALC show morphological and functional changes, including elevated ROS, reduced mitochondrial function and reduced steroidogenic enzyme expression and output ( 168 ). Studies in mice suggest that it is not Leydig cell aging per se causing these changes, but rather age-related changes in the surrounding microenvironment ( 169 ), involving reduced LH signaling from the pituitary ( 168 ), altered functions of telocytes ( 170 ) and a subset of aged macrophages with a pro-inflammatory phenotype that could impact on the function of ALC in the interstitial cell niche ( 171 ). Testicular macrophages exhibit functional differences in aging men ( 172 ), suggesting they could contribute to ALC dysfunction during human aging. Leydig Cell Steroidogenesis The primary function of ALC is steroidogenesis to produce androgens. Leydig cells have the capacity to synthesize cholesterol, the substrate for steroidogenesis, from acetate or to take it up from lipoproteins ( 145 , 173 ). ALC contain abundant smooth endoplasmic reticulum and mitochondria which have tubular cristae that are unique to steroidogenic cells. The enzymes required for steroidogenesis are located in the mitochondria and in endoplasmic reticulum, thus intracellular transport of substrates between these organelles is necessary for androgen production. Adult men typically produce around 7 mg testosterone daily but also produce lesser amounts of weaker androgens such as androstenedione and dihydroepiandrosterone. In addition to testosterone, through the actions of steroid 5α-reductase enzymes, the more potent androgen dihydrotestosterone (DHT) is produced by the testis in smaller amounts. Fascinatingly, a study using spatial mass spectrometry to localize androgens in the mouse testis revealed that testosterone was primarily localized within the seminiferous tubules but DHT was predominantly localized in the interstitium ( 174 ), however the mechanism responsible for this is unclear. The testis also contributes approximately 25% of the total daily production of 17β-estradiol through the local action of the enzyme aromatase which converts androgenic substrates to this estrogen ( 175 ), also see elsewhere in Endotext ( 176 )). The remainder of the circulating estradiol is produced by the adrenal and peripheral tissues through the actions of aromatase. The biosynthesis and regulation of testosterone production is covered elsewhere in Endotext ( 177 ). Briefly, LH produced by the pituitary (see section The Hypothalamic-Pituitary-Testis Axis) activates the G protein-coupled LH receptor (LHCGR) on Leydig cells to activate adenylate cyclase, leading to increased cAMP production and the subsequent activation of kinases
