Endocrinology of the Testis and Spermatogenesis
KEYWORDS: cells, cell, sertoli, testis, sertoli cells, pubmed, leydig, spermatogenesis, testicular, sertoli cell, fsh, pmc, development, germ, sperm


(see section The Hypothalamic-Pituitary-Testis Axis) activates the G protein-coupled LH receptor (LHCGR) on Leydig cells to activate adenylate cyclase, leading to increased cAMP production and the subsequent activation of kinases ( 178 ). LHCGR activation regulates many signaling and transcriptional events in the ALC, including the expression of many transcriptional activators and repressors, to ultimately stimulate steroidogenesis ( 178 ). Upon LHCGR activation, cholesterol is mobilized into the mitochondria where the cytochrome P450 CYP11A1 enzyme produces pregnenolone in a key rate-limiting step. Testosterone is ultimately synthesized in a series of enzymatic steps via the so-called canonical, or classic, pathway of androgen biosynthesis ( 159 ). The final conversion of the androgen precursor, androstenedione, to the androgen testosterone is performed in the endoplasmic reticulum and is achieved by the rate-limiting reaction catalyzed by 17β-hydroxysteroid dehydrogenase enzyme (HSD17B) activity. Testosterone is converted to DHT by two steroid 5α-reductase enzymes, SRD5A1 and 2. Both enzymes contribute to the pre-pubertal production of DHT in the testis when testosterone levels are low, and then 5α-reductase activity declines as testosterone is produced at very high levels in the adult testis ( 179 ). Testosterone release is periodic, with substantial diurnal variation seen in adult men ( 180 ). In ALC, HSD17B3 is the primary enzyme converting androstenedione to testosterone, and humans deficient in HSD17B3 exhibit phenotypes of disordered sexual development ( 181 ). However, mice lacking HSD17B3 exhibit sexual development, are fertile and continue to produce testosterone due to the activity of HSD17B1 in Sertoli cells during fetal testis development ( 182 ). In the adult mouse testis, HSD17B1 is no longer present, and HSD17B3 is the major enzyme present in ALC ( 159 ). However, in mice congenitally deficient in HSD17B3, the adult testis likely produces testosterone via the action of other hydroxysteroid dehydrogenases such as HSD17B7 and HSD17B12 ( 183 ). Other pathways of androgen biosynthesis also exist in the testis. The so-called alternate pathway was first discovered in the tammar wallaby ( 184 ) and has since been reported in multiple species including mice and humans ( 185 - 187 ). This pathway utilizes various enzymes, including SRD5A1 and 2, to produce DHT independently of testosterone ( 188 ). Alternate pathway precursors are detected in the mouse testis and circulation and are up-regulated in the circulation in the absence of HSD17B3, indicating that the canonical and alternate pathways co-operate in adult male mice
