Endocrinology of the Testis and Spermatogenesis
KEYWORDS: cells, cell, sertoli, testis, sertoli cells, pubmed, leydig, spermatogenesis, testicular, sertoli cell, fsh, pmc, development, germ, sperm


Early studies in rodents suggested that the seminiferous tubules influence Leydig cell number, maturation and testosterone production ( 196 - 198 ). As described earlier (see section Regulation of Germ Cells), Sertoli cells are an important regulator of Leydig cells, influencing the commitment of interstitial progenitors to the steroidogenic cell fate ( 142 , 143 ), the postnatal development and recruitment of ALC ( 101 - 103 , 143 , 144 ), ALC survival and the pulsatile release of testosterone in the adult testis ( 103 , 140 ). In contrast, the ablation of germ cells from the testis has little effect on ALC steroidogenesis ( 141 ). However, when ALC are ablated from the adult testis, Leydig stem cells colonize the testis differently in the presence or absence of germ cells ( 199 ). Also, germ cell transplantation into mice lacking germ cells since birth stimulates ALC steroidogenesis ( 200 ). Thus, it is possible that germ cell-dependent mechanisms could support some aspects of ALC development and function ( 117 ) Peritubular myoid cells (PMC) also appear to influence Leydig cell development and function. The deletion of AR from ~40% of PMC resulted in the adult testis containing two ALC populations that arose during postnatal development and could be differentiated from one another structurally and functionally ( 201 ). One population showed a marked reduction in the expression of various genes and other functional changes and appeared to undergo initial differentiation to immature Leydig cells, but did not complete their development into fully functional ALC. In contrast, the other population expressed steroidogenic enzymes and were functioning in a compensated state to maintain testosterone production. Thus, this study suggests that androgen-dependent signals in PMC influence postnatal ALC development and function ( 201 ). Finally, the development and function of Leydig cells is highly dependent on the types of immune cells present in the interstitium, and particularly on interactions with the specialized interstitial macrophages (see section Testicular Macrophages, Leydig Cells and Steroidogenesis). PERITUBULAR MYOID CELLS External to the basement membrane of the seminiferous tubule are modified myofibroblastic cells termed peritubular myoid cells (PMC). A single layer of PMC surrounds the seminiferous tubules in rodents, however up to 7 layers are present in humans with each layer separated by connective tissue ( 202 ). In the human, there is heterogeneity between the PMC layers ( 202 ). PMC are contractile and are
