Endocrinology of the Testis and Spermatogenesis
KEYWORDS: cells, cell, sertoli, testis, sertoli cells, pubmed, leydig, spermatogenesis, testicular, sertoli cell, fsh, pmc, development, germ, sperm


in humans with each layer separated by connective tissue ( 202 ). In the human, there is heterogeneity between the PMC layers ( 202 ). PMC are contractile and are responsible for the irregular contractions of the seminiferous tubules which propel seminiferous tubule fluid and released spermatozoa through the tubular network to the rete testis ( 202 , 203 ). PMC contractility is associated with marked changes in their cytoskeletal actin networks ( 204 , 205 ) and is stimulated by various factors such as endothelin, prostaglandin F2 alpha and angiotensin ( 206 - 208 ). PMC and Sertoli cells both contribute extracellular matrix proteins to the basement membrane that surrounds the seminiferous tubules ( 202 ), with Sertoli cells predominantly secreting laminin and collagen IV and PMC secreting fibronectin ( 209 ). Prior to puberty, Sertoli cells are important for the layering of the basement membrane and the retention of the differentiated state of PMC ( 102 ). PMC are highly secretory, producing many proteins and growth factors such as activin A and platelet derived growth factors ( 210 , 211 ) that may influence the function of other testicular cells ( 202 ). PMC and Sertoli cells co-operate with one another, and PMC influence Sertoli cell function and protein expression ( 212 ) while Sertoli cells are required for normal PMC development, function ( 102 , 103 ). Under the influence of androgens, PMC regulate Sertoli cell number, function and ability to support germ cell development ( 133 ) and also influence Leydig cell development and steroidogenesis ( 201 ). PMC also support spermatogonia. In rodents, androgens act on PMC to stimulate the expression of the growth factor GDNF which is required for the maintenance of differentiating spermatogonia and, ultimately, for continued fertility ( 213 , 214 ). PMC also likely contribute other factors that support spermatogonia and maintain Sertoli cell functions that are important for maintaining the SSC niche ( 215 ). PMC may also contribute to the maintenance of the SSC niche in humans ( 216 ). Human PMC secrete a number of factors not found in rodent PMC, suggesting that human PMC could have more specialized functions, including regulating testicular immune cells ( 217 ). Human PMC are regulated by prostaglandins, and their function, including GDNF secretion and contractility, can be reduced by non-steroidal anti-inflammatory drugs (NSAID) in vitro , suggesting that commonly used NSAIDs
