Endocrinology of the Testis and Spermatogenesis
KEYWORDS: cells, cell, sertoli, testis, sertoli cells, pubmed, leydig, spermatogenesis, testicular, sertoli cell, fsh, pmc, development, germ, sperm


Human PMC are regulated by prostaglandins, and their function, including GDNF secretion and contractility, can be reduced by non-steroidal anti-inflammatory drugs (NSAID) in vitro , suggesting that commonly used NSAIDs could have negative impacts on fertility via an effects on PMC ( 218 ). TESTICULAR IMMUNE CELLS The testis contains abundant resident immune cells that participate in the maintenance of immune privilege, respond to infection and inflammation via the activation of the innate and adaptive immune systems, and participate in the regulation of steroidogenesis and spermatogenesis. Spermatogenesis is initiated at puberty, well after the establishment of immune system after birth, and germ cells express many novel proteins that could elicit an immune response. Therefore, the testis is an immune privileged site where autoantigenic germ cells are protected from immune system recognition by the blood-testis barrier (see section Sertoli Cell Structure and Function) and by the maintenance of an immunosuppressive and tolerogenic environment. The following section provides a brief overview of the types of testicular immune cells and their major functional roles in the testis. The reader is encouraged to refer to comprehensive reviews on this subject ( 115 , 136 , 137 , 139 , 219 - 222 ). Types of Testicular Immune Cells Resident immune cells in the testis are exclusively found within the interstitium and are prevented from entering the seminiferous epithelium under normal conditions. The testis contains both monocytes and lymphocytes. In mice, immune cells (CD45+ cells) comprise ~8% of the total testis cell population ( 223 ). Of these, approximately 80% are macrophages (monocytes) in mice and rats ( 136 , 224 ) and macrophages are the most abundant immune cell type in the human testis ( 136 , 225 ). In mice, macrophages appear very early in testis development ( 226 ) and in the adult, the majority reside in the interstitium, associated with Leydig cells and the vasculature (termed interstitial macrophages) and the remainder associate with the outside of the seminiferous tubules (termed peritubular macrophages) ( 224 , 227 ). The interstitial and peritubular macrophages are morphologically, functionally and transcriptionally distinct and can be distinguished by protein markers, ( 115 , 136 , 219 , 228 , 229 ), for example, CSF1R is high in interstitial macrophages whereas MHCII is high in peritubular macrophages ( 227 ). It is now understood that multiple transcriptionally, developmentally and functionally distinct subpopulations of testicular macrophages exist (
