Endocrinology of the Testis and Spermatogenesis
KEYWORDS: cells, cell, sertoli, testis, sertoli cells, pubmed, leydig, spermatogenesis, testicular, sertoli cell, fsh, pmc, development, germ, sperm


in interstitial macrophages whereas MHCII is high in peritubular macrophages ( 227 ). It is now understood that multiple transcriptionally, developmentally and functionally distinct subpopulations of testicular macrophages exist ( 222 , 228 - 230 ). The majority of macrophages in the testis are of an anti-inflammatory phenotype, secreting high levels of anti-inflammatory cytokines and low levels of pro-inflammatory cytokines, whereas a smaller subset are pro-inflammatory macrophages that secrete IFNγ and TNFα cytokines and can induce an inflammatory response ( 137 , 219 ). Testicular macrophages are also highly phagocytic ( 231 ). Transcriptome analyses show that macrophages undergo functional changes and features of senescence in the ageing human testis ( 172 ) and studies in mice suggest that a novel macrophage subset is increased during aging and may contribute to a hostile proinflammatory microenvironment in the aging testis ( 171 ). After macrophages, the next most common immune cell types in the mouse testis are lymphocytes, predominantly T cells and Natural Killer (NK) cells, however B cells are not present under normal conditions ( 136 , 224 ). T cells are also present in the human testis ( 136 , 225 ). In the mouse, CD3+ T cells are present in the testis at birth, in both interstitial regions and adjacent to the seminiferous cords ( 232 ). In adult mice, there are various subsets of T cells including cytotoxic T cells, T helper and regulatory T (Treg) cells ( 136 , 137 ). Mast cells are also observed in the testis of some species ( 136 ), and are particularly prevalent in humans ( 217 ). Dendritic cells are also found in smaller numbers throughout the interstitium ( 136 ). Finally, telocytes are extremely large cells with long cellular projections found in many tissues and have been described in the testicular interstitium of many species, including mice and humans ( 167 ) but their functional role is unclear. Immune Cell Regulation of Immune Privilege and Tolerance The testis is a distinct immune-privileged site where certain antigens are tolerated without inducing a detrimental immune response ( 139 ). The maintenance of testicular immune privilege is essential for testis homeostasis and the prevention of autoimmune responses, and testicular immune cells have an important role to play ( 115 , 137 ). Disruption to immune privilege leads to autoimmune diseases, orchitis (infection of the testis) and impacts on male fertility. Testicular
