Endocrinology of the Testis and Spermatogenesis
KEYWORDS: cells, cell, sertoli, testis, sertoli cells, pubmed, leydig, spermatogenesis, testicular, sertoli cell, fsh, pmc, development, germ, sperm


have an important role to play ( 115 , 137 ). Disruption to immune privilege leads to autoimmune diseases, orchitis (infection of the testis) and impacts on male fertility. Testicular immune privilege is a complex, active process that involves multiple levels of regulation ( 137 ) and both central and peripheral immune tolerance contribute to testicular immune privilege ( 136 ). See ( 136 , 137 , 139 , 220 , 222 , 228 ) for comprehensive reviews on this topic. Briefly, the immune privileged environment within the testis is maintained by cooperation between various testicular cells, including the Sertoli cells (see section SERTOLI CELLS), germ cells, Leydig cells and immune cells ( 137 ). The testicular interstitium contains many immunosuppressive factors, including high levels of corticosterone, that may contribute to immune privilege ( 231 ). Approximately 80% of testicular macrophages secrete immunosuppressive factors and exhibit an immunosuppressive phenotype that contributes to testicular immune privilege ( 136 , 137 ). The interstitial macrophages secrete immunosuppressive factors such as IL10, whereas the peritubular-associated macrophages function to present Sertoli cell-derived sperm antigens to promote tolerance ( 228 ). Dendritic cells, specialized antigen-presenting cells, function to minimize responses to autoantigens while maximizing responses against foreign pathogens, depending on their maturational status ( 137 , 233 ). In the testis under normal physiological conditions, dendritic cells are tolerogenic and contribute to the maintenance of immune privilege ( 136 , 137 , 233 ). Tregs are the main lymphocytes contributing to immune privilege in the testis that function to inhibit antigen-specific immune responses ( 137 , 139 ). Testicular macrophages may induce Treg expansion ( 231 ). In summary, multiple cell types, including different immune cells, contribute to the maintenance of tolerance and immune privilege in the testis. Testicular Immune Cell Response to Infection and Injury As well as maintaining immune privilege, testicular immune cells must also be ready to respond to pathogens. To elicit a local response to pathogens, the testis has to overcome immune privilege and adopt effective innate immune responses. The testes have limited exposure to the outside environment, however they are a reservoir for microbes and viruses, particularly because they are predominantly comprised of seminiferous tubules that do not contain immune cells ( 234 ). Thus, the testes must find a balance between maintaining self-tolerance and being susceptible to infection. Various insults to the male reproductive tract can compromise the immunological
