Endocrinology of the Testis and Spermatogenesis
KEYWORDS: cells, cell, sertoli, testis, sertoli cells, pubmed, leydig, spermatogenesis, testicular, sertoli cell, fsh, pmc, development, germ, sperm


cells ( 234 ). Thus, the testes must find a balance between maintaining self-tolerance and being susceptible to infection. Various insults to the male reproductive tract can compromise the immunological balance within the testis ( 136 ). Physical damage and injury can compromise immune privilege and lead to sperm antibody formation, as can surgical interventions such as vasectomy and testis biopsy. Reproductive tract infections involving the testis (orchitis) and/or epididymis (epididymitis) are also associated with sperm antibody formation. The formation of autoantibodies to sperm is the most common immunological dysfunction of the male reproductive tract and can impede fertility ( 136 , 235 ). In humans, isolated orchitis is usually associated with viral infections, such as mumps, whereas bacterial orchitis is usually caused by urethral pathogens and is almost always associated with inflammation of the epididymis ( 136 ). During orchitis, the immune response to infection causes a range of damage to the testis, such as fibrosis, ischemia and obstruction, reduced androgen production and increased risk of further testicular autoimmune reactions ( 136 ). Although the testis is an immune-privileged site, it is remarkable in its ability to respond to infection or injury, and pathogens that invade from the blood or via the ascending male genitourinary tract are usually eliminated ( 136 , 139 ). The testis possesses highly effective local innate immunity systems that are a first line response to eliminate pathogens. These systems are complex and involve a multitude of factors, including defensins and pattern recognition receptors ( 136 , 139 ) as well as co-operation between testicular somatic cells, particularly Sertoli cells and Leydig cells, immune cells and germ cells ( 139 ). While innate immunity plays a fundamental role in the response of the male reproductive tract to infections, it also plays a wider role in male reproduction and various regulatory mechanisms are shared by the innate immune and the reproductive systems ( 136 ). If innate immunity systems fail, the adaptive immune response pathway is activated ( 136 ). Broadly, these responses involve the appearance of antibodies and immune complexes in the testis, which is then followed by the infiltration and activation of macrophages and dendritic cells, and increases in various T cells (T helper, Treg and cytotoxic T cells) are also observed ( 115 , 136 , 219 ). Activation of the innate and adaptive immune systems can have ongoing detrimental effects on the
