Endocrinology of the Testis and Spermatogenesis
KEYWORDS: cells, cell, sertoli, testis, sertoli cells, pubmed, leydig, spermatogenesis, testicular, sertoli cell, fsh, pmc, development, germ, sperm


Treg and cytotoxic T cells) are also observed ( 115 , 136 , 219 ). Activation of the innate and adaptive immune systems can have ongoing detrimental effects on the male reproductive tract and can lead to tissue damage, autoimmunity and sub- or infertility ( 136 ). Testicular Macrophages and the Regulation of Seminiferous Tubule Development and Function Macrophages are found in all organs and perform both immune- and non-immune-related functions ( 222 , 236 ). As described above, macrophages comprise the majority of immune cell types in the testis and contribute to testicular homeostasis by their involvement in immune privilege and response to inflammation and infection. However, tissue-resident macrophages can also play important local roles in tissue development and function and thus it is pertinent to consider other roles for testicular macrophages. Macrophages are first observed in the testis at embryonic day 11.5 in the mouse, at a time when all macrophages originate from the early yok sac ( 226 ). Fetal liver-derived monocytes appear later during embryonic development in the mouse testis ( 237 ). Some studies suggest that macrophages arising during the fetal period seed the interstitial macrophage population, and bone marrow-derived macrophages seed the peritubular macrophages during postnatal development ( 228 , 230 ) and others suggest fetal liver-derived macrophages predominantly seed both interstitial and peritubular cells ( 229 ). A more recent study suggests that fetal hematopoietic stem cell-derived monocytes colonize the murine testis later in fetal development and differentiate into adult testicular macrophages, and the peritubular macrophages differentiate later than interstitial macrophages ( 135 ). Fetal Sertoli cells, but not Leydig or germ cells, regulate testicular macrophage recruitment and differentiation during embryonic development ( 135 ). Various hypotheses exist in terms of the mechanisms governing the origin and steady state maintenance of testicular macrophages in the adult testis ( 222 ). In the adult testis, macrophages are extremely long lived with a slow turnover rate and low rates of proliferation ( 228 , 230 ). Testicular macrophages appear to play important roles during embryonic testis development. In the fetal mouse testis, macrophages are of an M2, anti-inflammatory type, and are actively proliferating ( 226 ). These macrophages associate with the developing vasculature, with large numbers accumulating around areas of vascularization, and are present both inside and outside of the developing seminiferous cords ( 226 , 232 ). Their localization suggests a role in the
