Endocrinology of the Testis and Spermatogenesis
KEYWORDS: cells, cell, sertoli, testis, sertoli cells, pubmed, leydig, spermatogenesis, testicular, sertoli cell, fsh, pmc, development, germ, sperm


numbers accumulating around areas of vascularization, and are present both inside and outside of the developing seminiferous cords ( 226 , 232 ). Their localization suggests a role in the clearance of germ cells as they migrate from the mesonephros, of Sertoli cells that fail to be incorporated into the developing cords and of endothelial cells during vascularization ( 226 ). Consistent with these roles, macrophage depletion during early embryonic testis development in mice causes defects in testicular vascularization and abnormal seminiferous cord development ( 135 , 226 ). The roles of macrophages in regulating seminiferous tubule function in the postnatal and adult testis is less well understood ( 228 ). Peritubular macrophages preferentially associate with areas of seminiferous tubules containing differentiating spermatogonia and the transient depletion of most testicular macrophages impairs the proliferation and development of differentiating spermatogonia ( 227 ). Other studies suggest that the postnatal depletion of macrophages, via strategies that deplete all macrophages in mice, does not have a major effect on adult testis function under homeostatic conditions ( 229 , 238 ) though the global depletion of macrophage production from early in fetal life causes marked defects to spermatogenesis, with very few sperm produced in adult mice ( 229 , 239 ). Further studies using methods that exclusively deplete only macrophages in the testis, as well as specific subtypes of testicular macrophages (such as interstitial vs peritubular), are needed to better define the roles of these cells in normal seminiferous tubule homeostasis ( 222 , 228 ). Testicular Macrophages, Leydig Cells, and Steroidogenesis It has been known for many years that testicular interstitial macrophages and Leydig cells reside together within niches in the interstitial space ( 136 , 221 , 228 , 240 - 242 ). Estimates suggest one macrophage to approximately four Leydig cells, though this varies with species ( 136 ). Recent studies suggest the interstitial Leydig cell-macrophage niche is bordered by telocytes; these are extremely long cells that form a net-like structure enclosing the interstitial cell niche ( 243 ), however their functional relevance in the interstitium is not yet understood. The Leydig cells and macrophages make close physical contact in the interstitial cell niches ( 136 , 221 , 228 , 240 - 242 ) and form gap junctions with one another ( 244 ). Strikingly, long tubular cytoplasmic processes of Leydig cells penetrate deeply into coated membrane invaginations within adjacent
