Endocrinology of the Testis and Spermatogenesis
KEYWORDS: cells, cell, sertoli, testis, sertoli cells, pubmed, leydig, spermatogenesis, testicular, sertoli cell, fsh, pmc, development, germ, sperm


240 - 242 ) and form gap junctions with one another ( 244 ). Strikingly, long tubular cytoplasmic processes of Leydig cells penetrate deeply into coated membrane invaginations within adjacent macrophages ( 242 , 245 , 246 ) and these are first observed between the cells at puberty ( 245 ) when Leydig cell steroidogenesis is initiated. These Leydig cell penetrating processes are not observed in ageing testes, however close contact remains between the Leydig cells and macrophages ( 247 ). Fascinatingly, a recent study showed that stem Leydig cells form long nanotubes with adjacent testicular macrophages and, under stimulation from ROS released from activated macrophages during inflammation, the stem Leydig cells transfer mitochondria along the nanotubes to the macrophages to support their function ( 248 ). Whether adult Leydig cells form such nanotubes and use them to communicate with macrophages is not known. It is well known that Leydig cells and macrophages are functionally coupled in both the normal and inflamed testis. Many studies show that macrophages can influence Leydig cells, and vice versa, in the normal testis, during cell regeneration and in models of inflammation and injury, reviewed in ( 136 , 221 , 228 , 240 - 242 ). Macrophages are important for Leydig cell proliferation and differentiation ( 136 , 141 , 221 , 228 , 240 - 242 , 249 ). The acute depletion of macrophages in prepubertal, but not post-pubertal, rats leads to reduced Leydig cell numbers, suggesting that testicular macrophages are important for prepubertal Leydig cell development ( 250 ). When adult Leydig cells are destroyed and then allowed to repopulate the testis, the depletion of testicular macrophages markedly inhibits Leydig cell repopulation from stem cells ( 251 ). Testicular macrophages produce factors that stimulate the proliferation and differentiation of Leydig cells, including 25-hydroxycholesterol, interleukins and transforming growth factor alpha (TGFα) ( 221 , 241 ). In the adult testis, the transient depletion of testicular macrophages in vivo does not have an overt effect on Leydig cells numbers, but causes reduced testicular testosterone production ( 227 ), suggesting a role for macrophages in maintaining steroidogenesis in the normal testis. Testicular macrophages produce cytokines that can enhance Leydig cell steroidogenesis under certain conditions ( 141 , 221 ). Recent studies suggest that interstitial, but not peritubular, macrophages from the adult testis stimulate Leydig cell steroidogenesis ( 135 ). Testicular macrophages also produce 25-hydoxycholesterol, which
