Endocrinology of the Testis and Spermatogenesis
KEYWORDS: cells, cell, sertoli, testis, sertoli cells, pubmed, leydig, spermatogenesis, testicular, sertoli cell, fsh, pmc, development, germ, sperm


141 , 221 ). Recent studies suggest that interstitial, but not peritubular, macrophages from the adult testis stimulate Leydig cell steroidogenesis ( 135 ). Testicular macrophages also produce 25-hydoxycholesterol, which can support Leydig cell steroidogenesis and is hypothesized to be used as a substrate for testosterone production ( 249 ). More recent studies have shown that testicular macrophages produce progesterone that is a precursor steroid in androgen biosynthesis ( 244 ). Thus, there is evidence to suggest that interstitial macrophages may support, and perhaps even contribute to, adult Leydig cell steroidogenesis under homeostatic conditions, however further research is needed ( 141 ). In situations where there is infection or inflammation in the testis, macrophages become activated and can have suppressive effects on Leydig cells and steroidogenesis. Activated macrophages produce pro-inflammatory cytokines and reactive oxygen species (ROS) that can inhibit Leydig cell steroidogenesis ( 136 , 219 , 241 ). Acute and chronic inflammation in the testis results in excessive activation of macrophages and reduced Leydig cell testosterone production ( 136 ). In rodents, inflammation causes testicular macrophages to produce increased levels of pro-inflammatory molecules that inhibit steroidogenesis, including IL1, TNFα, nitric oxide, ROS and PGE2 ( 136 ). It is also important to note that inflammation can negatively affect steroidogenesis via the elevation of pro-inflammatory factors in the circulation and alterations to the hypothalamic-pituitary-testis axis ( 136 ). Thus, infection and inflammation can reduce Leydig cell steroidogenesis, and this suppression is in part regulated by the testicular macrophages. Leydig cells also regulate testicular macrophages, consistent with the hypothesis that these cells are functionally coupled within the interstitial cell niche ( 136 , 249 ). Evidence in rodent models suggests that Leydig cells produce factors responsible for recruiting and maintaining testicular macrophages, and that the mechanisms responsible are dependent on stimulation of the LH receptor (LHCGR) on Leydig cells ( 136 , 249 ). For example, the suppression of LH in rodents, which reduces LHCGR activation in Leydig cells and suppresses steroidogenesis, leads to a marked reduction in testicular macrophages ( 136 , 252 - 254 ). The mechanisms by which Leydig cells influence macrophages are not known but are likely to be LHCGR-dependent, non-androgenic products and via direct cell-cell contacts ( 136 , 249 , 254 ). Leydig cells also play a role in maintaining immune privilege and promoting innate immunity, either by producing immunomodulatory factors themselves, or by influencing
