Endocrinology of the Testis and Spermatogenesis
KEYWORDS: cells, cell, sertoli, testis, sertoli cells, pubmed, leydig, spermatogenesis, testicular, sertoli cell, fsh, pmc, development, germ, sperm


( 136 , 249 , 254 ). Leydig cells also play a role in maintaining immune privilege and promoting innate immunity, either by producing immunomodulatory factors themselves, or by influencing the function of macrophages and other immune cells. Leydig cells secrete multiple immunosuppressive factors and produce androgens that regulate immune privilege and suppress immune responses to auto-antigens ( 139 ). They also exhibit innate antiviral abilities in response to viral infection, and express Toll-like receptors that trigger innate immune responses ( 139 , 255 ). Recent studies suggest focal localization of AR on the membrane of macrophages within the interstitial cell niche, suggesting they may be able to respond directly to Leydig cell-derived androgens ( 135 ). Androgens may regulate the activation of testicular lymphocytes via effects on testicular macrophages ( 137 , 256 ) and can directly regulate Treg cell expansion ( 257 ). Under inflammatory conditions, Leydig cell-derived androgens play a protective role by suppressing the production of pro-inflammatory cytokines by testicular immune cells and restricting macrophage and T cells migration to the testis ( 137 ). In summary, testicular macrophages and Leydig cells are functionally coupled within the interstitium in the normal and inflamed testis. They communicate via direct interactions, including via unique structures that Leydig cells project into the macrophages, and via the production of different immunomodulatory factors. They co-operate to support their differentiation and survival, and, in the adult testis, they exhibit co-operativity in terms of Leydig cell steroidogenesis and LH-responsiveness, the maintenance of an immunosuppressive and immune-privileged environment, and in promoting innate immunity and the response to infection and inflammation. THE ENDOCRINE REGULATION OF THE TESTIS AND SPERMATOGENESIS As is evident from the previous sections, testis development and adult function, including spermatogenesis and steroidogenesis, involves incredibly complex regulatory programs and interactions, including endocrine, paracrine and intracrine regulatory systems. The development and function of the testis is highly dependent on endocrine hormones released by the pituitary, and the appropriate regulation of these endocrine hormones via negative feedback loops. The following section provides an overview of the major endocrine regulators of the testis, with a focus on the function of the hypothalamic-pituitary-testis axis, and the regulation of testis cells by the major hormonal regulators testosterone and follicle stimulating hormone (FSH). Other hormones are also important for testis development and functions, including thyroid hormone, anti-mullerian hormone (AMH), and vitamin A (which is considered a hormone and is
