Endocrinology of the Testis and Spermatogenesis
KEYWORDS: cells, cell, sertoli, testis, sertoli cells, pubmed, leydig, spermatogenesis, testicular, sertoli cell, fsh, pmc, development, germ, sperm


follicle stimulating hormone (FSH). Other hormones are also important for testis development and functions, including thyroid hormone, anti-mullerian hormone (AMH), and vitamin A (which is considered a hormone and is essential for various aspects of testis function). Estrogen is also very important for the testis, however this topic is considered extensively elsewhere in Endotext ( 258 ). The following section provides a brief overview of the hypothalamic-pituitary testis axis that supports testis function and discusses key aspects of the endocrine regulation of spermatogenesis. For the sake of brevity, key review articles are cited where appropriate. The Hypothalamic-Pituitary-Testis Axis Successful male fertility is dependent on the function of the hypothalamic-pituitary-testis axis ( Figure 12 ). This axis is initiated with the pulsatile release of gonadotropin-releasing hormone (GnRH) from neurons in the hypothalamus and is mediated by kisspeptin/neurokinin B/dynorphin A (KNDy) neurons ( 259 , 260 ). The decapeptide GnRH is released into the hypophyseal portal system and is transported to the anterior pituitary. GnRH binds to its receptor (GNRHR) on gonadotrope cells in the pituitary to stimulate production of the gonadotropins follicle stimulating hormone (FSH) and luteinizing hormone (LH) ( 259 , 260 ). The pattern of GnRH-dependent secretion of FSH and LH are not identical ( 259 ). These gonadotropins stimulate testicular production of hormones that in turn regulate gonadotropin production via a negative feedback loop. The following section briefly explains the regulation of the hypothalamic-pituitary-testis axis in adult males and the reader is referred to more comprehensive reviews that also discuss the pre- and postnatal development and function of this axis ( 261 - 264 ). Figure 12. The endocrinology of the hypothalamic-pituitary-testis axis. GnRH is released from the hypothalamus and stimulates the production of the gonadotropins LH and FSH by the anterior pituitary. LH and FSH enter the testis via the circulatory system. LH targets receptors on Leydig cells to stimulate steroidogenesis and the production of testosterone (T). Testosterone acts on receptors within the seminiferous epithelium (including receptors in PMCs and Sertoli cells) to promote spermatogenesis. Testosterone is also released into the bloodstream where it feeds back on the hypothalamus and pituitary to negatively regulate gonadotropin production; this feedback is in part mediated by the conversion of testosterone to estradiol. FSH targets receptors within Sertoli cells to support multiple functions that are important for quantitatively normal sperm production. Abbreviations: PMC = peritubular myoid cells, Sg = spermatogonia, SC
