Endocrinology of the Testis and Spermatogenesis
KEYWORDS: cells, cell, sertoli, testis, sertoli cells, pubmed, leydig, spermatogenesis, testicular, sertoli cell, fsh, pmc, development, germ, sperm


to estradiol. FSH targets receptors within Sertoli cells to support multiple functions that are important for quantitatively normal sperm production. Abbreviations: PMC = peritubular myoid cells, Sg = spermatogonia, SC = spermatocytes, St = spermatids, eSt = elongated spermatids, Mɸ = interstitial macrophages. Image of brain courtesy of brgfx on Freepik. LH acts on the LH receptor (LHCGR) on Leydig cells to stimulate the production of the androgen testosterone. Testosterone can be converted to estradiol via the activity of the aromatase enzyme. Testosterone can inhibit LH secretion directly without metabolism to estradiol or dihydrotestosterone ( 265 , 266 ) and it can act at the hypothalamus to decrease GnRH pulse frequency without a change in pulse amplitude ( 267 ). The non-aromatizable androgen DHT can partially suppress circulating LH and FSH in men ( 268 ) highlighting androgen-dependent negative feedback effects on both LH and FSH. Approximately a quarter to half of circulating estradiol is produced by the testis and the rest is produced via local aromatization of testosterone in various peripheral tissues ( 258 , 269 ). Estradiol has a negative feedback effect on pituitary gonadotropin production by regulating GnRH pulse frequency in the hypothalamus and LH pulse amplitude in the pituitary, the latter by reducing the sensitivity of gonadotropes to GnRH ( 269 ). A wide range of evidence suggests that both testosterone and estrogen mediate negative feedback effects of gonadotropin production, but that estrogen is the primary mediator, with testosterone having a minor but determinant role ( 258 ). Studies in mice suggest that androgen feedback on the pituitary influences prolactin but not gonadotropin production ( 270 ). FSH acts on FSH receptors (FSHR) that are specifically expressed in Sertoli cells to regulate spermatogenesis ( 271 ). Testosterone and estradiol can negatively regulate FSH via effects on the hypothalamus (see above) however there are considerable mechanistic differences in the negative feedback regulation of FSH and LH. In response to FSH, the testis produces the peptide hormone inhibin B which enters the circulation and negatively regulates FSH, but not LH, production by the gonadotropes ( 272 ). FSH stimulation in the pituitary has been thought to predominantly involve the peptide hormone activin, produced within the pituitary and binding to activin family receptors in the gonadotropes, stimulating FSHβ subunit gene transcription ( 272 ). In turn, inhibin B from the testis is a negative regulator of FSH production via
