Endocrinology of the Testis and Spermatogenesis
KEYWORDS: cells, cell, sertoli, testis, sertoli cells, pubmed, leydig, spermatogenesis, testicular, sertoli cell, fsh, pmc, development, germ, sperm


to activin family receptors in the gonadotropes, stimulating FSHβ subunit gene transcription ( 272 ). In turn, inhibin B from the testis is a negative regulator of FSH production via acting as an antagonist of activin receptors, thus preventing activin’s stimulatory effect FSHβ subunit gene transcription in gonadotropes ( 272 ). However, a very recent study suggests that activin may not be the primary driver of FSH synthesis, at least in rodents ( 273 ). In mice, muscle-derived myostatin binds to a complex of TGFβ and activin receptors and stimulates FSH production in gonadotropes. Data from transgenic mouse models suggests that myostatin is a primer driver of FSH regulation in both males and females, with activin having a more minor role ( 273 ). Male mice lacking muscle-derived myostatin exhibited significantly reduced levels of FSH, but not LH, and reductions in testis weight and serum testosterone. This fascinating study thus suggests the existence of an endocrine feedback loop involving muscle effects on the pituitary to control FSH and provides a mechanism by which muscle signals to the pituitary to indicate reproductive fitness ( 273 ). Other endocrine systems impacting on the hypothalamic-pituitary-testis axis include adipose tissue-derived leptin impacting on FSH production ( 274 ) and the existence of a pancreas-bone-testis axis in mice ( 275 ). Endocrine Regulation of Sertoli Cells Sertoli cells are the orchestrators of spermatogenesis and many testis functions, playing key roles in establishing and maintaining the spermatogenic cycle and wave (see section Spermatogenesis: Cycles and Waves) and regulating the development and function of germ cells and other testicular cells (see section SERTOLI CELLS). The proliferation of Sertoli cells during pre- and postnatal development is a key determinant of testis size and ultimate spermatogenic output (see section Sertoli Cell Differentiation and Proliferation Determines Adult Spermatogenic Output). Sertoli cells respond to, and regulate, many endocrine stimuli arising from outside the testis. The following section briefly covers the main endocrine factors regulating Sertoli cells. The reader is referred to ( 258 ) for the roles of estrogen. As described in section Spermatogenesis: Cycles and Waves, retinoic acid (RA) is key regulator of the spermatogenic cell cycle acting via Sertoli cells, reviewed in ( 80 , 85 , 276 ). Retinol stored in the liver is transported in the circulation via binding proteins. The actions of RA at a given site are regulated by a delicate balance between RA synthesis
