Endocrinology of the Testis and Spermatogenesis
KEYWORDS: cells, cell, sertoli, testis, sertoli cells, pubmed, leydig, spermatogenesis, testicular, sertoli cell, fsh, pmc, development, germ, sperm


Retinol stored in the liver is transported in the circulation via binding proteins. The actions of RA at a given site are regulated by a delicate balance between RA synthesis and degradation enzymes, RA binding proteins and receptors ( 80 , 85 , 276 ). Retinoic acid signaling is mediated through nuclear RA receptors (RARs) that bind to DNA and either activate or suppress target genes. Within Sertoli cells, retinol is converted to the active metabolite RA via a series of enzymes. The first role of retinoic acid in Sertoli cells is during embryonic development where the expression of the retinoic acid degrading enzyme Cyp26b1 and other factors by early Sertoli cells (E12.5 in the mouse) controls the specification of primordial germ cells to commit to the male pathway of gene expression and meiosis ( 277 ). In the postnatal testis, RA is synthesized within the Sertoli cells, with a “pulse” of RA generated in stages VII-IX of the spermatogenic cycle ( 80 , 276 ) Mice lacking RARα expression in Sertoli cells exhibit a disrupted spermatogenic cell cycle, whereas the administration of exogenous RA to testes without advanced germ cells causes all Sertoli cells to “reset” to stage VII of the spermatogenic cycle ( 84 ). RA exerts its effects primarily via RAR alpha in Sertoli cells ( 278 , 279 ). This pulse of RA in the mid-spermatogenic stages is necessary for the entry of spermatogonia into meiosis (see below) but also regulates other important Sertoli cell functions occurring in these stages, notably sperm release (see ( 280 ) and references therein) and the formation and maintenance of the blood-testis-barrier (e.g. ( 281 - 283 ), reviewed in ( 85 )). Thus, RA generation and action in Sertoli cells directs many Sertoli cell functions which are essential for spermatogenesis. Thyroid hormone has an important role in the regulation of Sertoli cell proliferation which is a key determinant of testis size and sperm output. Thyroxine released by the thyroid gland is converted locally in the testis to the active hormone 3, 5, 3′-tri-iodothyronine T3 that activates its alpha1 isoform receptor (THRA) in Sertoli cells to control their proliferation during puberty ( 284 ). Specifically, T3 is a key signal to Sertoli cells to cease proliferation and commence terminal differentiation. This role of T3 is illustrated by the fact that hypothyroidism during puberty prolongs Sertoli cell proliferation, leading to increased
