Endocrinology of the Testis and Spermatogenesis
KEYWORDS: cells, cell, sertoli, testis, sertoli cells, pubmed, leydig, spermatogenesis, testicular, sertoli cell, fsh, pmc, development, germ, sperm


to Sertoli cells to cease proliferation and commence terminal differentiation. This role of T3 is illustrated by the fact that hypothyroidism during puberty prolongs Sertoli cell proliferation, leading to increased Sertoli cell numbers, testis size and sperm output, whereas pubertal hyperthyroidism causes a premature cessation of proliferation, leading to reduced Sertoli cell numbers and sperm output in adulthood, reviewed in ( 284 , 285 ). Sertoli cells, unlike germ cells, express receptors for androgens and FSH, and thus “transduce” the effects of these hormones to the developing germ cells. Spermatogenesis does not proceed in the absence of androgens, whereas spermatogenesis can proceed but is quantitatively reduced in the absence of FSH (reviewed in ( 198 , 285 - 287 )). It is well established that both of these hormones are needed for quantitatively normal spermatogenesis. Both androgens and FSH have independent effects on Sertoli cells but also act co-operatively and synergistically to initiate and maintain normal spermatogenesis (see section Quantitatively Normal Spermatogenesis Requires Both Independent and Synergistic Actions of Androgens and FSH ) and, by inference, optimal Sertoli cell functions. FSH acts as a mitogen for pubertal Sertoli cell proliferation and in the absence of FSH or its receptor, testes are smaller and Sertoli cell populations are reduced, as is sperm output ( 286 , 288 , 289 ). Thus, FSH supports postnatal Sertoli cell proliferation to establish a quantitatively normal population and, since Sertoli cell number determines sperm output (see section Sertoli Cell Differentiation and Proliferation Determines Adult Spermatogenic Output), is necessary for the production of normal numbers of sperm. During the establishment of spermatogenesis, a wave of germ cell apoptosis is important for establishing future spermatogenesis, perhaps by achieving a balance in the Sertoli cell:germ cell ratio ( 290 ). Since reductions in FSH at this time cause even greater apoptosis, it is possible that FSH acts on Sertoli cells to limit this apoptotic wave and establish normal spermatogenesis, reviewed in ( 286 ). FSH supports various Sertoli cell functions and their ability to support normal numbers of germ cells, as evidenced by reduced Sertoli cell-germ cell ratios in mice lacking FSH production or action ( 289 , 291 , 292 ). FSH can maintain germ cell development in gonadotropin-deficient men for 6 weeks ( 293 ) and has permissive effects on spermatogenesis in non-human primates and men, see ( 294 , 295 ). Therefore, FSH action on
