Endocrinology of the Testis and Spermatogenesis
KEYWORDS: cells, cell, sertoli, testis, sertoli cells, pubmed, leydig, spermatogenesis, testicular, sertoli cell, fsh, pmc, development, germ, sperm


in gonadotropin-deficient men for 6 weeks ( 293 ) and has permissive effects on spermatogenesis in non-human primates and men, see ( 294 , 295 ). Therefore, FSH action on Sertoli cells is not essential for spermatogenesis but is required for normal Sertoli cell number and function. Androgens, including testosterone and DHT, act on androgen receptors (AR) in the testis to support normal spermatogenic function. Androgens can act on the AR and produce the so-called classical signaling pathway, whereby ligand-bound AR translocates to the nucleus, binds to Androgen Response Elements (AREs) in the promoter region of androgen-dependent genes, and modulates transcription. This pathway produces a response hours after androgen stimulation. However, androgens can have much more rapid effects via non-classical pathways, involving AR-mediated intracellular calcium influx or activation of SRC and the ERK phosphorylation pathway, reviewed in ( 296 , 297 ). Both classical and non-classical pathways are active in Sertoli cells ( 296 ) and both are necessary for spermatogenesis ( 297 , 298 ). In the absence of AR in Sertoli cells, no sperm are produced and spermatogenesis is arrested at the end of meiosis ( 130 , 299 ), highlighting that androgen action on Sertoli cells is needed for the completion of meiosis and spermiogenesis. Androgens regulate Sertoli cell number during pubertal development, reviewed in ( 286 ), and are a driver of Sertoli cell maturation; this latter requirement was demonstrated in transgenic mice with premature activation of AR expression in postnatal Sertoli cells, causing Sertoli cells to prematurely exit the proliferative phase and enter the maturation phase, leading to a reduction in Sertoli cell numbers ( 300 ). Thus, the precise timing of AR expression in Sertoli cells is important for normal testis development and optimal sperm output. Androgens are necessary for the formation of tight junctions between Sertoli cells which contribute to the blood-testis-barrier, reviewed in ( 286 ), and they drive the expression and translation of many genes expressed in the Sertoli cells themselves, and indirectly modulate the expression of genes in germ cells (e.g. ( 301 )). Importantly, Sertoli cell morphology, function and androgen-dependent gene expression is impaired when AR is ablated from PMC ( 133 ), indicating that androgen action via PMC cells also supports Sertoli cell function and spermatogenesis. Androgens and FSH have co-operative and synergistic effects on spermatogenesis ( 198 , 285 , 286 , 288 , 289 ) (see
