Endocrinology of the Testis and Spermatogenesis
KEYWORDS: cells, cell, sertoli, testis, sertoli cells, pubmed, leydig, spermatogenesis, testicular, sertoli cell, fsh, pmc, development, germ, sperm


cells also supports Sertoli cell function and spermatogenesis. Androgens and FSH have co-operative and synergistic effects on spermatogenesis ( 198 , 285 , 286 , 288 , 289 ) (see section Quantitatively Normal Spermatogenesis Requires Both Independent and Synergistic Actions of Androgens and FSH) and, since Sertoli cells are the only testicular cells to express both FSH and androgen receptors, some synergistic actions likely occur within the Sertoli cells themselves. Their ability to support germ cells is impaired when Sertoli cells lack expression of either FSH receptors or AR, however the effect is exacerbated when both receptors are depleted ( 302 ). Similar synergistic actions of FSH and androgen are apparent in terms of the ability of Sertoli cells to release mature sperm at spermiation ( 303 ). FSH and androgen signaling pathways can converge in Sertoli cells, for example in activating the MAP kinase pathway and elevating intracellular Ca 2+ levels, reviewed in ( 304 ) and both hormones co-operate to modulate the Sertoli cell expression of particular miRNAs ( 305 ). Endocrine Regulation of Leydig Cells The primary endocrine regulator of adult Leydig cells (ALC) is LH, released by the pituitary, acting on LHCGR receptors (( 178 ) and see section Leydig Cell Steroidogenesis). LH stimulation activates cAMP signaling and regulates intracellular calcium levels and other intracellular signaling cascades ( 178 ). Ultimately, LHCGR activation increases transcription of key proteins and enzymes that enable the conversion of cholesterol into testosterone via a series of enzymatic steps in the mitochondria and, subsequently, in the endoplasmic reticulum. Fetal Leydig cells (FLC) produce the precursor androgen androstenedione which is converted to testosterone in the fetal Sertoli cells ( 147 , 150 , 161 , 192 - 194 ). Fetal androgen production is initiated prior to the activation of the hypothalamic-pituitary-testis axis in both rodents and humans, however this axis plays a more important role in steroidogenesis later in gestation ( 150 ). Various observations suggest species-dependent differences in terms of the signals that initiate FLC steroidogenesis, with human steroidogenesis more reliant on activation of LHCGR than mouse steroidogenesis, reviewed in ( 150 ). Interestingly, studies in mice suggest that the stimulation of steroidogenesis during the fetal period could also involve Corticotropin-releasing hormone (CRH) and Adrenocorticotropic Hormone (ACTH) action on their respective receptors that are expressed in FLC but not ALC ( 152 ). Like Sertoli cells, Leydig cell proliferation and differentiation
