Endocrinology of the Testis and Spermatogenesis
KEYWORDS: cells, cell, sertoli, testis, sertoli cells, pubmed, leydig, spermatogenesis, testicular, sertoli cell, fsh, pmc, development, germ, sperm


hormone (CRH) and Adrenocorticotropic Hormone (ACTH) action on their respective receptors that are expressed in FLC but not ALC ( 152 ). Like Sertoli cells, Leydig cell proliferation and differentiation can also respond to alterations in thyroid hormone levels during development, as demonstrated in animal models of neonatal hypo- and hyperthyroidism ( 306 , 307 ). Broadly, transient neonatal hypothyroidism arrests postnatal Leydig cell proliferation but promotes proliferation of precursor cells, whereas hyperthyroidism stimulates the differentiation of Leydig cell precursors, thus leading to reduced or increased Leydig cell numbers and steroidogenic output, respectively ( 306 , 307 ). The timing of thyroid hormone manipulation during the early postnatal period is an important variable ( 308 ). Manipulation of thyroid hormone action on Leydig cells in vitro can also modulate steroidogenesis ( 306 , 307 ). Whether the effects of thyroid hormone on Leydig cells are direct or are mediated by Sertoli cells is not entirely clear ( 306 ). Thyroid hormone directly regulates neonatal Sertoli cell proliferation and differentiation (see section Sertoli Cell Differentiation and Proliferation Determines Adult Spermatogenic Output) and the number of Sertoli cells directs Leydig cells numbers and development ( 101 - 103 ). Thus, it seems likely that at least part of the impacts of altered thyroid function on Leydig cells during development are via Sertoli cells ( 306 ). Finally, it is worth noting that most hypothyroid men with concomitant hypogonadism have normal LH and FSH levels, suggesting their hypogonadism is not due to a primary defect in Leydig cells ( 309 ). Finally, it is worthwhile considering the effects of glucocorticoids on Leydig cells. Elevated circulating levels of glucocorticoids, as a result of illness or pharmacological administration, are well known to be associated with reduced testosterone production. Stress-induced glucocorticoids can impact the hypothalamic-pituitary-testis axis, and the ability of excessive glucocorticoid activity to suppress Leydig cell function, steroidogenic gene expression and testosterone production is well established ( 310 ). Conversely, Leydig cell steroidogenesis requires endogenous glucocorticoid action, because a reduction in glucocorticoid receptors (GR) specifically in Leydig cells leads to reduced expression of the LH receptor (LHCGR) and steroidogenic enzymes ( 311 ). Interstitial fluid of adult mice contains high levels of corticosterone, which is also produced by testicular macrophages ( 231 ), and thus local testicular production of glucocorticoids could modulate Leydig cell function. Taken together, the evidence suggests that Leydig cell steroidogenesis is
