Endocrinology of the Testis and Spermatogenesis
KEYWORDS: cells, cell, sertoli, testis, sertoli cells, pubmed, leydig, spermatogenesis, testicular, sertoli cell, fsh, pmc, development, germ, sperm


also produced by testicular macrophages ( 231 ), and thus local testicular production of glucocorticoids could modulate Leydig cell function. Taken together, the evidence suggests that Leydig cell steroidogenesis is responsive to glucocorticoids but requires a delicate balance of GR activation, and that excessive GR activation leads to reduced Leydig cell function and steroidogenesis. Endocrine Regulation of Spermatogonia Vitamin A from the circulation is metabolized to RA within the seminiferous tubules to produce a pulse of RA that acts on receptors within target cells. As discussed earlier (see section Spermatogenesis: Cycles and Waves), this pulse of RA stimulates spermatogonial differentiation. RA from Sertoli cells acts on receptors within spermatogonia at stages VII-VIII of the mouse spermatogenic cycle, directly stimulating undifferentiated spermatogonia to become committed to differentiation ( 80 , 81 , 312 ). As A s spermatogonia divide to produce chains of spermatogonia, joined by intercellular bridges, they show an increasing ability to respond to RA and become committed to differentiation, whereas SSCs are protected from the RA pulse by cells within the SSC niche ( 15 , 25 , 26 ). The pulse of RA is generated within the Sertoli cells ( 313 ) and activates receptors in spermatogonia to co-ordinate a complex gene expression program ( 276 ). This includes the induction of STRA8 that directly controls the transcription of many genes and is required for spermatogonial differentiation ( 276 ). Evidence suggests that GDNF promotes SSC self-renewal while RA promotes spermatogonial differentiation ( 127 , 314 , 315 ). Because RA directly suppresses Sertoli cell GDNF expression ( 316 ), there is likely co-operativity between these two factors during the spermatogenic cycle to maintain the balance between spermatogonial renewal and differentiation that is essential for continued spermatogenesis. Spermatogonia lack receptors for both FSH and androgen and therefore actions of these hormones must be indirect, via Sertoli cells and/or other testicular somatic cells. In rodents, spermatogonial development is not particularly susceptible to a loss of androgens and spermatogonia can enter meiosis in the absence of androgen action on Sertoli cells (e.g. ( 130 , 317 )). Ablation of AR within PMC results in reduced numbers of spermatogonia ( 133 ). This reduction could be due to a loss of androgen-dependent PMC cell-mediated effects, perhaps PMC-derived GDNF ( 318 ) and/or a consequence of the high testicular testosterone concentrations in this model having inhibitory effects on spermatogonia, as has
