Endocrinology of the Testis and Spermatogenesis
KEYWORDS: cells, cell, sertoli, testis, sertoli cells, pubmed, leydig, spermatogenesis, testicular, sertoli cell, fsh, pmc, development, germ, sperm


of androgen-dependent PMC cell-mediated effects, perhaps PMC-derived GDNF ( 318 ) and/or a consequence of the high testicular testosterone concentrations in this model having inhibitory effects on spermatogonia, as has been noted in other studies ( 319 ). Interestingly, SSC renewal is enhanced when LH and testicular androgens are suppressed, an effect mediated by Sertoli cells ( 320 ); perhaps this mechanism could preserve the SSC pool in situations where endocrine factors are temporarily compromised. In contrast to androgens, spermatogonia are more sensitive to FSH in rodents and primates ( 289 , 317 , 321 , 322 ). FSH can prevent spermatogonial apoptosis ( 323 ), however observations in mice lacking FSH production or action suggest that FSH is not essential for spermatogonial differentiation ( 291 ). FSH can also stimulate GDNF, which regulates SSC renewal ( 127 ), however FSH is not likely to be the major driver of Sertoli cell-derived GDNF ( 126 , 320 ). When both LH and FSH are suppressed via inhibition of GnRH production/action, there are relatively small decreases in spermatogonial populations in rodents but a major block in spermatogonial development in primates and humans, reviewed in ( 271 ). Thus, primate spermatogonia are more sensitive to gonadotropin deprivation than rodent. Androgens and FSH appear to have supportive effects on spermatogonia via their actions on Sertoli cells, but there is species-specific variability in the sensitivity of these cells to each of these hormones, reviewed in ( 271 , 288 , 324 ). Endocrine Regulation of Meiosis Meiosis technically begins with the differentiation of type B spermatogonia into preleptotene spermatocytes which begin DNA synthesis. However, spermatogonia become committed to further differentiation and entry into meiosis during the A to A1 transition; this commitment to meiosis is an irreversible step leading to the production of preleptotene spermatocytes that undergo meiosis ( 81 , 276 ). The induction of the RA-inducible gene Stra8 in spermatogonia stimulates their differentiation, with STRA8 inducing a complex transcriptional program in differentiating spermatogonia ( 276 ). Recent studies have shown that, in contrast to female germ cell development, the initiation and completion of meiosis in males does not require RA ( 325 ). This study demonstrated that RA is required for a meiosis transcriptional program that is induced in differentiating spermatogonia; once this program has been initiated by RA, male germ cells can enter and complete meiosis in the absence of RA
