Endocrinology of the Testis and Spermatogenesis
KEYWORDS: cells, cell, sertoli, testis, sertoli cells, pubmed, leydig, spermatogenesis, testicular, sertoli cell, fsh, pmc, development, germ, sperm


meiosis transcriptional program that is induced in differentiating spermatogonia; once this program has been initiated by RA, male germ cells can enter and complete meiosis in the absence of RA ( 325 ). It is well known that the completion of meiosis requires androgen. Meiosis arrests at the pachytene/diplotene stage in mice lacking AR in Sertoli cells, and no haploid spermatids are produced ( 130 , 299 ). However, spermatocyte numbers are even further reduced when AR is ablated from PMC ( 133 ), suggesting that androgenic support of meiosis is mediated via both Sertoli cells and peritubular myoid cells. Meiosis was disrupted in pubertal rats when the non-classical AR pathway was blocked, suggesting that meiosis requires rapid actions of androgen on testicular somatic cells ( 298 ). Interestingly, while the completion of meiosis is absolutely dependent on androgen, it requires comparatively lower levels of androgen than the later process of spermiogenesis ( 285 , 326 , 327 ). Mice lacking FSH show a modest but significant reduction in the progression of meiosis ( 291 ), perhaps via effects on spermatocyte survival. Both FSH and androgens support meiotic cell survival, particularly in the hormone-sensitive mid-spermatogenic stages (VII and VIII in rodents). Preleptotene and pachytene spermatocytes in stages VII and VIII are particularly vulnerable to FSH and/or androgen suppression, and apoptosis of these cells is a feature of gonadotropin suppression, reviewed in ( 285 ). The replacement of either FSH or androgen prevents spermatocyte loss/apoptosis in rodents ( 129 ) and humans ( 293 ), highlighting the fact that both of these hormones can support spermatocyte survival. Endocrine Regulation of Spermiogenesis and Spermiation RA regulates both spermiogenesis and spermiation. The pulse of RA generated within the adult seminiferous epithelium (see section Spermatogenesis: Cycles and Waves) initiates a transcriptional program in spermatocytes that is ultimately required for the completion of spermiogenesis ( 325 ). Sertoli cell-derived RA acting on RARα/RXRβ heterodimers in Sertoli cells is essential for spermiation ( 46 , 85 ). Deletion of the gene encoding the RA receptor RARα from Sertoli cells causes abnormalities in both spermiogenesis and spermiation ( 85 ). Progression through spermiogenesis and spermiation also requires the expression of the RA receptor RARα within the spermatids ( 328 ). Both spermiogenesis and spermiation are well known targets of androgen action in the testis. While the complete ablation of androgen action in Sertoli cells causes an arrest
