Endocrinology of the Testis and Spermatogenesis
KEYWORDS: cells, cell, sertoli, testis, sertoli cells, pubmed, leydig, spermatogenesis, testicular, sertoli cell, fsh, pmc, development, germ, sperm


( 328 ). Both spermiogenesis and spermiation are well known targets of androgen action in the testis. While the complete ablation of androgen action in Sertoli cells causes an arrest at the end of meiosis ( 130 , 299 ), androgen insufficiency causes a failure of round spermatids to attach to Sertoli cells and enter the elongation phase of spermiogenesis, and the failure of mature spermatids to be released at the end of spermiation ( 285 , 287 , 303 , 329 , 330 ). Spermiation failure is an early feature of androgen suppression during adult spermatogenesis, however continued suppression eventually causes the death and/or detachment of round spermatids from Sertoli cells so that they are unable to elongate into mature spermatids ( 303 ). Spermiation failure is observed when gonadotropins are suppressed in rodents, monkeys and men ( 271 ). It is induced rapidly after gonadotropin suppression and is the first morphological disturbance to spermatogenesis ( 46 ). In men undergoing gonadotropin suppression for the purpose of male contraception, spermiation failure can occur early in some men, leading to a rapid decline in sperm counts ( 331 ). Whether or not spermiation failure is achieved could determine whether male hormonal contraceptive-mediated gonadotropin suppression induces azoospermia (zero sperm in the ejaculate) or oligospermia (low but detectable levels of sperm in the ejaculate) ( 46 ). It seems likely that androgens and FSH co-operate to regulate spermiation. Acute suppression of FSH alone causes spermiation failure in rats ( 303 ), whereas the administration of FSH to men undergoing gonadotropin suppression can support spermiation ( 293 ). Suppression of either FSH or testosterone alone causes significant spermiation failure in rats, but the suppression of both has a synergistc effect, indicating that both hormones co-operate to promote spermiation ( 303 ). Thus, the action of both testosterone and FSH on Sertoli cells supports the normal release of sperm at the end of spermatogenesis. THE ENDOCRINE REGULATION OF SPERM PRODUCTION: CLINICAL CONSIDERATIONS The following sections discuss the clinical aspects of the hormonal regulation of sperm production in terms of the relative roles of testosterone and FSH, the suppression of hormones and sperm counts as the basis of a male contraceptive, and the hormonal stimulation of sperm production in men with hypogonadotropic hypogonadism. Androgens and Sperm Production The primary stimulus for the initiation of spermatogenesis is the LH-induced rise in testosterone at puberty as androgens
