Endocrinology of the Testis and Spermatogenesis
KEYWORDS: cells, cell, sertoli, testis, sertoli cells, pubmed, leydig, spermatogenesis, testicular, sertoli cell, fsh, pmc, development, germ, sperm


of sperm production in men with hypogonadotropic hypogonadism. Androgens and Sperm Production The primary stimulus for the initiation of spermatogenesis is the LH-induced rise in testosterone at puberty as androgens are required for the initiation of spermatogenesis ( 332 ). Once spermatogenesis has been initiated during puberty, androgens alone can restore or maintain qualitatively normal adult sperm production during gonadotropin suppression ( 327 , 332 , 333 ). The amount of testosterone required to initiate spermatogenesis during puberty is higher than the concentration required to maintain it in adulthood ( 334 ). Because it is produced in the testis, testosterone concentrations in the adult testis are 25-125-fold higher than in serum ( 318 ). The very high levels of testicular testosterone are not necessary for spermatogenesis, as sperm production can be maintained at concentrations much lower than normal ( 318 , 327 , 332 , 333 ). In fact, LH-independent testosterone production, resulting in testicular levels of only 1-2% of normal, can promote qualitatively normal spermatogenesis in mice ( 335 ), which is consistent with the demonstration of focal areas of complete spermatogenesis in the testes of a patient with a mutated LHβ subunit that results in testicular testosterone levels 1-2% of normal ( 332 ). When testicular testosterone levels are low, such as in the pre-pubertal testis and during gonadotropin suppression in the adult, the 5α-reduction of testosterone to the more potent androgen DHT amplifies the androgenic signal to promote androgen-dependent effects ( 285 ). However, in the normal adult testis where testosterone levels are very high, testosterone likely acts directly on the AR, without conversion to DHT, to maintain androgen-dependent functions ( 336 ). Within the testis, AR is expressed in Sertoli cells, PMC, Leydig cells and vascular endothelial cells (( 337 - 339 ), whereas germ cells lack AR ( 340 , 341 ). Therefore, androgens act on AR within the testicular somatic cells to support spermatogenesis ( 318 ). Studies in mice show that androgen action on AR in each of the testicular somatic cell types is important for testis function. Sertoli cell AR is essential, as no sperm are produced in mice with targeted deletion of Sertoli cell AR expression ( 130 , 299 ) or in mice where the DNA binding domain of Sertoli cell AR has been deleted ( 342 ). AR expression in PMCs is also important for normal spermatogenesis ( 133
