Endocrinology of the Testis and Spermatogenesis
KEYWORDS: cells, cell, sertoli, testis, sertoli cells, pubmed, leydig, spermatogenesis, testicular, sertoli cell, fsh, pmc, development, germ, sperm


or in mice where the DNA binding domain of Sertoli cell AR has been deleted ( 342 ). AR expression in PMCs is also important for normal spermatogenesis ( 133 ) and in Leydig cells, for their development and function ( 201 , 318 ). The autocrine action of androgen on AR in Leydig cells is also required for normal steroidogenesis and hence optimal testosterone production ( 341 ), and AR in endothelial cells of the testicular arterioles is involved in maintaining normal fluid dynamics and vasomotion in the testis ( 339 ). In summary, androgens act on AR in various testicular somatic cells, but not germ cells, to support normal testicular function and sperm production ( 318 ). Different phases of germ cell development rely on androgen action on somatic cells. In the absence of androgen signaling in Sertoli cells, spermatocytes cannot complete meiotic division, and no haploid round spermatids are produced ( 130 , 299 , 302 , 342 ). The progression of haploid spermatids through spermiogenesis also relies on androgen to prevent apoptosis and to ensure their ability to adhere to Sertoli cells ( 329 , 343 , 344 ). The release of mature spermatids at spermiation is also sensitive to androgen and/or gonadotropin inhibition ( 46 ). Many functions of Sertoli cells are androgen-dependent, such as the formation and maintenance of tight junction function at the blood-testis barrier ( 345 - 347 ), and are necessary to support germ cell development ( 318 ). The different androgen-dependent processes in germ cell development have different sensitivities to, or requirements for, androgens, reviewed in ( 348 ). For example, the completion of meiosis requires more androgen action than the completion of spermiogenesis ( 349 ). Individual variations in the sensitivities of different spermatogenic processes to androgens may explain why a correlation between sperm output and testicular testosterone levels has been so difficult to establish in gonadotropin-suppressed monkeys and men ( 350 - 353 ). FSH and Sperm Production Transgenic mouse models have provided important information regarding specific roles for FSH in sperm production ( 198 , 289 , 327 , 354 ). FSH receptors are found only on Sertoli cells and are expressed in a stage-dependent manner ( 355 , 356 ). One of the most important functions of FSH is to establish a quantitatively normal adult Sertoli cell population, in terms of both number and function (
