Endocrinology of the Testis and Spermatogenesis
KEYWORDS: cells, cell, sertoli, testis, sertoli cells, pubmed, leydig, spermatogenesis, testicular, sertoli cell, fsh, pmc, development, germ, sperm


). This mutation caused the FSHR to have reduced ligand binding and signal transduction ( 360 ) however the receptor maintains residual activity ( 289 ). In contrast, five men with various mutations in the FSHβ subunit were all azoospermic, reviewed in ( 289 , 332 ). The above studies suggest that FSH works in concert with androgens to promote normal sperm production. However, surprising observations in mice suggest that very high levels of FSHR activation can promote qualitatively normal sperm production in mice lacking LH receptors ( 361 ). In these studies, LHCGR null mice maintained low levels of testosterone as well as normal numbers of spermatogonia and spermatocytes but did not produce elongated spermatids. However, when this mouse line was crossed with a line expressing a highly constitutively active FSHR, sperm were produced (at levels ~50% of wildtype mice). This sperm production was not affected when the residual androgen action in the adult testis of these mice was inhibited by the AR antagonist flutamide. This study thus suggests that strong FSHR activation could compensate for the absence of androgen action in terms of the completion of spermiogenesis to produce elongated spermatids ( 289 , 361 ). The ability for high levels of FSHR activation to promote androgen-dependent spermiogenesis could perhaps be explained by the fact that androgens and FSH exhibit similar mechanisms of action in Sertoli cells ( 289 ). In summary, the primary role of FSH in the testis is to support Sertoli cell proliferation and induce Sertoli cell gene expression that enables Sertoli cells to support the maximal number of germ cells. This action, along with androgen stimulation, is required for quantitatively normal sperm production. Quantitatively Normal Spermatogenesis Requires Both Independent and Synergistic Actions of Androgens and FSH Androgens activate nuclear AR to control androgen-dependent gene transcription and also promote rapid non-genomic effects involving AR-dependent activation of cAMP and mitogen-activated protein kinase (MAPK) pathways ( 296 , 297 ). FSH activates a cell-surface G protein-coupled receptor (FSHR) to activate calcium and cAMP-dependent signaling pathways ( 362 ). Sertoli cell expression of AR and FSHR peak at opposing stages of the spermatogenic cycle ( 363 , 364 ). Both hormones can activate intracellular calcium and cAMP-responsive element-binding protein (CREB) and MAPK signaling cascades in Sertoli cells ( 304 ). Testosterone also augments FSHR expression and FSHR-dependent gene transcription in pubertal monkey Sertoli cells ( 365 ). These
