Endocrinology of the Testis and Spermatogenesis
KEYWORDS: cells, cell, sertoli, testis, sertoli cells, pubmed, leydig, spermatogenesis, testicular, sertoli cell, fsh, pmc, development, germ, sperm


protein (CREB) and MAPK signaling cascades in Sertoli cells ( 304 ). Testosterone also augments FSHR expression and FSHR-dependent gene transcription in pubertal monkey Sertoli cells ( 365 ). These properties of AR and FSH-mediated signaling in Sertoli cells highlight the fact that androgens and FSH can have independent and overlapping effects in Sertoli cells. The data reviewed in the preceding sections have shown that androgens and FSH have distinct roles in spermatogenesis. However, they can also act co-operatively and synergistically to promote maximal spermatogenic output ( 198 , 285 , 288 , 304 , 318 , 332 ). Androgens and FSH co-operate by supporting different aspects of germ cell development, for example FSH contributes to the regulation of spermatogonia whereas androgen is required for the completion of meiosis and spermiogenesis. FSH establishes a quantitatively normal Sertoli cell population, whereas androgen initiates and maintains spermatogenesis; thus, both hormones co-operate to enable maximal spermatogenic output. Androgens and FSH have certain overlapping functions in Sertoli cells, in that they can both influence Sertoli cell proliferation, morphology and function, albeit to different degrees, reviewed in ( 304 ). Both promote Sertoli cell functions that maintain germ cell survival, particularly of spermatocytes and round spermatids in the mid-spermatogenic stages in rodents ( 129 , 288 ). The fact that both hormones can prevent germ cell apoptosis explains why either hormone can maintain germ cell development, at least in the short term, following gonadotropin suppression in humans ( 293 ). There are many examples of synergy between testosterone and FSH in terms of their regulation of spermatogenesis and ability to promote qualitatively or quantitatively normal sperm production ( 198 , 271 , 285 , 288 , 304 , 332 ). Testosterone and FSH support spermatogenesis at a lower dose when the other is present ( 285 ). Testosterone and FSH likely act synergistically in the control of signaling pathways and gene expression in Sertoli cells, which in turn are important for germ cell development ( 198 , 304 ). An example of such synergism is the demonstration that, after acute suppression of either androgen or FSH in rats, approximately 10% of mature spermatids fail to be released at spermiation, whereas suppression of both hormones resulted in 50% of spermatids failing to spermiate ( 303 ). Androgens and FSH both regulate Sertoli cell gene transcription, although some transcripts are preferentially affected by either androgens or FSH,
