Endocrinology of the Testis and Spermatogenesis
KEYWORDS: cells, cell, sertoli, testis, sertoli cells, pubmed, leydig, spermatogenesis, testicular, sertoli cell, fsh, pmc, development, germ, sperm


in 50% of spermatids failing to spermiate ( 303 ). Androgens and FSH both regulate Sertoli cell gene transcription, although some transcripts are preferentially affected by either androgens or FSH, while others are modulated by both in a synergistic manner ( 302 , 357 , 365 ). It should be noted that there are species differences in the response of spermatogenesis to combined androgen and FSH suppression, reviewed in ( 271 , 366 ). In rodents, suppression of gonadotropins causes a decline in spermatogonial populations, but spermatogenesis is primarily arrested at the spermatocyte stage ( 367 ). In monkeys and humans however, spermatogenesis is primarily arrested at spermatogonial development, however meiosis and spermiogenesis can be maintained until they undergo a gradual attrition due to the lack of spermatogonia entering meiosis ( 271 , 351 , 358 ). The requirement for both testosterone and FSH to support normal spermatogenesis in men was originally revealed in studies by Matsumoto and colleagues ( 368 , 369 ) whereby gonadotropins were suppressed by the administration of testosterone until suppression of spermatogenesis occurred. They then introduced injections of hCG to stimulate Leydig cell function and to restore intratesticular testosterone concentrations which increased sperm counts, but not to pre-treatment levels ( Figure 13 ). These data suggested that, in association with undetectable FSH levels, increasing intratesticular androgen could partially restore sperm output ( 369 ). Using the same model, they initiated FSH treatment when sperm counts were suppressed and showed that, in the presence of low intratesticular testosterone concentrations, FSH alone could partially restore sperm output ( 370 ). In summary, both androgen and FSH, acting via their receptors in Sertoli cells, co-operate and synergize to initiate and maintain quantitatively normal sperm output from the testis. Figure 13. The response in the sperm counts from normal volunteers to a suppression of FSH and LH by testosterone injections is shown. Note the recovery in sperm counts when human chorionic gonadotropin (hCG) and human FSH were introduced singly into the treatment regime. Data from Matsumoto et. al. ( 368 , 369 ) and Bremner et. al. ( 370 ). Considerations for the Suppression of Sperm Production for Contraception Because both androgens and FSH are required to maintain quantitatively normal spermatogenesis in adult males, the suppression of testosterone and FSH production to inhibit spermatogenesis is the principle of male hormonal contraception (MHC). The inhibition of sperm production in men
