Endocrinology of the Testis and Spermatogenesis
KEYWORDS: cells, cell, sertoli, testis, sertoli cells, pubmed, leydig, spermatogenesis, testicular, sertoli cell, fsh, pmc, development, germ, sperm


normal spermatogenesis in adult males, the suppression of testosterone and FSH production to inhibit spermatogenesis is the principle of male hormonal contraception (MHC). The inhibition of sperm production in men by administering exogenous androgen to suppress LH, FSH and testosterone production is currently the leading approach to meet the requirement for a safe, reliable, reversible and acceptable male contraceptive ( 371 ). MHC is based on the principle that the administration of exogenous androgen, alone or in combination with other agents (such as progestins or GnRH antagonists), suppresses GnRH and pituitary production of LH and FSH, reviewed in ( 371 - 374 ). The suppression of LH inhibits Leydig cell steroidogenesis, resulting in decreased testicular testosterone production to levels that are unable to fully support spermatogenesis. The suppression of FSH and testicular testosterone affects multiple aspects of spermatogenesis, particularly spermatogonia, the survival of germ cells and spermiation ( 293 , 331 ). Despite the inhibition of testicular steroidogenesis, the exogenous androgen provided by the MHC formulation maintains androgen bioactivity required to maintain androgen-dependent functions outside of the testis. MHC reversibly suppresses sperm counts in men, and its efficacy has been evaluated in multiple phase II clinical trials, where the failure rate is defined by pregnancy in the female partner ( 371 - 373 ). The induction of azoospermia leads to extremely effective contraceptive efficacy ( 375 ) however not all men achieve azoospermia ( 371 - 374 ). Studies show that the suppression of sperm counts to <1million/mL provides high contraceptive efficacy ( 376 ) and this threshold of suppression should be achieved before efficacy of a particular formulation is tested ( 372 ). A limitation of MHC is that around 5-20% of men do not achieve the levels of sperm count suppression that meet the target for desired efficacy, ( 371 - 374 ). The exact mechanisms underlying this heterogeneity are unclear but are likely due to individual variability in the sensitivity of their spermatogenesis to hormones ( 377 ). Various hypotheses have been proposed regarding the likely intra-testicular mechanisms that underly this variability ( 371 - 374 ). The first is that, despite the fact that gonadotropins are suppressed to very low levels and do not appear to differ between so-called “responders” and non-responders”, it is possible that very low levels of gonadotropins could remain and act within the testis to support spermatogenesis in some men ( 373
