Endocrinology of the Testis and Spermatogenesis
KEYWORDS: cells, cell, sertoli, testis, sertoli cells, pubmed, leydig, spermatogenesis, testicular, sertoli cell, fsh, pmc, development, germ, sperm


differ between so-called “responders” and non-responders”, it is possible that very low levels of gonadotropins could remain and act within the testis to support spermatogenesis in some men ( 373 , 374 ). Another possibility is that some men could maintain gonadotropin-independent testicular steroidogenesis, as has been observed in mice ( 378 ). Leydig cells continue to synthesize testicular androgens in men undergoing MHC-induced gonadotropin suppression, because administration of a CYP17A1 inhibitor causes further decreases in testicular testosterone ( 379 ). Another explanation could be differences in the production of the 5α-reduced androgen DHT in the testis, which is able to amplify the androgenic signal when testosterone levels are low (see 4.3). The administration of 5α-reductase inhibitors to suppress the conversion of testosterone to DHT did not improve sperm count suppression during MHC, however these inhibitors predominantly target the type 2 enzyme, whereas the type 1 enzyme is predominantly expressed in the testis ( 371 ). It is also worth mentioning that testicular DHT can also be produced via alternative pathways in many species including humans, see ( 159 ), and thus DHT derived from different pathways could also conceivably contribute to preserved androgen biosynthesis during MHC. Studies in mice have shown that, during conditions of Leydig cell steroidogenic insufficiency, the testis can up-regulate DHT production via alternate pathways and switch on other mechanisms to maintain androgen bioactivity ( 183 , 188 ). Taken together, these observations suggest that the extent of MHC-induced spermatogenic suppression could conceivably be improved by incorporating strategies that could further reduce androgen production and bioactivity within the testis. Considerations for the Stimulation of Sperm Production for Fertility Treatment Male infertility due to undetectable (azoospermia) or low (oligozoospermia) numbers of sperm in the ejaculate can occur in many clinical settings ( 380 ). Details of the approach to the treatment of men with reduced sperm counts are reviewed elsewhere ( 261 , 380 , 381 ). Gonadotropic stimulation of sperm production is appropriate in men with gonadotropin deficiency, such as hypogonadotropic hypogonadism (HH) or acquired androgen deficiency, may be of limited benefit in some men with oligospermia ( 381 ) but is of no or minimal benefit in men with non-obstructive azoospermia due to primary testicular failure ( 382 ) in whom gonadotropic drive is already high. As androgens are essential for the initiation of sperm production (see section Androgens and Sperm Production), the induction of
