REVIEW
KEYWORDS: doi, etal, gut, microbiota, serotonin, disease, receptor, doi doi, receptors, cns, brain, intestinal, cells, serotonergic, brainaxis


andthebasolateralmembranes.AttheCNSlevel,the“OFF” (63)andmotility(53).The5-HT receptoristheleastknown mechanismisformedbythesameserotonergicneuronsthat from the serotonergic system as some researchers have synthesize5-HTbecauseSERTisexpressedatterminalsand referred to it for two decades as “the orphan serotonin varicosities of serotonergic neurons (14). SERT is a receptor” (89). Despite the limited information about this transmembrane protein grouped in the solute carrier 5-HTreceptor,thescientificcommunityhasestablishedtwo transporters of theSLC6 family thatuptakes 5-HT from the subtypesexpressedexclusivelyinthenervoussystem:5-HT 5A extracellular space for subsequent catabolization, reuse, or and5-HT (90).Thesereceptorsmaybeinvolvedinseveral 5B storage, ending 5-HT effects. SERT is a classic secondary processes, including memory (65) or pain (67). 5-HT active transporter to which 5-HT binds together with a Na+ receptors, such as 5-HT receptors, have also been poorly and a Cl-. Once extracellular serotonin is attached to SERT studied.Previousstudiesinmicehavehighlightedthatitmay togetherwithNa+andCl-,SERTundergoesaconformational beimportantintheGIphysiology;however,itsimportanceis change thatallowsSERTtranslocationwiththereleaseof5- notclear(91).AttheCNSlevel,5-HT isinvolvedinmental HT,Na+,andCl-intothecytoplasmofthecell.Once5-HTis disorders, such as psychosis, and in cognition and learning transportedinsidethecell,intracellularK+bindstoSERTand (70). Finally, the 5-HT receptor is mainly expressed in the is reoriented toward the extracellular direction, where K+ is brain but is also located inperipheral organs such as theGI releasedandtheuptakeof5-HTcontinues.Then,SERTisnot tract(73).The5-HT receptorisinvolvedincircadianrhythm only akey component for theregulation of 5-HT levels, but (78), and its dysfunction is important in the onset of alsoanimportantiontransporter(15). depression (92). In the GI tract, 5-HT modulates SERT (cid:129) 5-HT signaling is mediated by specific serotonin receptors activity(75)andintestinalmotility(77). that trigger intracellular 5-HT effects (Table 1). Scientific community studies on serotonin receptors have recently described a detailed work that classifies the 18 receptors 3 MICROBIAL PATTERN RECOGNITION grouped into seven families (5-HT1 to 5-HT7), which are widelyexpressednotonlyintheCNSandtheGItractbutalso RECEPTORS: EFFECTS ON inothersystemssuchasthecardiovascularorimmunesystem SEROTONERGIC SYSTEM (79). As a short summary, the serotonin receptor family consists of G-protein-coupled receptors, with the exception Defense mechanisms in the intestine are widely developed of the 5-HT receptor family (80). 5-HT includes five because external agents are in continuous contact with the 3 1 subtypes: 5-HT , 5-HT , 5-HT , 5-HT , and 5-HT . intestinal epithelium. Innate immunity, throughout several 1A 1B 1D 1E 1F They are fundamentally involved in CNS disorders such as detectors called pattern recognition receptors (PRRs), detects anxiety.InthecaseoftheGItract,the5-HT familyismainly externalfactors,triggeringeithertolerantordefenseresponsesto expressedinneuronsofthegutsubmucosaandthemyenteric beneficial or pathogenic molecules, respectively. The most plexus,sotheirmainfunctionisthemodulationofGImotility important and studied PRRs are microbial detectors: toll-like (18). The 5-HT family involves 5-HT , 5-HT , and receptors (TLRs) and nucleotide oligomerization domain 2 2A 2B 5-HT . 5-HT and 5-HT are expressed in myenteric (NOD)-like receptors (NLRs) (Table 2). TLRs are 2C 2A 2B neurons and neurons from the submucosal plexus in the GI transmembrane glycoproteins, whereas
