REVIEW
KEYWORDS: doi, etal, gut, microbiota, serotonin, disease, receptor, doi doi, receptors, cns, brain, intestinal, cells, serotonergic, brainaxis


TLR2 and detection, TLR4 has been defined as a gate keeper of microbial TLR4 in response to microglial phagocytosis stimulation as a homeostasis in the intestine, where it is involved in several novel therapy in central pathologies such as Alzheimer’s defense mechanisms, including the zoonotic Campylobacter disease(163). (171), Helicobacter pylori (172), or Salmonella (173). TLR4 could also have a regulator role in the serotonergic system. 3.2 Toll-Like Receptor 3 TLR4 modulates contractile response in the intestine and is TLR3 is expressed in IECs, which mainly differentiates double- mediated by serotonin receptors (154). TLR4 activation strandedRNA(dsRNA) fromviruses.Surprisingly,TLR3levels inhibits SERT activity through post-transcriptional are age dependent because TLR3 expression increases after the mechanisms, leading to an increase in extracellular 5-HT suckling-to-weaning transition so as to give protection to the (148). In addition, melatonin, a molecule linked with 5-HT individuals against the virus as a rotavirus (164). In contrast, synthesis, may modify intestinal microbiota composition central TLR3 expression decreases during neurogenesis of the through TLR4 signaling (174). At the CNS level, TLR4 CNS in the embryo (165). TLR3 is also able to recognize participates in the detection of pathogens that cause endogenous mRNA as a DAMP from necrotic cells during meningitis, such as Neisseria meningitidis (175), where some intestinal inflammation (102). At the CNS level, TLR3 is DAMPs linked to brain damage mediate TLR4 signaling (176). expressed in a broad range of cells, including astrocytes, Interestingly,recentresultshavepointedoutthatmicrobiotaand oligodendrocytes, and microglia cells (93), which is not TLR4signalingarekeyplayersinParkinson’sdisease,oneofthe surprising because viruses can easily reach the brain through most important degenerative brain pathologies (177). In this other ways different from the BBB, such as neural pathways. context,previousstudieshaveshownthatthelackofTLR4inthe Thus, TLR3 can detect dsRNA from the virus in the brain and CNSleadstoanincreaseinthecentral5-HTlevel,suggestingthe triggerdefenseresponsestoprotecttheCNSagainstpathogens. criticalregulatoryroleofTLR4,notonlyintheGItractbutalso Actually,TLR3mayprotectthebrainagainstsomevirusessuch inthecentralserotonergicsystem(153). astheherpessimplexvirustype1(HSV-1)(166).However,other microorganisms such as the Zika virus can activate TLR3 and 3.4 Toll-Like Receptor 5 induceanexacerbatedinflammationandnecrosisofthenatural TLR5seemstobeoneofthemostimportantTLRsintheGItract defenses of the brain, including the BBB (167). TLR3’s role in because its expression and activity has been reported in all inflammatoryresponsesmayalsobeexacerbatedbyitspotential intestinal segments (122). In this context, TLR5 is expressed in pro-oxidant effect. In fact, TLR3 induces protein and lipid the basolateral side of IECs from the colon, while in the small oxidationbyreducingantioxidantenzymaticactivity(168). intestine, its expression is restricted to Paneth cells. TLR5 TLR3 activation is involved not only in inflammatory and recognizes flagellin, a component that enables the motility of oxidative damage–related responses but also in the modulation several bacteria. Several studies have indicated that
