REVIEW
KEYWORDS: doi, etal, gut, microbiota, serotonin, disease, receptor, doi doi, receptors, cns, brain, intestinal, cells, serotonergic, brainaxis


involved not only in inflammatory and recognizes flagellin, a component that enables the motility of oxidative damage–related responses but also in the modulation several bacteria. Several studies have indicated that flagellin of the serotonergic system in the GI tract; TLR3 activation origin is determinant in the defense response against bacteria inhibits SERT activity and expression (146). In contrast, because flagellin from pathogenic Salmonella typhimurium central TLR3 may have an opposite role because recent results triggers a more exacerbated immune response than does have shown that TLR3 activation in a mice model with abrain flagellin from the nonpathogenic bacteria E. coli (178). In this infection increases SERT activity in astrocytes and therefore context,TLR5isacriticalgatekeeperbecauseitmaycontrolthe reduces extracellular 5-HT levels (147). In contrast to other intestinal microbiota composition by maintaining a TLRs, increased levels of 5-HT will not regulate TLR3 physiological low grade of inflammation in the GI tract (179). expression (146); meanwhile, other studies have reported that Previous studies have extensively described TLR5 expression in FrontiersinEndocrinology | www.frontiersin.org 7 November2021 | Volume12 | Article748254 Layuntaetal. SerotoninintheMicrobiota–Gut–BrainAxis microglia cells, where its function may be involved in the neurons, and astrocytes (125), mediates immune responses inflammatory diseases in the brain comprising bacteria that related with brain infections, such as the herpes simplex virus cause meningitis (180). However, TLR5 is not only involved in (191),andattenuatesbraininjury(192).Littleresearchhasbeen bacterial infection but can also be related with depression. carried out in the influence of TLR9 over the serotonergic Previous works have described how TLR3, TLR4, TLR5, system, and only a few works have indicated that SSRIs may TLR7, TLR8, and TLR9 mRNA expressions in peripheral modulate TLR9 mRNA expression in the peripheral blood blood mononuclear cells seem to be increased in patients mononuclear cells of depression patients (181) and will be with depression. The improvement of these patients through implicated in the tryptophan catabolism (i.e., the main 5-HT the use of selective serotonin reuptake inhibitors (SSRIs) resource) (193). In fact, preliminary data from our research indicates the implication not only of TLR5 but also other group indicate that TLR9 could affect SERT activity and PRRs in the modulation of the serotonergic system in brain expressioninanIECsmodel(194). disorders(181). 3.7 Toll-Like Receptor 10 3.5 Toll-Like Receptor 7 and Toll-Like TLR10 is the only PRR without known ligand specificity and Receptor 8 biologicalfunction.HumanTLR10isencodedonchromosome4 TLR7andTLR8arecloselyrelatedPRRsexpressedinendosomal within the TLR2 gene cluster, together with TLR1, TLR2, and membranesthatcandetectsingle-strandedRNA(ssRNA)(120). TLR6, suggesting a possible heterodimer TLR2/TLR10 (195). It Previous
