REVIEW
KEYWORDS: doi, etal, gut, microbiota, serotonin, disease, receptor, doi doi, receptors, cns, brain, intestinal, cells, serotonergic, brainaxis


NOD2 is an intracellular PRR expressed in all IECs in cells compared to those with a standard microbiota (233). the GI tract, which explains its implication in the protection of Specific pathogen-free mice display lower 5-HT levels (234), the intestine against the mentioned pathologies (211). NOD2 concluding that microbiota can regulate host 5-HT production detects the bacterial peptidoglycan named muramyl dipeptide notonlyattheintestinallevelbutalsointheCNS(235).Apart (MDP), which allows the identification of several pathogens, from that, intestinal microbiota can produce tryptamine, the including Yersinia (212), Campylobacter (213), and Listeria precursor of 5-HT, independently of the host (226), which (214). At the CNS level, NOD2 seems to play a similar role by introduces new strategies as to how microbiota will not only detecting pathogens, triggering immune-related responses, and modify the intrinsic serotonergic system but also externally protecting the host (215). Like NOD1, NOD2 would be an modifythelevelsof5-HTinthehost. important PRR in the gut–brain axis, especially because of its Moreover, intestinal microbiota can modify serotonergic relationwiththeserotonergicsysteminboththeCNSandtheGI systems by means of their metabolites and affect behavior tract (156). In this sense, bacterial activation of NOD2 may through the modulation of 5-HT signaling (236). In this decrease SERT activity and expression, thus leading to an context, some metabolites, including the short-chain fatty acids increase in extracellular serotonin, and then serve as a negative (SCFAs), are a key component in this modulation and directly feedback modulation of NOD2. In addition, NOD2 not only affect the gut–brain axis (237). SCFAs are metabolites from modulates the serotonergic system directly but also through dietary fiber fermentation. They are characterized by having its interdependence with TLR2 and TLR4 (152). In fact, lessthansixcarbonatoms,sotheycaneasilycrossmembranes, the increase of extracellular 5-HT by NOD2 is not only for including the BBB. Although studies on the physiological the downregulation of SERT but also for the increase of concentrations of SCFAs in the brain are scarce, the three enterochromaffin cells that are responsible for 90% of the total main SCFAs—acetate, propionate, and butyrate—have been 5-HT(216). detected in cerebrospinal fluid (Human Metabolome Database. Availableonlineat: haveacriticalroleinthemaintenanceandintegrityoftheBBB (238).SCFAsseemtoregulatetheexpressionlevelsofTPH1in 4 INTESTINAL MICROBIOTA: DIRECT theintestine(239).Inourlab,wehavedescribedthatSCFAscan EFFECTS ON SEROTONERGIC SYSTEM regulateintestinalSERTactivityandexpression(240).Similarly, otherbacterialmetabolitessuchasL-lactateseemtocontrolthe In recent years, intestinal microbiota involvement has gained expressionof5-HTreceptors1B,1D,and4intheCNS(241).In high importance in numerous pathologies, including gut–brain fact,thereisagrowinginterestintheinvolvementofmicrobiota disorders such as IBDs (217), depression (218), or Alzheimer’s metabolites in the modulation of multiple neurochemical disease(219).Inthiscontext,severalstudieshaveindicatedthat pathways through the highly interconnected gut–brain axis, 5-HT and serotonergic system modulation by intestinal which could be open novel approaches for
