REVIEW
KEYWORDS: doi, etal, gut, microbiota, serotonin, disease, receptor, doi doi, receptors, cns, brain, intestinal, cells, serotonergic, brainaxis


as Alzheimer’s disease, are focused on the therapy for IBDs. modulation of intestinal microbiota to prevent and ameliorate Irritable bowel syndrome (IBS) has been described as a thedevelopmentofthepathology(376).Thesenewstudieshave gut–brain disorder, where the serotonergic system may be shown that the balance of the gut–brain axis is critical in altered in both the intestine and the CNS (357). Interestingly, preventing the development of GI and brain disorders intestinal microbiota (358), as well as SCFAs and 5-HT, mediated by 5-HT (377). Innate immune receptors, including are altered in IBS patients (359). In addition, TLRs and NLRs TLRs and NLRs, could also be a key component in the correct play a chief role in the pathogenesis of IBS. In fact, several functionofthemicrobiota–gut–brainaxis.Previousworkshave studies have indicated that some PRRs serve as predictive shown that TLR modulation by means of intestinal microbiota markers for the disease (360) because their expression is may be a critical factor in the development of brain disorders increased in the mucosa from IBS patients (361). Thus, it is such as Parkinson’s disease (177, 378); in addition, NLRs may notsurprisingthatgut–brainaxismodulationinIBSseemstobe be involved in CNS inflammation and neurodegenerative the most effective therapy in this pathology. Previous studies diseases (379). New therapeutics have shown that the use of haveshownthatSERTregulation(362,363)andthesynthesisof antidepressantsmayimprovethenegativeregulationofPRRsin 5-HT(364)maybeimportantinthetreatmentofIBS.Moreover, some CNS disorders such as depression (380), especially for serotonin therapy efficiency in IBS is improved through the TLR4(381). modulation of microbiota (365, 366), and previous studies Based on the numerous studies focusing on the gut– have suggested the immunomodulation of PRRs in this GI brain axis, it is clear that the balance of this bidirectional disease(367). communication may be important in the prevention of GI and Surprisingly, disorders in the CNS may share the same CNS disorders, where the intermodulation of the microbiome, alterations as the GI pathologies. In this context, serotonergic serotonergic system, and innate immunity is critical in system alteration may be involved not only in depression and maintaining homeostasis. However, more studies are needed to anxiety (368) but also in Parkinson’s disease (369), multiple understand the implication of these elements, as well as their sclerosis (370), amyotrophic lateral sclerosis (370), and autism modulation as novel therapeutic targets, for the GI and spectrum disorder (371), among others. In fact, conventional CNSpathologies. treatment forCNSdisorders, especially depression, hasfocused onthemodulationoftheserotonergicsystembymeansofSSRIs (372). Important findings have been published in the last years AUTHOR’S NOTE regarding the changes of intestinal microbiota in the CNS pathologies. Recent
