A 24 year old with chest pain — What happened?
KEYWORDS: ecg, lead, omi, leads, inferior, acute, myocarditis, initial, pain, troponin, wave, pericarditis, elevation, iii, patient


This was written up by one of our superb EM/IM residents, Emily Syverud. A 24-year-old man presented to the ED early in the morning with burning chest pain that had started suddenly the night before while watching TV, he also reported some associated nausea and vomiting. He played soccer earlier in the evening without any chest pain at all. A week earlier he had been sick with a URI-type illness, this had since resolved. Here is his initial EKG: What do you think? The conventional (Veritas) computer interpretation was this: SINUS BRADYCARDIA WITH SINUS ARRHYTHMIA ST ELEVATION CONSISTENT WITH INJURY, PERICARDITIS, OR EARLY REPOLARIZATION But the final interpretation was changed by the physician to this: SINUS BRADYCARDIA WITH SINUS ARRHYTHMIA Nonspecifc ST changes, inferior elevation. Emily writes this: There is STE in leads II, III, and aVF with reciprocal STD in aVL, diagnostic for OMI. This was recognized as abnormal by the team taking care of him, but characterized as nonspecific ST changes. His initial high-sensitivity troponin was 248 ng/L. Given his age and the preceding URI symptoms, they were concerned about pericarditis (which brings to mind one of Dr. Smithʼs famous quotes “you diagnose pericarditis at your peril”). They performed a bedside cardiac ultrasound which did not show any large wall motion abnormalities. With some concern for ACS they loaded him with aspirin and decided to trend troponins and repeat an EKG. Smith: This is ACTIVE inferior OMI!! The cath lab should be activated immediately based on the ECG alone without waiting for troponin!! There is virtually never reciprocal ST depression in pericarditis, as there is here in aVL. We showed this years ago in this study: ST depression in lead aVL differentiates inferior ST-elevation myocardial infarction from pericarditis However, myocarditis can mimic OMI nearly perfectly, and can indeed have reciprocal ST depression. (Moreover, if this is inflammation (myopericarditis), it is myocarditis (not pericarditis) if there is an elevated troponin.) Here is the diagnosis of the PMCardio Queen of Hearts AI Model (she of course diagnoses OMI (STEMI equivalent = OMI). Case continued by Emily: His troponin continued to rise with a 2H repeat elevated at 601. A repeat EKG was then obtained: Smith: this shows reperfusion of the inferior OMI. The ST Elevation is resolved and the T-waves have inverted. There is also T-wave inversion in V4-6, which tells us that this is also an area of infarct
