A 24 year old with chest pain — What happened?
KEYWORDS: ecg, lead, omi, leads, inferior, acute, myocarditis, initial, pain, troponin, wave, pericarditis, elevation, iii, patient


inferior OMI. The ST Elevation is resolved and the T-waves have inverted. There is also T-wave inversion in V4-6, which tells us that this is also an area of infarct that I did not see and neither did the Queen!! If the patient is now completely chest pain free, then there is much less urgency for immediate cath. Emily continues: The STE in II, III, and aVF is still present, though not as obvious as before. He now has STE in V3-V5 and new TWI in the inferior and lateral leads. With the dynamic changes and rising troponin, cardiology was consulted. They collected additional history during which the patient described a possible positional and pleuritic component to his pain. In my experience, if a cardiologist canʼt believe that a 24 year old had an MI, they will interpret the history to conform to that bias. So I do not believe that the chest pain was positional and/or pleuritic. This, along with his young age and lack of risk factors, led them to also conclude that myocarditis or myopericarditis was most likely, despite noting his rising troponin, dynamic EKG changes, and possible wall motion abnormality on a formal TTE. They did recommend starting a heparin drip as ACS could not be ruled out. They recommended obtaining a CT Coronary Angiogram (CTCA) to evaluate his coronary arteries. Smith: Myocarditis is possible with this initial EKG, however, you cannot differentiate OMI from myocarditis using troponin or wall motion abnormality. Myocarditis will also have a rising troponin. It will also have a wall motion abnormality. The only way to differentiate on an EMERGENCY basis is using angiogram. Moreover, you donʼt get a RAPID reperfusion pattern (decreased pain, resolving ST Elevation, and T-wave inversion) with myocarditis. Myocarditis is more indolent, and resolution is not so rapid. So how else would you make the diagnosis of myocarditis? If there is no culprit on angiogram, it can still be MINOCA (Myocardial Infarction with Non-Obstructive Coronary Arteries). The interventionalist could verify Type 1 MI (plaque rupture) with Optical Coherence Tomography (OCT) or IVUS. If none is found, then myocarditis or Type 2 MI are likely. In order to differentiate the two, one would need MRI. Inflammatory markers are also helpful. As it was now daytime hours, the CTCA was obtained relatively quickly and notable for severe LAD stenosis. At this point I went to collect a history as
