A 24 year old with chest pain — What happened?
KEYWORDS: ecg, lead, omi, leads, inferior, acute, myocarditis, initial, pain, troponin, wave, pericarditis, elevation, iii, patient


==> Believe the ECG until you prove otherwise! While totally understandable that providers might question the likelihood that an active, previously healthy 24-year old man with a recent URI would suddenly present to the ED with an acute MI — his initial ECG (that Iʼve reproduced below in Figure-1) said otherwise. In such cases — we need to prove that the ECG is wrong, rather than the other way around. And, when the initial Troponin is also significantly elevated ==> We need to determine WHY … The Lessons-to-be-Learned from todayʼs case are cogently highlighted by Drs. Syverud and Smith. Among them: Acute OMI can occur in any patient, including previously healthy young adult men. True acute pericarditis is rare — especially when the ECG looks much more like an acute OMI or myocarditis. The young age of todayʼs patient, his unremarkable prior medical history, and the increased initial Troponin combine to statistically favor acute myocarditis over OMI. That said, as per Dr. Smith — acute myocarditis may mimic perfectly the clinical findings of OMI, such that the only way to acutely distinguish between these 2 conditions is by cardiac cath. The 2 ECGs in Todayʼs CASE: For ease of comparison in Figure-1 — Iʼve put todayʼs 2 ECGs together. Todayʼs initial ECG does not suggest acute pericarditis because: i) ST elevation is localized to the inferior leads — rather than being generalized, as it should be with acute pericarditis; ii) The ST-T wave pattern in lead II looks similar to that in lead III, and does not at all look like the pattern in lead I (whereas the opposite tends to be true with acute pericarditis); iii) Acute pericarditis does not produce reciprocal ST depression — whereas this invaluable finding is convincingly present in lead aVL; iv) The ST/T wave ratio in lead V6 is normal (ie, there is no more than minimal ST elevation in lead V6 vs a much taller T wave in this lead). Instead — todayʼs initial ECG strongly suggests an acute OMI: In a patient with new CP (Chest Pain) — my “eye” was immediately drawn to the straightened ST segment takeoff, in association with definite ST elevation in each of the inferior leads. In addition — Q waves are present in each of the inferior leads, with the Q in lead III being surprisingly deep relative to modest R wave amplitude in this lead.
