A 24 year old with chest pain — What happened?
KEYWORDS: ecg, lead, omi, leads, inferior, acute, myocarditis, initial, pain, troponin, wave, pericarditis, elevation, iii, patient


addition — Q waves are present in each of the inferior leads, with the Q in lead III being surprisingly deep relative to modest R wave amplitude in this lead. And while inferior lead Q waves are not necessarily an abnormal finding — it is much less common to see such Q waves when the frontal plane axis is relatively horizontal, as it is in ECG #1. Reciprocal ST depression is definitely present in lead aVL. Acute posterior OMI is also suggested in ECG #1 — because there is loss of the gentle, slight upward concavity ST elevation that is normally seen in both leads V2 and V3 (note that this gently upsloping ST elevation is present in lead V3 — whereas the ST segment in lead V2 is flat and isoelectric). P.S.: The final point that Iʼll note is the suggestion of T-QRS-D (Terminal QRS Distortion) in leads III and aVF. To emphasize that the diagnostic significance of this finding in the inferior leads is uncertain — however, it does occur here in association with other convincing findings of OMI. The Repeat ECG in Todayʼs CASE: Of note — the initial ECG in todayʼs case was apparently not repeated until ~2 hours had passed (and then, seemingly because of the increase in Troponin). In a patient who presents with new, severe CP (rated 8/10 by this patient on arrival in the ED) about whom there is uncertainty as to whether there is an ongoing acute OMI — no more than 15–20 minutes should pass before repeating the initial ECG. Doing so might have expedited cardiac cath in todayʼs case. Comparison between serial ECGs is most easily accomplished when the 2 tracings are placed side-by-side. The persistent size of the Q wave in lead III now looks even more like an infarction Q wave next to its small R wave and terminal T wave inversion. Appreciation of just how abnormal the ST segment straightening was in each of the inferior leads on the initial ECG — is now readily apparent in comparison with the deflation and change in ST-T wave shape seen in ECG #2. Note that S waves have now reformed in leads III and aVF (whereas they were absent in ECG #1). Reciprocal ST segment flattening and depression in lead aVL has now totally resolved. The flattened isoelectric ST segment in lead V2 is no longer seen in
