ESC Clinical Practice Guidelines on Cardio-Oncology:
KEYWORDS: heart, cancer, treatment, risk, cancer treatment, team, cardiotoxicity, medical, blood, medical team, tests, esc, discuss, cardiovascular, guidelines


Cancer and Heart Complications: What is Cardio-Oncology? There are many different types of cancer therapies including surgery, chemotherapy and radiotherapy as well as medications such as hormonal treatments, targeted therapies and immunotherapy. Some of these therapies may increase the risk of heart or circulatory problems – we call these complications “cardiotoxicity” or “cardiovascular toxicity.” The types of complications can include: • High blood pressure • A heart attack or chest pain, called “angina” • Heart muscle weakness that can develop into heart failure when the heart does not pump properly • The heart becoming inflamed, known as myocarditis • An irregular heartbeat called an arrhythmia • A blood clot forming in a vein (called “deep vein thrombosis”) or in the lungs (called “pulmonary embolism”) Sometimes, cardiotoxicity can limit the use of effective anticancer therapies. It is important to emphasise that these anticancer therapies have been shown to be effective in treating cancer and the fear of possible cardiotoxicity should not prevent you from receiving the best treatment for your cancer. It is also important to remember that cardiotoxicity does not occur in everyone receiving these treatments. Most cancer patients receive their cancer treatment without cardiovascular complications. The aims of cardio-oncology are to allow patients with cancer to receive the best possible cancer treatment and to maintain a healthy heart. To help with this, ESC Guidelines recommend that: • Patients who are scheduled to receive cancer treatment should be assessed for their potential risk of heart complications • Patients should be closely monitored, during and after treatment, so any side effects can be minimised Healthcare Professionals and Patients with Cancer – Working in Partnership A partnership with your medical team is important to ensure you receive the most effective care. Your medical team will give you relevant information on your specific cancer treatment – they will discuss the benefits with you and let you know if there are any side effects related to the heart and circulation. They will monitor you for heart problems and discuss what heart symptoms to look out for and how to keep your heart healthy. Discuss the risk of cardiotoxicity based on the cancer treatment and your heart health Report any heart symptoms to your Monitor for any medical team signs of heart problems Remember to take any heart drugs prescribed Discuss heart symptoms to Discuss healthy look out for lifestyle choices If you feel any
