ESC Clinical Practice Guidelines on Cardio-Oncology:
KEYWORDS: heart, cancer, treatment, risk, cancer treatment, team, cardiotoxicity, medical, blood, medical team, tests, esc, discuss, cardiovascular, guidelines


for any medical team signs of heart problems Remember to take any heart drugs prescribed Discuss heart symptoms to Discuss healthy look out for lifestyle choices If you feel any unusual heart symptoms during or after your cancer treatment, it is essential that you contact your medical team immediately to be assessed and receive treatment to reduce the risk of cancer treatment interruption. What Can I Expect? You will discuss the various cancer therapy options with your oncologist and once the treatment has been selected, the cancer team will work with the heart team to decide if you need tests on your heart and circulation. • If there is no or minimal risk of your cancer treatment causing heart problems, you will not require any heart tests. • If your cancer treatment has the potential to cause cardiotoxicity, the ESC Guidelines provide your medical team with information on how to assess your risk, what tests are needed to monitor your heart health and if a referral to a cardiologist (a heart doctor) is needed. • If you need to have heart tests, these may be carried out before you start treatment (called “baseline” tests) to assess your risk and also to see if there are any changes during treatment. • Heart tests may include heart rhythm tracing (called an “ECG” or “electrocardiogram”), blood tests and/or a heart scan using ultrasound (“echocardiography”), an MRI scanner or a CT scanner. These will help cardiologists to assess your heart health and to work out if you have any existing heart problems. In the case of abnormal findings, heart treatments may be started. Heart tests that help to assess cardiotoxicity risk Electrocardiogram (ECG) Blood tests can check Echocardiogram (echo) checks the electrical if the heart is damaged is an ultrasound of the activity of the heart (e.g. BNP/NT-proBNP heart that shows how well and troponin) it is working Cardiac magnetic resonance Cardiac computed tomography checks the function and provides a detailed picture of structure of the heart your heart and blood vessels • If your cancer treatment has the potential to cause cardiotoxicity and you are considered at low risk, then you may just need one or two tests during treatment and one follow-up heart check in the first year after completing your treatment. • If your cancer treatment has the potential to cause cardiotoxicity and you are considered at moderate risk, then you
