ESC Clinical Practice Guidelines on Cardio-Oncology:
KEYWORDS: heart, cancer, treatment, risk, cancer treatment, team, cardiotoxicity, medical, blood, medical team, tests, esc, discuss, cardiovascular, guidelines


heart check in the first year after completing your treatment. • If your cancer treatment has the potential to cause cardiotoxicity and you are considered at moderate risk, then you will need closer monitoring of your heart health with more frequent tests during and after treatment. • If your cancer treatment has the potential to cause cardiotoxicity and you are considered at high risk then you will need to see a cardiologist before starting treatment, and you may require heart medication (called “cardio-protection”) during your cancer therapy. The ESC Guidelines provide information to your oncologist/ haematologist and your cardiologist on which heart medication to consider and which tests to carry out during cancer treatment and in the first year after treatment. Commonly Asked Questions Before Cancer Treatment Remember, you can ask your medical team if there is anything you would like to discuss, but here are some common questions that patients with cancer may have: Am I at risk for developing cardiovascular toxicity during cancer therapy? The risk for developing cardiovascular toxicity depends on three main factors: • Your heart health before cancer treatment starts You may have a healthy heart or you may have a heart problem already. The ESC Guidelines provide risk assessment tools that your medical team will use to understand your risk of cardiotoxicity before you start cancer treatment. • The heart risk of the cancer treatment you are going to receive Treatments for cancer work differently and have varying risks for causing cardiotoxicity. The cancer team will discuss these risks with you and decide which treatment is most appropriate. • How your heart health changes while you receive cancer treatment It is important that any signs of cardiotoxicity are found early to reduce the chances of them developing into serious complications. If you are at risk, a personal monitoring plan will be put together so any signs can be detected quickly. How can my doctor and I assess my risk of developing cardiotoxicity? The ESC Guidelines describe the factors that increase the risk of cardiotoxicity of cancer treatments. These include a person’s age, whether they have had previous cancer therapies, their cardiovascular risk factors (such as blood pressure) and lifestyle (including diet and exercise). The ESC Guidelines contain risk assessment tools, which will help your oncologist or haematologist determine your risk level. By asking you certain questions about your medical history and carrying out baseline
