ESC Clinical Practice Guidelines on Cardio-Oncology:
KEYWORDS: heart, cancer, treatment, risk, cancer treatment, team, cardiotoxicity, medical, blood, medical team, tests, esc, discuss, cardiovascular, guidelines


ESC Guidelines contain risk assessment tools, which will help your oncologist or haematologist determine your risk level. By asking you certain questions about your medical history and carrying out baseline tests, your medical team can determine your risk profile and develop a treatment plan specifically for you. Common examples of cardiotoxicity risk factors Age, sex, genetics Previous Cardiovascular cardiovascular risk factors disease Cardiotoxicity Previous Lifestyle risk cardiotoxic cancer factors therapies Abnormalities in electrocardiograms, echocardiograms and blood tests What can I do to stay healthy and well? A healthy lifestyle can reduce your risk of developing a heart or circulation problem when you start taking your cancer therapy and improve your quality of life. • A healthy diet means eating more fruit and vegetables, reducing the number of processed foods and take-aways, and avoiding high fat and high sugar foods. You can find advice on a healthy diet on the ESC’s Healthy-Heart.org website. • If you are overweight, ask your cancer team how you can lose weight safety after cancer treatment. In general, weight loss is not recommended during cancer treatment, but it is critical that you eat healthily. • Try to stay active with regular physical activity if you can. If you feel able, you should aim for 90 to 150 minutes per week – this might involve going for a brisk 30- to 40-minute walk 3 or 4 times a week. • Stop smoking and limit any alcohol consumption. Any positive lifestyle changes you make will benefit your health in the long term so keep them up! The ESC Guidelines provide your cancer and cardiology doctors with the information needed to create an individualised plan for your treatment and to protect your heart. You will need to make sure you continue to take any prescribed heart medication for as long as the medical team tell you. This is called “treatment adherence” and is very important to ensure that the medicines work well. The plan will also be useful to continue after your cancer treatment has finished to maintain better health. I already have a heart problem – is it safe for me to receive cancer therapy? We know there is a greater risk of developing cardiotoxicity for patients who already have a heart condition. However, pre-existing heart problems usually do not prevent you from receiving the best possible treatment for your cancer. Discuss your heart condition with your cancer
