ESC Clinical Practice Guidelines on Cardio-Oncology:
KEYWORDS: heart, cancer, treatment, risk, cancer treatment, team, cardiotoxicity, medical, blood, medical team, tests, esc, discuss, cardiovascular, guidelines


already have a heart condition. However, pre-existing heart problems usually do not prevent you from receiving the best possible treatment for your cancer. Discuss your heart condition with your cancer team. Healthcare professionals who specialise in both cancer and heart problems will provide advice. If you are already taking tablets for high blood pressure or for a heart condition, it is important that you do NOT stop taking them without speaking to your doctor. Also, tell your medical team if you have a pacemaker or a cardiac defibrillator so they can assess appropriate monitoring strategies during radiotherapy. As part of the shared decision-making, your cancer team will discuss the risks and benefits of the proposed cancer treatment before you start treatment. They will develop an individualised treatment plan for your heart health that will be carried out during and after your cancer treatment. Cardio-Oncology Care During Cancer Therapy What heart symptoms should I look out for during cancer treatment? Chest pain Shortness of breath Leg swelling (in one or both legs) Feeling faint or dizzy Increased tiredness Fast or racing heartbeat (more than usual) called “palpitations” If you experience any of these symptoms, please contact your doctor straight away, so that you can be assessed and follow-up appointments can be made. Not all heart problems that occur during cancer therapy are related to your cancer therapy and other potential causes may need to be investigated. If baseline tests were done before your cancer treatment, cardiologists will be able to compare your test results over time to see if there have been any changes. If you develop a heart or circulation condition during your cancer treatment, doctors will decide if the best option is to keep going with your current treatment, stop it temporarily or change to a different treatment. The ESC Guidelines provide structured plans for how your oncologist and cardiologist can look after you in this situation. They will discuss this with you and a shared decision will be made together. Cardio-Oncology Care After Cancer Treatment In some people, cancer treatment (including cancer drugs and/or radiation therapy) may affect their heart and circulation months to years after completing therapy, for example, developing high blood pressure, heart muscle weakness, coronary artery disease, heart rhythm disturbances (arrhythmias) or problems with the valves in your heart. Your family doctor will be the main point of contact after cancer treatment has been completed
