ESC Clinical Practice Guidelines on Cardio-Oncology:
KEYWORDS: heart, cancer, treatment, risk, cancer treatment, team, cardiotoxicity, medical, blood, medical team, tests, esc, discuss, cardiovascular, guidelines


artery disease, heart rhythm disturbances (arrhythmias) or problems with the valves in your heart. Your family doctor will be the main point of contact after cancer treatment has been completed and the cancer team will organise follow-ups as required – this may be from every few months to one follow-up appointment a year. Who is at risk of cardiotoxicity after cancer treatment has finished? The risk of long-term effects depends on several factors. People most at risk include those with existing heart-related risk factors (e.g. high blood pressure or diabetes) or existing heart conditions. The type of cancer treatment received also matters, for example, risk is increased with anthracycline chemotherapy, such as doxorubicin, epirubicin, daunorubicin and idarubicin, with chest radiation, and with long-term hormonal treatments, such as those for prostate cancer. Long-term effects may be more likely if you developed a new heart problem during treatment, but this depends on how mild or serious that heart problem is, and whether it required heart medication. Other factors such as lifestyle and environment are also important and any lifestyle- related changes you make will help reduce the risk. What can I do to reduce the risk of late effects? You can reduce your risk of cardiovascular disease by: • Making healthy lifestyle choices (diet, exercise, weight control, smoking cessation) • Working with your medical team to manage your cardiovascular risk factors (high blood pressure, diabetes and cholesterol levels) • Monitoring your blood pressure at home • Taking your prescribed medication (e.g. for high blood pressure) The ESC Guidelines recommend that all cancer patients who have received a cancer treatment with the potential to cause cardiotoxicity have regular cardiac check-ups after cancer treatment – it is very important that you attend these appointments. The type and duration of monitoring will depend on your risk. Your medical team will determine if you are at low, moderate or high/very high risk of cardiovascular disease and you will be invited for follow-up visits at the recommended frequency suggested in the ESC Guidelines. In between follow-up visits, it is essential that you notify your doctors of any new heart-related symptoms. Long-term surveillance in asymptomatic cancer survivors How does this affect me as an adult survivor of childhood and adolescent cancer? Advances in the treatment of childhood and adolescent cancers have led to significant improvements in survival. However, cardiovascular disease can occur years after treatment for childhood cancer,
