ESC Clinical Practice Guidelines on Cardio-Oncology:
KEYWORDS: heart, cancer, treatment, risk, cancer treatment, team, cardiotoxicity, medical, blood, medical team, tests, esc, discuss, cardiovascular, guidelines


and adolescent cancer? Advances in the treatment of childhood and adolescent cancers have led to significant improvements in survival. However, cardiovascular disease can occur years after treatment for childhood cancer, so it is important that you have regular follow-up with your medical team to manage your cardiovascular risk factors. For some individuals, the ESC Guidelines recommend an echocardiogram (heart ultrasound) every 2-5 years, depending on your risk level. How does this affect me as a woman of child-bearing age? If you are female and you had cancer as a child, adolescent, or young adult, and if you were treated with anthracycline chemotherapy and/or chest radiation, you may be at higher risk of developing heart problems as an adult. The ESC Guidelines recommend that you should have an assessment of your cardiovascular health by a cardiologist prior to or early in your pregnancy. Summary In summary, your cancer team will work closely with the heart team, before your treatment, to ensure you receive the best possible cancer treatment while minimising any risk to your heart and circulation. Monitoring will take place during treatment and once treatment is completed, if needed, to detect any heart side effects early. You can look after your own heart health by notifying your medical team if you experience any heart symptoms and also by making healthy lifestyle choices. And don’t forget, if you have any questions, do ask! Definitions Cardiac biomarkers are substances that are released into the blood when the heart is damaged or stressed. Cardiac computed tomography uses X-rays to create detailed pictures of your heart and blood vessels. Cardiac magnetic resonance imaging uses magnetic waves to create detailed pictures and videos showing the structure and the function of the heart. Chemotherapy is drugs that target cancer growth, either by killing the cells or by stopping or slowing them from growing and dividing. Echocardiography is an imaging technique that uses ultrasound (sounds at a very high frequency) to show the structure and the function of the heart and how well your heart is working. Electrocardiography looks at the electrical activity of the heart to help study the heart’s rhythm. Hormone therapy inhibits the growth of certain cancer cells that are stimulated by hormones produced by the patient (i.e. some breast cancers are driven by oestrogen and prostate cancers are usually driven by testosterone). Immunotherapy aims to stimulate the body’s own immune system to destroy
