TYPEOriginalResearch
KEYWORDS: tbi, fmt, mice, gut, brain, treatment, microbiota, fmt treatment, group, tbi mice, gut microbiota, cells, significantly, injury, gut brain


patterns, resulting in a significant local inflammatory immuneresponsethroughtheamplificationofspecificlymphocyte response and intensifying brain damage . subtypes.Withtheselinesofevidence,theimmunepathwayofthe TheneuroinflammatoryresponsefollowingTBIwasknowntobea gut microbiota–gut–brain axis played an important role in TBI. key secondary injury factor, which can lead to neuronal damage Althoughthe abnormalgutmicrobiota were closelyrelated tothe . A strong inflammatory response was pathogenesis of TBI, the effects and mechanism of FMT against characterized by the recruitment and activation of immune cells, neuroinflammationofTBIareunclear. as well as the release of cytokines and chemokines. The immune Inthepresentstudy,weexploredthe neuroprotectiveeffectsof statusoftheperipherydirectlyimpactedtheinflammatorystateof FMT against neurological deficits, neuropathological changes, the neuropathology driven by the brain . microglia activation, and neuroinflammation in the TBI mice by AfteraTBIevent,agedmiceshoweddifferentgeneticcharacteristics regulating the gut–brain axis. Meanwhile, gut microbiota of microglia and increased invasive T cells compared with young composition and the population of Treg cells in the spleen were adult mice (Chen Z. et al., 2023). Therefore, the inhibition of assessed. Moreover, we further confirmed that potential anti- neuroinflammationisapotentialtherapeutictargetforTBI. inflammatorymechanismswereinvolvedintheperipheralimmune Recently,accumulatingevidenceindicatedthatgutmicrobiota pathway,whichwouldprovideapotentialstrategytoalleviateTBI. andthebrainwerelinkedbythegut–brainaxis.Gutmicrobiotaare asymbioticbacteriacommunitythatexistsinthegutandmaybe closelyrelatedtogut–braincommunication.Microbiota–gut–brain 2 Materials and methods communicationcantheoreticallyoccurthroughmultiplepathways, 2.1 Animals suchasendocrine,metabolic,andimmunepathways.Accumulating evidence suggested that gut microbiota alterations might be involved in the progression and even deterioration of many MaleC57BL/6Jmice(2monthsold)werepurchasedfromthe diseases. Wang et al. analyzed the fecal bacterial communities in Hangzhou Ziyuan Experimental Animal Technology Co., Ltd., ratswithmildtraumaticbraininjury(mTBI)at12differentpost- Hangzhou,China.Micewereraisedunderaconstanttemperature injury times, and the relative abundance of the bacterial (22°C±1°C),stablehumidity(50%±20%)witha12-hlight–dark communities had markedly varied at 2 h post-injury (Wang S. cycle,aswellasfreeaccesstofoodandwater.Allexperimentswere etal.,2023).Remarkably,gutmicrobiotadysbiosiswasconsidered conducted in accordance with the guidelines of the Animal tobethemainriskfactorofTBI,whichwaslikelytobealleviated ExperimentEthicsCommitteeofWenzhouMedicalUniversity. by probiotic therapy. It was reported that antibiotic treatment could inhibit the gut microbiota of PGAM5(-/-) mice, partially alleviatingpost-TBIinflammatoryresponseandmotordysfunction 2.2 Induction of TBI in mice, and Akkermansia muciniphila treatment inhibited neuroinflammation in the cerebral cortex after TBI (Chen Y. TheTBImousemodelwasinducedbyweight-dropimpacthead etal.,2023).Moreover,ourpreviousstudyrevealedthatprobiotic injury,asdescribed previously (Liet al.,2016). Briefly,themouse Clostridium butyricum treatment significantly improved wasanesthetizedwith350mg/kgofchloralhydrateandfixedonthe neurological dysfunction, brain edema, and BBB impairment; operatingtable.Amidlinelongitudinalincisionwasmadeontopof reduced colonic IL-6 level; and protected the integrity of the the mouse skull, the periosteum was peeled off, and the right intestinalbarrierintheTBImice(Lietal.,2018).Gutmicrobiota parietal bone was exposed. A bone hole with a diameter of regulated the neuropathological changes through the microbiota– approximately 2 mm (located 2 mm next to the sagittal suture gut–brain axis. It was reported that quercetin could reverse the and3mmbelowthecoronalsuture)wasdrilledintothemouse.The abnormalities of microbiota induced by repeated mild traumatic weight (20 g) drops free fall at a height of 20 cm to impact the brain injury (rmTBI) and exerted a neuroprotective effect, which impact bar, and the end of the impact head is in
