TYPEOriginalResearch
KEYWORDS: tbi, fmt, mice, gut, brain, treatment, microbiota, fmt treatment, group, tbi mice, gut microbiota, cells, significantly, injury, gut brain


fall at a height of 20 cm to impact the brain injury (rmTBI) and exerted a neuroprotective effect, which impact bar, and the end of the impact head is in vertical contact maybemediatedbytheregulationofthemicrobiota–gut–brainaxis with the dura mater. After the impact, the impact device was . The microbiota–gut–brain immediately removed and bleeding was stopped with a gelatin communication could be carried out by the immune system sponge,andthescalpincisionofthemodelmousewassutured. FrontiersinCellularandInfectionMicrobiology 02 frontiersin.org Huetal. 2.3 Experimental design et al., 2021). mNSS was conducted 1 and 7 days after FMT treatment. The mNSS scoring criteria were as follows: (1) tail TBI mice were randomly divided into two groups: (1) the TBI suspension test(3points);(2) mousewasplacedonthefloorand modelgroup(TBI),whichwassubjectedtoweight-dropimpacthead itswalkingperformancewasevaluated(3points);(3)sensorytest(2 injury, and (2) the TBI+FMT group (TBI+FMT), which was points);(4)balancebeamtest(6points);and(5)lossofreflexesand subjected to weight-drop impact head injury, and C57BL/6J mice abnormal movements (4 points). The mNSS score was a intragastricallyadministeredwith0.2mloffreshfecalsolutiononcea comprehensive evaluation of the motor, sensory, balance, reflex, dayfor5days.Thestool(200mg)fromhealthyC57BL/6Jmicewas andotherneurologicalconditionsofTBImice,withascorerangeof collecteddailyandresuspendedin5mlofsterilephysiologicalsaline 0–18 points; the larger the score, the more severe the andthenpassedthrougha20-mmfiltertoremovelargeparticulate. neurologicaldeficit. Thefiltratewascentrifugedat3,000×gfor15minanddissolvedin physiological saline with a concentration of 400 mg/ml for transplantation.BeforeFMTtreatment,miceweretreatedwith200 2.5 Nissl staining ml of combined antibiotics (vancomycin100 mg/kg, ampicillin 200 mg/kg, and metronidazole 200 mg/kg) once a day for 3 days, as After the behavior test, the mice were anesthetized with 10% previouslydescribedwithamodification(Wuetal.,2014;Zhouetal., chloralhydrateandperfusedwith4%paraformaldehyde.Thebrain 2017). The sham group (sham) underwent the same surgical tissueswerequicklytakenout,fixedin4%paraformaldehydeat4°C procedure except for the weight drop. Mice of the sham and TBI for72h,dehydratedwithgradientethanolfor48h,embedded in groups were treated with the same dose of physiological saline. A paraffin,andcutintosliceswithathicknessof5mM.Afterbakingat diagramtodescribetheseproceduresisshowninFigure1A. 65°Cfor1.5h,theslicesweredewaxedwithxylenefor15minand thenrehydratedwithgradientethanolanddistilledwater.Theslices werestainedwithNissl’sdyefor20minandthecolorwasseparated 2.4 Evaluation of neurological deficit with 70% alcohol. Then, the slices were dehydrated with gradient alcoholfor1mineach,fixedinxylenefor15min,andsealedwith Neurological deficit was evaluated by an 18-point modified neutral resin. The number of Nissl bodies was observed under a NeurologicalSeverity Score(mNSS), aspreviously described (Zuo microscope,andrepresentativephotographsweretaken. A B C FIGURE1 Fecalmicrobiotatransplantation(FMT)treatmentimprovedneurologicaldeficitandneuronaldamageintraumaticbraininjury(TBI)mice.(A)The experimentalschematicdiagram.(B)ThemNSSafterFMTtreatment(1and7days)wasassessed.ErrorbarsmeantSEM.n=6–8pergroup.(C) RepresentativeimagesofNisslstaining.TheneuronaldamageofmicewasdeterminedbyNisslstaining.Magnification:400×,Scalebars:50mm. FrontiersinCellularandInfectionMicrobiology 03 frontiersin.org Huetal. 2.6 Immunohistochemical analysis FoxP3staining,thecellsweretreatedwithfixation/permeabilization solution (Multisciences) and subsequently incubated with the The sections of the brain were immersed in citrate buffer, fluorescentantibodyofanti-FoxP3-PE(Multisciences)at2°C–8°C subjectedtoheat-inducedantigenretrievalfor10min,andcooled for40min.Theacquisitionanddetectionwereperformedonflow at roomtemperature. Then, the sections wereplaced in 3%H O cytometry (FACSCalibur; Becton Dickinson, USA), and isotype- 2 2 for15min,sealedwith5%bovineserumalbumin(BSA)for30min, matchednegativecontrolswereusedintheassay. and incubated with primary antibodies (PSD-95, 1:200, Bioworld, MN, USA; synapsin I, 1:200, Bioworld, MN, USA; CD11b, 1:200, 2.10 ELISA assay Bioworld,MN,USA)at4°Covernight.Thesectionswereincubated with horseradish peroxidase (HRP)-labeled secondary antibodies (Beyotime, Shanghai, China) at 37°C for 30 min, incubated with The content of TNF-a in the brain tissue was determined by diaminobenzidine (DAB), and counterstained with hematoxylin.
