TYPEOriginalResearch
KEYWORDS: tbi, fmt, mice, gut, brain, treatment, microbiota, fmt treatment, group, tbi mice, gut microbiota, cells, significantly, injury, gut brain


(HRP)-labeled secondary antibodies (Beyotime, Shanghai, China) at 37°C for 30 min, incubated with The content of TNF-a in the brain tissue was determined by diaminobenzidine (DAB), and counterstained with hematoxylin. ELISA (No. RK00027, Westang Bio-Tech Co., Ltd., Shanghai, Then,thesectionsweredifferentiatedwith1%hydrochloricacidfor China) according to the manufacturer’s instructions. Brain tissue 3 s, dehydrated with gradient alcohol, cleared with xylene for 15 and lysate were mixed at a ratio of 1:9, added with PMSF, and min,andsealedwithneutralresin. homogenized with a homogenizer, and then the supernatant was taken as a sample for absorbance detection. The absorbance was measuredbyamicroplatereaderatthewavelengthof450nm,and 2.7 HE staining thesampleconcentrationwascalculated. The colon tissues of the mouse were removed, fixed in formaldehyde, embedded intoparaffin, and thensliced. Theslices 2.11 Gut microbiota analysis were stained with hematoxylin for 8 min, differentiated with 1% hydrochloricacidalcoholfor3s,andstainedwitheosinfor5s.The Thecoloncontentsofmicewerecollectedandstoredat−80°C sliceswerethendehydratedbygradientalcohol,fixedinxylene,and for 16S rRNA sequencing. The DNA of gut microbiota in each sealedwithneutralresin. sample was extracted. The V3–V4 region was selected for PCR amplification, where the upstream primer was 338 F (ACTCCTACGGGGAGCAG) and the downstream primer was 2.8 Western blot 806 R (GGACTACHVGGGTWTCTAAT). The purified PCR products were subjected to Qubit quantitative detection and were Thebraintissueofthemousewascollected;addedwithRIPA sequenced by the Illumina MiSeq platform (Illumina, San Diego, lysate,PMSF,andphosphateproteaseinhibitor;andcentrifugedat USA). The original sequencing was controlled by Trimmomatic 12,000 rpm at 4°C for 20 min. The protein concentration of the software and spliced by FLASH software. The amplicon sequence samplewasmeasuredwithbicinchoninicacid(BCA)solutionand variant(ASV)clusteringwasperformedonsequencesaccordingto adjustedtothesameconcentration.Thesamplesweresubjectedto 100%similarityusingDADA2software,andsinglesequencesand SDS-PAGEelectrophoresisandmembranetransfer,sealedwith5% chimeras were removed in the clustering process. Each sequence skimmilksolution, andcutintocorresponding bands. Thebands was annotated species classification by using the Ribosomal were incubated with a dilution of primary antibody (PSD-95, Database Project (RDP) classifier. Finally, community diversity, 1:1,000, Bioworld, MN, USA; synapsin I, 1:1,000, Bioworld, MN, community composition, and the species difference of the gut USA; CD11b, 1:1,000, Bioworld, MN, USA) overnight at 4°C, microbiotawereanalyzed,inwhichtheLDAthresholdwas4.0in washed with PBST solution, and incubated with HRP-labeled lineardiscriminantanalysiseffectsize(LEfSe).TheSimpsonindex secondary antibodies (1:5,000) at 37°C. Then, the bands were andtheprincipalcoordinatesanalysis(PCoA)ontheBray–Curtis added with an ECL luminescent reagent, and the grayscale value dissimilarity index were measured. The intestinal typing analysis ofthebandwasanalyzedusingtheImageJimageprocessingsystem. was performed at the levels of phylum, family, and genus by b-Actinwasusedastheloadingcontrol. clustering samples with similar dominant microbiota structures. Moreover, we identified the significant differences in the relative abundanceofgutmicrobiotabytheWilcoxonranksumtestsbased 2.9 Flow cytometry on the obtained community abundance data. Linear discriminant analysis (LDA) effect size (LEfSe) was applied to detect enriched The fresh spleen tissue from mice was obtained under sterile taxabythenon-parametricKruskal–Wallis(KW)rank-sumtest. conditionsandpreparedaslymphocytesuspension (5×106cells/ ml).CD4+CD25+FoxP3+cellswerestainedanddetectedaccording to the manufacturer’s instruction of
