TYPEOriginalResearch
KEYWORDS: tbi, fmt, mice, gut, brain, treatment, microbiota, fmt treatment, group, tbi mice, gut microbiota, cells, significantly, injury, gut brain


and an important cause of limb disability in patients H. et al., 2021). Mounting studies indicated that there was a (Zhang S. et al., 2022). Du et al. reported that FMT (specific sustained neuroinflammatory process in TBI animal models pathogen-free donor rats) could significantly restore general (Radpour et al., 2022; Zhao et al., 2022). Kristina et al. reported neurological function and improve learning ability in rats with that TBI induced the aggregation and activation of microglia and TBI(Duetal.,2021).Inthisstudy,FMTimprovedtheneurological increased the mRNA expression of inflammation-related genes in deficit of TBI mice. Generally, neurological impairment after TBI mouse cortical tissue . Our previous study was caused by its pathological changes, such as neuronal damage showed that FMT downregulated the level of CD11b in APP/PS1 and synaptic plasticity dysfunction (Hernandez et al., 2018; Chen mice . Additionally, multitudinous pieces of etal.,2020;McDaidetal.,2021;Wangetal.,2022).Itwasreported evidence supported that FMT could downregulate the levels of thatneuronalcelldeathwasobservedinTBImice(Xieetal.,2019), theinflammatoryfactorsIL-1b,IL-6,andTNF-a(Tangetal.,2021; and thelevels of synaptophysin and PSD-95were reduced inTBI Wen et al., 2022). Our results showed that FMT reduced the mice(Ritzeletal.,2020;Zhuangetal.,2023).Xiaoetal.provedthat secretion of pro-inflammatory cytokines and inhibited the FMTenhancedneuronalsurvivalinthehippocampusinratswith microglia reactivity, suggesting that FMT could relieve chronic cerebral hypoperfusion . In addition, theneuroinflammationofTBI. FMT treatment remarkably restored the damage of dopaminergic Intestinal injurywasalsoavital secondarypathological injury neurons in the chronic rotenone-induced Parkinson’s disease induced by TBI and could be observed in mouse model . Our previous studies have TBImice(Youetal.,2022).Intestinalinjurywasoftenaccompanied shown that FMT could increase synaptic plasticity by by disturbances in the gut microbiota, which existed in TBI mice upregulating the levels of PSD-95 and synapsin I in the APP/PS1 . It was reported that FMT enhanced FrontiersinCellularandInfectionMicrobiology 08 frontiersin.org Huetal. A D B C FIGURE6 FMTtreatmentregulatedthechangesofdifferentialmicrobiotainTBImice.(A)Comparisonofgutbacteriaatthelevelofphylumamongthesham, TBI,andTBI+FMTgroups.(B)Comparisonofgutbacteriaattheleveloffamilyamongthethreegroups.(C)Comparisonofgutbacteriaatthelevel ofgenusamongthethreegroups.(D)LEfSeanalysisrevealedsignificantbacterialdifferencesamongthesham(green),TBI(red),andTBI+FMT(blue) groups.TheLDAscores(log10)>4.0andP<0.05werelisted.*P<0.05,comparedwiththeshamgroup;#P<0.05,comparedwiththeTBIgroup; ##P<0.01,comparedwiththeTBIgroup. intestinalbarrierintegrityinmicewithspinalcordinjury(Jingetal., Bacteroidota and Muribaculaceae were the dominant bacterial 2021). In fact, several studies have shown a wide range of FMT taxa in TBI mice, while FMT treatment could decrease the intervention times. Kim et al. observed that a 5-day FMT from abundance of Bacteroidota and Muribaculaceae. Additionally, the 5xFAD mice into C57BL/6 mice reduced adult hippocampal study has shown the increased abundance of Muribaculum, neurogenesis and brain-derived neurotrophic factor expression the genus type of the family Muribaculaceae, order Bacteroidales, . Sun et al. reported that 7-day FMT treatment and phylum Bacteroidota in TBI mice (Chen Y. et al., 2023). In improved MPTP-induced motor dysfunction, increased striatal addition, our results showed that FMT treatment decreased the neurotransmitters, and improved dopaminergic neurons in mice relative
