TYPEOriginalResearch
KEYWORDS: tbi, fmt, mice, gut, brain, treatment, microbiota, fmt treatment, group, tbi mice, gut microbiota, cells, significantly, injury, gut brain


mice (Chen Y. et al., 2023). In improved MPTP-induced motor dysfunction, increased striatal addition, our results showed that FMT treatment decreased the neurotransmitters, and improved dopaminergic neurons in mice relative abundances of Patescibacteria, Saccharimonadaceae, (Sunetal.,2018).Wangetal.reportedthat14-dayFMTinfusions Rikenellaceae, Alistipes, Ruminococcaceae, and Eggerthellaceae in improved MPTP-induced behavioral impairment and neuronal TBImice,whichwasconsistentwithpreviousstudies.Forinstance, damage andreducedneuroinflammation inmice(ZhangT.etal., it was reported that the abundance of Patescibacteria, 2022).Inthisstudy,the5-dayFMTtreatmentcouldregulatethegut Saccharimonadales, and Saccharimonadia was increased in microbiotaandinhibittheneuroinflammationofTBImice.Taken patients with Alzheimer’s disease and mild cognitive impairment together,thesestudiessuggestedthevalueofFMTinreconstructing , and Patescibacteria was enriched in mice with gutmicrobiota,anddifferentFMTinterventiontimesmightbedue neurobehavioral impairments . Furthermore, to differences in the diseases or animal models. In this study, Rikenellaceae was the main dominant bacteria in mice after 28 FrontiersinCellularandInfectionMicrobiology 09 frontiersin.org Huetal. A B FIGURE7 FMTtreatmentincreasedthepopulationofTregcellsinTBImice.(A)RepresentativeflowcytometryimagesofTreg(CD4+CD25+FOXP3+)cellsin theTBIandTBI+FMTgroups.Blueindicatedthenumberofrarercells,andredindicatedthenumberofdensercells;theQ2quadrantrepresented Tregcells(CD4+CD25+FOXP3+).(B)ThepercentageofTreg(CD4+CD25+FOXP3+)cells.##P<0.01,comparedwiththeTBIgroup. days of TBI injury , and the abundance of anti-inflammatory-related bacteria Akkermansia might participate AlistipesincreasedinpatientswithchronicTBI(Urbanetal.,2020). intheprocessofTBI,andthesechangesintherelativeabundanceof Moreover,thelevelsofRikenellaceaeandAlistipeswereincreasedin bacteria could be reversed by FMT, which contributed to the rats with anxietylike behavior, accompanied by the activation of explanationofthespecifictherapeuticmechanismofFMTinTBI. neuroinflammatorymicrogliaandtheincreaseofIL-1bexpression The gut microbiota–gut–brain axis achieved functional in the hippocampus (Wu L. et al., 2021). Furthermore, the interactions between the gut and brain through many pathways, abundance of Ruminococcaceae was higher in moderate or severe suchastheimmunepathway(Mayeretal.,2022),whichwasclosely TBIpatientscomparedtocontrols(Urbanetal.,2020).Therelative related to gut microbiota . The alterations of gut abundance of Ruminococcaceae and Eggerthellaceae was microbiota stimulated peripheral immune cells and regulated significantlyincreasedinhigh-statusnegativecognitiveprocessing neuroinflammation inthebrain. Thesaponin treatment mediated bias adults and cognitive dysfunction mice (Han et al., 2020; Xu the regulation of gut microbiota, significantly alleviated et al., 2023). On the contrary, in this study, FMT increased the neurological impairment, and downregulated the ratio of Th17/ relative abundance of Verrucomicrobiota, Akkermansiaceae, and Treg in the spleen of mice with autoimmune encephalomyelitis Akkermansia in TBI mice. Akkermansia, belonging to the family (EAE)(WangJ.etal.,2023).FMTfrompatientswithrheumatoid Akkermansiaceae of the phylum Verrucomicrobiota, exerted anti- arthritis induced a T-cell increase in the spleen, leading to inflammatoryeffects(Quetal.,2021).Thestudyhasshownthatthe depression-like behaviors in mice . Yan F. et al. relativeabundanceofA.muciniphilawasnegativelycorrelatedwith confirmed that a positive correlation was observed between intestinalinjuryandneurologicaldysfunction,aswellasthelevels Akkermaniacaeae and peripheral anti-inflammatory macrophage ofTNF-aandIL-1bincorticaltissueafterTBI,andA.muciniphila CD8+ T cells in patients with hepatitis B virus associated treatmentimprovedintestinalinjury,neurologicaldysfunction,and hepatocellular carcinoma (HBV-HCC) . neuroinflammation in the cerebral cortex of TBI mice (Chen Y. Additionally, the abundance of Bacteroides was positively et al., 2023). To sum up, the enrichment of inflammation-related correlated with the plasma level of TNF-a . bacteria, such as Rikenellaceae and Alistipes, and the reduction of Significantly, Treg cells, as regulatory T cells, acted on other FrontiersinCellularandInfectionMicrobiology 10
