Online Submissions: World J Gastroenterol 2010 July 14; 16(26): 3219-3225
KEYWORDS: esophageal, esophagus, aen, acute, black, necrosis, black esophagus, esophageal necrosis, esophagitis, disease, necrotizing, gastric, acute esophageal, distal, acute necrotizing


of esophageal mucosa, with not required to make the diagnosis. First described in possible involvement of submucosa and muscularis pro- 1990 by Goldenberg et al, this medical phenomenon was pria, are present. Classification of the disease spectrum again brought into the spotlight by our large review series WJG|www.wjgnet.com 3219 July 14, 2010|Volume 16|Issue 26| Gurvits GE. Black esophagus in 2007, in which we analyzed all cases reported in the English literature to date and formulated the concept of a distinct clinical syndrome. Its etiology is likely multifac- torial. AEN is thought to arise from a combination of an ischemic insult to the esophagus, impaired mucosal barrier systems, and a backflow injury from chemical contents of gastric secretions[2,4-6]. Male sex, older age, chronic medical conditions, including diabetes mellitus, hematologic and solid organ malignancy, malnutrition, renal insufficiency, cardiovascular compromise, trauma, and thromboembolic phenomena place a patient at a higher risk for develop- related to upper gastrointestinal bleeding. Complications may include stenosis or stricture formation in the distal Figure 1 Black esophagus: acute esophageal necrosis. esophagus, perforation, mediastinitis, and death. Overall mortality is largely related to the underlying medical con- dition and approaches 32%. ANATOMY AND PATHOPHYSIOLOGY In this latest review, we discuss the epidemiology The esophagus is an expandable muscular organ lined features, etiology, presentation, distinction from other esophageal wall is composed of four distinct layers: mu- mimickers of “black esophagus”, natural course of the cosa, submucosa, muscularis propria, and adventitia. Un- disease, staging, complications, suggested treatment op- like the rest of gastrointestinal tract, the esophagus lacks tions, and prognosis. serosa and is separated from the adjacent organs by few millimeters of connective tissue, an important factor in potential development of extrinsic necrotic injury to the EPIDEMIOLOGY organ and spread of the infectious processes. Literature analysis shows that the estimated prevalence The esophagus receives an intricate segmental vascular of AEN is low. Two large autopsy series from the United supply that separates this organ into three parts: upper, States and France have reported zero cases in a series middle, and distal esophagus. The arterial network of the of 1000 adult autopsies and 0.2% in 3000 autopsies, upper esophagus is derived from the descending branches respectively. Two large retrospective series that have of the inferior thyroid arteries. Additional variable sup- reviewed the findings in > 100 000 endoscopies have ply may come from branches of the subclavian, thyroidea estimated the incidence at approximately
