Online Submissions: World J Gastroenterol 2010 July 14; 16(26): 3219-3225
KEYWORDS: esophageal, esophagus, aen, acute, black, necrosis, black esophagus, esophageal necrosis, esophagitis, disease, necrotizing, gastric, acute esophageal, distal, acute necrotizing


the inferior thyroid arteries. Additional variable sup- reviewed the findings in > 100 000 endoscopies have ply may come from branches of the subclavian, thyroidea estimated the incidence at approximately 0.01% (12 pa- ima, common carotid, or superior thyroid arteries. Mid- tients), and another retrospective analysis of 10 295 esophageal blood supply is derived from the bronchial ar- endoscopies has shown an incidence of 0.28% (29 pa- teries, right third or fourth intercostal arteries, and numer- tients). A 1-year prospective study of EGD findings in ous small esophageal arteries off the descending aorta. 3900 patients has identified eight cases of AEN (0.2%). Distal esophagus receives its blood flow from branches However, these numbers are likely underestimated and the off the left gastric artery or left inferior phrenic artery, but true prevalence of AEN remains unknown, largely due variations are common and small branches off the celiac, to the potential of subclinical presentation of the disease splenic, short gastric, or left hepatic arteries may provide and the early healing of the mucosa that can be seen with additional or alternative blood supplies. Relative to transient ischemic or chemical injury. An intriguing paper the densely vascularized proximal and middle parts of the by Japanese authors has reported AEN as the fourth lead- organ, the distal esophagus is slightly more “watershed” ing cause of coffee ground emesis, hematemesis, or me- and therefore the first signs of the ischemic injury to the trointestinal bleeding, which accounted for approximately anastomotic vascular network that is present in the esoph- 6% of the cases. ageal submucosa generally makes esophageal infarction a AEN clearly shows sex and age predilection. Men are rare clinical disease. four times more commonly affected than women, and An important physiological property of the esophagus although the disease has been documented in every age is the ability to use intricate protective barrier systems group, the peak incidence occurs in the sixth decade of to shield itself from the injurious chemical reflux of the life with an average age of 67 years. General debilita- stomach contents. A delicate microarray of the epithelial co-morbidities are associated with increased likelihood jugated material, intrinsic cellular buffering systems and of development of AEN. Personal history of diabetes anion exchangers, and extensive desmosomal network, mellitus (24%), malignancy (20%), hypertension (20%), coupled with bicarbonate, lubricant, mucus, and epidermal alcohol abuse (10%), and coronary artery disease (9%) growth factor production by submucosal
