Online Submissions: World J Gastroenterol 2010 July 14; 16(26): 3219-3225
KEYWORDS: esophageal, esophagus, aen, acute, black, necrosis, black esophagus, esophageal necrosis, esophagitis, disease, necrotizing, gastric, acute esophageal, distal, acute necrotizing


and extensive desmosomal network, mellitus (24%), malignancy (20%), hypertension (20%), coupled with bicarbonate, lubricant, mucus, and epidermal alcohol abuse (10%), and coronary artery disease (9%) growth factor production by submucosal glands account places a patient at risk of developing AEN. for comprehensive defense mechanisms and restorative WJG|www.wjgnet.com 3220 July 14, 2010|Volume 16|Issue 26| Gurvits GE. Black esophagus function of the organ. Compromise or inadequacy of cidence, but rather possibly related entities. Characteristic these barriers may lead to cell damage, and ultimately, relative sparing of the gastric mucosa can be explained by death. Local blood supply to the lamina propria and sub- the acidic impact on the ischemic esophageal and duodenal mucosa, which is essential in maintaining effective buffer- surface, as well as typically rapid repair of the injured gas- ing systems, is influenced by a variety of factors, including tric mucosa (within hours) compared to the esophagus (may autoregulation in response to the intraluminal acidic pH take days). The duodenal bulb ulcers and edema may of gastric contents. Initial augmentation in blood result in gastric outlet obstruction that, in turn, potentiates delivery needed for maintenance of protective and repara- the development of mucosal necrosis of the distal esopha- tive processes may be significantly downregulated by an gus. A transient form of non-obstructive gastropathy overwhelming back diffusion of hydrogen ions; an can be seen in acute alcohol intoxication and diabetic ke- important factor in pathogenesis of AEN, particularly in toacidosis, two medical conditions that are linked to the the setting of an already compromised blood flow. At the development of AEN. Back flow injury from the cellular and molecular level, the mechanism of the esoph- acid, pepsin, and other gastric contents is augmented by the ageal injury is similar to the development of ischemic increased transient lower esophageal sphincter relaxation, changes in the small and large bowel. Reactive oxygen decreased resting lower esophageal pressure, prolonged re- metabolites formed as a result of reperfusion injury and cumbence, decreased esophageal peristalsis, and increased gastroesophageal reflux that may be related to the multiple leukocytic migration may directly and indirectly damage medical conditions seen in the patient with AEN (debilitated important mechanisms of cellular viability and function, which results in cellular lysis and death. condition, significant hiatal hernia, alcohol use, diabetes mellitus, postoperative state, etc.). Finally, anti-reflux barriers and luminal clearance are Alteration in physiological processes is an important important factors in preventing significant esophageal
