Online Submissions: World J Gastroenterol 2010 July 14; 16(26): 3219-3225
KEYWORDS: esophageal, esophagus, aen, acute, black, necrosis, black esophagus, esophageal necrosis, esophagitis, disease, necrotizing, gastric, acute esophageal, distal, acute necrotizing


significant hiatal hernia, alcohol use, diabetes mellitus, postoperative state, etc.). Finally, anti-reflux barriers and luminal clearance are Alteration in physiological processes is an important important factors in preventing significant esophageal co-factor in the development of AEN. Critical illness, injury. Integrity of the lower esophageal sphincter mecha- poor nutritional status, and general deconditioning may nism, gravity and esophageal peristalsis are vital. Compro- contribute to the diminished mucosal buffering, compro- mise or ineffectiveness of any one of these may deeply potentiate necrotic injury. mised local protective barriers, and impaired defensive mechanisms that may potentiate ischemic and chemical injury to the esophagus. Such risk factors include malig- ETIOLOGY nancy, cirrhosis, chronic pulmonary disease, neutropenia, renal insufficiency or failure, diabetes mellitus, hypoalbu- Tissue insult seen in AEN is likely multifactorial and minemia, immunosupression after solid organ transplan- usually results from a combination of tissue hypoperfu- tation, acquired immune deficiency syndrome (AIDS), sion, impaired local defense barriers, and massive influx postoperative status, and sepsis[2,10,12,13,27,35-39]. of gastric contents that acutely overwhelm the already Diffuse AEN may be associated with local infection vulnerable esophageal mucosa. Perfusion injury in the and tissue biopsy is essential for proper management, development of AEN is best demonstrated by an avas- which includes antiviral or antimicrobial agents. Exact cular distal esophagus reported by Goldenberg et al. distribution is variable and probably depends on mode Significant vasculopathy that is typically associated with of transmission of the infectious agent, from external diabetes mellitus, atherosclerosis, cardiovascular and renal spread reported from a superior mediastinitis that affects diseases is an important risk factor that may predispose cervical and thoracic esophagus, to primary esophageal some patients to rapid tissue injury, as well as general sus- intraluminal infection seen in viral and fungal disease in ceptibility to hemodynamic instability and compromise. immunocompromised patients. Reported pathogens Low-flow state related to sepsis, cardiac arrhythmias, include Klebsiella pneumoniae and cytomegalovirus, congestive heart failure, severe third spacing, systemic in- herpes simplex virus, Penicillium chrysogenum, Candida, flammatory response syndrome due to severe pancreatitis, and other fungal species. lactic- and ketoacidosis, acute blood loss, hypothermia, Other diseases and medical conditions associated with trauma and shock may lead to ischemic compromise of the development of AEN include erythema multiforme the esophagus[2,12,16,25-31]. Thromboembolic phenomena and or Stevens-Johnson syndrome, gastric volvulus, hematoma underlying coagulopathy seen in patients with solid tumor from traumatic transection of thoracic aorta, hypersensi- or hematological malignancies, anticardiolipin antibody tivity to antibiotics, acute fatty
