Online Submissions: World J Gastroenterol 2010 July 14; 16(26): 3219-3225
KEYWORDS: esophageal, esophagus, aen, acute, black, necrosis, black esophagus, esophageal necrosis, esophagitis, disease, necrotizing, gastric, acute esophageal, distal, acute necrotizing


Stevens-Johnson syndrome, gastric volvulus, hematoma underlying coagulopathy seen in patients with solid tumor from traumatic transection of thoracic aorta, hypersensi- or hematological malignancies, anticardiolipin antibody tivity to antibiotics, acute fatty liver of pregnancy, drug-in- syndrome, and atherosclerosis have also been implicated duced hepatitis, photodynamic therapy, polyarteritis nodo- in the development of AEN. Striking predilection sa, pulmonary lobectomy with paraesophageal lymph node to the distal esophagus is likely explained by its lesser de- dissection, severe infectious mediastinitis, emphysematous gree of vascularization relative to the proximal and middle gastritis, hypoxia, and pancreatitis[2,7,12,39,40,42-49]. A single case portions of the organ. of isolated proximal black esophagus has been reported in Vascular compromise to the distal esophageal tissue can a patient who underwent cardiac catheterization, an event also explain some of the duodenal pathology commonly that was possibly related to the procedure. seen in association with AEN, namely, duodenal bulb ul- cers, erosions, inflammation, and edema. The common PRESENTATION blood supply from the branches off the celiac axis makes distal esophageal and duodenal pathologies less of a coin- A typical patient with AEN is an elderly male with mul- WJG|www.wjgnet.com 3221 July 14, 2010|Volume 16|Issue 26| Gurvits GE. Black esophagus tiple medical comorbidities, who manifests with signs of Histological findings include absence of viable epithe- AEN ranges from hematemesis, coffee ground emesis, the mucosa, possibly extending into the submucosa and and melena (overall, accounting for nearly 90% of the even muscularis propria. Full-thickness necrosis has been cases) to asymptomatic black esophagus that was noted described in the surgical specimens. Associated findings during a percutaneous gastrostomy tube placement. may include heavy leukocytic infiltrate, visible vascular Review of systems may be remarkable for epigastric/ab- thrombi, deranged muscle fibers, and severe inflammatory dominal pain, vomiting, dysphagia, nausea, low-grade changes. Biopsy specimens should be sent for bacterial, fever, lightheadedness, and syncope. Other associated fungal, and viral cultures to exclude infectious etiologies multiorgan failure, cardiac, pulmonary, and renal dis- Special care should be taken to evaluate for the presence ease, diabetes mellitus and ketoacidosis, vasculopathy, of multinucleated giant cells or viral inclusion bodies, coagulopathy, peptic ulcer disease, general debilitation particularly in immunocompromised patients. At this and malnourishment, cirrhosis, acute alcoholic hepatitis, time, the role of angiography for diagnosis of AEN is not acute fatty liver of pregnancy, acute pancreatitis, sepsis, clearly defined, likely related to its potential risks, lack of ischemic processes (stroke, ischemic bowel, ischemic effective therapeutic intervention in
