Online Submissions: World J Gastroenterol 2010 July 14; 16(26): 3219-3225
KEYWORDS: esophageal, esophagus, aen, acute, black, necrosis, black esophagus, esophageal necrosis, esophagitis, disease, necrotizing, gastric, acute esophageal, distal, acute necrotizing


is not acute fatty liver of pregnancy, acute pancreatitis, sepsis, clearly defined, likely related to its potential risks, lack of ischemic processes (stroke, ischemic bowel, ischemic effective therapeutic intervention in the absence of a rec- gangrene), and trauma. Physical findings in a patient ognizable lesion, and tendency for a spontaneous recovery with AEN are usually confounded by the underlying with correction of the underlying medical illness. medical conditions but may be notable for cachectia, Upper gastrointestinal bleeding in a patient with multi- fever, hypoxia, hemodynamic instability or compromise, ple medical conditions, vasculopathy, hemodynamic com- including arrhythmia and hypotension, pallor, abdominal promise, general debilitation, malignancy, ischemic disease, tenderness, and guaiac-positive stools. Laboratory analy- and hypercoagulable state should raise the possibility of sis may show leukocytosis and anemia and computed AEN among other diagnoses. A strong association be- tomography (CT) may reveal thickened distal esophagus, tween diabetic ketoacidosis and AEN has been suggested hiatal hernia, distended fluid-filled stomach with possible by some authors, with four cases of black esophagus seen sion of the esophagus by a large mediastinal process. DISEASE COURSE AND STAGING DIFFERENTIAL DIAGNOSIS Generally, uncomplicated AEN follows an indolent clini- Classic AEN presents as a circumferential, black-appear- cal course and has a predictable endoscopic and histo- ing, diffusely necrotic esophageal mucosa, preferentially pathological trajectory. The recently proposed staging affecting the distal esophagus, of variable length, that system attempts to classify disease progression and detail stops abruptly at the GEJ. Proximal extension of the mu- the distinct phases of AEN. Stage 0 designates a pre- cosal injury is common and the entire esophagus can ap- necrotic viable esophagus. Stage 1 refers to an acutely pear black. Differential diagnosis includes malignant mela- diseased organ with an endoscopic picture dominated by noma, acanthosis nigricans, coal dust deposition, pseudo- a striking diffuse, circumferential, black-appearing esopha- melanosis, and melanocytosis of the esophagus[54-63]. De- geal mucosa with occasional yellow exudates and signs of tailed history and physical examination provide essential friability, loss of light reflex, rigidity and under-distension clues to the diagnosis. Classic endoscopic appearance may of the lumen. These endoscopic findings nearly univer- be supported by brush cytology or biopsy specimen that sally start at the GEJ, involve the distal esophagus, and will confirm the diagnosis. This is especially important in variably extend proximally, potentially covering the entire rare cases of isolated involvement of proximal and middle organ. Histological appearance is notable for lack of
