Online Submissions: World J Gastroenterol 2010 July 14; 16(26): 3219-3225
KEYWORDS: esophageal, esophagus, aen, acute, black, necrosis, black esophagus, esophageal necrosis, esophagitis, disease, necrotizing, gastric, acute esophageal, distal, acute necrotizing


diagnosis. This is especially important in variably extend proximally, potentially covering the entire rare cases of isolated involvement of proximal and middle organ. Histological appearance is notable for lack of vi- esophagus. Additionally, a history of corrosive ingestion able squamous epithelium, presence of necrotic debris, should be sought for and diligently excluded. and pronounced necrosis of the mucosa with possible ex- tension into the submucosa and muscularis propria. Asso- ciated findings may include heavy leukocytic infiltrate with CLINICAL DIAGNOSIS severe inflammatory changes, visible vascular thrombi, The characteristic endoscopic appearance described above deranged muscle fibers, and mucosal infection with viral, makes the diagnosis of AEN. Almost universal predilec- fungal, and bacterial pathogens. Stage 2 describes the heal- tion to the distal esophagus (97%) is a remarkable feature ing phase of the AEN dominated by residual black areas of this disorder. Additional endoscopic findings may in the esophagus and thick white exudates composed include duodenal peptic ulcer disease, erosions, edema, of necrotic debris that cover friable pink mucosa. This and sings of gastric outlet obstruction. Early evaluation “chess-board” appearance can sometimes be the present- may also be notable for signs of bleeding, including ac- ing endoscopic picture of AEN on delayed endoscopy. tive oozing from the distal esophagus and blood clots and The exact timing of this change is unknown and it likely “coffee grounds” material in the stomach. Esophageal parallels the underlying general condition of the patient. biopsy or brushings of the affected esophageal tissue are However, it has been observed as late as 1 mo after the supportive but not required to make the proper diagnosis. diagnosis. Stage 2 is also notable for some improvement WJG|www.wjgnet.com 3222 July 14, 2010|Volume 16|Issue 26| Gurvits GE. Black esophagus in histological appearance of the esophageal tissue, with months after the resolution of symptoms to aid preven- scattered areas of necrosis among underlying cellular re- tion of stricture formation, in the absence of underlying generation, granulation tissue, and inflammatory changes. reflux disease. Recent reports of esophageal manometry As early as 1-2 wk after diagnosis, the esophageal mucosa and pH monitoring in patients with AEN have shown acquires its normal endoscopic appearance in stage 3 of a lack of significant acid reflux and normal motility at the AEN with only microscopically present granulation 5-7 mo after recovery. Oral suspension of sucralfate tissue, a sequelae of recent injury. may be used as a single therapy or
