Online Submissions: World J Gastroenterol 2010 July 14; 16(26): 3219-3225
KEYWORDS: esophageal, esophagus, aen, acute, black, necrosis, black esophagus, esophageal necrosis, esophagitis, disease, necrotizing, gastric, acute esophageal, distal, acute necrotizing


at the AEN with only microscopically present granulation 5-7 mo after recovery. Oral suspension of sucralfate tissue, a sequelae of recent injury. may be used as a single therapy or as a supplement to the intravenous acid-reducing agents, excluding the cases with concomitant renal failure. COMPLICATIONS Antimicrobial therapy is important in the setting of The most serious complication of AEN is perforation, positive esophageal cultures, stains for fungal agents, or which can occur in severe cases that result in full-thickness visualization of multinucleated giant cells or inclusion necrosis of the esophageal tissue. Its reported incidence bodies on histological evaluation of the biopsy specimen. is just below 7%, and should be suspected in rapidly de- Empirical antibiotics should be initiated in cases of sus- of the thoracic aorta resulting in extrinsic esophageal sation, unexplained fevers, and immune compromise in compression by hematoma, photodynamic therapy for AIDS, cirrhosis, transplant recipient, and dialysis patients. esophageal cancer, herniated gastric volvulus, and severe Prophylactic use of antibiotics in sterile necrosis is prob- thromboembolic disease place a patient at a higher risk for ably not necessary and few reports have potentially linked this complication. Perforation can be seen in stage 1 of the antibiotic use itself to the development of AEN. mediastinitis, mediastinal abscess formation, empyema, and for perforated esophagus with resultant mediastinitis and generalized sepsis. Prompt recognition, intravenous anti- abscess formation. Esophagectomy, decortication, lavage, biotics, and surgical intervention are life-saving. Mortality and delayed reconstruction may be performed in addition may be especially high given a generally poor underlying to standard surgical approaches in the setting of gastric medical condition and a limited reserve in many patients volvulus or transected thoracic aorta. Primary closure of with AEN. the perforated esophageal tissue should not be attempted. Another possible sequela of AEN is the formation Subtotal esophagectomy and esophagogastrostomy have of stenotic areas or strictures, which can be seen in > been reported in AEN-induced esophageal stricture that 10% of patients. These findings typically occur in stages was refractory to repeated dilatations. 2 and 3 of the disease and likely result from protective scar formation during the acute, reparative, and healing PROGNOSIS AND ROLE OF REPEAT phase of AEN. Acid suppression followed by possible ENDOSCOPY endoscopic dilatation, if needed, typically produces reso- lution of reported symptoms. Prognosis of AEN largely depends on coexisting medi- Microbial superinfection of necrotic media is an im- cal conditions and ordinarily parallels the
