Online Submissions: World J Gastroenterol 2010 July 14; 16(26): 3219-3225
KEYWORDS: esophageal, esophagus, aen, acute, black, necrosis, black esophagus, esophageal necrosis, esophagitis, disease, necrotizing, gastric, acute esophageal, distal, acute necrotizing


needed, typically produces reso- lution of reported symptoms. Prognosis of AEN largely depends on coexisting medi- Microbial superinfection of necrotic media is an im- cal conditions and ordinarily parallels the general state of Patients should be diligently monitored for early signs of with nearly one third of patients succumbing to the un- tion of intravenous antimicrobial therapy. AEN is much lower, at around 6%. Important risk fac- tors include esophageal perforation, diabetic ketoacidosis, and compromised immune system. Overall, reversible phe- MANAGEMENT nomena of the disease and its tendency for spontaneous Development of AEN carries a generally poor progno- healing are favorable factors in predicting complete recov- sis and the goal of therapy should be directed at treating ery in otherwise healthy individuals. Relapsing AEN has the coexisting medical diseases. Timely systemic resus- been reported only once but may be an important diag- citation and patient stabilization play pivotal roles in the nosis to consider in the appropriate clinical setting. It may management of this disease. Intravenous hydration, cor- also explain some of the observed color changes of black recting anemia with packed red blood cell transfusion, esophagus reported in the literature. Repeat endoscopic and keeping the patient nil-per-os should be instituted. evaluation should be done to assess mucosal healing and Parenteral support may be needed in malnourished pa- document resolution of AEN, as well as to determine the tients to improve their nutritional status and expedite duration of antacid therapy. Endoscopic sessions with bal- healing. Passage of the nasogastric tube should not be loon dilatation may be necessary in patients suffering from undertaken, to avoid perforation. dysphasia in the setting of esophageal stenosis or stricture Medical management of AEN includes aggressive in- formation, which are well-known complications of AEN. travenous proton pump inhibitor or histamine receptor CONCLUSION which time, a change to an oral formulation is appropri- ate. Probably, oral therapy should be continued for a few AEN is a rare syndrome that arises in the characteristic WJG|www.wjgnet.com 3223 July 14, 2010|Volume 16|Issue 26| Gurvits GE. Black esophagus clinical setting of combined ischemia from hemodynamic and developmental anomalies of the esophagus. In: Feld- compromise, gastric outlet obstruction with backflow man M, Friedman LS, Brandt LJ, editors. Gastrointestinal and liver disease. 8th ed. Philadelphia: Saunders Elsevier, chemical injury, and inadequate protective barriers and 2006: 841-853 physiological reserve due to critical illness and general de- 19 Sandler AD, Schmidt C, Richardson K,
