Conditions affecting the right side of the heart
KEYWORDS: right, pulmonary, ventricular, right ventricular, hypertrophy, wave, ventricular hypertrophy, disease, atrial, associated, leads, lead, electrocardiographic, acute, stenosis


Many diseases of the right side of the heart are associated with electrocardiographic abnormalities. Electrocardiography is neither a sensitive nor specific tool for diagnosing conditions such as right atrial enlargement, right ventricular hypertrophy, or pulmonary hypertension. However, an awareness of the electrocardiographic abnormalities associated with these conditions may support the patient's clinical assessment and may prevent the changes on the electrocardiogram from being wrongly attributed to other conditions, such as ischaemia. This article discusses right atrial enlargement, right ventricular hypertrophy, and the electrocardiographic changes associated with chronic obstructive pulmonary disease, pulmonary embolus, acute right heart strain, and valvular heart disease Right atrial enlargement The forces generated by right atrial depolarisation are directed anteriorly and inferiorly and produce the early part of the P wave. Right atrial hypertrophy or dilatation is therefore associated with tall P 1/15 waves in the anterior and inferior leads, though the overall duration of the P wave is not usually prolonged. A tall P wave (height ⩾2.5 mm) in leads II, III, and aVF is known as the P pulmonale. Diagnostic criteria for right ventricular hypertrophy (Provided the QRS duration is less than 0.12 s) Right axis deviation of +110° or more Dominant R wave in lead V1 ⩾ R wave in lead V1 7 mm Supporting criteria ST segment depression and T wave inversion in leads V1 to V4 Deep S waves in leads V5, V6, I, and aVL The electrocardiographic changes suggesting right atrial enlargement often correlate poorly with the clinical and pathological findings. Right atrial enlargement is associated with chronic obstructive pulmonary disease, pulmonary hypertension, and congenital heart disease—for example, pulmonary stenosis and tetralogy of Fallot. In practice, most cases of right atrial enlargement are associated with right ventricular hypertrophy, and this may be reflected in the electrocardiogram. The electrocardiographic features of right atrial enlargement without coexisting right ventricular hypertrophy are seen in patients with tricuspid stenosis. P pulmonale may appear transiently in patients with acute pulmonary embolism. Right ventricular hypertrophy The forces generated by right ventricular depolarisation are directed rightwards and anteriorly and are almost completely masked by the dominant forces of left ventricular depolarisation. In the presence of right ventricular hypertrophy the forces of depolarisation increase, and if the hypertrophy is severe these forces may dominate on the electrocardiogram. Right ventricular hypertrophy is associated with pulmonary hypertension, mitral stenosis, and, less commonly, conditions such as pulmonary stenosis and congenital heart disease
