Conditions affecting the right side of the heart
KEYWORDS: right, pulmonary, ventricular, right ventricular, hypertrophy, wave, ventricular hypertrophy, disease, atrial, associated, leads, lead, electrocardiographic, acute, stenosis


severe these forces may dominate on the electrocardiogram. Right ventricular hypertrophy is associated with pulmonary hypertension, mitral stenosis, and, less commonly, conditions such as pulmonary stenosis and congenital heart disease 2/15 The electrocardiogram is a relatively insensitive indicator of the presence of right ventricular hypertrophy, and in mild cases of right ventricular hypertrophy the trace will be normal. Conditions associated with tall R wave in lead V1 Right ventricular hypertrophy Posterior myocardial infarction Type A Wolff-Parkinson-White syndrome Right bundle branch block A tall R wave in lead V1 is normal in children and young adults Lead V1 lies closest to the right ventricular myocardium and is therefore best placed to detect the changes of right ventricular hypertrophy, and a dominant R wave in lead V1 is observed. The increased rightward forces are reflected in the limb leads, in the form of right axis deviation. Secondary changes may be observed in the right precordial chest leads, where ST segment depression and T wave inversion are seen. Conditions associated with right axis deviation Right ventricular hypertrophy Left posterior hemiblock Lateral myocardial infarction Acute right heart strain Right axis deviation is normal in infants and children A dominant R wave in lead V1 can occur in other conditions, but the absence of right axis deviation allows these conditions to be differentiated from right ventricular hypertrophy. Isolated right axis deviation is also associated with a range of conditions. Chronic obstructive pulmonary disease 3/15 In chronic obstructive pulmonary disease, hyperinflation of the lungs leads to depression of the diaphragm, and this is associated with clockwise rotation of the heart along its longitudinal axis. This clockwise rotation means that the transitional zone (defined as the progression of rS to qR in the chest leads) shifts towards the left with persistence of an rS pattern as far as V5 or even V6. This may give rise to a “pseudoinfarct” pattern, with deep S waves in the right precordial leads simulating the appearance of the QS waves and poor R wave progression seen in anterior myocardial infarction. The amplitude of the QRS complexes may be small in patients with chronic obstructive pulmonary disease as the hyperinflated lungs are poor electrical conductors. About three quarters of patients with chronic obstructive pulmonary disease have electrocardiographic abnormalities. P pulmonale is often but not invariably present and may occur with or without clinical evidence of cor pulmonale In chronic obstructive pulmonary disease
