Conditions affecting the right side of the heart
KEYWORDS: right, pulmonary, ventricular, right ventricular, hypertrophy, wave, ventricular hypertrophy, disease, atrial, associated, leads, lead, electrocardiographic, acute, stenosis


obstructive pulmonary disease have electrocardiographic abnormalities. P pulmonale is often but not invariably present and may occur with or without clinical evidence of cor pulmonale In chronic obstructive pulmonary disease the electrocardiographic signs of right ventricular hypertrophy may be present, indicating the presence of cor pulmonale Cardiac arrhythmias may occur in patients with chronic obstructive pulmonary disease, particularly in association with an acute respiratory tract infection, respiratory failure, or pulmonary embolism. Arrhythmias are sometimes the result of the underlying disease process but may also occur as side effects of the drugs used to treat the disease. The arrhythmias are mostly supraventricular in origin and include atrial extrasystoles, atrial fibrillation or flutter, and multifocal atrial tachycardia. Ventricular extrasystoles and ventricular tachycardia may also occur. Acute pulmonary embolism The electrocardiographic features of acute pulmonary embolism depend on the size of the embolus and its haemodynamic effects and on the underlying cardiopulmonary reserve of the patient. The timing and frequency of the electrocardiographic recording is also important as changes may be transient. Patients who present with a small pulmonary embolus are likely to have a normal electrocardiogram or a trace showing only sinus tachycardia. 4/15 Right ventricular dilatation may lead to right sided conduction delays, which manifest as incomplete or complete right bundle branch block. There may be some rightward shift of the frontal plane QRS axis.Right atrial dilatation may lead to prominent P waves in the inferior leads. Atrial arrhythmias including flutter and fibrillation are common, and T wave inversion in the right precordial leads may also occur If the embolus is large and associated with pulmonary artery obstruction, acute right ventricular dilatation may occur. This may produce an S wave in lead I and a Q wave in lead III. T wave inversion in lead III may also be present, producing the well known S1, Q3, T3 pattern. The S1, Q3, T3 pattern is seen in about 12% of patients with a massive pulmonary embolus Acute right heart strain When the electrocardiogram shows features of right ventricular hypertrophy accompanied by ST segment depression and T wave inversion, a ventricular “strain” pattern is said to exist. Ventricular strain is seen mainly in leads V1 and V2. The mechanism is unclear. A strain pattern is sometimes seen in acute massive pulmonary embolism but is also seen in patients with right ventricular hypertrophy in the absence of any detectable stress on the ventricle. Both
