Monogenic Disorders Causing Hypobetalipoproteinemia
KEYWORDS: pubmed, ldl-c, mutations, hypobetalipoproteinemia, apo, familial, levels, disease, fhbl, reduced, liver, protein, associated, abetalipoproteinemia, hypolipidemia


ABSTRACT Monogenic mutations leading to hypobetalipoproteinemia are rare. The monogenic causes of hypobetalipoproteinemia include familial hypobetalipoproteinemia, abetalipoproteinemia, chylomicron retention disease, loss of function mutations in PCSK9, and loss of function mutations in angiopoietin-like protein 3 (ANGPTL3) (Familiar Combined Hypolipidemia). This chapter describes the etiology, pathogenesis, clinical and laboratory findings, and the treatment of these rare monogenic disorders. For complete coverage of all related areas of Endocrinology, please visit our on-line FREE web-text, WWW.ENDOTEXT.ORG . INTRODUCTION Monogenic mutations leading to hypobetalipoproteinemia are rare. The monogenic causes of hypobetalipoproteinemia include familial hypobetalipoproteinemia (FHBL), abetalipoproteinemia (ABL), chylomicron retention disease (CMRD), loss of function mutations in PCSK9, and loss of function mutations in angiopoietin-like protein 3 (ANGPTL3) (Familial Combined Hypolipidemia, FCH) ( 1 ). Increased understanding of the genetic and the molecular underpinnings of these disorders has allowed a focused prioritization of therapeutic targets for drug development. Table 1 summarizes genetic, lipid, and clinical features of the major hypobetalipoproteinemia syndromes and table 2 provides a new classification of these disorders. Of note the parental lipid profile is normal in abetalipoproteinemia and chylomicron retention disease. It should be recognized that secondary, non-familial, forms of hypobetalipoproteinemia occur and include strict vegan diet, malnutrition, malabsorption, hyperthyroidism, malignancy, and chronic liver disease. In addition, hypobetalipoproteinemia can also be due to polymorphisms in multiple genes that together result in hypobetalipoproteinemia (polygenic etiology) ( 2 - 4 ). In a study of 111 patients with LDL-C levels below the fifth percentile 36% had monogenic hypobetalipoproteinemia, 34% had polygenic hypobetalipoproteinemia, and 30% had hypobetalipoproteinemia from an unknown cause ( 2 ). In a study of women with an LDL-C ≤1st percentile (≤50 mg/dL) 15.7% carried mutations causing monogenic hypocholesterolemia and 49.6% were genetically predisposed to a low LDL-C on the basis of an extremely low weighted polygenetic risk score ( 4 ). Of note individuals with monogenic hypobetalipoproteinemia are more likely to have liver steatosis than individuals without a monogenic disorder ( 2 ). Table 1. Characteristics of the Hypobetalipoproteinemia Syndromes View in own window Inheritance Effected gene Prevalence Lipids Clinical features FHBL ACD Truncation mutations in Apo B 1:1000 – 1:3000 Apo B <5th percentile, LDL-C 20- 50 mg/dL Hepatic steatosis Mild elevation of transaminases. Lower prevalence of ASCVD ABL FHBL AR AR MTTP Apo B <1:1,000,000 Triglycerides < 30 mg/dL, Cholesterol < 30 mg/dL), LDL and Apo B undetectable Hepatic steatosis Malabsorption, steatorrhea, diarrhea, and failure to thrive. Deficiency
