Monogenic Disorders Causing Hypobetalipoproteinemia
KEYWORDS: pubmed, ldl-c, mutations, hypobetalipoproteinemia, apo, familial, levels, disease, fhbl, reduced, liver, protein, associated, abetalipoproteinemia, hypolipidemia


FHBL AR AR MTTP Apo B <1:1,000,000 Triglycerides < 30 mg/dL, Cholesterol < 30 mg/dL), LDL and Apo B undetectable Hepatic steatosis Malabsorption, steatorrhea, diarrhea, and failure to thrive. Deficiency of fat-soluble vitamins. PCSK9 ACD Loss of function mutations in PCSK9 Heterozygous – mild to moderate reduction in LDL-C Homozygous – LDL-C ~15 mg/dL Normal health; significantly lower prevalence of ASCVD FCH ACD Loss of function mutations in ANGPTL3 Very rare Panhypolipidemia Normal health; significantly lower prevalence of ASCVD CMRD AR SAR1B Very rare LDL-C and HDL-C -decreased by 50%, Triglycerides - normal hypocholesterolemia associated with failure to thrive, diarrhea, steatorrhea, and abdominal distension ACD- autosomal co-dominant; AR- autosomal recessive; FHBL- familial hypobetalipoproteinemia; ABL- abetalipoproteinemia; FCH- Familiar Combined Hypolipidemia; CMRD- chylomicron retention disease, MTTP- microsomal triglyceride transfer protein; ANGPTL3- angiopoietin-like protein 3; ASCVD- atherosclerotic cardiovascular disease. Table 2. Classification of Disorders Causing Familial Hypocholesterolemia View in own window New Name Common Name Gene Defect Class I: Familial hypobetalipoproteinemia due to lipoprotein assembly and secretion defects FHBL-SD1 Abetalipoproteinemia Microsomal Triglyceride Transfer Protein FHBL-SD2 Familial Hypobetalipoproteinemia Apolipoprotein B FHBL-SD3 Chylomicron retention disease SAR1B Class II: Familial hypobetalipoproteinemia due to enhanced lipoprotein catabolism FHBL-EC1 Familial Combined Hypolipidemia ANGPTL3 FHBL-EC2 PCSK9 Modified from ( 5 ). FAMILIAL HYPOBETALIPOPROTEINEMIA Familial Hypobetalipoproteinemia (FHBL) is a relatively common autosomal semi-dominant disorder most commonly due to truncation mutations in the gene coding for Apo B ( 1 , 6 - 8 ). The prevalence of heterozygous FHBL is estimated to be 1 in 700 to 3000 ( 1 ). Variants that lead to truncated proteins that are 30% in length or shorter have more severe signs and symptoms than those with longer truncated proteins ( 6 , 7 ). The truncated forms of Apo B found in FHBL are generally non-functional (truncation decreases lipidation and secretion) and are catabolized quickly, resulting in markedly reduced levels in the plasma (Apo B <5th percentile and LDL-C typically between 20- 50 mg/dL) ( 7 , 8 ). Although there is one normal allele in heterozygous FHBL, plasma Apo B levels are approximately 25% of normal rather than the predicted 50% ( 8 ). These lower-than-expected levels result from a lower secretion rate of VLDL Apo B from the liver, decreased production of LDL Apo B, increased catabolism of VLDL, and extremely low secretion of the truncated Apo B ( 6 - 8 ). Given the reduced substrate (Apo B) for lipid
