Monogenic Disorders Causing Hypobetalipoproteinemia
KEYWORDS: pubmed, ldl-c, mutations, hypobetalipoproteinemia, apo, familial, levels, disease, fhbl, reduced, liver, protein, associated, abetalipoproteinemia, hypolipidemia


of LDL Apo B, increased catabolism of VLDL, and extremely low secretion of the truncated Apo B ( 6 - 8 ). Given the reduced substrate (Apo B) for lipid (predominantly triglyceride) loading, fatty liver develops in these patients ( 6 , 9 ). Hepatic steatosis and mild elevation of liver enzymes are common in heterozygous FHBL ( 6 , 9 ). Interestingly, individuals with monogenic hypobetalipoproteinemia had a much greater prevalence of hepatic dysfunction than individuals with polygenic hypobetalipoproteinemia ( 2 ). In contrast to non-alcoholic fatty liver disease, FHBL is not associated with hepatic or peripheral insulin resistance ( 9 ). This observation, however, does not imply that hepatic steatosis associated with FHBL is benign. There are several reports of steatohepatitis, cirrhosis, and hepatocellular carcinoma in patients with FHBL and it is estimated that 5-10% of individuals with FHBL develop relatively more severe nonalcoholic steatohepatitis ( 6 ). Because of the risk of developing liver disease liver function tests should be checked every 1-2 years and a hepatic ultrasound in those with elevated liver transaminases ( 6 ). While hepatic fat accumulation is the rule, there is generally sufficient chylomicron production to handle dietary fat. However, oral fat intolerance and intestinal fat malabsorption have been reported ( 6 ). On the positive side the decrease in proatherogenic lipoproteins has been associated with a reduced risk of cardiovascular disease ( 10 ). Given the association of FHBL and low LDL-C, Apo B has been an attractive target for drug development. Indeed, unraveling the genetic and molecular mechanisms of FHBL provided the motivation to pharmacologically antagonize Apo B synthesis for therapeutic gains. This culminated in the production of mipomersen, a synthetic single strand anti-sense oligonucleotide to Apo B ( 11 , 12 ). Essentially, anti-sense oligonucleotides contain approximately ~20 deoxyribonucleic acid (DNA) base pairs complementary to a unique messenger ribonucleic acid (mRNA) sequence. The hybridization of the anti-sense oligonucleotide to the mRNA of interest leads to its catabolism via RNase H1, with markedly reduced mRNA levels and ultimately reduced target protein levels. In this case, mipomersen binds to Apo B mRNA leading to reduced production of the protein, and mimicking (albeit to a lesser extent) FHBL. Mipomersen is the first anti-sense oligonucleotide approved by the United States Food and Drug Administration (FDA) and was commercialized in 2013 with a limited indication for adjunctive LDL-C lowering in patients with homozygous familial
