Monogenic Disorders Causing Hypobetalipoproteinemia
KEYWORDS: pubmed, ldl-c, mutations, hypobetalipoproteinemia, apo, familial, levels, disease, fhbl, reduced, liver, protein, associated, abetalipoproteinemia, hypolipidemia


anti-sense oligonucleotide approved by the United States Food and Drug Administration (FDA) and was commercialized in 2013 with a limited indication for adjunctive LDL-C lowering in patients with homozygous familial hypercholesterolemia (HoFH) ( 12 ). It is an injectable agent administered subcutaneously once a week. In the clinical trials, mipomersen was associated with a reduction of LDL-C by 21% in subjects with HoFH and 33% in subjects with heterozygous familial hypercholesterolemia (HeFH) ( 12 ). Interestingly, it was also found to lower Lp(a) by 21- 23% ( 12 ). While it is highly efficacious in LDL-C lowering, it has side effects, many of which can be predicted based on the experience with FHBL (e.g., hepatic steatosis, elevated liver enzymes) ( 12 ). It is also associated with injection site reactions in a considerable number of subjects ( 12 ). In May 2018 sales were discontinued due to safety concerns related to increased liver transaminases and fatty liver. Homozygous hypobetalipoproteinemia (HHBL) is extremely rare ( 6 ). These patients are homozygous or compound heterozygous for mutations in the Apo B gene. The clinical manifestations mimic ABL (see below) ( 6 ). ABETALIPOPROTEINEMIA Abetalipoproteinemia (ABL) is a rare autosomal recessive disorder characterized by very low plasma concentrations of triglyceride and cholesterol (under 30 mg/dL) and undetectable levels of LDL and Apo B ( 1 , 7 , 13 , 14 ). The incidence of ABL is < 1 in 1,000,000. HDL-C levels are usually normal or modestly reduced. It is due to mutations in the gene that codes for microsomal triglyceride transfer protein ( MTTP ) ( 7 , 13 - 15 ). MTTP lipidates nascent Apo B in the endoplasmic reticulum to produce VLDL and chylomicrons in the liver and small intestine, respectively ( 15 , 16 ). Unlipidated Apo B is targeted for proteasomal degradation leading to the absence of Apo B containing lipoproteins in the plasma (and thus markedly reduced levels of LDL-C and triglycerides) ( 15 , 16 ). Similar to FHBL, VLDL production is inhibited ( 14 ). The reduced triglyceride export from the liver leads to hepatic steatosis, which rarely may progress to steatohepatitis, fibrosis, and cirrhosis ( 1 , 9 , 13 ). Additionally, lack of MTTP facilitated lipidation of chylomicrons in the small intestine results in lipid accumulation in enterocytes with associated malabsorption, steatorrhea, and diarrhea ( 1 , 7 , 13 ). The
