Monogenic Disorders Causing Hypobetalipoproteinemia
KEYWORDS: pubmed, ldl-c, mutations, hypobetalipoproteinemia, apo, familial, levels, disease, fhbl, reduced, liver, protein, associated, abetalipoproteinemia, hypolipidemia


of MTTP facilitated lipidation of chylomicrons in the small intestine results in lipid accumulation in enterocytes with associated malabsorption, steatorrhea, and diarrhea ( 1 , 7 , 13 ). The malabsorption and diarrhea lead to failure to thrive during infancy ( 1 , 7 , 13 ). A decrease in dietary fat can reduce the gastrointestinal symptoms. Acanthocytosis may encompass 50% of circulating red blood cells (red blood cells with spiked cell membranes, due to thorny projections) due to alterations in the lipid composition and fluidity of red cell membranes ( 1 , 13 , 14 ). An additional issue of importance related to ABL is deficiency of fat-soluble vitamins ( 1 , 13 ). Early diagnosis of ABL and homozygous hypobetalipoproteinemia is extremely important as vitamin E deficiency culminates in atypical retinitis pigmentosa, spinocerebellar degeneration with ataxia, vitamin K deficiency can lead to a significant bleeding diathesis, vitamin A deficiency can contribute to eye disorders, and vitamin D deficiency can lead to defects in bone formation ( 1 , 13 ). High dose supplementation with fat soluble vitamins early in life can prevent or delay these devastating complications ( Table 3 ) ( 7 , 13 ). Additional treatment measures include a low-fat diet and supplementation with essential fatty acids ( Table 3 ) ( 7 , 13 ). Table 3. Dietary Recommendations for Abetalipoproteinemia View in own window Fat calories Less than 10-15% (<15 g/day) of total daily caloric requirement. Increase as tolerated. Essential fatty acids Ensure 2-4% daily caloric intake of EFAs (alpha-linolenic acid/linoleic acid) Medium chain triglycerides May prevent or treat malnutrition Vitamin E 100-300 IU/kg/day Vitamin A 100-400 IU/kg/day Vitamin D 800-1200 IU/day Vitamin K 5-35 mg/week Derived from ( 1 ). Given the very low level of atherogenic lipoproteins and lipids associated with ABL, there was interest in inhibiting MTTP therapeutically. Lomitapide is an oral MTP inhibitor that has been developed over the course of many years ( 12 , 17 ). In early trials, it was tested at a relatively high dose and the side effect profile was prohibitive (nausea, flatulence, and diarrhea). The more recent clinical trial program tested lower doses with drug titration in subjects with Homozygote Familial Hypercholesterolemia (HoFH) ( 12 , 17 ). On an intention to treat basis, LDL-C was decreased by 40% and apolipoprotein B by 39% ( 12 ). In patients who were actually taking lomitapide,
