Monogenic Disorders Causing Hypobetalipoproteinemia
KEYWORDS: pubmed, ldl-c, mutations, hypobetalipoproteinemia, apo, familial, levels, disease, fhbl, reduced, liver, protein, associated, abetalipoproteinemia, hypolipidemia


12 , 17 ). On an intention to treat basis, LDL-C was decreased by 40% and apolipoprotein B by 39% ( 12 ). In patients who were actually taking lomitapide, LDL-C levels were reduced by 50% ( 12 ). In addition to decreasing LDL-C levels, non-HDL-C levels were decreased by 50%, Lp(a) by 15%, and triglycerides by 45% ( 12 ). Lomitapide received the same limited indication as mipomersen for adjunctive treatment of patients with HoFH ( 12 ). Besides the gastrointestinal issues already alluded to, its side effect profile includes hepatic steatosis ( 12 ). Its long-term safety has not been established. PROPROTEIN CONVERTASE SUBTILISIN/KEXIN TYPE 9 (PCSK9) Proprotein convertase subtilisin/ kexin type 9 (PCSK9) belongs to the proprotein convertase class of serine proteases ( 18 - 20 ). After synthesis, PCSK9 undergoes autocatalytic cleavage. This step is required for secretion, most likely because the prodomain functions as a chaperone and facilitates folding ( 18 , 19 ). PCSK9 is associated with LDL particles and the LDL-receptor (LDLR) ( 20 ). In 2003, Abifadel reported the seminal work that mapped PCSK9 as the third locus for autosomal dominant hypercholesterolemia (Familial Hypercholesterolemia- FH) ( 21 ). This finding revealed a previously unknown actor involved in cholesterol homeostasis and served to launch a series of investigations into PCSK9 biology. As it turns out, PCSK9 functions as a central regulator of plasma LDL-C concentration ( 18 - 20 ). It binds to the LDLR and targets it for destruction in the lysosome ( 18 - 20 ). Overactivity of PCSK9 results in a decrease in LDLR and an increase in LDL-C levels while decreased activity of PCSK9 results in an increase in LDLR and a decrease in LDL-C. Since the discovery of gain-of-function mutations in PCSK9 as a cause of FH, investigators have also uncovered loss of function mutations of PCSK9. Loss-of-function mutations in PCSK9 are associated with low LDL-C levels and markedly reduced ASCVD ( 18 , 19 ). In African Americans 2.6 percent had nonsense mutations in PCSK9 that resulted in a 28 percent reduction in LDL-C and an 88 percent reduction in the risk of coronary heart disease ( 22 ). The hypolipidemia is not associated with liver abnormalities or other disorders. Interestingly, rare individuals homozygous or compound heterozygotes for loss of function mutations in PCSK9 have been reported with extremely low levels of LDL-C (~15 mg/dL), normal health
