Monogenic Disorders Causing Hypobetalipoproteinemia
KEYWORDS: pubmed, ldl-c, mutations, hypobetalipoproteinemia, apo, familial, levels, disease, fhbl, reduced, liver, protein, associated, abetalipoproteinemia, hypolipidemia


or other disorders. Interestingly, rare individuals homozygous or compound heterozygotes for loss of function mutations in PCSK9 have been reported with extremely low levels of LDL-C (~15 mg/dL), normal health and reproductive capacity, and no evidence of neurologic or cognitive dysfunction ( 20 , 23 , 24 ). Collectively, these observations served as further motivation to pursue antagonism of PCSK9 as a therapeutic target. Antagonizing PCSK9 would prolong the lifespan of LDLR, leading to significant reductions in plasma LDL-C levels. Two fully human monoclonal antibodies (alirocumab and evolocumab) targeting PCSK9 became commercially available in 2015 and inclisiran, a small interfering RNA that inhibits translation of PCSK9 is also available. Other approaches to inhibit PCSK9 are under investigation. FAMILIAL COMBINED HYPOLIPIDEMIA Familial combined hypolipidemia (FCH) is due to loss of function mutations in the gene encoding angiopoietin-like protein 3 (ANGPTL3) ( 25 , 26 ). ANGPTL3 inhibits various lipases, such as lipoprotein lipase and endothelial lipase ( 25 , 26 ). Therefore, loss of function mutations in ANGPTL3 relinquishes this inhibition increasing the activity of lipases resulting in more efficient metabolism of VLDL and HDL particles ( 25 , 26 ). In addition, to increasing VLDL clearance the secretion of VLDL is also decreased due to a decrease in free fatty acid flux to the liver ( 25 ). LDL clearance is increased but the mechanism remains to be fully elucidated ( 25 ). Studies have suggested that ANGPTL3 inhibition lowers LDL-C by limiting LDL particle production due to ANGPTL3 inhibition and increased endothelial lipase activity reducing VLDL-lipid content and size, generating remnant particles that are efficiently removed from the circulation rather than being further metabolized to LDL ( 27 ). Clinically, FCH manifests as panhypolipidemia (decreased triglycerides, LDL-C, HDL-C, apo B, and apo A-I) ( 25 , 26 , 28 ). Interestingly, heterozygotes for certain nonsense mutations in the first exon of ANGPTL3 have moderately reduced LDL-C and triglyceride levels while compound heterozygotes have significant reductions in HDL-C as well ( 25 , 26 ). Homozygosity or compound heterozygosity for other loss-of-function mutations in exon 1 of ANGPTL3 have no detectable ANGPTL3 in plasma and striking reductions of atherogenic lipoproteins with HDL particles containing only apo A-I and preß-HDL. Individuals who are heterozygous for the loss of function mutations in ANGPTL3 have significantly reduced LDL-C and triglyceride levels and a reduced risk of atherosclerosis ( 25 , 26 , 28
