Monogenic Disorders Causing Hypobetalipoproteinemia
KEYWORDS: pubmed, ldl-c, mutations, hypobetalipoproteinemia, apo, familial, levels, disease, fhbl, reduced, liver, protein, associated, abetalipoproteinemia, hypolipidemia


who are heterozygous for the loss of function mutations in ANGPTL3 have significantly reduced LDL-C and triglyceride levels and a reduced risk of atherosclerosis ( 25 , 26 , 28 ). A pooled analysis of cases of familial combined hypolipidemia was published 2013 ( 29 ). One hundred fifteen individuals carrying 13 different mutations in the ANGPTL3 gene (14 homozygotes, 8 compound heterozygotes, and 93 heterozygotes) and 402 controls were evaluated. Homozygotes and compound heterozygotes (two mutant alleles) had no measurable ANGPTL3 protein. In heterozygotes, ANGPTL3 was reduced by 34-88%, according to genotype. All cases (homozygotes and heterozygotes) demonstrated significantly lower concentrations of all plasma lipoproteins (except for Lp(a)) as compared to controls. Familial combined hypolipidemia is not associated with any comorbidity. In fact, the prevalence of fatty liver was the same as controls. However, ANGPTL3 deficiency is associated with a reduced risk of cardiovascular disease ( 25 , 30 ). Recently, evinacumab, a human monoclonal antibody against ANGPTL3, was approved for the treatment of Homozygous Familial Hypercholesterolemia ( 12 ). Evinacumab decreases LDL-C levels by mechanisms independent of LDL receptor activity ( 12 ). CHYLOMICRON RETENTION DISEASE Chylomicron retention disease (CMRD), known also as Anderson’s disease for the individual who first described the condition in 1961, is a rare inherited lipid malabsorption syndrome ( 31 , 32 ). It is due to mutations in the SAR1B gene which codes for the protein SAR1b, a small GTPase, involved in intracellular protein trafficking ( 31 ). Mutations in SAR1b result in the failure of pre-chylomicrons to move from the endoplasmic reticulum to the golgi ( 31 ). This disorder usually presents in young infants with diarrhea, steatorrhea, abdominal distention, and failure to thrive, which can improve with a low-fat diet ( 1 , 31 , 32 ). Patients with CMRD demonstrate a specific autosomal recessive hypocholesterolemia that differs from other familial hypocholesterolemias. CMRD is associated with a 50% reduction in both plasma LDL-C and HDL-C with normal fasting triglyceride levels ( 31 , 32 ). Mutations in SAR1B do not affect VLDL secretion by the liver. The decrease in HDL-C is postulated to be due to a decrease in Apo A-I secretion and cholesterol efflux by the small intestine ( 31 ). The mechanism accounting for the decrease in LDL-C is not clear. The usual increase in triglycerides and chylomicron levels following a fat meal is blocked ( 31 ). The
