NLM Citation: LiverTox: Clinical and Research Information on Drug-
KEYWORDS: pubmed, pmid, pubmed pmid, liver, alt, captopril, year, bilirubin, old, year old, alk, enalapril, developed, starting, pmid year


Induced Liver Injury [Internet]. Bethesda (MD): National Institute of Diabetes and Digestive and Kidney Diseases; 2012-. Angiotensin- Converting Enzyme Inhibitors. [Updated 2018 Feb 11]. Bookshelf URL: Angiotensin-Converting Enzyme Inhibitors Updated: February 11, 2018. OVERVIEW The angiotensin-converting enzyme (ACE) inhibitors are a widely used class of antihypertensive medications that act by blocking the conversion of angiotensin I to angiotensin II, thus inhibiting an intermediate step in the renin-angiotensin pathway. The ACE inhibitors are rare causes of clinically apparent liver injury. The ACE inhibitors act by blocking the conversion of angiotensin I to angiotensin II, the active peptide that causes the vasoconstriction and sodium retention induced by activation of the renin-angiotensin pathway. Th e ACE inhibitors are considered first line drugs for the therapy of hypertension and are considered particularly helpful in preventing the renal complications of diabetes and high blood pressure. ACE inhibitors are sometimes used even in patients with relatively normal blood pressure for treatment of heart failure and prevention of diabetic neuropathy. Currently, there are 10 ACE inhibitors approved for use in the United States: captopril (Capoten: 1981), enalapril (Vasotec: 1985), lisinopril (Prinivil, Zestril: 1987), benazepril (Lotensin: 1991), fosinopril (Monopril: 1991), quinapril (Accupril: 1991), ramipril (Altase: 1991), perindopril (Aceon: 1993), moexipril (Univasc: 1995), and trandolapril (Mavik: 1996). All of the currently used ACE inhibitors are associated with a low rate of serum enzyme elevations during chronic therapy (0.2% to 2%) which is minimally different from the rate of elevations during placebo therapy. The aminotransferase elevations are usually mild-to-moderate in severity, self limited, and rarely require dose modification or drug discontinuation. As a class, the ACE inhibitors have also been associated with instances of acute liver injury that is usually cholestatic and self limited in course. Clinically apparent liver injury from ACE inhibitors is, however, rare. Th e onset is typically within 1 to 8 weeks of starting the medication. Immunoallergic features (fever, rash, eosinophilia) can occur, but are rarely prominent. Autoantibody formation is uncommon. The largest numbers of cases of clinically apparent liver injury have been reported with captopril and enalapril. At present, however, lisinopril seems to be the most common cause of clinically apparent liver injury due to ACE inhibitors. Published cases of lisinopril liver injury have been somewhat distinctive, typically presenting with a hepatocellular pattern of serum enzyme elevations and a potentially severe course, which can be fatal. Thi s pattern is less common with the other
