Int. J. Med. Sci. 2020, Vol. 17 2751
KEYWORDS: group, terlipressin, fig, norepinephrine, cells, acute, intestinal, sma, ischemia, mesenteric, wortmannin, sham, lps, terlipressin norepinephrine, renal


high mortality for critically ill patients nonocclusive mesenteric ischemia, according to the . A retrospective study reported that 24.0% of ischemic mechanism, is a life-threatening condition decedents caused by sepsis in ICU were diagnosed caused by impaired blood perfusion to the gut . with validated MI . Recently, another analysis Acute MI and succeeding reperfusion may lead to showed that, in 214 ICU patients, acute MI was a vasodilatory hypotension, exacerbation of bacterial secondary diagnosis in 58% of patients and the 30-day translocation and inflammatory responses, distant mortality rate was 71% . To maintain hemodynamic Int. J. Med. Sci. 2020, Vol. 17 2752 stability, vasopressors are commonly prescribed in protocol was determined according to previous the ICU. However, the use of some vasopressors may literatures and our pilot results. further decrease mesenteric flow and then aggravate The rats were anesthetized with intraperitoneal the organ damages caused by MI . Therefore, it is injection of 30 mg kg-1 pentobarbital and were of clinical relevance to investigate the impacts of mechanically ventilated with a standard ventilation specific vasopressor on the injury of intestine and protocol. Then, a catheter was inserted into the carotid remote organs after the occurrence of acute MI. artery and connected to a digital monitoring system study, we found that severe diarrhea was more was cannulated for drug infusion, as previously common in the septic shock patients receiving described . After midline laparotomy, the superior terlipressin, a highly selective vasopressin V1 receptor mesenteric artery (SMA) was identified. The rats were agonist, than in those receiving traditional randomly allocated into 6 groups. Sham group norepinephrine, although the suspected MI rates in (Sham): the animals underwent laparotomy without two groups were similar . Consistent with our occlusion of the SMA, and received 0.5 mL normal study, several case reports have demonstrated that V1 saline (NS) injection followed by 0.75 mL h-1 receptor agonists could cause severe bowel ischemic continuous intravenous infusion for 2 hours. Acute most of the experimental studies did not demonstrate microaneurysm clip for 1 hour, and the animals any detrimental effect of vasopressin V1 agonist on received 0.5 mL normal saline (NS) immediately after splanchnic macro- and microcirculation . We unclamping of SMA followed by 0.75 mL h-1 for 2 previously found that terlipressin could protect hours. Terlipressin group (TP): Terlipressin (Hybio intestinal epithelial cells against oxygen-glucose Pharmaceutical Co., Shenzhen, China) was dissolved deprivation attack in vitro .
