Int. J. Med. Sci. 2020, Vol. 17 2751
KEYWORDS: group, terlipressin, fig, norepinephrine, cells, acute, intestinal, sma, ischemia, mesenteric, wortmannin, sham, lps, terlipressin norepinephrine, renal


for 2 previously found that terlipressin could protect hours. Terlipressin group (TP): Terlipressin (Hybio intestinal epithelial cells against oxygen-glucose Pharmaceutical Co., Shenzhen, China) was dissolved deprivation attack in vitro . Qiu et al. have in NS to 8 μg mL-1, and 0.5 mL terlipressin solution demonstrated that terlipressin could promote was given immediately after ischemia followed by intestinal microvascular flow in rats with endotoxic 0.75 mL h-1 for 2 hours. Norepinephrine group (NE): shock . So far, the definite effect of terlipressin on Norepinephrine was dissolved in NS to 100 μg mL-1, intestinal and other splanchnic injuries following and 0.5 mL norepinephrine solution was given acute MI insult has not been clarified. It is rather immediately after ischemia followed by 0.75 mL h-1 significant to investigate whether terlipressin for 2 hours. Wortmannin group (WT): 1.5 mg kg-1 increases MI-induced organ damages when compared phosphoinositide 3-kinase (PI3K) inhibitor with traditional vasopressor. wortmannin (MedChem Express, Shanghai, China) Therefore, we aimed to determine the effects of dissolved in 10% dimethyl sulfoxide (DMSO) 100 μL terlipressin on intestinal and renal injury with an was administered intraperitoneally after unclamping, acute MI model and to explore its underlying and then NS was administered. Telipressin+ mechanisms. Norepinephrine was set as the control Wortmannin group (T+W): isometric wortmannin vasopressor. and terlipressin were administered after unclamping according to the above-mentioned regimen. At 2nd Materials and Methods hour after unclamping, the animals were euthanized by overdose of pentobarbital, and then the biological Animal and cell line samples were harvested. No equivalent dose of The current animal experiments were approved terlipressin compared to norepinephrine has been by the Institutional Review Board of our university reported. Thus, based on our preliminary [2015A-059; President: X.Q. Yu] and was performed in hemodynamic data, the current dosing regimens of accordance with National Institutes of Health terlipressin and norepinephrine were designed to guidelines for the experimental animal. Adult specific keep MAP within 15% of baseline level after ischemia. pathogen free (SPF) male Sprague-Dawley rats And each rat received equivalent volume of infusing (300-350 g) were purchased and acclimated for 1 week solution (2 mL) during experimental period. before experiment entry. Confluent RAW264.7 cells were randomly The mouse RAW264.7 macrophage cell lines assigned to 4 groups. Control group (Control): the cells received 0.1% DMSO and were incubated for 24 modified Eagle’s medium containing fetal bovine hours. Lipopolysaccharide group (LPS): the cells serum, streptomycin and penicillin, and incubated
