Int. J. Med. Sci. 2020, Vol. 17 2751
KEYWORDS: group, terlipressin, fig, norepinephrine, cells, acute, intestinal, sma, ischemia, mesenteric, wortmannin, sham, lps, terlipressin norepinephrine, renal


by a secondary HRP-labeled antibody (1:200, biomarker of lipid peroxidation, in rat’s serum was ab205718, Abcam) for 1 hour at room temperature. detected with ELISA kit (ab175819, Abcam, Shanghai, Images were taken by using a microscope (BX51, China). The results were expressed as pg mL-1. Olympus Corporation, Tokyo, Japan) at a Rat’s serum blood urea nitrogen (BUN) and magnification of 400×. Finally, the number of positive creatinine levels were detected with an autoanalyzer cell (brown yellow) was counted by using Image-Pro (Hitachi, Tokyo, Japan). Diamine oxidase (DAO), an Plus software. Quantification of cells expressing the indicator of the integrity and functional mass of the specified marker was performed by calculating intestine , in intestinal mucosal tissues was positive cells in five randomly chosen 400× fields of detected by a chemical assay kit (Jiancheng each sample. were expressed as U L-1. and kidney was respectively detected by terminal deoxynucleotidyl transferase biotin-dUTP nick Western blot analysis end-labeling assay (TUNEL). The number of apoptotic The proteins in the RAW264.7 cells, intestinal cells was counted using Image-Pro Plus software (ver. Briefly, the proteins were extracted from cells and index was calculated accordingly (the number of tissues, and subjected to SDS-PAGE and apoptotic cell nuclei/the number of total cell nuclei electrophoretically transferred to nitrocellulose ×100). membranes. Membranes were blocked and incubated overnight with anti-PI3K antibody (4257, Cell Survival analysis Signaling Technology, MA, USA), Briefly, the animals were treated with the above anti-phospho-protein kinase B (p-Akt) antibody interventions and then transferred to the individual (13038, Cell Signaling Technology) or anti-cleaved cage. Each rat was monitored via video recording for caspase-3 antibody (9664, Cell Signaling Technology). 24 hours . After being washed three times, the membrane was Statistical analysis incubated with a secondary antibody (7074, Cell Signaling Technology). Antibody dilutions used were SPSS 18.0 software (SPSS Inc, IL, USA) was used according to user manual. Finally, the bands were for the data analysis. Hemodynamic data of rats was imaged and quantified by Image J software (Ver 1.51, expressed as the mean ± standard error of the mean Int. J. Med. Sci. 2020, Vol. 17 2754 (SEM) and was analyzed by two-way ANOVA with and the injury score of the kidney in the MI group repeated measures followed by Bonferroni posttest. were higher than that in the Sham group (all P<0.05; Survival time from the beginning of unclamping were Fig. 2B). Either terlipressin or norepinephrine infusion expressed as
