Int. J. Med. Sci. 2020, Vol. 17 2751
KEYWORDS: group, terlipressin, fig, norepinephrine, cells, acute, intestinal, sma, ischemia, mesenteric, wortmannin, sham, lps, terlipressin norepinephrine, renal


by Bonferroni posttest. were higher than that in the Sham group (all P<0.05; Survival time from the beginning of unclamping were Fig. 2B). Either terlipressin or norepinephrine infusion expressed as median (range), and results were significantly attenuated renal injuries (all P<0.05 vs. compared by Kaplan Meier log-rank test. The survival MI; Fig. 2B), and there was no statistical difference in rate was analyzed by Fisher exact test. The rest of the these parameters between group TP and NE (all data such as biochemistry, histologic, western blot P>0.05; Fig. 2B). analysis and qPCR were expressed as mean ± SEM The survival time and mortality rate of the rats in and analyzed by one-way ANOVA followed by the MI group were 3 hours (2-24 hours) and 85.7%, Tukey posttest for multiple comparisons. P<0.05 was respectively (Fig. 2C). Terlipressin or norepinephrine considered statistically significant. significantly increased survival time and survivors (both P<0.05 vs. MI; Fig. 2C). Results Terlipressin or norepinephrine reduced Terlipressin or norepinephrine improved intestinal epithelial apoptosis after acute MI hemodynamics after acute MI As shown in Fig. 3A, the apoptotic index in As shown in Fig. 1, acute MI led to significantly TUNEL analysis of the intestinal epithelia was decreased MAP (all P<0.05, MI vs. Sham; Fig. 1A) and significantly higher in the MI group than in the Sham slightly increased heart rate (all P>0.05; Fig.1B) group (P<0.05), while the apoptosis of intestinal throughout the whole reperfusion phase. The current epithelial cells in the TP and NE groups were dosage of norepinephrine or terlipressin effectively markedly reduced when compared with the MI group elevated MAP (all P<0.05, vs. MI; Fig. 1A), and there (both P<0.05). Moreover, cleaved capsase-3 was no significant difference in MAP between TP expression notably increased in intestinal mucosal group and NE group after MI (all P>0.05). tissues after MI (P<0.05 vs. Sham; Fig. 4B) and was significantly reduced by the use of terlipressin or Terlipressin or norepinephrine alleviated norepinephrine (both P<0.05 vs. MI; Fig. 3B). intestinal and renal injuries after acute MI The apoptotic index and cleaved caspase-3 As shown in Figure 2A, the Chiu’s score and expression in the renal tissues were also increased in DAO level in the MI group were significantly higher the MI group (both P<0.05 vs. Sham; Fig. S1). than that in the Sham group (both P<0.05). However, neither terlipressin nor norepinephrine Terlipressin or norepinephrine significantly reduced renal apoptosis (all P>0.05 vs.
