Int. J. Med. Sci. 2020, Vol. 17 2751
KEYWORDS: group, terlipressin, fig, norepinephrine, cells, acute, intestinal, sma, ischemia, mesenteric, wortmannin, sham, lps, terlipressin norepinephrine, renal


group (both P<0.05 vs. Sham; Fig. S1). than that in the Sham group (both P<0.05). However, neither terlipressin nor norepinephrine Terlipressin or norepinephrine significantly reduced renal apoptosis (all P>0.05 vs. MI; Fig. S1). attenuated Chiu’s score and DAO level (all P<0.05 vs. Moreover, neither terlipressin nor norepinephrine MI; Fig. 2A), and there was no statistical difference in significantly inhibited the 8-isoprostane upregulation Chiu’s score and DAO level between group TP and induced by acute MI (both P>0.05 vs. MI; Fig. S2). NE (all P>0.05). Meanwhile, the serum BUN and creatinine levels Figure 1. Effects of terlipressin or norepinephrine infusion on mean arterial pressure (A) and heart rate (B) during the study period. Animals underwent various interventions based on the experimental protocol. Data are expressed as mean±SEM, n=4 to 5. Results were compared by two-way ANOVA with repeated measures followed by Bonferroni posttest. * P<0.05 vs. Sham group; % P<0.05 vs. MI group, WT group or T+W group. Timepoint 1: baseline, 2: clamping the SMA, 3: immediately after unclamping the SMA, 4: 3 minutes after unclamping, 5: 30 minutes after unclamping, 6: 60 minutes after unclamping, 7: 120 minutes after unclamping. Sham group: the SMA of rat was exposed but not occluded; MI group: acute mesenteric ischemia model was produced by clamping the SMA; TP group: terlipressin was infused after unclamping the SMA; NE group: norepinephrine was infused after unclamping the SMA; WT group: wortmannin, a specific PI3K inhibitor, was used after mesenteric ischemia; T+W group: terlipressin and wortmannin were both administered after ischemia. SMA: superior mesenteric artery; PI3K: phosphoinositide 3-kinase. Int. J. Med. Sci. 2020, Vol. 17 2755 Figure 2. Effects of terlipressin or norepinephrine infusion on intestinal and renal injuries, and mortality after acute MI. (A) The ileal sections were stained with hematoxylin-eosin and evaluated with Chiu’s scores under light microscopy (×100). In the upper panel, representative microscopic images from various groups were presented, and several morphologic damages of intestinal mucosa were indicated by red arrows. Analyses of Chiu’s score and DAO level were presented in the lower panel. (B) The renal sections were also stained with hematoxylin-eosin and evaluated with renal injury scores under light microscopy (×200). In the upper panel, representative microscopic images from various groups were presented, and several morphologic damages of renal tissues were indicated by black arrows. Analyses of renal injury score and serum creatinine concentration were presented in the lower panel. Data were
