Int. J. Med. Sci. 2020, Vol. 17 2751
KEYWORDS: group, terlipressin, fig, norepinephrine, cells, acute, intestinal, sma, ischemia, mesenteric, wortmannin, sham, lps, terlipressin norepinephrine, renal


presented, and several morphologic damages of renal tissues were indicated by black arrows. Analyses of renal injury score and serum creatinine concentration were presented in the lower panel. Data were expressed as mean±SEM, n=4 to 8. Results were compared by ANOVA with Tukey posttest. * P < 0.05 vs. Sham group; # P < 0.05 vs. MI group; $ P < 0.05 vs. TP group. (C) Animals underwent different interventions based on the experimental protocol. Survival time is calculated from the initiation of reperfusion. Results were compared by Kaplan-Meier log rank test and Fisher exact test, n=5 to 8. Survival times in the TP and NE groups were significantly longer than those in the MI group, and the 24-h mortality rate was also decreased in the TP and NE groups. Whereas, the use of wortmannin diminished the improvement of survival delivered by terlipressin (T+W group). Sham group: the SMA of rat was exposed but not occluded; MI group: acute mesenteric ischemia model was produced by clamping the SMA; TP group: terlipressin was infused after unclamping the SMA; NE group: norepinephrine was infused after unclamping the SMA; WT group: wortmannin, a specific PI3K inhibitor, was used after mesenteric ischemia; T+W group: terlipressin and wortmannin were both administered after ischemia. MI: mesenteric ischemia; DAO: diamine oxidase; SMA: superior mesenteric artery; PI3K: phosphoinositide 3-kinase. Int. J. Med. Sci. 2020, Vol. 17 2756 Figure 3. Effects of terlipressin or norepinephrine infusion on intestinal epithelial apoptosis after acute MI. (A) The ileal sections were stained by using TUNEL and evaluated with apoptotic epithelial cells under light microscopy (×200). Representative microscopic images from various groups were presented in the upper panel, and apoptotic nuclei were stained dark brown (red arrows). Analysis of apoptotic index was presented in the lower left-hand. (B) The cleaved caspase-3 expression in intestinal epithelial tissues was detected by western blotting assay. Representative bands of densitometry analysis from each group were shown in the upper side, and analysis of quantitative changes in caspase-3 expressions was shown in the bottom. Data were expressed as mean ± SEM, n=4 to 7. Results were compared by ANOVA with Tukey posttest. * P < 0.05 vs. Sham group; # P < 0.05 vs. MI group; $ P < 0.05 vs. TP group. Sham group: the SMA of rat was exposed but not occluded; MI group: acute mesenteric ischemia model was produced by clamping the SMA; TP group:
