Int. J. Med. Sci. 2020, Vol. 17 2751
KEYWORDS: group, terlipressin, fig, norepinephrine, cells, acute, intestinal, sma, ischemia, mesenteric, wortmannin, sham, lps, terlipressin norepinephrine, renal


or norepinephrine on macrophage polarization in cultured cells after LPS attack and in organs after acute MI. (A) The markers of M1 and M2 macrophages in RAW264.7 cells were detected by using PCR. Analyses of M1 markers (iNOS and IL-1β) and M2 markers (Arg1 and FIZZ1) mRNA expressions were presented. (B) The concentration of TNF-α and IL-1β in cultured medium was respectively detected by using ELISA assay. Analyses of TNF-α (upper) and IL-1β (lower) concentration in culture medium were presented. (C) Immunohistochemical stainings of iNOS was performed to detect iNOS-positive cells (M1 macrophages) in ileal and renal sections under light microscopy (×400). Representative microscopic images from various groups were presented and positive cells were stained brown-yellow (red arrows). Analyses of iNOS-positive cells in intestine and kidney were presented in the bottom. (D) Immunohistochemical staining of CD163 was performed to detect CD163-positive cells (M2 macrophages) in ileal and renal sections under light microscopy (×400). Representative microscopic images from various groups were presented and positive cells were stained brown-yellow (red arrows). Analyses of CD163-positive cells in intestine and kidney were presented in the bottom. (E) The concentration of TNF-α and IL-1β in intestine and kidney was detected by using ELISA assay, respectively. Analyses of TNF-α and IL-1β concentration in intestinal mucosa (upper) and kidney (lower) were presented. Data were expressed as mean±SEM, n=4 to 8. Results were compared by ANOVA with Tukey posttest. * P < 0.05 vs. Sham group; # P < 0.05 vs. MI group; $ P < 0.05 vs. TP group. Control group: the RAW264.7 cells were treated with DMSO; LPS group: the cells received LPS challenge; Terlipressin group: the cells received terlipressin immediately after LPS; Terlipressin+Wortmannin group: the cells received terlipressin and wortmannin in the presence of LPS. Sham group: the SMA of rat was exposed but not occluded; MI group: acute mesenteric ischemia model was produced by clamping the SMA; TP group: terlipressin was infused after unclamping the SMA; NE group: norepinephrine was infused after unclamping the SMA; WT group: wortmannin, a specific PI3K inhibitor, was used after mesenteric ischemia; T+W group: terlipressin and wortmannin were both administered after ischemia. MI: mesenteric ischemia; SMA: superior mesenteric artery; PI3K: phosphoinositide 3-kinase; TNF: tumor necrosis factor; IL: interleukin; iNOS: inducible nitric oxide synthase; hpf: high power field; ELISA: enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay; DMSO: dimethyl sulfoxide; LPS: lipopolysaccharide. Int. J. Med. Sci. 2020, Vol. 17 2759 and p-Akt expressions in the
