Int. J. Med. Sci. 2020, Vol. 17 2751
KEYWORDS: group, terlipressin, fig, norepinephrine, cells, acute, intestinal, sma, ischemia, mesenteric, wortmannin, sham, lps, terlipressin norepinephrine, renal


inducible nitric oxide synthase; hpf: high power field; ELISA: enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay; DMSO: dimethyl sulfoxide; LPS: lipopolysaccharide. Int. J. Med. Sci. 2020, Vol. 17 2759 and p-Akt expressions in the cultured RAW264.7 cells were also elevated after LPS challenge (both P<0.05 vs. Control; Fig. 6C). And terlipressin slightly increased PI3K and p-Akt expressions in the RAW264.7 cells with LPS treatment (both P>0.05 vs. LPS; Fig. 6C). In vivo, wortmannin alone (WT group) produced no active effects on the changes caused by MI (all P>0.05 vs. MI; Fig. 1-5) but decreased the PI3K and p-Akt expressions in the cells and tissues (all P<0.05 vs. MI; Fig. 6). On the other hand, wortmannin totally diminished the active effects of terlipressin on the PI3K/Akt expressions (Fig. 6), the intestinal epithelial apoptosis, macrophages M1 polarization and inflammatory activation (Figs. 3-5), and the MAP, organ damages and animal survival (Fig. 1 and 2) in the T+W group, when compared with the TP group (all P<0.05). Discussion In the current study, occluding and unclamping of SMA successfully induced vasodilatory shock and caused intestinal and renal injury (Figs. 1 and 2). Our dosing regimens of terlipressin and norepinephrine mimicked the applications of vasoactive drugs in the are approximately equal to usual dosage of terlipressin and norepinephrine for shock treatment in humans according to a classical conversion of drug dose from animal to human . Several clinical evidences suggested that terlipressin, as compared with norepinephrine, did not increased digestive complications in the treatment of vasodilatory shock and hepatorenal syndrome [20-22]. However, to the best of our knowledge, no study has compared the Figure 5. Effects of terlipressin or norepinephrine infusion on efficacy of vasopressin receptors agonist versus proinflammatory cytokines in serum after acute MI. The concentration of proinflammatory cytokines in rat’s serum was detected by using ELISA assay, norepinephrine on the organ functions and outcome respectively. Analyses of TNF-α, IL-1β an IL-6 concentration in serum were presented. Data were expressed as mean±SEM, n=4 to 6. Results were compared by following acute MI. The current data showed that ANOVA with Tukey posttest. * P < 0.05 vs. Sham group; # P < 0.05 vs. MI group; $ P either terlipressin or norepinephrine application < 0.05 vs. TP group. Sham group: the SMA of rat was exposed but not occluded; MI group: acute mesenteric ischemia model was produced by clamping the SMA; TP could effectively increase MAP (Fig. 1A), improve
