Int. J. Med. Sci. 2020, Vol. 17 2751
KEYWORDS: group, terlipressin, fig, norepinephrine, cells, acute, intestinal, sma, ischemia, mesenteric, wortmannin, sham, lps, terlipressin norepinephrine, renal


group: the SMA of rat was exposed but not occluded; MI group: acute mesenteric ischemia model was produced by clamping the SMA; TP could effectively increase MAP (Fig. 1A), improve the group: terlipressin was infused after unclamping the SMA; NE group: norepinephrine organ damages and reduce mortality (Fig. 2) after was infused after unclamping the SMA; WT group: wortmannin, a specific PI3K inhibitor, was used after mesenteric ischemia; T+W group: terlipressin and severe MI insult in rats. wortmannin were both administered after ischemia. MI: mesenteric ischemia; SMA: In the present study, acute MI and following superior mesenteric artery; PI3K: phosphoinositide 3-kinase; TNF: tumor necrosis factor; IL: interleukin; ELISA: enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay. reperfusion induced sustaining and severe hypotension, whose hemodynamic data were line with previous findings . For shock treatment, it Terlipressin relieved organ injuries after acute is essential to restore MAP timely to guarantee MI via PI3K/Akt pathway adequate tissue perfusion and oxygen delivery. The As shown in Fig. 6A and 6B, in vivo, the PI3K and administration of either terlipressin or p-Akt protein expressions in the intestinal mucosa norepinephrine rapidly and effectively improved and renal tissues were elevated after acute MI (all MAP (Fig. 1A) and subsequently relieved organ P<0.05 vs. Sham). The use of terlipressin moderately, damages following acute MI insult (Fig. 2). This but not statistically, enhanced PI3K and p-Akt suggests that the timely restoration of MAP and organ expressions in the intestinal epithelia and renal tissues perfusion pressure delivered by these two vasoactive (all P>0.05 vs. MI; Fig. 6A and 6B). Similarly, the PI3K drugs plays an important role in the intestinal and Int. J. Med. Sci. 2020, Vol. 17 2760 Figure 6. Effects of terlipressin or norepinephrine on PI3K and p-Akt expression in cultured cells after LPS attack and in organs after acute MI. The PI3K and p-Akt expression was detected by western blotting assay in intestinal mucosa (A), in kidney (B) and in RAW264.7 cells (C), respectively. Representative bands of densitometry analysis from each group were shown in the left side, and analysis of quantitative changes in PI3K/p-Akt expressions were shown in the right side. Data were expressed as mean±SEM, n=4 to 7. Results were compared by ANOVA with Tukey posttest. * P < 0.05 vs. Sham group; # P < 0.05 vs. MI group; $ P < 0.05 vs. TP group. Control group: the RAW264.7 cells were treated with DMSO; LPS group: the
