Int. J. Med. Sci. 2020, Vol. 17 2751
KEYWORDS: group, terlipressin, fig, norepinephrine, cells, acute, intestinal, sma, ischemia, mesenteric, wortmannin, sham, lps, terlipressin norepinephrine, renal


0.05 vs. Sham group; # P < 0.05 vs. MI group; $ P < 0.05 vs. TP group. Control group: the RAW264.7 cells were treated with DMSO; LPS group: the cells received LPS challenge; Terlipressin group: the cells received terlipressin immediately after LPS; Terlipressin+Wortmannin group: the cells received terlipressin and wortmannin in the presence of LPS. Sham group: the SMA of rat was exposed but not occluded; MI group: acute mesenteric ischemia model was produced by clamping the SMA; TP group: terlipressin was infused after unclamping the SMA; NE group: norepinephrine was infused after unclamping the SMA; WT group: wortmannin, a specific PI3K inhibitor, was used after mesenteric ischemia; T+W group: terlipressin and wortmannin were both administered after ischemia. MI: mesenteric ischemia; SMA: superior mesenteric artery; PI3K: phosphoinositide 3-kinase; p-Akt: phospho-protein kinase B; GAPDH: glyceraldehyde-3-phosphate dehydrogenase; DMSO: dimethyl sulfoxide; LPS: lipopolysaccharide. renal protection. Besides impaired organ perfusion, nor norepinephrine inhibited renal apoptosis excessive intestinal epithelial apoptosis and following MI (Fig. S1). Apoptosis in distant organs inflammation, as well as macrophage M1 caused by acute MI needs further investigations. polarization, were also involved in the pathogenesis Our previous study suggested that M1 of MI-induced organ injury . Apoptosis is a macrophages polarization was promoted after acute major mode of intestinal epithelial cell death after MI, and that macrophage depletion or enhancing acute MI attack, and inhibition of apoptosis can switch from proinflammatory M1 to anti- prevent the destruction of mucosal barrier in such inflammatory M2 macrophages phenotypes could pathophysiological events [25-27]. Two previous ameliorate intestinal injury and improved survival studies have reported that terlipressin could decrease . Chang and Jan found that, vasopressin cerebral and hepatic apoptosis in ischemic conditions inhibited the activation of cultured macrophages and . Similarly, the results of the apoptotic index the release of proinflammatory cytokines following and cleaved caspase-3 expression explicitly showed endotoxin challenge . To the best of our that terlipressin management could significantly knowledge, the current study for the first time inhibit intestinal mucosal apoptosis (Fig. 3) in showed that, both in vitro and in vivo, V1 receptor intestinal ischemia. Interestingly, neither terlipressin agonist markedly blocked macrophages M1 Int. J. Med. Sci. 2020, Vol. 17 2761 polarization after acute MI challenge whereas it the hemodynamic improvement induced by produced no distinct effect on M2 polarization (Fig. terlipressin after MI insult whereas wortmannin alone 4). We speculate that LPS migrated from the gut produced no
