Int. J. Med. Sci. 2020, Vol. 17 2751
KEYWORDS: group, terlipressin, fig, norepinephrine, cells, acute, intestinal, sma, ischemia, mesenteric, wortmannin, sham, lps, terlipressin norepinephrine, renal


hemodynamic improvement induced by produced no distinct effect on M2 polarization (Fig. terlipressin after MI insult whereas wortmannin alone 4). We speculate that LPS migrated from the gut produced no active effect (Fig. 1A), suggesting that lumen induced macrophages M1 polarization in PI3K inhibitor may abolish V1 receptor-mediated various organs after MI, and that increased M1 vasoconstricting effect. Wortmannin also significantly macrophages and subsequently produced excessive eliminated the protective effects of terlipressin on inflammatory responses led to tissue injury and organ reducing macrophage M1 polarization and failure. Because V1 receptor agonist possesses attenuating organ damages after MI challenge by anti-inflammatory effects , terlipressin, as inhibiting PI3K activation (Fig. S3). Our clinically compared with norepinephrine, potently restrains the meaningful results suggest that vasopressin V1 activated M1 macrophages in various organs and then receptor agonists are not suitable for patients with reduces the release of inflammatory cytokines after PI3K inhibitors therapy (e.g. treatment and acute MI (Figs. 4 and 5). The present data strongly prevention of cancer). indicated that terlipressin offered reliable and There were some possible limitations in this efficient protections for acute MI-induced multiple study. First, the present results indicated that organ dysfunction when compared with traditional terlipressin provides organ protection by elevating vasopressor. These novel findings may help blood pressure and inhibiting apoptosis and M1 laboratory investigators and clinicians to deeply polarization. However, it is very difficult to understand mechanism of distant organ injury caused distinguish whether the main effect of terlipressin on by MI and to choose the optimal vasoactive drugs in MI insult is attributed to the improved organ MI-relevant diseases. perfusion or the repression of apoptosis and M1 In cardiovascular system, PI3K inhibitors in polarization. Second, in this experimental study, particular have the potential to reduce blood pressure severe hypotension was induced by intestinal phenylephrine-induced arterial contraction and settings, hypotensive shock in the patients with acute reduce MAP under a volatile anesthetic sevoflurane MI was usually induced by other critical conditions conditioning . Vasopressin receptors are G (e.g. sepsis and hemorrhage). Final, in this study, we protein-coupled receptors and PI3K has been speculated that decreased M1 macrophages implicated in a signal transducer of G protein- generation (Fig. 4) caused by terlipressin may play a associated signaling. It has been demonstrated that key role in the suppression of systemic inflammation the vasoconstricting effect of vasopressin through V1 (Fig. 5). Further verification is required to confirm this receptor
