Int. J. Med. Sci. 2020, Vol. 17 2751
KEYWORDS: group, terlipressin, fig, norepinephrine, cells, acute, intestinal, sma, ischemia, mesenteric, wortmannin, sham, lps, terlipressin norepinephrine, renal


It has been demonstrated that key role in the suppression of systemic inflammation the vasoconstricting effect of vasopressin through V1 (Fig. 5). Further verification is required to confirm this receptor is mediated by phosphotidylinositol hypothesis. pathway . Interestingly, by activating PI3K/Akt Taken together, MI leads to vasodilatory signaling, vasopressin also exerts its ability to inhibit hypotension and notable intestinal and renal injury. the activation of downstream NF-κB and the The use of terlipressin or norepinephrine effectively upregulation of inflammatory mediators in improves hemodynamics and organ damages, and macrophage induced by endotoxin . It has been subsequently reduces mortality. Terlipressin delivers widely proven that the activation of PI3K/Akt its protective effects by elevating blood pressure and signaling could reduce the M1 polarization by inhibiting intestinal epithelial apoptosis and downregulating the TLR signaling and activating macrophage M1 polarization via PI3K/Akt pathway. mTOR which then decreases the NF-κB activation [36, Our study exhibits that terlipressin may be a 37]. Previous studies have shown that Akt isoforms promising vasoactive alternative for MI relevant hold the key role in the regulation of macrophage conditions in clinical practices. activation . Specifically, Akt1 kinase contributes to M2 polarization while Akt2 kinase Abbreviations contributes to M1 polarization due to their opposite MI: Mesenteric ischemia; ICU: Intensive care roles in regulating miR-155 and its target, C/EBPb, a unit; SMA: superior mesenteric artery; NS: normal master regulator of macrophage differentiation . saline; TNF-α: tumor necrosis factor-α; IL: interleukin; We speculate a dominant activation of Akt2 kinase PI3K/Akt pathway: phosphoinositide 3-kinase/ but not Akt1 in current MI model and thus only M1 protein kinase B pathway; ELISA: Enzyme Linked marker changed notably. Also, our previous study Immunosorbent Assay; DAO: Diamine oxidase; BUN: and Miller’s study have demonstrated the anti- blood urea nitrogen; GAPDH: glyceraldehyde-3- apoptotic effect of vasopressin and terlipressin via phosphate dehydrogenase; TUNEL: terminal deoxy- activating PI3K/Akt signaling . The current nucleotidyl transferase biotin-dUTP nick end-labeling data demonstrated that wortmannin could diminish assay. Int. J. Med. Sci. 2020, Vol. 17 2762 Supplementary Material 20. Serpa Neto A, Nassar AP, Cardoso SO, et al. Vasopressin and terlipressin in adult vasodilatory shock: a systematic review and meta-analysis of nine Supplementary figures and tables. randomized controlled trials. Crit Care. 2012; 16: R154. 21. Sharma P, Kumar A, Shrama BC, et al. An open label, pilot, randomized controlled trial of noradrenaline versus terlipressin in the treatment of type 1 hepatorenal syndrome and predictors of
