Pregestational Diabetes Mellitus
KEYWORDS: pregnancy, diabetes, pubmed, individuals, insulin, risk, crossref, doi, pubmed crossref, pregnant, glucose, type, women, outcomes, type diabetes


ABSTRACT The physiological changes which occur during pregnancy with diabetes are vast and involve every body system. In this chapter, we will review the metabolic changes that occur during normal pregnancies and those affected by pregestational diabetes. Due to the significant overlap in maternal and perinatal risks secondary to pregestational diabetes and obesity, we will review the risks of maternal obesity and hyperglycemia on maternal, fetal, and infant outcomes. The management of pregestational diabetes in pregnancy will be reviewed in detail including up-to-date medications and diabetes technologies. Postpartum issues including changes in insulin sensitivity, breastfeeding, and contraception for individuals with pregestational diabetes will be discussed. For complete coverage of all related areas of Endocrinology, please visit our on-line FREE web-text, WWW.ENDOTEXT.ORG . ROLE OF PRECONCEPTION AND INTERPREGNANCY COUNSELING/CARE In recent years, increasing focus has been placed on improving preconception and inter-pregnancy care for reproductive-age individuals ( 1 , 2 ). Obstetric and perinatal outcomes are improved when an individual with pregestational diabetes enters pregnancy in a medically-optimized state ( 3 – 6 ). Since roughly 50% of pregnancies are unplanned, it is in the individual’s best interest if their team begins discussing contraception and family planning during adolescence and early adulthood, as recommended by the American Diabetes Association (ADA) ( 7 ). Among those with pregestational diabetes, emphasis on strict glycemic control, folic acid supplementation, nutrition and physical activity, encouraging weight loss in overweight/obese individuals, discontinuation of potentially harmful medications (such as statins, angiotensin converting enzyme [ACE] inhibitors), and optimization of associated medical conditions, are all important components of preconception care. Those with pregestational diabetes mellitus (DM) who are planning pregnancy should ideally be engaged in multidisciplinary care in the preconception timeframe with a team that includes an endocrinology health care professional, maternal fetal medicine specialist, registered dietician, and diabetes care and education specialist ( 7 ). Counseling should include a review of diabetes-related short- and long-term risks to the pregnant individual and fetus and the relationship of such risk to glycemic control in the peripartum period. Hyperglycemia in the months leading up to conception and through the first trimester confers a significant “dose-dependent” risk of congenital anomalies, including fetal cardiac and skeletal defects, as well as miscarriage ( 8 – 10 ). A glycosylated hemoglobin (A1c) value ≤6.0% around the time of conception is associated with a risk for congenital anomalies of 1-3%, similar to the baseline population risk
