Pregestational Diabetes Mellitus
KEYWORDS: pregnancy, diabetes, pubmed, individuals, insulin, risk, crossref, doi, pubmed crossref, pregnant, glucose, type, women, outcomes, type diabetes


– 10 ). A glycosylated hemoglobin (A1c) value ≤6.0% around the time of conception is associated with a risk for congenital anomalies of 1-3%, similar to the baseline population risk ( 9 ). Hence, the ADA recommends achieving an A1c <6.5% prior to conception, while the American College of Obstetricians and Gynecologists (ACOG) recommends an even stricter target of an A1c <6.0% ( 7 , 11 ). Furthermore, if diabetes is poorly controlled or sequelae such as renal and cardiac disease are present at the time of conception, obstetric risks of hypertensive disorders of pregnancy (HDP), preterm delivery, and stillbirth are also increased ( 12 , 13 ). We encourage health care providers to view every encounter with an individual of reproductive age as a pre-conception visit, in particular because nearly half of pregnancies in the US are not planned ( Figure 1 ). Socio-economic barriers including poor health literacy, smoking, being unmarried, lower family income, and poor relationship with their provider are associated with an absence of pre-pregnancy care, so increased efforts must be made to provide avenues to discuss family planning among these individuals ( 14 ). Some suggested solutions include app-based platforms to engage individuals and provide education on diet and lifestyle as well as pharmacy-based surveys to identify individuals who require folic acid supplements or other medication adjustments ( 15 , 16 ). Figure 1. Adapted from Wilkie, G. & Leftwich, H. (2020). Optimizing Care Preconception for Individuals With Diabetes and Obesity. Clinical Obstetrics and Gynecology. NORMAL GLUCOSE LEVELS IN PREGNANCY Understanding normative glucose levels in pregnancy is important for setting glycemic targets in pregnant individuals with pregestational diabetes. The first change that happens is a fall in fasting glucose levels, which occurs early in the first trimester. In the second and third trimesters, glucose levels rise slightly due to insulin resistance. A review of the literature including all available trials using continuous glucose monitors (CGM), plasma glucose samples, and self-monitored blood glucose (SMBG) demonstrated that pregnant individuals without diabetes and obesity during the third trimester (~34 weeks) have on average a fasting blood glucose (FBG) of 71 mg/dl; a 1 hour postprandial (PP) glucose of 109 mg/dl; and a 2 hour value of 99 mg/dl, which are all much lower than the current targets for glycemic control for pregnant individuals with diabetes ( 17 ) ( Figure 2 ). Increasing gestational age affects "normal" glucose
