Pregestational Diabetes Mellitus
KEYWORDS: pregnancy, diabetes, pubmed, individuals, insulin, risk, crossref, doi, pubmed crossref, pregnant, glucose, type, women, outcomes, type diabetes


visit: individuals with an A1c of 10% had a major congenital anomaly rate of 10% while individuals with an A1c of 13% had a 20% major anomaly rate. The overall anomaly rate was 8% in this contemporary cohort of whom 91% had type 2 diabetes (T2DM) ( 27 ). The offspring of individuals with type 1 diabetes T1DM have higher prevalence of neonatal death as well as infant death compared with offspring of individuals without diabetes. Periconception A1c >6.5%, preconception retinopathy, and lack of preconception folic acid supplementation were all independently associated with risk of neonatal and infant death ( 28 ). A recent systematic review and meta-analysis also showed an increased risk of neonatal mortality and stillbirth in pregnancies affected by T2DM compared with those without diabetes ( 29 ). Most organizations recommend pregnant individuals with pregestational diabetes achieve an A1c of less than 6.5% prior to conception ( 30 , 31 ). For individuals with hypoglycemia unawareness, less stringent glycemic targets may need to be used such as an A1c <7.0%. The A1C falls in pregnancy and if it is possible without significant hypoglycemia, an A1c of less than 6% is recommended. The mechanism of glucose-induced congenital anomalies has not been fully elucidated ( 32 ). It has been shown that diabetes-induced fetal abnormalities may be mediated by a number of metabolic disturbances, including elevated superoxide dismutase activity, reduced levels of myoinositol and arachidonic acid, and inhibition of the pentose phosphate shunt pathway. Oxidative stress appears to be involved in the etiology of fetal dysmorphogenesis and neural tube defects in the embryos of diabetic mice and are also associated with altered expression of genes which control development of the neural tube ( 33 ). Individuals with T2DM are more likely to be treated for dyslipidemia and hypertension. Chronic hypertension occurs in 13-19% of individuals with T2DM and many of these individuals will be prescribed an ACE inhibitor or Angiotensin receptor blocker (ARB) ( 34 ). The data on risk for first trimester exposure to ACE inhibitors is conflicting (see nephropathy section). Depending on the indication for use, an informed discussion on the benefits and risks of stopping these agents before pregnancy must occur but they should certainly be stopped as soon as a missed period occurs. The data on teratogenicity of statins for treatment of hypercholesterolemia is also conflicting and is based on animal, not human, studies (
