Pregestational Diabetes Mellitus
KEYWORDS: pregnancy, diabetes, pubmed, individuals, insulin, risk, crossref, doi, pubmed crossref, pregnant, glucose, type, women, outcomes, type diabetes


stopped as soon as a missed period occurs. The data on teratogenicity of statins for treatment of hypercholesterolemia is also conflicting and is based on animal, not human, studies ( 35 ). Pravastatin has had favorable effects on vascular endothelial growth factor in animal studies ( 36 – 38 ). A small multicenter pilot study examining pravastatin in prevention of HDP in high-risk pregnant individuals found that pravastatin was safe when started between 12-16 weeks gestation ( 39 ). There is a large randomized clinical trial of 1,550 pregnant individuals evaluating pravastatin to prevent HDP that is ongoing currently (ClinicalTrials.gov ID NCT03944512 ). At this time, current guidelines recommend that statins be stopped prior to pregnancy, but definitely at diagnosis of pregnancy, for most individuals ( 7 ). Continuation of statins preconception and during pregnancy may be warranted through shared decision making and risk/benefit discussions in high-risk individuals ( 40 ). INFLUENCE OF METABOLIC CHANGES IN PREGNANCY Pregnancy is a complex metabolic state that involves dramatic alterations in the hormonal milieu in addition to changes in adipocytes and inflammatory cytokines. There are high levels of estrogen, progesterone, prolactin, cortisol, human chorionic gonadotropin, placental growth hormone, human chorionic somatomammotropin (human placental lactogen), leptin, TNFα, and oxidative stress biomarkers. In addition, decreases in adiponectin worsen maternal insulin resistance in the second trimester to facilitate fuel utilization by the fetus ( 41 ). Metabolically, the first trimester is characterized by increased insulin sensitivity, which promotes adipose tissue accretion in early pregnancy. What mediates this increased insulin sensitivity remains unclear. Pregnant individuals are at an increased risk for hypoglycemia, especially if accompanied by nausea and vomiting in pregnancy. Although most pregnant individuals show an increase in insulin sensitivity between 6-20 weeks’ gestation and report more frequent episodes of hypoglycemia, especially at night, there is a transient increase in insulin resistance very early in pregnancy (prior to 10 weeks), usually followed by increased insulin sensitivity up until 14-20 weeks ( 42 ). In the fasting state, pregnant individuals deplete their glycogen stores quickly due to the fetoplacental glucose demands, and switch from carbohydrate to fat metabolism within 12 hours, resulting in increased lipolysis and ketone production ( 43 – 45 ). In pregnant individuals without diabetes, the second and third trimesters are characterized by insulin resistance with a 200-300% increase in the insulin response to glucose ( 46 ). This serves to meet the metabolic
