Pregestational Diabetes Mellitus
KEYWORDS: pregnancy, diabetes, pubmed, individuals, insulin, risk, crossref, doi, pubmed crossref, pregnant, glucose, type, women, outcomes, type diabetes


diabetes, the second and third trimesters are characterized by insulin resistance with a 200-300% increase in the insulin response to glucose ( 46 ). This serves to meet the metabolic demands of the fetus, which requires 80% of its energy as glucose, while maintaining euglycemia in the mother. The placental and fetal demands for glucose are considerable and approach the equivalent of ~150 grams per day of glucose in the third trimester ( 44 ). In addition, the maternal metabolic rate increases by ~150-300 kcal/day in the third trimester, depending on the amount of gestational weight gain. These increased nutritional needs place the pregnant individual at risk for ketosis, which occurs much earlier than usual without adequate oral or intravenous nutrients, frequently referred to as "accelerated starvation of pregnancy" ( 43 ). See “Diabetic Ketoacidosis in Pregnancy” section for further details. DIABETES COMPLICATIONS AND TREATMENT OPTIONS IN INDIVIDUALS WITH PREGESTATIONAL DIABETES AND THE ROLE OF PRECONCEPTION COUNSELING Although historically, T1DM has been more prevalent than T2DM in individuals of child-bearing age, this is changing with increased obesity rates worldwide. The prevalence of prediabetes and diabetes is a burgeoning global epidemic ( 47 , 48 ). In the United States, the prevalence of diabetes among adults between 1980 and 2020 has quadrupled with an estimated 21.9 million adults living with diabetes, including reproductive aged individuals ( 48 ). There was higher prevalence of diabetes among non-Hispanic blacks and Mexican Americans ( 49 ). Similar temporal trends, as well as racial and ethnic disparities, have been observed in the rate of pregestational diabetes among pregnant individuals in the US ( Figures 3 and 4 ) ( 50 ). Figure 3. Rate of pregestational diabetes in the United States, 2016-2021. Figure 4. Rate of pregestational diabetes by race and Hispanic origin in the United States, 2021. Both pregnant individuals with T1DM and T2DM are at increased risk of poor obstetrical outcomes, and both can have improved outcomes with optimized care ( 5 , 51 ). The White Classification ( Table 1 ) was developed decades ago by Priscilla White at the Joslin Clinic to stratify risk of adverse pregnancy outcomes in individuals with T1DM according to the age of the individual, duration of diabetes, and presence of vascular complications of diabetes. Although recent evidence suggests that the classification does not predict adverse pregnancy outcomes better than taking into account the increased risk of
