Pregestational Diabetes Mellitus
KEYWORDS: pregnancy, diabetes, pubmed, individuals, insulin, risk, crossref, doi, pubmed crossref, pregnant, glucose, type, women, outcomes, type diabetes


diabetes, and presence of vascular complications of diabetes. Although recent evidence suggests that the classification does not predict adverse pregnancy outcomes better than taking into account the increased risk of micro- and macrovascular disease (e.g. retinopathy, nephropathy, hypertension, coronary artery disease, etc.), it is still often used in the U.S. to indicate level of risk for adverse pregnancy outcomes ( 52 ). Although it was developed for use in individuals with T1DM rather than T2DM, given the very low prevalence of T2DM in individuals of childbearing age decades ago when it was first established in 1949, many also apply it to this group of individuals. ACOG further modified it in 1986, and gestational diabetes (GDM) was added to the classification and designated as A1 (controlled by diet alone) and A2 (controlled by medication). Pregnant individuals with T2DM are at least as high of a risk of pregnancy complications as individuals with T1DM. The reasons for this may include older age, a higher incidence of obesity, a lower rate of preconception counseling, disadvantaged socioeconomic backgrounds, and the co-existence of the metabolic syndrome including hyperlipidemia, hypertension, and chronic inflammation ( 34 ). Furthermore, the causes of pregnancy loss appear to differ in individuals with T1DM versus T2DM. In one series comparing outcomes, >75% of pregnancy losses in individuals with T1DM were due to major congenital anomalies or prematurity ( 53 ). In individuals with T2DM, >75% were attributable to stillbirth or chorioamnionitis, suggesting that obesity may play a role. Table 1. Modified White Classification of Pregnant Diabetic Individuals View in own window Class Diabetes onset age (year) Duration (year) Type of Vascular Disease Medication Need Gestational Diabetes (GDM) A1 Any Pregnancy None None A2 Any Pregnancy None Yes Pregestational Diabetes B 20 <10 None Yes C 10-19 OR 10-19 None Yes D <10 OR 20 Benign Retinopathy Yes F Any Any Nephropathy Yes R Any Any Proliferative Retinopathy Yes T Any Any Renal Transplant Yes H Any Any Coronary Artery Disease Yes MANAGEMENT OF PREGESTATIONAL DIABETES DURING PREGNANCY Treatment Options in Achieving Glycemic Control All pregnant individuals with T1DM and T2DM should target an A1c of <6.5% preconception and <6.0% during pregnancy when possible. For pregnant individuals with T2DM on oral or noninsulin injectable agents, consider switching to insulin prior to pregnancy, even in individuals with goal glycemic control. Insulin should be used for management of T1DM and is the preferred agent
