Pregestational Diabetes Mellitus
KEYWORDS: pregnancy, diabetes, pubmed, individuals, insulin, risk, crossref, doi, pubmed crossref, pregnant, glucose, type, women, outcomes, type diabetes


noninsulin injectable agents, consider switching to insulin prior to pregnancy, even in individuals with goal glycemic control. Insulin should be used for management of T1DM and is the preferred agent for management of T2DM in pregnancy. ORAL AND NON-INSULIN INJECTABLE GLYCEMIC LOWERING AGENTS No oral hypoglycemics, including metformin and glyburide, are approved for pregestational diabetes in pregnancy. There is no evidence that exposure to glyburide or metformin in the first trimester are teratogenic, but both do cross the placenta, metformin substantially more than glyburide ( 54 – 56 ). Both of these agents have been used in multiple randomized controlled trials (RCTs) for GDM and T2DM. Please see Endotext Gestational Diabetes chapter. Metformin Early studies on metformin use in pregnancy for individuals with pregestational diabetes found high failure rates of monotherapy and mixed results on the impact on pregnancy outcomes ( 57 , 58 ). Recent randomized trials have evaluated the safety and efficacy of metformin in pregnancy for individuals with T2DM ( 59 , 60 ). The Metformin in Women with Type 2 Diabetes in Pregnancy Trial (MiTy) enrolled 502 individuals with T2DM and randomized them to metformin 1000 mg twice daily or placebo, added to insulin ( 60 ). They found no difference in their primary outcome which was a composite of serious neonatal outcomes. They found that individuals treated with metformin achieved better glycemic control, required less insulin, had less gestational weight gain (GWG), and were less likely to deliver via cesarean. Neonates exposed to metformin were more likely to be SGA and had reduced adiposity. The Medical Optimization and Management of Pregnancies with Overt Type 2 Diabetes (MOMPOD) trial enrolled 794 pregnant individuals with a diagnosis of T2DM prior to pregnancy or a diagnosis of diabetes early in pregnancy and randomized them to metformin 1000 mg twice daily or placebo ( 59 ). They found no difference in their primary composite neonatal outcome. Metformin exposed neonates were less likely to be LGA. Data on long term outcomes for offspring exposed to metformin come from trials in both GDM and pregestational diabetes. Follow up from the Metformin in Gestational Diabetes (MiG) trial followed 208 children (28% of original trial) and found no differences in body composition or metabolic outcomes at 7 years ( 61 ). At 9 years the metformin offspring were slightly larger by measures of BMI and skinfolds. In 24 month follow up of the
