Pregestational Diabetes Mellitus
KEYWORDS: pregnancy, diabetes, pubmed, individuals, insulin, risk, crossref, doi, pubmed crossref, pregnant, glucose, type, women, outcomes, type diabetes


metabolic outcomes at 7 years ( 61 ). At 9 years the metformin offspring were slightly larger by measures of BMI and skinfolds. In 24 month follow up of the MiTy trial, 263 children (61% of original trial) were assessed and no differences in BMI Z score or mean sum of skinfolds was found ( 62 ). A systematic review and meta-analysis of neonatal and childhood outcomes following treatment with metformin versus insulin for GDM, demonstrated that while offspring exposed to metformin had lower birth weights, they were heavier as infants and had higher BMIs as children. Metformin has historically been used preconception and throughout the first trimester in individuals with polycystic ovary syndrome (PCOS) to improve fertility and prevent early miscarriage. However, trials have not shown benefit in use of metformin for preventing spontaneous abortion and have demonstrated letrozole as the preferred agent for ovulation induction ( 63 – 65 ). Current guidelines therefore recommend the use of metformin in those with PCOS who demonstrate glucose intolerance but not as a primary agent to improve fertility or pregnancy outcomes ( 66 ). Per ADA recommendations, metformin prescribed for the purpose of ovulation induction should be discontinued by the completion of the first trimester ( 7 ). When used in pregnancy, metformin is typically prescribed with a starting dose of 500 mg once or twice daily for 5-7 days. If well tolerated, the dose can subsequently be up-titrated to a maximum dose of 2500 mg daily in divided doses with meals. The most common reported side effects are gastrointestinal complaints ( 67 ). Metformin should be avoided in those with renal insufficiency. Glyburide Data on glyburide in pregnancy comes from studies on its use in individuals with GDM. Briefly, meta-analyses have demonstrated increased risk of adverse neonatal outcomes such as neonatal hypoglycemia, macrosomia and increased neonatal abdominal circumference.( 68 , 69 ) There is a dearth of evidence on long term outcomes of offspring exposed to glyburide. Other Agents There is minimal data on thiazolidinediones, metiglinides, dipeptidyl peptidase IV (DPP-4) inhibitors, glucagon-like peptide 1 (GLP-1) agonists, and sodium-glucose transport protein 2 (SGLT-2) inhibitors. A 2023 review of the evidence on GLP-1 agonist and SGLT-2 inhibitors found potential teratogenicity and adverse pregnancy outcomes based largely on animal data and more limited human data ( 70 ). Additional data on SGLT-2 inhibitors and DPP-4 inhibitors is reassuring but extremely limited ( 71
