Pregestational Diabetes Mellitus
KEYWORDS: pregnancy, diabetes, pubmed, individuals, insulin, risk, crossref, doi, pubmed crossref, pregnant, glucose, type, women, outcomes, type diabetes


pregnancy outcomes based largely on animal data and more limited human data ( 70 ). Additional data on SGLT-2 inhibitors and DPP-4 inhibitors is reassuring but extremely limited ( 71 ). GLP-1 agonist use, in particular, has increased in the general population over the last decade ( 72 ). Outside of pregnancy, these agents are approved for use in individuals with obesity and T2DM with HbA1c above goal, atherosclerotic cardiovascular disease, or chronic renal disease ( 73 – 75 ). Studies have shown their use can lead to a reduction in HbA1c, weight loss, and a decrease in athero-thrombotic events in nonpregnant individuals ( 73 , 74 , 76 ). Animal studies of exposure to GLP-1 agonists during pregnancy have shown associations with congenital anomalies, decreased fetal growth, and embryonic death ( 70 , 73 , 77 ). Two recent observational studies on periconceptual use of GLP-1 agonists in humans have not demonstrated an association between GLP-1 agonist use and major congenital malformations ( 71 , 78 ). However, these studies have limited data on maternal glycemic control and on other important adverse pregnancy outcomes such as HDP, preterm birth, and fetal growth restriction ( 73 ). At this time, the use of these agents in pregnancy should ideally occur only in the context of approved clinical trials. INSULIN USE IN PREGNANCY Overall Approach Both ADA and ACOG recommend insulin as first line therapy for pregnant individuals with pregestational diabetes while trying to conceive and during pregnancy ( 7 , 11 ). Unlike oral agents, insulin preparations commonly utilized in pregnancy do not cross the placenta ( 79 – 81 ). It is recommended that individuals with T2DM who are actively trying to become pregnant should be switched from oral or noninsulin injectable hypoglycemic agents to insulin prior to conception if possible. This rationale is based on the fact that it may take some time to determine the ideal insulin dose prior to the critical time of embryogenesis. However, individuals who conceive on any oral agents should not stop them until they can be switched effectively to insulin because hyperglycemia is potentially more dangerous than any of the current available therapies to treat diabetes. Following a review of risks and benefits, oral agents, such as metformin, may be considered as a reasonable adjunct or alternative therapy for those unable or unwilling to use insulin while attempting to conceive or during
