Pregestational Diabetes Mellitus
KEYWORDS: pregnancy, diabetes, pubmed, individuals, insulin, risk, crossref, doi, pubmed crossref, pregnant, glucose, type, women, outcomes, type diabetes


benefits, oral agents, such as metformin, may be considered as a reasonable adjunct or alternative therapy for those unable or unwilling to use insulin while attempting to conceive or during pregnancy. Basal Insulin Basal insulin is given 1-2 times daily or via a continuous insulin infusion pump. Intermediate-acting insulin, such as neutral protamine Hagedorn (NPH), and long-acting insulin analogues, such as detemir and glargine may be used. Compared to NPH, both detemir and glargine have a flatter, more consistent insulin activity ( 82 ). Studies have shown no difference in pregnancy and neonatal outcomes when comparing glargine to NPH ( 83 ). Despite a lack of trial data, both U100 and U300 glargine are commonly used in pregnancy given a reassuring safety profile in observational studies ( 84 , 85 ). Trials of detemir, compared to NPH, have demonstrated improved glycemic control as well as lower rates of adverse pregnancy and neonatal outcomes ( 86 – 88 ). However, as of 2024, detemir has been discontinued on the US market. Limited data exists on the ultralong-acting insulin analog, degludec. A 2023 trial showed degludec was noninferior to determir when used in a basal-bolus regimen with respect to glycemic control and pregnancy outcomes ( 89 ). There have been no studies looking at the safety of newer basal insulins such as biosimilar glargine (Basaglar), however these are commonly used in pregnancy due to constraints of availability and insurance coverage. Basal insulin may be provided as two doses of NPH or with one or two doses of a long-acting analogue. Fasting hyperglycemia may be best targeted by the use of NPH before bedtime to take advantage of its 8-hour peak. The evening dose of NPH should be administered at bedtime, rather than dinner, to avoid nocturnal hypoglycemia and prevent fasting hyperglycemia ( 81 ). Bolus Insulin Bolus insulin dosing is provided with short- or rapid-acting insulin with doses calculated based on pre-meal glucose and carbohydrate intake using a correction factor and insulin to carbohydrate ratio ( 90 ). Alternatively, fixed meal-time insulin dosing can be prescribed. Rapid-acting insulins, lispro and aspart, have been used in multiple trials in pregnancy, and their safety and efficacy are well-established. Lispro and aspart are preferred to short-acting regular insulin due to improvement in postprandial glycemia and reduced hypoglycemia, with equivalent fetal outcomes ( 91 , 92 ). Patient satisfaction has also been higher for individuals using
