Pregestational Diabetes Mellitus
KEYWORDS: pregnancy, diabetes, pubmed, individuals, insulin, risk, crossref, doi, pubmed crossref, pregnant, glucose, type, women, outcomes, type diabetes


short-acting regular insulin due to improvement in postprandial glycemia and reduced hypoglycemia, with equivalent fetal outcomes ( 91 , 92 ). Patient satisfaction has also been higher for individuals using lispro or aspart compared to regular insulin ( 87 ). Lispro or aspart insulin may be especially helpful in pregnant individuals with hyperemesis or gastroparesis because they can be dosed after a successful meal and still be effective. It has been demonstrated that rapid acting insulins may take longer to reach maximal concentrations (49 [37-55] vs 71 [52-108] min) in late gestation ( 93 ). Thus, for some pregnant individuals it may be necessary to take mealtime insulin 15-30 minutes prior to the start of a meal (termed pre-bolusing). If used in conjunction with NPH, due to its longer duration of action, regular insulin should be taken twice a day with the second dose no sooner than 5 hours after the initial dose ( 94 ). Regular insulin should generally be given 30-60 minutes prior to starting a meal. Despite limited data, both ultra rapid-acting aspart (Fiasp) and lispro (Lyumjev) are approved for use in Europe given similarities to their rapid-acting versions ( 95 ). A recent trial in pregnant individuals comparing rapid-acting aspart to ultra rapid-acting aspart found no difference in A1c or mean birthweight ( 96 ). An understanding of behavior and lifestyle including mealtimes, sleep, work schedules and physical activity, in conjunction with blood glucose data, may aid in the selection of an appropriate basal and bolus regimen. Pharmacologic therapy should occur in conjunction with ongoing nutritional therapy and lifestyle changes. Continuous Subcutaneous Insulin Infusion (CSII) or Insulin Pump Therapy Many pregnant individuals with T1DM or long-standing T2DM require multiple daily injections (MDI, 4-5 injections per day) or a continuous subcutaneous insulin infusion pump (CSII) to achieve optimal glycemic control during pregnancy. Many individuals with T1DM use CSII and CGM during pregnancy ( 97 ). CGM will be reviewed in detail below. There have been several studies showing CSII use is safe in pregnancy. In a large multicenter trial of individuals with T1DM during pregnancy, individuals using CSII had improved A1c both in the first trimester as well as in the third trimester and there was no difference in rates of diabetic ketoacidosis (DKA) or severe hypoglycemia compared with individuals using MDI ( 98 ). An analysis of data from 248 individuals with T1DM enrolled in the
