Pregestational Diabetes Mellitus
KEYWORDS: pregnancy, diabetes, pubmed, individuals, insulin, risk, crossref, doi, pubmed crossref, pregnant, glucose, type, women, outcomes, type diabetes


difference in rates of diabetic ketoacidosis (DKA) or severe hypoglycemia compared with individuals using MDI ( 98 ). An analysis of data from 248 individuals with T1DM enrolled in the Continuous Glucose Monitoring in Women With Type 1 Diabetes in Pregnancy Trial (CONCEPTT) showed that pregnant individuals using MDI therapy versus CSII therapy had similar first trimester glycemia but MDI users had lower glycemia at 34 weeks and were more likely to achieve target A1c than CSII users. In this analysis, CSII users had an increased risk of NICU admission, neonatal hypoglycemia, and hypertensive disorders of pregnancy compared with MDI users ( 99 ). Several additional studies and a Cochrane review of MDI versus CSII generally have shown equivalent glycemic control, as well as maternal and perinatal outcomes ( 100 – 105 ). CSII can be especially useful for individuals with nocturnal hypoglycemia, gastroparesis, or a prominent dawn phenomenon ( 99 ). Disadvantages of CSII include cost and the risk for hyperglycemia or DKA as a consequence of insulin delivery failure from a kinked catheter or from infusion site problems, although rare ( 106 ). Pregnant individuals should be educated on how to quickly recognize and manage insulin pump failure. Therefore, it may be optimal to begin pump therapy before pregnancy due to the steep learning curve involved with its use and the need to continually adjust basal and bolus settings due to the changing insulin resistance in pregnancy. However, in motivated pregnant individuals with a multidisciplinary team of diabetes education specialists and pump trainers, insulin pump initiation is safe in pregnancy. Several studies demonstrate significant changes in bolus more than basal insulin requirements during pregnancy which should be understood to achieve optimal glycemic control( 107 , 108 ). Automated Insulin Delivery Automated insulin delivery (AID) systems are comprised of a CGM, an insulin pump, and an algorithm that uses CGM data to calculate insulin ( 109 ). Diabetes technology use in general, and AID use specifically, has become increasingly prevalent and is expected to continue to increase in the coming years ( 110 , 111 ). The existing data on AID use in pregnancy have shown improved or equivalent CGM metrics when compared with MDI ( 112 – 114 ). The Automated insulin Delivery Among Pregnant Women with TIDM (AiDAPT) trial was a multicenter, randomized controlled trial of 124 pregnant individuals with T1DM comparing MDI to AID with a
