Pregestational Diabetes Mellitus
KEYWORDS: pregnancy, diabetes, pubmed, individuals, insulin, risk, crossref, doi, pubmed crossref, pregnant, glucose, type, women, outcomes, type diabetes


). The Automated insulin Delivery Among Pregnant Women with TIDM (AiDAPT) trial was a multicenter, randomized controlled trial of 124 pregnant individuals with T1DM comparing MDI to AID with a pregnancy-specific target glucose range ( 112 ). Those using AID spent more time in range, spent less time above range, and had lower A1c levels. There were no safety concerns, including severe hypoglycemia or DKA associated with AID use. Other trials of AID use in pregnancy have not used pregnancy-specific glucose targets and participants in these studies have used assistive techniques that override algorithms such as ‘fake’ carbohydrate insulin boluses and use of mode with stricter ranges such as sleep mode. This includes CRISTAL, a randomized controlled trial of 95 pregnant individuals with T1DM comparing AID to MDI ( 113 ). There was no difference in the primary outcome of time in range, however those using AID had more overnight time in range and had less time below range. Studies have not yet demonstrated improvements in other pregnancy outcomes with AID use; however, several trials are ongoing ( 115 , 116 ). In 2024, the CamAPS FX algorithm, used in the AiDAPT trial was Food and Drug Administration (FDA) approved for use in pregnancy. There are several additional AID systems that are FDA approved for use outside of pregnancy. In the interim, pregnant individuals are also using do-it-yourself AID systems and while no observational study or trial data exist, case reports to date have shown positive outcomes and patient experiences ( 117 – 119 ). Few studies have evaluated patient perspectives and psychosocial implications of AID use in pregnancy. Those that do exist suggest both benefits and burdens of these systems ( 120 – 122 ). Benefits include improved well-being, greater flexibility, and more positive collaboration between pregnant individuals and their healthcare team. Burdens include technical failures, device maintenance, system bulk/visibility, and access to an overwhelming amount of data. Ongoing education and support for both patients and providers are necessary to optimize the balance of these positive and negative aspects of AID use in pregnancy ( 120 , 123 ). The ADA recommends that AID systems with pregnancy specific targets are preferred for use in pregnancy; however, those without pregnancy specific targets may be considered for use in collaboration with experienced health care teams ( 7 ). Glycemic control, comfort with technology, social determinants of health, and individual preference should
