Pregestational Diabetes Mellitus
KEYWORDS: pregnancy, diabetes, pubmed, individuals, insulin, risk, crossref, doi, pubmed crossref, pregnant, glucose, type, women, outcomes, type diabetes


specific targets may be considered for use in collaboration with experienced health care teams ( 7 ). Glycemic control, comfort with technology, social determinants of health, and individual preference should all be considered when evaluating individuals for AID use in pregnancy. Importance of Glycemic Control Failure to achieve optimal control in early pregnancy may have teratogenic effects in the first 3-10 weeks of gestation or lead to early fetal loss. Poor glycemic control later in pregnancy increases the risk of intrauterine fetal demise, macrosomia, cardiac septal enlargement in the fetus, perinatal death, and metabolic complications such as hypoglycemia in the newborn. Target glucose values for fasting and postprandial times should be discussed with the pregnant individual. Current guidelines are that fasting and pre-meal blood glucose should be 70-95 mg/dl, the 1-hour postprandial glucose should be 110-140 mg/dl and the 2-hour postprandial glucose should be 100-120 mg/dl ( 7 , 11 ). Although a review of the literature suggests that the mean fasting plasma glucose (FPG), 1 hour PP, and 2 hour PP +/- 1 SD glucose values are significantly lower in normal weight individuals in the 3rd trimester (FPG ~71 +/- 8 mg/dl; 1 hour PP ~109 +/- 13 mg/dl; 2 hour PP 99 +/- 10 mg/dl) than current therapeutic targets ( 19 ), no RCTs have been completed to determine whether lowering the therapeutic targets results in more favorable pregnancy outcomes. A prospective study in pregnant individuals with T1DM showed less HDP with glucose targets of fasting <92 mg/dl, pre-prandial <108 mg/dl and 1 hour postprandial <140 mg/dl ( 124 ). An A1c should be done at the first visit and every 1-3 months thereafter depending on if at target or not (<6% if possible, with minimal hypoglycemia) ( 11 , 30 ). Additional labs and exams recommended for individuals with pregestational diabetes during pregnancy are summarized in Table 2 . Table 2. Evaluation of Pregnant Individuals with Pregestational Diabetes View in own window A1c Initially and every 1 – 3 months TSH TSH every trimester if + TPO antibodies TG Repeat if borderline due to doubling in pregnancy ALT; AST For evaluation for MASLD and as baseline HDP labs Cr; Urine albumin or protein If abnormal, obtain 24-hour urine for protein and estimated CrCl Repeat Prot/Cr ratio or 24-hour urine every 1 – 3 months if significant proteinuria or hypertension Ferritin, B12 Obtain for anemia or abnormal MCV,
