Pregestational Diabetes Mellitus
KEYWORDS: pregnancy, diabetes, pubmed, individuals, insulin, risk, crossref, doi, pubmed crossref, pregnant, glucose, type, women, outcomes, type diabetes


urine for protein and estimated CrCl Repeat Prot/Cr ratio or 24-hour urine every 1 – 3 months if significant proteinuria or hypertension Ferritin, B12 Obtain for anemia or abnormal MCV, especially B12 if T1DM DM Baseline HDP labs Consider Uric Acid; Obtain CBC with platelet count in addition to AST, ALT, BUN, Cr, 24-hour urine for protein, Cr EKG For individuals ≥35 years or CV risk factors; Consider further evaluation if indicated Dilated Retinal Exam Within 3 months of pregnancy or first trimester and repeat evaluation according to risk of progression Abbreviations: glycosylated hemoglobin (A1c), thyroid stimulating hormone (TSH), thyroid peroxidase (TPO), triglycerides (TG), alanine aminotransferase (ALT), aspartate aminotransferase (AST), metabolic dysfunction-associated steatotic liver disease (MASLD), creatinine (Cr), electrocardiogram (EKG). The risk of maternal hypoglycemia needs to be weighed against the risk of maternal hyperglycemia. Maternal hypoglycemia is common and often severe in pregnancy in individuals with T1DM. During the first trimester, before the placenta increases the production of hormones, nausea and increased insulin sensitivity may place the mother at risk for hypoglycemia. Pregnant individuals must be counseled that their insulin requirements in the first trimester are likely to decrease by 10-20% ( 125 ). This is especially true at night when prolonged fasting and continuous fetal-placental glucose utilization places the pregnant individual at even higher risk for hypoglycemia. One of the highest risk periods for severe hypoglycemia is between midnight and 8:00 a.m. Pregnant individuals with diabetes complicated by gastroparesis or hyperemesis gravidarum are at the greatest risk for daytime hypoglycemia. In a series of 84 pregnant individuals with T1DM, hypoglycemia requiring assistance from another person occurred in 71% of individuals with a peak incidence at 10-15 weeks gestation ( 126 ). One third of individuals had at least one severe episode resulting in seizures, loss of consciousness, or injury. There are also data to suggest that the counterregulatory hormonal responses to hypoglycemia, particularly growth hormone and epinephrine, are diminished in pregnancy ( 127 , 128 ). This risk of hypoglycemia may be ameliorated if efforts are made to achieve good glycemic control in the preconception period, by the use of analogue insulins, and with the use of CGM ( 128 , 129 ). Insulin pumps with or without CGM may help achieve glycemic targets without increasing hypoglycemia ( 98 , 131 , 132 ). Use of CGM especially with real-time sensor glucose data shared with a partner has
