Pregestational Diabetes Mellitus
KEYWORDS: pregnancy, diabetes, pubmed, individuals, insulin, risk, crossref, doi, pubmed crossref, pregnant, glucose, type, women, outcomes, type diabetes


CGM may help achieve glycemic targets without increasing hypoglycemia ( 98 , 131 , 132 ). Use of CGM especially with real-time sensor glucose data shared with a partner has been shown to reduce fear of hypoglycemia in pregnancy. The risk of hypoglycemia is also present in pregnant individuals with T2DM but tends to be less so than in individuals with T1DM ( 133 ). The risk of hypoglycemia to the fetus is difficult to study but animal studies indicate that hypoglycemia is potentially teratogenic during organogenesis ( 134 ). Exposure to hypoglycemia in utero may have long-term effects on the offspring including neuropsychological defects ( 134 ). To help reduce risk of nocturnal hypoglycemia, individuals with T1DM may need a small bedtime snack and/or reduce overnight basal insulin doses. Every pregnant individual should have a glucagon emergency kit (intramuscular injection or intranasal) and carry easily absorbed carbohydrate at all times. Education of individuals and care providers to avoid hypoglycemia can reduce the incidence of hypoglycemia unawareness. The incidence of severe hypoglycemia in pregnant individuals with T1DM can be reduced without significantly increasing A1c levels and is a priority given hypoglycemic unawareness worsens with repeated episodes and can result in maternal seizures and rarely maternal death ( 135 ). By 18-20 weeks of gestation, peripheral insulin resistance increases resulting in increasing insulin requirements so that it is not unusual for a pregnant individual to require 2-3 times as much insulin as she did prior to pregnancy depending on baseline insulin resistance, carbohydrate intake, and body mass index. In a study of 27 individuals with T1DM on an insulin pump, the carbohydrate-to-insulin ratio intensified 4-fold from early to late pregnancy (e.g. 1 unit for every 20 grams to 1 unit for every 5 grams), and the basal insulin rates increased 50% ( 107 ). Glucose Monitoring Timing and Frequency Pregnant individuals with diabetes must frequently self-monitor their glucose to achieve tight glycemic control. Since fetal macrosomia (overgrowth) is related to both fasting and postprandial glucose excursions, pregnant individuals with diabetes need to monitor their post-meal and fasting glucoses regularly and those using a flexible intensive insulin regimen also need to monitor their pre-meal glucose values ( 136 ). Postprandial glucose measurements determine if the insulin to carbohydrate ratios is effective in meeting glycemic targets as optimal control is associated with less macrosomia, metabolic complications in the fetus, and possibly HDP (
