Pregestational Diabetes Mellitus
KEYWORDS: pregnancy, diabetes, pubmed, individuals, insulin, risk, crossref, doi, pubmed crossref, pregnant, glucose, type, women, outcomes, type diabetes


determine if the insulin to carbohydrate ratios is effective in meeting glycemic targets as optimal control is associated with less macrosomia, metabolic complications in the fetus, and possibly HDP ( 124 , 137 ). Due to the increased risk of nocturnal hypoglycemia with intensive insulin therapy, glucose monitoring during the night is often necessary given the frequent occurrence of recurrent hypoglycemia and resulting hypoglycemic unawareness with the achievement of tight glycemic control. Continuous Glucose Monitoring CGM may help identify periods of hyper- or hypoglycemia and certainly confirm glycemic patterns and variability ( 138 , 139 ). In pregnancy, the mean sensor glucose may be better at estimating glycemic control than A1c ( 140 ). The previously mentioned CONCEPTT trial was a large multicenter trial that examined CGM use in individuals planning pregnancy as well as pregnant individuals with T1DM using either MDI or insulin pump therapy ( 139 ). This study found statistically significantly lower incidence of LGA infants, less neonatal intensive care unit stays, and less neonatal hypoglycemia with CGM used compared to capillary glucose monitoring. There was a small difference in A1c among the pregnant individuals using CGM, less time spent in hyperglycemia range, and more time spent in range. Importantly this was the first study to show improvement in non-glycemic clinical outcomes for CGM use in pregnancy ( 139 ). A follow-up study to the CONCEPTT trial found that pregnant individuals using real-time CGM compared to capillary glucose monitoring were more likely to achieve ADA and NICE (National Institute of Clinical Excellence) guidelines for A1c targets by 34 weeks gestation. Similar to CONCEPTT, additional observational studies have demonstrated that modest increases (5%) in TIR are associated with improved glycemic control and reduced neonatal morbidity ( 141 , 142 ). Data on the use of CGM for pregnant individuals with T2DM is more limited and has not consistently demonstrated improved outcomes ( 143 – 145 ).There are multiple ongoing trials investigating the impact of CGM on pregnancy outcomes in individuals with T2DM ( 146 , 147 ). Given the improvement demonstrated in outcomes, the ADA recommends CGM for use in pregnant individuals with T1DM. However, due to insufficient data in pregnant individuals with T2DM, use of CGM in this population may be considered on an individualized basis. For pregnant individuals with T1DM, the International Consensus on Time in Range recommends increasing time in range in pregnancy quickly and
