Pregestational Diabetes Mellitus
KEYWORDS: pregnancy, diabetes, pubmed, individuals, insulin, risk, crossref, doi, pubmed crossref, pregnant, glucose, type, women, outcomes, type diabetes


this population may be considered on an individualized basis. For pregnant individuals with T1DM, the International Consensus on Time in Range recommends increasing time in range in pregnancy quickly and safely with a pregnancy goal sensor glucose range of 63 to 140 mg/dl with >70% time in range, <25% time above range (>140 mg/dl), <4% of time below 63 mg/dl, and <1% time below 54 mg/dl ( 148 ). The expert guidance recommends the same glucose goal ranges for pregnant individuals with T2DM or GDM but do not specify goals for time spent in each range due to lack of clear evidence in these populations. CGM has been an advancing technology with tremendous improvements in accuracy, comfort, longer duration, convenience, and insurance coverage over the past decade. Some newer CGM devices are factory calibrated and do not require fingerstick glucose calibrations. There are also flash CGM systems on the market which require scanning of the sensor with a receiver to display the sensor glucose. The Freestyle Libre and Dexcom G7 are now approved for use in pregnancy, while several others continue to be used during pregnancy off-label. Pregnant individuals with diabetes may use CGM either in conjunction with an insulin pump or with MDI therapy to help achieve glycemic control. Sensor glucose values from CGM may not be as accurate at extremes of hypo- or hyperglycemia or with rapid changes in glucose, so individuals should always check fingerstick glucose if she feels the glucose value is different than the displayed sensor glucose value. CGM values may have a lag time behind actual plasma glucose values. Glycosylated Hemoglobin (A1c) A1c may be used as a secondary measure in pregnancy with a goal of <6% considered optimal if able to be achieved without increased risk of hypoglycemia ( 7 , 11 ). Improved pregnancy outcomes have been demonstrated with A1c <6-6.5% including lower risk of congenital anomalies, HDP, preterm delivery, shoulder dystocia, and NICU admission ( 8 – 10 , 149 ). However, A1c is a summative measure that may not capture fluctuations in hypo- and hyperglycemia. Due to physiological changes in red blood cell turnover during pregnancy, A1c levels fall during normal pregnancy and levels may require more frequent monitoring than in non-pregnant populations ( 150 , 151 ). DIABETES MICROVASCULAR AND MACROVASCULAR COMPLICATIONS Individuals should be up-to-date on screening for complications of diabetes prior to conceiving. Diabetes care providers should
