Pregestational Diabetes Mellitus
KEYWORDS: pregnancy, diabetes, pubmed, individuals, insulin, risk, crossref, doi, pubmed crossref, pregnant, glucose, type, women, outcomes, type diabetes


in non-pregnant populations ( 150 , 151 ). DIABETES MICROVASCULAR AND MACROVASCULAR COMPLICATIONS Individuals should be up-to-date on screening for complications of diabetes prior to conceiving. Diabetes care providers should discuss risk of adverse pregnancy outcomes and progression of complications during pregnancy especially in individuals with retinopathy and nephropathy ( 152 , 153 ). Retinopathy Diabetic retinopathy may progress during pregnancy and throughout the first year postpartum. However, pregnancy does not cause permanent worsening in mild retinopathy ( 154 , 155 ). The cause for progression in moderate and especially severe proliferative retinopathy is likely due to a combined effect of the rapid and tight glycemic control, increased plasma volume, anemia, placental angiogenic growth factors, and the hypercoagulable state of pregnancy ( 156 , 157 ). In 179 pregnancies in individuals with T1DM who were followed prospectively, progression of retinopathy occurred in 5% of individuals. Risk factors for progression were duration of diabetes >10 years and moderate to severe background retinopathy ( 156 ). The risk of progression of retinopathy is most pronounced in individuals with more severe pregestational proliferative retinopathy, chronic hypertension, HDP, development of hypertension during pregnancy, and poor glycemic control prior to pregnancy ( 158 ). For these individuals, proliferative retinopathy may also progress during pregnancy, especially in individuals with hypertension or poor glycemic control early in pregnancy ( 159 ). Pregnancy can also contribute to macular edema, which is often reversible following delivery ( 160 ). Therefore, individuals with T1DM and T2DM should have an ophthalmological assessment before conception. All guidelines recommend that individuals have a comprehensive eye exam or fundus photography before pregnancy and in the first trimester. Laser photocoagulation for severe non-proliferative or proliferative retinopathy prior to pregnancy reduces the risk of vision loss in pregnancy and should be done prior to pregnancy ( 31 ). Individuals with low-risk eye disease should be followed by an ophthalmologist during pregnancy, but significant vision-threatening progression of retinopathy is rare in these individuals. For vision-threatening retinopathy, laser photocoagulation can be used during pregnancy ( 160 ). Safety of bevacizumab injections during pregnancy is not clear with some case reports of normal pregnancy after bevacizumab injections for macular edema in pregnancy, and other early pregnancy loss following bevacizumab injection. In individuals with severe untreated proliferative retinopathy, vaginal delivery with the Valsalva maneuver has been associated with retinal and vitreous hemorrhage. Little data exist to guide mode of delivery
