Pregestational Diabetes Mellitus
KEYWORDS: pregnancy, diabetes, pubmed, individuals, insulin, risk, crossref, doi, pubmed crossref, pregnant, glucose, type, women, outcomes, type diabetes


injection. In individuals with severe untreated proliferative retinopathy, vaginal delivery with the Valsalva maneuver has been associated with retinal and vitreous hemorrhage. Little data exist to guide mode of delivery in individuals with advanced retinal disease and some experts have suggested avoiding significant Valsalva maneuvers—instead offering assisted second-stage delivery or cesarean delivery ( 26 ). Diabetic Nephropathy/Chronic Kidney Disease Microalbuminuria and overt nephropathy are associated with increased risk of maternal and fetal complications including HDP, preterm birth, cesarean section, congenital abnormalities, SGA, NICU admission, and perinatal mortality ( 152 , 161 – 164 ). Although proteinuria increases during pregnancy in individuals with preexisting nephropathy, those with a normal glomerular filtration rate (GFR) rarely have a permanent deterioration in renal function provided blood pressure and blood glucose are well-controlled ( 165 – 167 ). Those with more severe renal insufficiency (creatinine >1.5 mg/dl) have a 30-50% risk of a permanent pregnancy-related decline in GFR ( 168 ). Among pregnant individuals with diabetes, nephropathy significantly increases the risk of HDP. Factors which may contribute to worsening nephropathy in pregnancy include the hyperfiltration of pregnancy, increase in protein intake, hypertension, and withdrawal of ACE Inhibitors or ARBs. More stringent control of blood pressure in pregnancy may reduce the likelihood of increasing protein excretion and reduced GFR. In a series of 36 pregnant individuals with T1DM and nephropathy, maternal and obstetric outcomes were strongly dependent on the degree of maternal renal function ( 169 ). In normal pregnancy, urinary albumin excretion increases up to 30 mg/day and total protein excretion increases up to 300 mg/day ( 170 ). Individuals with preexisting proteinuria often have a significant progressive increase in protein excretion, frequently into the nephrotic range, in part due to the 30-50% increase in GFR that occurs during pregnancy. Prior to conception, individuals should be screened for chronic kidney disease. Dipstick methods are unreliable and random urine protein/creatinine ratios are convenient but not as accurate as other methods in pregnancy to carefully quantify proteinuria using 24-hour urine excretion. There have not been studies looking at spot urine albumin to creatinine ratio versus 24-hour urine protein assessment in pregnant individuals with diabetes. In hypertensive pregnant individuals, one study found that the spot urine albumin to creatinine ratio had higher diagnostic accuracy than 24-hour urine protein assessment ( 171 ). It is reasonable to collect a spot urine albumin to creatinine ratio in individuals who have
