Pregestational Diabetes Mellitus
KEYWORDS: pregnancy, diabetes, pubmed, individuals, insulin, risk, crossref, doi, pubmed crossref, pregnant, glucose, type, women, outcomes, type diabetes


creatinine ratio had higher diagnostic accuracy than 24-hour urine protein assessment ( 171 ). It is reasonable to collect a spot urine albumin to creatinine ratio in individuals who have not followed through with collection of 24-hour urine specimens. There is conflicting information on whether first-trimester exposure to ACE inhibitors and ARBs is associated with an increased risk of congenital malformations. A meta-analysis, limited by small study size (786 exposed infants), demonstrated a significant risk ratio (relative risk [RR] 1.78, 95% confidence interval [CI] 1.07–2.94) for increased anomalies in infants exposed to first-trimester ACE inhibitors and ARBs ( 172 ). However, the increased risk of congenital anomalies appears to be more related to hypertension itself, rather than drug exposure. There was no statistically significant difference when ACE inhibitor and ARB exposed pregnancies were compared with other hypertensive pregnancies. A large cohort study of individuals with chronic hypertension including over 4100 pregnant individuals exposed to ACE inhibitors during the first trimester of pregnancy found no significant increase in major congenital anomalies ( 173 ). Exposure in the second and third trimesters is clearly associated with a fetal renin-angiotensin system blockade syndrome, which includes anuria in the 2nd and 3rd trimester, which may be irreversible. However, one recent case report of a pregnant individuals with anhydramnios who had ARB exposure at 30 weeks’ gestation had normalization of amniotic fluid volume after cessation of the medication. Furthermore, there were no apparent renal abnormalities at birth or 2-year follow-up ( 174 ). Individuals who are taking ACE inhibitors or ARBs should be counseled that these agents are contraindicated in the 2nd and 3rd trimesters of pregnancy. Individuals who are actively trying to get pregnant should be switched to calcium channel blockers (such as nifedipine or diltiazem), methyldopa, hydralazine, or selected B-adrenergic blockers (such as labetalol). Individuals who are considering pregnancy but not likely to become pregnant in a short time and who are receiving renal protection from ACE inhibitors or ARBs due to significant underlying renal disease can be counseled to continue these agents. However, they should closely monitor their menstrual cycles and stop these agents as soon as pregnancy is confirmed. Individuals with severe renal insufficiency should be counseled that their chances for a favorable obstetric outcome may be higher with a successful renal transplant. Individuals with good function of their renal allografts who have only mild hypertension, do not require high doses
