Pregestational Diabetes Mellitus
KEYWORDS: pregnancy, diabetes, pubmed, individuals, insulin, risk, crossref, doi, pubmed crossref, pregnant, glucose, type, women, outcomes, type diabetes


a favorable obstetric outcome may be higher with a successful renal transplant. Individuals with good function of their renal allografts who have only mild hypertension, do not require high doses of immunosuppressive agents, and are 1-2 years post-transplant have a better prognosis than individuals with severe renal insufficiency and who are likely to require dialysis during pregnancy. Successful pregnancy outcomes have been reported in 89% of these individuals who underwent renal transplant ( 175 ). Timing of conception in relation to transplant is controversial and should be individualized. Graft function can help predict risk of adverse pregnancy outcomes, including HDP and Pre-pregnancy graft function ( 176 ). Cardiovascular Disease Although infrequent, cardiovascular disease (CVD) can occur in individuals of reproductive age with diabetes. The increasing prevalence of T2DM with associated hyperlipidemia, hypertension, obesity, and advanced maternal age (>35) is further increasing the prevalence of CVD. CVD most often occurs in individuals with long-standing diabetes, hypertension, and nephropathy ( 177 ). Because of the high morbidity and mortality of coronary artery disease in pregnancy, individuals with pregestational diabetes and cardiac risk factors such as hyperlipidemia, hypertension, smoking, advanced maternal age, or a strong family history should have their cardiac status assessed with functional testing prior to conception ( 11 , 178 ). There are limited case reports of coronary artery disease events during pregnancy, but with the increased oxygen demand from increased cardiac output, events do occur and need to be treated similarly to outside of pregnancy, trying to minimize radiation exposure to the fetus ( 177 , 179 , 180 ). In a recent study of 79 individuals with history of coronary artery disease prior to pregnancy, there were low rates of cardiac events during pregnancy in all individuals with and without diabetes but more frequent poor obstetric and neonatal outcomes including SGA, HDP, and preterm delivery. Due to the increased cardiac output of pregnancy, decrease in systemic vascular resistance, and increase in oxygen consumption, the risk of myocardial ischemia is higher in pregnancy. Myocardial oxygen demands are even higher at labor and delivery, and activation of catecholamines and stress hormones can cause myocardial ischemia. Coronary artery dissection is also more common in pregnancy and typical chest pain should be appropriately evaluated. An electrocardiogram (EKG) should be considered preconception for any individual with diabetes older than 35 years ( 26 ). Individuals with longstanding diabetes and especially those with other
