Pregestational Diabetes Mellitus
KEYWORDS: pregnancy, diabetes, pubmed, individuals, insulin, risk, crossref, doi, pubmed crossref, pregnant, glucose, type, women, outcomes, type diabetes


appropriately evaluated. An electrocardiogram (EKG) should be considered preconception for any individual with diabetes older than 35 years ( 26 ). Individuals with longstanding diabetes and especially those with other risk factors for coronary artery disease (hyperlipidemia or hypertension) should be evaluated for asymptomatic coronary artery disease before becoming pregnant. Individuals with atypical chest pain, significant dyspnea, or an abnormal resting EKG should also have a cardiology consultation for consideration of a functional cardiac stress test before pregnancy. As discussed above, statins are often discontinued before conception since there is limited data about their safety during pregnancy. However, a thorough discussion of risks and benefits of continuation versus discontinuation should occur for high-risk individuals such as those with familial hypercholesterolemia and prior atherosclerotic cardiovascular disease ( 7 , 40 ). If an individual has severe hypertriglyceridemia with random triglycerides (TG) >1000 or fasting >400 mg/dl, placing her at high risk for pancreatitis, it may be necessary to continue fibrate therapy if a low-fat diet, fish oil, or niacin therapy is not effective or tolerated. Triglycerides typically double to quadruple in pregnancy placing individuals at high risk for this condition. There is inadequate data on the use of ezetimibe in pregnancy. Neuropathy There is limited data on diabetic neuropathy during pregnancy. Neuropathy may manifest as peripheral neuropathy, gastroparesis, and cardiac autonomic neuropathy. Gastroparesis may present as intractable nausea and vomiting, and it can be particularly difficult to control both the symptoms and glucose values in individuals with gastroparesis during pregnancy. For individuals with gastroparesis, timing of insulin delivery in relation to the meal needs to carefully be weighed against the risk of hypoglycemia as discussed previously. Associated Autoimmune Thyroid Disease Up to 30-40% of young individuals with T1DM have accompanying thyroid disease, and individuals with T1DM have a 5-10% risk of developing autoimmune thyroid disease first diagnosed in pregnancy (most commonly Hashimoto's thyroiditis) ( 181 ). Thyroid stimulating hormone (TSH) should be checked prior to pregnancy since the fetus is completely dependent on maternal thyroid hormone in the first trimester ( 182 , 183 ). Pregnant individuals with positive thyroid peroxidase (TPO) antibodies should have their TSH checked in each trimester ( Table 2 ) since the demands of pregnancy can unmask decreased thyroid reserve from Hashimoto’s thyroiditis. Thyroid hormone requirements increase by 30-50% in most pregnant individuals, often early in pregnancy due to increase in thyroid binding globulin stimulated by
