Pregestational Diabetes Mellitus
KEYWORDS: pregnancy, diabetes, pubmed, individuals, insulin, risk, crossref, doi, pubmed crossref, pregnant, glucose, type, women, outcomes, type diabetes


unmask decreased thyroid reserve from Hashimoto’s thyroiditis. Thyroid hormone requirements increase by 30-50% in most pregnant individuals, often early in pregnancy due to increase in thyroid binding globulin stimulated by estrogen. For most individuals on thyroid hormone replacement prior to pregnancy, the American Thyroid Association (ATA) and ACOG recommend TSH be within the trimester-specific reference range for pregnancy at a particular lab, or if not provided, preconception and first trimester TSH <2.5 mU/L and second and third trimester TSH goals <3 mU/L, and thyroid hormone replacement should be adjusted to achieve these goals ( 184 , 185 ). For diagnosis of hypothyroidism during pregnancy, recent recommendations from the ATA recommend new reference ranges for TSH during pregnancy and screening in individuals with history of T1DM each trimester with reference range being 0.4 from the lower limit of the nonpregnant TSH reference range and 0.5 from the upper non-pregnant range which results in a new TSH range of ~0.1-4mUl/L ( 184 , 186 ). This recommendation is based on the TSH range in pregnant individuals in the Maternal Fetal Medicine Units Network in which there was no benefit in treating individuals with levothyroxine with TSH <4 ( 184 , 186 ). Other Autoimmune Conditions Other autoimmune conditions are also more common among individuals with T1DM compared with individuals without T1DM. Celiac disease has been estimated to have a prevalence of 3-9% in individuals with T1DM and is more common among females than males ( 187 , 188 ). This can often lead to vitamin D deficiency and iron deficiency, and it is reasonable to screen individuals with T1DM for vitamin D deficiency in pregnancy if they have not been previously screened. Autoimmune gastritis and pernicious anemia are also more common among individuals with T1DM with a prevalence approximating 5-10% and 1-3%, respectively ( 189 ). Addison’s disease is also seen in 0.5-1% of individuals with T1DM ( 189 ). Diabetic Ketoacidosis in Pregnancy Pregnancy predisposes to accelerated starvation with enhanced lipolysis, which can result in ketonuria after an overnight fast. DKA may therefore occur at lower glucose levels (~200 mg/dl), often referred to as "euglycemic DKA" of pregnancy, and may develop more rapidly than it does in non-pregnant individuals( 190 , 191 ). Up to 30% of episodes of DKA in pregnant individuals with diabetes occur with glucose values <250 mg/dl. Pregnant individuals also have a lower buffering capacity due to
