Pregestational Diabetes Mellitus
KEYWORDS: pregnancy, diabetes, pubmed, individuals, insulin, risk, crossref, doi, pubmed crossref, pregnant, glucose, type, women, outcomes, type diabetes


191 ). Up to 30% of episodes of DKA in pregnant individuals with diabetes occur with glucose values <250 mg/dl. Pregnant individuals also have a lower buffering capacity due to the progesterone-induced respiratory alkalosis resulting in compensatory metabolic acidosis. Furthermore, euglycemic DKA is not uncommon in pregnancy due to the increased propensity to ketosis in pregnant individuals and glomerular hyperfiltration in pregnancy which causes glycosuria at lower serum glucoses. Any pregnant individual with T1DM with a glucose >200 mg/dL, with unexplained weight loss or who is unable to keep down food or fluids should check urine ketones at home. If positive, arterial pH, serum bicarbonate level, anion gap and serum ketones should be obtained to assess for DKA ( 11 ). Maternal DKA is associated with significant risk to the fetus and poor neonatal outcomes including morbidity and mortality. Cardiotography of the fetus during maternal DKA may suggest fetal distress (as evidenced by late decelerations). In a study of 20 consecutive cases of DKA, only 65% of fetuses were alive on admission to the hospital ( 191 ). Risk factors for fetal loss included DKA presenting later in pregnancy (mean gestational age 31 weeks versus 24 weeks); glucose > 800 mg/dl; BUN > 20 mg/dl; osmolality > 300 mmol/L; high insulin requirements; and longer duration until resolution of DKA. The fetal heart rate must be monitored continuously until the acidosis has resolved. In another case series of DKA in pregnancy, almost all individuals presented with nausea and vomiting (97%) and the majority had improvement of hyperglycemia to <200 mg/dL within 6 hours of admission and resolution of acidosis within 12 hours ( 192 ). Causes of DKA in pregnancy vary widely with infection less common as a precipitant compared with cases outside of pregnancy ( 193 ). Of the infectious causes, pyelonephritis is the most common. However, there is often no precipitant other than emesis in the pregnant individual who can develop starvation ketosis very quickly. In a 2024 case series of 129 admissions for DKA, the most common precipitating factors were vomiting or gastrointestinal illness (38%), infection (26%), and insulin nonadherence (21%) ( 194 ). Those with T1DM had higher serum glucoses and serum ketones on admission but those with T2DM required intravenous insulin therapy for a longer duration. Overall, those pregnant individuals with at least one admission for DKA during pregnancy delivered preterm with a median gestational age
