Pregestational Diabetes Mellitus
KEYWORDS: pregnancy, diabetes, pubmed, individuals, insulin, risk, crossref, doi, pubmed crossref, pregnant, glucose, type, women, outcomes, type diabetes


with T2DM required intravenous insulin therapy for a longer duration. Overall, those pregnant individuals with at least one admission for DKA during pregnancy delivered preterm with a median gestational age of approximately 35 weeks. Prolonged fasting is a common precipitant for DKA, and it has been shown that even individuals with GDM can become severely ketotic if they are given B-mimetic tocolytic medications or betamethasone (to accelerate fetal lung maturity) in the face of prolonged fasting ( 195 ). Pregnant individuals unable to take carbohydrates orally require an additional 100-150 grams of intravenous glucose to meet the metabolic demands of the pregnancy in the 2nd and 3rd trimester. Without adequate carbohydrate (often a D10 glucose solution is needed), fat will be burned for fuel and the individual in DKA will remain ketotic. Diabetic ketoacidosis carries the highest risk of fetal mortality in the third trimester thought in part due to the extreme insulin resistance and insulin requirements to treat DKA that are nearly twice as high as in the second trimester ( 191 ). Hypertensive Disorders in Pregnancy Pregnant individuals with pregestational diabetes are at increased risk of complications of pregnancy secondary to hypertensive disease ( 11 , 196 ). Serum creatinine, AST, ALT, and platelets as well as proteinuria (24-hour collection or random protein to creatinine ratio) should be collected as early as possible in pregnancy to establish a baseline and provide counseling on risks associated with significant proteinuria or renal failure. The updated ACC/AHA categorization of normal and abnormal blood pressure ranges outside of pregnancy have not been adopted in the obstetric population ( 197 ). Normal blood pressure values in pregnancy are defined as <140/90 mmHg; blood pressures ≥160/110 mmHg are considered severely elevated and warrant prompt treatment for maternal stroke prevention ( 198 ). Although outside of pregnancy achieving a BP < 120/80 mmHg is renal-protective, there are no prospective trials that have demonstrated that achieving this goal improves pregnancy outcomes. Historically, establishing blood pressure thresholds at which treatment should be initiated in those with chronic hypertension has been challenging due to the competing interests of the mother and fetus ( 198 , 199 ). Concerns include the potential for relative hypotension to increase the risk for poor uteroplacental perfusion and fetal growth restriction, balanced against the increased risk of stroke, placental abruption, and preterm delivery with poorly controlled blood pressure ( 200 – 202 ).
