Pregestational Diabetes Mellitus
KEYWORDS: pregnancy, diabetes, pubmed, individuals, insulin, risk, crossref, doi, pubmed crossref, pregnant, glucose, type, women, outcomes, type diabetes


for poor uteroplacental perfusion and fetal growth restriction, balanced against the increased risk of stroke, placental abruption, and preterm delivery with poorly controlled blood pressure ( 200 – 202 ). The 2015 international Control of Hypertension in Pregnancy Study (CHIPS) trial compared less-tight blood pressure control (target diastolic 100 mm Hg) to tight control (target diastolic 85 mm Hg) and found that tighter control was associated with lower frequency of severe hypertension ( 203 ). There was no difference in the frequency of pregnancy loss, higher level neonatal care, or severe maternal complications. The US Chronic Hypertension and Pregnancy (CHAP) trial found that titration of antihypertensive therapy to achieve a systolic pressure <140 mm Hg and diastolic pressure <90 mm Hg, compared with treatment only for systolic pressure, ≥160 mm Hg or diastolic pressure, ≥105 mm Hg, led to lower rates of adverse pregnancy outcomes without an increased risk of fetal growth restriction ( 204 ). A secondary analysis of the CHAP trial showed that those who achieved a blood pressure below 130/80 mm Hg, compared to blood pressures of 130-139/80-89 mm Hg, were at lower risk of adverse pregnancy outcomes ( 205 ). Thus, among individuals with pregestational diabetes and chronic hypertension, blood pressure treatment should be continued or initiated and titrated with a goal value of ~135/85 mmHg( 7 , 167 ). A lower goal of 120/80 mmHg should be achieved in the setting of diabetic nephropathy ( 167 ). Individuals with diabetic nephropathy are at extremely high risk of developing HDP which often leads to intrauterine growth restriction and prematurity. Even individuals with microalbuminuria are at a higher risk of HDP than individuals without microalbuminuria. Blood pressure control is imperative to try to minimize the deterioration of renal function. Preferred anti-hypertensive agents in pregnancy include calcium channel blockers (nifedipine, amlodipine), select beta-blockers (labetalol), and alpha-2 agonists (methyldopa) ( 198 ). ACE inhibitors and ARBs are contraindicated in all trimesters of pregnancy and diuretics are reserved for the treatment of pulmonary edema due to concerns that further decreasing the intravascular volume with diuretics could further compromise tissue and placental perfusion. All classes of hypertensive agents are safe in lactating mothers in the postpartum period ( 206 ). After 20-24 weeks gestation, elevated blood pressure should prompt evaluation for HDP. The etiology and pathophysiology of HDP continues to be incompletely characterized, though evidence strongly suggests the microvascular disease may
