Pregestational Diabetes Mellitus
KEYWORDS: pregnancy, diabetes, pubmed, individuals, insulin, risk, crossref, doi, pubmed crossref, pregnant, glucose, type, women, outcomes, type diabetes


20-24 weeks gestation, elevated blood pressure should prompt evaluation for HDP. The etiology and pathophysiology of HDP continues to be incompletely characterized, though evidence strongly suggests the microvascular disease may begin early in pregnancy at the time of implantation and manifest in the second or third trimesters ( 198 , 207 ). As a result, treatment of elevated blood pressure has not been shown to prevent HDP. Since 2014, the US Preventative Task Force (USPSTF) recommends low dose aspirin of 81 mg daily after 12 weeks’ gestation for those at high risk of HDP who do not have a contraindication to aspirin use ( 198 , 208 , 209 ). High risk factors, including pregestational diabetes, chronic hypertension, history of HDP, and renal disease, should prompt low-dose aspirin initiation in the second trimester; ≥2 moderate risk factors such as nulliparity, obesity, age ≥35, family history of HDP, or personal socioeconomic or poor obstetric history should also prompt use of low-dose aspirin ( 208 , 209 ). Recent data suggests that doses of aspirin above 100 mg may be required for HDP reduction ( 210 , 211 ). However, recommendations for low dose 81 mg aspirin from USPSTF and ACOG remain unchanged. FETAL SURVEILLANCE Maternal hyperglycemia has temporal effects on the developing pregnancy based on gestational age at exposure ( 6 , 11 , 212 ). Hyperglycemia around the time of conception and early pregnancy is associated with increased risk of miscarriage, congenital anomalies, with cardiac malformations being most common, as well as placental dysfunction related to “end-organ damage” which could lead to growth-restricted fetuses ( 6 ). An early dating ultrasound in the first trimester is recommended to confirm gestational age of the fetus and to coordinate detailed anatomic survey at 18-20 weeks gestation. A fetal echocardiogram should be offered at 20-22 weeks if the A1c was elevated (>6.5-7.0%) during the first trimester ( 212 ). Later in pregnancy, hyperglycemia is associated with excessive weight gain in the fetus, with abdominal circumference and shoulder girth primarily measuring larger than expected for gestational age ( 213 – 215 ). Consideration can be made for serial ultrasound evaluation of fetal growth if there is suspicion of abnormal growth, though at minimum, a growth ultrasound in the third trimester should be performed ( 11 ). Serial ultrasounds are used to monitor growth and if the estimated fetal weight is less than the 10th
