Pregestational Diabetes Mellitus
KEYWORDS: pregnancy, diabetes, pubmed, individuals, insulin, risk, crossref, doi, pubmed crossref, pregnant, glucose, type, women, outcomes, type diabetes


growth ultrasound in the third trimester should be performed ( 11 ). Serial ultrasounds are used to monitor growth and if the estimated fetal weight is less than the 10th percentile (SGA), umbilical artery Doppler velocimetry as an adjunct antenatal test is recommended to estimate the degree of uteroplacental insufficiency, predict poor obstetric outcome and assist in determining the optimal timing of delivery ( 216 ). The association of pregestational diabetes and increased risk for stillbirth was documented as early as the 1950s, leading to a historical practice of intense monitoring with weekly contraction stress test and fetal lung maturity testing prior to delivery ( 217 ). Data emerged identifying congenital anomalies as a key factor in stillbirth; with increased focus on improved glycemic control in early pregnancy, stillbirth rates were reduced significantly ( 218 , 219 ). Contemporary practice typically consists of non-stress testing 1-2 times per week, with or without biophysical profile testing, with initiation around 32 weeks gestation ( 220 ). However, due to the increased risk of uteroplacental insufficiency and intrauterine fetal demise in pregnant individuals with longstanding T1DM, especially in those with microvascular disease, diabetic nephropathy, hypertension, or evidence of poor intrauterine growth, fetal surveillance may be recommended earlier. While comorbidities such as poor glycemic control, vascular complications, hypertension, or nephropathy have a summative effect on risk for perinatal complications, antenatal testing is recommended for all individuals with pregestational diabetes ( 220 ). A positive correlation between HbA1c and stillbirth is observed- the higher the HbA1c >6.5%, the higher the risk ( 221 , 222 ). Fetal hypoxia and cardiac dysfunction secondary to poor glycemic control are probably the most important pathogenic factors in stillbirths among pregnant individuals with diabetes ( 223 ). LABOR AND DELIVERY Delivery management and the timing of delivery are made according to maternal well-being, the degree of glycemic control, the presence of diabetic complications, growth of the fetus, evidence of uteroplacental insufficiency, and the results of fetal surveillance ( 224 ). A third trimester anesthesia consultation should be considered in the setting of concerns about cardiac dysfunction or ischemic heart disease, pulmonary hypertension from sleep apnea, hypertension, thromboembolic risks, potential desaturation while laying supine in individuals with severe obesity, or the possibility of difficult epidural placement or intubations. Optimal delivery timing in the setting of pregestational diabetes requires a balance of perinatal risks, typically stillbirth versus risks of prematurity. In
