Pregestational Diabetes Mellitus
KEYWORDS: pregnancy, diabetes, pubmed, individuals, insulin, risk, crossref, doi, pubmed crossref, pregnant, glucose, type, women, outcomes, type diabetes


the possibility of difficult epidural placement or intubations. Optimal delivery timing in the setting of pregestational diabetes requires a balance of perinatal risks, typically stillbirth versus risks of prematurity. In general, individuals with reassuring fetal status and adequate glycemic control can continue a pregnancy until 39 weeks gestation, though expectant management beyond the estimated due date is not advised ( 225 ). Concurrent medical complications of mother or fetus may take precedent and require consideration for delivery prior to 39 weeks ( 225 ). When late preterm delivery is necessary, it should not be delayed for administration of corticosteroids for fetal lung maturity, as this practice has not been evaluated in pregnancies complicated by pregestational diabetes, and neonatal hypoglycemia may result ( 226 ). With regards to route of delivery, vaginal delivery is preferred for pregnant individuals with diabetes due to the increased maternal morbidity of cesarean delivery such as infection, thromboembolic disease, and longer recovery time. Nevertheless, when the estimated fetal weight is >4500g in the setting of diabetes, an elective cesarean delivery may be offered ( 227 ). The target range for glycemic control during labor and at the time of delivery is 70-125 mg/dL; maintenance in this physiological range aims to reduce the risk of neonatal hypoglycemia ( 228 ). To achieve this goal, most pregnant individuals with pregestational diabetes require management with an insulin drip and a dextrose infusion, though laboring individuals can eat and continue their home insulin regimen prior to admission. Ideally scheduled cesarean deliveries will occur in the morning, so that individuals can simply reduce their morning long-acting insulin dosing by half on the day of surgery, though consideration can be made to skip it in an individual with well controlled T2DM who hadn’t required medication prior to pregnancy. A pregnant individual being admitted for scheduled induction of labor can be instructed to reduce long-acting insulin dosing for both the night before and morning of the induction ( 229 ). Once the individual is eating, the insulin drip can be discontinued and subcutaneous insulin resumed. Alternative management options include ongoing use of insulin pump or subcutaneous insulin, though both often pose logistic challenges due to the unpredictable length of labor. One 2023 trial compared intravenous insulin infusion to CSII intrapartum and found no difference in neonatal hypoglycemia ( 230 ). Prevention of neonatal hypoglycemia must be weighed against risk of maternal hypoglycemia during
