Pregestational Diabetes Mellitus
KEYWORDS: pregnancy, diabetes, pubmed, individuals, insulin, risk, crossref, doi, pubmed crossref, pregnant, glucose, type, women, outcomes, type diabetes


compared intravenous insulin infusion to CSII intrapartum and found no difference in neonatal hypoglycemia ( 230 ). Prevention of neonatal hypoglycemia must be weighed against risk of maternal hypoglycemia during labor. With the delivery of the placenta, insulin requirements drop in an acute and dramatic fashion, with most individuals needing roughly 10-30% less than their pre-pregnancy insulin doses or 1/2 to 1/3 of their third trimester insulin dosages; some individuals require no insulin for the first 24-48 hours ( 228 ). A glucose goal of 100-180 mg/dl postpartum seems prudent to avoid hypoglycemia given the high demands in caring for an infant and especially in nursing individuals as the increased caloric demands of lactation are known to reduce insulin requirements and can contribute to hypoglycemia. Immediate Risks to Newborn The immediate neonatal period is characterized by the transition from in-utero to independent physiology, with unique risks in neonates born to individuals with diabetes. Glycemic control throughout the entire gestation as well as in the hours before birth both influence this transition. As previously described, hyperglycemia early in pregnancy may result in congenital anomalies, such as cardiac anomalies, which complicate the transition to post-natal circulation. Glycemic control in the second and third trimester may result in a macrosomic infant with increased adiposity in the shoulders and abdomen. And finally, hyperglycemia during labor exacerbates the adjustment of the neonatal pancreas when glucose delivery via the placenta abruptly ceases increasing the risk of neonatal hypoglycemia. Even with aggressive management of diabetes, the incidence of neonatal complications ranges from 12-75% ( 231 ). In a large analysis of nearly 200,000 neonates, severe neonatal morbidity was increased in neonates born to individuals with pregestational diabetes compared to those with gestational diabetes or no diabetes at an odds ratio of 2.27 and 1.96 respectively ( 232 ). Driving this relationship was the increased risks of respiratory distress syndrome, mechanical ventilation, and neonatal death ( 232 ). Additionally, neonates were more likely to be LGA and require neonatal intensive care unit admission ( 232 ). In the setting of poor glycemic control, respiratory distress syndrome may occur in up to 31% of infants due to known insulin antagonism of cortisol on fetal pneumocytes and surfactant production ( 233 ). The estimated odds ratio between pregestational diabetes and neonatal respiratory distress syndrome is 2.66 ( 234 ). With extremely poor glucose control, there is also an increased risk
