Pregestational Diabetes Mellitus
KEYWORDS: pregnancy, diabetes, pubmed, individuals, insulin, risk, crossref, doi, pubmed crossref, pregnant, glucose, type, women, outcomes, type diabetes


233 ). The estimated odds ratio between pregestational diabetes and neonatal respiratory distress syndrome is 2.66 ( 234 ). With extremely poor glucose control, there is also an increased risk of fetal mortality due to fetal acidemia and hypoxia. One study found higher rates of neonatal hypoglycemia in individuals managed with continuous insulin infusion pump during pregnancy compared to multiple daily injection therapy, although confounders including early maternal BMI and duration of an insulin infusion play a role ( 235 ). Macrosomia places the mother at increased risk of requiring a cesarean section and the infant at increased risk for shoulder dystocia. Shoulder dystocia can result in Erb’s palsy, Klumpke palsy, clavicular and humeral fractures, and hypoxic ischemic encephalopathy, with overall neonatal injury rate of 5.2% ( 236 , 237 ). Shoulder dystocia occurs nearly 20% of the time when a 4500-gram infant is delivered vaginally. Nevertheless, shoulder dystocia remains challenging to predict, with 60% of shoulder dystocias occurring in neonates weighing <4000g ( 238 ). There are a number of conflicting studies regarding induction versus cesarean section for suspected macrosomia ( 239 – 241 ). A large RCT performed in France, Switzerland, and Belgium compared induction of labor at 39 weeks gestation to expectant management among individuals with LGA fetuses, though insulin-dependent diabetes was an exclusion factor ( 241 ). Induction of labor was associated with a significant reduction in the composite primary outcome (significant shoulder dystocia, fracture of the clavicle or long bone, brachial plexus injury, intracranial hemorrhage, or neonatal death), with a RR of 0.32 (95% CI 0.15-0.71) ( 241 ). While a small but significant difference in spontaneous vaginal delivery was noted between groups, rates of operative vaginal delivery and cesarean deliveries were not significantly different ( 241 ). Current guidelines from ACOG do not recommend delivery prior to 39 weeks for suspected macrosomia ( 242 ). POSTPARTUM CARE AND CONCERNS FOR PREGESTATIONAL DIABETES The postpartum care for mothers with diabetes should include counseling on a number of critical issues including maintenance of glycemic control, diet, exercise, weight loss, blood pressure management, breastfeeding, contraception/future pregnancy planning, and postpartum thyroiditis screening (for T1DM). It has been demonstrated that most individuals with pregestational diabetes, even those who have been extremely adherent and who have had optimal glycemic control during pregnancy, have a dramatic worsening of their glucose control after the birth of their infant ( 243 , 244
