Pregestational Diabetes Mellitus
KEYWORDS: pregnancy, diabetes, pubmed, individuals, insulin, risk, crossref, doi, pubmed crossref, pregnant, glucose, type, women, outcomes, type diabetes


been extremely adherent and who have had optimal glycemic control during pregnancy, have a dramatic worsening of their glucose control after the birth of their infant ( 243 , 244 ). While previously many individuals utilizing public insurance lost access as early as 6 weeks postpartum in recent years, the majority of states in the US have implemented a 12-month extension of Medicaid postpartum coverage ( 245 ). Historically, the postpartum period has been relatively neglected, as both the new mother and her physician relax their vigilance. However, this period offers a unique opportunity to institute health habits that could have highly beneficial effects on the quality of life of both the mother and her infant and potentially achieve optimal glycemic control prior to a subsequent pregnancy. Home glucose monitoring should be continued vigilantly in the postpartum period because insulin requirements drop almost immediately and often dramatically at this time, increasing the risk of hypoglycemia. Individuals with T1DM often need to decrease their third trimester insulin dosages by at least 50%, often to less than pre-pregnancy doses, immediately after delivery; they may have a "honeymoon" period for several days in which their insulin requirements are minimal. Some estimates of insulin requirements postpartum suggest that individuals may require as little as 60% of their pre-pregnancy doses, and requirements continue to be less than pre- pregnancy doses while breastfeeding ( 246 ). For individuals on an insulin pump, the postpartum basal rates can be discussed and preprogrammed prior to delivery to allow a seamless transition to the lower doses following delivery ( 247 ). If well controlled prior to pregnancy, pre-pregnancy insulin delivery settings can serve as an excellent starting point for the postpartum period, with an expected decrease in basal rates by 14% and increase in carb ratios by 10% ( 247 ). Individuals with T1DM have been reported to have a between 3-25% incidence of postpartum thyroiditis ( 248 ). Hyperthyroidism can occur in the 2–4-month postpartum period and hypothyroidism may present in the 4–8-month period. Given the significance of this disorder, a TSH measurement should be offered at 3 and 6 months postpartum and before this time if an individual has symptoms ( 184 ). Breastfeeding Both the benefits of breastfeeding- and conversely, the risks of failing to do so- are profound and well documented for both mother and child ( 249 ). Pregestational diabetes and obesity have been
