Pregestational Diabetes Mellitus
KEYWORDS: pregnancy, diabetes, pubmed, individuals, insulin, risk, crossref, doi, pubmed crossref, pregnant, glucose, type, women, outcomes, type diabetes


of breastfeeding- and conversely, the risks of failing to do so- are profound and well documented for both mother and child ( 249 ). Pregestational diabetes and obesity have been identified as an independent risk factors for low milk supply, raising the question whether the metabolic milieu during lactogenesis I in mid-pregnancy or during the transition to lactogenesis II and III after delivery may be contributing ( 250 ). Additional challenges emerge at the time of delivery, with considerable separation of mothers and infants due to NICU admission and treatment for prematurity, respiratory distress syndrome, and hyperglycemia ( 232 ). Dyads can be set up for success with policies and procedures that encourage antenatal colostrum collection, early initiation of pumping if unable to directly breastfeed, and ample lactation consultant support. Individuals with both T1DM and T2DM have lower rates of breastfeeding despite good intentions ( 251 , 252 ). When individuals have stopped breastfeeding, most stop due to low milk supply rather than diabetes specific reasons ( 253 ). When individuals with diabetes are successful in breastfeeding their infants, benefits include reduction in postpartum weight retention, reduced risk for obesity and insulin resistance in offspring ( 254 ). Conflicting data exists on the relationship between breastfeeding and the incidence of T1DM in offspring of individuals with pregestational diabetes, though breastmilk induction at the time of complementary food introduction is linked to reduced risk of islet autoimmunity and T1DM ( 255 , 256 ). Additional considerations must be made for individuals with T2DM as they consider pharmacotherapy in the postpartum period. Insulin dosing may require adjustment in the setting of breastfeeding due to increased risk of overnight hypoglycemia ( 7 ). With respect to oral agents, acceptable levels of metformin have been identified in breastmilk, rendering it a safe medication for lactating individuals ( 257 , 258 ). A small study suggested that glyburide and glipizide do not appreciably cross into breast milk and may be safe ( 259 ). There are no adequate data on the use of thiazolidinediones, meglitinides, incretin therapy, GLP-1 agonists, and SGLT2 inhibitors in nursing mothers. Statins should not be started if the individual is nursing due to inadequate studies in breastfeeding mothers. Individuals who are candidates for an ACE inhibitor can be started on one of these agents at this time as they have not been shown to appear significantly in breast milk ( 206
