Pregestational Diabetes Mellitus
KEYWORDS: pregnancy, diabetes, pubmed, individuals, insulin, risk, crossref, doi, pubmed crossref, pregnant, glucose, type, women, outcomes, type diabetes


candidates for an ACE inhibitor can be started on one of these agents at this time as they have not been shown to appear significantly in breast milk ( 206 ). Contraception Starting at puberty, it is recommended to provide individuals with diabetes preconception counseling including discussion of options for contraceptive use based on the Medical Eligibility Criteria (MEC) according to WHO and CDC ( 260 , 261 ). Counseling on contraceptive choices should be patient-centered and focused on the short- and long-term reproductive goals of the individual, taking into consideration the alternative-no contraception- and associated individualized risks of carrying a pregnancy to term. A meta-analysis found that low-income individuals with diabetes had low rates of postpartum birth control and more often were offered permanent contraception rather than reversible options ( 262 ). Taken in isolation, a diagnosis of diabetes without vascular complications is compatible with all hormonal and non-hormonal contraception options: copper intrauterine device (IUD), levonorgestrel-releasing IUD, progestin implant, depo medroxyprogesterone acetate, progestin only pills, and combined estrogen-progestin methods ( 261 ). Evidence of vascular disease is a contraindication to combined hormonal contraception and depo medroxyprogesterone acetate ( 261 ). A large study recently found an overall low risk of venous thromboembolism among individuals with T1DM and T2DM ( 263 ). Concurrent conditions and habits such as poorly controlled hypertension, hypertriglyceridemia, or smoking increase the risk of venous thromboembolic events ( 264 ). Systematic reviews failed to find sufficient evidence to assess whether progestogen-only and combined contraceptives differ from non-hormonal contraceptives in diabetes control, lipid metabolism, and complications in individuals with pregestational diabetes ( 265 , 266 ). Long-acting reversible contraception (LARC) methods lasting 3-10 years include copper and hormonal IUDs as well as progestin implants. There is no increase in pelvic inflammatory disease with the use of IUDs in individuals with well controlled T1DM or T2DM after the post-insertion period. Immediate postpartum implants and IUDs are becoming increasingly available to individuals who desire LARCs and are effective in spacing pregnancies in high-risk populations ( 267 ). For individuals who have completed childbearing and desire permanent sterilization, laparoscopic methods are safe and effective ( 268 ). OBESITY IN PREGNANCY Obesity alone or accompanied by T1DM, T2DM, or GDM carries significant risks to both the mother and the infant, and obesity is the leading health concern in pregnant individuals ( 269 – 271 ). By the most recent NHANES statistics
