Pregestational Diabetes Mellitus
KEYWORDS: pregnancy, diabetes, pubmed, individuals, insulin, risk, crossref, doi, pubmed crossref, pregnant, glucose, type, women, outcomes, type diabetes


significant risks to both the mother and the infant, and obesity is the leading health concern in pregnant individuals ( 269 – 271 ). By the most recent NHANES statistics in individuals over age 20, 57% of black individuals, 44% of Hispanic or Mexican American individuals, and 40% of white individuals are obese ( 272 ). Independent of pregestational diabetes or GDM, obesity increases the maternal risks of hypertensive disorders, MASLD, proteinuria, gall bladder disease, aspiration pneumonia, thromboembolism, sleep apnea, cardiomyopathy, and pulmonary edema ( 270 , 273 ). In addition, it increases the risk of induction of labor, failed induction of labor, cesarean delivery, multiple anesthesia complications, postoperative infections including endometritis, wound dehiscence, postpartum hemorrhage, venous thromboembolism, postpartum depression and lactation failure. Maternal obesity independently increases the risk of first trimester loss, stillbirth, recurrent pregnancy losses, and congenital malformations including CNS, cardiac, and gastrointestinal defects and cleft palate, shoulder dystocia, meconium aspiration, and impaired fetal growth including macrosomia. Most significantly, obesity increases the risk of perinatal mortality ( 269 ). Because so many individuals with T2DM are also obese, all of these complications increase the risk of poor pregnancy outcomes in this population. The majority (50-60%) of individuals who are overweight or obese prior to pregnancy gain more than the recommended amount of gestational weight by the Institute of Medicine (IOM) guidelines ( 274 , 275 ). This results in higher weight retention postpartum and higher pre-pregnancy weight for subsequent pregnancies. Obesity is an independent risk factor for congenital anomaly including spina bifida, neural tube defects, cardiac defects, cleft lip and palate, and limb reduction anomalies ( 276 ). Several reports have demonstrated an association of maternal BMI with neural tube defects and possibly other congenital anomalies ( 277 ). One study concluded that for every unit increase in BMI the relative risk of a neural tube defect increased 7% ( 277 ). In addition to an increased anomaly risk with maternal obesity, it is well known that detection of fetal anomalies in the first and second trimester is reduced by 20% due to difficulty in adequate visualization in the setting of maternal obesity ( 278 , 279 ). There is conflicting evidence on the role of folic acid in these obesity-associated congenital anomalies ( 280 – 283 ). Obese individuals with normal glucose tolerance on a controlled diet have higher glycemic patterns throughout the day and night by
