Pregestational Diabetes Mellitus
KEYWORDS: pregnancy, diabetes, pubmed, individuals, insulin, risk, crossref, doi, pubmed crossref, pregnant, glucose, type, women, outcomes, type diabetes


in these obesity-associated congenital anomalies ( 280 – 283 ). Obese individuals with normal glucose tolerance on a controlled diet have higher glycemic patterns throughout the day and night by CGM compared to normal weight individuals both early and late in pregnancy ( 284 ). The glucose area under the curve (AUC) was higher in the obese individuals both early and late in pregnancy on a controlled diet as were all glycemic values throughout the day and night. The mean 1 hour postprandial glucose during late pregnancy by CGM was 115 versus 102 mg/dl in the obese and normal weight individuals respectively and the mean 2-hour postprandial values were 107 mg/dl versus 96 mg/dl, respectively, both still much lower than current therapeutic targets (<140 mg/dl at 1 hour; < 120 mg/dl at 2 hours). Individuals with Class III obesity (BMI>40) have improved pregnancy outcomes if they undergo bariatric surgery before becoming pregnant given such surgery decreases insulin resistance resulting in less diabetes, hypertension, and macrosomia compared to those who have not had the surgery ( 285 , 286 ). In any individual who has had prior bariatric surgery, it has been shown in systematic review to reduce the rate of gestational diabetes and HDP in future pregnancies, however many studies are confounded given 80% of individuals post bariatric surgery remain obese ( 287 ). Following bariatric surgery, pregnancy should not be considered for 12-18 months post-operatively and after the rapid weight loss phase has been completed. Close attention to nutritional deficiencies must be maintained, especially with fat soluble vitamins D and K as well as folate, iron, thiamine, and B12. In a study of a cohort of infants born to obese individuals who had bariatric surgery, the offspring had improved fasting insulin levels and reduced measures of insulin resistance compared to siblings born prior to bariatric surgery ( 288 ). MEDICAL NUTRITION THERAPY, EXERCISE AND WEIGHT GAIN RECOMMENDATIONS FOR INDIVIDUALS WITH DIABETES OR OBESITY Medical nutrition therapy in collaboration with a registered dietician nutritionist remains a crucial component of achieving glycemic control and optimizing outcomes in individuals with pregestational diabetes ( 7 , 11 ). Currently, there is no consensus on the ideal macronutrient prescription for pregnant individuals or individuals with diabetes, and there is concern that significant restriction of carbohydrate (33- 40% of total calories) leads to increased fat intake given protein intake is usually fairly constant at 15-20%
