Pregestational Diabetes Mellitus
KEYWORDS: pregnancy, diabetes, pubmed, individuals, insulin, risk, crossref, doi, pubmed crossref, pregnant, glucose, type, women, outcomes, type diabetes


least a bedtime snack to minimize hypoglycemia in proper relation to insulin doses is important. Many individuals who dose prandial insulin based on an insulin to carbohydrate ratio are skilled at carbohydrate counting. Exercise is an important component of healthy lifestyle and is recommended in pregnancy by ACOG, the ADA, and Society of Obstetricians and Gynaecologists of Canada ( 30 , 304 ). The U.S. Department of Health and Human Services issued physical activity guidelines for Americans and recommend healthy pregnant and postpartum individuals receive at least 150 minutes per week of moderate-intensity aerobic activity (i.e., equivalent to brisk walking) ( 305 ). A large meta-analysis of all RCTs on diet and physical activity, which evaluated RCTs (using diet only n=13, physical activity n=18 or both n=13) concluded that dietary therapy was more effective in decreasing excess GWG and adverse pregnancy outcomes compared to physical activity ( 306 ). However, there was data suggesting that physical activity may decrease the risk of LGA infants (LGA, >90 th percentile). There was no increase in SGA infants (<10 th percentile) with physical activity. Submaximal exertion (≤70% maximal aerobic activity) does not appear to affect the fetal heart rate and although high intensity at maximal exertion has not been linked to adverse pregnancy outcomes, transient fetal bradycardia and shunting of blood flow away from the placenta and to exercising muscles has been observed with maximal exertion. Observational studies of individuals who exercise during pregnancy have shown benefits such as decreased GDM, cesarean and operative vaginal delivery, and postpartum recovery time, although evidence from RCTs is limited ( 307 , 308 ). Some data suggest that individuals who continued endurance exercise until term gained less weight and delivered slightly earlier than individuals who stopped at 28 weeks but had a lower incidence of cesarean deliveries, shorter active labor, and fewer fetuses with intolerance of labor ( 309 ). Babies weighing less were born to individuals who continued endurance exercise during pregnancy compared with a group of individuals who reduced their exercise after the 20th week (3.39 kg versus 3.81 kg). Contraindications for a controlled exercise program include individuals at risk for preterm labor or delivery or any obstetric or medical conditions predisposing to growth restriction. RISK TO OFFSPRING FROM AN INTRAUTERINE ENVIRONMENT CHARACTERIZED BY DIABETES OR OBESITY Given the strong associations between maternal diabetes and obesity and the risk of childhood obesity and glucose
