Pregestational Diabetes Mellitus
KEYWORDS: pregnancy, diabetes, pubmed, individuals, insulin, risk, crossref, doi, pubmed crossref, pregnant, glucose, type, women, outcomes, type diabetes


profile in children at 5 years of age ( 325 ). These findings further support the concept of fetal metabolic programming through epigenetic changes ( 326 ). As a result, the intrauterine metabolic environment may have a transgenerational influence on obesity and diabetes risk in the offspring, influencing appetite regulation, beta cell mass, liver dysfunction, adipocyte metabolism, and mitochondrial function. Offspring of mothers with T2DM and GDM have higher risk of childhood obesity, young adult or adolescent insulin resistance and diabetes, MASLD, hypertension, and cardiovascular disease ( 327 – 332 ) . The risk of youth onset diabetes is higher in offspring of mothers born with pregestational T2DM than with GDM (14-fold compared to 4-fold risk) ( 333 ). These epigenetic changes are not isolated to maternal BMI alone, but it has also been demonstrated that paternal factors impact offspring risk of obesity and diabetes ( 334 , 335 ). Offspring of individuals with T1DM have a risk of developing T1DM of about 1-3%. The risk is higher for the offspring if the father has T1DM rather than the mother (~3-6%) and if both parents have T1DM, the risk is ~20% ( 336 , 337 ). CONCLUSION The obstetric outlook for pregnancy in individuals with pregestational diabetes has improved over the last century and has the potential to continue to improve as rapid advances in diabetes technology and management, fetal surveillance, and neonatal care emerge. However, the greatest challenge health care providers face is the growing number of individuals developing GDM and T2DM as the obesity epidemic increases affecting individuals prior to pregnancy. In addition, the prevalence of T1DM is increasing globally. Furthermore, obesity-related complications exert a further deleterious effect on pregnancy outcomes. The development of T2DM in individuals with a history of GDM as well as obesity and glucose intolerance in the offspring of individuals with pregestational DM or GDM set the stage for a perpetuating cycle that must be aggressively addressed with effective primary prevention strategies that begin in-utero. Pregnancy is clearly a unique opportunity to implement strategies to improve the mother’s lifetime risk for CVD in addition to that of her offspring and offers the potential to decrease the intergenerational risk of obesity, diabetes, and other metabolic derangements. REFERENCES 1. Louis JM, Bryant A, Ramos D, Stuebe A, Blackwell SC. Interpregnancy Care. Am J Obstet Gynecol 2019;220(1):B2–B18. [ PubMed : 30579872 ] 2. Practice AS for RM&
