RamírezSevillaetal.BMCInfectiousDiseases (2019) 19:901
KEYWORDS: uti, uromune, urinary, patients, women, treatment, tract, study, infections, results, urinary tract, tract infections, episodes, uti uti, group


were the reason for more 100mgr orally every 24h for 6months [10–12]. Pro- than six million consultations in the USA during the longed consumption of antibiotics is not free of side year 2007 . According to Nicolle LE , UTI are the effects. They can damage the intestinal microbiota and second cause of hospitalization due to infectious disease favorthe emergenceofbacterial resistance. in people over 65years. It is also estimated that one to In view of this situation andas an alternative toantibi- three women under 24years of age have required anti- otics for the preventionof uncomplicated recurrent UTI, biotic treatment because ofan episode ofUTI.Addition- a bacterial vaccine called uromune®, manufactured by ally, 15% of sexually active women will have a urinary Inmunotek (Madrid, Spain) and distributed by Q Pharma infection, and up to 60% of women will have an episode (Alicante,Spain)wasmarketedinSpaininOctober2010. ofUTIthroughout life. Urinary tract infections can be classified according to Objective their location in the upper or lower urinary tract. They To prospectively analyze the efficacy of uromune® in the can be acute or chronic; complicated or uncomplicated; prevention of uncomplicated recurrent UTI 3 and 6 symptomatic or asymptomatic; and initial, persistent or months after the end of treatment. To analyze the distri- recurrent. bution of positive urine cultures post-treatment with Uncomplicated UTI are defined as urine infections uromune® according to gender and in menopause with that occur in the absence of functional or anatomical respect topre-menopause. alterations of the urinary tract. In contrast, complicated UTI occur secondarily to functional or anatomical urin- Methods ary disorders that facilitate the persistence, recurrence, This study was prospective, descriptive and not com- andfailure oftreatment. parative. The inclusion of patients was performed Urinary tract infections are symptomatic when there consecutively inanExceldatabase. such as micturition, dysuria, or pollakiuria; and there are December 2017, uromune® was administered to a total Urinary tract infections are recurrent when at least history of three or more uncomplicated UTI in the 12 two episodes appear over a 6months period, or three months prior to their first visit. Six hundred nineteen where they cause cystitis. Women can be up to 30 times belongingtotheprovinceofBarcelona,Spain. more predisposedthanmen tosufferfrom them . Uromune® was administered sublingually in the form AmongfemalesuncomplicatedUTIhaveahigherinci- of a spray, with two pumps following fasting and at a dence between 18 and 39years of age, coinciding with temperature not higher than 24 degrees Celsius, every the period of highest sexual activity. On
