RamírezSevillaetal.BMCInfectiousDiseases (2019) 19:901
KEYWORDS: uti, uromune, urinary, patients, women, treatment, tract, study, infections, results, urinary tract, tract infections, episodes, uti uti, group


pumps following fasting and at a dence between 18 and 39years of age, coinciding with temperature not higher than 24 degrees Celsius, every the period of highest sexual activity. On the other hand, 24h for a continuous period of 3months. The treatment with the increase in life expectancy of the population, it was only interrupted in those episodes of a fever over 38 is estimated that UTI will rise in people over 65years of degrees Celsius of any origin, restarting it once the ageinthecomingdecades.Itisalsoestimated thatupto febrile episode wasresolved. 25% of women will have some recurrence, and 27% will Each pump of uromune® was equivalent to a suspen- bewithin thesame year. sion of 10 to the 9 inactive whole bacteria / ml, with an The most frequent pathogen isolated in patients with equal percentage for the four strains of the four most UTI is Escherichia coli with 80%, followed by Klebsiella common pathogens causing UTI in Spain: Escherichia pneumoniae, Proteus spp, Enterococcus spp, and Staphylo- coli, Klebsiella pneumoniae, Proteus vulgaris and Entero- coccussaprophyticus. coccus faecalis. The content was left under the tongue Each episode of urinary infection in premenopausal for 1min, without the patient swallowing saliva for bet- women is associated with 6.1days of symptoms, 2.4days terabsorption . of school or work absenteeism and 0.4days of need to All patients initially underwent detailed anamnesis and bebedridden.Thecost oftreatingUTI inthe USwas an abdominal and genital physical examination blood estimated in 2008 at more than 2.5 trillion dollars4. For analysis, urine culture and reno-vesical ultrasound in these reasons, UTI have a great impact on the quality of women and reno-vesico-prostatic ultrasound in men lifeandtheeconomy. were performed. In cases of suspected complicated UTI, The recommendation in the prophylaxis of recurrent a urethrocystoscopy, urinary cytology, abdominal CT, urinary tract infections is continued antibiotic treatment, uroflowmetry andurodynamicswere alsoperformed. RamírezSevillaetal.BMCInfectiousDiseases (2019) 19:901 Page3of7 We defined causes of exclusion of the study the pres- the Social Sciences) version 15.0, which is a statistical ence of neurogenic bladder, symptomatic urinary lithia- analysis softwarethroughsyntaxandprocesses. sis, ureteral catheter or nephrostomy, moderate-severe From the sample of the study, the metric data was urinary incontinence defined as the presence of three or obtained for the quantitative variables that allowed the more one-hour pad test equal to or greater than 50cc, calculation of the statistical indexes, and the non-metric benign hyperplasia of prostate (BPH) in progression data forthecategorical variables. defined as patients with IPSS greater
