RamírezSevillaetal.BMCInfectiousDiseases (2019) 19:901
KEYWORDS: uti, uromune, urinary, patients, women, treatment, tract, study, infections, results, urinary tract, tract infections, episodes, uti uti, group


equal to or greater than 50cc, calculation of the statistical indexes, and the non-metric benign hyperplasia of prostate (BPH) in progression data forthecategorical variables. defined as patients with IPSS greater than 15 despite The qualitative variables weremeasured as numberand medical treatment combined with alpha-blockers and proportion. The quantitative variables were expressed by inhibitors of 5-phosphodiesterase, BPH and cystocele the mean and median central tendency statistics, and by with postvoid residual greater than 100ml and patients the statistics of standard deviation and range dispersion. with Bricker urinary diversion, neobladder and cutane- To compare proportions, the Chi-square test was used ous urostomy. with the Fisher modification when necessary. The The variables analyzedwere age, gender, andthe num- comparisonbetweenquantitativevariableswasperformed ber of UTI with positive urine culture in the first con- usingtheStudent’sttest. sultation and3and6monthsaftertheendoftreatment. Inall patientsincluded inthe sample of thisstudy,uro- The results were compared with positive urine culture at mune® was used as the first choice in the prophylaxis of 3and6monthsaftertheendofthetreatment,accordingto uncomplicated recurrent UTI. We defined a favorable or gender and also in the menopausal group, with respect to effective response to the existence of zero or one episode pre-menopausal women. The pre-menopause was defined of UTI at 3 and 6months after finishing treatment with in this study as women under 50years of age, and meno- uromune®. pauseaswomenofageequaltoorgreaterthan50yearsold. The side effects of uromune® therapy were local and It is a prospective study started in September 2011 rare. There were registered 8 patients with dry mouth, 4 and six urologists have participated. All the patients with gastritis and 3 with sickness. The duration was less came from urban areas and were selected consecutively than 7days except in 2 cases of dry mouth that lasted until December of 2017, taking into account that all had 15days. Three patients discontinued the treatment for had three or more episodes of uncomplicated UTI inthe 10days due to fever secondary a respiratory infection 12monthspriortothestartoftreatmentwithuromune®, and subsequently continued the therapy. No secondary and taking into account as well the exclusion criteria effectsweregrounds for abandonmentoftreatment. mentionedbefore. The variables studied were recorded in an Excel data- Results base and subsequently exported to carry out the process The meanagewas 73.5years,witha range of19–97years of the data to the SPSS system (Statistical Package for and a standard derivation of 12.75. 82.7% (648) were Fig.1DistributionoftheUTInumberinthefirstvisit RamírezSevillaetal.BMCInfectiousDiseases (2019) 19:901 Page4of7 Fig.2UTIresultsthreeandsixmonthsaftertreatmentwithuromune® women and 17.3% (136) men. 94.3% (611 women) were 5%) presented Escherichia coli and 273 (34,8%) presented menopausaland5.7%(37)pre-menopausal.Themostfre-
