C S
KEYWORDS: csf, leakage, surgery, csf leakage, rhinorrhea, nasal, cerebrospinal, fluid, repair, trans-sphenoidal, leak, patient, cerebrospinal fluid, gelatin, csf rhinorrhea


C S LINICAL TUDY A Novel Nasal Endoscopy-Assisted Method for Sealing Cerebrospinal Fluid Rhinorrhea craniotomy is an effective method for treating cerebrospinal Abstract: Cerebrospinal fluid (CSF) rhinorrhea is one of the fluid leakage and reducing complications of meningitis. Pre- mostcommoncomplicationsaftertrans-sphenoidalsurgery.At vious studies have recommended trans-sphenoidal surgery as present, transcranial or endoscopic surgery for CSF leakage the initial treatment for repairing CSF leakage.4 Fascia grafts requiresgeneralanesthesiatoremoveautologousfatorfasciato and/or fat obtained from the patient’s thighs or abdomen are repair the leak, which is traumatic and costly. The authors effectivematerialsforrepairingCSFleaks.However,theabove- mentioned surgery for repairing cerebrospinal fluid leakage re- present a case of a 25-year-old male patient with pituitary ad- quiresgeneralanesthesia,whichincreasestheeconomicburden enoma who experienced CSF rhinorrhea 10 days after under- onthepatients,andthepostoperativerecoverytimeisrelatively going endoscopic resection of the tumor. The authors long. In this article, we report 1 case suffering from early CSF innovatively sequential filled the leak with a gelatin sponge rhinorrhea,inwhichanovelmethodwasappliedtosealleakage soaked in povidone-iodine solution and iodinated gauze under with thehelp of nasalendoscopy. outpatientnasalendoscopy.Thefollow-upof6monthsshowed no recurrence of CSF leakage. CSF leakage is the most com- CASE REPORT mon complication of trans-sphenoidal surgery. The authors A25-year-oldmalepatientwithpituitaryadenomaexperienced suggestthatforsmallcerebrospinalfluidleaksintheearlystage CSF rhinorrhea 10 days after undergoing endoscopic resection after trans-sphenoidal surgery, the leakage should be first of the tumor (Fig. 1A). We innovatively sequential filled the filled with gelatin sponge and iodoform gauze sequentially leak with gelatin sponge soaked in a povidone-iodine solution, under outpatient nasal endoscopy, which may achieve a iodinated gauze, and local pressurization (Fig. 1B). Removed completecure. all fillers after 2 weeks. The follow-up of 6 months showed no recurrence ofCSFleakage (Fig. 1C). KeyWords:Cerebrospinalfluidleak,endoscopictrans-sphenoidal DISCUSSION surgery,otorhinolaryngology,pituitaryadenoma One of the most common complications of trans-sphenoidal (J Craniofac Surg2024;35:1507–1508) surgery is CSF leakage. The success rate of conservative man- agement of dural defects is only 50%.5 Patients need to rest in bed for a certain period of time to avoid high intra-abdominal Althoughthesurgicaltechniqueoftrans-sphenoidalresection pressure, prophylactic antibiotic therapy, and are prohibited of pituitary tumors has made great progress in the past from nose blowing sneezing with the mouth closed. Blowing decade, the postoperative complication rate still exceeds 20%.1 Continuous cerebrospinal fluid leakage can affect the daily life their nose. Some scholars suggest conservative treatment for 4 to10days,whereasotherssuggestconservativetreatmentfor2 ofpatientsandmayalsocauseseriouscomplications,increasing theriskofdeath.2Themainmanifestationofcerebrospinalfluid to6 weeks.Previousstudies haveshown that~90%of patients (CSF)rhinorrheaistheclearandnon-coagulatedliquidflowing with CSF leaks require surgical treatment. In most cases, the endoscopicendonasalapproachispreferred,andinafewcases, out of the nasal cavity. Delayed CSF leakage and lack of ef- opensurgicalrepairisrequiredthroughcraniotomy.However, fective leak repair methods are important causes of CSF especially
