Li et al. Virology Journal (2023) 20:251 Virology Journal
KEYWORDS: infection, viral, cells, motility, neurons, virus, ens, hsv-, infected, vzv, intestinal, viral infection, nerve, disorders, mice


a link to the Creative Commons licence, and indicate if changes were made. The images or other third party material in this article are included in the article’s Creative Commons licence, unless indicated otherwise in a credit line to the material. If material is not included in the article’s Creative Commons licence and your intended use is not permitted by statutory regulation or exceeds the permitted use, you will Creative Commons Public Domain Dedication waiver ( applies to the data made available in this article, unless otherwise stated in a credit line to the data. Introduction they also express mRNAs encoding ORFs 4, 21, 29, 40, At present, gastrointestinal (GI) motility disorders are 62, and 63, with ORF 62 and 29 proteins in the cytoplasm motor or sensory disorders of the gastrointestinal tract . During latent infection, latent genome replication caused by disorders in the regulation of nerve innerva- is not completely turned off, and there are several viral tion, such as achalasia, esophageal reflux disease and genes that accumulate in neurons in addition to latent- intestinal pseudo-obstruction [1–4]. However, there are associated transcripts . In contrast, in lytic infection, other diseases, such as functional gastrointestinal disor- neurons die within 48 hours when exposed to nonneu- ders and some systemic diseases, that are also accompa- ronal cell-associated VZV. During this period, neurons nied by GI motility abnormalities . These GI motility express gB, gE, ORF 62p and ORF 29p. ORF 62 and ORF disorders affect a large proportion of the population and 29 proteins are located in the nucleus when lytic infec- affect their quality of life . The prevalence of functional tion occurs . dyspepsia is approximately 16% worldwide . As a kind Additionally, infections of the enteric nervous system of esophageal motility disorder, the prevalence of acha- may be associated with vaccine administration. Stud- lasia is as high as 12.6/100,000 . The motor function ies have shown that either through natural infection or of the GI tract depends on the GI nervous system . through varicella vaccination, almost everyone exposed Motility dysfunction caused by functional or anatomi- to VZV acquires latent VZV in the ENS . cal changes in the GI nervous system is one of the main Viral infection-induced damage to neural pathways factors contributing to these diseases. Some neurotropic viruses can infect the GI nervous system and cause To some extent, viruses can become pathogenic by
