Li et al. Virology Journal (2023) 20:251 Virology Journal
KEYWORDS: infection, viral, cells, motility, neurons, virus, ens, hsv-, infected, vzv, intestinal, viral infection, nerve, disorders, mice


Viral infection-induced damage to neural pathways factors contributing to these diseases. Some neurotropic viruses can infect the GI nervous system and cause To some extent, viruses can become pathogenic by infect- enteric neuromuscular dysfunction along with nerve ing nerves and damaging neurons. For GI motility dis- damage . Among them, the rate of varicella zoster eases, the virus invades the nerve and causes damage in virus infection has been reported to be essentially higher several ways, including retrograde axonal transport after in patients with achalasia than in controls . The diges- the infection of nerve endings, hematopoietic spread tive system of vertebrates has a very complex neural net- after the infection of lymphocytes, and the involvement work. First, as with most systems, the digestive system of nociceptors or ACE2 receptors (Fig. 2). receives extrinsic neuronal innervation from autonomic nerves, including sensory nerve fibers from the vagus Axonal transport of viruses ganglia and dorsal root ganglia in the spinal cord . Transmission from the skin surface Second, the digestive system has its own unique intrin- Varicella-zoster virus is a type of neurotropic virus . sic nervous system, namely, the enteric nervous system Some experiments in which the skin and guts of ani- (ENS) [14–16]. The ENS is the largest and most complex mals are double-labeled with retrograde tracers have part of the peripheral nervous system and con- shown that the virus can be transported retrogradely sists of the neurons and glia in two major plexuses: the along nerve fibers . Sensory nerves innervating myenteric plexus and the submucosal plexus . This the skin become demyelinated within the epidermis. In article provides a systematic review of the literature on a varicella attack, when the epidermis is infected with the mechanism of neurological damage caused by viruses VZV, the unmyelinated sensory nerves under the area of in GI motility disorders. The literature search process VZV-infected skin become infected with cell-free viri- cited in this paper is shown in Fig. 1. ons . After infection, cell-free virions propagate in a retrograde manner along sensory pathways to the dorsal Viral infection of the intestinal ganglia root ganglion (DRG). In addition, a subset of DRG neu- At present, there is evidence that the viruses that infect rons send nerve fibers that meander to the intestine and the ENS are mainly herpes simplex virus (HSV) and directly infect the ENS to form latent infections (Fig. 3A). varicella-zoster
