Li et al. Virology Journal (2023) 20:251 Virology Journal
KEYWORDS: infection, viral, cells, motility, neurons, virus, ens, hsv-, infected, vzv, intestinal, viral infection, nerve, disorders, mice


rons send nerve fibers that meander to the intestine and the ENS are mainly herpes simplex virus (HSV) and directly infect the ENS to form latent infections (Fig. 3A). varicella-zoster virus (VZV), and the novel coronavirus The virus is transported through the axons of the sensory that has become a global pandemic since 2019 can also neurons of the skin epidermis and then transferred to the infect the ENS [20–22]. Latent infection, lytic infection, ENS, leading to latent infection. When the body is rein- and reactivation occur when viruses, such as VZV, reach fected with VZV, intestinal motility disorders occur [26, enteric neurons through various pathways [23–25]. The 32, 33]. distinction between lytic and latent infection can be determined by the presence or absence of cell-associated Transmission from the intestinal mucosa viral infection . Latent infection allows the virus HSV-1 has been confirmed to form latent infection after to be transcribed and translated in neurons but does not oral inoculation into the lumen of mice [29, 34–36]. A produce any symptoms. In vitro, neurons establish latent study has shown that the intestinal epithelium contains infection when neurons are exposed to isolated VZV immune-related cells, such as M cells, that absorb and without associated cellularity. Many studies show that transport viral antigens. Moreover, HSV-1 may cross Fig. 1 Literature search flow chart intestinal epithelial cells through specific receptor- myenteric plexus from the intestinal lumen and spread mediated endocytosis and destruction of tight junctions through the solar plexus and ganglion . between cells . The free nerve endings of the ENS can directly interact with surface epithelial cells. Through Centrifugal propagation from the CNS these mechanisms, the virus can enter the ENS directly Neurotropic viruses may infect the central nervous sys- through nerve endings. Alternatively, the simultane- tem (CNS) and then be transmitted to the ENS through ous observation of uninfected and highly infected neu- centrifugal propagation. Borna disease virus (BDV) is a rons in the same ganglion proves that intraganglionic neurotropic agent that can infect a wide range of warm- transmission is most likely through specific transneuro- blooded species. It has been reported that BDV immu- nal transmission rather than between neighboring cells noreactivity can be detected from neurons and nerve . Aujeszky’s disease virus (ADV) is a neurotropic fibers in the submucosal plexus as well as the myenteric herpesvirus that occurs in young pigs. In an experiment plexus of infected
