Li et al. Virology Journal (2023) 20:251 Virology Journal
KEYWORDS: infection, viral, cells, motility, neurons, virus, ens, hsv-, infected, vzv, intestinal, viral infection, nerve, disorders, mice


. Aujeszky’s disease virus (ADV) is a neurotropic fibers in the submucosal plexus as well as the myenteric herpesvirus that occurs in young pigs. In an experiment plexus of infected mice 4–14 weeks after intracerebral in which ADV was injected into the duodenal lumen of BDV infection. During this process, the expression of piglets, necrotizing enteritis and myoenteritis developed Calbindin D-28k (CALB) was found to be upregulated in several weeks later. Intestinal pathological and immuno- the myenteric plexus neurons of infected mice compared histochemical analyses supported that ADV invaded the with uninfected mice. Therefore, we reasoned that CALB Fig. 2 Mechanisms by which various viruses infect and spread to the ENS Fig. 3 Some specific mechanisms of viral infection. A. VZV infects unmyelinated sensory nerve endings and is transported in a retrograde manner. B. RTX prevents HSV-1 entry into the ENS by disrupting peripheral TRPV1 nociceptors. C. HIV Tat promotes the LPS-TLR4-MyD88-NF-κB pathway through TLR4, thereby promoting the release of inflammatory factors expression might be induced after BDV infection of mice. nociceptive receptor. The results revealed that RTX treat- Additionally, submucosal neurons were determined to be ment prevented the virus from reaching the DRG and more highly BDV immunoreactive than intramuscular was effective in preventing eventual GI motility disorders neurons. There are two presumed reasons for the differ- (Fig. 3B). Therefore, peripheral TRPV1 nociceptors are ent degrees of response: first, the degree of innervation involved in the pathway of viral transmission to the ENS of the submucosal and intramuscular plexuses by exog- . enous nerve fibers is different. Second, the infectivity of In addition, VZV infects tonsil T cells after inhalation the two plexuses to BDV is different . and mediates the transport of T cells to the skin, caus- ing epidermal destruction . Sen et al. cocultured Hematogenous dissemination to invade neurons CD3+ T cells from tonsils with infected HELFs to infect VZV can infect T lymphocytes. Chen et al. performed T cells. By comparison, the infected T cells expressed experiments in which peripheral blood mononuclear unique phenotypic characteristics, and VZV induced cells (PBMCs) from humans and guinea pigs were iso- changes in the surface proteins of T cells. Among them, lated in vitro and cocultured with human embryonic CCR7 − CD27 − CD127 −indicated the presence of tissue lung fibroblasts (HELFs) infected with VZV and fluo- homing and effector phenotypes. Otherwise, enhanced rescent agents. After a while PBMCs
