Li et al. Virology Journal (2023) 20:251 Virology Journal
KEYWORDS: infection, viral, cells, motility, neurons, virus, ens, hsv-, infected, vzv, intestinal, viral infection, nerve, disorders, mice


CCR7 − CD27 − CD127 −indicated the presence of tissue lung fibroblasts (HELFs) infected with VZV and fluo- homing and effector phenotypes. Otherwise, enhanced rescent agents. After a while PBMCs were infected with expression of CD11a and CD49d promoted the activation VZV. The fluorescence of the virus was consistent with and mediated the transendothelial migration of T cells. the immunofluorescence of CD3, which confirmed that Furthermore, some T cells expressed CCR4 and CLA, the infected cells were T lymphocytes. The appearance hallmark features of cutaneous trafficking. VZV affects at of enteric neuronal infection in guinea pigs 2 days after least two important cellular signaling pathways: the ini- intraorbital sinus injection of infected T lymphocytes tiation of the Zap70 cascade and the activation of the Akt suggested that infected T lymphocytes transmit the virus pathway. Both can enhance the survival and migration of to enteric neurons via blood transmission. After subcu- T cells . taneous injection of cell-associated VZV, VZV DNA and SARS-CoV-2 is the causative agent of COVID-19. It transcripts were found in blood leukocytes, indicating infects the GI tract by invading host cells through ACE2 the possibility of virus transmission to enteric neurons receptors. The spike glycoprotein binding domain on the through blood . Gan et al. similarly transferred VZV surface of the virus has high affinity and can be cleaved to guinea pig PBMCs by a coculture approach. T lympho- by endogenous proteases such as Furin and TMPRSS2 cytes in PBMCs were preferentially infected with VZV before binding, allowing more efficient binding to the after coculture with VZV-infected HELFs. Twenty-eight ACE2 receptor on the host cell surface . After bind- days after intravenous injection of infected PBMCs into ing, the virus and ACE2 receptor are endocytosed into guinea pigs, hybrid VZV DNA was detected in the myen- the host cell, which in turn initiates virus replication, teric plexus ganglia, and the ORF 63p immunoreactive secretion and release. The ACE2 receptor is expressed in cells all showed immunoreactivity for the neural marker multiple organs, and its expression is highest in the brush HuC/D. These results suggested that VZV infected the border of the intestinal epithelium. A study detected intestinal neurons of guinea pigs and that latent infec- that ACE2 and TMPRSS2 are abundantly expressed in tion was established . However, based on previous the perinuclear region of enteric neurons and glial cells analyses, cell-associated VZV infection of neurons causes
