Li et al. Virology Journal (2023) 20:251 Virology Journal
KEYWORDS: infection, viral, cells, motility, neurons, virus, ens, hsv-, infected, vzv, intestinal, viral infection, nerve, disorders, mice


and TMPRSS2 are abundantly expressed in tion was established . However, based on previous the perinuclear region of enteric neurons and glial cells analyses, cell-associated VZV infection of neurons causes in the myenteric and submucosal plexus after SARS- lytic infection. Therefore, we speculate that infected T CoV-2 infection, which reasonably proves viral infection cells secrete isolated cell-free VZV that infects enteric of enteric neurons. At present, it is believed that the ENS neurons to lead to latent infection; alternatively, this can may be a potential route for SARS-CoV-2 to enter the occur owing to the viremia resulting from VZV infection. brain [22, 45–48]. Other types of transmission Gastrointestinal dysfunction due to viral infection of nerves A mouse model of genital HSV-1 infection was studied by Khoury-Hanold et al. This model did not fully dem- It is well known that the gastrointestinal nervous system onstrate the transmission pathway from genital infection regulates gastrointestinal motility . When the virus is to the development of fatal toxic megacolon. However, latent in neurons, there are no obvious symptoms in the the researchers observed that HSV-1 in the mouse model digestive tract. However, when the body is re-infected, must first infect sensory neurons and then spread to the the latent infection can be reactivated and lead to bladder, paracervical ganglion and DRG within 12 days. symptomatic or asymptomatic infection of the gastroin- Subsequently, they used resiniferatoxin (RTX) to spe- testinal tract through various mechanisms or reactions cifically bind to transient receptor potential cation chan- (Fig. 4). nel subfamily V member 1 (TRPV1) to eliminate the Fig. 4 Gastrointestinal responses following viral infection of the ENS. After entering the GI tract, different viruses pass through the intestinal mucosa through their own means. HSV-1 is directly taken up and transported by intestinal epithelial cells and then enters the ENS axon terminals. Alternatively, it crosses intestinal epithelial cells by disrupting tight junctions between cells. SARS-CoV-2 is transported through the ACE2 receptor, and TMPRSS2 can enable the virus to bind to the receptor more efficiently. Following viral infection, a range of responses occur. CCL2 released by the ENS recruits mac- rophages through the CCL2/CCR2 pathway. The recruitment of various inflammatory cells leads to the release of inflammatory factors. There are also changes in gut microbiota and the expression of sodium channel isoforms Macrophages recruitment through the CCL2/CCR2 ileal sections from infected mice showed a substantial pathway reduction in macrophages.
