Li et al. Virology Journal (2023) 20:251 Virology Journal
KEYWORDS: infection, viral, cells, motility, neurons, virus, ens, hsv-, infected, vzv, intestinal, viral infection, nerve, disorders, mice


are also changes in gut microbiota and the expression of sodium channel isoforms Macrophages recruitment through the CCL2/CCR2 ileal sections from infected mice showed a substantial pathway reduction in macrophages. These results suggested that HSV-1 is a common neurotropic virus that can be latent through the CCL2/CCR2 pathway, infected neurons in the body’s ENS . One study developed a mouse recruited macrophages to infiltrate the LMMP, which model of ENS infection with HSV-1 by gavage inocula- produced proinflammatory factors or secreted soluble tion with HSV-1. Infected mice had more rapid gas- factors. Macrophages directly or indirectly destroyed the tric emptying, delayed intestinal transit, slower colonic integrity of peripheral nerves while exerting a viral clear- motility , and transient impairment in intesti- ance effect, leading to neuromuscular disorders . nal neuromuscular contractility compared with mice However, it has been reported that there is a 2-step in the sham-infected group. It was further revealed that HSV-1 vaccination protocol, with an initial intranasal CD11b+ F4/80+ cells were barely detectable in the lon- instillation followed by intragastric administration of gitudinal myenteric plexus (LMMP) of sham-infected virus particles, that results in enhanced GI motility and mice, whereas the infected group of mice showed an significant acceleration of transit at 1, 2, and 6 weeks after increase in CD11b+ F4/80+ macrophages from the first intragastric inoculation with HSV-1. Moreover, experi- week onwards. In addition, after gavage inoculation, ments have shown the presence of intestinal choliner- HSV-1 infection increased the expression of neuronal gic nerve dysfunction during viral infection. Although nitric oxide synthase protein in LMMP neurons, and contrary to the diminished motor frequency described activated macrophages produced free radicals, namely, above, viral infection does cause gut dyskinesia . We reactive oxygen species and nitric oxide. The gastroin- speculate that the ultimate manifestation of dyskinesia is testinal motility of HSV-1-infected mice was significantly likely to be a superimposed effect of the ENS and cholin- improved after the administration of the nonselective ergic nerves. NOS inhibitor L-NAME, the selective iNOS inhibitor AR-C102222, and clodronate-containing liposomes. At Infected neurons express viral antigens to recruit the same time, the study treated HSV-1-infected mice lymphocytes with RS504393, a highly selective CCR2 chemokine Unlike the previous study, Brun et al. described a study receptor antagonist. Immunohistochemical analysis of in which neurons infected with HSV-1 expressed viral antigens, leading them to recruit activated CD3+CD8+ with a skewed TCR sequence. After incubation with UV-
