Li et al. Virology Journal (2023) 20:251 Virology Journal
KEYWORDS: infection, viral, cells, motility, neurons, virus, ens, hsv-, infected, vzv, intestinal, viral infection, nerve, disorders, mice


study receptor antagonist. Immunohistochemical analysis of in which neurons infected with HSV-1 expressed viral antigens, leading them to recruit activated CD3+CD8+ with a skewed TCR sequence. After incubation with UV- lymphocytes. The mucosal barrier was compromised inactivated HSV-1, IFN-γ and IL-2 were significantly by the overactivated immune response . In this released. Therefore, achalasia should be considered a study, an animal model was established with initial intra- motor disorder caused by neuronal damage of inflam- nasal and subsequent transgastric inoculation of HSV-1. matory lymphocyte infiltration induced by HSV-1 in the This study elucidated that persistent HSV-1 infection of LES . the ENS can cause fluctuating episodes of GI dyskine- sia by continuously observing the frequency of intesti- Neutrophil involvement in GI motility disorders nal motility in sacrificed mice at weeks 4, 8, and 10 post Khoury-Hanold et al. indicated a role of neutrophils transgastric HSV-1 administration. The analysis of the in viral infections in the intestine. When HSV-1 infects LMMP by flow cytometry and immunohistochemical the ENS, viral genes begin transcription and replication, staining revealed a significant increase in CD3+ cells which leads to the induction of a large number of inflam- from the 6th week of infection after transgastric inocula- matory chemokines, including neutrophils, into the tion with the virus. CD8+ T cells expressed IL-17, and myenteric layer of the large intestine and the destruction the expression of IFN-γ in CD3+CD8+ lymphocytes of the enteric ganglia . The depletion of neutrophils infiltrating the LMMP of mice increased at 6 and 8 weeks with an anti-Ly6G (1A8) antibody had little effect on after transgastric HSV-1 inoculation. The percentage viral replication. However, neutrophil depletion reduced of CD3+CD8+ cells expressing perforin increased sig- the mortality due to intestinal dyskinesia by one-fifth, nificantly 6 and 8 weeks after intragastric inoculation of and intestinal dyskinesia recovered over time in surviv- HSV-1, while the percentage of CD8+ cells expressing ing mice. ENS imaging by whole-mount microscopy granzyme B increased 6 weeks after intragastric inocula- showed that the ENS ganglia of the control mice were tion. It was also demonstrated that T lymphocytes infil- eliminated during HSV-1 infection, whereas the ENS trating the LMMP tended to have an HSV-1 activated of the experimental group, that is, neutrophil-depleted phenotype. Anti-CD8 monoclonal antibody treatment to mice, remained intact. The study by Khoury-Hanold et al. reduce the number of intestinal CD3+CD8+ cells ame- concluded that HSV-1 infection of the
