Li et al. Virology Journal (2023) 20:251 Virology Journal
KEYWORDS: infection, viral, cells, motility, neurons, virus, ens, hsv-, infected, vzv, intestinal, viral infection, nerve, disorders, mice


neutrophil-depleted phenotype. Anti-CD8 monoclonal antibody treatment to mice, remained intact. The study by Khoury-Hanold et al. reduce the number of intestinal CD3+CD8+ cells ame- concluded that HSV-1 infection of the ENS caused neu- liorated neuronal damage and intestinal dysmotility in trophil-mediated neuronal damage, which in turn led to HSV-1-infected mice . In addition, acute ENS toxic megacolon . injury has been shown to result mainly from direct neu- ronal targeting by antiviral T cells . Regulation of gut microbiota Motility disorders also occur when the virus invades COVID-19 has many extrapulmonary manifestations. GI the esophageal nerves, as is the case for achalasia, which symptoms associated with COVID-19 are mostly mild is characterized by impaired relaxation of the lower and self-limiting and include nausea, vomiting, abdomi- esophageal sphincter (LES) after swallowing and inef- nal pain and abdominal discomfort . In addition to fective esophageal peristalsis . With the COVID- the recruitment of various inflammatory factors, such 19 pandemic, there has been a report of achalasia after as IL-2, IL-7, and ΤΝF-α, during viral infection and the COVID-19 . There have been controlled studies possible direct tissue damage caused by viral replication, showing an association between the virus and achalasia it has been reported that intestinal inflammation may be . Robertson et al. measured statistically significant mainly regulated by ACE2 receptor-mediated intestinal differences in VZV when conducting serological studies microbiota [64–66]. This can lead to an imbalance in the and DNA detection in esophageal tissue sections. . proportion of gut flora ; for example, the proportion Naik et al. found that cells enriched in immunoreactiv- of GI infections caused by streptococci and clostridial ity for the late VZV protein gE also present antibodies to organisms will be relatively increased. In addition, due to neuronal markers (β3-tubulin). This proved that esoph- the role of ACE2 in maintaining amino acid homeosta- ageal neurons are the site of VZV infection in achalasia sis, the serum concentration of some amino acids, such . At present, the mechanism by which HSV-1 causes as valine and tryptophan, may be significantly decreased achalasia is not fully understood, but there is evidence when the ACE2 receptor is decreased after SARS-CoV-2 that achalasia may be an immune-mediated inflamma- infection . Intestinal microbial disorders might tory disease in which the virus is a trigger [56, 60–62]. regulate the immune response and affect the progression Facco et al. performed flow cytometry analysis of
