Li et al. Virology Journal (2023) 20:251 Virology Journal
KEYWORDS: infection, viral, cells, motility, neurons, virus, ens, hsv-, infected, vzv, intestinal, viral infection, nerve, disorders, mice


microbial disorders might tory disease in which the virus is a trigger [56, 60–62]. regulate the immune response and affect the progression Facco et al. performed flow cytometry analysis of acha- of diseases . lasia versus control esophageal tissue and demonstrated that lymphocyte infiltration was significantly elevated in HIV Tat promotes the LPS-TLR4 signaling pathway and the LES in achalasia and was represented byCD3+CD8+ neuronal excitability T cells. Lymphocytes extracted from the esophagus of Currently, the literature suggests that HIV damages neu- achalasia patients were highly reactive to HSV-1 antigen, rons indirectly by releasing virions, such as transactivator of transcription (Tat) . Guedia et al. found that HIV Viral infection causes nerve damage through a variety of Tat released from HIV-infected cells causes GI dysfunc- mechanisms tion by promoting the LPS-TLR4 signaling pathway [69, On the one hand, viruses can directly infect nerve cells, 70]. First, according to studies on Tat+ mice and Tat − leading to nerve cell death and dysfunction. On the other mice, enteric neuron/glial cell coculture in the former led hand, viral infection can cause an inflammatory response, to increased release of pro-inflammatory factors such as leading to the release of a large number of inflammatory RANTES, IL-6 , IL-1β and TNF-α mRNA. Second, factors and cytokines, which in turn leads to nerve cell the sensitizing effect of Tat on LPS was not reflected by damage and death. In addition, viral infection can cause knocking down TLR4 or treating MyD88 with siRNA. inflammatory responses in neurons, leading to autoim- Thus, TLR4 is the major receptor of LPS. When Tat binds mune responses, which in turn lead to nerve cell damage to the TLR4 receptor, it can increase the activation of the and death. Therefore, future research on the mechanism LPS-TLR4-MyD88-NF-κB pathway, thereby increasing of viral neurological damage in GI motility diseases can the synthesis and release of proinflammatory factors such be carried out from the following aspects: as TNF-α, IL-6 and IL-1β (Fig. 3C). The increase in inflammation can significantly destroy GI motility . Studies of the mechanism of the neuronal inflammatory Second, Ngwainmbi et al. also demonstrated that Tat response caused by viral infection exposure increased enteric neuronal excitability and thus Viral infection can lead to an inflammatory response in enhanced GI motility through current-clamp experi- neurons, resulting in an autoimmune response, which ments. This may be due to the activation of sodium chan- then
