Li et al. Virology Journal (2023) 20:251 Virology Journal
KEYWORDS: infection, viral, cells, motility, neurons, virus, ens, hsv-, infected, vzv, intestinal, viral infection, nerve, disorders, mice


to an inflammatory response in enhanced GI motility through current-clamp experi- neurons, resulting in an autoimmune response, which ments. This may be due to the activation of sodium chan- then results in nerve cell damage and death. Future stud- nels and the increased expression of the sodium channel ies can explore the mechanism of the neuronal inflamma- isoforms Nav1.7 and Nav1.8 . tory response caused by viral infection and find targeted Braun et al. found that neurotropic flaviviruses had a treatments. strong ability to infect the ENS. They revealed two major steps by which viruses cause intestinal dysmotility. First, Studies of the mechanism of neuronal death caused by viral viral invasion led to acute viral infection, which induced infection neuronal depletion mediated by CD8+ T cells and asso- Viruses can infect nerve cells directly, resulting in cell ciated dysmotility . Second, the depleted ENS pro- death and dysfunction. Future studies can explore the duced an inflammatory stimulus response under the mechanism of neuronal death caused by viral infection action of inflammatory mediators and caused recurrent and find targeted treatments. motility disorders . Studies of the mechanism of GI inflammation caused by viral Conclusion infection Viral infection is an important cause of GI motility dis- When infected with a virus, the body can produce an orders. In the GI tract, viral infection can lead to nerve inflammatory response, leading to the release of a large damage, which in turn can affect the function of the GI amount of inflammatory factors and cytokines. This can tract. cause nerve cell damage and death. Future studies can explore the mechanism of GI inflammation caused by Clinical manifestations of intestinal motility disorders after viral infection and find targeted treatment methods. viral infection Intestinal motility caused by viral infections can have dif- Studies of the interaction between viruses and the intestinal ferent clinical manifestations depending on the site of the microbial community disorder. Achalasia, for example, is a kind of esophageal The intestinal microbial community is one of the key fac- festations. In most studies, the average age at diagnosis explore the interaction between viruses and gut micro- was over 50 years, and the incidence increased with age. biota and find targeted treatments. There was no significant difference in population preva- lence. The clinical manifestations of gastroesophageal Antiviral therapy is of great significance for the treatment reflux disease are mainly reflux and heartburn, and the of
