Li et al. Virology Journal (2023) 20:251 Virology Journal
KEYWORDS: infection, viral, cells, motility, neurons, virus, ens, hsv-, infected, vzv, intestinal, viral infection, nerve, disorders, mice


significant difference in population preva- lence. The clinical manifestations of gastroesophageal Antiviral therapy is of great significance for the treatment reflux disease are mainly reflux and heartburn, and the of GI diseases manifestations pseudointestinal obstruction are mainly Viral infection causes an inflammatory response in the abdominal pain, bloating, nausea and vomiting. GI tract, resulting in neuronal damage and dysfunc- tion. Viruses can affect the nervous system of the GI tract through a variety of pathways, including by directly infecting neurons, causing an inflammatory response, Education Commission (2019KJ197), and the National Key Research and and by affecting the synthesis and release of neurotrans- Development Program (2022YFC2504004) for financially supporting this study. mitters. Therefore, antiviral therapy is vital for the treat- Data availability ment of GI motility disorders. Not applicable. Antiviral therapy can inhibit viral replication and infec- tion and reduce the inflammatory response and neuronal Declarations damage of the GI tract, thereby alleviating the condition and symptoms. Antiviral therapy can effectively control Competing interests The authors declare no competing interests. the progression of GI motility disorders, reduce the pain and discomfort of patients, and improve the quality of life Ethics approval and consent to participate and health of patients. Not applicable. In addition, antiviral therapy can prevent the occur- Consent for publication rence of GI motility disorders. GI motility disorders Not applicable. are closely related to viral infection. Antiviral therapy can protect the health and life of patients by reducing Received: 24 May 2023 / Accepted: 14 September 2023 the spread and infection of the virus and preventing GI motility disease. In conclusion, the mechanism of neurological damage by viruses in GI motility disorders is a complex issue that
