The Effect of Diet on Cardiovascular Disease and Lipid and Lipoprotein Levels
KEYWORDS: levels, pubmed, diet, dietary, ldl-c, meta-analysis, cholesterol, effect, intake, increase, cardiovascular, decrease, disease, risk, studies


CHO, and trans-fats were associated with an increased risk of CVD. Randomized trials have shown that a Mediterranean diet reduces CVD. Based on this information current guidelines for the general population recommend 1. A diet emphasizing intake of vegetables, fruits, legumes, nuts, whole grains, and fish 2. Replacement of SFA with MUFA and PUFA 3. A reduced amount of dietary cholesterol 4. Minimizing intake of processed meats, refined CHO, and sweetened beverages and 5. Avoidance of TFA. For individuals with a high LDL-C limiting dietary SFA, TFA, and cholesterol and increasing fiber and phytosterols will help lower LDL-C while in individuals with high TG limiting low quality CHO, particularly simple sugars, and ethanol with weight loss, if indicated, will help lower TG. For complete coverage of all related areas of Endocrinology, please visit our on-line FREE web-text, WWW.ENDOTEXT.ORG . View in own window Summary of the Effect of Dietary Constituents on Lipid and Lipoproteins SFA Increase LDL-C and modest increase HDL-C MUFA and PUFA Decrease LDL-C TFA Increase LDL-C and decrease HDL-C Cholesterol Increase LDL-C CHO Increase TGs particularly simple sugars Fiber Decrease LDL-C Phytosterols Decrease LDL-C INTRODUCTION There is a huge literature describing the effect of diet on the risk of cardiovascular disease (CVD) and this literature is often conflicting and controversial. Several well recognized investigators have discussed the limitations of the information linking various diets and dietary constituents and the risk of disease ( 1 , 2 ). The major problem is that almo st all of the information is based on observational studies and well conducted randomized trials measuring important cardiovascular outcomes are very rare. Observational studies can demonstrate associations but do not necessarily indicate that there is a cause-and-effect relationship. Unrecognized confounding variables can result in false associations. In several instances a robust association was observed in observation trials but randomized trials failed to confirm these observations ( 3 ). For example, several observational studies showed that higher vitamin E intake from dietary sources or supplements was associated with a lower risk of CVD ( 4 - 8 ), but randomized controlled trials failed to demonstrate a reduction in cardiovascular events with vitamin E supplementation ( 9 - 12 ). Observational studies have also reported that vitamin B6, B12, or folic acid intake reduced the risk of CVD ( 13 - 15 ), but again randomized controlled trials failed to demonstrate a benefit of increased vitamin
