The Effect of Diet on Cardiovascular Disease and Lipid and Lipoprotein Levels
KEYWORDS: levels, pubmed, diet, dietary, ldl-c, meta-analysis, cholesterol, effect, intake, increase, cardiovascular, decrease, disease, risk, studies


vitamin B6, B12, or folic acid intake reduced the risk of CVD ( 13 - 15 ), but again randomized controlled trials failed to demonstrate a benefit of increased vitamin intake on CVD ( 16 - 19 ). These results point to potential deficiencies in observational studies and the need to recognize that the associations demonstrated in observational studies may not always be causal. Therefore, in this chapter, where possible, we will focus on randomized controlled trials. Moreover, even the interpretation of the results of observational trials is often debated. For example, a 2019 meta-analysis and systematic review published in the Annals of Internal Medicine reached the conclusion that “the magnitude of association between red and processed meat consumption and all-cause mortality and adverse cardiometabolic outcomes is very small, and the evidence is of low certainty” ( 20 ). This conclusion is contrary to the recommendations of almost all dietary guidelines and as would be expected this resulted in a critique challenging this conclusion ( 21 ). There are numerous other instances where there are conflicting results and interpretations in the literature linking diet with CVD making it difficult to sort out fact from fiction. The information pertaining to the effect of dietary manipulations on lipid and lipoprotein levels are frequently based on randomized controlled trials rather than observational studies and therefore tend to be more consistent. However, even in these studies the results are sometimes conflicting. There are many factors that could account for this variability including the heterogeneity in study settings, type of individuals studied, study designs, differences in baseline diets, adherence to the study diet, differences in types of diet or dietary composition, methods and accuracy of the methods used to measure lipid and lipoprotein levels, and many other factors. Additionally, the clinician should recognize that the lipid response of an individual patient to dietary manipulations can vary greatly, is very modest on average (in the range of 10% reductions, typically), and in most cases will not prevent the need for lipid lowering medications. The importance of genetic differences on these responses is often under recognized by patients and providers. For example, individuals with an apo E4 allele have a more robust decrease in LDL-C in response to a decrease in dietary fat and cholesterol than subjects carrying the apo E3 or apo E2 alleles ( 22 ). Polymorphisms in other genes have also been shown to
