The Effect of Diet on Cardiovascular Disease and Lipid and Lipoprotein Levels
KEYWORDS: levels, pubmed, diet, dietary, ldl-c, meta-analysis, cholesterol, effect, intake, increase, cardiovascular, decrease, disease, risk, studies


milk* 3.9 2.5 1.0 0.1 Gouda cheese** 30.6 20.3 7.4 0.9 Butter*** 82.2 52.1 20.9 2.8 * TFA = 0.1g/100g; **TFA = 1.1g/100g; TFA = 2.9g/100g. TFA= trans fatty acids, MUFA= monounsaturated fatty acids, PUFA= polyunsaturated fatty acids. Effect of Dietary Saturated Fatty Acids on Cardiovascular Disease OBSERVATIONAL STUDIES Dietary guidelines uniformly recommend reducing the intake of SFA. There are a large number of observational trials that have shown an association between dietary SFA intake and CVD ( 26 - 31 ). However, there are meta-analyses that have not found an association between dietary SFA intake and CVD ( 32 - 36 ). A possible explanation for this discordance is whether the SFA in the diet is replaced by polyunsaturated fatty acids (PUFA) vs. replaced by CHO. When SFA is replaced by PUFA there is a reduction in CVD whereas replacement with CHO has no benefit on CVD ( 27 - 29 , 37 - 39 ). However, replacement of SFA with high quality CHO may be beneficial ( 27 , 37 , 38 ). Additionally, in one study SFA from meat was associated with an increased risk of CVD while SFA from dairy products was associated with a decrease in CVD ( 40 ). Thus, the source of SFA may be important. As noted above, observational studies can demonstrate an association but are not able to definitively demonstrate a causal relationship. It is therefore essential to review the results of randomized controlled trials on the effect of decreasing dietary SFA on preventing cardiovascular events. RANDOMIZED CONTROLLED OUTCOME TRIALS This section will review the major randomized trials analyzing the effect of decreasing SFA intake on preventing CVD. Studies with very few participants, few cardiovascular events, or very short-term studies will not be included. It is important to note that many of these studies were carried out in the 1950’s and 1960’s when the diagnosis and treatment of CVD was very primitive compared to current standards. Also, typical diets were much different (higher in SFA) and mean plasma cholesterol levels were higher. Lastly, the methodology of these studies was not up to the current standards by which randomized controlled trials are performed (small number of patients, often not blinded, inadequate statistical power, non-specific endpoints, etc.). Thus, the accuracy of these trials and the relevancy of these older studies to current times is uncertain. In a study from England initiated in 1957,
