The Effect of Diet on Cardiovascular Disease and Lipid and Lipoprotein Levels
KEYWORDS: levels, pubmed, diet, dietary, ldl-c, meta-analysis, cholesterol, effect, intake, increase, cardiovascular, decrease, disease, risk, studies


was first relapse (myocardial infarction, angina, sudden death). After 4 years, 62 of 199 in the soybean oil group had a recurrent coronary event compared with 74 of 194 in the usual diet group; the difference, −18% (95% CI, −38 to 7), was not statistically significant but given the small number of participants was suggestive of benefit. The Los Angeles Veterans Administration Center study randomized 422 men to the conventional control diet and 424 to the experimental diet low in SFA and cholesterol and enriched in PUFA ( 44 , 45 ). 30% of the men had CVD. The baseline plasma cholesterol was 233mg/dL and on treatment there was a 13% decrease in the experimental diet compared to controls. Over 8 years the primary endpoint of myocardial infarction and sudden death from ischemia were reduced in the experimental diet group (control 67 vs experimental diet 45). The difference in the primary end point of the study-sudden death or myocardial infarction was not statistically significant but when these data were pooled with those for cerebral infarction and other secondary end points, the totals were 96 in the control group and 66 in the experimental group; P=0.01. Fatal atherosclerotic events occurred in 70 patients in the control group and 48 in the experimental group (P<0.05). For all primary and secondary end points the incidence rates were 47.7% and 31.3% for the control and experimental groups respectively (P= 0.02). The Finnish Mental Hospital Study was carried out in two mental hospitals. One hospital was switched to a diet low in SFA and cholesterol and relatively high in PUFA, while the other hospital continued the usual hospital diet ( 46 - 48 ). After 6 years the type of diet was reversed in each hospital. The individuals in this study were hospitalized men between 34 to 64 years of age and women age 44 to 64 years. During the study individuals were removed from the study and others added to the study cohort. The serum cholesterol level on the usual diet was 268mg/dL while on the low SFA diet the serum cholesterol level was 226mg/dL. The incidence of CVD was consistently much lower during the low SFA diet periods than during the normal-diet periods but detailed comparisons are difficult due to the lack of randomization of individuals and the adding and removal of individuals during the study leading to only 36% of the men
