The Effect of Diet on Cardiovascular Disease and Lipid and Lipoprotein Levels
KEYWORDS: levels, pubmed, diet, dietary, ldl-c, meta-analysis, cholesterol, effect, intake, increase, cardiovascular, decrease, disease, risk, studies


men and 4,664 women ( 51 ). The trial compared the effects of the usual diet (18% SFA, 5% PUFA, 16% monounsaturated fatty acid (MUFA), 446 mg dietary cholesterol per day) versus a low SFA and cholesterol treatment diet (9% SFA, 15% PUFA, 14% MUFA, 166 mg dietary cholesterol per day). The mean duration of time on the diets was 384 days, with 1,568 subjects consuming the diet for over 2 years. The baseline serum cholesterol level was 207 mg/dL, falling to 175 mg/dL in the treatment group and 203 mg/dL in the control group. No differences between the treatment and control groups were observed for cardiovascular events, cardiovascular deaths, or total mortality, perhaps due to the relatively short duration of this study. The Women’s Health Initiative trial randomized 19,541 postmenopausal women 50-79 years of age to the diet intervention group and 29,294 women to usual dietary advice ( 52 ). The goal in the diet intervention group was to reduce total fat intake to 20% of calories and increase intake of vegetables/fruits to 5 servings/day and grains to at least 6 servings/day. Fat intake decreased by 8.2% of energy intake in the intervention vs the comparison group, with small decreases in SFA (2.9%), MUFA (3.3%), and PUFA (1.5%) with increased consumption of vegetables, fruits, and grains. LDL-C levels were reduced by 3.55 mg/dL in the intervention group while levels of HDL-C and TGs were not significantly different in the intervention vs comparison groups. The dietary intervention did not significantly decrease CVD. In fact, in the women with pre-existing CVD there was an increase in cardiovascular events with diet therapy. Summary of Dietary Randomized Controlled Trials In reviewing these randomized controlled trials, it appears that the dietary studies that produce a long-term decrease in plasma cholesterol levels resulted in a reduction in cardiovascular events (Oslo Diet-Heart Study, soya-bean trial, Los Angeles Veterans Administration Center, Finnish Mental Hospital Study) while the dietary studies that did not produce a long-term decrease in plasma cholesterol levels failed to demonstrate a reduction in CVD. The baseline plasma cholesterol levels in the positive studies tended to be high and allowed for a robust cholesterol lowering with dietary manipulation. Additionally, as will presented in the next section the greater the reduction in SFA in the diet the greater the decrease in TC and LDL-C levels and many of the positive studies were carried out in an
