The Effect of Diet on Cardiovascular Disease and Lipid and Lipoprotein Levels
KEYWORDS: levels, pubmed, diet, dietary, ldl-c, meta-analysis, cholesterol, effect, intake, increase, cardiovascular, decrease, disease, risk, studies


section the greater the reduction in SFA in the diet the greater the decrease in TC and LDL-C levels and many of the positive studies were carried out in an era when the content of SFA in the diet was high. Additionally, studies in non-human primates have also demonstrated that reducing SFA intake reduces atherosclerosis ( 53 , 54 ). These results correspond very nicely with the large number of trials demonstrating that using a variety of different pharmacologic agents that lower plasma cholesterol levels results in a decrease in cardiovascular events ( 55 ). In an analysis comparing cholesterol lowering with diet vs. drug therapy it was observed that a similar decrease in cardiovascular events occurred adjusting for the magnitude of cholesterol lowering ( 56 ). Thus, it would appear that diets that decrease dietary SFA and thereby lead to a significant decrease in plasma cholesterol levels for an extended period of time have benefits on CVD with the caveat that there is not an increase in other nutrients that will adversely affect other parameters thereby negating the beneficial effects of decreasing SFA. For example, an increase in dietary simple sugars for SFA could lead to an increase in TG levels with negative effects. REVERSAL OF ATHEROSCLEROSIS TRIALS Two studies have examined the effect of decreasing dietary SFA on atherosclerotic lesions. The St Thomas’ Atherosclerosis Regression Study (STARS) determined the effect of decreasing dietary saturated fat in the diet (n=26) vs. usual diet (n=24) in men less than 66 years of age with a plasma cholesterol greater than 234mg/dL referred for coronary angiography to investigate angina pectoris or other findings suggestive of coronary heart disease ( 57 ). In the diet group total fat intake was reduced to 27% of dietary energy, saturated fatty acid content to 8-10% of dietary energy, and dietary cholesterol to 100 mg/1000 kcal; omega-6 and omega-3 polyunsaturated fatty acids were increased to 8% of dietary energy, and plant-derived soluble fiber intake was increased to the equivalent of 3-6 g polygalacturonate/1000 kcal. During the trial LDL-C levels were 163mg/dL in the diet intervention group vs.182mg/dL in the usual diet group. Additionally, TGs decreased in the diet intervention group (206mg/dL to 165mg/dl) with no change in TG levels in the usual diet group. After approximately 3 years coronary angiography revealed that the percentage of patients who showed progression of coronary narrowing was significantly reduced by the
