The Effect of Diet on Cardiovascular Disease and Lipid and Lipoprotein Levels
KEYWORDS: levels, pubmed, diet, dietary, ldl-c, meta-analysis, cholesterol, effect, intake, increase, cardiovascular, decrease, disease, risk, studies


TG levels in the usual diet group. After approximately 3 years coronary angiography revealed that the percentage of patients who showed progression of coronary narrowing was significantly reduced by the dietary intervention (usual diet 46% vs, dietary intervention 15%), whereas the percentage who showed an increase in luminal diameter rose significantly (usual diet 4% vs. dietary intervention 38%). While the number of cardiovascular events was small, they were significantly reduced in the dietary intervention group (usual diet 36% vs dietary intervention 11%; p< 0.05). Finally, the improvement in angiographic appearance correlated with LDL-C levels. The Lifestyle Heart Trial was a one year randomized, controlled trial to determine whether lifestyle changes affect coronary atherosclerosis in patients with angiographically documented coronary artery disease ( 58 ). Patients were assigned to the lifestyle group (low-fat vegetarian diet, stopping smoking, stress management training, and moderate exercise) (n= 22) or a usual-care control group (n=19). The lifestyle diet contained approximately 10% of calories as fat PUFA/SFA ratio greater than 1), 15-20% protein, and 70-75% predominantly complex carbohydrates. Cholesterol intake was limited to 5 mg/day or less. In the lifestyle group LDL-C decreased from 153mg/dL to 96mg/dl (37% decrease) whereas in the usual care group LDL-C decreased from 168mg/dL to 159mg/dL. Patients in the lifestyle group reported a 91% decrease in the frequency of angina, a 42% decrease in the duration of angina, and a 28% decrease in the severity of angina. In contrast, patients in the usual care group reported a 165% increase in the frequency of angina, a 95% increase in the duration of angina, and a 39% increase in the severity of angina. In the lifestyle group regression of coronary atherosclerosis occurred in 18 of the 22 patients (82%) whereas in the usual care group progression of coronary atherosclerosis occurred in 10 of 19 patients (53%). These two regression trials provide strong support for the results observed in the randomized cardiovascular outcome studies described above i.e., that lowering LDL-C levels by decreasing dietary SFA can reduce atherosclerosis and cardiovascular events. Effect of Dietary Saturated Fatty Acids on Lipid Levels It should be recognized that when one increases or decreases a particular macronutrient in the diet there needs to be a reciprocal change in another macronutrient to maintain caloric balance. The effect of substituting PUFA, MUFA, or carbohydrates (CHO) for SFA is shown in table 1 . Note that this table shows the effect
