The Effect of Diet on Cardiovascular Disease and Lipid and Lipoprotein Levels
KEYWORDS: levels, pubmed, diet, dietary, ldl-c, meta-analysis, cholesterol, effect, intake, increase, cardiovascular, decrease, disease, risk, studies


another macronutrient to maintain caloric balance. The effect of substituting PUFA, MUFA, or carbohydrates (CHO) for SFA is shown in table 1 . Note that this table shows the effect of replacing 5% of energy from SFA for the indicated dietary component. Thus, going from a diet where 15% of the calories is from SFA to a diet where 10% of the calories is from SFA is estimated to lower LDL-C levels from 6 to 9mg/dL depending on which dietary component replaces the SFA. To keep this decrease in LDL-C in perspective it is estimated that a 40mg/dL decrease in LDL-C induced by statin therapy will result in an approximate 20% decrease in cardiovascular events over a 5 year period of time but the lifetime benefits of a 10 mg/dL decrease in LDL-C due to genetic variants will result in a 16–18% decrease in cardiovascular events ( 59 ). The effect on TGs is dependent on the dietary component replacing SFA with CHO resulting in a large increase in TG levels. One should note that there is also a decrease in HDL-C with replacement of SFA ( table 2 ). Table 2. Effect of Decreasing Dietary Saturated Fatty Acids on Lipid Levels View in own window Dietary Component LDL-C (mg/dL) TGs (mg/dL) HDL-C (mg/dL) PUFA −9.0 -2.0 -1.0 MUFA -6.5 +1.0 -6.0 CHO -6.0 +9.5 -2.0 PUFA- polyunsaturated fatty acids; MUFA- monounsaturated fatty acids; CHO- carbohydrates. Effects on lipoprotein lipids of replacing 5% of energy from SFA with the 5% of energy from the specified dietary component. Table adapted from references ( 26 , 60 ). SFA in the diet predominantly increases LDL-C levels, predominantly larger, cholesterol-enriched LDL, with modest increases in HDL-C ( 60 , 61 ). As expected, Apo B and apo AI levels also increase ( 60 ). These effects are observed in both men and women ( 60 ). The effect of a decrease or increase in SFA intake on lipids and lipoproteins is linear with a consistent effect on serum lipids and lipoproteins across a wide range of SFA intakes ( 60 ). Of note the effects of decreasing SFA intake was observed even when the SFA intake was already less than 10% of the daily energy intake. Most studies have suggested that replacement of SFA with carbohydrate or unsaturated fat modestly increases Lp(a) but the results have varied from study to study with replacement
