The Effect of Diet on Cardiovascular Disease and Lipid and Lipoprotein Levels
KEYWORDS: levels, pubmed, diet, dietary, ldl-c, meta-analysis, cholesterol, effect, intake, increase, cardiovascular, decrease, disease, risk, studies


daily energy intake. Most studies have suggested that replacement of SFA with carbohydrate or unsaturated fat modestly increases Lp(a) but the results have varied from study to study with replacement of SFA with unsaturated fat from particular food sources such as nuts showing no increase in Lp(a) ( 62 ). Individual SFA have diverse biological and cholesterol-raising effects with chain length of SFA playing an important role in determining the effect on lipid and lipoprotein levels. The most commonly consumed SFA are palmitic acid (16:0; major source: vegetable oil, dairy, and meat), stearic acid (18:0; meat, dairy, and chocolate), myristic acid (14:0; dairy and tropical oil, particularly coconut oil) and lauric acid (12:0; dairy and tropical oil). A meta-analysis of 60 controlled trials by Mensink et al. reported an increase in LDL-C and HDL-C concentrations by isocaloric replacement of carbohydrates with palmitic, myristic, and lauric acids ( 63 ). As expected, apolipoprotein B and A-I also increase ( 60 , 64 ). Myristic and palmitic acids increased LDL-C and HDL-C levels to a similar extent, whereas lauric acid had the largest LDL-C- and HDL-C-raising effect ( 63 , 65 ). Stearic acid did not increase LDL-C levels ( 63 , 65 ).The lack of an association between stearic acid and changes in LDL-C levels has been linked to a slower and/or less efficient absorption as well as desaturation of stearic acid to oleic acid ( 66 ). Compared with carbohydrates, an increased intake of lauric, myristic, palmitic or stearic acid lowered TG levels ( 63 , 65 ). For a specific individual many factors including lifestyle factors such as overall dietary composition and physical activity, clinical conditions such as obesity, insulin resistance and hypertriglyceridemia, as well as genetic factors may modify these responses. MECHANISM FOR THE INCREASE IN LDL-C Dietary SFA have been shown to decrease hepatic LDL receptor activity, protein, and mRNA levels and this results in a decrease in the clearance of circulating LDL leading to increased LDL-C levels ( 67 , 68 ). Additionally, the decrease in LDL receptors could result in an increase in the conversion of intermediate density lipoproteins to LDL rather than clearance by the liver (i.e., LDL production is enhanced). SFA have been shown to decrease the formation of cholesterol esters, a reaction catalyzed by the enzyme acyl CoA:cholesterol acyltransferase (ACAT) ( 68 ). Free cholesterol in the endoplasmic reticulum is the primary
