The Effect of Diet on Cardiovascular Disease and Lipid and Lipoprotein Levels
KEYWORDS: levels, pubmed, diet, dietary, ldl-c, meta-analysis, cholesterol, effect, intake, increase, cardiovascular, decrease, disease, risk, studies


not all, have failed to demonstrate that MUFA intake reduces cardiovascular events ( 29 , 33 , 35 , 70 ). However, one meta-analysis and the Nurses’ Health Study and Health Professionals Follow-Up Study, two very large observational studies, found that MUFA when delivered from plant sources was protective but MUFA from other sources was not protective from developing cardiovascular events ( 71 , 72 ). The PREDIMED a randomized controlled outcome trial employing a Mediterranean diet (increased MUFA) reduced the incidence of major CVD ( 73 - 75 ). In this multicenter trial, carried out in Spain, over 7,000 individuals at high risk for developing CVD were randomized to three diets (primary prevention trial). A Mediterranean diet supplemented with extra-virgin olive oil, a Mediterranean diet supplemented with mixed nuts, or a control diet. In the patients assigned to the Mediterranean diets there was 29% decrease in the primary composite end point (myocardial infarction, stroke, and death from CVD), which was primarily due to a decrease in strokes. The Mediterranean diet resulted in a small but significant increase in HDL-C levels and a small decrease in both LDL-C and TG levels ( 76 ). The changes in lipids were unlikely to account for the beneficial effects of the Mediterranean diet on CVD. The Lyon Diet Heart Study randomized 584 patients who had a myocardial infarction within 6 months to a Mediterranean type diet vs usual diet ( 77 , 78 ). The oils recommended for salads and food preparation were rapeseed and olive oils exclusively. Additionally, they were also supplied with a rapeseed (canola) oil-based margarine. There was a marked reduction in events in the group of patients randomized to the Mediterranean diet (cardiac death and nonfatal myocardial infarction rate was 4.07 per 100 patient years in the control diet vs.1.24 in the Mediterranean diet; p<0.0001). Lipid levels were similar in both groups in this trial ( 77 ). The CORDIOPREV study was a single center randomized trial that compared a Mediterranean diet to a low-fat diet in 1,002 patients with cardiovascular disease ( 79 ). The Mediterranean diet contained a minimum of 35% of the calories as fat (22% monounsaturated fatty acids, 6% polyunsaturated fatty acids, and <10% saturated fat), 15% proteins, and a maximum of 50% carbohydrates while the low-fat diet contained less than 30% of total fat (<10% saturated fat, 12–14% monounsaturated fatty acids, and 6–8% polyunsaturated
