The Effect of Diet on Cardiovascular Disease and Lipid and Lipoprotein Levels
KEYWORDS: levels, pubmed, diet, dietary, ldl-c, meta-analysis, cholesterol, effect, intake, increase, cardiovascular, decrease, disease, risk, studies


fat), 15% proteins, and a maximum of 50% carbohydrates while the low-fat diet contained less than 30% of total fat (<10% saturated fat, 12–14% monounsaturated fatty acids, and 6–8% polyunsaturated fatty acids), 15% protein, and a minimum of 55% carbohydrates. The risk of an ASCVD event was reduced by approximately 25-30% in the Mediterranean diet group. Whether these diets differed in their effects on fasting lipid levels has not been reported. The results of these three randomized trials indicate that a Mediterranean diet enriched in plant MUFA reduce the risk of CVD. It is likely that the beneficial effects of the Mediterranean diet on CVD is mediated by multiple mechanisms with alterations in lipid levels making only a minor contribution. It should be noted that in addition to an increase in MUFA the diet also includes low to moderate red wine consumption, high consumption of whole grains and cereals, low consumption of meat and meat products, increased consumption of fish, and moderate consumption of milk and dairy products. As in many dietary studies it is difficult to change a single variable and therefore the interpretation of which factor or factors account for the benefits is difficult to untangle. POLYUNSATURATED FATTY ACIDS Recent meta-analyses of the effect of PUFA on cardiovascular events in observational studies have demonstrated either no effect or a modestly lower risk of CVD and mortality ( 80 - 84 ). Randomized trials are described in the section on saturated fats and CVD and describe the results of replacing SFA with PUFA. It appears that dietary PUFA has a neutral effect on CVD except in the circumstances where it replaces SFA and results in a sustained decrease in plasma cholesterol levels leading to a decrease in cardiovascular events. OMEGA-3-FATTY ACIDS As discussed in detail in the chapter entitled “Triglyceride Lowering Drugs” numerous randomized controlled trials of the effect of low dose omega-3-fatty acids (approximately ≤1 gram/day) on CVD have been published and the bulk of the evidence indicates no benefit ( 85 ). The effect of pharmacologic doses of omega-3-fatty acids (≥1.8 grams/day) on cardiovascular outcomes is discussed in the chapter entitled “Triglyceride Lowering Drugs” ( 85 ). Effect of Dietary Monounsaturated and Polyunsaturated Fatty Acids on Lipid Levels Table 4 shows the effect of substituting PUFA or MUFA for carbohydrates on LDL-C, HDL-C, and TG levels. Both PUFA and MUFA decrease LDL-C and TGs but PUFA induces
