The Effect of Diet on Cardiovascular Disease and Lipid and Lipoprotein Levels
KEYWORDS: levels, pubmed, diet, dietary, ldl-c, meta-analysis, cholesterol, effect, intake, increase, cardiovascular, decrease, disease, risk, studies


Levels Table 4 shows the effect of substituting PUFA or MUFA for carbohydrates on LDL-C, HDL-C, and TG levels. Both PUFA and MUFA decrease LDL-C and TGs but PUFA induces a greater decrease ( 60 ). Both PUFA and MUFA increase HDL-C levels ( 60 ). Table 4. Effect of Decreasing Dietary Carbohydrate on Lipid Levels View in own window Dietary Component LDL-C (mg/dL) TGs (mg/dL) HDL-C (mg/dL) PUFA -4.3 -9.2 1.2 MUFA -1.8 -6.6 1.6 PUFA- polyunsaturated fatty acids; MUFA- monounsaturated fatty acids; Effects on lipoprotein lipids of replacing 5% of energy from carbohydrates with the 5% of energy from the specified dietary component. Table adapted from reference ( 60 ). In a meta-analysis of 14 studies no significant differences in TC, LDL-C, or HDL-C levels were observed when diets high in MUFA or PUFA were compared directly ( 86 ). TG levels were modestly but consistently lower on the diets high in PUFA (P = .05) ( 86 ). While high dose omega-3-fatty acids (3-4 grams/day) lower TG levels, lower doses (≤1 gram/day) have minimal effects on lipid levels ( 85 ). MECHANISM FOR THE DECREASE IN LDL-C Unsaturated fatty acids increase hepatic LDL receptor activity, protein, and mRNA abundance, which will increase the clearance of LDL from the circulation ( 67 , 68 ). Unsaturated fatty acids are a preferred substrate for ACAT and thereby result in an increase in cholesterol ester formation and a decrease in free cholesterol in the liver ( 68 ). A decrease in hepatic free cholesterol will result in the up-regulation of LDL receptor expression leading to a decrease in LDL-C levels. PUFA also increase membrane fluidity leading to an increase in the ability of LDL receptors to bind LDL ( 67 ). Additionally, the increase in LDL receptors could result in a decrease in the conversion of intermediate density lipoproteins (IDL) to LDL due to increased uptake of IDL by the liver (i.e., LDL production is decreased). DIETARY TRANS FATTY ACIDS The two major sources of dietary trans fatty acids (TFA) are those that occur naturally in meat and dairy products as a result of anaerobic bacterial fermentation in ruminant animals and those formed during the partial hydrogenation of vegetable fat (the fatty acids in vegetable oils have cis double bonds) ( 87 ). Partial hydrogenation and the formation of TFA converts the liquid vegetable oil into a solid form at
