The Effect of Diet on Cardiovascular Disease and Lipid and Lipoprotein Levels
KEYWORDS: levels, pubmed, diet, dietary, ldl-c, meta-analysis, cholesterol, effect, intake, increase, cardiovascular, decrease, disease, risk, studies


(the fatty acids in vegetable oils have cis double bonds) ( 87 ). Partial hydrogenation and the formation of TFA converts the liquid vegetable oil into a solid form at room temperature allowing for ease of use in food products and increased shelf life ( 87 , 88 ). TFA acids were widely used in baked products, packaged snack foods, margarines, and crackers ( 88 ). With the recognition of the adverse effects of TFA the use of partial hydrogenated oils in food products has markedly diminished World-wide and in the US is no longer allowed. Effect of Trans Fatty Acids on Cardiovascular Disease A meta-analysis by de Souza and colleagues of 5 studies with 70,864 participants found that the relative risk of coronary heart disease mortality disease was increased with dietary TFA (1.28; p=0.003) ( 34 ). Similarly, the relative risk of coronary heart disease was also increased (1.21; p<0,001) ( 34 ). Another meta-analysis by Chowdhury and colleagues of 5 studies with 155,270 participants found that the relative risk of coronary events was increased with higher intake of TFA (RR 1.16; CI 1.06-1.27) ( 33 ). It has been estimated that a 2 percent increase in energy intake from TFA was associated with a 23 percent increase in the incidence of coronary heart disease ( 88 ). Thus, observational studies have consistently demonstrated that an increase in dietary TFA increase the risk of CVD. Clearly it would not be ethical to carry out randomized trials of the effect of TFA acids on CVD. Effect of Trans Fatty Acids on Lipid Levels The effect of replacing SFA, MUFA or PUFA with TFA acids is shown in table 5 . TFA increase LDL-C levels and decrease HDL-C levels. Of note TFA increase LDL-C even when substituting for SFA. There appears to be a nearly linear relationship between TFA intake and LDL-C concentration, but this relationship does not seem to exist between TFA intake and HDL-C ( 89 ). HDL-C seems to be lowered significantly by TFA only when intake is >2% to 4% of the total energy intake ( 89 ). TFA also increases TG and Lp(a) levels ( 88 ). Additionally, dietary TFA increases small dense LDL and the increase correlates with the quantity of TFA in the diet ( 90 ). Table 5. Effect on Lipids of Replacing Various Fatty Acids with Trans Fatty Acids View in own
