The Effect of Diet on Cardiovascular Disease and Lipid and Lipoprotein Levels
KEYWORDS: levels, pubmed, diet, dietary, ldl-c, meta-analysis, cholesterol, effect, intake, increase, cardiovascular, decrease, disease, risk, studies


increase correlates with the quantity of TFA in the diet ( 90 ). Table 5. Effect on Lipids of Replacing Various Fatty Acids with Trans Fatty Acids View in own window Dietary Component LDL-C (mg/dL) HDL-C (mg/dL) SFA 2.0 -2.0 PUFA 11.5 -1.3 MUFA 9.5 -1.5 SFA- saturated fatty acids; PUFA- polyunsaturated fatty acids; MUFA- monounsaturated fatty acids. All results are statistically significant (P<0.05) except the increase in LDL-C with SFA replacement. Effects on lipoprotein lipids of replacing 5% of energy from various fatty acids with 5% of the energy from TFA. Table adapted from reference ( 88 ). Replacing carbohydrates with TFA results in an increase in LDL-C and apo B and no change in HDL-C, apo AI, or TG levels ( 63 ). RUMINANT TRANS FATTY ACID A key question now that TFA derived from partial hydrogenation of vegetable fat in the diet have been markedly reduced is whether ruminant derived TFA which are present in milk, butter, cheese, and beef have harmful effects similar to industrial created TFA. It is important to note that ruminant derived TFA have a different composition with ruminant TFA being enriched in vaccenic acid, which is the predominant TFA, and conjugated linoleic acid ( 89 , 91 ). Also the quantities of ruminant TFA ingested is much lower than the quantities of industrial TFA ingested ( 89 ). In an analysis of a large number of studies of the effect of ruminant and industrial TFA on lipid levels it was observed that the effect of ruminant TFA on LDL-C and HDL-C was similar but slightly less than that of industrial TFA (the difference was not significant) ( 91 ). Whether the low quantities of ruminant TFA in the diet will influence the risk of CVD is unknown ( 89 ) but a meta-analysis of 4 observational trials did not find a link between ruminant-TFA intake (increments ranging from 0.5 to 1.9 g/day) and the risk of CHD (RR=0.92; CI 0.76-1.11; P=0.36) ( 92 ). Another meta-analysis also did not find a link between ruminant TFA and CVD ( 34 ). MECHANISM FOR THE LIPID EFFECTS OF TRANS FATTY ACIDS The mechanism for the increase in LDL-C levels by dietary TFA is thought to be due to decreased LDL-Apo B catabolism without a change in LDL-Apo B production ( 87 , 93 ). The decrease in HDL-C induced by TFA has been attributed
