The Effect of Diet on Cardiovascular Disease and Lipid and Lipoprotein Levels
KEYWORDS: levels, pubmed, diet, dietary, ldl-c, meta-analysis, cholesterol, effect, intake, increase, cardiovascular, decrease, disease, risk, studies


100mg of dietary cholesterol results in a 0.30 to 1.44mg/dL decrease in HDL-C levels while in women this results in a 0.50 to 1.61 increase in HDL-C levels ( 107 ). Dietary cholesterol does not impact TG or VLDL cholesterol levels ( 97 ). Approximately 15-25% of the population have an increased response to dietary cholesterol with greater increases in LDL-C levels (i.e., sensitive or hyper-responders), while the majority respond minimally (i.e., non-sensitive or hypo-responders) ( 109 ). An intake of 100 mg/day dietary cholesterol leads to a 3-4-fold difference in LDL-C concentration between hyper- and hypo-responders (an increase of 2.84 mg/dL vs. 0.76 mg/dL ( 110 ). The mechanism for the increase in cholesterol absorption in hyper-responders is unknown. On average 50% (typical range 40-60%) of dietary cholesterol is absorbed but this varies from person to person ( 111 ). A high-cholesterol diet leads to significant increases in non-HDL-C levels in insulin-sensitive individuals but not in lean or obese insulin-resistant subjects whereas HDL-C levels increased in all 3 groups ( 112 ). The above observations demonstrate the variable response of lipid and lipoprotein levels that can occur in response to dietary manipulations and emphasize how the response of an individual can be variable. MECHANISM FOR THE INCREASE IN LDL-C The increase in LDL-C levels by dietary cholesterol is due to a decrease in hepatic LDL receptors ( 111 ). Cholesterol absorbed by the small intestine is packaged into chylomicrons which deliver dietary cholesterol to the liver ( 111 ). This increases hepatic cholesterol levels which down-regulates the expression of LDL receptors leading to a decrease in the clearance of LDL from the circulation ( 111 ). Additionally, the decrease in LDL receptors could result in an increase in the conversion of intermediate density lipoproteins to LDL rather than clearance by the liver (i.e., LDL production is enhanced). DIETARY CARBOHYDRATES Carbohydrates (CHO) can be divided into high-quality CHO, for example fruits, legumes, vegetables, and whole grains, or low-quality CHO, which include refined grains (such as white bread, white rice, cereal, crackers, and bakery desserts), starches (potatoes), and added sugars (sugar-sweetened beverages, candy). The high-quality CHO are typically enriched in fiber and have a low glycemic index/glycemic load (i.e., are slowly absorbed and thus do not rapidly increase plasma glucose levels). The low-quality CHO have a high glycemic index and load and rapidly increase plasma glucose levels. Effect of Dietary Carbohydrates
