The Effect of Diet on Cardiovascular Disease and Lipid and Lipoprotein Levels
KEYWORDS: levels, pubmed, diet, dietary, ldl-c, meta-analysis, cholesterol, effect, intake, increase, cardiovascular, decrease, disease, risk, studies


of fat was similar in the high- and low-fat groups, mainly saturated fat from dairy products and meat. It is likely that the decrease in fat calories was substituted by an increase in CHO calories. The type of CHO that replaced the SFA was not specified but the authors indicated that there was a marked increase in sugar intake in the low- fat diet group. There was no difference between the two groups in cardiovascular events during the 5 years of the trial. The DART study decreased SFA which were substituted with PUFA and CHO ( 50 ). During the 2-year trial cardiovascular events were similar in the decreased SFA vs. PUFA and CHO group. Finally, the Women’s Health Initiative trial randomized 19,541 postmenopausal women 50-79 years of age to the diet intervention group and 29,294 women to usual dietary advice ( 52 ). The goal in the diet intervention group was to reduce total fat intake to 20% of calories and increase intake of vegetables/fruits to 5 servings/day and grains to at least 6 servings/day (i.e., CHO}. Fat intake decreased by 8.2% of energy intake in the intervention vs the comparison group, with small decreases in SFA (2.9%), MUFA (3.3%), and PUFA (1.5%) fat with increased consumption of CHO. The dietary intervention did not significantly decrease CVD even though the CHO recommended was high quality CHO. These randomized studies do not provide support for a benefit of substituting CHO for fat in reducing CVD. Of particular note is the Women’s Health Initiative which decreased fat intake and increased high quality CHO and observed no cardiovascular benefits in contrast to the results of observational studies. Effect of Dietary Carbohydrates on Lipids Replacing SFA, MUFA, or PUFA with CHO results in an increase in TGs and a decrease in HDL-C levels ( 60 , 63 ). Replacing SFA with CHO results in a decrease in LDL-C while replacing MUFA or PUFA with CHO results in an increase in LDL-C (see tables 2 and 4 ) ( 60 , 63 ). In addition, dietary CHO increases the quantity of small dense LDL particles ( 123 ). The consumption of moderate amounts of fructose or sucrose (40-80 grams/day) in healthy young men was sufficient to increase small dense LDL levels ( 124 ). The effect of increasing dietary CHO on Lp(a) levels has been variable ( 62 ). Conversely, decreasing CHO in the
