The Effect of Diet on Cardiovascular Disease and Lipid and Lipoprotein Levels
KEYWORDS: levels, pubmed, diet, dietary, ldl-c, meta-analysis, cholesterol, effect, intake, increase, cardiovascular, decrease, disease, risk, studies


by 0.8mg/dL ( 130 ). In a similar meta-analysis by Fattore and colleagues an isocaloric substitution of free sugars for complex CHO increased TGs by 8.3mg/dL, LDL-C by 7.1mg/dL, and HDL-C by 1.3mg/dL ( 131 ). The increase in TG and LDL-C levels were larger in the trials where greater amounts of free sugar were employed. In a meta-analysis of adding fructose to the diet there was no significant effect on fasting TG levels at dietary fructose < 100 grams per day but at higher amounts fructose increased fasting TG levels ( 132 ). Fructose is more likely to have adverse effects on lipids when intake is high and/or when caloric excess is present. For example, in young healthy individuals, a 2-week intervention with 25% of energy requirements as HFCS or fructose sweetened beverages resulted in significant increases in fasting LDL-C, small dense LDL particles, non-HDL-C, apo B, and HDL-C and postprandial TGs ( 133 ). High quantities of glucose did not affect LDL-C, non-HDL-C, Apo B, HDL-C, or postprandial TG levels but did increase fasting TG levels ( 133 ). Thus, the effect of CHO on lipids can vary depending upon the particular type of CHO studied ( table 7 ). In the case of glycemic index (complex CHO) and starch vs sugar some of the difference in lipid response could be due to other dietary constituents (i.e., fiber, phytosterols). Table 7. Summary of the Effect of Different Carbohydrates on Lipid and Lipoproteins View in own window Comparisons Effect on Lipids and Lipoproteins Low GI vs. High GI High GI increases LDL-C Sugar vs. Starch Sugar increases LDL-C Sugar vs. Complex CHO Sugar increases LDL-C and TGs Fructose vs. Glucose Fructose increases LDL-C and HDL-C and postprandial TGs Sugar- sucrose, glucose, or fructose. MECHANISM OF THE EFFECTS OF CARBOHYDRATES ON LIPIDS Dietary CHO promote hepatic de novo fatty acid synthesis by providing substrate for fatty acid synthesis ( Figure 1 ). This is particularly the case when there is caloric excess. Additionally, the glucose provided by dietary CHO stimulates insulin secretion which also increases hepatic fatty acid synthesis. The increase in fatty acid synthesis in the liver enhances TG synthesis which promotes VLDL formation and secretion leading to an increase in plasma TG levels. Figure 1. Carbohydrates stimulate VLDL production by stimulating de novo fatty acid synthesis. Fructose is more potent at increasing de novo fatty acid synthesis than
