The Effect of Diet on Cardiovascular Disease and Lipid and Lipoprotein Levels
KEYWORDS: levels, pubmed, diet, dietary, ldl-c, meta-analysis, cholesterol, effect, intake, increase, cardiovascular, decrease, disease, risk, studies


increase in plasma TG levels. Figure 1. Carbohydrates stimulate VLDL production by stimulating de novo fatty acid synthesis. Fructose is more potent at increasing de novo fatty acid synthesis than glucose. Small quantities of fructose in the diet are metabolized in the small intestine to glucose and organic acids and do not affect systemic metabolism while high quantities of fructose can escape intestinal metabolism and are delivered to the liver ( 134 ). In the liver fructose but not glucose activates SREBP1c and ChREBP leading to the increased expression of the genes that synthesize fatty acids stimulating hepatic lipogenesis ( 134 , 135 ). Additionally, fructose metabolism in the liver is not inhibited providing an unlimited supply of fructose carbons for lipogenesis. In contrast, the first steps in glucose metabolism can be inhibited and thus the utilization of glucose for lipogenesis is regulated ( 134 ). In addition, fructose inhibits fatty acid oxidation whereas glucose does not ( 135 ). These differences in the metabolism of fructose and glucose in the liver explain the increased ability of fructose to stimulate hepatic lipogenesis and the enhanced formation and secretion of VLDL. In the addition to increased VLDL production fructose does not stimulate the secretion of insulin, which plays a key role in stimulating lipoprotein lipase activity and the clearance of TG rich lipoproteins. The failure of dietary fructose to induce an increase in lipoprotein lipase activity may lead to a decrease in the clearance of TG rich lipoproteins compared to dietary glucose, which stimulates insulin secretion. The elevation in TG rich lipoproteins in turn may have effects on other lipoproteins ( 25 ) ( Figure 2 ). Specifically, cholesterol ester transfer protein (CETP) mediates the equimolar exchange of TGs from TG rich VLDL and chylomicrons for cholesterol from LDL and HDL ( 25 ). The increase in TG rich lipoproteins per se leads to an increase in CETP mediated exchange, increasing the TG content and decreasing the cholesterol content of both LDL and HDL particles. This CETP-mediated exchange underlies the commonly observed reciprocal relationship of low HDL-C levels when TG levels are high and the increase in HDL-C when TG levels decrease. The TG on LDL and HDL are then hydrolyzed by hepatic lipase and lipoprotein lipase leading to the production of small dense LDL and small HDL particles. Figure 2. The effect of hypertriglyceridemia on LDL and HDL. DIETARY PROTEIN
