The Effect of Diet on Cardiovascular Disease and Lipid and Lipoprotein Levels
KEYWORDS: levels, pubmed, diet, dietary, ldl-c, meta-analysis, cholesterol, effect, intake, increase, cardiovascular, decrease, disease, risk, studies


by hepatic lipase and lipoprotein lipase leading to the production of small dense LDL and small HDL particles. Figure 2. The effect of hypertriglyceridemia on LDL and HDL. DIETARY PROTEIN Effect of Dietary Protein on Cardiovascular Disease In a meta-analysis of 10 studies with 425 ,781 participants intake of plant protein was associated with a decrease in cardiovascular mortality ( 136 ). Other meta-analyses have also found that intake of plant proteins was associated with a lower risk of cardiovascular mortality ( 137 - 139 ). In some but not all studies animal protein intake increased the risk of cardiovascular mortality ( 136 - 139 ). The differences in outcomes observed between plant and animal proteins could be due to increased intake of SFA with animal proteins and increased fiber and phytosterol intake with plant proteins. Effect of Dietary Protein on Lipids Because a high protein diet is often associated with an increase in SFA intake it is important to control for this variable in determining the effect of dietary protein on lipid levels. In a meta-analysis of a high vs. low protein diets in individuals on a low-fat diet no difference in LDL-C, HDL-C, or TG levels were observed ( 140 ). In another meta-analysis of 24 trials with 1,063 participants that compared isocaloric diets matched for fat intake but with differences in protein and CHO intakes no differences in LDL-C and HDL-C levels were observed but TG levels were decreased in the high protein diet group (-20.2mg/dL) ( 141 ). Greater weight loss and decreased CHO intake in the high protein diet group likely contributed to the decrease in TGs. In a meta-analysis where fat intake was not controlled the high protein diet was associated with an increase in HDL-C levels and a decrease in TG levels ( 142 ). It is obviously difficult to determine the effect of dietary protein on lipid levels as other dietary constituents are changing (SFA, CHO) and secondary effects induced by changes in protein intake (weight loss) could influence lipid levels. DIETARY FIBER Dietary fiber are non-digestible carbohydrates including non-starch polysaccharides, cellulose, pectins, hydrocolloids, fructo-oligosaccharides and lignin. Fiber is found mostly in fruits, vegetables, whole grains, nuts, seeds, psyllium seeds, beans, and legumes. There are two main types of dietary fiber; soluble and insoluble. The main sources of soluble fiber are fruits and vegetables and insoluble fiber are cereals and whole-grain products.
