The Effect of Diet on Cardiovascular Disease and Lipid and Lipoprotein Levels
KEYWORDS: levels, pubmed, diet, dietary, ldl-c, meta-analysis, cholesterol, effect, intake, increase, cardiovascular, decrease, disease, risk, studies


reduction in individuals with high TG level (percent change is the same) ( 162 ). To achieve these high doses consuming food products enriched is phytosterols is necessary. MECHANISM OF EFFECT OF PHYTOSTEROLS ON LDL-C Plant sterols or plant stanols reduce LDL-C levels by competing with cholesterol for incorporation into micelles in the gastrointestinal tract, resulting in decreased cholesterol absorption ( 163 ). This leads to the decreased delivery of cholesterol to the liver and the up-regulation of LDL-receptor expression lowering LDL-C levels. SUMMARY OF THE EFFECT OF DIETARY CONSTITUENTS ON LIPID LEVELS A summary of the major effects of dietary constituents on lipid levels is shown in table 13 , typically under isocaloric feeding conditions in short-term feeding studies. Dietary SFA, TFA, and cholesterol increase LDL-C levels whereas CHO increases TG levels. MUFA, PUFA, fiber and phytosterols decrease LDL-C and TFA decrease HDL-C levels. Table 13. Summary of the Effect of Dietary Constituents on Lipid and Lipoproteins View in own window SFA Increase LDL-C and modest increase HDL-C MUFA and PUFA Decrease LDL-C TFA Increase LDL-C and decrease HDL-C Cholesterol Increase LDL-C CHO Increase TGs, increase greater with simple sugars particularly fructose Fiber Decrease LDL-C Phytosterols Decrease LDL-C EFFECT OF SPECIFIC FOODS ON CARDIOVASCULAR DISEASE There are a large number of observational trials linking various foods with either an increased or decreased risk of CVD. A large meta-analysis by Micha et al reported that fruits, vegetables, beans/legumes, nuts/seeds, whole grains, fish, yogurt, fiber, seafood omega-3 fatty acids, polyunsaturated fats, and potassium were associated with a decreased risk of CVD while unprocessed red meats, processed meats, sugar-sweetened beverages, and sodium were associated with an increased risk of CVD ( 164 ). A similar meta-analysis by Bechthold et al found that whole grains, vegetables and fruits, nuts, and fish consumption were associated with a decrease in CVD while red meat, processed meat, and sugar sweetened beverage consumption was associated with an increase in CVD ( 165 ). Note, as discussed in the introduction, observational studies have limitations and cannot be assumed to indicate cause and effect. Additional one can find other meta-analyses that reach different conclusions than the results described above. For example, a meta-analysis by Zeraatkar et al and a meta-analysis by Vernooij et al reached the conclusion that meat and processed meat were not associated with a significant increase in CVD ( 20 , 166 ). Thus, one needs
