The Effect of Diet on Cardiovascular Disease and Lipid and Lipoprotein Levels
KEYWORDS: levels, pubmed, diet, dietary, ldl-c, meta-analysis, cholesterol, effect, intake, increase, cardiovascular, decrease, disease, risk, studies


meta-analysis by Vernooij et al reached the conclusion that meat and processed meat were not associated with a significant increase in CVD ( 20 , 166 ). Thus, one needs recognize that while these studies can suggest beneficial and harmful effects of eating certain foods more definitive studies are required to be certain. For a detailed analysis of the limitations of observational dietary studies see articles by Ioannidis and Nissen ( 1 , 2 ). Only a single randomized trial has examined the effect of specific foods on CVD events. The DART trial randomized men with an acute myocardial infarction to at least two weekly portions (200-400 g) of fatty fish (mackerel, herring, kipper, pilchard, sardine, salmon, or trout) (n=1015) or no dietary advice (n=1018) ( 50 ). After approximately 2 years total mortality was significantly lower (RR 0.71; CI 0.54-0.93) in the fish advice group than in the no fish advice group, due to a reduction in ischemic heart disease deaths. There were no significant differences in ischemic heart disease events (RR 0.84; CI 0.66-1.07). In a separate portion of the DART trial there was also a group of men with an acute myocardial infarction randomized to increased intake of cereal fiber (18 grams/day) (n=1017) vs. no dietary advice (n=1016). No reduction in cardiovascular events was seen in the cereal fiber group. Clearly addition randomized trials are required to determine the true benefits of specific foods on cardiovascular events. EFFECT OF SPECIFIC FOODS ON LIPID LEVELS In contrast to the paucity of randomized controlled trials on the effect of specific foods on cardiovascular disease there are an abundance of studies on the effect of specific foods on lipid and lipoprotein levels. Given the large number of studies in many instances I will cite the results of meta-analyses to provide the reader with the typical effects that are observed. It should be noted that the effect of specific foods on lipid and lipoprotein levels tend to be small and therefore the results can be inconsistent from study to study. Nuts and Seeds The most consumed edible tree nuts are almonds, hazelnuts, walnuts, pistachios, pine nuts, cashews, pecans, macadamias, and Brazil nuts. Peanuts are botanically groundnuts or legumes, and are widely considered to be part of the nut food group. Nuts are generally consumed as snacks (fresh or roasted), in spreads (peanut butter, almond paste), or as oils or baked goods.
