The Effect of Diet on Cardiovascular Disease and Lipid and Lipoprotein Levels
KEYWORDS: levels, pubmed, diet, dietary, ldl-c, meta-analysis, cholesterol, effect, intake, increase, cardiovascular, decrease, disease, risk, studies


2 months ( 191 ). In another meta-analysis garlic powder and aged garlic extract were more effective in reducing TC levels, while garlic oil was more effective in lowering serum TG levels ( 192 ). In a meta-analysis of garlic administration to patients with diabetes TC decreased 16.9mg/dL, LDL decreased 9.7mg/dL, TG decreased 12.4mg/dL, and HDL-C increased 3.19mg/dL (all p=0.001) ( 199 ). Lp(a) levels are not altered by garlic ( 198 ).The mechanism by which garlic alters lipid levels is unknown. Tea Green tea contains many catechins (e.g., epigallocatechin-3-gallate) that influence lipid metabolism in animal models and have been shown to upregulate LDL receptors in liver and suppress PCSK9 production ( 200 , 201 ). Epigallocatechin gallate may also interfere with the intestinal absorption of lipids ( 202 ). Most but not all meta-analyses have shown that drinking green tea or black tea decreases TC and LDL-C levels with no significant effect on HDL-C or TG levels ( 203 - 214 ). The reduction in LDL-C is approximately 5-10mg/dL. Coffee Coffee contains cholesterol-increasing compounds; diterpenes such as cafestol and kahweol ( 215 , 216 ). The amount of these cholesterol increasing compounds in coffee depends on how the coffee is prepared ( 215 , 216 ). Boiling coffee beans extracts diterpenes due to the prolonged contact with hot water resulting in high concentrations in the coffee whereas brewed filtered coffee because of the short contact with hot water and retention of diterpenes by the filter paper has lower concentrations of diterpenes. Instant coffee has very low levels of diterpenes ( 216 ). The concentration of the cholesterol-raising compound cafestol is negligible in drip-filtered, instant, and percolator coffee but high in unfiltered coffee such as French press, Turkish, or Scandinavian boiled coffee. Levels of cafestol are intermediate in espresso and coffee made in a Moka pot. A meta-analysis of 18 trials found that the consumption of unfiltered, boiled coffee dose-dependently increased TC and LDL-C concentrations (23 mg/dL and 14 mg/dL, respectively), while consumption of filtered coffee resulted in only small changes (TC increased by 3 mg/dL and no effect on LDL-C concentration) ( 217 ). Additionally, decaffeinated coffee had a smaller effect and the increase in cholesterol levels was greatest in individuals with hypercholesterolemia. Thus coffee, depending upon how it is prepared, can increase TC and LDL-C levels. Chocolate and Cocoa Cocoa is the non-fat component of finely ground cocoa
