The Effect of Diet on Cardiovascular Disease and Lipid and Lipoprotein Levels
KEYWORDS: levels, pubmed, diet, dietary, ldl-c, meta-analysis, cholesterol, effect, intake, increase, cardiovascular, decrease, disease, risk, studies


in individuals with hypercholesterolemia. Thus coffee, depending upon how it is prepared, can increase TC and LDL-C levels. Chocolate and Cocoa Cocoa is the non-fat component of finely ground cocoa beans that is used to produce chocolate. Cocoa is rich in flavanols which are low‐molecular‐weight monomeric compounds, such as epicatechin or complex higher‐molecular‐weight oligomeric and polymeric compounds ( 218 ). The flavanol content in cocoa products can vary greatly and is dependent on the crop type, post‐harvest handling practices, and manufacturer processing techniques. The flavanol content of milk and white chocolate is low or even absent ( 218 ). In a meta-analysis of 21 studies with 986 participants very small effects on LDL-C and HDL-C levels were observed (LDL-C 2.7mg/dL decrease; HDL-C 1.2mg/dL increase) with no change in TG levels with chocolate and/or cocoa intake ( 219 ). In another meta-analysis there was a decrease in TG levels (-8.8mg/dL), an increase in HDL-C (2.3mg/dL), and a non-significant decrease in LDL-C (-10.1mg/dL) ( 220 ). In studies where the epicatechin dose was greater than 100mg per day the decrease in LDL-C levels was greater (5.5mg/dL) ( 219 ). Another meta-analysis of 19 studies found that LDL decreased by 3.3mg/dL and HDL-C increased by 1.8mg/dL with cocoa intake ( 221 ). A meta-analysis of 10 clinical trials with 320 participants that focused on dark chocolate found a 6.23mg/dl decrease in LDL-C with no significant changes in HDL-C and TG ( 222 ). Thus chocolate/cocoa causes a small decrease in LDL-C levels. Alcohol It is recommended that females consume no more than 1 drink per day of alcohol (equivalent to 15 grams per day) and that males consume no more than 2 drinks per day (equivalent to 30 grams per day). Alcohol has a relatively high caloric level (7 calories/gram). EFFECT OF ALCOHOL ON LIPID LEVELS In a meta-analysis of 25 studies with an average consumption of 40.9 grams of alcohol per day HDL-C concentrations increased by 5.1 mg/dL ( 223 ). HDL-C levels increased by 0.122- 0.133 mg/dL per gram of alcohol per day. Consuming 30 grams of alcohol a day would therefore increase HDL-C concentrations by approximately 3.99 mg/dL compared with an individual who abstains (an 8.3% increase from pretreatment values). The increase in HDL-C was observed regardless of sex, duration of study, median age, or beverage type but the increase was greater in individuals with baseline HDL-C < 40mg/dL and
