The Effect of Diet on Cardiovascular Disease and Lipid and Lipoprotein Levels
KEYWORDS: levels, pubmed, diet, dietary, ldl-c, meta-analysis, cholesterol, effect, intake, increase, cardiovascular, decrease, disease, risk, studies


alcohol intake inhibits LPL activity, which could explain the observation that alcohol consumed with a meal increases postprandial TG levels (( 228 , 229 ). Summary of the Effect of Specific Foods on Lipid Levels Table 16. Major Effects of Specific Foods on Lipid Levels View in own window Nuts and Seeds Decrease TC and LDL-C Whole Grains Decrease LDL-C Garlic Decrease TC, LDL-C, TG Green and Black Tea Decrease TC and LDL-C Coffee (depends on method of preparation) Increase TC, LDL-C, TG Cocoa and Chocolate Decrease LDL-C SPECIFIC DIETS The effect of several dietary strategies on lipid levels is discussed below. Randomized controlled trials on the effect of specific diets on cardiovascular outcomes were discussed in earlier sections (saturated fatty acids section and monounsaturated fatty acids section). Mediterranean Diet Mediterranean diets have an abundance of plant foods, including vegetables, legumes, nuts, fruits, and grains, fish, and low to moderate red wine consumption. Low consumption of meat and meat products and moderate consumption of milk and dairy products is encouraged. In the PREDIMED trial the Mediterranean diet resulted in a small but significant increase in HDL-C levels and a small decrease in both LDL-C and TG levels ( 76 ). In the Lyon Diet Heart Study lipid levels were similar in the Mediterranean and usual diet groups ( 77 ). The cardiovascular outcome benefits of both of these randomized outcome trials are discussed in the effect of MUFA on CVD section. In a meta-analysis of the effect of a Mediterranean diet on lipid levels little or no change in LDL-C, HDL-C, and TGs was observed ( 235 ). Another meta-analysis reported a 4.6mg/dL decrease in LDL-C and a 0.61mg/dL increase in HDL-C ( 236 ). Dietary Approach to Stop Hypertension (DASH) Diet The DASH diet promotes the consumption of fruits, vegetables, low-fat dairy products, whole grains, poultry, fish, and nuts and a decrease in the intake of red meat, sweets, sugar-containing beverages, total fat, saturated fat, and cholesterol. In the initial DASH trial total fat and SFA intake was reduced in the DASH diet group (total fat 27% vs. 39% of calories; SFA 6.2% vs. 15% of calories). MUFA and PUFA intake were similar but cholesterol intake was decreased (194mg/day vs 324mg/day). As expected, CHO and fiber intake were increase (CHO 59% vs. 49% of calories; fiber 35grams/day vs. 17grams/day). The DASH diet lowered TC (15.6 to 19.5mg/dL), LDL-C (11.7
