The Effect of Diet on Cardiovascular Disease and Lipid and Lipoprotein Levels
KEYWORDS: levels, pubmed, diet, dietary, ldl-c, meta-analysis, cholesterol, effect, intake, increase, cardiovascular, decrease, disease, risk, studies


and peanut butter, with moderate amounts of vegetables, salads with low-carbohydrate dressing, cheese, and eggs. Fruits and fruit juices, most dairy products with the exception of hard cheeses and heavy cream, breads, cereals, beans, rice, desserts/sweets, or any other foods containing substantial amounts of CHO are avoided. It is well recognized that a ketogenic diet results in an increase in LDL-C levels, which varies depending upon the type of fat ingested, the degree of carbohydrate restriction, the presence of other medical conditions, weight loss on the diet, and genetic background ( 244 ). This increase in LDL-C levels is best illustrated in children treated with a ketogenic diet for epilepsy and in healthy individuals on a ketogenic diet ( 245 - 250 ). In some studies HDL-C is also increased ( 246 - 249 ). A meta-analysis of randomized studies in normal-weight adults found that a ketogenic diet increased LDL-C by 42mg/dL and HDL-C by 13.7mg/dL with no significant changes in TG levels ( 251 ). It should be noted that the increase in LDL-C is often not observed or is modest in patients with obesity or the metabolic syndrome ( 252 , 253 ). While the typical increases in LDL-C levels observed with a ketogenic diet are relatively modest, recently a series of reports have described marked elevations in LDL-C levels in some patients on a ketogenic diet ( 253 - 255 ). For example, Goldberg et al reported 5 patients with marked increases in LDL-C levels on a ketogenic diet ( 256 ). Three patients had LDL-C levels greater than 500mg/dL. Similarly, Schaffer et al described 3 patients in which a very low carbohydrate diet induced LDL-C levels greater then 400mg/dL ( 257 ). Finally, Schmidt et al reported 17 patients with LDL-C levels greater than 200mg/dL on a ketogenic diet ( 258 ). In these patients there was an average increase in their LDL-C level of 187 mg/dL ( 258 ). The elevations in LDL-C levels decrease towards normal with cessation of the ketogenic diet ( 256 - 258 ). It should be noted that most of the patients with marked elevations in LDL-C in response to a ketogenic diet had normal LDL-C levels prior to the dietary change ( 255 ). Many of the individuals who develop marked increases in LDL-C on a very low carbohydrate ketogenic diet have low TG levels, elevated HDL-C levels, and
