The Effect of Diet on Cardiovascular Disease and Lipid and Lipoprotein Levels
KEYWORDS: levels, pubmed, diet, dietary, ldl-c, meta-analysis, cholesterol, effect, intake, increase, cardiovascular, decrease, disease, risk, studies


dietary change ( 255 ). Many of the individuals who develop marked increases in LDL-C on a very low carbohydrate ketogenic diet have low TG levels, elevated HDL-C levels, and are thin ( 253 , 255 ). This phenotype has been called the lean mass hyper-responder (LMHR) phenotype ( 253 , 255 ). LMHR individuals have been defined as having TG <70mg/dL, HDL-C > 80mg/dL, and LDL-C > 200mg/dL ( 253 , 255 ). The mechanism for the marked increase in LDL-C levels is unknown. It may be due to a genetic predisposition in certain individuals (Apo E2/E2 genotype or high polygenic risk score for hypercholesterolemia) ( 256 ). Therefore, it is important for clinicians to monitor lipid levels in patients electing to follow a very low CHO/high fat diet. Comparison of Low Fat vs. Low Carbohydrate Weight Loss Diets Numerous randomized studies have compared the effect of low fat vs. low CHO weight loss diets on lipid levels. In a study by Foster et al 154 obese individuals were randomized to a low-fat diet and 153 obese individuals to a low CHO diet ( 259 ). In the low CHO diet during the first 12 weeks of treatment participants were instructed to limit CHO intake to 20 grams/day in the form of low–glycemic index vegetables after which the diet was gradually liberalized. In the low-fat diet participants were instructed to limit energy intake with approximately 55% of calories from CHO, 30% from fat, and 15% from protein. Participants were instructed to limit calorie intake, with a focus on decreasing fat intake. After 6 months weight loss was similar in both diet groups. The effect on lipid levels at 6 months is shown in table 17. As one would expect the low CHO was very effective at lowering TG levels and increasing HDL-C levels while the low-fat diet was very effective at lowering LDL-C levels. The large weight loss in this trial may have contributed to the large reduction in lipid levels. A review of a large number of meta-analyses comparing a low CHO diet vs. low fat weight loss diet similarly described that the low CHO diet lowered TG levels and increased HDL-C and LDL-C levels compared to the low-fat diet ( 244 ). Note the increase in LDL-C with the low-CHO diet was blunted in patients with diabetes or pre-diabetes ( 244 ). Also, the increase in LDL-C
