The Effect of Diet on Cardiovascular Disease and Lipid and Lipoprotein Levels
KEYWORDS: levels, pubmed, diet, dietary, ldl-c, meta-analysis, cholesterol, effect, intake, increase, cardiovascular, decrease, disease, risk, studies


decreases in lipid levels. Given that studies have shown that long-term modest reductions in LDL-C levels can have major effects on the risk of CVD (a 10mg/dL life-long decrease in LDL-C due to polymorphisms in ATP citrate lyase, HMGCoA reductase, LDL receptor, PCSK9, and NPC1L1 resulted in a 16%-18% decrease in cardiovascular events ( 263 )) it is likely that a similar long-term decrease induced by dietary changes would also be effective in decreasing CVD. A life-long 70mg/dL decrease in TG levels due to polymorphisms in the lipoprotein lipase gene resulted in a 23% decrease in coronary heart disease suggesting that long-term decreases in TG levels due to dietary changes would also be beneficial ( 264 ). Thus, long-term reductions in lipid levels induced by diet therapy may reduce the lifetime risk of developing CVD. CURRENT DIETARY GUIDELINES Most dietary guidelines recommended to the general population to prevent disease are very similar so I will only present the recommendations of two organizations. A brief summary of the Guidelines for Americans 2020-2025 is shown in table 20 and the guidelines from the American College of Cardiology/American Heart Association are shown in table 21 . Table 20. Guidelines for Americans 2020-2025 View in own window Recommend Limit Vegetables of all types—dark green; red and orange; beans, peas, and lentils; starchy; and other vegetables Added sugars—Less than 10 percent of calories per day Fruits, especially whole fruit Saturated fat—Less than 10 percent of calories per day Grains, at least half of which are whole grain Sodium—Less than 2,300 milligrams per day Dairy, including fat-free or low-fat milk, yogurt, and cheese, and/or lactose-free versions and fortified soy beverages and yogurt as alternatives Alcoholic beverages—Adults can choose not to drink or to drink in moderation by limiting intake to 2 drinks or less in a day for men and 1 drink or less in a day for women Protein foods, including lean meats, poultry, and eggs; seafood; beans, peas, and lentils; and nuts, seeds, and soy products Oils, including vegetable oils and oils in food, such as seafood and nuts Full guideline is available at DietaryGuidelines.gov. Table 21. ACC/AHA Dietary Recommendations to Reduce Risk of ASCVD ( 265 ) View in own window 1. A diet emphasizing intake of vegetables, fruits, legumes, nuts, whole grains, and fish is recommended 2. Replacement of saturated fat with dietary monounsaturated and polyunsaturated fats can be beneficial 3. A
