The Effect of Diet on Cardiovascular Disease and Lipid and Lipoprotein Levels
KEYWORDS: levels, pubmed, diet, dietary, ldl-c, meta-analysis, cholesterol, effect, intake, increase, cardiovascular, decrease, disease, risk, studies


diet emphasizing intake of vegetables, fruits, legumes, nuts, whole grains, and fish is recommended 2. Replacement of saturated fat with dietary monounsaturated and polyunsaturated fats can be beneficial 3. A diet containing reduced amounts of cholesterol and sodium can be beneficial 4. As a part of a healthy diet, it is reasonable to minimize the intake of processed meats, refined carbohydrates, and sweetened beverages 5. As a part of a healthy diet, the intake of trans fats should be avoided ASCVD- Atherosclerotic CVD. DIETARY RECOMMENDATIONS FOR PATIENTS WITH LIPID DISORDERS Elevated LDL-C The dietary approach to reduce LDL-C levels is to avoid TFA and decrease SFA and cholesterol intake while increasing intake of fiber and phytosterols ( 266 ). Additionally, weight loss if appropriate can be helpful in lowering LDL-C levels ( 266 ). Certain foods are effective in lowering LDL-C levels such as tree nuts or peanuts, plant protein from soy products, beans, peas, chickpeas, or lentils, and viscous soluble fiber from oats, barley, psyllium, eggplant, okra, apples, oranges, or berries and if possible, can be added to the individual’s diet ( 236 , 241 ). If one combines multiple nutritional changes one can have significant reductions in LDL-C levels ( table 22 ). Table 22. Effect of Multiple LDL-C Lowering Changes on LDL-C Levels View in own window Nutritional Intervention Estimated LDL-C Decrease Replace 5% of energy from SFA with MUFA or PUFA 5% to 10% 7.5 grams/day viscous fiber 6% to 9% 2 grams/day plant sterols/stanols 5% to 8% Replace 30 grams animal protein or CHO with plant protein 3% to 5% Loss 5% body weight if excess adiposity 3% to 5% Total Effect 22% to 37% Table adapted from ( 267 ). While diet alone usually does not reduce LDL-C sufficiently it adds to the beneficial effect of cholesterol lowering drugs. In a comparison of LDL-C lowering a low-fat diet alone lowered LDL-C by 5%, a statin alone by 27%, and the combination of low-fat diet plus statin by 32% demonstrating an independent and additive effect of combining diet and lipid lowering medications ( 268 ). Modestly Elevated Triglycerides The dietary approach to reduce TG levels is to reduce CHO intake particularly simple and refined sugars and to avoid or minimize alcohol intake ( 266 ). Weight loss if appropriate can be very helpful in lowering TG levels ( 25 , 266 ). Markedly Elevated Triglycerides
