Existing and Emerging Molecular Targets for the Pharmacotherapy of Obesity
KEYWORDS: weight, pubmed, loss, weight loss, obesity, intake, food, treatment, placebo, patients, food intake, body, obese, trial, effects


ABSTRACT Obesity is pandemic and a multidisciplinary approach is critical for its management. Anti-obesity treatment includes lifestyle modifications combined with anti-obesity medications. Anti-obesity drugs target either central nervous system pathways, which regulate sensations of satiety and fullness, or peripheral modulators of digestion, metabolism and lipogenesis. Combined anti-obesity agents is a novel, promising field, especially the co-administration of gut hormone analogues with centrally acting molecules. Consequently, it is hoped that in the near future, individualized pharmacological management of obesity could be meaningfully achieved by targeting different pathways governing energy homeostasis and weight regulation. This chapter reviews potential molecular targets of the energy homeostasis system along with new anti-obesity drugs currently under investigation. For complete coverage of all related areas of Endocrinology, please visit our on-line FREE web-text, WWW.ENDOTEXT.ORG . INTRODUCTION The pathophysiology that leads to obesity is considered a novel field for research. Understanding human metabolism and the homeostatic mechanisms of weight regulation includes comprehension of the interaction between central nervous system and peripheral modulators of weight maintenance. Current anti-obesity molecular pharmacotherapy is based on single molecule anti-obesity drugs that act either via enhancement of satiety feeling, inhibition of hunger, or triggering of catabolism. However, on average, the weight-lowering effects of these medications are modest at best and side effects are common. According to current clinical practice guidelines for pharmacological management of obesity published in 2015 by The Endocrine Society, if a patient’s weight is not responsive to lifestyle intervention, weight loss pharmacotherapy can be offered for a BMI ≥27kg/m 2 when an obesity-related comorbidity is present, or when the BMI is ≥30kg/m 2 ( 1 ). In fact, pharmacologic weight management should be considered in patients who meet these weight criteria and have any of a number of chronic conditions in which obesity is considered to play a major role, including type 2 diabetes mellitus (T2DM), cardiovascular disease, hypertension, dyslipidemia, obstructive sleep apnea, nonalcoholic fatty liver disease, certain cases of malignancies (i.e. endometrial, breast, colon) ( 2 ), osteoarthritis, depression ( 3 ), and infertility ( 4 ). Currently, there are six anti-obesity medications that have received US Food and Drug Administration (FDA) approval: orlistat, phentermine, phentermine/topiramate extended release (ER), lorcaserin, naltrexone sustained release (SR)/bupropion SR, and liraglutide (the only injectable formulation). At the same time, the European Medicines Agency (EMA) has approved only three of these: orlistat, bupropion/naltrexone and liraglutide. Considering the extent to which obesity impairs health alone
