Existing and Emerging Molecular Targets for the Pharmacotherapy of Obesity
KEYWORDS: weight, pubmed, loss, weight loss, obesity, intake, food, treatment, placebo, patients, food intake, body, obese, trial, effects


injectable formulation). At the same time, the European Medicines Agency (EMA) has approved only three of these: orlistat, bupropion/naltrexone and liraglutide. Considering the extent to which obesity impairs health alone or through expression of one or more of these comorbidities, the need for new molecular pharmaceutic agents is crucial. As detailed below, future weight-loss medications will be based on our knowledge of key regulatory sites of weight regulation and energy homeostasis so as to achieve greater efficacy while minimizing off-target side effects, characteristics that are necessary for approval by both American and European drug regulatory agencies. TARGETS OF PHARMACOTHERAPY IN THE MANAGEMENT OF OBESITY Novel insights provided by pathophysiology indicate the presence of a complex homeostatic system in which information about the energy reserve status and the meal quality and content is relayed from the periphery (gastrointestinal tract, pancreas, and adipose tissue) via specific orexigenic and anorexigenic peptides and hormones to the central nervous system (CNS). Peripheral peptide hormones are released postprandially and travel in the circulation to bind to their receptors in the homeostatic regulatory centers in the CNS, notably the arcuate nucleus (ARC) of the hypothalamus and the dorsal vagal complex (DVC) in the brainstem medulla. The ARC contains neurons expressing key orexigenic neurotransmitters, agouti-related peptide (AgRP) and neuropeptide Y (NPY), as well as anorexigenic neurotransmitters, proopiomelanocortin (POMC) and cocaine- and amphetamine-regulated transcript (CART). Food intake is thus modulated by complementary mechanisms so as to maintain energy and weight homeostasis. New drug therapies have begun to focus on combination therapy using medications that target more than one of these central pathways, thereby achieving more favorable weight loss outcomes. In addition, combining treatments may provide a better safety profile given that lower doses of each drug when used together may achieve better weight loss than higher doses of a single agent (see Figure 1 below). Factors That Influence Appetite The regulation of satiety and appetite depends on the interaction of three major factors: biological systems, modern macro-environmental exposures, and micro-environmental influences. Biological systems are shaped by genetic and epigenetic influences from early-life events that govern development of orexigenic and anorexigenic neuro-hormonal pathways involved in the pathophysiology of obesity. Modern macroenvironment (food production, consumption, availability, social structure, weather influencing physical activity, television and technology, cultural norms, endocrine disruptors) and microenvironment (nutrition, exercise, sleep, stressful lifestyle, circadian rhythm) play an important role in the conformational development of cognitive and emotional brain
