Existing and Emerging Molecular Targets for the Pharmacotherapy of Obesity
KEYWORDS: weight, pubmed, loss, weight loss, obesity, intake, food, treatment, placebo, patients, food intake, body, obese, trial, effects


activity, television and technology, cultural norms, endocrine disruptors) and microenvironment (nutrition, exercise, sleep, stressful lifestyle, circadian rhythm) play an important role in the conformational development of cognitive and emotional brain regions, thus predisposing to the obese phenotype. Genetic Factors of Physical Activity Specific genes predict to what extent adults remain active. This is evidenced in a study examining identical twins in which environmental factors shared by children at age 13 accounted for 78% to 84% of sport participation, whereas genetic differences provided no contribution at all. At the age of 17 to 18 the genetic influences represented 36% of the variance in the level of participation in sports, and by age 18 to 20, genetic factors were responsible for almost all (85%) of the differences in participation in sports. Figure 1. Sites of Action of the Most Important Anti-Obesity Drugs CENTRALLY-ACTING ANTI-OBESITY DRUGS Monoamine Neurotransmitter Modulators With the exception of the glucagon-like peptide 1 (GLP-1) receptor agonist liraglutide, currently available weight loss medications act on the central nervous system to enhance dopamine, norepinephrine, and serotonin action to enhance satiety, diminish hunger, and consequently affect weight loss. Drug combinations have opened new horizons as they use multiple neural pathways, leading to better results with less adverse events. Recently, a review of fifty reports involving 43,443 subjects compared the efficacy of the central acting anti-obesity drugs lorcaserin (5HT2c receptor agonist), naltrexone-bupropion (opioid receptor antagonist combined with a norepinephrine releasing agent that stimulates POMC neuronal firing), phentermine-topiramate (a norepinephrine and dopamine modulator plus a carbonate anhydrase inhibitor), and liraglutide. It was found that the maximal mean weight loss relative to placebo was -3.06, -6.15, -7.45, and -5.5kg after 1 year with mean weight regain +0.48kg, +0.91kg, +1.27kg, +0.43kg the following year, respectively. In these studies, the one-year drop-out rate was 40.9%, 49.1%, 34.9%, 24.3%, respectively ( 5 ). Leptin, Leptin Analogues and Leptin Sensitizers Leptin is a protein secreted primarily by white adipose tissue (WAT). It directly stimulates anorexigenic POMC neurons and inhibits adjacent orexigenic NPY neurons in the ARC of the hypothalamus, thus promoting satiety, increasing energy expenditure, and resulting in weight loss ( 6 ). Circulating levels of leptin increase with adiposity and decline following body weight reduction; the latter might be implicated in the total and resting energy expenditure reduction seen after weight loss. The discovery of leptin in 1994 was a seminal event in obesity research. It helped to
