Existing and Emerging Molecular Targets for the Pharmacotherapy of Obesity
KEYWORDS: weight, pubmed, loss, weight loss, obesity, intake, food, treatment, placebo, patients, food intake, body, obese, trial, effects


be implicated in the total and resting energy expenditure reduction seen after weight loss. The discovery of leptin in 1994 was a seminal event in obesity research. It helped to establish that body weight should be viewed as a disorder with a strong biological basis rather than simply the result of poor lifestyle choices. Studies with congenitally leptin-deficient, severely obese subjects revealed that administration of physiological doses of leptin decreased food intake and body weight ( 7 ). Obese individuals, however, are leptin-resistant and have increased circulating leptin levels. Whether administration of leptin could overcome leptin resistance and exert an anti-obesity effect was tested in a placebo-controlled study with 47 obese men and women given varying doses of recombinant human leptin (0.03 mg/kg and 0.30 mg/kg, respectively) for 24 weeks and advised to eat 500 kcal less than body requirements each day. A dose-dependent decrease in body weight was shown, ranging from -1.3 kg in the placebo group to -1.4 kg in the 0.03 mg/kg leptin-treated group, and to -7.1 kg in the 0.30 mg/kg leptin-treated group ( 8 ). These results suggested that leptin resistance can be overcome with high doses of leptin but resulting in only modest weight loss similar to currently approved medications. In addition, whether these effects can be sustained long-term is not known. Reports were similar from animal studies testing the effect of leptin sensitizers targeting the protein tyrosine phosphatase-1B (PTP1B)( 9 )( 10 ) or the chemical chaperones that repair ER stress, including 4-phenyl butyric acid (PBA) and tauroursodeoxycholic acid (TUDCA) ( 11 ), each of which demonstrated reduced food intake and body weight. Like leptin treatment, sustainability of these anti-obesity effects is still not clear. Weight loss is associated with reduction in energy expenditure, which makes long term weight loss maintenance difficult ( 12 ). Furthermore, 6 days of high fat diet in mice suffice to dramatically decrease the levels of phosphorylated signal transducer and activator of transcription 3 (p-STAT3) in the arcuate nucleus ( 13 ) while short term overfeeding of normal weight mice can lead to an increase of leptin resistance ( 14 ). Besides the inefficiency of leptin analogues as monotherapy, combinations of leptin with amylin ( 15 ), fibroblast growth factor 21(FGF21), exendin4, ( 16 ), or a GLP-1/glucagon co-agonist ( 17 ) were proposed. Only the combination with the GLP-1/glucagon co-agonist has shown improvement of leptin sensitivity (
