Existing and Emerging Molecular Targets for the Pharmacotherapy of Obesity
KEYWORDS: weight, pubmed, loss, weight loss, obesity, intake, food, treatment, placebo, patients, food intake, body, obese, trial, effects


growth factor 21(FGF21), exendin4, ( 16 ), or a GLP-1/glucagon co-agonist ( 17 ) were proposed. Only the combination with the GLP-1/glucagon co-agonist has shown improvement of leptin sensitivity ( 18 ). Apart from diet, stress of endoplasmic reticulum contributes to leptin resistance ( 19 ). Several plant-derived substances, such as celastrol ( 20 ) and withaferin ( 21 ) have been tested in diet-induced obese rodents for improvement of this pathway that leads to leptin resistance. Metreleptin Metreleptin (MYALEPT) is an injectable human recombinant leptin analogue approved in Japan for metabolic disorders including lipodystrophy and in USA as first-line treatment for non-HIV related forms of generalized lipodystrophy (leptin deficiency, congenital/acquired lipodystrophy) ( 22 ). A previous indication for hypothalamic amenorrhea has been withdrawn ( 23 ). (see Table 1 ) Table 1. Metreleptin (MYALEPT) View in own window FDA approved/Phase Approved in Japan for lipodystrophy disorders and in USA for non-HIV lipodystrophy Mechanism of action Human recombinant leptin injectable analogue Clinical Benefits ↓blood glucose, triglycerides, hepatic fatty steatosis Adverse events Headache, hypoglycemia, decreased weight, abdominal pain -previous indication for hypothalamic amenorrhea discontinued Pramlintide/Metreleptin The combination of amylin-leptin (pramlintide-metreleptin) has been shown to be effective in the treatment of obesity. The anti-obesity properties of the combined treatment with pramlintide and metreleptin (pramlintide/metreleptin) were tested and showed a significant weight reduction of 12.7 ± 0.9% (11.5 ± 0.9 kg) without plateauing in obese patients during a 20-week trial period ( 24 ). The sponsors subsequently announced positive results from a 28-week proof-of-concept study with pramlintide and metreleptin combination treatment in overweight or obese subjects. The combination treatment reduced body weight on average by 12.7%, significantly more than treatment with pramlintide alone (8.4%), which is interpreted as 10 pounds more weight loss with the combined treatment. Remarkably, subjects receiving pramlintide/metreleptin continued to lose weight until the end of the study, compared to those treated with pramlintide alone, whose weight loss had stabilized towards the end of the study. The magnitude of weight loss was found to be dose-dependent and baseline BMI-dependent. Patients with a starting BMI less than 35 kg/m 2 experienced the best weight loss efficacy with the combined treatment. A year later, the results of the 52-week blinded, placebo-controlled Phase II extension study of pramlintide/metreleptin were announced. The results indicated sustained and robust weight loss through the combined treatment; again, the most robust efficacy was seen in patients with a
