Existing and Emerging Molecular Targets for the Pharmacotherapy of Obesity
KEYWORDS: weight, pubmed, loss, weight loss, obesity, intake, food, treatment, placebo, patients, food intake, body, obese, trial, effects


II extension study of pramlintide/metreleptin were announced. The results indicated sustained and robust weight loss through the combined treatment; again, the most robust efficacy was seen in patients with a BMI less than 35 kg/m 2 ( 25 ). Although the pramlintide/metreleptin combination seemed to be the next promising anti-obesity drug to be marketed, the sponsors discontinued its development in 2011, following commercial reassessment of the program ( 26 ). Melanocortin-4 Receptor Agonists The melanocortin system has a highly significant role in the hypothalamic regulation of body weight and energy expenditure. Leptin inhibits the release of the orexigenic neuropeptides orexin and melanocortin-concentrating hormone (MCH) in the lateral hypothalamic area (LHA) through the release of CART and melanocyte-stimulating hormone (α-MSH). The latter derives from the cleavage of POMC by prohormone convertase-1 and acts via melanocortin-3 and -4 receptors (MC3R, MC4R) activation. α-MSH emerged as a promising novel anti-obesity drug, and intranasal administration of the melanocortin sequence MSH/ACTH4-10 to normal-weight subjects was shown to acutely increase subcutaneous WAT lipolysis ( 27 ) and decrease body fat by 1.7 kg, when administered for six weeks ( 28 ). It eventually proved not to induce any significant reduction in body weight or body fat when compared with placebo in a 12-week study of 23 overweight men. In preclinical studies, obese primates treated for eight weeks with the MC4R agonist RM-493 (Setmelanotide) lost an average of 13.5% of their body weight, with significant improvements in both insulin sensitivity and cardiovascular function. In June 2014, the results from the first human Phase II trial were released, testing the hypothesis that an MC4R agonist increases resting energy expenditure in obese subjects. A total of 12 obese but otherwise healthy individuals were randomized and completed both RM-493 and placebo periods in this double-blind, placebo-controlled, two-period crossover study. Analysis of the data indicates that short-term treatment with RM-493 increased resting energy expenditure significantly (by 6.4% vs placebo), thus suggesting RM-493 may be clinically effective for treating obesity. In 2015, administration of Setmelanotide to obese individuals for a limited time increased resting energy expenditure (REE) by 6.4% and shifted substrate oxidation to fat ( 29 ). Currently, Setmelanotide is being tested as a therapeutic option for rare genetic disorders of obesity such as POMC deficiency, heterozygous deficiency obesity, and POMC epigenetic disorders ( 30 - 32 ). (see Table 2 ) Table 2. Setmelanotide (RM-493) View in own window FDA
