Existing and Emerging Molecular Targets for the Pharmacotherapy of Obesity
KEYWORDS: weight, pubmed, loss, weight loss, obesity, intake, food, treatment, placebo, patients, food intake, body, obese, trial, effects


obesity such as POMC deficiency, heterozygous deficiency obesity, and POMC epigenetic disorders ( 30 - 32 ). (see Table 2 ) Table 2. Setmelanotide (RM-493) View in own window FDA approved/Phase Phase II Mechanism of action MC4R-agonist Weight loss vs placebo 13.5% Clinical Benefits ↑insulin sensitivity, cardiovascular function, energy expenditure, ↓ body weight -tested for POMC deficiency, heterogenous deficiency obesity, POMC epigenetic disorders Adverse events Headache, arthralgia, nausea, spontaneous penile erection, female genital sensitivity Melanin-Concentrating Hormone (MCH) Antagonists The melanocortin-concentrating hormone (MCH) is an important orexigenic neuropeptide in the LHA. Its release is stimulated by NPY and inhibited by leptin, exerting its orexigenic effects through the MCH1 receptor (MCHR1) ( 33 ). Like NPY, MCH exerts pleiotropic effects on locomotor activity, sensory processing, anxiety, aggression, and learning. Thus, despite the role of MCH in hunger stimulation, MCHR1 blockade as an anti-obesity target is questionable because such inhibition could elicit undesirable side effects. In animal models, MCH antagonists have consistently demonstrated efficacy in reducing food intake acutely and in inhibiting body weight gain when given chronically ( 34 ). Five compounds have reached testing in human subjects. Although they were reported as well-tolerated, none has proceeded to Phase II studies. A major issue with many lead compounds is increased cardiovascular risk due to drug-induced QTc prolongation ( 35 ). Among others, the MCHR1 antagonist AMG 076 entered Phase I safety and tolerability testing in 2004, but there have been no subsequent reports of its status since 2005. The MCHR1 antagonist GW-856464 also entered Phase I studies in 2004; however, in 2010 it was reported that low bioavailability precluded further development. The MCHR1 antagonist NGD-4715 was safe and well-tolerated in a Phase I clinical trial, but its development ceased in 2013. Similarly, despite the reported tolerability and indication of efficacy of the MCHR1 antagonist ALB-127158, its development was terminated before the initiation of Phase II studies. Finally, the longest (28-day) Phase I study with BMS-830216, a pharmacological antagonist of MCH signaling ( 36 ) produced no indications of weight loss or reduced food intake and the compound did not proceed to Phase II studies. Subtype-Selective Serotonin-Receptor Agonists Central serotonin participates in feeding behavior and energy balance modulation, reducing food intake in animals and human beings. This finding was supported by reports of two selective serotonin reuptake inhibitors (SSRIs) developed to treat depression, fluoxetine and sertraline, being associated with non-sustained weight loss in
