Existing and Emerging Molecular Targets for the Pharmacotherapy of Obesity
KEYWORDS: weight, pubmed, loss, weight loss, obesity, intake, food, treatment, placebo, patients, food intake, body, obese, trial, effects


and human beings. This finding was supported by reports of two selective serotonin reuptake inhibitors (SSRIs) developed to treat depression, fluoxetine and sertraline, being associated with non-sustained weight loss in obese subjects. Thus, agonists to appropriate serotonin receptors are potentially valuable drugs. The serotonin (5-HT) system directly modulates the hypothalamic POMC (anorexigenic) and NPY (orexigenic) networks, enhancing satiety and causing hypophagia. These effects are mediated by 5-HT2C and 5-HT1B receptors, located on hypothalamic POMC and NPY neurons, respectively. Through the 5-HT1B receptors, serotonin inhibits the NPY/Agrp neurons, thereby decreasing the GABAergic inhibitory input to POMC cells; while through the 5-HT2C receptors it directly activates the anorexigenic POMC neurons. Via these actions, serotonin increases α-MSH and decreases AgRP release into the hypothalamic melanocortin system, promoting satiety. Between 1973 and 2000 there was an explosion in the pharmaceutic industry regarding central acting anti-obesity drugs. Three non-selective serotonin-receptor agonists were approved by FDA: fenfluramine (1973-1997), the combination phentermine-fenfluramine (1992-1997), and dexfenfluramine (1996-1997). These were all 5-HT1b agonists characterized for their ability to inhibit food consumption, but also had effects on other serotonin receptors that lead to unacceptable side effects (cardiac valvular thickening) and were voluntarily withdrawn from the market. In 1997, when fenfluramine and dexfenfluramine were discontinued by the manufacturer, sibutramine, a serotonin and norepinephrine reuptake inhibitor emerged. Sibutramine has only little clinical relevance as an antidepressant but enhances weight loss due to an increase in energy expenditure and inhibition of food intake ( 37 ). In addition to weight loss, sibutramine was found to improve fasting levels of insulin, triglycerides, and high-density lipoprotein cholesterol. Sibutramine was also associated with increase of blood pressure, cardiovascular events, and cardiac arrhythmias ( 38 ). For these reasons, FDA withdrew it in 2010. Lorcaserin As activation of the 5-HT1B receptor has been implicated in both primary pulmonary hypertension ( 39 ) and valvopathy ( 40 ), the 5-HT2C receptor subtype has been proposed as a target for therapeutic intervention to allow weight loss. Several potent and selective 5-HT2Creceptor agonists proved to be effective in suppressing food intake and inducing weight loss in rodents, including WAY-163909 ( 41 ), CP-809101 ( 42 ), and vabicaserin ( 43 ). However, only lorcaserin (APD356) moved into clinical testing. Lorcaserin (Belviq) is a selective 5-HT2c receptor agonist, which belongs in the third generation of 5-HT-based anti-obesity drugs ( 44 ). It activates hypothalamic POMC neurons to induce satiety and decrease
