Existing and Emerging Molecular Targets for the Pharmacotherapy of Obesity
KEYWORDS: weight, pubmed, loss, weight loss, obesity, intake, food, treatment, placebo, patients, food intake, body, obese, trial, effects


(Belviq) is a selective 5-HT2c receptor agonist, which belongs in the third generation of 5-HT-based anti-obesity drugs ( 44 ). It activates hypothalamic POMC neurons to induce satiety and decrease food intake but does not affect energy expenditure. Through actions on midbrain dopaminergic tone, it has been shown to suppress binge- food behaviors. Its action in addictive disorders is currently under investigation ( 45 ). Based on the outcome of the BLOOM ( 46 ) and BLOSSOM trials ( 47 ), in 2012 the FDA approved lorcaserin as an addition to a reduced-calorie diet and exercise for eligible patients ( 48 ). The efficacy of lorcaserin appears similar to that of orlistat (mean difference in weight loss between active and placebo treated groups approximately 3 to 4 kg) and perhaps slightly less than that of phentermine-topiramate. The impact of lorcaserin in patients with T2DM and BMI: 27-45kg/m 2 was examined in the BLOOM-DM trial which showed a reduction of body weight by approximately 5kg versus 1.6kg in the placebo group, as well as significant decreases in heart rate, HDL levels, and waist circumference. Valvopathy was shown not to occur in excess with treatment and lorcaserin was generally well tolerated, with a low incidence of side effects such as headache, dizziness, fatigue, nausea. After the results of BLOOM-DM trial, a potential combination of GLP-1RA and 5-HT2A/C is now under investigation ( 49 ). In a multicenter, randomized, double-blind, placebo-controlled, parallel-group study involving12,000 overweight and obese patients with cardiovascular disease or multiple cardiovascular risk factors (CAMELLIA-TIMI 61), the effect of long-term treatment with lorcaserin on major cardiovascular events and conversion to T2DM over a 5-year period were examined. After one year of treatment, 5% weight loss was observed in 38.7% and 17.4% in the lorcaserin and the placebo groups, respectively. Regarding cardiac risk, the lorcaserin group was non-inferior to the placebo group with slightly better values in cardiac risk factors (blood pressure, heart rate, glycemic control, lipid profile). Adverse events were rare in both groups, apart from the incidence of serious hypoglycemia in the lorcaserin group in those with diabetes managed using insulin or sulfonylureas ( 50 , 51 ). In addition, lorcaserin administration decreased the incidence of T2DM by 19% in patients with prediabetes and by 23% in patients without diabetes. In patients with T2DM, lorcaserin resulted in a reduction of 0.33% in HbA1c compared with placebo at 1 year from
