Existing and Emerging Molecular Targets for the Pharmacotherapy of Obesity
KEYWORDS: weight, pubmed, loss, weight loss, obesity, intake, food, treatment, placebo, patients, food intake, body, obese, trial, effects


effect of bupropion following intraperitoneal injection ( 52 ). The acute effects of dopamine and noradrenaline reuptake inhibition on energy homeostasis demonstrated their additive effects on short-term food intake ( 53 ). Bupropion increases dopamine activity and POMC neuronal activation, thereby reducing appetite and increasing energy expenditure ( 54 ). Whether the acute meal terminating effects of bupropion documented in animal studies could be translated into long-term weight loss efficacy in humans was addressed by three clinical trials with overweight and obese adults ( 55 , 56 , 57 ) using different treatment doses (100 to 400 mg/d) and duration (up to 24 weeks). They have all shown bupropion to have dose-dependent modest weight reducing efficacy, plus a safe profile. One study that assessed the anti-obesity efficacy of bupropion over two years reported maintenance of weight loss during the continuation phase, while another demonstrated its efficacy even in depressed patients. Although the weight loss effect of bupropion was superior in non-depressed patients compared to those suffering from depression, the fact that bupropion was well-tolerated and effective in this group of patients provides a potential valuable adjunctive therapy to elevate mood in depressed subjects in whom weight gain secondary to antidepressant therapy is an issue. Cardiovascular effects, such as a rise in blood pressure and tachycardia, were usually mild, while the risk of seizure, which was high with the original bupropion formulation, has been significantly reduced with the advent of bupropion-SR and bupropion-ER. An interesting finding of the previous studies was that the rather modest weight loss effect of bupropion reached a plateau by 24 weeks of treatment. This could be explained by the molecular pathophysiology of the weight reducing effects of bupropion, which directly stimulates the hypothalamic POMC neurons that in turn release α-MSH and β-endorphin. α-MSH mediates the anorectic effect of POMC activation, whereas β-endorphin exerts negative feedback on POMC neurons via opioid receptors ( 58 ). The latter possibly points to one of the compensatory mechanisms that limits long-term efficacy of bupropion and other weight loss modalities. Naltrexone Naltrexone is an opioid receptor antagonist. By blocking opioid receptors on the POMC neurons, feedback inhibition is prevented further increasing POMC activity. Monotherapy with opioid antagonists to decrease short-term food intake has been tested ( 59 ). Naltrexone failed to produce consistent or clinically meaningful weight loss, even at large doses (300 mg/d) ( 60 ), implying that a single
