Existing and Emerging Molecular Targets for the Pharmacotherapy of Obesity
KEYWORDS: weight, pubmed, loss, weight loss, obesity, intake, food, treatment, placebo, patients, food intake, body, obese, trial, effects


intake has been tested ( 59 ). Naltrexone failed to produce consistent or clinically meaningful weight loss, even at large doses (300 mg/d) ( 60 ), implying that a single opioid mechanism is unlikely to explain all aspects of ingestive behavior. Bupropion/Naltrexone Sustained Release (SR) The combined bupropion/naltrexone (NB) therapy induced significantly greater weight loss on a diet and exercise program over 56 weeks compared to monotherapy and placebo ( 61 ). In 2014, the FDA approved this combination (Contrave, Mysimba) for body weight management in adults who are overweight and obese. This combined therapy of opioid antagonist and aminoketone antidepressant is titrated over four weeks to the maximum dose. NB has shown remarkable benefit in patients with binge-eating disorder (BED) and concomitant alcohol abuse, but this result needs further evaluation ( 62 ). Four major 56-week phase III randomized, double-blind, placebo-controlled trials have shown the therapeutic effect of ΝΒ SR (COR-I, COR-II, COR-BMOD, COR-DIABETES) in different dosage combinations (see Table 6 ). In COR-I, the weight loss ratio on NB 16/360mg, NB 32/360mg or placebo was -5.0%, -6.1%, -1.3% (P<0.00) respectively. In COR-II, the weight loss ratio on NB 32/360mg or placebo was -6.4%, -1.2% (P<0.001) ( 63 ). In COR-BMOD, NB SR 32/360mg plus intensive behavioral modification was compared with the behavioral modification alone as a therapeutic option. The weight loss ratio was -11.5% versus -7.3% (P<0.001), respectively ( 64 ). Recently, COR-Diabetes has included patients with T2DM with or without antidiabetic treatment. The NB SR 32/360mg treatment resulted in -5.1% weight loss versus -1.8% in the placebo group (P<0.001). NB treatment resulted in a HbA1c reduction, cardiovascular benefit, and lipid profile improvement ( 65 ). Due to FDA request for further investigation of the effect of NB on major cardiovascular events, the LIGHT trial was created. Unfortunately, this trial terminated early following recommendation by the academic leadership of the study because confidential interim data were publicly released by the sponsor ( 66 ). (See Table 5 , 6 ) Table 5. Bupropion/Naltrexone Sustained Release (Contrave, Mysimba) View in own window FDA approved/Phase 2014 Mechanism of action Aminoketone antidepressant/Opioid antagonist Weight loss vs placebo 4.8kg Clinical Benefits ↓ appetite Adverse events Nausea, constipation, headache, vomiting, dizziness, insomnia, dry mouth, suicidal ideation, increase blood pressure/heart rate, hepatotoxicity, angle-closure glaucoma Uncontrolled hypertension, seizures, anorexia nervosa/bulimia, chronic opioid use, coadministration with MAO inhibitors Table 6. Clinical trials of Naltrexone/Bupropion SR View
