Existing and Emerging Molecular Targets for the Pharmacotherapy of Obesity
KEYWORDS: weight, pubmed, loss, weight loss, obesity, intake, food, treatment, placebo, patients, food intake, body, obese, trial, effects


and ranged from -2.9 kg/m 2 to 4.7 kg/m 2 (p<0.001), while the drug was generally safe and well-tolerated ( 70 ). Zonisamide was also assessed in the treatment of binge-eating (BE) disorder where it proved to be effective in reducing binge-eating frequency, severity of illness, and weight; however, the reports regarding its tolerability were conflicting ( 71 ). (see Table 7 ). Table 7. Zonisamide View in own window Mechanism of action Selective serotonin-receptor agonist and dopamine-reuptake inhibitor Weight loss vs placebo 7.8kg Clinical Benefits Assess in the treatment of binge-eating disorder Adverse events Nausea, headache, insomnia Zonisamide/Bupropion SR Whether the anti-obesity efficacy of Zonisamide is increased when combined with bupropion (dopamine and norepinephrine -reuptake inhibitor) has been evaluated in a few Phase II clinical trials with different combined doses; the bupropion SR/Zonisamide SR combination is marketed under the trade name Empatic. In its 24-week, double-blind, placebo-controlled Phase IIb trial ( 72 ), patients completing 24 weeks of bupropion SR 360 mg/Zonisamide SR 360 mg therapy lost 9.9% of their baseline body weight, or 22 pounds, compared to 1.7% for placebo patients (p<0.001). Of patients who completed 24 weeks of therapy, 82.6% lost at least 5% of their baseline body weight and 47.7% lost at least 10% of their baseline body weight compared to 18.9% and 5.7% of placebo patients, respectively (p<0.001 for both). Patients experienced significant weight loss as early as by their first post-baseline visit at week four. Importantly, patients continued to lose weight until the end of the trial period with no evidence of a weight loss plateau. Early results showed that patients lost an average of 14% over 48 weeks. Improvements were observed in key markers of cardiometabolic risk such as waist circumference, triglycerides, fasting insulin, and blood pressure. The most commonly reported adverse events for all patients were headache, insomnia, and nausea. The most common adverse events leading to discontinuation were insomnia, headache, and urticaria (hives). There were no serious adverse events attributed by investigators to the study drug. There were no statistically or clinically meaningful differences between the drug and placebo on measures of cognitive function, depression, suicidality or anxiety. These reports revealed a significant weight-reduction effect for the combination Bupropion/Zonisamide. However, the safety concerns ( 73 ) will need to be addressed in the upcoming Phase III studies before firm conclusions about its safety profile can be drawn. (see Table 8 )
