Existing and Emerging Molecular Targets for the Pharmacotherapy of Obesity
KEYWORDS: weight, pubmed, loss, weight loss, obesity, intake, food, treatment, placebo, patients, food intake, body, obese, trial, effects


safety concerns ( 73 ) will need to be addressed in the upcoming Phase III studies before firm conclusions about its safety profile can be drawn. (see Table 8 ) Table 8. Zonisamide/Bupropion (Empatic) View in own window FDA approved/Phase Phase II completed Mechanism of action Selective serotonin-receptor agonist and dopamine-reuptake inhibitor/dopamine and norepinephrine reuptake inhibitor Weight loss vs placebo 9.9% of their baseline weight Clinical Benefits ↓cardiometabolic risk Adverse events Headache, insomnia, nausea, urticaria Topiramate Topiramate is another anticonvulsant agent associated with weight loss. It is a sulphamate-substituted fructose that is approved as an antiepileptic/antimigraine agent and has multiple effects on the CNS, including action on the orexigenic GABA systems causing appetite suppression ( 74 ). A 6-month dose-ranging study in obese human subjects addressing its anti-obesity efficacy at doses of 64, 96, 192, and 384 mg/day (in divided twice-daily dosing) concluded that all doses produced significantly greater weight loss compared to placebo, and that weight loss in the 192 mg/day group was similar to the 384 mg/day group ( 75 ). This is important as topiramate has been associated with several neuropsychiatric effects, especially when administered at high doses (of 192 mg/d or more). Another study investigating the weight loss efficacy and safety of topiramate doses of 96, 192, and 256 mg/day over a 1-year period in obese subjects using the immediate release form tablets (before the development of the controlled-release formulation). Clinically significant weight loss (7.0, 9.1, and 9.7% of their baseline body weight for the doses of 96, 192, and 256 mg/day, respectively), was reported compared to 1.7% body weight loss in the placebo group (P<0.001) plus improvements in blood pressure and glucose tolerance ( 76 ). Finally, several other studies investigated the therapeutic effect of topiramate in patients with BED and bulimia ( 77 ) that are both associated with obesity; the results were very promising regarding control of symptoms in both disorders. (see Table 9 ) Table 9. Topiramate View in own window FDA approved/Phase Phase II completed Mechanism of action Sulphamate-substituted fructose acts on GABA system Weight loss vs placebo 7.0%(96mg),9.1%(192mg), 9.7% (256mg/day) Clinical Benefits Assess in the treatment of binge-eating, bulimia Adverse events Headache, insomnia, nausea, urticaria Phentermine Phentermine is a sympathomimetic amine, which has anorexigenic action, that also releases insignificant quantities of dopamine. Thus, it is characterized by lower abuse potential ( 78 ). Its main mechanism of action involves catecholamine
