Existing and Emerging Molecular Targets for the Pharmacotherapy of Obesity
KEYWORDS: weight, pubmed, loss, weight loss, obesity, intake, food, treatment, placebo, patients, food intake, body, obese, trial, effects


amine, which has anorexigenic action, that also releases insignificant quantities of dopamine. Thus, it is characterized by lower abuse potential ( 78 ). Its main mechanism of action involves catecholamine release in the hypothalamus resulting in enhanced satiety feeling and reduction of food intake ( 79 ). The most common side effects of phentermine as a sympathomimetic drug is heart rate increase, hypertension, dizziness, dry mouth, insomnia, irritability, and gastrointestinal disorders ( 80 ). Phentermine was the first FDA approved anti-obesity drug in 1959 for those aged >16 years old, but for only short-term use (maximum 3 months). The reason for the time limit is because the pharmaceutic industry had not updated labeling since 1959. In 1968, in a double-blind, placebo-controlled trial, 108 overweight or obese women were categorized into three groups that received continuously or intermittently (every 4 weeks) dosed phentermine or placebo, respectively. The weight loss was -12.2kg, -13.0kg or -4.8kg, respectively ( 81 ). Currently, the off-label long-term use of phentermine is indicated only if there is clinical benefit, stable blood pressure and pulse rate in the absence of cardiovascular history or substance abuse disorders. In a recently published retrospective cohort study, 13,972 patients were observed for 6, 12 and 24 months after phentermine initiation. They were categorized in five groups based on the time of phentermine administration: short-term use, short-term intermittent use, medium-term continuous use, medium-term intermittent use, long-term continuous use. Weight-loss, changes in blood pressure, heart rate, and incidence of cardiovascular events (myocardial infarction, stroke, angina, coronary artery bypass grafting, carotid artery intervention, death) were examined. Weight loss was greater among off-label groups than referent group of short-term use with results depending on the duration of phentermine initiation. Specifically, at six months, short-term intermittent patients lost 1.8% further body weight relative to short-term single patients and medium-term intermittent patients lost 5.6% further body weight relative to short-term single patients. At twelve months, the medium-term intermittent use group lost further 5.6% body weight relatively to the short-term use group. At twenty-four months, long-term the continuous use group lost 7.4% additional body weight in comparison with the short-term use group. Concerning safety of phentermine, changes in heart rate and diastolic blood pressure were insignificant at six, twelve, and twenty-four months. Interestingly, although the referent group showed a slight increase in systolic blood pressure (+0.5-3.2 mmHg) at twenty-four months, all groups had slightly lower systolic blood pressure than
