Existing and Emerging Molecular Targets for the Pharmacotherapy of Obesity
KEYWORDS: weight, pubmed, loss, weight loss, obesity, intake, food, treatment, placebo, patients, food intake, body, obese, trial, effects


and twenty-four months. Interestingly, although the referent group showed a slight increase in systolic blood pressure (+0.5-3.2 mmHg) at twenty-four months, all groups had slightly lower systolic blood pressure than the referent group at twelve- and twenty-four-months follow-up period. Lastly, the incidence of major cardiovascular events was low. So, it was shown that the off-label over three months therapy with phentermine was superior to short–term administration with greater weight-loss effect and cardiovascular safety. More studies with fewer limitations should follow in order to support these findings ( 82 ). In 2013, a clinical trial comparing phentermine as monotherapy or as part of a combined therapy, took place and resulted in a weight loss of 5.1% at 28 weeks follow-up period in favor of the combined phentermine/topiramate group.(see Table 10 ) Table 10. Phentermine View in own window FDA approved/Phase 1959 Mechanism of action Norepinephrine release and minor dopamine release Weight loss vs placebo 0.23kg/week Clinical Benefits Lower abuse potential Adverse events Stimulation, insomnia, dry mouth, constipation, primary pulmonary hypertension Contraindicated in cardiovascular disease, coadministration with MAO inhibitors, hyperthyroidism, glaucoma, drug abuse Phentermine/Topiramate ER Because of dose-related side effects seen with topiramate treatment including suicidality, metabolic acidosis, acute myopia, and secondary angle closure glaucoma, a lower dose of topiramate was used (in a special controlled release formulation) in a novel anti-obesity drug called Qsymia. The main mechanism of action of Phentermine/Topiramate extended release(ER) is possibly the alteration of various neurotransmitters, including inhibition of voltage-dependent sodium channels, glutamate receptors, and carbonic anhydrase as well as potentiation of γ-aminobutyrate activity ( 83 ).Two large randomized, double-blind, placebo-controlled trials took place (EQUIP and CONQUER) followed by a 2-year extension trial (SEQUEL). In the EQUIP trial 1,267 patients with BMI>35kg/m 2 were allocated in two groups and received phentermine/topiramate ER 3.75/23mg and 15/92mg, respectively, once daily. With 59.9% of the patients discontinuing, this trial found no statistically significant difference between the two groups regarding weight reduction ( 84 ). In the CONQUER trial 2,487 patients were allocated in three groups and received phentermine/topiramate ER 7.5/46mg, phentermine/topiramate ER 15/92mg, and placebo, respectively. The results were in favor of the combined therapy while the greater dosage resulted in greater weight loss with mean weight loss -7.8kg, -9.8kg, and -1.2kg in the three respective groups ( 85 ). Patients who completed the CONQUER trial entered the SEQUEL trial for 52 weeks. The weight loss as percentage of the
