Existing and Emerging Molecular Targets for the Pharmacotherapy of Obesity
KEYWORDS: weight, pubmed, loss, weight loss, obesity, intake, food, treatment, placebo, patients, food intake, body, obese, trial, effects


and Y5-receptors reduces food intake and weight, with Y1-receptor signaling appearing to be the major mediator of the orexigenic effects of NPY. However, NPY is the most abundant central neuropeptide and regulates many functions beyond feeding; thus, targeting NPY neurons/Y receptors specifically for obesity is not easy and could result in unacceptable side effects. In addition, experimental medical blockade of NPY signaling with the Y5-receptor antagonist MK-0577 failed to cause any significant weight loss in a 1-year clinical trial ( 87 ). On the other hand, the oral, once-daily, centrally acting selective Y5-receptor antagonist velneperit, previously known as S-2367, induced a mean placebo-adjusted weight loss of 5.0% from initial weight (p <0.0001) over 54 weeks of therapy and was accompanied by improvement of lipid profile and waist circumference reduction ( 88 ).Nevertheless, velneperit did not proceed in markets due to disappointing results in phase IIb trials. However, the combined Y1/Y5-receptor antagonism may prove more effective, though we are not aware of any Y1/Y5-receptor antagonist in development to date. In contrast to Y1 and Y5, the Y2- and Y4-receptors are the targets of the satiety hormones PYY and pancreatic polypeptide (PP), respectively, and, as mentioned below, two drugs, a Y2/Y4-receptor agonist (obinepitide and a selective Y4-receptor agonist (TM30339)) are in Phase I/II clinical trials and are yielding results that appear quite promising as regards weight loss. A combined anti-obesity medication of velneperit/orlistat is under way (phase II clinical trial), also with promising results ( 89 ). Dopamine antagonists The mesolimbic dopamine system was proven to play a critical role in compulsive overeating or binge eating, which is one of the main reasons why people become overweight or obese. There is some evidence that blocking the action of dopamine in animals can reduce food intake, particularly of foods that are high in fat and sugar. GSK 598809 is a D3 antagonist that blocks dopamine. Preliminary data from human studies failed to show any significant effect on body weight control ( 90 ). Tesofensine Tesofensine (TE) is a presynaptic inhibitor of norepinephrine, dopamine, and serotonin. Like sibutramine, it suppresses appetite and may result in significant weight loss, as this was shown when given for the treatment of Parkinson’s disease, but also in a multi-dose, dose-ranging trial where 203 obese patients were randomly assigned to Tesofensine (0.25, 0.5, and 1.0 mg) or placebo once daily. Phase II testing of the drug has been completed.
