Existing and Emerging Molecular Targets for the Pharmacotherapy of Obesity
KEYWORDS: weight, pubmed, loss, weight loss, obesity, intake, food, treatment, placebo, patients, food intake, body, obese, trial, effects


multi-dose, dose-ranging trial where 203 obese patients were randomly assigned to Tesofensine (0.25, 0.5, and 1.0 mg) or placebo once daily. Phase II testing of the drug has been completed. After 24 weeks, mean weight reduction was greater in the Tesofensine groups (-6.7, -11.3, -12.8 kg, for the three doses, respectively) compared with placebo (-2.2 kg). Additionally, an improvement in lipid profile and glycemic control was observed. A dose-dependent increase in blood pressure was observed along with a 7.4bpm increase in pulse rate in the 0.5mg/day group. Adverse events such as headache and mood alterations were also present in all groups especially in the 1mg/day group ( 91 ). In another trial, 32 males were allocated in two groups and received 2mg/day Tesofensine and placebo, respectively. The interesting point in this trial was that the patients were free to consume their usual amounts levels of food and exercise as usual. However, in the Tesofensine group they lost 1.8kg over 2 weeks because Tesofensine increased visual analog scale ratings of satiety and 24h fat oxidation in comparison with placebo. Even if an increase in total energy expenditure was not observed, an increase in sleeping energy expenditure was found. Altogether, Tesofensine induces weight loss by promoting the satiety feeling and slightly increasing metabolic rate ( 92 ). The effect of Tesofensine in appetite sensations was evaluated in another phase II trial, in which patients were allocated in 4 groups and received 0.25mg, 0.5mg, 1mg and placebo, respectively, for 24 weeks. For the first 12 weeks, a dose-dependent increase in the satiety feeling was noticed even though this feeling faded away as the trial was in progress ( 93 ). In 2010, a study on the abuse effect of Tesofensine, bupropion, atomoxetine, and placebo in comparison to d-amphetamine took place and concluded that the studied substances had no abusive action ( 94 ). Tesofensine has been shown to increase both blood pressure and pulse rate. In 2018, a phase III clinical trial was powered by the pharmaceutic industry producing Tesofensine. In this study 372 patients were allocated in three groups and received Tesofensine 0.25mg, 0.5mg and placebo. Furthermore, a combination of Tesofensine/metoprolol is recently being examined against hypothalamic injury-induced obesity and Prader-Willi syndrome ( 95 ). (see Table 13 ) Table 13. Tesofensine View in own window FDA approved/Phase Phase III Mechanism of action Triple monoamine reuptake inhibitor of dopamine, norepinephrine, serotonin Weight
