Existing and Emerging Molecular Targets for the Pharmacotherapy of Obesity
KEYWORDS: weight, pubmed, loss, weight loss, obesity, intake, food, treatment, placebo, patients, food intake, body, obese, trial, effects


( 95 ). (see Table 13 ) Table 13. Tesofensine View in own window FDA approved/Phase Phase III Mechanism of action Triple monoamine reuptake inhibitor of dopamine, norepinephrine, serotonin Weight loss vs placebo 4.5-10.6% Clinical Benefits Pharmacological similar to sibutramine ↓ appetite, body weight, lipid profile, blood glucose Adverse events Headache, mood alterations, potentially increase heart rate, blood pressure, psychiatric disorders Lisdexamfetamine dimesylate Another sympathomimetic, Lisdexamfetamine dimesylate, at certain doses appears effective in decreasing binge-eating days in patients with BED compared with placebo, according to a study published online by JAMA Psychiatry ( 96 ). The study included 259 and 255 adults with BED in safety and intention-to-treat analyses, respectively. Patients received lisdexamfetamine 30, 50 or 70 mg/day or placebo. BE days per week decreased in the 50 mg and 70 mg groups but not in the 30 mg group compared with placebo. Confirmation of these findings in ongoing clinical trials may result in improved pharmacologic treatment for moderate to severe BED. Cannabinoid-1 Receptor (CB1) Antagonists Among other neurotransmitter systems, the cannabinoid system modulates the hypothalamic melanocortin and NPY feeding networks. It has been shown that administration of cannabinoid-1 receptor (CB1) agonists and antagonists induces hyperphagia and hypophagia, respectively. These observations led to development of rimonabant, a cannabinoid-1 receptor antagonist, for the treatment of obesity, which was shown quite effective in promoting weight loss; however, it increased the incidence of mood-related disorders ( 97 ). As a result, in 2009, rimonabant was withdrawn from the market and the development of other cannabinoid-1 receptor antagonists for the treatment of obesity has also been discontinued. Before withdrawal, rimonabant was shown to have advantages in glycemic control and cardiovascular events ( 98 ). In 2010, another CB1 antagonist (AM6545) was found to have less psychological side effects and to induce satiety feeling and weight loss in animal studies ( 99 ). (see Table 14 ) Table 14. Cannabinoid Type-1 Receptor Antagonists (SR141716, AM251, AM6545) View in own window Mechanism of action Antagonism of cannabinoid type-1 receptors stimulates anorexigenic signaling Clinical Benefits ↓ body weight, blood glucose, cardiovascular events -AM6545: has limited CNS penetration Adverse events Mood alterations Human Chorionic Gonadotropin (hCG) Human chorionic gonadotropin (hCG) in the form of subcutaneous injection and oral or sublingual diet drops has been advertised as aiding in weight loss of one to two pounds daily, absence of hunger, and maintenance of muscle tone. Clinical trials, however, failed
