Existing and Emerging Molecular Targets for the Pharmacotherapy of Obesity
KEYWORDS: weight, pubmed, loss, weight loss, obesity, intake, food, treatment, placebo, patients, food intake, body, obese, trial, effects


or sublingual diet drops has been advertised as aiding in weight loss of one to two pounds daily, absence of hunger, and maintenance of muscle tone. Clinical trials, however, failed to support this claim ( 100 ). In fact, FDA recommended avoiding buying over-the-counter weight loss products which contain hCG. One might ask why the hCG diet has so many enthusiastically supporting it. The reason may be that this diet needs to be accompanied by severe calorie restriction, to only 500-800 calories per day. Anyone following such recommendations is bound to lose weight, if only short-term. Most crucially, though, since hCG has been reported to induce serious side effects, this drug should not be used for the treatment of obesity. In addition, very low-calorie diets have not been shown to be superior to conventional diets for long-term weight loss, plus they have risks, such as gallstone formation, irregular heartbeat, and an imbalance of electrolytes. Therefore, if weight loss is the goal, there are safer ways to make it happen. Nesfatin-1 Nesfatin-1 is a satiety molecule, which was first described in rats and is derived from its precursor molecule nucleobindin2 (NUCB2) ( 101 ). It is expressed both centrally in hypothalamic food intake-regulatory nuclei, the nucleus paraventricular and the arcuate nucleus, and peripherally, in the stomach, pancreas, adipose tissue, and testis. In the gastric oxyntic mucosa, nesfatin-1 is co-expressed with the orexigenic peptide ghrelin in X/A-like cell in rats and humans. The anorexigenic action of nesfatin-1 is based on its ability to cross the blood-brain barrier. It is notable that NUCB2/nesfatin-1 not only decreases food intake, gastric emptying, and small intestine motility, but also reduces glucose and increases insulin levels ( 102 ). Intracerebroventricular (icv) injection of full length nesfatin-1 caused a significant reduction of food intake in rats and mice ( 103 ). These findings suggest that downstream signaling might be altered, a hypothesis to be further investigated. The fact that nesfatin-1 acts in a leptin-independent way, indicates that it might be a new molecular target in the pharmacotherapy of obesity. The identification of the yet unknown nesfatin-1 receptor will allow the development of nesfatin-1 agonists and antagonists. Whether peripheral nesfatin-1 is primarily involved in the regulation of food intake is questionable and should be further investigated. GASTROINTESTINAL AND PANCREATIC PEPTIDES THAT REGULATE FOOD INTAKE The gut-brain axis plays an important role in food consumption regulation. During food intake, information
