Existing and Emerging Molecular Targets for the Pharmacotherapy of Obesity
KEYWORDS: weight, pubmed, loss, weight loss, obesity, intake, food, treatment, placebo, patients, food intake, body, obese, trial, effects


is questionable and should be further investigated. GASTROINTESTINAL AND PANCREATIC PEPTIDES THAT REGULATE FOOD INTAKE The gut-brain axis plays an important role in food consumption regulation. During food intake, information regarding meal quality and content and short-term alterations in nutrient status is relayed from the gastrointestinal (GI) tract and pancreas to the brain which in turn determines meal size. Apart from feeding, a few satiation signals optimize these processes by influencing gastrointestinal motility and secretion. Several peptides have been identified that mediate this GI system-brain communication including satiety signals such as gastrin releasing peptide (GRP), cholecystokinin (CCK), peptide YY (PYY), glucagon-like peptide-1 (GLP-1), pancreatic polypeptide, glucagon, and amylin, as well as the orexigenic peptide ghrelin. While the anorexigenic peptides are secreted during feeding, ghrelin is secreted before meals and acts to increase hunger and meal initiation. Some of the GI and pancreatic peptides implicated in the regulation of food intake act directly on regions of the brain involved in the regulation of food intake, including the ARC in the hypothalamus and the area postrema, while others act outside of the CNS. For example, modulating the activity of neurons such as the vagus nerve, which projects to the nucleus of the solitary tract in the brain stem. CCK and CCK1R Agonists CCK is the first described intestinal satiation peptide ( 104 ). It is produced by the mucosal I cell ( 105 ) of the duodenum and jejunum, and the enteric nervous system, in response to luminal nutrients, especially lipids and proteins. Through endocrine and/or neural mechanisms, CCK regulates numerous GI functions, including satiation, by acting on two CCK-specific receptors: the CCK receptor 1 (CCK1R), expressed mainly in the GI system, and the CCK2R that predominates in the brain. The vagus nerve plays a critical role in CCK-induced satiation as it contains CCK1R, indicating the afferent pathway through which CCK relays satiation signals from the GI to the hindbrain region. Corroborating this hypothesis is the well-documented attenuation of CCK-induced satiation following abdominal subdiaphragmatic vagotomy ( 106 ). In addition, CCK inhibits gastric emptying, thereby augmenting gastric distention and mechanoreceptor stimulation, which in turn augments the anorectic effects of CCK ( 107 ). Despite the satiety effect of CCK, its potential as an anti-obesity target is questionable. Human studies with intravenously infused CCK carboxy-terminal octapeptide (CCK-8) have shown decreases in meal size and duration in a dose-dependent manner ( 108 ). However,
