Existing and Emerging Molecular Targets for the Pharmacotherapy of Obesity
KEYWORDS: weight, pubmed, loss, weight loss, obesity, intake, food, treatment, placebo, patients, food intake, body, obese, trial, effects


an anti-obesity target is questionable. Human studies with intravenously infused CCK carboxy-terminal octapeptide (CCK-8) have shown decreases in meal size and duration in a dose-dependent manner ( 108 ). However, the CCK satiating effects were very short-lived, usually not lasting more than 30 minutes, which raises issues as to its importance in long-term body weight regulation. In an animal study, chronic CCK administration with up to 20 peripheral injections per day, although reducing meal size, was associated with increased meal frequency, leaving body weight unaffected ( 109 ). Finally, the reports from trials testing CCK1R agonists as potential anti-obesity drugs were disappointing ( 110 ). It is currently suggested that there might be a role for CCK in body weight regulation not as a monotherapy but possibly as an adjunctive/synergistic therapy to long-term adiposity signals, such as leptin ( 111 ). Glucagon-Like Peptide-1 Analogues The dominant role of GI in satiation ( 112 ) is mediated not only by the gastric mechanoreceptors and upper intestinal neuropeptides such as CCK, but also by gut satiation peptides that are secreted from lower-intestine enteroendocrine cells in response to ingested food. They in turn diffuse through interstitial fluids to activate nearby nerve fibers and/or enter the bloodstream to function as hormones and augment the perception of GI fullness by acting in specific parts of the CNS. There is a well-defined duodenal-ileal communication (the ileal brake) via which the proximal intestine informs the distal intestine as to meal quality and content so that the latter modulates/restricts feeding duration, proximal GI motility, and gastric emptying, while it also regulates metabolic responses to nutrient intake. GLP-1 appears to engage such a mechanical and behavioral brake effect on eating and is produced primarily by L cells in the distal small intestine and colon. Along with glucagon and oxyntomodulin, GLP-1 is cleaved from proglucagon, which is expressed in the gut, pancreas, and brain. The GLP-1 equipotent bioactive forms GLP17–36 and GLP17-37 are rapidly inactivated in the circulation by dipeptidyl peptidase-4 (DPP4). Therefore, GLP-1 analogues that have a slightly different molecular structure, but a significantly longer duration of action compared to wild GLP-1 have been used for therapeutic interventions in patients with diabetes, in whom they significantly improved glycemic control, fasting plasma glucose, β-cell function, and probably β-cell regeneration. Currently, the GLP-1 analogues used in clinical practice for diabetes control are exenatide, lixisenatide, dulaglutide, liraglutide, and semaglutide. Beyond the improved
