Existing and Emerging Molecular Targets for the Pharmacotherapy of Obesity
KEYWORDS: weight, pubmed, loss, weight loss, obesity, intake, food, treatment, placebo, patients, food intake, body, obese, trial, effects


fasting plasma glucose, β-cell function, and probably β-cell regeneration. Currently, the GLP-1 analogues used in clinical practice for diabetes control are exenatide, lixisenatide, dulaglutide, liraglutide, and semaglutide. Beyond the improved glycemic control achieved, clinical studies have also demonstrated anorectic effects and significant weight loss via these agents ( 113 , 114 ). Although the exact mechanisms by which GLP1 induces anorexia are not yet fully known, it is suggested that vagal and possibly direct central pathways are involved ( 115 ). The GLP-1 receptor R (GLP1R) is the principle mediator of the anorectic effects of GLP-1 ( 116 ) and is expressed by the gut, pancreas, brainstem, hypothalamus, and vagal-afferent nerves ( 117 ). Liraglutide Its mechanism of action is both central and peripheral targeting satiety centers of the brain and regulating glucose metabolism. It is the only injectable medication for obesity and is titrated from 0.6mg to 3.0mg over 4 weeks. The most common side effects of liraglutide and generally of GLP1 analogues are gastrointestinal (nausea, diarrhea, constipation, vomiting, dyspepsia, abdominal pain) and rarely pancreatitis. The product has a boxed warning stating that thyroid C-cell tumors have been seen in rodents but the relevance of this in humans is uncertain. The drug should not be used in patients with a personal or family history of medullary thyroid carcinoma (MTC) or in patients with multiple endocrine neoplasia syndrome type 2. Three major trials, SCALE-Obesity, Prediabetes, SCALE-Diabetes, SCALE-Maintenance, have established the therapeutic benefit of liraglutide for weight loss. The SCALE-Obesity, Prediabetes evaluated liraglutide in patients who were overweight and obese but did not have diabetes. The study included 3,731 individuals who were assigned to treatment with liraglutide 3 mg or a placebo. Patients were also counseled on diet and exercise. At the end of the 56-week trial, the liraglutide group lost an average 8% (7.2kg) of their body weight compared to 2.6% (2.8kg) in the placebo group ( 118 ); net weight loss was 4.4kg. In the SCALE-Diabetes trial, 846 adults who were overweight or obese and had T2DM were allocated to receive either daily 3.0mg liraglutide or placebo, with mean weight loss -6.0% and -2.0%, respectively ( 119 ). In the SCALE-Maintenance trial, 422 adults who were overweight or obese and had lost >5% of initial body weight with a calorie restriction diet were allocated to receive either liraglutide or placebo, respectively, with mean weight loss -6.2% and -0.2%, respectively
