Existing and Emerging Molecular Targets for the Pharmacotherapy of Obesity
KEYWORDS: weight, pubmed, loss, weight loss, obesity, intake, food, treatment, placebo, patients, food intake, body, obese, trial, effects


and had lost >5% of initial body weight with a calorie restriction diet were allocated to receive either liraglutide or placebo, respectively, with mean weight loss -6.2% and -0.2%, respectively ( 120 ).Recently, Saxenda (liraglutide 3.0mg) has asked for a label update based on the results of the LEADER trial, which studied the effects of the lower dose version of liraglutide (1.8 mg) used to treat diabetes. According to this trial, which examined a population with T2DM and established cardiovascular disease,1.8mg liraglutide daily showed statistically significant reduction of cardiovascular death, of non-fatal myocardial infarction (heart attack), and of non-fatal stroke by 13% versus placebo, when added to standard care. ( 121 ) (see Table 15 , 16 ). Table 15. Liraglutide (Saxenda) View in own window FDA approved/Phase 2014 Mechanism of action Glucagon-like peptide-1 agonist Weight loss vs placebo 4.4kg Clinical Benefits ↓cardiovascular death, non-fatal myocardial infarction, non-fatal stroke Adverse events Nausea, hypoglycemia (serious if co-administrated with insulin), gastrointestinal disorders, fatigue, dizziness, abdominal pain, increased lipase, acute pancreatitis, acute gallbladder disease, increase heart rate, suicidal ideation, thyroid c-cell tumors seen in mice Contraindicated in: History of medullary thyroid carcinoma or multiple endocrine neoplasia 2 Table 16. Clinical Trials of Liraglutide View in own window Clinical trial Patients Dose Treatment, placebo from baseline % of patients losing ≥5% of baseline weight Comment SCALE-Obesity+Prediabetes 1-year randomized, double-blind, placebo-controlled trial (2015) 3731 patients overweight/obese without DM (61.2% had prediabetes) randomly divided into two groups i.3.0mg sc once daily ii. placebo i.-8.4kg ii.-2.8kg i.63.2% ii.27.1% Improvement of body weight, glycemic index, blood pressure, waist circumference SCALE-Diabetes 1-year randomized, double-blind, placebo-controlled trial (2015) 846 adults with T2DM overweight/obese i.3.0mg sc once daily ii. placebo i.-6.0% ii.-2.0% i.54.2% ii.21.4% More GI disorders in the liraglutide group. No pancreatitis was reported SCALE-Maintenance 1-year randomized, double-blind, placebo-controlled trial (2013) 422 adults overweight/obese who had lost ≥5% of initial body weight during a calorie-restriction period were randomized i.3.0mg sc once daily ii. placebo i.-6.2% ii.-0.2% i.81.4% ii.48.9% A combination of liraglutide, diet, exercise induced further weight loss and improvement in certain cardiovascular risk factors Semaglutide Semaglutide is a novel long-acting GLP1 analogue indicated for T2DM and awaiting approval for obesity at higher doses. The efficacy of this anti-obesity drug has been proven by the SUSTAIN 1-6 trials. In these trials, patients who were overweight or obese, with and without T2DM, with or without antidiabetic medications, were allocated in groups
