Existing and Emerging Molecular Targets for the Pharmacotherapy of Obesity
KEYWORDS: weight, pubmed, loss, weight loss, obesity, intake, food, treatment, placebo, patients, food intake, body, obese, trial, effects


synergistically on POMC-deficient patients. Single Molecule Multi-Agonists The main therapeutic idea of this category is based on the concept that a single molecule could target multiple receptors (at least two; multi-agonist), thus allowing synergistic action of both pharmaceutical agents. Glucagon-Like Peptide 1/Glucagon As mentioned before, GLP-1 analogues are effective anti-obesity medications and improve glucose intolerance. Glucagon has direct action on the liver by stimulating gluconeogenesis and glycogenolysis ( 131 ). It can even result in hyperglycemia and T2DM. Of note, patients with T2DM are characterized by impaired glucagon secretion. However, glucagon in CNS decreases food intake, increases energy expenditure via brown fat thermogenesis, decreases fat accumulation via lipolysis and lipid synthesis inhibition, improves cardiac performance, inhibits gastric motility, and stimulates autophagy. In 2009, the first human study announced that low-dose co-infusion of GLP-1 and glucagon could decrease food intake and increase energy expenditure ( 132 ). Therapy with a GLP-1/glucagon multi-agonist was created when amino acids 17, 18, 20, 21, 23 of glucagon were substituted in the glucagon molecule by the respective GLP-1 residues ( 133 ). The alanine at position 2 of the peptide was substituted with Aminoisobuturic acid (Aib) to protect the molecule from DDP-IV inactivation, and a lactam bridge was introduced between amino acids 16 and 20 to stabilize the secondary structure to ensure glucagon receptor potency. Once weekly administration of this pharmaceutical agent, for 4 weeks, in diet-induced obesity in mice, resulted in improvement of obesity, hepatic steatosis, glucose control, and lipid profile. Increase in energy expenditure was observed only with the multi-agonist therapy, but not with the glucagon monotherapy. Moreover, it was found that therapy with the multi-agonist improved leptin sensitivity in DIO mice ( 134 ). Different GLP-1/glucagon multi-agonists are currently under investigation ( 135 ). Interestingly, an oxyntomodulin multi-agonist was under investigation concurrently with the GLP1/glucagon multi-agonist. Oxyntomodulin Oxyntomodulin (OXM) is a 37-amino acid anorexigenic peptide hormone produced in the L-cells of the distal small intestine and colon, where it co-localizes with GLP-1 and PYY. Animal studies have shown weight reduction and improved glucose metabolism following chronic OXM injections beyond that explained by food intake restriction, suggesting an additional effect of OXM on energy expenditure. Just like GLP1, OXM is a product of proglucagon gene believed to modulate energy homeostasis at least in part via GLP1R, although its GLP1R binding affinity is about 100 times lower than that of GLP1 ( 136 ).
