Existing and Emerging Molecular Targets for the Pharmacotherapy of Obesity
KEYWORDS: weight, pubmed, loss, weight loss, obesity, intake, food, treatment, placebo, patients, food intake, body, obese, trial, effects


proglucagon gene believed to modulate energy homeostasis at least in part via GLP1R, although its GLP1R binding affinity is about 100 times lower than that of GLP1 ( 136 ). Centrally however, GLP1 and OXM have different targets, as OXM activates neurons in the hypothalamus ( 137 ), whereas GLP1 acts in the hindbrain and other autonomic control areas ( 138 ). In human studies, acute anorectic effect of OXM was demonstrated by intravenously infused OXM ( 139 ). A reduction in food intake was also seen and retained during chronic administration in a 4-week trial with OXM injections three times a day 30 minutes before meals in a group of overweight and obese volunteers (n = 14). OXM reduced nutrient intake (35% ± 9%) resulting in significant weight loss compared to placebo (2.3 ± 0.4 kg vs 0.5 ± 0.5 kg, respectively). The findings of another study with twelve overweight or obese human volunteers who underwent a randomized, double-blinded, placebo-controlled study were similar; an ad libitum test meal was used to measure energy intake during intravenous infusions of either PYY3-36 or OXM or combined PYY3-36/OXM. Again, OXM significantly reduced energy intake compared to placebo, although the combined treatment had superior effects compared to PYY3-36 or OXM monotherapy. Human studies have also clearly demonstrated the direct effect of OXM on energy expenditure ( 140 ); this effect was later confirmed by indirect calorimetry ( 141 ). These modest but favorable results suggest significant promise for OXM-based therapies for obesity. In addition to the established action of OXM on appetite, another mechanism that potentially plays a role in energy intake and glucose metabolism is gastric emptying. Intravenous infusion of OXM reduced gastric emptying in humans ( 142 ). Whether reduction in gastric emptying is involved in the acute and long-term metabolic effects of OXM is not yet clear. Nevertheless, the immediate future will reveal OXM’s role in obesity management. However, as for other peptide hormones, their clinical application is limited by their short circulatory half-life, a major component of which is cleavage by DPP-IV. Therefore, structurally modified analogues with an altered OXM pharmacological profile have been produced with longer duration of action, good safety profile, and positive effects on body weight (and glucose metabolism) management in animal studies ( 143 ). These findings bring closer their usage in human clinical trials. Furthermore, the crystal structure of OXM has been determined, and
