Existing and Emerging Molecular Targets for the Pharmacotherapy of Obesity
KEYWORDS: weight, pubmed, loss, weight loss, obesity, intake, food, treatment, placebo, patients, food intake, body, obese, trial, effects


(and glucose metabolism) management in animal studies ( 143 ). These findings bring closer their usage in human clinical trials. Furthermore, the crystal structure of OXM has been determined, and this advance should facilitate the rational design of oxyntomodulin peptidomimetics to be tested as oral anti-obesity pharmaceuticals. Even so, despite the promising weight reduction efficacy of OXM, only a small number of development projects appears to be at an advanced stage. TKS1225 is an OXM analogue. The present status of this molecule is unknown. OXY-RPEG has been engineered via its proprietary reversible pegylation technology to increase its half-life and increased potency. In preclinical testing, OXY-RPEG was significantly superior to twice daily injections of OXM in the reduction of food intake and the degree and durability of weight loss. In 2009, an oxyntomodulin-based multi-agonist peptide with glucagon and GLP-1 agonistic actions were created. This multi-agonist had advanced action comparing to the one that Day et al had introduced at the same year ( 144 ). A 2-weeks trial in DIO mice showed weight loss and glucose control improvement. This beneficial action was obvious even in mice without GLP1 or glucagon receptor confirming the superiority of this analogue. Oxyntomodulin functions endogenously as a physiologic co-agonist, but regarding its small bioactivity, it is mainly characterized by its function as biosynthetic precursor to glucagon. Glucagon-Like Peptide 1/Amylin In 2010, salmon calcitonin-exendin-4 combined therapy achieved reduction of food intake and weight in non-human primates ( 145 ). Of note, the human amylin receptor subtypes consist of calcitonin receptor and receptor activity-modifying proteins. This observation was the first step in the development of multi-agonist molecules targeting GLP-1 and Amylin ( 146 ). Two of these peptide hybrids (phybrids) had a C-terminally truncated Exenatide, which was covalently linked to the N-terminus of an amylin analogue (Davalintide) through either a repeat β-ala-β-ala dipeptide, or through triple-glycine linear repeat. Administration of phybrids resulted in greater weight loss in non-human primates than monotherapy, although similar to that achieved by a physical commixture of the single hormones. Another GLP1/Amylin phybrid was introduced, which used a full-length Exenatide sequence linked to Davalintide via an intervening 40-kDa PEG. This phybrid reduced both blood glucose and body weight in a dose-dependent fashion. Glucagon-Like Peptide 1/Glucose-Dependent Insulinotropic Polypeptide This single-molecule multi-agonist was quite controversial. Glucose-Dependent Insulinotropic Polypeptide (GIP), is a 42-amino acid peptide, produced by K-cells in the duodenum and jejunum and released into the
