Existing and Emerging Molecular Targets for the Pharmacotherapy of Obesity
KEYWORDS: weight, pubmed, loss, weight loss, obesity, intake, food, treatment, placebo, patients, food intake, body, obese, trial, effects


1/Glucose-Dependent Insulinotropic Polypeptide This single-molecule multi-agonist was quite controversial. Glucose-Dependent Insulinotropic Polypeptide (GIP), is a 42-amino acid peptide, produced by K-cells in the duodenum and jejunum and released into the general circulation upon stimulation by dietary lipids ( 147 ). The investigation following the discovery of this new peptide, showed that GIP is the first incretin hormone. It acts directly on the pancreas augmenting glucose-stimulated insulin secretion ( 148 ). It is worth mentioning that GIP has the ability to enhance both insulin secretion in hyperglycemia and glucagon release in hypoglycemia ( 149 ). A few years later, the role of GIP in obesity development became apparent. GIP acts on adipocytes enhancing adipogenesis, inhibition of lipolysis, stimulation of de novo lipogenesis ( 150 ) and on chylomicrons stimulating triglyceride release. It also affects adipocyte glucose and fatty acid uptake and adipocyte lipoprotein lipase enzyme activity ( 151 ). It is remarkable that although GIP was regarded as an obesogenic hormone, mice overexpressing GIP showed improved β-cell function and improved glycemic control and were resistant to DIO ( 152 ). Additionally, in studies with mice, it was shown that the chronic GIP agonist administration improves glucose metabolism without body weight changes ( 153 ). In 2013, two single-molecule multi-agonists GLP1/GIP were introduced, whose action was based on the insulinotropic action of both components ( 153 ). GIP agonist enhanced GLP1 action upon glucose metabolism and GLP1 could mitigate obesogenic effect of GIP via its anorectic effect. The biochemical structure of multi-peptide was similar to GLP1/glucagon multi-agonist i.e. a single peptide with potency at both receptors (GIP residues were introduced in the median and the C-terminal part of peptide; certain modifications that increased activity on the glucagon receptor were removed; the C-terminus of the peptide ended with the nine amino acid extension found in exendin-4 and an Aib was added at position 2 to protect against DPP-IV inactivation) ( 154 ). Several clinical trials in mice, rodent models, non-human primates and humans were performed, concluding that the GLP1/GIP multi-agonist therapy reduced food intake, and consequently body weight, improved glycemic control, lipid profile and lipolysis but without any improvement in energy expenditure. Glucagon Like Peptide 1/Glucagon/Glucose-Dependent Insulinotropic Polypeptide The creation of this single-molecule multi-agonist was based on the biochemical structure of GLP1/GIP and GLP1/glucagon multi-peptides. An Aib at position 2 both protected the molecule from DPP-IV inactivation and decreased its potency at the
