Existing and Emerging Molecular Targets for the Pharmacotherapy of Obesity
KEYWORDS: weight, pubmed, loss, weight loss, obesity, intake, food, treatment, placebo, patients, food intake, body, obese, trial, effects


multi-agonist was based on the biochemical structure of GLP1/GIP and GLP1/glucagon multi-peptides. An Aib at position 2 both protected the molecule from DPP-IV inactivation and decreased its potency at the glucagon receptor; an amino acid lysine at position 10 was fatty-acylated via a γ-glutamic acid linker to palmitic acid; amino acids at positions 16,17, 20, 27, 28 replaced balanced glucagon bioactivity; a C-terminal exendin-4 extension sequence (CEX) succeeds agonism at all three receptors 10-fold greater than native hormones ( 155 ). The main mechanism of action is based on the combination of the anorectic effect of GLP-1, the lipolytic and thermogenic characteristics of glucagon, and the action of GIP on β-cell function and glycemic control. Contrary to GLP-1/GIP multi-agonist, which doesn’t affect energy expenditure, this triple agonist increases energy expenditure. (see Table 18 ) Table 18. Single Molecule Multi-Agonists View in own window Drug name Clinical benefits Adverse events Glucagon-like peptide 1/glucagon oxyntomodulin, MED10382, G530S (Glucagon analogue/Semaglutide), GC-co-agonist 1177 ↓ food intake, obesity, hepatic steatosis, HbA1c, lipid profile ↑energy expenditure Glucagon-like peptide1/amylin co-agonism ↓ blood glucose and body weight dose-dependently Glucagon-like peptide 1/glucose-dependent insulinotropic polypeptide ↓ blood glucose, lipid profile, food intake, body weight, ↑ lipolysis No improvement in energy expenditure Glucagon-like peptide 1/glucagon/glucose-dependent insulinotropic polypeptide ↓body weight, HbA1c, hepatosteatosis, cholesterol, ↑energy expenditure, lipolysis Peptide-Mediated Delivery of Nuclear Hormones The use of nuclear hormones as an agent of GLP-1 and Glucagon is a novel promising therapy in the treatment of obesity. Nuclear hormones are characterized by high potency and pleiotropic action as well as unwanted adverse effects. The basic idea involves a linkage of a nuclear hormone to a peptide, usually through a linker that would allow metabolism of the nuclear hormone only within the targeted cell reducing the undesirable effects in other tissues. However, in the cell types that possess the specific peptide receptor, its activation should lead to internalization of the ligand-nuclear hormone receptor complex. In this case, the peptide receptor plays the role of a gateway into the cell. Upon internalization, biological processing of a suitably designed linker would release the nuclear hormone and allow activation of its intracellular receptor. Although a promising option, not all nuclear hormones can be used as peptide-mediated agents. They should have high tissue selectivity, ability to be internalized and compatibility to peptide wanted. Estrogens, tri-iodothyronine, and dexamethasone are the nuclear hormones that have been tested. Glucagon-Like Peptide 1-mediated delivery of estrogen
