Existing and Emerging Molecular Targets for the Pharmacotherapy of Obesity
KEYWORDS: weight, pubmed, loss, weight loss, obesity, intake, food, treatment, placebo, patients, food intake, body, obese, trial, effects


high tissue selectivity, ability to be internalized and compatibility to peptide wanted. Estrogens, tri-iodothyronine, and dexamethasone are the nuclear hormones that have been tested. Glucagon-Like Peptide 1-mediated delivery of estrogen Glucagon-Like Peptide 1-mediated delivery of estrogen was first introduced in 2012. The use of estrogens was indicated by the fact that estrogen replacement therapy in postmenopausal women improved multiple cardio metabolic parameters ( 156 ). Furthermore, estrogens have anabolic, insulinotropic, and anorectic effects ( 157 ). The combination of estrogen and GLP-1 was found to improve body weight and glycemic control in rodent models with the metabolic syndrome ( 158 ). The weight-lowering effect was due to appetite suppression, while the GLP-1/E2 combination showed greater potency comparing to GLP-1 analog or E2 alone. Further clinical trials enhanced this finding showing an influence on feeding behavior. Additive contribution of GLP-1/E2 on pancreatic islet function, cytoarchitecture and protection from deleterious insults such as lipotoxicity was found in 2015 ( 159 ). Despite the powerful metabolic benefits associated with estrogen action, effects on the reproductive endocrine system and oncogenic potential have restricted their clinical use in postmenopausal women. Furthermore, many aspects of molecular pharmacology and mechanism of action remain unresolved. Specifically, neither the precise intracellular processing of the GLP-1/E2 conjugate, which results in active estrogen cargo release, nor the molecular identity that delivers estrogen activity, have been determined. It is possible that estrogens enhance brain penetration and alter the bio-distribution of the conjugate to more privileged sites for central nervous action. Glucagon-mediated delivery of tri-iodothyronine Glucagon and thyroid hormone can separately lower body weight and LDL cholesterol in humans. Thyroid hormones act both on liver, regulating hepatic lipid metabolism and hepatosteatosis, and in adipose cells, increasing energy expenditure and enhancing lipolysis ( 160 , 161 ). On the other hand, they can cause cardiac hypertrophy, tachycardia, muscle catabolism, and bone deterioration. Glucagon receptors are highly concentrated not only in the liver, which is the preferred site for T3 action, but also in adipose tissues, kidney, and the cardiovascular system resulting in metabolic enhancement along with toxicity risk. Considering all of the above, a glucagon/T3 conjugate was created. A native T3 combined with a DPP4-protected C-terminally extended glucagon analog via a peptide spacer ( 162 ). Several control compounds were also generated to permit appropriate pharmacological comparisons. These additional peptides included a conjugate with selective chemical substitution in the peptide to suppress glucagon activity,
