Existing and Emerging Molecular Targets for the Pharmacotherapy of Obesity
KEYWORDS: weight, pubmed, loss, weight loss, obesity, intake, food, treatment, placebo, patients, food intake, body, obese, trial, effects


162 ). Several control compounds were also generated to permit appropriate pharmacological comparisons. These additional peptides included a conjugate with selective chemical substitution in the peptide to suppress glucagon activity, a compound with a linker that proved metabolically stable and was incapable of intracellular T3 release, and a third control conjugate that carried a metabolically-inert thyroid hormone. Finan found that the conjugate glucagon/T3 corrected lipid metabolism in rodent models with dietary-induced metabolic syndrome. The above findings showed that the body-weight effect of the conjugate can partially be governed by actions in adipose depots because glucagon receptors exist in rodent adipocytes, less than in liver. Moreover, the glucagon/T3 conjugate effect is supported by the uncoupling protein 1-mediated thermogenesis, enhanced FGF21 secretion and biased by PGC-1 cofactor signaling. Interestingly, the combination of glucagon/T3 seems to decrease arterial plaque area in LDL receptor -/- mice and fibrosis in mice with advanced fatty liver disease. Although the above data demonstrate the cardiovascular benefit of this conjugate, further chemical improvements should be made in order to be safe for chronic use in higher mammals and especially humans. Glucagon-like peptide 1-mediated delivery of dexamethasone It is widely known that dietary-induced obesity causes chronic peripheral and central inflammation ( 163 ). Glucocorticoids are widely known for their anti-inflammatory characteristics, but due to their ubiquitous action profile, their therapeutic use can lead to off-target effects. In 2017, DiMarchi and Tschop created a GLP1/dexamethasone conjugate which managed to improve body weight in DIO mice, in a superior way to GLP1 or dexamethasone alone. This combination improved hypothalamic inflammation, astrocytosis, microgliosis, and insulin sensitivity. The targeted delivery of dexamethasone to GLP1R-positive cells prevented typical dexamethasone off–target effects on glucose metabolism, bone density, and the hypothalamus-pituitary-adrenal axis activity ( 164 ). (see Table 19 ) Table 19. Peptide-Mediated Delivery of Nuclear Hormones View in own window Drug name Clinical benefits Glucagon-like peptide 1/estrogen ↓ food intake, body weight, HbA1c Glucagon/tri-iodothyronine ↓ lipid profile, arterial plaque and fibrosis in advanced fatty liver disease Glucagon-like peptide 1/dexamethasone ↓ hypothalamic inflammation, astrocytosis, microgliosis, ↑insulin sensitivity Peptide Y (PYY) PYY is a 36-amino acid anorexigenic peptide with a hairpin-like U-shaped fold secreted from the entero-endocrine L-cells of the ileum and colon in response to feeding. PYY presents in two major forms, PYY1-36 and PYY3-36. More specifically, PYY is a member of the pancreatic polypeptide-fold (PP-fold) family which also includes NPY and PP and interacts with
