Existing and Emerging Molecular Targets for the Pharmacotherapy of Obesity
KEYWORDS: weight, pubmed, loss, weight loss, obesity, intake, food, treatment, placebo, patients, food intake, body, obese, trial, effects


that the PYY3-36 effect is critically modulated by the time of injection. As the main anorexigenic effect of PYY is by Y2R-mediated NPY inhibition, PYY is obviously more effective at times that the orexigenic NPY is increased. In accordance with this theory is the reported weight loss effect of PYY3-36 when injected in rodents in the fasting state or in the early dark cycle — times when NPY is naturally induced ( 172 ). PYY3-36 is structurally similar to pancreatic polypeptide (PP); PYY3-36 acts mainly through Y2R, while PP acts through Y4R. Obinepitide (TM30338), a synthetic dual-analogue of PYY3-36 and PP that stimulates both Y2/Y4-receptors, has been developed. Pre-clinical studies have shown that obinepitide efficiently reduces weight in obese mice. Furthermore, initial studies in humans have shown that once-a-day subcutaneous administration of obinepitide in obese human subjects inhibited food intake, at a statistically significant level, up to at least nine hours after dosing ( 173 ). Various PYY analogues have been created including intravenous, oral or nasal formulations. Interestingly, the combined therapy of PYY3-36 and GLP-1 receptor agonist (exendin-4) was found to decrease food intake and body weight in an additive manner in animal models and humans. Specifically, this synergistic result was attributed to the enhancement of c-fos reactivity in special cerebral nuclei ( 174 ). (see Table 20 ) Table 20. PYY View in own window Mechanism of action Anorexigenic peptide which decreases gastric motility, increases satiety, inhibits NPY receptors Clinical Benefits ↓ appetite, decreases food intake, ghrelin levels Adverse events Short-time action Ghrelin Vaccines and Ghrelin Inhibitors Ghrelin is a 28-amino acid peptide produced primarily by the stomach and proximal small intestine ( 175 ). It is the only known circulating orexigenic hormone and signals both on vagal afferents and in the arcuate nucleus where it powerfully enhances NPY orexigenic signaling ( 176 , 177 ). Its levels increase before meals and are suppressed by ingested nutrients, with carbohydrates being the most effective ones (compared to proteins and lipids). Ghrelin’s suppression results from neutrally transmitted (non-vagal) intestinal signals, augmented by insulin. An experimental ghrelin vaccine, CYT009-GhrQb, was discontinued in 2006 as it did not have the expected effects on weight loss. A novel one conjugated to the hapten, keyhole limpet hemocyanin (KLH), tested in rodent models, was shown to decrease feeding and induce weight loss ( 178 ). NOX-B11 is a ghrelin-neutralizing RNA spiegelmer that attaches to the
