Existing and Emerging Molecular Targets for the Pharmacotherapy of Obesity
KEYWORDS: weight, pubmed, loss, weight loss, obesity, intake, food, treatment, placebo, patients, food intake, body, obese, trial, effects


keyhole limpet hemocyanin (KLH), tested in rodent models, was shown to decrease feeding and induce weight loss ( 178 ). NOX-B11 is a ghrelin-neutralizing RNA spiegelmer that attaches to the active form of ghrelin and blocks its ability to bind to its receptor thus blocking the orexigenic activity of exogenously administrated ghrelin in rats ( 179 ). However, NOX-B11 did not affect basal food intake in nonfood-deprived rats, thus this treatment may only be efficacious when plasma ghrelin levels are high, such as before a meal or during times of food restriction (dieting).Since the discovery that the effects of ghrelin are primarily mediated by the GH secretagogue receptor (GHSR) 1a, there have been multiple potent, selective, and orally bioavailable ghrelin antagonists produced with good pharmacokinetic (PK) profiles that are currently in preclinical testing. An amide derivative 13d (Ca2+ flux IC50 = 188 nM, [brain]/[plasma] = 0.97 @ 8 h in rat), for example, showed a 10% decrease in 24-hour food intake in rats, and over 5% body weight reduction after 14-day oral treatment in diet-induced obese (DIO) mice ( 180 ). Moreover, the discovery of ghrelin O-acyltransferase (GOAT) as the enzyme that catalyzes ghrelin octanoylation, revealed several therapeutic possibilities including the design of drugs that inhibit GOAT and block the attachment of the octanoyl group to the ghrelin third serine residue; such GOAT inhibitors could potentially prevent or treat obesity ( 181 ). Octanolyation of ghrelin by GOAT on its third amino acid (serine-3) is necessary for the hormone’s biological functions. Octanoylated ghrelin enhances hyperphagia and increases gastrointestinal motility. Furthermore, it reduces insulin secretion causing glucose dysfunction, enhances thermogenesis, adipogenesis and liver lipogenesis, limiting lipolysis at the same time ( 182 ). So, inhibiting GOAT could impede the production of acyl-ghrelin and increase desacyl-ghrelin, thus improving glucose homeostasis. In 2010, GO-CoA-Tat was created. A peptide-based bi-substrate analog which inhibited GOAT activity. The chronic treatment with GO-CoA-Tat, resulted in body weight stabilization in vehicle-treated mice fed MCT-rich HFD. Additionally, a decrease of fat mass was shown, but not of lean mass ( 183 ). Another study on Siberian hamsters also resulted in improvement in ingestive behavior. Remarkably, after 48h food deprivation, GO-CoA-Tat attenuated food foraging, food intake, and food hoarding post-refeeding relative to animals treated with saline. GO-CoA-Tat treated mice improved their blood glucose ( 184 ). Another promising anti-obesity agent against ghrelin is a brain penetrant CAMKK2 inhibitor. Generally, CAMKK2
