Existing and Emerging Molecular Targets for the Pharmacotherapy of Obesity
KEYWORDS: weight, pubmed, loss, weight loss, obesity, intake, food, treatment, placebo, patients, food intake, body, obese, trial, effects


relative to animals treated with saline. GO-CoA-Tat treated mice improved their blood glucose ( 184 ). Another promising anti-obesity agent against ghrelin is a brain penetrant CAMKK2 inhibitor. Generally, CAMKK2 has been identified as the hypothalamic AMPK kinase that transduces Ca2+-mediated ghrelin signaling, inhibiting selectively hypothalamic AMPK and NPY’s downstream orexigenic effect. 4t, a 2,4-diaryl 7-azaindole, was created in order to inhibit AMPK phosphorylation in a hypothalamus-derived cell line. When this agent was tested in rodents, it managed to reduce ghrelin-induced food intake ( 185 ) (see Table 21 ). Table 21. Ghrelin Vaccine (NOX-B11) View in own window Mechanism of action Ghrelin vaccine Clinical Benefits ↓ food intake, hypothalamic orexigenic signals, ↑energy expenditure Adverse events No weight loss seen in human trials Fat-Specific Satiation Peptides Enterostatin and Apolipoprotein A-IV Enterostatin and apolipoprotein A-IV appear to be GI peptides that are specifically stimulated by fat ingestion and subsequently regulate intake and/or metabolism of lipids. Although peripheral and central enterostatin administration decreases dietary fat intake in animals (while enterostatin-receptor antagonists did the opposite) ( 186 ), its administration to humans has shown no effects on food intake, appetite, energy expenditure, or body weight ( 187 ). Similarly, apolipoprotein A-IV, which is synthesized and secreted exclusively by the small intestine (primarily by the jejunum, but also by the duodenum and ileum), acts as a satiety factor that is downregulated by leptin ( 188 ) and upregulated by insulin and PYY in both rodents and humans ( 189 ). Although exogenous administration of apolipoprotein A-IV was quite effective concerning meal size, food intake, and weight gain reduction in rats ( 190 ), data is lacking regarding apo A-IV therapeutic administration in humans and its effects on body weight. Pancreatic Satiation Peptides Pancreatic polypeptide (PP) Pancreatic polypeptide (PP) is a 36-amino acid peptide that is structurally similar to PYY. It is primarily produced in the pancreas in response to ingestion of food and in proportion to caloric load ( 191 ). Animal studies have shown that peripheral administration of PP decreases feeding (through Y4R in the area postrema), whereas centrally administrated PP increases it (through Y5R deeper in the brain) ( 192 ). In humans, intravenous infusion of PP (10 pmol/kg/min) (supra-physiological levels of PP) in ten healthy volunteers (men and women of normal body weight) caused a sustained decrease in both appetite and cumulative 24-hour energy intake by 25.3 +/- 5.8% ( 193
