Existing and Emerging Molecular Targets for the Pharmacotherapy of Obesity
KEYWORDS: weight, pubmed, loss, weight loss, obesity, intake, food, treatment, placebo, patients, food intake, body, obese, trial, effects


PP) in ten healthy volunteers (men and women of normal body weight) caused a sustained decrease in both appetite and cumulative 24-hour energy intake by 25.3 +/- 5.8% ( 193 ). The findings of another study studying the anorexigenic effect of a lower infusion rate of PP (5 pmol/kg/min) in lean fasted volunteers were similar, holding promise for potential use as an anti-obesity agent ( 194 ). Another trial studying whether combined treatment with PP/PYY3-36 is superior regarding weight loss compared to either agent alone concluded that PP and PYY3-36 do not inhibit feeding additively in humans ( 195 ). Again, this study was conducted on lean subjects. Conversely, as previously mentioned, a synthetic analogue (TM30338) of both PYY3-36 and PP, which acts as an agonist of both the Y2 and Y4 receptors, yielded very promising results as concerns early meal termination when administered once-a-day subcutaneously in obese human subjects. Similarly, initial reports of a selective Y4-receptor agonist (TM30339) currently under development were also quite promising inducing reduction of food intake and promoting weight loss. Amylin and Amylin Analogues Amylin is a 37-amino acid neuroendocrine peptide hormone co-secreted postprandially with insulin by pancreatic β-cells. Among other properties, amylin is characterized by centrally mediated glucoregulatory and anorexigenic actions ( 196 ). It inhibits gastric emptying and glucagon secretion as well as decreases meal size and calorie intake (fat specific) ( 197 ) in a dose-dependent manner. These are vagus-independent actions and are exerted via binding to specific amylin receptors in the hindbrain area postrema ( 198 ), which is in contrast with the peripheral neural mechanisms engaged by most other gut peptides involved in energy homeostasis system regulation. The anorectic efficacy of amylin along with its glucoregulatory actions were investigated in human studies with the usage of pramlintide, a subcutaneous injectable amylin analogue which differs from amylin by only three amino acids. Studies in patients with type 1 and type 2 diabetes have shown great improvement in glycemic control plus sustained reductions in food intake and meal size, as well as mild progressive weight loss, following acute and long-term adjunctive pramlintide treatment (120 μg) ( 199 ). The most common adverse event associated with pramlintide usage was transient, mild-to-moderate nausea. This weight loss is noteworthy because it occurred in subjects with type 2 diabetes, on concomitant insulin therapy, and in the face of a significant A1C reduction, factors that all favor
