Existing and Emerging Molecular Targets for the Pharmacotherapy of Obesity
KEYWORDS: weight, pubmed, loss, weight loss, obesity, intake, food, treatment, placebo, patients, food intake, body, obese, trial, effects


weight loss is noteworthy because it occurred in subjects with type 2 diabetes, on concomitant insulin therapy, and in the face of a significant A1C reduction, factors that all favor weight gain. Similar to the GLP-1 analogues discussed previously, pramlintide is currently approved for the treatment of type 1 and type 2 diabetes. Whether pramlintide could constitute a potent anti-obesity agent was investigated in well-designed trials addressing this issue. In such a study (16-week randomized, double-blind, placebo-controlled), 204 individuals with obesity but not diabetes were treated with self-administered subcutaneous injections of pramlintide (nonforced dose escalation ≤ 240 μg) or placebo three times a day, 15 minutes before meals without concomitant lifestyle intervention ( 200 ). Pramlintide was generally well-tolerated and approximately 90% of the pramlintide-treated subjects were able to escalate to the highest dose of 240 μg three times a day. In contrast to the placebo-treated subjects who experienced minimal changes in body weight over the 16-week treatment period, the pramlintide-treated subjects attained significant weight loss from baseline as early as week 2, which was progressive up to week 16, with no evidence of a plateau. At week 16, the placebo-corrected reduction in body weight after pramlintide treatment was statistically significant compared with placebo (3.7 ± 0.5%, P < 0.001; 3.6 ± 0.6 kg, P < 0.001). Furthermore, the reduction in weight in pramlintide-treated subjects was accompanied by a significant reduction in waist circumference compared with placebo-treated subjects after 16 weeks of treatment (evaluable 4.3 ± 0.6 vs. 0.7 ± 0.9 cm, P < 0.01). At the end of the 16-week trial, 31% of the subjects treated with pramlintide achieved ≥ 5% weight loss compared to just 2% of the placebo group (P < 0.001). Interestingly, 8 weeks after treatment cessation, the pramlintide-treated subjects had on average regained one third of the overall weight loss observed by week 16. These findings constitute a proof of concept that pramlintide may have therapeutic use as an anti-obesity agent. Remarkably, at this higher dose (240 μg three times a day), the mean reduction in body weight with pramlintide treatment over 16 weeks was approximately twice that previously observed over a similar time-frame in insulin-treated subjects with type 2 diabetes who were treated with lower pramlintide doses (120 μg). This could suggest that higher doses of pramlintide might be necessary to achieve significant weight loss, although it is not yet clear whether concurrent insulin
