Existing and Emerging Molecular Targets for the Pharmacotherapy of Obesity
KEYWORDS: weight, pubmed, loss, weight loss, obesity, intake, food, treatment, placebo, patients, food intake, body, obese, trial, effects


lower pramlintide doses (120 μg). This could suggest that higher doses of pramlintide might be necessary to achieve significant weight loss, although it is not yet clear whether concurrent insulin treatment was the main cause of that difference. Amylin/Pramlintide Combinations Previous animal studies have shown that amylin treatment significantly enhanced hypothalamic anorexigenic leptin signaling, while the combination treatment with amylin and leptin led to marked, synergistic reductions in food intake (up to 45%) and fat-specific weight loss (up to 15%). Recently, the weight-lowering effect of combined amylin/leptin agonism in human obesity was evaluated using the analogues pramlintide/metreleptin, respectively. As previously discussed, (see leptin), three trials addressing the weight loss efficacy of the combined treatment over 20, 28, and 52 weeks, respectively) reported sustained and robust weight loss by the combined treatment. Development was discontinued following commercial reassessment of the program. A Phase II study of davalintide, a second-generation analogue of amylin, for the treatment of obesity has also completed. In this study however, the weight loss efficacy and tolerability profile of davalintide was not superior to pramlintide, and was inferior to the pramlintide/metreleptin combination, thus resulting in deciding to halt further development of davalintide. The anti-obesity effect of the combined treatment amylin/PYY3-36 was evaluated in an animal study, given that they both may have the potential for short-term signals of meal termination with anorexigenic and weight-reducing effects ( 201 , 202 ). Statistical analyses revealed that food intake suppression with the combined treatment was synergistic, whereas body weight reduction was additive; this combination has not yet been studied in humans. Additional preclinical studies looking at the safety and efficacy of the combined treatment with pramlintide/phentermine and pramlintide/sibutramine was evaluated in a randomized placebo-controlled study with 244 obese or overweight nondiabetic subjects ( 203 ). The results suggested that the weight loss achieved at week 24 with either combination treatment was greater than with pramlintide alone or placebo (P < 0.001; 11.1 +/- 1.1% with pramlintide + sibutramine, 11.3 +/- 0.9% with pramlintide + phentermine, -3.7 +/- 0.7% with pramlintide; -2.2 +/- 0.7% with placebo; mean +/- s.e.), without any major adverse events. As mentioned above, the human amylin receptor subtypes consist of calcitonin receptor and receptor activity-modifying proteins. Because of their mechanism of action, amylin mimetics coupled with calcitonin receptor agonists, are known as dual action amylin and calcitonin receptor agonists (DACRA). DACRA KBP-088 showed greater efficacy relative to davalintide
