Existing and Emerging Molecular Targets for the Pharmacotherapy of Obesity
KEYWORDS: weight, pubmed, loss, weight loss, obesity, intake, food, treatment, placebo, patients, food intake, body, obese, trial, effects


their mechanism of action, amylin mimetics coupled with calcitonin receptor agonists, are known as dual action amylin and calcitonin receptor agonists (DACRA). DACRA KBP-088 showed greater efficacy relative to davalintide regarding in vitro receptor pharmacology and in vivo efficacy of food intake and body weight ( 204 ). DACRA KBP-088 and KBP-042 improved body weight, glycemic control and adipose hypertrophy in high-fat diet-fed rats ( 205 ). A long acting amylin analogue is also in phase I clinical trial as a once daily anti-obesity treatment ( 206 ). ( Table 22 ) Table 22. Amylin/Pramlintide Combinations View in own window Drug name FDA approved/Phase Mechanism of action Clinical Benefits Adverse events pramlintide Approved for DM1, DM2 Amylin analogue -in DM1, DM2: ↓ blood glucose, food intake, body weight, waist circumference Nausea Davalintide (AC2307) Phase II Amylin analogue ↓food intake, body weight, HbA1c hypoglycemia DACRA KBP-088, KBP-042 Dual amylin and calcitonin receptor agonist ↓body weight, glycemic control, adipose hypertrophy PERIPHERAL MODULATORS OF THE EFFICIENCY OF DIGESTION, METABOLISM, AND LIPOGENESIS Lipase Inhibitors Apart from early termination of food intake augmented by the centrally acting appetite suppressants, another potential therapeutic anti-obesity approach is the induction of a negative energy balance through the inhibition of nutrient, particularly fat, absorption. Lipase inhibitors inhibit gastric and pancreatic lipases in the lumen of the gastrointestinal tract that decrease systemic absorption of dietary fat. Orlistat is currently the only marketed anti-obesity drug of this category licensed for the treatment of obesity (including weight loss and weight maintenance). Additionally, it has been proven to improve glucose metabolism and nonalcoholic fatty liver disease. The most common adverse events are gastrointestinal system and include oily spotting, flatus with discharge, diarrhea, fecal urgency, and vitamin malabsorption ( 207 ). The only other pancreatic and gastrointestinal lipase inhibitor currently in clinical development is Cetilistat (ATL-962). A short-term (12-week) randomized, placebo-controlled study of weight reduction addressing the efficacy, safety, and tolerability of Cetilistat in obese patients reported that Cetilistat produced a clinically and statistically significant weight loss in obese patients to similar extents at all doses examined compared to placebo (60 mg t.i.d. 3.3 kg, P<0.03; 120 mg t.i.d. 3.5 kg, P=0.02; 240 mg t.i.d. 4.1 kg, P<0.001), plus it significantly improved other obesity-related parameters including waist circumference, serum cholesterol and low-density lipoprotein cholesterol levels. Cetilistat treatment was also well-tolerated and the common orlistat-induced GI adverse events, such as flatus with discharge and oily
