Existing and Emerging Molecular Targets for the Pharmacotherapy of Obesity
KEYWORDS: weight, pubmed, loss, weight loss, obesity, intake, food, treatment, placebo, patients, food intake, body, obese, trial, effects


of this class (see Table 23 ). Table 23. Lipase Inhibitors View in own window Drug name FDA approved Mechanism of action Weight loss vs placebo Clinical Benefits Adverse events Orlistat (Xenical) 1999 Lipase inhibitor 2.6% ↓ HbA1c, nonalcoholic fatty liver disease Gastrointestinal side effects, vitamin malabsorption Contraindicated in: Chronic malabsorption syndrome, cholestasis Cetilistat (ATL-962) Pancreatic and gastric lipase inhibitor ↓body weight, lipid profile, waist circumference Gastrointestinal (less than orlistat) Growth Hormone (GH) and GH Lipolytic Domain Synthetic Analogues Besides its growth effects, GH also possesses significant metabolic properties, including lipolysis induction. On the other hand, GH dynamics change with increasing adiposity and GH circulating levels and response to stimuli are repressed in obesity ( 211 , 212 ). Taken together, it could be hypothesized that GH administration is an effective therapeutic option for weight loss and fat mass reduction in obese individuals. However, the majority of the 16 clinical trials of GH administration in obesity indicated little or no beneficial effects of GH treatment on body weight ( 213 ). There is a report from an Australia-based biotechnology company of the development of a modified fragment of amino acids 177-191 of GH (hGH177-191) (AOD-9604) that mimics the lipolytic effects of GH without producing growth effects. AOD-9604 however failed to induce significant weight loss in a 24-week trial of 536 subjects and its development as an anti-obesity agent was terminated ( 214 ). In 2018, it was announced that GH not only promotes lipolysis, but also enhances the creation of beige adipose tissue through activation of STAT5 and induction of ADRB3. Consequently, it promotes the adrenergic action of WAT. β3-Adrenoreceptor Agonists The β3-adrenergic receptor is expressed in adipocytes; its activation by cognate β-agonists cause lipolysis and increase thermogenesis. Thyroid hormones increase thermogenesis via the thyroid hormone receptor β subtype; however, to date, every attempt to develop selective thyroid hormone receptor agonists which are effective in adipose tissue without systemic side-effects has failed. In 2000, a selective human β3-agonist, L-796568, was developed ( 215 ). Although its acute (4-hour period) administration in overweight human subjects was associated with significant increase in energy expenditure (by ~8%) ( 216 ), a 28-day clinical trial investigating the efficacy of chronic use of L-796568 in overweight and obese non-diabetic men receiving the drug (350 mg/d) failed to display any significant changes in body composition or 24-hour energy expenditure ( 217 ). The ineffectiveness of β3-adrenreceptor
