Existing and Emerging Molecular Targets for the Pharmacotherapy of Obesity
KEYWORDS: weight, pubmed, loss, weight loss, obesity, intake, food, treatment, placebo, patients, food intake, body, obese, trial, effects


overweight and obese non-diabetic men receiving the drug (350 mg/d) failed to display any significant changes in body composition or 24-hour energy expenditure ( 217 ). The ineffectiveness of β3-adrenreceptor activation to induce significant and sustained lipolysis in humans may be explained by the fact that human WAT expresses minimal levels of β3-adrenoreceptors; similarly, their expression is also low within human brown adipose tissue. 11β-Hydroxysteroid Dehydrogenase Type 1 Inhibitors Previous studies have shown enhanced conversion of inactive cortisone to active cortisol through the expression of 11β-hydroxysteroid dehydrogenase type 1 (11βHSD1) in cultured omental adipose stromal cells ( 218 ); the autocrine action of cortisol may be crucial in the pathogenesis of central obesity and features of the metabolic syndrome, such as insulin resistance. The reports relating to effectiveness of carbenoxolone (nonselective 11β-HSD inhibitor) in reducing central obesity are conflicting ( 219 ). Currently, several pharmaceutical companies are developing selective 11β-HSD1 inhibitors that are effective in adipose tissue and may be more effective in improving insulin sensitivity and reducing body weight. Preliminary data from animal studies evaluating the weight-loss benefit of T-BVT, a new 11β-HSD1 pharmacological inhibitor with specificity for WAT, are very promising regarding its anti-obesity effectiveness and amelioration of multiple metabolic syndrome parameters ( 220 ). CNX-010-49, is another selective tissue-acting 11β-HSD1 inhibitor under investigation. Animal studies showed that this inhibitor acts on glucocorticoids and isoproterenol resulting in lipolysis in mature 3T3-L1 adipocytes. It not only enhances muscle glucose oxidation and mitochondrial biogenesis, but also reduces proteolysis and gluconeogenesis in primary mouse hepatocytes. As a result, it improves glucose control, lipid metabolism, and inhibits body weight gain without affecting feed consumption. A potential cardiovascular benefit was found because of the action of CNX-010-49 on plasminogen activator inhibitor-1 (PAI-1), interleukin-6 (IL-6), and fetuin-A ( 221 ). (see Table 24 ) Table 24. 11β-Hydroxysteroid Dehydrogenase Type 1 Inhibitors View in own window Drug name Mechanism of action Clinical Benefits T-BVT Selective to white adipose tissue 11β-HSD1 CNX-010-49 Selective to white adipose tissue 11β-HSD1 ↑lipolysis, ↓ HbA1c, lipid metabolism, inhibits body weight gain without affecting feed consumption Angiogenesis Inhibitors Increasing adiposity is associated with expansion of the adipose capillary bed. Several vascular growth factors are produced by enlarged adipocytes, for example, vascular endothelial growth factor (VEGF), hepatocyte growth factor (HGF), and angiogenin, which may in turn facilitate the expansion of adipose tissue. Thus, anti-angiogenesis may eventually participate in the treatment of obesity.
