Existing and Emerging Molecular Targets for the Pharmacotherapy of Obesity
KEYWORDS: weight, pubmed, loss, weight loss, obesity, intake, food, treatment, placebo, patients, food intake, body, obese, trial, effects


endothelial growth factor (VEGF), hepatocyte growth factor (HGF), and angiogenin, which may in turn facilitate the expansion of adipose tissue. Thus, anti-angiogenesis may eventually participate in the treatment of obesity. This hypothesis is strengthened by studies where the experimental administration of anti-angiogenic agents in mice from different obesity models resulted in significant weight reduction and adipose tissue loss ( 222 ). Remarkably, there were benefits on food intake, metabolic rate, and preferred energy substrate. These findings appeared to modulate fat tissue by altering vasculature. Although there are many foods and beverages containing naturally occurring inhibitors of angiogenesis (e.g. green tea, oranges, strawberries, lemons, red wine, ginseng, garlic, tomato, olive oil, etc.), no convincing clinical trials have been conducted investigating their anti-obesity effect so far. Currently, a Phase II trial using the anti-angiogenic/anti-MMP drug ALS-L1023 for the treatment of obesity is underway ( 223 ). Similarly, endostatin was found to have both anti-adipogenic and anti-angiogenic action protecting mice against dietary-induced obesity ( 224 ). Sirtuin 1 (SIRT1) Activators Sirtuin 1 (SIRT1) is a member of the Sirtuin family of proteins that comprises seven members in mammals (SirT1-T7). Sirtuin proteins have gained considerable attention due to their importance as physiological targets for treating diseases associated with aging. They contribute to cellular regulation interacting with metabolic pathways and may serve as entry points for drugs. SIRT1 has gained popularity as it has been linked with the French Paradox and the calorie restriction-mediated longevity and delayed incidence of several diseases associated with aging, such as cancer, atherosclerosis, and diabetes. The calorie restriction-induced modulations have been demonstrated in organisms ranging from yeast to mammals. White adipose tissue seems to be a primary factor in the longevity brought about through calorie restriction, as mice engineered to have reduced levels of WAT live longer ( 224 ). Corroborating this, it was found that food withdrawal is followed by SIRT1 binding and repression of genes controlled by the fat regulator PPAR-γ (peroxisome proliferator-activated receptor-γ), including genes mediating fat storage. This, in turn, activates fat mobilization and lipolysis and reduces WAT mass ( 225 ). In addition to PPAR-γ, SIRT1 also interacts with PGC-1α, inducing the expression of mitochondrial genes involved in oxidative metabolism and fatty acid oxidation, while it also enhances leptin sensitivity by repressing PTP1B. The weight restricting effects of SIRT1 were further supported by experiments with resveratrol (RSV), a potent allosteric SIRT1 activator, which was shown
