Existing and Emerging Molecular Targets for the Pharmacotherapy of Obesity
KEYWORDS: weight, pubmed, loss, weight loss, obesity, intake, food, treatment, placebo, patients, food intake, body, obese, trial, effects


it also enhances leptin sensitivity by repressing PTP1B. The weight restricting effects of SIRT1 were further supported by experiments with resveratrol (RSV), a potent allosteric SIRT1 activator, which was shown to protect mice from diet-induced obesity ( 226 ). Furthermore, mice treated with SRT1720, a potent, selective synthetic activator of SIRT1, were resistant to diet-induced obesity due to enhanced oxidative metabolism in skeletal muscle, liver, and brown adipose tissue, indicating the positive metabolic consequences of specific SIRT1 activation ( 227 ). Currently, several pharmaceutical companies are investigating specific SIRT1 activators in Phase I and Phase II trials for the treatment of type II diabetes and obesity ( 228 ) to define their utility in the treatment of obesity and metabolic diseases. Cyclic-GMP Signaling in Anti-Obesity Pharmacotherapy Cyclic nucleotides, including 3-5-cyclic guanosine monophosphate (cGMP) and 3-5-cyclic adenosine monophosphate (cAMP), are second messengers important in many biological processes. Knowledge of the role of cAMP in the regulation of energy homeostasis has been extended, thanks to its intimate relationship with AMPK (AMP-activated protein kinase) signaling; intracellular cAMP activates the AMPK signaling pathway. AMPK regulates energy balance at both cellular and whole-body levels ( 229 ). Activation of AMPK facilitates fatty acid oxidation and mitochondria biogenesis, which promotes energy expenditure ( 230 ). Interestingly, activation of AMPK in the hypothalamus promotes food intake behavior ( 231 ). e.g. physiologic processes in the same direction and induces weight loss by mutual reinforcement. Moreover, off-the-shelf approaches might be possible, given the existence of an established market for medications targeting cGMP pathways, with FDA- and EMA-approved drugs such as sildenafil and linaclotide. Sildenafil acts on adipocytes, possibly through cGMP-dependent protein kinase I and mechanistic/mammalian target of rapamycin (mTOR) signaling pathways, browning subcutaneous white fat, thus increasing energy expenditure ( 232 ). Beloranib Beloranib is an analogue of the natural chemical compound fumagillin and is a methionine aminopeptidase 2 (MetAP2) inhibitor acting to reduce production of new fatty acid molecules by the liver and converting stored fats into useful energy ( 233 ). It was first tested in 31 obese women, who were divided into four groups (0.1mg, 0.3mg, 0.9mg, or placebo twice weekly). A dose-dependent weight loss was shown after four weeks of 0.9mg Beloranib administration with mean 3.8kg loss vs 0.6kg in the placebo group. It also improved lipid metabolism and lowered C-reactive protein and adiponectin. A phase II double-blinded, randomized clinical trial examined the efficacy
