Existing and Emerging Molecular Targets for the Pharmacotherapy of Obesity
KEYWORDS: weight, pubmed, loss, weight loss, obesity, intake, food, treatment, placebo, patients, food intake, body, obese, trial, effects


mean 3.8kg loss vs 0.6kg in the placebo group. It also improved lipid metabolism and lowered C-reactive protein and adiponectin. A phase II double-blinded, randomized clinical trial examined the efficacy and safety of Beloranib administration ( 234 ). 147 obese patients were divided into four groups: 0.6, 1.2, 2.4 mg subcutaneous injection or placebo. After twelve weeks of administration, a dose-dependent weight loss of -5.5, -6.9, -10kg, respectively, was reported, vs -0.4kg in the placebo group. The main adverse events were sleep disturbance and gastrointestinal abnormalities. Beloranib may also cause robust weight loss and hypophagia in rats with hypothalamic and genetic obesity ( 235 ). In 2015, however, a phase III clinical trial for Prader-Willi was stopped after a second patient death ( 236 ). (see Table 25 ) Table 25. Beloranib View in own window FDA approved/Phase Phase III aborted in 2015 after second patient death in Prader-Willi trial Mechanism of action Fumagillin analogue with methionine aminopeptidase 2 inhibition that reduced fatty acid synthesis in the liver and converted stored fat into useful energy; originally designed as an angiogenesis inhibitor Clinical Benefits ↑ weight loss, hypophagia, ↓ lipid metabolism, CRP, adiponectin, cardiovascular factors Adverse events Sleep disturbance, gastrointestinal abnormalities Fibroblast Growth Factor (FGF21) Fibroblast growth factor (FGF) 21, expressed primarily in the liver, but also found in adipose tissue, skeletal muscle, and pancreas, is a member of the FGF family and acts as a metabolic regulator of body weight, glucose metabolism, and lipid metabolism ( 237 ). In WAT, FGF21 induces glucose uptake and adiponectin secretion with browning of white adipose tissue. In brown adipose tissue, it stimulates glucose uptake and thermogenesis, thus increasing energy expenditure. In the liver, it blocks GH signaling, regulates fatty acid oxidation both in the fasted state and in mice consuming high-fat, low-carbohydrate ketogenic diet and it maintains lipid homeostasis ( 238 ). FGF21 is characterized by anti-inflammatory, anti-oxidative stress properties with its circulating concentration increasing during periods of muscle activity or critical stress ( 239 ). Although, it is an attractive anti-obesity and anti-diabetes target, FGF21 levels are increased in obese ob/ob and db/db mice and correlate positively with BMI in humans. Exogenous administration of FGF21 in DIO in mice show virtually no beneficial effects on glucose tolerance and lipid metabolism, suggesting that the obesity state is FGF21-resistant ( 240 ). ALTERNATIVE AND COMPLEMENTARY TYPES OF TREATMENT OF OBESITY Gut Microbiota Recently, a
