Existing and Emerging Molecular Targets for the Pharmacotherapy of Obesity
KEYWORDS: weight, pubmed, loss, weight loss, obesity, intake, food, treatment, placebo, patients, food intake, body, obese, trial, effects


beneficial effects on glucose tolerance and lipid metabolism, suggesting that the obesity state is FGF21-resistant ( 240 ). ALTERNATIVE AND COMPLEMENTARY TYPES OF TREATMENT OF OBESITY Gut Microbiota Recently, a major shift in research has occurred towards the investigation of gut microbiota effects on energy expenditure and metabolism. Gut microbiota are responsible for a significant amount of the interaction between the host and the nutritional environment. Soluble fiber such as galacto-oligosaccharides and fructo-oligosaccharides (FOS), are fermented by the gut microbiota into short-chain fatty acids (SCFAs) acetate, propionate and butyrate ( 241 ). This mechanism provides to host 10% of its daily energy requirement ( 242 ). These SCFAs are an energy source for colonic epithelium, liver, and peripheral tissues ( 243 ). By fermenting nondigestible dietary fibers, host metabolism is enhanced. In mice with DIO, SCFAs improved glucose metabolism, insulin resistance, and obesity. In other animal studies, butyrate-producing bacteria (F. prausnitzii) induced secretion of glucagon-like peptide 1 (GLP1) from colonic L cells through the fatty acid receptor FFAR2( 244 ). Furthermore, butyrate and propionate activate intestinal gluconeogenesis. Butyrate, through a cAMP-dependent mechanism, promotes the gene expression involved in intestinal gluconeogenesis. Propionate, itself a substrate for intestinal gluconeogenesis, activates its expression via a gut-brain neural circuit involving the fatty acid receptor FFAR3 ( 245 ). Given the key role played by microbiota in host nutrient processing and metabolism, it is not surprising that data points to a strong relation between gut microbiota and obesity and diabetes in humans. A reduced gut microbial diversity and altered microbiota composition is observed in obese individuals. There is also a low rate of gut microbial richness and specific bacterial groups are enriched or decreased in obese patients in comparison with lean people ( 246 ). Moreover, chronic diseases, such as obesity, diabetes, and HIV are associated with chronic low-grade inflammation. Gut microbiota regulates this inflammation through several mechanisms. Lipopolysaccharides (LPSs) from the outer membrane of Gram-negative bacteria may translocate through the intestinal border and cause subsequent systemic inflammation ( 247 ). Indeed, the intestinal barrier of obese patients is more permeable compared with that of lean individuals. Bile acids are characterized by a strong relation with gut microbiota affecting host’s body-weight homeostasis. Bile acids are microbially altered metabolites that are first endogenously produced by the liver and further metabolized by the gut microbiota ( 248 ). FXR signaling is an important pathway connecting gut microbiota
