Existing and Emerging Molecular Targets for the Pharmacotherapy of Obesity
KEYWORDS: weight, pubmed, loss, weight loss, obesity, intake, food, treatment, placebo, patients, food intake, body, obese, trial, effects


microbially altered metabolites that are first endogenously produced by the liver and further metabolized by the gut microbiota ( 248 ). FXR signaling is an important pathway connecting gut microbiota and bile acids. Based on the above knowledge, several interventions involving manipulation of the microbiome have been proposed as anti-obesity treatment. A diet which contains soluble fiber, prebiotics and/or probiotics could enhance the growth of beneficial gut microbiota and boost host metabolism. Lately, there has been interest in berberine administration in T1D, T2D, gestational diabetes, and prediabetes. The early reports of interventions using probiotics appear successful ( 249 ). Fecal microbiota transplant (FMT), the transfer of fecal suspension from a healthy (lean) donor into the gastrointestinal tract of an individual with disease (obesity) in order to restore a healthy gut is a potentially novel option to treat obesity. However, there is not enough data about the safety of this method, that is why it is only FDA approved for recurrent Clostridium difficile infection. Anti-Obesity Vaccines (Ghrelin, Somatostatin, Ad36) The idea of a vaccination against obesity is also intriguing. The main action of these vaccines would be based on suppressing appetite-stimulating hormones or blocking food absorption. Three vaccines have been tested so far: 1. An anti-ghrelin vaccine was found not only to reduce appetite by decreasing hypothalamic orexigenic signals but also to increase energy expenditure in rodent and pigs ( 250 ). Despite the promising results in rodents, clinical trials in humans showed no weight loss despite the development of ghrelin autoantibodies after four injections of anti-ghrelin vaccine ( 251 ). Another study, however, showed that IgG anti-ghrelin autoantibodies could protect ghrelin from degradation, suggesting that an autoimmune response may be involved in the orexigenic effects of ghrelin ( 252 ). 2. An anti-somatostatin vaccine. Somatostatin is a peptide hormone which is produced, mainly, in the hypothalamus as well as other tissues, such as the gastrointestinal system. Somatostatin has the ability to suppress GH and insulin-like growth factor 1 (IGF-1) secretion. Reduced GH is associated with obesity and increased adiposity. So, the somatostatin vaccine could increase the secretion of GH and IGF-1( 253 ). However, clinical trials in mice failed to reduce food intake, though a 10% improvement of body weight was observed ( 254 ). 3. A live adenovirus 36 (Ad36) vaccine. Adenovirus 36 increases the risk of obesity in humans, characterized by increased inflammation and adiposity ( 255 ).
