Existing and Emerging Molecular Targets for the Pharmacotherapy of Obesity
KEYWORDS: weight, pubmed, loss, weight loss, obesity, intake, food, treatment, placebo, patients, food intake, body, obese, trial, effects


was observed ( 254 ). 3. A live adenovirus 36 (Ad36) vaccine. Adenovirus 36 increases the risk of obesity in humans, characterized by increased inflammation and adiposity ( 255 ). Mice were injected with live Ad36 vaccine and compared to the control group (unvaccinated) after 14 weeks. The control group had 17% greater body weight and 20% more epididymal fats versus the vaccinated group, which also had decreased inflammatory cytokines and macrophages in fat tissue ( 256 ). (see Table 26 ) Table 26. Anti-Obesity Vaccines View in own window Drug name Mechanism of action Weight loss vs placebo Clinical Benefits Anti-obesity vaccine: somatostatin vaccine Increases the secretion of GH, IGF-1 10% Adenovirus 36 Live adenovirus36 Decreases body weight, epididymal fat in mice, inflammatory cytokines and macrophages Nanomedicine The introduction of nanomedicine in the field of obesity treatment is highly novel ( 257 ). Nanoparticles can achieve targeted drug delivery along with minimized side effects. The poor water-solubility of anti-obesity drugs can be overcome via nano-encapsulation. More specifically, nanoemulsion of orlistat has been tried in order to overcome its high lipophilicity, to improve its dissolution and to avoid the pancreatic lipase inhibition caused by this pharmaceutical agent in vivo ( 258 ). Additionally, a conjugated polymer-nanocarrier was created in order to reduce the side effects of orlistat ( 259 ). In 2014, the ability of mesoporous silica particles to reduce body weight was investigated ( 260 ). They found that the silica particles embedded in food could sequestrate lipase in their small pores through a lipase-specific interaction, leading to decreased absorption of fat. Appetite suppression is an alternative method to decrease food intake and impact energy homeostasis ( 261 ). As mentioned above, however, anti-ghrelin vaccine was formed using virus-like particles for obesity treatment. The passive delivery of anti-ghrelin antibodies did not lead to long-term inhibition of food intake. So, to solve this problem, investigators immunoconjugated ghrelin with virus proteins to create a vaccine that was able to trigger an immune response leading to generation of specific anti-ghrelin antibodies. This anti-ghrelin vaccine played an important role in maintaining energy homeostasis in a DIO murine model. In other examples, nanomedicine has enhanced the action of antiangiogenic agents in the treatment of obesity. Detailed above, antiangiogenic therapy inhibits the progression of adipocyte hyperplasia and reduces weight gain. A targeting nanoparticle was created in order to enhance the accumulation of the antiangiogenic drug
