Existing and Emerging Molecular Targets for the Pharmacotherapy of Obesity
KEYWORDS: weight, pubmed, loss, weight loss, obesity, intake, food, treatment, placebo, patients, food intake, body, obese, trial, effects


obesity. Detailed above, antiangiogenic therapy inhibits the progression of adipocyte hyperplasia and reduces weight gain. A targeting nanoparticle was created in order to enhance the accumulation of the antiangiogenic drug in WATs by delivering it to vascular endothelial cells. Unlike WAT, brown adipose tissue (BAT) is full of mitochondria and a robust vascular structure helps to induce thermogenesis, increasing energy expenditure, and decreasing body weight. Thus, two nanoparticle platforms delivering browning agents to adipose tissue vasculature were formed ( 262 ). PPARγ nuclear receptor agonists (including rosiglitazone) have been shown to be characterized by anti-inflammatory properties against obesity and atherosclerosis. However, they are associated with severe side effects that limit their therapeutic use ( 263 ). In another, a mitochondria-targeted nanoparticle delivers the proposed anti-obesity compound PLGA-bPEG-triphenylphosphonium (TPP) polymer ( 264 ). The PEG shell extends the circulation time of nanoparticles, and TPP could facilitate the internalization into the matrix space of mitochondria to achieve targeted drug delivery. Instead of targeted delivery, a localized and sustained release of a browning agent is a promising alternative for facilitation of WAT browning. Two nanoparticles, one injectable ( 265 ) and one in a painless microneedle array patch ( 266 ) were introduced. In vivo studies revealed successful delivery of the model drug into the human adipose tissue followed by ~15% decrease of weight gain after a four-week treatment. CONCLUSION The field of anti-obesity molecular pharmacotherapy is expanding. The homeostasis of body weight and metabolism are tightly linked to the central nervous system. The latter is characterized by centers that send orexigenic and anorexigenic signals regulating starvation and satiety, reducing and increasing energy expenditure, respectively. Pharmaceutical multi-agents in single compounds containing active portions of two or more drugs may allow for simultaneous effects on several synergistic pathways affecting appetite control and energy expenditure. Such medications could achieve increased weight loss with fewer side effects. Furthermore, the possibility of improved formulations (e.g., injectable forms of anti-obesity drugs and or once weekly verses daily administration) serve to enhance compliance. Considering that obesity is a multifactorial disease, it needs multimodal treatment. In an era where a variety of different therapeutic options is the norm for the management of chronic diseases such as type 2 diabetes and hypertension, the hope is that this process will led to better personalized anti-obesity treatments, focusing on the special characteristics, needs, and comorbidities of each patient and the effectiveness and safety
