HHS Public Access
KEYWORDS: partner, therapy, partner therapy, expedited, expedited partner, author, author manuscript, manuscript, sexual, women, clinicians, treatment, sti, partners, health


Author manuscript Obstet Gynecol. Author manuscript; available in PMC 2020 April 06. Published in final edited form as: Obstet Gynecol. 2019 March ; 133(3): 416–422. doi:. Improving Women’s Health and Combatting Sexually Transmitted Infections Through Expedited Partner Therapy 3University of Michigan Department of Family Medicine 4University of Michigan Institute for Healthcare Policy and Innovation 5Johns Hopkins School of Medicine Department of Gynecology and Obstetrics Education Abstract Sexually transmitted infections (STI), including Chlamydia trachomatis and Neisseria gonorrhoeae, have reached record high rates in the United States. Sexually transmitted infections disproportionately affect reproductive-aged women 15 to 44 years old, who account for 65% and 42% of the total reported C. trachomatis and N. gonorrhoeae cases, respectively. Undiagnosed STIs can result in serious health complications that put women at an increased risk for pelvic inflammatory disease, ectopic pregnancy, and tubal factor infertility. Many of these women are seen by physicians (e.g., obstetrician–gynecologists, family medicine doctors, pediatricians) or These clinicians have the opportunity to help curb the continued increase in STI incidence rates with the implementation and use of expedited partner therapy. Expedited partner therapy is a proven effective health care practice that allows clinicians to give patients medications or prescriptions to distribute to their partners. Despite expedited partner therapy’s proven effectiveness, there are barriers to its implementation that must be understood in order to enhance STI treatment and prevention efforts. In this commentary, we discuss these barriers, and appeal to women’s health clinicians to implement or increase use of expedited partner therapy for the management of women with STIs and their sexual partners. Fax: (734) 647-3301, . Financial Disclosure Each author has confirmed compliance with the journal’s requirements for authorship. The authors did not report any potential conflicts of interest. Author Manuscript Author Manuscript Author Manuscript Author Manuscript Précis: Implementation of expedited partner therapy by women’s health clinicians will decrease the burden and effects of sexually transmitted infections and related morbidity in women. Introduction The incidence rates of sexually transmitted infections (STI), such as Chlamydia trachomatis and Neisseria gonorrhoeae, reached record highs in 2017 after demonstrated increases over the prior three years1. According to the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC), there were over 1.7 million reported cases of C. trachomatis and over 555,000 cases of N. gonorrhoeae in 2017—resulting in increases of 6.8% and 18.5%, respectively, since 2016.1 The majority of C. trachomatis infections affect young women (ages 15–24), who accounted
