HHS Public Access
KEYWORDS: partner, therapy, partner therapy, expedited, expedited partner, author, author manuscript, manuscript, sexual, women, clinicians, treatment, sti, partners, health


over 555,000 cases of N. gonorrhoeae in 2017—resulting in increases of 6.8% and 18.5%, respectively, since 2016.1 The majority of C. trachomatis infections affect young women (ages 15–24), who accounted for 45% of the total reported cases in 2017.1 Reproductive-aged women (ages 15–44) accounted for 65% and 42% of the total reported C. trachomatis and N. gonorrhoeae cases, respectively, in 2017.1 The CDC estimates that the reported STI incidence rates are underestimated because many cases are undiagnosed, which may lead to STI-related sequelae. In women, undiagnosed, recurrent, or persistent STIs may result in deleterious factor infertility, chronic pelvic pain, and HIV acquisition.1 Early data suggest that 40–70% of male partners are untreated.2 The sequelae of untreated STIs in men includes urethritis, scarring of the reproductive tract, epididymitis, and possible infertility. Rarely, disseminated gonococcal infection may occur.1 Reproductive Health Visits With many reproductive-aged women receiving obstetrics and gynecology (OB/GYN) care, those visits are an opportunity to discuss sexual and reproductive health. OB/GYN care providers should improve and enhance their understanding of the impact that undiagnosed, increased risk of pelvic inflammatory disease among women with repeated C. trachomatis infections. In a retrospective cohort of military women, Bautista et al. found the hazard of pelvic inflammatory disease increased by 22% (95% CI = 13%, 32%, P<0.001) for each additional diagnosis of C. trachomatis compared to women with a single diagnosis.3 These findings make it imperative for clinicians to help reduce the incidence rates of STIs by providing education, screening, and treatment of the initial infection, and deploying efforts to prevent recurrent infections. Expedited partner therapy allows clinicians to give patients medications or prescriptions to distribute to their sexual partners. As a proven effective STI treatment and prevention strategy, expedited partner therapy has the potential to fill a needed gap in clinical practice. C. trachomatis incidence rates have grown significantly faster in expedited partner therapy prohibitive states compared to expedited partner therapy permissible states.4 Obstet Gynecol. Author manuscript; available in PMC 2020 April 06. Author Manuscript Author Manuscript Author Manuscript Author Manuscript The Practice of Expedited Partner Therapy The CDC supports clinicians in the treatment of sexual partners of individuals diagnosed Gynecologists, American Academy of Family Physicians, American Academy of Pediatrics, expedited partner therapy is permissible in 43 states in the union and ‘potentially allowable’ in five states (SD, KS, OK, AL, NJ) and Puerto Rico, it is currently prohibited in South Carolina and
