HHS Public Access
KEYWORDS: partner, therapy, partner therapy, expedited, expedited partner, author, author manuscript, manuscript, sexual, women, clinicians, treatment, sti, partners, health


3) concerns associated with providing care for an individual who has not been evaluated by a clinician (Table 1). Adverse reactions are rare, as the recommended expedited partner therapy treatment regimens are highly effective single-dose medications.23 The majority are taken orally and the most commonly reported adverse reaction is mild gastrointestional intolerance.2,23,24 Severe reactions, including anaphylaxis, to medications prescribed as expedited partner implement the use of expedited partner therapy, created a hotline to report any allergic reactions, and none had been received as of January 2016.23 Amidst growing concern about drug-resistant N. gonorrhoeae infection, the CDC recommends dual therapy with ceftriaxone 250 milligrams intramuscularly plus azithromycin 1 gram orally for uncomplicated N. gonorrhoeae infections of the cervix, urethra, and rectum in the index patient. A dual regimen is also advised for expedited partner therapy, but it consists of an oral cephalosporin (cefixime 400 milligrams) plus azithromycin 1 gram orally.26 In 2017, susceptibility testing for ceftriaxone found 0.2% of isolates with an elevated minimum inhibitory concentration (MIC); for cefixime, there were 0.4% of isolates resistance, and is recommended for individuals diagnosed with N. gonorrhoeae infection, even if the C. trachomatis test was negative at the time of diagnosis.26 There are concerns regarding payment for expedited partner therapy medications. Most STI testing, based on U.S. Preventive Services Taskforce recommendations.27,28 The medications for the sexual partner(s) can be self-paid by the index patient or the partner(s), Obstet Gynecol. Author manuscript; available in PMC 2020 April 06. Author Manuscript Author Manuscript Author Manuscript Author Manuscript but the pharmacy should not bill a partner’s medication under the index patient’s health insurance plan. A major concern of clinicians pertaining to the use of expedited partner therapy rests in liability and malpractice protection. The American Bar Association supports expedited partner therapy and the removal of legal barriers.29 A national review of expedited partner therapy malpractice litigation revealed that no active or pending lawsuits from a third party directed at clinicians have gone to court,30,31 although a lack of reported litigation does not mean liability claims have not occurred or been settled out of court. Furthermore, each state Even after being provided with correct prescriptions, issues can occur once a sexual partner gets to the pharmacy.10 There is a concern that pharmacists who are unfamiliar or uncomfortable with expedited partner therapy prescriptions will refuse to fill them, which can lead to increased stigma and limited healthcare access for
