HHS Public Access
KEYWORDS: partner, therapy, partner therapy, expedited, expedited partner, author, author manuscript, manuscript, sexual, women, clinicians, treatment, sti, partners, health


decrease STI-related stigma and the perceptions that inhibit quality care. After obtaining a positive STI test result for a patient, clinicians should provide notification and treatment, discuss expedited partner therapy, and arrange for retesting. They may also offer support for notifying the patient’s sexual partner(s). Web-based platforms (e.g., www.inspot.org and www.stdcheck.com) may also offer assistance with anonymous notification of sexual partners. Collaboration with local public health departments along with community STI prevention organizations can be valuable in treating STIs. These community collaborations may help ease the burden by providing education and resources that may not be feasible for many reproductive clinicians to offer. The provision of barrier methods (e.g., male and female condoms) in the office, when permissible by state legislation collaboration with local pharmacies is vital to the acceptance of expedited partner therapy in the community. Partnering with pharmacists may ensure that the allergies of sexual partners are verified, expedited partner therapy prescriptions are filled, and educational materials are provided. Discussion Those who provide reproductive healthcare to women serve an important role in safeguarding their health and curbing the increasing incidence of STIs in the United States. This can be achieved by protecting them from STI-related morbidity with appropriate screening and treatment of STIs using all currently available options, including expedited partner therapy. Speaking with a woman about her sexual health at every visit will encourage a healthy clinician-patient relationship and allow for increased education and screening opportunities. Offering expedited partner therapy to women as an STI treatment strategy may help decrease the likelihood of persistent or recurrent STIs, as well as STI-related morbidity. Clinicians should familiarize themselves with the permissibility of expedited partner therapy and the protections offered to them by referencing the legal status of expedited partner therapy in their state.5 As champions of reproductive healthcare, we must be willing to use all available tools—including expedited partner therapy—to protect women, or be prepared to treat the consequences they will face from the next report of record-breaking STI incidence rates. Acknowledgments Funding: Cornelius D. Jamison received funding from the National Clinician Scholars Program and the United States Department of Veterans Affairs supporting his role as a National Clinician Scholar. Jenell S. Coleman received funding from the National Institutes of Health under grant R01 HD092013. The funders played no role in the study design; collection, analysis, and interpretation of data; writing of the report; or the decision to submit
