NLM Citation: LiverTox®: Clinical and Research Information on Drug-
KEYWORDS: liver, rabeprazole, injury, liver injury, proton pump, pump, proton, pmid, drug, pubmed, pubmed pmid, acute, induced, inhibitors, pump inhibitors


NLM Citation: LiverTox®: Clinical and Research Information on Drug- Induced Liver Injury [Internet]. Bethesda (MD): National Institute of Diabetes and Digestive and Kidney Diseases; 2012-. Rabeprazole. [Updated 2019 Apr 15]. Bookshelf URL: Rabeprazole Updated: April 15, 2019. OVERVIEW Introduction Rabeprazole is a proton pump inhibitor (PPI) and a potent inhibitor of gastric acidity used in the therapy of gastroesophageal reflux and peptic ulcer disease. Rabeprazole therapy is associated with a low rate of transient and asymptomatic serum aminotransferase elevations and is a rare cause of clinically apparent liver injury. Background Rabeprazole (ra bep' ra zole), like other PPIs, binds to and inactivates the H+/K+-ATPase of gastric parietal cells, causing inhibition of the proton pump that transports H+ into the gastric lumen, the final common step in gastric acid production. Rabeprazole is a prodrug and is converted to the active form in the acidic secretory canaliculi of parietal cells. Because the inhibition is irreversible, acid secretion is suppressed for 24 to 48 hours, until new proton pump molecules have been synthesized and transported to the cell membrane. Rabeprazole was the third PPI approved for use in the United States (1999) and is widely used in the therapy of acid-peptic disease, including duodenal and gastric ulcer disease and gastroesophageal reflux. Rabeprazole is available in delayed release tablets of 20 mg in generic forms and under the brand name Aciphex. The typical dose for duodenal ulcer disease is 20 mg once daily for 4 to 8 weeks, with similar doses for long term maintenance therapy. Twice daily doses are used for more severe cases of gastrointestinal reflux and peptic ulcer disease, and doses of up to 120 mg daily for Zollinger-Ellison syndrome. Rabeprazole is very well tolerated. Side effects are uncommon and usually mild; they may include nausea, vomiting, abdominal discomfort, constipation, diarrhea, flatulence, skin rash, headaches and dizziness. Severe side effects are rare but can include hypersensitivity reactions. Long-term use of rabeprazole may be associated with bone fractures, acute interstitial nephritis, lupus erythematosus, vitamin B12 deficiency and hypomagnesemia. Hepatotoxicity Despite its wide use, rabeprazole has only rarely been associated with hepatic injury. In large scale, long term trials of rabeprazole, serum ALT elevations occurred in less than 1% of patients and at rates similar to those with placebo or comparator drugs. In large case series of drug induced liver injury, rabeprazole has accounted for few instances of symptomatic acute liver injury. Only
