NLM Citation: LiverTox®: Clinical and Research Information on Drug-
KEYWORDS: liver, rabeprazole, injury, liver injury, proton pump, pump, proton, pmid, drug, pubmed, pubmed pmid, acute, induced, inhibitors, pump inhibitors


rates similar to those with placebo or comparator drugs. In large case series of drug induced liver injury, rabeprazole has accounted for few instances of symptomatic acute liver injury. Only a few cases of clinically apparent liver disease due to rabeprazole have been published and the characteristics of the injury have not been well defined, but appear to be similar to the features of hepatic injury associated with other proton pump inibitors. Clinically apparent liver injury due to proton pump inhibitors typically arises within the first 4 weeks of treatment with symptoms of jaundice, nausea and fatigue and a hepatocellular or mixed pattern of serum enzyme elevations. Recovery is 2 LiverTox® typically rapid upon withdrawal of the agent. Rash, fever and eosinophilia are rare, as is autoantibody formation. Instances of recurrence on rechallenge have been reported. Likelihood score: D (possible rare cause of clinically apparent liver injury). Mechanism of Injury The acute onset and rapid recurrence of hepatic injury with proton pump inhibitors suggests a hypersensitivity reaction, but may merely reflect altered metabolism or acute toxicity of a metabolic byproduct. Rabeprazole is metabolized predominantly by the CYP 2C19 microsomal drug-metabolizing enzyme and may interfere with clearance of other agents metabolized in a similar fashion. Outcome and Management The mild and asymptomatic elevations in serum aminotransferase that have been observed during rabeprazole therapy are usually transient and may resolve even without dose modification. Clinically apparent liver injury due to rabeprazole is rare, but calls for prompt withdrawal of the agent. Cases of acute liver failure due to proton pump inhibitor use have been described, but not specifically with rabeprazole. Recurrence of acute liver injury on rechallenge after an initial episode of clinically apparent liver injury with rabeprazole has been reported. There is no information about cross reactivity among the various PPIs after rabeprazole hepatotoxicity, but the PPIs all share a benzimidazole structure, and caution should be used in attempting to reintroduce another PPI after clinically apparent PPI associated hepatic injury. Drug Class: Antiulcer Agents Other Drugs in the Subclass, Proton Pump Inhibitors: Dexlansoprazole, Esomeprazole, Lansoprazole, Omeprazole, Pantoprazole PRODUCT INFORMATION REPRESENTATIVE TRADE NAMES Rabeprazole – Generic, Aciphex® DRUG CLASS Antiulcer Agents COMPLETE LABELING Product labeling at DailyMed, National Library of Medicine, NIH CHEMICAL FORMULA AND STRUCTURE DRUG CAS REGISTRY NUMBER MOLECULAR FORMULA STRUCTURE Rabeprazole 117976-90-6 C18-H21-N3-O3-S.Na Rabeprazole 3 ANNOTATED BIBLIOGRAPHY References updated: 15 April 2019 Zimmerman HJ. Proton pump inhibitors. In, Zimmerman
