Ontogeny, Anatomy, Metabolism and Physiology of the Thyroid
KEYWORDS: thyroid, tsh, receptor, cells, cell, expression, gene, protein, camp, iodide, thyroglobulin, receptors, hormone, human, activation


ABSTRACT This chapter presents an analysis and a summarized synthesis of our present knowledge of the biology of the thyroid gland, phylogeny ,ontogeny ,anatomy ,structure ,general metabolism ,regulatory factors and hormones , signalling cascades and their regulations , ( eg TSH ), functions including iodine metabolism and thyroid hormones synthesis , control of gene expression ,differentiation and growth and cell proliferation .Emphasis is ,when possible , put on the human thyroid. The original primary literature,as well as reviews , over the last 50 years are comprehensively and critically analyzed with:600 references . Controversies are presented . For complete coverage of this and related topics, please visit www.endotext.org. PHYLOGENY The primary event in the phylogeny of the thyroid was the development in living forms of the capability of collecting iodide ion and binding it to protein. These activities have been observed widely among plants and in the invertebrate members of the animal kingdom. Brown algal kelps are the most efficient accumulators of iodide identified with enrichment factors for iodine of up to 10 6 (1). In Laminariadigitata , for example, the iodine content can reach up to 5% of the dry weight. However, only a minor fraction of iodine is stored in the form of iodinated amino acid residues including monoiodotyrosine (MIT) and diiodotyrosine (2) (3) (4). The biochemical pathways involved in iodine uptake, accumulation and metabolism in these algae have still not been fully elucidated. Recent studies suggest that iodide is oxidized by a vanadium-dependent iodoperoxidase (5) yielding more lipophilic iodine species which diffuse across cell membranes and are subsequently sequestered as labile iodine species in the apoplastic compartment (6). Thus, the iodide uptake mechanism utilized by these algae appears very different from that of vertebrate thyroid follicular cells and the organification of iodine is still considered a by-product of the reactive environment. In invertebrates, endogenous synthesis of iodothyronines including thyroxine (T4) and triiodothyronine (T3) has been clearly demonstrated for urochordates and cephalochordates (7), whereas evidence for endogenous iodothyronine synthesis outside the chordates is very limited (8;9) (10) (11). Nevertheless, invertebrates deserve attention when analyzing the evolution of the hormonal signalling function of iodothyronines. Already in 1896, Drechsel (12) recognized that sponges and corals contain large quantities of iodine as iodotyrosines. Iodohistidine and bromotyrosine have also been detected. Monoiodotyrosine (MIT) and diiodotyrosine (DIT) have been found in starfish, mollusks, annelids, crustaceae, and insects (13) (14) (15). In insects, several organs
