Ontogeny, Anatomy, Metabolism and Physiology of the Thyroid
KEYWORDS: thyroid, tsh, receptor, cells, cell, expression, gene, protein, camp, iodide, thyroglobulin, receptors, hormone, human, activation


iodotyrosines. Iodohistidine and bromotyrosine have also been detected. Monoiodotyrosine (MIT) and diiodotyrosine (DIT) have been found in starfish, mollusks, annelids, crustaceae, and insects (13) (14) (15). In insects, several organs and tissues can concentrate radioiodide but there is no evidence that this results in thyroid hormone (TH) formation (16). One process that is likely to yield iodinated compounds is cuticle formation (17). It has been suggested that iodinated substances may be by-products of the process of "quinone tanning". The formation of benzoquinone cross-linkages in the molecular structure of scleroproteins is probably responsible for hardening of the cuticle, and it is known that, in the presence of inorganic iodide, benzoquinones can bring about the iodination of proteins invitro (18). Thus, the iodination of tyrosine may be mediated quite accidentally by quinones that are involved in the general tanning reaction of the exoskeleton. However, recent studies by Heyland et al. (19) (20) suggest that at least some echinoderms and mollusks might produce T4 and T3 which was detected by thin layer chromatography and confirmed by ELISA measurements. Interestingly, iodothyronine synthesis in these organisms was prevented by thiourea but not by perchlorate treatment. Even though most invertebrates might not be able to endogenously synthesize TH, a wealth of data indicate that organic iodine species are taken up from the environment (e.g., via the food) and might function as signalling molecules with pleiotropic effects on various aspects of invertebrate physiology (21). In analogy to vitamins, Eales coined the term “ vitamones ” to describe this ancient function of iodinated compounds as external morphogenic signals governing larval development in some invertebrates. Recently, this model has been supported by several experimental studies (10;22;23). Moreover, insilico analyses of genome sequences available for several invertebrate species in conjunction with experimental studies in a few model species corroborate a deep ancestry of iodothyronine signalling, most likely at the origin of deuterostomes (24-26). Orthologs of vertebrate TH receptors (TRs) have been identified in several invertebrate species including deuterostomes and protostomes (26-30). However, functional data for invertebrate TRs are still limited to deuterostomes and, thus, the functional role of TR orthologs identified in platyhelminths, mollusks and crustaceans remains elusive. Interestingly, the functional characterization of the single TR orthologs of the amphioxus Branchiostomafloridae and Branchiostomabelcheri and of the ascidian Cionaintestinalis consistently revealed a lack of effective TR binding by T3 (26;30;31) . Instead, TRIAC (triiodothyroacetic acid), an acetic T3 derivative, was found
