Ontogeny, Anatomy, Metabolism and Physiology of the Thyroid
KEYWORDS: thyroid, tsh, receptor, cells, cell, expression, gene, protein, camp, iodide, thyroglobulin, receptors, hormone, human, activation


Branchiostomafloridae and Branchiostomabelcheri and of the ascidian Cionaintestinalis consistently revealed a lack of effective TR binding by T3 (26;30;31) . Instead, TRIAC (triiodothyroacetic acid), an acetic T3 derivative, was found to bind strongly to amphioxus TRs, to stimulate coactivator recruitment to the TRs and to activate TR-dependent gene expression (26;30). Despite the lack of T3-TR interaction in amphioxus and ascidian species, exogenous T3 and TRIAC are both effective in stimulating chordate metamorphosis (26). One clue to interprete these findings came from the observation that TRIAC is a major metabolite of T4 and T3 in amphioxus suggesting that metabolism of T3 to TRIAC might be involved in the metamorphosis-stimulating activity of T3 in amphioxus (32). A key role for TRIAC in regulating amphioxus metamorphosis is further supported by the recent identification of a nonselenodeiodinase in the amphioxus B.floridae (33). This deiodinase has a cysteine instead of a selenocysteine in its catalytic center and effectively deiodinates TRIAC and TETRAC (tetraiodothyroacetic acid) but not T3 and T4. Together, these experimental data suggest that TRIAC, or a related derivative, but not T3 is the ancestral TH acting in chordates. Gorbman (34) has hypothesized that during evolution, organisms became accustomed to a supply of iodotyrosines and iodothyronines derived from external sources, and eventually developed a requirement for the iodinated amino acids. The first evidence of an organ capable of providing iodothyronines and thus, related to the vertebrate thyroid, is found in the protochordates, comprising the subphyla Cephalochordata (amphioxus) and Urochordata (ascidians) (Fig. 1-1). In the origin and evolution of the thyroid gland, the protochordates occupy key positions in phylogeny, because cephalochordates are the most basal in the phylum Chordata and urochordates are the closest living relatives of vertebrates (7). In ascidians and amphioxus, an organ known as the endostyle lies on the floor of the pharynx and connects with the pharynx by a duct. Notably, an endostyle is still present in the basalmost vertebrates, the lamprey larvae (ammocoete). From the present point of view, the significant evolutionary event was the development of iodination centers within the endostyle. The differentiated endostyles in protochordates and lamprey larvae are histologically divided in “ zones ” containing different cell types (35). In the ascidian C.intestinalis , these iodination centers are present in zones 7, 8 and 9 at the tip of the endostyle (36). The amphioxus endostyle contains seven zones and iodide organification has been observed in zones 5a,
