Ontogeny, Anatomy, Metabolism and Physiology of the Thyroid
KEYWORDS: thyroid, tsh, receptor, cells, cell, expression, gene, protein, camp, iodide, thyroglobulin, receptors, hormone, human, activation


are present in zones 7, 8 and 9 at the tip of the endostyle (36). The amphioxus endostyle contains seven zones and iodide organification has been observed in zones 5a, 5b, and 6 which are also located at the tip of the endostyle (37). In amphioxus, Barrington (38) has shown that an iodinated glycoprotein is formed in these iodination centers, probably on the surface of the cell. The endostyle secretes a mucus that passes down the duct into the pharynx and thence is moved along into the alimentary canal, presumably carrying iodinated protein along with it. Although early accounts were sometimes conflicting (39), accumulation of radioiodide, peroxidase activity as well as endogenous synthesis of T4 and T3 has been demonstrated in the endostyle of several protochordate species (40-42) (43;44) . In the ascidian C.intestinales , the proposed organ homology between the endostyle and the vertebrate thyroid was strengthened in recent molecular studies. For Ciona orthologs of vertebrate thyroid-specific marker genes, including the transcription factors Pax2/5/8 , ciTTF 1 and Ci-FoxE , expression was demonstrated in several zones of the endostyle in adult Ciona (45-47) . In addition, insitu hybridization revealed expression of Ciona orthologs of thyroid peroxidase ( ciTPO ) and dual oxidase ( ci-Duox ) in the iodide-concentrating zone 7 of the endostyle (48). An interesting observation was that Pax2/5/8 and Ci-FoxE expression domains overlapped with those of ciTPO and ci-Duox whereas ciTTF 1 expression was not detectable in zone 7. In amphioxus, however, all three transcription factors, Pax2/5/8 , TTF 1 and FoxE4 , were expressed together with TPO in the iodide-concentrating zones (49). The recent releases of genome sequences of C.intestinales and B.floridae greatly contributed to our understanding of the gene repertoire encoding for components of the thyroid system in protochordates (25;50) . Genome analyses identified orthologs encoding for sodium-iodide symporter-like proteins, thyroid peroxidase, dual oxidase, several deiodinases and a single TR. However, no sequence homologous to thyroglobulin (TG) were identified in protochordate genomes suggesting that other scaffold proteins might be used for iodotyrosine synthesis (51). In amphioxus, a TG-like protein has been described by Monaco et al. (52), but a molecular characterization of this protein is not yet available. Further, no clear homologs of thyrotropin-releasing hormone (TRH) or the two subunits of thyroid-stimulating hormone (TSH) have been detected in protochordate genomes, which is in accordance with the current view that protochordates do not have a pituitary
