Ontogeny, Anatomy, Metabolism and Physiology of the Thyroid
KEYWORDS: thyroid, tsh, receptor, cells, cell, expression, gene, protein, camp, iodide, thyroglobulin, receptors, hormone, human, activation


(TRH) or the two subunits of thyroid-stimulating hormone (TSH) have been detected in protochordate genomes, which is in accordance with the current view that protochordates do not have a pituitary gland (53). Based on a comparison of Ciona and vertebrate genomes, Campbell (51) concluded that some features of the vertebrate thyroid system appear well represented in urochordates but that critical genes involved in the neuroendocrine control of thyroid function are lacking. Interestingly, a recent analysis of the spatial expression profile of TR mRNA in adult amphioxus demonstrated abundant expression in those endostyle zones associated with iodide organification and TH synthesis (30). This finding raises the possibility of a direct role of TH in the regulation of TH synthesis. Despite the observation of developmental effects of T3 and T4 in echinoderms (e.g., sea urchin, sand dollar, sea star, sea biscuit) and the identification of several genes encoding for components of a functional TH signalling system (24;25), solid experimental data to corroborate TH synthesis, metabolism and TR-mediated biological activities are not yet available. Although data by Heyland et al. (54;55) suggest endogenous TH production in in sea urchin and sea biscits, the tissues and organs involved have not yet been identified (echinoderms do not have an endostyle). Figure 1 Phylogeny of the development of the thyroid gland. The most primitive vertebrates in which a follicular thyroid gland can be definitely demonstrated are the jawless fishes (agnathans). Concerning the origin and the evolution of the thyroid gland, lampreys are of particular interest because they are the only known vertebrates that possess a larval endostyle that directly transforms into a follicular thyroid during metamorphosis (56) (57). Although the endostyle of the lamprey larvae (ammocoete) has a different structure and organization compared to the endostyle of protochordates, physiological and molecular characteristics are very similar. The lamprey endostyle shows iodide uptake and organification, the latter involving a protein that is apparently related to TG (58) (59;60) (61). The TG-like protein undergoes proteolytic digestion in the intestinal tract to liberate T4 and T3 which are probably taken up directly from the gut lumen to enter blood circulation (62;63). Given this pathway of TH synthesis and release, it is of particular interest that high 5 ’ -deiodinase activities were determined in the larval intestine (64). Comparative analyses of thyroid-related genes confirmed the expression of Pax2/5/8 (65) and TTF 1 orthologs (56) (66) in the lamprey endostyle. Interestingly, similar
