Ontogeny, Anatomy, Metabolism and Physiology of the Thyroid
KEYWORDS: thyroid, tsh, receptor, cells, cell, expression, gene, protein, camp, iodide, thyroglobulin, receptors, hormone, human, activation


were determined in the larval intestine (64). Comparative analyses of thyroid-related genes confirmed the expression of Pax2/5/8 (65) and TTF 1 orthologs (56) (66) in the lamprey endostyle. Interestingly, similar to ascidians, the expression domains of TTF 1 were not clearly overlapping with domains of iodide concentration, TG and T4 synthesis (56;67). Very high plasma concentrations of TH have been determined in lamprey larvae (68). A unique feature of lamprey developmental endocrinology is a dramatic decrease of circulating TH levels concomitantly with the onset of metamorphosis. This developmental TH profile is in sharp contrast to metamorphosis in amphibians and various fishes where high TH titers are associated with metamorphosis. Moreover, metamorphosis in lamprey larvae can be induced by anti-thyroidal compounds such as perchlorate or methimazole suggesting that the abrupt decline of plasma TH levels might trigger the onset of metamorphosis (69). During metamorphosis of the ammocoete into the adult lamprey, the endostyle loses its connection with the pharynx and becomes a thyroid composed of scattered follicles (70) These follicles are not encapsulated, but they have the typical biosynthetic functions associated with hormone formation in the adult vertebrates. In the lamprey, the biosynthesis of TG in larval forms has the same characteristics as that formed in thyroid follicles of the adult form, with a 12S as the precursor of the 18-19S protein. Total iodine content of TG is very low (0.002%) and about 5% is present in the form of T3 and T4 (71). Curiously, thyroid activity appears to play no role in the metamorphosis of the ammocoete, while the gland itself undergoes a remarkable morphological changes. Some relationships of the thyroid to the gastrointestinal tract is apparent in phylogenetic studies. Dunn (72) has actually found ciliated thyroid cells in the mouse and shark, a reminder of the origin of the gland from endoderm. In mammals the gastric mucosa and the salivary glands retain a functional relationship to the thyroid in that they too can concentrate iodide (73), and the salivary gland contains a peroxidase. Thus, a thyroid capable of forming iodotyrosines and iodothyronines is present in all vertebrates. Its level of function varies widely from species to species and season to season. With the exceptions noted below, thyroid activity in the poikilotherms is very low. Seasonal changes in thyroid activity have been found in both warm- and cold-blooded animals. Certain morphologic changes occur after the biochemical evolution of the thyroid
