Ontogeny, Anatomy, Metabolism and Physiology of the Thyroid
KEYWORDS: thyroid, tsh, receptor, cells, cell, expression, gene, protein, camp, iodide, thyroglobulin, receptors, hormone, human, activation


the poikilotherms is very low. Seasonal changes in thyroid activity have been found in both warm- and cold-blooded animals. Certain morphologic changes occur after the biochemical evolution of the thyroid has ceased. In the adult lamprey and in most bony fishes, the gland is not encapsulated. The follicles may be widely scattered, either singly or in small clusters, especially along the course of the ventral aorta and in the kidneys (74). In cartilaginous fish, the thyroid is encapsulated. In the higher vertebrate forms, the thyroid is a one- or two-lobed encapsulated structure. Function of the Thyroid in Non-Mammalian Species A functioning thyroid is evident in forms as primitive as lampreys and hagfishes. TH are critically important for the regulation of diverse biological processes associated with development, growth and metabolism in non-mammalian vertebrates (75) (76;77) (78). In particular, the vital importance of TH for the regulation of early developmental processes is not limited to human or mammalian species (79), but is well conserved throughout the vertebrate kingdom (80) (81) (82). In avian species, for example, TH are required for nervous system and skeleton development (83) and TH action has also been demonstrated to regulate both direct larval and metamorphic development in fish (84;85). In amphibians, TH are the primary morphogen regulating postembryonic development (metamorphosis) (81). Many fish species undergo similar developmental phases as described for amphibians including a larval stage, juveniles and adults (82) with a larvae-to-juvenile transition often associated with metamorphic changes (86). Experimental manipulation of the thyroid status as well as the recent cloning of fish TRs and the characterization of TR developmental expression profiles clearly demonstrated the important role of THs for early fish development (87). At later life stages, TH have been shown to assist in the control of various physiological functions in fish including osmoregulation, metabolism, somatic growth, and behaviour (88) (82). In salmonids, for example, TH are important for migration from fresh water to salt water (smoltification), and the high T4 plasma levels during smoltification represent some of the highest circulating T4 levels in fish (89;90). Initially, it was believed that TH had little or no stimulatory effect on the oxidative metabolism of cold-blooded species. Now it is known that the effect of the thyroid on metabolic activity in cold-blooded species is strongly dependent on environmental temperature. For example, T4 causes stimulation of metabolism in lizards at 32°C, but not when they are acclimated to
