Ontogeny, Anatomy, Metabolism and Physiology of the Thyroid
KEYWORDS: thyroid, tsh, receptor, cells, cell, expression, gene, protein, camp, iodide, thyroglobulin, receptors, hormone, human, activation


on metabolic activity in cold-blooded species is strongly dependent on environmental temperature. For example, T4 causes stimulation of metabolism in lizards at 32°C, but not when they are acclimated to low temperatures (91). The thyroid gland is also more active at higher temperatures (23°-32°C) than at 10°-15°C in snakes, fish, amphibians, turtles, and lizards (92). TH levels are also influenced by the nutritional status in both endothermic (birds, mammals) and ectothermic (fish) vertebrates with a decreased T3 and T4 to T3 conversion in caloric deficient states (93). A most striking effect of TH is the induction of metamorphosis in anuran amphibians, first reported by Gundernatsch in 1912 (94). The physiological role of TH during anuran metamorphosis is best exemplified by the fact that surgical removal of the thyroid gland or chemical blockage of TH synthesis leads to complete cessation of metamorphic development (95). On the other hand, addition of minute amounts of T4 (1 nM) to the rearing water of tadpoles during premetamorphosis leads to a precocious induction of metamorphosis (81). Particularly the metamorphosis of the South African clawed frog Xenopuslaevis has been used for years as a highly successful animal model to understand TH function in a developmental context (81) (96) (97;98) (99). The relationship between the functional state of the thyroid system and the progress of postembryonic development is well documented in this species (81) (100). The premetamorphic period is characterized by rapid growth of tadpoles with only minor morphological changes (101) and TH levels are very low (100). Growth and differentiation of the hind limbs are the earliest TH induced modifications marking the onset of the prometamorphic period during which levels of circulating TH steadily increase (102) stimulating further morphogenesis and differentiation of the limbs. The emergence of fore limbs marks the beginning of metamorphic climax characterized by rapid and dramatic changes in morphology (e.g., intestinal remodelling, complete resorption of gill and tail tissue) under the influence of peaking TH levels (81) (103). Towards the end of metamorphosis, plasma TH decline and low levels are present in juvenile and adult frogs (100). A fascinating aspect of anuran metamorphosis is that a single type of hormone, TH, induces different tissues and organs to undergo remodelling in a highly coordinated spatio-temporal fashion (81) (104) (105). Similar to mammals, TH synthesis is regulated by thyroid-stimulating hormone (TSH) (98). T4 is considered the major hormone secreted by the thyroid gland while
