Ontogeny, Anatomy, Metabolism and Physiology of the Thyroid
KEYWORDS: thyroid, tsh, receptor, cells, cell, expression, gene, protein, camp, iodide, thyroglobulin, receptors, hormone, human, activation


coordinated spatio-temporal fashion (81) (104) (105). Similar to mammals, TH synthesis is regulated by thyroid-stimulating hormone (TSH) (98). T4 is considered the major hormone secreted by the thyroid gland while the secretion of T3 is low in X.laevis tadpoles (106). Expression of glycoprotein TSH alpha-and beta subunits mRNAs in the pituitary of metamorphosing X.laevis tadpoles increase from low premetamorphic levels to maximum levels at early climax stages and decrease towards the end of metamorphosis (107) (108). Thus, there is a concurrent increase of TSH expression, thyroid activity and circulating T4 levels from premetamorphosis to early climax stages. Different hypotheses have been put forward to explain this condition. Some authors stressed the importance of climax stage induction of type II iodothyronine deiodinase (D2) expression in pituitary thyrotrophs as a molecular switch to establish a negative feedback control of TSH synthesis (109). In contrast, other studies could demonstrate negative feedback control of TSH expression by T4 at much earlier stages suggesting that the developmental TSH expression profile is the net result of negative feedback action of circulating TH and a concomitant increase in pituitary stimulation by hypothalamic factors (110) (111). Of relevance for the increased hypothalamic stimulation of pituitary thyrotrophs might be the TH-dependent maturation of the median eminence (112) as well as increased synthesis and release of hypothalamic peptide hormones (113). The extent to which different plasma proteins such as thyroxine-binding globulin (TBG), transthyretin (TTR) and albumin account for TH binding in the blood varies among different groups of vertebrates (114). In humans and rodents, TBG and TTR are the main THBP, respectively, showing a higher affinity for T4 than T3 (115). TTR is assumed to be the main TH-binding plasma protein in metamorphosing tadpoles and many teleost fish. One characteristic property of amphibian and teleost TTRs is that they display a several-fold higher affinity for T3 than for T4 (116). In their target cells, the biological action of TH is mediated by activation of nuclear TH receptors (TRs). Two TR subtypes (TR , TR ) which are encoded by separate genes have been described in X.laevis (82). Due to pseudo-tetraploidy, there are two TR (A and B) and two TR (A and B) in X.laevis (117). Similar to mammals, TRs can bind to TH response elements (TREs) weakly as homodimers whereas heterodimers of TR and 9 cis retinoic acid receptors (RXR) strongly bind with TREs (118). Extensive investigations on the
