Ontogeny, Anatomy, Metabolism and Physiology of the Thyroid
KEYWORDS: thyroid, tsh, receptor, cells, cell, expression, gene, protein, camp, iodide, thyroglobulin, receptors, hormone, human, activation


can bind to TH response elements (TREs) weakly as homodimers whereas heterodimers of TR and 9 cis retinoic acid receptors (RXR) strongly bind with TREs (118). Extensive investigations on the gene expression profiles induced by T3 made X.laevis one of the leading resources for understanding TH action during vertebrate development (119) (120). Gene transcription in X. laevis tadpoles can be either up- or down-regulated by TH (121;122). For the category of genes that are up-regulated by TH, it has been shown that unliganded heterodimeric TR-RXR complexes can bind to TRE but repress transcription through recruitment of corepressor (123). In X.laevis , low mRNA expression has been demonstrated for TR and TR in oocytes and embryos but the putative functions are still poorly defined (124) (125). During postembryonic development, the expression profiles of TR and TR show striking differences (81) (126) (127;128) . TR is expressed at high levels during early premetamorphic stages and expression is maintained at an elevated level throughout metamorphic development (129) (130). TR shows a more complex developmental expression profile, characterized by low expression during premetamorphosis and a dramatic up-regulation in parallel with the increasing TH plasma levels during prometamorphosis (131). When analyzed in individual tissues, TR was found to be up-regulated particularly during periods of active tissue remodelling (132) (133). Another important aspect of TH action in X.laevis tadpoles is that exogenous T3 regulates the expression of its cognate receptors (134). Among the most rapid changes in gene expression induced by T3, a dramatic up-regulation of TR gene expression has been observed in all organs and tissues analyzed (135) (136). In addition, recently developed transgenic models carrying dominant negative and constitutively activated TR mutants could clearly demonstrate the important role of TR in mediating the developmental effects of TH during X.laevis metamorphosis (137). Three types of iodothyronine deiodinases (D1, D2, D3) have been identified in vertebrates which differ in tissue distribution, substrate specificity and sensitivity to inhibiting compounds (138). D1 and D2 catalyze primarily the removal of one iodide from the outer tyrosine ring of T4 to produce T3. D3 catalyzes the cleaving of one iodide from the inner tyrosine rings of T4 and T3 generating inactive iodothyronine derivatives (e.g. reverse T3 and diiodothyronines), respectively. In amphibian tadpoles, the coordinated progression of metamorphic development requires a high degree of local control of T3 production which apparently dominates over the general supply of T3, at least during
