Ontogeny, Anatomy, Metabolism and Physiology of the Thyroid
KEYWORDS: thyroid, tsh, receptor, cells, cell, expression, gene, protein, camp, iodide, thyroglobulin, receptors, hormone, human, activation


amphibian tadpoles, the coordinated progression of metamorphic development requires a high degree of local control of T3 production which apparently dominates over the general supply of T3, at least during metamorphosis (139). Only recently, a putative X.laevis homologue of mammalian D1 has been identified (140) but neither the expression profile nor the putative regulatory role of D1 during metamorphic development have been characterized so far. However, several studies have investigated the role of D2 and D3 in controlling TH action during metamorphosis of anuran tadpoles (141). The data derived from these studies support the view that both D2 and D3 play a central role in modulating the tissue responsiveness to TH by either increasing intracellular concentrations of biologically active T3 (e.g., D2 in hind limbs) or by preventing TH action via rapid inactivation of T4 and T3 (e.g., D3 in tadpole tail). Central to the understanding of TH function in lower vertebrates are the manyfold interactions of TH with other hormones (e.g., corticosterone, prolactin, and growth hormone) contributing to a fine-tuning of developmental TH action. For example, several studies have shown that high concentrations of corticosterone can provoke both inhibitory or accelerating effects on amphibian metamorphic development, depending on whether treatment is initiated at early (inhibition) or at late developmental stages (acceleration) (142). Concerning the accelerating effects of corticosterone on the development of tadpoles at late stages, two molecular mechanisms have been proposed including corticosterone -induced increases in T3 receptor binding capacities and corticosterone-induced increases in peripheral deiodination of T4 to T3 (81). Similarly, corticosterone is known to affect peripheral deiodination of T4 to T3 in avian species, including inhibitory effects on D3 and D1 activities in chicken liver (143). Another hormone that has received a great deal of attention with regard to modulation of TH dependent metamorphic development is prolactin. Early studies using mammalian prolactin preparations could demonstrate antagonistic effects of prolactin on TH action in various peripheral tissues (144). Inhibitory effects on TR autoinduction by TH have been suggested as a primary mechanism of prolactin action to antagonize TH action in peripheral tissues. It should be noted, however, that in a transgenic frog model of prolactin overexpression, no retardation of tadpole development was detectable, with the exception of blocked tail resorption in a limited number of transgene animals (145). In chicken embryos, GH appears to be a potent inhibitor of hepatic D3 activity resulting in increased T3 availability
