Ontogeny, Anatomy, Metabolism and Physiology of the Thyroid
KEYWORDS: thyroid, tsh, receptor, cells, cell, expression, gene, protein, camp, iodide, thyroglobulin, receptors, hormone, human, activation


blocked tail resorption in a limited number of transgene animals (145). In chicken embryos, GH appears to be a potent inhibitor of hepatic D3 activity resulting in increased T3 availability (146). This GH action on TH metabolism probably represents a physiologically relevant hormonal response linking the nutritional state with the activity of the thyroid system. Given the great diversity and heterogeneity in fish physiology and ecology, it is not surprising that a multitude of hormonal interferences have been described in various model species. The reader is referred to several comprehensive reviews about this hormonal interplay in fish (147-149). Hypothalamic and Pituitary Control Hypothalamic-pituitary control of thyroid function in the most primitive vertebrates represented by hagfishes and lampreys is still poorly understood (150) (151). Although the pituitary of these primitive fishes might contain thyrotrophic factors (152), their nature and their hypothalamic-releasing factors are unknown. TRH and TSH were largely ineffective in stimulating thyroid activity as assessed by different experimental protocols (153). Instead, numerous studies support the concept that peripheral deiodination of TH might provide the major regulatory mechanism for the control of thyroid status (154). The intestinal tract seems to be a major site of this TH metabolism in larval lamprey (155). Neuroendocrine control of thyroid activity has been established for teleost fishes, amphibians, birds and reptiles (156). TRH is regarded as the main regulator of TSH secretion in mammals, and TSH-releasing activity of this peptide hormone has also been observed in various non-mammalian vertebrates. In avian species, injection of TRH has been shown to preferentially increase circulating T3 instead of T4, an effect that was later related to a GH-dependent inhibition of hepatic D3 activity subsequent to a stimulation of somatotrophs by TRH (157). In fact, preferential binding of TRH was demonstrated for somatotrophs in chicken. In recent years, it became clear that another hypothalamic factor, corticotropin-releasing hormone (CRH), is a more potent stimulator of TSH release in non-mammalian vertebrates. In chicken, CRH was found to increase both T3 and T4 plasma levels via stimulation of TSH release (158). Studies by de Groef (159) could show a preferential expression of CRH receptors type 1 (CRH-R1) and type 2 (CRH-R2) in chicken corticotrophs and thyrotrophs, respectively. The role of CRH R2 in mediating the CRH effect on TSH release in chicken was corroborated in further studies using CRH R2-specific agonists and antagonists. In amphibians, the regulation of TSH release by TRH
