Ontogeny, Anatomy, Metabolism and Physiology of the Thyroid
KEYWORDS: thyroid, tsh, receptor, cells, cell, expression, gene, protein, camp, iodide, thyroglobulin, receptors, hormone, human, activation


in mediating the CRH effect on TSH release in chicken was corroborated in further studies using CRH R2-specific agonists and antagonists. In amphibians, the regulation of TSH release by TRH and CRF appears to be dependent on the life stage. While TRH was able to increase TSH secretion in adult frogs but not in tadpoles (160;161), the finding that TRH stimulates TSH release at least in adult amphibians argues against the hypothesis that the TSH-stimulating activity of TRH has only recently been coopted in association with the development of endothermy. Similar to the studies with chicken, CRF proved to be the most potent releasing factor for TSH in the tadpole pituitary invitro (162;163). In vivo, injection of CRH increased plasma T4 levels in Xenopus tadpoles and accelerated metamorphic development in ranids. In addition, TSH synthesis and release by the amphibian pituitary is under the control of a negative TH feedback (164;165). Few studies have addressed CRH effects on thyrotrophs in fish but the available data indicate that CRH but not TRH stimulates TSH release in salmonids (166). ONTOGENY The main anlage of the thyroid gland develops as a median endodermal downgrowth from the tongue. It can be seen in the human embryo at the end of the third week (167). It is located near the primordium of the heart, and as the heart is pulled caudally, the thyroid anlage follows. At the 5 th week the thyroglossal duct starts to breakdown. At about the 30th day it has developed into a hollow bilobed structure, and by the 40th day, the original hollow stalk connecting it to the pharyngeal floor atrophies and then breaks. Shortly thereafter the lateral extensions of the median anlage make contact with the ultimobranchial bodies developing from the 4th pharyngeal pouches, the so-called lateral anlage of the thyroid. The ultimobranchial cells or neural cells accompanying them are the origin of calcitonin-secreting C-cells in the thyroid gland and may contribute to the formation of follicular cells as well (168). By the 8th week the cells have a tubular arrangement, and cell clusters are apparent. Two weeks later, when the embryo is approximately 80 mm long, follicles are present. Shortly after this time the follicles contain colloid, and the thyroid accumulates and binds iodide by the 11th-12th week (Fig. 2). Secondary follicles arise by budding from the primary follicles; they increase in number until the embryo reaches a length
