Ontogeny, Anatomy, Metabolism and Physiology of the Thyroid
KEYWORDS: thyroid, tsh, receptor, cells, cell, expression, gene, protein, camp, iodide, thyroglobulin, receptors, hormone, human, activation


thyroid accumulates and binds iodide by the 11th-12th week (Fig. 2). Secondary follicles arise by budding from the primary follicles; they increase in number until the embryo reaches a length of about 160 mm. After this time the follicles increase in size, but the number remains the same. Under intense stimulation, the adult thyroid can form new follicles. Fig. 1-2 Photograph of thyroid tissue from a fetus with a 50-mm crown-rump length, estimated gestational age 64 days. The arrows indicate two intracellular canaliculi. During incubation of the tissue in organ culture in vitro, there was no uptake or fixation of iodide. The figure shows the earliest stage of formation of colloid spaces. The tissue was fixed in ozmium, embedded in Epon epoxy resin, and sectioned at 1-mm thickness (x2,400). (From T.H. Shephard, J. Clin. Endocrinol. Metab., 27:945,1967, with permission). Fujita and Machino (169) have studied the origins of the follicular lumen in the chick embryo. They found that colloid droplets, 1-5µm in diameter and enclosed by a limiting membrane, first appear within the cytoplasm of parenchymal cells. As the droplets enlarge, they approach the cell membrane and come in contact with the droplets of an adjoining cell. The limiting cell membrane disappears, and the droplets fuse. By an extension of this process to cells close to the original droplet, an acinar structure containing colloid and enclosed by a ring of parenchymal cells is formed. A similar process can be demonstrated in aggregates of isolated thyroid cells in vitro (170). GROSS ANATOMY Physical Appearance and Anatomic Location The Germans call the thyroid the "shield gland" (Schilddrüse), and the English name, derived from the Greek, means the same thing. Such a term gives a most erroneous impression of its shape. It is interesting, however, that in the Minoan culture, a shield was used that had a shape somewhat like that of the mammalian thyroid gland. The gland as seen from the front is more nearly the shape of a butterfly. It wraps itself about and becomes firmly fixed by fibrous tissue to the anterior and lateral parts of the larynx and trachea. Anteriorly, its surface is convex; posteriorly, it is concave. The isthmus lies across the trachea anteriorly just below the level of the cricoid cartilage. The lateral lobes extend along either side of the larynx as roughly conical projections reaching the level of the middle of the thyroid cartilage. Their upper
