Ontogeny, Anatomy, Metabolism and Physiology of the Thyroid
KEYWORDS: thyroid, tsh, receptor, cells, cell, expression, gene, protein, camp, iodide, thyroglobulin, receptors, hormone, human, activation


of the cricoid cartilage. The lateral lobes extend along either side of the larynx as roughly conical projections reaching the level of the middle of the thyroid cartilage. Their upper extremities are known as the upper poles of the gland. Similarly, the lower extremities of the lateral lobes are spoken of as the lower poles, although they make no such prominent projections as do the upper ( Fig. 1-3 ). Fig. 1-3 Gross Anatomy of the thyroid and surroundings (from: Netter FH, The Ciba Collection of Medical Illustrations, vol. 4, Endocrine system and selected metabolic diseases, Ciba, 1965, with permission). The weight of the thyroid of the normal nongoitrous adult is 6-20 g depending on body size and iodine supply. The width and length of the isthmus average 20 mm, and its thickness is 2-6 mm. The lateral lobes from superior to inferior poles usually measure 4 cm. Their breadth is 15-20 mm, and their thickness is 20-39 mm. The thyroid is enveloped by a thin, fibrous, nonstripping capsule that sends septa into the gland substance to produce an irregular, incomplete lobulation. No true lobulation or lobation exists. In fact, the gland is throughout a uniform agglomeration of follicles packed like berries into a bag. It has no true subdivisions. The lateral lobes lie in a bed between the trachea and the larynx medially and between the carotid sheath and the sternomastoid muscles laterally. The deep cervical fascia, dividing into an anterior and a posterior plane, lines this bed and makes a loosely applied false or surgical capsule for the lateral portions of the gland. In front are the thin, ribbon-like infrahyoid muscles. The thyroid is molded perfectly to fit the space available between the neighboring structures, and is superficially placed. It can usually be outlined by careful palpation in normal humans, but if the neck is thick and short or the sternomastoid muscles heavily developed, it may be impossible to feel the gland. The shape and attachments of the organ are important in examination and diagnosis. The relation of the thyroid gland to the parathyroids, which are usually situated on the posterior surface of the lateral lobes of the gland within the surgical capsule, and to the recurrent laryngeal nerves, which run in the cleft between the trachea and esophagus just medial to the lateral lobes, are most important to the surgeon. The relationship to the trachea is important
