Ontogeny, Anatomy, Metabolism and Physiology of the Thyroid
KEYWORDS: thyroid, tsh, receptor, cells, cell, expression, gene, protein, camp, iodide, thyroglobulin, receptors, hormone, human, activation


nerves, which run in the cleft between the trachea and esophagus just medial to the lateral lobes, are most important to the surgeon. The relationship to the trachea is important from the point of view of pressure symptoms. The pyramidal lobe is a narrow projection of thyroid tissue extending upward from the isthmus and lying on the surface of the thyroid cartilage, to the right or left of the prominence of that structure. It is a vestige of the embryonic thyroglossal tract. The importance of the pyramidal lobe is in its relation to developmental anomalies and also in its propensity to undergo hypertrophy when the rest of the thyroid has been removed. Any pathologic process that is diffuse may involve the pyramidal lobe, for example, Graves' disease or Hashimoto's thyroiditis. It becomes thus an item of some importance diagnostically and in thyroid surgery. A pyramidal lobe is found by the surgeon in about 80% of patients. Blood Supply The thyroid gland has an abundant blood supply. It has been estimated that the normal flow rate is about 5 ml/g of thyroid tissue each minute. The blood volume of normal humans is about 5 liters and total blood flow 5 liters/min. This mass moves through the lungs about once a minute, through the kidneys once in five minutes, and through the thyroid approximately once an hour. Although the thyroid represents about 0.4‰ of body weight it accounts for 2% of total blood flow. In disease the flow through the gland may be increased up to 100-fold. This abundant blood supply is provided from the four major thyroid arteries. The superior pair arise from the external carotid and descend several centimeters through the neck to reach the upper poles of the thyroid, where they break into a number of branches and enter the substance of the gland. The inferior pair spring from the thyrocervical trunk of the subclavian arteries and enter the lower poles from behind. Frequently, a fifth artery, the thyreoidea ima, from the arch of the aorta, enters the thyroid in the midline. There are free anastomoses between all of these vessels. In addition, a large number of smaller arteriolar vessels derived from collaterals of the esophagus and larynx supply the posterior aspect of the thyroid. The branching of the large arteries takes place on the surface of the gland, where they form a network. Only after much branching are
