Ontogeny, Anatomy, Metabolism and Physiology of the Thyroid
KEYWORDS: thyroid, tsh, receptor, cells, cell, expression, gene, protein, camp, iodide, thyroglobulin, receptors, hormone, human, activation


the posterior aspect of the thyroid. The branching of the large arteries takes place on the surface of the gland, where they form a network. Only after much branching are small arteries sent deep into the gland. These penetrating vessels arborize among the follicles, finally sending a follicular artery to each follicle. This, in turn, breaks up into the rich capillary basket like network surrounding the follicle. The veins emerge from the interior of the gland and form a plexus of vessels under the capsule. These drain into the internal jugular, the brachiocephalic, and occasionally the anterior jugular veins. Lymphatics A rich plexus of lymph vessels is in close approximation to the individual follicles, but no unique role in thyroid function has been assigned to this system. The major normal, if not only, secretory pathway for thyroid hormone is through the venous drainage of the thyroid rather than through the lymphatics, but thyroglobulin is mainly secreted in the lymph. Innervation The gland receives fibers from both sympathetic and parasympathetic divisions of the autonomic nervous system. The sympathetic fibers are derived from the cervical ganglia and enter the gland along the blood vessels. The parasympathetic fibers are derived from the vagus and reach the gland by branches of the laryngeal nerves. Both myelinated and nonmyelinated fibers are found in the thyroid, and occasionally in the ganglion cells as well. The nerve supply does not appear to be simply a secretory system. The major neurogenic modifications of thyroid physiology have to do with blood flow and are reviewed in Chapter 4. However neurotransmitters have direct effects on thyroid follicular cells, which vary from one species to another. The physiological relevance of these effects remains to be proved. The Secretory Unit - The Follicle The adult thyroid is composed of follicles, or acini. These have lost all luminal connection with other parts of the body and may be considered, from both the structural an functional points of view, as the primary, or secretory, units of the organ. The cells of the follicles are the makers of hormone; the lumina are the storage depots. In the normal adult gland the follicles are roughly spherical and vary considerably in size. The average diameter is 300 microns. The walls consist of a continuous epithelium one cell deep, the parenchyma of the thyroid. The epithelium of the normal gland is usually described as cuboidal, the cell height
