Ontogeny, Anatomy, Metabolism and Physiology of the Thyroid
KEYWORDS: thyroid, tsh, receptor, cells, cell, expression, gene, protein, camp, iodide, thyroglobulin, receptors, hormone, human, activation


microns. The walls consist of a continuous epithelium one cell deep, the parenchyma of the thyroid. The epithelium of the normal gland is usually described as cuboidal, the cell height being of the order of 15 µm. In the resting gland the cells may become flatter. Under chronic TSH stimulation such as occurs with iodide deficiency, the height increases, and the term columnar is applied. Such stimulation, which increases colloid resorption, also leads to a reduction in size the follicular lumen. As a result, the height of the epithelium is often inversely proportional to the diameter of the lumen of the follicle. Within the follicle and filling its lumen is the homogeneous colloid. This is a mixture of proteins, principally thyroglobulin, but there are other lightweight iodoproteins and serum proteins and albumin, originating from the serum, as well. In addition to the acinar cells, there are individual cells or small groups of cells that are seen not to extend to the follicular lumen and which may appear as clusters between follicles (Fig. 1-4a,b). These light cells, or C-cells, are a distinct category probably derived from the neural crest via the ultimobranchial body, as shown by studies in quail chicks by Le Douarin and Le Lièvre (171). The C-cells secrete calcitonin (or "thyrocalcitonin") in response to an increase in serum calcium (172). This hormone is important in the regulation of bone resorption and to a lesser extent influences the concentration of serum calcium. Calcitonin acts primarily by suppressing resorption of calcium from bone and therefore lowers plasma free Ca ++ levels. C-cells also contain somatostatin, calcitonin gene related peptide, gastrin-releasing peptide, katacalcin and helodermin that could have either a stimulatory or inhibitory activity on thyroid hormone secretion. Their physiological relevance is doubtful (see "Other Regulatory Factors" in this chapter). The C-cells are also the origin of the "medullary" thyroid cancers. In adult human they represent 1% of the cell population. Outside the follicles two other types of cells populate the thyroid the endothelial cells and fibroblasts. In normal dog thyroids the relative proportions of follicular, endothelial cells and fibroblasts are 70%, 20% and 10% (173). Fig. 1-4 (A) Light microscopy of a parafollicular cluster (arrow) in relationship to thyroid follicle (TF) (x900). (B) Parafollicular cell in characteristic position between follicular cells and follicular basement membrane, not abutting on colloid (TF) (x4,200). Tissue was obtained from normal thyroid tissue of a 26-year-old
