Ontogeny, Anatomy, Metabolism and Physiology of the Thyroid
KEYWORDS: thyroid, tsh, receptor, cells, cell, expression, gene, protein, camp, iodide, thyroglobulin, receptors, hormone, human, activation


(x900). (B) Parafollicular cell in characteristic position between follicular cells and follicular basement membrane, not abutting on colloid (TF) (x4,200). Tissue was obtained from normal thyroid tissue of a 26-year-old woman operated on because of a solitary thyroid adenomatous nodule. Specimens were fixed in glutaraldehyde and embedded in Araldite-502. (From Teitelbaum et al. Nature, 230,1971, with permission). THE FINE STRUCTURE OF THE THYROID CELLS The follicular organization and the polarity of the thyrocytes are essential to the specialized metabolism of the organ : with the vectorial transport of thyroglobulin and iodide at the apex, the synthesis of thyroid hormones at the apical membrane, the storage of iodine and thyroid hormone within thyroglobulin in the lumen and endocytosis of thyroglobulin also at the apex. The onset of thyroid function in embryo coincides with the appearance of this structure. The acinar surface of thyroid parenchymal cells appears to be smooth in the light microscope, but the electron microscope shows that it is covered with tiny villi and some pseudopods. Each cell displays a cilium in the follicular lumen. The base of the cell abuts on a capillary and is separated from it by a two-layer basement membrane visible under the electron microscope. In the usual hematoxylin and eosin stain, the cell cytoplasm is neutrophilic, and colloid droplets may be present. The nucleus is at the base of the cell. The colloid is variable in tinctorial response but tends to be strongly eosinophilic in resting follicles and pale-staining or even slightly basophilic when the gland is stimulated. In hyperactive follicles the margin of the colloid is scalloped by resorption vacuoles. These vacuoles may represent the "negatives" of the resorption process. The villi are extensions of cytoplasm which increase cell secretory surface. In acutely stimulated thyroids, pseudopods extend out into the colloid and surround and ingest it by macropinocytosis. Over the course of several hours, the ingested droplets move toward the base of the cell (174). These droplets of resorbed colloid are processed for secretion as hormone by the gland (175). The resolving power of the electron microscope has been turned upon the thyroid acinar cell by several investigators, among them Wissig (176), Dempsey and Peterson (177), Ekholm and Sjöstrand (178) and Herman (179). Wissig's and Ekholm's findings are presented here in detail and can be taken as typical of the cytologic picture of most species. The entire follicular cell is covered by an
