Ontogeny, Anatomy, Metabolism and Physiology of the Thyroid
KEYWORDS: thyroid, tsh, receptor, cells, cell, expression, gene, protein, camp, iodide, thyroglobulin, receptors, hormone, human, activation


Wissig's and Ekholm's findings are presented here in detail and can be taken as typical of the cytologic picture of most species. The entire follicular cell is covered by an uninterrupted plasma membrane (Fig. 1-5 and Fig. 1-6 ). The apical surface of the cell is dome-shaped and is provided with numerous microvilli that are approximately 0.35 mm tall and 0.07 mm broad. This membrane is composed of two dark layers separated by a single pale layer and is 70 Å thick. Terminal bars join opposing cells at the apical margin, and desmosomes often occur on contacting cell surfaces. Vesicular structures, approximately 60 mm broad, appear in the microvilli and contain material that has the same density as colloid. Beneath the apical border there is a band of cytoplasm that is approximately 0.5 mm wide and devoid of organelles, although microtubular and microfilamentous structures are seen in this area. Beneath this band, a few apical vesicles of 400-15,000 Å are seen, and beneath this area and extending to the base of the cell are the channels of the endoplasmic reticulum, also known as ergoplasmic vesicles. These vesicles, or channels, are limited by a single membrane (the a cytomembrane) approximately 60-70 Å thick, and their outer surface is studded with ribosomes approximately 130-150 Å in diameter. In some areas the membrane covering the cytomembrane is devoid of ribonucleoprotein particles, and in between the vesicles the ribonucleoprotein granules may be seen to lie free. The endoplasmic vesicles are very pleiomorphic. Small vesicles are seen near the apical surface, 50 nm to several microns in diameter, and closed by a single-layer membrane 5 nm in thickness. These droplets appear especially in the apex of the cell and are thought to be secretion droplets. The material within them is frequently quite dense. Large vesicles of up to 1 micron appear especially in stimulated thyroids. These are called colloid droplets because the material within the vesicles is homogeneous and has the density of colloid and results from colloid endocytosis. Fig. 1-5. A thyroid follicular cell, including: (a) apical vessel of cell; (e) endoplasmic reticulum; (d) colloid droplets; (v) microvilli; (r) ribosomes on endoplasmic reticulum; (g) Golgi apparatus; (m) mitochondrion; (p) plasma membrane; (c) capillary cells; (n) nucleus; (b) basement membrane; (o) open "pore" endothelial cells ; (c) cilium. (Reproduced by permission of the Journal of Ultrastructural Research). Fig. 1-6 Electron micrographs of rat thyroid. (a)
