Ontogeny, Anatomy, Metabolism and Physiology of the Thyroid
KEYWORDS: thyroid, tsh, receptor, cells, cell, expression, gene, protein, camp, iodide, thyroglobulin, receptors, hormone, human, activation


which contains a material of the same density as the basement membrane. The membrane at the base of the cell is covered on the outer surface by a basement membrane that is approximately 400 Å in width. A thin layer of fibers about 400 Å in diameter may occur at the outer surface of the basement membrane. The basement membrane of the follicular cell is separated by a clear area from the basement membrane of the opposing capillary endothelium. At frequent intervals, the wall of the endothelial cell is interrupted by a pore approximately 450 Å in diameter. Here the lumen of the capillary appears to be in direct contact with the basement membrane of the endothelial cell. The thyroid follicle cells are separated by two layers of basement membrane from the capillaries, but the pores in the endothelial lining of the capillaries may allow, some plasma to come in direct contact with basement membrane. This arrangement should allow free diffusion of materials into and out of the acinar cell. Ribosomes of the ergastoplasm synthesize thyroglobulin which is processed in the smooth reticulum and Golgi apparatus. The colloid lumen is sealed by various cell-cell junctions: 1) the tight junctions of the zonula occludens, close to the apical border and which separate the basal from the apical membrane (main protein constituents : occludins); 2) further from the apex are the tight junctions (main protein components : cadherins) and 3) further the desmosome junctions (main protein components : desmogleins and desmocollins). All these junctions are linked to the cytoskeleton. Gap junctions (main protein components : connexins) provide joint channels allowing the passage of small molecules between the cells. GENERAL METABOLISM OF THE FOLLICULAR THYROID CELL The metabolism of the thyroid as related to hormone synthesis and secretion is discussed in Chapter 2. In this section, a review of some general aspects of metabolism of the thyroid acinar cell is provided. The metabolism of the thyroid has been studied by all the usual techniques - in vivo in men and mice, in situ, in in vitro perfusion, in slices, cells, homogenates, or subcellular fractions. Several species, including humans, have been investigated, often with obvious and consistent species-related differences. Conditions of tissue preparation and assays have varied widely. Energy metabolism Energy supply in the human thyroid cell is necessary for many activities like synthesis of nucleotides, proteins, nuclear acids, lipids, transport functions and other
