Ontogeny, Anatomy, Metabolism and Physiology of the Thyroid
KEYWORDS: thyroid, tsh, receptor, cells, cell, expression, gene, protein, camp, iodide, thyroglobulin, receptors, hormone, human, activation


assays have varied widely. Energy metabolism Energy supply in the human thyroid cell is necessary for many activities like synthesis of nucleotides, proteins, nuclear acids, lipids, transport functions and other activities like phagocytosis, lysosome movement etc. It is mainly produced by mitochondrial oxidative phosphorylation (about 85%) and to a minor extent by cytosolic aerobic glycolysis (180). Energy metabolism in the human thyroid cell resembles in many aspects that in the dog thyroid. However, the absolute values of oxygen uptake, glucose uptake and lactate formation are significantly less in the human thyroid slices. Adenosine triphosphate (ATP) concentration in the thyroid cell is in the millimolar range and about 90% of ribonucleotides are in the form of triphosphates (181). Free fatty acids are probably the main source of energy in thyroid cells as respiration is maintained for long periods in vitro in the absence of exogenous substrate. As there is hardly any glycogen present in these conditions, most probably free fatty acids are the endogenous substrates. Compartmentation may make glycolytic ATP the main energy source for some membrane functions such as endocytosis of colloid. Indeed inhibition of glycolysis inhibits colloid endocytosis much more than total energy metabolism and addition of glucose counteracts this effect (181). Mitochondrial inhibitors abolish the stimulatory effect of TSH on thyroid cell respiration (182). Cyclic AMP does not influence mitochondrial respiration in a direct manner. It is therefore assumed that the stimulatory effect of TSH on respiration is secondary to its enhancing effect on energy (i.e. ATP) consuming cellular processes. Carbohydrate metabolism The main source of energy delivery for metabolic processes in the thyroid cell are free fatty acids. However, glucose metabolism has an important function in the thyroid for several reasons. About 70% of the glucose taken up by dog or human thyroid slices is transformed to lactate, a further 5% is catabolized through the Embden-Meyerhof pathway and the Krebs cycle (183). Another 6% of glucose carbon is incorporated into protein and less than 1% into lipids and glycogen. The remaining part (about 10%) is oxidized through the hexose monophosphate pathway (HMP). Most of the enzymes participating in the Embden-Meyerhof pathway, HMP and Krebs cycle have been demonstrated in the human thyroid (184) (185) (186). As hexokinase instead of glucokinase is present in the thyroid, the rate of phosphorylation of glucose is probably independent of its concentration because of the low Km of hexokinase for glucose. Glucose
