Ontogeny, Anatomy, Metabolism and Physiology of the Thyroid
KEYWORDS: thyroid, tsh, receptor, cells, cell, expression, gene, protein, camp, iodide, thyroglobulin, receptors, hormone, human, activation


instead of glucokinase is present in the thyroid, the rate of phosphorylation of glucose is probably independent of its concentration because of the low Km of hexokinase for glucose. Glucose metabolism serves several purposes. The incorporation of glucose carbon into proteins is related to the function of the thyroid cell in protein synthesis i.e. synthesis of thyrogobulin which contains 10% carbohydrate. The metabolism of glucose along the HMP is related to the generation of NADPH and pentoses in this pathway. The production of pentoses is obviously necessary for generation of nucleotides. NADPH production is necessary in several respects (Fig. 7). It is needed for generation of H2O2 for oxidation, organification of iodide and thyroid hormone synthesis. NADPH is also an important cofactor in iodotyrosines deiodination. It is also needed to reduce oxidized glutathione after its generation by GSH peroxidase in the detoxification of the H2O2 leaking in the cell (187). Fig. 1-7. Postulated NADP oxidation-reduction cycle in thyroid. Four mechanisms of NADPH oxidation are outlined: the reduction of any intermediate X by an NADPH-linked dehydrogenase, the deiodination of iodotyrosines released by thyroglobulinolysis, the generation of H2O2 by THOX (thyroid H2O2 generating enzyme), and the reduction of H2O2 through GSH peroxidase. TG and TGI: uniodinated and iodinated thyroglobulin. +, activation. (From: Dumont JE (187)). H2O2 generation is stimulated by TSH through cAMP in dog thyroid and by Ca <sup>++</sup> and diacylglycerol in all investigated species, including humans and dogs. TSH enhances carbohydrate metabolism in the dog thyroid (183). During the stimulation there is selective increase in the activity of the HMP whereas incorporation of glucose into proteins and lipids decreases (183). The activity of TSH in this metabolism is probably mediated by cAMP, since this nucleotide can reproduce the TSH effects on glucose uptake, catabolism, incorporation in protein and lipids and on the HMP pathway. TSH also causes an increase in NADPH and NADP+ concentration through increased NAD+ kinase activity (187). The increased metabolic activity induced by TSH mainly reflects increased consumption by NADPH dependent processes stimulated via cAMP. For instance, the activity of the HMP pathway is predominantly dependent on the availability of the substrate NADP+ generated during oxidation of NADPH (187). Mitochondrial Respiration The mitochondrion has appropriately been termed the "powerhouse" of the cell. It provides about 85% of generated ATP in the thyroid cell, only 15% coming from glycolysis. The thyroids of different animal species contain mitochondria with
