Ontogeny, Anatomy, Metabolism and Physiology of the Thyroid
KEYWORDS: thyroid, tsh, receptor, cells, cell, expression, gene, protein, camp, iodide, thyroglobulin, receptors, hormone, human, activation


the "powerhouse" of the cell. It provides about 85% of generated ATP in the thyroid cell, only 15% coming from glycolysis. The thyroids of different animal species contain mitochondria with their typical morphology, having electron transport chain, Krebs cycle enzymes, coupled oxidative phosphorylation and good respiratory control (182). The activity of mitochondria is controlled by adenosine diphosphate (ADP) levels. Also respiration linked Ca++ accumulation plays a general and fundamental role in vertebrate cell physiology (188). Free fatty acids are the preferred substrate of oxidation in the unstimulated thyroid, presumably through mitochondrial pathways (189). In thyroids of patients operated for hyperthyroid Graves' disease all enzyme activities studied were increased suggesting an increase in the mitochondrial population in chronically stimulated thyroid cells (181). TSH increases oxygen consumption in thyroid slices by 20 - 30% within a few minutes, independently of exogenous substrates. The increased respiration is oligomycin and antimycin sensitive. Thus, respiration is of largely mitochondrial origin and probably represents the effect of TSH in increasing metabolic activities and consequently ATP consumption (see section on Energy Metabolism) (187). TSH augments oxidation of pyruvate and acetate by thyroid slices. Compounds such as perchlorate, methimazole, iodide, thiocyanate and T4 have no significant direct action on thyroid mitochondria (182). In isolated thyroid mitochodria protein synthesis is dependent on intact electron transport and oxidative phosphorylation. It is inhibited by chloramphenicol but not by cycloheximide (190). RNA and DNA Metabolism Chronic TSH stimulation produces cell hypertrophy, and proliferation with a greater increase of RNA than of DNA. Since RNA and DNA synthesis are required for cell growth and division, it is not surprising that TSH stimulation causes rapid and continued increases in synthetic activities. When given in vivo, TSH stimulates uptake and incorporation of RNA precursors within one hour and net RNA increases in about 12 hours (191) (192). TSH stimulates cell uptake and synthesis of purine and pyrimidine precursors (193) (194) and purine and pyrimidine synthesis. Synthesis of both messenger RNA (mRNA) and ribosomal RNA (rRNA) is stimulated by TSH (195). The population of mRNA preferentially synthesized in response to TSH and cyclic AMP is important and includes specific thyroid gene expression such as thyroperoxidase (TPO), Na+/I- cotransporters (NIS) (196), thyroglobulin etc.. RNA degradation is not known to be influenced by TSH. Formation of polyamines is closely linked to cell growth, although the mechanism is not known. TSH and cAMP enhance ornithine decarboxylase activity, the rate-limiting
