Ontogeny, Anatomy, Metabolism and Physiology of the Thyroid
KEYWORDS: thyroid, tsh, receptor, cells, cell, expression, gene, protein, camp, iodide, thyroglobulin, receptors, hormone, human, activation


known to be influenced by TSH. Formation of polyamines is closely linked to cell growth, although the mechanism is not known. TSH and cAMP enhance ornithine decarboxylase activity, the rate-limiting enzyme in polyamine synthesis (197). Protein Metabolism Thyroid tissue is composed of cells and a storage protein, and the kinetic behavior of each compartment varies enormously with the conditions. Thus, in the colloid especially, protein storage and degradation go on concurrently, and content at any time reflects a balance between these activities. TSH enhances uptake of amino acids by isolated thyroid cells, and stimulates protein synthesis within 30 minutes to 4 hours in some preparations. Because of effects on thyroglobulin (TG) degradation, and dilution of amino acid precursor pools, stimulation of synthesis is more difficult to demonstrate in whole tissues (198) (199) (200). However, if thyroid slices are incubated in high concentration of leucine to obliterate any separate effect of TSH on cell uptake of amino acid, a clear stimulation of protein synthesis by TSH can be demonstrated in vitro in dog thyroid slices (200), and also in isolated thyroid cells but not in primary cultures of dog thyroid cells. Within 12-24 hours of chronic TSH stimulation in vivo, net protein content may be decreased by active TG hydrolysis, but after this, protein content is increased (201). This response remains nearly linear over four to five weeks as thyroid size in animals quintuples. The response is primarily due to production of new cells, since DNA and protein change in parallel. Huge polysomes (40 to 80 ribosomal units) connected by mRNA have been demonstrated in the thyroid (202) (203) and were shown to incorporate precursors into TG-related peptides. (Fig.1-8). In dog thyroid slices, TSH also shifts thyroid monosomes to polysomes, and this is stimulated by cAMP. This action suggests a direct effect on translation (204). Fig. 1-8 Electron microscopic photograph of an enormous polysome containing 60 or 70 monosomes, the presumed source of TG synthesis. The arrows point to a thread possibly representing mRNA holding the polysome together. (From Keyhani et al., J. Microscop., 10:269,1971, with permission). Lipid metabolism Free fatty acids are the main fuel of the thyroid cell and they may be completely oxidized. Sufficient endogenous substrate is present to sustain respiration for several hours during in vitro incubation of thyroid slices (205) (206) (207). Studies on localization of lipids in human thyroids have shown that small amounts are
