Ontogeny, Anatomy, Metabolism and Physiology of the Thyroid
KEYWORDS: thyroid, tsh, receptor, cells, cell, expression, gene, protein, camp, iodide, thyroglobulin, receptors, hormone, human, activation


to sustain respiration for several hours during in vitro incubation of thyroid slices (205) (206) (207). Studies on localization of lipids in human thyroids have shown that small amounts are only present in goitres from thyrotoxic patients, but that appreciable amounts are present in the normal human thyroid i.e. phospholipids, cholesterol and gangliosides: 5.2, 4.3 and 0.12 mmol/kg fresh tissue. C-cells contain most abundantly phospholipids. The human thyroid contains phospholipids in the proportion: phosphatidylcholine (41.8%), phosphathidylethanolamine (26.9%), phosphathidylserine (10.4%), phosphathidylinositol (4.4%), cardiolipin (3.4%), sphyngomyelin (12.4%) (208) (209) (210). TSH enhances the incorporation of precursors into most phospholipids. The effect is believed to reflect a direct stimulation of synthesis of phospholipids. However, as TSH also stimulates phospholipid degradation, increased phospholipids synthesis under the influence of TSH could correspond in part to this accelerated turnover rather than to an accumulation 123 . TSH also stimulates incorporation of inositol into phosphoinositides in a glucose free system. TSH specifically enhances synthesis of phosphatidic acid from glycerophosphate after in vivo administration (211) (212). Electrolyte Transport and metabolism The mean resting transmembrane potential as studied in rat, rabbit and guinea-pigs thyroid cells varies between -60 and -70 mV. The magnitude of the membrane potential was found te be dependent mainly upon the gradient for K+ across the membrane. A high intracellular K+ and low Na+ concentration is maintained by ouabain sensitive Na+ - K+ ATPase. The activity of this ATPase varies in direct relation to chronic TSH stimulation, probably corresponding to cell hypertrophy and hyperplasia. There is no evidence for direct action of TSH on this enzyme. Acute stimulation of thyroid cells induces a depolarization of the cell, which is accompanied by a decrease in membrane resistance. The depolarization may correspond to increased permeability to predominantly extracellular cations, such as Na+ or to a decreased permeability to predominantly intracellular cations, such as K+. Administration of TSH or veratridine, a sodium channel agonist, depolarized cultured thyroid cells and increased the secretion of radioiodine from the organically bound pool. Depolarization of the cells by increasing the potassium concentration in the medium failed to promote secretion of radioactive iodine indicating that the sodium influx rather than the depolarization itself, may mediate the secretory response (187). THYROID REGULATORY FACTORS In Physiology Four major biologic variables are regulated in the thyrocyte as in any other cell type: function, cell size, cell number, and differentiation. The first three variables are quantitative and
