Ontogeny, Anatomy, Metabolism and Physiology of the Thyroid
KEYWORDS: thyroid, tsh, receptor, cells, cell, expression, gene, protein, camp, iodide, thyroglobulin, receptors, hormone, human, activation


Physiology Four major biologic variables are regulated in the thyrocyte as in any other cell type: function, cell size, cell number, and differentiation. The first three variables are quantitative and the latter is qualitative. In this chapter we consider the factors involved in these controls in physiology and in pathology, the main regulatory cascades through which these factors exert their effects, and the regulated processes, which are function, proliferation and cell death, gene expression, and differentiation. Whenever possible, we describe what is known in humans. The two main factors that control the physiology of the thyroid after embryogenesis are the requirement for thyroid hormones and the supply of its main and specialized substrate iodide (Table 1-1). Thyroid hormone plasma levels and action are monitored by the hypothalamic supraoptic nuclei and by the thyrotrophs of the anterior lobe of the pituitary, where they exert a negative feedback. The corresponding homeostatic control is expressed by thyroid-stimulating hormone (TSH, thyrotropin). The hypophysis adjusts its secretion of TSH to the sensitivity of the thyroid, increasing TSH levels when thyrocyte sensitivity decreases (e.g. because of reduced TSH receptor expression) (213) . The TSH receptor is also stimulated by a new different natural hormone cloned by homology, thyrostimuline. The physiological role of this protein is unknown but its level is not controlled by a thyroid hormone feedback and it does not participate in the homeostatic control of the thyroid (214) . Iodide supply is monitored in part through its effects on the plasma level of thyroid hormones, but mainly in the thyroid itself, where it depresses various aspects of thyroid function and the response of the thyrocyte to TSH. These two major physiologic regulators control the function and size of the thyroid - TSH positively, iodide negatively (187;215-217) . These are the specific controls exerted at the level of the thyrocyte itself. The follicular cells themselves probably regulate the other thyroid cells, fibroblasts and endothelial cells through local extracellular signals such as NO, prostaglandins, growth factors etc. In mice embryo, other unknown factors control differentiation and organ growth which takes place normally in the absence of TSH receptor (218;219) . However, homozygous inactivating mutations of the TSH receptor in familial congenital hypothyroidism were found to be associated with a very hypoplastic thyroid gland (220). Although the thyroid contains receptors for thyroid hormones and a direct effect of these hormones on thyrocytes would make sense (221), as
