Ontogeny, Anatomy, Metabolism and Physiology of the Thyroid
KEYWORDS: thyroid, tsh, receptor, cells, cell, expression, gene, protein, camp, iodide, thyroglobulin, receptors, hormone, human, activation


associated with a very hypoplastic thyroid gland (220). Although the thyroid contains receptors for thyroid hormones and a direct effect of these hormones on thyrocytes would make sense (221), as yet little evidence has indicated that such control plays a role in physiol ogy (222). However expression of dominant negative thyroid hormone receptors in mice represses PPARγ expression and induces thyroid tumors in thyroid (223) . Luteinizing hormone (LH) and human chorionic gonadotropin (hCG) at high levels directly stimulate the thyroid, and this effect accounts for the depression of TSH levels and sometimes elevated thyroid activity at the beginning of pregnancy (224-226) . The thyroid gland is also influenced by various other nonspecific hormones (227). Hydrocortisone exerts a differentiating action in vitro (228) . Estrogens affect the thyroid by unknown mechanisms, directly or indirectly, as exemplified clinically in the menstrual cycle and in pregnancy and by higher prevalence of thyroid disease in females. Growth hormone induces thyroid growth, but its effects are thought to be mediated by locally produced somatomedins (IGF-I). Nevertheless the presence of basal TSH levels might be a prerequisite for the growth promoting action of IGF-I, because a GH replacement therapy did not increase thyroid size in patients deficient for both GH and TSH (229) . The anomalously low endemic goiter prevalence among pygmies living in iodine deficient areas (230), who are genetically resistant to IGF-I, is also compatible with an in vivo permissive effect of IGF-1 and IGF-1 receptor on TSH mitogenic action. Indeed thyroids of transgenic mice overexpressing IGF1 and IGF1 receptor develop hyperplasia and a degree of autonomy vs TSH: their serum TSH is lower and thyroid hormones level normal which shows that they require less TSH to maintain normal thyroid hormone levels (231;232) . In dog and human thyroid primary cultures, the presence of insulin receptors strictly depends on TSH, suggesting that thyroid might be a more specific target of insulin than generally considered (233;234) . It is permissive for TSH mitogenic action in vitro. Effects of locally secreted neurotransmitters and growth factors on thyrocytes have been demonstrated in vitro and sometimes in vivo, and the presence of some of these agents in the thyroid has been ascertained. The set of neurotransmitters acting on the thyrocyte and their effects vary from species to species (215;235) . In human cells, well-defined direct, but short-lived responses to norepinephrine, ATP, adenosine, bradykinin, and thyrotropin-releasing hormone (TRH)
