Ontogeny, Anatomy, Metabolism and Physiology of the Thyroid
KEYWORDS: thyroid, tsh, receptor, cells, cell, expression, gene, protein, camp, iodide, thyroglobulin, receptors, hormone, human, activation


on the thyrocyte and their effects vary from species to species (215;235) . In human cells, well-defined direct, but short-lived responses to norepinephrine, ATP, adenosine, bradykinin, and thyrotropin-releasing hormone (TRH) have been observed (215;236;237) . In rat, as evidenced by superior cervical ganglion nervation, sympathetic activity positively modulates function and size of the thyroid (238). Growth factor signaling cascades demonstrated in vitro can exert similar effects in vivo . In nude mice, the injection of EGF promotes DNA synthesis in thyroid and inhibits iodide uptake in xenotransplanted rat (239) and human thyroid tissues (240). By contrast, the injection of FGF induces a colloid goiter in mice with no inhibition of iodide metabolism or thyroglobulin and thyroperoxidase mRNA accumulation (241) . These effects are the exact replica of initial observations in the dog and other thyroid primary culture system (242),(243-246) . EGF and FGF have since been reported to be locally synthesized in the thyroid gland, as a possible response to thyroxine and TSH (247) respectively. Their exact role as autocrine and/or paracrine agents in the development, function and pathology of the thyroid gland of different species has yet to be clarified (248;249) . HGF does not activate mitogenesis in normal human thyrocyte. The Transforming Growth Factors (TGF)β constitute another category of cytokines that are produced locally by thyrocytes and influence their proliferation and the action of mitogenic factors (248;250) . TGFβ inhibits proliferation and prevents most of the effects of TSH and cAMP in human thyrocytes in vitro (251;252) . TGFβ is synthesized as an inactive precursor which can be activated by different proteases produced by thyrocytes. TGFβ expression is upregulated during TSH-induced thyroid hyperplasia in rats, suggesting an autocrine mechanism limiting goiter size (253). Activin A and the bone morphogenetic peptide (BMP), which are related to TGFβ, are also present in thyroid ( MP7 and MP8A, unpublished) and inhibit thyrocyte proliferation in vitro (254). Unlike TGFβ, they are directly synthesized as an active form. Elements of a Wnt/β catenin signaling pathway (Wnt factors, Frizzled receptors and disheveled isoforms) have been identified in human thyroid and thyroid cancer cell lines (255) . The eventual role in vivo in humans of most of these factors remains to be proved and clarified. Thyroglobulin has been reported as a negative feedback inhibitor repressing the expression of specific thyroid transcription factors TTF1, TTF2, Pax8 and acting through a putative receptor at the apical membrane
