Ontogeny, Anatomy, Metabolism and Physiology of the Thyroid
KEYWORDS: thyroid, tsh, receptor, cells, cell, expression, gene, protein, camp, iodide, thyroglobulin, receptors, hormone, human, activation


Thyroglobulin has been reported as a negative feedback inhibitor repressing the expression of specific thyroid transcription factors TTF1, TTF2, Pax8 and acting through a putative receptor at the apical membrane (256). However, as previous claims by the same group (the exophtalmic producing factor, ganglioside as the TSH receptor, etc) this one is neither substantiated nor supported by others. Human thyroid cells contain androgen and estrogen receptors (257). Estrogens promote the growth of these cells (258) which may explain the higher prevalence of thyroid tumors and diseases in women, particularly between puberty and menopause. In mice, thyroid estrogen by downregulating CDKn1B (p27) facilitates the growth effects of the PI3K cascade (259). In Pathology Mutated constitutively active TSH receptors and Gs proteins cause thyroid autonomous adenomas (260;261) . Mutations conferring higher sensitivity of the TSH receptor to LH/HCG cause hyperthyroidism in pregnancy (262) (263). Pathologic extracellular signals play an important role in autoimmune thyroid disease. Thyroid-stimulating antibodies (TSAbs), which bind to the TSH receptor and activate it, reproduce the stimulatory effects of TSH on the function and growth of the tissue. Their abnormal generation is responsible for the hyperthyroidism and goiter of Graves' disease. The kinetic characteristics of TSH and TSAbs differ: TSH effects on camp accumulation are rapid and disappear rapidly in the absence of the hormone (minutes) while TSAbs effects are slow and persistent (hours) (264) . Thyroid-blocking antibodies (TBAbs) also bind to the TSH receptor but do not activate it and hence behave as competitive inhibitors of the hormone. Such antibodies are responsible for some cases of hypothyroidism in thyroiditis. Both stimulating and inhibitory antibodies induce transient hyperthyroidism or hypothyroidism in newborns of mothers with positive sera (216). The existence of thyroid growth immunoglobulins has been hypothesized to explain the existence of Graves' disease with weak hyperthyroidism and prominent goiter (265). The thyroid specificity of such immunoglobulins would imply that they recognize thyroid-specific targets. This hypothesis is now abandoned (266-268) . Discrepancies between growth and functional stimulation may instead reflect cell intrinsic factors. Local cytokines have been shown to influence, mostly negatively, the function, growth, and differentiation of thyrocytes in vitro and thyroid function in vivo. Because they are presumably secreted in loco in autoimmune thyroid diseases, these effects might play a role in the pathology of these diseases, but this notion has not yet been proved (215) (269). Moreover in selenium and iodine deficiency plus dietary supplementation of
