Ontogeny, Anatomy, Metabolism and Physiology of the Thyroid
KEYWORDS: thyroid, tsh, receptor, cells, cell, expression, gene, protein, camp, iodide, thyroglobulin, receptors, hormone, human, activation


might play a role in the pathology of these diseases, but this notion has not yet been proved (215) (269). Moreover in selenium and iodine deficiency plus dietary supplementation of thiocyanate, secretion of TGFβ by macrophages has been implicated in the generation of thyroid fibrosis (270) (271) and the pathogenesis of thyroid failure in endemic cretinism. The overexpression of both FGF and FGF receptor 1 in thyrocytes from human multinodular goiter might explain their relative TSH-independence (272) . On the other hand, the subversion of tyrosine kinase pathways similar to those normally operated by local growth factors (i.e. the activation of Ret/PTC (273) and TRK (274), the overexpression of Met/HGF receptor sometimes in association with HGF (275), or erbB/EGF receptor in association with its ligand TGFα (276) have been causally associated with TSH-independent thyroid papillary carcinomas. An autocrine loop involving IGF-II and the insulin receptor isoform-A is also proposed to stimulate growth of some thyroid cancers (277) . Thyroid cancer cells often escape growth inhibition by TGFβ (278). REGULATORY CASCADES The great number of extracellular signals acting through specific receptors on cells in fact control a very limited number of regulatory cascades. We first outline these cascades, along with the signals that control them, and then describe in more detail the specific thyroid cell features: controls by iodide and the TSH receptor. The Cyclic Adenosine Monophosphate Cascade The cyclic adenosine monophosphate (cAMP) cascade in the thyroid corresponds, as far as it has been studied, to the canonic model of the β-adrenergic receptor cascade (216) (Fig. 1-9). It is activated in the human thyrocyte by the TSH and the β-adrenergic and prostaglandin E receptors. These receptors are classic seven-transmembrane receptors controlling transducing guanosine triphosphate (GTP)-binding proteins. Activated G proteins belong to the G s class and activate adenylyl cyclase; they are composed of a distinct α s subunit and nonspecific β and γ monomers. Activation of a G protein corresponds to its release of guanosine diphosphate (GDP) and binding of GTP and to its dissociation into α GTP and βγ dimers. α sGTP directly binds to and activates adenylyl cyclase. Inactivation of the G protein follows the spontaneous, more or less rapid hydrolysis of GTP to GDP by α s GTPase activity and the reassociation of α GDP with βγ. The effect of stimulation of the receptor by agonist binding is to increase the rate of GDP release and GTP binding,
