Ontogeny, Anatomy, Metabolism and Physiology of the Thyroid
KEYWORDS: thyroid, tsh, receptor, cells, cell, expression, gene, protein, camp, iodide, thyroglobulin, receptors, hormone, human, activation


activity and the reassociation of α GDP with βγ. The effect of stimulation of the receptor by agonist binding is to increase the rate of GDP release and GTP binding, thus shifting the equilibrium of the cycle toward the α GTP active form. One receptor can consecutively activate several G proteins (hit-and-run model). The thyroid contains mainly three isoforms of adenylyl cyclase : III, VI and IX (279) . A similar system negatively controls adenylyl cyclase through G i . It is stimulated in the human thyroid by norepinephrine through α 2 -receptors. Adenosine at high concentrations directly inhibits adenylyl cyclase. The cAMP generated by adenylyl cyclase binds to the regulatory subunit of protein kinase A (PKA) that is blocking the catalytic subunit and releases this now-active unit. The activated, released catalytic unit of protein kinase phosphorylates serines and threonines in the set of proteins containing accessible specific peptides that it recognizes. These phosphorylations, through more or less complicated cascades, lead to the observed effects of the cascade. cAMP-dependent kinases have two isoenzymes (I, II), the first of which is more sensitive to cAMP, but as yet no clear specificity of action of these kinases has been demonstrated. In the case of the thyroid, this cascade is activated through specific receptors, by TSH in all species, and by norepinephrine receptors and prostaglandin E in humans, with widely different kinetics: prolonged for TSH and short lived (minutes) for norepinephrine and prostaglandins (280). Other neurotransmitters have been reported to activate the cascade in thyroid tissue, but not necessarily in the thyrocytes of the tissue (237). In the thyroid cAMP, besides PKA, activates EPAC (Exchange Proteins directly Activated by cAMP) or Rap guanosine nucleotide exchange factor-1 (GEF-1) and the less abundant GEF-2, which activate the small G protein Rap (281). However, despite high expression of EPAC1 in thyrocytes and its further increase in response to TSH, all the physiologically relevant cAMP-dependent functions of TSH studied in dog thyroid cells, including acute regulation of cell functions (including thyroid hormone secretion) and delayed stimulation of differentiation expression and mitogenesis, are mediated only by PKA activation (282) . The role of the cAMP/EPAC/Rap cascade in thyroid thus remains largely unknown. Activation of PKA inactivates small G proteins of the Rho family (RhoA, Rac1 and Cdc42), which reorganizes the actin cytoskeleton and could play an important role in stimulation of thyroid hormone secretion and induction of thyroid
