Ontogeny, Anatomy, Metabolism and Physiology of the Thyroid
KEYWORDS: thyroid, tsh, receptor, cells, cell, expression, gene, protein, camp, iodide, thyroglobulin, receptors, hormone, human, activation


proteins of the Rho family (RhoA, Rac1 and Cdc42), which reorganizes the actin cytoskeleton and could play an important role in stimulation of thyroid hormone secretion and induction of thyroid differentiation genes (283) . Of the other known possible effectors of cAMP, cyclic nucleotide-activated channels have not been looked for. For several effects of cyclic AMP (eg NIS and thyroglobulin induction, DNA synthesis) protein kinase A is required. The cAMP cascade is also controlled by several negative feedbacks. The most important is the activation and induction by PKA of PDE4 D3 and other phosphodiesterases (284) (285) The thyrocyte is very sensitive to internal c AMP : a mere doubling of its concentration is sufficient to elicit near maximal thyroglobulin phagocytosis (286). Fig .1.9 Regulatory cascades activated by thyroid-stimulating hormone (TSH) in human thyrocytes. In the human thyrocyte, H 2 O 2 (H2O2) generation is activated only by the phosphatidylinositol 4,5-bisphosphate (PIP 2 ) cascade, that is, by the Ca 2+ (Ca++) and diacylglycerol (DAG) internal signals. In dog thyrocytes, it is activated also by the cyclic adenosine monophosphate (cAMP) cascade. In dog thyrocytes and FRTL-5 cells, TSH does not activate the PIP 2 cascade at concentrations 100 times higher than those required to elicit its other effects. Ac, adenylate cyclase; cA, 3 ’ -5 ’ -cAMP, cGMP, 3 ’ -5 ’ -cyclic guanosine monophosphate; FK, forskolin; Gi, guanosine triphosphate (GTP) binding transducing protein inhibiting adenylate cyclase; Gq, GTP-binding transducing protein activating PIP 2 phospholipase C; Gs, GTP-binding transducing protein activating adenylate cyclase; I, putative extracellular signal inhibiting adenylate cyclase (e.g., adenosine through A 1 receptors); IP 3 , myoinositol 1,4,5-triphosphate; EPAC: cAMP dependent Rap guanyl nucleotide exchange factor; PKA, cAMP-dependent protein kinases; PKC, protein kinase C; PLC, phospholipase C; PTOX, pertussis toxin; R ATP, ATP purinergic P 2 receptor; R TSH, TSH receptor; Ri, receptor for extracellular inhibitory signal I; TAI, active transport of iodide; TG, thyroglobuline; TPO, thyroperoxidase. The Ca2 + – Inositol 1,4,5-Triphosphate Cascade The Ca 2+ – inositol 1,4,5-triphosphate (IP 3 ) cascade in the thyroid also corresponds, as far as has been studied, to the canonic model of the muscarinic or α 1 -adrenergic receptor – activated cascades. It is activated in the human thyrocyte by TSH, through the same receptors that stimulate adenylyl cyclase, and by ATP, bradykinin, and TRH — through specific receptors. In this cascade, as in the cAMP pathway, the activated receptor
