Ontogeny, Anatomy, Metabolism and Physiology of the Thyroid
KEYWORDS: thyroid, tsh, receptor, cells, cell, expression, gene, protein, camp, iodide, thyroglobulin, receptors, hormone, human, activation


TSH, through the same receptors that stimulate adenylyl cyclase, and by ATP, bradykinin, and TRH — through specific receptors. In this cascade, as in the cAMP pathway, the activated receptor causes the release of GDP and the binding of GTP by the GTP-binding transducing protein (G q ) and its dissociation into α q and βγ. α GTP then stimulates phospholipase C. Gs and Gq compete for the same TSH receptor, with a higher affinity for Gs (287-289) . Phospholipase C hydrolyzes membrane phosphatidylinositol 4,5-bisphosphate (PIP 2 ) into diacylglycerol and IP 3 . IP 3 enhances calcium release from its intracellular stores, followed by an influx from the extracellular medium. The rise in free ionized intracellular Ca 2+ leads to the activation of several proteins, including calmodulin. The latter protein in turn binds to target proteins and thus stimulates them: cyclic nucleotide phosphodiesterase and, most importantly, calmodulin-dependent protein kinases. These kinases phosphorylate a whole set of proteins exhibiting serines and threonines on their specific peptides and thus modulate them and cause many observable effects of this arm of the cascade. Calmodulin also activates constitutive nitric oxide (NO) synthase in thyrocytes. The generated NO itself enhances soluble guanylyl cyclase activity in thyrocytes and perhaps in other thyroid cells and thus increases cGMP accumulation (290). Nothing is yet known about the role of cGMP in the thyroid cell but NO causes vasodilatation. Diacylglycerol released from PIP 2 activates protein kinase C, or rather the family of protein kinases C, which by phosphorylating serines or threonines in specific accessible peptides in target proteins causes the effects of the second arm of the cascade (291). It inhibits phospholipase C or its G q , thus creating a negative feedback loop. In the human thyroid, the PIP 2 cascade is stimulated through specific receptors by ATP, bradykinin, TRH and by TSH (237) (292) (293). The effects of bradykinin and TRH are very short lived. Acetylcholine, which is the main activator of this cascade in the dog thyrocyte (294), is inactive on the human cell, although it activates nonfollicular (presumably endothelial) cells in this tissue (237). Other Phospholipid-Linked Cascades In dog thyroid cells and in a functional rat thyroid cell line (FRTL5), TSH activates PIP 2 hydrolysis weakly and at concentrations several orders of magnitude higher than those required to enhance cAMP accumulation. Of course, these effects have little biologic significance. However, in dog cells,
