Ontogeny, Anatomy, Metabolism and Physiology of the Thyroid
KEYWORDS: thyroid, tsh, receptor, cells, cell, expression, gene, protein, camp, iodide, thyroglobulin, receptors, hormone, human, activation


2 hydrolysis weakly and at concentrations several orders of magnitude higher than those required to enhance cAMP accumulation. Of course, these effects have little biologic significance. However, in dog cells, at lower concentrations TSH increases the incorporation of labeled inositol and phosphate into phosphatidylinositol. Similar effects may exist in human cells, but they would be masked by stimulation of the PIP 2 cascade. They may reflect increased synthesis perhaps coupled to and necessary for cell growth (295). Diacylglycerol can be generated by other cascades than the classic Ca 2+ -IP 3 pathway. Activation of phosphatidylcholine phospholipase D takes place in dog thyroid cells stimulated by carbamylcholine. Because it is reproduced by phorbol esters, that is, by stable analogues of diacylglycerol, it has been ascribed to phosphorylation of the enzyme by protein kinase C, which would represent a positive feedback loop (296). Although such mechanisms operate in many types of cells, their existence in human thyroid cells has not been demonstrated (297). Release of arachidonate from phosphatidylinositol by phospholipase A 2 and the consequent generation of prostaglandins by a substrate-driven process are enhanced in various cell types through G protein – coupled receptors, by intracellular calcium, or by phosphorylation by protein kinase C. In dog thyroid cells all agents enhancing intracellular calcium concentration, including acetylcholine, also enhance the release of arachidonate and the generation of prostaglandins. In this species, stimulation of the cAMP cascade by TSH inhibits this pathway. In pig thyrocytes, TSH has been reported to enhance arachidonate release. In human thyroid, TSH, by stimulating PIP 2 hydrolysis and intracellular calcium accumulation, might be expected to enhance arachidonate release and prostaglandin generation, but such effects have not yet been proved. Regulatory Cascades Controlled by Receptor Tyrosine Kinases Many growth factors and hormones act on their target cells by receptors that contain one transmembrane segment. They interact with the extracellular domain and activate the intracellular domain, which phosphorylates proteins on their tyrosines. Receptor activation involves in some cases a dimerization and in others a conformational change. The first step in activation is interprotein tyrosine phosphorylation, followed by binding of various protein substrates on tyrosine phosphates containing segments of the receptor. Such binding through src homology domains (SH2) leads to direct activation or to phosphorylation of these proteins on their tyrosines and to membrane localization. In turn, these cause sequential activation of the ras and raf proto-oncogenes, mitogen-activated protein (MAP) kinase kinase,
