Ontogeny, Anatomy, Metabolism and Physiology of the Thyroid
KEYWORDS: thyroid, tsh, receptor, cells, cell, expression, gene, protein, camp, iodide, thyroglobulin, receptors, hormone, human, activation


or to phosphorylation of these proteins on their tyrosines and to membrane localization. In turn, these cause sequential activation of the ras and raf proto-oncogenes, mitogen-activated protein (MAP) kinase kinase, MAP kinase, and so on, on the one hand, and phosphatidylinositol-3-kinase (PI-3-kinase), protein kinase B (PKB), and TOR (target of rapamycin) on the other hand. The set of proteins phosphorylated by a receptor defines the pattern of action of this receptor. In thyroids of various species, insulin, IGF-I, EGF, FGF, HGF, but not platelet-derived growth factor activate such cascades (298;299) . In the human thyroid, effects of insulin, IGF-I, EGF, FGF, but not HGF have b een demonstrated (215;300-304) . Transforming growth factor-β, acting through the serine threonine kinase activity of its receptors and intermediate proteins (Smad), inhibits proliferation and specific gene expression in human thyroid cells (251;252;305) . TSH and cAMP do not activate either the MAPK-ERK nor the JUNK and p38 phosphorylation pathways in dog or human thyroids (306). Cross-Signaling between the Cascades Calcium, the intracellular signal generated by the PIP 2 cascade, activates calmodulin-dependent cyclic nucleotide phosphodiesterases and thus inhibits cAMP accumulation and its cascade (307). This activity represents a negative cross-control between the PIP 2 and the cAMP cascades. Activation of protein kinase C enhances the cAMP response to TSH and inhibits the prostaglandin E response, which suggests opposite effects on the TSH and prostaglandin receptors (308). No important effect of cAMP on the PIP 2 cascade has been detected. On the other hand, stimulation of protein kinase C by phorbol esters inhibits EGF action. Cross-signaling between the cyclic AMP pathway and growth factor activated cascades have been observed in various cell types (309;310). In ovarian granulosa cells, FSH through cAMP activates MAP kinases and the PI3 kinase pathway (311). In FRTL5, but not in WRT cell lines, TSH through cAMP activates MAP kinases. In WRT cells but not in PCCl3 cells, TSH and cAMP activate PKB (312;313). Such cross signallings have not been observed in human or dog thyroid cells. Ras, MAPK, p38, Jun kinase and ERK5, as well as PI3 kinase and PKB, are not modulated by cAMP (314;315) (316) (317). Other growth activating cascades have been little investigated in the thyroid. In dog and human cells TSH or cAMP have no effect on STAT phosphorylations i.e. on the JAK-STAT pathways. The NF β pathway has not yet been investigated in thyroid cells. SPECIFIC
