Ontogeny, Anatomy, Metabolism and Physiology of the Thyroid
KEYWORDS: thyroid, tsh, receptor, cells, cell, expression, gene, protein, camp, iodide, thyroglobulin, receptors, hormone, human, activation


and human cells TSH or cAMP have no effect on STAT phosphorylations i.e. on the JAK-STAT pathways. The NF β pathway has not yet been investigated in thyroid cells. SPECIFIC CONTROL BY IODIDE Iodide, the main substrate of the specific metabolism of the thyrocyte, is known to control the thyroid. Its main effects in vivo and in vitro are to decrease the response of the thyroid to TSH, to acutely inhibit its own oxidation (Wolff-Chaikoff effect), to reduce its trapping after a delay (adaptation to the Wolff-Chaikoff effect), and at high concentrations to inhibit thyroid hormone secretion (Fig. 1-10). The first effect is very sensitive in as much as small changes in iodine intake are sufficient to reset the thyroid system at different serum TSH levels without any other changes (e.g., thyroid hormone levels), which suggests that in physiologic conditions, modulation of the thyroid response to TSH by iodide plays a major role in the negative feedback loop (217;318). Iodide in vitro has also been reported to inhibit a number of metabolic steps in thyroid cells (319) (320). These actions might be direct or indirect as a result of an effect on an initial step of a regulatory cascade. Certainly, iodide inhibits the cAMP cascade at the level of G s or cyclase and the Ca 2+ -PIP 2 cascade at the level of G q or phospholipase C; such effects can account for the inhibition of many metabolic steps controlled by these cascades (321) (322). In one case in which this process has been studied in detail, the control of H 2 O 2 generation, that is, the limiting factor of iodide oxidation and thyroid hormone formation, iodide inhibited both the cAMP and the Ca 2+ -PIP 2 cascades at their first step but also the downstream effects of the generated intracellular signals cAMP, Ca 2+ , and diacylglycerol on H 2 O 2 generation (323). This effect account for the inhibition by iodide of its oxidation i.e. the Wolff-Chaikoff effects (324). Until now, the mechanism of action of iodide on all the metabolic steps besides secretion fits the "XI" paradigm of Van Sande (325). These inhibitions are relieved by agents that block the trapping of iodide (e.g., perchlorate) or its oxidation (e.g., methimazole) — the Van Sande criteria. The effects are therefore ascribed to one or several postulated intracellular iodinated inhibitors called XI. The identity of such signals
