Ontogeny, Anatomy, Metabolism and Physiology of the Thyroid
KEYWORDS: thyroid, tsh, receptor, cells, cell, expression, gene, protein, camp, iodide, thyroglobulin, receptors, hormone, human, activation


or its oxidation (e.g., methimazole) — the Van Sande criteria. The effects are therefore ascribed to one or several postulated intracellular iodinated inhibitors called XI. The identity of such signals is still unproved. At various times several candidates have been proposed for this role, such as thyroxine, iodinated eicosanoids (iodolactone) (326) , and iodohexadecanal (327). The latter, the predominant iodinated lipid in the thyroid, can certainly account for the inhibition of adenylyl cyclase and of H 2 O 2 generation (328) (329) (330) . The stimulation of H 2 O 2 generation by iodide in follicles of human thyroid is inhibited by methimazole but not by perchlorate. This suggests that the generation of Xi takes place at the membrane and that the intermediate Xi may diffuse in the membrane but not in the medium (unpublished). It should be emphasized that iodination of the various enzymes, as well as a catalytic role of iodide in the generation of O 2 radicals (shown to be involved in the toxic effects of iodide), could account for the Van Sande criteria with no need for the XI paradigm (325) (331) . Besides, an inhibition of thyroid secretion by iodide in antithyroid drugs treated hyperthyroid patients suggests a direct Xi independent effect. Distinct from its inhibitory effects, iodide also activates H2O2 generation and therefore protein iodination in the thyroid of some species including humans. This effect is also inhibited by inhibitors of thyroperoxidase and NIS. It would link the generation of H2O2 to the availability of its cosubstrate iodide (332). Iodide in vivo, at moderate doses in dog, decreases cell proliferation and the expression of TPO and NIS mRNA but not the synthesis or secretion of thyroid hormones. The downregulation of NIS explains the well known delayed decrease of iodide transport in response to iodide, i.e. the adaptation to the Wolff-Chaikoff effect (333). Fig 1-10 Effects of iodide on thyroid metabolism. All inhibitory effects of iodide, except in part the inhibition of secretion, are relieved by drugs that inhibit iodide trapping (e.g., perchlorate) or iodide oxidation (e.g., methimazole). All effects are direct inhibitions except the effect on iodide transport which bears on the transcription of Na/I- symporter gene. Three possible mechanisms corrresponding to this paradigm are outlined: generation of O 2 radicals, iodination of target proteins and synthesis of an XI compound. Any of these mechanisms could account for the various steps ascribed to XI
