Ontogeny, Anatomy, Metabolism and Physiology of the Thyroid
KEYWORDS: thyroid, tsh, receptor, cells, cell, expression, gene, protein, camp, iodide, thyroglobulin, receptors, hormone, human, activation


are outlined: generation of O 2 radicals, iodination of target proteins and synthesis of an XI compound. Any of these mechanisms could account for the various steps ascribed to XI inhibition by I - (indicated by slashes). THE THYROTROPIN RECEPTOR The Structure of the Thyrotropin Receptor The receptors for TSH, FSH, and LH/CG are members of the rhodopsin-like G protein-coupled receptor family. As such, the TSH receptor has a “ serpentine ” domain containing seven transmembrane regions with many (but not all) of the features typical of this receptor family. In addition, and a hallmark of the subfamily of glycoprotein hormone receptors (334-336), it has a large (about 400 amino-acid residues) amino-terminal extracellular domain that contains sites that selectively bind TSH with high affinity (337). The higher sequence identity of the serpentine domains of the glycoprotein hormone receptors (about 70%), as compared with the extracellular domains (about 40%, Fig.11 ) suggests that the former are interchangeable modules capable of activating guanine-nucleotide-binding (G) proteins (mainly G s ) after specific binding of the individual hormones to the latter (338). Contrary to other rhodopsin-like G protein-coupled receptors, the glycoprotein hormones bind to their respective extracellular domains with high affinity in the absence of the serpentine domain (339-341). The intramolecular transduction of the signal between these two portions of the receptors involves a still incompletely defined mechanism specific to the glycoprotein hormone receptor family (see below). The relatively high sequence identity between the hormone-binding domains of the TSH and LH/CG receptors opens the possibility of spillover phenomena during normal or, even more so, molar or twin pregnancies, when serum CG concentrations are several orders of magnitude higher than are serum TSH concentrations. This provides an explanation to cases of gestational thyrotoxicosis (see below, Chapter 20 and Chapter 56). Fig. 1-11 Both the the beta subunits of the glycoprotein hormones and the glycoprotein hormone receptors are encoded by paralogous genes. A: Similarity of the aminoacid sequences of the -subunits of human chrorionic gonadotropin (hCG), luteinizing hormone (LH), thyrotropin (TSH) and follicle stimulating hormone (FSH). Inset: Diagram of the general structure of the receptors for these hormones, showing the ectodomain (extracellular), serpentine (transmembrane) and endodomain (intracellular domain). B: Similarity of the aminoacid sequences of the LH/CG, FSH and TSH receptors (r). Sequence identities are indicated, separately for the extracellular domains of the three receptors. The pattern of shared similarities suggests co-evolution of the hormones and
