Ontogeny, Anatomy, Metabolism and Physiology of the Thyroid
KEYWORDS: thyroid, tsh, receptor, cells, cell, expression, gene, protein, camp, iodide, thyroglobulin, receptors, hormone, human, activation


LH/CG, FSH and TSH receptors (r). Sequence identities are indicated, separately for the extracellular domains of the three receptors. The pattern of shared similarities suggests co-evolution of the hormones and the extracellular domain of their receptors, resulting in generation of specificity barriers. The high similarity of the serpentine domains of the receptors is compatible with a conserved mechanism of intramolecular signal transduction. (Reproduced from Vassart G, Pardo L, Costagliola S. Molecular dissection of the glycoprotein hormone receptors. Trends Biochem Sci 2004;29:119, with permission of the publisher) The TSH receptor contains six sites for N-glycosylation, of which four are effectively glycosylated (342). The functional role of the individual carbohydrate chains is still debated. It is likely that they contribute to the routing and stabilization of the receptor as it passes through the membrane system of the cell and is inserted into the cell membrane. Alone among the glycoprotein hormone receptors, the extracellular domain of the TSH receptor is cleaved, severing it from the serpentine domain (343). This phenomenon has been related to the presence in the extracellular domain of the receptor of a 50 amino-acid insertion for which there is no counterpart in the FSH receptor or LH/CG-receptor. The initial cleavage step, due to the action of a metalloprotease, takes place at around position 314 (within the 50-amino-acid insertion) from the amino terminus of the receptor, and is followed by removal of approximately 50 amino acids from the amino-terminal end of the serpentine-containing portion of the receptor (344;345). The amino-terminal end of the receptor remains bound to the extracellular end of the serpentine domain by disulfide bonds. The functional importance of this TSH receptor-specific postranslational modification remains unclear. Whereas all wild type TSH receptors on the surface of thyroid follicular cells seem to be in cleaved form, non-cleavable mutant constructs are functionally undistinguishable from cleaved receptors, when expressed in transfected cells (346). Residues 303-366 can be deleted from the hinge region with minimal effects o the function of the receptor (347). When transiently or permanently transfected in non-thyroid cells, wild type human TSH receptors are present at the cell surface as a mixture of monomers and cleaved dimers. There are indications from immunization experiments in mice that cleavage and possible shedding of the aminoterminal portion of the receptor would play a role in the generation of stimulating autoantibodies in patients with Graves disease (348;349) (see Chapter 17). The TSH receptor is
