Ontogeny, Anatomy, Metabolism and Physiology of the Thyroid
KEYWORDS: thyroid, tsh, receptor, cells, cell, expression, gene, protein, camp, iodide, thyroglobulin, receptors, hormone, human, activation


of the aminoterminal portion of the receptor would play a role in the generation of stimulating autoantibodies in patients with Graves disease (348;349) (see Chapter 17). The TSH receptor is specifically inserted into the basolateral membrane of thyroid follicular cells. This phenomenon involves a signal (amino acids 731-746) unusually localized in the very C-terminal portion of the receptor, at a marked distance from the membrane (350). The possibility that TSH receptors are present on the cell surface as dimers of cleaved dimers was raised after demonstration that most rhodopsin-like G-protein coupled receptors do dimerize (351). Functional complementation of TSH receptors with mutations in the extracellular and the serpentine domains has been observed after expression of receptor constructs in transfected cells (352). A definitive demonstration that glycoprotein hormone receptors do dimerize in vivo and that dimers interact functionally has been provided by similar complementation experiments performed in LH/CG receptor knockout mice. Mice co-expressing two inactive mutant receptors are fertile (353). Direct demonstration of dimerization of the TSH receptor has been provided by Bioluminescence Resonance Energy Transfer (BRET) and the dimers have been shown to display negative cooperativity for binding of TSH (352). Whether this allosteric behavior of the receptor has (patho)physiological significance remains to be determined.. The Thyrotropin Receptor Gene The gene coding for the human TSH receptor is located on the long arm of chromosome 14 (14q31)(354;355). It is is organized into 10 exons. The extracellular domain is encoded by a series of 9 exons, each of which corresponds to one or an integer number of leucine-rich repeat segments (see below). The carboxyl-terminal half of the receptor containing the carboxyl-terminal part of the extracellular domain and the serpentine domain is encoded by a single large exon (356), in keeping with the fact that the genes for many G protein-coupled receptor have no introns. A likely evolutionary scenario derives from this gene organization: the glycoprotein hormone receptor genes would have evolved from the condensation of an intron-less classic G protein-coupled receptor with a mosaic gene encoding a protein with leucine-rich repeat segments (357). Triplication of this ancestral gene and subsequent divergence led to the receptors for TSH, FSH, and LH/CG. The existence of 10 exons in both the TSH and FSH receptor genes (as opposed to the 11-exon LH/CG-receptor gene), suggests the following evolutionary steps: first, duplication of an ancestral glycoprotein hormone receptor gene, yielding the LH/CG-receptor gene and the ancestors
