Ontogeny, Anatomy, Metabolism and Physiology of the Thyroid
KEYWORDS: thyroid, tsh, receptor, cells, cell, expression, gene, protein, camp, iodide, thyroglobulin, receptors, hormone, human, activation


receptor genes (as opposed to the 11-exon LH/CG-receptor gene), suggests the following evolutionary steps: first, duplication of an ancestral glycoprotein hormone receptor gene, yielding the LH/CG-receptor gene and the ancestors of the TSH- and FSH-receptor genes. After losing one intron, the latter duplicated subsequently into the TSH- and FSH- receptor genes. The family of the glycoprotein hormone receptors comprises five additional members presenting a similar pattern made of leucine-rich repeats in the ectodomain, upstream of a rhodopsin-like serpentine domain: two of them (LGR7, LGR8) encode insulin-like 3 and relaxin receptors, respectively (358), the remaining three (LGR4, LGR5, LGR6) are orphan receptors involved in regulation of epithelial stem cell biology (359). The promoter of the TSH receptor gene has the characteristics of a housekeeping gene promoter, being GC-rich and devoid a TATA box. In rats it stimulates transcription from multiple start sites (360) and it contains a functional thyroid transcription factor (TTF)-1 recognition site (361). Expression of the TSH-receptor gene is largely thyroid-specific. Constructs made of a chloramphenicol acetyltransferase reporter gene under control of the 5 ’ -flanking region of the rat TSH-receptor gene are expressed when transfected into FRTL5 cells and FRT cells but not into non-thyroid HeLa or rat liver (BRL) cells (360). However, TSH receptor mRNA has been clearly demonstrated in fat tissue of guinea pigs (362), in adipocytes (363;364) and in ependymal cells of the mediobasal hypothalamus in the mouse, where it plays a role in adjustment of reproductive physiology to the length of the days (365;366) . TSH receptors may also be present in lymphocytes, extraocular tissue, cartilage, and bone, but their functional importance in these tissues is uncertain (367;368). Expression of the TSH receptor in thyroid cells is extremely robust. It is moderately upregulated by TSH in vitro and downregulated by iodide in vivo (369). Recognition of the Receptor by Thyrotropin The three-dimensional structures are available for hCG and FSH FSH (370-372) which allows accurate modelization of TSH on these templates. The crystal structure of the human FSHr-FSH complex (373) has confirmed that the ectodomain of glycoprotein hormone receptors belongs to the family of proteins with leucine-rich repeats (LRRs) (374). The concave inner surface of the receptor (Fig.12) is an untwisted, non-inclined b-sheet formed by ten LRRs. Whereas the N-terminal portion of the beta-sheet (LRR1 – 7) is nearly flat, the C-terminal portion (LRR7 – 10) has the horseshoe-like curvature of LRR proteins. The crystal
