Ontogeny, Anatomy, Metabolism and Physiology of the Thyroid
KEYWORDS: thyroid, tsh, receptor, cells, cell, expression, gene, protein, camp, iodide, thyroglobulin, receptors, hormone, human, activation


ten LRRs. Whereas the N-terminal portion of the beta-sheet (LRR1 – 7) is nearly flat, the C-terminal portion (LRR7 – 10) has the horseshoe-like curvature of LRR proteins. The crystal structure of part of the TSHr ectodomain in complex with thyroid-stimulating or – blocking autoantibodies has recently been obtained (375;376). Notably, both the structure of the ectodomain of TSHr and the receptor binding arrangements of the autoantibodies are very similar to those reported for the FSHr-FSH complex. The ectodomain of glycoprotein hormone receptors also contains, downstream of the LRR region, a cysteine cluster domain of unknown structure (the hinge region), involved in receptor inhibition/activation and containing sites for tyrosine sulfation important for hormone binding (see below). Fig. 1-12 Schematic representation of the structure of the TSH receptor. (A) Two-dimensional representation with indication of the various domains. The blue boxes correspond to amino-terminal and carboxyl-terminal cysteine-rich portions of the extracellular domain, flanking leucine-rich repeats (LRR, yellow box). (B) General view of the follicle-stimulating hormone receptor (FSHr)-FSH crystal structure as a template to model the interaction between TSH and the TSH receptor (692).The concave inner surface of the receptor, formed by ten leucine rich repeats (LRR2 – 9, shown in blue), contact the middle section of the hormone molecule, both the C-terminal segment of the subunit and the “ seat-belt ” segment of the -subunit (shown in red). (C) EachLRR is composed of theX1-X2-L-X3-L-X4-X5 residues (where X is any amino acid, and L usually is Leu, Ile, or Val), forming the central X2-L-X3-L-X4 a typical beta-strand, while X1 and X5 are parts of the adjacent loops. (D) Molecular model of the transmembrane domain of the TSH receptor, constructed from the crystal structure of bovine rhodopsin. The color code of the -carbon ribbons is: transmembrane helix 1 (crimson), 2 (goldenred), 3 (dark red), 4 (gray), 5 (red), 6 (orange), and 7 (blue), and Helix8 (blue). The structures of available class A rhodopsin-like GPCRs are similar at the transmembrane domain. Replacement by site-directed mutagenesis of the residues facing the hormone in the leucine-rich repeat portion of the TSH receptor (see figure 12 ) with their counterparts in the LH/CG receptor has been performed to assess the structural bases of binding selectivity (377). Exchanging eight amino acids of the TSH receptor for the corresponding amino acids in the LH/CG receptor resulted in a mutant receptor which bound human CG as well as the wild-type LH/CG
