Ontogeny, Anatomy, Metabolism and Physiology of the Thyroid
KEYWORDS: thyroid, tsh, receptor, cells, cell, expression, gene, protein, camp, iodide, thyroglobulin, receptors, hormone, human, activation


amino acids of the TSH receptor for the corresponding amino acids in the LH/CG receptor resulted in a mutant receptor which bound human CG as well as the wild-type LH/CG receptor. While gaining sensitivity to human CG, the mutant receptor retained normal sensitivity to TSH, making it a dual-specificity receptor. It is necessary to exchange 12 additional amino-acid residues to fully transform this mutant receptor into a bonafide LH/CG receptor (378). From an evolutionary point of view, these observations indicate that the specificity of hormone receptors is based on both attractive and repulsive residues, and that residues at different homologous positions have been selected to this result in the different receptors. Inspection of electrostatic surface maps of models of the wild-type TSH and LH/CG receptors and some of the mutants is revealing in this respect (379;380). The LH/CG receptor has an acidic groove in the middle of its horseshoe, extending to the lower part of it (corresponding to the carboxyl-terminal ends of the strands). Generation of a similar distribution of charges in the dual-specificity and reverse-specificity TSH receptor mutants suggests that this is important for recognition of human CG. A detailed modelization of the interactions between TSH and the ectodomain of its receptor has been realized (381). In addition to the hormone-specific interactions genetically encoded in the primary structure of glycoprotein hormone receptors and their ligands, there are important non-hormone-specific ionic interactions involving sulfated tyrosine residues present in the extracellular domains of all three receptors (382). In the TSH receptor, both tyrosine residues of a conserved Tyr-Asp-Tyr motif located close to the border between the extracellular domain and the first transmembrane helix are sulfated ( Fig.13 ), although only sulfation of the first tyrosine of the motif seems to be functionally important (383), contributing importantly to the affinity of the receptor for TSH, without interfering with specificity. The functional role of this postranslational modification of the TSH receptor has been confirmed by demonstration of profound hypothyroidism due to resistance to TSH in mice with inactivation of Tpst2, one of the enzymes responsible for tyrosine sulfation (384;385). Fig. 1-13 Linear representation of the TSH receptor. Sequences common to all rhodopsin-like G protein-coupled receptors and sequences specific to the glycoprotein hormone receptor gene family are both implicated in activation of the TSH receptor. Key residues are indicated (red dots) as well as conserved motifs: SO3 -- stands for postranslational sulfation of the
