Ontogeny, Anatomy, Metabolism and Physiology of the Thyroid
KEYWORDS: thyroid, tsh, receptor, cells, cell, expression, gene, protein, camp, iodide, thyroglobulin, receptors, hormone, human, activation


gene family are both implicated in activation of the TSH receptor. Key residues are indicated (red dots) as well as conserved motifs: SO3 -- stands for postranslational sulfation of the indicated tyrosine residues (693). The black boxes stand for transmembrane helices and I1-I3, E1-E3, for intracellular and extracellular loops, respectively; LRR, leucine-rich repeats. Activation of the Serpentine Portion of the Thyrotropin Receptor Being a member of the G-protein coupled receptor family, the serpentine domain of the TSH receptor is likely to share with rhodopsin common mechanisms of activation (386;387). However, sequence variations in this domain of the glycoprotein hormone receptors suggest the existence of idiosyncrasies associated with hormone-specific mechanisms of activation (Fig. 13). The crystallographic structure of several GPCRs belonging to family A has now been determined (388-396) giving templates for realistic modeling of the serpentine portion of class A GPCRs, including theTSH receptor. A host of artificial and natural mutants of GPCRs have been studied over the past 20 years. This led to scenarios of GPCR activation which have only very recently been confronted with direct structural data (394;397;398). The first activating mutation identified in the α2adrenergic receptor suggested that activation resulted from the release of a structural lock between transmembrane helices 3 and 6 keeping the wild type receptor inactive (399;400). Structural data obtained from opsin at low pH (expected to mimic the active state) (401), a constitutively active rhodopsin mutant (394), and an active state of the α2adrenergic receptor stabilized by a nanobody (398) point to a mechanism of activation involving subtle changes in the conformations of the ligand-binding pocket associated with a more dramatic movement of transmembrane helix 6 (TM6) secondary to rupture of the same TM3-TM6 “ ionic lock ” . The result is the “ opening ” of a cavity between the cytoplasmic ends of TM3, 5 and 6 allowing interaction with- and activation of the G protein (401;402). The many gain-of-function somatic and germline mutations that have been found in the serpentine domain of the TSH receptor in autonomous toxic adenomas and hereditary nonautoimmune hyperthyroidism (see Chapters 19 and Chapter 25) are expected to trigger a similar conformational change in the TSH receptor (for a complete list of mutations, see http://gris.ulb.ac.be/ and http://www.ssfa-gphr.de/). Of note, a mutation affecting Asp619, at the basis of TM6, which would rupture the TM3-TM6 ionic lock, was amongst the very first activating mutations identified in toxic adenomas (403;404).
