Ontogeny, Anatomy, Metabolism and Physiology of the Thyroid
KEYWORDS: thyroid, tsh, receptor, cells, cell, expression, gene, protein, camp, iodide, thyroglobulin, receptors, hormone, human, activation


Of note, a mutation affecting Asp619, at the basis of TM6, which would rupture the TM3-TM6 ionic lock, was amongst the very first activating mutations identified in toxic adenomas (403;404). As many activating mutations affecting a given residue have been found repeatedly over the past 20 years, it is likely that we are getting close to a saturation map for spontaneous gain of function mutations. Combined analyses of these natural mutants with extensive site-directed mutagenesis have identified key interactions implicated in activation of the serpentine portion of the TSH receptor (352;405). Interaction between the Extracellular and Serpentine Domains of the Thyrotropin Receptor The dichotomy between hormone binding (to the ectodomain) and activation of the G protein (by the serpentine domain) poses the question of how the activation signal travels intra-molecularly between the two domains after binding of TSH. Two important clues cast light on this issue. Firstly, experiments with aminoterminally truncated receptors demonstrated that the ectodomain exerts a negative effect on the serpentine domain (406;407). Indeed, constructs devoid of the ectodomain display increase signaling via Gαs leading to the notion that in pharmacological terms, the ectodomain behaves as an inverse agonist of the serpentine domain. When compared to wild type receptors fully stimulated by TSH, the activation state of aminoterminally truncated constructs is however far from maximal. Secondly, and more important, mutations of a single residue (Ser 281) present in a highly conserved motif of the ectodomain of glycoprotein hormone receptors (YP S HCCAF) ( Fig. 14 ), result in strong activation of the receptor (408). The segment containing this motif, sometimes referred to as the “ hinge ” region, plays an important role in activation of all three glycoprotein hormone receptors (409). The functional effect of substitutions of S281 in the TSH receptor likely results in a local “ loss-of-structure ” , because the more de-structuring the substitutions, the stronger the activation (410-412). The most active mutants cause increase in cellular cAMP similar to that achieved by saturating concentration of TSH on the wild type receptor (413). Fig. 1-14 Model for activation of the thyrotropin (TSH) receptor by various agonists. Interactions between the extracellular domain and the serpentine domain are implicated in the activation mechanism. The TSH receptor is represented with its extracellular domain containing a concave, hormone-binding structure facing rightwards, and a transmembrane serpentine domain. The basal state of the receptor is characterized by an inhibitory interaction between
