Ontogeny, Anatomy, Metabolism and Physiology of the Thyroid
KEYWORDS: thyroid, tsh, receptor, cells, cell, expression, gene, protein, camp, iodide, thyroglobulin, receptors, hormone, human, activation


represented with its extracellular domain containing a concave, hormone-binding structure facing rightwards, and a transmembrane serpentine domain. The basal state of the receptor is characterized by an inhibitory interaction between the extracellular domain and the serpentine domain (indicated by the (-) green sign). In the absence of agonist, the extracellular domain would function as a tethered inverse agonist of the serpentine domain. Binding of physiological agonists (TSH , B; thyrostimulin 2 5, C), or stimulating autoantibodies (D) switches the ectodomain from inverse agonist to full agonist of the serpentine domain (indicated by the (+) red sign). Mutation of the Ser in position 281of the ectodomain has the same effect (yellow dot, E). Other mutations may activate directly the serpentine domain by breaking silencing locks between transmembrane helices (the example of Asp619Gly is illustrated; blue dot, F). The serpentine domain may also be activated, by binding of low molecular chemical agonists directly to transmembrane segments (yellow star, G). The serpentine domain in the basal state is shown as a compact blue structure. The fully activated serpentine domain is shown as relaxed red structures with arrows indicating activation of G s. These results led to the following model for activation of the TSH receptor (Fig.14) (414;415). In the resting state, the extracellular domain would inhibit the activity of an inherently noisy rhodopsin-like serpentine domain. Upon activation, by binding of TSH, or secondary to mutation of S281, a structural module including the hinge region would switch from inverse agonist to full agonist of the serpentine domain. The ability of the strongest S281 mutants to activate the receptor fully in the absence of TSH suggests that the ultimate agonist of the serpentine domain would be the “ activated ” extracellular domain, with no need for a direct interaction between TSH and the serpentine domain. Several arguments support such a model: (i) mutations in the extracellular loops which strongly activate the intact receptor are unable to activate constructs devoid of ectodomain, while mutations affecting the transmembrane helices or the intracellular loops of the same construct are effective. This suggests that, in the intact receptor, the extracellular loops would be part of a module containing the “ hinge region ” involved in activation. (ii) a monoclonal antibody displaying inverse agonistic activity has been generated and its epitope has been localized within the hinge region (416). (iii) the TSH receptor can be activated by molecules, like autoantibodies
