Ontogeny, Anatomy, Metabolism and Physiology of the Thyroid
KEYWORDS: thyroid, tsh, receptor, cells, cell, expression, gene, protein, camp, iodide, thyroglobulin, receptors, hormone, human, activation


antibody displaying inverse agonistic activity has been generated and its epitope has been localized within the hinge region (416). (iii) the TSH receptor can be activated by molecules, like autoantibodies (see Chapter 17) and thyrostimulin (417), sharing little if any structural homology with TSH. A parsimonious explanation is that these diverse agonists would bind to the ectodomain, switching it into an agonist of the serpentine domainwith no need for additional specific interaction with the serpentine. Activation by Chorionic Gonadotropin The sequence similarity between TSH and hCG, and between their receptors, allows for some degree of promiscuous activation of the TSH receptor by CG during the first trimester of pregnancy, when serum human CG concentrations are highest. The inverse relation between serum TSH and CG concentrations in most pregnant women is clear indication that their thyroid gland is stimulated by CG (418) (see Chapter 20 and Chapter 56). While most pregnant women are euthyroid, thyrotoxicosis may occur if CG production is excessive (as it occurs in twin pregnancies or chorionic tumors (see Chapter 20), or in rare women who have a mutant TSH receptor with increased sensitivity to CG (419). Activation by Thyrotropin-Receptor Antibodies The serum antibodies found in most patients with Graves' thyrotoxicosis and some patients with hypothyroidism caused by chronic autoimmune thyroiditis can stimulate or block the TSH receptor, respectively (see Chapter 17, Chapter 34). Epitopes recognized by TSAbs have been identified from precise mapping of binding site of murine or human monoclonal antibodies endowed with TSAb activity (420-422). However, the precise mechanisms implicated in activation of the receptor by TSAbs (and by TSH) are still unknown. Although most TSAbs do compete with TSH for binding to the receptor and despite similarity in interaction surfaces the precise targets of the hormone and autoantibodies are likely to be different, at least in part.. It has indeed be shown that the sulfated tyrosine residues, which are important for TSH binding (see above), are not implicated in recognition of TSH receptor by TSH receptor-stimulating antibodies (423). Also, most TSH receptor-stimulating antibodies stimulate cyclic AMP accumulation in cells transfected with TSH receptors more slowly than does TSH (424). Activation by low molecular weight drug-like chemicals High-throughput screening of low molecular weight chemical libraries identified specific TSH receptor agonists which were found to bind to the serpentine portion of the receptor (425). Oral administration of the agonist to mice stimulated thyroid, resulting in increased
