Ontogeny, Anatomy, Metabolism and Physiology of the Thyroid
KEYWORDS: thyroid, tsh, receptor, cells, cell, expression, gene, protein, camp, iodide, thyroglobulin, receptors, hormone, human, activation


identified specific TSH receptor agonists which were found to bind to the serpentine portion of the receptor (425). Oral administration of the agonist to mice stimulated thyroid, resulting in increased serum thyroxine and thyroidal radioiodide uptake (426). Apart from their interest to unravel the mechanism of activation of the receptor, these molecules constitute leads for development of drugs to use in place of recombinant human TSH, e.g. in patients with thyroid cancer. Downregulation of the Thyrotropin Receptor Desensitization of some G protein-coupled receptors involves phosphorylation of specific residues by G-protein receptor kinases (homologous desensitization) or protein kinase A (heterologous desensitization) (427). Acute desensitization of the receptor in the presence of TSH, presumably by phosphorylation, is weak and delayed(428). When compared with other G protein-coupled receptors, the TSH receptor contains few serine or threonine residues in its intracellular loops and intracellular carboxyl-terminal domain that can be phosphorylated, which probably accounts for the limited but definite desensitization and internalization observed in heterologous transfected cells after stimulation by TSH (429). Weak down-regulation, confounded by the long life of both TSHR mRNA and protein, does occur, but has little functional role (430). Chronic administration to mice invivo of stimulating monoclonal antibodies causes sustained hyperthyroidism, with no sign of desensitization (431). Using transgenic mice expressing a cAMP sensor in thyrocytes (432) showed recently that TSH receptors internalized after stimulation by TSH continue to signal to Gαs. This may provide an explanation to the persistence of thyrotoxicosis in patients with TSH-secreting pituitary adenomas and in patients with Graves ’ disease. CONTROL OF THYROID FUNCTION Thyroid Hormone Synthesis Thyroid hormone synthesis requires the uptake of iodide by active transport, thyroglobulin biosynthesis, oxidation and binding of iodide to thyroglobulin, and within the matrix of this protein, oxidative coupling of two iodotyrosines into iodothyronines. All these steps are regulated by the cascades just described. Iodide Transport Iodide is actively transported by the iodide Na + /I – symporter (NIS) against an electrical gradient at the basal membrane of the thyrocyte and diffuses, following the electrical gradient, by a specialized channel (pendrin or another channel) (433;434) from the cell to the lumen at the apical membrane. The opposite fluxes of iodide, from the lumen to the cell and from the cell to the outside, are generally considered to be passive and nonspecific. At least five types of control have been demonstrated (319;320;433) . 1. Rapid and transient stimulation of iodide
