Ontogeny, Anatomy, Metabolism and Physiology of the Thyroid
KEYWORDS: thyroid, tsh, receptor, cells, cell, expression, gene, protein, camp, iodide, thyroglobulin, receptors, hormone, human, activation


cell to the outside, are generally considered to be passive and nonspecific. At least five types of control have been demonstrated (319;320;433) . 1. Rapid and transient stimulation of iodide efflux by TSH in vivo, which might reflect a general increase in membrane permeability. The cascade involved is not known. 2. Rapid activation of iodide apical efflux from the cell to the lumen by TSH. This effect, which contributes to the concentration of iodide at the site of its oxidation, is mediated, depending on the species, by Ca 2+ and/or cAMP (294;433) . In human cells it is mainly controlled by Ca 2+ and therefore by the TSH effect on phospholipase C. 3. Delayed increase in the capacity (Vmax) of the active iodide transport NIS in response to TSH. This effect is inhibited by inhibitors of RNA and protein synthesis and is due to activation of iodide transporter gene expression. This effect of TSH is reproduced by cAMP analogues in vitro and is therefore mediated by the cAMP cascade (187). mRNA expression is enhanced by TSH and cAMP and decreased by iodide (333;435). TSH enhancement of thyroid blood flow, more or less delayed depending on the species, also contributes to increase the uptake of iodide (187). Iodine levels in the thyroid are also inversely related to blood flow (436). 4. Rapid inhibition by iodide of its own transport in vivo and in vitro. This inhibitory effect requires an intact transport and oxidation function, that is, it fulfills the criteria of an XI effect. After several hours the capacity of the active transport mechanism is greatly impaired (adaptation to the Wolff-Chaikoff effect) (320). The mechanism of the first effect is unknown but probably initially involves direct inhibition of the transport system itself (akin to the desensitization of a receptor), followed later by inhibition of NIS gene expression and NIS synthesis (akin to the downregulation of a receptor) (333). 5. Inhibition by iodide of thyroid blood flow. This effect may be direct as it takes place in patients treated with thyroperoxidase inhibitors and therefore does not fit the XI paradigm. By decreasing the iodide input it decreases the uptake. Iodide Binding to Protein and Iodotyrosine Coupling Iodide oxidation and binding to thyroglobulin and iodotyrosine coupling in iodothyronines are catalyzed by the same enzyme, thyroperoxidase, with H 2 O 2 used as a substrate (437). The same regulations apply to the two steps.
