Ontogeny, Anatomy, Metabolism and Physiology of the Thyroid
KEYWORDS: thyroid, tsh, receptor, cells, cell, expression, gene, protein, camp, iodide, thyroglobulin, receptors, hormone, human, activation


and iodotyrosine coupling in iodothyronines are catalyzed by the same enzyme, thyroperoxidase, with H 2 O 2 used as a substrate (437). The same regulations apply to the two steps. H 2 O 2 is generated by a NADPH oxidase system of which two proteins DUOX (dual oxidases) or THOX have been identified by cloning (438;439) . The system is very efficient in the basal state inasmuch as little of the iodide trapped can be chased by perchlorate in vivo. Also, in vitro and in vivo the amount of iodine bound to proteins mainly depends on the iodide supply. Nevertheless, in human thyroid in vitro, stimulation of the iodination process takes place even at low concentrations of the anion, thus indicating that iodination is a secondary limiting step. Such stimulation is caused in all species by intracellular Ca 2+ and is therefore a consequence of activation of the Ca 2+ -PIP 2 cascade. In many species, phorbol esters and diacylglycerol, presumably through protein kinase C, also enhance iodination (440). It is striking that in a species such as the human, in which TSH activates the PIP 2 cascade, cAMP inhibits iodination, whereas in a species (dog) in which TSH activates only the cAMP cascade, cAMP enhances iodination. Obviously in the latter species a supplementary cAMP control was necessary (440-442). Thyroperoxidase does not contain any obvious phosphorylation site in its intracellular tail. On the other hand, all the agents that activate iodination also activate H 2 O 2 generation, and inhibition of H 2 O 2 generation decreases iodination, which therefore suggests that iodination is an H 2 O 2 substrate – driven process and that it is mainly controlled by H 2 O 2 generation and iodide supply (440;443). Congruent with the relatively high K m of thyroperoxidase for H 2 O 2 , H 2 O 2 is generated in disproportionate amounts with regard to the quantity of iodide oxidized. Negative control of iodination by iodide (the Wolff-Chaikoff effect) is accompanied and mostly explained by the inhibition of H 2 O 2 generation. This effect of I – is relieved by perchlorate and methimazole and thus pertains to the XI paradigm (325;440). Iodotyrosine coupling to iodotyrosines is catalyzed by the same system and is therefore subject to the same regulations as iodination. However, coupling requires that suitable tyrosyl groups in thyroglobulin be iodinated, that is, that the level of
