Ontogeny, Anatomy, Metabolism and Physiology of the Thyroid
KEYWORDS: thyroid, tsh, receptor, cells, cell, expression, gene, protein, camp, iodide, thyroglobulin, receptors, hormone, human, activation


the same system and is therefore subject to the same regulations as iodination. However, coupling requires that suitable tyrosyl groups in thyroglobulin be iodinated, that is, that the level of iodination of the protein be sufficient. In the case of severe iodine deficiency or when thyroglobulin exceeds the iodine available, insufficient iodination of each thyroglobulin molecule will preclude iodothyronine formation whatever the activity of the H 2 O 2 generating system and thyroperoxidase. On the other hand, when the iodotyrosines involved in the coupling are present, coupling is controlled by the H 2 O 2 concentration but independent of iodide (437). In this case, H 2 O 2 control has a significance even at very low iodide concentrations. H 2 O 2 generation requires the reduced form of nicotinamide-adenine dinucleotide phosphate (NADPH) as a coenzyme and is thus accompanied by NADPH oxidation. Limitation of the activity of the pentose phosphate pathway by NADP + insures that NADPH oxidation for H 2 O 2 generation causes stimulation of this pathway. Also, excess H 2 O 2 leaking back into the thyrocyte is reduced by glutathione (GSH) peroxidase, and the oxidized GSH (GSSG) produced is reduced by NADPH-linked GSH reductase. Thus both the generation of H 2 O 2 and the disposal of excess H 2 O 2 by pulling NADP oxidation and the pentose pathway lead to activation of this pathway — historically one of the earliest and unexplained effects of TSH (187;440). On the long-term, in vivo or in vitro, the activity of the whole iodination system obviously also depends on the level of its constitutive enzymes. In human thyrocytes H2O2 generation but not TPO is stimulated by direct activation of DUOX by the Gq-PLC-Ca ++ cascade while TPO expression, but not DUOX is upregulated by the TSH-cAMP cascade (444). It is therefore not surprising that activation of thyrocytes by the cAMP cascade increases the corresponding gene expression whereas dedifferentiating treatments with EGF and phorbol esters inhibit this expression and thus reduce the capacity and activity of the system. Apparent discrepancies in the literature about the effects of phorbol esters on iodination are mostly explained by the kinetics of these effects (acute stimulation of the system, delayed inhibition of expression of the involved genes). Thyroid Hormone Secretion Secretion of thyroid hormone requires endocytosis of human thyroglobulin, its hydrolysis, and the release of thyroid hormones from the cell. Thyroglobulin can be
