Ontogeny, Anatomy, Metabolism and Physiology of the Thyroid
KEYWORDS: thyroid, tsh, receptor, cells, cell, expression, gene, protein, camp, iodide, thyroglobulin, receptors, hormone, human, activation


of the involved genes). Thyroid Hormone Secretion Secretion of thyroid hormone requires endocytosis of human thyroglobulin, its hydrolysis, and the release of thyroid hormones from the cell. Thyroglobulin can be ingested by the thyrocyte by three mechanisms (187;445-447) . In macropinocytosis , pseudopods engulf clumps of thyroglobulin. In all species this process is triggered by acute activation of the cAMP/PKA cascade and therefore by TSH. Stimulation of macropinocytosis is preceded and accompanied by an enhancement of thyroglobulin exocytosis and thus of the membrane surface (443;448;449). In dog thyroid slices (450) and even (325) primary cultures, TSH and PKA activation acutely induces phagocytosis (451), which appears as the invitro manifestation of the macropinocytosis of thyroglobulin involved in stimulated thyroid hormone secretion. This process might be mediated by inactivation of the Rho family small G proteins), resulting in microfilament depolymerization and stress fiber disruption accompanied by dephosphorylation of cofilin (452) and myosin light chains (453) . By micropinocytosis , the second process, small amounts of colloid fluid are ingested. This process does not appear to be greatly influenced by acute modulation of the regulatory cascades. It is enhanced in chronically stimulated thyroids and thyroid cells with induction of vesicle transport proteins Rab 5 and 7 (454) (455;456). It probably accounts for most of basal secretion. A third (hypothesized) process is receptor-mediatedendocytosis ; it is enhanced in chronically stimulated thyroid cells (457-459). The protein involved could be megalin (460) or and asyaloglycoprotein. This process probably accounts for the transcytosis of low hormonegenic thyroglobulin (461) which is found in the serum . Contrary to the last named, the first two processes are not specific for the protein. They can be distinguished by the fact that macropinocytosis is inhibited by microfilament and microtubule poisons and by lowering of the temperature (below 23°C) (187;462). Whatever its mechanism, endocytosis is followed by lysosomal digestion with complete hydrolysis of thyroglobulin. The main iodothyronine in thyroglobulin is thyroxine. However, during its secretion a small fraction is deiodinated by type I 5 and in man type II 5 -deiodinase to triiodothyronine (T 3 ), thus increasing relative T 3 (the active hormone) secretion (463). The free thyroid hormones are released by the thyroid hormone transporter MC7 an unknown mechanism, which may be diffusion or transport. The iodotyrosines are deiodinated by specific deiodinases and their iodide recirculated in the thyroid iodide compartments. Under acute stimulation, a release (spillover) of amino acids
