Ontogeny, Anatomy, Metabolism and Physiology of the Thyroid
KEYWORDS: thyroid, tsh, receptor, cells, cell, expression, gene, protein, camp, iodide, thyroglobulin, receptors, hormone, human, activation


may be diffusion or transport. The iodotyrosines are deiodinated by specific deiodinases and their iodide recirculated in the thyroid iodide compartments. Under acute stimulation, a release (spillover) of amino acids and iodide from the thyroid is observed. A mechanism for lysosome retention of poorly iodinated thyroglobulin on N -acetylglucosamine receptors and recirculation to the lumen has been proposed. Under normal physiologic conditions, endocytosis is the limiting step of secretion, but after acute stimulation, hydrolysis might become limiting with the accumulation of colloid droplets. Secretion by macropinocytosis is triggered by activation of the cAMP cascade and inhibited by Ca 2+ at two levels: cAMP accumulation and cAMP action. It is also inhibited in some thyroids by protein kinase C downstream from cAMP. Thus the PIP 2 cascade negatively controls macropinocytosis (308). The thyroid also releases thyroglobulin. Inasmuch as this thyroglobulin was first demonstrated by its iodine, at least part of this thyroglobulin is iodinated; thus it must originate from the colloid lumen. Release is inhibited in vitro by various metabolic inhibitors and therefore corresponds to active secretion (448;464). The most plausible mechanism is transcytosis from the lumen to the thyrocyte lateral membranes (449). As for thyroid hormone, this secretion is enhanced by activation of the cAMP cascade and TSH and inhibited by Ca 2+ and protein kinase C activation. Because thyroglobulin secretion does not require its iodination, it reflects the activation state of the gland regardless of the efficiency of thyroid hormone synthesis. Thyroglobulin serum levels and their increase after TSH stimulation constitute a very useful index of the functional state of the gland when this synthesis is impaired, as in iodine deficiency, congenital defects in iodine metabolism, treatment with antithyroid drugs, and the like (465). Regulated thyroglobulin secretion should not be confused with the release of this protein from thyroid tumors, which corresponds in large part to exocytosis of newly synthesized thyroglobulin in the extracellular space rather than in the nonexistent or disrupted follicular lumen. In inflammation or after even mild trauma, opening of the follicles can cause unregulated leakage of lumen thyroglobulin. Transcytosis or leakage from the lumen yields iodinated thyroglobulin while exocytotic thyroglobulin is not iodinated. Functional Heterogeneity It has long been known that at any given time the function of the thyroid follicles is not homogeneous. For instance, after injection of radioiodide, some follicles will incorporate important amounts of radioiodine while others will not incorporate at all.
