Ontogeny, Anatomy, Metabolism and Physiology of the Thyroid
KEYWORDS: thyroid, tsh, receptor, cells, cell, expression, gene, protein, camp, iodide, thyroglobulin, receptors, hormone, human, activation


the function of the thyroid follicles is not homogeneous. For instance, after injection of radioiodide, some follicles will incorporate important amounts of radioiodine while others will not incorporate at all. Similarly, after stimulation with TSH in in vivo thyroids or in in vitro incubated slices, some cells will develop pseudopods for macropinocytosis whithin 15 min while others submitted to the same stimulus will only respond after one to two hours (175;466). In a more recent study, Gérard et al (467) (468) showed in human thyroids that while some follicles exhibit marked expression of pendrin, TPO and THOX, others did not. The expressing follicles were those containing iodinated thyroglobulin. They correspond to larger capillary networks and to the expression in the follicular cells of vascular regulators nitric oxide synthase and endothelin. This shows the existence of active and inactive angiofollicular units. It suggests that over time angiofollicular units cycle from active to inactive states and that this is controlled by the follicular cells. It would be interesting to know if the inactive state corresponds to a lower sensitivity to TSH. CONTROL OF THYROID-SPECIFIC GENE EXPRESSION The study of specific gene expression and proliferation at the biochemical and mechanistic level requires long term in vitro incubations, i.e. cell culture. It is therefore easy and tempting to rely on cell lines such as the rat thyroid FRTL-5, WRT and PCCl3 cells. However these cells, sometimes different from one lab to another, are different from each other and are very different from the cells in vivo, especially the human cells. Primary cultures are closer to the in vivo situation but they are difficult to obtain and not as reproducible. However, in monolayers, but not in reorganized follicles, follicular structure is fully and cell polarity and structure are partially lost. As most authors generalize the results of work done on their pet systems to "The Thyroid" the literature is very confusing and full of contradictions (469;470). Among the various possibilities demonstrated in such systems only those validated in vivo in transgenic animals and in human cells interest us. A positive in vivo effect of TSH on general protein synthesis has been well documented. This effect is mimicked by cAMP agonists and is part of the trophic effect of TSH on the thyrocyte. It involves stimulation of transcription and translation; however, the detailed mechanisms implicated are not known. In cells in culture there is no such
