Ontogeny, Anatomy, Metabolism and Physiology of the Thyroid
KEYWORDS: thyroid, tsh, receptor, cells, cell, expression, gene, protein, camp, iodide, thyroglobulin, receptors, hormone, human, activation


trophic effect of TSH on the thyrocyte. It involves stimulation of transcription and translation; however, the detailed mechanisms implicated are not known. In cells in culture there is no such effect and the TSH cyclic AMP cascade has rather an inhibitory effect. Stimulation of protein synthesis and hypertrophy of the cell in culture results from IGF1 action on PI3 kinase (471). The in vivo effect of TSH might be mediated by IGF-1. The so-called thyroid-specific genes encode proteins that are either found in the thyroid exclusively, like thyroglobulin and thyroperoxidase, or that, although being also found in a few additional tissues, are primarily involved in thyroid function, like TSH receptor and sodium/iodide symporter. The transcription of these genes in the thyroid appears to rely on the coordinated action of a master set of transcription factors that includes at least the homeodomain protein TTF-1 (also known as Nkx 2.1 or T/ebp or Titf1), the paired-domain protein Pax 8, and perhaps also the forkhead-domain protein TTF-2 (also known as FoxE1) (472;473). Loss of function mutant mice for TTF-1, Pax 8 or TTF-2 have been generated and allowed to identify a crucial role for these transcription factors in the development of the thyroid also. However, as none of these animals develop a normal mature thyroid, they could not be used to investigate the exact role of these key factors in the control of gene expression in the mature thyroid. A conditional loss of function mutant mouse for TTF-1 has also been generated (368). Only partial inactivation of TTF-1 could be achieved in this animal which precluded the analysis of TTF-1 role in the developed thyroid at the molecular level. Most of the work concerning this last aspect has been conducted either in primary cultures of thyrocytes (474) or in immortalized thyroid cell lines like FRTL-5 and PCCl3 (475). Although the data gathered to date agree on most basic aspects, significant differences have sometimes been observed between primary versus immortalized cell models (476). Part of these discrepancies may result from the existence of occasional species-specific differences (477). The main regulator of thyroid function, the TSH signal, which is predominantly conveyed inside the cell by cAMP and PKA, upregulates the expression of transcription factor Pax 8, both in primary cells (478) and established cell lines (479). However, mice genetically deprived of TSH or of functional TSH receptor do not show reduced amounts of Pax 8
