Ontogeny, Anatomy, Metabolism and Physiology of the Thyroid
KEYWORDS: thyroid, tsh, receptor, cells, cell, expression, gene, protein, camp, iodide, thyroglobulin, receptors, hormone, human, activation


8, both in primary cells (478) and established cell lines (479). However, mice genetically deprived of TSH or of functional TSH receptor do not show reduced amounts of Pax 8 in their thyroids as compared to wild type animals (480) suggesting that compensatory mechanisms may ensure an adequate production of this factor when thyroid development takes place in the absence of the normal physiological stimulus. Besides this control on the amount of Pax 8 protein, there is no firm evidence that TSH, or cAMP, exerts any other control at the level of the master thyroid transcription factors identified presently (476;481;482). The expression of several other transcription factors was shown to be upregulated, often at least transiently, in response to TSH/cAMP in the thyroid, namely c-myc (483) , c-fos (483), fos B, jun B, jun D (484), CREM (485) , NGFI-B (486) and CHOP(487), for example. An hypothetical role in the control exerted by TSH/cAMP on the expression of the thyroid-specific genes has been proposed for some of these factors (488;489), but no final link has been established yet (490). A recent report proposes that the dopamine and cAMP-regulated neuronal phosphoprotein DARPP-32 could play an essential role in this control (382). It is noteworthy that in addition to its control on the transcription of the individual thyroid-specific genes, which is detailed below, TSH also regulates gene expression by acting at some post-transcriptional steps, as shown in the case of thyroglobulin (491). Finally, many effects of TSH and cAMP on gene expression (including on thyroid-specific genes such as thyroglobulin) might be rather indirect and depend in part on the profound modifications of cell morphology and cytoskeleton that result from PKA activation (245;492). TGF-β has been shown to downregulate the expression of thyroid-specific genes (493;494). It seems to involve a reduction in the level of Pax 8 activity that is mediated by Smad proteins (495;496). In human thyroid primary cultures, TGF-β inhibits most effects of cAMP on gene expression (252). As above, this might be related in part to an inhibition of morphological effects of TSH/cAMP. In all the species tested so far, EGF strongly represses thyroglobulin and thyroperoxidase gene expression as well as iodide transport (245;430;497-499). FGF has a similar action in some species including bovine (500). The mechanisms have not been explored. The apparent dedifferentiation induced by EGF in dog thyrocytes is associated with an enhanced vimentin expression and a progressive
