Ontogeny, Anatomy, Metabolism and Physiology of the Thyroid
KEYWORDS: thyroid, tsh, receptor, cells, cell, expression, gene, protein, camp, iodide, thyroglobulin, receptors, hormone, human, activation


some species including bovine (500). The mechanisms have not been explored. The apparent dedifferentiation induced by EGF in dog thyrocytes is associated with an enhanced vimentin expression and a progressive induction of a fusiform fibroblast-like morphology, which is suggestive of an epithelial-mesenchymal transition (501) (502). This process is reversible after elimination of EGF and re-addition of TSH. As recently quantified by SAGE analysis in the thyroid cell line PCCl3, exposure to a high dose of iodide also decreases the expression of most of the thyroid-specific genes within the thyrocyte (389). Thyroglobulin The regulatory DNA elements of the thyroglobulin gene have been characterized in several species (472;477;503). The proximal promoter, as defined in transfection experiments, extends over 200 base-pairs and contains binding sites for transcription factors TTF-1, TTF-2 and Pax 8 (see Fig. 1-15 ). An upstream enhancer element containing binding sites for TTF-1 has been identified in beef and man (504). In the latter, the enhancer region is longer and harbors additional binding sites for TTF-1 and cAMP responsive element binding (CREB) protein (505). Both TTF-1 and Pax 8 proteins were individually shown to exert a major control on thyroglobulin gene transcription (506;507). By contrast, TTF-2 activity appears to be dispensable as the thyroglobulin gene is expressed in cells devoid of TTF-2 protein (508). Synergism in the transcriptional activation of the gene by TTF-1 and Pax 8 appears to rely on a direct interaction between these two factors (509), and on their coordinated action involving both the enhancer and proximal promoter sequences (510). Transactivation of the thyroglobulin promoter by TTF-1 and Pax 8 has been reported to be enhanced by the coactivator TAZ in vitro (396). But the overexpresion of TAZ observed in papillary thyroid carcinoma is not associated with an increased expression of the thyroglobulin gene (397). The coactivator p300 has also been independently reported to be involved in this transactivation mechanism (398). On the other side, poly(ADP-ribose) polymerase-1 was reported to counteract the transactivation of the thyroglobulin promoter by Pax 8 through a direct interaction with this factor impairing its DNA-binding activity (399). Recently, the osteoblast-specific transcription factor Runx2 (also known as Cbfa1 or AML3) was shown to be expressed in the thyroid and to control thyroglobulin gene expression by direct binding to the thyroglobulin proximal promoter region (see Fig. 1-15 ). Runx2 deficiency in mice causes a marked reduction in thyroglobulin gene expression leading to hypothyroidism (400).
