Ontogeny, Anatomy, Metabolism and Physiology of the Thyroid
KEYWORDS: thyroid, tsh, receptor, cells, cell, expression, gene, protein, camp, iodide, thyroglobulin, receptors, hormone, human, activation


expression by direct binding to the thyroglobulin proximal promoter region (see Fig. 1-15 ). Runx2 deficiency in mice causes a marked reduction in thyroglobulin gene expression leading to hypothyroidism (400). Again however, Runx2 overexpression in papillary thyroid cancers is not associated with an increased expression of the thyroglobulin gene (401). Fig. 1-15 Schematic of the known regulatory elements of thyroglobulin, thyroperoxidase, sodium/iodide symporter and TSH receptor genes. The organization of the proximal promoter and upstream enhancer elements of the different genes is depicted as determined in the species studied so far. Coordinates of the proximal promoters are in base pairs and refer to the transcription start site as +1. The positions of the upstream enhancer elements relative to the transcription start site are not indicated as they vary extensively among the different species. The known thyroglobulin gene regulatory elements were shown to be sufficient to drive the thyroid-restricted expression of a linked gene in living mice (511). This thyroid-restricted expression likely results from the requirement for the simultaneous presence of both TTF-1 and Pax 8, which occurs in thyroid only. It is associated with the tissue-specific demethylation of thyroglobulin gene sequences (512). Demethylation of the DNA is supposed to relieve the constitutive silencing of the gene (513). Thyroglobulin gene transcription has been shown to require the presence of circulating TSH in the adult rat (514) and to be highly dependent on an elevated cAMP level in dog thyroid tissue slices, in primary cultured cells (515), and, to a much lower extent, in immortalized thyroid cell lines like FRTL-5 (516). Although they are devoid of classical cAMP-responsive element (CRE), the proximal promoter sequences are essentially involved in this control, as indicated by the observation of TSH/cAMP-induced changes in their chromatin structure (517) and their TSH/cAMP-dependent activity in transfection experiments (518). It has however been demonstrated recently that the onset of thyroglobulin gene expression during thyroid development takes place normally in mouse strains deprived of either circulating TSH or functional TSH receptors (519;520). This may be consistent with the observation that the thyroglobulin gene displays a low level of cAMP-independent transcription in primary cultured thyrocytes (515), which might depend on insulin, as observed in different culture models (521-523). In primary cultures of dog thyrocytes, the transcriptional activation of the thyroglobulin gene by cAMP after transient TSH withdrawal is also delayed as compared to that of the thyroperoxidase gene (515), and, unlike thyroperoxidase
