Ontogeny, Anatomy, Metabolism and Physiology of the Thyroid
KEYWORDS: thyroid, tsh, receptor, cells, cell, expression, gene, protein, camp, iodide, thyroglobulin, receptors, hormone, human, activation


dog thyrocytes, the transcriptional activation of the thyroglobulin gene by cAMP after transient TSH withdrawal is also delayed as compared to that of the thyroperoxidase gene (515), and, unlike thyroperoxidase gene expression, it requires an active protein synthesis (515). The increase in Pax 8 concentration consecutive to TSH/cAMP stimulation of the thyrocyte is not sufficient to account for the observed control on thyroglobulin gene transcription, as TSH is still required for transcriptional activation even in cells expressing high levels of Pax 8 protein (524). Thus, besides TTF-1 and Pax 8, at least one additional, still unidentified, factor is likely to play a key role in the control of thyroglobulin gene expression, as also suggested by the observation that, in the course of thyroid development, both TTF-1 and Pax 8 are present well before thyroglobulin gene is expressed. In addition to the full length thyroglobulin mRNA, a shorter transcript accumulates in the rat thyroid in response to TSH stimulation (525). This transcript results from differential splicing and polyadenylation of the primary transcript, and encodes a protein limited to the very N-terminal part of thyroglobulin. As this truncated protein still contains a major hormonogenic site(526), it could suggest that, in conditions in which the balance of thyroid metabolism would favor hormone synthesis over iodine storage (e.g., shortage of iodine), the rat thyrocyte would manufacture a shorter thyroglobulin with a preserved hormonogenic ability but lacking many of the nonhormonogenic tyrosines. Thyroperoxidase In the species studied so far, the architecture of the proximal promoter region of the thyroperoxidase gene strikingly resembles that of the corresponding region of the thyroglobulin gene (527;528) (see Fig. 1-15 ). The upstream enhancer element also encompasses a pair of TTF-1 binding sites and contains an additional binding site for Pax 8, as compared to its counterpart in the thyroglobulin gene (529;530). Here again, the combination of the upstream enhancer and proximal promoter supports the synergistic action of TTF-1 and Pax 8 on gene transcription (531). The transcriptional co-activator p300 has also been reported to be involved in the activation of this promoter (413). Despite the existence of this high similarity, thyroperoxidase gene transcription is more tightly and more rapidly controled by TSH and cAMP than that of the thyroglobulin gene in primary cultured thyrocytes, and does not require a new protein synthesis (515;532). Contrary to the thyroglobulin gene also, the thyroperoxidase gene is not expressed in the absence of
