Ontogeny, Anatomy, Metabolism and Physiology of the Thyroid
KEYWORDS: thyroid, tsh, receptor, cells, cell, expression, gene, protein, camp, iodide, thyroglobulin, receptors, hormone, human, activation


gene in primary cultured thyrocytes, and does not require a new protein synthesis (515;532). Contrary to the thyroglobulin gene also, the thyroperoxidase gene is not expressed in the absence of circulating TSH or functional TSH receptors in intact animals (533). On the other hand, the constitutive hyperactivation of the cAMP cascade leads to an increased expression of the gene as compared to the normal situation (534). In spite of their lack of a classical CRE, the proximal promoter sequences have been shown to mediate this TSH/cAMP control on transcription in transfection experiments (535). Exposure to a high dose of iodide reduces thyroperoxidase gene expression as well as that of thyroglobulin, sodium/iodide symporter and thyrotropin receptor genes in PCCl3 thyroid cells (389). Low doses of iodide also decrease thyroperoxidase gene expression in vivo, while the expression of thyroglobulin remains unaffected (333). Thus, apart from their basic dependence on the presence of the transcription factors TTF-1 and Pax 8, which insures their shared thyroid-restricted expression, the thyroperoxidase and thyroglobulin genes distinguish themselves significantly regarding the control of their transcription. It is worth mentioning in this context that a synergistic action of Pax8 and pRb, the retinoblastoma protein, appears to be required for thyroperoxidase promoter activation, whereas this is not the case for thyroglobulin promoter activation (415). It has been postulated recently that the hormone-induced developmental activation of the thyroperoxidase gene involves the concerted action of TTF-2 and NF-1, both of which bind neighbouring sequences in the gene promoter (see figure 1 -15) resulting in the initial opening of the chromatin structure of the promoter (416). The existence of a major thyroperoxidase mRNA isoform has been detected in man (536). It appears to encode a protein devoid of its normal enzymatic activity. Sodium/iodide Symporter Although the sodium/iodide symporter plays a key role in thyroid hormonogenesis, the expression of the corresponding gene is not restricted to the thyroid. Accordingly, the proximal promoter sequences identified so far do not exhibit a thyroid-specific activity in vitro (537;538), even if this activity may be marginally increased in the presence of TTF-1 (539). The robust and appropriately controlled expression of this gene in the thyroid seems to be mediated essentially by the upstream enhancer element which contains binding sites for both TTF-1 and Pax 8, and a cAMP responsive element (CRE)-like DNA motif which is involved in the control by TSH/cAMP (540;541) (see Fig. 1-15 ). The cAMP-response
