Ontogeny, Anatomy, Metabolism and Physiology of the Thyroid
KEYWORDS: thyroid, tsh, receptor, cells, cell, expression, gene, protein, camp, iodide, thyroglobulin, receptors, hormone, human, activation


sites for both TTF-1 and Pax 8, and a cAMP responsive element (CRE)-like DNA motif which is involved in the control by TSH/cAMP (540;541) (see Fig. 1-15 ). The cAMP-response element modulator (CREM) has recently been proposed to be involved in this control (422). The Ras oncoprotein was also shown to reduce sodium/iodide symporter gene expression by targeting Protein Kinase A-dependent Pax 8 transcriptional activity (423). As for the thyroperoxidase gene, TSH signaling is indispensable for sodium/iodide symporter gene transcriptional activation in vivo (542;543), and iodide downregulates the expression of the gene (333). In addition, synergy between Pax8 and pRb appears to be required for the activation of both thyroperoxidase and sodium/iodide symporter promoters (415). A very similar control is thus exerted on the expression of both of these genes in the thyroid in spite of the fact that, overal, the known regulatory regions of the thyroperoxidase gene bear more resemblances to those of the thyroglobulin gene than to those of the sodium/iodide symporter gene. It has been reported recently that the bacterial endotoxin lipopolysaccharide enhances sodium/iodide symporter gene transcription through the direct binding of Nuclear Factor-κB (NF-κB) to the upstream enhancer element and its interaction with adjacently bound Pax 8 factor (423) (see Fig. 1-15 ). The basic Helix-Loop-Helix transcription factor Hairy/enhancer of split 1 (Hes 1), which is part of the Notch signalling pathway, has also been shown to control sodium/iodide symporter gene expression, as well as that of the thyroperoxidase gene, although no binding sites for this factor have been identified within these promoters as yet. Hes 1 appears to be required in mice for developing a functional thyroid and its decreased expression in thyroid tumors parallels the reduction of thyroid differentiation markers expression observed in these cells (424;425). Thyropin Receptor Like the gene described above, the TSH receptor gene is also expressed in tissues other than the thyroid. Again, the promoter elements identified presently, which include binding sites for thyroid hormone receptor (TR)-α1/retinoid-X receptor (RXR) heterodimer (544), GA-binding protein (GABP) (545), cAMP responsive element binding (CREB) protein(546)and TTF-1 (547) (see Fig. 1-15 ), do not display a clear thyroid-specific activity in transfection experiments, as could be expected. Contrary to the promoters described so far, the promoter of the TSH receptor gene does not contain a TATA-box motif, but encompasses a GC-rich region preceding the multiple neighbouring transcription start sites. Consistent with the presence of TTF-1 binding
