Ontogeny, Anatomy, Metabolism and Physiology of the Thyroid
KEYWORDS: thyroid, tsh, receptor, cells, cell, expression, gene, protein, camp, iodide, thyroglobulin, receptors, hormone, human, activation


of the TSH receptor gene does not contain a TATA-box motif, but encompasses a GC-rich region preceding the multiple neighbouring transcription start sites. Consistent with the presence of TTF-1 binding sites in the promoter region, the TSH receptor genes exhibits a decreased activity in animals expressing reduced level of TTF-1 (548). No other regulatory DNA element specifically involved in the thyroid-specific expression of this gene has been identified as yet. On the other hand, DNA demethylation events in the promoter region have been observed in thyroid cells expressing the TSH receptor gene, as compared to non-expressing cells (549). The control exerted on the expression of the TSH receptor gene in the thyroid seems to be more complex than the ones described previously. Discordant effect of TSH/cAMP on the expression of this gene have been reported depending on the nature of the experimental system used (550). The presence in the promoter region of a CRE-like DNA motif which appears to be able to bind the CREB protein(551), a transcriptional activator directly activated by cAMP, as well as the CREM isoform ICER(552), a transcriptional repressor induced by cAMP, could explain both reported increase and decrease in gene expression following TSH stimulation, depending on the relative amounts of these factors (and likely of other CRE-binding proteins also) preexisting in the studied cells and the kinetics of the individual observations. Moreover, the binding site of the TRα1/RXR heterodimer identified in this promoter encompasses the CRE-like motif (see figure 1 -15), which may add a further level of complexity depending on the availability of thyroid hormone in the experimental system. On the other hand, the possible existence of species-specific differences could also account for the occurrence of seemingly discrepant reports (430). The accumulation of TSH receptor mRNA requires an active protein synthesis in primary cultured dog thyrocytes (430), which is reminiscent of what was observed for the thyroglobulin gene (see above). Considering the facts that, after the TSH receptor gene, the thyroglobulin gene is the most affected in its expression by a reduced TTF-1 availability as compared to the other known thyroid-specific genes(553), and that, alike the TSH receptor gene itself, the thyroglobulin gene is activated independently of the TSH/TSHR signaling during thyroid development(554;555), it suggests that these two genes may share at least partially similar control mechanisms. Recently, thyrotropin receptor mRNA was also shown to be decreased in PCCl3 cells exposed to a high
