Ontogeny, Anatomy, Metabolism and Physiology of the Thyroid
KEYWORDS: thyroid, tsh, receptor, cells, cell, expression, gene, protein, camp, iodide, thyroglobulin, receptors, hormone, human, activation


suggests that these two genes may share at least partially similar control mechanisms. Recently, thyrotropin receptor mRNA was also shown to be decreased in PCCl3 cells exposed to a high iodide concentration (556). Control of TSH receptor gene expression has been studied in the FRTL5 cell line (550;557;558), the canine thyrocyte in primary culture (430), cultured human thyrocytes (559;560), and human thyroid cancer (471;561) . The general conclusion emerging from these studies is the extreme robustness of TSH receptor gene expression as compared with the other markers of thyroid cell differentiation (thyroglobulin and thyroperoxidase). In the dog, levels of TSH receptor mRNA remain virtually unchanged in animals subjected for 28 days to hyperstimulation by TSH secondary to treatment with methimazole or to TSH withdrawal achieved by administration of thyroxine (430). In the same study, the effect of TSH or forskolin has been investigated in dog thyrocytes in primary culture. This experimental system has the advantage that the differentiation state of the cells can be manipulated at will: cAMP agonists maintain expression of the differentiated phenotype, whereas agents such as EGF, tetradecanoyl phorbol acetate (TPA), and serum lead to "dedifferentiation" (498). The results demonstrate that the dedifferentiating agents reduce accumulation of the receptor mRNA. However, contrary to what is observed with thyroglobulin and thyroperoxidase mRNA, the inhibition is never complete. TSH or forskolin is capable of promoting reaccumulation of the receptor mRNA, a maximum being reached after 20 hours. As with thyroglobulin but at variance with the thyroperoxidase gene, this stimulation requires ongoing protein synthesis (430). Chronic stimulation of cultured dog thyrocytes by TSH for several days does not lead to any important downregulation in mRNA. Similar data have been obtained with human thyrocytes in primary culture (430;560) . By contrast, n egative regulation of receptor mRNA accumulation has been observed in immortal FRTL5 cells after treatment with TSH or TSAB (550;558). This difference versus human and canine cells must probably be interpreted in the general framework of the other known differences in phenotype and regulatory behavior of this cell line as compared with primary cultured thyrocytes (see below) (562) . The effect of malignant transformation on the amounts of TSH receptor mRNA has been studied in spontaneous tumors in humans (471;561), in a murine transgenic model of thyroid tumor promoted by expression of the simian virus-40 large T oncogene(563), and in FRTL5 cells transformed with v- ras (557). In the
