Ontogeny, Anatomy, Metabolism and Physiology of the Thyroid
KEYWORDS: thyroid, tsh, receptor, cells, cell, expression, gene, protein, camp, iodide, thyroglobulin, receptors, hormone, human, activation


(471;561), in a murine transgenic model of thyroid tumor promoted by expression of the simian virus-40 large T oncogene(563), and in FRTL5 cells transformed with v- ras (557). In the two last models, expression of the TSH receptor gene was suppressed: the tumor or cell growth became TSH independent. In the transgenic animal model, loss of TSH receptor mRNA seemed to take place gradually, with early tumors still displaying some TSH dependence for growth. In the human tumors a spectrum of phenotypes was observed. As expected, anaplastic tumors had completely lost the receptor mRNA, as well as other markers of thyrocyte differentiation (thyroglobulin and thyroperoxidase). In papillary carcinoma, variable amounts of TSH receptor mRNA were invariably found (561), even in the tumors that had lost the capacity to express the thyroglobulin or thyroperoxidase genes (561). These data agree well with the observations of thyrocytes in primary culture: expression of the TSH receptor gene is robust and it persists in the presence of agents (or after several steps in tumor progression) that promote extinction of the other markers of thyroid cell differentiation. This evidence leads to the conclusion that the basic marker of the thyroid phenotype is probably the TSH receptor itself, which makes sense: the gene encoding the sensor of TSH — the major regulator of thyroid function, growth, and differentiated phenotype — is virtually constitutive in thyrocytes. From a pragmatic viewpoint, these data provide a rationale for the common therapeutic practice of suppressing TSH secretion in patients with a differentiated thyroid tumor (564). Thyroid oxidases Two distinct genes, ThOX1 and ThOX2 (also known as DUOX-1 and -2), both significantly related to the gene encoding the phagocyte NADPH oxidase gp91 Phox , are expressed in the thyroid essentially but not only (565;566). In the dog, ThOX mRNAs accumulate in response to TSH/cAMP stimulation (567). This effect is much less apparent in man (568), and in the rat conflicting results were obtained in vivo and in the established FRTL-5 cell line respectively (569). Two other genes encoding proteins required for the maturation and function of the thyroid oxidases were identified in the close vicinity of both ThOX/DUOX genes, and named DUOXA-1 and -2 respectively (570). Proper hydrogen peroxide production requires that each DUOXA protein associates with the corresponding DUOX protein (i.e. DUOXA1 with DUOX1 and DUOXA2 with DUOX2) at the cell membrane (571). In both ThOX-DUOXA pairs, the genes encoding the
