Ontogeny, Anatomy, Metabolism and Physiology of the Thyroid
KEYWORDS: thyroid, tsh, receptor, cells, cell, expression, gene, protein, camp, iodide, thyroglobulin, receptors, hormone, human, activation


each DUOXA protein associates with the corresponding DUOX protein (i.e. DUOXA1 with DUOX1 and DUOXA2 with DUOX2) at the cell membrane (571). In both ThOX-DUOXA pairs, the genes encoding the ThOX and DUOXA partners are arranged in a head to head configuration, the tiny DNA region separating the two transcription starts acting as a bidirectional promoter (439). Noteworthy, ThOX1+DUOXA-1 and ThOX2+DUOXA2 promoters exhibit totally unrelated architectures, the former displaying all features of a CpG-rich island, the second containing canonical TATA-box and Initiator elements (see Fig. 1-16 ). This fundamental difference in promoter organization suggests that both genes pairs are subjected to distinct transcriptional controls. In transient transfection experiment, both cloned ThOX-1 and -2 promoters do not show thyroid-cell restricted activity, do not respond to TSH or cAMP (440), and do not appear to depend on transactivation by either TTF-1 or Pax 8 (441), at least in the transcriptional direction investigated in these studies. However, an independent study identified the endogenous ThOX-2 promoter as a target for either Pax8 or TTF-1 (442). A likely explanation for this discrepancy is that this transactivation involves regulatory sequences other than the ones identified and cloned so far (440;441). Fig. 1-16 Organization of the bidirectional promoters of ThOX and DUOXA genes as determined in the rat (439). The transcription starts are symbolized by arrows and the distances in base pairs separating them are indicated in both cases. Other thyroid-specific genes Recently, a few other genes have been found to be highly expressed in the thyroid and/or to play an important role in this tissue, and have been added to the list of the previously known thyroid-specific genes. Notably, the gene encoding Pendrin, a protein at least partly involved in the apical export of iodide ions, has been shown to be under the control of TTF-1 (443). The Tensin 3 gene has been reported to present a particularly high expression level in the thyroid as compared to other tissues, and to exhibit decreased levels of expression in thyroid tumors, but no data are available as yet regarding the molecular mechanisms involved (444). Serial analysis of gene expression (SAGE) aiming at the identification of genes preferentially expressed in the thyroid led to the isolation of C16orf89 encoding a protein of presently unknown function. The expression of C16orf89 is stimulated by TSH and parallels that of the sodium-iodide symporter during thyroid development (445). Genetic analysis of the predisposition
