Ontogeny, Anatomy, Metabolism and Physiology of the Thyroid
KEYWORDS: thyroid, tsh, receptor, cells, cell, expression, gene, protein, camp, iodide, thyroglobulin, receptors, hormone, human, activation


a protein of presently unknown function. The expression of C16orf89 is stimulated by TSH and parallels that of the sodium-iodide symporter during thyroid development (445). Genetic analysis of the predisposition to hypothyroidism in mice containing only one intact allele encoding TTF-1 and Pax 8 identified Dnajc17 as a gene highly expressed in the thyroid and playing an essential role in thyroid development. This gene encodes a protein belonging to the type III heat-shock protein-40 family (446). CONTROL OF GROWTH AND DIFFERENTIATION Thyroid Cell Turnover The thyroid is composed of thyrocytes (70%), endothelial cells (20%), and fibroblasts (10%) (proportions measured in dog thyroid) (173). Human thyroids: 80% follicular cells for 20% stromal endothelial cells and fibroblasts 80% (572;572). In a normal adult the weight and composition of the tissue remain relatively constant. Because a low but significant proliferation is demonstrated in all types of cells, it must be assumed that the generation of new cells is balanced by a corresponding rate of cell death (215;572;573) . The resulting turnover is on the order of one per 5 to 10 years for human thyrocytes, that is, six to eight renewals in adult life, as in other species. In one child the turnover was 2 per year (573) . Normal cell population can therefore be modulated mainly at the level of proliferation but also secondarily of cell death. In growth situations, that is, either in normal development or after stimulation, the different cell types grow more or less in parallel, which implies coordination between them (248;574-576). Because TSH receptors and iodine metabolism and signaling coexist only in the thyrocyte in thyroid, this cell, sole receiver of the physiologic information, must presumably control the other types of cells by paracrine factors such as FGF, IGF-I, NO, and the like (577). The successful isolation of human thyroid endothelial cells will allow a more detailed study of these interactions (578) . TSH has been demonstrated to upregulate the production of vascular endothelial cell growth factor (VEGF) by human thyrocytes (579) . It is interesting in this regard that the vascular support of the follicles reflects their activity suggesting the concept of angiofollicular units (580;581) . The Mitogenic Cascades The study of the control of thyroid cell proliferation has been much confused by the unwarranted extrapolation of data obtained in different model systems, including different rat thyroid cell lines at different stages in their evolution, to the
