Ontogeny, Anatomy, Metabolism and Physiology of the Thyroid
KEYWORDS: thyroid, tsh, receptor, cells, cell, expression, gene, protein, camp, iodide, thyroglobulin, receptors, hormone, human, activation


proliferation has been much confused by the unwarranted extrapolation of data obtained in different model systems, including different rat thyroid cell lines at different stages in their evolution, to the human thyroid. Sentences like “ Agent X stimulates pathway Y in PCCl3 cells, thus human thyroids could ne treated by agent Z which inhibits agent X action ” are not acceptable even if only implied (582). In the thyroid at least three families of distinct mitogenic pathways have been well defined (Fig. 1-17): (1) the hormone receptor – Gs-adenylyl cyclase – cAMP-dependent protein kinase system, (2) the hormone receptor – tyrosine protein kinase pathways, and (3) the hormone receptor – Gq-phospholipase C cascade (215;583) . The thyroid also autoregulates its size by an unknown mechanism. Thyroxin treated dogs, and humans, compensate the loss of one thyroid lobe independently of TSH (333). The receptor – tyrosine kinase pathway may be subdivided into two branches; some growth factors, such as EGF, induce proliferation and repress differentiation expression, whereas others, such as FGF in dog cells or IGF-I and insulin, are either mitogenic or are necessary for the proliferation effect of other factors without being mitogenic by themselves, but they do not inhibit differentiation expression (521;584) . In human thyroid cells, IGF-I is required for the mitogenic action of TSH or EGF but by itself it only weakly stimulates proliferation (304). In dog and human thyrocytes in primary cultures, after induction of insulin receptors by TSH, physiological concentrations of insulin permit the proliferative action of TSH (233;585) . In PCCl3 and rat cells, and in mouse thyroid in vivo (586), IGF-I is weakly mitogenic per se (587), whereas in pig thyroid cells it produces a strong effect (588). Fig 1-17a Mitogenic pathways in the thyroid. Data from the thyroid cell systems are integrated into the present general scheme of cell proliferation cascades. In the first line, known activators of various cascades in dog and human thyroid cells are shown. Various levels indicate a time sequence and postulated causal relationships from initial interaction of extracellular signal with its receptor to endpoints: proliferation and differentiation expression. In dog but not in human thyroid cells, acetylcholine through muscarinic receptors activates the phospholipase C cascade. PCNA, proliferating cell nuclear antigen; cAPK, cyclic adenosine monophosphate-dependent kinase; CDK, cyclin-dependent kinase; DAG, diacylglycerol, + , stimulation; + , inhibition; ; ♦ + , induction; GFR, growth factor receptor; ODC, ornithine
