Ontogeny, Anatomy, Metabolism and Physiology of the Thyroid
KEYWORDS: thyroid, tsh, receptor, cells, cell, expression, gene, protein, camp, iodide, thyroglobulin, receptors, hormone, human, activation


cell nuclear antigen; cAPK, cyclic adenosine monophosphate-dependent kinase; CDK, cyclin-dependent kinase; DAG, diacylglycerol, + , stimulation; + , inhibition; ; ♦ + , induction; GFR, growth factor receptor; ODC, ornithine decarboxylase; PI3K, phosphatidylinositol 3-kinase; PKB, protein kinase B; PLC, phospholipase C; RSK, ribosomal S6 kinase. It should be noted that TSH directly stimulates proliferation while maintaining the expression of differentiation. Differentiation expression, as evaluated by NIS or by thyroperoxidase and thyroglobulin mRNA content or nuclear transcription, is induced by TSH, forskolin, cholera toxin, and cAMP analogues (215). These effects are obtained in all the cells of a culture, as shown by in situ hybridization experiments (521) . They are reversible; they can be obtained either after the arrest of proliferation or during the cell division cycle (499;521) . Moreover, the expression of differentiation, as measured by iodide transport, is stimulated by concentrations of TSH lower than those required for proliferation (304). All the proliferation effects of TSH are mimicked by nonspecific modulators of the cAMP cascade, that is, cholera toxin and forskolin (which stimulate adenylate cyclase), cAMP analogues (which activate the cAMP-dependent protein kinases), and even synergistic pairs of cAMP analogues acting on the different sites of these two kinases (288;304;589) . They are reproduced in vitro and in vivo by expression of the adenosine A 2 receptor, which is constitutively activated by endogenous adenosine (534), and by constitutively active Gsα (590) and cholera toxin (591) . They are inhibited by antibodies blocking G s (592) . Inhibition of cAMP-dependent protein kinases (PKA) inhibits the proliferation and differentiation effects of cAMP (593;594). Moreover, stimulation of PKA by selective cAMP analogs that do not activate EPAC proteins is sufficient to fully mimic mitogenic effects of TSH and forskolin in dog thyrocytes (593). There is, therefore, no doubt that the mitogenic and differentiating effects of TSH are mainly and probably entirely mediated by cAMP-dependent protein kinases. A complementary role of the Rap guanyl nucleotide exchange factor EPAC and of Rap has been proposed in rat thyroid cell lines (595;596) but not observed in canine thyroid primary cultures (593). EGF also induces proliferation of thyroid cells from various species (215;304;597) . However, the action of EGF is accompanied by a general and reversible loss of differentiation expression assessed as described above (498). The effects of EGF on differentiation can be dissociated from its proliferative action. Indeed, they are obtained in cells that do
