Ontogeny, Anatomy, Metabolism and Physiology of the Thyroid
KEYWORDS: thyroid, tsh, receptor, cells, cell, expression, gene, protein, camp, iodide, thyroglobulin, receptors, hormone, human, activation


loss of differentiation expression assessed as described above (498). The effects of EGF on differentiation can be dissociated from its proliferative action. Indeed, they are obtained in cells that do not proliferate in the absence of insulin and in human cells, in which the proliferative effects are weaker, or in pig cells at concentrations lower than the mitogenic concentrations (215). Finally, the tumor-promoting phorbol esters, the pharmacologic probes of the protein kinase C system, and analogues of diacylglycerol also enhance the proliferation and inhibit the differentiation of thyroid cells. These effects are transient because of desensitization of the system by protein kinase C inactivation. Activation of the Gq/phospholipase C (PLC)/PKC cascade by a more physiological agent such as carbamylcholine in dog thyroid cells does not reproduce all the effects of phorbol esters. In particular, prolonged stimulation of this cascade by carbamyl choline permits the cAMP-dependent mitogenesis of dog thyrocytes (598), but unlike phorbol esters it does not induce proliferation in the presence of insulin (599) . The Ras protooncogene is strongly activated by phorbol esters but more weakly by carbachol (317). Thus we cannot necessarily equate the effects of phorbol esters and prolonged stimulation of the PLC cascade. The dedifferentiating effects of phorbol esters do not require their mitogenic action either. Thus the effects of TSH, EGF, and phorbol esters on differentiation expression are largely independent of their mitogenic action (215). In several thyroid cell models, very high insulin concentrations are necessary for growth even in the presence of EGF. We now know that this prerequisite mainly reflects a requirement for IGF-I receptor (215;302;587;600) . It is interesting that in FRTL5 cells, as in cells from thyroid nodules, this requirement may disappear, probably because the cells secrete their own somatomedins and thus become autonomous with regard to these growth factors (302;601) . By contrast, in primary cultures of normal dog and human thyrocytes, very low concentrations of insulin, acting on insulin receptors, are sufficient to support the mitogenic effects of TSH and cAMP when insulin receptors have been induced to high levels by TSH (233;602) . This puzzling regulation, which is reminiscent of the induction of insulin receptors during the differentiation of adipocytes, suggests that thyroid might well be revealed as a more specific target of circulating insulin than hitherto recognized. In the action of growth factors on receptor protein tyrosine kinase pathways, the effects on differentiation expression vary with
