Ontogeny, Anatomy, Metabolism and Physiology of the Thyroid
KEYWORDS: thyroid, tsh, receptor, cells, cell, expression, gene, protein, camp, iodide, thyroglobulin, receptors, hormone, human, activation


as a more specific target of circulating insulin than hitherto recognized. In the action of growth factors on receptor protein tyrosine kinase pathways, the effects on differentiation expression vary with the species and the factor involved: from stimulation (e.g., insulin, as well as IGF-II in dog and FRTL5 cells) (603) to an absence of effect (604), to transitory inhibition of differentiation during growth (FGF and HGF in dog cells (605;606) to full but reversible dedifferentiation effects (EGF in dog and human cells) (498;607) . Ret/PTC rearrangements, activating mutations of Ras, as well as oncogenic mutation of B-Raf, which are responsible of most differentiated carcinoma, constitutively activate the signaling cascades of growth factors (608-610) . The kinetics of the induction of thymidine incorporation into nuclear DNA of dog thyroid cells is similar for TSH, forskolin, EGF, and TPA. Whatever the stimulant, a minimal delay of about 16 to 20 hours takes place before the beginning of labeling, that is, the beginning of DNA synthesis (611). This time is the minimal amount required to prepare the necessary machinery. For the cAMP and EGF pathways, the stimulatory agent has to be present during this whole prereplicative period; any interruption in activation (e.g., by washing out the stimulatory forskolin) greatly delays the start of DNA synthesis (612). This limitation explains why norepinephrine and prostaglandin E, which also activate the cAMP cascade, do not induce growth and differentiation: the rapid desensitization of their receptors does not allow a sustained rise in cAMP levels. The three main types of mitogenic cascade, specifically, the growth factor – protein tyrosine kinase, phorbol ester – protein kinase C, and TSH-cAMP cascades, are fully distinct at the level of their primary intracellular signal and/or the first signal-activated protein kinase (215). Iodide actually inhibits the cAMP and the Ca 2+ -phosphatidylinositol cascades and in a more delayed and chronic effect decreases the sensitivity of the thyroid to the TSH growth response. These effects are relieved, according to the general paradigm of Van Sande, by perchlorate and methimazole (325;613). Steps in the Mitogenic Cascades (Fig. 1-17) The phenomenology of EGF, TPA, and TSH proliferative action cells has been partially elucidated using dog thyroid primary cultures (215;474;614). The mechanisms of TSH/cAMP mitogenic effects have also been investigated using immortal rat thyroid cell lines (FRTL-5, WRT and PC Cl3 cells) (313). Whereas the signaling cascades involved in the action of growth factors and IGF-I
