Ontogeny, Anatomy, Metabolism and Physiology of the Thyroid
KEYWORDS: thyroid, tsh, receptor, cells, cell, expression, gene, protein, camp, iodide, thyroglobulin, receptors, hormone, human, activation


have also been investigated using immortal rat thyroid cell lines (FRTL-5, WRT and PC Cl3 cells) (313). Whereas the signaling cascades involved in the action of growth factors and IGF-I are likely to be well conserved in the different thyroid systems, as generally observed in the other cell types, the mechanistic logics of cell cycle regulation by cAMP has disappointingly turned out to strongly diverge in the various thyroid in vitro models (615). These divergences do not only reflect species differences (215). Among the apparently similar rat thyroid cell lines, or even among different subclones of FRTL-5 cells, major differences have been observed (616). For instance, the PI3 kinase/PKB cascade is activated by cAMP in WRT cells (617), but inhibited by cAMP in PC Cl3 cells (618) . The induction of c-jun by TSH/cAMP in FRTL-5 cells and its repression by cAMP in WRT cells (619) as in dog (620) and human thyrocytes likely reflect major differences in upstream signaling cascades, and should result in divergent expression of downstream target genes, such as cyclin D1. Cyclin D1 synthesis, an accepted endpoint of mitogenic cascades, is indeed induced by cAMP in FRTL-5 and PC Cl3 cells, but rather repressed by cAMP in dog and human thyroid primary cultures (621;622) . The reasons for such discrepancies are unclear. Some signaling features, when they lead to selective proliferative advantages, might have been acquired during the establishment and continuous cultures of the cell lines and stabilized by subcloning. Many mechanisms demonstrated in the dog thyroid primary culture system so far apply to normal human thyrocytes (623), but much remains to be defined (624) . In the following lines, we thus rely mostly on these systems. Three biochemical aspects of the proliferative response occurring at different times of the prereplicative phase have been considered. The pattern of protein phosphorylation induced within minutes by TSH is reproduced by forskolin and cAMP analogues. It totally diverges from the phosphorylations induced by EGF and phorbol esters (625). EGF, HGF and phorbol ester actions rapidly converge on the activation of Ras (317) and the resulting activation of p42/p44 MAP kinases and p90 RSK (316;626;627) . PI-3-kinase and its effector enzyme PKB are activated for several hours only by insulin and IGF-I, the effect of EGF being short lived (628) . This activity is therefore the one specific feature of insulin action and presumably the mechanism of the facilitating effect
