Ontogeny, Anatomy, Metabolism and Physiology of the Thyroid
KEYWORDS: thyroid, tsh, receptor, cells, cell, expression, gene, protein, camp, iodide, thyroglobulin, receptors, hormone, human, activation


and IGF-I, the effect of EGF being short lived (628) . This activity is therefore the one specific feature of insulin action and presumably the mechanism of the facilitating effect on mitogenesis. In dog thyrocytes, only HGF can trigger cell proliferation in the absence of insulin/IGF-I; this is explained by the fact that only this factor strongly activates both PI3 kinase and MAP kinase cascades (629) . Only insulin, IGF-I and HGF also markedly enhance general protein synthesis and induce cell hypertrophy (630). By contrast, TSH and cAMP are very unique as mitogens, as they do not activate Ras, the PI3kinase/PKB pathway, or any of different classes of MAP kinases in dog thyrocytes (316;317;631;632). TSH and cAMP also do not activate MAPkinases in human thyrocytes (633). The phosphorylation and activation of p70 S6K and thus likely of mTOR cascade constitutes the only early convergence point of growth factor and cAMP-dependent mitogenic cascades (634;635). A recent study has demonstrated the crucial role of this cascade for TSH-elicited thyroid follicular hyperplasia invivo in mice (636). Indeed, as found in dog thyroid primary cultures (637) and PCCl3 cells (Blancquaert and Roger, unpublished), TSH stimulates in mice the mTOR/ p70 S6K axis without activating PKB, and a rapamycin derivative abrogates the hyperplastic (but, interestingly, not the hypertrophic) responses to TSH (638). The cAMP-dependent mitogenesis and gene expression also appears to require the phosphorylation by PKA and activity of CREB/CREM transcription factors (639;640). As in other types of cells, EGF and TPA first enhance c-fos and c-myc mRNA and protein concentrations in dog thyrocytes. On the other hand, TSH and forskolin strongly, but for a short period, enhance the c-myc mRNA concentration and with the same kinetics as the enhancement of the c-fos mRNA concentration by EGF/TPA. In fact, cAMP first enhances and then decreases c-myc expression. This second phenomenon is akin to what has been observed in the fibroblast, in which cAMP negatively regulates growth. As in fibroblasts, EGF and TPA enhance c-jun, junB, junD, and egr1 expression. However, as in fibroblasts, activators of the cAMP cascade decrease c-jun and egr1 expression. c-Jun is therefore not, as has been claimed, a gene whose expression is universally necessary for growth (484;620) . The investigation of the pattern of proteins synthesized in response to the various proliferation stimuli has suggested very early that the proliferation of dog thyroid cells is controlled during G1 phase by at
