Ontogeny, Anatomy, Metabolism and Physiology of the Thyroid
KEYWORDS: thyroid, tsh, receptor, cells, cell, expression, gene, protein, camp, iodide, thyroglobulin, receptors, hormone, human, activation


the pattern of proteins synthesized in response to the various proliferation stimuli has suggested very early that the proliferation of dog thyroid cells is controlled during G1 phase by at least two largely distinct, cAMP-dependent or cAMP-independent, pathways (641;642). Recent microarray analyses have confirmed and extended this concept in human thyrocytes (643;644). Nevertheless, the different mitogenic cascades are expected to finally modulate the level and activity of proteins that are the primary regulators of the cell cycle machinery. As generally considered, mitogenic signals regulate mammalian cell cycle by stimulating the accumulation of D-type cyclins and their assembly through a ill-defined mechanism with their partner the cyclin-dependent kinases (cdk) 4 and 6. These complexes operate in mid-to-late G1 phase to promote progression through the restriction point, and thus commit cells to replicate their genome (645). In the current model, this key decision depends on the initiation by cyclin D-cdk complexes of the phosphorylation of the growth/tumor suppressor protein pRb, which triggers the activation of transcription factors, including those of the E2F family, the synthesis of cyclin E and then cyclin A, and cdk2 activation by these cyclins. Activated cdk2 in turn further phosphorylates pRb and other substrates and initiates and organizes the progression through the DNA synthesis phase (646). The down regulation of cdk inhibitors of the CIP/KIP family, including p27 kip1 , by mitogenic factors and/or their sequestration by cyclin D-cdk complexes participate to cdk2 activation, but their proposed role of adaptor and/or nuclear anchor for cyclin D-cdk complexes suggests positive influences on cell cycle progression as well (647). These mechanisms have been well studied in dog thyroid cells (Fig. 1-17). As expected, the different mitogenic stimulations (TSH, cAMP, growth factors) require the activity of cdk4 (648), and converge on the inactivating phosphorylation of pRb and related proteins p107 and p130 (649), on the phosphorylation and nuclear translocation of cdk2, and on the induction of cyclin A and cdc2 (650). These effects are dependent on insulin action (651;652). What is strikingly different between the cascades is the mechanism of D-type cyclin-cdk4 activation. TSH, unlike all the other known mitogenic factors, does not induce the accumulation of cyclins D (653), but it paradoxically stimulates the expression of the cdk “ inhibitor ” p27 kip1 (654). However the predominant cyclin D3 is required for the proliferation stimulated by TSH, but not in the proliferation of dog thyrocytes stimulated by EGF or HGF
