Ontogeny, Anatomy, Metabolism and Physiology of the Thyroid
KEYWORDS: thyroid, tsh, receptor, cells, cell, expression, gene, protein, camp, iodide, thyroglobulin, receptors, hormone, human, activation


(666;667) (Fig. 1-17). Together with the fact that the necessary increase of cell mass before division depends on insulin/IGF-I but not TSH (630), these observations provide a molecular basis for the well established physiological concept that in the regulation of normal thyroid cell proliferation, TSH is the “ decisional ” mitotic trigger, while locally produced IGF-I and/or circulating insulin are supporting “ permissive ” factors (215). Of note, in all these experiments, the facilitative action of insulin can be replaced by activation of the Gq/PLC cascade by carbamylcholine (668). Studies of protein phosphorylation, proto-oncogene expression, and cell cycle regulatory proteins in dog thyrocytes allow discrimination between two models of cAMP action on proliferation in this system: a direct effect on the thyrocyte or an indirect effect through the secretion and autocrine action of another growth factor. If the effect of TSH through cAMP involved such an autocrine loop, one would expect to find faster kinetics of action of the growth factor and at least some common parts in the patterns of protein phosphorylation and protein synthesis induced by cAMP and the growth factor. The results do not support such an hypothesis, at least for the growth factors tested (215) ( Fig. 1-16 ). Moreover, the data on cAMP action in the dog and human thyrocyte systems do not support a major role for various mechanisms involving cross-signaling of cAMP with growth factor pathways, as claimed in rat thyroid cell line studies (reviewed and discussed in (669) ). Indeed, in primary cultures of normal human thyrocytes, EGF+serum increases cyclin D1 and p21 accumulation, and it stimulates the assembly and activity of cyclin D1-cdk4-p21. By contrast, TSH (cAMP) represses cyclin D1 and p21, but it stimulates the activating phosphorylation of cdk4 and the pRb-kinase activity of preexisting cyclin D3-cdk4 complexes (670). Cyclin D1 or cyclin D3 are thus differentially used in the distinct mitogenic stimulations by growth factors and TSH, and potentially in hyperproliferative diseases generated by the overactivation of their respective signaling pathways. The validity of these concepts in vivo has been established by using transgenic mice models. The expression in thyroid of oncogene E7 of HPV-16, which sequestrates pRb protein, leads to thyroid growth and euthyroid goiter. Expression in the thyroid of the adenosine A 2 receptor, which behaves as a constitutive activator of adenylyl cyclase, induces thyroid growth, goitrogenesis, and hyperthyroidism (534). Similar, albeit weaker phenotypes are obtained in
