Ontogeny, Anatomy, Metabolism and Physiology of the Thyroid
KEYWORDS: thyroid, tsh, receptor, cells, cell, expression, gene, protein, camp, iodide, thyroglobulin, receptors, hormone, human, activation


thyroid of the adenosine A 2 receptor, which behaves as a constitutive activator of adenylyl cyclase, induces thyroid growth, goitrogenesis, and hyperthyroidism (534). Similar, albeit weaker phenotypes are obtained in mice expressing constitutive Gs (the G protein activating adenylyl cyclase) (671) or cholera toxin (672) . A contrario, the expression in thyroid of a dominant negative CREB provokes a marked thyroid hypotrophy, suggesting the crucial role of CREB and its activating phosphorylation by PKA (673) . By contrast, transgenic mice overexpressing both human IGF-I and IGF-I receptor in their thyroid (TgIGF-I – TgIGF-IR) and the downregulation of PTEN the PIP3 3 ’ phosphatase develop only a mild thyroid hyperplasia and respond to some extent to a goitrogenic effect of antithyroid drugs while maintaining a comparatively low serum TSH level. This indicates some autonomy of these thyroids, as in acromegalic patients, and a much greater sensitivity to endogenous TSH (674) . Very recently, thyrocyte-specific deficiency of Gq/G 11 (the G proteins activating PLC ) in mice was shown to impair not only the TSH-stimulated iodine-organification and thyroid hormone synthesis, but also TSH-dependent development of goiter (675). It remains to be defined whether this impaired follicular cell hyperplasia could result in part from the lack of induction of VEGF and angiogenesis (676) which normally accompany goitrogenesis. Nevertheless, the phenotype of these mice underscores the role in TSH-dependent goitrogenesis of PLC, which is activated by TSH but even more strongly by neurotransmitters. Noteworthy, section of inferior laryngeal nerve in rats was similarly found to impair both thyroid function and growth stimulated by TSH (677) . Moreover, activation of Gq /PLC by carbamycholine can facilitate cAMP-dependent mitogenesis in dog thyrocytes cultured without insulin or IGF-I (678) . On the other hand, expression of Ret, which is a rearranged constitutive growth factor receptor, in papillary thyroid carcinoma (PTC), leads to growth, cancer, and hypothyroidism (679;680). Proliferation and Differentiation ( Fig 1-18 ) Fig 1-18 Main controls of the principal biologic variables of the human thyrocyte. EGF, epidermal growth factor; FGF, fibroblast growth factor; GH, growth hormone; HGF, hepatocyte growth factor; I – , iodide; IGF-I, insulin-like growth factor; IFN, interferon; IL-1, interleukin-1; TGF , tumor growth factor- ; TNF, tumor necrosis factor; TSAb, thyroid-stimulating immunoglobulins; positive control (stimulation); + : negative control (inhibition) . Fig 1-18 . Main controls of the principal biologic variables of the human thyrocyte. EGF, epidermal growth factor; FGF, fibroblast growth
