Ontogeny, Anatomy, Metabolism and Physiology of the Thyroid
KEYWORDS: thyroid, tsh, receptor, cells, cell, expression, gene, protein, camp, iodide, thyroglobulin, receptors, hormone, human, activation


positive control (stimulation); + : negative control (inhibition) . Fig 1-18 . Main controls of the principal biologic variables of the human thyrocyte. EGF, epidermal growth factor; FGF, fibroblast growth factor; GH, growth hormone; HGF, hepatocyte growth factor; I - , iodide; IGF-I, insulin-like growth factor; IFN, interferon; IL-1, interleukin-1; TGF , tumor growth factor- ; TNF, tumor necrosis factor; TSAb, thyroid-stimulating immunoglobulins; positive control (stimulation); + : negative control (inhibition) . The incompatibility at the cell level of a proliferation and differentiation program is commonly accepted in biology. In general, cells with a high proliferative capacity are poorly differentiated, and during development such cells lose this capacity as they progressively differentiate. Some cells even lose all potential to divide when reaching their full differentiation, a phenomenon called terminal differentiation. Conversely, in tumor cells, proliferation and differentiation expression are inversely related. Activation of Ras and p42/p44 MAPkinases, induction of c-jun, sustained expression of c-myc, induction of cyclin D1 and down regulation of p27 kip1 , all have been shown to be causatively associated not only with proliferation, but also with loss of differentiation in a large variety of systems, sometimes independently of proliferation effects. It is therefore not surprising that in thyroid cells the general mitogenic agents and pathways, phorbol esters and the protein kinase C pathway, EGF, and in calf and porcine cells, FGF and the protein tyrosine kinase pathway, induce both proliferation and the loss of differentiation expression. The effects of the cAMP cascade are in striking contrast with this general concept. Indeed, TSH and cAMP induce proliferation of dog thyrocytes while maintaining differentiation expression; both proliferation and differentiation programs can be triggered by TSH in the same cells at the same time (521). This situation is by no means unique because neuroblasts in the cell cycle may also simultaneously differentiate. It is tempting to relate this apparent paradox to the unique characteristics of the cAMP-dependent mitogenic pathway, such as the lack of activation (or even the inhibition) of the Ras/MAPkinase/c-jun/cyclin D1 cascade, as demonstrated in dog and human thyrocytes. For instance, if one generalization could be made about proto-oncogenes, it is the dedifferentiating role of c-myc. A rapid and dramatic decrease in c-myc mRNA by antisense myc sequences induces differentiation of a variety of cell types. It is therefore striking that in the case of the thyrocyte, in which activation of the cAMP cascade leads to both
