Ontogeny, Anatomy, Metabolism and Physiology of the Thyroid
KEYWORDS: thyroid, tsh, receptor, cells, cell, expression, gene, protein, camp, iodide, thyroglobulin, receptors, hormone, human, activation


sequences induces differentiation of a variety of cell types. It is therefore striking that in the case of the thyrocyte, in which activation of the cAMP cascade leads to both proliferation and differentiation, the kinetics of the c-myc gene expression appears to be tightly controlled. After a first phase of 1 hour of higher level of c-myc mRNA, c-myc expression is decreased below control levels. In this second phase, cAMP decreases c-myc mRNA levels, as it does in proliferation-inhibited fibroblasts. It even depresses EGF-induced expression. The first phase could be necessary for proliferation, whereas the second phase could reflect stimulation of differentiation by TSH (483;681). The specific involvement of cyclin D3 in the cAMP-dependent mitogenic stimulation of dog and human thyrocytes, but not for their response to growth factors, is also interesting in this context (653;682) . Indeed, unlike cyclins D1 and D2, cyclin D3 is highly expressed in several quiescent tissues in vivo, and its expression is not only stimulated by mitogenic factors but also induced during several differentiation processes associated with a repression of cyclin D1 (683). We have recently shown that the differential utilization of cyclin D1 or cyclin D3 affects the site specificity of the pRb-kinase of cdk4, including in dog and human thyrocytes (684;685). In addition to inhibiting E2F-dependent gene transcription related to cell cycle progression, pRb plays positive roles in the induction of tissue-specific gene expression by directly interacting with a variety of transcription factors, including Pax8 in thyroid cells (686). Whether, the selective utilization of cyclin D3 in the TSH cascade, associated with a more restricted pRb-kinase activity, could allow the preservation of some differentiation-related functions of pRb thus remains to be examined. We now consider the distinct cAMP-dependent mitogenic pathway, which appears to be adjuncted to the more general mechanisms used by growth factors, as pertaining to the specialized differentiation program of thyroid cells (309). In dog thyrocytes, the proliferation in response to serum or growth factors specifically extincts their capacity to respond to TSH/cAMP as a mitogenic stimulus (687). Similarly, in less differentiated thyroid cancers generated by the subversion of growth factor mechanisms, the TSH-dependence of growth is generally found to be lost. Because the cell renewal rate is very low in the thyroid (once every 8 years in adults), the role of apoptosis is unimportant. However, under different circumstances the apoptotic role can greatly increase, such as after the arrest
