Open Veterinary Journal, (2025), Vol. 15(7): 2925-2937 Eldaghayes Publisher
KEYWORDS: influenza, virus, viral, aiv, host, cell, vaccines, vaccine, antiviral, viruses, antigenic, proteins, activity, replication, avian


and chemical composition of Avian Influenza The tail is formed by a reiterative stuttering action, as Virus shown in Figure 3 (Polymerase stuttering ~ ViralZone). The influenza virus (Fig. 1) contains an envelope Then, transcription is terminated . composed of a lipid membrane obtained from the Ribosomes in the cytoplasm translate viral mRNAs cell membrane of the virus-infected cell (VIC) during for polymerase subunits (PB2, PB1, and PA), the viral budding process. Three viral proteins are nucleoprotein (NP), NS1, NEP, and M1. Subsequently, integrated into the lipid membrane: HA, NA, and all the substances are transported to the nucleus. At the M2 proton channel. Several proteins that are the same time, ribosomes attached to the endoplasmic responsible for critical functions are located inside the reticulum translate the surface glycoproteins (HA, NA) virion (Table 1) (Cheung and Poon, 2007). and ion channels (M2), which then make their way to Replication of AIV the plasma membrane . Novel and effective targets for antiviral drug The replication process, which is cap-independent, development can be identified through an in-depth results in the generation of cRNA, which is not capped study of the viral life cycle. The replication cycle, as and is not polyadenylate. The newly synthesized shown in Figure 2, starts when the HA1 subunit of the cRNAs are used to amplify more copies of vRNA HA spike interacts with the α2,3 sialic acid receptor of . In the cytoplasm, vRNPs are the target cell, triggering clathrin-mediated endocytosis transported to the cytoplasm for assembly with other . viral proteins . When AIV-containing late endosomes are acidified, The hydrolysis of glycosidic bonds between the HA2 subunit undergoes a structural change that carbohydrate molecules and SA residues is facilitated facilitates virion membrane fusion with the endosomal by the catalytic activity of the NA glycoprotein. membrane. The subsequent opening of the viral Consequently, it facilitates the release of newly membrane’s M2 ion channels allows H+ to enter the synthesized virions via budding from the plasma viral core. Virus ribonucleoproteins (vRNPs) are membrane (Palese et al., 1974; McAuley et al., 2019). released when the M1 protein breaks down and enters Pathogenesis and transmission of AIV the cytoplasm of host cells . The susceptibility of birds to AIV, as well as the After entering the host cell nucleus, the polymerase severity of the resulting infection, depends on a complex PA/PB1/PB2 starts the transcription process, complex interplay of factors related
