Open Veterinary Journal, (2025), Vol. 15(7): 2925-2937 Eldaghayes Publisher
KEYWORDS: influenza, virus, viral, aiv, host, cell, vaccines, vaccine, antiviral, viruses, antigenic, proteins, activity, replication, avian


protein bind to vRNP complex and facilitates the (Shimizu et al., 2011; NS2 (NEP) export of vRNPs out of the host cell nucleus Paterson and Fodor, 2012; Brunotte et al., 2014) influenza, such as the species of bird infected, the bird’s as alleviate the detrimental inflammatory reaction (De age when infected, the availability of receptors on the Jong et al., 2006). target cells, the availability of enzymes in host cells Mechanism of AIV evolution needed for viral entry and its replication, the bird’s There are two main processes that accelerate influenza immune competency, any other infections the bird may virus evolution: antigenic drift and antigenic shift. The be experiencing at the time of infection, and the strain term “antigenic drift” describes the slow but steady of AIV (Wright et al., 2013; Franҫa and Brown, 2014). accumulation of point mutations in the virus genome, Predominantly, AIV is transmitted from bird to bird by particularly in the segments encoding HA and NA fecal–oral, fecal–fecal, and fecal–respiratory routes of proteins that enable the virus to attach to host cells. This direct contact . occurs when mistakes arise during replication because Multiple factors contribute to the development of the viral RNA polymerase does not have proofreading severe influenza illness, including the virus’s cytopathic activity. As a consequence, the virus is able to escape effects, an increase in the body’s inflammatory detection by the immune system because there are response, and ischemia due to thrombosis. As a result, changes in the epitopes of HA and NA that decrease interventions should aim to decrease viral load as well the recognition of antibodies produced by earlier K. M. Mekkawy et al. Open Veterinary Journal, (2025), Vol. 15(7): 2925-2937 Fig. 2. Schematic of the avian influenza life cycle (Chauhan and Gordon, 2022). infections or vaccines (Carrat and Flahault, 2007; Peter Control of AIV prophylaxis et al., 2013). Biosecurity measures should be prioritized to combat This explains the prevalence of seasonal influenza, AIV in poultry. These include education, monitoring, quick detection, and depopulation of contaminated which requires periodic influenza vaccine updates to flocks to prevent the virus from spreading to healthy maintain adequate antigenic closeness between the flocks. In addition to strong biosecurity, effective vaccine and circulating field virus strains (Dey et al., vaccination decreases morbidity and mortality in 2023). exposed birds while avoiding financial burdens When multiple influenza viruses infect the same cell, (Swayne et al., 2011; Swayne
