Open Veterinary Journal, (2025), Vol. 15(7): 2925-2937 Eldaghayes Publisher
KEYWORDS: influenza, virus, viral, aiv, host, cell, vaccines, vaccine, antiviral, viruses, antigenic, proteins, activity, replication, avian


strains (Dey et al., vaccination decreases morbidity and mortality in 2023). exposed birds while avoiding financial burdens When multiple influenza viruses infect the same cell, (Swayne et al., 2011; Swayne and Spackman, 2013). they give a great chance for a mechanism known as an AIV vaccination antigenic shift occurring. This factor is an important When it comes to pandemics or drifting strains of player in the occurrence of influenza pandemics. In influenza, seasonal vaccinations are not effective. As this process, viral RNA segments reassort, giving rise a result, improving vaccinations to produce wider immunity is still an important goal for public health. to new strains with significantly different antigenicity. Future vaccine developments will focus on more These novel strains pose a serious health risk because universal and less mutable viral targets, such as the they can spread rapidly in people who do not yet have hemagglutinin stem . immunity. Because of reassortment, human influenza Live attenuated influenza vaccine strains can acquire HA and, in rare cases, NA from Live attenuated influenza vaccines (LAIVs) are live other animal influenza viruses. This occurred during viruses that have been either selected for low virulence the pandemics of 1957, 1968, and 2009 (Lowen, 2018). in nature or developed by reducing the infectiousness K. M. Mekkawy et al. Open Veterinary Journal, (2025), Vol. 15(7): 2925-2937 Fig. 3. Negative-stranded RNA virus polymerase stuttering (“Polymerase stuttering ~ ViralZone”). of a wild strain of influenza by passing it through variations involving distinct genotypes or subtypes, fertile chicken eggs or virus-susceptible cell lines these vaccines failed to offer any protection. Another . disadvantage of this approach is that it only elicits a There are security problems related to the use of modest response of cell-mediated immunity (Chen et LAIV because LAIV administration provides a chance al., 2001). for reassortment in cases in which the recipient catches Split-virion influenza vaccine a circulating seasonal field strain of AIV at the same Deoxycholate (Fluarix®) and Triton X-100 (Fluzone®) time of vaccination. In addition, certain groups, such are examples of splitting agents that are used to as those with immunocompromised status, should not prepare these from entire viruses . receive LAIV . By cleaving the viral envelope, these drugs liberate Inactivated influenza vaccines the nucleic acids inside the cell. Viral proteins with These vaccines have an excellent safety record and can large molecular weights, including HA, NA, and some be classified into three
