Open Veterinary Journal, (2025), Vol. 15(7): 2925-2937 Eldaghayes Publisher
KEYWORDS: influenza, virus, viral, aiv, host, cell, vaccines, vaccine, antiviral, viruses, antigenic, proteins, activity, replication, avian


the nucleic acids inside the cell. Viral proteins with These vaccines have an excellent safety record and can large molecular weights, including HA, NA, and some be classified into three types: whole-virion inactivated matrix (M) and NP, are eliminated, but the components vaccine, split-virion influenza vaccine, and subunit that are active and antigenic. This particular vaccine inactivated vaccine (Wong and Webby, 2013). formulation causes a substantial increase in antibody Whole-virus-inactivated vaccines production by efficiently concentrating the antigenic To make these vaccines, the virus is first grown in proteins . chicken embryos and then heated or exposed to Compared with inactivated whole-virus vaccinations, chemicals such as formalin to make it less infectious split-virion influenza vaccinations are safer because of and less capable of multiplying. Adjuvants are added the absence of nonantigenic viral components, which to the final vaccine preparation to further enhance its helps limit adverse effects . immunogenicity . Subunit influenza vaccines Whole-virus inactivated vaccines can promote humoral The initial approach for making these vaccines immunity and produce significant levels of specific IgG involved obtaining a pure and concentrated form of the antibodies because they contain a complete attenuated virus’s HA and NA proteins and then adding adjuvants. virus in addition to its surface antigens (Ainai et al., Currently, the vaccine is made by expressing the 2017). Nevertheless, when tested against influenza recombinant antigenic proteins utilizing plasmids that K. M. Mekkawy et al. Open Veterinary Journal, (2025), Vol. 15(7): 2925-2937 code for HA and NA. The final subunit vaccines are will be hindered by maternally inherited immunity in prepared by combining these recombinant proteins vaccinated breeding flocks . with adjuvants. The safety, immunogenicity, and Eventually, vaccine manufacturing problems such as tolerance of subunit influenza vaccination have all vaccine strain quality and purity, as well as inappropriate been well-documented. One drawback of this approach handling and delivery, can all have a significant impact is that vaccines are expensive to produce because of the on the success rate of AIV vaccination (Flint et al., large dosages needed . 2020). Viral-vectored influenza vaccines Anti-influenza therapies The production of these vaccines involves the use Antivirals are a class of antimicrobials that can be of viral vectors such as adenovirus, baculovirus, obtained from a wide variety of sources, including and Newcastle disease virus to produce antigenic both natural and synthetic ones. Their main function is can express IAV antigenic proteins at a high level. ways:
