Open Veterinary Journal, (2025), Vol. 15(7): 2925-2937 Eldaghayes Publisher
KEYWORDS: influenza, virus, viral, aiv, host, cell, vaccines, vaccine, antiviral, viruses, antigenic, proteins, activity, replication, avian


variety of sources, including and Newcastle disease virus to produce antigenic both natural and synthetic ones. Their main function is can express IAV antigenic proteins at a high level. ways: by engaging the viruses directly or by influencing Viral-vectored influenza vaccines, such as LAIVs, components within the host cell required for the virus are able to elicit robust cellular and humoral immune life cycle . responses . Antiviral treatments work by hindering the growth of The continuous proliferation of the vaccine vector viruses rather than eradicating them, as is the case with also causes non-specific immunological effects in most antibiotics (He, 2013). vaccinated hosts against the vector (Suarez and Major challenging limitations of anti-influenza Pantin-Jackwood, 2017; Krammer and Palese, therapies 2019; Wong et al., 2019). The ability to rapidly Because viral multiplication is extremely dependent on develop polyvalent antibodies with enhanced cross- the host cell metabolism machinery, most drugs that protection across various genotypes is another benefit target virus replication affect host cells by hampering of this type of influenza vaccine . these metabolic processes. Antiviral development mRNA influenza vaccines requires a high degree of safety with the selective mRNA vaccines work by mimicking the behavior inhibition of influenza . of DIPs present. Instead of viral genes that encode Developing new anti-influenza drugs to combat structural proteins, cells obtain parts of mRNA potential future outbreaks is heavily influenced by the encoding virus antigens and take rise of influenza virus mutations and the emergence of advantage of mRNA replication without production of resistant viral mutants to current antivirals. An essential infectious viral particles . factor for eradicating resistance is potency, even low Several challenges to the efficiency of vaccination replication rates when an inhibitor is present provide Because vaccines may not always have all the possible resistant mutants a chance for survival (Eshaghi et al., combinations of antigenic properties necessary to 2014; Dobrovolny and Beauchemin, 2017). match circulating virus strains, the co-circulation of Focusing on highly common conserved targets (less different AIV subtypes such as H5, H7, and H9, makes mutable) among influenza subtypes potentially remains vaccination attempts more difficult. Consequently, it is effective regardless of AIV antigenic drift and shift, essential to vaccinate against several subtypes of HA delays resistance, and achieves broad-spectrum activity (Suarez and Schultz-Cherry, 2000). . In addition, AIV-vaccinated birds may have a Promising antivirals and their putative mechanism of compromised immune response if they were previously
