Open Veterinary Journal, (2025), Vol. 15(7): 2925-2937 Eldaghayes Publisher
KEYWORDS: influenza, virus, viral, aiv, host, cell, vaccines, vaccine, antiviral, viruses, antigenic, proteins, activity, replication, avian


and achieves broad-spectrum activity (Suarez and Schultz-Cherry, 2000). . In addition, AIV-vaccinated birds may have a Promising antivirals and their putative mechanism of compromised immune response if they were previously action infected with mycotoxins or were concurrently infected Toxins and defensive peptides from animals with an immunosuppressive disease (Hegazy et al., Animal poisons and venoms often have effects 2011). on the circulatory system or cause neurological In vaccinated birds, the risk of infection is still present, manifestations, but many of these toxins also have even if the vaccine might alleviate the severity of substantial antibacterial and antiviral properties, which a state of persistent “silent” circulation, increasing the 2018). possibility that it will be transferred from chickens to Two extracts from scorpion venom, micropores and its the human population . improved form, mucroporin-M1, have shown antiviral The frequency of antigenic drift increases when the activity against several influenza strains, effectively virus evolves to mitigate the host immune response, inhibiting infection at nanomolar and micromolar which can be accelerated by the immunological concentrations (Dai et al., 2008; Li et al., 2011). pressure from vaccination . With an EC50 value of 0.40 μM, the peptide melittin, The length of protection is uncertain; however, which is obtained from bee venom, has the ability to vaccine-induced immunity usually peaks 3-4 weeks lower the infectivity of influenza . after immunization (Swayne and Kapczynski, 2008). Another example is urumin, a host defense peptide It is also possible that immunization of young birds obtained from the Indian frog Hydrophlax bahuvistara’s K. M. Mekkawy et al. Open Veterinary Journal, (2025), Vol. 15(7): 2925-2937 skin, which showed micromolar IC concentration in Virucidal activity is another potential way in which MDCK cells against HA1 . herbal extracts, such as Ocimum sanctum terpenoids, Peptide BF-30, which was derived from the venom of the Acacia arabica crude extract polyphenols, and banded krait (Bungarus fasciatus), is another potential Agrimonia pilosa extract, work against viruses by candidate that has been studied in vitro and in vivo. This affecting the structural characteristics of the virus (Shin peptide causes the virus to fuse its membranes during the et al., 2010; Ghoke et al., 2018). attachment and penetration phases. It has no effect on HA The actions of Ginseng saponins derived from the plant and NA, which are viral glycoproteins that can develop stems and leaves point to a host-acting mechanism that resistance to drugs through adaptive changes.
