Open Veterinary Journal, (2025), Vol. 15(7): 2925-2937 Eldaghayes Publisher
KEYWORDS: influenza, virus, viral, aiv, host, cell, vaccines, vaccine, antiviral, viruses, antigenic, proteins, activity, replication, avian


Ginseng saponins derived from the plant and NA, which are viral glycoproteins that can develop stems and leaves point to a host-acting mechanism that resistance to drugs through adaptive changes. Therefore, relies on the regulation of the host immune system BF-30 is a promising candidate that should be investigated response, specifically the humoral one that was further for therapeutic applications . significantly enhanced after these saponins were added Fungal extracts with anti-influenza properties to drinking water . In addition to The efficacy of diverse fungal extracts in suppressing Ocimum sanctum, Tinospora cordifolia, Glycyrrhiza various strains of influenza in MDCK cells was glabra, and Allium sativum, other medicinal herbs demonstrated, with IC values < 1 µM. Among these, that have comparable immunomodulatory properties cyclosporin A from Tolypocladium inflatum and a are Zingiber officinale, Cocos nucifera, and Ocimum tetrahydrofuran derivative from Chaetomium have been tenuiflorum . highlighted for their antiviral properties (Sacramento et Nanotechnology potentials as antiviral therapy al., 2015), and L435-3, an ophiobolin derivative from When it comes to the worldwide poultry sector, the phytopathogenic fungus Bipolaris oryzae, has also nanotechnology is one of the breakthrough technologies been identified as effective . with an endless number of potential applications from Bacterial extracts with anti-influenza properties both economic and social perspectives (Abd El-Ghany Bacteria are an excellent source of new antimicrobial et al., 2021). therapeutics. Cyanobacteria and Pseudomonas Gene silencing is a nanotechnology strategy. This lectins exhibit antiviral activity against influenza by strategy aims to deactivate gene expression in specific binding to viral spikes. By blocking viral-host cell genomic or transcriptome parts using silencers such as attachment hinders viral multiplication with an IC of antisense oligonucleotides (ASO), DNAzymes (Kesy approximately 1 nM (Smee et al., 2008; Morimoto and et al., 2019; Michalak et al., 2019; Piasecka et al., Sato, 2016). 2020). Streptomyces microflavus is the source of two The ASOs, 12–30 nucleotides of single-stranded promising substances with anti-influenza activity: Deoxyribonucleic acid (DNA) or modified fattiviracin A1 and fattiviracin 8. Their antiviral (RNA) engage with the target RNA inducing several activity was demonstrated against the H1N1 influenza mechanisms, including activation of RNase H virus was demonstrated, with an EC50 of 1.34 µM cleavage of messenger RNA in DNA/RNA duplexes . or attachment to the ribosome, providing a steric More naturally produced nucleoside and nucleotide barrier at the translational start site causing the nascent analogs that are effective against influenza include transcripts to be
