Open Veterinary Journal, (2025), Vol. 15(7): 2925-2937 Eldaghayes Publisher
KEYWORDS: influenza, virus, viral, aiv, host, cell, vaccines, vaccine, antiviral, viruses, antigenic, proteins, activity, replication, avian


the ribosome, providing a steric More naturally produced nucleoside and nucleotide barrier at the translational start site causing the nascent analogs that are effective against influenza include transcripts to be degraded or destabilized (Mescalchin Streptomyces candidus-derived formycin A and B, and Restle, 2011). which have a nanomolar IC value against H1N1 Levina et al. (2015, 2016, 2018) showed promising (Kunimoto et al., 1968; Buchanan et al., 1980) . results with ASOs nanocomposites consisting of One potential option, DAS181 (Fludase®), has demonstrated positive-sense RNA or DNA sequences that target the ability to break down α-(2,3)- and α-(2,6)-linked sialic the –RNA-conserved sequence of segment 5 of AIV acid, which in turn blocks the virus from accessing the H5N1 and also designed –RNA to bind with +RNA host cell. To validate tolerance, tolerance was evaluated in transcripts of the virus of segment 5. AIV replication human airway epithelial cultures as well as in many cell in the MDCK cell line was selectively and successfully lines (MDCK, A549, and Caco2). The EC50 values were suppressed by nanocomposites that contained all reported using nanomolars in viral inhibition experiments of the specified sequences coupled to NPs such as . TO2 or silicon-organic through a polylysine linker. Herbal antivirals against AIV Simultaneously, these nanocomposites inhibiting H5N1 Traditional Chinese Medicine (TCM) is a great source were evaluated in MDCK and demonstrated strong of natural herbal antivirals against AIV. Several plants antiviral efficacy with moderate cytotoxicity (Levina et (Fig. 4) have several ways in which TCM therapies al., 2015, 2016, 2018). work together to combat viruses and boost the DNAzymes can break complementary RNA because immune system of the host. Antiviral activity against they are pieces of DNA with catalytic properties. There AIV has been discovered in several plant-derived are several synthetic DNAzymes, but no naturally phytochemicals with low molecular weights, such as occurring ones have been found. Immobilized DNA polyphenols, flavonoids, terpenes, glucosides, and enzymes on TiO NPs coated with polylysine linker alkaloids (Gangehei et al., 2010; Grienke et al., 2016). showed anti-influenza properties by targeting influenza K. M. Mekkawy et al. Open Veterinary Journal, (2025), Vol. 15(7): 2925-2937 Fig. 4. Herbal therapeutics controlling avian influenza virus. (A) Eugenia jambolana, (B) Ocimum sanctum, (C) Acacia arabica, (D) Agrimonia pilosa. (E) cranberry and (F) ginseng . virus segment 5’s coding region. The virus replication Comparing compounds’ antiviral medication potential was significantly reduced by the cleaving action of is challenging
