Open Veterinary Journal, (2025), Vol. 15(7): 2925-2937 Eldaghayes Publisher
KEYWORDS: influenza, virus, viral, aiv, host, cell, vaccines, vaccine, antiviral, viruses, antigenic, proteins, activity, replication, avian


pilosa. (E) cranberry and (F) ginseng . virus segment 5’s coding region. The virus replication Comparing compounds’ antiviral medication potential was significantly reduced by the cleaving action of is challenging for many reasons. First, the compound TiO DNAzymes . evaluation methods differ significantly. Many research studies use different cell lines. In addition, viral Conclusion replication inhibition assays vary. Many researchers use extensive research. Due to its wide animal reservoir use hemagglutination or virus-induced cytopathic and genetic plasticity, influenza poses a pandemic effect to measure antiviral activity. Therefore, risk in addition to periodic epidemics with fluctuating standardizing antiviral effectiveness assessment fatality rates and substantial economic costs. However, methodologies would clarify the comparisons. therapy choices are limited. In most countries, only Second, many chemicals have unknown mechanisms M2 channel blockers and neuraminidase inhibitors are of action. However, therapeutic development requires authorized. Both kinds of inhibitors are ineffective and understanding how these compounds work. Third, prone to resistance. Thus, innovative influenza antiviral most compounds lack resistance development data. In therapies are urgently needed. In recent decades, addition, few candidates have in vivo data. Consider a innovative influenza virus treatments have been combination treatment in addition to monotherapy with developed. Natural products are a great starting point one drug. Targeting different viral targets has shown for discovering new influenza virus-fighting chemicals synergistic effects and reduced resistance. due to their variety and structural complexity. In this review, we discuss current research on natural Acknowledgments products such as toxins, anti-influenza extracts from The authors thank the Faculty of Veterinary Medicine, into employing nanotechnology in this field. Most of Conflict of interest these substances are in early antiviral development. The authors declare no conflict of interest. K. M. Mekkawy et al. Open Veterinary Journal, (2025), Vol. 15(7): 2925-2937 Funding mitochondrial-targeting signal in the PB2 protein This research received no specific grant. of influenza viruses. Virology 344, 492–508; doi: Author’s contributions KMM drafted the manuscript. AAHA and FA revised Carrat, F. and Flahault, A. 2007. Influenza vaccine: and edited the manuscript. All authors have read and the challenge of antigenic drift. Vaccine 25, 6852– approved the final version of the manuscript. 6862; doi: Data availability Cattoli, G., Fusaro, A., Monne, I., Coven, F., Joannis, All references are open-access, so data can be obtained T., Abd El-Hamid, H.S., Hussein, A.A., Cornelius, from the online web. C., Amarin, N.M. and Mancin, M. 2011. Evidence for differing evolutionary dynamics of A/H5N1
