Bookshelf_NBK1523
KEYWORDS: deletion, individuals, syndrome, anomalies, deletion syndrome, risk, disease, treatment, genetic, age, clinical, palate, reported, region, affected


~95%-100% 5 100% 6 • ClinGen ID: ISCA-37446 analysis 4 1. See Molecular Genetics for details of the deletion and genes of interest included in the region. 2. Standardized ISCN annotation and interpretation for genomic variants from the Clinical Genome Resource (ClinGen) project (formerly the International Standards for Cytogenomic Arrays (ISCA) Consortium). Genomic coordinates represent the minimum deletion size associated with the 22q11.2 recurrent deletion as designated by ClinGen. Deletion coordinates may vary slightly based on array design used by the testing laboratory. Note that the size of the deletion as calculated from these genomic positions may differ from the expected deletion size because of the presence of segmental duplications near breakpoints. The phenotype of significantly larger or smaller deletions within this region may be clinically distinct from the 22q11.2 recurrent deletion (see Genetically Related Disorders). 3. Chromosomal microarray analysis (CMA) using oligonucleotide arrays or SNP arrays. CMA designs in current clinical use target the 22q11.2 region. 4. Targeted deletion analysis methods can include FISH, quantitative PCR (qPCR), and multiplex ligation-dependent probe amplification (MLPA) as well as other targeted quantitative methods. 5. The commercially available fluorescence in situ hybridization (FISH) probes, N25 and TUPLE, along with TBX1, are located between the commercially available FISH probes (Figure 1). 6. Targeted FISH, MLPA, or other quantitative method analysis may be used to test at-risk relatives of a proband who is known to have the 22q11.2 recurrent deletion. Evaluating at-risk relatives. FISH, qPCR, MLPA, or other quantitative methods of targeted deletion analysis can be used to identify the 22q11.2 recurrent deletion in at-risk relatives of the proband. Testing of parental samples is important in determining recurrence risk (see Genetic Counseling). Clinical Characteristics Clinical Description This section summarizes findings based on publications of individuals with 22q11.2 deletion syndrome (22q11.2DS). Heart. A recent record review of 1,421 individuals with 22q11.2DS revealed congenital heart defects (CHD) in 64% of individuals [Campbell et al 2018]. The most frequent anomalies are conotruncal defects of the outflow tract (see Table 2). Ventricular septal defects were the most common abnormality identified on echocardiography. CHD are the major cause of mortality (~87% of all deaths) in children with 22q11.2DS [McDonald-McGinn et al 2015]. In addition, adults with 22q11.2DS die prematurely, with sudden death and heart failure being the most common causes of death, even in individuals without CHD [Bassett et al 2009]. A subset of affected individuals are found to have
