Bookshelf_NBK1523
KEYWORDS: deletion, individuals, syndrome, anomalies, deletion syndrome, risk, disease, treatment, genetic, age, clinical, palate, reported, region, affected


TBX1 deletions. In a study of 52 infants approximately age one year, CD3 and CD4 counts were significantly lower in infants with a TBX1 deletion (proximal deletions; A-B, A-C, A-D) than in those who did not have a TBX1 deletion (nested and distal deletions; B-D, C-D, D-E, D-F) [Crowley et al 2018]. Abnormalities of humoral immunity were observed in 17% of individuals [Campbell et al 2018]. IgA deficienc y was reported in 13% and appears to be particularly common in those with autoimmune problems including juvenile rheumatoid arthritis (JRA) [Sullivan 2019]. Hypogammaglobulinemia present in the first year of life usually resolves and hypergammaglobulinemia may occur after age five. Although the majority of affected individuals have normal antibody function and antibody avidity, some have functional antibody defects. Those with recurrent sinopulmonary infections frequently have immunoglobulin abnormalities, in particular impaired antibody responses to pneumococcal polysaccharide vaccine [Gennery et al 2002, Sullivan 2019]. Palatal dysfunction, gastroesophageal reflux, and aspiration pneumonia can all contribute to recurrent infection, especially in persons with congenital heart disease. Furthermore, dysphagia can lead to poor nutrition, which further impairs cellular immunity. Thus, older children and adults continue to have infections, including 25%-33% with recurrent sinusitis or otitis media and 4%-7% with recurrent lower respiratory infections [Jawad et al 2001]. However, despite these issues, very few school-aged children require active management for their immunodeficiency [Sullivan 2019]. Autoimmune disease. Secondary consequences related to T-cell lymphopenia include an increased risk of atopy and autoimmune disease. JRA occurs in children with 22q11.2DS at a frequency 20 times that in the general population. The age of onset of JRA ranges from 17 months to five years. JRA is often polyarticular and may be difficult to manage. HLA types permissive for the development of JRA are observed [Sullivan et al 1997]. Other autoimmune disorders associated with 22q11.2DS include: idiopathic thrombocytopenia purpura (ITP), hyperthyroidism (Graves disease), hypothyroidism, vitiligo, hemolytic anemia, autoimmune neutropenia, aplastic anemia, and celiac disease. ITP is seen 200 times more frequently in individuals with 22q11.2DS than in the general population [Jawad et al 2001, Kawame et al 2001, Sullivan 2019]. Parathyroid function. Hypoparathyroidism and subsequent hypocalcemia is present in 17%-60% of persons with 22q11.2DS and is typically most serious in the neonatal period. Calcium homeostasis often normalizes with age, although recurrence of hypocalcemia in later childhood and adulthood has been reported during illness, puberty, and pregnancy. Cheung et al reported that 80% of
