Bookshelf_NBK1523
KEYWORDS: deletion, individuals, syndrome, anomalies, deletion syndrome, risk, disease, treatment, genetic, age, clinical, palate, reported, region, affected


of an affected individual in order to identify as early as possible those family members who would benefit from cardiac and immunologic evaluation and evaluations and surveillance for other complications of 22q11.2DS. See Genetic Counseling for issues related to testing of at-risk relatives for genetic counseling purposes. Pregnancy Management Pregnant women must be monitored medically, taking into account any preexisting conditions including congenital heart disease, scoliosis, and reactive airway disease. Additional surveillance should include calcium, thyroid, and platelet levels. In addition, individuals with changes in mental status/behavior should be referred for immediate evaluation by a mental health care provider. A fetus at high risk of having 22q11.2DS should undergo a level II ultrasound with fetal echocardiogram to evaluate for the following anomalies: congenital heart disease; airway, palate, swallowing, and gastrointestinal differences possibly leading to polyhydramnios (congenital diaphragmatic hernia, tracheoesophageal fistula , subglottic stenosis, vascular ring, laryngeal web, cleft palate, and cleft and lip/palate); renal anomalies; skeletal differences such as club foot and craniosynostosis; and umbilical and inguinal hernia. 16 GeneReviews ® Therapies Under Investigation Search ClinicalTrials.gov in the US and EU Clinical Trials Register in Europe for information on clinical studies for a wide range of diseases and conditions. Note: There may not be clinical trials for this disorder. Genetic Counseling Genetic counseling is the process of providing individuals and families with information on the nature, mode(s) of inheritance, and implications of genetic disorders to help them make informed medical and personal decisions. Th e following section deals with genetic risk assessment and the use of family history and genetic testing to clarify genetic status for family members; it is not meant to address all personal, cultural, or ethical issues that may arise or to substitute for consultation with a genetics professional. —ED. Mode of Inheritance 22q11.2 deletion syndrome (22q11.2DS) is a contiguous gene deletion syndrome inherited in an autosomal dominant manner. Risk to Family Members Parents of a proband • In 22q11.2DS caused by a 3.0 (2.54)-Mb deletion, the deletion is de novo in more than 90% of individuals and inherited from a heterozygous parent in about 10% of individuals [Bassett et al 2011, McDonald- McGinn et al 2015]. • The proportion of individuals with a nested deletion (i.e., a recurrent, atypical shorter deleted segment [LCR22B-D] nested within the large typically deleted region) inherited from an affected parent is higher (60%). • Genomic testing capable of identifying the deletion
