Bookshelf_NBK1523
KEYWORDS: deletion, individuals, syndrome, anomalies, deletion syndrome, risk, disease, treatment, genetic, age, clinical, palate, reported, region, affected


a recurrent, atypical shorter deleted segment [LCR22B-D] nested within the large typically deleted region) inherited from an affected parent is higher (60%). • Genomic testing capable of identifying the deletion identified in the proband is recommended for the parents of a proband in order to reliably determine recurrence risk. • If the 22q11.2 deletion cannot be detected in the leukocyte DNA of either parent, possible explanations include a de novo deletion in the proband or germline mosaicism in a parent. Parental germline mosaicism has been reported [McDonald-McGinn et al 2015]. • The family history of some individuals diagnosed with 22q11.2DS may appear to be negative because of failure to recognize the disorder in family members because of clinical variability and/or reduced penetrance. Therefore, an apparently negative family history cannot be confirmed unless the parents have been tested for the 22q11.2 deletion identified in the proband. • Note: If the parent is the individual in whom the pathogenic variant first occurred, the parent may have somatic mosaicism for the variant and may be mildly/minimally affected. Apparently asymptomatic adults with somatic mosaicism have been identified [McDonald-McGinn et al 2015]. Sibs of a proband. The risk to the sibs of a proband depends on the clinical/genetic status of the proband's parents: • If a parent is affected and/or is known to have a 22q11.2 deletion, the risk to the sibs is 50%. Th e phenotype in a sib who inherits the deletion cannot be predicted because 22q11.2DS is associated with significant intrafamilial clinical variability. • If the 22q11.2 deletion identified in the proband cannot be detected in the leukocyte DNA of either parent, the recurrence risk to sibs is slightly greater than that of the general population because of the possibility of parental germline mosaicism [McDonald-McGinn et al 2015]. • If the parents have not been tested for the 22q11.2 deletion but are clinically unaffected, the risk to the sibs of a proband appears to be low. However, sibs of a proband with clinically unaffected parents are still 22q11.2 Deletion Syndrome 17 presumed to be at increased risk for 22q11.2DS because of the possibility of reduced penetrance in a heterozygous parent or parental germline mosaicism. • In the (unlikely) event that a parent has a balanced structural chromosome rearrangement involving the 22q11.2 region, the risk to sibs is increased. The estimated risk depends on the specific chromosome rearrangement. Offspring of a proband. Each
