Bookshelf_NBK1523
KEYWORDS: deletion, individuals, syndrome, anomalies, deletion syndrome, risk, disease, treatment, genetic, age, clinical, palate, reported, region, affected


has a balanced structural chromosome rearrangement involving the 22q11.2 region, the risk to sibs is increased. The estimated risk depends on the specific chromosome rearrangement. Offspring of a proband. Each child of an individual with 22q11.2DS has a 50% chance of inheriting the 22q11.2 deletion. Other family members. The risk to other family members depends on the status of the proband's parents: if a parent has the deletion, the parent's family members may be at risk. Related Genetic Counseling Issues Family planning • The optimal time for determination of genetic risk and discussion of the availability of prenatal/ preimplantation genetic testing is before pregnancy. • It is appropriate to offer genetic counseling (including discussion of potential risks to offspring and reproductive options) to young adults who are affected or at risk. Prenatal Testing and Preimplantation Genetic Testing High-risk pregnancies • Molecular genetic testing. Once the 22q11.2 deletion has been identified in an affected family member, prenatal testing using FISH, MLPA, or array studies for a pregnancy at increased risk and preimplantation genetic testing are possible. • Ultrasound evaluation. Pregnancies at increased risk may be evaluated between 18 and 22 weeks' gestation by high-resolution ultrasound examination for palatal and other associated anomalies and by echocardiography for cardiac anomalies. Note: Gestational age is expressed as menstrual weeks calculated either from the first day of the last normal menstrual period or by ultrasound measurements. Low-risk pregnancies. In some pregnancies not known by family history to be at increased risk for 22q11.2DS, findings of congenital heart disease and/or cleft palate or cleft lip/palate detected by routine ultrasound examination may suggest the diagnosis, in particular in those individuals with conotruncal cardiac anomalies such as interrupted aortic arch, truncus arteriosus, tetralogy of Fallot, and ventricular septal defect. Additional structural differences that can be associated with 22q11.2DS and may be identified prenatally include: congenital diaphragmatic hernia, umbilical or inguinal hernia, tracheoesophageal fistula / esophageal atresia / laryngeal atresia, polydactyly, craniosynostosis, polymicrogyria, and renal anomalies. In addition, polyhydramnios is frequently present. Chromosome preparations obtained from fetal cells can be analyzed using array studies, MLPA, or FISH. Establishing the diagnosis of 22q11.2DS even late in gestation can be useful for perinatal management. Resources GeneReviews staff has selected the following disease-specific and/or umbrella support organizations and/or registries for the benefit of individuals with this disorder and their families. GeneReviews is not responsible for the • International 22q11.2 Foundation Phone: 877-739-1849
