Internal Clinical Guidelines Team
KEYWORDS: stones, cholecystectomy, duct, laparoscopic, ercp, bile, bile duct, patients, gallstone, disease, evidence, laparoscopic cholecystectomy, gallstone disease, common, gdg


Internal Clinical Guidelines Team Full version Gallstone disease Diagnosis and management of cholelithiasis, cholecystitis and choledocholithiasis Clinical Guideline 188 Methods, evidence and recommendations October 2014 Final guideline National Institute for Health and Care Excellence Disclaimer Healthcare professionals are expected to take NICE clinical guidelines fully into account responsibility of healthcare professionals to make decisions appropriate to the circumstances of each patient, in consultation with the patient and/or their guardian or carer. Copyright material may be freely reproduced for educational and not-for-profit purposes within the NHS. No reproduction by or for commercial organisations is allowed without the express written permission of the National Institute for Health and Care Excellence. Gallstone disease Gallstone disease Gallstone disease Gallstone disease Overview 1 Overview Gallstone disease is the term used in this guideline to refer to the presence of stones in the gallbladder or common bile duct and the symptoms and complications they cause. The following aspects of gallstone disease are included in this guideline (full definitions of these terms are provided in the glossary):  Asymptomatic gallbladder stones  Symptomatic gallbladder stones, including biliary colic, acute cholecystitis, Mirrizi syndrome, and Xanthogranulomatous cholecystitis.  Common bile duct stones, including biliary colic, cholangitis, obstructive jaundice and gallstone pancreatitis. Other complications of gallstones (such as gastric outlet obstruction, or gallstone ileus) and other conditions related to the gallbladder (such as gallbladder cancer, or biliary dyskinesia) are not included in this guideline. Most people with gallstone disease have asymptomatic gallbladder stones, meaning the stones are confined to the gallbladder and they do not have any symptoms. The disease is identified coincidentally as a result of investigations for other conditions. People with asymptomatic gallbladder stones may never go on to develop symptoms or complications, but there is variation within the NHS in how people are managed once asymptomatic gallbladder stones have been diagnosed. Some patients are offered treatments to prevent symptoms and complications developing, and others are offered a watch and wait approach so that active treatment only begins once the stones begin to cause symptoms. The symptoms of gallstone disease range from mild, non-specific symptoms that can be difficult to diagnose, to severe pain and/or complications which are often easily recognised gallstone disease may attribute their symptoms to other conditions, or may be misdiagnosed and undergo unnecessary investigations and treatment. This has a detrimental effect on quality of life and has an impact on the use of NHS
