Internal Clinical Guidelines Team
KEYWORDS: stones, cholecystectomy, duct, laparoscopic, ercp, bile, bile duct, patients, gallstone, disease, evidence, laparoscopic cholecystectomy, gallstone disease, common, gdg


other conditions, or may be misdiagnosed and undergo unnecessary investigations and treatment. This has a detrimental effect on quality of life and has an impact on the use of NHS resources. Thus, there is a need to identify whether there are any specific signs, symptoms or risk factors for gallstone disease and to identify the best method for diagnosing the condition so that patients can be managed appropriately. There is uncertainty about the best way of treating gallstone disease. There are a range of endoscopic, surgical and medical treatments available, but it is unclear which treatments are the most appropriate for which patients. There is also uncertainty about the timing of cholecystectomy, and whether it should take place during the acute presentation of the disease, or if it should be delayed until after the acute symptoms have subsided. This guideline addresses these uncertainties and provides recommendations on how to identify, diagnose and manage gallstone disease. Patient-centred care This guideline offers best practice advice on the care of adults with gallstone disease. Patients and healthcare professionals have rights and responsibilities as set out in the NHS Constitution for England – all NICE guidance is written to reflect these. Treatment and care should take into account individual needs and preferences. Patients should have the opportunity to make informed decisions about their care and treatment, in partnership with their healthcare professionals. Healthcare professionals should follow the Department of healthcare professionals should follow the code of practice that accompanies the Mental Capacity Act and the supplementary code of practice on deprivation of liberty safeguards. Gallstone disease Overview NICE has produced guidance on the components of good patient experience in adult NHS services. All healthcare professionals should follow the recommendations in Patient experience in adult NHS services. Gallstone disease Summary section 2 Summary Section Guideline development group (GDG) members Name Role Health and Social Care Trust Elaine Dobinson Evans Patient/ carer member Simon Dwerryhouse Consultant Upper Gastrointestinal and Bariatric Rafik Filobbos (from Nov 2013) Consultant Radiologist with specialist interest in Gastrointestinal/ Hepatobiliary imaging, North Manchester General Hospital Imran Jawaid Principal General Practitioner, Hadlow, Tonbridge Angela Madden (co-opted expert) Professional Lead for Nutrition and Dietetics, University of Hertfordshire Hospital Derby Hospitals NHS Foundation Trust Kofi Oppong Consultant Gastroenterologist, Newcastle Hospitals NHS Trust Charles Rendell Patient/ carer member University Hospital Aintree Giles Toogood Consultant Hepatobiliary and Liver Transplant Luke Williams Consultant Gastrointestinal Radiologist, Salford Royal NHS Foundation
