Internal Clinical Guidelines Team
KEYWORDS: stones, cholecystectomy, duct, laparoscopic, ercp, bile, bile duct, patients, gallstone, disease, evidence, laparoscopic cholecystectomy, gallstone disease, common, gdg


cholangiopancreatography (MRCP) if ultrasound has not detected common bile duct stones but the:  bile duct is dilated and/or  liver function test results are abnormal. (Recommendation 2) Consider endoscopic ultrasound (EUS) if MRCP does not allow a diagnosis to be made. (Recommendation 3) Refer people for further investigations if conditions other than gallstone disease are suspected. (Recommendation 4) Reassure people with asymptomatic gallbladder stones found in a normal gallbladder and normal biliary tree that they do not need treatment unless they develop symptoms. (Recommendation 5) Offer laparoscopic cholecystectomy to people diagnosed with symptomatic gallbladder stones. (Recommendation 6) Offer day-case laparoscopic cholecystectomy for people having it as an elective planned necessary. (Recommendation 7) Offer early laparoscopic cholecystectomy (to be carried out within 1 week of diagnosis) to people with acute cholecystitis. (Recommendation 14) Offer percutaneous cholecystostomy to manage gallbladder empyema when:  surgery is contraindicated at presentation and  conservative management is unsuccessful. (Recommendation 8) Reconsider laparoscopic cholecystectomy for people who have had percutaneous cholecystostomy once they are well enough for surgery. (Recommendation 9) Offer bile duct clearance and laparoscopic cholecystectomy to people with symptomatic or asymptomatic common bile duct stones. (Recommendation 10) Clear the bile duct:  surgically at the time of laparoscopic cholecystectomy or  with endoscopic retrograde cholangiopancreatography (ERCP) before or at the time of laparoscopic cholecystectomy. (Recommendation 11) Gallstone disease List of all recommendations If the bile duct cannot be cleared with ERCP, use biliary stenting to achieve biliary drainage only as a temporary measure until definitive endoscopic or surgical clearance. (Recommendation 12) Use the lowest-cost option suitable for the clinical situation when choosing between day- case and inpatient procedures for elective ERCP. (Recommendation 13) Advise people to avoid food and drink that triggers their symptoms until they have their gallbladder or gallstones removed. (Recommendation 15) Advise people that they should not need to avoid food and drink that triggered their symptoms after they have their gallbladder or gallstones removed. (Recommendation 16) Advise people to seek further advice from their GP if eating or drinking triggers existing symptoms or causes new symptoms to develop after they have recovered from having their gallbladder or gallstones removed. (Recommendation 17) Research recommendations The Guideline Development Group has made the following recommendations for research, based on its review of evidence, to improve NICE guidance and patient care in the future. 1. What are the long-term benefits and harms, and cost
