Internal Clinical Guidelines Team
KEYWORDS: stones, cholecystectomy, duct, laparoscopic, ercp, bile, bile duct, patients, gallstone, disease, evidence, laparoscopic cholecystectomy, gallstone disease, common, gdg


following recommendations for research, based on its review of evidence, to improve NICE guidance and patient care in the future. 1. What are the long-term benefits and harms, and cost effectiveness of endoscopic ultrasound (EUS) compared with magnetic resonance cholangiopancreatography (MRCP) in adults with suspected common bile duct stones? 2. What are the benefits and harms, and cost effectiveness of routine intraoperative cholangiography in people with low to intermediate risk of common bile duct stones? 3. What models of service delivery enable intraoperative endoscopic retrograde cholangiopancreatography (ERCP) for bile duct clearance to be delivered within the NHS? What are the costs and benefits of different models of service delivery? 4. In adults with common bile duct stones, should laparoscopic cholecystectomy be performed early (within 2 weeks of bile duct clearance), or should it be delayed (until 6 weeks after bile duct clearance)? 5. What is the long-term effect of laparoscopic cholecystectomy on outcomes that are important to patients? Gallstone disease List of all recommendations Strength of recommendations Some recommendations can be made with more certainty than others. The Guideline Development Group makes a recommendation based on the trade-off between the benefits and harms of an intervention, taking into account the quality of the underpinning evidence. For some interventions, the Guideline Development Group is confident that, given the information it has looked at, most patients would choose the intervention. The wording used in the recommendations in this guideline denotes the certainty with which the recommendation is made (the strength of the recommendation). For all recommendations, NICE expects that there is discussion with the patient about the risks and benefits of the interventions, and their values and preferences. This discussion aims to help them to reach a fully informed decision (see also ‘Patient-centred care’). Interventions that must (or must not) be used We usually use ‘must’ or ‘must not’ only if there is a legal duty to apply the recommendation. Occasionally we use ‘must’ (or ‘must not’) if the consequences of not following the recommendation could be extremely serious or potentially life threatening. Interventions that should (or should not) be used – a ‘strong’ recommendation We use ‘offer’ (and similar words such as ‘refer’ or ‘advise’) when we are confident that, for confident that an intervention will not be of benefit for most patients. Interventions that could be used We use ‘consider’ when we are confident that an intervention will do more
