Internal Clinical Guidelines Team
KEYWORDS: stones, cholecystectomy, duct, laparoscopic, ercp, bile, bile duct, patients, gallstone, disease, evidence, laparoscopic cholecystectomy, gallstone disease, common, gdg


confident that an intervention will not be of benefit for most patients. Interventions that could be used We use ‘consider’ when we are confident that an intervention will do more good than harm for most patients, and be cost effective, but other options may be similarly cost effective. The choice of intervention, and whether or not to have the intervention at all, is more likely to depend on the patient’s values and preferences than for a strong recommendation, and so the healthcare professional should spend more time considering and discussing the options with the patient. Gallstone disease Methods 3 Methods This guideline was developed in accordance with the process set out in ‘The guidelines manual (2012)’. There is more information about how NICE clinical guidelines are developed for stakeholders, the public and the NHS’ is available. In instances where the guidelines manual does not provide advice, additional methods are used and are described below. 3.1 Additional methods used in this guideline 3.1.1 Methods for combining diagnostic evidence: Meta-analysis of diagnostic test accuracy data was conducted in accordance with the process set out in the Cochrane Handbook for Systematic Reviews of Diagnostic Test Accuracy . A hierarchical, bivariate model was performed in R using MADA code (R Code Team 2012) to generate pooled estimates of sensitivity and specificity. 3.1.2 Methods for combining direct and indirect evidence (network meta-analysis) Conventional ‘pairwise’ meta-analysis involves the statistical combination of direct evidence about pairs of interventions that originate from two or more separate studies (for example, where there are two or more studies comparing A vs B). In situations where there are more than two interventions, pairwise meta-analysis of the direct evidence alone is of limited use. This is because multiple pairwise comparisons need to be performed to analyse each pair of interventions in the evidence, and these results can be difficult to interpret. Furthermore, direct evidence about interventions of interest may not be available. For example studies may compare A vs B and B vs C, but there may be no direct evidence comparing A vs C. Network meta-analysis overcomes these problems by combining all evidence into a single, internally consistent model, synthesising data from direct and indirect comparisons, and providing estimates of relative effectiveness for all comparators and the ranking of different interventions. The evidence in section 4.6 of this guideline was analysed using network meta-analysis, to inform decisions about managing common bile
