Internal Clinical Guidelines Team
KEYWORDS: stones, cholecystectomy, duct, laparoscopic, ercp, bile, bile duct, patients, gallstone, disease, evidence, laparoscopic cholecystectomy, gallstone disease, common, gdg


effectiveness for all comparators and the ranking of different interventions. The evidence in section 4.6 of this guideline was analysed using network meta-analysis, to inform decisions about managing common bile duct stones. Synthesis Hierarchical Bayesian Network Meta-Analysis (NMA) was performed using WinBUGS version 1.4.3. The models used reflected the recommendations of the NICE Decision Support Unit's Technical Support Documents (TSDs) on evidence synthesis, particularly TSD 2 ('A generalised linear modelling framework for pairwise and network meta-analysis of randomised controlled trials'; see The WinBUGS code provided in the appendices of TSD 2 was used without substantive alteration to specify synthesis models. Results were reported summarising 10,000 samples from the posterior distribution of each model, having first run and discarded 50,000 ‘burn-in’ iterations. Three separate chains with different initial values were used. Prior distributions Non-informative prior distributions were used in all models. Trial-specific baselines and treatment effects were assigned N(0, 1000) priors, and the between-trial standard deviations Gallstone disease Methods used in random-effects models were given U(0, 5) priors. These are consistent with the recommendations in TSD 2 for dichotomous outcomes. Choice of reference option To undertake an NMA, one option in the network must be specified as a common ‘reference’ option. The model will estimate the effects of all other options in comparison this. The choice of reference option is mathematically arbitrary; however, it may have implications for the computational efficiency of the network and/or the interpretability of outputs. For these reasons, the option that had been compared with the highest number of the other options was chosen as the reference. Reported outputs The NMA outputs shown in this guideline (see appendix H.7.5) are as follows:  Network diagram, showing the availability of evidence. In these diagrams: o node size is proportional to the total number of participants across the evidence base that were randomised to receive the treatment in question o the width of connecting lines is proportional to the number of trial-level comparisons available.  Table of input data, showing the evidence used in the model.  Relative effect matrix, showing an estimate of effect for each intervention compared with each of its comparators. An estimate of effect based on direct evidence only (using pairwise frequentist meta-analysis with the same fixed or random-effects models as the NMA) is also presented for comparisons where data are available  Plot of the relative effectiveness, including the results of the NMA of
