Internal Clinical Guidelines Team
KEYWORDS: stones, cholecystectomy, duct, laparoscopic, ercp, bile, bile duct, patients, gallstone, disease, evidence, laparoscopic cholecystectomy, gallstone disease, common, gdg


same fixed or random-effects models as the NMA) is also presented for comparisons where data are available  Plot of the relative effectiveness, including the results of the NMA of each intervention compared with the reference treatment (see E.2.4) and any direct estimate available for the same comparison.  Tabulated rank probabilities, giving the probability of each treatment being best (that is, ranked #1) and its median rank with 95% credible interval (CrI). In these outputs, higher ranking always reflects what is best for the patient (for example, higher rates of disease eradication, lower rates of adverse events, higher IQ, lower blood pressure, and so on).  Histograms demonstrating the probability of each treatment being at each possible rank ('rankograms') Applying GRADE to network meta-analysis The use of GRADE to assess the quality of studies addressing a particular review question for pairwise comparisons of interventions is relatively established. However, the use of GRADE to assess the quality of evidence across a network meta-analysis is still a developing methodology. While most criteria for pairwise meta-analyses still apply, it is important to adapt some of the criteria to take into consideration additional factors, such as how each 'link' or pairwise comparison within the network applies to the others. As a result, the following was used when modifying the GRADE framework to a network meta-analysis. Risk of bias In addition to the usual criteria to assess the risk of bias or 'limitations' of studies for each pairwise analysis within a network, the risk of bias was assessed for each direct comparison and assessed to see how it would affect the indirect comparisons. In addition, there was an assessment of treatment effect modifiers to see if they differed between links in the network. For network meta-analyses with a large proportion of studies that were judged to be susceptible to bias, some downgrading decision rules were applied.  If 50% or more studies in the network were inadequate or unclear for a particular parameter of quality, the outcome was downgraded by 1 level. Gallstone disease Methods  As with pairwise meta-analyses, studies with differences in concomitant treatment between groups, or which did not report concomitant treatment between groups (where permitted), were treated with caution. Additionally, if there were differences in concomitant treatment among the studies included in different links across the network, the overall outcome was downgraded. Inconsistency Inconsistency was assessed for the heterogeneity of
