Internal Clinical Guidelines Team
KEYWORDS: stones, cholecystectomy, duct, laparoscopic, ercp, bile, bile duct, patients, gallstone, disease, evidence, laparoscopic cholecystectomy, gallstone disease, common, gdg


if there were differences in concomitant treatment among the studies included in different links across the network, the overall outcome was downgraded. Inconsistency Inconsistency was assessed for the heterogeneity of individual pairwise comparisons in the network, and also between direct and indirect comparisons where both were available (that is, where there were ‘loops’ in the network). Heterogeneity across studies for each direct pairwise meta-analysis was assessed using I2. This allowed for the assessment of heterogeneity within the included studies using the following decision rules:  If there was considerable heterogeneity for 1 link or more in a network, the outcome was downgraded 1 level.  If there was more than 1 link in the network with considerable, substantial or moderate heterogeneity, consideration was given to downgrading 2 levels. To assess for consistency in each pairwise comparison where both direct and indirect evidence are available, the values of the direct and indirect estimates were compared to see if they were similar. The overall value of tau was also assessed to compare heterogeneity across the network. Indirectness As with pairwise meta-analyses, studies included in a network were assessed for how well they fit the PICO (population, intervention, comparator, outcome) specified in the review protocol. Imprecision Imprecision was assessed for a number of variables:  Sufficient head-to-head trials in the network.  Sufficient number of studies to form the network (if there was a high proportion of ‘links’ formed with only 1 trial, the outcome was downgraded).  Overall certainty/uncertainty of the effect estimates (size of credible intervals, including for each drug compared with the reference option, and size of credible intervals for the overall rankings within the network).  For networks, imprecision was considered around both the direct and indirect effect estimates. When assessing imprecision for pairwise comparisons, or for networks with only 1 trial for all ‘links’ in the network, the confidence interval around the direct estimate was used (since the results were largely led by a non-informative prior). Gallstone disease Signs and symptoms of gallstone disease 3.1.3 References Deeks JJ, Boyssut PM, Gatsonis C, (eds) (2010) . Cochrane Handbook for Systematic Reviews of Diagnostic Test Accuracy. Version 1.0 edition. The Cochrane Collaboration. R Code Team (2012) R: A language and environment for statistical computing. Vienna: R Foundation for statistical computing. Gallstone disease Signs and symptoms of gallstone disease 4 Evidence Review and Recommendations 4.1 Signs, symptoms and risk factors for
