Internal Clinical Guidelines Team
KEYWORDS: stones, cholecystectomy, duct, laparoscopic, ercp, bile, bile duct, patients, gallstone, disease, evidence, laparoscopic cholecystectomy, gallstone disease, common, gdg


environment for statistical computing. Vienna: R Foundation for statistical computing. Gallstone disease Signs and symptoms of gallstone disease 4 Evidence Review and Recommendations 4.1 Signs, symptoms and risk factors for gallstone disease 4.1.1 Review Question 1 What signs, symptoms, and risk factors should prompt a clinician to suspect symptomatic gallstone disease in adults presenting to healthcare services? 4.1.2 Evidence Review The aim of this question was to identify the specific signs, symptoms, and risk factors that can predict gallstone disease in adults who present at healthcare services. This question did not aim to identify signs, symptoms and risk factors for gallstone disease in the general population. This is because the majority of people with gallstone disease in the general population are asymptomatic, and the potential signs, symptoms and risk factors identified at a population level may be different to the signs, symptoms and risk factors that cause people to seek medical attention. A systematic search was conducted (see appendix D.1), which identified 7802 references. After removing duplicates the references were screened by their titles and abstracts. This led to 74 references being obtained and reviewed against the inclusion and exclusion criteria as described in the review protocol (appendix C.1). Primary research of any study design was eligible for inclusion if it satisfied the following criteria:  The included participants were adults presenting to healthcare services: studies were not eligible if they recruited a sample of the general population. This is because the use of evidence from populations in non-healthcare settings may misrepresent the type and severity of the signs, symptoms and risk factors that cause people to present at healthcare services.  Results were analysed using a multivariate method, such as multiple regression: Multivariate analyses enable independent risk factors for gallstone disease to be identified, as this type of analysis can account for the effects of other risk factors. For example, a bivariate analysis may reveal that there are 4 risk factors for gallstone disease (being over the age of 40, smoking, being obese, and having more than 1 pregnancy). From this analysis it is impossible to tell if a person presenting with all 4 risk factors has a different risk of gallstone disease to a person with just 2 of the risk factors. It is not known if the risk factors are dependent or independent of each other. Multivariate analysis can take the interrelationships between risk factors into consideration
