Internal Clinical Guidelines Team
KEYWORDS: stones, cholecystectomy, duct, laparoscopic, ercp, bile, bile duct, patients, gallstone, disease, evidence, laparoscopic cholecystectomy, gallstone disease, common, gdg


of the risk factors. It is not known if the risk factors are dependent or independent of each other. Multivariate analysis can take the interrelationships between risk factors into consideration and identify independent risk factors for gallstone disease. If a multivariate analysis shows that all 4 risk factors are independently related to gallstone disease, then someone presenting with all 4 risk factors has a different risk status to someone presenting with fewer risk factors. Overall, 73 studies were excluded as they did not meet the eligibility criteria. A list of excluded studies and reasons for their exclusion is provided in appendix F. One study met the eligibility criteria and was included. Data were extracted into detailed evidence tables (see appendix G.1) and are summarised in Table 1 below. The GRADE framework was modified for this review. As prospective studies were considered to be the highest quality evidence, these were rated initially as high quality while Gallstone disease Signs and symptoms of gallstone disease retrospective studies were downgraded to start as low quality. The evidence for the outcomes was then assessed in the normal GRADE framework by downgrading or upgrading on the basis of inconsistency, imprecision and indirectness. The modified GRADE profiles are in appendix I.1. After applying the modified GRADE framework the evidence was judged to be very low in quality. Full GRADE profiles are in appendix I.1 Table 1: Summary of included studies for review question 1 Study Prognostic Authors reference Population factors Results conclusions (Wegge Patients admitted The results of a Univariate analyses Classical signs and to hospital with structured found that 6 prognostic and symptoms are Kjaergaard upper abdominal interview and factors predicted relatively poor in 1985) pain less than a physical gallstone disease (Age establishing the N=192 week in duration examination were 50 years+, previous diagnosis of and no previous condensed into attacks of similar pain, gallstone disease, Denmark diagnosis of 37 prognostic intolerance to fatty but their absence gallstones factors. food, received is a relatively good analgesic injection at indicator for home, radiation of pain excluding the to back or shoulder, diagnosis. tenderness in the upper right quadrant), but these factors did not remain significant in subsequent multivariate analysis. 4.1.3 Health economic evidence health economic filters to the clinical search strategies (see Appendix D). For review questions 1 and 2, 914 references were retrieved, of which 16 were retained after title and abstract screening. No
