Internal Clinical Guidelines Team
KEYWORDS: stones, cholecystectomy, duct, laparoscopic, ercp, bile, bile duct, patients, gallstone, disease, evidence, laparoscopic cholecystectomy, gallstone disease, common, gdg


filters to the clinical search strategies (see Appendix D). For review questions 1 and 2, 914 references were retrieved, of which 16 were retained after title and abstract screening. No health economic studies were found for question 1. Health economic modelling was not prioritised for this review question. 4.1.4 Evidence Statements Very low quality evidence from 1 retrospective cohort study did not identify any factors that could predict gallstone disease in those presenting with upper abdominal pain lasting less than one week. 4.1.5 Evidence to Recommendations Relative value of There was insufficient evidence relating to any outcome from this different review question as the single included study only included people outcomes presenting with upper abdominal pain lasting less than one week. Trade off between Some people present to healthcare services with typical signs, benefits and symptoms and risk factors for gallstone disease (such as sudden harms severe abdominal pain, nausea, jaundice etc.) as in the included study. The GDG agreed that most medical professionals would suspect gallstone disease in people presenting with these typical symptoms, as these features are well recognised and medical students are routinely educated about them. There was insufficient Gallstone disease Signs and symptoms of gallstone disease evidence available to support or refute these typical signs, symptoms and risk factors as the single study identified only included people presenting with upper abdominal pain lasting less than a week. The GDG considered putting typical signs and symptoms in a recommendation based on their combined knowledge and experience but felt that that may become a barrier to people who present with atypical signs and symptoms. The GDG also acknowledged that some people with gallstone disease present with symptoms that can be vague and easily misattributed to other conditions (such as indigestion or general abdominal discomfort) by both the patient and their healthcare professional. This can mean that gallstone disease is not immediately considered, and patients may be investigated or treated for a condition that they do not have. This ultimately affects patient quality of life, and the use of NHS resources as patients will continue to have unresolved symptoms that may get worse, resulting in inappropriate treatments and investigations being offered to the patient. However, there was insufficient evidence available to enable this group of patients to be identified. Thus the GDG decided not to make a recommendation based on typical signs and symptoms or risk factors that should
