Internal Clinical Guidelines Team
KEYWORDS: stones, cholecystectomy, duct, laparoscopic, ercp, bile, bile duct, patients, gallstone, disease, evidence, laparoscopic cholecystectomy, gallstone disease, common, gdg


available to enable this group of patients to be identified. Thus the GDG decided not to make a recommendation based on typical signs and symptoms or risk factors that should prompt a clinician to suspect symptomatic gallstone disease in adults presenting to healthcare services. Consideration of No health economic evidence was found. Health Benefits and Resource Use Quality of The single study available for this review was of very low quality, and evidence insufficient evidence was provided to support decision making. Other The GDG acknowledged the lack of research that was available considerations around identifying signs, symptoms and risk factors for gallstone disease, but felt that good quality research in this area would have limited value as the benefits would be small. The identification of specific signs, symptoms and risk factors would ultimately refine the number of people who were offered ultrasound and liver function tests (these tests were reviewed and recommended in section 4.2 of this guideline). Since these tests are relatively low cost and easy to perform, are low risk and minimally invasive to patients, and are widely used for a range of conditions, refining the number of these tests that are performed would not lead to major cost savings or improvements in the quality of NHS care. Therefore, the GDG did not feel that a research recommendation would be useful. 4.1.6 Recommendations No recommendations were made in relation to this review question. Gallstone disease Signs and symptoms of gallstone disease 4.1.7 Research recommendations No research recommendations were made in relation to this review question. 4.1.8 References Acosta JM, Katkhouda N, Debian KA et al. (2006) Early ductal decompression versus conservative management for gallstone pancreatitis with ampullary obstruction: a prospective randomized clinical trial. Annals of Surgery 243: 33-40 Ahmed M, Diggory R (2011) The correlation between ultrasonography and histology in the search for gallstones. Annals of the Royal College of Surgeons of England 93: 81-3 Alponat A, Kum CK, Rajnakova A et al. (1997) Predictive factors for synchronous common bile duct stones in patients with cholelithiasis. Surgical Endoscopy 11: 928-32 Altun E, Semelka RC, Elias J, Jr. et al. (2007) Acute cholecystitis: MR findings and differentiation from chronic cholecystitis. Radiology 244: 174-83 Amott D, Webb A, Tulloh B (2005) Prospective comparison of routine and selective operative cholangiography. ANZ Journal of Surgery 75: 378-82 Ara R, Brazier J (2008) Deriving an algorithm to convert the eight mean SF-36 dimension
