Internal Clinical Guidelines Team
KEYWORDS: stones, cholecystectomy, duct, laparoscopic, ercp, bile, bile duct, patients, gallstone, disease, evidence, laparoscopic cholecystectomy, gallstone disease, common, gdg


methods are the most accurate. A systematic search was conducted (appendix D.2), which identified 6312 references. After removing duplicates and screening the references based on their titles and abstracts, 310 references were obtained. These were reviewed against the inclusion and exclusion criteria as detailed in the review protocols (appendix C.2). Primary research utilising a randomised controlled trial, cohort, or cross sectional design was eligible for inclusion. Studies also had to have utilised a valid reference standard. Currently there is no accepted reference standard for confirming the presence or absence of gallstone disease, so studies were only included if they met the following criteria:  Surgery as the reference standard for evaluating the gallbladder: this is the best available method for diagnosing gallstones in the gallbladder and cholecystitis.  Endoscopic retrograde cholangiopancreatography (ERCP) as the reference standard for evaluating the biliary tract: this is the best available method for diagnosing common bile duct stones. These procedures can accurately confirm the presence of gallstone disease by extracting the gallstone(s). Other tests such as endoscopic ultrasound, magnetic resonance reference standards. It is much more difficult to confirm the absence of gallstone disease. Gallstones or common bile duct stones may be missed during endoscopic or surgical investigations. Patients can be followed up to establish if signs and symptoms persist, which can indicate that gallstone disease is present but was missed during previous investigations. However, this can be misleading, as the patient’s signs and symptoms can be caused by other conditions, or new gallstone disease could have developed since the original investigations. As there is no alternative method for definitively confirming the absence of gallstone disease, surgery and ERCP were accepted as the best available reference standards, and their potential inaccuracies are acknowledged. During the review, a date restriction was also imposed on all studies that utilised endoscopic, surgical, or radiological methodologies. This was because technological advances have made older studies of limited relevance to clinical practice today. An arbitrary publication of date of 1993 or later was used as it coincides with the approximate introduction of laparoscopic cholecystectomy into clinical practice in the UK. The only exceptions to this date restriction were studies that focused on predicting the presence of gallstone disease are not as dependent on technology, and studies conducted over 20 years ago are likely to still be relevant to clinical practice today. Overall, 23 studies met the eligibility criteria and were
