Internal Clinical Guidelines Team
KEYWORDS: stones, cholecystectomy, duct, laparoscopic, ercp, bile, bile duct, patients, gallstone, disease, evidence, laparoscopic cholecystectomy, gallstone disease, common, gdg


Magnetic resonance MRCP= magnetic resonance cholangiopancreatography Table 3: Studies reporting prognostic data Reference Significant Study Population standard Prognostic factors predictors (Alponat et Patients undergoing ERCP age, sex, history of right Cholangitis, al. 1997) laparoscopic hypochondrial pain, CBD>6mm with Singapore cholecystectomy indication for procedure- stone on who were indicated previous or present ultrasound for ERCP elevated serum liver AST Bilirubin of cholangitis, jaundice, pancreatitis, dilated CBD over 6mm with or without stone on ultrasound, serum level of each liver enzyme (AST,ALT, ALP, GGT,LDH) bilirubin and ultrasonographic findings (Barr et al. Patients who had ERCP age, sex, admission AMY 1999) undergone ERCP temperature, weight, AST, GGT USA prior to laparoscopic ALT, ALP, GGT, bilirubin, CBD diameter cholecystectomy amylase, lipase, current or ALP recent medications, common bile duct diameter as measured by ultrasonography, ERC findings of the presence or absence of common bile duct stones (Shiozawa Patients who had ERCP age, gender, abdominal ALP et al. 2005) undergone ERCP pain, fever elevation, Bilirubin Japan prior to laparoscopic jaundice, pancreatitis, AMY cholecystectomy aspartate aminotransferase CBD diameter (AST), alanine aminotransferase (ALT), total bilirubin (TBIL), gamma glutamyl Gallstone disease Diagnosing gallstone disease Reference Significant Study Population standard Prognostic factors predictors transpeptidase (GGT), alkaline phosphatase (ALP), amylase (AMY), and ultrasound findings. AST= Aspartate aminotransferase; ALP= Alkaline phosphatase; AMY= Amylase; CBD= Common bile duct; ERCP= endoscopic retrograde cholangiopancreatography; GGT= Gamma glutamyl transferase 4.2.3 Health economic evidence health economic filters to the clinical search strategies (see Appendix D). Searches for al. 2006; Kaltenthaler et al. 2004). An assessment of the quality of the economic evidence is given in Table 4. This review question was not prioritised for original health economic modelling. Howard et al (2006) used a decision tree analysis to compare MRCP with ERCP for diagnosing post-cholecystectomy CBDS in patients with abdominal pain and/or abnormal liver function tests. Kaltenhaler et al. (2004) used a decision tree analysis to compare MRCP with diagnostic ERCP for patients with suspected CBDS. The GDG felt that, as it was based on UK data and covered a wider patient population, Kaltenhaler et al (2004) provided slightly higher quality evidence. However, both studies were felt to be of use. Both studies found that MRCP dominated ERCP, but this depended on the prior probability of CBDS. In probabilistic sensitivity analysis, Howard et al. (2006) was found to be 83% cost effective (at Australian $50,000/QALY threshold) and Kaltenhaler et al. (2004) was found to be 100%
