Internal Clinical Guidelines Team
KEYWORDS: stones, cholecystectomy, duct, laparoscopic, ercp, bile, bile duct, patients, gallstone, disease, evidence, laparoscopic cholecystectomy, gallstone disease, common, gdg


Diagnosis-Related Group ERCP: Endoscopic retrograde cholangiopancreatography ICER: Incremental cost effectiveness ratio Gallstone disease Diagnosing gallstone disease Incremental Study, Population, Country and Quality Data Sources Other Comments Cost Effect ICER Conclusions Uncertainty MRCP: Magnetic retrograde cholangiopancreatography PSA: Probabilistic sensitivity analysis UK: United Kingdom a Specific population, may not be generalisable to all gallstone patients b not UK based c Effect parameters not taken from best available sources d Diagnostic accuracy estimates based on all patients, not just post cholecystectomy patients e Costing year not given f Utilities not derived from patients Gallstone disease Diagnosing gallstone disease 4.2.4 Evidence Statements While most of the diagnostic tests had sensitivities and specificities above 50%, some had confidence intervals below 50% for either sensitivity or specificity. This means that there is uncertainty in the evidence as some of the tests may actually perform worse than chance alone. The quality of this evidence was mainly moderate to low in quality. variety of assumptions, MRCP appeared cost effective compared with ERCP for diagnosing CBDS. 4.2.5 Evidence to Recommendations Relative value of The various metrics for estimating diagnostic test accuracy were different discussed by the GDG, and they agreed to base decisions on outcomes sensitivity and specificity. This is because other diagnostic test accuracy measures are less reliable (for example, positive and negative predictive values), or cannot be meta-analysed (for example, likelihood ratios, as robust methods for doing this have not yet been developed). utilities associated with diagnostic testing, and the minimum sensitivity and specificity values that it would tolerate. It agreed that sensitivity and specificity estimates at or below 0.50 (or with confidence intervals below 0.50) were not clinically useful as these results indicate that the test could perform the same or worse than chance alone. The GDG agreed that sensitivity and specificity were equally as important in all diagnostic tests, except for ultrasound and liver function tests where the GDG would accept lower sensitivity values. The GDG recognised that patients with false negative results at this early stage of the clinical pathway would be offered subsequent investigations as part of their differential diagnosis. Therefore they could tolerate lower levels of sensitivity, and so a higher number of with recurrent symptoms at a later time point. The GDG felt that morbidity and mortality related to false negatives was lower at this early stage of investigations, than for people with false positives who would undergo unnecessary treatment. The
