Internal Clinical Guidelines Team
KEYWORDS: stones, cholecystectomy, duct, laparoscopic, ercp, bile, bile duct, patients, gallstone, disease, evidence, laparoscopic cholecystectomy, gallstone disease, common, gdg


GDG felt that morbidity and mortality related to false negatives was lower at this early stage of investigations, than for people with false positives who would undergo unnecessary treatment. The GDG agreed that in practice other tests are only offered after ultrasound and liver function tests have been performed. Because of this, the GDG felt that for other tests sensitivity and specificity were equally as important, as false positive and false negative results are associated with similar levels of subsequent morbidity and mortality at this stage of the pathway. Trade off between benefits and Abdominal ultrasound harms For gallbladder stones: A single study provided very low quality evidence about ultrasound for diagnosing gallbladder stones. The Gallstone disease Diagnosing gallstone disease study showed that ultrasound was extremely useful for identifying the presence of gallstones (high sensitivity) but was not at all useful for ruling out gallstones in people who don’t have them (low specificity). The GDG felt that these results did not match their own experiences of using the test to diagnose gallstones, and they felt that the test is both sensitive and specific. Since the evidence was based on a single results were not reliable. For cholecystitis: Three studies provided very low quality evidence about ultrasound for diagnosing cholecystitis. Point estimates for sensitivity and specificity were satisfactorily high, but confidence intervals fell below 0.50 for sensitivity. The GDG felt that it could accept lower sensitivity values for this test, as it is very low risk and is used routinely in the NHS for a range of conditions. In addition, the GDG noted that the studies included in this meta-analysis had very small populations, so the wide confidence intervals may be because of a lack of statistical power rather than a lack of sensitivity. For common bile duct stones: Five studies provided low quality evidence about ultrasound for diagnosing common bile duct stones. Sensitivity and specificity values were satisfactorily high and supported the GDG’s own knowledge and experience of the test. The GDG were confident that ultrasound was clinically useful in diagnosing common bile duct stones. Overall: the GDG felt there was sufficient evidence to recommend ultrasound for diagnosing gallstone disease since it is accurate, widely available throughout the NHS and is of very low risk to the patient. Cholescintigraphy (HIDA scan) No evidence was available. The GDG agreed that this test is not routinely used for diagnosing gallstone disease, and
