Internal Clinical Guidelines Team
KEYWORDS: stones, cholecystectomy, duct, laparoscopic, ercp, bile, bile duct, patients, gallstone, disease, evidence, laparoscopic cholecystectomy, gallstone disease, common, gdg


is of very low risk to the patient. Cholescintigraphy (HIDA scan) No evidence was available. The GDG agreed that this test is not routinely used for diagnosing gallstone disease, and that it is usually used for people for whom other tests are unsuitable. The GDG agreed not to make a recommendation based on the knowledge and experience of the group. The test exposes patients to ionising radiation and the associated risks, and other tests considered in this review have evidence supporting their use for diagnosing gallbladder stones. Computer Tomography (CT) For cholecystitis: A single, small study provided low quality evidence about CT for diagnosing cholecystitis. The study had unreliable estimates of specificity, as the confidence interval was below 0.50. The GDG agreed that there was insufficient evidence and decided not to make a recommendation based on the knowledge and experience of the group. They felt that other tests considered in this review are better at diagnosing cholecystitis. For common bile duct stones: Three studies provided moderate quality evidence about CT for diagnosing common bile duct stones. The meta-analysis demonstrated that CT had satisfactory sensitivity and specificity estimates. Overall: CT uses ionising radiation, and the sensitivity and specificity were found to be inferior to other tests, such as MRCP. Because of Gallstone disease Diagnosing gallstone disease this, the GDG felt that CT should not be recommended for diagnosing gallstone disease, as other tests are more sensitive, specific, and safer. CT cholangiography (CTC) For common bile duct stones: Evidence about CTC for common bile duct stones was provided by 4 studies. These showed that sensitivity and specificity were satisfactorily high, with reliable confidence intervals. However, the GDG decided not to recommend this test because the contrast agent needed to perform CTC (iotroxic acid) is not available in the UK. This test also exposes patients to ionising radiation, and the GDG felt that there were more accurate and safer tests for diagnosing common bile duct stones. Endoscopic Ultrasound (EUS) For common bile duct stones: Three studies provided low quality evidence about endoscopic ultrasound for diagnosing common bile duct stones. The meta-analysis demonstrated that endoscopic ultrasound had very high sensitivity and specificity estimates. However, the confidence intervals for specificity fell below 0.50, indicating that there is uncertainty about whether the test is clinically useful. becoming widely accepted as being an accurate test for diagnosing common bile duct stones. However, when ERCP is used as
