Internal Clinical Guidelines Team
KEYWORDS: stones, cholecystectomy, duct, laparoscopic, ercp, bile, bile duct, patients, gallstone, disease, evidence, laparoscopic cholecystectomy, gallstone disease, common, gdg


there is uncertainty about whether the test is clinically useful. becoming widely accepted as being an accurate test for diagnosing common bile duct stones. However, when ERCP is used as a reference standard against which to judge the accuracy of EUS, cases that are classified as false positives on EUS might actually be revealed as false negatives on ERCP, were a perfect reference standard with which to judge both tests available. Therefore, the GDG believed that such analyses may underestimate the accuracy of EUS. . Liver function tests For common bile duct stones: Three studies that could not be pooled examined predictors of common bile duct stones and included liver function tests among the variables that were examined. These studies examined different combinations of risk factors and so their results could not be meta-analysed. One study provided moderate quality evidence, and the other 2 provided very low quality evidence. All 3 studies found that liver function tests were clinically useful in predicting common bile duct stones. The GDG agreed that there was sufficient evidence to recommend the use of liver function tests for identifying common bile duct stones, as supportive evidence was provided by all 3 studies. The GDG based its decisions on the results of Shiozawa (2005), based on the moderate quality rating, large sample size, narrow confidence intervals and clinically useful sensitivity and specificity estimates. Like ultrasound, the GDG felt that liver function tests could be recommended because the test is widely available throughout the NHS and is of very low risk to the patient. Magnetic Resonance Cholangiopancreatography (MRCP) For cholecystitis: Two studies provided low quality evidence about Gallstone disease Diagnosing gallstone disease MRCP for diagnosing cholecystitis and demonstrated satisfactorily high estimates of sensitivity and specificity. Only one of these studies considered the presence of gallstones when diagnosing cholecystitis. The GDG felt that healthcare professionals would consider the presence of gallstones when making their diagnosis, and if this had been done in both studies included in the evidence, then diagnostic test accuracy would be more certain. The GDG felt that they could explain some of the uncertainty in the sensitivity and specificity estimates for MRCP, and so could be confident that this test is clinically useful. For common bile duct stones: Eight studies provided moderate quality evidence about MRCP for diagnosing common bile duct stones. The meta-analysis demonstrated sufficiently robust sensitivity and specificity values, so the GDG was
