Internal Clinical Guidelines Team
KEYWORDS: stones, cholecystectomy, duct, laparoscopic, ercp, bile, bile duct, patients, gallstone, disease, evidence, laparoscopic cholecystectomy, gallstone disease, common, gdg


bile duct stones: Eight studies provided moderate quality evidence about MRCP for diagnosing common bile duct stones. The meta-analysis demonstrated sufficiently robust sensitivity and specificity values, so the GDG was confident that MRCP was also clinically useful and should be recommended. Magnetic Resonance Imaging- contrast enhanced (MRI- contrast enhanced) For cholecystitis: The GDG agreed there was insufficient evidence to recommend MRI for cholecystitis, as evidence came from a single small study using contrast enhancement, which is not normally done in confidence intervals for specificity fell below 0.50, so the GDG were unsure if the test was useful. The GDG agreed not to make a recommendation about MRI based on the knowledge and experience of the group, as it felt that other tests considered in this review are better tests for diagnosing cholecystitis and conditions associated with gallstone disease. Summary of all diagnostic methods After reviewing and discussing the evidence, the GDG agreed that ultrasound, liver function tests, EUS and MRCP could be recommended for diagnosing gallstone disease. The GDG then discussed the sequencing of diagnostic tests and based these discussions on the group’s knowledge and experience. The evidence review in section 4.1 of this guideline discussed the 2 main ways that patients with gallstone disease present to health care services: either with typical signs, symptoms, and risk factors for gallstone disease, or with vague abdominal or gastrointestinal symptoms that can easily be misattributed to other conditions. Because of this, the group felt that ultrasound and liver function tests should be recommended as first line investigations for patients with suspected gallstone disease. In addition, these tests were recommended for patients with abdominal or gastrointestinal symptoms that are not responding to treatment as expected, since this group of patients may have ‘unsuspected’ gallstone disease. This was felt to be of benefit to both patients and the NHS as these tests are clinically useful, relatively cheap and widely available. Improving the identification of gallstone disease in people without typical symptoms would ultimately enable patients to progress to more appropriate investigations or treatment pathways. The group then discussed if MRCP and EUS should both be offered as second line investigations. Gallstone disease Diagnosing gallstone disease MRCP is widely available throughout the NHS, is relatively quick to perform on an outpatient basis, and requires no sedation. It is less effective at diagnosing common bile duct stones than EUS and is not an appropriate test for
