Internal Clinical Guidelines Team
KEYWORDS: stones, cholecystectomy, duct, laparoscopic, ercp, bile, bile duct, patients, gallstone, disease, evidence, laparoscopic cholecystectomy, gallstone disease, common, gdg


quick to perform on an outpatient basis, and requires no sedation. It is less effective at diagnosing common bile duct stones than EUS and is not an appropriate test for patients with metal implants or claustrophobia. The GDG agreed that EUS is a more accurate test than MRCP, but EUS is an invasive test and procedural errors could result in adverse effects for the patient (such as perforation and even death). The test is normally performed with the patient under sedation, which carries its own risks to the patient, and requires the patient to be accompanied by a responsible adult for 24 hours after sedation. People who do not have a responsible adult to escort them will need to be admitted to NHS as other tests (such as MRCP) are. Although the GDG agreed that EUS was probably superior at diagnosing gallstone disease than MRCP when performed by highly skilled operators, there was acknowledgement that not all operators would be highly skilled. Although skilled operators should also perform MRCP, the GDG felt that there is less potential for harm if less skilled operators performed the test. This is because MRCP is non-invasive, and the entire diagnostic process is recorded. This means that poor quality or equivocal tests can be reviewed by another operator, who may be able to offer a diagnosis without having to investigate the patient again. EUS only records key images from the test, so a second reviewer would not be able to check unclear or poor quality tests and in these cases patients would need to have another test performed. The GDG agreed that in most cases MRCP would be safer and more acceptable to patients than EUS and recommended MRCP as a second line investigation and EUS as a third line investigation. However, the GDG wanted to stress that this should not preclude appropriately trained and experienced operators using EUS instead of MRCP if appropriate. Consideration of Limited published health economic evidence suggested that MRCP Health Benefits appears cost effective compared with ERCP for diagnosing CBDS. In and Resource most situations MRCP appeared more effective and less costly than Use ERCP. Despite the limitations of the evidence presented, the GDG felt that it supported the primary use of MRCP for diagnosing CBDS. The GDG noted that there was no health economic comparison available for many of the other diagnostic interventions under consideration. Quality of Overall, the
