Internal Clinical Guidelines Team
KEYWORDS: stones, cholecystectomy, duct, laparoscopic, ercp, bile, bile duct, patients, gallstone, disease, evidence, laparoscopic cholecystectomy, gallstone disease, common, gdg


use of MRCP for diagnosing CBDS. The GDG noted that there was no health economic comparison available for many of the other diagnostic interventions under consideration. Quality of Overall, the evidence was moderate to very low in quality. evidence For gallbladder stones, only low quality evidence on ultrasound was found. For cholecystitis, low quality evidence on MRCP and CT and very low quality evidence on ultrasound and MRI was found. For common bile duct stones, moderate quality evidence was found on MRCP, CT, CT cholangiography, and for a model predicting Gallstone disease Diagnosing gallstone disease common bile duct stones using liver function tests and other predictors. Low quality evidence was found for ultrasound and endoscopic ultrasound, and very low quality evidence was found for 2 models predicting common bile duct stones using liver function tests and other predictors. Other None considerations 4.2.6 Recommendations 1. Offer liver function tests and ultrasound to people with suspected gallstone disease, and to people with abdominal or gastrointestinal symptoms that have been unresponsive to previous management 2. Consider magnetic resonance cholangiopancreatography (MRCP) if ultrasound has not detected common bile duct stones but the:  bile duct is dilated and/or  liver function test results are abnormal. 3. Consider endoscopic ultrasound (EUS) if MRCP does not allow a diagnosis to be made. 4. Refer people for further investigations if conditions other than gallstone disease are suspected. 4.2.7 Research recommendations 1. What are the long-term benefits and harms, and cost effectiveness of endoscopic ultrasound (EUS) compared with magnetic resonance cholangiopancreatography (MRCP) in adults with suspected common bile duct stones? Why this is important MRCP and EUS have both been found to be sufficiently accurate for diagnosing common bile duct stones, with EUS regarded as the most accurate test. MRCP is non-invasive and so carries negligible risks to the patient. However, EUS carries a small but significant risk of patient harms, including death. There is insufficient evidence available to determine whether the benefits of improved diagnosis associated with EUS outweigh its procedural risks. Therefore, research is needed to compare MRCP with EUS to evaluate the subsequent management of common bile duct stones. 4.2.8 References Ahmed M, Diggory R (2011) The correlation between ultrasonography and histology in the search for gallstones. Annals of the Royal College of Surgeons of England 93: 81-3 Alponat A, Kum CK, Rajnakova A et al. (1997) Predictive factors for synchronous common bile duct stones
