Internal Clinical Guidelines Team
KEYWORDS: stones, cholecystectomy, duct, laparoscopic, ercp, bile, bile duct, patients, gallstone, disease, evidence, laparoscopic cholecystectomy, gallstone disease, common, gdg


titles and abstracts, 56 references were obtained and reviewed against the inclusion and exclusion criteria as described in the review protocol (appendix C.3). Primary research using a randomised controlled trial, cohort or cross sectional design was eligible for inclusion. Two main types of study were expected to be found by the search: prospective studies recruiting a sample of the general population to identify and follow up people with asymptomatic gallbladder stones, and retrospective reviews of people presenting with symptomatic gallstone disease whose prior medical history was examined to identify whether asymptomatic gallbladder stones had previously been diagnosed. Both types of study were eligible for inclusion. From the review, 55 studies were excluded, mainly because they provided prevalence and/or incidence data only. A list of the excluded studies and reasons for their exclusion is provided in appendix F. One prospective cohort study met the eligibility criteria and was included. Data were extracted into detailed evidence tables (see appendix G.3) and are summarised in Table 5 below. Appropriate methodology checklists were used to appraise the methodological quality of individual studies, and a modified version of the GRADE framework was applied to summarise the overall quality of the evidence (see appendix I.3). In this approach the prospective cohort study was started with a ‘high’ quality rating and was further downgraded as appropriate, according to standard GRADE framework. Overall this evidence was rated as very low in quality. Gallstone disease Asymptomatic gallbladder stones Table 5: Summary of included studies for question 3 Study Prognostic factors Authors reference Population investigated Results conclusions (Attili et al. Patients with Age, sex, body  Biliary colic The natural 1995) asymptomatic mass index, No significant predictors history of N=118 gallstones, awareness of gallstones is followed up for having gallstones less benign than Italy  Complications 10 years before diagnosis, is generally gallbladder The low number of events considered opacification, meant that analysis was number of stones, not possible diameter of stones, radiopacity of  Cholecystectomy stones, occurrence Occurrence of biliary colic of biliary colic. predicted cholecystectomy  Death No associations between potential predictive factors and death were reported. 4.3.3 Health economic evidence A literature search was conducted for review question 3 by applying standard health references were retrieved, of which 9 were retained after title and abstract screening. No health economic studies were found for question 3. Health economic modelling was not prioritised for this review question. 4.3.4 Evidence
