Internal Clinical Guidelines Team
KEYWORDS: stones, cholecystectomy, duct, laparoscopic, ercp, bile, bile duct, patients, gallstone, disease, evidence, laparoscopic cholecystectomy, gallstone disease, common, gdg


which 9 were retained after title and abstract screening. No health economic studies were found for question 3. Health economic modelling was not prioritised for this review question. 4.3.4 Evidence Statements Very low quality evidence from a single study examined predictors of symptomatic gallstone disease in patients who were asymptomatic at the time the trial was conducted. Insufficient data were reported in the study to validate the author’s findings that the following variables are not significant predictors of the development of biliary colic, other complications, or death:  age  sex  body mass index  awareness of having gallstones before diagnosis  gallbladder opacification  number of stones  diameter of stones Gallstone disease Asymptomatic gallbladder stones  radiopacity of stones. Occurrence of biliary colic was not found to be a predictor of additional complications or death. 4.3.5 Evidence to Recommendations Relative value of The evidence was based on the results of a single study. Only different descriptive data and significance levels were provided, so secondary outcomes analysis for the purposes of this review could not be performed. As no meaningful results were provided by the evidence, the GDG based its decisions on the knowledge and experience of the group, and alongside evidence presented in section 4.4 of this guideline. Trade off between For people with asymptomatic gallbladder stones in a normal biliary benefits and tree, the GDG agreed that there is currently no way of predicting which harms people will go on to develop complications. Based on their experience, the GDG agreed that most people with asymptomatic gallbladder stones will not develop complications. However, once a patient has been informed that they have asymptomatic gallbladder stones, they may worry about their risk of developing complications in future, and may ask about having treatment prophylactically. Because of this, the discussions are linked to the evidence about managing asymptomatic gallbladder stones, which is reviewed and has recommendations on asymptomatic gallbladder stones made in section 4.4. After considering the evidence (see ‘Evidence to recommendations’, section 4.4.5), the GDG felt that the prophylactic treatment of asymptomatic gallstones is likely to have a higher risk than leaving them untreated as all of the treatment options carry risks of adverse effects (such as side effects of medication and surgery risks,). Therefore the GDG recommended that healthcare professionals should reassure patients that asymptomatic gallstones do not need treatment unless they develop symptoms (see section 4.4.6
