Internal Clinical Guidelines Team
KEYWORDS: stones, cholecystectomy, duct, laparoscopic, ercp, bile, bile duct, patients, gallstone, disease, evidence, laparoscopic cholecystectomy, gallstone disease, common, gdg


effects of medication and surgery risks,). Therefore the GDG recommended that healthcare professionals should reassure patients that asymptomatic gallstones do not need treatment unless they develop symptoms (see section 4.4.6 of this guideline). The GDG felt that some people with asymptomatic gallbladder stones will have other abnormalities detected, either in their biliary tree (such as calcification of the gallbladder) or elsewhere in their body at the time of gallbladder stone detection. For this group of people, the GDG agreed that there is a need to perform further tests and investigations to rule in or rule out other diseases and conditions, such as cancer. It is not within the scope of this guideline to describe or review the evidence for the range of other conditions that should be investigated, so the GDG felt that they could not make recommendations about what a healthcare professional should do when other abnormalities coexist with asymptomatic gallstones. Consideration of No health economic evidence was found. Health Benefits and Resource Use Quality of A single study providing very low quality evidence was not adequately evidence powered to predict acute complications. Gallstone disease Asymptomatic gallbladder stones Other The GDG acknowledged that definitions of asymptomatic gallbladder considerations stones may vary and so the following definitions were developed:  Asymptomatic gallbladder stones: – stones in the gallbladder that are found incidentally, as a result of imaging investigations unrelated to gallstone disease, in people who have been completely symptom-free for at least 12 months before diagnosis.  Symptomatic gallbladder stones: – gallbladder stones found on imaging of the gallbladder (the GDG felt that a person undergoing gallbladder imaging must be experiencing symptoms to prompt the investigation) – people with diagnosed gallbladder stones who have experienced any symptoms in the past 12 months. 4.3.6 Recommendations & Research Recommendations No specific recommendations were made in relation to this question. 4.3.7 References Attili AF, De SA, Capri R et al. (1995) The natural history of gallstones: the GREPCO experience. The GREPCO Group. Hepatology 21: 655-60 Gallstone disease Managing asymptomatic gallbladder stones 4.4 Managing asymptomatic gallbladder stones 4.4.1 Review Question 4a Which strategies should be used for managing asymptomatic gallbladder stones? 4.4.2 Evidence Review This question aimed to establish if prophylactic treatment should be offered to people with asymptomatic gallbladder stones, to prevent them from developing symptoms in the future. A single search was performed for questions 4a, 4b, 4c and 5, which identified
