Internal Clinical Guidelines Team
KEYWORDS: stones, cholecystectomy, duct, laparoscopic, ercp, bile, bile duct, patients, gallstone, disease, evidence, laparoscopic cholecystectomy, gallstone disease, common, gdg


offered to people with asymptomatic gallbladder stones, to prevent them from developing symptoms in the future. A single search was performed for questions 4a, 4b, 4c and 5, which identified 10,976 references. After removing duplicates and screening the references based on their titles and abstracts, 210 references were obtained and reviewed against the inclusion and exclusion criteria for this review question (appendix C)., and 47 references met the overall inclusion criteria. Details of excluded studies and reasons for their exclusion are in appendix F.4. None of the 47 included references met the criteria for this specific review question (see study flow chart, appendix E.4). 4.4.3 Health economic evidence A literature search was conducted jointly for questions 4 and 5 by applying standard health 1,396 references were retrieved for questions 4 and 5, of which none were retained for question 4a. Health economic modelling was not prioritised for this review question. 4.4.4 Evidence Statements No evidence that met the inclusion and exclusion criteria for this question was found. 4.4.5 Evidence to Recommendations Relative value of No evidence was available for this review question. The GDG based different its decisions on the knowledge and experience of the group. outcomes Trade-off between The GDG discussed the potential benefits and harms of the various benefits and treatment options that were considered, using its knowledge and harms experience as no evidence was available:  Dissolution therapy is used to painlessly dissolve gallbladder stones using oral tablets. This is safe, relatively cheap and patients may express a preference for this type of treatment. However, patients have to take dissolution drugs over a long time period, and possibly for the rest of their life. Some people may find this inconvenient, particularly as they will not be experiencing any symptoms. These drugs often have side effects such as diarrhoea, and adherence to the drugs over the long term may be affected by this. Furthermore, the GDG highlighted that dissolution therapies only work for certain types of gallbladder stones. Since there are several types of gallbladder stones and no way of knowing which type the patient has without extracting and examining the stones, Gallstone disease Managing asymptomatic gallbladder stones there is no way of knowing for which people dissolution therapies will be effective.  Lithotripsy for gallbladder stones uses ultrasound waves to break up gallstones into smaller pieces, with the idea that smaller pieces can pass naturally through the
