Internal Clinical Guidelines Team
KEYWORDS: stones, cholecystectomy, duct, laparoscopic, ercp, bile, bile duct, patients, gallstone, disease, evidence, laparoscopic cholecystectomy, gallstone disease, common, gdg


therapies will be effective.  Lithotripsy for gallbladder stones uses ultrasound waves to break up gallstones into smaller pieces, with the idea that smaller pieces can pass naturally through the biliary system without causing any symptoms for the patient. This treatment requires an ultrasound probe to be placed over the abdomen, and is painless and non- invasive. However, the GDG highlighted that lithotripsy is less effective for large or multiple stones, and like dissolution therapy is less effective on certain types of stones. In addition, lithotripsy carries a small but significant risk of pancreatitis, which can be life threatening.  Cholecystectomy is a radical treatment where the gallbladder is removed during a surgical procedure. Although this treatment is safe and effective, there is a risk of harms (as with any surgery) such as infection, bleeding, bile leaks and injuries to the bile duct, and general risks associated with undergoing anaesthesia, all of which are rare but can be life threatening.  Watch and wait/conservative management is when there is no active treatment until the gallbladder stones begin to show symptoms. In this case there is no risk to the patient until they develop symptoms and begin active treatment. After discussing the various treatment options, the GDG agreed that most people with asymptomatic gallbladder stones will not go on to develop complications, and so the risks of intervention outweigh the risks of leaving asymptomatic stones untreated. Furthermore, the GDG felt that the resource implications of treating asymptomatic gallbladder stones should be considered, since the GDG felt a large proportion of the general population have asymptomatic gallbladder stones. Offering unnecessary treatment to a large number of people would not be the best use of NHS resources. The GDG also felt that it was important to discuss asymptomatic common bile duct stones, which were reviewed as part of question 4c (see section 4.6). No evidence about asymptomatic common bile duct stones was found, but the GDG felt that they were able to make recommendations based on their knowledge and experience. Asymptomatic common bile duct stones are different to asymptomatic gallbladder stones.  Asymptomatic gallbladder stones are confined to the gallbladder, as are complications such as acute cholecystitis. The complications of gallbladder stones can be life threatening but are rarely so. Deaths caused by gallbladder stone complications usually occur in people with other comorbidities.  Asymptomatic common bile duct stones are stones that have
