Internal Clinical Guidelines Team
KEYWORDS: stones, cholecystectomy, duct, laparoscopic, ercp, bile, bile duct, patients, gallstone, disease, evidence, laparoscopic cholecystectomy, gallstone disease, common, gdg


be life threatening but are rarely so. Deaths caused by gallbladder stone complications usually occur in people with other comorbidities.  Asymptomatic common bile duct stones are stones that have moved out of the gallbladder and into the biliary system. Complications caused by common bile duct stones are not confined to the gallbladder and can affect other organs in the biliary system, such as the pancreas. Complications such as pancreatitis and cholangitis are more likely to be life threatening than acute cholecystitis, and deaths from these conditions commonly occur in Gallstone disease Managing asymptomatic gallbladder stones people without other comorbidities. The group agreed that the risks associated with leaving asymptomatic common bile duct stones untreated outweighed the risks of treatment, and that common bile stones have an increased risk of serious complications than asymptomatic gallbladder stones. Therefore, the GDG agreed that asymptomatic common bile duct stones should be managed in the same way as symptomatic common bile duct stones (see section 4.6.5 for a discussion of this evidence). Recommendations about managing asymptomatic common bile duct stones are in section 4.6. Consideration of No health economic evidence was found. Health Benefits and Resource Use Quality of No evidence was available. evidence Other The discussions around asymptomatic gallbladder stones that were considerations linked to discussions around asymptomatic common bile duct stones were reviewed as part of review question 4c in section 4.6. The GDG discussed whether it would be useful to make a research recommendation about treating asymptomatic gallbladder stones, since there was no evidence to base their decisions on. The group agreed that an appropriate trial would be one that screened a large population to identify sufficient people with asymptomatic gallbladder stones, who would then need to be followed up for many years. The GDG felt that ideally, people included in such a trial should not be told that they have asymptomatic gallbladder stones identified, as it was felt that this knowledge could confound the findings of a trial. This is because once people are aware they have asymptomatic gallbladder stones they may report symptoms they would not have otherwise have noticed, or seek medical attention for symptoms that they would not have normally sought attention for. Since it would not be ethical to withhold information from patients, the GDG agreed that in reality there is no appropriate way to conduct primary research in this area. Therefore it was decided that
