Internal Clinical Guidelines Team
KEYWORDS: stones, cholecystectomy, duct, laparoscopic, ercp, bile, bile duct, patients, gallstone, disease, evidence, laparoscopic cholecystectomy, gallstone disease, common, gdg


were assessed Day-case management 1999) laparoscopic admission for cholecystectomy, who had an as being at risk of conversion did not compromise Australia cholecystectomy laparoscopic ASA status less than IV, to open surgery patient outcomes. There cholecystectomy adequate motivation levels was no advantage in cost N=150 savings compared with inpatient management. (Johansson et Day-case Planned inpatient Patients presenting for gallstone ASA score of III or IV, extreme Day-case procedures can al. 2006) laparoscopic admission for disease surgery between the obesity, patients with extensive be performed and have a Sweden cholecystectomy laparoscopic ages of 18 and 70 years abominal surgery, those with a low rate of complications cholecystectomy clincial suspicion of common and admissions / N= 107 bile duct stones or a history of readmissions. Day-case acute cholecystitis or options are acceptable to pancreatitis were considered patients and are unsuitable for outpatient associated with reduced surgery cost. (Keulemans et Day-case Planned inpatient Patients indicated for ASA III and IV, patients older Effectiveness was equal in al. 1998) laparoscopic admission for cholecystectomy due to than 70 years, and patients both groups and patients The Netherlands cholecystectomy laparoscopic symptomatic cholelithiasis with extensive previous appear satisfied with their N= 80 suspicion of bile duct stones, procedures are preferable acute cholecystitis, and because it is less calcified gallbladder expensive. Young (2008) Day-case Planned inpatient Patients undergoing Not stated With careful selection of Australia laparoscopic admission for laparoscopic cholecystectomy patients, LC cases cholecystectomy laparoscopic aged 50 and under, ASA II or performed as day N= 28 cholecystectomy less, and who spoke English procedures did not impact were approached in the at all on the patients' preadmission clinic. recovery trajectory Gallstone disease Managing symptomatic gallbladder stones 4.5.3 Health economic evidence A literature search was conducted jointly for questions 4 and 5 by applying standard health references were retrieved for questions 4 and 5, of which 1 was retained for question 4b and 1 was retained for question 5. As no existing health economic studies were found that addressed all the comparisons in questions 4 and 5, an original economic model was constructed. 4.5.3.1 Original health economic modelling – methods A full description of the health economic model can be found in in Appendix J; a summary is presented here. The model was developed in line with the NICE reference case (National Institute for Health and Care Excellence 2013). A single health economic model structure was developed to address
