Internal Clinical Guidelines Team
KEYWORDS: stones, cholecystectomy, duct, laparoscopic, ercp, bile, bile duct, patients, gallstone, disease, evidence, laparoscopic cholecystectomy, gallstone disease, common, gdg


here. The model was developed in line with the NICE reference case (National Institute for Health and Care Excellence 2013). A single health economic model structure was developed to address all prioritised comparisons under questions 4b, 4c and 5. For question 4b, no evidence was found to enable the modelling of the percutaneous cholecystostomy comparison. A single Markov structure with 2-week cycles was used to assess all comparisons (see Figure 1). Not all states and transitions were used in each comparison (see Appendix J for descriptions of the states and transitions available for each comparison). A lifetime horizon was adopted to capture the long term impact of bile duct injuries and mortality differences. The model is a natural history rather than a diagnosis model, so the model “knows” whether a patient has CBDS, irrespective of whether the patient or clinician knows. Surgical interventions (laparoscopic cholecystectomy and ERCP, or both together) are represented as 2-week states, with short term surgical consequences (including mortality) modelled as cost and QALY impacts within one 2-week state. Laparoscopic cholecystectomy can cause bile duct injury. Gallstone disease Managing symptomatic gallbladder stones GS GS ERCP LC+ERCP GS+CBDS GS GS symptomatic symptomatic LC GS+CBDS ERCP GS+CBDS GS No stones asymptomatic asymptomatic GS+CBDS LC+ERCP CBDS symptomatic GS+CBDS CBDS LC ERCP CBDS –common bile duct stones CBDS ERCP –endoscopic retrograde cholangiopancreatography GS –gallbladder stones asymptomatic LC –laparoscopic cholecystectomy Arrows indicate possible transitions (dotted arrows indicate transitions that are only possible where a procedure fails). States with stippled background represent procedures that can only be undertaken in the case of an incomplete or incorrect diagnosis. States with yellow shading are those in which a proportion of the cohort experience permanent sequelae of bile duct injury. Figure 1: Gallstones Health Economic Model Diagram Symptoms modelled are mutually exclusive and specific to gallbladder stones (biliary colic, acute cholecystitis) or CBDS (cholangitis, jaundice, pancreatitis [with associated mortality risk], sepsis). Where possible, model parameters (symptoms at baseline or during treatment, operative data from standard laparoscopic cholecystectomy or ERCP trial arms combined to increase parameter accuracy. Costs are based on 2011–12 NHS reference costs (Department of Health 2012). As the GDG identified length of stay as a critical outcome, resource use was based on length of stay differences reported in the included clinical studies. There are few EQ-5D-based utility values for gallstones, so SF36 data were converted to utility values (Ara and Brazier 2008). The quality
