Internal Clinical Guidelines Team
KEYWORDS: stones, cholecystectomy, duct, laparoscopic, ercp, bile, bile duct, patients, gallstone, disease, evidence, laparoscopic cholecystectomy, gallstone disease, common, gdg


stay differences reported in the included clinical studies. There are few EQ-5D-based utility values for gallstones, so SF36 data were converted to utility values (Ara and Brazier 2008). The quality of life impact of interventional procedures reflects length of stay, but is assumed to return to normal within 2 weeks, unless a bile duct injury occurred (assumed to have lifelong impact). All symptoms are assumed to have the same utility impact. The utility impact of living with asymptomatic gallbladder stones were taken from a study of urinary stones (Penniston and Nakada 2007). The health economic model has a number of limitations that should be considered. A number of key parameters are based on the included clinical evidence that has wide confidence intervals; zero event rates in 1 arm are common. A lack of gallstone-specific utility values required a number of assumptions to be made regarding the QALY outcomes. Interventions Gallstone disease Managing symptomatic gallbladder stones are costed using average costs – micro-costing of interventions may help identify differences between options, but may limit the generalisability of the model. 4.5.3.2 Original health economic modelling – results Table 7: Cost effectiveness results for laparoscopic cholecystectomy versus conservative management Discounted Incremental Strategy Costs QALYs Costs QALYs ICER Laparoscopic cholecystectomy £2516.33 16.009 Conservative Management £11,028.41 15.323 £8512.07 −0.686 Dominated (a) Results represent means of 1,000 probabilistic model runs The health economic model found that conservative management is more costly and produces fewer QALYs than laparoscopic cholecystectomy and is therefore said to be dominated (see Table 7). This remained true in 100% of probabilistic model runs. It appears that not removing the gallbladder increases the need for and exposure to further ERCPs and also gallbladder cancer. Table 8: Cost effectiveness results for laparoscopic cholecystectomy with intraoperative cholangiography versus laparoscopic cholangiography alone Discounted Incremental Strategy Costs QALYs Costs QALYs ICER Laparoscopic cholecystectomy £2475.10 16.008 Laparoscopic cholecystectomy with IOC £2612.50 15.997 £137.41 −0.010 Dominated (a) Results represent means of 1,000 probabilistic model runs routine intraoperative cholangiography is more costly and produces fewer QALYs than laparoscopic cholecystectomy alone and is therefore said to be dominated (see Table 8). This result is driven by the increased costs of higher laparoscopic to open cholecystectomy conversion rates and uncertain rates of bile duct injury and bile leak in the intraoperative cholangiography arm - neither of the latter were statistically significant. In probabilistic sensitivity analysis, laparoscopic cholecystectomy alone has a 67% chance
