Internal Clinical Guidelines Team
KEYWORDS: stones, cholecystectomy, duct, laparoscopic, ercp, bile, bile duct, patients, gallstone, disease, evidence, laparoscopic cholecystectomy, gallstone disease, common, gdg


bile duct injury and bile leak in the intraoperative cholangiography arm - neither of the latter were statistically significant. In probabilistic sensitivity analysis, laparoscopic cholecystectomy alone has a 67% chance of being cost effective at a threshold of £20,000 per QALY compared with laparoscopic cholecystectomy with intraoperative cholangiography. Table 9: Cost Effectiveness Results for Day Case versus Inpatient Laparoscopic Cholecystectomy Discounted Incremental Strategy Costs QALYs Costs QALYs ICER Day-case laparoscopic cholecystectomy £2534,65 15.887 Inpatient laparoscopic cholecystectomy £2932.24 15.998 £397.59 0.111 £3568 / QALY (a) Results represent means of 1,000 probabilistic model runs Inpatient laparoscopic cholecystectomy costs more and produces more QALYs than day- case laparoscopic cholecystectomy, at an acceptable cost of QALY of £3568/QALY (see Table 9). The increased costs are driven by the additional length of stay in the inpatient arm. The QALY gains result from a higher estimated bile duct injury rate in the day-case cohort; however, this rate should be interpreted with caution as it is based on 1 event in the day- case arm and 0 events in the inpatient arm. This uncertainty is reflected in probabilistic sensitivity analysis, in which inpatient laparoscopic cholecystectomy has a 56% chance of being cost effective at a threshold of £20,000 per QALY compared with day case laparoscopic cholecystectomy. Therefore, it may be more appropriate to view inpatient Gallstone disease Managing symptomatic gallbladder stones laparoscopic cholecystectomy as more expensive than day-case laparoscopic cholecystectomy with comparable QALY outcomes. 4.5.4 Evidence Statements One study provided low quality evidence about conservative management in comparison with laparoscopic cholecystectomy, and there was some evidence that laparoscopic cholecystectomy was superior to conservative management. Readmission rates were lower in the laparoscopic cholecystectomy group than the conservative management group, and 44% of people in the conservative management group also required cholecystectomy Three studies provided moderate to low quality evidence about laparoscopic cholecystectomy in comparison with laparoscopic cholecystectomy with intraoperative cholangiography and there was uncertainty about whether the addition of intraoperative cholangiography was beneficial or not since there were no significant differences between the groups on any of the outcomes. No evidence was available comparing cholecystostomy to laparoscopic cholecystectomy, and so no conclusions can be drawn. Five studies providing moderate to low quality evidence compared day-case laparoscopic cholecystectomy with planned inpatient laparoscopic cholecystectomy. No differences in readmission rate or quality of life were found. Unplanned inpatient admissions were required in 12.1% of planned day case procedures. A directly applicable
