Internal Clinical Guidelines Team
KEYWORDS: stones, cholecystectomy, duct, laparoscopic, ercp, bile, bile duct, patients, gallstone, disease, evidence, laparoscopic cholecystectomy, gallstone disease, common, gdg


planned inpatient laparoscopic cholecystectomy. No differences in readmission rate or quality of life were found. Unplanned inpatient admissions were required in 12.1% of planned day case procedures. A directly applicable original health economic model analysis with minor limitations suggests laparoscopic cholecystectomy is cost effective compared with conservative management. Comparisons of laparoscopic cholecystectomy with laparoscopic cholecystectomy and intra- operative cholangiography and day-case with inpatient laparoscopic cholecystectomy were limited by the quality of the clinical evidence. 4.5.5 Evidence to Recommendations Relative value of In general, studies were underpowered for the outcomes that the GDG different had chosen and so confidence intervals relating to effect estimates for outcomes many outcomes were wide. This was expected, since events such as mortality and bile duct injury are relatively rare and sample sizes would need to be very large to observe sufficient rare events. There was also a lack of randomised controlled trial (RCT) evidence for some of the comparisons that were considered as part of this review. The GDG felt that it is generally accepted that trials where participants for whom cholecystectomy is appropriate are randomised to a treatment that may be less effective may be seen as unethical, thus limiting the amount of RCT evidence that is available. Trade off between benefits and Laparoscopic cholecystectomy compared with conservative harms management The evidence comparing conservative management to laparoscopic cholecystectomy was limited. Only 1 underpowered study met the inclusion criteria. The evidence showed that disease progression was statistically significantly lower in patients offered cholecystectomy compared with conservative management, but there were no statistically significant differences between the groups in terms of Gallstone disease Managing symptomatic gallbladder stones readmission, or mortality. Other outcomes that the GDG felt were critical to their decision making (requirement for additional intervention, and length of stay) were not reported by the study. The GDG agreed that the results imply that conservative management is only suitable as a temporary management strategy, as patients offered conservative management continued to have recurrent biliary events. This supports the GDG’s views that once a gallbladder develops gallstone formation and preventing recurrent biliary events is cholecystectomy. The GDG agreed that laparoscopic cholecystectomy has been established as a relatively safe procedure, and the risks of disease progression outweigh the risks of this type of surgery. Of course all surgeries carry some risks, particularly for people with complex, multiple conditions and for these patients the risk of surgery may well
