Internal Clinical Guidelines Team
KEYWORDS: stones, cholecystectomy, duct, laparoscopic, ercp, bile, bile duct, patients, gallstone, disease, evidence, laparoscopic cholecystectomy, gallstone disease, common, gdg


risks of this type of surgery. Of course all surgeries carry some risks, particularly for people with complex, multiple conditions and for these patients the risk of surgery may well outweigh the risk of disease progression. Furthermore, some patients may choose not to opt for surgical treatment. Thus, the GDG agreed that conservative management should only be considered when cholecystectomy is not appropriate, and felt that this is standard practice across the NHS already and so did not require a specific recommendation to be made. However, the GDG did feel that sometimes older patients and those with comorbidities may be assumed to be inappropriate for laparoscopic cholecystectomy before they have even been assessed. Therefore the group felt the need to reinforce the message that laparoscopic cholecystectomy is becoming increasingly safer and that it is inappropriate not to offer this treatment to someone where the risks of disease progression outweigh the risks of surgery. The GDG felt justified in making a strong recommendation to offer laparoscopic cholecystectomy to all patients with symptomatic gallbladder stones, since there is sufficient acceptance of this procedure in the clinical in this review. Laparoscopic cholecystectomy compared with percutaneous cholecystostomy No evidence that met the inclusion criteria was available about comparing percutaneous cholecystostomy to laparoscopic cholecystectomy and so the GDG discussed this treatment option by reflecting on its knowledge and experience. Percutaneous cholecystostomy is widely accepted to be a safe and effective treatment for patients with a gallbladder obstruction. The GDG felt that percutaneous cholecystostomy is only used when cholecystectomy is not an appropriate treatment option (either standard practice across the NHS. However, the GDG agreed that there is inappropriate variation in the way that patients are managed once a percutaneous cholecystostomy has been placed. This was attributed to the fact that patients presenting with symptomatic gallbladder stones will usually be admitted to a surgeon, and when surgery is identified as not being an appropriate treatment option, the patient is then considered for percutaneous cholecystostomy. The GDG felt that some patients are never reassessed for Gallstone disease Managing symptomatic gallbladder stones making surgery an appropriate option for them. The GDG agreed that there is a high incidence of recurrent gallbladder sepsis in this group of patients which has a high risk of mortality associated with it. Thus, the GDG agreed to recommend that patients with percutaneous cholecystostomy should be reviewed for reconsideration for cholecystectomy once adequate drainage
