Internal Clinical Guidelines Team
KEYWORDS: stones, cholecystectomy, duct, laparoscopic, ercp, bile, bile duct, patients, gallstone, disease, evidence, laparoscopic cholecystectomy, gallstone disease, common, gdg


has a high risk of mortality associated with it. Thus, the GDG agreed to recommend that patients with percutaneous cholecystostomy should be reviewed for reconsideration for cholecystectomy once adequate drainage has been established and the acute episode has resolved in order to minimise the risk of recurrent sepsis and mortality. Laparoscopic cholecystectomy compared with laparoscopic cholecystectomy with intraoperative cholangiography (IOC) Intraoperative cholangiography is performed during laparoscopic cholecystectomy to improve the safety of the procedure, by improving visualisation of the biliary anatomy and therefore reducing bile duct injuries, and it can also identify common bile duct stones that weren’t suspected at earlier diagnostic work up. The evidence review considered the use of routine IOC, selective IOC, and not using IOC at all, but there were no statistically significant differences for any of the outcomes that the GDG had chosen to base its decisions on. The GDG felt that this was because the studies were underpowered, and so were not confident in these findings. Thus, the discussions about IOC were based on the knowledge and experience of the GDG. The GDG acknowledged that the individual studies included in the review drew mixed conclusions about whether IOC was useful or not, and this reflected current differences in clinical opinions about the usefulness of the procedure. The GDG reflected on its knowledge and experience and agreed that using IOC to improve visualisation of biliary anatomy offers clear benefits during laparoscopic cholecystectomy. This is because improved visualisation improves the surgeon’s ability to plan and progress with laparoscopic cholecystectomy, making it safer for the patient. Because of this the GDG agreed that it is desirable for all surgeons performing laparoscopic cholecystectomy to be competent in IOC. However, there was further debate in relation to the benefits and harms of IOC for detecting common bile duct stones, and these discussions linked to evidence about managing common bile duct stones which is presented in section 4.6 of this guideline, where it was agreed that all common bile duct stones need to be removed, regardless of whether they are causing symptoms or not. Common bile duct stones found during IOC can be removed laparoscopically by a surgeon who has undergone specialist training. Most surgeons trained to do laparoscopic cholecystectomy do not have this specialist training and will not remove bile duct stones laparoscopically. Alternatively, common bile duct stones can be removed endoscopically. This can be done pre-, intra-, or
