Internal Clinical Guidelines Team
KEYWORDS: stones, cholecystectomy, duct, laparoscopic, ercp, bile, bile duct, patients, gallstone, disease, evidence, laparoscopic cholecystectomy, gallstone disease, common, gdg


do not have this specialist training and will not remove bile duct stones laparoscopically. Alternatively, common bile duct stones can be removed endoscopically. This can be done pre-, intra-, or post- operatively by someone who has undergone specific endoscopy training. Although some surgeons are appropriately trained for performing endoscopies, the majority of surgeons trained to perform laparoscopic cholecystectomy are not, and surgical lists are not usually planned with both a surgeon and an endoscopist in attendance. Thus the GDG agreed that few teams would be equipped to deal with common bile duct stones that might be identified. The GDG felt that once common bile duct stones are discovered, they Gallstone disease Managing symptomatic gallbladder stones need removing either at the time of discovery or within 2 or 3 days. Thus, if an unequipped team discovered stones the team would need to make an unplanned and urgent call for an appropriately trained person to remove the stones during the operation. Alternatively stones would need to be left in situ and the patient rescheduled for another intervention, thus exposing the patient to the risk of the stone developing serious complications during the wait, and the risks associated with undergoing a second intervention (such as risks of anaesthesia and procedural errors). Thus the group agreed that there was insufficient evidence of benefit to support a recommendation about using IOC for diagnosing common bile duct stones, or when inadequate preoperative diagnostic tests have been performed. Instead, the GDG felt that good preoperative examinations using diagnostic methods outlined in section 4.2 would improve the chances of common bile duct stones being identified preoperatively so that subsequent cholecystectomy can be planned to deal with common bile duct stones by appropriate surgeons and/or endoscopists. Overall, the GDG felt that IOC is beneficial for visualising the biliary anatomy and making laparoscopic cholecystectomy safer, and because of this surgeons performing laparoscopic cholecystectomy should be competent to use the procedure. However, the use of IOC varies in current clinical practice as there are uncertainties about its potential harms when unexpected common bile duct stones are discovered by surgeons who do not have specialist training to remove the stones laparoscopically. Thus the GDG decided not to make a recommendation about IOC. Instead a research recommendation was made to support the development of more research to explore the potential benefits and harms of this procedure. The GDG also wanted to stress that
