Internal Clinical Guidelines Team
KEYWORDS: stones, cholecystectomy, duct, laparoscopic, ercp, bile, bile duct, patients, gallstone, disease, evidence, laparoscopic cholecystectomy, gallstone disease, common, gdg


Instead a research recommendation was made to support the development of more research to explore the potential benefits and harms of this procedure. The GDG also wanted to stress that the lack of a recommendation should not preclude suitably trained individuals from using IOC at their discretion in the appropriate clinical situations. Day-case laparoscopic cholecystectomy compared with inpatient stay laparoscopic cholecystectomy The choice about whether to perform laparoscopic cholecystectomy as a day-case procedure or as planned inpatient admission was also reviewed. The evidence revealed that there were no statistically significant differences for any of the outcomes that the GDG had chosen to base their decisions on. Furthermore, the GDG acknowledged that some of the evidence included in this comparison came from older studies that might not accurately reflect continuing improvements in surgical outcomes that have occurred over time. Thus the discussions about day-case or planned inpatient admission were based on the knowledge and experience of the GDG. The GDG agreed that there are no differences in important outcomes between day-case and inpatient procedures. The GDG discussed whether day-case surgery should always be offered to patients, since it offers the benefits of enabling the patient to return home sooner, of NHS resources. taken into consideration. For example, patients require adult Gallstone disease Managing symptomatic gallbladder stones supervision for 24hours after cholecystectomy and people who do not have someone at home to supervise them will require an inpatient stay. Similarly, some patients with comorbidities may need admitting to hospital before or after the operation to manage their other conditions. Thus the GDG felt that decisions about whether to plan day-case or inpatient cholecystectomy should be decided at a local level on a case by case basis to take the various patient and clinical factors into account. Consideration of For laparoscopic cholecystectomy compared with conservative Health Benefits and Resource benefits of surgery outweigh the health detriment of leaving the Use gallbladder in situ and having recurrent biliary events. The GDG noted the economic model considered this question as a binary choice – either removing the gallbladder or leaving it in situ – that is unlikely to almost always produces higher costs and lower QALYs, but did not specifically consider older patients with comorbidities. For laparoscopic cholecystectomy versus laparoscopic cholecystectomy with intra-operative cholangiography, the economic model suggests laparoscopic cholecystectomy is a more cost-effective significant differences in rates of operative consequences, in which the GDG
