Internal Clinical Guidelines Team
KEYWORDS: stones, cholecystectomy, duct, laparoscopic, ercp, bile, bile duct, patients, gallstone, disease, evidence, laparoscopic cholecystectomy, gallstone disease, common, gdg


For laparoscopic cholecystectomy versus laparoscopic cholecystectomy with intra-operative cholangiography, the economic model suggests laparoscopic cholecystectomy is a more cost-effective significant differences in rates of operative consequences, in which the GDG were not confident. Probabilistic analysis of the model suggested laparoscopic cholecystectomy was the cost-effective option in around 2/3 of cases over a wide range of assumed values of 1 QALY, so intra-operative cholangiography may be cost effective in some situations and when done by appropriately trained surgeons Whilst the comparison of day case to inpatient laparoscopic cholecystectomy suggests inpatient laparoscopic cholecystectomy is non-statistically significant differences (in bile duct injury rates) in which the GDG were not confident. Increased costs of inpatient laparoscopic cholecystectomy were driven by higher lengths of stay. It may be more appropriate to view inpatient laparoscopic cholecystectomy as more expensive than day-case laparoscopic cholecystectomy with comparable QALY outcomes. Quality of Evidence was of moderate to low quality, and some comparisons had evidence no evidence at all. Other None considerations 4.5.6 Recommendations 6. Offer laparoscopic cholecystectomy to people diagnosed with symptomatic gallbladder stones. 7. Offer day-case laparoscopic cholecystectomy for people having it as an elective inpatient stay more appropriate. Gallstone disease Managing symptomatic gallbladder stones 8. Offer percutaneous cholecystostomy to manage gallbladder empyema when:  surgery is not appropriate at presentation and  conservative management is unsuccessful. 9. Reconsider laparoscopic cholecystectomy for people who have had percutaneous cholecystostomy once they are well enough for surgery. 4.5.7 Research recommendations 2. What are the benefits and harms, and cost effectiveness of routine intraoperative cholangiography in people with low to intermediate risk of common bile duct stones? Why this is important In the evidence reviewed for this guideline, there was a lack of randomised controlled trials of intraoperative cholangiography. Therefore, there is a need for large, high-quality trials to address clinical questions about the benefits and harms of intraoperative cholangiography. 4.5.8 References Amott D, Webb A, Tulloh B (2005) Prospective comparison of routine and selective operative cholangiography. ANZ Journal of Surgery 75: 378-82 Ara R, Brazier J (2008) Deriving an algorithm to convert the eight mean SF-36 dimension scores into a mean EQ-5D preference-based score from published studies (where patient level data are not available). Value in Health 11: 1131-43 Barthelsson C, Anderberg B, Ramel S et al. (2008) Outpatient versus inpatient laparoscopic cholecystectomy: a prospective randomized study of symptom occurrence, symptom distress and general state of health during the first
