Internal Clinical Guidelines Team
KEYWORDS: stones, cholecystectomy, duct, laparoscopic, ercp, bile, bile duct, patients, gallstone, disease, evidence, laparoscopic cholecystectomy, gallstone disease, common, gdg


managing common bile duct stones? 4.6.2 Evidence Review A single search was performed for questions 4a, 4b, 4c and 5 which identified 10,976 references. After removing duplicates and screening the references based on their titles and abstracts, 210 references were obtained and reviewed against the inclusion and exclusion criteria for this review question (appendix C), and 47 references met the inclusion criteria overall. Details of excluded studies and reasons for their exclusion are in appendix F.4. Of the 47 included references, 24 references relating to 24 randomised controlled trials were included in this review question (see study flow chart, appendix E.4) which specifically addressed the following comparisons for managing common bile duct stones:  ERCP vs conservative management (9 studies)  ERCP and laparoscopic cholecystectomy vs ERCP alone (2 studies)  (pre-, intra-, post- operative) ERCP clearance of the bile duct plus laparoscopic cholecystectomy compared with surgical clearance of the bile duct plus laparoscopic cholecystectomy (12 studies)  Uncleared duct with biliary stent vs cleared duct (1 study)  Day-case ERCP vs planned inpatient ERCP (no studies) Data were extracted into detailed evidence tables (see appendix G.4) and are summarised in Table 10 below. Each study was assessed for methodological quality using randomised controlled trial checklists, and some studies had methodological flaws which impacted on the overall quality of the evidence. For example, some studies didn’t report randomisation procedures and those that did sometimes used inappropriate methods (patient identifying numbers – Hong, 2006), or had methods that led to differences in baseline characteristics of the groups (for example, Hui, 2002) which could bias results. Data from multiple studies were available for most of the comparisons; therefore, meta- analysis was performed wherever possible (see appendix H.7). In addition, network meta- analysis was possible to compare the different methods for ERCP clearance of the duct (pre- , intra-, or post- operative) in comparison with surgical clearance. Standard GRADE approaches were used to assess pairwise comparisons, and a modified version of the GRADE framework was used to assess the evidence analysed using network meta analysis (see appendix I.6 for full GRADE profiles). In the modified approach, the standard GRADE criteria still apply but additional factors are also considered such as how each 'link' or pairwise comparison within the network applies to the others (see NICE clinical guideline CG173, appendix D for details of the additional factors that may be considered in a network
