Internal Clinical Guidelines Team
KEYWORDS: stones, cholecystectomy, duct, laparoscopic, ercp, bile, bile duct, patients, gallstone, disease, evidence, laparoscopic cholecystectomy, gallstone disease, common, gdg


or pairwise comparison within the network applies to the others (see NICE clinical guideline CG173, appendix D for details of the additional factors that may be considered in a network meta analysis). However, since the network of evidence for this review question was relatively small, very few of the additional criteria actually applied. Details of the specific reasons for downgrading are stated in the footnotes of the relevant GRADE profiles in appendix I.6. Gallstone disease Managing common bile duct stones Table 10: Summary of included studies for question 4c Study Intervention Comparator Inclusion criteria Exclusion criteria Authors conclusions (Boerma et al. ERCP with ERCP alone Patients who underwent Patients unfit for surgery (ASA A wait and see policy after 2002) laparoscopic sucessful endoscopic IV and V) ERCP cannot be The Netherlands cholecystectomy sphincterotomy and extraction of recommended since 47% 6 weeks later common bile duct stones who of patients in the ERCP N=120 had radiologically proven stones alone group developed in the gallbladder recurrent biliary events. ERCP with ERCP alone Patients older than 60 years of Evidence of intrahepatic Cholecystectomy after China laparoscopic age, who received complete stones, radiological evidence ERCP reduces recurrent cholecystectomy endoscopic sphincterotomy, of recurrent pyogenic biliary events and should N=178 as soon as radiological evidence of an intact cholangitis, intercurrent be recommended. practical gallbladder containing malignancy with a limited life gallbladder stones, no previous span, or deemed unfit for hospitalisation for cholecystitis. cholecystectomy (ASA IV or V) (Acosta et al. ERCP Conservative Age over 18 years, symptoms Alcoholism or other causes of In patients with gallstone 2006) management consistent with gallstone pancreatitis, severe pancreatitis and ampulary USA pancreatitis and ampullary cholangitis, coagulation obstruction, limiting the obstruction, admission within disorder, cirrhosis, duration of obstruction to N=61 48hrs of onset of symptoms, contraindication to general no longer than 48hrs by serum amylase or lipase levels anaesthesia, previous Billroth ERCP decreased at least 2 times the upper II procedure. morbidity. normal limit, serum bilirubin grater or equal to 1.4mg/dL, objective demonstration of gallstones, ERCP during Conservative Patients with acute pancreatitis Not stated Emergency ERCP is Hong Kong acute phase management indicated in patients with followed by ERCP acute pancreatitis N= 195 after the acute episode had subsided (Folsch et al. ERCP Conservative Patients with pain in the upper Pregnant, coagulation In patients with acute Gallstone disease Managing common bile duct stones Study Intervention Comparator Inclusion criteria Exclusion criteria Authors
