Internal Clinical Guidelines Team
KEYWORDS: stones, cholecystectomy, duct, laparoscopic, ercp, bile, bile duct, patients, gallstone, disease, evidence, laparoscopic cholecystectomy, gallstone disease, common, gdg


Exclusion criteria Authors conclusions Argentina pancreatitis acute cholangitis patients with gallstone pancreatitis and acute N= 103 biliary obstruction. If acute cholangitis can be excluded, ERCP is not mandatory. (Vracko et al. ERCP Conservative Consecutive and unselected Not stated ERCP improves the 2006) management series of elderly patients over clinical course for the Sweden/ 65years of age with acute majority of elderly patients Slovenia cholecystitis suffering from acute cholangitis. N=105 (Zhou and ERCP Conservative Patients admitted to hospital for Not stated It is safe to apply ERCP in Prasoon 2012) management acute gallstone pancreatitis the treatment of severe China acute gallstone pancreatitis. N= 45 (Chopra et al. Biliary stent in Ductal clearance Patients aged 70 and older, or Not stated For immediate bile duct 1996) uncleared bile using ERCP younger with serious debilitating drainage, stent insertion UK duct disease with a single duct stone proved safe and effective greater than 10mm in diameter alternative to duct N= 43 or 2 or more stones of any size clearance. (Bansal et al. Preoperative Surgical bile duct Patients with symptomatic Not stated The results showed 2010) ERCP plus exploration plus gallstones and CBDS with a equivalent success rate in India laparoscopic laparoscopic diameter more than 10mm terms of mortality and cholecystectomy cholecystectomy hospital stay. N=30 Laparoscopic approach seems to be favourable because of the smaller number of procedures and hospital visits (Cuschieri et al. Preoperative Surgical bile duct ASA I or II patients who were Not stated The results demonstrate 1999) ERCP plus exploration plus suspected or had proved ductal equivalent success rates Australia, cholecystectomy cholecystectomy (jaundice, recent acute the two management Portugal, The pancreatitis), liver function tests options but significantly Gallstone disease Managing common bile duct stones Study Intervention Comparator Inclusion criteria Exclusion criteria Authors conclusions Netherlands phosphatase) and external the single stage N=300 ultrasound findings. laparoscopic treatment. Investigations such as CT was optional. (Ding et al. Preoperative Surgical bile duct Patients aged 16 to 70 years, Active acute pancreatitis. Single stage and China laparoscopic laparoscopic colic with or without jaundice, intrahepatic gallstones, were equally effective in cholecystectomy cholecystectomy serum elevation of at least one malignant pancreatic or biliary achieving initial clearance N=221 of the following: aspartate tumours, prior sphincterotomy, of CBDS. However, aminotransferase, alanine unfit for anaesthesia and recurrent CBDS occurred aminotransferase, glutamyl surgery, contraindications for more commonly in transpeptidase, alkaline to MRCP and ERCP, liver patients who had phosphatase, total bilirubin,
