Internal Clinical Guidelines Team
KEYWORDS: stones, cholecystectomy, duct, laparoscopic, ercp, bile, bile duct, patients, gallstone, disease, evidence, laparoscopic cholecystectomy, gallstone disease, common, gdg


effective and abnormal liver tests), who were efficient and avoided fit to undergo general unnecessary procedures. anaesthesia and cholecystectomy. (Rhodes et al. Postoperative Surgical bile duct Patients undergoing Not stated Surgical bile duct 1998) ERCP plus exploration plus cholecystectomy who had exploration is as effective UK laparoscopic laparoscopic common bile duct stones as ERCP in clearing the cholecystectomy cholecystectomy detected at peroperative CBD of stones. There is a N=80 cholangiography non-significant trend to Laparoscopic cholecystectomy shorter time in the was done with 4 ports, and operating theatre and a cholangiography was always significantly shorter done. After cholangiography hospital stay in patients patients with common bile duct treated by surgical bile stones were randomised to bile duct exploration. Gallstone disease Managing common bile duct stones Study Intervention Comparator Inclusion criteria Exclusion criteria Authors conclusions duct exploration or ERCP (Rogers et al. Preoperative Surgical bile duct ASA I or II patients with classic Patients without ASA I or II Both techniques were 2010) ERCP plus exploration plus signs and symptoms of gallstone status, patients with highly effective in USA laparoscopic laparoscopic disease (clinical and/or suppurative cholangitis or detecting and removing cholecystectomy cholecystectomy laboratory data and/or clinically severe pancreatitis. CBDS and were N=122 radiographic imaging suggestive equivalent in overall costs of cholecystitis, cholelithiasis, and patient acceptance. cholangitis, gallstone However, overall duration pancreatitis, of hospitalisation was choledocholithiasis). shorter and physician fees Patients were over 18 years of lower for surgical bile duct age, with classic biliary type exploration pain, at least one episode in the last 6 months, ultrasound demonstration of cholecystolithiasis, likely choledocholithiasis (suggested by one of the following: CBD 6mm or larger in diameter on US or CT, interhepatic duct dilation as determined by US or CT, elevated serum bilirubin, alkaline phosphatase and/or lipase) (Sgourakis and Preoperative Surgical bile duct Patients suspected of common Not stated Surgical bile duct Karaliotas 2002) ERCP plus exploration plus bile duct stones based on high exploration is not yet Greece laparoscopic laparoscopic SGOT (aspartate trans established as the gold cholecystectomy cholecystectomy aminase), bilirubin, alkaline standard procedure for N=78 phosphatase and CBD diameter CBDS and there is need (greater than or equal to 10mm). for further randomised trials and possibly future meta analyses. Gallstone disease Managing common bile duct stones 4.6.3 Health economic evidence A literature search was conducted jointly for questions 4 and 5 by applying standard health 1,396 references were retrieved, of which 1 was
