Internal Clinical Guidelines Team
KEYWORDS: stones, cholecystectomy, duct, laparoscopic, ercp, bile, bile duct, patients, gallstone, disease, evidence, laparoscopic cholecystectomy, gallstone disease, common, gdg


Where network meta- analyses were conducted, all options had wide credibility intervals meaning there was uncertainty about which option was best. Furthermore, some outcomes had evidence that couldn’t be meaningfully compared. Low quality evidence was provided by a single study and showed there were no statistically significant differences between biliary stenting and clearing the bile duct. The only exception to this was a statistically significantly lower requirement for additional ERCP in the stent group than in the cleared duct group. No evidence comparing day-case ERCP to planned inpatient ERCP was found A directly applicable published cost–utility study with potentially serious limitations suggested that intraoperative ERCP is cost saving and generates more QALYs when compared with preoperative ERCP. Gallstone disease Managing common bile duct stones A directly applicable original health economic model analysis with minor limitations suggests ERCP is cost effective compared with conservative management and ERCP with laparoscopic cholecystectomy is cost effective compared with ERCP alone. Based on limited dominates other options but without taking account of any additional implementation costs. 4.6.5 Evidence to Recommendations Relative value of In general, studies were underpowered for the outcomes that the GDG different had chosen and so confidence intervals relating to effect estimates for outcomes many outcomes were wide. This was expected, since events such as mortality and bile duct injury are relatively rare and sample sizes would need to be very large to observe sufficient rare events. There was a lack of randomised controlled trial evidence for some of the comparisons that were considered as part of this review. The GDG felt that this is because surgical removal of the gallbladder, and surgical and/or endoscopic stone extraction of stones in the common bile duct are accepted as best practice. Alternative management options are only considered for patients for whom surgery/endoscopy is not appropriate, such as those who have complex, comorbid conditions, or those who make an informed choice not to opt for surgery/endoscopy. Continual improvements in clinical outcomes for surgery and endoscopy has meant that surgery and/or endoscopy can be offered to an increasing number of people for whom traditionally these options would not be appropriate. It would be seen as highly unethical to randomise patients for whom surgery and/or endoscopy is appropriate to inferior treatments, and thus randomised controlled trial evidence in this area is limited. The absence of evidence and the wide confidence intervals surrounding most effect estimates meant the
