Internal Clinical Guidelines Team
KEYWORDS: stones, cholecystectomy, duct, laparoscopic, ercp, bile, bile duct, patients, gallstone, disease, evidence, laparoscopic cholecystectomy, gallstone disease, common, gdg


appropriate to inferior treatments, and thus randomised controlled trial evidence in this area is limited. The absence of evidence and the wide confidence intervals surrounding most effect estimates meant the GDG relied on their knowledge and experience for most of the discussions of the interventions under review. Trade off between ERCP compared with conservative management benefits and Evidence about conservative management in comparison with ERCP harms for common bile duct stones was inconclusive. There were no significant differences in any of the critical or important outcomes and this was attributed to lack of statistical power in the evidence. GDG experience is that ERCP is a safe procedure and is being increasingly offered to a wide range of clinically compromised and complex patients, but there was no evidence to say that ERCP should always be performed. The GDG agreed that there will always be patients where the risks of intervening with ERCP outweigh the risks associated with not intervening, and for these patients conservative management is an appropriate treatment option. The GDG felt that decisions about who should be offered conservative management should be taken locally, since such cases will be complex and dependent on the skills and experience of local health care professionals. The GDG felt it was not necessary to make a recommendation about conservative management, as doing so may make it seem that conservative management is an appropriate option for all patients, which they agreed it wasn’t. ERCP + laparoscopic cholecystectomy compared with ERCP alone Gallstone disease Managing common bile duct stones The GDG discussed whether laparoscopic cholecystectomy should always be offered to people who have ERCP, in order to prevent recurrent disease. Evidence about this came from 2 studies, where statistically significant differences on 2 of the 3 critical outcomes that the GDG had specified were found. The evidence showed significant reductions in disease progression/recurrence, and in the requirement for additional ERCP in the group who received laparoscopic cholecystectomy after ERCP, compared with the group that had ERCP alone. Furthermore, subsequent cholecystectomy was required for 25% of patients who had ERCP alone. The evidence supported the knowledge and experience of the group, where it was agreed that disease recurrence is common, and the only way to prevent this is to remove the gallbladder to stop new gallstones forming. Thus the GDG recommended that laparoscopic cholecystectomy should be offered to patients who have common bile duct stones since
