Internal Clinical Guidelines Team
KEYWORDS: stones, cholecystectomy, duct, laparoscopic, ercp, bile, bile duct, patients, gallstone, disease, evidence, laparoscopic cholecystectomy, gallstone disease, common, gdg


this is to remove the gallbladder to stop new gallstones forming. Thus the GDG recommended that laparoscopic cholecystectomy should be offered to patients who have common bile duct stones since the harms of recurrent events outweighed the harms of laparoscopic cholecystectomy. Pre/post/intra operative ERCP + LC compared with BDE+LC The evidence relating to these comparisons came from 9 studies that were analysed using network meta-analysis whenever possible. In some instances there was insufficient evidence to form a network so pairwise meta-analysis was performed instead. For some outcomes it wasn’t possible to meta analyse at all. This was usually when an outcome was possible in one arm of the comparison but not in the other (for example, requirement for cholecystectomy isn’t possible in people who have already had cholecystectomy, but is possible in those waiting for cholecystectomy). In these cases simple rates were presented. Network meta-analysis was possible for one critical outcome (length of stay) and three important outcomes (missed stones, failed procedure, conversion to open surgery). The results of the network analyses were inconclusive. All of the options had wide credibility intervals on all of the outcomes, indicating there was uncertainty about which options offered the best outcomes and which offered the worst. Mortality was also chosen as a critical outcome by the GDG, and although mortality data were reported by most of the studies included in these comparisons, the event rates were often zero in both arms of the trial. Since zero event data cannot be meaningfully analysed, only evidence from studies where deaths were observed were compared. It was only possible to compare mortality data in a pairwise comparison between preoperative ERCP+LC versus BDE+LC. The results of this comparison were not statistically significant, and this was attributed to a lack of statistical power in the analysis. The point estimate did indicate that deaths were lower in preoperative ERCP group than the bile duct exploration group. Requirement for more than 1 ERCP was chosen as an important outcome by the GDG, but this outcome was not possible to observe in the surgical bile duct exploration arm, since ERCP was not part of treatment. Furthermore, not all studies reported this outcome so it was not possible to meta-analyse the data. Rates of multiple ERCP were provided but it was not possible to calculate confidence intervals around the rates, and so this outcome had unknown levels of uncertainty. Thus, the GDG
