Internal Clinical Guidelines Team
KEYWORDS: stones, cholecystectomy, duct, laparoscopic, ercp, bile, bile duct, patients, gallstone, disease, evidence, laparoscopic cholecystectomy, gallstone disease, common, gdg


Rates of multiple ERCP were provided but it was not possible to calculate confidence intervals around the rates, and so this outcome had unknown levels of uncertainty. Thus, the GDG agreed that the mixed and unclear evidence was a Gallstone disease Managing common bile duct stones reflection of current clinical reality as there are lots of different options for managing common bile duct stones that are used in different used within this evidence often excluded patients who were older, complex, and had comorbidities from their protocols. Thus, the range of clinical scenarios that the evidence covered does not reflect reality. Since there was insufficient evidence, decisions were based on knowledge and experience of the group. A discussion about the merits of ERCP+LC and BDE+LC took place. ERCP+LC requires two separate procedures, ERCP to remove the stone and LC to remove the gallbladder. Usually these procedures are done days or weeks apart from each other. Thus the patient will would be exposed to the risks of anaesthesia/sedation twice, and there is a risk that their clinical condition could deteriorate in the time between the two procedures. BDE+LC on the other hand is performed as a single procedure and would usually result in the patient having a shorter total hospital stay (since multiple or prolonged admission is not necessary), is only exposed to one anaesthesia, and has their condition treated definitively in one procedure. Thus, the GDG agreed that in principle BDE+LC is superior to ERCP+LC. The GDG acknowledged that only a minority of surgeons can perform BDE+LC safely, as this is highly complex surgery that requires specialist knowledge and experience. The GDG felt that surgeons not trained to do bile duct exploration would not and should not undertake this procedure. Conversely, laparoscopic cholecystectomy performed after bile duct stones have been removed does not require a surgeon trained in bile duct exploration, and can be performed by any surgeon trained to perform laparoscopic cholecystectomy. Since ERCP is widely available throughout the NHS, the GDG felt that it could recommend that bile duct stones should be removed by ERCP before laparoscopic cholecystectomy, or by surgical bile duct exploration during laparoscopic cholecystectomy in order to reduce the risk of subsequent surgical complications. The GDG felt that the decision to use ERCP or bile duct exploration to clear the duct should be taken locally depending on the skills and experience of the team. Uncleared duct
