Internal Clinical Guidelines Team
KEYWORDS: stones, cholecystectomy, duct, laparoscopic, ercp, bile, bile duct, patients, gallstone, disease, evidence, laparoscopic cholecystectomy, gallstone disease, common, gdg


felt that the decision to use ERCP or bile duct exploration to clear the duct should be taken locally depending on the skills and experience of the team. Uncleared duct + biliary stent compared with cleared duct Only one study was identified that met the inclusion criteria. The study had a low rate of stone clearance which the GDG felt reflected the age of the paper as it was published in 1996, and higher rates of clearance are usually observed today. The GDG also acknowledged that the study randomised patients to biliary stents without attempting to clear the duct first, which is not ethical and wouldn’t be done in practice today. The study was underpowered and so no clear conclusions could be drawn about the efficacy and safety of biliary stenting in comparison with ductal clearance. Biliary stenting is widely accepted to be an appropriate management strategy when stones cannot be cleared from the bile duct and surgery is not an appropriate treatment option. Biliary stenting is associated with complications that can be life-threatening, and clinicians must balance the risks of using stents with those associated with Gallstone disease Managing common bile duct stones persevering in the attempt to clear the duct. The GDG felt that in general, most clinicians would strive for a cleared duct and the decision to abort ductal clearance would be taken locally depending on the individual patient’s condition and the clinical experience of the team. Thus, the GDG did not feel it would be of use to make recommendations about when biliary stenting should be considered. However, the GDG felt that there was inappropriate variation in the management of patients once a biliary stent has been placed. Often biliary stents are used as long term treatment option with patients never getting reassessed for further surgical or endoscopic ductal patients will go on to have their stent replaced indefinitely. The GDG were concerned about this, since patients would be at increased risk of recurrent events and would be at risk of experiencing cholangitis, one of the most serious complications associated with the use of stents. Although the evidence was inconclusive since the single study it was based on was underpowered, the point estimates showed that risk of death and disease progression were higher in the stent group than in the cleared duct group. Furthermore, the study did find a statistically significant difference in risk of cholangitis,
