Internal Clinical Guidelines Team
KEYWORDS: stones, cholecystectomy, duct, laparoscopic, ercp, bile, bile duct, patients, gallstone, disease, evidence, laparoscopic cholecystectomy, gallstone disease, common, gdg


of death and disease progression were higher in the stent group than in the cleared duct group. Furthermore, the study did find a statistically significant difference in risk of cholangitis, with those in the stent group having a significantly greater risk of cholangitis than those in the cleared duct group. The GDG had not specified cholangitis as a specific outcome for this evidence review, instead it chose a composite outcome that included all types of progressive disease including cholangitis, pancreatitis and jaundice. So although the individual study observed a statistical difference in cholangitis risk, this was not observed in the analysis for this review, since the use of the composite outcome ‘disease progression’ had diluted the evidence. Since cholangitis is such a serious and life threatening complication, the GDG could not ignore the study findings and were satisfied that the evidence did support their knowledge and experience. Thus recommendations about managing stents once they have been placed were made. Day-case ERCP vs planned inpatient ERCP There was no evidence in relation to this comparison and so the GDG based its discussions on the knowledge and experience of the group, and also extrapolated from evidence presented in chapter 4.6 relating to day-case versus inpatient laparoscopic cholecystectomy. The GDG discussed whether day-case surgery should always be offered to patients, since it offers the benefits of enabling the patient to and reducing the use of NHS resources. taken into consideration. For example, patients require adult supervision for 24hours after sedation and people who do not have someone at home to supervise them will require an inpatient stay. Similarly, some patients with comorbidities may need admitting to hospital before or after the operation to manage their other conditions. The GDG also acknowledged that definitions of inpatient admission and day-cases may vary, and that considerations of other aspects of hospital performance may influence decisions around length of stay. Thus, the GDG felt that decisions about whether to plan day-case or inpatient ERCP should be decided at a local level on a case by case Gallstone disease Managing common bile duct stones basis to take the various patient and clinical factors into account. Consideration of For ERCP compared with conservative management, the economic health benefits model suggests that leaving patients with common bile duct stones and resource results in net health losses (due to symptoms) and cost increases (due use to extra non-elective interventional procedures being
