Internal Clinical Guidelines Team
KEYWORDS: stones, cholecystectomy, duct, laparoscopic, ercp, bile, bile duct, patients, gallstone, disease, evidence, laparoscopic cholecystectomy, gallstone disease, common, gdg


suggests that leaving patients with common bile duct stones and resource results in net health losses (due to symptoms) and cost increases (due use to extra non-elective interventional procedures being required). The GDG noted that the economic model considered a binary choice between ERCP and no intervention that is unlikely to occur in clinical practice. The economic model suggests that ERCP with laparoscopic cholecystectomy is cost effective compared with ERCP alone with an ICER of around £4,700 / QALY. The GDG agreed that the extra cost of laparoscopic cholecystectomy would be an appropriate trade off against the extra QALYs gained by relief of recurrent biliary symptoms. The economic analysis of laparoscopic cholecystectomy with laparoscopic bile duct exploration compared with laparoscopic cholecystectomy with pre-, intra- or postoperative ERCP suggests that intraoperative ERCP dominates other options. However, the GDG interpreted this result cautiously. They noted the underlying network meta-analysis was inconclusive. They also noted options modelled with 1 (intraoperative ERCP, laparoscopic bile duct exploration) rather than 2 (pre- and post-operative ERCP) hospital admissions are cheaper and also limited the time patients could become symptomatic and lose QALYs. However, the GDG were concerned that the economic model did not reflect implementation costs that would be associated with recommending intra-operative ERCP or laparoscopic bile duct exploration. The GDG felt that the economic analysis supported their view that laparoscopic cholecystectomy with bile duct exploration is superior to laparoscopic cholecystectomy with ERCP, but the decision on which method should be used to clear the bile duct should be taken locally based on the skills and experience of staff. The economic model did not consider biliary stents or day-case versus inpatient ERCP treatment. Quality of The overall quality of the evidence was mixed, with the majority of evidence evidence being low in quality. Other None considerations 4.6.6 Recommendations 10. Offer bile duct clearance and laparoscopic cholecystectomy to people with symptomatic or asymptomatic common bile duct stones. 11. Clear the bile duct:  surgically at the time of laparoscopic cholecystectomy or  with endoscopic retrograde cholangiopancreatography (ERCP) before or at the time of laparoscopic cholecystectomy. Gallstone disease Managing common bile duct stones 12. If the bile duct cannot be cleared with ERCP, use biliary stenting to achieve biliary drainage only as a temporary measure until definitive endoscopic or surgical clearance. 13. Use the lowest-cost option suitable for the clinical situation when choosing between day-case and inpatient procedures for
