Internal Clinical Guidelines Team
KEYWORDS: stones, cholecystectomy, duct, laparoscopic, ercp, bile, bile duct, patients, gallstone, disease, evidence, laparoscopic cholecystectomy, gallstone disease, common, gdg


demonstrated that readmission rates and length of stay were lower in the early compared with the delayed group and quality of life was higher. A published cost–utility analysis and an original health economic model both suggest that early laparoscopic cholecystectomy for acute cholecystitis is cost effective compared with delayed laparoscopic cholecystectomy. Gallstone disease Timing of laparoscopic cholecystectomy Common bile duct stones One randomised controlled trial provided low quality evidence comparing early versus delayed laparoscopic cholecystectomy following ERCP for common bile duct stones. Evidence was provided for only 1 of the 5 outcomes for this comparison. This is because the study either didn’t report the data, or because data were reported but zero events occurred. The 1 outcome for which moderate quality evidence was available showed that there was no statistically significant difference in length of stay between the 2 groups. A directly applicable original health economic model analysis with minor limitations suggests that early laparoscopic cholecystectomy following ERCP for common bile duct stones is cost effective compared with delayed laparoscopic cholecystectomy. 4.7.5 Evidence to Recommendations Relative value of The GDG chose readmission due to symptoms and readmission due different to surgical complications as outcomes that were critical to their outcomes decision making, since it was felt that these outcomes would capture important differences between groups in relation to the complications of surgery. Readmission due to symptoms was reported in some of the studies relating to acute cholecystitis but was not reported in the study relating to common bile duct stones. Readmission due to surgical complications was not reported by any of the studies included in this review question. The GDG felt that the studies that didn’t report these critical outcomes probably didn’t observe any readmissions, although there was no way that they could be certain of this. The GDG felt that in reality, readmission rates are low and the individual studies were underpowered to observe these relatively rare events. Likewise, mortality was reported by most of the included studies, but no events were observed since the studies were underpowered to detect this relatively rare event. The GDG felt that it is more likely for studies to report zero mortality events than zero readmission events due to the greater importance placed on mortality than readmission. The GDG felt that the lack of evidence supports their views that readmission and mortality are rare, and focused their attention on the evidence relating to
