Internal Clinical Guidelines Team
KEYWORDS: stones, cholecystectomy, duct, laparoscopic, ercp, bile, bile duct, patients, gallstone, disease, evidence, laparoscopic cholecystectomy, gallstone disease, common, gdg


on mortality than readmission. The GDG felt that the lack of evidence supports their views that readmission and mortality are rare, and focused their attention on the evidence relating to length of stay which was felt to be the best measure of clinically important differences between early and delayed laparoscopic cholecystectomy (LC) for the majority of patients. Trade off between The earlier LC is performed the less potential there is for recurrent benefits and events during the wait for surgery, therefore there are expected harms benefits in terms of patient quality of life and resource utilisation. However, there are concerns that early intervention could cause harm to patients by increasing the complication rate and extending length of stay. Thus delayed surgery may have greater benefits in the longer term if surgery is safer, although patients may experience recurrent events during the period of delay which could necessitate emergency intervention. In the evidence relating to acute cholecystitis, the early LC group had significantly fewer readmissions than the delayed group as well as a significantly shorter length of stay, which the GDG interpreted as meaning that early intervention does not increase complications. The patient representatives on the group also expressed a preference for Gallstone disease Timing of laparoscopic cholecystectomy early LC due to their personal experiences of having to wait for surgery. The patient members expressed that their quality of life was compromised during the wait by avoiding foods that triggered their symptoms, worrying about social activities and not feeling confident to return to work until treatment has been completed due to worries about pain and other complications, although no evidence relating to quality of life was found in this review. The GDG also felt that the absence of evidence relating to harm, especially mortality, probably reflected the fact that these events are rare, and in the majority of cases the benefits of early intervention would far outweigh the risks. Thus the GDG felt that there was sufficient evidence relating to the benefits of early LC to enable them to recommend that early LC should be offered to patients with acute cholecystitis. There was limited evidence in relation to common bile duct stones. The only evidence available for this population came from one small study for the outcome ‘length of stay’. The study did not find a significant difference and this was attributed to a lack of statistical power. Furthermore the GDG
