Internal Clinical Guidelines Team
KEYWORDS: stones, cholecystectomy, duct, laparoscopic, ercp, bile, bile duct, patients, gallstone, disease, evidence, laparoscopic cholecystectomy, gallstone disease, common, gdg


one small study for the outcome ‘length of stay’. The study did not find a significant difference and this was attributed to a lack of statistical power. Furthermore the GDG identified that the study had excluded patients with biliary pancreatitis, which represents a large proportion of people with common bile duct stones. Thus the paper lacks meant the GDG were uncertain about whether early or delayed LC was the optimum management strategy for common bile duct stones. The group felt that in reality there was great variation in when people were offered LC following removal of bile duct stones, and agreed that the delay is not necessarily based on clinical decision making and is more often due to a lack of capacity. The GDG felt that it probably wasn’t appropriate to recommend the same time frame for LC for common bile duct stones as for acute cholecystitis. This is because common bile duct stones are more complicated and associated with higher risks than gallbladder stones that cause acute cholecystitis, particularly when severe pancreatitis has developed. Performing early surgery may therefore increase the risk of bile duct injury and mortality. Since there was no evidence to support or refute this notion, the GDG were not confident about the optimum time frame in which to offer LC and did not make a specific recommendation. Health Benefits laparoscopic cholecystectomy is driven by the longer length of stay and Resource associated with delayed laparoscopic cholecystectomy. QALY Use differences are small, but suggest that delaying surgery is associated with similar or worse net quality of life than early surgery. Quality of The GDG agreed that the evidence was of moderate to low quality. evidence Other The GDG acknowledged that decisions about when to perform LC considerations may be based on capacity issues rather than clinical appropriateness. Thus, the GDG wanted to emphasise that the recommendations made here should improve patient flow and release capacity, rather than put additional constrains on it. This is because the number of people requiring LC in a given year is a finite, and operating on them earlier will not increase the number of people requiring LC. Instead, offering early cholecystectomy may actually reduce the number of Gallstone disease Timing of laparoscopic cholecystectomy readmissions, emergency operations, and length of stay. The GDG felt the recommendations are achievable but acknowledged that some providers may need to focus on redesigning their services in
