Internal Clinical Guidelines Team
KEYWORDS: stones, cholecystectomy, duct, laparoscopic, ercp, bile, bile duct, patients, gallstone, disease, evidence, laparoscopic cholecystectomy, gallstone disease, common, gdg


16-20 Gallstone disease Information for patients and their carers 4.8 Information for patients and their carers 4.8.1 Review Question 6 What are the information and education needs of patients and carers of people with gallstone disease? 4.8.2 Evidence Review The aim of this review question was to identify areas for which information and education should be provided. This question did not aim to compare the effectiveness of different education programmes/strategies. A systematic search was conducted (see appendix D) which identified 7,862 references. After removing duplicates the references were screened on their titles and abstracts and 61 references were obtained and reviewed against the inclusion and exclusion criteria as described in the review protocols (appendix C). Overall, 56 studies were excluded as they did not meet the eligibility criteria. A list of excluded studies and reasons for their exclusion is provided in appendix F. Five studies met the eligibility criteria and were included. Data were extracted into detailed evidence tables (see appendix G) and are summarised in the table below. Table 20: Summary of included studies for question 6 Study Authors conclusions details Aims of the study (Barthelsson Explore patient experiences in Although most patients were satisfied with et al. 2003) relation to laparoscopic day-case LC, a number of problem areas Sweden cholecystectomy were expressed- preoperative anxiety, post- operative amnesia, experience of pain, N= 12 need for additional pain medication, feelings of nausea, vomiting, bloating and swelling, information about wound care, additional telephone follow up, difficulties having small children at home. (Blay and Determine if a preadmission Pre admission education intervention helps Donoghue education intervention reduced reduce post-operative pain levels following 2005) pain, increased self-care and LC and significantly increases patient’s Australia decreased postoperative symptoms knowledge of self-care and complication after laparoscopic cholecystectomy management. N=93 (Blay and Determine what information pre Patients sourced information from a variety Donoghue admission nurses provided to of sources, including communicating with 2006) elective laparoscopic friends and relatives for the personal Australia cholecystectomy patients. perspective. Personal communication should not be replacing education by N= 100 nurses. Unfortunately patients did not cite the preadmission nurse as the major source of information in this study. (Tamhankar Establish the proportion of people A significant proportion of patients used the et al. 2009) undergoing elective hernia repair or internet and about one third of them UK cholecystectomy who access the specifically sought information about their internet for information about their
