Internal Clinical Guidelines Team
KEYWORDS: stones, cholecystectomy, duct, laparoscopic, ercp, bile, bile duct, patients, gallstone, disease, evidence, laparoscopic cholecystectomy, gallstone disease, common, gdg


et al. 2009) undergoing elective hernia repair or internet and about one third of them UK cholecystectomy who access the specifically sought information about their internet for information about their operation. Such information can cause N=105 operations worry and confusion in patients. The study highlights the need for regulated, comprehensible patient information on Gallstone disease Information for patients and their carers Study Authors conclusions details Aims of the study hospital websites to which patients should be directed. (Young and A randomised controlled trial of With careful patient selection and enhanced O'Connell inpatient vs day-case discharge education, LC procedures 2008) cholecystectomy, with a telephone performed as a day-case offer safe and Australia survey to identify if discharge effective alternative to inpatient care. information was sufficient. N=28 Studies were quality assessed using methodology checklists. For qualitative studies, the NICE qualitative checklist was used. The NICE guidelines manual does not provide a checklist for surveys, and so a checklist originally published in the British Medical Journal (see appendix K) was used to aid the quality assessment of these studies. The GRADE framework for assessing quality was modified for this review in that studies, rather than outcomes, were assessed for quality (see appendix I.8) on the following basis. Overall, the studies were of very low quality and had serious limitations; Survey studies lacked detailed analysis and qualitative studies lacked rigour as they did not utilise adequate research design and methodology, and they failed to provide rich data to support findings; studies were limited because 4 of the 5 studies were conducted outside the UK and so lack transferability, and most studies were from the perspective of elective cholecystectomy, meaning that non elective surgery and other treatment options are not adequately represented in the evidence base. Specific details about the reasons for this approach and the judgements made are provided in the footnotes of the profiles in appendix I.8. 4.8.3 Health economic evidence economic modelling was not prioritised for this review question. 4.8.4 Evidence Statements Very low quality evidence from 5 studies on people waiting for or undergoing surgery for gallbladder disease showed that patients requested more information on diet, wound management, pain management, and resuming normal activities. Some patients had no memory of the information that was provided to them, and some consulted the internet to acquire additional information. Some people did not know why they had to wait for elective surgery. 4.8.5 Evidence
