Internal Clinical Guidelines Team
KEYWORDS: stones, cholecystectomy, duct, laparoscopic, ercp, bile, bile duct, patients, gallstone, disease, evidence, laparoscopic cholecystectomy, gallstone disease, common, gdg


information that was provided to them, and some consulted the internet to acquire additional information. Some people did not know why they had to wait for elective surgery. 4.8.5 Evidence to Recommendations Relative value of The GDG considered all themes/outcomes that arose from the different evidence, but focused its discussions on the theme/outcome of diet. outcomes This is because most themes that arose such as wound management, resuming activity, memory and so on, were not specific to gallstone disease and the GDG agreed that other NICE products that already exist or that are in development (such as Patient experience in adult cover these general themes more appropriately. The group chose to focus discussions on diet because this is the area the patient representatives felt was most important, because diet was Gallstone disease Information for patients and their carers a key issue in the evidence, and because this issue was specific to gallstone disease. refute a link between diet and gallstone disease, and diet as an intervention for managing gallstone disease was not evaluated in any the knowledge and experience of the GDG and a co-opted expert dietician. Trade off between Some patients with gallstone disease find that eating and/or drinking benefits and triggers gallbladder pain and discomfort. This could be due to the harms mechanics of digestion because the gallbladder contracts on consuming food and drink in order to release bile to aid digestion, and when a person has gallstone disease the gallbladder can become inflamed and infected, and this contracting process can be painful. The GDG decided that it would not be useful to provide information to patients about food and drink that may potentially trigger symptoms because not everyone with gallstone disease experiences pain and discomfort when eating or drinking, not all food and drink triggers gallbladder pain, and the type of triggers vary for different individuals. Instead, the GDG felt that individual patients are best placed to identify which food and drink triggers their own pain. The GDG agreed that once a gallbladder has been removed the mechanism for experiencing pain is no longer there (since there is no gallbladder to contract and cause pain). The time between diagnosis and treatment for gallbladder disease is relatively short (usually less than 3 months), so the GDG felt that there was no harm in recommending that patients should avoid food and drink that triggers quality of life were expected
