Internal Clinical Guidelines Team
KEYWORDS: stones, cholecystectomy, duct, laparoscopic, ercp, bile, bile duct, patients, gallstone, disease, evidence, laparoscopic cholecystectomy, gallstone disease, common, gdg


(usually less than 3 months), so the GDG felt that there was no harm in recommending that patients should avoid food and drink that triggers quality of life were expected to be very low. However, long term avoidance of specific foods, especially once gallstones or the gallbladder have been removed could be detrimental and are not recommended. The group acknowledged that some patients with gallstone disease continue to report symptoms or experience new symptoms once their gallbladder has been removed. The GDG felt this is probably due to some underlying condition that the patient either didn’t notice before they experienced gallstone disease, or that coincidentally began at the same time as the symptoms of gallstone disease or cholecystectomy. The GDG felt that these symptoms are often misattributed to the absence of a gallbladder by both health professionals and patients themselves, and because of this patients may not receive appropriate investigations to identify the real cause of the symptoms. Thus, people may continue to experience unnecessary symptoms, or restrict trigger food and drink over the long term to avoid ongoing symptoms. Since long term dietary restriction may be harmful, and because patient quality of life is affected by on-going symptoms, the GDG felt that people experiencing new or existing symptoms after they have recovered from cholecystectomy should be encouraged to return to Gallstone disease Information for patients and their carers the patient appropriately. Consideration of Health economics were not considered as a priority for this review Health Benefits question. No economic studies were found. and Resource Use Quality of The quality of the evidence was very low, and the studies contributing evidence to the evidence did not provide adequate information about the particular aspects of dietary advice that should be provided. Therefore the GDG developed the recommendations using their knowledge and experience. Other None. considerations 4.8.6 Recommendations 15. Advise people to avoid food and drink that triggers their symptoms until they have their gallbladder or gallstones removed. 16. Advise people that they should not need to avoid food and drink that triggered their symptoms after they have their gallbladder or gallstones removed. 17. Advise people to seek further advice from their GP if eating or drinking triggers existing symptoms or causes new symptoms to develop after they have recovered from having their gallbladder or gallstones removed. 4.8.7 Research recommendations 5. What is the long-term effect of laparoscopic cholecystectomy on outcomes that
