Internal Clinical Guidelines Team
KEYWORDS: stones, cholecystectomy, duct, laparoscopic, ercp, bile, bile duct, patients, gallstone, disease, evidence, laparoscopic cholecystectomy, gallstone disease, common, gdg


new symptoms to develop after they have recovered from having their gallbladder or gallstones removed. 4.8.7 Research recommendations 5. What is the long-term effect of laparoscopic cholecystectomy on outcomes that are important to patients? Why this is important There is a lack of information on the long-term impact of cholecystectomy on patient outcomes. Many patients report a continuation of symptoms or the onset of new symptoms after laparoscopic cholecystectomy, and these affect quality of life. Research is needed to establish the long-term patient benefits and harms, so that appropriate information can be provided to patients to aid decision-making and long-term management of their condition. 4.8.8 References Barthelsson C, Lutzen K, Anderberg B et al. (2003) Patients' experiences of laparoscopic cholecystectomy in day surgery. Journal of Clinical Nursing 12: 253-9 Blay N, Donoghue J (2005) The effect of pre-admission education on domiciliary recovery following laparoscopic cholecystectomy. Australian Journal of Advanced Nursing 22: 14-9 laparoscopic cholecystectomy. International Journal of Nursing Practice 12: 64-70 Tamhankar AP, Mazari FA, Everitt NJ et al. (2009) Use of the internet by patients undergoing elective hernia repair or cholecystectomy. Annals of the Royal College of Surgeons of England 91: 460-3 Gallstone disease Information for patients and their carers Young J, O'Connell B (2008) Recovery following laparoscopic cholecystectomy in either a 23 hour or an 8 hour facility. Journal of Quality in Clinical Practice 21: 2-7 Gallstone disease Glossary & abbreviations 5 Glossary & Abbreviations Table 21: Glossary Acalculous cholecystitis Inflammation or infection of the gallbladder not caused by gallstones. Acalculous cholecystitis is not covered by this guideline. Asymptomatic For the purposes of this guideline only, asymptomatic refers to stones that are found incidentally by imaging investigations unrelated to gallstone disease, in people who have had no symptoms for at least 12 months before diagnosis. Biliary colic Pain caused by the gallbladder or bile duct contracting around a gallstone. Biliary system/biliary Organs involved in the production and secretion of bile into the tract/biliary tree digestive system to aid in the digestion of food. Includes the gallbladder, bile ducts, and some specialised cells in the liver. Cholecystitis Inflammation or infection of the gallbladder. This guideline only includes cholecystitis caused by gallstones. Cholecystolithiasis See gallbladder stones Choledocholithiasis See common bile duct stones Cholelithiasis May refer specifically to the presence of gallbladder stones or it may refer generally to the presence of gallstone disease. Cholangitis Inflammation or infection of the common
