Internal Clinical Guidelines Team
KEYWORDS: stones, cholecystectomy, duct, laparoscopic, ercp, bile, bile duct, patients, gallstone, disease, evidence, laparoscopic cholecystectomy, gallstone disease, common, gdg


duct stones Cholelithiasis May refer specifically to the presence of gallbladder stones or it may refer generally to the presence of gallstone disease. Cholangitis Inflammation or infection of the common bile duct. This guideline only includes cholangitis caused by gallstones Common bile duct stones Gallstones that have travelled from the gallbladder into the (CBDS) common bile duct, or stones that have formed in the bile duct. Stones in the bile duct may be found by gallbladder imaging or incidentally by unrelated imaging investigations. Gallbladder stones Gallstones in the gallbladder Gallstones Discreet, hard, fatty mineral deposits that develop in the gallbladder Gallstone disease The presence of gallstones in the gallbladder and/or common bile duct and/or the associated complications that gallstones cause Gold standard A term used in studies of diagnostic test accuracy to describe a method, procedure or measurement that is widely accepted as being the best available to test for or treat a disease. Also known as the reference standard Index test A term used in studies of diagnostic test accuracy to describe the test being evaluated Mirrizi syndrome Compression of the common bile duct caused by a gallstone becoming trapped in the neck of the gallbladder. A rare condition. Obstructive jaundice An obstruction in the common bile duct preventing the flow of bile from the gallbladder to the liver. This guideline only includes obstructive jaundice caused by gallstones Pancreatitis Inflammation or infection of the pancreas. This guideline only includes pancreatitis caused by gallstones. Reference standard A term used in studies of diagnostic test accuracy to describe a method, procedure or measurement that is widely accepted as being the best available to test for or treat a disease. Also known as the gold standard Symptomatic For the purposes of this guideline only, symptomatic refers to stones found on gallbladder imaging in people who have Gallstone disease Glossary & abbreviations experienced symptoms at any time up to 12 months before diagnosis. Suspected gallstone disease Gallstone disease is the term used in this guideline to refer to the presence of stones in the gallbladder or common bile duct and the symptoms and complications they cause. Most people with gallstone disease have asymptomatic gallbladder stones, meaning the stones are confined to the gallbladder and they do not have any symptoms, and disease is often identified coincidentally as a result of investigations for other conditions. In suspected gallstone disease the symptoms may range from
