HHS Public Access
KEYWORDS: patients, alcohol, author, manuscript, author manuscript, liver, cirrhosis, disease, manuscript author, alcoholic, use, ald, risk, liver disease, therapy


HHS Public Access Author manuscript Am J Gastroenterol. Author manuscript; available in PMC 2019 May 17. Published in final edited form as: Am J Gastroenterol. 2018 February ; 113(2): 175–194. doi:. ACG Clinical Guideline: Alcoholic Liver Disease FACG4 Medicine , Birmingham , Alabama , USA Center , Pittsburgh , Pennsylvania , USA Oregon , USA Abstract alcoholic hepatitis (AH), and cirrhosis with its complications. Most patients are diagnosed at advanced stages and data on the prevalence and profile of patients with early disease are limited. Diagnosis of ALD requires documentation of chronic heavy alcohol use and exclusion of other causes of liver disease. Prolonged abstinence is the most effective strategy to prevent disease progression. AH presents with rapid onset or worsening of jaundice, and in severe cases may transition to acute on chronic liver failure when the risk for mortality, depending on the number of extra-hepatic organ failures, may be as high as 20–50% at 1 month. Corticosteroids provide short- term survival benefit in about half of treated patients with severe AH and long-term mortality is related to severity of underlying liver disease and is dependent on abstinence from alcohol. General measures in patients hospitalized with ALD include inpatient management of liver disease complications, management of alcohol withdrawal syndrome, surveillance for infections and early effective antibiotic therapy, nutritional supplementation, and treatment of the underlying alcohol- use disorder. Liver transplantation, a definitive treatment option in patients with advanced to medical therapy. There is a clinical unmet need to develop more effective and safer therapies for patients with ALD. Rochester , Minnesota 55905 ,USA . . CONFLICT OF INTEREST Specific author contributions: All the authors wrote different key portions of these guidelines, were involved in regular teleconferences with the guideline committee members for making appropriate revisions, and approved the final document. Potential competing interest: Echosens (R.B.). Novartis, Merck, Durect (V.H.S.). Author Manuscript Author Manuscript Author Manuscript Author Manuscript INTRODUCTION Alcoholic liver disease (ALD) is one of the main causes of chronic liver disease worldwide and accounts for up to 48% of cirrhosis-associated deaths in the United States (1). Alcohol is also a frequent co-factor in patients with other type of liver disease such as hepatitis C virus (HCV) infection where it accelerates hepatic fibrosis (2). Owing to various susceptibility factors, individuals with long-term heavy alcohol use remain at risk for advanced liver disease with alcoholic steatohepatitis (ASH), cirrhosis, and hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC)
