HHS Public Access
KEYWORDS: patients, alcohol, author, manuscript, author manuscript, liver, cirrhosis, disease, manuscript author, alcoholic, use, ald, risk, liver disease, therapy


hepatic fibrosis (2). Owing to various susceptibility factors, individuals with long-term heavy alcohol use remain at risk for advanced liver disease with alcoholic steatohepatitis (ASH), cirrhosis, and hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC) (3). Most patients with ALD present for medical care after they have developed jaundice or complications of cirrhosis (4). Identification of ALD in the primary-care setting at an early stage and subsequent behavioral interventions should thus be encouraged. Compared with the recent advances in viral hepatitis, few pharmacological advances have been made in the management of patients with ALD. To date, the most effective therapy to attenuate the Given its high prevalence and economic burden, ALD is receiving increasing attention by Nevertheless, novel non-invasive tools to diagnose ALD at early stages and promising pharmacological approaches for alcoholic hepatitis (AH) are still needed. Finally, recent studies suggest that early liver transplantation (LT) can be successfully performed in highly selected patients with AH. The authors were invited by the Board of Trustees and Practice Parameters Committee of the management of patients with ALD. Key concepts on ALD and specific recommendations have been developed for specialists in liver disease, gastroenterologists, and primary care providers, to aid them in the management of ALD patients. Recommendations based on Population Intervention Comparison Outcome format/Grading of Recommendations Assessment, Development, and Evaluation analysis are in Table 1. These recommendations and guidelines should be tailored to individual patients and circumstances in routine clinical practice. Key concepts and recommendations based on author expert opinion and review of literature are in Table 2. To develop these guidelines, a search was performed on the Ovid search platform: Epub Ahead of Print, In-Process and Other NonIndexed Citations, Ovid MEDLINE (R) Daily and Ovid MEDLINE (R), EBM Reviews Cochrane Central Registry of Controlled Trials, EMBASE, and PsycInfo for the period 1980 through July 2016. A combination of database- specific subject headings (e.g., MEDLINE Liver Diseases and Alcoholic) and text words (Alcohol* (truncated) within three words of liver, or hepat* (truncation) or cirrho* (truncation)) in association with LT (subject’s headings plus text words). The results were downloaded from each database into EndNote X7 and duplicates removed. To evaluate the level of evidence and strength of recommendations, we used the Grading of Recommendations Assessment, Development, and Evaluation system, as suggested by the American College of Gastroenterology Practice Parameters Committee. The strength of recommendation is graded as strong or conditional as a consensus among the authors, considering
