HHS Public Access
KEYWORDS: patients, alcohol, author, manuscript, author manuscript, liver, cirrhosis, disease, manuscript author, alcoholic, use, ald, risk, liver disease, therapy


Evaluation system, as suggested by the American College of Gastroenterology Practice Parameters Committee. The strength of recommendation is graded as strong or conditional as a consensus among the authors, considering the weight of desirable and undesirable effects of intervention. The level of Am J Gastroenterol. Author manuscript; available in PMC 2019 May 17. Author Manuscript Author Manuscript Author Manuscript Author Manuscript evidence was determined independently of the authors and designated as high, moderate, low, and very low, considering the confidence in the effect estimate based on current literature. EPIDEMIOLOGY AND DISEASE BURDEN Alcohol-use disorder (AUD) is one of the main causes of preventable disease and liver disease-associated mortality in the United States and worldwide. A recent report from the World Health Organization indicates that 3.3 million deaths (6% of all global deaths) are attributable to alcohol use, and that alcohol abuse is a risk factor in about 50% of cases of cirrhosis (1). Approximately 1 in 12 adults have AUD defined as consumption of >3 drinks per day in males and >2 drinks per day in females, or binge drinking (defined by the National Institute of Alcoholism and Alcohol Abuse as >5 drinks in males and >4 drinks in females, consumed over 2 h period) (7). In the United States, one drink is defined as a beverage containing about 14 g of alcohol, which is present in 12 ounces of beer (5% weight/volume) or 5 ounces of wine (8–10% weight/volume), or 1.5 ounces of hard liquor (40–45% weight/volume) (7). Economic costs due to AUD (249 billion USD per year) are increasing. An estimated 88,000 people (~62,000 men and 26,000 women) die from alcohol- related causes annually, making alcohol the fourth leading preventable cause of death in the United States (8). Apart from ALD, accidents or violence are other common causes of death among adult people abusing alcohol. In 2014, alcohol-impaired driving fatalities accounted for 9,967 deaths in the United States (31% of overall driving fatalities) (1). The association between alcohol and liver-related mortality is strongly supported by data showing a linear relationship between the standard liver death rate and overall alcohol consumption in many countries (9,10). Importantly, drinking patterns such as heavy episodic drinking vs. heavy daily use and the type of alcohol consumed may not independently predict the alcohol-attributable fraction of cirrhosis (11). However, designation of countries by moderate or heavy daily drinking most clearly demonstrates the weight of
