HHS Public Access
KEYWORDS: patients, alcohol, author, manuscript, author manuscript, liver, cirrhosis, disease, manuscript author, alcoholic, use, ald, risk, liver disease, therapy


type of alcohol consumed may not independently predict the alcohol-attributable fraction of cirrhosis (11). However, designation of countries by moderate or heavy daily drinking most clearly demonstrates the weight of alcohol on the cirrhosis burden (10). The disease burden of alcohol is rapidly increasing in Asian countries such as China, Korea, and India. There are also regional differences in Europe between Eastern and Western Europe, likely to be due to implementation of policy measures leading to decrease in alcohol use in many areas of Western Europe. Effective alcohol policy measures have been shown to reduce alcohol mortality, including ALD-related mortality (10,12). Cost effective measures include increase in taxes on sales of alcohol drinks, minimum sale price for alcohol, raising the legal age for buying alcohol, low level interventions from clinicians, ban on drinking in public places and on use of alcohol as gifts or in advertisements, and stricter legal action for driving under influence of alcohol. These measures have been implemented primarily in Europe and have resulted in reducing the disease burden and consumption of alcohol. In the United States, strict alcohol policy environments, especially alcohol taxes, were associated with lower alcoholic cirrhosis mortality rates (12). Alcohol abuse or alcohol dependence is not synonymous with clinically important ALD, as only about 10–20% of chronic heavy drinkers develop severe forms such as AH or cirrhosis Am J Gastroenterol. Author manuscript; available in PMC 2019 May 17. Author Manuscript Author Manuscript Author Manuscript Author Manuscript (13). According to the National Institute of Alcoholism and Alcohol Abuse Surveillance Report on mortality in 2013, cirrhosis was the 12th leading cause of death in the United States, with about half of cirrhosis-related deaths being due to alcohol (8). The crude death rate from cirrhosis due to any etiology was 12.0 deaths per 100,000 population, whereas the rate from alcohol-related cirrhosis was 5.7, representing an increase of 3.4% and 1.8% from 2012, respectively (1). The WHO aims to reduce the death rate from ALD to below 3.2/100,000 population (1). These figures become more relevant considering that ALD receives only about 5% of the research attention in the field of hepatology (14). ENVIRONMENTAL AND GENETIC DETERMINANTS As only about 10–20% of individuals with chronic heavy alcohol use develop advanced liver disease and cirrhosis, other disease modifiers and cofactors, such as behavioral, environmental, and genetic factors, possibly have a role. There is a clear dose relationship between the
