HHS Public Access
KEYWORDS: patients, alcohol, author, manuscript, author manuscript, liver, cirrhosis, disease, manuscript author, alcoholic, use, ald, risk, liver disease, therapy


develop advanced liver disease and cirrhosis, other disease modifiers and cofactors, such as behavioral, environmental, and genetic factors, possibly have a role. There is a clear dose relationship between the amount of alcohol intake and the likelihood of developing ALD; yet, extensive individual variability exists. Females are at risk for ALD at a lower daily intake of alcohol, probably due to higher body fat component and lower gastric alcohol dehydrogenase activity (15). The impact of drinking patterns (i.e., binge drinking and drinking outside meals) and the type of beverage (wine vs. beer vs. liquors) is not well known and deserves large epidemiological studies. The general assumption that binge drinking favors the development of AH has not been proven in recent studies (11). Obesity is one of most important environmental risk factor determining the risk of cirrhosis in heavy drinkers (16). Heavy drinkers who are overweight for at least 10 years have a twofold risk of developing cirrhosis. Interestingly, several studies indicate that caffeine intake protects against cirrhosis in heavy drinkers (17). The coexistence of chronic hepatitis B or HCV infection leads to an acceleration of liver injury, with more frequent and faster development of cirrhosis and its complications including HCC (2). Iron accumulation, which is a common finding in advanced ALD, has also been associated with hepatic fibrosis in ALD and increased mortality in alcoholic cirrhosis (18,19 ). Cigarette smoking is common among alcoholic patients. It exacerbates the effects of alcohol in inducing severe ALD and favors development of HCC among patients with alcoholic cirrhosis (3,20). Once alcoholic cirrhosis develops, the risk for hepatic decompensation increases, especially among patients who continue to drink. In a Danish population-based study, which included 446 patients with alcoholic cirrhosis, the risk of developing ascites, variceal bleeding, or hepatic encephalopathy was ~25% after 1 year and 50% after 5 years (21). With abstinence, the expected 5-year transplant-free survival rate following development of hepatic decompensation is 60% vs. 30% for those who continued to drink alcohol (22). Genetic factors influence the susceptibility for advanced ALD. Monozygotic twins have a higher concordance rate for alcohol-related cirrhosis than dizygotic twins (23). Genetic factors may influence susceptibility to alcohol consumption or predisposition to development of ALD among those with AUD. Genes influencing the susceptibility for alcoholism include modifiers of neurotransmission such as γ-amino butyric acid and modifiers of alcohol metabolism such as alcoholic dehydrogenase and acetaldehyde dehydrogenase enzymes (24).
