HHS Public Access
KEYWORDS: patients, alcohol, author, manuscript, author manuscript, liver, cirrhosis, disease, manuscript author, alcoholic, use, ald, risk, liver disease, therapy


AUD. Genes influencing the susceptibility for alcoholism include modifiers of neurotransmission such as γ-amino butyric acid and modifiers of alcohol metabolism such as alcoholic dehydrogenase and acetaldehyde dehydrogenase enzymes (24). The polymorphisms in these genes may be involved in an individual’s susceptibility to alcoholism, with wide allelic variation between different ethnic Am J Gastroenterol. Author manuscript; available in PMC 2019 May 17. Author Manuscript Author Manuscript Author Manuscript Author Manuscript groups, but their role in the progression of ALD remains controversial. The second group of genes modifies the natural history of ALD through different mechanisms. Small candidate gene studies initially suggested a role for polymorphisms in genes encoding inflammatory mediators, endotoxin response and oxidative stress. However, larger studies including a recent genome-wide association study revealed that patatinlike phospholipase domain containing protein 3, may be the main genetic determinant of risk for and severity of ALD (25,26). Phospholipase domain containing protein 3 is closely related with lipid metabolism and is also a risk factor for non-alcoholic fatty liver disease and HCC (26). The allele that negatively impacts disease progression (i.e., rs738409) is more frequent within the Hispanic population, which is particularly sensitive to fatty liver diseases (25). DISEASE SPECTRUM OF ALCOHOLIC LIVER DISEASE ALD comprises a broad spectrum of diseases ranging from asymptomatic or early ALD (defined as fatty liver or alcoholic steatosis), to ASH and advanced ALD, (defined as AH, cirrhosis and its complications such as ascites, portal hypertension-related bleeding, hepatic abstinence ( 5,6 ). Patients can regain a compensated status after initial hepatic decompensation if they stop drinking. Notably, some patients rapidly gain weight after they stop drinking, increasing their risk for developing nonalcoholic fatty liver disease. As there is no specific biomarker for the diagnosis of ALD, diagnosis requires excluding other liver diseases in a patient with heavy alcohol use. Early alcoholic liver disease Alcoholic fatty liver disease is diagnosed in a patient with AUD with hepatic steatosis on ultrasound and/or elevation in liver enzymes (aspartate aminotransferase (AST)>alanine aminotransferase (ALT)), serum bilirubin<3 mg/dL, and the absence of other causes of liver disease. Alcoholic fatty liver or simple steatosis, which is usually macro vesicular develops in ~90% of heavy drinkers and may be seen within 2 weeks of heavy and regular alcohol ingestion. Hepatic steatosis resolves rapidly following complete abstinence (27). The majority of patients with simple alcoholic steatosis are asymptomatic, but nausea, anorexia, and vomiting may be present
