HHS Public Access
KEYWORDS: patients, alcohol, author, manuscript, author manuscript, liver, cirrhosis, disease, manuscript author, alcoholic, use, ald, risk, liver disease, therapy


and regular alcohol ingestion. Hepatic steatosis resolves rapidly following complete abstinence (27). The majority of patients with simple alcoholic steatosis are asymptomatic, but nausea, anorexia, and vomiting may be present (28). The impact of simple alcoholic steatosis is not well known and is probably a benign condition. With continued excessive alcohol ingestion, approximately one-third of patients with steatosis have histological evidence of hepatic inflammation (sometimes termed ASH) (29). ASH, a term sometimes used to describe the histological features in AH, is diagnosed in patients with fatty liver disease when hepatic inflammation/damage or fibrosis is present on liver biopsy (Figure 2). Unfortunately, about half of the patients with seemingly early disease may already have advanced fibrosis or cirrhosis on liver biopsy (5). Of interest, patients with alcohol withdrawal syndrome (AWS) may have a higher prevalence of inflammation on liver biopsy than do patients without withdrawal syndrome (29). Physical examination of patients with alcoholic fatty liver usually demonstrates only mildly tender hepatomegaly which rapidly resolves with abstinence. AST and ALT elevations are minimal (with AST typically greater than ALT) and γ-glutamyl transpeptidase may be Am J Gastroenterol. Author manuscript; available in PMC 2019 May 17. Author Manuscript Author Manuscript Author Manuscript Author Manuscript elevated, but the serum bilirubin and International Normalized Ratio (INR) are typically normal. The diagnosis of hepatic steatosis is based on imaging (ultrasound or magnetic resonance) and a liver biopsy is not routinely required nor recommended for diagnosis. A proportion of patients with evidence of steatohepatitis on liver biopsy develop hepatic fibrosis (20–40%) and cirrhosis (8–20%). The risk of cirrhosis is increased in patients with steatohepatitis on biopsy as compared with patients with simple steatosis. It is important to emphasize that currently steatohepatitis can be diagnosed only on liver biopsy; there are no signs, symptoms, or biochemical tests that allow the confident diagnosis of steatohepatitis. In fact, one-third of patients with asymptomatic forms of ASH have significant liver fibrosis and the presence of advanced fibrosis determines the long-term outcome. There are few programs for early detection of ASH in primary-care centers and addiction centers. Therefore, the prevalence of ASH and fibrosis among patients with AUD is not well known. Although awaiting further studies, the use of non-invasive tests of fibrosis (i.e., serum markers or elastography) may be useful in patients with AUD and abnormal liver tests. Alcoholic hepatitis and cirrhosis The true prevalence of AH is not well known,
