HHS Public Access
KEYWORDS: patients, alcohol, author, manuscript, author manuscript, liver, cirrhosis, disease, manuscript author, alcoholic, use, ald, risk, liver disease, therapy


fibrosis (i.e., serum markers or elastography) may be useful in patients with AUD and abnormal liver tests. Alcoholic hepatitis and cirrhosis The true prevalence of AH is not well known, as its presence is commonly overlooked in patients with decompensated ALD. In one study, using the National Inpatient database, AH admissions in 2010 (30). The clinical picture of AH is characterized by jaundice and is associated with risk for liver-related complications. AH can occur in any stage of liver disease and up to 80% of patients with severe AH (model for end-stage disease (MELD) score >20 and/or discriminant function (DF) ≥32) may have underlying cirrhosis. The population burden of alcoholic cirrhosis is underestimated and not clearly known, and the odds of alcoholic cirrhosis are higher in patients who have been hospitalized for alcoholism related problems (31). Patients with severe AH are hospitalized for treatment and, in addition, can have complications of cirrhosis and sepsis. DIAGNOSIS OF ALCOHOLIC-USE DISORDER Adjudicating alcohol as an etiology of liver disease depends upon diagnosis of AUD and excluding other causes of liver disease. There are no definitive laboratory tests for diagnosis of liver disease related to alcohol use. Compared with non-alcoholic fatty liver disease, those with ALD often present late with advanced liver disease and its complications (4). Data are needed on the role of non-invasive tools such as transient elastography among patients presenting with early ALD, such as fatty liver or minor derangement in transaminases. Detailed history on alcohol consumption to identify AUD is important. As patients often underreport alcohol intake, questionnaires can be complemented by information from relatives (if appropriate) or by objective measures (e.g., physical signs of chronic alcohol use), tests suggestive of alcohol abuse (i.e., elevated blood alcohol, γ-glutamyl transpeptidase or urinary ethyl glucuronide elevation), or liver bopsy showing signs of alcohol-induced liver damage. The primary screening tool to detect alcohol abuse and Am J Gastroenterol. Author manuscript; available in PMC 2019 May 17. Author Manuscript Author Manuscript Author Manuscript Author Manuscript detection of alcohol consumption (32). With a score of 0–40, an AUDIT score of >8 constitutes AUD, or alcohol abuse, and a score of >20 qualifies for diagnosis of alcohol dependence (Figure 2). As the completion of AUDIT can be time consuming for both physicians and patients, a shorter version or AUDIT-c has been developed and found to be as accurate as an initial screening test for diagnosing AUD
