HHS Public Access
KEYWORDS: patients, alcohol, author, manuscript, author manuscript, liver, cirrhosis, disease, manuscript author, alcoholic, use, ald, risk, liver disease, therapy


be time consuming for both physicians and patients, a shorter version or AUDIT-c has been developed and found to be as accurate as an initial screening test for diagnosing AUD (33). This brief version should be employed in the primary-care setting to identify patients with AUD. When approaching patients with suspected ALD, the provider should also ask the patient for the following: type of alcoholic beverage (i.e., beer, wine, and spirits/liquors), pattern of drinking (i.e., daily, with or without meals, increase during the weekend), the frequency of binge drinking, and date of the last drink. It is also important to identify previous attempts made by the patient to stop drinking (i.e., Alcoholics Anonymous meetings, previous treatment by addiction counselors, alcohol detoxification hospitalizations, etc.). As the self-reported alcohol use is often inaccurate, the use of alcohol biomarkers can be useful to diagnose alcohol consumption. Of the biochemical tests, mean corpuscular volume, aminotransferases, and γ-glutamyl transferase are sensitive tests, but lack specificity in patients with cirrhosis (34). Carbohydrate-deficient transferrin combined with γ-glutamyl transferase has sensitivity of about 75–90%. However, the levels of carbohydrate-deficient transferrin may be confounded with increasing disease severity and active smoking (35). Newer biomarkers using metabolites of alcohol such as ethyl glucuronide can reveal alcohol use up to 3–4 days after the last alcohol drink (36). However, due to its high sensitivity, it can yield false-positive results with exposure to alcohol containing medications and hand sanitizers containing small amounts of ethanol (37). Measurement of ethyl glucuronide in hair samples can detect alcohol use for a longer period of up to 1 month (38). Urine ethyl glucuronide and phosphatidyl ethanol are commercially available for use in routine clinical practice (36). Screening of psychosocial conditions It is important to identify concomitant psychosomatic disorders in individuals with AUD, as simultaneous treatment of these disorders is crucial in maintaining abstinence. Individuals with AUD have high prevalence of anxiety, affective disorders, psychosis, and posttraumatic stress disorder. In other situations, patients use excessive drinking to cope with untreated chronic pain, or sleeping disorders. They may also have a history of sexual abuse, violence, social isolation, and history of driving while impaired. Patients with AUD have a higher risk of developing other addictions, including nicotine, opioids, and benzodiazepines; polysubstance users are difficult to manage and should be systematically referred to specialized treatment. Two of the commonly overlooked issues in a busy clinic practice of physicians are
