HHS Public Access
KEYWORDS: patients, alcohol, author, manuscript, author manuscript, liver, cirrhosis, disease, manuscript author, alcoholic, use, ald, risk, liver disease, therapy


and benzodiazepines; polysubstance users are difficult to manage and should be systematically referred to specialized treatment. Two of the commonly overlooked issues in a busy clinic practice of physicians are masked depression and anxiety disorder in these individuals, and these factors increase the risk for relapse to alcohol use and failure of counseling or detoxification therapy sessions. A simple screening tool for assessing for underlying depression is a Patient Health Questionnaire (PHQ)-2 questionnaire, which includes two questions (each scored from 0–3 depending on severity) for symptoms over the last 2 weeks for: (a) little interest or pleasure in doing things? and (b) feeling down, depressed, or hopeless? A similar questionnaire for generalized anxiety disorder or Generalized Anxiety Disorder (GAD) includes two questions (each scored from 0 to 3) for symptoms over the last 2 weeks for: (a) feeling nervous, Am J Gastroenterol. Author manuscript; available in PMC 2019 May 17. Author Manuscript Author Manuscript Author Manuscript Author Manuscript anxious, or edgy? and (b) not being able to stop or control worrying (39)? On each of these tools, a score of 3 or more constitutes a positive response and need for further intervention. MANAGEMENT OF ALCOHOLIC LIVER DISEASE Patients with ALD are suffering from two different disorders, namely AUD and liver disease. Hence, the treatment should involve integrated management targeting both the disorders. Management of alcohol-use disorder Therapies for treatment of AUD aim at achieving complete alcohol abstinence with use of pharmacological therapy and behavioral therapy with motivational interviewing. Patients actively drinking are at a high risk of severe AWS during inpatient alcohol detoxification. Obstacles to completing addiction therapies include the following: lack of specialized care, refusal by the patient, lack of insurance coverage, patient too sick to attend therapy sessions, and transportation (40). Recognizing these obstacles will help the clinician to address these with the patient as basis of providing optimal management. Pharmacological therapies.—Many pharmacological agents have been used for treatment of AUD including disulfiram, acamprosate, gabapentin, naltrexone, topiramate, sertraline, and baclofen (41). Of these, only baclofen, a γ-amino butyric acid-B receptor agonist has been found to be safe in patients with ALD and cirrhosis. Its efficacy is shown with increase in abstinence rates (42). Baclofen can be started in a dose of 5 mg three times a day and the dose can be increased at a 3–5 days interval based on patient tolerance to a maximum dose of 15
