HHS Public Access
KEYWORDS: patients, alcohol, author, manuscript, author manuscript, liver, cirrhosis, disease, manuscript author, alcoholic, use, ald, risk, liver disease, therapy


a dose of 5 mg three times a day and the dose can be increased at a 3–5 days interval based on patient tolerance to a maximum dose of 15 mg three times a day. Considering its excellent safety profile, even among patients with advanced liver disease and AH, patients on baclofen therapy can be monitored by hepatologists or addiction specialists. Non-pharmacological therapies.—The other major approach to induce or to maintain alcohol abstinence in patients with ALD is behavioral interventions such as motivational enhancement therapy, cognitive behavioral therapy, motivational interviewing, supportive therapy, and psychoeducation (43). Motivational interviewing, the most commonly used intervention, is a technique that aims to be both non-judgmental and non-confrontational. It attempts to increase a patient’s awareness of the potential problems caused, consequences experienced, and risks faced because of excessive alcohol use. Essential components of a motivational approach are an empathic attitude and a collaborative approach that respects the patients’ autonomy (40,44). A brief intervention should have at least the components defined in the five “A” model: ask about use, advice to quit or reduce, assess willingness, assist to quit or reduce and arrange follow-up. Cognitive behavior therapy is a structured goal- directed form of psychotherapy in which patients learn how their thought processes contribute to their behavior. Psychologic interventions can be difficult in patients with hepatic encephalopathy, cognitive impairment, or poor performance status (40). Moreover, patients with end-stage liver disease have frequent hospitalizations that preclude attendance at psychosocial interventions. No psychosocial intervention has been consistently shown to be successful in maintaining Am J Gastroenterol. Author manuscript; available in PMC 2019 May 17. Author Manuscript Author Manuscript Author Manuscript Author Manuscript abstinence in patients with ALD. Rather, an integrated therapy with cognitive behavioral therapy and medical care appear to reduce recidivism. There is a clear need for clinical trials combining psychosocial and pharmacological interventions in ALD patients with AUD. Management of alcohol withdrawal AWS is a common condition affecting alcohol-dependent patients who abruptly discontinue or markedly decrease alcohol consumption. Light or moderate AWS usually develops within 6–24 h after the last drink and symptoms may include nausea/vomiting, hypertension, tachycardia, tremors, hyperreflexia, irritability, anxiety, and headache. These symptoms may progress to more severe forms of AWS, characterized by delirium tremens, generalized seizures, coma, and even cardiac arrest and death. Older patients are at greater risk for delirium tremens. Patients with moderate or severe alcohol withdrawal should be closely
