HHS Public Access
KEYWORDS: patients, alcohol, author, manuscript, author manuscript, liver, cirrhosis, disease, manuscript author, alcoholic, use, ald, risk, liver disease, therapy


delirium tremens, generalized seizures, coma, and even cardiac arrest and death. Older patients are at greater risk for delirium tremens. Patients with moderate or severe alcohol withdrawal should be closely monitored in an intensive care unit (ICU), where vital signs, volume status, and neurological function are monitored on a regular basis. Severity scores for AWS such as the Clinical Institute Withdrawal Assessment for Alcohol score are useful in the management of patients, although they have not been validated in patients with severe ALD and a symptom-triggered approach is preferred (45,46). Benzodiazepines are the most commonly used drugs to treat AWS. Long-acting benzodiazepines (e.g., diazepam and chlordi-azepoxide) predominantly protect against seizures and delirium; short and intermediate-acting benzodiazepines (e.g., lorazepam and oxazepam) are safer for patients with poor liver function. Patients with AWS and concomitant hepatic encephalopathy should be treated for both the conditions. Of note, high- dose benzodiazepines may precipitate and worsen hepatic encephalopathy; thus, careful monitoring and titration is critical for optimal outcomes. Given the side effects of benzodiazepines in patients with advanced liver disease and the potential for abuse in an addictive population, other drugs such as baclofen, clonidine, gabapentin, and topiramate have been proposed to treat AWS in patients with ALD including alcoholic cirrhosis. However, the efficacy and safety of these substances in patients with AH is unknown and therefore prospective studies are required. A promising approach is to use baclofen to prevent and treat moderate AWS first, and continue the medication to prevent alcohol relapse. Management of liver disease Alcoholic cirrhosis.—It is important to assess the nutritional status of ALD patients as malnutrition is often present in these patients (see section on nutritional supplementation for details). Patients with alcoholic cirrhosis should be screened for varices with upper gastrointestinal endoscopy (50 ). These patients are also at an increased risk of developing HCC, with a life-time risk of about 3–10% and an annual risk of about 1%. Obesity and cigarette smoking are risk factors for HCC in patients with alcoholic cirrhosis. Patients with alcoholic cirrhosis should undergo screening with ultrasound examination with or without α-fetoprotein testing every 6 months for HCC (51). Immunization against hepatitis A and B, Am J Gastroenterol. Author manuscript; available in PMC 2019 May 17. Author Manuscript Author Manuscript Author Manuscript Author Manuscript pneumococcal pneumonia and influenza is also recommended (Center for Disease Control and Prevention link on vaccinations). Patients with decompensated cirrhosis are
