HHS Public Access
KEYWORDS: patients, alcohol, author, manuscript, author manuscript, liver, cirrhosis, disease, manuscript author, alcoholic, use, ald, risk, liver disease, therapy


17. Author Manuscript Author Manuscript Author Manuscript Author Manuscript pneumococcal pneumonia and influenza is also recommended (Center for Disease Control and Prevention link on vaccinations). Patients with decompensated cirrhosis are managed as for any patient with cirrhosis as described below. Ascites.—A diagnostic paracentesis is warranted to rule out spontaneous bacterial peritonitis. A therapeutic paracentesis is carried out as required for symptom relief of tense ascites. Management of ascites and hepatorenal syndrome should follow established guidelines. In addition to antibiotics, albumin 1.5 g/kg is recommended on day 1 and 1 g/kg on day 3 in the presence of spontaneous bacterial peritonitis (52). Hepatic encephalopathy.—This is managed as per prevailing guidelines and includes lactulose and rifaximin therapy, as well as control of infection. Cerebral damage, malnutrition, and infections among patients with alcohol-related cirrhosis and continued alcohol use may lower the threshold in development of hepatic encephalopathy. However, other causes of altered mental status should be screened for, especially among patients who present with atypical neuro-psychiatric features that warrant questioning the diagnosis of hepatic encephalopathy or AWS. For example, seizures, focal neurological deficits, severe headache, and encephalopathy refractory to all measures should point towards an alternate cause for altered consciousness such as stroke, subdural hematoma, drug overdose, meningitis, and fungal infections of the central nervous system. A drug screen is recommended and in selected patients imaging of the head and cerebral spinal fluid studies may be required (53). Variceal bleeding.—Management of the acute variceal bleeding episode involves pharmacological therapy with available vasoactive agents (terlipressin or octreotide), antibiotics, and endoscopic therapy. Endoscopy should ideally be carried out at least 30 min after initiation of vasoactive therapy ( 54 ). ALCOHOLIC HEPATITIS Diagnosis of alcoholic hepatitis History.—Clinical features of AH include non-specific constitutional symptoms such as fatigue but may also include symptoms attributable to advanced liver disease. The history of alcohol use needs to be carefully documented including the date of last drink. Collateral information from relatives about drinking patterns is often required to confirm the history on alcohol consumption. Suspicion for AH should be high in a patient with recent onset or worsening of jaundice in the setting of chronic heavy alcohol use, which has been active until at least 8 weeks before presentation. History should also include previous admissions for AH, type, duration and amount of alcohol intake, previous alcohol counseling and/or detoxification attempts, recent cocaine and other drug use, potential hepatotoxic drugs,
