HHS Public Access
KEYWORDS: patients, alcohol, author, manuscript, author manuscript, liver, cirrhosis, disease, manuscript author, alcoholic, use, ald, risk, liver disease, therapy


History should also include previous admissions for AH, type, duration and amount of alcohol intake, previous alcohol counseling and/or detoxification attempts, recent cocaine and other drug use, potential hepatotoxic drugs, gastrointestinal bleeding, duration of jaundice, and possible source of infection including urinary, pulmonary, cutaneous, and abdominal. Am J Gastroenterol. Author manuscript; available in PMC 2019 May 17. Author Manuscript Author Manuscript Author Manuscript Author Manuscript Physical examination.—Many physical examination signs overlap with alcoholic cirrhosis reflecting portal hypertension and complications of cirrhosis. Malnutrition of variable degree and sarcopenia is present in most patients with AH. Signs of chronic alcohol intake (e.g., Dupuytren contracture, rhinophyma, etc.), signs of chronic liver disease (spider angioma, palmar erythema, and jaundice), signs of portal hypertension (splenomegaly, ascites, and hepatic encephalopathy), and of alcohol withdrawal (tremors, tachycardia, agitation, seizures in severe AWS, or delirium tremens) may be present (55). Features of systemic inflammatory response syndrome (SIRS) may be present in these patients even in the absence of infection (56). SIRS criteria include the presence of ≥2 of the following: heart rate >100 beats per minute, temperature >38 °C or <36 °C, respiratory rate >12 breaths per minute, and white blood cell count >12,000 or <4,000 mm. In addition to SIRS criteria, tender hepatomegaly and occasionally, hepatic bruit may be present. A very careful search should be made for a source for potential infection or sepsis, including skin examination for signs of cellulitis and infection around venous lines. Laboratory abnormalities.—Specific laboratory abnormalities to diagnose AH include bilirubin >3 mg/dL; AST >50 but <400 IU/L, with AST/ALT ratio of >1.5. The severity of liver disease should also be documented by measuring the serum bilirubin, creatinine, INR, albumin, and electrolytes to calculate the MELD score, MELD sodium score, and Maddrey discriminate function scores (see section on prognosis and disease severity). As these patients have high risk for infection, diligent infectious work up should be performed including ascitic fluid cell counts with cultures in patients with ascites, urine microscopic examination and cultures, chest X-ray, blood, and sputum cultures as clinically indicated. As SIRS features along with rapidly increasing jaundice may mimic cholangitis, it is prudent to exclude biliary obstruction. Liver biopsy.—One area of controversy is the need for a liver biopsy to confirm the diagnosis of AH. In a recent NIH-sponsored consensus meeting of investigators, it was of confounding serology for other liver disease etiology, and liver histology (57) (Table 3
