HHS Public Access
KEYWORDS: patients, alcohol, author, manuscript, author manuscript, liver, cirrhosis, disease, manuscript author, alcoholic, use, ald, risk, liver disease, therapy


to confirm the diagnosis of AH. In a recent NIH-sponsored consensus meeting of investigators, it was of confounding serology for other liver disease etiology, and liver histology (57) (Table 3 and Figure 3). Definite AH was categorized as a compatible clinical diagnosis along with liver biopsy confirming the existence of criteria of AH; probable AH was defined as classic disease; possible AH was defined as clinically suspicious for AH, presence of confounding factors such as ischemic hepatitis, possible drug-induced liver injury, serology positive for another liver disease etiology, or uncertain alcohol use. It was proposed that patients with possible AH should undergo liver biopsy to confirm the diagnosis, especially if specific pharmacologic interventions are proposed. On the other hand, the diagnosis of probable AH may be associated with only a low rate of histologic misclassification and therefore biopsy may not be essential in this population. Characteristic histological findings of AH include macro vesicular steatosis, lobular infiltration of neutrophils with hepatocyte damage (Mallory-Denk bodies and/or ballooning), bilirubin stasis and liver fibrosis, which is typically described as peri cellular and sinusoidal (“chicken wire” appearance) (58) (Figure 4). These features are indistinguishable from non- Am J Gastroenterol. Author manuscript; available in PMC 2019 May 17. Author Manuscript Author Manuscript Author Manuscript Author Manuscript ASH and the alcohol-non-ALD index (including body mass index, gender, AST, ALT, and mean cell volume of the red blood cells or mean corpuscular volume) can be helpful to distinguish the two in cases of unclear alcohol consumption (59). The majority of AH patients have underlying macronodular cirrhosis, which is not easily distinguishable from other forms of cirrhosis. When cirrhosis is established, steatosis may be less prominent. On electron microscopic examination, megamitochondria may be observed. If liver biopsy is performed for diagnosis of AH, the findings may also have prognostic value. For example, one recent study showed that presence of severe fibrosis, megamitochondria, degree of neutrophil infiltration, and cholestasis could predict prognosis in patients with AH (60). Prognostic scores and natural history Many scoring systems have been developed to predict severity of AH. The Maddrey Discriminant Function is the most time tested and validated scoring system, with severe AH defined by Maddrey Discriminant Function ≥32 (61). Retrospective and prospective analysis of this score indicates that Maddrey Discriminant Function ≥32 predicts a mortality rate of ~20–50% over 30 days (62). Most clinical trials for AH have used this score based on
