HHS Public Access
KEYWORDS: patients, alcohol, author, manuscript, author manuscript, liver, cirrhosis, disease, manuscript author, alcoholic, use, ald, risk, liver disease, therapy


of this score indicates that Maddrey Discriminant Function ≥32 predicts a mortality rate of ~20–50% over 30 days (62). Most clinical trials for AH have used this score based on its use in the original corticosteroid trials. A number of other scoring systems have also been validated and generally performed similar to the Maddrey score, including the MELD score, Age Bilirubin INR Creatinine (ABIC) score, and the Glasgow scale (62). The MELD score is being increasingly used to assess severity of AH given its better accuracy, worldwide use in organ allocation, INR as standard in reporting prothrombin time, and incorporation of renal function and serum creatinine, which is a major determinant of outcomes in AH patients. A MELD score >20 has been proposed as defining severe AH with an ~20% mortality (63). Lille score (a continuous score with a scale from 0 to 1) at 4–7 days of corticosteroids therapy can be used to assess the response to corticosteroids (Lille score <0.45) (64). Most of these scores by themselves do not predict prognosis accurately after 90 days and are most predictive at 30 days. A number of other variables influence prognosis after 30–90 days, most notably the ability to maintain abstinence from alcohol or not (5,6). Recent studies have shown that combination use of MELD at baseline and Lille score at day 7 has best discrimination and calibration for 2-month and 6-month mortality (65). In addition, serum lipopolysaccharide levels, SIRS criteria, and other serum markers may also serve as biomarkers of mortality (56). Treatment of alcoholic hepatitis General measures and supportive treatment: provided to all AH patients irrespective of disease severity. Patients hospitalized with severe AH often have history of active heavy alcohol use and present with manifestations of the SIRS (56). Sepsis and malnutrition are common among this population (4). Ascites, variceal bleeding, and hepatic encephalopathy may also be present. In-patient management should therefore focus on alcohol withdrawal, nutritional supplementation, infections and sepsis, complications of cirrhosis and portal hypertension, and specific treatment of AH. Patients may also develop acute on chronic liver failure, which manifests with hepatic and extrahepatic organ failure requiring intensive care (see below). Am J Gastroenterol. Author manuscript; available in PMC 2019 May 17. Author Manuscript Author Manuscript Author Manuscript Author Manuscript Nutrition and fluid replacement.—Malnutrition and sarcopenia are common among hospitalized AH patients with negative impact on outcome (66–68). Many randomized controlled studies have shown
