HHS Public Access
KEYWORDS: patients, alcohol, author, manuscript, author manuscript, liver, cirrhosis, disease, manuscript author, alcoholic, use, ald, risk, liver disease, therapy


Author Manuscript Author Manuscript Author Manuscript Nutrition and fluid replacement.—Malnutrition and sarcopenia are common among hospitalized AH patients with negative impact on outcome (66–68). Many randomized controlled studies have shown improvement in nutritional status, but with controversial data on survival benefit with enteral supplementation (69–73) or parenteral supplementation. Although enteral supplementation in severe AH did not show survival benefit in a recently reported randomized study, there were more deaths with daily caloric intake of <21.5 kcal/kg per day compared with higher intake of calories. The enteral route due to its low cost, safety, and lower risk for infections is the preferred route. Feeding tube can be safely placed in the presence of esophageal varices without active bleeding or who have not undergone recent endoscopic variceal banding (74). Patients with severe AH need daily protein intake of 1.2 to 1.5 g/kg and caloric intake of 35 Kcal/kg. Zinc and other trace elements may need to be replaced. Thiamine and B complex vitamins need to be replaced. Albumin is preferred to crystalloid for volume replacement. Intensive care.—The patient may require transfer to the ICU in the presence of extrahepatic organ failure. Indications for transfer to the ICU include stage III or stage IV hepatic encephalopathy and the need for ventilation, respiratory failure, hemodynamic instability, and septic shock. Scoring systems to predict mortality in ICU patients include the SOFA score (75) and the CLIF SOFA score (76). The North American Consortium for Study of End Stage Liver Disease-Acute on Chronic Liver Failure (NACSELD ACLF) score is the easiest to use—patients with two or more extra-hepatic organ failures, second infections, and higher MELD score are at greatest risk of mortality (77). Sepsis surveillance should be performed and broad-spectrum antibiotics should be administered before transfer to the ICU, or within one hour of admission. The choice of antibiotics depends on prevailing local antimicrobial resistance patterns. Piperacillin- tazobactam is generally the preferred drug used for sepsis, although vancomycin and meropenem may be considered in patients with penicillin hypersensitivity. As sepsis is difficult to diagnose in this group and about 40– 50% of patients may be culture negative, there should be a low threshold for diagnosis of infection and initiation of antibiotic therapy. Diagnosis of infections in patients with AH and cirrhosis should be performed using standardized definitions and guidelines (78). It is important to differentiate community acquired infections from nosocomial infections (onset after 48 h of
