HHS Public Access
KEYWORDS: patients, alcohol, author, manuscript, author manuscript, liver, cirrhosis, disease, manuscript author, alcoholic, use, ald, risk, liver disease, therapy


patients with AH and cirrhosis should be performed using standardized definitions and guidelines (78). It is important to differentiate community acquired infections from nosocomial infections (onset after 48 h of admission to hospital) or healthcare-associated infections (within first 48 h of admission in patients with nursing homes), as the empiric antibiotics for nosocomial or healthcare-associated infections should cover broadly for multidrug resistant bacteria, and in select high-risk cases for atypical organisms and fungal infections. Ulcer prophylaxis is recommended using proton pump inhibitors. Both proton pump inhibitors and H2 antagonists increase the risk of infections such as aspiration pneumonia and clostridium difficile, but decrease the risk of chemical pneumonitis and gastrointestinal bleeding. Proton pump inhibitors are superior to H2 antagonists for the prevention of gastrointestinal bleeding. Glucose control is targeted to levels <200 mg/dL and transfusion is required with the hemoglobin target of 7–8 g/dL. Am J Gastroenterol. Author manuscript; available in PMC 2019 May 17. Author Manuscript Author Manuscript Author Manuscript Author Manuscript Organ failure scores are used to determine severity of acute on chronic liver failure. Patients with renal failure and acute kidney injury should receive diligent care with the aim to identify and reverse precipitating factors and improve renal function. Renal replacement therapy is recommended in the presence of acute kidney injury in the presence of sepsis- associated acute tubular necrosis, or if the cause of acute kidney injury is unclear. In the presence of hepatorenal syndrome, a therapeutic trial of renal replacement therapy may be considered in patients who are potential liver transplant candidates. Patients requiring pulmonary support should receive low tidal volume to avoid lung injury. Vasoconstrictors and pressor may be needed to maintain mean blood pressure of >65 mm Hg. Specific pharmacologic therapies.—Pharmacological therapies examined for AH patients are listed in Table 4, Corticosteroids.—As the first randomized controlled study to assess efficacy of corticosteroids in the treatment of AH in 1971 (79), a total of 14 randomized studies (12 against placebo, 1 against enteral supplementation, and 1 against antioxidant cocktail) have reported conflicting data, likely to be due to variations on inclusion/exclusion criteria and the use of liver biopsy for confirming the diagnosis of AH (61,79–90). In a pooled analysis, using individual patient data from the five largest randomized controlled studies (85–88,91), corticosteroids provided survival benefit at 28 days (80% vs. 66%, P<0.0001) in half of the patients (92). The largest randomized placebo controlled multicenter
