HHS Public Access
KEYWORDS: patients, alcohol, author, manuscript, author manuscript, liver, cirrhosis, disease, manuscript author, alcoholic, use, ald, risk, liver disease, therapy


the five largest randomized controlled studies (85–88,91), corticosteroids provided survival benefit at 28 days (80% vs. 66%, P<0.0001) in half of the patients (92). The largest randomized placebo controlled multicenter study from the United Kingdom (the STeroids Or Pentoxifylline for Alcoholic Hepatitis (STOPAH) study) on 1,103 severe AH patients showed only a trend for mortality benefit at 28 days with prednisolone, compared with patients receiving placebo (13.8% vs. 18%, P=0.056). A meta- analysis of randomized studies (including the STOPAH study) showed that corticosteroids were effective in reducing short-term mortality by 46%. Prednisolone is preferred over prednisone, as the latter requires conversion to prednisolone, which may be impaired in patients with impaired liver synthetic function. Moreover, prednisone did not improve patient survival in a randomized clinical trial (89). Prednisolone is used in a dose of 40 mg per day for a total duration of 4 weeks. Methylprednisolone 32 mg per day by intravenous route is used for patient unable to take oral medications. There are no studies examining different doses and durations of corticosteroid therapy. Response to therapy is determined at 1 week of therapy using the Lille score. About 50–60% of patients do not respond to steroids (Lille score>0.45) and these patients do not derive further benefit from continuing steroids (Figure 3) (64). Recently, the Lille score at day 4 of corticosteroid therapy has been shown to be as accurate as day 7 Lille score in predicting the outcome and response to treatment, although this observation needs further validation studies (93). Unpredictable response to corticosteroids combined with fear of adverse effects, especially providers using them as reported in two different surveys (94,95). There is a clear unmet need for development of safer effective pharmacological options for management of AH patients and for biomarkers to predict response to corticosteroids at the time of presentation ( 96–98 ). Am J Gastroenterol. Author manuscript; available in PMC 2019 May 17. Author Manuscript Author Manuscript Author Manuscript Author Manuscript Active hepatitis B virus infection and active tuberculosis are contraindications for use of corticosteroids (99). Although HCV infection may potentially worsen the outcome of AH patients (30,100–102), there are no data on whether 4 weeks of corticosteroid therapy will increase HCV replication or that HCV infection worsens the response to corticosteroids. Active infection or sepsis, uncontrolled diabetes mellitus, and gastrointestinal bleeding remain relative contraindications to the use of corticosteroids. In these situations, corticosteroids can be
