HHS Public Access
KEYWORDS: patients, alcohol, author, manuscript, author manuscript, liver, cirrhosis, disease, manuscript author, alcoholic, use, ald, risk, liver disease, therapy


infection worsens the response to corticosteroids. Active infection or sepsis, uncontrolled diabetes mellitus, and gastrointestinal bleeding remain relative contraindications to the use of corticosteroids. In these situations, corticosteroids can be used once the contraindication has been reversed with appropriate therapy. For example, use of corticosteroids after adequate control of infection has been reported to provide similar benefit as in uninfected patients (103). However, development of infections remains a concern among patients treated with corticosteroids, as these drugs compromise the immune status of an individual, putting them at risk for infections (104). In pooled data from 12 randomized studies comparing corticosteroids and placebo, infections during treatment occurred in about 20%, with steroid use associated with risk of fungal infections (105). In one study comprising patients with high bacterial DNA levels (>18.5 pg/mL) enrolling in the STOPAH study, the use of prophylactic antibiotics improved patient survival in corticosteroids treated patients (106). There remains an unmet need to determine accurate biomarkers with a potential for earlier diagnosis of infections, and randomized studies exploring benefit of antibiotics used as prophylaxis or as adjuvant to corticosteroids among patients with AH at high risk for development of infections ( 56 ). Pentoxifylline.—A phosphodiesterase inhibitor, pentoxifylline inhibits tumor necrosis factor-α activity, one of the major cytokines speculated in the pathogenesis of AH (107,108). As the first seminal study on the benefit of pentoxifylline used as 400 mg 3 times a day (109), many other randomized studies have failed to show survival benefit in severe AH patients (110–113). However, pentoxifylline has consistently shown benefit in reducing the risk of renal injury and deaths from hepatorenal syndrome (109,114). Although pentoxifylline is known to inhibit tumor necrosis factor, levels of tumor necrosis factor did not change with pentoxifylline (PTX) in the reported seminal study (109). Pentoxifylline compared with corticosteroids showed benefit in one study (115) and no difference in another study (116). Pentoxifylline was not effective when examined as salvage option for steroid non-responders, (117) or as an adjuvant therapy to corticosteroids (118,119). In a meta-analysis of 10 randomized studies, pentoxifylline failed to show survival benefit at 1 month, but was effective in reducing the occurrence of hepatorenal syndrome by 53% (120). The exact mechanism of renal protection with pentoxifylline remains unclear. The STOPAH study showed no survival benefit with pentoxifylline (90). In a network meta-analysis of 22 studies including the STOPAH study, there was low-quality evidence for benefit of
