HHS Public Access
KEYWORDS: patients, alcohol, author, manuscript, author manuscript, liver, cirrhosis, disease, manuscript author, alcoholic, use, ald, risk, liver disease, therapy


remains unclear. The STOPAH study showed no survival benefit with pentoxifylline (90). In a network meta-analysis of 22 studies including the STOPAH study, there was low-quality evidence for benefit of pentoxifylline in reducing the short-term mortality at 28 days by 30% (121). It is possible that subgroups of patients (i.e., kidney failure) with AH may benefit from pentoxifylline, but this needs to be examined prospectively. Tumor necrosis factor-α inhibitors. Based on pre-clinical efficacy and beneficial effects in open label pilot studies (122–125), trials examining infliximab and etanercept in the management of severe AH had to be terminated prematurely due to higher number of deaths in the treatment arm, with most deaths due to infections (126,127). The mechanisms of these Am J Gastroenterol. Author manuscript; available in PMC 2019 May 17. Author Manuscript Author Manuscript Author Manuscript Author Manuscript findings are speculated to be due to blocking the beneficial effects of tumor necrosis factor on hepatic regeneration (128). Antioxidants.—Oxidative stress is a major player in the pathogenesis of ALD and AH (129). Antioxidant cocktails and vitamin E examined earlier have not shown beneficial effects in the management of severe AH (88,130,131). N-acetylcysteine infusion showed improved survival at 1 month, when used as an adjuvant to prednisolone in a multicenter randomized controlled study (132). There was no survival advantage with N-acetylcysteine at 3 or 6 months from presentation. A network meta-analysis comparing various pharmacological agents showed moderate quality evidence that combination of prednisolone and N-acetylcysteine provides best survival benefit at 28 days with 85% risk reduction of death from AH (121). However, more data on the efficacy of N-acetylcysteine in severe AH patients are needed before recommending its routine use in practice. Miscellaneous drugs.—Hepatic regenerative capacity supported by bone marrow- derived stem cells and hepatic progenitor cells is a major determinant of the outcome of patient with AH (133,134). However, drugs targeting this pathway including insulin and glucagon ( 135,136), anabolic steroid, oxandrolone (137), and propylthiouracil ( 138,139) failed to demonstrate a mortality benefit. Recently, the use of growth factors with granulocyte colony stimulating factor and erythropoietin have shown encouraging data in improving liver disease, reducing infectious complications, and patient survival ( 140,141 ). Molecular adsorbent recycling system safely improves liver disease, renal function, and portal hypertension, without any significant improvement in survival ( 142 ). Fecal transplantation has also been tested in eight subjects with contraindications to steroid therapy with encouraging
