HHS Public Access
KEYWORDS: patients, alcohol, author, manuscript, author manuscript, liver, cirrhosis, disease, manuscript author, alcoholic, use, ald, risk, liver disease, therapy


renal function, and portal hypertension, without any significant improvement in survival ( 142 ). Fecal transplantation has also been tested in eight subjects with contraindications to steroid therapy with encouraging results in a preliminary analyses ( 143 ). Patients with ≥4 failed organs being treated in ICU, who are not candidates for LT, are unlikely to survive beyond 3–6 months. Continuing further intensive treatment in these patients may be futile (Figure 3) (144). LIVER TRANSPLANTATION IN ALCOHOLIC LIVER DISEASE Liver transplantation for alcoholic cirrhosis LT is a definitive therapy for patients with cirrhosis and endstage liver disease. Alcoholic cirrhosis is the third most common indication for LT after hepatitis C and non-alcoholic fatty liver disease. LT for alcohol related cirrhosis accounts for about 15% of all liver transplants in the United States and about 20% in Europe ( 145–147 ). Similarly, of all the LT performed, about 10% and 6% are performed for HCV-infected drinkers in the United States and Europe, respectively ( 145–147 ). Referral for LT.—Access to LT involves three steps: referral to a LT center, formal evaluation and listing, and finally receipt of LT. Although, barriers to receiving LT exist at every step, physicians may have bias against referral of patients with alcoholic cirrhosis for alcoholism as a disease and not behavior, geographical area, race, amount and duration of alcohol use, and adherence to treatment are some of the barriers for referral of patients, who Am J Gastroenterol. Author manuscript; available in PMC 2019 May 17. Author Manuscript Author Manuscript Author Manuscript Author Manuscript otherwise may be potential LT candidates ( 148–150 ). Studies are needed to provide a basis for deriving guidelines using objective parameters on referral of these patients to a LT center. While evaluating an ALD patient for LT, specific issues as outlined below need to be considered. Evaluation for comorbidities.—Alcohol consumed on a longterm basis can damage other body organs such as the cardiovascular system (cardiomyopathy, hypertension, and chronic kidney disease), gastrointestinal system (chronic pancreatitis, diarrhea, malnutrition, and vitamin deficiencies), nervous system (Wernicke’s encephalopathy, seizures, dementia, and peripheral neuropathy), hematological system (macrocytosis and multifactorial anemia), musculoskeletal system (sarcopenia, deconditioning, and osteoporosis), and psychological system (psychiatric comorbidities and use of cigarette smoking and recreational drugs) ( 151–154 ). In one epidemiological study, either alcohol abuse or smoking was associated with a nearly two-fold increased risk for chronic kidney disease and this risk was about
