HHS Public Access
KEYWORDS: patients, alcohol, author, manuscript, author manuscript, liver, cirrhosis, disease, manuscript author, alcoholic, use, ald, risk, liver disease, therapy


drugs) ( 151–154 ). In one epidemiological study, either alcohol abuse or smoking was associated with a nearly two-fold increased risk for chronic kidney disease and this risk was about fivefold when both factors were present (154). Presence of any of these comorbidities in ALD patients should be assessed before transplantation since they can negatively impact posttransplant outcomes (150,151). Evaluation for risk of recidivism.—Relapse to alcohol use after LT (recidivism) is an important concern in any transplant recipient who had AUD before transplantation (155). Most transplant centers require minimum of 6 months of abstinence before considering LT evaluation (150). However, data on minimum 6 months of abstinence as a predictor of recidivism remain conflicting. Other predictors include younger age, social support, psychiatric comorbidities, polysubstance abuse, duration and amount of alcohol use, family history of alcoholism, and failed rehabilitation attempts ( 156,157 ). Many transplant centers utilize the Psychosocial Assessment of Candidacy for Transplantation scale to evaluate patients to stratify patients to low, intermediate and high risk for recidivism (34). Patients at high risk for recidivism are particularly advised to go through therapy for alcoholism prior to LT (158). Patients waiting on the transplant list should be monitored for alcohol use ( 159,160 ). Involvement of addiction specialists and incorporation of an addiction unit within the LT center is useful in reducing frequency of drinking and recidivism compared to referring these patients to an outside center for addiction therapy (161). However, the patient’s degree of illness and transportation issues may be significant limiting factors in these patients’ ability to complete therapy sessions (40). Posttransplant outcomes.—Patient survival rates after LT for alcoholic cirrhosis at 1, 3, 5, and 10 years after LT are reported to be 84–89%, 78–83%, 73–79%, and 58–73%, respectively, which are better compared with transplants for HCV cirrhosis or for HCC, and similar to other indications for LT (145,147). These excellent results are associated with relationship, and relationships within family and friends (162–164). Although transplant recipients experience an improved quality of life within the first year, this tends to decline Am J Gastroenterol. Author manuscript; available in PMC 2019 May 17. Author Manuscript Author Manuscript Author Manuscript Author Manuscript over long-term with perception of poorer physical health (165). Many transplant recipients resume employment and return to work, either full or part time. It is important to emphasize that LT cures the liver disease, but not the underlying AUD (150).
