HHS Public Access
KEYWORDS: patients, alcohol, author, manuscript, author manuscript, liver, cirrhosis, disease, manuscript author, alcoholic, use, ald, risk, liver disease, therapy


transplant recipients resume employment and return to work, either full or part time. It is important to emphasize that LT cures the liver disease, but not the underlying AUD (150). Prevalence of recidivism varies from 10 to 60% across different studies due to variations on definition of recidivism (any or harmful alcohol use) and on follow-up time after LT. In a pooled data from 50 studies on LT for alcoholic cirrhosis, annual incidence of recidivism was 5.7% and 2.5% for any alcohol use and for harmful use, respectively (166). Recidivism is most likely to be reported after 2 years of LT with the majority of recidivists reporting intermittent use of alcohol ( 155,167 ). Patients with harmful use of alcohol after LT have 10-year survival rates 45–71%, compared with 75–93% among abstinent patients or those with occasional slips ( 168–171 ). Self-reported alcohol use is often unreliable ( 159,172 ), and biomarkers of alcohol consumption can help in identifying patients with ongoing alcohol consumption (please refer to the section on ‘Diagnosis of AUD’). The limited data comparing outcomes of patients receiving LT for liver disease due to combined ALD and HCV infection with LT for alcoholic cirrhosis have shown conflicting findings, likely due to variations on HCV treatment before LT and on data source (registry based vs. single-center chart review) ( 173–175 ). Whether outcomes of transplant recipients of HCV infected drinkers will improve with the advent of newer potent and safer anti-HCV therapy, remains a testable hypothesis, yet to be answered. Causes of posttransplant morbidity and mortality.—Important causes of patient morbidity and mortality among transplant recipients for alcoholic cirrhosis are development of de-novo malignancy or cardiovascular complications. Compared with the general population, the risk of development of de-novo malignancy is about two- to threefold higher among transplant recipients for alcoholic cirrhosis, contributing to 20–40% of all deaths ( 176,177 ) especially malignancies of the head and neck, pharynx, esophagus, and lung ( 176–179 ). The risk for aero-digestive cancers is higher among transplant recipients with a history of smoking prior to LT and who continue to smoke after LT ( 179,180 ). The risk of malignancy may be also related to dose and type of immunosuppression. Compared with other immune-suppressing drugs, malignancy risk is lower with agents targeting mammalian target of rapamycin inhibitors such as sirolimus an everolimus, given their anti-tumor effects ( 181,182 ). Recurrent alcoholic cirrhosis is
