HHS Public Access
KEYWORDS: patients, alcohol, author, manuscript, author manuscript, liver, cirrhosis, disease, manuscript author, alcoholic, use, ald, risk, liver disease, therapy


immune-suppressing drugs, malignancy risk is lower with agents targeting mammalian target of rapamycin inhibitors such as sirolimus an everolimus, given their anti-tumor effects ( 181,182 ). Recurrent alcoholic cirrhosis is reported in about 5% of all LT performed for alcoholic cirrhosis, with cumulative probability of 33–54% at 10 years after LT among recidivists ( 183,184 ). Survival of patients with recurrent cirrhosis is about 41 and 21% at 10 and 15 years after LT respectively, compared to similar survival rates of about 70 and 50% among abstainers (183). Immunosuppression should be maintained at the lowest safe levels as with all patients who undergo a liver transplant; it is unclear whether everolimus or sirolimus are superior to calcineurin inhibitors among patients transplanted for alcoholic cirrhosis (185). Am J Gastroenterol. Author manuscript; available in PMC 2019 May 17. Author Manuscript Author Manuscript Author Manuscript Author Manuscript Liver transplantation for alcoholic hepatitis To minimize the risk of recidivism, most transplant centers require a minimum of 6 months of abstinence before considering LT for a patient with ALD. However, patients with severe AH not responding to medical therapy cannot afford to meet this requirement given their short-term mortality at 1 month from presentation as high as 50% (96). The lack of effective rescue medical therapies for non-responders to prednisolone provides the rationale for considering early LT. In a case controlled study, Mathurin et al. (186) transplanted highly selected patients with severe AH, who were non-responsive to corticosteroids and had a favorable psychosocial profile. Patients receiving early LT for AH were compared with an historical cohort managed medically. Survival at 6 months of patients with early LT was dramatically improved ( 77% vs. 23% ) (186). Most of this benefit was achieved within first month, confirming the utility of early LT in salvaging select AH patients who do not respond to corticosteroids. Further, recidivism was only reported in a minority of patients with salvage LT (<15%) (186). The recidivism rate reported in this study was similar to historical data on self-reported annual recidivism rate in LT recipients for alcoholic cirrhosis (166). In another study on analysis of national transplant database in the United States, patients receiving LT for listing diagnosis of AH compared with matched LT recipients for alcoholic cirrhosis had similar liver graft and patient survival at 5 years follow-up (187). Data are also emerging from other centers reporting similar benefits of early LT
