HHS Public Access
KEYWORDS: patients, alcohol, author, manuscript, author manuscript, liver, cirrhosis, disease, manuscript author, alcoholic, use, ald, risk, liver disease, therapy


LT recipients for alcoholic cirrhosis had similar liver graft and patient survival at 5 years follow-up (187). Data are also emerging from other centers reporting similar benefits of early LT in select severe AH patients (188– 190). As patients with AH are neither listed for urgent LT nor receive exception points, live donor LT is being performed in many Asian countries. Limited data on outcomes of living donor LT in AH patients are similar compared with LT using deceased donors (191). In light of these emerging data, early LT as a definitive therapy is gaining momentum and acceptance within the transplant community, as well as the general public ( 190,192 ). LT for AH can salvage these sick AH patients at risk of death in their most productive life and consumes only 1.5–3% of the donor pool ( 186,188,190 ). Despite these encouraging data, there remain barriers at every level to use this treatment modality for AH. For example, in a recently reported survey, LT center directors in the US reported center protocol, socio-cultural issues, organ shortage, and insurance approval as barriers to LT in AH (190). In this survey, there was agreement among the transplant centers on excellent psychosocial support and non-response to corticosteroids as criteria for patient selection. However, only 50% of LT centers were using all the five criteria proposed in the study by Mathurin et al. (190). Further, 1-year survival of 77% as reported in the prospective study is inferior to historic survival of over 90% after LT for alcoholic cirrhosis, with majority of deaths being due to invasive fungal infections (145,186). Patients with severe AH are prone to fungal infections, especially those who are non-responders to corticosteroids (105,193). Prospective multicenter studies are needed as basis for deriving guidelines for selection of AH patients for LT, antibiotic protocol for infection prevention in the perioperative period, and immunosuppression protocol on long-term follow-up of these patients. Am J Gastroenterol. Author manuscript; available in PMC 2019 May 17. Author Manuscript Author Manuscript Author Manuscript Author Manuscript CONCLUSIONS AND PROSPECTS Alcohol use constitutes a huge economic and population burden in the United States and worldwide. Despite the known hepatotoxic effect of alcohol use, the field lacks availability of effective safe pharmacotherapies for management of ALD patients. With growing interest of the research community and increasing funding from National Institute of Alcoholism and Alcohol Abuse and other organizations, the future holds
