KardiaMobile for detecting atrial fibrillation
KEYWORDS: kardiamobile, people, cost, clinical, ecg, device, evidence, using, model, using kardiamobile, studies, use, eac, committee, monitoring


available to healthcare professionals as soon as they are taken rather than at the end of a specified monitoring period. Intended use 2.4 The KardiaMobile heart monitor and Kardia app is intended for adults to detect abnormal heart rhythms. This guidance focuses on using KardiaMobile for detecting AF in adults referred for ECG monitoring. KardiaMobile would be prescribed by a healthcare professional for people who are experiencing arrhythmia symptoms more than 24 hours apart. The healthcare professional will advise on the frequency and length of use. The instructions for use state that all interpretations of ECG recordings should be reviewed by a healthcare professional and used to support clinical decision making. Relevant pathway 2.5 The section on detection and diagnosis in NICE's guideline on atrial fibrillation recommends that people with suspected AF have manual pulse palpations to detect an irregular pulse. If an irregular pulse is then detected, a 12-lead ECG is done. If an irregular pulse is undetected by a 12-lead ECG recording then an ambulatory monitor, event record or other ECG technology should be done whether or not the person has symptoms. Costs 2.6 The cost of a single-lead KardiaMobile device is £82.50 (excluding VAT) The Kardia app is free of cost. For more details, see the website for KardiaMobile. 3 Evidence Clinical evidence The main clinical evidence comprises 27 studies including 5 randomised controlled trials 3.1 There were 27 studies relevant to the decision problem in the scope: • 5 randomised controlled trials (RCTs) • 7 diagnostic accuracy studies • 1 case-control study • 13 single-arm observational studies • 1 case report. 3.2 Of the 27 included studies, 16 studies were peer reviewed, including 4 UK studies (Bray et al. 2021, Dimarco et al. 2018, Reed et al. 2021, Reed et al. 2019), one of which is an RCT (Reed et al. 2019). The included studies covered 6 population groups: • people with palpitations • people with a history of atrial fibrillation (AF), who have had treatment (ablation, cardioversion, or medical therapy) to restore sinus rhythm and used KardiaMobile to identify recurrence • people with diagnosed AF to assess AF burden • people with transient AF after surgery or hospitalisation whose heart rhythms reverted back to sinus rhythm before discharge and used KardiaMobile to identify recurrence • people after stroke or transient ischaemic attack who were monitored using KardiaMobile • mixed population including people with known or
