KardiaMobile for detecting atrial fibrillation
KEYWORDS: kardiamobile, people, cost, clinical, ecg, device, evidence, using, model, using kardiamobile, studies, use, eac, committee, monitoring


a cost model showing that monitoring with KardiaMobile is cost saving 3.9 The company developed a de novo model comparing KardiaMobile with Holter monitoring and the Zio patch. The model included people aged 64 and over with known or suspected AF who were referred for ambulatory ECG monitoring in a secondary care setting. The model assessed the costs associated with diagnosing and managing AF. Overall, the company's base case showed that using KardiaMobile could save between £320 and £380 per person over 5 years because of the cost of the technology, reductions in repeat testing, referrals to secondary care and stroke events. For full details of the cost evidence, see section 9 of the assessment report in the supporting documentation. The company's cost model was updated to address the limitations presented by the EAC 3.10 The EAC was unable to validate the company's original model, and highlighted limitations and errors in some of the parameters and assumptions used. The complexity of the model meant that inconsistencies could not be investigated and corrected. There was a lack of robust evidence to support the need for such complex time dependencies in the diagnostic phase of the model, and this approach required several additional assumptions. The EAC considered that the diagnosis phase could have been modelled more simply. Overall, the EAC considered the model to be overly complex, not transparent and not verifiable. It also did not agree with underlying structural assumptions, parameter choice or their implementation in the model. 3.11 The company submitted an updated cost model, which was modified and simplified to address the EAC's comments. Furthermore, various scenario analyses and probabilistic sensitivity analyses were done to explore uncertainties of the cost impact. The model was informed by 6 comparative studies including 1 UK study (Reid et al. 2019) and the results showed that using KardiaMobile resulted in cost saving in 2 studies of people with palpitations, and in 3 studies of people who were monitored for recurrent AF but was cost incurring in a study for monitoring AF. The EAC was, however, unable to validate the company model without further clarifications from the company (see Appendix B - EAC commentary), limiting the certainty in the results presented. Additional cost modelling by the EAC showed KardiaMobile to be cost saving for detecting AF in people presenting with undiagnosed palpitations 3.12 The EAC initially did a simple cost calculator to explore the
