KardiaMobile for detecting atrial fibrillation
KEYWORDS: kardiamobile, people, cost, clinical, ecg, device, evidence, using, model, using kardiamobile, studies, use, eac, committee, monitoring


the single-lead device is commonly used in clinical practice to detect AF, and the use of the 6-lead device is limited in the NHS. The clinical experts agreed that the 6-lead device provides heart rhythm from multiple angles, and it could have incremental benefits in some people to detect other arrhythmias when a good quality electrocardiogram (ECG) trace is available. For AF detection, the committee and experts concluded that the single-lead device is suitable in most patients. Evidence on using KardiaMobile for people after AF is diagnosed would be valuable, including the clinical consequences 4.3 The clinical experts advised that AF is a chronic condition. After AF is diagnosed, people are likely to be on medications such as anticoagulation or rhythm control drugs to reduce the risk of stroke and control symptoms for a long time. The experts noted that KardiaMobile could improve medication management; for instance, some medications can only be used when the normal heart rhythm is restored. However, no direct evidence was available on the clinical benefits of KardiaMobile after diagnosis of AF. For example, there was no evidence for the association between early AF detection and reduction in longer-term outcomes such as stroke events. The committee understood the limitations of the evidence base and concluded that more research would be of value that explores the use of KardiaMobile after AF diagnosis, including the impact of using KardiaMobile on clinical outcomes. NHS considerations overview KardiaMobile is easy to use and to access which means it is well suited for ambulatory monitoring 4.4 Evidence from published studies and patient experts shows that KardiaMobile is easier to use compared with other ECG monitors such as the Holter monitor. People with experience of using KardiaMobile found the device to be accessible at symptom onset and that it allowed improved access to care when needed. It has been well accepted across people of different age groups if they have a compatible mobile device. The committee concluded that KardiaMobile is a convenient device that people can use at home to monitor their heart rhythms. Patient selection will improve the care pathway and should be guided by clinical judgement 4.5 Patient selection is important and should be guided by clinical judgement. The clinical experts emphasised that devices need to be offered to people on an individual basis guided by clinical assessment of individual circumstances. Key factors to consider include risk of developing AF,
