KardiaMobile for detecting atrial fibrillation
KEYWORDS: kardiamobile, people, cost, clinical, ecg, device, evidence, using, model, using kardiamobile, studies, use, eac, committee, monitoring


experts emphasised that devices need to be offered to people on an individual basis guided by clinical assessment of individual circumstances. Key factors to consider include risk of developing AF, age, comorbidities, and the availability of primary and secondary care resources to interpret ECG traces. Furthermore, other factors such as the compatibility of mobile devices and patient preference also need to be considered. They noted that widespread use of KardiaMobile in the NHS without careful patient selection may place extra demand on local services. The committee concluded that healthcare professionals should assess individuals and indications when considering whether to prescribe KardiaMobile. KardiaMobile outputs should be reviewed by a healthcare professional for clinical decision making 4.6 The committee noted that one of KardiaMobile's advantages over some other technologies is that it is a portable device that provides real-time ECG traces and heart rhythm classification. Despite this, the EAC confirmed that clinical interpretation of all recorded ECGs is needed, in line with the device instructions for use, to limit the effect of false negative and false positive results. The clinical experts added that expertise in interpreting ECG traces is essential to ensure the accuracy of AF diagnosis. Also, the experts added that a considerable proportion of unreadable and unclassified ECG recordings would be interpretable by experienced healthcare professionals to inform clinical decision making. The committee concluded that ECG data generated by KardiaMobile should be reviewed by an experienced healthcare professional before a diagnosis is made. People need a smart device compatible with the KardiaMobile app and must stay still while taking an ECG recording 4.7 People need a smart device compatible with the KardiaMobile app. The company provides a list of compatible smart devices. The clinical experts said that in their experience, most people have access to a smart device, and alternative ambulatory monitors are offered if a person does not have a compatible device. The clinical experts also noted that KardiaMobile may not be suitable for people who cannot stay still or have problems holding the device; for example, people with tremors may have difficulty with recording an accurate trace. Training is important to minimise unreadable ECG recordings when using KardiaMobile 4.8 The clinical experts highlighted the issue of unreadable ECG traces. They explained that the way people use the device is likely to affect the quality of ECG recordings. In clinical practice, healthcare professionals often provide support for people to
