Reviews /Analyses
KEYWORDS: tuberculosis, patients, hiv, infection, aids, countries, cases, months, developing, hiv-infected, pulmonary, hiv infection, disease, developing countries, par


HIV-associated tuberculosis in developing treatment M.C. Raviglione,1 J.P. Narain,1,2 & A. Kochi3 This article reviews the clinical aspects and diagnosis of HIV-associated tuberculosis in developing countries, and summarizes WHO's recommendations for treatment. According to WHO estimates (early 1992) over 4 million persons worldwide have been infected with HIVand tuberculosis; 95% of them are in the developing countries. larly in the late stage of HIV infection, with non-cavitary disease, lower lobe infiltrates, hilar lymph- adenopathy and pleural effusion. More typical post-primary tuberculosis with upper lobe infiltrates and cavitations is seen in the earlier stages of HIV infection. Extrapulmonary tuberculosis is reported more frequently, despite the difficulties in diagnosing it. WHO's recentguidelines recommend 6-month short-course chemotherapy with isoniazid, rifampicin, pyrazinamide and ethambutol for patients with HIV-associated tuberculosis. The older 12-month regimen without rifampicin is much less effective. Streptomycin should not be used, because of the risk of transmitting blood-borne pathogens through contaminated needles. Thioacetazone should be abandoned, because of severe adverse reactions observed among HIV-infected patients. The roles of preventive chemotherapy and BCG vaccination forprevention oftuberculosis are also briefly discussed. Introduction 2.9 million deaths were caused by tuberculosis, 90% ofthem in the developing countries (2, 3). In January 1992 WHO estimated that 9-11 million Considering that the great majority of HIV adults and about one million children, mostly in the infections occur in 15-49-year-olds, and assuming developing countries, had been infected with the that the risks of infection with HIV and tuberculosis human immunodeficiency virus (HIV) worldwide. are independent, it has been estimated that world- Further, more than 1.5 million adult and over half a wide more than 4 million persons, mostly in the million paediatric cases ofacquired immunodeficien- developing countries, have been infected with both cy syndrome (AIDS) may have occurred since the HIV and M. tuberculosis (Table 1). WHO has estimated that (i) about 1700 million nostic, and therapeutic issues of HIV-associated people, i.e., one third ofthe total human population, tuberculosis in the developing countries, and sug- are infected with Mycobacterium tuberculosis; (ii) gests suitable approaches to treatment. more than 8 million new cases of active disease occurred in 1990; and (iii) in the same year, nearly Epidemiological background In the developing countries, the overlap between 1 Medical Officer, Tuberculosis Unit, WHO, Geneva, Switzer- HIV infection and tuberculosis is shown by the high land. HIV seroprevalence among patients presenting with 2 Global Programme on AIDS, WHO, Geneva, Switzerland. active tuberculosis.
