Reviews /Analyses
KEYWORDS: tuberculosis, patients, hiv, infection, aids, countries, cases, months, developing, hiv-infected, pulmonary, hiv infection, disease, developing countries, par


and may often be due to factor for reactivation of tuberculosis into active new infection with tubercle bacilli. On the other disease (15). Data from the USA suggest that the hand, more typical post-primary tuberculosis with annual risk of reactivation in tuberculin-positive upper lobe infiltrates and cavitations is seen in HIV-infected individuals is 7.9% (16). However, the patients during the early stages, when cell-mediated proportions of HIV-related tuberculosis resulting immunity is only partially compromised, and may from reactivation of a latent infection (secondary often be due to reactivation of a latent infection (28, tuberculosis) and from progression to disease of a 29) (Table 3). By and large, this should hold true in recent primary infection or re-infection remain to be developing countries. Similarly, tuberculin reactivity clarified and undoubtedly vary according to the epi- reflects the stage of HIV infection. Data from devel- demiological circumstances. Whatever the mecha- oping countries show figures of PPD (purified pro- nism, HIV infection accounts, at least in part, for the tein derivative) reactivity which vary considerably. rapid and dramatic resurgence of tuberculosis ex- For instance, the proportion of anergy among tuber- perienced by several developing countries. Although large epidemiological surveys are still not available, in western African countries like C6te d'Ivoire the Table 2: Percentage incidence of tuberculosis among HIV-2 epidemic also appears to have an impact on AIDS patients in various regions and countries the incidence oftuberculosis (13, 17). -1 uberculosis From a global perspective, tuberculosis may Region orcountry Sources (%) References indeed represent one ofthe most common HIV-rela- ted opportunistic infections. It was diagnosed in 44% Africa Clinical/autopsy 20-44 18-21 of 62 AIDS patients from Zaire who underwent Mexico, Brazil, autopsy 7-25 22-24a autopsy (18), and is the most frequent pulmonary Argentina disease detected in HIV-infected patients in Zimbab- Caribbean: Haiti Clinical 18 25 we (19). In a study in Dares Salaam, Tanzania, 19% Southern Europe: Surveillance 11 26 of274 patients with AIDS had tuberculosis (20), and Italy over one third of HIV-infected Ethiopians presented USA Surveillance 4 27 with pulmonary orextrapulmonary tuberculosis (21). a Data for Argentina from I.N. Kantor, personal communication, In a study in Rio de Janeiro tuberculosis was obser- 1992. 516 WHOBulletinOMS.Vol701992 HIV-associated tuberculosis in developing countries Table 3: Pulmonary patterns of HIV-associated tubercu- Table 4: Estimated frequency of clinical signs and losis (Tb) symptoms in patients with tuberculosis and with or without HIV infection in developing countries Typical
