Reviews /Analyses
KEYWORDS: tuberculosis, patients, hiv, infection, aids, countries, cases, months, developing, hiv-infected, pulmonary, hiv infection, disease, developing countries, par


ofpatients with HIV- ring in 42-80% ofcases in Africa (4, 9, 13) and 77% associated tuberculosis, the available information of cases in Brazil (30). Indeed, many cases with seems to indicate that infectiousness may be similar extrapulmonary involvement have evidence of lung to that of other patients with pulmonary tuberculosis disease at the same time. (29, 34) However, owing to the greater proportion of non-cavitary disease, the overall infectiousness may Presentation. Several reports have described the be lower among HIV-seropositive patients. characteristic clinical presentation of tuberculosis in HIV infection (Table 4). For instance, up to 85% of Diagnosis: sputum microscopy. In the USA, HIV-seropositive patients from Africa have already sputum smears have been found to be positive experienced a significant weight loss (often more in 31-82% of HIV-seropositive patients with than 10 kg or 20% of body weight) when they are pulmonary tuberculosis, with the higher fractions in diagnosed with tuberculosis (5-7, 9, 11) In addition, less immunocompromised individuals (those with the duration of preceding fever is longer than in typical reactivation tuberculosis) and the lower frac- HIV-seronegative persons, i.e., for more than 1 tions in advanced HIV disease (29). month in at least half ofthe cases (6, 7). About half In the developing countries, rapid diagnosis of have chronic diarrhoea, chest pains and dyspnoea (4, pulmonary tuberculosis is based on simple diagnostic 6-9). However, most of these signs and symptoms techniques: sputum smear microscopy and chest are also manifestations of other HIV-related condi- radiography, when available. In a series of 62 HIV- tions, which makes it difficult to ascribe them to one positive patients from Zambia sputum smears were or the other. Other common features accompanying positive in 63% of culture-proven pulmonary tuber- the presentation of HIV-associated tuberculosis in culosis cases, but showed a low number of bacilli Africa are oral candidiasis (4, 7, 8), generalized (defined as 1 to 10 in this study) in 35%, as lymphadenopathy (4, 7, 8), and a recent history of compared to 82% and 25%, respectively, in 61 HIV- WHOBulletinOMS.Vol701992 517 M.C. Raviglione etal. seronegative patients (8). More detailed data are significantly less common in HIV-seropositive available from Haiti. In a study which distinguished patients, while hilar or mediastinal adenopathy between patients meeting the clinical criteria for def- without parenchymal infiltrates was more common inition of AIDS and HIV-seropositive subjects with- (36). In Brazil, an atypical chest X-ray was reported out AIDS, it
