Reviews /Analyses
KEYWORDS: tuberculosis, patients, hiv, infection, aids, countries, cases, months, developing, hiv-infected, pulmonary, hiv infection, disease, developing countries, par


the clinical criteria for def- without parenchymal infiltrates was more common inition of AIDS and HIV-seropositive subjects with- (36). In Brazil, an atypical chest X-ray was reported out AIDS, it was found that positive smears could from 81% of AIDS patients as compared to 6% of be obtained in 90% ofthe former and 67% ofthe lat- non-HIV infected persons (37). In another study ter. Some 80% of subjects with tuberculosis with- from Brazil, interstitial infiltrates were seen in 71% out HIV-infection were smear-positive (12). Similarly, of 104 HIV-seropositive patients, while 22% had no in Brazil 87% of263 cases ofHIV-associated pulmo- evidence ofradiographic abnormalities (38). Similar- nary tuberculosis had apositive smear (30). ly, observations from the USA suggest that the chest The tuberculosis detection rate based on sputum radiographic manifestations of HIV-related pulmon- smear examination may thus be comparable to that ary tuberculosis reflect the stage of HIV infection, described for HIV-seronegative patients, at least with atypical reactivation pattem early inthe course, during the early stages of HIV disease. On the other and an atypical one in the more advanced stages (29, hand, when the immune system is severely compro- 39) (Table 5). mised, the sensitivity of sputum smear examination may be reduced. However, it has been observed that Other and new diagnostic methods. Diagnosis of even in the absence of cavitation and without lique- HIV-infected patients with clinical presentations faction of caseation necrosis, the profound impair- compatible with pulmonary tuberculosis, but with ment of the immunity seen in HIV infection may negative smears, represents a challenge to physicians permit tubercle bacilli to multiply in such large num- in developing countries with limitedresources. Small bers as to become visible on smearexamination (12). hospitals and clinics often provide only basic diagnostic tools such as sputum microscopy and Diagnosis: chest radiography. In a radiological basic radiological facilities. Mycobacterial culture in investigation of 81 HIV-related tuberculosis cases laboratories is necessary to make a definitive diagno- from Bujumbura, Burundi, reticulo-nodular infil- sis in smear-negative patients, but such laboratories trates, either bilateral or, less commonly, unilateral, are mostly located only in the main hospitals and were found in over two thirds ofthe cases. A miliary research institutions, and transportation of sputum pattern was seen in 32% and pleural involvement in samples is often not feasible. 11% of the cases, as compared to 3% and 3%, res- The application of endoscopic bronchoalveolar pectively, in HIV-seronegative patients (35).
