Reviews /Analyses
KEYWORDS: tuberculosis, patients, hiv, infection, aids, countries, cases, months, developing, hiv-infected, pulmonary, hiv infection, disease, developing countries, par


: i u nt p r p a e t r ho l ra o c b i e c i a nf d i e lt n r o a p te a s t , h c y a , vi w t i a t t h io o n r s. without advanced the stage ofdisease, the more common the parenchymal disease, localized non-cavitary disease in middle atypical presentation. In this study cavities were or lower lobes, isolated pleural effusion orno abnormalities. 518 WHOBulletinOMS.Vol701992 HIV-associated tuberculosis in developing countries A preliminary report from India has emphasized tuberculosis as reported from Central African Re- the relevance of applying the polymerase chain public (6), Zambia (8), Kenya (44), and Brazil (48). reaction (PCR) for the diagnosis of tuberculosis in Although uncommon in Uganda a few years ago developing countries, and initial results are encour- (probably not exceeding 5% of all cases of tubercu- aging (42). It is possible that some of the other new losis), tuberculous lymphadenitis has become com- laboratory techniques, once they become widely avai- mon in recent years; a biopsy study involving 16 lable, will havean impact inthedeveloping countries. HIV-seropositive patients revealed poor cellular For instance, nucleic acid hybridization probes for reactivation and abundant acid-fast bacilli in nine specifically identifying the DNA or RNA of myco- cases, and caseation with scanty or no bacilli in the bacteria in clinical specimens and immunoassays other seven (49). (either radioimmunoassay or ELISA for detecting Disseminated miliary forms are also frequent (6, specimens) are believed to be relatively simple and dren (4). However, mycobacteraemia may be diffi- not very expensive techniques, and meet the require- cult to diagnose in developing countries in the ab- ments for properhandling available in the developing sence of routine blood cultures. Further, virtually all countries. These methods, when made ideally sen- organs have been reported as extrapulmonary sites of sitive and specific, could become altematives to tuberculosis, and they include the gastrointestinal sputum smears and improve case detection (43). tract, liver, meninges, genito-urinary tract, perito- neum, and bone (4, 6, 9, 44, 48). Extrapulmonary disease Considering the data on extrapulmonary tubercu- In developing countries extrapulmonary tuberculosis losis, our knowledge of its distribution depends to a is a common finding among HIV-infected patients. large extent on the available diagnostic means, like Available information shows that HIV-seroprevalen- facilities to perform biopsies or other procedures ce is
