Reviews /Analyses
KEYWORDS: tuberculosis, patients, hiv, infection, aids, countries, cases, months, developing, hiv-infected, pulmonary, hiv infection, disease, developing countries, par


a is a common finding among HIV-infected patients. large extent on the available diagnostic means, like Available information shows that HIV-seroprevalen- facilities to perform biopsies or other procedures ce is higher in patients with extrapulmonary disease yielding tissue or fluid samples. If these cannot be than in those with pulmonary disease alone (4, 8, 9). obtained, physicians should make a presumptive In Africa during the pre-AIDS era only a small frac- diagnosis and treat those cases whose clinical pres- tion ofcases occurred in extrapulmonary sites (about entation strongly suggests extrapulmonary tubercu- 1 % among solely extrapulmonary and combined losis, afterhaving carefully excluded otherconditions. pulmonary and extrapulmonary) (28). A change in the distribution has occurred in recent years. For in- stance, in a series of adult HIV-related tuberculosis Treatment cases from the Central African Republic 31% had at Efficacy ofold and new regimens least one extrapulmonary site of disease (4). In two other series from Malawi and Kenya, 57% and 53%, The efficacy of short-course treatment has recently respectively, of HIV seropositive patients had extra- been evaluated in Zaire (50). The study involved 152 pulmonary tuberculosis, compared to 20% and 19% HIV-positive and 192 HIV-negative patients with of HIV seronegatives (9, 44). In Brazil, among 339 pulmonary tuberculosis. All patients received 2 tuberculosis cases, 62% had proven extrapulmonary months of intensive treatment with isoniazid (H), disease, either alone or accompanying pulmonary rifampicin (R), pyrazinamide (Z), and ethambutol disease (30). Similarly, a recent study from San (E), followed by isoniazid-rifampicin twice weekly Francisco, USA, has shown that only 38% of tuber- for 4 months. Later, HIV-positive patients were ran- culosis cases diagnosed in patients with advanced domized to receive continued treatment or placebo HIV infection occur in the lungs alone, while 30% for another 6 months. Failure rates after the first 6 were entirely extrapulmonary and 32% both pulmo- months of treatment did not differ significantly be- nary and extrapulmonary (45). tween HIV-infected (9%) and non-infected subjects Reports from Africa and Brazil have shown that (6%). More importantly, relapse rates after 12 while tuberculous lymphadenitis is the mostcommon months did not differ significantly between HIV- site, pleural and pericardial disease are also common seropositive patients who had been on continuous as well as disseminated miliary forms. For instance, treatment for the whole 12 months (5%) and those in two series from Zambia and Malawi, pleural treated only for 6 months (10%), showing
