Reviews /Analyses
KEYWORDS: tuberculosis, patients, hiv, infection, aids, countries, cases, months, developing, hiv-infected, pulmonary, hiv infection, disease, developing countries, par


as disseminated miliary forms. For instance, treatment for the whole 12 months (5%) and those in two series from Zambia and Malawi, pleural treated only for 6 months (10%), showing that short- tuberculosis was a very common extrapulmonary course chemotherapy is efficacious in HIV-infected manifestation (8, 9); HIV-related tuberculous peri- patients. Similarly, in Brazil a standard course of carditis is also frequently reported in developing isoniazid-rifampicin-pyrazinamide for 2 months fol- countries (4, 6, 8, 9, 46, 47). lowed by isoniazid-rifampicin for at least 4 months Lymphadenopathy, both intra- andextrathoracic, confirmed that sputum conversion was obtainable in remains the most frequent form of extrapulmonary 92% ofthe cases during treatment (30). WHOBulletinOMS.Vol701992 519 M.C. Raviglione etal. On the other hand, another study from Zaire has dary to other HIV-related disorders that are often clearly shown that 12-month "standard" antitubercu- very common among HIV-seropositive patients, like lous chemotherapy (which included isoniazid- chronic diarrhoea with resulting malnutrition, streptomycin and, in most cases, thioacetazone) was aggressive Kaposi sarcoma, severe anaemia, or other less effective in HIV-seropositive patients than in opportunistic infections (W. Nkhoma, personal com- HIV-seronegative patients, with a much higher mor- munication, 1991; 54). As recently suggested, this tality during both the year of chemotherapy (31.3% must be confirmed by showing that most deaths vs 4.4%) and the year after chemotherapy (26.3% occur after sputum conversion and when the tubercu- vs 2.2%). Further, relapse rates were higher among losis has improved clinically, which would indicate HIV-seropositive (18.1 per 100 patient-years) than thattuberculosis is notthe actual cause ofdeath (55). among HIV-seronegative patients (6.0 per 100 patient-years), with a relative risk of 3.0 (51). Recommendations for treatment Although lower rates were reported from the Central African Republic and COte d'Ivoire (4, 17), one WHO recommends that, whenever possible, new report from Zambia indicated that, at the end of cases ofinfectious pulmonary and other severe forms treatment, 12% (6 of 52) of HIV-positive patients oftuberculosis in Africa be treated using short-course relapsed as opposed to 6% (2 of35) ofHIV-negative chemotherapy.a This approach is more efficacious individuals, thus showing a trend towards a higher and cost-effective than the "standard" long-course relapse rate among HIV-infected patients (52). These chemotherapy (56). findings suggest that while short-course chemo- The short-course regimens consist of a fully therapy is probably efficacious in HIV-seropositive supervised intensive phase of daily isoniazid- patients, the "standard" 12-month regimen has a rifampicin-pyrazinamide-ethambutol for 2 months, considerably lowerefficacy. followed
