Reviews /Analyses
KEYWORDS: tuberculosis, patients, hiv, infection, aids, countries, cases, months, developing, hiv-infected, pulmonary, hiv infection, disease, developing countries, par


consist of a fully therapy is probably efficacious in HIV-seropositive supervised intensive phase of daily isoniazid- patients, the "standard" 12-month regimen has a rifampicin-pyrazinamide-ethambutol for 2 months, considerably lowerefficacy. followed by 4 months of thrice weekly isoniazid- In the pre-AIDS era, the overall mortality of rifampicin or by 6 months of daily isoniazid and untreated, confirmed forms of tuberculosis had been ethambutol (or, if cost must be controlled, by daily consistently shown to be 50-60% at 5 years (53). On isoniazid and ethambutol for at least the first 2 the other hand, data from the Tanzania National months ofthe continuation phase, followed by isoni- Tuberculosis and Leprosy Programme (NTLP) have azid alone forthe last4 months). This should become shown that the mortality during treatment was the new standard treatment of HIV-infected people reduced to about 4% before the effects of the HIV in Africa and otherdeveloping countries who present epidemic were seen. However, an increase to 11% with smear-positive pulmonary tuberculosis or during recent years in those regions with the highest other severe forms of tuberculosis (multibacillary HIV seroprevalence has been reported (data from the forms). For patients with tuberculous meningitis, Tanzania NTLP report to WHO, 1991). Despite the disseminated tuberculosis or spinal disease with neu- good results of short-course chemotherapy in both rological complications, isoniazid-rifampicin should sputum smear conversion and prevention of relapse, be given daily during the continuation phase and for the case fatality of tuberculosis in HIV-infected 6-7 months. In its guidelines, WHO recommends African patients is higher than in HIV-negative in- that streptomycin be replaced by ethambutol as the dividuals. This has been reported from the Central fourth drug during the initial phase of treatment in African Republic, Zaire and Zambia (6, 51, 52). In HIV-infected patients to avoid the potential oftrans- Malawi, 19% of 80 patients were dead at 16 months mission of HIV and other blood-bome pathogens (9). In another study from Zaire, 25% of73 HIV-sero- through contaminated needles and syringes, and that positive sanatorium patients died during a 2-month thioacetazone be replaced by ethambutol during the period of observation compared with 9% of HIV- continuation phase of the 8-month regimen because seronegative patients; the duration of preceding ofthe risk ofsevere adverse reactions when thioace- fever and severe weight loss were independent tazone is used in HIV-infected patients. WHO also predictors offatality (7). recommends prologing the initial phase for 2-4 Extrapulmonary disease was associated
