Reviews /Analyses
KEYWORDS: tuberculosis, patients, hiv, infection, aids, countries, cases, months, developing, hiv-infected, pulmonary, hiv infection, disease, developing countries, par


thioace- fever and severe weight loss were independent tazone is used in HIV-infected patients. WHO also predictors offatality (7). recommends prologing the initial phase for 2-4 Extrapulmonary disease was associated with a weeks ifthe sputum is still smear-positive at the end higher mortality than pulmonary disease alone in ofthe second month (Fig. 1). HIV-positive patients in Kenya (44). Finally, it is of For HIV-infected patients with smear-negative interest to note that HIV-2, in contrast to HIV-1, pulmonary tuberculosis or less severe extrapulmon- does not appear to increase the mortality from tuber- culosis (17). higher mortality rate among HIV-1-infected patients mentinadults andchildreninnationaltuberculosisprogrammes. remains unclear. A large part ofit is probably secon- Unpublished documentWHO/TUB/91.161, 1991. 520 WHOBulletinOMS.Vol701992 HIV-associated tuberculosis indeveloping countries Fig. 1. Treatment of newly diagnosed tuberculosis in of deaths due to toxic epidermal necrolysis (TEN) HIV-seropositive patients. In the 6-month regimen, isonia- (57). Later, a study from Zaire among adult patients zid and rifampicin may be given daily or thrice weekly receiving treatment with thioacetazone showed that during the continuation phase. the rate of skin eruptions was significantly higher in HIV-infected patients than in the HIV-seronegative patients (20% vs 7%), and two cases of Stevens- Johnson syndrome (SJS) alsooccurred (7). Similarly, Initialphase Continuationphase in Zambia there were 8 cases of SJS among HIV- infected patients treated with a combination of 6-month several drugs including thioacetazone (8), although regimen it was not conclusively shown that thioacetazone caused the reaction. In Kampala, Uganda, one case of SJS, two cases of exfoliative dermatitis, and 5 8-month A A % other skin eruptions occurred in 25 HIV-infected regimen adult patients with tuberculosis treated with thio- acetazone-containing regimens (32%), whereas no 8-month<B reactions were seen among 15 HIV-seronegative regimen patients. Onthe basis ofrechallenge, all were proven to be secondary to thioacetazone (11). 0 2 4 6 8 A recently published study from Kenya showed Months that 22 (20%) out of 111 HIV-seropositive patients isoniazid [:rifampicin E pyrazinamide S ethambutol experienced cutaneous hypersensitivity reactions while on antituberculous chemotherapy, compared to 2 (1%) out of 176 HIV-seronegative patients (58). There were three deaths from toxic epidermal necro- lysis as a consequence of drug hypersensitivity ary cases (paucibacillary forms), self-administered among HIV-infected patients. This study also com- thrice weekly isoniazid-rifampicin-pyrazinamide for pared 93 HIV-positive patients on a regimen 2 months followed by a short continuation phase of2 including thioacetazone (plus streptomycin- months with thrice weekly isoniazid-rifampicin or of
