Reviews /Analyses
KEYWORDS: tuberculosis, patients, hiv, infection, aids, countries, cases, months, developing, hiv-infected, pulmonary, hiv infection, disease, developing countries, par


weekly isoniazid-rifampicin-pyrazinamide for pared 93 HIV-positive patients on a regimen 2 months followed by a short continuation phase of2 including thioacetazone (plus streptomycin- months with thrice weekly isoniazid-rifampicin or of isoniazid) with 18 HIV-seropositive patients on a 6 months with daily isoniazid and ethambutol may regimen without it (streptomycin-isoniazid-rifampi- be sufficient. For the same paucibacillary forms an cin-pyrazinamide) during the initial phase: in the alternative treatment under evaluation in Malawi first 8 weeks of treatment, eighteen skin reactions consists of 2 months of thrice weekly isoniazid- occurredamong the 93 patients on the thioacetazone- rifampicin-pyrazinamide, followed by 2 months of containing regimen (19%) and none among those on daily isoniazid-ethambutol and 4 months of daily the other regimen. Upon rechallenge, no reactions isoniazid alone (W. Nkhoma, personal communica- were observed after isoniazid and streptomycin, but tion, 1991). In patients with smear-positive pulmona- 6 of 7 patients challenged with thioacetazone reac- ry tuberculosis who have relapsed orfailed treatment ted. Therefore, thioacetazone was probably respon- WHO recommends the use of 4 drugs (isoniazid- sible for most ofthe eruptions which were mainly of rifampicin-pyrazinamide-ethambutol) during the 3- the erythema multiforme type (58). month fully supervised intensive phase supplemented Some of these studies may have overestimated with streptomycin forthe first 2 months, followed by the hypersensitivity reactions among HIV-sero- thrice weekly isoniazid-rifampicin-pyrazinamide for positive patients with tuberculosis, as they were not the 5 months ofthe continuation phase. specifically designed to properly address this issue. Some reports did not conclusively show that thioace- Safety ofantituberculous chemotherapy tazone was the drug responsible for the reaction, as rechallenge was not done. However, the cohort study A strong limiting factor in the treatment ofHIV-rela- from Kenya strongly suggested that thioace- ted tuberculosis is the high incidence of intolerance tazone was the agent responsible for the cutaneous to some drug regimens manifested by HIV-infected hypersensitivity reactions (58). individuals. In fact, several reports have shown that On the basis of these reports, the recent WHO skinrashes occurfrequently in thispopulation during guidelines for treatment oftuberculosis have empha- antituberculous chemotherapy. sized that thioacetazone should not be given to In 1988 a study from Burundi reported allergic patients who are known to be HIV-infected or at reactions attributed to thioacetazone with a number increased risk of HIV infection, e.g., young adults WHOBulletinOMS.Vol701992 521 M.C. Raviglione etal. from countries where HIV infection is prevalent more, some adverse reactions, such as lymphadeno- (59). The recommendations state
