Reviews /Analyses
KEYWORDS: tuberculosis, patients, hiv, infection, aids, countries, cases, months, developing, hiv-infected, pulmonary, hiv infection, disease, developing countries, par


risk of HIV infection, e.g., young adults WHOBulletinOMS.Vol701992 521 M.C. Raviglione etal. from countries where HIV infection is prevalent more, some adverse reactions, such as lymphadeno- (59). The recommendations state that ethambutol, pathy or adenitis, have been observed among HIV- instead ofthioacetazone, should be used with isonia- infected individuals receiving BCG, although most zid inthe 6-month continuation phase ofthe 8-month of the cases resolved without major complications regimen.b (67, 68). Thus, it is generally believed that BCG vaccine is relatively safe in asymptomatic HIV- infected children (66, 69). Therefore, in countries Role ofprevention where tuberculosis is common the WHO recommen- Although preventive chemotherapy has not been an dations should be followed, and BCG administered integral part of tuberculosis control programmes in to infants as early in life as possible, including when developing countries in the past, the recent increased the mother is known to be or suspected of being burden of HIV-associated tuberculosis requires an HIV-infected. Uninfected children born to HIV- intervention to limit the occurrence of active tuber- infected mothers may benefit from BCG as they are culosis in HIV-infected individuals. The use of iso- more likely to become infected with tuberculosis niazid as preventive agent has been stressed recently from their immunocompromised mothers. However, in the USA, where current recommendations propose BCG should be withheld from symptomatic HIV- adaily course for a minimum of 12 months forHIV- infected patients (70-72). positive individuals with apositive (>5mm) tubercu- lin skin test (60). Whether preventive therapy should be reserved to tuberculin reactors only-with all the Conclusions limitations ofskintesting in HIV infection-orgiven to all HIV-seropositive individuals is still unclear. In developing countries nearly 4 million people have However, results of a decision analysis in the USA been infected with both HIV and tuberculosis. HIV showed abenefit from the useofisoniazid aspreven- seroprevalence among active tuberculosis cases is tive therapy for HIV-seropositive persons regardless high and tuberculosis is one of the most frequent ofskin test results (61). opportunistic infections among HIV-infected patients A recent single-blind, placebo-controlled study in Africa and some otherdeveloping countries. from Zambia has evaluated the efficacy of300mg of HIV-associated tuberculosis occurs commonly isoniazid daily compared to placebo in preventing in the lungs, and may present in two different ways: HIV-associated tuberculosis. Over an approximately with atypicalpost-primary pattern inthe early stages 12-month follow-up period, there were 23 deaths and ofHIV infection, or with an atypical primary pattern 3 cases of tuberculosis in
