Reviews /Analyses
KEYWORDS: tuberculosis, patients, hiv, infection, aids, countries, cases, months, developing, hiv-infected, pulmonary, hiv infection, disease, developing countries, par


Over an approximately with atypicalpost-primary pattern inthe early stages 12-month follow-up period, there were 23 deaths and ofHIV infection, or with an atypical primary pattern 3 cases of tuberculosis in the isoniazid group, com- in the late stages of HIV infection. Extrapulmonary pared to 27 deaths and 20 tuberculosis cases in the tuberculosis is common in HIV-infected patients and placebo group. Although no appreciable difference in the developing countries frequently manifests as in mortality was observed, the annual incidence of lymphadenitis, pleural effusion, or pericarditis, tuberculosis among persons on isoniazid was only although a number ofother sites have been found to 1.0%, compared with 7.6% in the placebo group be involved. (62). Based on animal studies showing that short For patients with smear-positive pulmonary courses of rifampicin alone or rifampicin-pyrazina- tuberculosis and severe extrapulmonary forms WHO mide are superior to isoniazid in preventing tubercu- recommends a 2-month intensive phase with losis (63), a field trial has been initiated in Haiti isoniazid-rifampicin-pyrazinamide-ethambutol under comparing 2 months ofrifampicin-pyrazinamide to 6 full supervision, followed by a continuation phase months of isoniazid. Preliminary results show that of 4 months with thrice weekly isoniazid-rifampicin the two regimens are equally well tolerated (64). or 6 months with daily isoniazid and ethambutol. The role of BCG vaccination in preventing Thioacetazone should be avoided because of the tuberculosis when given to HIV-infected children risk of severe toxicity in HIV-infected patients, and is unknown. Two recent studies from Zaire and streptomycin should not be used because of the Rwanda found that skin reactivity to PPD in BCG- potential of transmission of HIV and other blood- vaccinated children with HIV infection was lower borne pathogens through contaminated needles. than in HIV-seronegative children (65, 66). Further- The increased burden of tuberculosis cases in countries with a high HIV seroprevalence poses a serious threat to the already overworked national control programmes. A greater effort and global b World Health Organization. Guidelines fortuberculosis treat- mentinadultsandchildreninnationaltuberculosisprogrammes. cooperation are therefore necessary to cope with the Unpublished document WHO/TUB/91.161, 1991. resurgent tuberculosis problem. 522 WHOBulletinOMS.Vol701992 HIV-associated tuberculosis in developing countries Acknowledgements naire est principalement bas6 sur l'examen micro- scopique des expectorations et la radiographie We thank Dr R. O'Brien, Dr S. Spinaci, Dr P. Sudre, and pulmonaire, et on ne dispose que rarement de la Mr H.G. ten Dam, all from WHO headquarters, Geneva, for providing useful suggestions and comments on this possibilite d'effectuer des cultures
