Case report
KEYWORDS: acute, porphyria, pain, urine, patient, abdominal, case, abdominal pain, acute porphyria, mmol, test, sodium, normal, positive, day


Case report Unexpected presentation of acute porphyria Chiun Khang Kiew, Adeline Serena Ee Ling Lam mimicry and lack of awareness among physicians. has seen three cases of acute porphyria since 1978, Correspondence to There is a common cognitive bias to gravitate towards with the latest case being reported in 2019.9–11 Dr Adeline Serena Ee Ling Lam; adeline_ el_ lam@ ttsh. com. sg common conditions. In this case report, a 28-y ear- old Thailand observed six cases of acute porphyria woman, who presented with seizures, rhabdomyolysis since 1973.12–14 These case reports are summarised Accepted 3 June 2021 hyponatraemia and altered mental state, was initially in table 1. Despite being seemingly rare in this part of the diagnosed as amphetamine overdose. She had presented world, the truth could be that cases of porphyrias 3 days prior with abdominal pain, treated for acute are underdiagnosed due to their clinical mimicry cystitis and discharged. On readmission for seizures a and lack of awareness among physicians. This day later, she was extensively worked up for altered case report aims to convey the message that acute mental state. Despite normalisation of serum sodium porphyria should be suspected in patients presenting concentration and control of her seizures, she remained with unexplained abdominal pain in the presence of unwell. Further investigations later confirmed a diagnosis associated features of neuropsychiatric manifesta- of acute porphyria. The aim of this case report is to tion, irrespective of the ethnicity. This is important highlight the non- specific nature of presentation of as early and accurate diagnosis has been shown to acute porphyria and the importance of considering it as reduce the case-f atality rate of acute porphyria.15 a differential diagnosis in cases of abdominal pain with neuropsychiatric features. CASE PRESENTATION Presentation A 28- year-o ld Chinese woman, previously healthy, BACKGROUND was admitted to our hospital in September 2020 Porphyrias are a group of rare inherited metabolic after she was witnessed to have generalised tonic- diseases characterised by the catalytic defect of one clonic seizures at home. She had just been discharged in eight enzymes involved in haem biosynthetic from hospital 1 day ago for abdominal pain and was pathway.1–3 Porphyrias are broadly classified into treated for acute cystitis. At the time of current acute porphyrias and cutaneous porphyrias based presentation, she was afebrile, tachycardic with a on their clinical presentation. Acute porphyrias are heart rate of 112 beats per minute (bpm) and
