Case report
KEYWORDS: acute, porphyria, pain, urine, patient, abdominal, case, abdominal pain, acute porphyria, mmol, test, sodium, normal, positive, day


was intubated for respiratory failure. Succumbed to respiratory failure. 8 Thailand, 1993, 21- year- old Fever, abdominal pain, Sodium 131 mmol/L Positive Watson- Schwartz HCP Responded to dextrose and Thai man/Insiripong et al13 seizure, diarrhoea, test, markedly raised urine was discharged. However, he hypertension coproporphyrin was later readmitted with status epilepticus and died from respiratory failure *Case 1 was cited by subsequent articles published in Thailand. Further details of case 1 were unavailable at the time of writing. †The Watson-S chwartz test is used as a simple screening test for the presence of elevated urinary PBG. AIP, acute intermittent porphyria; ALA, delta- aminolevulinic acid; HCP, hereditary coproporphyria; HPLC, high-p erformance liquid chromatography; PBG, porphobilinogen; PBGD, porphobilinogen deaminase; VP, variegate porphyria. correction of sodium via intravenous hypertonic saline was antibiotics (paracetamol, naproxen, omeprazole, citravescent initiated. She was also started on intravenous ceftriaxone and and ciprofloxacin) and discharged home. acyclovir to treat empirically for acute meningoencephalitis. Further history from family members revealed recent Clinical progress and investigations consumption of slimming products that she had bought online. During this current admission, the patient was intubated and She had also been cautiously restricting her calorie intake for the admitted to the intensive care unit (ICU) for 7 days. Throughout past few months. She had no history of alcohol or drug abuse. her ICU stay, she was found to have persistent tachycardia (heart She had been working in a life science company for the past few rate ranging from 100 to 140 bpm) and hypertension (systolic years and only dealt with packaging of finished goods. blood pressure of 140–160 mm Hg). On day 1 of illness, the patient had fever with a temperature Medical history of 38.3°C. Apart from initial leucocytosis (white cell count: Aside from a history of acute appendicitis when she was 16 years 22.3×109/L; normal range: 4.0–9.6×109/L), other inflam- old, there was no chronic medical illness of note. matory markers such as procalcitonin and C reactive protein Three days prior to this current admission, she was admitted to concentrations were not elevated. Her blood and urine cultures hospital for observation under the surgical discipline for gener- were negative for bacterial growth. alised abdominal pain, worse at the lower abdomen, and lower By day 3 of illness, her serum sodium concentration had back pain. This was later treated as acute cystitis based on the normalised after intravenous saline infusion. However, despite presence of
