Case report
KEYWORDS: acute, porphyria, pain, urine, patient, abdominal, case, abdominal pain, acute porphyria, mmol, test, sodium, normal, positive, day


day 3 of illness, her serum sodium concentration had back pain. This was later treated as acute cystitis based on the normalised after intravenous saline infusion. However, despite presence of bacteriuria. CT scan of the abdomen and pelvis done normalisation of her biochemical markers, the patient remained during that admission was unremarkable for bowel obstruction confused and was unable to obey instructions consistently. and local inflammation. Her serum sodium concentration was Despite considerably high doses of sedatives, she remained 128 mmol/L on admission and that repeated prior to discharge agitated at times. Contrasted MRI of the brain did not demon- was 137 mmol/L. She was treated for cystitis with painkillers and strate leptomeningeal enhancement or features suggestive of 2 Kiew CK, Lam ASEL. BMJ Case Rep 2021;14:e241580. doi: Case report Her slimming products were brought in by her family. When examined, there were two brands consumed by the patient and they consisted of powdered sachets. The ingredient list stated predominantly plant extracts. Samples of her slimming products were also sent to HSA for further analysis. Toxicology analysis of the slimming products also did not reveal any amphetamines, nor did it reveal any other porphyrinogenic substances. DIFFERENTIAL DIAGNOSIS Abdominal pain Figure 1 Schematic overview of timeline of events from 1 day abdominal pain by the surgical department. Generalised abdom- inal pain has a long list of differential diagnoses. The location of interventions that had a positive effect on heart rate, systolic blood the pain can help narrow down the differentials. For this patient, pressure, behaviour and abdominal pain. the pain was in the lower abdomen. The differentials included gynaecological conditions such as ectopic pregnancy, ureteric colic, inguinal hernia, inflammatory bowel disease, diverticulitis, posterior reversible encephalopathy syndrome. Lumbar punc- bowel obstruction and urinary tract infection. Acute appendicitis ture was performed. The lumbar puncture opening pressure was excluded as she had had an appendicectomy several years was 19 cm HO (normal range: 10–25 cm HO). There was no ago. It was also important to consider other non- surgical causes 2 2 evidence of pleocytosis on cerebrospinal fluid examination, and of abdominal pain such as diabetic ketoacidosis and AIP. Initial cerebrospinal fluid protein was also not raised. Nasogastric tube screening for hyperglycaemia, lactic acidosis, arterial blood gas feeding was also commenced on day 3 of illness, and she was and urine pregnancy test as well as a CT of the abdomen and prescribed a
