Case report
KEYWORDS: acute, porphyria, pain, urine, patient, abdominal, case, abdominal pain, acute porphyria, mmol, test, sodium, normal, positive, day


arterial blood gas feeding was also commenced on day 3 of illness, and she was and urine pregnancy test as well as a CT of the abdomen and prescribed a high- calorie diet with a daily energy goal of 1480 pelvis excluded many of these differential diagnoses. She was kcal/day. diagnosed with cystitis based on urine microscopy results and On day 5 of illness, 2 days after nasogastric feeding commenced, her symptoms of dysuria. the patient became calmer and sedation was weaned down. She The differentiating symptom for this case was non-s pecific was subsequently extubated on day 7 of admission and trans- generalised abdominal pain associated with neuropsychiatric ferred to general ward. Of note, once her agitation settled and symptoms. This important differentiating symptom should have sedatives were reduced, the patient started to have abdominal raised the suspicion of acute porphyria. It would have been pain. She continued to report of intermittent generalised abdom- important to consider the symptoms this patient had in her first inal pain in the general ward. This was initially attributed to admission, especially when readmission occurred so rapidly after constipation and gastritis. Physical examination did not demon- discharge. During her readmission, the patient presented with strate focal tenderness or signs of peritonism. There were also confusional state, severe agitation and seizures. She also had intermittent episodes of unexplained sinus tachycardia despite severe hyponatraemia. The triad of seizures, abdominal pain and being physically calm and pain- free. She also appeared with- hyponatraemia in a young woman is very suggestive of acute drawn, unkempt and disinhibited, which was initially attributed porphyria.18 to delirium. Speech was superficially relevant, and her affect was As the patient was sedated initially due to seizures and agita- fatuous. Her family members corroborated that her behaviour tion, her symptom of abdominal pain was not obvious. This was peculiar and unlike her usual self. There was no history was coupled with the false- positive test of amphetamine in her suggestive of drug abuse, body dysmorphic disorder or any urine, which led to a misdiagnosis of amphetamine overdose. psychiatric illness with tendency for impulsivity. (For timeline However, when sedation was weaned down and the patient figure 1) The toxicology results from HSA also became available a week after admission and it did not reveal any amphetamine in the patient’s blood and urine sent when she was acutely unwell. This resulted in a review of
