Case report
KEYWORDS: acute, porphyria, pain, urine, patient, abdominal, case, abdominal pain, acute porphyria, mmol, test, sodium, normal, positive, day


available a week after admission and it did not reveal any amphetamine in the patient’s blood and urine sent when she was acutely unwell. This resulted in a review of her symptoms and raised the possibility of acute porphyria as her diagnosis. OTHER INVESTIGATIONS The patient’s HIV screening was negative. Her cerebrospinal fluid, obtained during lumbar puncture, was sent for gram stain Altered mental state and bacterial culture. Both tests were negative. Her cerebro- Altered mental state in younger adult is more commonly associ- spinal fluid was also screened for neurotropic viruses using the ated with toxin exposure, trauma, infection of central nervous viral multiplex PCR (which includes Cytomegalovirus DNA, system (CNS) and metabolic encephalopathy. Herpes simplex virus DNA, Varicella-z oster virus DNA, Toxo- The normal results of cerebrospinal fluid from her lumbar plasma gondii DNA) and it was also negative. puncture and MRI of the brain made a diagnosis of meningoen- The patient’s blood and urine were also sent on admission to cephalitis and CNS pathology less likely for this patient. Hypo- tive and detailed analysis. This was to confirm the rapid urine yet what could have caused her hyponatraemia? Amphetamine drug screen performed in- house when the patient was initially toxicity is known to cause serotonin syndrome which can result from the HSA showed that there was no amphetamine noted in however, no history of psychiatric disorder, body dysmorphic the patient’s urine and blood. The rapid urine drug test had been disorder or drug abuse which would have predisposed her to a false positive. drug overdose. Even if her slimming product had been tainted Kiew CK, Lam ASEL. BMJ Case Rep 2021;14:e241580. doi: 3 Case report with amphetamine, if taken as recommended, it would have concentration was closely monitored to avoid rebound hypona- been unusual for her to have amphetamine toxicity, especially traemia. We did not identify any porphyrinogenic drug among as she had been taking them for several months without issue. medications prescribed to her in her last and current admissions The possible explanation is that the medications prescribed in and she denied use of contraceptive pill. The possible trigger in her first admission when she was treated for cystitis could have her case could be intermittent fasting and hypocaloric diet. Acute enhanced the toxic effect of, if any, the adulterant suspected to cystitis could also be a possible trigger. In the next few days, her be
