Case report
KEYWORDS: acute, porphyria, pain, urine, patient, abdominal, case, abdominal pain, acute porphyria, mmol, test, sodium, normal, positive, day


fasting and hypocaloric diet. Acute enhanced the toxic effect of, if any, the adulterant suspected to cystitis could also be a possible trigger. In the next few days, her be in the slimming product, but this was made less likely given abdominal pain resolved, and her behaviour normalised. There that her quantitative toxicology was negative for amphetamine. was neither clinical deterioration nor development of progres- It was also unusual for her to exhibit persistent neuropsychiatric sive neuropathy. She had no recollection of any of her previously symptoms with features of inappropriate affect and disinhibited exhibited disinhibited behaviour. Haemin was not administered behaviours after almost a week into admission if it were to be as it was not readily available locally and she responded effec- caused by amphetamine toxicity, when laboratory investigations tively to carbohydrate loading. Patient education was carried had all normalised. While her altered mental state could have out, with particular emphasis on avoidance of starvation, alcohol been explained by ICU delirium, delirium is however, a diag- and smoking, and common porphyrinogenic medications. She nosis of exclusion. was also counselled on genetic testing and its implications. Suspicion and confirmation of porphyria OUTCOME AND FOLLOW-UP In view of clinical presentation of unexplained abdominal The patient was discharged well after 2 weeks of hospitalisa- pain, coupled with convulsion, SIADH, autonomic hyperac- tion. She complied with the prescribed dietary recommenda- tivity and neuropsychiatric symptoms, acute porphyria was tions, and her repeat serum sodium concentration in outpatient suspected. There was no immediate family history suggestive of setting remained normal and there was no recurrence of abdom- acute porphyria, for example, convulsion, recurrent abdominal inal pain. She did not develop new neurological deficit and her pain, limb weakness, photosensitive rash or psychiatric illness. mood and behaviour remained normal. Long- term follow- up The survey of extended family history revealed that one of was scheduled to monitor for further recurrence of symptoms. the patient’s maternal uncles recently passed away at the age of 59 from metastatic cancer of unknown primary involving further genetic tests to confirm the diagnosis of acute porphyria. liver and lungs and he reportedly had unexplained recurrent However, she had refused further tests. abdominal pain since young age. Another maternal uncle had childhood epilepsy which resolved later in adulthood. There biochemistry results and the lack of skin involvement. However, was no consanguinity. The patient had no history of recurrent we have not
