Case report
KEYWORDS: acute, porphyria, pain, urine, patient, abdominal, case, abdominal pain, acute porphyria, mmol, test, sodium, normal, positive, day


childhood epilepsy which resolved later in adulthood. There biochemistry results and the lack of skin involvement. However, was no consanguinity. The patient had no history of recurrent we have not been able to confirm this as the patient has refused abdominal pain associated with menstruation. There was also no genetic testing. We were also unable to perform second- line history of photosensitive rash/blistering skin condition. tests including faecal porphyrin measurement, at our institution. The patient’s urine and blood were sent for porphyrin Other possible diagnoses would be hereditary coproporphyria screening. Her urine tested positive for porphobilinogen (PBG) (HCP) and variegate porphyria (VP). and coproporphyrin. Plasma porphyrin was not detected. Tests for plasma fluorescence emission spectroscopy, faecal porphyrin and porphobilinogen deaminase (PBGD) activity were not DISCUSSION available in our institution. Blood lead concentration was not Acute hepatic porphyrias consist of AIP, VP, HCP and delta- elevated (11 µg/L; normal value: <100 µg/L). (Refer to table 2 aminolevulinic acid (ALA) dehydratase deficiency porphyria for summary of the patient’s porphyrin test result details.) (ADP). The increased excretion of porphyria precursors in all the acute porphyrias is caused by decreased activity of PBGD in TREATMENT these conditions, except ADP. The decrease can be due to genetic mutation of the enzyme (in AIP) or inhibition of PBGD by Based on the investigations above, the diagnosis of acute protoporphyrinogen and coproporphyrinogen in VP and HCP, porphyria attack was made based on clinical and biochemical respectively.19 Hence, during an acute attack of acute porphyrias evidence. The patient was prescribed a high carbohydrate diet other than ADP (which is characterised by accumulation of (supplemented by oral nutritional supplement: Fortijuice 600 ALA), urine PBG is always raised.3 AIP, VP and HCP are inher- mL/day, providing 201 g/day of carbohydrate) and judicious ited in autosomal dominant fashion, whereas ADP is autosomal administration of intravenous dextrose (dextrose 10% solution recessive. Of the four conditions, AIP is the the most common 1 L/day, which provides 100 g of carbohydrate), while her sodium acute porphyria encountered in clinical practice. The prevalence of PBGD mutation in Western population is approximately 1 carrier per 2000 persons. However, acute attacks only occur Table 2 Summary of patient’s porphyrin test result details in less than 10% of the at-r isk population, suggesting incom- Test Result Method plete penetrance and role of environmental factors and possible genetic modifiers.20 Unlike AIP, the only manifestation of which Urine, porphobilinogen 2+
