NLM Citation: LiverTox: Clinical and Research Information on Drug-
KEYWORDS: finasteride, dutasteride, pmid, pubmed, pubmed pmid, prostatic, hepatotoxicity, benign prostatic, benign, elevations, safety, alt, reductase, efficacy, alt elevations


Induced Liver Injury [Internet]. Bethesda (MD): National Institute of Diabetes and Digestive and Kidney Diseases; 2012-. Alpha Reductase Inhibitors. [Updated 2018 Jan 9]. Bookshelf URL: Alpha Reductase Inhibitors Updated: January 9, 2018. OVERVIEW The 5-alpha reductase inhibitors are a family of agents used to treat benign prostatic hypertrophy. They act by inhibiting the steroid 5-alpha reductase which catalyzes the conversion of testosterone to dihydrotestosterone. Dihydrotestosterone is an important prostatic growth factor and its inhibition causes gradual shrinkage of prostate. Both of the available agents lower serum concentrations of dihydrotestosterone without affecting serum testosterone and usually with minimal antiandrogenic effects. The 5-alpha reductase inhibitors in clinical use in the United States include two agents of similar chemical structure (azasteroids) and activity: finasteride (Proscar: 1992) and dutasteride (Avodart: 2001). Both agents cause a reduction in the size of the prostate, improve urinary flow and suppress prostate-specific antigen (PSA) levels. Both finasteride and dutasteride are associated with a low rate (<1%) of serum enzyme elevations during chronic therapy, which are usually mild-to-moderate in severity, self-limited in course, and rarely require dose modification or discontinuation. Neither of the 5-alpha reductase inhibitors in current use has been linked to clinically apparent acute liver injury. The 5-alpha reductase inhibitors used for benign prostatic hypertrophy are discussed individually, with references on their hepatotoxicity given together at the end of this introductory section. Drug Class: Benign Prostatic Hypertrophy Agents, 5-Alpha Reductase Inhibitors • Dutasteride • Finasteride CHEMICAL FORMULAS AND STRUCTURES DRUG CAS REGISTRY NUMBER MOLECULAR FORMULA STRUCTURE Dutasteride 164656-23-9 C27-H30-F6-N2-O2 2 LiverTox Table continued from previous page. Finasteride 98319-26-7 C23-H36-N2-O2 ANNOTATED BIBLIOGRAPHY References updated: 09 January 2018 Zimmerman HJ. Hormonal derivatives and related drugs. In, Zimmerman HJ. Hepatotoxicity: the adverse effects of drugs and other chemicals on the liver. 2nd ed. Philadelphia: Lippincott, 1999, pp. 555-88. (Expert review of hepatotoxicity published in 1999; the 5-alpha reductase inhibitors are not discussed). Chitturi S, Farrell GC. Adverse effects of hormones and hormone antagonists on the liver. In, Kaplowitz N, DeLeve LD, eds. Drug-induced liver disease. 3rd Edition. Amsterdam: Elsevier, 2013. pp 605-20. (Review of hepatotoxicity of sex hormones; the 5-alpha reductase inhibitors are not discussed). Gilman’s The pharmacological basis of therapeutics, 12th ed. New York: McGraw-Hill, 2011. p 1205. (Textbook of pharmacology and therapeutics; 5-alpha reductase inhibitors include finasteride which primarily blocks the type II form of the enzyme and dutasteride which blocks both type I and II forms). Finasteride
