Leetal.BMCInfectiousDiseases (2017) 17:669
KEYWORDS: vietnam, spirometra, case, adult, human, infection, erinaceieuropaei, hanoi, hanoi vietnam, larvae, fig, host, hosts, infection adult, intermediate


DOI10.1186/s12879-017-2786-x CASE REPORT Open Access Case report: the first case of human SPIROMETRA infection by adult of ERINACEIEUROPAEI in VIETNAM Anh Tran Le1*, Le-Quyen Thi Do2, Huong-Binh Thi Nguyen3, Hong-Ngoc Thi Nguyen4 and Anh Ngoc Do5 Abstract Background: Tapeworms ofthegenus Spirometra include specieswhose larval stages can infect humans, causing a disease called sparganosis. Cases of human infection with adult worms are very rare and have been reported in Korea and China. Herewe report the first case of human infection withan adult ofSpirometraerinaceieuropaeiin Vietnam. loss and epigastricdiscomfort.Preliminary diagnosis based on discovery of parasite eggs in his faeces incorrectly determined a fluke as theagent ofthe infection and praziquantel was prescribed. Twodays later he passed out proglottids in his stool. The tapewormwas identified as Spirometraerinaceieuropaei using morphological and molecular tools. Conclusion: This is the first case of human infection withadult worm ofSpirometra erinaceieuropaeiin Vietnam. Keywords: Case report, Spirometraerinacei europaei,Adult worm, Human, Vietnam, Molecular analysis Background subcutaneous tissues and muscles. The cycle begins Spirometra is a tapeworm genus in the order Diphyllo- again as a definitive host takes up a second intermediate bothriidea that includes several species: S. erinacei host. Many amphibians, reptiles and even mammals can (=S. erinaceieuropaei), Sparganum mansoni, Spirometra become paratenic hosts when they are infected with mansonoides and an aberrant form of Spirometra pro- spargana. liferum . Humans can be accidental definitive, second inter- Spirometra has a complicated life cycle with three mediate or paratenic hosts as well. Larval stages of some hosts. The definitive hosts are dogs, cats, and some species such as S. erinaceieuropaei, S. mansoni, S. man- other mammals where adult worms live in the small in- sonoides, S. proliferum can infect humans and cause a testine and produce unembryonated eggs that are dis- disease called sparganosis which is endemic in Asian charged in faeces. Once in fresh water, the countries including China , Hong Kong , South unembryonated eggs hatch to become coracidia. The Korea , Japan , and Thailand . Cases of human first intermediate hosts are copepods (Cyclops) taking infection with adult worms are very rare and have been up the coracidia, which develop into procercoid larvae reportedinKoreaandChina. in Cyclops. When fish, reptiles, or amphibians consume We report a case of human infection with adult of the copepods, they become the second intermediate host S. erinaceieuropaei identified by its morphology and of Spirometra. Procercoid larvae penetrate the intestinal genetic analysis in Vietnam. To our
