Open Access Case Report
KEYWORDS: liver, disease, wilson, wilson disease, acute, copper, patient, failure, ceruloplasmin, liver failure, levels, acute liver, anaemia, vardhini, reference


147 international units per liter (U/L). The patient was worked up for causes of acute haemolysis and acute onset liver failure including tropical infections. His direct Coombs test was negative, and his anaemia workup remained inconclusive. He had a reticulocyte count of 0.51 which improved to 1.18 by day 5. Leukopenia and thrombocytopenia were seen in the peripheral smear. He underwent bone marrow aspiration and biopsy which was reported as hypercellular marrow with erythroid hyperplasia and megaloblastic picture. Haematologist opinion was sought and advice was followed. During the course in the ICU, in view of persistent fever, and elevated procalcitonin he was initiated on broad-spectrum antibiotics, which was titrated as per the culture reports. As a part of the haemolytic work up patient’s serum ceruloplasmin levels and 24-hour urinary copper levels were sent. His serum ceruloplasmin levels were normal. The patient started to respond to symptomatic management. His sensorium improved, and with stable heamodynamics, and resolution of fever, he was weaned off from the ventilator and extubated. He later was shifted under the care of Haematology. He gradually showed improvement in liver parameters and blood parameters. Due to unavoidable reasons, the family discharged the patient against medical advice. On further follow-up of this patient’s records, the urinary copper analysis was reported to be high, (227.53 microgram per 24 hours) which was as high as two times the upper limit of urine copper levels (normal: 15- 60 µg/24 hours). Therefore, a patient with acute onset non-haemolytic anaemia and acute liver failure was diagnosed to have possibly Wilson’s disease even though he had normal serum ceruloplasmin levels, based on clinical presentation and elevated urinary copper excretion as per the currently available diagnostic scoring system. 2025 Vardhini et al. Cureus 17(2): e79612. DOI 2 of 4 Discussion Wilson’s disease is an inherited disease with defective biliary excretion of copper, leading to copper deposition in the liver and brain . Key features are cirrhosis of the liver associated with neuropsychiatric manifestations and Kayser-Fleischer (KF) ring in the eyes. The clinical features like KF rings may be present in 95% of patients having neurological symptoms but may also be seen in patients with cholestatic jaundice due to other causes . The liver involvement of Wilson’s disease may vary from asymptomatic enzyme elevation to cirrhosis. Sometimes they may present with hyperacute liver failure which warrants early diagnosis and liver transplantation . They may also have acute
