Open Access Case Report
KEYWORDS: liver, disease, wilson, wilson disease, acute, copper, patient, failure, ceruloplasmin, liver failure, levels, acute liver, anaemia, vardhini, reference


disease may vary from asymptomatic enzyme elevation to cirrhosis. Sometimes they may present with hyperacute liver failure which warrants early diagnosis and liver transplantation . They may also have acute haemolysis, typically Coombs negative haemolysis. This can be acute episodic haemolysis, or recurrent low-grade chronic haemolysis . Patients can present with only haemolytic symptoms, many times causing acute liver dysfunction. The neurological spectrum of the disease ranges from extrapyramidal symptoms in the form of dysarthria, dystonia, gait abnormalities, ataxia, tremor, parkinsonism, and chorea. Pyramidal and cerebellar involvement may also be seen. The behavioural changes and psychiatric symptoms can be in the form of mood disorders (depressive or bipolar spectrum), psychotic disorders, sleep disturbances, and subtle cognitive dysfunction . Patients presenting with neuropsychiatric symptoms, and cirrhosis with KF ring in eyes are classical descriptions of Wilson’s disease. However, this presentation occurs in only 50% of cases . According to current recommendations, any patient presenting with acute liver failure and Coombs- negative hemolytic anemia should be evaluated for Wilson’s disease. Our patient exhibited Coombs- negative hemolytic anemia with acute liver failure, where liver failure was secondary to acute hemolysis . The lab workup of patients with Wilson's disease is accompanied by many diagnostic challenges. The liver function test may show only subtle elevation in liver enzymes (AST/ALT), disproportionate to the severity of liver involvement. Ceruloplasmin is a 132k-Da glycoprotein synthesized in the hepatocytes. Copper containing ceruloplasmin accounts for 90% of circulating copper. It is measured using enzymatic activity or immune assays. It is a non-specific test for screening or diagnosing Wilson's disease due to its limitations. The immune assays tend to overestimate ceruloplasmin levels. Ceruloplasmin is an acute phase reactant that can be elevated in the background of acute inflammation. Typically ceruloplasmin levels are reduced in Wilson disease. The other conditions with low ceruloplasmin levels are zinc excess, protein-losing enteropathy, Menke’s disease, and post-gastric bypass or bariatric surgeries . However normal ceruloplasmin level does not rule out Wilson’s disease. The cut-off used for ceruloplasmin levels may also vary and influence the results. A 24-hour urinary copper excretion reflects the amount of non- ceruloplasmin-bound copper in circulation. Spot urine specimens are not reliable, except in acute liver failure where high urinary excretions might be expected. Other liver conditions like autoimmune haemolytic disease, and primary sclerosing cholangitis are also associated with excess urinary copper, therefore results cannot be reliable when used alone . The
