Open Access Case Report
KEYWORDS: liver, disease, wilson, wilson disease, acute, copper, patient, failure, ceruloplasmin, liver failure, levels, acute liver, anaemia, vardhini, reference


be expected. Other liver conditions like autoimmune haemolytic disease, and primary sclerosing cholangitis are also associated with excess urinary copper, therefore results cannot be reliable when used alone . The other tests available are serum uric acid, serum copper levels, non-ceruloplasmin-bound copper, and radiocopper studies. Liver biopsy and hepatic parenchymal copper concentration are invasive methods available for confirmation of diagnosis of Wilson’s disease. Genetic tests for Wilson’s disease can be done for screening a first-degree relative or as a confirmatory test in suspected cases. CT/MRI can be used to screen for copper deposition in CNS. All these tests have a limitation of non-specificity and can’t be used as sole evidence to rule out Wilson’s disease . A scoring system was developed considering the clinical presentation and biochemical tests. Later it was strengthened by adding genetic testing. This has been validated in both adult and paediatric populations. As per the scoring system, our patient had a score of 3, which makes Wilson’s disease a possibility and warrants further test for confirmation . Conclusions Wilson's disease can present clinically as liver disease, a progressive neurological disorder, a psychiatric illness, or a combination of all these. It carries a mortality burden of almost 80-99%, requiring early liver transplantation. The presence of acute liver failure, with haemolytic anaemia, and neurological symptoms in a young adult should raise suspicion of Wilson's disease. Not a single biochemical test can rule in or rule out genetic factors to accurately piece together the diagnostic puzzle. Additional Information Author Contributions All authors have reviewed the final version to be published and agreed to be accountable for all aspects of the work. Concept and design: Ganapathiearaman Ramakrishnan, Harsha Vardhini, Bhuvana Krishna 2025 Vardhini et al. Cureus 17(2): e79612. DOI 3 of 4 Acquisition, analysis, or interpretation of data: Ganapathiearaman Ramakrishnan, Harsha Vardhini Drafting of the manuscript: Ganapathiearaman Ramakrishnan, Harsha Vardhini Critical review of the manuscript for important intellectual content: Harsha Vardhini, Bhuvana Krishna Supervision: Bhuvana Krishna Disclosures Human subjects: Consent for treatment and open access publication was obtained or waived by all (SJMCH), Bangalore issued approval 219/2024. Conflicts of interest: In compliance with the ICMJE uniform disclosure form, all authors declare the following: Payment/services info: All authors have declared that no financial support was received from any organization for the submitted work. Financial relationships: All authors have declared that they have no financial relationships at present or within the previous
