National Clinical Guideline Centre
KEYWORDS: colitis, ulcerative, ulcerative colitis, clinical, remission, evidence, low, fewer, people, inconsistency, trials, randomised, guideline, quality, weeks


and inflammation of the rectum and sigmoid as proctosigmoiditis. Left-sided colitis refers to disease involving the colon distal to the splenic flexure. Extensive colitis affects the colon proximal to the splenic flexure, and includes pan-colitis, where the whole colon is involved. Symptoms of active disease or relapse include bloody diarrhoea, an urgent need to defaecate and abdominal pain. Ulcerative colitis is a lifelong disease that is associated with significant morbidity. It can also affect a person’s social and psychological wellbeing, particularly if poorly controlled. Typically, it has a relapsing–remitting pattern. An estimated 50% of people with ulcerative colitis will have at least one relapse per year.146 About 80% of these are mild to moderate and about 20% are severe.212 The Truelove and Witts’ criteria are outlined in Table 6. These are simple clinical and laboratory laboratory, endoscopic and radiological features may reflect the severity of an attack, and have been assessed in terms of their ability to predict the need for colectomy (see section 5.48). These include measurements of C-reactive protein, colonic dilatation or the presence of colonic mucosal islands on a plain abdominal X-ray and deep ulceration on endoscopic assessment. The Truelove and Witts’ criteria were used as a definition of the severity of an attack on the basis of their widespread use and ease of applicability to clinical practice. The use of clinical scoring systems was a way of predicting the response to medical treatment, and the need for surgery was assessed in section 5.48. Approximately 25% of people with ulcerative colitis will have one or more episodes of acute severe colitis in their lifetime, with a 29% colectomy rate.212 Although mortality rates have improved steadily over the past 30 years, acute severe colitis still has a mortality rate of up to 2%. Mortality is directly influenced by the timing of interventions, including medical therapy and colectomy. The most recent UK audit demonstrated an overall UK national mortality of 0.8%. Current medical approaches focus on treating active disease to address symptoms of urgency, frequency of defaecation and rectal bleeding, and also to improve quality of life, and thereafter to maintain remission. The long-term benefits of achieving mucosal healing remain unclear. The person’s preference, and may include the use of aminosalicylates, corticosteroids or biological drugs. These drugs can be oral or topical (into the rectum), and corticosteroids may be administered intravenously in people with acute severe disease. Surgery may
