National Clinical Guideline Centre
KEYWORDS: colitis, ulcerative, ulcerative colitis, clinical, remission, evidence, low, fewer, people, inconsistency, trials, randomised, guideline, quality, weeks


of aminosalicylates, corticosteroids or biological drugs. These drugs can be oral or topical (into the rectum), and corticosteroids may be administered intravenously in people with acute severe disease. Surgery may be considered as emergency treatment for severe ulcerative colitis that does not respond to drug treatment. People may also choose to have elective surgery for unresponsive or frequently relapsing disease that is affecting their quality of life. Ulcerative colitis Introduction If an episode of acute severe colitis does not respond to standard first-line management with intravenous corticosteroids, ‘rescue’ therapy with intravenous ciclosporin or infliximab may be required - though the most recent, third round, of the UK national IBD audit, described only 16.8% of patients who do not respond to intravenous steroids receiving anti-TNF therapy and 23% receiving ciclosporin.221 The use of infliximab in this situation is outlined in NICE TA 163.149 Response rate is variable -reported as 85% to anti-TNF agents and 64% to ciclosporin in the third round of the UK IBD audit.221 Most patients receive maintenance therapy with aminosalicylates. There may be variation in the doses of aminosalicylates and in whether a combination of treatment routes is used. Regarding immunosuppressive azathioprine or mercaptopurine, it appears that azathioprine and mercaptopurine are increasingly used to maintain remission in people with frequently-relapsing ulcerative colitis. Elective surgery, in the form of pan-proctocolectomy, with formation of an ileoanal pouch or ileostomy, can be an effective treatment for eliminating the symptoms of ulcerative colitis where these symptoms are refractory to treatment or rapidly and frequently recur. However postoperative morbidity is associated with both a stoma and ileoanal pouch. Complications of pan-proctocolectomy may include: decrease in female fertility, male impotency, pouchitis and small bowel obstruction. Problems with urgency, leakage and nocturnal soiling may persist after surgery, and some patients may need a permanent ileostomy if ileal pouch anastomosis fails. Even in expert centres, pan- proctocolectomy has an operative mortality of between 1 and 4%, and postoperative lifelong morbidity of up to 15%. Ulcerative colitis has a well-documented association with the development of colorectal cancer, with greatest risk in people with long-standing and extensive disease. The overall lifetime risk of colorectal cancer in people with ulcerative colitis is approximately 2.7%, with an annual incidence of dysplasia or cancer of between 3.7 and 5.7%. Moreover, the degree of colonic inflammation is a predictor of dysplasia or cancer development. This emphasises the importance of adequate and effective
