National Clinical Guideline Centre
KEYWORDS: colitis, ulcerative, ulcerative colitis, clinical, remission, evidence, low, fewer, people, inconsistency, trials, randomised, guideline, quality, weeks


dysplasia or cancer of between 3.7 and 5.7%. Moreover, the degree of colonic inflammation is a predictor of dysplasia or cancer development. This emphasises the importance of adequate and effective control of disease activity to reduce the risk of colorectal cancer. The approach to surveillance of people with ulcerative colitis for dysplasia or cancer is described in NICE clinical guideline 118.152 Advice and support for people with ulcerative colitis is important, in terms of discussing the effects of the condition and its course, medical treatment options, the effects of medication and the monitoring required. Around 10% of inpatients with inflammatory bowel disease reported a lack of information about drug side effects on discharge from hospital.220 Information to support decisions about surgery is also essential, both for clinicians and for people facing the possibility of surgery. This includes recognising adverse prognostic factors for people admitted with acute severe colitis to enable timely decisions about escalating medical therapy or predicting the need for surgery. It is also very important to provide relevant information to support people considering elective surgery. The third round of the National IBD audit provided some evidence of variation in practice, including advice, prescription of bone protection for patients discharged on systemic corticosteroids and length of stay for admitted patients.220 A record of the paediatric ulcerative colitis activity index was recorded in 20% of admitted paediatric patients.222 The wide choice of drug preparations and dosing regimens, the judgement required in determining the optimum timing for surgery (both electively and as an emergency) and the importance of support and information may lead to variation in practice across the UK. This guideline aims to address this variation, and to help healthcare professionals to provide consistent high-quality care. Managing ulcerative colitis in adults, children and young people overlaps in many regards, so the guideline incorporates advice that is applicable to children and young people. This again should help to address potential inconsistencies in practice. Ulcerative colitis Introduction Care of people with ulcerative colitis is usually shared between primary care and specialist gastroenterology units working in collaboration with specialist colorectal surgical units. Close links coordinated monitoring of drug-side effects, and to ensure that associated issues (such as monitoring of bone density) are addressed. However, the number of adults with ulcerative colitis definitely appropriate setting for a person’s care is likely to come under increasing scrutiny as commissioning groups seek to provide more care
