National Clinical Guideline Centre
KEYWORDS: colitis, ulcerative, ulcerative colitis, clinical, remission, evidence, low, fewer, people, inconsistency, trials, randomised, guideline, quality, weeks


However, the number of adults with ulcerative colitis definitely appropriate setting for a person’s care is likely to come under increasing scrutiny as commissioning groups seek to provide more care in the community. This guideline therefore covers areas defined within the scope (Appendix A). Detailed delineation of areas excluded is given in the scope, but it should be noted that this guideline does not address areas of diagnosis, diagnostic investigation and surgical technique. Chapter 5 deals with induction of remission - the treatment of patients with active disease in relapse. This includes disease of limited extent (proctitis and proctosigmoiditis) and more extensive ulcerative colitis and includes treatment of acute severe colitis. In association with this, assessment of patients with acute severe colitis and their risk of requiring surgery or escalation of therapy are considered. Following this, drug treatment to maintain remission is examined and then considerations of information for people considering growth and development in children. Ulcerative colitis Development of the guideline 2 Development of the guideline 2.1 What is a NICE clinical guideline? NICE clinical guidelines are recommendations for the care of individuals in specific clinical conditions or circumstances within the NHS – from prevention and self-care through primary and secondary care to more specialised services. We base our clinical guidelines on the best available research evidence, with the aim of improving the quality of healthcare. We use predetermined and systematic NICE clinical guidelines can: • provide recommendations for the treatment and care of people by health professionals • be used to develop standards to assess the clinical practice of individual health professionals • be used in the education and training of health professionals • help patients to make informed decisions • improve communication between patient and health professional and skills. We produce our guidelines using the following steps: • Guideline topic is referred to NICE from the Department of Health • Stakeholders register an interest in the guideline and are consulted throughout the development process. • The scope is prepared by the National Clinical Guideline Centre (NCGC) • The NCGC establishes a guideline development group • A draft guideline is produced after the group assesses the available evidence and makes recommendations • There is a consultation on the draft guideline. • The final guideline is produced. The NCGC and NICE produce a number of versions of this guideline: • the full guideline contains all the recommendations, plus details
