National Clinical Guideline Centre
KEYWORDS: colitis, ulcerative, ulcerative colitis, clinical, remission, evidence, low, fewer, people, inconsistency, trials, randomised, guideline, quality, weeks


draft guideline. • The final guideline is produced. The NCGC and NICE produce a number of versions of this guideline: • the full guideline contains all the recommendations, plus details of the methods used and the underpinning evidence • the NICE guideline lists the recommendations • information for the public is written using suitable language for people without specialist medical knowledge • the NICE pathway brings together all connected NICE guidance. This version is the full version. The other versions can be downloaded from NICE at www.nice.org.uk 2.2 Remit NICE received the remit for this guideline from the Department of Health. They commissioned the NCGC to produce the guideline. The remit for this guideline is: To produce a clinical guideline on the management of ulcerative colitis. Ulcerative colitis Development of the guideline 2.3 Who developed this guideline? A multidisciplinary Guideline Development Group (GDG) comprising professional group members and consumer representatives of the main stakeholders developed this guideline (see section on Guideline Development Group membership and acknowledgements). The National Institute for Health and Care Excellence funds the National Clinical Guideline Centre (NCGC) and thus supported the development of this guideline. The GDG was convened by the NCGC and chaired by Professor Alan Lobo in accordance with guidance from the National Institute for Health and Care Excellence (NICE). The group met every six weeks during the development of the guideline. At the start of the guideline development process all GDG members declared interests including consultancies, fee-paid work, share-holdings, fellowships and support from the healthcare industry. At all subsequent GDG meetings, members declared arising conflicts of interest, which were also recorded (Appendix B). Members were either required to withdraw completely or for part of the discussion if their declared interest made it appropriate. The details of declared interests and the actions taken are shown in Appendix B. Staff from the NCGC provided methodological support and guidance for the development process. economists and information scientists. They undertook systematic searches of the literature, appraised the evidence, conducted meta-analysis and cost-effectiveness analysis where appropriate and drafted the guideline in collaboration with the GDG. 2.4 What this guideline covers Groups covered by this guideline are adults, children and young people with a diagnosis of ulcerative colitis. Consideration is given to specific needs, if any, of: • children and young people (including transition between paediatric and adult services and puberty) • pregnant women. Key clinical issues covered: •
