National Clinical Guideline Centre
KEYWORDS: colitis, ulcerative, ulcerative colitis, clinical, remission, evidence, low, fewer, people, inconsistency, trials, randomised, guideline, quality, weeks


Osteoporosis: assessing the risk of fragility fracture. NICE clinical guideline 146 (2012). Available from www.nice.org.uk/guidance/CG146 • Patient experience in adult NHS services. NICE clinical guidance 138 (2012). Available from www.nice.org.uk/guidance/CG138 Ulcerative colitis Development of the guideline • Colorectal cancer. NICE clinical guideline 131 (2011). Available from www.nice.org.uk/guidance/CG131 • Colonoscopic surveillance for prevention of colorectal cancer in people with ulcerative colitis, Crohn's disease or adenomas. NICE clinical guideline 118 (2011). Available from www.nice.org.uk/guidance/CG118 • Medicines adherence. NICE clinical guideline 76 (2009). Available from www.nice.org.uk/guidance/CG76 • Irritable bowel syndrome in adults. NICE clinical guideline 61 (2008). Available from www.nice.org.uk/guidance/CG61 • Faecal incontinence. NICE clinical guidance 49 (2007). Available from www.nice.org.uk/guidance/CG49 • Nutrition support in adults. NICE clinical guideline 32 (2006). Available from www.nice.org.uk/guidance/CG32 • Referral guidelines for suspected cancer. NICE clinical guideline 27 (2005). Available from www.nice.org.uk/guidance/CG27 Ulcerative colitis Methods 3 Methods This chapter sets out in detail the methods used to review the evidence and to generate the recommendations that are presented in subsequent chapters. This guidance was developed in accordance with the methods outlined in the NICE Guidelines Manual 2009 151. outcome) for intervention reviews, using population, presence or absence of factors under investigation (for example prognostic factors) and outcomes for prognostic reviews. This use of a framework guided the literature searching process, critical appraisal and synthesis of evidence, and facilitated the development of recommendations by the Guideline Development validated by the GDG. The GDG chose approximately 7 outcomes identifying which outcomes were critical to their decision making and which were important. This distinction helped the GDG to make judgements about the importance of the different outcomes and their impact on decision making. For example, mortality will usually be considered a critical outcome and would be given greater weight when considering the clinical effectiveness of an intervention than an important outcome with less serious consequences. The GDG decide on the relative importance in the review protocol before seeing the review. The questions were based on the key clinical issues identified in the scope (Appendix A). Full literature searches, critical appraisals and evidence reviews were completed for all the specified Chapter Type of review Review question Outcomes 5 Intervention Critical outcomes In adults, children and young people Clinical remission with mild to moderate ulcerative colitis, what is the clinical and cost- Clinical improvement aminosalicylates and of life immunomodulators (mercaptopurine, Important outcomes azathioprine, methotrexate and Endoscopic remission tacrolimus) for the induction of
