National Clinical Guideline Centre
KEYWORDS: colitis, ulcerative, ulcerative colitis, clinical, remission, evidence, low, fewer, people, inconsistency, trials, randomised, guideline, quality, weeks


to moderate ulcerative colitis, what is the clinical and cost- Clinical improvement aminosalicylates and of life immunomodulators (mercaptopurine, Important outcomes azathioprine, methotrexate and Endoscopic remission tacrolimus) for the induction of Clinical and endoscopic remission compared to themselves remission (different preparations and doses), each Adverse events other, combinations of preparations Serious adverse events (oral and topical) and placebo? Colectomy Hospitalisations. 5 Intervention In adults, children and young people Critical outcomes what is the clinical and cost- Clinical improvement effectiveness of corticosteroids and Health related quality ciclosporin compared to each other and of life their combination (corticosteroids and Mortality ciclosporin) for the induction of remission? Important outcomes Endoscopic remission Clinical and endoscopic remission Ulcerative colitis Methods Chapter Type of review Review question Outcomes Adverse events Serious adverse events Colectomy Hospitalisations. 5 Prognostic Which validated tools are the most Statistical measures of predictive of the likelihood of surgery in discrimination and people with acute severe ulcerative calibration including colitis? Area Under the Curve (AUC). 6 Observational and For adults, children and young people Any outcomes that are qualitative with ulcerative colitis considering identified by the surgery, what information on short and participants in the long term outcomes should be offered studies. to patients and their carers by This will be broken healthcare professionals? down into: • Short term outcomes (biological, physical/ interference with daily activities, psychological) • Long term outcomes (biological, physical/ interference with daily activities, psychological). 7 Intervention In adults, children and young people Critical outcomes with ulcerative colitis in remission, what Relapse is the clinical and cost-effectiveness of Health related quality corticosteroids, aminosalicylates, of life immunomodulators (mercaptopurine, Important outcomes azathioprine, methotrexate and Adverse events tacrolimus) for the maintenance of remission compared to themselves Serious adverse events (different preparations and doses), each Colectomy other, combinations of preparations Hospitalisations. (oral and topical) and placebo? 8 Observational What are the consequences of using In addition to the drug treatments for the induction and questions for induction maintenance of remission in pregnant and maintenance these women? outcomes were included. Critical outcomes Stillbirth Congenital abnormalities Spontaneous abortion Premature births (<37 weeks gestation) Low birth weight (<2.5kg) Ulcerative colitis Methods Chapter Type of review Review question Outcomes Maternal mortality Important outcomes Normal birth (≥37 weeks, live birth with no abnormalities) Health related quality of life. 9 Prognostic In children and young people with Critical outcomes ulcerative colitis, are disease activity, Incidence of fractures systemic corticosteroid use, total
