National Clinical Guideline Centre
KEYWORDS: colitis, ulcerative, ulcerative colitis, clinical, remission, evidence, low, fewer, people, inconsistency, trials, randomised, guideline, quality, weeks


with no abnormalities) Health related quality of life. 9 Prognostic In children and young people with Critical outcomes ulcerative colitis, are disease activity, Incidence of fractures systemic corticosteroid use, total Osteoporosis vitamin D and malnutrition, risk factors /osteopenia as for poor bone health? indicated by bone mineral density z score Reduction in bone mineral density score Important outcomes Epiphyseal fusion Bone age (wrist x-rays). 9 Observational In children and young people with Critical outcomes ulcerative colitis, what are the optimal Deviation from strategies (timing, location) for normal/baseline linear monitoring growth? height (growth velocity) as measured on the centile chart trajectory. Deviation from Tanner staging (pubertal development). Bone age (wrist x-rays) Important outcomes Deviation from normal weight as measured on the centile weight trajectory. 3.2 Searching for evidence 3.2.1 Clinical literature search The aim of the literature search was to identify all available, relevant published evidence in relation to the key clinical questions generated by the GDG. Systematic literature searches were undertaken The Guidelines Manual .151Clinical databases were searched using relevant medical subject headings, free-text terms and study type filters where appropriate. Studies published in languages other than English were not reviewed. Where possible, searches were restricted to articles published in the English language. All searches were conducted on core databases, MEDLINE, Embase, Cinahl and The Cochrane Library. All searches were updated on 15th November 2012. No papers published after this date were considered. Search strategies were checked by looking at reference lists of relevant key papers, checking search strategies in other systematic reviews and asking the GDG for known studies in a specific area. The Ulcerative colitis Methods questions, the study types applied, the databases searched and the years covered can be found in Appendix D. During the scoping stage, a search was conducted for guidelines and reports on the websites listed below and on organisations relevant to the topic. Searching for grey literature or unpublished literature was not undertaken. All references sent by stakeholders were considered. • Guidelines International Network database (www.g-i-n.net) • National Guideline Clearing House (www.guideline.gov/) • National Institute for Health and Care Excellence (NICE) (www.nice.org.uk) • National Institutes of Health Consensus Development Program (consensus.nih.gov/) The titles and abstracts of records retrieved by the searches were scanned for relevance to the GDG’s assessed against the inclusion criteria and the reference lists were scanned for any articles not previously identified. Further references were also suggested by the GDG.
