National Clinical Guideline Centre
KEYWORDS: colitis, ulcerative, ulcerative colitis, clinical, remission, evidence, low, fewer, people, inconsistency, trials, randomised, guideline, quality, weeks


for relevance to the GDG’s assessed against the inclusion criteria and the reference lists were scanned for any articles not previously identified. Further references were also suggested by the GDG. 3.2.1.1 Call for evidence The GDG decided to initiate a ‘call for evidence’ for the ‘what information is needed for people considering surgery’ review question as they believed that important evidence existed that would not be identified by the standard searches. The NCGC contacted all registered stakeholders and asked them to submit any relevant published or unpublished evidence. 3.2.2 Health economic literature search Systematic literature searches were also undertaken to identify health economic evidence within the broad search relating to the guideline population in the NHS economic evaluation database (NHS databases with no date restrictions. Additionally, the search was run on MEDLINE and Embase, with a specific economic filter, to ensure recent publications that had not yet been indexed by these databases were identified. Studies published in languages other than English were not reviewed. Where possible, searches were restricted to articles published in the English language. The search strategies for health economics are included in Appendix D. All searches were updated on 15th November 2012. No papers published after this date were considered. 3.3 Evidence of effectiveness The evidence was reviewed following the steps shown schematically in Figure 1: • potentially relevant studies were identified for each review question from the relevant search results by reviewing titles and abstracts. Full papers were then obtained. • full papers were reviewed against pre-specified inclusion / exclusion criteria to identify studies that addressed the review question in the appropriate population (review protocols are included in Appendix C). • relevant studies were critically appraised using the appropriate checklists as specified in The Guidelines Manual. For prognostic studies, quality was assessed using the checklist for Prognostic studies (NICE Guidelines Manual, 2009).151 • key information was extracted on the study’s methods and PICO factors and results were presented in evidence tables (Appendix G). Ulcerative colitis Methods • summaries of the evidence were generated by outcome (included in the relevant chapter write- ups) and were presented in GDG meetings: o Randomised studies: meta-analysed, where appropriate and reported in GRADE profiles o Prognostic studies: assessing risk factors data were presented as a range of values, usually in terms of the relative effect as reported by the authors and where possible reported in the GRADE profile format. o Prognostic
