National Clinical Guideline Centre
KEYWORDS: colitis, ulcerative, ulcerative colitis, clinical, remission, evidence, low, fewer, people, inconsistency, trials, randomised, guideline, quality, weeks


were presented as a range of values, usually in terms of the relative effect as reported by the authors and where possible reported in the GRADE profile format. o Prognostic studies evaluating risk tools were presented as measures of prognostic test accuracy (sensitivity, specificity, positive and negative predictive value). Coupled values of sensitivity and specificity were summarised in Receiver Operating Curves (ROC) to allow visual comparison between different index tests (plotting data at different thresholds) and to investigate heterogeneity more effectively (given data were reported at the same thresholds). A meta-analysis could not be conducted because the studies reported data at various thresholds. Twenty percent (20%) of each of the above stages of the reviewing process was quality assured by the second reviewer to eliminate any potential of reviewer bias or error. Figure 1: Step-by-step process of review of evidence in the guideline 3.3.1 Inclusion/exclusion The inclusion/exclusion of studies was based on the review protocols (Appendix C). The GDG were consulted about any uncertainty regarding inclusion/exclusion. Ulcerative colitis Methods The guideline population was defined to be adults, children and young people with ulcerative colitis. who are either in remission or with active disease of varying severity or pregnant women. Randomised trials, non-randomised trials, and observational studies (including prognostic studies) were included in the evidence reviews as appropriate. Laboratory studies (in vivo or in vitro) were excluded. Conference abstracts were not automatically excluded from the review but were initially assessed against the inclusion criteria and then further processed only if no other full publication was available for that review question, in which case the authors of the selected abstracts were contacted for further information. Conference abstracts included in Cochrane reviews were included when they met the review inclusion criteria and authors were not contacted. Literature reviews, letters and editorials, foreign language publications and unpublished studies were excluded. The review protocols are presented in Appendix C. Excluded studies (with their exclusion reasons) are listed in Appendix F. 3.3.2 Methods of combining clinical studies Data synthesis for intervention reviews Where possible, meta-analyses were conducted to combine the results of studies for each review question using Cochrane Review Manager (RevMan5) software. Where studies reported data which could not be analysed by meta-analysis a narrative summary is provided. Fixed-effects (Mantel-Haenszel) techniques were used to calculate pooled risk ratios (relative risk) for binary outcomes. For continuous outcomes, measures of central tendency (mean) and variation (standard deviation
