National Clinical Guideline Centre
KEYWORDS: colitis, ulcerative, ulcerative colitis, clinical, remission, evidence, low, fewer, people, inconsistency, trials, randomised, guideline, quality, weeks


summary is provided. Fixed-effects (Mantel-Haenszel) techniques were used to calculate pooled risk ratios (relative risk) for binary outcomes. For continuous outcomes, measures of central tendency (mean) and variation (standard deviation (SD)) were required for meta-analysis. Data for continuous outcomes were analysed using an inverse variance method for pooling mean differences, and where the studies had different scales, standardised mean differences were used. A generic inverse variance option in Review Manager was used if any studies reported solely the summary statistics and 95% confidence interval (or standard error) – this included any hazard ratios reported. However, in cases where standard deviations were not reported per intervention group, the standard error (SE) for the mean difference was calculated from other reported statistics - p-values or 95% confidence intervals (95% CI); meta-analysis was then undertaken for the mean difference and standard error using the generic inverse variance method in Cochrane Review Manager (RevMan5) software. Stratified analyses were strata are different in terms of biological and clinical characteristics and the interventions were expected to have a different effect on these groups of people with ulcerative colitis. For example, stratifying by frequency of relapses and current use of immunomodulators prior to the trial. Statistical heterogeneity was assessed by visually examining the forest plots, and by considering the chi-squared test for significance at p<0.1 and the I-squared inconsistency statistic (with an I-squared value of more than 50% indicating considerable heterogeneity). Where considerable heterogeneity was present, we carried out sensitivity analyses. Sensitivity analyses were carried out looking at the subgroups which were pre-specified by the GDG. If the heterogeneity still remained, a random effects (DerSimonian and Laird) model was employed to provide a more conservative estimate of the effect. For interpretation of the binary outcome results, differences in the absolute event rate were calculated using the GRADEpro software, for the median event rate across the control arms of the individual studies in the meta-analysis. The hazard ratio can be translated into an absolute difference in the proportion of patients who are event-free at a particular time point, assuming proportional Ulcerative colitis Methods hazards. This is calculated using GRADEpro software. Absolute risk differences were presented in the remission of mild or moderate left-sided or extensive ulcerative colitis and the maintenance of remission after a mild or moderate inflammatory exacerbation of left-sided or extensive ulcerative colitis. This type of analysis simultaneously compared multiple treatments in a single meta-analysis, preserving
