National Clinical Guideline Centre
KEYWORDS: colitis, ulcerative, ulcerative colitis, clinical, remission, evidence, low, fewer, people, inconsistency, trials, randomised, guideline, quality, weeks


young people with ulcerative colitis Odds ratios (ORs), relative risk ratios (RRs) or hazard ratios (HRs), with their 95% confidence intervals (95% CI) for the effect of the pre-specified prognostic factors were extracted from the papers. Studies of lower risk of bias were preferred, taking into account the analysis and the study design; in particular, prospective cohort studies that reported multivariable analyses, which included key confounders as identified by the GDG at the protocol stage for that outcome. The results from the risk factors of poor bone health in children and young people was presented as a narrative due to the lack of published data. Risk tools for predicting the outcome of acute severe ulcerative colitis Coupled forest plots of sensitivity and specificity with their 95% confidence intervals across studies (at various thresholds) were produced for each risk tool, using Cochrane Review Manager (RevMan5) Ulcerative colitis Methods negatives and false negatives) were either directly taken from the study if given or derived from raw data, or were calculated from the set of test accuracy statistics. To allow comparison between tests, summary ROC curves were generated for each prognostic test from the pairs of sensitivity and specificity calculated from the 2 x 2 tables, selecting one threshold per study. A ROC plot shows true positive rate (i.e. sensitivity) as a function of false positive rate (i.e. 1 – specificity). Data were entered into Review Manager 5 software and ROC curves were fitted using the Moses Littenburg approach. Area under the ROC curve (AUC) data for each study was also plotted on a graph, for each prognostic test: the AUC describes the overall prognostic accuracy across the full range of thresholds. The GDG agreed on the following criteria for AUC: <=0.50 worse than chance; 0.50-0.60 = very poor; 0.61-0.70 = poor; 0.71-0.80 = moderate; 0.81-0.92 = good; 0.91-1.00 = excellent or perfect test. Heterogeneity or inconsistency amongst studies was visually inspected in the forest plots, if appropriate (only when there were similar thresholds). A prognostic meta-analysis was not conducted mainly because of the different thresholds across studies and the complexity of the analysis and time and resource constraints of this guideline development. 3.3.1 Type of studies For most intervention reviews in this guideline, parallel randomised trials (RCTs) were included because they are considered the most robust type of study design that could produce an unbiased estimate of the intervention effects. Cross over
