National Clinical Guideline Centre
KEYWORDS: colitis, ulcerative, ulcerative colitis, clinical, remission, evidence, low, fewer, people, inconsistency, trials, randomised, guideline, quality, weeks


guideline, parallel randomised trials (RCTs) were included because they are considered the most robust type of study design that could produce an unbiased estimate of the intervention effects. Cross over RCTs were not appropriate for estimating the intervention effects for with the induction of remission of ulcerative colitis as their baseline severity of disease level was likely to have changed.Only data from the first intervention people were exposed to were included from randomised crossover studies in the review. For the prognostic prospective and retrospective studies were included and for the prognostic review on predicting the outcome of acute severe ulcerative colitis, prospective and retrospective cohort studies were included. Case control studies were not included. 3.3.2 Type of analysis Estimates of effect from individual studies were based on the author reported data.As a preference available case analysis (ACA) was used and if this was not reported intention to treat analysis (ITT)) was then used. The ACA method is preferred to an intention-to-treat with imputation analysis (ITT), in order to avoid making assumptions about the participants for whom outcome data were not available, and furthermore assuming that those with missing outcome data have the same event rate as those who continue. In addition, ITT analysis tends to bias the results towards no difference, and therefore the effect may be smaller than in reality. 3.3.3 Appraising the quality of evidence by outcomes The evidence for outcomes from the included RCTs and observational studies (when appropriate) was evaluated and presented using the ‘Grading of Recommendations Assessment, Development and Evaluation (GRADE) toolbox’ developed by the international GRADE working group ( The software (GRADEpro) developed by the GRADE working group was used to assess the evidence quality for each outcome, taking into account individual study quality factors and the meta-analysis results. Results were presented in GRADE profiles (‘GRADE includes details of the quality assessment while the “Clinical /Economic Summary of Findings” table Ulcerative colitis Methods includes pooled outcome data and an absolute measure of the intervention effect and the summary of quality of evidence for that outcome. In this table, the columns for intervention and control indicate summary measures and measures of dispersion (such as mean and standard deviation or median and range) for continuous outcomes and frequency of events (n/N: the sum across studies of the number of patients with events divided by sum of the number of completers) for binary outcomes. The evidence for
