National Clinical Guideline Centre
KEYWORDS: colitis, ulcerative, ulcerative colitis, clinical, remission, evidence, low, fewer, people, inconsistency, trials, randomised, guideline, quality, weeks


and frequency of events (n/N: the sum across studies of the number of patients with events divided by sum of the number of completers) for binary outcomes. The evidence for each outcome was examined separately for the quality elements listed and defined in Table 1 and each graded using the quality levels listed in Table 2. The main criteria considered in the rating of these elements are discussed below (see section 3.3.4). Footnotes were used to describe reasons for grading a quality element as having serious or very serious problems. The ratings for each component were summed to obtain an overall assessment for each outcome. Table 1: Description of quality elements in GRADE for intervention studies Quality element Description Risk of bias Limitations in the study design and implementation may bias the estimates of the (‘Study treatment effect. High risk of bias for the majority of the evidence decreases the Limitations’) confidence in the estimate of the effect. Inconsistency Inconsistency refers to an unexplained heterogeneity of results. Indirectness Indirectness refers to differences in study population, intervention, comparator and outcomes between the available evidence and the review question, or recommendation made, such that the effect estimate is changed Imprecision Results are imprecise when studies include relatively few patients and few events and thus have wide confidence intervals around the estimate of the effect. Imprecision results if the confidence interval includes the clinically important threshold. Publication bias Publication bias is a systematic underestimate or an overestimate of the underlying beneficial or harmful effect due to the selective publication of studies. Table 2: Levels of quality elements in GRADE Level Description None There are no serious issues with the evidence Serious The issues are serious enough to downgrade the outcome evidence by one level Very serious The issues are serious enough to downgrade the outcome evidence by two levels Table 3: Overall quality of outcome evidence in GRADE Level Description High Further research is very unlikely to change our confidence in the estimate of effect ⊕⊕⊕⊕ Moderate Further research is likely to have an important impact on our confidence in the estimate ⊕⊕⊕Ο of effect and may change the estimate Low Further research is very likely to have an important impact on our confidence in the ⊕⊕ΟΟ estimate of effect and is likely to change the estimate Very low Any estimate of effect is very uncertain ⊕ΟΟΟ Ulcerative colitis Methods 3.3.4 Grading the
