National Clinical Guideline Centre
KEYWORDS: colitis, ulcerative, ulcerative colitis, clinical, remission, evidence, low, fewer, people, inconsistency, trials, randomised, guideline, quality, weeks


confidence in the ⊕⊕ΟΟ estimate of effect and is likely to change the estimate Very low Any estimate of effect is very uncertain ⊕ΟΟΟ Ulcerative colitis Methods 3.3.4 Grading the quality of clinical evidence After results were pooled, the overall quality of evidence for each outcome was considered. The following procedure was adopted when using GRADE: 1. A quality rating was assigned, based on the study design. RCTs start HIGH and observational studies as LOW, uncontrolled case series as LOW. 2. The rating was then downgraded for the specified criteria: Risk of bias (study limitations), inconsistency, indirectness, imprecision and publication bias. These criteria are detailed below. Evidence from observational studies (that had not previously been downgraded) was upgraded if there was: a large magnitude of effect, dose-response gradient, and if all plausible confounding would reduce a demonstrated effect or suggest a spurious effect when results showed no effect. Each quality element considered to have “serious” or “very serious” risk of bias was rated at 1 or2 points respectively. 3. The downgraded/upgraded marks were then summed and the overall quality rating was revised. For example, all RCTs started as HIGH and the overall quality became MODERATE, LOW or VERY LOW if 1, 2 or 3 points were deducted respectively. 4. The reasons used for downgrading were specified in the footnotes. The details of criteria used for each of the main quality elements are discussed further in the following sections (3.3.5 to 3.3.8). 3.3.5 Risk of bias Bias can be defined as anything that causes a consistent deviation from the truth. Bias can be perceived as a systematic error (for example, if a study were carried out several times there would be a consistently wrong answer, and the results would be inaccurate). The risk of bias for a given study and outcome is associated with the risk of overor underestimation of true effect. The risks of bias are listed in Table 4. A study with a poor methodological design does not automatically imply high risk of bias; the bias is considered individually for each outcome and it is assessed whether this poor design will impact on the estimation of the intervention effect. Table 4: Risk of bias in randomised trials Risk of bias Explanation Allocation Those enrolling patients are aware of the group to which the next enrolled patient concealment will be allocated (major problem in “pseudo” or “quasi” randomised trials with
