National Clinical Guideline Centre
KEYWORDS: colitis, ulcerative, ulcerative colitis, clinical, remission, evidence, low, fewer, people, inconsistency, trials, randomised, guideline, quality, weeks


bias Explanation Allocation Those enrolling patients are aware of the group to which the next enrolled patient concealment will be allocated (major problem in “pseudo” or “quasi” randomised trials with allocation by day of week, birth date, chart number, etc.) Lack of blinding Patients, caregivers, those recording outcomes, those adjudicating outcomes, or data analysts are aware of the arm to which patients are allocated Incomplete Missing data not accounted for and failure of the trialists to adhere to the intention to accounting of treat principle when indicated patients and outcome events Selective outcome Reporting of some outcomes and not others on the basis of the results reporting Other risks of bias For example: • Stopping early for benefit observed in randomised trials, in particular in the absence of adequate stopping rules • Use of unvalidated patient-reported outcomes Ulcerative colitis Methods Risk of bias Explanation • Recruitment bias in cluster randomised trials Risk of bias (randomization method, blinding and allocation concealment, loss to follow up) and overall quality of included studies in the NMA was summarized and taken into account in the interpretation of results. For prognostic studies, quality was assessed using the checklist for Prognostic studies (NICE Guidelines Manual, 2009151). The quality rating was derived by assessing the risk of bias across 6 domains; selection bias, attrition bias, prognostic factor bias, outcome measurement bias, control for confounders and appropriate statistical analysis, with the last 4 domains being assessed per outcome. A summary table on the quality of prognostic studies is presented at the beginning of each review to summarize the risk of bias across the 5 domains. More details about the quality assessment for prognostic studies are shown below: 1. The study sample represents the population of interest with regard to key characteristics – ulcerative colitis population, source of sample and inclusion/ exclusion criteria adequately described, 2. Loss to follow up is unrelated to key characteristics, sufficient to limit potential bias – reasons for loss to follow up adequately described. 3. The prognostic factor of interest is adequately measured in study participants. 4. The outcome of interest is adequately measured in study participants. 5. Important potential confounders are appropriately accounted for and the ratio of events/covariate is acceptable (rule of thumb is more than ten). 6. The statistical analysis is appropriate for the design of the study, limiting potential for the presentation of valid results; multivariable analysis is preferred. 3.3.6
