National Clinical Guideline Centre
KEYWORDS: colitis, ulcerative, ulcerative colitis, clinical, remission, evidence, low, fewer, people, inconsistency, trials, randomised, guideline, quality, weeks


thumb is more than ten). 6. The statistical analysis is appropriate for the design of the study, limiting potential for the presentation of valid results; multivariable analysis is preferred. 3.3.6 Inconsistency Inconsistency refers to an unexplained heterogeneity of results. When estimates of the treatment effect across studies differ widely (i.e. heterogeneity or variability in results), this suggests true differences in the underlying treatment effect. Heterogeneity in a meta-analysis was examined and sensitivity and subgroup analyses performed as pre-specified in the protocols (Appendix C). Subgroup analysis is reported after the GRADE evidence profile in which heterogeneity is reported. When heterogeneity existed (Chi square p<0.1 or I- squared inconsistency statistic of >50% or evidence from examining forest plots), but no plausible explanation could be found the quality of evidence was downgraded by one or two levels, depending on the extent of uncertainty in the evidence contributed by the inconsistency in the results. In addition to the I- square and Chi square values, the decision for downgrading was also dependent on factors such as whether the intervention is associated with benefit in all other outcomes. 3.3.7 Indirectness Directness relates to the extent to which the populations, intervention, comparisons and outcome measures are similar to those defined in the inclusion criteria for the reviews. Indirectness is important when these differences are expected to contribute to a difference in effect size. 3.3.8 Imprecision Imprecision in guidelines concerns whether the uncertainty (confidence interval) around the effect estimate means that we don’t know whether there is a clinically important difference between Ulcerative colitis Methods interventions. Therefore, imprecision differs from the other aspects of evidence quality, in that it is not really concerned with whether the point estimate is accurate or correct (has internal or external validity) instead we are concerned with the uncertainty about what the point estimate is. This uncertainty is reflected in the width of the confidence interval. The 95% confidence interval is defined as the range of values that contain the population value with 95% probability. The larger the trial, the smaller the confidence interval and the more certain we are in the effect estimate. Imprecision in the evidence reviews was assessed by considering whether the width of the confidence interval of the effect estimate is relevant to decision making, considering each outcome in isolation. Figure 2 considers a positive outcome for the comparison of treatment A versus B. Three benefit and for harm
