National Clinical Guideline Centre
KEYWORDS: colitis, ulcerative, ulcerative colitis, clinical, remission, evidence, low, fewer, people, inconsistency, trials, randomised, guideline, quality, weeks


estimate is relevant to decision making, considering each outcome in isolation. Figure 2 considers a positive outcome for the comparison of treatment A versus B. Three benefit and for harm (the MID for harm for a positive outcome means the threshold at which drug A is less effective than drug B and this difference is clinically important to patients (favours B). Figure 2: Imprecision illustration • When the confidence interval of the effect estimate is wholly contained in one of the three zones (e.g. clinically important benefit), we are not uncertain about the size and direction of effect (whether there is a clinically important benefit or the effect is not clinically important or there is a clinically important harm), so there is no imprecision. • When a wide confidence interval lies partly in each of two zones, it is uncertain in which zone the true value of effect estimate lies, and therefore there is uncertainty over which decision to make (based on this outcome alone); the confidence interval is consistent with two decisions and so this is considered to be imprecise in the GRADE analysis and the evidence is downgraded by one (“serious imprecision”). • If the confidence interval of the effect estimate crosses into three zones, this is considered to be very imprecise evidence because the confidence interval is consistent with three clinical decisions and there is a considerable lack of confidence in the results. The evidence is therefore downgraded by two in the GRADE analysis (“very serious imprecision”). • Implicitly, assessing whether the confidence interval is in, or partially in, a clinically important zone, requires the GDG to estimate an MID or to say whether they would make different decisions for the two confidence limits. • The literature was searched for established MIDs for the selected outcomes in the evidence reviews, but no results were found. In addition, the GDG was asked whether they were aware of any acceptable MIDs in the clinical community of ulcerative colitis but they confirmed the absence of research in the area. Finally, the GDG considered it clinically acceptable to use the GRADE default MID to assess imprecision: a 25% relative risk reduction or relative risk increase was used, which corresponds to a RR clinically important threshold of 0.75 or 1.25 respectively. Ulcerative colitis Methods This default MID was used for all the outcomes in the interventions evidence reviews. Publication bias Downgrading for
