National Clinical Guideline Centre
KEYWORDS: colitis, ulcerative, ulcerative colitis, clinical, remission, evidence, low, fewer, people, inconsistency, trials, randomised, guideline, quality, weeks


RR clinically important threshold of 0.75 or 1.25 respectively. Ulcerative colitis Methods This default MID was used for all the outcomes in the interventions evidence reviews. Publication bias Downgrading for publication bias would only be carried out if the GDG were aware that there was serious publication bias for that particular outcome. Such downgrading was not carried out for this guideline. Assessing clinical importance The GDG assessed the evidence by outcome in order to determine if there was, or was potentially, a clinically important benefit, a clinically important harm or no clinically important difference between interventions. To facilitate this, the relative effect of estimates for binary outcomes were converted into absolute effects using GRADEpro software: the median control group risk across studies was used to calculate the absolute effect and its 95% confidence interval from the pooled risk ratio. The assessment of benefit/harm/no benefit or harm was based on the point estimate of absolute effect for intervention studies which was standardized across the reviews. The GDG considered for most of the outcomes in the intervention reviews that if at least 100 participants per 1000 (10% cut off) achieved the outcome of interest (if positive) in the intervention group compared to the comparison group then this intervention would be considered beneficial. The same point estimate but in the opposite direction would apply if the outcome was negative. The cut off point for adverse events was lower and considered for each individual adverse and serious adverse event outcome. This assessment was carried out by the GDG for each outcome. The GDG used the assessment of clinical importance for the outcomes alongside the evidence quality and the uncertainty in the effect estimates to make an overall judgement on the balance of benefit and harms of an intervention. Evidence statements Evidence statements are summary statements that are presented after the GRADE profiles, summarizing the key features of the clinical effectiveness evidence presented. The wording of the evidence statements reflects the certainty/uncertainty in the estimate of effect. The evidence statements are presented by outcome and encompass the following key features of the evidence: • The number of studies and the number of participants for a particular outcome. • An indication of the direction of clinical importance (if one treatment is beneficial or harmful compared to the other, or whether there is no difference between two tested treatments). • A description of the overall quality of
