National Clinical Guideline Centre
KEYWORDS: colitis, ulcerative, ulcerative colitis, clinical, remission, evidence, low, fewer, people, inconsistency, trials, randomised, guideline, quality, weeks


importance (if one treatment is beneficial or harmful compared to the other, or whether there is no difference between two tested treatments). • A description of the overall quality of evidence (GRADE overall quality). 3.4 Evidence of cost-effectiveness Evidence on cost-effectiveness related to the key clinical issues being addressed in the guideline was sought. The health economist: • Undertook a systematic review of the economic literature. • Undertook new cost-effectiveness analysis in priority areas. 3.4.1 Literature review The health economist: • Identified potentially relevant studies for each review question from the economic search results by reviewing titles and abstracts – full papers were then obtained. Ulcerative colitis Methods • Reviewed full papers against pre-specified inclusion / exclusion criteria to identify relevant studies (see below for details). • Critically appraised relevant studies using the economic evaluations checklist as specified in The Guidelines Manual151. • Extracted key information about the study’s methods and results into evidence tables (evidence tables are included in Appendix G). • Generated summaries of the evidence in NICE economic evidence profiles (included in the relevant chapter write-ups) – see below for details. 3.4.1.1 Inclusion/exclusion Full economic evaluations (studies comparing costs and health consequences of alternative courses of action: cost–utility, cost-effectiveness, cost-benefit and cost-consequence analyses) and comparative costing studies that addressed the review question in the relevant population were considered potentially applicable as economic evidence. effectiveness without disaggregated costs and effects, were excluded. Abstracts, posters, reviews, letters/editorials, foreign language publications and unpublished studies were excluded. Studies judged to have an applicability rating of ‘not applicable’ were excluded (this included studies that took the perspective of a non-OECD country). Remaining studies were prioritised for inclusion based on their relative applicability to the development of this guideline and the study limitations. For example, if a high quality, directly applicable UK analysis was available other less relevant studies may not have been included. Where exclusions occurred on this basis, this is noted in the relevant section. For more details about the assessment of applicability and methodological quality see the economic protocol in Appendix C. When no relevant economic analysis was found from the economic literature review, relevant UK NHS unit costs related to the compared interventions were considered by the GDG to inform the possible economic implication of the recommendation they wished to make. 3.4.1.2 NICE economic evidence profiles The NICE economic evidence profile has been used to summarise cost and cost-effectiveness
