National Clinical Guideline Centre
KEYWORDS: colitis, ulcerative, ulcerative colitis, clinical, remission, evidence, low, fewer, people, inconsistency, trials, randomised, guideline, quality, weeks


inform the possible economic implication of the recommendation they wished to make. 3.4.1.2 NICE economic evidence profiles The NICE economic evidence profile has been used to summarise cost and cost-effectiveness estimates. The economic evidence profile shows, for each economic study, an assessment of applicability and methodological quality, with footnotes indicating the reasons for the assessment. These assessments were made by the health economist using the economic evaluation checklist from The Guidelines Manual, Appendix H151. It also shows incremental costs, incremental outcomes (for example, QALYs) and the incremental cost-effectiveness ratio from the primary analysis, as well as information about the assessment of uncertainty in the analysis. If a non-UK study was included in the profile, the results were converted into pounds sterling using the appropriate purchasing power parity.161 Table 5: Content of NICE economic profile Item Description Study First author name, reference, date of study publication and country perspective. situation and NICE decision-making*: Ulcerative colitis Methods Item Description • Directly applicable – the applicability criteria are met, or one or more criteria are not met but this is not likely to change the conclusions about cost-effectiveness. • Partially applicable – one or more of the applicability criteria are not met, and this might possibly change the conclusions about cost-effectiveness. Not applicable – one or more of the applicability criteria are not met, and this is likely to change the conclusions about cost-effectiveness. Limitations An assessment of methodological quality of the study*: • Minor limitations – the study meets all quality criteria, or the study fails to meet one or more quality criteria, but this is unlikely to change the conclusions about cost-effectiveness. • Potentially serious limitations – the study fails to meet one or more quality criteria, and this could change the conclusion about cost-effectiveness • Very serious limitations – the study fails to meet one or more quality criteria and this is very likely to change the conclusions about cost-effectiveness. Studies with very serious limitations would usually be excluded from the economic profile table. Other comments Particular issues that should be considered when interpreting the study. Incremental cost The mean cost associated with one strategy minus the mean cost of a comparator strategy. Incremental effects The mean QALYs (or other selected measure of health outcome) associated with one strategy minus the mean QALYs of a comparator strategy. Cost-effectiveness Incremental cost-effectiveness ratio (ICER): the incremental cost divided by the incremental effects.
