National Clinical Guideline Centre
KEYWORDS: colitis, ulcerative, ulcerative colitis, clinical, remission, evidence, low, fewer, people, inconsistency, trials, randomised, guideline, quality, weeks


selected measure of health outcome) associated with one strategy minus the mean QALYs of a comparator strategy. Cost-effectiveness Incremental cost-effectiveness ratio (ICER): the incremental cost divided by the incremental effects. Uncertainty A summary of the extent of uncertainty about the ICER reflecting the results of deterministic or probabilistic sensitivity analyses, or stochastic analyses of trial data, as appropriate. (a) Limitations and applicability were assessed using the economic evaluation checklist from The Guidelines Manual, Appendix H151 3.4.2 Undertaking new health economic analysis As well as reviewing the published economic literature for each review question, as described above, new economic analysis was undertaken by the health economist in priority areas. Priority areas for consideration of the available health economic evidence. Additional data for the analysis was identified as required through additional literature searches assumptions were explained to and agreed by the GDG members during meetings, and they commented on subsequent revisions. See AppendixL for details of the health economic analysis/analyses undertaken for the guideline. 3.4.3 Cost-effectiveness criteria NICE’s report ‘Social value judgements: principles for the development of NICE guidance’ sets out the principles that GDGs should consider when judging whether an intervention offers good value for money150,151. In general, an intervention was considered to be cost-effective if either of the following criteria applied (given that the estimate was considered plausible): Ulcerative colitis Methods a. The intervention dominated other relevant strategies (that is, it was both less costly in terms of resource use and more clinically effective compared with all the other relevant alternative strategies), or b. The intervention cost less than £20,000 per quality-adjusted life-year (QALY) gained compared with the next best strategy. If the GDG recommended an intervention that was estimated to cost more than £20,000 per QALY gained, or did not recommend one that was estimated to cost less than £20,000 per QALY gained, the reasons for this decision are discussed explicitly in the ‘from evidence to recommendations’ section of the relevant chapter with reference to issues regarding the plausibility of the estimate or to the factors set out in the ‘Social value judgements: principles for the development of NICE guidance’150. If a study reported the cost per life year gained but not QALYs, the cost per QALY gained was estimated by multiplying by an appropriate utility estimate to aid interpretation. The estimated cost per QALY gained is reported in the economic evidence profile with a footnote detailing the life-years
