National Clinical Guideline Centre
KEYWORDS: colitis, ulcerative, ulcerative colitis, clinical, remission, evidence, low, fewer, people, inconsistency, trials, randomised, guideline, quality, weeks


estimated by multiplying by an appropriate utility estimate to aid interpretation. The estimated cost per QALY gained is reported in the economic evidence profile with a footnote detailing the life-years gained and the utility value used. When QALYs or life years gained are not used in the analysis, results are difficult to interpret unless one strategy dominates the others with respect to every relevant health outcome and cost. 3.5 Developing recommendations Over the course of the guideline development process, the GDG was presented with: • Evidence tables of the clinical and economic evidence reviewed from the literature. All evidence tables are in Appendix G. • Summary of clinical (GRADE tables) and economic evidence and quality (as presented in chapters 5-9). • Forest plots and ROC curves (Appendix H). • A description of the methods and results of the cost-effectiveness analysis undertaken for the guideline (Appendix L). Recommendations were drafted on the basis of the GDG’s interpretation of the available evidence, taking into account the trade off between benefits, harms and costs of different courses of action. This was either done formally in an economic model, or informally. Firstly, the net benefit over harm the GDG took into account the clinical benefits/harms when one intervention was compared with another. The assessment of net benefit was moderated by the importance placed on the outcomes (the GDG’s values and preferences), and the confidence the GDG had in the evidence (evidence quality). Secondly, it was assessed whether the net benefit justified the costs. Results of the NMAs was also taken into account in the drafting of recommendations and were incorporated in the health economic modelling for considering the most clinical and cost-effective treatment. recommendations based on their expert opinion. The considerations for making consensus based recommendations included the balance between potential harms and benefits, economic or other implications compared to the benefits, current practices, recommendations made in other relevant guidelines, patient preferences and equality issues. The consensus recommendations were done through discussions in the GDG. The GDG could also consider whether the uncertainty is sufficient to justify delaying making a recommendation to await further research, taking into account the potential harm of failing to make a clear recommendation. The wording of recommendations was agreed by the GDG and focused on the following factors: • on the actions health professionals need to take Ulcerative colitis Methods • include what readers need to know • reflect
