National Clinical Guideline Centre
KEYWORDS: colitis, ulcerative, ulcerative colitis, clinical, remission, evidence, low, fewer, people, inconsistency, trials, randomised, guideline, quality, weeks


by the GDG and focused on the following factors: • on the actions health professionals need to take Ulcerative colitis Methods • include what readers need to know • reflect the strength of the recommendation (for example the word “offer” was used for strong recommendations and “consider” for weak recommendations) • emphasise the involvement of the patient (and/or their carers if needed) in decisions on treatment and care • follow NICE’s standard advice on recommendations about drugs, waiting times and ineffective interventions. The main considerations specific to each recommendation are outlined in the ‘Recommendations and link to evidence’ sections within each chapter. 3.5.1 Research recommendations When areas were identified for which good evidence was lacking, the guideline development group considered making recommendations for future research. Decisions about inclusion were based on factors such as: • the importance to patients • national priorities • potential impact on the NHS and future NICE guidance • ethical and technical feasibility 3.5.2 Validation process The guidance is subject to a six week public consultation and feedback as part of the quality assurance and peer review the document. All comments received from registered stakeholders are responded to in turn and posted on the NICE website when the pre-publication check of the full guideline occurs. 3.5.3 Updating the guideline A formal review of the need to update a guideline is usually undertaken by NICE after its publication. NICE will conduct a review to determine whether the evidence base has progressed significantly to alter the guideline recommendations and warrant an update. 3.5.4 Disclaimer whether it is appropriate to apply guidelines. The recommendations cited here are a guide and may not be appropriate for use in all situations. The decision to adopt any of the recommendations cited here must be made by the practitioners in light of individual patient circumstances, the wishes of the The National Clinical Guideline Centre disclaims any responsibility for damages arising out of the use or non-use of these guidelines and the literature used in support of these guidelines. 3.5.5 Funding The National Clinical Guideline Centre was commissioned by the National Institute for Health and Care Excellence to undertake the work on this guideline. Ulcerative colitis Guideline summary 4 Guideline summary 4.1 Algorithms Please see the next two pages for the following two algorithms: • Algorithm 1: Inducing remission in people with mild to moderate ulcerative colitis. • Algorithm 2: Inducing remission in people
