National Clinical Guideline Centre
KEYWORDS: colitis, ulcerative, ulcerative colitis, clinical, remission, evidence, low, fewer, people, inconsistency, trials, randomised, guideline, quality, weeks


see the next two pages for the following two algorithms: • Algorithm 1: Inducing remission in people with mild to moderate ulcerative colitis. • Algorithm 2: Inducing remission in people with acute severe ulcerative colitis (all extents of disease). National Clinical Guideline Centre, 2013. Guideline summary Ulcerative colitis National Clinical Guideline Centre, 2013. Guideline summary Ulcerative colitis Ulcerative colitis Guideline summary 4.2 Key priorities for implementation From the full set of recommendations, the GDG selected 10 key priorities for implementation. The criteria used for selecting these recommendations are listed in detail in The Guidelines Manual.151 The reasons that each of these recommendations was chosen are shown in the table linking the evidence to the recommendation in the relevant chapter. Patient information and support • Discuss the disease and associated symptoms, treatment options and monitoring: o with the person with ulcerative colitis, and their family members or carers as appropriate and o within the multidisciplinary team (the composition of which should be appropriate for the age of the person) at every opportunity. Apply the principles in Patient experience in adult NHS services (NICE clinical guideline 138). Inducing remission: step 1 therapy for mild to moderate ulcerative colitis • To induce remission in people with a mild to moderate first presentation or inflammatory exacerbation of proctitis or proctosigmoiditis: o offer a topical aminosalicylatea alone (suppository or enema, taking into account the person's preferences) or o consider adding an oral aminosalicylateb to a topical aminosalicylate or o consider an oral aminosalicylateb alone, taking into account the person's preferences and explaining that this is not as effective as a topical aminosalicylate alone or combined treatment. • To induce remission in adults with a mild to moderate first presentation or inflammatory exacerbation of left-sided or extensive ulcerative colitis: o offer a high induction dose of an oral aminosalicylate o consider adding a topical aminosalicylate or oral beclometasone dipropionatec, taking into account the person’s preferences. • To induce remission in children and young people with a mild to moderate first presentation or inflammatory exacerbation of left-sided or extensive ulcerative colitis: o offer an oral aminosalicylated a At the time of publication , some topical aminosalicylates did not have a UK marketing authorisation for this indication in children and young people. The prescriber should follow relevant professional guidance, taking full responsibility for the decision. Informed consent should be obtained and documented. See the General Medical Council’s Good
