National Clinical Guideline Centre
KEYWORDS: colitis, ulcerative, ulcerative colitis, clinical, remission, evidence, low, fewer, people, inconsistency, trials, randomised, guideline, quality, weeks


children and young people. The prescriber should follow relevant professional guidance, taking full responsibility for the decision. Informed consent should be obtained and documented. See the General Medical Council’s Good practice in prescribing and managing medicines and devices for further information. b At the time of publication , some oral aminosalicylates did not have a UK marketing authorisation for this indication in children and young people. The prescriber should follow relevant professional guidance, taking full responsibility for the decision. Informed consent should be obtained and documented. See the General Medical Council’s Good practice in prescribing and managing medicines and devices for further information. c At the time of publication , beclometasone dipropionate only has a UK marketing authorisation ‘as add-on therapy to 5-ASA containing drugs in patients who are non-responders to 5-ASA therapy in active phase’. For use outside these licensed indications, the prescriber should follow relevant professional guidance, taking full responsibility for the decision. Informed consent should be obtained and documented. See the General Medical Council’s Good practice in prescribing and managing medicines and devices for further information. d At the time of publication , some oral aminosalicylates did not have a UK marketing authorisation for this indication in children and young people. The prescriber should follow relevant professional guidance, taking full responsibility for the decision. Informed consent should be obtained and documented. See the General Medical Council’s Good practice in prescribing and managing medicines and devices for further information. Dosing requirements for children should be calculated by body weight, as described in the BNF. Ulcerative colitis Guideline summary o consider adding a topical aminosalicylatea or oral beclometasone dipropionatee, taking into account the person’s preferences (and those of their parents or carers as appropriate). Inducing remission: step 2 therapy for acute severe ulcerative colitis • Consider adding intravenous ciclosporinf to intravenous corticosteroids or consider surgery for people: o who have little or no improvement within 72 hours of starting intravenous corticosteroids or o whose symptoms worsen at any time despite corticosteroid treatment. Take into account the person’s preferences when choosing treatment. Monitoring treatment • Ensure that there are documented local safety monitoring policies and procedures (including audit) for adults, children and young people receiving treatment that needs monitoring (aminosalicylates, tacrolimus, ciclosporin, infliximab, azathioprine and mercaptopurine). Nominate a member of staff to act on abnormal results and communicate with GPs and people with ulcerative colitis (and/or their parents or carers
