National Clinical Guideline Centre
KEYWORDS: colitis, ulcerative, ulcerative colitis, clinical, remission, evidence, low, fewer, people, inconsistency, trials, randomised, guideline, quality, weeks


tacrolimus, ciclosporin, infliximab, azathioprine and mercaptopurine). Nominate a member of staff to act on abnormal results and communicate with GPs and people with ulcerative colitis (and/or their parents or carers as appropriate). Assessing likelihood of needing surgery • Assess and document on admission, and then daily, the likelihood of needing surgery for people admitted to hospital with acute severe ulcerative colitis. Information about treatment options for people who are considering surgery gastroenterologist or a nurse specialist) gives the person (and their family members or carers as appropriate) information about all available treatment options, and discusses this with them. Information should include the benefits and risks of the different treatments and the potential consequences of no treatment. or a colorectal surgeon) gives the person (and their family members or carers as appropriate) information about managing the effects on bowel function. This should be specific to the type of surgery performed (ileostomy or ileoanal pouch) and could include the following: o strategies to deal with the impact on their physical, psychological and social wellbeing o where to go for help if symptoms occur o sources of support and advice. Maintaining remission • Consider a once-daily dosing regimen for oral aminosalicylatesg when used for maintaining remission. Take into account the person’s preferences, and explain that once-daily dosing can be more effective, but may result in more side effects. e At the time of publication , beclometasone dipropionate did not have a UK marketing authorisation for this indication in children and young people. The prescriber should follow relevant professional guidance, taking full responsibility for the decision. Informed consent should be obtained and documented. See the General Medical Council’s Good practice in prescribing and managing medicines and devices for further information. f At the time of publication , ciclosporin did not have a UK marketing authorisation for this indication. The prescriber should follow relevant professional guidance, taking full responsibility for the decision. Informed consent should be obtained and documented. See the General Medical Council’s Good practice in prescribing and managing medicines and devices for further information. g At the time of publication , not all oral aminosalicylates had a UK marketing authorisation for once-daily dosing. The prescriber should follow relevant professional guidance, taking full responsibility for the decision. Informed Ulcerative colitis Guideline summary 4.3 Full list of recommendations Adults, children and young people This guideline covers people of all ages with a diagnosis of ulcerative
