National Clinical Guideline Centre
KEYWORDS: colitis, ulcerative, ulcerative colitis, clinical, remission, evidence, low, fewer, people, inconsistency, trials, randomised, guideline, quality, weeks


episode causing wakening) No 0 Yes 10 6. Activity level No limitation of activity 0 Occasional limitation of activity 5 Severe restricted activity 10 Sum of PUCAI (0-85) Subacute The term ‘subacute’ is also used in this guideline to describe ulcerative colitis, but this is not covered by the Truelove and Witts' severity index or the PUCAI. The following definition (based on that in NICE technology appraisal guidance 140) is used: subacute ulcerative colitis is defined as moderately Ulcerative colitis Guideline summary to severely active ulcerative colitis that would normally be managed in an outpatient setting and does not require hospitalisation or the consideration of urgent surgical intervention. Patient information and support 1. Discuss the disease and associated symptoms, treatment options and monitoring: • with the person with ulcerative colitis, and their family members or carers as appropriate and • within the multidisciplinary team (the composition of which should be appropriate for the age of the person) at every opportunity. Apply the principles in Patient experience in adult NHS services (NICE clinical guideline 138). 2. Discuss the possible nature, frequency and severity of side effects of drug treatment for ulcerative colitis with the person, and their family members or carers as appropriate. Refer to Medicines adherence (NICE clinical guideline 76). 3. Give the person, and their family members or carers as appropriate, information about their risk guidelines on: • Colonoscopic surveillance for prevention of colorectal cancer in people with ulcerative colitis, Crohn's disease or adenomas (NICE clinical guideline 118) • Referral for suspected cancer (NICE clinical guideline 27)h. Inducing remission in people with ulcerative colitis Treating mild to moderate ulcerative colitis: step 1 therapy Proctitis and proctosigmoiditis 4. To induce remission in people with a mild to moderate first presentation or inflammatory exacerbation of proctitis or proctosigmoiditis: • offer a topical aminosalicylatei alone (suppository or enema, taking into account the person’s preferences) or • consider adding an oral aminosalicylatej to a topical aminosalicylate or • consider an oral aminosalicylatej alone, taking into account the person’s preferences and explaining that this is not as effective as a topical aminosalicylate alone or combined treatment. 5. To induce remission in people with a mild to moderate first presentation or inflammatory exacerbation of proctitis or proctosigmoiditis who cannot tolerate or who decline aminosalicylates, or in whom aminosalicylates are contraindicated: • offer a topical corticosteroid or • consider oral prednisolonek, taking into account the person’s
