National Clinical Guideline Centre
KEYWORDS: colitis, ulcerative, ulcerative colitis, clinical, remission, evidence, low, fewer, people, inconsistency, trials, randomised, guideline, quality, weeks


or proctosigmoiditis who cannot tolerate or who decline aminosalicylates, or in whom aminosalicylates are contraindicated: • offer a topical corticosteroid or • consider oral prednisolonek, taking into account the person’s preferences. h This guideline is being updated (publication date to be confirmed). i At the time of publication , some topical aminosalicylates did not have a UK marketing authorisation for this indication in children and young people. The prescriber should follow relevant professional guidance, taking full responsibility for the decision. Informed consent should be obtained and documented. See the General Medical Council’s Good practice in prescribing and managing medicines and devices for further information. j At the time of publication , some oral aminosalicylates did not have a UK marketing authorisation for this indication in children and young people. The prescriber should follow relevant professional guidance, taking full responsibility for the decision. Informed consent should be obtained and documented. See the General Medical Council’s Good practice in prescribing and managing medicines and devices for further information. k Refer to the BNF for guidance on stopping oral prednisolone therapy. Ulcerative colitis Guideline summary 6. To induce remission in people with subacute proctitis or proctosigmoiditis, consider oral prednisolonek, taking into account the person’s preferences. Left-sided and extensive ulcerative colitis 7. To induce remission in adults with a mild to moderate first presentation or inflammatory exacerbation of left-sided or extensive ulcerative colitis: • offer a high induction dose of an oral aminosalicylate • consider adding a topical aminosalicylate or oral beclometasone dipropionatel, taking into account the person’s preferences. 8. To induce remission in children and young people with a mild to moderate first presentation or inflammatory exacerbation of left-sided or extensive ulcerative colitis: • offer an oral aminosalicylatem • consider adding a topical aminosalicylaten or oral beclometasone dipropionateo, taking into account the person’s preferences (and those of their parents or carers as appropriate). 9. To induce remission in people with a mild to moderate first presentation or inflammatory exacerbation of left-sided or extensive ulcerative colitis who cannot tolerate or who decline aminosalicylates, in whom aminosalicylates are contraindicated or who have subacute ulcerative colitis, offer oral prednisolonek. Treating mild to moderate ulcerative colitis: step 2 therapy All extents of disease 10. Consider adding oral prednisolonek to aminosalicylate therapy to induce remission in people with mild to moderate ulcerative colitis if there is no improvement within 4 weeks of starting step 1 aminosalicylate therapy or
