National Clinical Guideline Centre
KEYWORDS: colitis, ulcerative, ulcerative colitis, clinical, remission, evidence, low, fewer, people, inconsistency, trials, randomised, guideline, quality, weeks


follow relevant professional guidance, taking full responsibility for the decision. Informed consent should be obtained and documented. See the General Medical Council’s Good practice in prescribing and managing medicines and devices for further information. Ulcerative colitis Guideline summary 12. For guidance on infliximab for treating subacute ulcerative colitis (all extents of disease), refer to Infliximab for subacute manifestations of ulcerative colitis (NICE technology appraisal guidance 140). Treating acute severe ulcerative colitis: all extents of disease The multidisciplinary team 13. For people admitted to hospital with acute severe ulcerative colitis: • ensure that a gastroenterologist and a colorectal surgeon collaborate to provide treatment and management • ensure that the composition of the multidisciplinary team is appropriate for the age of the person • seek advice from a paediatrician with expertise in gastroenterology when treating a child or young person • ensure that the obstetric and gynaecology team is included when treating a pregnant women. Step 1 therapy 14. For people admitted to hospital with acute severe ulcerative colitis (either a first presentation or an inflammatory exacerbation): • offer intravenous corticosteroids to induce remission and • assess the likelihood that the person will need surgery (see recommendation 19). 15. Consider intravenous ciclosporinq or surgery for people: • who cannot tolerate or who decline intravenous corticosteroids or • for whom treatment with intravenous corticosteroids is contraindicated. Take into account the person’s preferences when choosing treatment. Step 2 therapy 16. Consider adding intravenous ciclosporinq to intravenous corticosteroids or consider surgery for people: • who have little or no improvement within 72 hours of starting intravenous corticosteroids or • whose symptoms worsen at any time despite corticosteroid treatment. Take into account the person’s preferences when choosing treatment. 17. For guidance on infliximab for treating acute severe ulcerative colitis (all extents of disease) in people for whom ciclosporin is contraindicated or clinically inappropriate, refer to Infliximab for acute exacerbations of ulcerative colitis (NICE technology appraisal guidance 163). Monitoring treatment 18. Ensure that there are documented local safety monitoring policies and procedures (including audit) for adults, children and young people receiving treatment that needs monitoring (aminosalicylates, tacrolimus, ciclosporin, infliximab, azathioprine and mercaptopurine). q At the time of publication , ciclosporin did not have a UK marketing authorisation for this indication. The prescriber should follow relevant professional guidance, taking full responsibility for the decision. Informed consent should be obtained and documented. See the General Medical Council’s Good practice
