National Clinical Guideline Centre
KEYWORDS: colitis, ulcerative, ulcerative colitis, clinical, remission, evidence, low, fewer, people, inconsistency, trials, randomised, guideline, quality, weeks


for this indication. The prescriber should follow relevant professional guidance, taking full responsibility for the decision. Informed consent should be obtained and documented. See the General Medical Council’s Good practice in prescribing and managing medicines and devices for further information. Ulcerative colitis Guideline summary Nominate a member of staff to act on abnormal results and communicate with GPs and people with ulcerative colitis (and/or their parents or carers as appropriate). Assessing likelihood of needing surgery 19. Assess and document on admission, and then daily, the likelihood of needing surgery for people admitted to hospital with acute severe ulcerative colitis. 20. Be aware that there may be an increased likelihood of needing surgery for people with any of the following: • stool frequency more than 8 per day • pyrexia • tachycardia • an abdominal X-ray showing colonic dilatation • low albumin, low haemoglobin, high platelet count or C-reactive protein (CRP) above 45 mg/litre (bear in mind that normal values may be different in pregnant women). Information about treatment options for people who are considering surgery These recommendations apply to anyone with ulcerative colitis considering elective surgery. The principles can also be applied to people requiring emergency surgery. Information when considering surgery as a gastroenterologist or a nurse specialist) gives the person (and their family members or carers as appropriate) information about all available treatment options, and discusses this with them. Information should include the benefits and risks of the different treatments and the potential consequences of no treatment. 22. Ensure that the person (and their family members or carers as appropriate) has sufficient time and opportunities to think about the options and the implications of the different treatments. 23. Ensure that a colorectal surgeon gives any person who is considering surgery (and their family members or carers as appropriate) specific information about what they can expect in the short and long term after surgery, and discusses this with them. bowel disease nurse specialist or a stoma nurse) gives any person who is considering surgery (and their family members or carers as appropriate) information about: • diet • sensitive topics such as sexual function • effects on lifestyle • psychological wellbeing • the type of surgery, the possibility of needing a stoma and stoma care. 25. Ensure that a specialist who is knowledgeable about stomas (such as a stoma nurse or a colorectal surgeon) gives any person who is having surgery
