National Clinical Guideline Centre
KEYWORDS: colitis, ulcerative, ulcerative colitis, clinical, remission, evidence, low, fewer, people, inconsistency, trials, randomised, guideline, quality, weeks


stoma and stoma care. 25. Ensure that a specialist who is knowledgeable about stomas (such as a stoma nurse or a colorectal surgeon) gives any person who is having surgery (and their family members or carers as appropriate) specific information about the siting, care and management of stomas. Information after surgery nurse or a colorectal surgeon) gives the person (and their family members or carers as appropriate) information about managing the effects on bowel function. This should be Ulcerative colitis Guideline summary specific to the type of surgery performed (ileostomy or ileoanal pouch) and could include the following: • strategies to deal with the impact on their physical, psychological and social wellbeing • where to go for help if symptoms occur • sources of support and advice. Maintaining remission in people with ulcerative colitis Proctitis and proctosigmoiditis 27. To maintain remission after a mild to moderate inflammatory exacerbation of proctitis or proctosigmoiditis, consider the following options, taking into account the person’s preferences: • a topical aminosalicylater alone (daily or intermittent) or • an oral aminosalicylates plus a topical aminosalicylater (daily or intermittent) or • an oral aminosalicylates alone, explaining that this may not be as effective as combined treatment or an intermittent topical aminosalicylate alone. Left-sided and extensive ulcerative colitis 28. To maintain remission in adults after a mild to moderate inflammatory exacerbation of left- sided or extensive ulcerative colitis: • offer a low maintenance dose of an oral aminosalicylate • when deciding which oral aminosalicylate to use, take into account the person's preferences, side effects and cost. 29. To maintain remission in children and young people after a mild to moderate inflammatory exacerbation of left-sided or extensive ulcerative colitis: • offer an oral aminosalicylatet • when deciding which oral aminosalicylate to use, take into account the person's preferences (and those of their parents or carers as appropriate), side effects and cost. All extents of disease 30. Consider oral azathioprineu or oral mercaptopurineu to maintain remission: • after two or more inflammatory exacerbations in 12 months that require treatment with systemic corticosteroids or • if remission is not maintained by aminosalicylates. r At the time of publication , some topical aminosalicylates did not have a UK marketing authorisation for this indication in children and young people. The prescriber should follow relevant professional guidance, taking full responsibility for the decision. Informed consent should be obtained anddocumented. See the General Medical Council’s
