National Clinical Guideline Centre
KEYWORDS: colitis, ulcerative, ulcerative colitis, clinical, remission, evidence, low, fewer, people, inconsistency, trials, randomised, guideline, quality, weeks


indication in children and young people. The prescriber should follow relevant professional guidance, taking full responsibility for the decision. Informed consent should be obtained anddocumented. See the General Medical Council’s Good practice in prescribing and managing medicines and devices for further information. s At the time of publication , some oral aminosalicylates did not have a UK marketing authorisation for this indication in children and young people. The prescriber should follow relevant professional guidance, taking full responsibility for the decision. Informed consent should be obtained and documented. See the General Medical Council’s Good practice in prescribing and managing medicines and devices for further information. t At the time of publication , some oral aminosalicylates did not have a UK marketing authorisation for this indication in children and young people. The prescriber should follow relevant professional guidance, taking full responsibility for the decision. Informed consent should be obtained and documented. See the General Medical Council’s Good practice in prescribing and managing medicines and devices for further information. Dosing requirements for children should be calculated by body weight, as described in the BNF. did not have a UK marketing authorisation for this indication. The prescriber should follow relevant professional guidance, taking full responsibility for the decision. Informed consent should be obtained and documented. See the General Medical Council’s Good practice in prescribing and managing medicines and devices for further information. Ulcerative colitis Guideline summary 31. To maintain remission after a single episode of acute severe ulcerative colitis: • consider oral azathioprineu or oral mercaptopurineu • consider oral aminosalicylates in people who cannot tolerate or who decline azathioprine and/or mercaptopurine, or in whom azathioprine and/or mercaptopurine are contraindicated. Dosing regimen for oral aminosalicylates 32. Consider a once-daily dosing regimen for oral aminosalicylatesv when used for maintaining remission. Take into account the person’s preferences, and explain that once-daily dosing can be more effective, but may result in more side effects. Pregnant women 33. When caring for a pregnant woman with ulcerative colitis: • Ensure effective communication and information-sharing across specialties (for example, primary care, obstetrics and gynaecology, and gastroenterology). • Give her information about the potential risks and benefits of medical treatment to induce or maintain remission and of no treatment, and discuss this with her. Include information relevant to a potential admission for an acute severe inflammatory exacerbation. Monitoring Monitoring bone health Adults 34. For recommendations on assessing the risk of fragility fracture
