National Clinical Guideline Centre
KEYWORDS: colitis, ulcerative, ulcerative colitis, clinical, remission, evidence, low, fewer, people, inconsistency, trials, randomised, guideline, quality, weeks


with her. Include information relevant to a potential admission for an acute severe inflammatory exacerbation. Monitoring Monitoring bone health Adults 34. For recommendations on assessing the risk of fragility fracture in adults, refer to Osteoporosis: assessing the risk of fragility fracture (NICE clinical guideline 146). Children and young people 35. Consider monitoring bone health in children and young people with ulcerative colitis in the following circumstances: • during chronic active disease • after treatment with systemic corticosteroids • after recurrent active disease. Monitoring growth and pubertal development in children and young people 36. Monitor the height and body weight of children and young people with ulcerative colitis against expected values on centile charts (and/or z scores) at the following intervals according to disease activity: • every 3–6 months: o if they have an inflammatory exacerbation and are approaching or undergoing puberty or o if there is chronic active disease or o if they are being treated with systemic corticosteroids • every 6 months during pubertal growth if the disease is inactive • every 12 months if none of the criteria above are met. v At the time of publication , not all oral aminosalicylates had a UK marketing authorisation for once-daily dosing. The prescriber should follow relevant professional guidance, taking full responsibility for the decision. Informed consent should be obtained and documented. See the General Medical Council’s Good practice in prescribing and managing medicines and devices for further information. Ulcerative colitis Guideline summary 37. Monitor pubertal development in young people with ulcerative colitis using the principles of Tanner staging, by asking screening questions and/or carrying out a formal examination. 38. Consider referral to a secondary care paediatrician for pubertal assessment and investigation of the underlying cause if a young person with ulcerative colitis: • has slow pubertal progress or • has not developed pubertal features appropriate for their age. 39. Monitoring of growth and pubertal development: • can be done in a range of locations (for example, at routine appointments, acute admissions or urgent appointments in primary care, community services or secondary care) • should be carried out by appropriately trained healthcare professionals as part of the overall clinical assessment (including disease activity) to help inform the need for timely investigation, referral and/or interventions, particularly during pubertal growth. If the young person prefers self-assessment for monitoring pubertal development, this should be facilitated where possible and they should be instructed on
