National Clinical Guideline Centre
KEYWORDS: colitis, ulcerative, ulcerative colitis, clinical, remission, evidence, low, fewer, people, inconsistency, trials, randomised, guideline, quality, weeks


investigation, referral and/or interventions, particularly during pubertal growth. If the young person prefers self-assessment for monitoring pubertal development, this should be facilitated where possible and they should be instructed on how to do this. 40. Ensure that relevant information about monitoring of growth and pubertal development and about disease activity is shared across services (for example, community, primary, secondary and specialist services). Apply the principles in Patient experience in adult NHS services (NICE clinical guideline 138) in relation to continuity of care. 4.4 Key research recommendations 1. What is the clinical and cost effectiveness of prednisolone compared with aminosalicylates for the induction of remission for people with moderate ulcerative colitis? 2. What is the clinical and cost effectiveness of prednisolone plus an aminosalicylate compared with beclometasone plus an aminosalicylate for induction of remission for people with moderate ulcerative colitis? 3. What are the benefits, risks and cost effectiveness of methotrexate, ciclosporin, tacrolimus, adalimumab and infliximab compared with each other and with placebo for induction of remission for people with subacute ulcerative colitis that is refractory to systemic corticosteroids? 4. What is the clinical and cost effectiveness of regular maintenance treatment compared with no regular treatment (but rapid standard treatment if a relapse occurs) in specific populations with mild to moderate ulcerative colitis? 5. To develop and validate a risk tool that predicts the likelihood of needing surgery for adults admitted to hospital with acute severe ulcerative colitis. Ulcerative colitis Inducing remission in people with ulcerative colitis 5 Inducing remission in people with ulcerative colitis Adults, children and young people This guideline covers people of all ages with a diagnosis of ulcerative colitis. All recommendations relate to adults, children and young people unless specified otherwise. These terms are defined as follows: • adults: 18 years or older • children: 11 years or younger • young people: 12 to 17 years. Severity of ulcerative colitis Mild, moderate and severe In this guideline, the categories of mild, moderate and severe are used to describe ulcerative colitis: • In adults these categories are based on the Truelove and Witts’ severity index (see Table 8). This table is adapted from the Truelove and Witts’ criteria.216 • In children and young people these categories are based on the Paediatric Ulcerative Colitis Activity Index (PUCAI) (see Table 9).218 Table 8: Truelove and Witts’ severity index Mild Moderate Severe Bowel movements Fewer than 4 4–6 6 or more
