National Clinical Guideline Centre
KEYWORDS: colitis, ulcerative, ulcerative colitis, clinical, remission, evidence, low, fewer, people, inconsistency, trials, randomised, guideline, quality, weeks


on the Paediatric Ulcerative Colitis Activity Index (PUCAI) (see Table 9).218 Table 8: Truelove and Witts’ severity index Mild Moderate Severe Bowel movements Fewer than 4 4–6 6 or more plus at least (no. per day) one of the features of systemic upset, (marked with * below) Blood in stools No more than small Between mild and Visible blood amounts of blood severe Pyrexia (temperature No No Yes greater than 37.8oC) * Pulse rate greater No No Yes than 90 bpm * Anaemia * No No Yes Erythrocyte 30 or below 30 or below Above 30 sedimentation rate (mm/hr) * Table 9: Paediatric Ulcerative Colitis Activity Index (PUCAI) Disease severity is defined by the following scores: • severe: 65 or above Ulcerative colitis Inducing remission in people with ulcerative colitis • moderate: 35–64 • mild: 10–34 • remission (disease not active): below 10. Item Points 1. Abdominal pain No pain 0 Pain can be ignored 5 Pain cannot be ignored 10 2. Rectal bleeding None 0 Small amount only, in less than 50% of stools 10 Small amount with most stools 20 Large amount (50% of the stool content) 30 3. Stool consistency of most stools Formed 0 Partially formed 5 Completely unformed 10 4. Number of stools per 24 hours 0-2 0 3-5 5 6-8 10 >8 15 5. Nocturnal stools (any episode causing wakening) No 0 Yes 10 6. Activity level No limitation of activity 0 Occasional limitation of activity 5 Severe restricted activity 10 Sum of PUCAI (0-85) Subacute The term ‘subacute’ is also used in this guideline to describe ulcerative colitis, but this is not covered by the Truelove and Witts' severity index or the PUCAI. The following definition (based on that in NICE technology appraisal guidance 140) is used: subacute ulcerative colitis is defined as moderately Ulcerative colitis Inducing remission in people with ulcerative colitis to severely active ulcerative colitis that would normally be managed in an outpatient setting and does not require hospitalisation or the consideration of urgent surgical intervention. 5.1 Clinical introduction: Pharmacological treatment Ulcerative colitis is a chronic inflammatory disease of the rectum and colon characterised by mucosal inflammation, resulting in symptoms of diarrhoea (both soft stool and an increased frequency of defaecation), rectal bleeding, an urgent call to defaecation and abdominal pain. The extent of colon and rectum affected by inflammation may vary. Inflammation affecting the rectum alone may be referred
