National Clinical Guideline Centre
KEYWORDS: colitis, ulcerative, ulcerative colitis, clinical, remission, evidence, low, fewer, people, inconsistency, trials, randomised, guideline, quality, weeks


defaecation), rectal bleeding, an urgent call to defaecation and abdominal pain. The extent of colon and rectum affected by inflammation may vary. Inflammation affecting the rectum alone may be referred to as proctitis; proctosigmoiditis if the rectum and sigmoid colon are affected; left-sided colitis if the inflammation extends proximally from the rectum to no further than the splenic flexure; sub-total colitis if the inflammation extends beyond the splenic flexure, but does not affect the whole colon; total colitis, or pan-colitis, if the entire colon is affected. Extensive colitis refers to colitis that is greater than left-sided. The natural course of ulcerative colitis is characterised by periods where symptoms are present, from mild to severe. The most severe form was defined by Truelove and Witts as those with a high stool frequency associated with systemic features including fever, tachycardia, anaemia or a raised erythrocyte sedimentation rate (ESR). Mild attacks are defined as those where the stool frequency is less than four times per day, with only small amounts of blood. Moderate attacks are those where the severity is between mild and severe. Treatment of these exacerbations – induction of remission – may involve a range of different drug types, administered by different routes and at different doses. There are a number of drug factors to consider when choosing treatment. These include: • choice of drug • site and mechanism of drug release – for orally administered 5-aminosalicylic acid preparations • route of administration – which may include combinations of different routes (eg oral and rectal administration) • dose. There are also patient-related factors which may influence the choice of treatment for induction of remission, which would include: • clinical severity of the exacerbation • extent of inflammation • patient preference • dosing regimens, for example, those which may enhance adherence to treatment. The most widely used drugs in this situation are corticosteroids and aminosalicylate preparations of which 5-aminosalicylic acid is the active moiety. Depending on the preparation, 5-aminosalicylic acid is released through differing mechanisms including loss of integrity of an outer coating or cleavage of a diazo bond from a pro-drug. The aim of this release, in people with ulcerative colitis, is to deliver adequate levels of 5-aminosalicylic acid to the colon and rectum. Systemically bioavailable corticosteroids, such as prednisolone, have been widely used, but concern remains about their side- effects. Orally administered beclometasone has topical mucosal activity, but is extensively
