National Clinical Guideline Centre
KEYWORDS: colitis, ulcerative, ulcerative colitis, clinical, remission, evidence, low, fewer, people, inconsistency, trials, randomised, guideline, quality, weeks


colon and rectum. Systemically bioavailable corticosteroids, such as prednisolone, have been widely used, but concern remains about their side- effects. Orally administered beclometasone has topical mucosal activity, but is extensively metabolised with less systemic bioavailability. Immunomodulator drugs (azathioprine, mercaptopurine, ciclosporin, tacrolimus and methotrexate) are also used. There is considerable variation and debate about appropriate outcome measures in studies examining induction of remission. A wide range of different definitions and end-points were used in studies, and in order to ensure that important studies were not excluded from the review, the GDG Ulcerative colitis Inducing remission in people with ulcerative colitis improvement and not remission as an end-point, and it was felt important, particularly by patient members of the GDG, that this was included as a critical outcome for consideration by the GDG. Acute severe ulcerative colitis is regarded as a medical emergency and requires hospital admission for intravenous corticosteroids and prophylaxis against venous thromboembolism. Careful monitoring is then required to ensure that an adequate response occurs or that there is timely, further intervention, such as ciclosporin, anti-TNF agents or the consideration of emergency surgery. The use of anti-TNF agents is covered by ‘Infliximab for the treatment of acute exacerbations of ulcerative colitis’ NICE technology appraisal guidance 163. Evidence relating to the use of systemic corticosteroids and ciclosporin was reviewed in this chapter. Parameters that would help in assessing response, and in selecting patients at higher risk of colectomy (and therefore who may benefit from escalation of medical therapy), are examined in detail in section 5.48. 5.2 Review question: In adults, children and young people with mild to effectiveness of corticosteroids, aminosalicylates and immunomodulators (mercaptopurine, azathioprine, methotrexate and tacrolimus) for the induction of remission compared to themselves (different preparations and doses), each other, combinations of preparations (oral and topical) and placebo? For full details see review protocol in Appendix C. A matrix showing where evidence was identified is given in Table 10. A cross in the box indicates evidence was found and the evidence has been reviewed in this chapter an empty box indicates no evidence was found. National Clinical Guideline Centre, 2013. Inducing remission in people with ulcerative colitis Ulcerative colitis Table 10: Induction of remission matrix of comparisons Topical Prednisolone corticosteroids Hydrocortisone Budesonide X X X Topical Mesalazine* X X X X aminosalicylates Sulphasalazine Oral Prednisolone corticosteroids Budesonide Beclometasone Oral Mesalazine* X X X X aminosalicylates Olsalazine X Balsalazide X
