National Clinical Guideline Centre
KEYWORDS: colitis, ulcerative, ulcerative colitis, clinical, remission, evidence, low, fewer, people, inconsistency, trials, randomised, guideline, quality, weeks


Table 52: Economic evidence profile: oral aminosalicylates Incremental Incremental Cost- Study Limitations Applicability Other comments cost effects effectiveness Uncertainty 2.4g/day Mesalazine (Mezavant XL) versus 2.4g/day Mesalazine (Asacol) Brereton25 Potentially Directly Patients received an increased £8 0.011 QALYs £749 per Probabilistic sensitivity analysis serious applicable dose of mesalazine (2.4g to 4.8g) QALY gained showed that Mezavant XL limitations(a) if they failed to respond to 1st mesalazine dominated mesalazine line mesalazine treatment. on 62% of the occasions and the The effect of adherence to probability of being cost-effective maintenance therapy was at a threshold of £20,000 was captured. 74%. High dose (4.8g/day) versus standard dose (2.4g/day) Mesalazine (Asacol) Buckland26 Minor Directly Relative treatment effect was -£92 0.0016 High dose The results were sensitive to the limitations applicable obtained from two studies. QALYs dominates duration of 1st line mesalazine (less costly treatment. and more The probability of HD mesalazine effective) being cost-effective at a threshold of £30,000/QALY was 72%. 6.75g/day Balsalazide versus 2.4g-4.8g/day Mesalazine delayed tablets Mackowiak132 Potentially Partially Relative treatment effect was -£1,104(d) 26 more Balsalazide The sensitivity analysis methods serious applicable(c) obtained from one study. days dominates not clearly defined however limitations(b) without (less total balsalazide is reported to be the symptoms costs per cost-effective option. or steroids symptom or steroid free day) (a) A 5 year time horizon was modelled in the base case analysis; consequently, relapse and maintenance therapy were included. (b) Cost sources not clearly reported and unclear methodology regarding sensitivity analysis. (c) The cost-effectiveness model was designed to reflect the management of ulceraitve colitis in the US therefore resource use may not be applicable to the UK health system.The value of health effects were not expressed in terms of quality-adjusted life years. (d) Costs were converted from US dollars to UK pounds using Purchasing Power Parities161 Ulcerative colitis Inducing remission in people with ulcerative colitis New cost-effectiveness analysis These studies help to highlight the cost-effectiveness of specific aminosalicylates (ASAs) or ASA doses. However, other ASAs are available which have not been addressed. In addition, the studies have modelled different treatment sequences after failure of first line treatment. This makes comparability across the studies difficult. The GDG considered that there are other clinically relevant sequences that have not been captured and hence this topic was considered to be a top priority for original economic analysis. The original economic analysis addressed the most cost-effective treatment sequence for induction of
