National Clinical Guideline Centre
KEYWORDS: colitis, ulcerative, ulcerative colitis, clinical, remission, evidence, low, fewer, people, inconsistency, trials, randomised, guideline, quality, weeks


yields better outcomes. Ulcerative colitis Inducing remission in people with ulcerative colitis 5.19 Clinical evidence: Oral corticosteroids A literature search identified 5 studies which looked at the use of oral corticosteroids compared to GRADE evidence profile below. See also the study selection flow chart in Appendix E, forest plots in Appendix H, study evidence tables in Appendix G and exclusion list in Appendix F. The reviews in the following section are oral corticosteroids versus placebo (section 5.20.1) and oral corticosteroids versus oral corticosteroids comparisons (dose, regimen and preparation). “Oral budesonide for induction of remission in ulcerative colitis” was published by the Cochrane collaboration in 2010199. The review included 3 studies which compared budesonide to prednisolone, mesalamine and placebo. The Cochrane review concluded that there was no evidence to recommend the clinical use of oral budesonide for the induction of remission in active colitis. The Cochrane review was excluded as it included drugs that are not currently available in the UK; budesonide MMX and did not specify the severity of disease. The following studies included in the Cochrane review were excluded from the Ulcerative Colitis review for the following reason: • LOFTBERG1996; DHAENS2010: budesonide preparation is not available in the UK. National Clinical Guideline Centre, 2013. Inducing remission in people with ulcerative colitis Ulcerative colitis 5.20 Evidence profile 5.20.1 Oral corticosteroids versus placebo Table 53: Oral corticosteroids versus placebo Quality assessment No of patients Effect Qualit Importance y No of Risk of Imprecisio Other Placeb Relative Design Inconsistency Indirectness Oral corticosteroids Absolute studies bias n considerations o (95% CI) Quality of Life 0 No evidence none - - - - CRITICAL available Clinical remission 0 No evidence none - - - - CRITICAL available Clinical improvement 0 No evidence none - - - - CRITICAL available Clinical and endoscopic remission up to 4 weeks 1 randomised trials serious1 no serious no serious serious2 none 9/19 3/18 RR 2.84 (0.91 307 more per 1000 (from 15 ⊕⊕ΟΟ IMPORTAN inconsistency indirectness (47.4%) (16.7% to 8.86) fewer to 1000 more) LOW T ) 1 Limitations comprised of unclear randomisation and allocation concealment. 2 Crosses the 1.25 relative risk (RR) MID. Table 54: Oral corticosteroids: dose comparison Quality assessment No of patients Effect Quality Importance National Clinical Guideline Centre, 2013. Inducing remission in people with ulcerative colitis Ulcerative colitis No of Risk of Other Higher Relative Design Inconsistency Indirectness Imprecision Lower dose Absolute studies bias
