National Clinical Guideline Centre
KEYWORDS: colitis, ulcerative, ulcerative colitis, clinical, remission, evidence, low, fewer, people, inconsistency, trials, randomised, guideline, quality, weeks


N=127].There may be no clinically important difference in serious adverse events rates between oral ASAs and oral ASA & topical ASAs [very low quality evidence, 1 study, N=127]. 5.30.1.3 Oral plus topical aminosalicylates: dose comparison Important outcome There may be no clinically important difference in colectomy rates in oral ASA and 1g versus 2g or 4g of topical ASAs, [very low quality evidence, 1 study, N=19]. Oral ASA and 2g of topical ASA may have a clinically lower rate of colectomies compared to oral ASA & 4g of topical ASA, the direction of the estimate of effect, the direction of the estimate of effect does not favour either dose [ very low quality evidence,1 study, N=19]. 5.30.2 Economic evidence statements One directly applicable economic study with minor limitations found that in comparison to oral mesalazine (4g/day), treatment with oral mesalazine (4g/day) and topical mesalazine (1g/100ml) costs less and yields better outcomes. 5.31 Clinical evidence: Topical corticosteroids versus oral corticosteroids No relevant clinical studies comparing oral steroids with topical steroids or any other combination of oral/topical steroids and oral aminosalicylates were identified. 5.32 Economic evidence Published literature No relevant economic evaluations were identified. New cost-effectiveness analysis New analysis was not prioritised for this area. 5.33 Evidence statements 5.33.1 Clinical evidence statements No relevant clinical studies were identified. Ulcerative colitis Inducing remission in people with ulcerative colitis 5.33.2 Economic evidence statements No relevant economic evaluations were identified. 5.34 Network meta-analysis Two network meta-analyses (NMAs) were performed; a baseline NMA which compared all treatments and a combined NMA which addressed the relationship between low and high doses of aminosalicylates. The combined NMA informed the inputs inthe original health economic models which are described in Appendix L. For detailed explanation on methodology and results of the NMAs refer to Appendix I. 5.34.1 Comparison of the induction of remission treatments (baseline NMA) A network meta-analysis (NMA) was performed to compare the treatments for the induction of remission in people with mild to moderate left-sided/extensive ulcerative colitis. The analyses were based on a total of 28 studies. These studies formed three networks of evidence for the outcomes: were considered by the GDG as the most important clinical outcomes. Withdrawals due to adverse events rather than drug related adverse events were chosen due to unclear reporting in the trials. good approximate measure for this outcome. The interventions included in each network are shown in Table 65. For
