National Clinical Guideline Centre
KEYWORDS: colitis, ulcerative, ulcerative colitis, clinical, remission, evidence, low, fewer, people, inconsistency, trials, randomised, guideline, quality, weeks


related adverse events were chosen due to unclear reporting in the trials. good approximate measure for this outcome. The interventions included in each network are shown in Table 65. For more details on the network please see appendix I. Table 65: Induction of remission treatments included in the network meta-analyses of people with mild to moderate left sided and extensive ulcerative colitis Baseline Network Meta-Analysis Network 3: Withdrawals due to Network 1: Clinical remission Network 2: Clinical improvement adverse events Placebo Placebo Placebo Low dose mesalazine Low dose mesalazine Low dose mesalazine High dose mesalazine High dose mesalazine High dose mesalazine High dose olsalazine Low dose SASP Low dose SASP Oral prednisolone High dose olsalazine High dose olsalazine Balsalazide Balsalazide Balsalazide Oral beclometasone Oral beclometasone Oral beclometasone Mesalazine & beclometasone (oral) Mesalazine & beclometasone (oral) Mesalazine & beclometasone (oral) Oral and topical mesalazine Oral and topical mesalazine Oral and topical mesalazine Low dose SASP 5.34.2 Evidence summary Clinical remission A NMA of 20 studies comparing 10 treatments suggested that oral mesalazine and beclometasone has the highest probability of being the best treatment (67%), oral prednisolone the second (24%) and oral and topical mesalazine the third (7%). The other treatments (placebo, low dose mesalazine, high dose mesalazine, high dose olsalazine, balsalazide, beclometasone, low dose sulphasalazine) all had a less than 1% probability of being the best treatment. Ulcerative colitis Inducing remission in people with ulcerative colitis Clinical improvement A NMA of 23 studies comparing 9 treatments suggested that oral mesalazine and beclometasone has the highest probability of being the best treatment (63%), oral and topical mesalazine the second (36%) and high dose olsalazine the third (1%). The other treatments (placebo, low dose mesalazine, high dose mesalazine, low dose sulphasalazine, balsalazide, and beclometasone) all had a less than 1% probability of being the best treatment. Withdrawal from adverse events A NMA of 24 studies comparing 9 treatments suggested that oral mesalazine and beclometasone has the highest probability of being the best treatment (63%) for the fewest withdrawals due to adverse events, balsalazide the second (12%), oral beclometasone the third (6%), oral and topical mesalazine the fourth (5%), high dose mesalazine the fifth (2%), and low dose sulphasalazine the sixth (1%). The other treatments (placebo, low dose mesalazine, high dose olsalazine) all had a less than 1% probability of being the best treatment. 5.34.3 Comparison of the induction of remission treatments with the
