National Clinical Guideline Centre
KEYWORDS: colitis, ulcerative, ulcerative colitis, clinical, remission, evidence, low, fewer, people, inconsistency, trials, randomised, guideline, quality, weeks


treatments (placebo, low dose mesalazine, high dose olsalazine) all had a less than 1% probability of being the best treatment. 5.34.3 Comparison of the induction of remission treatments with the aminosalicylates combined into low and high doses (combined NMA) A NMA combining the aminosalicylates was performed following the results of the baseline NMA. This was done to look at the relationship between low and high dose aminosalicylates, beclometasone dipropionate and the combination treatments (i.e. oral mesalazine and oral beclometasone dipropionate, oral mesalazine and topical mesalazine). The analysis informed the inputs into the original health economic model. The analyses were based on a total of 17 studies. These studies formed two networks of evidence for the two outcomes: clinical remission and number of withdrawals. The outcomes used in the health than drug related adverse events were chosen due to unclear reporting in the trials. Although this approximate measure for this outcome. The interventions included in each network are shown in Table 66. For more details on the network please see Appendix I. Table 66: Induction of remission treatments (combined aminosalicylates) included in the network meta-analyses of people with mild to moderate left sided and extensive ulcerative colitis Combined Network Meta-Analysis Network 1: Clinical remission Network 2: Withdrawals due to adverse events Placebo Placebo Low dose ASA Low dose ASA High dose ASA High dose ASA Oral prednisolone Oral beclometasone Oral beclometasone Mesalazine & beclometasone (oral) Mesalazine & beclometasone (oral) Oral and topical mesalazine Oral and topical mesalazine Ulcerative colitis Inducing remission in people with ulcerative colitis 5.34.4 Evidence summary Clinical remission A NMA of 17 studies comparing 7 treatments suggested that oral mesalazine and beclometasone has the highest probability of being the best treatment (64%), oral prednisolone the second (28%) and oral and topical mesalazine the third (7%). The other treatments (placebo, low dose mesalazine, high dose mesalazine, beclometasone, low dose sulphasalazine) all had a less than 1% probability of being the best treatment. Withdrawal from adverse events A NMA of 19 studies comparing 6 treatments suggested that oral mesalazine and beclometasone has the highest probability of being the best treatment (80%) for the fewest withdrawals due to adverse events, oral and topical mesalazine the second (7%), high dose ASA (6%) joint third with oral beclometasone (6%). Placebo had less than 1% probability of being the best treatment. 5.35 Health economic induction model summary 5.35.1 Original economic analysis The GDG considered
