National Clinical Guideline Centre
KEYWORDS: colitis, ulcerative, ulcerative colitis, clinical, remission, evidence, low, fewer, people, inconsistency, trials, randomised, guideline, quality, weeks


joint third with oral beclometasone (6%). Placebo had less than 1% probability of being the best treatment. 5.35 Health economic induction model summary 5.35.1 Original economic analysis The GDG considered studies25,26,132 published on cost-effectiveness of aminosalicylates. They noted that these studies help to highlight the cost-effectiveness of specific aminosalicylates (ASAs) or ASA doses. However, other ASAs are available which have not been addressed. In addition, the studies modelled different treatment sequences after failure of first line treatment. The GDG considered that there are other clinically relevant sequences that were captured and hence this topic was considered to be a top priority for original economic analysis. The original economic model sought to address the various treatment options available for the induction of remission in people with mild to moderate left sided or extensive ulcerative colitis. A summary of the analysis is presented below and a full description can be found in Appendix L. 5.35.2 Methods 5.35.2.1 Model overview A cost-utility analysis was undertaken in Microsoft Excel® where costs and quality-adjusted life years (QALYs) were considered from a UK NHS and personal social services (PSS) perspective. A decision tree was constructed in order to estimate the costs and QALYs associated with different treatment strategies for the induction of treatment. Uncertainty was explored through probabilistic and uni- variate sensitivity analyses. The time horizon considered in the base case model was 28 weeks. This was set to reflect the longest treatment sequence in the model which consists of five lines of treatment. 5.35.2.2 Population The population entering the model were adults with active mild to moderate left sided or extensive Left sided or extensive disease was defined as inflammation greater than 30cm (see Appendix C). Patients failing to respond to prednisolone were assumed to have progressed to more severe disease. The treatment sequence for severe disease was not explicitly modelled as this was beyond the scope of this question. Ulcerative colitis Inducing remission in people with ulcerative colitis 5.35.2.3 Comparators The comparators examined in the model are treatment sequences chosen by the GDG.The GDG considered the suitability of the drugs for use in patients with mild to moderate left sided or extensive ulcerative colitis and current clinical practice when compiling the treatment sequences. Based on the studies reviewed in the induction of remission chapter, two network meta-analyses (NMAs) were conducted addressing the treatments for the induction of remission (Appendix I). A improvement and withdrawals
