National Clinical Guideline Centre
KEYWORDS: colitis, ulcerative, ulcerative colitis, clinical, remission, evidence, low, fewer, people, inconsistency, trials, randomised, guideline, quality, weeks


on the studies reviewed in the induction of remission chapter, two network meta-analyses (NMAs) were conducted addressing the treatments for the induction of remission (Appendix I). A improvement and withdrawals due to adverse events. The NMA showed that there was no clinically significant difference between individual oral ASAs in terms of their effectiveness in inducing clinical remission. However, a dose effect observed. A second NMA was conducted (combined NMA) which pooled trials reporting low dose oral ASAs into one treatment group, and trials reporting high dose oral ASAs into another treatment group. The results of the combined NMA informed the clinical inputs in this economic analysis. In the analysis, ten treatment strategies were compared and are summarised in Table 67. Table 67: Treatment strategies in the model Strategy 1st line 2nd line 3rd line 4th line 5th line high dose oral ASA + 1 High dose oral ASA topical ASA prednisolone inpatient 2 High dose oral ASA prednisolone inpatient 3 Low dose oral ASA prednisolone inpatient high dose oral ASA + 4 Low dose oral ASA topical ASA prednisolone inpatient 5 Low dose oral ASA high dose oral ASA prednisolone inpatient high dose oral + 6 Low dose oral ASA high dose oral ASA topical ASA prednisolone inpatient High dose oral ASA 7 + topical ASA prednisolone inpatient High dose oral ASA + oral 8 beclometasone prednisolone inpatient high dose oral ASA + 9 Low dose oral ASA oral beclometasone prednisolone inpatient high dose oral ASA + 10 High dose oral ASA oral beclometasone prednisolone inpatient 5.35.2.4 Model structure A decision tree was constructed in which the QALY gain is driven by the proportion of people in whom remission is successfully induced. Author reported definitions of remission were used in line with the clinical review. Remission was conditional on not having withdrawn from therapy due to adverse events. People who withdrew or failed to respond to therapy at the end of a course of treatment moved on to the next treatment in the sequence. The GDG were aware that specific adverse events could be attributed to certain drugs included in the model. They however concluded that the reporting of adverse events in the RCTs was not sufficient to model specific treatment related adverse events. Withdrawal from treatment was therefore used as a proxy for adverse events. This implies that the costs and dis-utilities pertaining to adverse events for each treatment
