National Clinical Guideline Centre
KEYWORDS: colitis, ulcerative, ulcerative colitis, clinical, remission, evidence, low, fewer, people, inconsistency, trials, randomised, guideline, quality, weeks


treatment related adverse events. Withdrawal from treatment was therefore used as a proxy for adverse events. This implies that the costs and dis-utilities pertaining to adverse events for each treatment would be captured by the cost of treating withdrawals and the associated utility loss from remaining in active disease.To capture the benefits of inducing remission early, patients in whom remission is induced on the first line of treatment will gain more QALYs than those who respond on subsequent lines of treatment. The structure of the model is shown in Figure 3. Ulcerative colitis Inducing remission in people with ulcerative colitis Figure 3: Model structure Remission, conditional on non-withdrawal 1stline Remission, treatment conditional on non-withdrawal Remission, 2ndline conditional on treatment non-withdrawal 3rd line treatment 4th line treatment 5.35.2.5 Model inputs The relative effects of treatments on the baseline transition probabilities were derived from clinical evidence identified in the systematic review undertaken for the guideline, the results of the NMA and supplemented by additional data sources as required. Health utility data were obtained from the literature. Cost inputs were obtained from recognized national sources such as the drug tariff, NHS reference costs and Personal Social Services Research Unit (PSSRU) publications. All inputs were validated by the GDG. To parameterise treatment effects in the model, a network meta-analysis (NMA) based on a conditional logistic regression was carried out. The NMA provided treatment specific odds ratios for withdrawal and remission conditional on not withdrawing. 5.35.2.6 Sensitivity analysis In total, seven uni-variate sensitivity analyses were conducted, whereby, for each analysis one key model input was changed in order to explore the sensitivity of model results to changes in that parameter. One multi-variate sensitivity analysis was conducted deterministically to address the effects of ASA costs on the model results. A probabilistic analysis was carried out whereby distributions were assigned to treatment effects, utilities and, where possible, costs in order to account for the uncertainty in model inputs and capture the effect of this uncertainty on model outputs. 5.35.3 Results 5.35.3.1 Base case The results showed that the cost-effective option is strategy 10 as it yields the highest net monetary benefit (NMB). The strategy comprises of first line treatment with a high dose oral ASA with therapy Ulcerative colitis Inducing remission in people with ulcerative colitis escalated in the following sequence in the event of treatment failure; high dose oral ASA + beclometasone, prednisolone, inpatient drug treatment
