National Clinical Guideline Centre
KEYWORDS: colitis, ulcerative, ulcerative colitis, clinical, remission, evidence, low, fewer, people, inconsistency, trials, randomised, guideline, quality, weeks


and surgery) was the most cost effective strategy (highest NMB) across all the analyses with the exception of SA5. As strategy 8 had only two lines of treatment (one of which Ulcerative colitis Inducing remission in people with ulcerative colitis was the most effective treatment choice), reducing the efficacy of non-1st line treatments had less of an effect on the NMB. Hence in SA5, it was the most cost effective strategy. The results of the multi-variate deterministic analysis showed that the NMB decreased across all strategies as the daily costs of ASAs increased. However, strategy 10 remained the cost-effective strategy irrespective of the daily cost of ASA. 5.35.4 Discussion 5.35.4.1 Limitations and interpretation • Oral ASAs have been grouped into low and high doses. It is plausible that particular brands of ASAs may be slightly more or less efficacious than others but the differences were not considered to be clinically significant based on the NMA results. This uncertainty could mean that the effectiveness of ASAs may be under or over-estimated however the magnitude is unknown. • The efficacy data used in the model was based on relevant studies identified in the clinical review. Mesalazines, such as Ipocol and Octasa have not been included in this analysis as they are not named in the studies identified in the clinical review. The GDG were unable to comment about the relative efficacy of these mesalazines hence caution should be exercised when generalising the results of this model. • The costs and dis-utilities of drug-specific adverse events were not explicitly modelled due to lack of robust data; however withdrawal from treatment was used as a proxy for adverse events. This means that the cost-effectiveness of all treatments strategies may have been over-estimated although the magnitude is unknown as each drug is likely to have a specific side-effect profile. The overestimation of the ICER would be greater for treatments that have more serious side effects compared to those with less serious side effects. This introduces uncertainty around interpretation of the results. • The clinical data informing non-first line treatments were obtained from studies that had trialled the drugs as first line. This means that the effectiveness of certain treatments may have been over-estimated when used as a non-first line treatment options. Consequently, this would impact on the cost-effectiveness of the overall strategy. A sensitivity analysis was conducted to address this issue. All the treatment strategies
