National Clinical Guideline Centre
KEYWORDS: colitis, ulcerative, ulcerative colitis, clinical, remission, evidence, low, fewer, people, inconsistency, trials, randomised, guideline, quality, weeks


as a non-first line treatment options. Consequently, this would impact on the cost-effectiveness of the overall strategy. A sensitivity analysis was conducted to address this issue. All the treatment strategies compared became less cost- effective however the most cost-effective option was still the same as the base case. 5.35.4.2 Generalisability to other populations/settings The analysis was based on data obtained from an adult population hence may not be generalizable to paediatric populations. This is especially important as the dose ranges of ASAs were based on adult doses. A model relevant to the paediatric population could not be constructed due to paucity of clinical data. The model applies to patients with mild to moderate left sided or extensive disease. Other extents of ulcerative colitis such as proctitis have not been addressed and as such treatment options used in the model may not be applicable. Similarly, in terms of disease activity, treatment of severe ulcerative colitis has not been explicitly modelled. There may be other treatment options for this population not captured in the model. 5.35.5 Conclusion/evidence statement The original economic analysis suggests that high dose oral ASA followed by high dose oral ASA + beclometasone followed by prednisolone is the most cost-effective treatment strategy to induce remission in patients with mild to moderate left sided or extensive ulcerative colitis. Ulcerative colitis Inducing remission in people with ulcerative colitis 5.36 Clinical evidence: Immunomodulators Four studies and one Cochrane systematic review on the use of tacrolimus were included in the See also the study selection flow chart in Appendix E, forest plots in Appendix H, study evidence tables in Appendix Gand exclusion list in Appendix F. “Methotrexate for induction of remission in ulcerative colitis” was published by the Cochrane collaboration in 200736. The review included 1 study which compared methotrexate to placebo. The Cochrane review concluded that the trial of 12.5mg of methotrexate did not show any benefit over placebo for the induction of remission in patients with active ulcerative colitis. The Cochrane review was excluded because it reported the end of trial results and the protocol for the clinical review was to include studies up to 12 weeks duration. The study was included in the clinical review but earlier results have been presented. “Tacrolimus (FK506) for induction of remission in refractory ulcerative colitis” was published by the Cochrane collaboration in 200815. The review included 1 study which compared low and high trough
