National Clinical Guideline Centre
KEYWORDS: colitis, ulcerative, ulcerative colitis, clinical, remission, evidence, low, fewer, people, inconsistency, trials, randomised, guideline, quality, weeks


clinically effective at increasing endoscopic remission rates compared to placebo [very low quality evidence, 1 study, N=34]. High trough tacrolimus may have a clinically higher adverse event rate compared to placebo [very low quality evidence, 1 study, N=62].There may be no clinically important difference in serious adverse event rates between high or low trough tacrolimus compared to placebo [very low quality evidence, 1 study, N=41; 1 study, N=42]. 5.39.1.4 Tacrolimus dose comparison Clinical remission There may be no clinically important difference in clinical remission rates between high and low trough tacrolimus , the direction of the estimate of effect favoured high trough tacrolimus [Very low quality evidence, 1 study, N=39]. Clinical improvement High trough tacrolimus may be more clinically effective at increasing clinical improvement rates compared to low trough tacrolimus, the direction of the estimate of effect favoured high trough tacrolimus [Very low quality evidence, 1 study, N=40]. Important outcomes High trough tacrolimus may be more clinically effective at increasing endoscopic remission rates compared to low trough tacrolimus [Very low quality evidence, 1 study, N=37].There may be no clinically important difference in serious adverse event rates between high and low trough tacrolimus [Very low quality evidence, 1 study, N=43]. 5.39.2 Economic evidence statements No relevant economic evaluations were identified. 5.40 Recommendations and link to evidence Patient information and support 1. Discuss the disease and associated symptoms, treatment options and monitoring: • with the person with ulcerative colitis, and their family members or carers as appropriate and • within the multidisciplinary team (the composition of which should be appropriate for the age of the person) at every opportunity. Apply the principles in Patient experience in adult NHS services (NICE clinical guideline 138). Recommendations Ulcerative colitis Inducing remission in people with ulcerative colitis 2. Discuss the possible nature, frequency and severity of side effects of drug treatment for ulcerative colitis with the person, and their family members or carers as appropriate. Refer to Medicines adherence (NICE clinical guideline 76). 3. Give the person, and their family members or carers as appropriate, information about their risk of developing colorectal cancer and about • Colonoscopic surveillance for prevention of colorectal cancer in people with ulcerative colitis, Crohn's disease or adenomas (NICE clinical guideline 118) • Referral for suspected cancer (NICE clinical guideline 27)y. Inducing remission in people with ulcerative colitis Treating mild to moderate ulcerative colitis: step 1 therapy Proctitis and proctosigmoiditis 4. To
