National Clinical Guideline Centre
KEYWORDS: colitis, ulcerative, ulcerative colitis, clinical, remission, evidence, low, fewer, people, inconsistency, trials, randomised, guideline, quality, weeks


• Referral for suspected cancer (NICE clinical guideline 27)y. Inducing remission in people with ulcerative colitis Treating mild to moderate ulcerative colitis: step 1 therapy Proctitis and proctosigmoiditis 4. To induce remission in people with a mild to moderate first presentation or inflammatory exacerbation of proctitis or proctosigmoiditis: • offer a topical aminosalicylatez alone (suppository or enema, taking into account the person’s preferences) or • consider adding an oral aminosalicylateaa to a topical aminosalicylate or • consider an oral aminosalicylateaa alone, taking into account the person’s preferences and explaining that this is not as effective as a topical aminosalicylate alone or combined treatment. 5. To induce remission in people with a mild to moderate first presentation or inflammatory exacerbation of proctitis or proctosigmoiditis who cannot tolerate or who decline aminosalicylates, or in whom aminosalicylates are contraindicated: • offer a topical corticosteroid or • consider oral prednisolonebb, taking into account the person’s preferences. 6. To induce remission in people with subacute proctitis or proctosigmoiditis, consider oral prednisolonebb, taking into account the person’s preferences. y This guideline is being updated (publication date to be confirmed). z At the time of publication , some topical aminosalicylates did not have a UK marketing authorisation for this indication in children and young people. The prescriber should follow relevant professional guidance, taking full responsibility for the decision. Informed consent should be obtained and documented. See the General Medical Council’s Good practice in prescribing and managing medicines and devices for further information. aa At the time of publication , some oral aminosalicylates did not have a UK marketing authorisation for this indication in children and young people. The prescriber should follow relevant professional guidance, taking full responsibility for the decision. Informed consent should be obtained and documented. See the General Medical Council’s Good practice in prescribing and managing medicines and devices for further information. bb Refer to the BNF for guidance on stopping oral prednisolone therapy. Ulcerative colitis Inducing remission in people with ulcerative colitis Left-sided and extensive ulcerative colitis 7. To induce remission in adults with a mild to moderate first presentation or inflammatory exacerbation of left-sided or extensive ulcerative colitis: • offer a high induction dose of an oral aminosalicylate • consider adding a topical aminosalicylate or oral beclometasone dipropionatecc, taking into account the person’s preferences. 8. To induce remission in children and young people with a mild to moderate first presentation or inflammatory exacerbation
