National Clinical Guideline Centre
KEYWORDS: colitis, ulcerative, ulcerative colitis, clinical, remission, evidence, low, fewer, people, inconsistency, trials, randomised, guideline, quality, weeks


aminosalicylate or oral beclometasone dipropionatecc, taking into account the person’s preferences. 8. To induce remission in children and young people with a mild to moderate first presentation or inflammatory exacerbation of left-sided or extensive ulcerative colitis: • offer an oral aminosalicylatedd • consider adding a topical aminosalicylatez or oral beclometasone dipropionateee, taking into account the person’s preferences (and those of their parents or carers as appropriate). 9. To induce remission in people with a mild to moderate first presentation or inflammatory exacerbation of left-sided or extensive ulcerative colitis who cannot tolerate or who decline aminosalicylates, in whom aminosalicylates are contraindicated or who have subacute ulcerative colitis, offer oral prednisolonebb. Treating mild to moderate ulcerative colitis: step 2 therapy All extents of disease 10. Consider adding oral prednisolonebb to aminosalicylate therapy to induce remission in people with mild to moderate ulcerative colitis if there is no improvement within 4 weeks of starting step 1 aminosalicylate therapy or if symptoms worsen despite treatment. Stop beclometasone dipropionate if adding oral prednisolone. 11. Consider adding oral tacrolimusff to oral prednisolone to induce remission in people with mild to moderate ulcerative colitis if there is an inadequate response to oral prednisolone after 2–4 weeks. cc At the time of publication , beclometasone dipropionate only has a UK marketing authorisation ‘as add-on therapy to 5-ASA containing drugs in patients who are non-responders to 5-ASA therapy in active phase’. For use outside these licensed indications, the prescriber should follow relevant professional guidance, taking full responsibility for the decision. Informed consent should be obtained and documented. See the General Medical Council’s Good practice in prescribing and managing medicines and devices for further information. dd At the time of publication , some oral aminosalicylates did not have a UK marketing authorisation for this indication in children and young people. The prescriber should follow relevant professional guidance, taking full responsibility for the decision. Informed consent should be obtained and documented. See the General Medical Council’s Good practice in prescribing and managing medicines and devices for further information. Dosing requirements for children should be calculated by body weight, as described in the BNF. ee At the time of publication , beclometasone dipropionate did not have a UK marketing authorisation for this indication in children and young people. The prescriber should follow relevant professional guidance, taking full responsibility for the decision. Informed consent should be obtained and documented. See the General Medical
