National Clinical Guideline Centre
KEYWORDS: colitis, ulcerative, ulcerative colitis, clinical, remission, evidence, low, fewer, people, inconsistency, trials, randomised, guideline, quality, weeks


indication in children and young people. The prescriber should follow relevant professional guidance, taking full responsibility for the decision. Informed consent should be obtained and documented. See the General Medical Council’s Good practice in prescribing and managing medicines and devices for further information. Ulcerative colitis Inducing remission in people with ulcerative colitis 12. For guidance on infliximab for treating subacute ulcerative colitis (all extents of disease), refer to Infliximab for subacute manifestations of ulcerative colitis (NICE technology appraisal guidance 140). Relative values of The GDG considered the following outcomes direct measures that indicated different outcomes recovery in patients with an acute exacerbation of ulcerative colitis: • Clinical remission (author defined) • Clinical improvement (author defined) • Quality of Life (validated indexes only) These were considered the critical outcomes when making decisions about the induction of remission. Clinical improvement was considered a particularly critical outcome by the patient representatives. Whilst this outcome did not indicate an absence of symptoms, a reduction of symptoms was felt to have a significant impact of a person’s quality of life. The GDG considered the following outcomes should also be considered when making decisions on appropriate treatments for the induction of remission: • Endoscopic remission (author defined) • Clinical and endoscopic remission (author defined) • Colectomy • Adverse events • Hospitalisations measure) as additional outcomes that may indicate recovery from an acute exacerbation of ulcerative colitis. The GDG noted that endoscopic appearances do not always correlate with clinical symptoms. There were similar problems in terms of different indexes being used to measure these outcomes and the GDG took the same approach as for clinical remission and improvement. Trade off between The GDG recommended different treatment options for proctitis/proctosigmoiditis clinical benefits and and left sided /extensive ulcerative colitis based on the following rationale. harms Proctitis/ proctosigmoiditis Recommendations 4 and 5 are underpinned by studies predominately in people with proctitis and proctosigmoiditis and showed that topical ASAs were better than placebo. On this basis an ‘offer’ recommendation was made. Mode of application In relation to oral versus topical ASA the evidence for method of delivery was limited and the difference in the adverse event rates between oral and topical was unclear. and clinical improvement) for considering ASA suppositories (topical) over oral administration for people with proctitis72 and hence included topical ASA application alone within the ‘offer’ recommendation. For ASA combined oral and topical administration (as opposed to either
