National Clinical Guideline Centre
KEYWORDS: colitis, ulcerative, ulcerative colitis, clinical, remission, evidence, low, fewer, people, inconsistency, trials, randomised, guideline, quality, weeks


(topical) over oral administration for people with proctitis72 and hence included topical ASA application alone within the ‘offer’ recommendation. For ASA combined oral and topical administration (as opposed to either route alone) only endoscopic remission showed a slight advantage for combination therapy for people with proctosigmoiditis (this was based on one study with a >50% proctosigmoiditis population)225. There was insufficient evidence to strongly recommend combined oral-topical ASA treatment. The GDG noted that oral ASAs ff At the time of publication , tacrolimus did not have a UK marketing authorisation for this indication. The prescriber should follow relevant professional guidance, taking full responsibility for the decision. Informed consent should be obtained and documented. See the General Medical Council’s Good practice in prescribing and managing medicines and devices for further information. Ulcerative colitis Inducing remission in people with ulcerative colitis demonstrated clinical benefit and were superior for inducing clinical remission and endoscopic remission compared to oral budesonide in patients with distal disease in a single study79. The GDG were concerned about the corticosteroid-related side effects and felt it was appropriate to ‘consider’ using combination ASA treatment before using corticosteroids. The oral drug would be given as well as the topical treatment for people who are already on ASA therapy for maintenance or based on clinical judgement according to severity of symptoms or uncertainty of disease extent. The studies of oral ASAs were mainly in people with left sided/extensive ulcerative colitis and some excluded proctitis (or the disease extent was unknown). This meant the GDG was unable to make a strong recommendation specifically for oral ASAs in people with proctitis. Whilst the GDG were aware of the limited evidence they agreed a ‘consider’ recommendation for people who prefer not to use (or had difficulty administering for example older people or people with disabilities) enemas or suppositories. In relation to recommendation 5 the evidence for people with proctitis and proctosigmoiditis is limited. Very low quality evidence from one study showed that topical steroids are better than placebo for increasing endoscopic and clinical and endoscopic remission rates in people with disease distal to the splenic flexure86. The GDG recognised that some people may be intolerant of topical ASAs or prefer a corticosteroids are often not step 1 therapy due to the risk of adverse events. They are sometimes used in clinical practice and the GDG acknowledged that it was important for people to have access
