National Clinical Guideline Centre
KEYWORDS: colitis, ulcerative, ulcerative colitis, clinical, remission, evidence, low, fewer, people, inconsistency, trials, randomised, guideline, quality, weeks


step 1 therapy due to the risk of adverse events. They are sometimes used in clinical practice and the GDG acknowledged that it was important for people to have access to this treatment option despite the absence of evidence. This has been reflected in the recommendations. Likewise, the GDG also recognised that some people would prefer not to use topical treatments and so oral prednisolone could be also considered but people should be aware of systemic adverse events. The GDG considered the use of topical steroids as a step 2 therapy for people with mild to moderate proctitis and proctosigmoiditis who have not shown any improvement within 4 weeks of starting step 1 therapy. The GDG acknowledged the absence of evidence for topical steroids for this clinical situation. Taking into account the absence of evidence and the concerns about the potential consequences of delaying treatment the GDG were unable to make a recommendation for topical steroids in this clinical context Type of preparation There was not enough evidence to suggest any one topical preparation (foam or liquid enema, suppository) in either an ASA or corticosteroid formulation is superior and to recommend a specific topical preparation. Children and young people Recommendations 4 and 5 also include children and young people. None of the studies included children or young people and the adult evidence was extrapolated. The GDG noted that topical treatments are rarely used in children and young people in the UK. From GDG experience, topical steroids can potentially be used in children with localised and distal disease, although adherence is an issue. Support and education could improve compliance of the use of topical steroids and ASAs in children and young people. Left sided/extensive Recommendation 7 is supported by evidence from the network meta-analysis (NMA) and these data were used in the health economic model. Ulcerative colitis Inducing remission in people with ulcerative colitis The NMA showed the combination of oral mesalazine and beclometasone, oral and rectal mesalazine, balsalazide, prednisolone, high dose mesalazine were more effective than placebo at inducing clinical remission. With the exception of high dose olsalazine, the higher dose ASAs were more effective than the lower doses at inducing remission. The combination of oral mesalazine and beclometasone had the highest probability (67%) of being the best treatment followed by oral prednisolone (26%) and oral-topical mesalazine (7%). Except for low dose sulphasalazine, all of the treatments compared in the
