National Clinical Guideline Centre
KEYWORDS: colitis, ulcerative, ulcerative colitis, clinical, remission, evidence, low, fewer, people, inconsistency, trials, randomised, guideline, quality, weeks


the highest probability (67%) of being the best treatment followed by oral prednisolone (26%) and oral-topical mesalazine (7%). Except for low dose sulphasalazine, all of the treatments compared in the NMA for clinical improvement had significantly better clinical improvement rates compared to placebo. The higher dose of mesalazine was significantly better for clinical improvement than the lower dose. This concurred with patient experience on the GDG. The combination of oral mesalazine and beclometasone had the highest probability (63%) of being the best treatment followed by oral-topical mesalazine (36%). The NMA for withdrawals due to an adverse event showed that only high dose olsalazine had a significant difference in withdrawals compared to placebo. There were also significantly higher withdrawals with high dose olsalazine compared to low dose mesalazine, high dose mesalazine, balsalazide and both combination treatments (mesalazine and beclometasone, oral and rectal mesalazine). The combination of oral mesalazine and beclometasone had the highest probability (75%) of being the best treatment for the least withdrawals due to adverse events followed by balsalazide (12%) and oral-topical mesalazine (5%). Due to the limitations of the NMAs (the evidence was mostly of very low to low quality; there was limited evidence for most of the treatments used to induce remission and the majority of the networks were of made up of one study per arm, this included the combination treatments (3.2 g mesalazine (Asacol) and 5 mg beclamethasone179 and 4g oral and 1g rectal mesalazine41,139 and the large overlapping confidence intervals of the different treatments), it was felt that there was insufficient evidence to be confident of one treatment’s superiority compared to the alternative treatment regimens for the induction of clinical remission or improvement in people with left sided or extensive ulcerative colitis compared to placebo. The health economic model showed that a high induction dose oral ASA was always more cost-effective than a low induction dose oral ASA when used first line. The most cost-effective treatment sequence in the base case and in all the sensitivity analysis was as follows: high induction dose oral ASA followed by high induction dose oral ASA + oral beclometasone dipropionate followed by oral prednisolone. considering the limitations from the NMA and health economic model the GDG were confident to offer a high induction dose of an oral ASA alone in recommendation 7. The GDG were less confident in making an offer recommendation for adding beclometasone dipropionate or a
