National Clinical Guideline Centre
KEYWORDS: colitis, ulcerative, ulcerative colitis, clinical, remission, evidence, low, fewer, people, inconsistency, trials, randomised, guideline, quality, weeks


to offer a high induction dose of an oral ASA alone in recommendation 7. The GDG were less confident in making an offer recommendation for adding beclometasone dipropionate or a rectal ASA to a high induction dose of oral ASA and they agreed a ‘consider’ recommendation for these treatments. In making this recommendation the GDG considered the side effect profile of steroids. Beclometasone and conventional corticosteroids (such as prednisolone) are not considered interchangeable and beclometasone has fewer side effects and as such the GDG considered they could not make a recommendation that included all steroids but one that was specific to beclometasone. Rectal ASAs alone were not considered appropriate in people with left sided and extensive disease for the following reasons. There were limited studies with a predominantly left sided ulcerative colitis population. Furthermore, the dose and preparation of the rectal ASAs did not appear to affect clinical or endoscopic Ulcerative colitis Inducing remission in people with ulcerative colitis outcomes. The GDG felt that using a topical treatment with limited local release would not be appropriate to treat extensive disease. In relation to recommendation 9, oral ASAs may be declined, not tolerated or contraindicated in some people with ulcerative colitis and the GDG recognised some people may prefer an oral steroid despite the systemic side effects. In clinical practice oral corticosteroids often are not first-line treatment due to the risk of adverse events associated with them but they are sometimes used in clinical practice in people with sub-acute ulcerative colitis. The GDG acknowledge it was important for this population to have access to this treatment option despite the absence of evidence. This has been reflected in recommendations 6 and 9. Children and young people Recommendation 8 is specific to children and young people. None of the studies in the NMA included children or young people and while the adult evidence was extrapolated the GDG could not recommend a ‘high’ dose ASA recognising that paediatric doses should be calculated by body weight, as described in the children’s BNF. Mesalazine/ASA preparations As noted in the introduction the BNF states that: ‘The delivery characteristics of oral mesalazine preparations may vary; these preparations should not be considered interchangeable’. In order to address this, mesalazines were compared to each other where possible and disease extent was explored where heterogeneity was present. The mesalazines were also compared to the other ASAs where possible. The direct evidence
