National Clinical Guideline Centre
KEYWORDS: colitis, ulcerative, ulcerative colitis, clinical, remission, evidence, low, fewer, people, inconsistency, trials, randomised, guideline, quality, weeks


were compared to each other where possible and disease extent was explored where heterogeneity was present. The mesalazines were also compared to the other ASAs where possible. The direct evidence was limited and mostly of low to very low quality and did not demonstrate that any one mesalazine or an ASA preparation was clinically more effective than another. As a result the GDG were not confident in recommending one preparation over another preparation. The oral mesalazines listed in the BNF are Asacol, Ipocol, Mesren, Mezavant, Octasa, Pentasa and Salofalk. The reviews in this guideline name the mesalazine as it is named in the studies. We are aware that the mesalazines can change brand names, for example Mesren was been rebranded as Octasa 400 in December 2012. Regimen There was limited evidence to recommend an optimal dosing regimen. The two studies (KRUIS2009; FARUP2001) identified that assessed dosing regimens compared granules. KRUIS2009 compared once versus three times a day and FARUP2001 compared twice versus four times a day. The GDG were unable to extrapolate from the maintenance evidence as there may be differences between the two situations with regard to the optimum mucosal level of aminosalicylates and differences in transit time and luminal pH which may affect the release of 5-aminosalicylic acid. Step 2 therapy – All extents of disease Recommendations 10 and 11 for step 2 therapy were based on indirect evidence and consensus and this is reflected in the strength of the recommendations. It was considered important to make a recommendation on treatment options if the first step therapy did not induce remission. None of the evidence for the induction of remission was in people that were clearly identified as failing first step therapy and were therefore testing a second treatment. This is problematic as when considering the efficacy of treatments for step 2 as it is based on its level of efficacy as a first treatment option. This may well over estimate a treatment’s effect as a step 2 therapy. Beclometasone is licenced for four weeks treatment so the GDG considered it was Ulcerative colitis Inducing remission in people with ulcerative colitis appropriate to consider adding 40mg of prednisolone if symptoms worsened or there was no improvement within 4 weeks of step 1 therapy when beclometasone was used in combination to an oral ASA. The GDG recognised that some people are unable to be treated with oral corticosteroids (beclometasone
