National Clinical Guideline Centre
KEYWORDS: colitis, ulcerative, ulcerative colitis, clinical, remission, evidence, low, fewer, people, inconsistency, trials, randomised, guideline, quality, weeks


weeks of step 1 therapy when beclometasone was used in combination to an oral ASA. The GDG recognised that some people are unable to be treated with oral corticosteroids (beclometasone dipropionate or prednisolone) and required another treatment option. Immunomodulators are considered to have greater side effects than oral corticosteroids and were considered by the GDG as the less preferred treatment option. Immunomodulators The evidence for immunomodulators was limited and of very low quality (methotrexate demonstrated no added efficacy compared to placebo, azathioprine was evaluated in combination with steroids and tacrolimus demonstrated clinical benefit compared to placebo in increasing clinical improvement rates). for people that cannot be treated with oral corticosteroids (recommendation 11). The GDG decided to recommend tacrolimus over the use of other immunomodulators for the following reasons: • The lack of evidence to support the use of methotrexate (however it was noted the dose used in the trial was lower than is used in current clinical practice)160. The GDG acknowledged that there may be a role for a higher dose of methotrexate for patients who are refractory to other treatments based on their experience. • The GDG felt that azathioprine takes too long to have an effect and its role is limited for induction of remission. • In people who have not responded to prednisolone, the GDG noted benefit of tacrolimus158,159. The GDG recognised there is limited evidence on tacrolimus as a long term treatment or as a bridge to another treatment. The two studies158,159 showing benefit of tacrolimus were of 12 weeks duration (2 week RCT followed by a 10 week open label extension). As a result the GDG were unable to comment on the length of time tacrolimus should be used for and noted that nephrotoxicity and opportunistic infections may be an issue with longer term use and recommended regular monitoring (recommendation 18). Nephrotoxicity (increase by >30% of baseline creatinine level) occurred in 14.8% of participants followed up at 12 weeks (2 week trial followed by a 10 week open label extension)158. Monitoring for toxicity including renal dysfunction, low magnesium and infection was considered essential by the GDG. Prednisolone The GDG felt it was important to note that an appropriate starting dose for oral prednisolone in adults should be 40mg per day. This was supported by Baron13 which showed that 40mg per day was more effective than 20mg per day and as effective as 60 mg per
