National Clinical Guideline Centre
KEYWORDS: colitis, ulcerative, ulcerative colitis, clinical, remission, evidence, low, fewer, people, inconsistency, trials, randomised, guideline, quality, weeks


should be 40mg per day. This was supported by Baron13 which showed that 40mg per day was more effective than 20mg per day and as effective as 60 mg per day for clinical improvement and clinical and endoscopic remission. For children and young people please refer to the BNF for children. Economic Proctitis/ proctosigmoiditis considerations No cost-effectiveness evidence was identified. The costs of topical aminosalicylates and steroids are dependent on the formulation and the daily dose administered. However, it is possible that cost savings could be made if a suppository is used over an enema. The use of ASA suppositories rather than oral ASAs is likely to be cost- effective because the clinical effectiveness data shows clinical benefit and the average cost is lower than oral ASA. Ulcerative colitis Inducing remission in people with ulcerative colitis Left sided and extensive A systematic literature search identified four relevant studies evaluating the cost- effectiveness of drugs for the induction of remission. A study by Brereton25 found 2.4g/day Mezavant XL to be more expensive and effective than 2.4g/day Asacol with an incremental cost-effectiveness ratio of £749 per QALY. A study by Buckland26 which compared 4.8/day to 2.4g/day Asacol found the higher dose to be cost- effective. 6.75g Balsalazide was compared to 2.4g or 4.8g/day Asacol by Mackowiak132. Balsalazide was shown to be the cost-effective option. Combination treatment of oral and topical mesalazine was found to be cost-effective compared with oral mesalazine alone by Connolly39. The results of these studies were reviewed by the GDG. It was however noted that other treatment options not included in the cost-effectiveness studies were available. Because the studies only helped to highlight the cost-effectiveness of some treatments and because this is an area of uncertainty, the GDG considered it a high priority for original economic analysis. Based on this, a decision-analytic model was developed with a 28-week time horizon. It addressed the use of various sequences of drugs as chosen by the GDG for induction of remission. The model showed that a high induction dose oral ASA was always more cost- effective than a low induction dose oral ASA when used first line. As noted above, the cost-effective treatment sequence in the base case and in six sensitivity analysis was as follows: high induction dose oral ASA followed by high induction dose oral ASA + oral beclometasone dipropionate followed by oral prednisolone. In interpreting the results, limitations of
