National Clinical Guideline Centre
KEYWORDS: colitis, ulcerative, ulcerative colitis, clinical, remission, evidence, low, fewer, people, inconsistency, trials, randomised, guideline, quality, weeks


analysis was as follows: high induction dose oral ASA followed by high induction dose oral ASA + oral beclometasone dipropionate followed by oral prednisolone. In interpreting the results, limitations of the model as highlighted below needed to be considered: • The costs and dis-utilities of drug-specific adverse events were not captured in the model due to lack of robust data. This means that the cost- effectiveness of all the treatments strategies has been over-estimated although the magnitude is unknown as each drug is likely to have a different, specific side-effect profile. This introduces uncertainty around interpretation of the results. • The clinical data informing the treatments that were not first line were obtained from studies that had trialled the drugs as first line. This meant that the effectiveness may have been over-estimated when used as non- first line treatments. Consequently, this would impact on the cost- effectiveness of the overall strategy. A sensitivity analysis was conducted to address this issue. All the treatment strategies compared became less cost- effective however the most cost-effective option was still the same as the base case. • Patients who fail the final course of ASA therapy in each treatment sequence are switched to prednisolone. The GDG noted that in clinical practice patients, prednisolone could be added on to existing ASA therapy. However this could not be modelled due to lack of clinical data for the use of combination treatment with ASA and prednisolone. The GDG acknowledged the analysis might underestimate the side effects and costs of combination therapy. Immunomodulators No cost-effectiveness evidence was identified. The GDG considered the costs of tacrolimus and also noted that drug monitoring would be required. It was felt that due to the level of disease severity in this sub group of patients, these costs are likely to be offset by the potential benefits. Benefits would include avoidance of escalation to intravenous therapy and reduced hospitalisations. Quality of evidence The majority of the evidence for the outcomes for proctitis and proctosigmoiditis was of low to very low quality and consisted of some mixed populations. There were a limited number of studies. There was no evidence for oral versus rectal steroids. Ulcerative colitis Inducing remission in people with ulcerative colitis The majority of the evidence for the outcomes for left sided and extensive disease was of low to very low quality. The GDG noted that there was evidence identified about the
