National Clinical Guideline Centre
KEYWORDS: colitis, ulcerative, ulcerative colitis, clinical, remission, evidence, low, fewer, people, inconsistency, trials, randomised, guideline, quality, weeks


majority of the evidence for the outcomes for left sided and extensive disease was of low to very low quality. The GDG noted that there was evidence identified about the following oral aminosalicylates: Sulphasalazine, balsalazide, olsalazine and mesalazine (the brand names of the mesalazines in the published papers were Asacol, Pentasa, Mezavant XL and Ipocol). Mesren or Octasa were not named in the papers. The NMA was based on a total of 25 studies of 10 different interventions (7 mono- therapies, 2 combination therapies). The majority of the evidence for the outcomes had a rating of low to very low quality. For more detail see the limitations listed above for the NMA and health economic model. There were very few studies looking at the use of immunomodulators whose outcomes were all very low quality. There was no evidence for the use of mercaptopurine. There were no studies which enabled hazard ratio data to be extracted, so all of the analysis was based on relative risks at different time points during the studies. The impact of extent of disease was difficult to evaluate as the majority of the studies evaluating oral treatments had mixed extent populations and the studies evaluating topical treatments had a majority proctitis/ proctosigmoiditis populations. Other considerations The GDG has listed the high induction doses of all the aminosalicylates. The GDG defined high induction doses as: more than 2.4g for mesalazine; more than 6g for sulphasalazine; more than or equal to 1.5g for olsalazine. There is only one dose for balasalazide, 6.75g. The GDG definition was based on the ranges of doses in the drugs’ summary of product characteristics and the dose comparisons used in the clinical evidence reviews. The NMA demonstrated that sulphaslazine was less effective than placebo. This was thought to be due to the low quality of the sulphaslazine study. Sulphasalazine is an ASA which is available in liquid preparation and may be useful for children and young people who are unable to swallow tablets. Sulphasalazine may provide an alternative to escalating treatment prematurely to steroid use. As noted above in the ‘trade off between benefits and harms’ there was very limited evidence to recommend one preparation over another or once daily compared to conventional dosing. The GDG patient representatives felt that patient preference might tend towards suppositories as opposed to enemas for the topical preparations (easier to control the dose) and two doses per
