National Clinical Guideline Centre
KEYWORDS: colitis, ulcerative, ulcerative colitis, clinical, remission, evidence, low, fewer, people, inconsistency, trials, randomised, guideline, quality, weeks


dosing. The GDG patient representatives felt that patient preference might tend towards suppositories as opposed to enemas for the topical preparations (easier to control the dose) and two doses per day was not practical for patients. GDG were surprised by the lack of evidence for the use of steroids as there is considerable clinical experience in inducing remission in people with ulcerative colitis. The GDG discussed whether beclometasone might be considered alone for people who are unable to tolerate an aminosalicylate but this would be outside its licence and has limited evidence and clinical experience. The GDG were unable to make any recommendation about beclometasone as a monotherapy. Research recommendations The GDG agreed that the lack of evidence for the induction of remission in people with ulcerative colitis justified developing research recommendations to address whether these treatments are effective. For further information on the research recommendations see Appendix M. Ulcerative colitis Inducing remission in people with ulcerative colitis 5.41 Review question: In adults, children and young people with acute of corticosteroids and ciclosporin compared to each other and their combination (corticosteroids and ciclosporin) for the induction of remission? For full details see review protocol in Appendix C. 5.42 Clinical evidence: Acute severe ulcerative colitis The literature search identified four RCTs 23,51,126,223 comparing corticosteroids and/or ciclosporin with corticosteroids and/or corticosteroids and/or placebo that met the inclusion criteria. There were no limitations on sample size and only direct studies relating to the patient disease severity were included. No indirect interventions, comparisons or outcomes were considered. Only randomised controlled trials were included. Phase I, non randomised Phase II trials and cross over trials were excluded. Abstracts were not included unless there were no randomised controlled trial full papers for the comparison. clinical improvement was used due to the extensive numbers of different indexes used by the authors. Many of these are unvalidated and it carries a high risk of bias however, by choosing one index it was felt that too many studies would be excluded and there would be a lack of evidence to consider. Therefore, the bias associated with using the author’s definitions was taken into account when analysing the data. There were no setting restrictions. A trial duration limit of 4 weeks was applied. The following subgroups were considered for subgroup analysis in the event of heterogeneity in the meta-analysis: • Age (adults, children and young people) Where possible, the evidence
