National Clinical Guideline Centre
KEYWORDS: colitis, ulcerative, ulcerative colitis, clinical, remission, evidence, low, fewer, people, inconsistency, trials, randomised, guideline, quality, weeks


improvement There is no clinically important difference between 4mg/kg versus 2mg/kg ciclosporin in clinical remission rates at 0≤2 weeks [moderate quality evidence, 1 study, N=73]. 5.45.1.4 Corticosteroid preparation Clinical remission Ulcerative colitis Inducing remission in people with ulcerative colitis There may be no clinically important difference between iv steroids (infusion) and iv steroids (bolus) Important outcomes There may be no clinically important difference between iv steroids (infusion) and iv steroids (bolus) in colectomy rates at >2≤4 weeks [very low quality evidence 1 study, N=66]. There may be no clinically important difference between iv steroids (infusion) and iv steroids (bolus) in adverse event rates [very low quality evidence 1 study, N=66]. 5.45.2 Economic evidence statements No relevant economic evaluations were identified. 5.46 Recommendations and link to evidence Treating acute severe ulcerative colitis: all extents of disease The multidisciplinary team 13. For people admitted to hospital with acute severe ulcerative colitis: • ensure that a gastroenterologist and a colorectal surgeon collaborate to provide treatment and management • ensure that the composition of the multidisciplinary team is appropriate for the age of the person • seek advice from a paediatrician with expertise in gastroenterology when treating a child or young person • ensure that the obstetric and gynaecology team is included when treating a pregnant woman. Step 1 therapy 14. For people admitted to hospital with acute severe ulcerative colitis (either a first presentation or an inflammatory exacerbation): • offer intravenous corticosteroids to induce remission and • assess the likelihood that the person will need surgery (see recommendation 19). 15. Consider intravenous ciclosporingg or surgery for people: • who cannot tolerate or who decline intravenous corticosteroids or • for whom treatment with intravenous corticosteroids is contraindicated. Take into account the person’s preferences when choosing treatment. Step 2 therapy 16. Consider adding intravenous ciclosporingg to intravenous corticosteroids Recommendations or consider surgery for people: gg At the time of publication , ciclosporin did not have a UK marketing authorisation for this indication. The prescriber should follow relevant professional guidance, taking full responsibility for the decision. Informed consent Ulcerative colitis Inducing remission in people with ulcerative colitis • who have little or no improvement within 72 hours of starting intravenous corticosteroids or • whose symptoms worsen at any time despite corticosteroid treatment. Take into account the person’s preferences when choosing treatment. 17. For guidance on infliximab for treating acute severe ulcerative colitis (all extents of disease)
