National Clinical Guideline Centre
KEYWORDS: colitis, ulcerative, ulcerative colitis, clinical, remission, evidence, low, fewer, people, inconsistency, trials, randomised, guideline, quality, weeks


at any time despite corticosteroid treatment. Take into account the person’s preferences when choosing treatment. 17. For guidance on infliximab for treating acute severe ulcerative colitis (all extents of disease) in people for whom ciclosporin is contraindicated or clinically inappropriate, refer to Infliximab for acute exacerbations of ulcerative colitis (NICE technology appraisal guidance 163). Monitoring treatment 18. Ensure that there are documented local safety monitoring policies and procedures (including audit) for adults, children and young people receiving treatment that needs monitoring (aminosalicylates, tacrolimus, ciclosporin, infliximab, azathioprine and mercaptopurine). Nominate a member of staff to act on abnormal results and communicate with GPs and people with ulcerative colitis (and/or their parents or carers as appropriate). Relative values of The GDG considered the following outcomes direct measures that indicated different outcomes recovery in patients with an acute severe exacerbation of ulcerative colitis: • Colectomy • Mortality • Clinical improvement (author defined) • Clinical remission ( author defined) • Quality of Life (validated indexes only) These were considered the critical outcomes in making decisions about the induction of remission. Clinical improvement was considered a particularly critical outcome by the patient representatives. While this outcome did not indicate an absence of symptoms a reduction of symptoms was felt to have a significant impact of a person’s quality of life. The GDG considered the following outcomes should also be considered when making decisions on appropriate treatments for the induction of remission: • Endoscopic remission • Clinical and endoscopic remission • Adverse events measure) as additional outcomes that may indicate recovery from an acute exacerbation of ulcerative colitis. Endoscopic appearances do not always correlate with clinical symptoms. There were similar problems in terms of different indexes measure) and the GDG took the same approach as for clinical remission and should be obtained and documented. See the General Medical Council’s Good practice in prescribing and managing medicines and devices for further information. Ulcerative colitis Inducing remission in people with ulcerative colitis improvement. Trade off between The limited clinical evidence demonstrated that intravenous ciclosporin alone or clinical benefits and with intravenous corticosteroids was more effective than intravenous corticosteroids harms alone in increasing clinical improvement rates. The evidence for the reduction of colectomy rates was contradictory: intravenous ciclosporin plus intravenous steroids may be more effective at reducing colectomy rates than intravenous steroids pus placebo126 whereas DHAENS200151 found intravenous steroids may be more clinically effective at decreasing colectomy rates at
