National Clinical Guideline Centre
KEYWORDS: colitis, ulcerative, ulcerative colitis, clinical, remission, evidence, low, fewer, people, inconsistency, trials, randomised, guideline, quality, weeks


intravenous steroids may be more effective at reducing colectomy rates than intravenous steroids pus placebo126 whereas DHAENS200151 found intravenous steroids may be more clinically effective at decreasing colectomy rates at 0≤2 weeks compared to intravenous ciclosporin. No clinical difference was demonstrated in ciclosporin doses for clinical improvement rates. The GDG discussed the needs of people with acute severe ulcerative colitis and the importance of balancing the risks of continued medical treatment with surgery. This focused on the adverse events associated with intravenous steroids and, in experience, taking into account adverse events and costs, the GDG recommended that intravenous corticosteroids should be offered first and the need for surgery should be assessed. Intravenous ciclosporin or infliximab should be considered in specific circumstances (refer to NICE Technology Appraisal 163). The choice between ciclosporin and surgery requires careful clinical judgement that steroids and acknowledges the importance of avoiding unnecessary delays in considering surgery. Time to response to ciclosporin or infliximab should be taken into account in decision-making. Economic No cost-effectiveness evidence was identified. The GDG considered that for this considerations population, drug treatment would be necessary, due to risk of mortality if left untreated. Hence the costs attributed to treatment would be offset by the potential benefits to patients in terms of improvement of symptoms, possible avoidance of surgery and reduction in mortality. Quality of evidence study, colectomy in three studies and adverse events in one study. The evidence was mostly of very low quality and came from four studies with small sample sizes. There were no studies which enabled hazard ratio data to be extracted, so all of the analysis was based on relative risks at different time points during the studies. Other considerations Although the evidence is limited, there are no other treatment options for people with acute severe colitis on admission to hospital. The GDG acknowledge that these are strong recommendations based on weak evidence, but since there are no other treatment options for acute severe attacks and high mortality rates73 where acute severe ulcerative colitis is untreated, the GDG felt it was appropriate to make these recommendations. The GDG noted there are two clinical trials awaiting publication (GETAID CYSIF study and CONSTRUCT) that compare infliximab and ciclosporin. The GETAID CYSIF study reported at the 6th Congress of the European Crohn’s and Colitis Organisation in February 2011. These trials will aid further decision-making on treatment options for Ulcerative colitis Inducing
