National Clinical Guideline Centre
KEYWORDS: colitis, ulcerative, ulcerative colitis, clinical, remission, evidence, low, fewer, people, inconsistency, trials, randomised, guideline, quality, weeks


CYSIF study reported at the 6th Congress of the European Crohn’s and Colitis Organisation in February 2011. These trials will aid further decision-making on treatment options for Ulcerative colitis Inducing remission in people with ulcerative colitis this population. The GDG noted the importance of using heparin or low-molecular weight heparin in patients being treated with severe ulcerative colitis. NICE clinical guideline 92 ‘Reducing the risk of venous thromboembolism (deep vein thrombosis and pulmonary embolism) in patients admitted to hospital’ refers to inflammatory conditions as a risk factor for venous thromboembolism in combination with the expectation of ongoing reduced mobility relative to their normal state while in hospital. 5.47 Clinical introduction: Assessing likelihood of needing surgery Patients with ulcerative colitis may need a colectomy to control acute severe disease, chronic active disease (with poor quality of life) or to treat cancer or pre-cancerous changes. The timing of surgery in acute colitis is difficult, particularly during an acute attack when surgery carries a much greater risk of complications. The aim is to strike a balance between risking the most serious complications of colonic perforation or severe bleeding on the one hand and operating too early when medical therapy might have induced a remission. The timing of surgery (open or laparoscopic) should be when a patient is relatively healthy and can withstand a major abdominal operation and go on to a quick uneventful recovery. This aim has to be balanced against the avoidance of an operation that may mean the formation of an ileostomy, which may for some, be permanent. While ultimately a stoma can provide good quality of life, patients and their relatives may perceive having an ileostomy as a severe limitation with associated implications for their body image. For the majority, now, most patients can have reconstructive surgery and have the ileostomy closed following construction of an ileo-anal pouch. This will require an additional operation and also in some, a further procedure to close a loop ileostomy. Following colectomy, it is important that the rectum is not left in-situ. Firstly, many patients have symptoms from defunctioned proctitis that can be troublesome for a proportion. Secondly, the defunctioned rectum poses a cancer risk and surveillance is difficult. Patients who wish to avoid further operations may request a one-stage procto-colectomy. This may be acceptable in the elective setting, but in urgent cases is associated with a much greater degree of morbidity (complications). Moreover,
