National Clinical Guideline Centre
KEYWORDS: colitis, ulcerative, ulcerative colitis, clinical, remission, evidence, low, fewer, people, inconsistency, trials, randomised, guideline, quality, weeks


further operations may request a one-stage procto-colectomy. This may be acceptable in the elective setting, but in urgent cases is associated with a much greater degree of morbidity (complications). Moreover, an acute attack is not a good time for making irreversible decisions that clearly the option of reconstructive surgery has been lost. The Cleveland Clinic data suggests that complications from reconstructive surgery and pouch failure are reduced if reconstructive surgery is delayed for a minimum of 6 months following the colectomy. Acute attack Traditionally the timing of surgery is based upon signs of a severe illness (including fever, tachycardia, hypotension and anaemia). The classical data is retrospective and relates to patients who have had a colectomy. This report examines the data available about patients who have had a colectomy and tries to determine the factors that make a colectomy a likely outcome. 5.48 Review question: Which validated tools are the most predictive of the likelihood of surgery in people with acute severe ulcerative colitis? For full details see review protocol in Appendix C. Ulcerative colitis Inducing remission in people with ulcerative colitis 5.49 Clinical evidence: Timing of surgery 7 studies were included in the review.1,14,98,128,198,214,217 Evidence from these are summarised in the plots and ROC curves in Appendix H, study evidence tables in Appendix G and exclusion list in Appendix F. One systematic review was identified,211 and used to cross check the included indexes and their references. It was not included in this review as there was insufficient detail on the indexes and the focus of the systematic review was not solely validated indexes but included clinical parameter and biomarker associations. Four indices were identified that were developed to predict the colectomy rates associated with acute severe ulcerative colitis; Ho index, Travis index (Oxford Index), Seo index and the Lindgren index (FCI, Fulminant Colitis Index).See Table 78 for a summary of the indices. Table 78: Summary of the indices used in the studies Name of Index Components/ risk score Cut offs reviewed Ho index Mean stool frequency <4 – score 0 Day 3 total score ≥4 Mean stool frequency >4≤6 – score 1 Day 3 total score ≥5 Mean stool frequency >6≤8 – score 2 Day 3 total score ≥6 Mean stool frequency >9 – score 4 Colonic dilatation – score 4 Hypoalbuminaemia (<30g/l) – score 1 Lindgren (FCI) Number of bowel movements +0.14 x CRP Day 3 score>4 index
