National Clinical Guideline Centre
KEYWORDS: colitis, ulcerative, ulcerative colitis, clinical, remission, evidence, low, fewer, people, inconsistency, trials, randomised, guideline, quality, weeks


albumin, low haemoglobin, high platelet count or C-reactive protein (CRP) above 45 mg/litre (bear in mind that normal values may be different in pregnant women). Relative values of The outcomes measured were discrimination (sensitivity and specificity) and different outcomes calibration (observed/expected results) including area under the curve (AUC). The GDG considered high sensitivity on day 3, identifying those who need surgery, important measures. Trade off between There is a benefit in having a prognostic risk tool that will identify those people who clinical benefits and are likely to need surgery when presenting with acute severe ulcerative colitis. harms The GDG recognised that there are harms associated with a high false positive rate (unnecessarily identifing someone as needing surgery). Secondary therapy would be Ulcerative colitis Inducing remission in people with ulcerative colitis initiated earlier and there would be higher surgical rates, resulting in higher costs, adverse events and lower quality of life. There are also harms associated with a high false negative rate (not identifying someone who needs surgery). Secondary therapy may be started too late. As a result, there may be a higher surgery rate potentially leading to higher financial costs, adverse events and lower quality of life. A greater risk of surgical complications as the patients may be sicker and a higher risk of mortality. The GDG noted that due to the low quality evidence and heterogeneity in the validation of the indices no one tool could be recommended for use over another to predict the likelihood of surgery. However, the GDG noted the tools all used similar variables (stool frequency, abdominal x-ray, CRP, haemoglobin, albumin) to predict the likelihood of surgery and felt these should be signposted as key clinical parameters to be measured on and during admission for people with acute severe rate, platelet count). Economic The variables of the tools assessed in the review include stool frequency, abdominal considerations x-ray, CRP, haemoglobin and albumin. The GDG noted that monitoring these parameters would be routine, especially for patients admitted under acute settings. The potential additional impact on resource use of recommending monitoring was considered to be minimal. Quality of evidence Seven studies were included in the review. These included 4 indexes that were developed to predict the colectomy rates associated with acute severe ulcerative colitis; Ho index, Travis index (Oxford Index), Seo index and the Lindgren index (Fulminant Colitis Index, FCI). The validation of the indexes is
