National Clinical Guideline Centre
KEYWORDS: colitis, ulcerative, ulcerative colitis, clinical, remission, evidence, low, fewer, people, inconsistency, trials, randomised, guideline, quality, weeks


colectomy rates associated with acute severe ulcerative colitis; Ho index, Travis index (Oxford Index), Seo index and the Lindgren index (Fulminant Colitis Index, FCI). The validation of the indexes is rated as low quality. There were considerable limitations: • Different populations: moderate to severe, severe, steroid refractory, use of infliximab • Different interventions were used (corticosteroids, aminosalicylates, infliximab, ciclosporin) or concomitant medications • Different time points used for colectomy (during admission, 30 days, 30 weeks, 3 months) • The cut off points and the point at which the data is recorded is different in the derivation and validation studies • None of the studies reported calibration data (observed and expected results) • Colonic dilatation measured in the Ho index is not easily defined in the children and young person population • In all of the studies, blinding was unclear • The Travis index needs to be considered separately as the index measure is binary (yes/no) The confidence intervals overlapped in the studies which reported the AUROC. One reason for this could be due to the different time and cut off points used, making the results difficult to interpret. Other considerations The GDG concluded that due to the considerable limitations, they could not confidently choose which index is superior in predicting the need for surgery in people with acute severe ulcerative colitis. The recommendations were based on the risk factors identified in the tools and GDG consensus based on clinical experience. It was noted in the limitations that the Ho index used colonic dilatation, which may be more difficult to judge in children and young people. The GDG noted the Paediatric Ulcerative Colitis Activity Index (PUCAI) is used in practice to assess the severity of disease on admission. This index was not included in the review because Ulcerative colitis Inducing remission in people with ulcerative colitis only one study was identified - this compared the PUCAI to other indexes; a derivation study was not identified. Research recommendations The GDG discussed making a research recommendation around validating the PUCAI for assessing the likelihood of surgery. The GDG also agreed that there is a need to develop and validate a risk tool for adults. For further information on the research recommendations see Appendix M. Ulcerative colitis Information on surgery 6 Information on surgery 6.1 Clinical introduction Ulcerative colitis affects different people in different ways and to differing extents. The effect is not limited
