National Clinical Guideline Centre
KEYWORDS: colitis, ulcerative, ulcerative colitis, clinical, remission, evidence, low, fewer, people, inconsistency, trials, randomised, guideline, quality, weeks


M. Ulcerative colitis Information on surgery 6 Information on surgery 6.1 Clinical introduction Ulcerative colitis affects different people in different ways and to differing extents. The effect is not limited to physical manifestations but can have emotional, psychological and social consequences. Information-giving, including sign-posting, is one aspect of support that may help an individual address issues such as coming to terms with a new diagnosis, low mood, tiredness and coping skills, quality of life, effects on family and friends, relationships, education, work and social difficulties. Provision of information enables people with ulcerative colitis to take an active role in management of their disease and symptoms. The NICE guidance "Patient Experience in adult NHS Services (NICE Clinical Guideline 138)" highlights the need to treat people as individuals and to tailor their care accordingly. Points emphasised include the person having timely and appropriate access to the relevant healthcare professionals at the point of need. Work by a patient support group indicates that most patients want to understand their condition and be involved in making decisions about long term treatment options. Rapid access to specialist advice and care which is generally provided by IBD specialist nurses is advisable. This may include a telephone advice and support service, ensuring prompt and where immunosuppression and biological treatments are used. While there is little evidence that diet plays a significant role in ulcerative colitis, many patients find it difficult to accept that this is the case. Dieticians can help patients understand the need for a balanced diet and can provide nutritional assessment, advice and support for people throughout the disease process. Access to psychologists and counsellors is important for a range of problems and people with ulcerative colitis may benefit from their input at various stages of the disease. Improved access to these services has been recommended by the IBD Standards Group and the British Society of Gastroenterology. The effectiveness of their role, however, awaits rigorous evaluation. The GDG also felt it important to address the issue of information that would be helpful in informing decisions about the timing of surgery. The need for surgery as an emergency is addressed in section 5.47. However, some people with frequent flares, chronic active disease or troublesome drug side effects may wish to consider surgery to improve their quality of life. 6.2 Review question: For adults, children and young people with ulcerative colitis considering surgery, what information on short
