National Clinical Guideline Centre
KEYWORDS: colitis, ulcerative, ulcerative colitis, clinical, remission, evidence, low, fewer, people, inconsistency, trials, randomised, guideline, quality, weeks


effects may wish to consider surgery to improve their quality of life. 6.2 Review question: For adults, children and young people with ulcerative colitis considering surgery, what information on short and long term outcomes should be offered to patients and their carers by healthcare professionals? For full details see review protocol in Appendix C. 6.3 Clinical evidence No good quality studies were found directly addressing what people with ulcerative colitis wanted with regard to information and support when considering surgery. Consequently, we extracted data from more general qualitative studies on people’s views and experience. One qualitative study and Ulcerative colitis Information on surgery one survey were included in the review.35,157 See Table 80, the study selection flow chart in Appendix E, study evidence tables in Appendix Gand exclusion list in Appendix F. Table 80: Study details and quality assessment Relevance to guideline Study Population Aims of the study Methods Analysis population CARLSSON200 6/21 To describe the Methods not Poorly reported Sweden. 335 patients worries and appropriate to The had concerns of IBD meet aims or population ulcerative patients with an for the was post- colitis. ileostomy population operative. sample size. The time Adequately Adequately from reported reported Poorly reported surgery It is unclear ranged from how the 2-39 years. questionnaire was Indirect administered. population NOTTER200615 50 women To explore and Purposive Phenomenological UK, 7 after describe the sample approach Denmark. surgery perceptions and Semi structured Only women experiences of interview Well reported It is unclear women undergoing Poorly how many restorative reported Well reported of the proctocolectomy and women had surgery appropriate to ulcerative aims colitis. Well reported Limited sample and potentially Indirect sample As there were limited studies identified, a call for evidence to stakeholders was carried out to try and identify any further studies that has not been retrieved in the searches or that were due for publication in the near future. Five stakeholders responded to the call for evidence; The Royal College of Paediatrics and Child Pharmaceuticals. In total 52 pieces of evidence were submitted in the form of studies and surveys. Out of these only Survey2. See Table 81 for a summary of the study. Most of the submitted studies were excluded as they evaluated post- operative complications or changes in quality of life and not patient reported perspectives on information they would like to have known prior to surgery. The focus of this question was
