National Clinical Guideline Centre
KEYWORDS: colitis, ulcerative, ulcerative colitis, clinical, remission, evidence, low, fewer, people, inconsistency, trials, randomised, guideline, quality, weeks


The evidence highlights the need for people considering surgery to have access to healthcare professionals who have expertise in ulcerative colitis surgery. There was specific reference to the specialist nursing team. This enables the patient to discuss any anxieties that they may have about the procedures. Additional literature for patients to refer to also appeared to be an important factor. Sufficient preparation needs to be made for people to fully understand the surgical procedures and the changes that may occur in terms of body image and effect on daily activities. It is important to involve family members, parents or carers as appropriate and ensure that they also have access to sufficient information and support. 6.5 Economic evidence Published literature No relevant economic evaluations were identified. New cost-effectiveness analysis New analysis was not prioritised for this area. Unit costs In the absence of recent UK cost-effectiveness analysis, relevant unit costs are provided below to aid consideration of cost-effectiveness. Table 83: Resource costs Healthcare professional Costs per hour of patient contact(a) Medical/surgical consultant £137 General practitioner £127 IBD nurse specialist £53 Specialist registrar £59 (a) PSSRU 201145 6.6 Recommendations and link to evidence Recommendations Information about treatment options for people who are considering surgery These recommendations apply to anyone with ulcerative colitis considering elective surgery. The principles can also be applied to people requiring emergency surgery. Information when considering surgery 21. For people with ulcerative colitis who are considering surgery, ensure that a specialist (such as a gastroenterologist or a nurse specialist) gives the person (and their family members or carers as appropriate) information about all available treatment options, and discusses this with them. Information should include the benefits and risks of the Ulcerative colitis Information on surgery different treatments and the potential consequences of no treatment. 22. Ensure that the person (and their family members or carers as appropriate) has sufficient time and opportunities to think about the options and the implications of the different treatments. 23. Ensure that a colorectal surgeon gives any person who is considering surgery (and their family members or carers as appropriate) specific information about what they can expect in the short and long term after surgery, and discusses this with them. stoma nurse) gives any person who is considering surgery (and their family members or carers as appropriate) information about: • diet • sensitive topics such as sexual function • effects on lifestyle • psychological
