National Clinical Guideline Centre
KEYWORDS: colitis, ulcerative, ulcerative colitis, clinical, remission, evidence, low, fewer, people, inconsistency, trials, randomised, guideline, quality, weeks


person who is considering surgery (and their family members or carers as appropriate) information about: • diet • sensitive topics such as sexual function • effects on lifestyle • psychological wellbeing • the type of surgery, the possibility of needing a stoma and stoma care. 25. Ensure that a specialist who is knowledgeable about stomas (such as a stoma nurse or a colorectal surgeon) gives any person who is having surgery (and their family members or carers as appropriate) specific information about the siting, care and management of stomas. Information after surgery stomas (such as a stoma nurse or a colorectal surgeon) gives the person (and their family members or carers as appropriate) information about managing the effects on bowel function. This should be specific to the type of surgery performed (ileostomy or ileoanal pouch) and could include the following: • strategies to deal with the impact on their physical, psychological and social wellbeing • where to go for help if symptoms occur • sources of support and advice. Relative values of The outcomes of interest for this review were those reported in the papers that different outcomes were relevant to identifying information that people want when considering elective surgery. The outcomes were categorised into short term or long term outcomes, subcategorised by biological, physical/ interference with daily activities or psychological concerns. The GDG considered any reported opinions of information-provision equally important. The recommendation was based on this information and consensus opinion. Trade off between The GDG considered that people are often poorly prepared for surgery. The benefit Ulcerative colitis Information on surgery harms professional who is knowledgeable in the condition is well recognised. In this situation no harms were identified in giving appropriate information. Healthcare professionals must be aware of the impact of information on patients. This may have a negative impact or may be misunderstood and healthcare professionals should check the understanding and recall of information that has been given. Economic The GDG discussed patient information in the context of routine healthcare practice. considerations It was expected that any impact on time and resource use would be minimal and would likely be offset by an improvement in quality of life. Quality of evidence Two low quality studies were identified and the call for evidence identified one additional survey. The studies identified were of limited use in supporting the GDG in making a recommendation, Carlsson 2003 included only six
