National Clinical Guideline Centre
KEYWORDS: colitis, ulcerative, ulcerative colitis, clinical, remission, evidence, low, fewer, people, inconsistency, trials, randomised, guideline, quality, weeks


(getting used to it) • Impact on quality of life (social, occupational, sexual, functioning, relationships) • Self-image and others perception of you • Scar/ stoma • Awareness of cultural differences In the GDG’s experience these were key areas that people value in their consultations. This list is not exhaustive, but as a minimum these areas should be included in the discussion with the person considering surgery. The GDG recognised that some healthcare professionals may avoid discussing certain issues; they may not have the expertise in that area or assume that others will discuss it. The GDG are keen to emphasize that healthcare professionals should be adequately supported to address these issues. The GDG noted that people often request to speak to someone who has had the surgery and seek advice on support groups. The GDG discussed who is best placed to give information to people considering surgery. The GDG agreed that in the case of preparing people for major bowel surgery, where the impact is significant and timing is important, it is crucial that this is given by someone who has detailed specialist knowledge and experience in this area and is therefore able to address any questions that someone considering surgery may ask. The GDG have given examples of healthcare professionals that have advanced skills and knowledge specific to this area. Research recommendation The GDG agreed that the lack of evidence on information about surgery that people with ulcerative colitis would wish to know justified developing a research recommendation. For further information on the research recommendations see Appendix M. Ulcerative colitis Maintaining remission in people with ulcerative colitis 7 Maintaining remission in people with ulcerative colitis 7.1 Clinical introduction Ulcerative colitis is a long-term inflammatory illness affecting the colonic mucosa, which most commonly runs a relapsing and remitting course. This means that periods where the symptoms and inflammation in the colon and/or rectum are settled remission and these periods are interspersed with episodes when the symptoms and inflammation are more active - relapses. Guidance on treatment of relapses, or the induction of remission, is covered in Chapter 5. Two main groups of drugs are used to try to maintain remission: aminosalicylates and immunomodulators. 5-aminosalicylic acid (5-ASA) is generally regarded as the active moiety of aminosalicylate preparations used in ulcerative colitis. There are many preparations/or brands of 5-ASA that are designed to release the active drug, 5-ASA, in different parts of
