National Clinical Guideline Centre
KEYWORDS: colitis, ulcerative, ulcerative colitis, clinical, remission, evidence, low, fewer, people, inconsistency, trials, randomised, guideline, quality, weeks


the active moiety of aminosalicylate preparations used in ulcerative colitis. There are many preparations/or brands of 5-ASA that are designed to release the active drug, 5-ASA, in different parts of the small intestine or colon. The importance of the dose of aminosalicylate used for maintenance of remission in ulcerative colitis. Aminosalicylate and corticosteroid preparations can also be administered topically - as enemas or suppositories. Although thought to be infrequent, significant or severe side-effects of aminosalicylates include pancreatitis and kidney disease. Immunomodulator medication (azathioprine, mercaptopurine, methotrexate and tacrolimus) may also play a role in maintenance of remission. In this context, these drugs have been used for disease that is difficult to control: where the condition relapses rapidly after successful induction of remission; when symptoms relapse on decreasing treatment with steroids, or after a severe flare. These drugs may be associated with significant side-effects and monitoring for these is required. In any long-term condition, potentially requiring medication to be taken for a prolonged period, attempts to promote adherence to medication are important. These might include the dosing regimen, good quality information and explanation about the medication. It is therefore important to consider whether these drugs are effective in maintaining remission, and their relative safety, toxicity and cost-effectiveness. In evaluating the evidence on maintenance of remission, the GDG had to consider how relapse was without endoscopic features, and attempts continue to move towards a more uniform definition.215 In order to ensure that important studies were not excluded from their review, the GDG agreed, a priori, to use the authors’ definition of relapse, rather than to attempt to utilise a single index or definition. This does however risk increasing the heterogeneity of the studies included. 7.2 Review question: In adults, children and young people with effectiveness of corticosteroids, aminosalicylates, immunomodulators (mercaptopurine, azathioprine, methotrexate and tacrolimus) for the maintenance of remission compared to Ulcerative colitis Maintaining remission in people with ulcerative colitis themselves (different preparations and doses), each other, combinations of preparations (oral and topical) and placebo? For full details see review protocol in Appendix C. A matrix showing where evidence was identified is given in Table 84. A cross in the box indicates evidence was found and the evidence has been reviewed in this chapter an empty box indicates no evidence was found. National Clinical Guideline Centre, 2013. Maintaining remission in people with ulcerative colitis Ulcerative colitis Table 84: Maintenance of remission matrix of
