National Clinical Guideline Centre
KEYWORDS: colitis, ulcerative, ulcerative colitis, clinical, remission, evidence, low, fewer, people, inconsistency, trials, randomised, guideline, quality, weeks


chapter an empty box indicates no evidence was found. National Clinical Guideline Centre, 2013. Maintaining remission in people with ulcerative colitis Ulcerative colitis Table 84: Maintenance of remission matrix of comparisons Topical Prednisolone corticosteroids Hydrocortisone Budesonide Topical Mesalazine* X aminosalicylates Sulphasalazine Oral Prednisolone corticosteroids Budesonide Beclometasone Oral Mesalazine* X X aminosalicylates Olsalazine X X Balsalazide X X Sulphasalazine X X X X Combination Mesalazine & treatment beclometasone Oral &topical X mesalazine Immunomodulators Methotrexate X Azathioprine X Mercaptopurine X X Azathioprine X & olsalazine Placebo X X X X X X X Source/Note: *Unknown ASA or 5-ASA has also been included under this drug category. enolosinderP enositrocordyH edinoseduB *enizalaseM enizalasahpluS enolosinderP edinoseduB d enosatemolceB etanoiporpi * enizalaseM enizalaslO edizalaslaB enizalasahpluS & enizalaseM enosatemolceb lacipot& larO enizalasem etaxertohteM enirpoihtazA enirupotpacreM enirpoihtazA enizalaslo & Topical Topical Oral corticosteroids Oral aminosalicylates Combinations Immunomodulators corticosteroids aminosalicylates Ulcerative colitis Maintaining remission in people with ulcerative colitis The reviews for the maintenance of remission are presented in the following order: • Topical aminosalicylates versus placebo, topical aminosalicylates versus topical aminosalicylates dose comparison (section 7.4.1) • Topical corticosteroids versus placebo (section 7.8.1) • Oral aminosalicylates versus placebo,oral aminosalicylates versus oral aminosalicylates comparisons; dose, preparations,regimen and regimen and dose (section 7.12.1) • Continuous oral aminosalicylates versus intermittent topical aminosalicylates (section 7.16.1) • Immunomodulators: azathioprine versus placebo, azathioprine versus aminosalicylates, methotrexate versus placebo, mercaptopurine versus placebo and mercaptopurine versus 5-ASA (section 7.22.1). No studies were identified for the use of oral corticosteroids in maintenance treatment that met the inclusion criteria for the review. For all the reviews in this chapter an author defined definition of relapse was used. There is an extensive number of different indices used in the published literature and many of these indices are not validated. This approach carries a high risk of bias however, by choosing one index the GDG felt that too many studies would be excluded and there would be a lack of evidence to consider. The bias associated with using the author’s definitions was taken into account when analysing the data.There were no setting restrictions. Minimum trial duration of 6 months was applied. The following strata were analysed for each outcome if the data were available: • Severity of previous relapse (mild to moderate or severe) • Frequency of relapses • Current use of immunomodulators prior to the trial. The following subgroups were considered for subgroup analysis when appropriate in the event of
