National Clinical Guideline Centre
KEYWORDS: colitis, ulcerative, ulcerative colitis, clinical, remission, evidence, low, fewer, people, inconsistency, trials, randomised, guideline, quality, weeks


delivery characteristics of oral mesalazine preparations may vary; these preparations should not be considered interchangeable. In order to address this, mesalazines were compared to each other where possible and disease extent was explored where heterogeneity was present. The oral mesalazines listed in the BNF are Asacol, Ipocol, Mesren, Mezavant XL, Octasa, Pentasa and Salofalk. The reviews in this guideline name the mesalazine as it is named in the studies. We are aware that the mesalazines can change brand names, for example Mesren was been rebranded as Octasa 400 in December 2012. The mesalazines were also compared to the ASAs where possible. The mesalazines named in the included studies were Asacol, Mezavant XL, Pentasa and Salofalk. The other ASAs in the included studies were balsalazide, olsalazine and sulphasalazine. Ulcerative colitis Maintaining remission in people with ulcerative colitis “Oral 5-aminosalicylic acid for maintenance of remission in ulcerative colitis” was published by the Cochrane collaboration in 1997 and has since been updated several times most recently in 2012.65 The review included 38 studies, which looked at the following comparisons: • 5-ASAs versus placebo • 5-ASAs versus sulphasalazine • Once a day versus conventional dosing • 5-ASA versus comparator 5-ASA • 5-ASA dose ranging The Cochrane review concluded that 5-ASA was clinically more effective than placebo for the maintenance therapy of ulcerative colitis, sulphasalazine was superior to 5-ASAs and once daily dosing is as effective as conventional dosing. No differences were found between the different formulations. It was also suggested that patients with extensive disease or frequent relapses may benefit from a higher dose of oral ASA. The adverse events rates did not appear to differ between the higher and the lower dose. The Cochrane review was excluded because it differed from the clinical review protocol in terms of the methods of analysis; the clinical review used hazard ratios in preference to relative risk ratios to take account of the time horizon, included trials with doses under the level recommended in the BNF which was considered inconsistent with clinical practice and treatments that are not available in the UK. The following studies included in the Cochrane review were excluded from the Ulcerative Colitis review for the following reasons: • ANDREOLI1987, FOCKENS1995, GIAFFER1992, MCINTYRE1988; MULDER1988: dose is lower than that recommended in the BNF • ARDIZZONE1995, LICHTENSTEIN2010, MAHMUD2002; RUTGEERTS1989: comparator is not available in the UK (Claversal, Apriso granules, Asacolon) • DEW1983: Unclear method of
