National Clinical Guideline Centre
KEYWORDS: colitis, ulcerative, ulcerative colitis, clinical, remission, evidence, low, fewer, people, inconsistency, trials, randomised, guideline, quality, weeks


Table 107: Economic evidence profile: Continuous oral ASA and intermittent topical ASA versus continuous oral ASA Incremental Incremental Cost- Study Limitations Applicability Other comments cost effects effectiveness Uncertainty Piodi164 Very serious Partially Estimate of treatment effects £186(c) 0.20 £929 per Sensitivity analysis not reported limitations(a) applicable(b) obtained from one source (case relapses relapse control study, small sample size). avoided avoided(c) d’Albasio46 Very serious Partially Within-trial analysis so estimate £300.07 (c) 0.3 relapses £1000.25 per Sensitivity analysis not reported limitations(a) applicable(b) of treatment effects obtained avoided relapse from one source. avoided(c) (a) Limited information provided on resource use. Costs sources and calculations not clearly reported. No sensitivity analysis conducted. (b) The study was designed to reflect the management of ulceraitve colitis in the Italy therefore resource use may not be applicable to the UK health system.The value of health effects were not expressed in terms of quality-adjusted life years. (c) Costs were converted from US dollars to UK pounds using Purchasing Power Parities161 Ulcerative colitis Maintaining remission in people with ulcerative colitis New cost-effectiveness analysis New analysis was not prioritised for this area. Unit costs In the absence of recent UK cost-effectiveness analysis, relevant unit costs are provided in AppendixK to aid consideration of cost-effectiveness. 7.18 Evidence statements 7.18.1 Clinical evidence statements 7.18.1.1 Continuous oral ASAs versus intermittent rectal ASAs Relapse Intermittent topical ASAs are clinically more effective in reducing relapse rates compared to oral ASAs [low quality evidence,2 studies, N=69] Adverse events There may be no clinical difference between continuous oral ASAs and intermittent topical ASAs in adverse event or colectomy rates [very low quality evidence 1 study, N=60; 1 study, N=38] 7.18.1.2 Continuous oral ASAs & intermittent topical ASAs versus continuous oral ASAs Relapse Continuous oral ASAs and intermittent topical ASAs to be clinically more effective in reducing relapse rates compared to oral ASAs alone [moderate quality evidence, 2 studies, N=96] 7.18.2 Economic evidence statements Two partially applicable economic studies with very serious limitations found that in comparison to oral 5-ASA treatment, maintenance treatment with continuous oral and intermittent topical 5-ASA costs more but reduces the frequency of relapse. 7.19 Network meta-analysis Two NMAs were performed; a baseline NMA which compared all treatments and a combined NMA which addressed the the relationship between low and high doses of aminosalicylates. The combined NMA informed the inputs in the original health economic models which are described in Appendix L. For detailed
