National Clinical Guideline Centre
KEYWORDS: colitis, ulcerative, ulcerative colitis, clinical, remission, evidence, low, fewer, people, inconsistency, trials, randomised, guideline, quality, weeks


the the relationship between low and high doses of aminosalicylates. The combined NMA informed the inputs in the original health economic models which are described in Appendix L. For detailed explanation on methodology and results of NMAs refer to Appendix J. 7.19.1 Comparison of the maintenance of remission treatments (baseline NMA) A NMA was performed to compare the treatments for the maintenance of remission in people with left-sided/extensive ulcerative colitis. The analyses were based on a total of 18 studies. These studies formed two networks of evidence for the outcomes: rate of relapse and number of withdrawals.The number of withdrawals rather than withdrawals due to treatment specific adverse events was Ulcerative colitis Maintaining remission in people with ulcerative colitis chosen due to unclear reporting in the trials. These outcomes were considered by the GDG as the most important clinical outcomes. The interventions included in each network are shown in Table 108. For more details on the network please see Appendix J. Table 108: Maintenance of remission treatments included in the network meta-analyses of people in remission with ulcerative colitis Baseline Network Meta-Analysis Network 1: Relapse Network 2: Withdrawals Placebo Placebo High dose Pentasa High dose Pentasa Low dose Asacol Low dose Asacol High dose Asacol High dose Asacol Low dose Olsalazine Low dose Olsalazine High dose Olsalazine High dose Olsalazine Low dose SASP Low dose SASP High dose SASP High dose SASP Low dose Salofalk Low dose Salofalk High dose Salofalk High dose Salofalk Low dose Balsalazide Low dose Balsalazide High dose Balsalazide High dose Balsalazide 7.19.2 Evidence summary Relapse A NMA of 18 studies comparing 12 treatments suggested all the treatments were better than placebo. The low and high doses of olsalazine and low and high doses of sulfasalazine are significantly better than placebo. With the overlapping confidence intervals of the different treatments it is difficult to be confident of one treatment’s superiority compared to the alternative treatments for the maintenance of remission compared to placebo. Withdrawals A NMA of 13 studies comparing 12 treatments suggested that there was no significant difference in withdrawal from treatments. 7.19.3 Comparison of the maintenance of remission treatments with the aminosalicylates combined into low and high doses (combined NMA) A NMA combining the aminosalicylates was performedfollowing the results of the baseline NMA to look at the relationship between placebo, low and high dose aminosalicylates. The analysis informed the inputs into the original health
