National Clinical Guideline Centre
KEYWORDS: colitis, ulcerative, ulcerative colitis, clinical, remission, evidence, low, fewer, people, inconsistency, trials, randomised, guideline, quality, weeks


aminosalicylates was performedfollowing the results of the baseline NMA to look at the relationship between placebo, low and high dose aminosalicylates. The analysis informed the inputs into the original health economic model. The analyses were based on a total of 13 studies. These studies formed two networks of evidence for the two outcomes: rate of relapse and number of withdrawals. The interventions included in each network are shown in Table 109. For more details on the network please see appendix I. Table 109: Maintenance of remission treatments (combined aminosalicylates) included in the network meta-analyses of people in remission with ulcerative colitis Combined Network Meta-Analysis Network 1: Relapse Network 2: Withdrawals Placebo Placebo Ulcerative colitis Maintaining remission in people with ulcerative colitis Combined Network Meta-Analysis Network 1: Relapse Network 2: Withdrawals Low dose ASA Low dose ASA High dose ASA High dose ASA 7.19.4 Evidence summary Relapse A NMA of 13 studies comparing 3 treatments suggested that high dose ASA and low dose ASA were more effective than placebo at maintaining remission. High dose ASA was shown to be better than low dose ASA although there was an overlap between the confidence intervals. Withdrawal A NMA of 13 studies comparing 3 treatments suggested there was a higher probability of withdrawing from low dose ASA than from high dose ASA. 7.20 Health economic maintenance model summary 7.20.1 Original economic analysis The GDG considered the available evidence on cost-effectiveness of aminosalicylates in maintaining remission. A study by Yen230 assessed the cost-effectiveness of no maintenance therapy versus 5-ASA maintenance therapy in patients with mild to moderate UC. 5-ASA therapy was shown to increase the discounted QALYs per person yielding an incremental cost-effectiveness ratio (ICER) of £146,000/QALY. This figure was highly dependent on the daily cost of ASAs as a sensitivity analysis showed that the ICER was £10,306/QALY when cheaper drug costs of sulfasalazine were used. The GDG noted that there were issues surrounding the applicability of this study as some health state utilities were inferred from a Crohn’s disease and the model was based on a non-UK population. The network meta-analysis (described in Appendix I) conducted on oral ASA maintenance treatments provided effectiveness data for low dose oral ASAs and high dose oral ASAs. The GDG felt that majority of patients would be on maintenance therapy after successful induction of remission and therefore considered this topic to be a top priority for original economic
