National Clinical Guideline Centre
KEYWORDS: colitis, ulcerative, ulcerative colitis, clinical, remission, evidence, low, fewer, people, inconsistency, trials, randomised, guideline, quality, weeks


The GDG felt that majority of patients would be on maintenance therapy after successful induction of remission and therefore considered this topic to be a top priority for original economic analysis. Hence, the original economic model presented here sought to address the question about the cost-effectiveness of different doses of ASAs for maintaining remission in people with ulcerative colitis. A summary of the analysis is presented below and a full description can be found in Appendix L. 7.20.2 Methods 7.20.2.1 Model overview A cost-utility analysis was undertaken in Microsoft Excel® where costs and quality-adjusted life years (QALYs) were considered from a UK NHS and personal social services (PSS) perspective. A Markov model was constructed in order to estimate the costs and QALYs associated with different treatment strategies for the maintenance of remission. Both costs and QALYs were discounted at a rate of 3.5% per annum in line with NICE methodological guidance151. Uncertainty was explored through probabilistic and sensitivity analyses. The time horizon considered in the base case model was 2 years. This time horizon was chosen to reflect the duration of the longest trial explored in the clinical review for maintenance of remission. Ulcerative colitis Maintaining remission in people with ulcerative colitis 7.20.2.2 Population The population entering the model are adults in remission who have previously had a mild to moderate inflammatory exacerbation of left sided or extensive ulcerative colitis. Author reported extensive disease was defined as inflammation greater than 30-40cm (see Appendix C). The cohort starting age was chosen as 18 years as the GDG felt this represented a typical age of onset. The risk of mortality was assumed to be the same as that of the general UK population. 7.20.2.3 Comparators Two network meta-analyses (NMAs) were conducted addressing the use of oral ASAs for maintenance of remission in people who have previously had a mild to moderate inflammatory exacerbation of left sided or extensive ulcerative colitis (Appendix I). A baseline NMA was conducted which addressed two outcomes; rate of relapse and withdrawals from treatment. The NMA didn’t demonstrate any clinically significant differences between the lower doses of oral ASAs in terms of their effectiveness in maintaining remission. This was the same for the higher doses of oral ASAs. In the NMA, a dose effect was not observed between lower and higher doses of oral ASAs but in the clinical review a dose relationship was suggested. It was thought
