National Clinical Guideline Centre
KEYWORDS: colitis, ulcerative, ulcerative colitis, clinical, remission, evidence, low, fewer, people, inconsistency, trials, randomised, guideline, quality, weeks


In the NMA, a dose effect was not observed between lower and higher doses of oral ASAs but in the clinical review a dose relationship was suggested. It was thought that the same groupings should be used as in the induction NMAs due to small event rates. It was also felt that because there was large uncertainty in the results, grouping the oral ASAs into low and high doses could strengthen the power to demonstrate an effect. A second NMA (combined NMA) was therefore conducted which combined trials reporting low dose oral ASAs into one treatment group, and trials reporting high dose oral ASAs into another treatment group. The results of this NMA informed the clinical inputs in this economic analysis. The six comparators examined in the model were chosen by the GDG. The comparators explored the use of different doses of aminosalicylates (ASA) and are as follows: o No maintenance, returning to no maintenance strategy: starting patients on no maintenance and returning to no maintenance after treating an outpatient flare. o No maintenance, returning to low dose ASA strategy: starting patients on no maintenance and moving to a low maintenance dose ASA after treating an outpatient flare. o No maintenance, returning to high dose ASA strategy: starting patients on no maintenance and moving to a high maintenance dose ASA after treating an outpatient flare. o Low dose ASA, returning to low dose ASA strategy: starting patients on low maintenance dose ASA and returning to a low maintenance dose ASA after treating an outpatient flare. o Low dose ASA, returning to high dose ASA strategy: starting patients on low maintenance dose ASA and moving to a high maintenance dose ASA after treating an outpatient flare. o High dose ASA, returning to high dose ASA strategy: starting patients on high maintenance dose ASA and returning to a high maintenance dose ASA after treating an outpatient flare. 7.20.2.4 Model structure A Markov model was constructed in which, the QALY gain is driven by the amount of time people spend in the remission and active disease (relapse) states. Treatment effects in this economic model were based on these two outcomes - withdrawals and relapses. A cycle length of two months was chosen to reflect the duration of the treatment of patients who are undergoing induction treatment for a flare. In any 2-month cycle, patients could remain in remission or experience a relapse. Patients
