National Clinical Guideline Centre
KEYWORDS: colitis, ulcerative, ulcerative colitis, clinical, remission, evidence, low, fewer, people, inconsistency, trials, randomised, guideline, quality, weeks


reflect the duration of the treatment of patients who are undergoing induction treatment for a flare. In any 2-month cycle, patients could remain in remission or experience a relapse. Patients who experienced a relapse were treated with the cost-effective Ulcerative colitis Maintaining remission in people with ulcerative colitis treatment strategy derived from the induction of remission economic model. The strategy involved outpatient treatment with a high induction dose of oral ASA. In the event of failure to respond to this therapy, treatment was escalated as follows: high induction dose of oral ASA + beclometasone, followed by prednisolone. If the flare persisted, patients were treated as inpatients and received intravenous drug therapy which could be with either steroids or ciclosporin. Finally, lack of response to intravenous therapy resulted in patients having surgery. There were three options modelled for patients who went into remission after an outpatient flare. They could receive no treatment or they could be placed on either a low dose oral ASA or high dose oral ASA maintenance therapy. Inpatients that went into drug-induced remission were placed on azathioprine maintenance therapy while inpatients that had surgically-induced remission remained in remission for the rest of the model and were not on any maintenance treatment. All patients in remission (except surgical remission) had a probability of relapsing. Two Markov model structures were developed to describe the pathway of treatment. This was necessary as the treatment pathway varied depending on what maintenance treatment patients received after a flare. For all comparators, it was assumed that patients who withdrew from treatment remained in remission for the duration of the cycle. In the next cycle however, their risk of relapse was similar to those on no maintenance treatment. The first model structure shown in Figure 5 is relevant for comparators 1, 4 and 6 as described above. Based on this, patients entered the model on one of the following options - no maintenance, low dose oral ASA or high dose oral ASA. In the event of a flare, they were treated as described above and following remission, they returned to the same maintenance regimen with which they entered the model. Figure 5: Markov model structure for comparators 1, 4 and 6 The second model structure shown in Figure 6 is relevant for comparators 2, 3 and 5 as described above Based on this, patients entered the model on either no maintenance or low dose
