National Clinical Guideline Centre
KEYWORDS: colitis, ulcerative, ulcerative colitis, clinical, remission, evidence, low, fewer, people, inconsistency, trials, randomised, guideline, quality, weeks


structure shown in Figure 6 is relevant for comparators 2, 3 and 5 as described above Based on this, patients entered the model on either no maintenance or low dose oral ASA. In Ulcerative colitis Maintaining remission in people with ulcerative colitis the event of a flare, they were treated as described above but returned to a maintenance regimen different to that with which they entered the model. Figure 6: Markov model structure for comparators 2, 3 and 5 7.20.2.5 Model inputs The relative effects of treatments on the baseline transition probabilities were derived from clinical evidence identified in the systematic review undertaken for the guideline, the results of the NMA and supplemented by additional data sources as required. Health utility data were obtained from the literature. Cost inputs were obtained from recognized national sources such as the drug tariff, NHS reference costs and Personal Social Services Research Unit (PSSRU) publications. All inputs were validated by the GDG. 7.20.2.6 Sensitivity analysis In total, five uni-variate sensitivity analyses were conducted, whereby, for each analysis one key model input was changed in order to explore the sensitivity of model results to changes in that parameter. One multi-variate sensitivity analysis was conducted deterministically to address the effects of ASA costs on the model results. A probabilistic analysis was carried out whereby distributions were assigned to treatment effects, utilities and, where possible, costs in order to account for the uncertainty in model inputs and capture the effect of this uncertainty on model outputs. 7.20.3 Results 7.20.3.1 Base case The results showed that the cost-effective option is the low maintenance returning to low maintenance strategy as it yields the highest net monetary benefit (NMB). This strategy involves Ulcerative colitis Maintaining remission in people with ulcerative colitis starting patients on low maintenance dose ASA and returning to a low maintenance dose ASA after treating an outpatient flare. Table 110 shows the breakdown of the results. The low maintenance returning to low maintenance strategy had the highest NMB and was cost-effective in 61% of the simulations. The high maintenance returning to high maintenance strategy was cost-effective in 30% of cases. This shows that while the low maintenance returning to low maintenance strategy is likely to be cost-effective there is uncertainty about this result and there is a good possibility that high maintenance returning to high maintenance strategy could be cost-effective. Table 110: Cost-effectiveness in the base case
