National Clinical Guideline Centre
KEYWORDS: colitis, ulcerative, ulcerative colitis, clinical, remission, evidence, low, fewer, people, inconsistency, trials, randomised, guideline, quality, weeks


Limitations and interpretation • The costs and dis-utilities of drug-specific adverse events were not explicitly modelled due to lack of robust data. This means that the cost-effectiveness of oral ASAs may have been over-estimated although the magnitude is unknown as each individual ASA is likely to have a specific side-effect profile. The overestimation of the ICER would be greater for ASAs that have more serious side effects compared to those with less serious side effects. This introduces uncertainty around interpretation of the results. • In the model, it is assumed that all relapses have the same severity. It is possible therefore that the induction treatment sequence may not be appropriate for all patients. This assumption may over estimate the cost-effectiveness of all comparators. • Mesalazines, such as Mesren and Octasa have not been included in this analysis as they are not named in the studies identified in the clinical review. The GDG were unable to comment about the relative efficacy of these mesalazines hence caution should be exercised when generalising the results of this model. • Patients who withdraw from treatment were assumed to still be in remission. This is a conservative approach. If withdrawal from treatment results in flare of disease, the cost- effectiveness of all comparators may have been overestimated in the model. • Treatment adherence was assumed to be 100% in the model. The GDG however noted that this may not be the case in reality and measures to improve adherence are discussed elsewhere in the guideline. 7.20.4.2 Generalisability to other populations/settings The analysis was based on data obtained from an adult population hence may not be generalizable to paediatric populations. This is especially important as the dose ranges of ASAs were based on adult doses. A model relevant to the paediatric population could not be constructed due to paucity of clinical data. Relapses in the model are assumed to be mild to moderate initially. In reality, patients may experience greater severities of relapse which may necessitate treatment options different to those captured in the model. Similarly, other extents of ulcerative colitis such as proctitis have not been addressed and as such treatment options used in the model may not be applicable. 7.20.5 Conclusion/evidence statement The original cost-effectiveness analysis conducted for this guideline suggests that low dose oral ASA is the most cost-effective option to maintain remission in patients with left sided or extensive ulcerative colitis, although
