National Clinical Guideline Centre
KEYWORDS: colitis, ulcerative, ulcerative colitis, clinical, remission, evidence, low, fewer, people, inconsistency, trials, randomised, guideline, quality, weeks


cost-effectiveness analysis conducted for this guideline suggests that low dose oral ASA is the most cost-effective option to maintain remission in patients with left sided or extensive ulcerative colitis, although there is considerable uncertainty related to interpretation of the withdrawals data. 7.21 Clinical evidence: Immunomodulators Eight studies were included in the review.91,103,134,140,160,204-206 Evidence from these are summarised in forest plots in Appendix H, study evidence tables in Appendix G and exclusion list in Appendix F. Ulcerative colitis Maintaining remission in people with ulcerative colitis As per the review protocol, studies where the randomisation occurred with the patients in remission have been included. As immunomodulators are often started in addition to corticosteroids for the induction of remission to allow the tapering of corticosteroids and their continuation as a maintenance treatment, studies that have used this treatment regimen and randomised the patients at the point of induction have also been included but analysed separately. There is a risk of bias associated with this method due to not all of the patient’s entering remission or taking different times to enter remission and this has been taken into account when interpreting the results of these studies. For these studies, relapse figures are calculated as those who relapse after having remission induced. The other outcomes are reported over the whole trial period e.g. adverse events. There were only 2 studies identified that matched our inclusion criteria which looked at the use of azathioprine for the maintenance of remission. The other 6 studies were randomised at the point of the induction of remission. “Azathioprine and 6-mercaptopurine for maintenance of remission in ulcerative colitis” was published by the Cochrane collaboration in 2007 and was updated in 2012209. New studies that were identified in the search were excluded. The review included 6 studies which looked at the following comparisons: • Azathioprine versus placebo • Azathioprine versus 6-mercaptopurine • 6-mercaptopurine versus methotrexate The Cochrane review concluded that azathioprine is clinically more effective at maintaining remission compared to placebo, and that azathioprine or 6-mercaptopurine could be used for maintenance treatment in people who have failed or cannot tolerate mesalazine or sulphasalazine and for those who require repeated courses of corticosteroids. The Cochrane review was excluded because it differed from the clinical review protocol in terms of the methods of analysis; the clinical review used hazard ratios in preference to relative risk ratios to take account of the time horizon and
