National Clinical Guideline Centre
KEYWORDS: colitis, ulcerative, ulcerative colitis, clinical, remission, evidence, low, fewer, people, inconsistency, trials, randomised, guideline, quality, weeks


low quality evidence 1 study, N=13] 7.24.2 Economic evidence statements No relevant economic evaluations were identified. 7.25 Recommendations and link to evidence Maintaining remission in people with ulcerative colitis Proctitis and proctosigmoiditis Recommendations 27. To maintain remission after a mild to moderate inflammatory Ulcerative colitis Maintaining remission in people with ulcerative colitis exacerbation of proctitis or proctosigmoiditis, consider the following options, taking into account the person’s preferences: • a topical aminosalicylatez alone (daily or intermittent) or • an oral aminosalicylateaa plus a topical aminosalicylatez (daily or intermittent) or • an oral aminosalicylateaa alone, explaining that this may not be as effective as combined treatment or an intermittent topical aminosalicylate alone. Left-sided and extensive ulcerative colitis 28. To maintain remission in adults after a mild to moderate inflammatory exacerbation of left-sided or extensive ulcerative colitis: • offer a low maintenance dose of an oral aminosalicylate • when deciding which oral aminosalicylate to use, take into account the person's preferences, side effects and cost. 29. To maintain remission in children and young people after a mild to moderate inflammatory exacerbation of left-sided or extensive ulcerative colitis: • offer an oral aminosalicylatemm • when deciding which oral aminosalicylate to use, take into account the person's preferences (and those of their parents or carers as appropriate), side effects and cost. All extents of disease 30. Consider oral azathioprinenn or oral mercaptopurinenn to maintain remission: • after two or more inflammatory exacerbations in 12 months that require treatment with systemic corticosteroids or • if remission is not maintained by aminosalicylates. 31. To maintain remission after a single episode of acute severe ulcerative colitis: • consider oral azathioprinenn or oral mercaptopurinenn • consider oral aminosalicylates in people who cannot tolerate or who decline azathioprine and/or mercaptopurine, or in whom azathioprine and/or mercaptopurine are contraindicated. mm At the time of publication , some oral aminosalicylates did not have a UK marketing authorisation for this indication in children and young people. The prescriber should follow relevant professional guidance, taking full responsibility for the decision. Informed consent should be obtained and documented. See the General Medical Council’s Good practice in prescribing and managing medicines and devices for further information. Dosing requirements for children should be calculated by body weight, as described in the BNF. did not have a UK marketing authorisation for this indication. The prescriber should follow relevant professional guidance, taking full responsibility for the decision. Informed consent
