National Clinical Guideline Centre
KEYWORDS: colitis, ulcerative, ulcerative colitis, clinical, remission, evidence, low, fewer, people, inconsistency, trials, randomised, guideline, quality, weeks


as described in the BNF. did not have a UK marketing authorisation for this indication. The prescriber should follow relevant professional guidance, taking full responsibility for the decision. Informed consent should be obtained and documented. See the General Medical Council’s Good practice in prescribing and managing medicines and devices for further information. Ulcerative colitis Maintaining remission in people with ulcerative colitis Dosing regimen for oral aminosalicylates 32. Consider a once-daily dosing regimen for oral aminosalicylatesoo when used for maintaining remission. Take into account the person’s preferences, and explain that once-daily dosing can be more effective, but may result in more side effects. Relative values of different The GDG considered the following outcomes direct measures that indicated outcomes long term maintenance of remission: • Relapse (author defined) • Health related quality of life (any validated indexes). These were considered the critical outcomes in making decisions about the maintenance of remission. The GDG considered the following outcomes should also be considered when making decisions on appropriate treatments for the maintenance of remission: • Adverse events • Serious adverse events • Colectomy • Hospitalisations. Trade off between clinical The GDG recommended different treatment options for proctitis/ benefits and harms proctosigmoiditis and left sided/extensive ulcerative colitis based on clinical experience. Topical preparations are thought not to extend to the colon and are unsuitable for treating people with left sided or extensive disease. Proctitis/proctosigmoiditis The evidence for recommendation 27 is limited and is reflected in the strength of the recommendation. The evidence demonstrated benefit for both topical ASAs and topical budesonide127 in maintaining remission compared to placebo. Based on clinical experience and the safety concerns of using long term corticosteroids the GDG made a recommendation for the use of topical ASAs. Very low quality evidence found a higher dose of a topical ASA (1g suppositories) may be more beneficial than a lower dose (500mg).12,47 The GDG considered the absence of evidence in this area comparing topical preparations or doses and were unable to make a recommendation on preparation or dose. Mode of application Intermittent topical ASAs were found to be clinically more effective in reducing relapse rates compared to oral ASAs [low quality evidence, 2 studies, N=69]. Intermittent topical treatment in the trials is defined as the first seven days of the month (D’Albaso48), twice weekly (Andreoli3) and every third night (Mantzaris133). The GDG recognised however that some people would prefer to use an oral
