National Clinical Guideline Centre
KEYWORDS: colitis, ulcerative, ulcerative colitis, clinical, remission, evidence, low, fewer, people, inconsistency, trials, randomised, guideline, quality, weeks


as the first seven days of the month (D’Albaso48), twice weekly (Andreoli3) and every third night (Mantzaris133). The GDG recognised however that some people would prefer to use an oral ASA rather than a topical treatment and included this as a treatment option for people with proctitis or proctosigmoiditis. The recommendation makes it clear that this may not be as effective a treatment option but that it may be better than no treatment. In relation to combination treatment (oral plus topical treatment) the evidence was limited. Continuous oral ASAs and intermittent topical ASAs were found oo At the time of publication , not all oral aminosalicylates had a UK marketing authorisation for once-daily dosing. The prescriber should follow relevant professional guidance, taking full responsibility for the decision. Informed consent should be obtained and documented. See the General Medical Council’s Good practice in prescribing and managing medicines and devices for further information. Ulcerative colitis Maintaining remission in people with ulcerative colitis to be clinically more effective in reducing relapse rates compared to oral ASAs alone [moderate quality evidence, 2 studies, N=96).46,231 The GDG recognised there may be benefit for combination therapy and added this to the recommendation 27 as a ‘consider’. Children Recommendation 27 includes children and young people. None of the studies included children or young people and the adult evidence was extrapolated. The GDG noted that topical treatments are rarely used in children in the UK. Support and education could improve compliance to the use of topical steroids and ASAs in children and young people. Left sided/ extensive ulcerative colitis Mesalazine/ASA preparations As noted in the introduction the BNF states that: The delivery characteristics of oral mesalazine preparations may vary; these preparations should not be considered interchangeable. In order to address this, mesalazines were compared to each other where possible and disease extent was explored where heterogeneity was present. The mesalazines were also compared to the other ASAs where possible. The direct evidence was limited and mostly of low to very quality and did not demonstrate that any one mesalazine or ASA preparation was clinically more effective than another. The oral mesalazines listed in the BNF are Asacol, Ipocol, Mesren, Mezavant, Octasa, Pentasa and Salofalk. The reviews in this guideline name the mesalazine as it is named in the studies. We are aware that the mesalazines can change brand names, for example Mesren was been rebranded as Octasa 400
