National Clinical Guideline Centre
KEYWORDS: colitis, ulcerative, ulcerative colitis, clinical, remission, evidence, low, fewer, people, inconsistency, trials, randomised, guideline, quality, weeks


guideline name the mesalazine as it is named in the studies. We are aware that the mesalazines can change brand names, for example Mesren was been rebranded as Octasa 400 in December 2012. Recommendation 28 is supported by evidence from network meta-analyses (NMA) and these data were used in the health economic model. The NMAs showed that all the treatments were better than placebo, it should be noted all the confidence intervals overlapped. Due to the limitations of the NMA (almost all comparisons were based on single studies, a few of which were small studies with large confidence intervals; very low or low quality studies; SASP tolerant populations in trials; varying times in remission prior to enrolling in trial; the extent of disease often not recorded/ precise with a risk of indirect populations; and the use of different indexes for remission) there is insufficient evidence to be confident of one treatment’s superiority compared to another for the maintenance of remission. In addition, other mesalazines are available (Mesren, Octasa) but none of the studies named these mesalazines and so the GDG were unable to comment on their efficacy. There were not any clinically significant differences between the low dose oral ASAs and this was the same for the high dose oral ASAs. A dose effect was not observed between lower and higher doses of ASAs but in the clinical review a dose relationship was suggested and in an NMA that compared combined high doses and combined low dose, the high dose ASAs were more effective than low dose ASAs or placebo. In the first NMA, the probability of the treatment having fewer withdrawals due to adverse event was highest in oral mesalazine and beclometasone (72.8%) and balsalazide (13.0%). The health economic showed that it was cost-effective to maintain patients on a low dose ASA. The costs of ASA had an impact on the results as all strategies Ulcerative colitis Maintaining remission in people with ulcerative colitis became more cost-effective if cheaper brands were used. and considering the limitations from the NMA and health economic model the GDG were confident to offer a low maintenance dose of an oral ASA. Combination therapy There was some evidence to support the use of oral ASA and intermittent ASA enemas but the GDG recognised there would be issues around acceptability and tolerability and this was not thought a treatment option widely chosen in practice. However
