National Clinical Guideline Centre
KEYWORDS: colitis, ulcerative, ulcerative colitis, clinical, remission, evidence, low, fewer, people, inconsistency, trials, randomised, guideline, quality, weeks


ASA and intermittent ASA enemas but the GDG recognised there would be issues around acceptability and tolerability and this was not thought a treatment option widely chosen in practice. However the GDG were keen to offer this as a treatment option when an oral ASA alone is not working or to avoid an immunomodulator and recognised that it was about patient choice. Children and young people Recommendation 29 is specific to children and young people. None of the studies included children or young people; whilst the adult evidence was extrapolated according to the treatments, the GDG could not recommend a ‘low’ dose ASA and recognised that paediatric doses should be calculated by body weight, as described in the children’s BNF. Regimen Very low to low quality evidence showed there is no clinical difference between taking a once a day dose of an oral ASA compared to conventional dosing (more than once a day) although the side effects may be greater with once daily dosing.62,115 The GDG recognised that some people would prefer a once daily dosing regimen but acknowledged the evidence was limited and that the benefit needs to outweigh the risk of possible additional adverse and serious adverse events. This is reflected in recommendation 32. The GDG noted that if people did experience side effects with once daily dosing the dose should be split across the day. Immunomodulators The evidence on the use of immunomodulators was limited and after taking into account the adverse events associated with immunomodulators compared to ASAs the GDG felt that none of the immunomodulators should be recommended first line in place of ASAs. However the GDG recognised that in the following circumstances treatment options are limited: after two or more inflammatory exacerbations in 12 months that require treatment with systemic corticosteroids; after a single episode of acute severe ulcerative colitis; or if remission is not maintained by ASAs. It is important for this population to have access to this treatment option despite the absence of evidence and this has been reflected in recommendation 30. The GDG acknowledged that the use of immunomodulators indicated a need for monitoring and reflected this in recommendation 18. Acute severe ulcerative colitis The GDG discussed the population of people who had experienced an episode of acute severe ulcerative colitis but were unable to tolerate or who decline azathioprine or mercaptopurine. The treatment options for this population are limited and
