National Clinical Guideline Centre
KEYWORDS: colitis, ulcerative, ulcerative colitis, clinical, remission, evidence, low, fewer, people, inconsistency, trials, randomised, guideline, quality, weeks


who had experienced an episode of acute severe ulcerative colitis but were unable to tolerate or who decline azathioprine or mercaptopurine. The treatment options for this population are limited and the GDG noted the absence of evidence. The GDG thought it was important there was a treatment option for this group and made a weak recommendation for oral ASAs to be considered in this situation. Ulcerative colitis Maintaining remission in people with ulcerative colitis Economic considerations Proctitis/ proctosigmoiditis No cost-effectiveness evidence was identified. The costs of topical ASA and steroids are dependent on the formulation and the daily dose administered. However, it is possible that cost savings could be made if a suppository is used over an enema and if intermittent dosing is chosen over daily dosing. If an oral ASA is added to or chosen over a topical ASA, initial treatment costs would increase. This was supported by two studies46,164 which showed that there are increased drug costs associated with combination therapy; however combination treatment may be better for maintaining remission. There were a number of limitations with the studies as outlined in the economic evidence methodology was unclear and results were presented as costs per relapse avoided which made interpretation difficult. It is plausible however, that if patients are successfully maintained in remission, downstream costs due to additional drug use and hospitalisations could be reduced. In addition, benefits to the patient would include improvement of symptoms and quality of life. The GDG therefore considered that costs of maintenance with drugs would be offset by these potential benefits. Left-sided and extensive A systematic literature search identified two studies evaluating the costs effectiveness of drugs for the maintenance of remission in this subgroup. A US study by Yen230 showed that compared to no maintenance, 2.4g/day maintenance treatment had an incremental cost-effectiveness ratio of £146,000/QALY. The results were influenced by the estimates of ASA efficacy used, ASA costs, as well as resource use specific to the US. The GDG noted that there were issues surrounding the applicability of this study as some health state utilities were inferred from a Crohn’s disease and the model was based on a non-UK population. A study by Connolly40 addressed the use of two ASA maintenance dosing regimens: once daily versus twice daily. Once daily dosing was found to be cost-effective. The studies addressed issues that the GDG considered relevant when considering treatment options for maintenance
