National Clinical Guideline Centre
KEYWORDS: colitis, ulcerative, ulcerative colitis, clinical, remission, evidence, low, fewer, people, inconsistency, trials, randomised, guideline, quality, weeks


dosing regimens: once daily versus twice daily. Once daily dosing was found to be cost-effective. The studies addressed issues that the GDG considered relevant when considering treatment options for maintenance of remission. However, not all the clinical evidence addressed in the clinical review section was used in these studies. In addition, the GDG considered that clarification on the use of a high or low maintenance dose of ASA after a flare of disease would be useful. Because of the uncertainty in this area, the GDG considered it a high priority for economic analysis. Based on this, a decision-analytic model was developed which addressed the use of no maintenance, a low maintenance dose or high maintenance dose of an oral ASA for the maintenance of remission. The model showed that it was cost-effective to maintain patients on a low dose ASA. The costs of ASA had an impact on the results as all strategies became more cost-effective if cheaper brands were used. In interpreting the results, limitations of the model as highlighted below needed to be considered: • The costs and dis-utilities of drug-specific adverse events were not captured in the model due to lack of robust data. This means that the cost-effectiveness of all the treatments strategies has been over- estimated although the magnitude is unknown as each drug is likely to have a different, specific side-effect profile. This introduces uncertainty around interpretation of the results. • It was assumed in the model that all relapses have the same severity. The GDG noted that patients could experience a flare requiring escalation to therapy not captured in the model. This means that the Ulcerative colitis Maintaining remission in people with ulcerative colitis cost-effectiveness for the comparators may have been over estimated. • Mesalazines, such as Mesren and Octasa have not been included in this analysis as they are not named in the studies identified in the clinical review. The GDG were unable to comment about the relative efficacy of these mesalazines hence caution should be exercised when generalising the results of this model. • Patients who withdraw from treatment were assumed to still be in remission. This is a conservative approach. If withdrawal from treatment results in flare of disease, the cost-effectiveness of all comparators may have been overestimated in the model. • Treatment adherence was assumed to be 100% in the model. The GDG however noted that this may not
