National Clinical Guideline Centre
KEYWORDS: colitis, ulcerative, ulcerative colitis, clinical, remission, evidence, low, fewer, people, inconsistency, trials, randomised, guideline, quality, weeks


cost-effectiveness of all comparators may have been overestimated in the model. • Treatment adherence was assumed to be 100% in the model. The GDG however noted that this may not be the case in reality and measures to improve adherence are discussed elsewhere in the guideline. Immunomodulators The GDG considered the costs of the immunomodulators and the associated monitoring in people with acute severe ulcerative colitis or those who have two or more flares in 12 months requiring systemic steroids. These costs were thought to be justified as benefits and cost saving would be incurred due to reduction in the adverse events associated with repeated flares and avoidance of systemic steroid use. Quality of evidence The majority of the evidence for the outcomes was of low to very low quality and consisted of some mixed populations. There were a limited number of studies. There was no evidence for oral steroids. The NMA was based on a total of 18 studies of 11 different interventions, all of which were mono-therapies. The majority of the evidence for the outcomes had a rating of low to very low quality. For more detail see the limitations listed above for the NMA and health economic model. The GDG noted that evidence about the following oral ASAs was identified: sulphasalazine, balsalazide, olsalazine and mesalazine. The brand names of the mesalazines in the published papers were Asacol and Pentasa. Mezavant XL, Ipocol, Mesren and Octasa were not named in the papers. There were very few studies looking at the use of immunomodulators, the evidence for the outcomes were all very low quality. The impact of extent of disease was difficult to evaluate as the majority of the studies evaluating oral treatments had mixed extent populations and the studies evaluating topical treatments had in the majority proctitis/ proctosigmoiditis populations. Other considerations The GDG has listed the low maintenance doses of all the aminosalicylates. The GDG defined low maintenance doses as: 1.5g Salofalk; 2g Pentasa; 1.2g all Asacol, Octasa, Mezavant XL, Ipocol; 1g Osalazine; 3g Balsalazide and 2g sulfasalazine. The GDG definition was based on the ranges of doses in the drugs’ summary of product characteristics and the dose comparisons used in the clinical evidence reviews. The GDG are aware that the mesalazines can be called different brand names in different countries (for example, Mesren is marketed as Asacol in Japan) and can be rebranded in the same country
