National Clinical Guideline Centre
KEYWORDS: colitis, ulcerative, ulcerative colitis, clinical, remission, evidence, low, fewer, people, inconsistency, trials, randomised, guideline, quality, weeks


aware that the mesalazines can be called different brand names in different countries (for example, Mesren is marketed as Asacol in Japan) and can be rebranded in the same country (for example Mesren has now been rebranded as Octasa 400 in the UK). This further complicates the issue that the mesalazine preparations are stated as ‘may not be interchangeable’ in the BNF and in then identifying a preferred mesalazine. From GDG experience some patients might prefer intermittent ASA Ulcerative colitis Maintaining remission in people with ulcerative colitis suppositories for distal disease. The GDG patient representatives felt that patient preference might tend towards suppositories as opposed to enemas for the topical preparations as it is easier to control the dose. The GDG felt that once daily dosing of oral ASA may improve adherence but this decision should be made by the patient (and/or their parents or carers as appropriate) taking into account the associated costs and likelihood of their adherence. Recommendation 30 considers the use of azathioprine or mercaptopurine. The GDG note that azathioprine is metabolised to mercaptopurine. Mercaptopurine may be tolerated in some patients who have not tolerated azathioprine for example, in those with headaches or flu like symptoms. However, the GDG felt that mercaptopurine should not be used in patients who have had pancreatitis or hepatotoxicity whilst on azathioprine. The GDG acknowledged the issues around the length of time people should stay on maintenance therapy. The clinical evidence was for 6-24 months and the health economic analysis used a time horizon of 24 months. There may be a protective effect against colorectal cancer with long term use of ASAs and so the GDG felt unable to make an additional recommendation or comment on how long people should stay on maintenance therapy. The GDG recognised the importance of screening for colorectal cancer in people with ulcerative colitis. In addition, the GDG debated at length whether there may be some situations in which maintenance treatment is not required, or may not be cost-effective. They felt that there was insufficient information on prognostic features, which might identify sub-groups of such individuals, to make such a recommendation. Research recommendation The GDG agreed that the lack of evidence on maintaining remission in people with ulcerative colitis justified developing a research recommendation. For further information on the research recommendations see Appendix M. Ulcerative colitis Pregnant women 8 Pregnant women 8.1 Clinical introduction With the peak
