National Clinical Guideline Centre
KEYWORDS: colitis, ulcerative, ulcerative colitis, clinical, remission, evidence, low, fewer, people, inconsistency, trials, randomised, guideline, quality, weeks


ulcerative colitis justified developing a research recommendation. For further information on the research recommendations see Appendix M. Ulcerative colitis Pregnant women 8 Pregnant women 8.1 Clinical introduction With the peak occurrence of ulcerative colitis in women of child-bearing age, women and clinicians are often faced with issues relating to planning a pregnancy and the management of ulcerative colitis during a pregnancy. Such issues can create difficult dilemmas for the pregnant woman and clinicians. Women may seek advice about the effects of ulcerative colitis on pregnancy and the effect of the pregnancy on ulcerative colitis. Information relating to the safety of medication during pregnancy for ulcerative colitis is a central part of such discussions. This can then be set against possible benefits from optimal control of disease activity. The critically important measures of outcome were considered to be maternal mortality, the occurrence of intrauterine fetal loss (stillbirth or spontaneous miscarriage), premature births, children with low birth weight and the occurrence of congenital abnormalities. In interpreting the available evidence, it was recognised that randomized controlled trials were very unlikely to be available in pregnant women. In addition, the occurrence of adverse outcomes – for example congenital abnormalities – may be rare, and studies may not be of sufficient size to demonstrate a difference from the background rate of occurrence for these outcomes. A review question and protocol was therefore designed to address the outcome of pregnancy associated with the medications considered for use in induction and maintenance of remission. Many drugs used to treat ulcerative colitis are unlicensed. Drugs should be used if their potential benefit outweighed their risk with the exception of methotrexate. Methotrexate is known to be teratogenic with the BNF advising that effective contraception is required during and for at least three months after treatment in men or women105, and was therefore excluded from further consideration in this section. Sulphasalazine may be associated with folate deficiency and attention should be paid to appropriate folate supplementation if the drug is used. 5-aminosalicylic acid, corticosteroids and azathioprine / mercaptopurine cross the placenta.16,20,37,54 Concern has been raised about the possible association of corticosteroids with a greater than expected occurrence of fetal cleft palate – in humans and rodents – though there remains uncertainty about this effect.69 Azathioprine / mercaptopurine has been reported to be associated with congenital abnormalities in animal studies and with poorer outcomes in transplant recipients8 and in combined registries38,156
