National Clinical Guideline Centre
KEYWORDS: colitis, ulcerative, ulcerative colitis, clinical, remission, evidence, low, fewer, people, inconsistency, trials, randomised, guideline, quality, weeks


uncertainty about this effect.69 Azathioprine / mercaptopurine has been reported to be associated with congenital abnormalities in animal studies and with poorer outcomes in transplant recipients8 and in combined registries38,156 – though it has remained difficult to determine the effect of the underlying conditions or other confounding factors (which may not be ulcerative colitis) in these studies. On the basis of meta-analysis, a normal pregnancy is expected in 85% of women with ulcerative colitis.143 There is always a risk of miscarriage and of birth abnormalities in all pregnancies regardless of a diagnosis of UC. There has also been a consensus that disease activity during pregnancy, including early in the pregnancy, affects outcomes.10,228 The review protocol was therefore designed to try to capture evidence regarding disease activity and outcome. Much of the literature considers ulcerative colitis and Crohn’s disease together as an inflammatory bowel disease (IBD) cohort. For this evidence review, it was felt that there were sufficient important differences between ulcerative colitis and Crohn’s disease to only consider evidence relating to ulcerative colitis. Ulcerative colitis Pregnant women 8.2 Review question: What are the consequences of using drug treatments for the induction and maintenance of remission in pregnant women? For full details see review protocol in Appendix C. The treatment options that are available to people with ulcerative colitis for the induction and randomised controlled trials were included. No papers were identified that included pregnant women with ulcerative colitis (active or in remission). A further search has been carried out including other study designs to determine whether any of the drugs used for the treatment of ulcerative colitis are not appropriate for use during pregnancy. There were no restrictions for study duration. The data in the studies has been reported as narrative summaries. 8.3 Clinical evidence Eleven studies were included in the review.17,22,24,81,124,131,153,155,174,202,210 Evidence from these are summarised in the clinical evidence profiles below. See also the study selection flow chart in Appendix E, study evidence tables in Appendix G and exclusion list in Appendix F. The studies looked at aminosalicylates (sulphasalazine, mesalazine, olsalazine, and unspecified 5- ASA), corticosteroids (prednisolone, hydrocortisone, unspecified enemas) and immunomodulators (azathioprine, mercaptopurine, ciclosporin and infliximab) for the induction and maintenance of remission during pregnancy and their effect on birth outcomes. There were no studies looking at tacrolimus and balsalazide. The following factors were considered to be important confounders: • Age • Smoking status • Alcohol •
