National Clinical Guideline Centre
KEYWORDS: colitis, ulcerative, ulcerative colitis, clinical, remission, evidence, low, fewer, people, inconsistency, trials, randomised, guideline, quality, weeks


effect on birth outcomes. There were no studies looking at tacrolimus and balsalazide. The following factors were considered to be important confounders: • Age • Smoking status • Alcohol • Ethnicity • BMI • Socioeconomic status • Parity • Gestational age • Severity of disease • Co-morbidities • Concomitant medication • Nutritional status Only two studies 81,210 reported data for those who experienced active and inactive disease whilst taking 5-aminosalicylatesduring pregnancy. Three studies24,124,174 reported results for patients with active severe or hospitalised relapse of ulcerative colitis using a combination of treatments during pregnancy. The remaining studies’ data were unable to be separated. Secondary evidence There were no systematic reviews identified that looked specifically at pregnant women with ulcerative colitis and the effect of medical treatments on birth outcomes. Two systematic Ulcerative colitis Pregnant women reviews42,94were identified for inflammatory bowel disease but they contained no separate analysis for ulcerative colitis populations and were excluded. Primary evidence None of the 11 studies reported any data on quality of life. Two studies124,174 reported no maternal mortality. BELL199717 A prospective case series study looked at the pregnancy outcome of 16 women with distal ulcerative colitis who were dependent on topical 5-ASA to prevent relapses. The women were on either 4g 5- ASA enemas three times a week or 500mg 5-ASA suppository nightly from conception to delivery apart from two women who stopped treatment, consequently relapsed and then went back onto the same topical therapy 12 weeks later. The only drug reported was 5-ASA (topical) (N= 19 pregnancies, 16 women). All 19 pregnancies were normal full term births. There were no congenital abnormalities reported or growth and development problems during follow up (2months-5 years, median 2 years). BORTOLI201122 A prospective cohort study looked at the pregnancy outcome of inflammatory bowel disease patients. 187 ulcerative colitis pregnant women and 187 controls (pregnant non IBD women) were included. The data were collected by electronic case report forms, personal or telephone interviews and review of the patient’s medical records. No doses or duration of medical treatments were reported. 5-ASA monotherapy (mesalazine) (N=88): thirty-seven women were on high dose 5-ASA (≥3g/day) at conception, most of which maintained the same dose during the pregnancy. Ninety-five per centof the mothers had a normal live birth. There were four premature deliveries, one spontaneous abortion, one therapeutic abortion and no reported congenital abnormalities. Overall the mesalazine therapy group did not demonstrate any statistical
