National Clinical Guideline Centre
KEYWORDS: colitis, ulcerative, ulcerative colitis, clinical, remission, evidence, low, fewer, people, inconsistency, trials, randomised, guideline, quality, weeks


a normal live birth. There were four premature deliveries, one spontaneous abortion, one therapeutic abortion and no reported congenital abnormalities. Overall the mesalazine therapy group did not demonstrate any statistical significance for live birth, spontaneous abortion, therapeutic abortion, or differences in birth weight. There was a statistically significant lower premature birth rate (multivariate logistic regression), for those on 5-ASA monotherapy and increased risk of preterm delivery if on combination treatment. Immunomodulator therapy (azathioprine, ciclosporin, corticosteroids, infliximab) (N=14): There were no statistically significant differences found for live birth, spontaneous abortion, therapeutic abortion, preterm delivery and birth weight (multivariate logistic regression). No congenital abnormalities were reported. Combination of 5-ASA and immunomodulators therapy (N=63):There were no statistically significant differences found for live birth, spontaneous abortion, therapeutic abortion and birth weight (multivariate logistic regression). Premature delivery was greater with the use of the combination therapy (p=0.004). No congenital abnormalities were reported. Non IBD pregnant controls (N=187): There were 170 live births (167 classed as normal births), 15 spontaneous abortions, 14 premature deliveries and 3 congenital abnormalities. BRANCHE200924 Active disease A retrospective case series study looked at the effect of ciclosporin in the treatment of steroid refractory severe ulcerative colitis during pregnancy on birth outcomes. Data were collected from medical records and through contact with the patient’s general practitioners. All patients received Ulcerative colitis Pregnant women oral and IV steroids (median duration of 14 days and 7 days respectively). The majority of patients received 2mg/kg/day of ciclosporin (one patient received 4mg/kg/day) for a median of 7 days (range 5-17). Seven patients improved. The one patient that did not improve was later found to have Crohn’s disease. Two patients also had azathioprine in addition to oral ciclosporin. Oral ciclosporin was continued for a median 107 days (range 7-253). Four patients were on steroids at the time of delivery. The drugs reported were ciclosporin and steroids (N=8 (2 patients also received azathioprine)). Seven women had normal births and one had a spontaneous abortion at 22 weeks gestation (in utero death). This woman had received 90 days of ciclosporin and the spontaneous abortion was thought to be related to maternal S-protein deficiency. The patient went on to have a successful pregnancy a year later. There were four premature births and one low birth weights (32 weeks). There were no congenital abnormalities, renal side effects or severe infections noted in the first months of life (median follow up time
