National Clinical Guideline Centre
KEYWORDS: colitis, ulcerative, ulcerative colitis, clinical, remission, evidence, low, fewer, people, inconsistency, trials, randomised, guideline, quality, weeks


births and one low birth weights (32 weeks). There were no congenital abnormalities, renal side effects or severe infections noted in the first months of life (median follow up time 38 months, range 12-79 months) HABAL199381 A prospective case series study looked at pregnant women with ulcerative colitis or Crohn’s disease who were dependent on 5-ASA due to risk of relapse when stopping treatment. There were 10 women (12 pregnancies) with ulcerative colitis all of whom were in remission at conception. There were 6 weekly obstetric reviews or earlier if there was a relapse. The dose of mesalazine (Asacol) continued at the same level as prior to pregnancy (mean 1.7g/day, range 0.8-2.4g). Other medications (steroids (oral/enema) or 5-ASA enema) may be added in the event of a relapse. The drugs reported were mesalazine (oral +/- enema) (N=8) and mesalazine and steroid (oral +/- enema) (N=4): Of the women that received mesalazine (oral +/- enema) (N=8) three patients experienced a relapse, two of which had 5-ASA enemas in addition to oral mesalazine. Six women continued oral mesalazine untilterm, and one stopped at 12 weeks gestation and went on to have a colectomy. Seven were delivered at term and one pregnancy had a spontaneous abortion. There development or low Apgar scores (<6). Of the women that received mesalazine and steroid (oral +/-enema) (N=4) one patient experienced a relapse, whilst the other three women remained in remission. Two patients took 10mg a day of prednisolone, one took 5mg a day of prednisolone and one had hydrocortisone enemas in addition biochemical abnormalities, low birth weights, abnormal growth or development or low Apgar scores (<6). LEVY1981124 Active disease A retrospective case series study looked at 31 pregnant women (60 pregnancies) with a diagnosis of ulcerative colitis from five hospitals in Israel during 1970-1979. The case records were reviewed and the patients were also interviewed. Out of these patients 11 women were hospitalized for the deterioration of ulcerative colitis and the treatment and birth outcomes were reported for 8 of them. There was no information on dose and duration of therapy, only those reported were on the drugs for at least two weeks. The remaining women who were in remission did not receive any treatment. The drugs reported were sulphasalazine (N=1), sulphasalazine and steroids (oral/topical) (N=5), sulphasalazine and azathioprine (N=1), sulphasalazine, azathioprine and prednisolone (N=1): All the women received sulphasalazine until delivery (unknown dose). Steroid treatment
