National Clinical Guideline Centre
KEYWORDS: colitis, ulcerative, ulcerative colitis, clinical, remission, evidence, low, fewer, people, inconsistency, trials, randomised, guideline, quality, weeks


drugs reported were sulphasalazine (N=1), sulphasalazine and steroids (oral/topical) (N=5), sulphasalazine and azathioprine (N=1), sulphasalazine, azathioprine and prednisolone (N=1): All the women received sulphasalazine until delivery (unknown dose). Steroid treatment was given to two women for more than two months, and for about five months in the other three women. It was reported by the author that “no special problems arose and no fetal abnormalities were found”. There were no maternal mortalities reported. Ulcerative colitis Pregnant women LUDVIGSSON2002131 A cross-sectional study which was part of the All Babies In Southeast Sweden (ABIS) study which was a prospective screening programme for the prediction of autoimmune diseases. One questionnaire was completed shortly after birth and a second at home, to confirm their IBD diagnosis. When the diagnosis was unclear, an attempt would be made to contact the woman by telephone and interviewed. In the event that the diagnosis was still unclear, the woman’s regular doctor would be contacted. Twins were excluded. Autoimmune controls were also recruited. The only data that could be extracted that would look at the relationship of birth outcomes to the medication used during pregnancy was for birth weight. Dose and duration of treatment was not described. The drugs reported were mesalazine (N=5), mesalazine and steroids (N=4), steroids (N=3), sulphasalazine (N=2), mesalazine and sulphasalazine (N=1), olsalazine (N=1) and no 5-ASA/steroid treatment (N=10). Only one of the 26 births had a baby with a low birth weight (<2.5kg) the mother was taking mesalazine and steroids. There was no information on premature birth which could be a main confounder in these results. Overall there were two premature births but it is unclear if one of these was the mother who had the neonate with a low birth weight. NIELSON1983153 The retrospective cohort study followed 97 women (173 included pregnancies) over a 12 year period. The medical records of the women were examined, and where there was insufficient information the women were contacted by telephone or letter. There was no information on dose and limited information on duration of treatment. The author concluded that there were no more babies with jaundice born to mothers on sulphasalazine, and that the use of corticosteroids did not increase the frequency of spontaneous abortions, premature births or congenital abnormalities. The drugs reported were sulphasalazine (N=46), systemic/topical corticosteroid s (N=17) and sulphasalazine & systemic/topical corticosteroids (N=23). For the women receiving sulphasalazine (N=46) there were 31 normal births,
