National Clinical Guideline Centre
KEYWORDS: colitis, ulcerative, ulcerative colitis, clinical, remission, evidence, low, fewer, people, inconsistency, trials, randomised, guideline, quality, weeks


5-ASA suggested an increase in premature births (OR 2.4, 95% CI 1.1-5.3) and still births (OR 8.4, 95% CI 2.0-34.3). REEDY2008174 Active disease This retrospective case control study enrolled women with inflammatory bowel disease who suffered a severe relapse and were hospitalised during pregnancy (N=11 ulcerative colitis). The controls were age- matched pregnant women (IBD matched) that did not require hospitalization for their inflammatory bowel disease (N=25 ulcerative colitis). Other major medical conditions were excluded from the control group. There were no maternal mortalities reported. All women were given hydrocortisone. Other drugs that were taken in combination were: sulphasalazine, ciclosporin, mercaptopurine, 5-ASA (oral/enema) and cortenema (corticosteroid enema). Two women who were given hydrocortisone (oral/IV) needed a colectomy, one later went on to deliver a low birth weight premature baby (1.7kg, 36 weeks) and no information was available for the other woman. There were three other women in which information on the birth outcomes were unable to be retrieved. One woman had a spontaneous abortion at 15 weeks, who had taken hydrocortisone and ciclosporin and consequently went in to remission. Four out of the five other pregnancies were all low birth weights (1-1.2kg), and four were premature (26-35 weeks). Three women had taken either sulphasalazine or 5-ASA with corticosteroids, and two women had taken ciclosporin. SIDDIQUE2011202 A prospective cohort study followed 60 women with ulcerative colitis over a two year period. Thirty of these women were pregnant. Twenty four of the pregnant women suffered a mild exacerbation of ulcerative colitis which was controlled by increasing the dose of mesalazine. Four had a moderate disease exacerbation and were treated with oral steroids and two had a severe attack necessitating the use of IV steroids followed by oral steroids in the first trimester. All of the women were reported to have delivered normally at the time of birth, with no reported growth retardation or congenital abnormalities. TRALLORI1994210 A prospective cohort study followed 16 pregnant women (19 pregnancies) who were in remission and taking oral/topical or a combination of 5-ASA treatment. The women were seen regularly at an outpatient clinic and their assessments recorded. The doses used were 1.2g of mesalazine (Asacol) a day orally and 4g 5-ASA enema twice a week. Women who relapsed were treated with 20mg of corticosteroids IM per day for 1 month and 1.6g 5-ASA a day orally which dropped to 1.2g after their symptoms had improved. Ulcerative colitis
