National Clinical Guideline Centre
KEYWORDS: colitis, ulcerative, ulcerative colitis, clinical, remission, evidence, low, fewer, people, inconsistency, trials, randomised, guideline, quality, weeks


relapsed were treated with 20mg of corticosteroids IM per day for 1 month and 1.6g 5-ASA a day orally which dropped to 1.2g after their symptoms had improved. Ulcerative colitis Pregnant women The drugs reported were 5-ASA (N=15) and 5-ASA and steroids (N=4). Of the women that received 5- ASA (N=15) all 15 women remained in remission, 13 of which had normal births. There was one induced abortion and one spontaneous abortion (2nd trimester). Of the women that received 5-ASA and steroids (N=4) four women who relapsed and required steroids to induce remission. Three of these had normal births and one had an induced abortion. Quality assessment The quality of this evidence was very low, many of the studies were retrospective cohort studies or case control studies with mixed inflammatory bowel populations. The lack of comparison groups, baseline characteristics and methodological adjustments that occurred in most of the studies meant there is a high risk of confounders influencing the results. Disease severity is a main confounder as it is closely linked to the use of medical therapies in ulcerative colitis. Most of the studies did not describe the doses and duration of treatment of the drugs and it is difficult to determine patient compliance. It could be assumed that those on long term maintenance therapy may be more adherent to treatment but without any prior knowledge of the patient’s education level and knowledge of the disease it is not possible to make this assumption. The majority of the studies and their outcomes are very low quality due to their study design and additional limitations identified in the review process. Most of the studies were downgraded for limited or no baseline characteristics and lack of adjustment for confounding variables. The only study which is of a low quality is the BORTOLI2011 paper, a prospective cohort study which adequately controlled for the main confounders. 8.4 Economic evidence Published literature No relevant economic evaluations were identified. New cost-effectiveness analysis New analysis was not prioritised for this area. 8.5 Evidence summary 8.5.1 Clinical summary Eleven studies were included in the clinical review on the use of drug treatments for ulcerative colitis during pregnancy. There was limited information available due to the paucity of evidence specifically for the ulcerative colitis population. Many studies were excluded due to them having a mixed population and not controlling for diagnosis. The studies that were included were of low
