National Clinical Guideline Centre
KEYWORDS: colitis, ulcerative, ulcerative colitis, clinical, remission, evidence, low, fewer, people, inconsistency, trials, randomised, guideline, quality, weeks


specifically for the ulcerative colitis population. Many studies were excluded due to them having a mixed population and not controlling for diagnosis. The studies that were included were of low to very low quality and did not control for confounding variables apart from one study22. Therefore, there is insufficient good quality evidence to determine whether particular drugs used for the induction or maintenance of ulcerative colitis during pregnancy have any adverse effects on the pregnancy that outweigh their clinical benefits. 8.5.2 Economic summary No relevant economic evaluations were identified. Ulcerative colitis Pregnant women 8.6 Recommendations and link to evidence Pregnant women 33. When caring for a pregnant woman with ulcerative colitis: • Ensure effective communication and information-sharing across specialties (for example, primary care, obstetrics and gynaecology, and gastroenterology). • Give her information about the potential risks and benefits of medical treatment to induce or maintain remission and of no treatment, and discuss this with her. Include information relevant to a potential admission for an acute severe inflammatory exacerbation. Recommendations Relative values of different outcomes guideline excluded pregnancy as a condition. However, the drug intervention comparison studies identified in the reviews on induction and maintenance of remission did in fact exclude pregnant women from the studies. In order to identify any evidence on the use of drug treatments in pregnant women with ulcerative colitis an additional review with different study designs was done. The outcomes in the induction and maintenance reviews were relevant as well as those identified below. The outcomes considered most important to the decision making were stillbirth, congenital abnormalities, spontaneous abortion, premature births (<37 weeks gestation), low birth weight (<2.5kg) and maternal mortality. Other outcomes considered were normal birth (live birth with no abnormalities) and quality of life. Trade off between clinical The GDG considered the benefits and risks associated with potential relapses benefits and harms and maintenance therapy during pregnancy for both the woman and her foetus. Eleven studies were included in the review. The studies looked at aminosalicylates (sulphasalazine, mesalazine, olsalazine, and unspecified 5- ASA), corticosteroids (prednisolone, hydrocortisone, unspecified enemas) and immunomodulators (azathioprine, mercaptopurine, ciclosporin and infliximab) for the induction and maintenance of remission during pregnancy and their effect on birth outcomes. There were no studies on tacrolimus, beclometasone dipropionate and balsalazide. Only two studies 81,210reported data for those who experienced active and inactive disease whilst taking 5-aminosalicylatesduring pregnancy. Three studies24,124,174 reported results for patients with
