National Clinical Guideline Centre
KEYWORDS: colitis, ulcerative, ulcerative colitis, clinical, remission, evidence, low, fewer, people, inconsistency, trials, randomised, guideline, quality, weeks


on tacrolimus, beclometasone dipropionate and balsalazide. Only two studies 81,210reported data for those who experienced active and inactive disease whilst taking 5-aminosalicylatesduring pregnancy. Three studies24,124,174 reported results for patients with active severe or hospitalized relapse of ulcerative colitis using a combination of treatments during pregnancy. It was not possible to separate data from the remaining studies. There is no clear evidence of harm from any specific treatment although it was difficult to be certain based on the poor study design (case series that did not control for confounders), small sample sizes and because the use of drug treatments were not the primary aim of the studies. Due to these limitations, the GDG noted the evidence should be interpreted with caution. There is an absence of evidence of any different clinical effects of the treatments during pregnancy because the studies did not measure these outcomes. None of evidence sufficiently demonstrated that disease activity contributed Ulcerative colitis Pregnant women to adverse outcomes (no statistical analysis was carried out in the studies). However, the GDG felt that it was likely that disease activity could contribute to adverse outcomes. 5-ASA may protect against premature birth (reduced frequency of premature birth), but when used in combination with immunomodulators, there was an associated higher rate of premature birth. The study controlled for disease activity.22 After reviewing the evidence the GDG felt unable to make a recommendation on the potential harms or benefits of specific drug treatments in pregnant women with ulcerative colitis. Economic considerations The provision of information may require additional clinic visits but the GDG considered the potential costs of this to be offset by the benefits. Quality of evidence The majority of the evidence identified was of very low quality. This was primarily due to the following limitations: • The studies have mostly a prospective or retrospective cohort design. • The study design meant that a causal relationship could not be determined. • There were no or limited baseline characteristics documented or adjustments made for confounders. • Most of the studies had an overall inflammatory bowel disease population. The evidence in some of the review has been extracted from the overall population. • The majority of the studies do not report the dose or duration of treatment given. • It was difficult to determine patient compliance. • In all of the studies the blinding of investigators was unclear. • No studies reported azathioprine alone
