National Clinical Guideline Centre
KEYWORDS: colitis, ulcerative, ulcerative colitis, clinical, remission, evidence, low, fewer, people, inconsistency, trials, randomised, guideline, quality, weeks


duration of treatment given. • It was difficult to determine patient compliance. • In all of the studies the blinding of investigators was unclear. • No studies reported azathioprine alone in participants with ulcerative colitis. • No evidence about longer term maternal wellbeing, quality of life or disease activity after delivery. Other considerations The GDG recognised the importance of treating active disease. Therefore the recommendations made are based on GDG consensus. The GDG thought it was important to recommend the collaboration of multiple specialities involved in the care of the pregnant woman. Due to the uncertainty of the effect of drug treatments on birth outcomes, the GDG felt it necessary to emphasize the importance of informing the women about all her treatment options including the possibility of a severe inflammatory exacerbation of ulcerative colitis. The GDG noted the absence of evidence in pregnant women with ulcerative colitis and recognised this was a difficult area within which to conduct studies. The GDG proposed a registry of pregnant women with ulcerative colitis would be beneficial to provide information on drug treatments. Research recommendation The GDG agreed that the lack of evidence on induction and maintenance of remission in pregnant women with ulcerative colitis justified developing a research recommendation. For further information on the research recommendations see Appendix M. Ulcerative colitis Monitoring 9 Monitoring 9.1 Clinical introduction: monitoring bone health Evaluation of bone health is considered an important aspect of chronic disease management in inflammatory bowel disease (IBD), particularly in children and young people who are considered a vulnerable group. The problems with bone health (osteopenia/osteoporosis) as assessed by bone mineral density (BMD) are thought to be less severe in ulcerative colitis than Crohn’s disease; severe osteopenia is identified in 3-6% compared to 12-18% of children and young people respectively. x-ray absorptiometry (DEXA); abnormality defined as Z score ≤ -2 SD below mean. However there are recognised limitations to use of DEXA in children and young people including around the relationship between abnormalities in BMD and fracture risk. The factors influencing bone health are multifactorial. The reason children and young people are considered more vulnerable is due to rapid physiological periods of skeletal growth, pubertal development and process of bone mineralisation for which appropriate nutrient (including, minerals and vitamins e.g. calcium, vitamin D) and hormonal (growth hormone, sex steroid) factors need to be met. Furthermore, the process of bone mineralisation leading to attainment
