National Clinical Guideline Centre
KEYWORDS: colitis, ulcerative, ulcerative colitis, clinical, remission, evidence, low, fewer, people, inconsistency, trials, randomised, guideline, quality, weeks


appropriate nutrient (including, minerals and vitamins e.g. calcium, vitamin D) and hormonal (growth hormone, sex steroid) factors need to be met. Furthermore, the process of bone mineralisation leading to attainment of peak bone mass can occur any time from late childhood to early adulthood (up to mid-20s) and is the key determinant of life-long skeletal health including subsequent adult fracture risk due to osteopenia/osteoporosis. may be disturbed due to a number of factors including; increased circulating pro-inflammatory cytokines, poor nutrition, corticosteroid treatment, decreased physical mobility, delayed puberty and in girls, primary or secondary amenorrhea. In addition, consideration should be given to other co- existing conditions or risk factors which may pre-dispose to osteopenia/osteoporosis and or vitamin D deficiency. The clinical relevance of different levels of vitamin deficiency is debatable and not fully supported by evidence but the subject of consensus opinionqq. The aim of clinicians is to identify those at risk of poor bone health to enable the most time-effective intervention to optimally support both the physiological and disease activity related demands on maintaining skeletal health during the potential vulnerable period before peak bone mass is achieved. In addition to predisposing risk factors, other biochemical and radiological methods of testing may be useful in diagnosis and or monitoring of bone health. 9.2 Review question: In children and young people with ulcerative colitis, are disease activity, systemic corticosteroid use, total For full details see review protocol in Appendix C. qq Recent expert consensus statements and reviews have made recommendations about treatment goals for Vitamin D in patient groups considered to be at risk. Serum concentrations of 25, hydroxy, Vitamin D [25(OH)D] are agreed to be the most robust marker for overall vitamin D status: levels of >75nmol/l are optimal; <75 – 50, suboptimal and <50nmol/L deficient associated with disease risk. Ulcerative colitis Monitoring 9.3 Clinical evidence: monitoring bone health in children and young people GRADE evidence profile below. See also the study selection flow chart in Appendix E, study evidence table in Appendix G and exclusion list in Appendix F. In all of the studies it was unclear which variables had been inputted into the multivariate analysis. There were no studies that met our inclusion criteria that looked at malnutrition. Many of the included studies looked at BMI or weight but not specifically a reduction of 2 centiles in weight. Bone mineral density was the only dependent variable out of our
