National Clinical Guideline Centre
KEYWORDS: colitis, ulcerative, ulcerative colitis, clinical, remission, evidence, low, fewer, people, inconsistency, trials, randomised, guideline, quality, weeks


of the included studies looked at BMI or weight but not specifically a reduction of 2 centiles in weight. Bone mineral density was the only dependent variable out of our outcomes that was reported in the studies. One study reported no fractures.21 None of the other outcomes (epiphyseal fusion, bone age) were reported in the multivariate analyses as a dependent variable (outcome). The incidence of osteoporosis or osteopenia was reported in one study60. The majority of studies that looked at the predefined risk factors were excluded due to the following reasons: • Mixed ulcerative colitis and Crohn’s population with only uni-variate analysis or multivariate analysis without controlling for diagnosis. • Uni-variate analysis only; therefore does not control for confounding variables. • Mixed adult and child population without separate results. National Clinical Guideline Centre, 2013. Monitoring Ulcerative colitis 9.4 Evidence profile 9.4.1 Bone health Table 119: Bone health Study characteristics Quality assessment Study ID Design Number of people saib fo ksiR ycnetsisnocnI ssentceridnI noisicerpmI rehtO snoitaredisnoc Summary of findings ytilauQ BOOT1998 Retrospective and N=36 UC patients out prospective study of N=55 in the total Cross-sectional and population. longitudinal data. Netherlands, unclear setting. 1suoires yreV A/N en oN A/N Diagnosis (Crohn’s / UC), cumulative dose of LOW prednisolone and BMI SAS as determinants and BMD SDS as the dependent variable. Cumulative dose of prednisolone and diagnosis related significantly to lumbar spine BMD SDS and explained 20% of the variance Only diagnosis related significantly to total body BMD SDS in the regression mode (r2=15%) National Clinical Guideline Centre, 2013. Monitoring Ulcerative colitis Study characteristics Quality assessment Study ID Design Number of people saib fo ksiR ycnetsisnocnI ssentceridnI noisicerpmI rehtO snoitaredisnoc Summary of findings ytilauQ ELHODHOD2 Prospective N=27 UC patients 012 case control study, out of N=47 in the Egypt, Paediatric total population Gastroenterology Unit 2suoires yreV A/N enoN A/N Multivariate analysis did not find 1, 25 (OH) LOW D a significant predictor of BMD when 3 patients experience a flare of disease (treated with oral steroids and antibiotics followed by maintenance 5ASA). Frequency of osteopenia and osteoporosis in flare and remission: UC flare: normal BMD n=3 (11.1%), mild degree n=0, severe degree n=24 (88.9%) UC remission: normal BMD n=11 (40.7%), mild degree n=6 (22.2%), severe degree n=10 (37%) PAGANELLI2 Retrospective and N=21 UC patients out 007 prospective study. of N=56 in the total Cross-sectional data. population 3suoires yreV A/N enoN A/N None of
