National Clinical Guideline Centre
KEYWORDS: colitis, ulcerative, ulcerative colitis, clinical, remission, evidence, low, fewer, people, inconsistency, trials, randomised, guideline, quality, weeks


(22.2%), severe degree n=10 (37%) PAGANELLI2 Retrospective and N=21 UC patients out 007 prospective study. of N=56 in the total Cross-sectional data. population 3suoires yreV A/N enoN A/N None of the risk factors (disease activity, LOW cumulative corticosteroid use, vitamin D (25OHD)) were identified as predictors of low BMD in the multivariate analysis. It is unclear exactly which variables were included in this analysis SCHMIDT20 Cross-sectional study N=83 UC patients out 09/2011 and 2 year follow up of N=144 IBD study patients studied Sweden, two paediatric hospitals 4suoires yreV A/N enoN A/N fo emoctuO saw esu dioretsocitroc evitalumuc ton Neither treatment with prednisolone, VERY disease category, nor disease duration LOW turned out to represent risk factors for lower BMD in this model at baseline. At 2 years follow up disease subcategory and treatment with azathioprine or corticosteroids were not significantly associated with a lower change in BMD. National Clinical Guideline Centre, 2013. Monitoring Ulcerative colitis 1 Cross-sectional data, unclear whether the population is representative (unclear enrolment to the trial), unclear whether there was missing data, unclear how the lifetime cumulative corticosteroid dose was calculated and very limited information reported for the multivariate analysis. 2 Unclear whether the population is representative (enrolment to the trial), unclear whether there was missing data, unclear and very limited description of the multivariate analysis. Inadequate covariates/events ratio 3 Mainly cross-sectional data, limited information reported for the multivariate analysis, missing data is not described, and some important confounders were not considered 4Cross-sectional study followed by a prospective cohort, unclear how the patients were recruited( consecutive/ random), no dose/ duration of corticosteroid use, limited information reported for the multivariate analysis, missing data is not described, and some important confounders were not considered. Ulcerative colitis Monitoring 9.5 Economic evidence Published literature No relevant economic evaluations were identified. New cost-effectiveness analysis New analysis was not prioritised for this area. Unit costs In the absence of recent UK cost-effectiveness analysis, relevant unit costs are provided below to aid consideration of cost-effectiveness. Vitamin D testing: estimated at £13 per testrr DEXA scan: estimated at £72 per scanss 9.6 Evidence statements 9.6.1 Clinical evidence statements None of the studies assessed the relationship between disease activity, systemic corticosteroid use, total vitamin D, malnutrition and the incidence of fractures or osteoporosis /osteopenia. No relationship was identified between corticosteroid use (3 studies, very low to low quality evidence), total vitamin D (2 studies, low quality
