National Clinical Guideline Centre
KEYWORDS: colitis, ulcerative, ulcerative colitis, clinical, remission, evidence, low, fewer, people, inconsistency, trials, randomised, guideline, quality, weeks


and the incidence of fractures or osteoporosis /osteopenia. No relationship was identified between corticosteroid use (3 studies, very low to low quality evidence), total vitamin D (2 studies, low quality evidence) disease activity (1 study, low quality evidence) and total body BMD score. One study (low quality evidence) found cumulative dose of prednisolone and diagnosis related significantly to lumbar spine BMD SDS. None of the studies assessed the relationship between malnutrition and total BMD score. 9.6.2 Economic evidence statements No relevant economic studies were identified. 9.7 Recommendations and link to evidence Recommendations Monitoring bone health Adults 34. For recommendations on assessing the risk of fragility fracture in adults, refer to Osteoporosis: assessing the risk of fragility fracture (NICE clinical guideline 146). Children and young people rr NHS Derby City and NHS Derbyshire county 2011 ( 20Position%20Statment%20(with%20test%20cost%20change).pdf) ss NHS reference costs 2010-2011(Diagnostic imaging outpatient RA15Z) Ulcerative colitis Monitoring 35. Consider monitoring bone health in children and young people with ulcerative colitis in the following circumstances: • during chronic active disease • after treatment with systemic corticosteroids • after recurrent active disease. Relative values of different Children and young people outcomes The critical outcomes were the incidence of fractures (validated by medical records/radiological reports), osteoporosis/osteopenia as indicated by bone mineral density Z-score and reduction in bone mineral density score. The important outcomes were epiphyseal fusion (normal, delayed) and bone age (wrist x-ray, delayed, normal or advanced). The potential risk factors considered where: • Disease activity (active versus inactive disease) • Systemic corticosteroid use: current high dose use versus current low dose use, frequent use (>2 times/year) versus infrequent use (≤2 times/year), cumulative dose • Total vitamin D (25-hydroxycholecalciferol) • Malnutrition (reduction by 2 centiles in weight) Bone mineral density (BMD) was the only dependent variable out of our outcomes that was reported in the studies. One study reported no fractures. None of the other outcomes (epiphyseal fusion, bone age) were reported in the multivariate analyses as a dependent variable (outcome). The incidence of osteoporosis or osteopenia was not included as a dependant variable. Trade off between clinical The identification of risk factors that contribute to poor bone health is benefits and harms important to indicate when to monitor, and then to adjust treatment if necessary, to reduce the risk of fractures and further deterioration of bone health. The GDG were not aware of any harms in monitoring bone health. The review did
