National Clinical Guideline Centre
KEYWORDS: colitis, ulcerative, ulcerative colitis, clinical, remission, evidence, low, fewer, people, inconsistency, trials, randomised, guideline, quality, weeks


treatment if necessary, to reduce the risk of fractures and further deterioration of bone health. The GDG were not aware of any harms in monitoring bone health. The review did not evaluate the different methods of assessing bone health and their relative benefits and harms, and as such no one method for monitoring is recommended. The GDG noted that there was a lack of evidence demonstrating an increase in fracture risk in the studies identified, and were unable to suggest that osteoporosis, with the implied increased risk of fracture, is a common feature of the disease. The GDG also found that it was unclear whether the studies which presented DEXA scan data fully adjusted for body size rather than age. The GDG considered that in any chronic disease, growth is impaired. The GDG acknowledged that DEXA scanning does not fully adjust for bone size and underestimates BMD in small bones, so there is a risk that both osteopenia and osteoporosis are over-diagnosed in children with chronic disease. The GDG also noted that undertaking DEXA imaging after every episode of active disease or in less than 6 monthly intervals would be considered too frequent. Not only would it be unlikely there would be sufficient change over this period the risks of radiation exposure should be considered. The evidence from the review did not demonstrate that any of the risk factors contributed to poor bone health. Economic considerations The GDG considered that as monitoring would not be carried out routinely, the cost of monitoring is likely to be offset by long term benefits. Benefits include reducing the risk of fractures and preventing further deterioration of bone Ulcerative colitis Monitoring to treat poor bone health is avoided. Quality of evidence There were four studies, three were rated as low quality and one as very low quality. One study found cumulative dose of prednisolone and diagnosis related significantly to lumbar spine BMD standard deviation scores. No other evidence identified these or any of the other potential risk factors as predictors for poor bone health. The GDG were concerned about the poor quality of the evidence and the noted the following limitations of the studies: • The studies were poorly designed with small sample sizes. • It was unclear how representative the studies were of a UK paediatric ulcerative colitis population. • It was unclear about the levels of missing data. • Important confounders were
