National Clinical Guideline Centre
KEYWORDS: colitis, ulcerative, ulcerative colitis, clinical, remission, evidence, low, fewer, people, inconsistency, trials, randomised, guideline, quality, weeks


• It was unclear how representative the studies were of a UK paediatric ulcerative colitis population. • It was unclear about the levels of missing data. • Important confounders were not always included in multivariate analysis. • It was unclear in two studies that measured corticosteroid use how it was being measured (i.e. how the lifetime cumulative corticosteroid dose was calculated). For these reasons the GDG were not confident in concluding from the evidence whether disease activity, cumulative corticosteroid dose, total vitamin D and malnutrition are risk factors for poor bone health. Other considerations As a result of the absence of good quality evidence the recommendation was based on GDG consensus with expert advisor input and this is reflected in the strength of the recommendation. There is a need for further research in this area. Experience from the GDG indicated two of the risk factors identified above (active disease and systemic corticosteroid use) could result in poor bone health and considered it appropriate to consider monitoring when these risk factors are present. The rationale for considering these risk factors was that during active disease the production of interleukin 6 may affect bone formation. Steroids are commonly associated with lowering bone density and increasing the incidence of fractures. Both these factors are identified as risk factors for monitoring bone health in adults in the NICE clinical guideline on Osteoporosis: assessing the risk of fragility fracture (NICE clinical guideline 146). The GDG has less experience and confidence in making a recommendation concerning vitamin D and malnutrition. The GDG agreed that decisions should be considered based on the clinical picture. The GDG did not wish to specify the method of monitoring. 9.8 Clinical introduction: monitoring growth and pubertal development in children and young people Assessment of growth, including measurement of both weight and height and staging of puberty are generally considered a very important aspect of clinical assessment in children and young people with chronic disease including chronic inflammatory bowel disease (IBD). In ulcerative colitis under- nutrition and, in particular, growth failure (short stature) and or pubertal delay are thought to occur less commonly than in Crohn’s disease, however, nutritional deficiencies can develop quickly during periods of active disease.182At the time of new IBD diagnosis, low body mass index (BMI) was seen in ~ 8% of ulcerative colitis.191 However, short stature and pubertal delay is thought to occur to a far Ulcerative colitis
