National Clinical Guideline Centre
KEYWORDS: colitis, ulcerative, ulcerative colitis, clinical, remission, evidence, low, fewer, people, inconsistency, trials, randomised, guideline, quality, weeks


IBD diagnosis, low body mass index (BMI) was seen in ~ 8% of ulcerative colitis.191 However, short stature and pubertal delay is thought to occur to a far Ulcerative colitis Monitoring lesser extent and it is anticipated that most children with ulcerative colitis will reach their expected adult height136,219 and achieve normal milestones of pubertal development. Clinicians must take into account potential reasons for growth failure and pubertal delay. These may be due to intrinsic factors related to disease, such as, disease severity including extent, complications, duration of symptoms prior to achieving disease control and frequency of disease relapse or extrinsic factors, such as duration and frequency of steroid use. Consideration should also be given to identify other co-existing conditions that may predispose to growth failure and pubertal delay such as eating disorders or other causes of primary growth hormone and gonadotropin deficiency secondary to poor nutritional status. The clinician needs to consider the most appropriate assessments in children and young people to identify those at risk of faltering growth and pubertal delay and the optimal frequency of monitoring parental height estimation), documentation on age and sex appropriate growth chart and Tanner pubertal staging undertaken by trained healthcare professionals are considered important assessments for growth and puberty respectively. Consideration should be given to alternative methods for assessing puberty, including self-assessment, to take into account the sensibilities of children and young people to allow for discreet assessment and to aid compliance. Additional supplementary assessments to investigate or monitor when poor growth is suspected may include use of wrist x-ray to measure bone age in pre-pubertal children and predict remaining growth potential or biochemical markers including IGF1 (insulin-like growth factor 1), as the biological mediator of growth hormone action. The necessary frequency of assessments will depend on the degree to which growth and puberty are impaired at disease presentation and subsequent disease course and severity. Specific parameters to assess might include: • growth failure (fall off across two centile lines in weight or height on growth chart) • and/or pubertal delay • and/or lack of age- and gender-appropriate progression of puberty once it has started (Tanner stage). Prompt recognition of cause for growth failure and or pubertal delay is necessary to allow for timely intervention; this is particularly important when active disease including associated steroid use may coincide with the potential vulnerable periods of rapid skeletal growth during pubertal development. The aim
