National Clinical Guideline Centre
KEYWORDS: colitis, ulcerative, ulcerative colitis, clinical, remission, evidence, low, fewer, people, inconsistency, trials, randomised, guideline, quality, weeks


for timely intervention; this is particularly important when active disease including associated steroid use may coincide with the potential vulnerable periods of rapid skeletal growth during pubertal development. The aim of timely intervention is to maximise adult height potential and complete pubertal development. 9.9 Review question: In children and young people with ulcerative colitis, what are the optimal strategies (timing, location) for monitoring growth? The purpose of this review is to determine whether the monitoring of children and young people’s growth and pubertal development should be carried out at specific time points in relation to the activity of their ulcerative colitis and use of corticosteroids. The use of self-monitoring compared to medical monitoring will also be considered, and whether there needs to be special measures taken over the transitional period. There were no limitations on the settings for the studies, and no trial duration or sample size restrictions. Ulcerative colitis Monitoring 9.10 Clinical evidence: monitoring growth and pubertal development No studies were identified that met the inclusion criteria for either review. See the study selection flow chart in Appendix E and exclusion list in Appendix F. Studies were identified that looked at the use of corticosteroids but not in relation to how frequent the monitoring should take place. They only demonstrated that the use of corticosteroids depending on the dose and duration of treatment could affect growth in children and young people. Some studies commented on the fact that growth should be monitored within their conclusions, but the frequency in which it should be carried out was not evidenced. There were also some guidelines referenced clinical evidence base. 9.11 Economic evidence Published literature No relevant economic evaluations were identified. New cost-effectiveness analysis New analysis was not prioritised for this area. 9.12 Evidence statements 9.12.1 Clinical evidence statements No relevant clinical papers were identified. 9.12.2 Economic evidence statements No relevant economic evaluations were identified. 9.13 Recommendations and link to evidence Monitoring growth and pubertal development in children and young people 36. Monitor the height and body weight of children and young people with ulcerative colitis against expected values on centile charts (and/or z scores) at the following intervals according to disease activity: • every 3–6 months: – if they have an inflammatory exacerbation and are approaching or undergoing puberty or – if there is chronic active disease or – if they are being treated with systemic corticosteroids • every 6 months
