National Clinical Guideline Centre
KEYWORDS: colitis, ulcerative, ulcerative colitis, clinical, remission, evidence, low, fewer, people, inconsistency, trials, randomised, guideline, quality, weeks


inflammatory exacerbation and are approaching or undergoing puberty or – if there is chronic active disease or – if they are being treated with systemic corticosteroids • every 6 months during pubertal growth if the disease is inactive Recommendations • every 12 months if none of the criteria above are met. Ulcerative colitis Monitoring 37. Monitor pubertal development in young people with ulcerative colitis using the principles of Tanner staging, by asking screening questions and/or carrying out a formal examination. 38. Consider referral to a secondary care paediatrician for pubertal assessment and investigation of the underlying cause if a young person with ulcerative colitis: • has slow pubertal progress or • has not developed pubertal features appropriate for their age. 39. Monitoring of growth and pubertal development: • can be done in a range of locations (for example, at routine appointments, acute admissions or urgent appointments in primary care, community services or secondary care) • should be carried out by appropriately trained healthcare professionals as part of the overall clinical assessment (including disease activity) to help inform the need for timely investigation, referral and/or interventions, particularly during pubertal growth. If the young person prefers self-assessment for monitoring pubertal development, this should be facilitated where possible and they should be instructed on how to do this. 40. Ensure that relevant information about monitoring of growth and pubertal development and about disease activity is shared across services (for example, community, primary, secondary and specialist services). Apply the principles in Patient experience in adult NHS services (NICE clinical guideline 138) in relation to continuity of care. Relative values of different Growth outcomes The critical outcomes were deviation from normal/baseline height (growth velocity) as measured on the centile chart trajectory and bone age (wrist x- rays) in pre-pubertal children. The important outcome was deviation from normal weight as measured by the weight centiles. Pubertal development The critical outcomes were delayed puberty (as indicated by assessment on the Tanner staging) and quality of life. Trade off between clinical Growth and pubertal delay are important markers of wellbeing in children and benefits and harms young people with ulcerative colitis. Poor growth may be an indicator of poor disease control and delayed growth and puberty can result in feelings of isolation from peers. Early detection of any delay will allow treatment to be adjusted according to the patient’s need and avoid further growth retardation and promote catch
