National Clinical Guideline Centre
KEYWORDS: colitis, ulcerative, ulcerative colitis, clinical, remission, evidence, low, fewer, people, inconsistency, trials, randomised, guideline, quality, weeks


in feelings of isolation from peers. Early detection of any delay will allow treatment to be adjusted according to the patient’s need and avoid further growth retardation and promote catch up growth. The benefits of measuring growth and pubertal development are clear but the frequency of measurement is not. There could be a risk that monitoring growth too frequently could pick up ‘false delay in growth’ and treatment could be changed unnecessarily resulting in changes to treatment that are premature. Ulcerative colitis Monitoring Economic considerations The GDG considered that the monitoring of growth and pubertal development in children and young people should already be routinely carried out in clinical practice. If the frequency of monitoring recommended by the GDG is above what is currently offered, it may require patients to make additional appointments. Costs would be incurred due to additional resource use, for example, staff time. However, if monitoring occurs when patients make their costs are increased, however, the GDG thought that the benefits for the child’s development would outweigh these costs. Quality of evidence No studies were identified that indicated any optimal timing strategies for monitoring growth or pubertal development. Other considerations The recommendations are based on GDG consensus. The need for monitoring The GDG noted the need to be aware of the potential for growth and pubertal delay in children and young people with ulcerative colitis, particularly at high disease relapse, persistent disease, approaching puberty and when taking corticosteroids. Restricted growth in children and young people can indicate poor disease control. In the GDG’s experience, children and young people with restricted growth or pubertal delay can feel embarrassed and different from their peers, which can impact on their social and emotional development. Suspected delay should be addressed swiftly and appropriate referrals made. Growth measurement The GDG recognised the difficulties of accurately and reliably measuring growth in children and young people, and the consequences of measuring growth too frequently. They discussed extensively the optimal frequency of monitoring. The GDG noted that growth is typically measured by mapping linear growth and weight onto centile charts, and considered this to be the most appropriate method of measuring growth in children and young people with ulcerative colitis. The GDG recognised the problems in obtaining reliable height and weight measurements, and noted the importance of appropriately trained staff and calibrated equipment (stadiometers) for accurate height measurement. The recording of Z-scores is considered to
