National Clinical Guideline Centre
KEYWORDS: colitis, ulcerative, ulcerative colitis, clinical, remission, evidence, low, fewer, people, inconsistency, trials, randomised, guideline, quality, weeks


in obtaining reliable height and weight measurements, and noted the importance of appropriately trained staff and calibrated equipment (stadiometers) for accurate height measurement. The recording of Z-scores is considered to be more accurate as they represent all values which sit between the centile lines. However, healthcare professionals are less familiar with this technique; therefore the GDG recommended that Z-scores should be recorded where possible. Radiologic determination of bone age by wrist x-ray compared to chronological age can help inform discussion with children and young people about their remaining growth potential. The GDG discussed the risks of unreliable measurement if linear growth is measured too frequently (less than 6 monthly). However, the GDG considered the benefits of monitoring growth regularly outweighed any potential risks of infrequent sporadic monitoring, and that, in the context of a child or a young person with concerns about growth, too large an interval to try to establish an accurate diagnosis of growth failure might delay timely treatment intervention. In the absence of evidence, the GDG considered disease activity to be a reasonable marker for defining frequency. The more severe the disease activity and use of systemic corticosteroids, the greater the potential for growth delay. Ulcerative colitis Monitoring Pubertal measurement The GDG noted there are varying definitions of when delayed puberty starts, with estimates of around 14 years. The recommendation states ‘has not developed pubertal features appropriate for their age’ to allow clinicians to make judgements according to the young person and to allow appropriate investigation and monitoring of growth and puberty. This enables treatment to be started early (if needed) with better outcomes. In the absence of any evidence about the optimal strategies for monitoring pubertal development, the GDG agreed that the Tanner staging was a widely recognised tool for measuring pubertal stages, and was appropriate for use in children and young people with ulcerative colitis. Monitoring pubertal development is a sensitive topic, and the GDG agreed that monitoring should only be done by professionals with an expertise in paediatrics. Local protocols should be available. Self-assessment can be an alternative for children and young people. This option should be considered and support offered to children and young people that take up this option. Growth and pubertal development The recommendations have been ordered to reflect the need to undertake the monitoring assessments at the same time. They are all part of the overall timely investigation. The GDG
