National Clinical Guideline Centre
KEYWORDS: colitis, ulcerative, ulcerative colitis, clinical, remission, evidence, low, fewer, people, inconsistency, trials, randomised, guideline, quality, weeks


prevent advance knowledge of group assignment in a RCT. The allocation process should be impervious to any influence by the individual making the allocation, by being administered by someone who is not responsible for recruiting participants. Applicability The degree to which the results of an observation, study or review are likely to hold true in a particular clinical practice setting. Arm (of a clinical study) Sub-section of individuals within a study who receive one particular intervention, for example placebo arm Association Statistical relationship between two or more events, characteristics or other variables. The relationship may or may not be causal. Baseline The initial set of measurements at the beginning of a study (after run-in period where applicable), with which subsequent results are compared. Beclometasone A type of corticosteroid. Also known as ‘beclomethasone dipropionate’. dipropionate Before-and-after study A study that investigates the effects of an intervention by measuring particular characteristics of a population both before and after taking the intervention, and assessing any change that occurs. Bias Systematic (as opposed to random) deviation of the results of a study from the ‘true’ results that is caused by the way the study is designed or conducted. Blinding Keeping the study participants, caregivers, researchers and outcome assessors unaware about the interventions to which the participants have been allocated in a study. Carer (caregiver) Someone other than a health professional who is involved in caring for a person with a medical condition. Case-control study Comparative observational study in which the investigator selects individuals who have experienced an event (For example, developed a disease) and others who have not (controls), and then collects data to determine previous exposure to a possible cause. Case-series Report of a number of cases of a given disease, usually covering the course of the disease and the response to treatment. There is no comparison (control) group of patients. Clinical efficacy The extent to which an intervention is active when studied under controlled research conditions. Ulcerative colitis Glossary Clinical effectiveness The extent to which an intervention produces an overall health benefit in routine clinical practice. Clinician A healthcare professional providing direct patient care, for example Cochrane Review The Cochrane Library consists of a regularly updated collection of evidence-based medicine databases including the Cochrane Database of Systematic Reviews (reviews of randomised controlled trials prepared by the Cochrane Collaboration). Cohort study A retrospective or prospective follow-up study. Groups of individuals to be followed
