National Clinical Guideline Centre
KEYWORDS: colitis, ulcerative, ulcerative colitis, clinical, remission, evidence, low, fewer, people, inconsistency, trials, randomised, guideline, quality, weeks


where both costs and benefits of healthcare treatment are measured in the same monetary units. If benefits exceed costs, the evaluation would recommend providing the treatment. Ulcerative colitis Glossary Cost-consequences A type of economic evaluation where various health outcomes are analysis (CCA) reported in addition to cost for each intervention, but there is no overall measure of health gain. Cost-effectiveness An economic study design in which consequences of different analysis (CEA) interventions are measured using a single outcome, usually in ‘natural’ units (For example, life-years gained, deaths avoided, heart attacks avoided, cases detected). Alternative interventions are then compared in terms of cost per unit of effectiveness. decision problems and incorporate evidence from a variety of sources in order to estimate the costs and health outcomes. Cost-utility analysis A form of cost-effectiveness analysis in which the units of effectiveness (CUA) are quality-adjusted life-years (QALYs). Credible Interval The Bayesian equivalent of a confidence interval. Decision analysis An explicit quantitative approach to decision making under uncertainty, based on evidence from research. This evidence is translated into probabilities, and then into diagrams or decision trees which direct the clinician through a succession of possible scenarios, actions and outcomes. Discounting Costs and perhaps benefits incurred today have a higher value than costs and benefits occurring in the future. Discounting health benefits reflects individual preference for benefits to be experienced in the present rather than the future. Discounting costs reflects individual preference for costs to be experienced in the future rather than the present. Dominance An intervention is said to be dominated if there is an alternative intervention that is both less costly and more effective. Drop-out A participant who withdraws from a trial before the end. Economic evaluation Comparative analysis of alternative health strategies (interventions or programmes) in terms of both their costs and consequences. Effect (as in effect The observed association between interventions and outcomes or a measure, treatment statistic to summarise the strength of the observed association. effect, estimate of effect, effect size) Effectiveness See ‘Clinical effectiveness’. Efficacy See ‘Clinical efficacy’. Epidemiological study The study of a disease within a population, defining its incidence and prevalence and examining the roles of external influences (For example, infection, diet) and interventions. EQ-5D (EuroQol-5D) A standardise instrument used to measure a health outcome. It provides a single index value for health status. Evidence Information on which a decision or guidance is based. Evidence is obtained from
