National Clinical Guideline Centre
KEYWORDS: colitis, ulcerative, ulcerative colitis, clinical, remission, evidence, low, fewer, people, inconsistency, trials, randomised, guideline, quality, weeks


occurring by chance. Length of stay The total number of days a participant stays in hospital. Licence See ‘Product licence’. Life-years gained Mean average years of life gained per person as a result of the intervention compared with an alternative intervention. Likelihood ratio The likelihood ratio combines information about the sensitivity and specificity. It tells you how much a positive or negative result changes the likelihood that a patient would have the disease. The likelihood ratio of a positive test result (LR+) is sensitivity divided by 1- specificity. Long-term care Residential care in a home that may include skilled nursing care and help with everyday activities. This includes nursing homes and residential homes. Loss to follow-up People who have left the trial for an unknown reason. Ulcerative colitis Glossary Markov model A method for estimating long-term costs and effects for recurrent or transition between them within a given time period (cycle). Mesalazine A type of aminosalicylate. Also known as ‘mesalamine’. Meta-analysis A statistical technique for combining (pooling) the results of a number of studies that address the same question and report on the same outcomes to produce a summary result. The aim is to derive more precise and clear information from a large data pool. It is generally more reliably likely to confirm or refute a hypothesis than the individual trials. Multivariate model A statistical model for analysis of the relationship between two or more predictor (independent) variables and the outcome (dependent) variable. Negative predictive A measure of the usefulness of a prognostic test. It is the proportion of be interpreted as the probability that a negative test result is correct. Number needed to treat The number of patients that who on average must be treated to prevent (NNT) a single occurrence of the outcome of interest. Observational study Retrospective or prospective study in which the investigator observes the natural course of events with or without control groups; for example, cohort studies and case–control studies. Odds ratio A measure of treatment effectiveness. The odds of an event happening in the treatment group, expressed as a proportion of the odds of it happening in the control group. The 'odds' is the ratio of events to non- events. Opportunity cost The loss of other healthcare programmes displaced by investment in or introduction of another intervention. This may be best measured by the health benefits that could have been achieved had the money
