National Clinical Guideline Centre
KEYWORDS: colitis, ulcerative, ulcerative colitis, clinical, remission, evidence, low, fewer, people, inconsistency, trials, randomised, guideline, quality, weeks


of other healthcare programmes displaced by investment in or introduction of another intervention. This may be best measured by the health benefits that could have been achieved had the money been spent on the next best alternative healthcare intervention. Outcome Measure of the possible results that may stem from exposure to a preventive or therapeutic intervention. Outcome measures may be intermediate endpoints or they can be final endpoints. See ‘Intermediate outcome’. P-value The probability that an observed difference could have occurred by chance, assuming that there is in fact no underlying difference between the means of the observations. If the probability is less than 1 in 20, the P value is less than 0.05; a result with a P value of less than 0.05 is conventionally considered to be ‘statistically significant’. Perioperative The period from admission through surgery until discharge, encompassing the pre-operative and post-operative periods. Placebo An inactive and physically identical medication or procedure used as a comparator in controlled clinical trials. Polypharmacy The use or prescription of multiple medications. Positive predictive value A measure of the usefulness of a prognostictest. It is the proportion of Ulcerative colitis Glossary (PPV) those with a positive test result who have the disease, and can be interpreted as the probability that a positive test result is correct. Postoperative Pertaining to the period after patients leave the operating theatre, following surgery. Power (statistical) The ability to demonstrate an association when one exists. Power is related to sample size; the larger the sample size, the greater the power and the lower the risk that a possible association could be missed. Preoperative The period before surgery commences. Pre-test probability For diagnostic tests. The proportion of people with the target disorder in the population at risk at a specific time point or time interval. Prevalence may depend on how a disorder is diagnosed. Primary care Healthcare delivered to patients outside hospitals. Primary care covers a range of services provided by general practitioners, nurses, dentists, pharmacists, opticians and other healthcare professionals. Primary outcome The outcome of greatest importance, usually the one in a study that the power calculation is based on. Product licence An authorisation from the MHRA to market a medicinal product. Prognosis A probable course or outcome of a disease. Prognostic factors are patient or disease characteristics that influence the course. Good prognosis is associated with low rate of undesirable outcomes; poor prognosis is associated
