National Clinical Guideline Centre
KEYWORDS: colitis, ulcerative, ulcerative colitis, clinical, remission, evidence, low, fewer, people, inconsistency, trials, randomised, guideline, quality, weeks


or outcome of a disease. Prognostic factors are patient or disease characteristics that influence the course. Good prognosis is associated with low rate of undesirable outcomes; poor prognosis is associated with a high rate of undesirable outcomes. Prospective study A study in which people are entered into the research and then followed up over a period of time with future events recorded as they happen. This contrasts with studies that are retrospective. Publication bias Also known as reporting bias. A bias caused by only a subset of all the relevant data being available. The publication of research can depend on the nature and direction of the study results. Studies in which an intervention is not found to be effective are sometimes not published. Because of this, systematic reviews that fail to include unpublished studies may overestimate the true effect of an intervention. In addition, a published report might present a biased set of results (e.g. only outcomes or sub-groups where a statistically significant difference was found. Quality of life See ‘Health-related quality of life’. Quality-adjusted life An index of survival that is adjusted to account for the patient’s quality year (QALY) of life during this time. QALYs have the advantage of incorporating changes in both quantity (longevity/mortality) and quality (morbidity, psychological, functional, social and other factors) of life. Used to measure benefits in cost-utility analysis. The QALYs gained are the mean QALYs associated with one treatment minus the mean QALYs associated with an alternative treatment. Randomisation Allocation of participants in a research study to two or more alternative groups using a chance procedure, such as computer-generated random numbers. This approach is used in an attempt to ensure there is an even Ulcerative colitis Glossary distribution of participants with different characteristics between groups and thus reduce sources of bias. Randomised controlled A comparative study in which participants are randomly allocated to trial (RCT) intervention and control groups and followed up to examine differences in outcomes between the groups. RCT See ‘Randomised controlled trial’. Receiver operated A graphical method of assessing the accuracy of a diagnostic test. characteristic (ROC) Sensitivity is plotted against 1-specificity. A perfect test will have a curve positive, vertical linear slope starting at the origin. A good test will be somewhere close to this ideal. Reference standard The test that is considered to be the best available method to establish the presence or absence of the outcome –
