National Clinical Guideline Centre
KEYWORDS: colitis, ulcerative, ulcerative colitis, clinical, remission, evidence, low, fewer, people, inconsistency, trials, randomised, guideline, quality, weeks


will be somewhere close to this ideal. Reference standard The test that is considered to be the best available method to establish the presence or absence of the outcome – this may not be the one that is routinely used in practice. Relative risk (RR) The number of times more likely or less likely an event is to happen in one group compared with another (calculated as the risk of the event in group A/the risk of the event in group B). Reporting bias See publication bias. Resource implication The likely impact in terms of finance, workforce or other NHS resources. Retrospective study A retrospective study deals with the present/ past and does not involve studying future events. This contrasts with studies that are prospective. Review question In guideline development, this term refers to the questions about treatment and care that are formulated to guide the development of evidence-based recommendations. Secondary outcome An outcome used to evaluate additional effects of the intervention deemed a priori as being less important than the primary outcomes. Selection bias A systematic bias in selecting participants for study groups, so that the groups have differences in prognosis and/or therapeutic sensitivities at baseline. Randomisation (with concealed allocation) of patients protects against this bias. Sensitivity Sensitivity or recall rate is the proportion of true positives which are correctly identified as such. For example in diagnostic testing it is the proportion of true cases that the test detects. See the related term ‘Specificity’. Sensitivity analysis A means of representing uncertainty in the results of economic evaluations. Uncertainty may arise from missing data, imprecise estimates or methodological controversy. Sensitivity analysis also allows for exploring the generalisability of results to other settings. The analysis is repeated using different assumptions to examine the effect on the results. One-way simple sensitivity analysis (uni-variate analysis): each parameter is varied individually in order to isolate the consequences of each parameter on the results of the study. Ulcerative colitis Glossary Multi-way simple sensitivity analysis (scenario analysis): two or more parameters are varied at the same time and the overall effect on the results is evaluated. Threshold sensitivity analysis: the critical value of parameters above or below which the conclusions of the study will change are identified. Probabilistic sensitivity analysis: probability distributions are assigned to the uncertain parameters and are incorporated into evaluation models based on decision analytical techniques (For example, Monte Carlo simulation). Significance (statistical)
