National Clinical Guideline Centre
KEYWORDS: colitis, ulcerative, ulcerative colitis, clinical, remission, evidence, low, fewer, people, inconsistency, trials, randomised, guideline, quality, weeks


identified. Probabilistic sensitivity analysis: probability distributions are assigned to the uncertain parameters and are incorporated into evaluation models based on decision analytical techniques (For example, Monte Carlo simulation). Significance (statistical) A result is deemed statistically significant if the probability of the result occurring by chance is less than 1 in 20 (p <0.05). Specificity The proportion of true negatives that a correctly identified as such. For example in diagnostic testing the specificity is the proportion of non- cases incorrectly diagnosed as cases. See related term ‘Sensitivity’. In terms of literature searching a highly specific search is generally narrow and aimed at picking up the key papers in a field and avoiding a wide range of papers. Stakeholder Those with an interest in the use of the guideline. Stakeholders include manufacturers, sponsors, healthcare professionals, and patient and carer groups. Subacute ulcerative A manifestation of moderately to severely active ulcerative colitis that colitis would normally be managed in an outpatient setting and that does not require hospitalisation or the consideration of urgent surgical intervention. Systematic review Research that summarises the evidence on a clearly formulated question according to a pre-defined protocol using systematic and explicit methods to identify, select and appraise relevant studies, and to extract, collate and report their findings. It may or may not use statistical meta- analysis. Time horizon The time span over which costs and health outcomes are considered in a decision analysis or economic evaluation. Treatment allocation Assigning a participant to a particular arm of the trial. Uni-variate Analysis which separately explores each variable in a data set. Utility A measure of the strength of an individual’s preference for a specific health state in relation to alternative health states. The utility scale assigns numerical values on a scale from 0 (death) to 1 (optimal or ‘perfect’ health). Health states can be considered worse than death and thus have a negative value. Ulcerative colitis List of appendices 13 List of appendices Please see separate files for individual appendices. Appendix A: Scope Appendix B: Declarations of interest Appendix C: Review protocols Appendix D: Literature search strategies Appendix E: Study selection flowcharts Appendix F: Excluded studies list Appendix G: Evidence tables Appendix H: Forest plots and ROC curves Appendix I: Induction network meta-analysis Appendix J: Maintenance network meta-analysis Appendix K: Unit cost of drugs Appendix L: Cost-effectiveness analyses: induction and maintenance Appendix M: Research recommendations Appendix N: Author definitions
