NLM Citation: LiverTox: Clinical and Research Information on Drug-
KEYWORDS: amphotericin, liver, days, pubmed, patients, pmid, pubmed pmid, injury, hepatotoxicity, elevations, bilirubin, therapy, alt, liver injury, antifungal


Induced Liver Injury [Internet]. Bethesda (MD): National Institute of Diabetes and Digestive and Kidney Diseases; 2012-. Amphotericin B. [Updated 2016 Apr 8]. Bookshelf URL: Amphotericin B Updated: April 8, 2016. OVERVIEW Introduction Amphotericin B is an antifungal agent with a broad spectrum of activity against many fungal species. Amphotericin B commonly causes mild to moderate serum aminotransferase elevations and can cause hyperbilirubinemia, but acute, clinically apparent drug induced liver injury from amphotericin B therapy is exceedingly rare. Background Amphotericin (am" foe ter' i sin) B is a polyene macrolide antibiotic that acts by binding to sterols in the plasma membranes of fungi causing the cells to leak, eventually leading to fungal cell death. Amphotericin B is indicated for the treatment of a several fungal and other infections including leishmaniasis, invasive aspergillosis, blastomycosis, candidiasis, coccidiomycosis, cryptococcal meningitis, cryptococcosis, histoplasmosis, mucormycosis, sporotrichosis, and others. Amphotericin B was approved by the FDA in 1971 and is currently widely used in the treatment of serious fungal infections. Amphotericin B is insoluble in water and is formulated for intravenous use by complexing it with lipotrophic molecules such as deoxycholate, liposomes or lipid complexes. Amphotericin is available in multiple forms and concentrations generically and under the brand names Amphocin and Fungizone (deoxycholate), Ambisome (liposome), Abelcet (lipid complex), and Amphotec (cholesteryl sulfate complex). The recommended dose varies by drug form and by disease entity; amphotericin B is given intravenously and the usually dosage is up 0.5 to 1.0 mg/kg daily. Many fungal infections require prolonged therapy (for 1 month to as many as 9 months). Common side effects include fever and chills, nausea, weight loss, headache, malaise, azotemia, hypokalemia, anemia, renal tubular acidosis and phlebitis at peripheral vein infusion sites. Hepatotoxicity Mild and transient elevations in liver enzymes occur in up to 20% of patients receiving amphotericin. Clinically apparent hepatotoxicity is rare, but several convincing cases have been published. The liver injury arises as early as 4 to 14 days after starting therapy, typically with a hepatocellular or mixed pattern of enzyme elevation. Most patients have no symptoms or jaundice. Recovery occurs promptly upon stopping therapy. In addition, isolated but dramatic instances of hyperbilirubinemia arising within days of starting amphotericin have been reported with elevations largely in the direct (conjugated) bilirubin fraction. These patients become visually jaundiced but have no constitutional symptoms, minimal if any elevations in serum ALT or alkaline phosphatase levels, and no evidence of
