NLM Citation: LiverTox: Clinical and Research Information on Drug-
KEYWORDS: amphotericin, liver, days, pubmed, patients, pmid, pubmed pmid, injury, hepatotoxicity, elevations, bilirubin, therapy, alt, liver injury, antifungal


the direct (conjugated) bilirubin fraction. These patients become visually jaundiced but have no constitutional symptoms, minimal if any elevations in serum ALT or alkaline phosphatase levels, and no evidence of frank hepatic injury. Finally, rare instances of acute cholestatic hepatitis with jaundice have been 2 LiverTox reported in patients receiving amphotericin, but these patients have generally been critically ill and exposed to multiple potentially hepatotoxic agents, so that the attribution to amphotericin has been weak. Likelihood score: C (probable cause of clinically apparent liver injury). Mechanism of Injury The cause of serum aminotransferase elevations during amphotericin B therapy is unknown, but may be a direct hepatotoxicity from the polyene based upon its effects on cell membranes. There is little evidence of hypersensitivity, although the injury is idiosyncratic and usually recurs with reexposure and, thus, may be due to a genetic predisposition based upon the metabolism of amphotericin B which is largely hepatic. Th e hyperbilirubinemia of amphotericin therapy is likely due to inhibition of bilirubin transport mechanisms and is likely to occur in patients with genetic variations in the major hepatic bilirubin transporter (MRP2). Outcome and Management The severity of the liver injury due to amphotericin is usually mild, most patients being asymptomatic and anicteric. Recovery is rapid with stopping amphotericin but can recur with rechallenge. No instances of acute liver failure or chronic liver injury have been convincingly linked to amphotericin therapy. There appears to be no cross sensitivity of the hepatotoxicity of amphotericin to other antifungal agents. Drug Class: Antifungal Agents CASE REPORT Case 1. Serum aminotransferase elevations during amphotericin B therapy. [Modified from: Gill J, Sprenger H, Ralph E, Sharpe M. Hepatotoxicity possibly caused by amphotericin B. Ann Pharmacother 1999; 33: 683-5. PubMed Citation] A 26 year old man developed elevations in serum aminotransferase levels 3 days after starting intravenous amphotericin B for pulmonary blastomycosis. He had received oral itraconazole for 7 days without much improvement before starting amphotericin B. When serum enzymes continued to rise (Table), amphotericin B was stopped while itraconazole was maintained. He was asymptomatic of liver disease, and tests for viral hepatitis and autoantibodies were negative. An abdominal ultrasound showed no evidence of biliary obstruction. A percutaneous liver biopsy showed mild focal fatty change and little evidence of inflammation or hepatocellular necrosis. Stains for fungal elements were negative. Within 4 days of stopping amphotericin B, serum enzymes had returned to baseline. Key Points
