Management of Diabetes and Hyperglycemia in Hospitalized Patients
KEYWORDS: diabetes, glucose, pubmed, patients, insulin, care, hyperglycemia, article, mmol, hypoglycemia, control, free, pmc free, free article, pmc


ABSTRACT Diabetes is the most prevalent metabolic disorder, and in 2021, the International Diabetes Federation estimated that it affected 537 million adults globally. In 2024, the United States Centers for Disease Control reported that 38.1 million adult Americans, or 14.7% of the adult population, have diabetes. Patients with diabetes have a 3-4-fold greater chance of hospitalization compared to those without diabetes. In 2020, in the U.S., there were over 7.86 million hospital discharges for adults listed as having diabetes. Hyperglycemia, defined as a blood glucose greater than 140 mg/dl (7.8 mmol/l), is reported in 22-46% of non-critically ill hospitalized patients. Extensive data indicates that inpatient hyperglycemia, in patients with or without a prior diagnosis of diabetes, is associated with an increased risk of complications and mortality. In 2025, the American Diabetes Association (ADA) recommends that once therapy is initiated, a glycemic goal of 140–180 mg/dL (7.8–10.0 mmol/L) is recommended for most critically ill (ICU) individuals with hyperglycemia. More stringent individualized glycemic goals may be appropriate for selected critically ill individuals if they are achieved without significant hypoglycemia. However, for non-critically ill (non-ICU) individuals, a glycemic goal of 100-180 mg/dL (5.6-10.0 mmol/L) is recommended, if achieved without significant hypoglycemia. Insulin remains the best way to control hyperglycemia in the inpatient setting, especially in critically ill patients. Intravenously administered insulin is the preferred method to achieve the recommended glycemic target in the ICU. In 2025, the ADA changed its recommendations on using SGLT2 inhibitors in inpatients. They now suggest that in people with type 2 diabetes and heart failure, SGLT2 inhibitors may be started or continued if there are no contraindications (which include prolonged fasting or post-operative recovery). The use of GLP-1 receptor agonists was not recommended in previous guidelines because of the need for more safety and efficacy studies in the inpatient setting. However, increasing evidence indicates that treatment with oral agents such as DPP4 inhibitors, alone or combined with basal insulin, is safe and effective in general medicine and surgery patients with mild to moderate hyperglycemia. For complete coverage of all related areas of Endocrinology, please visit our on-line FREE web-text, WWW.ENDOTEXT.ORG . INTRODUCTION Diabetes is the most prevalent metabolic disorder, affecting more than 537 million adults globally and is projected to rise to almost 800 million (10.9% of the adult population) by 2045 ( 1 ). In the United States, data from the National Diabetes Statistics Report in 2023
