Management of Diabetes and Hyperglycemia in Hospitalized Patients
KEYWORDS: diabetes, glucose, pubmed, patients, insulin, care, hyperglycemia, article, mmol, hypoglycemia, control, free, pmc free, free article, pmc


blood/urine ketone measurement taken, but that if it is high on admission (i.e. >140mg/dl [7.8 mmol/l]) and subsequently goes down to normal, then a diagnosis of stress hyperglycemia should be made and documented to the primary care team ( 21 ). Measurement of HbA 1c is indicated in people with hyperglycemia without a history of diabetes to differentiate between stress-induced hyperglycemia and previously undiagnosed diabetes ( 21 ; 45 - 48 ). The ADA also recommends that an HbA 1c be done in those with diabetes who have not had it measured in the preceding 3 months ( 48 ). The Endocrine Society and the UK Joint British Diabetes Societies for Inpatient Care (JBDS) recommendations indicate that people hospitalized with elevated blood glucose >140 mg/dl (7.8 mmol/l) and an HbA 1c of 6.5% (48 mmol/mol) or higher can be identified as having diabetes ( 19 ; 21 ). Given the increasing prevalence of diabetes, the UK has also produced a calculator to help teams work out their optimal staffing levels ( 49 ). PATHOPHYSIOLOGY OF HYPERGLYCEMIA DURING ILLNESS In subjects without diabetes during the fasted state, plasma glucose is maintained between 70 – 100 mg/dl (3.9 – 5.6 mmol/l) by a finely regulated balance between glucose production from the liver and kidneys and glucose utilization in peripheral tissues. Maintenance of near-normal glucose concentration is essential for cardiovascular and central nervous system function because the brain can neither synthesize nor store glucose ( 50 ; 51 ). Systemic glucose balance is maintained by dynamic, minute-to-minute regulation of endogenous glucose production and glucose utilization by peripheral tissues ( 52 ). Glucose production is accomplished by gluconeogenesis or glycogenolysis primarily in the liver and, to a lesser degree, by the kidneys ( 53 ; 54 ). Gluconeogenesis results from converting non-carbohydrate precursors such as lactate, alanine, and glycerol to glucose in the liver ( 55 ). Excess glucose is polymerized into glycogen, mainly stored in the liver and muscle. Hyperglycemia develops because of three processes: 1) increased gluconeogenesis, 2) accelerated glycogenolysis, and 3) impaired glucose utilization by peripheral tissues ( Figure 1 ). Figure 1. Pathogenesis of hyperglycemia. Hyperglycemia results from increased hepatic glucose production and impaired glucose utilization in peripheral tissues. Reduced insulin and excess counter-regulatory hormones (glucagon, cortisol, catecholamines, and growth hormone) increase lipolysis and protein breakdown (proteolysis) and impair glucose uptake by peripheral tissues. Hyperglycemia causes osmotic diuresis, leading to
