Management of Diabetes and Hyperglycemia in Hospitalized Patients
KEYWORDS: diabetes, glucose, pubmed, patients, insulin, care, hyperglycemia, article, mmol, hypoglycemia, control, free, pmc free, free article, pmc


insulin and excess counter-regulatory hormones (glucagon, cortisol, catecholamines, and growth hormone) increase lipolysis and protein breakdown (proteolysis) and impair glucose uptake by peripheral tissues. Hyperglycemia causes osmotic diuresis, leading to volume depletion, decreasing glomerular filtration rate, and worsening hyperglycemia. At the cellular level, increased blood glucose concentrations result in mitochondrial injury by generating reactive oxygen species and endothelial dysfunction by inhibiting nitric oxide production. Hyperglycemia increases levels of pro-inflammatory cytokines such as tumor necrosis factor-α (TNF-α) and interleukin [IL]-6, leading to immune system dysfunction. These changes can eventually lead to an increased risk of infection, impaired wound healing, multiple organ failure, prolonged hospital stay, and death. Adapted from ref ( 25 ). From the quantitative standpoint, inappropriately increased hepatic glucose production represents the major pathogenic disturbance. Increased hepatic glucose production results from the high availability of gluconeogenic precursors. These include the amino acids alanine and glutamine, which result from accelerated proteolysis and decreased protein synthesis; lactate, which results from increased muscle glycogenolysis; glycerol, which results from increased lipolysis; and the increased activity of gluconeogenic enzymes (phosphoenol pyruvate carboxykinase, fructose-1,6-bisphosphatase, and pyruvate carboxylase) ( 53 ; 55 ). Glucose metabolism is maintained by an interaction of glucoregulatory hormones – insulin and counter-regulatory hormones (glucagon, cortisol, epinephrine, norepinephrine, and growth hormone). Insulin controls hepatic glucose production by suppressing hepatic gluconeogenesis and glycogenolysis. Depending on the concentration in the circulation, insulin inhibits glycogenolysis and protein breakdown and, at higher concentrations, promotes protein anabolism in insulin-sensitive tissues such as muscle, glucose uptake, and glycogen synthesis ( 52 ; 56 ; 57 ). In addition, insulin is a potent inhibitor of lipolysis, free fatty acid oxidation, and ketogenesis ( 56 - 58 ). Counter-regulatory hormones also play an essential role in regulating glucose production and utilization. Glucagon is the most important glycogenolytic hormone, and therefore regulates hepatic glucose production in healthy individuals and in every state of hyperglycemia ( 53 ). During stress, excess concentration of counter-regulatory hormones results in altered carbohydrate metabolism by inducing insulin resistance, increasing hepatic glucose production, and reducing peripheral glucose utilization. In addition, high epinephrine levels stimulate glucagon secretion and inhibit insulin release by pancreatic β-cells ( 59 ; 60 ). The development of hyperglycemia results in an inflammatory state characterized by an elevation of pro-inflammatory cytokines and increased oxidative stress markers ( 61 - 63 ). Circulating levels of TNF-α, IL-6, IL1-ß, IL-8, and C-reactive protein are significantly increased
