Management of Diabetes and Hyperglycemia in Hospitalized Patients
KEYWORDS: diabetes, glucose, pubmed, patients, insulin, care, hyperglycemia, article, mmol, hypoglycemia, control, free, pmc free, free article, pmc


characterized by an elevation of pro-inflammatory cytokines and increased oxidative stress markers ( 61 - 63 ). Circulating levels of TNF-α, IL-6, IL1-ß, IL-8, and C-reactive protein are significantly increased two- to fourfold on admission in people with severe hyperglycemia compared with control subjects, and levels returned to normal levels after insulin treatment and resolution of hyperglycemic crises ( 61 ). Raised concentrations of TNF-α lead to insulin resistance at the level of the insulin receptor and through altered regulation of the insulin-signaling pathway ( 62 ; 64 ). In addition, preventing insulin-mediated activation of phosphatidylinositol 3- kinase TNF-α reduces insulin-stimulated glucose uptake in peripheral tissues ( 62 ; 64 ; 65 ). CONSEQUENCES OF HYPERGLYCEMIA IN THE HOSPITALIZED PATIENTS A large body of literature, including observational and prospective randomized clinical trials, in people with and without diabetes, as well as those who are critically or non-critically ill has shown a strong association between hyperglycemia (in particular, a blood glucose >200mg/dl [11.0mmol/l]) and poor clinical outcomes, such as mortality, infections, and hospital complications compared to those with a glucose concentration of <100mg/dl (5.6mmol/l) ( 5 ; 66 - 76 ). This association correlates with the severity of hyperglycemia prior to or on admission and during the hospital stay ( 72 ; 77 - 79 ). Of interest, increasing evidence indicates an increased risk of complications and mortality in patients without a history of diabetes (stress-induced) compared to patients with a known diagnosis of diabetes ( 8 ; 69 ; 75 ; 77 ; 80 ; 81 ). It is not clear if stress hyperglycemia is the direct cause of poor outcomes or if it is a general marker of the severity of illness. However, there are data to show that those without a prior history of diabetes have fewer point-of-care glucose concentrations measured compared to those with diabetes, even when glucose concentrations are just as high ( 75 ; 82 ). In those who had diabetes, having more point-of-care tests increases contact with the ward staff, suggesting that impending complications may be picked up sooner, resulting in lower mortality. These data correlate with other work that also shows that those with lower preoperative HbA 1c lower the number of post-operative glucose checks in a general surgical population ( 83 ). The mechanisms implicated in the detrimental effects of hyperglycemia during acute illnesses are not entirely understood. Current evidence indicates that
