Management of Diabetes and Hyperglycemia in Hospitalized Patients
KEYWORDS: diabetes, glucose, pubmed, patients, insulin, care, hyperglycemia, article, mmol, hypoglycemia, control, free, pmc free, free article, pmc


hypoglycemia was associated with longer ICU stays and greater hospital mortality, especially for patients with more than one episode of hypoglycemia ( 29 ). These data strengthen the argument to have potentially less strict glycemic targets for those not on ICU ( 32 ; 137 ). For example, if an individual has a glucose of 75 mg/dl (4.2 mmol/l), and is on an intravenous insulin infusion, by the time their bedside capillary glucose is next measured, they may have a glucose well below 72 mg/dl (4.0 mmol/l), thus they have come to potential harm. Indeed, data published from previous NaDIA surveys and NaDIA Harms using data from over 100 hospitals across the UK showed several serious adverse events, including seizures, permanent cerebral damage, cardiac arrests, and deaths. Insulin therapy was implicated in several of these events ( 33 ; 34 ; 156 ; 157 ). The counterargument is that there are initiatives to reduce the risk of developing inpatient hypoglycemia and having national guidance has led to improved patient care overall ( 106 ; 158 ). As with the outpatient population, the increased use of technology may help avoid hypoglycemia ( 159 ). Hypoglycemia has been associated with adverse cardiovascular outcomes, such as increased myocardial contractility, prolonged QT interval (possibly due to the rapid drop in potassium concentrations due to the increased circulating epinephrine and norepinephrine), ischemic electrocardiogram changes and repolarization abnormalities, angina, arrhythmias, increased inflammation, and sudden death, ( 51 ; 160 - 162 ). The mechanisms for the poor outcome have yet to be entirely understood. Still, hypoglycemia has been associated with increases in pro-inflammatory cytokines (TNFα, IL-1β, IL-6, and IL-8), markers of lipid peroxidation, acute changes in endothelial dysfunction with associated vasoconstriction, increased blood coagulability, cellular adhesion, and oxidative stress ( 163 ; 164 ). Despite these observations, the direct causal effect of iatrogenic hypoglycemia on outcome is still debatable. Kosiborod et al. reported that spontaneous hypoglycemia, but not insulin–induced hypoglycemia, was associated with higher hospital mortality ( 152 ). Similarly, another study among 31,970 patients also reported that hypoglycemia is associated with increased in-hospital mortality. Still, the risk was limited to patients with spontaneous hypoglycemia and not to patients with drug-associated hypoglycemia ( 165 ). These studies raise the possibility that hypoglycemia, like hyperglycemia, despite the biochemical and other changes described, is a marker of disease burden rather than a direct cause of death. RECOMMENDATIONS FOR
