Management of Diabetes and Hyperglycemia in Hospitalized Patients
KEYWORDS: diabetes, glucose, pubmed, patients, insulin, care, hyperglycemia, article, mmol, hypoglycemia, control, free, pmc free, free article, pmc


studies raise the possibility that hypoglycemia, like hyperglycemia, despite the biochemical and other changes described, is a marker of disease burden rather than a direct cause of death. RECOMMENDATIONS FOR MANAGING HYPERGLYCEMIA IN THE HOSPITAL ENVIRONMENT Knowledge of Diabetes Management Amongst Medical Staff The burden on inpatient diabetes falls most frequently on junior medical staff, who often have little or no specialist diabetes training. As such, it is perhaps unsurprising that errors occur. In the UK, a survey of junior doctors showed that unlike other commonly encountered medical conditions, such as acute asthma or angina, their knowledge about and confidence in managing diabetes was significantly lower ( 166 ). In 2019, this was also shown in a multicenter study from the US – with the major difference being that whilst most staff felt confident and comfortable managing diabetes, when challenged on how to manage certain situations, and in particular identifying glucose targets for those who were critically ill or the threshold for defining hypoglycemia, their confidence was far higher than their knowledge – a potentially devastating combination ( 167 ). Given the high prevalence of diabetes amongst hospital inpatients, essential diabetes management should be part of mandatory training. However, studies have found that despite the implementation of training programs, structured staff education has not shown to be of significant benefit in terms of improved patient outcomes ( 168 ; 169 ) Management of Inpatient Hyperglycemia in the ICU Insulin is the best way to control hyperglycemia in the inpatient setting, especially in critically ill patients. A variable-rate intravenous insulin infusion is the preferred method to achieve the recommended glycemic target (ADA Standards of Care 2025). The short half-life of intravenous insulin makes it ideal in this setting because it allows flexibility in the event of unpredicted changes in an individual’s health, medications, and nutrition. When someone is identified as having hyperglycemia (blood glucose ≥180 mg/dl [≥10.0 mmol/l]), a variable rate intravenous insulin infusion should be started to maintain blood glucose levels <180 mg/dl (<10.0 mmol/l). A variety of intravenous infusion protocols are effective in achieving glycemic control with a low rate of hypoglycemic events and in improving hospital outcomes ( 73 ; 86 ; 113 ; 121 ; 170 - 174 ). A proper protocol should allow flexible blood glucose targets to be modified based on the individual’s clinical situation. Further, it should have clear instructions about the blood glucose
