Management of Diabetes and Hyperglycemia in Hospitalized Patients
KEYWORDS: diabetes, glucose, pubmed, patients, insulin, care, hyperglycemia, article, mmol, hypoglycemia, control, free, pmc free, free article, pmc


174 ). A proper protocol should allow flexible blood glucose targets to be modified based on the individual’s clinical situation. Further, it should have clear instructions about the blood glucose threshold for initiating an insulin infusion and the initial rate. The appropriate fluids should also be prescribed. It should be validated to avoid hyperglycemia if adjusted too slowly and hypoglycemia if adjusted too fast. Accurate insulin administration requires a reliable infusion pump that can deliver the insulin dose in increments of 0.1 units per hour ( 138 ; 172 ). There is no ideal insulin protocol for managing hyperglycemia in the critically ill patient. In addition, no clear evidence demonstrates the benefit of one protocol/algorithm versus any other ( 138 ). Implementing any of these algorithms requires close follow-up by the nursing staff and is prone to human errors. Some institutions have developed computerized protocols that can be implemented to avoid errors in dosing ( 138 ; 175 - 179 ). Essential elements that increase protocol success of continuous insulin infusion are: 1) rate adjustment considers the current and previous glucose value and the current rate of insulin infusion, 2) rate adjustment considers the rate of change (or lack of change) from the previous reading, and 3) frequent glucose monitoring (hourly until stable glycemia is established, and then at least every 2 – 3 hours) ( 138 ; 171 ; 180 - 182 ). Several computer-based algorithms aiming to direct the nursing staff in adjusting the insulin infusion rate have become commercially available ( 175 - 177 ; 179 ; 183 ). Retrospective cohorts and controlled trials have reported a more rapid and tighter glycemic control with computer-guided algorithms than standard paper form protocols in ICU patients ( 176 ; 184 ), as well as lower glycemic variability than patients treated with the standard insulin infusion regimens. Despite differences in glycemic control between insulin algorithms, another study showed no difference between computerized protocols versus conventional glucose control ( 128 ). Thus, most insulin algorithms appear to be appropriate alternatives for managing hyperglycemia in critically ill patients, and the choice depends upon the physician’s preferences, staffing availability, and cost considerations. As mentioned, the increasing implementation of available technology, in particular the use of closed loops should improve the management of dysglycemia over the coming years ( 185 - 187 ). Managing Hyperglycemia in the Non-ICU Setting Subcutaneous insulin is the preferred
