Management of Diabetes and Hyperglycemia in Hospitalized Patients
KEYWORDS: diabetes, glucose, pubmed, patients, insulin, care, hyperglycemia, article, mmol, hypoglycemia, control, free, pmc free, free article, pmc


use of closed loops should improve the management of dysglycemia over the coming years ( 185 - 187 ). Managing Hyperglycemia in the Non-ICU Setting Subcutaneous insulin is the preferred therapeutic agent for glucose control in those admitted to non-ICU settings under general medicine and surgery. A recent study suggested that the use of bolus correction doses of subcutaneous insulin (“subcutaneous sliding scale insulin” (SSI)) is an acceptable way of controlling dysglycemia, particularly in those whose admission glucose levels were <180 mg/dl (10 mmol/l) ( 188 ; 189 ). However, many studies do not agree and advocate against using this method as the only way to control glucose levels because it results in undesirable hypoglycemia and hyperglycemia or inadequately controls dysglycemia ( 109 ; 190 - 193 ). It has become evident in recent years that the use of scheduled subcutaneous insulin therapy with basal (e.g. glargine, detemir or degludec) once daily or with intermediate-acting insulin (NPH) given twice daily alone or in combination with short (regular) or rapid-acting insulin (lispro, aspart, glulisine) prior to meals is effective and safe for the management of most patients with hyperglycemia and diabetes ( 20 ; 108 ; 194 ). The basal-bolus (prandial) insulin regimen is considered the physiologic approach as it addresses the three components of insulin requirement: basal (what is required in the fasting state), nutritional (what is needed for peripheral glucose disposal following a meal), and supplemental (what is necessary for unexpected glucose elevations, or to dispose of glucose in hyperglycemia ( 195 ). A prospective, randomized multi-center trial compared the efficacy and safety of a basal/bolus insulin regimen with basal-bolus regimen and SSI in people with type 2 diabetes admitted to a general medicine service ( 139 ). The use of a basal-bolus insulin regimen improved blood glucose control more than the subcutaneous sliding scale alone. A blood glucose target <140 mg/dl (<7.8 mmol/l) was achieved in 66% of those in the glargine plus glulisine group and 38% in the sliding scale group ( 139 ). The incidence of hypoglycemia, defined as a BG <60 mg/dl (<3.3 mmol/l), was less than 5% in those treated with basal-bolus or SSI. A different study on general surgery inpatients also compared the efficacy and safety of a basal-bolus regimen to SSI in those with type 2 diabetes ( 71 ). The basal-bolus regimen resulted in a significant improvement in glucose control and
