Management of Diabetes and Hyperglycemia in Hospitalized Patients
KEYWORDS: diabetes, glucose, pubmed, patients, insulin, care, hyperglycemia, article, mmol, hypoglycemia, control, free, pmc free, free article, pmc


efficacy and safety of a basal-bolus regimen to SSI in those with type 2 diabetes ( 71 ). The basal-bolus regimen resulted in a significant improvement in glucose control and a reduction in the frequency of the composite of postoperative complications, including wound infection, pneumonia, respiratory failure, acute renal failure, and bacteremia. Multi-dose human NPH and regular insulin have been compared to basal-bolus treatment with insulin analogs in an open-label, controlled, multicenter trial in 130 medical admissions with type 2 diabetes ( 196 ). This study found that both treatment regimens significantly improved inpatient glycemic control with a glucose target of <140 mg/dl (<7.8 mmol/l) before meals and no difference in the rate of hypoglycemic events. Thus, a similar improvement in glycemic control can be achieved with either basal-bolus therapy with insulin analogs or with NPH/regular human insulin in people with type 2 diabetes. Most people in the hospital have reduced caloric intake due to a lack of appetite, medical procedures, or surgical intervention. In the Basal Plus trial, people with type 2 diabetes who were treated with diet, oral antidiabetic agents, or low-dose insulin (≤ 0.4 unit/kg/day) prior to admission were randomized to receive a standard basal-bolus regimen with glargine once daily and glulisine before meals or a single daily dose of glargine. In addition, supplemental doses of glulisine were administered for correction of hyperglycemia (>140 mg/dl [>7.8 mmol/l]) per sliding scale ( 197 ). This study reported that the basal approach resulted in similar improvement in glycemic control and the frequency of hypoglycemia compared to a standard basal-bolus regimen ( 197 ). Thus, in insulin-naive individuals or those receiving low-dose insulin on admission, as well as those with reduced oral intake, the use of a basal plus regimen is an effective alternative to basal-bolus ( 108 ). The recommended total daily insulin dose should start between 0.3 to 0.5 units per Kg ( 139 ; 147 ; 198 ; 199 ) for most people with diabetes. Starting doses greater than 0.6 – 0.8 units/kg/day have been associated with 3-fold higher odds of hypoglycemia than doses lower than 0.2 U/kg/day. In elderly individuals or those with impaired renal function, lower initial daily doses (≤ 0.3 units/kg) may lower the risk of hypoglycemia ( 200 ). Hospital Use of Non-Insulin Therapy in Non-Critical Care Settings Several other classes of non-insulin glucose-lowering agents have been tried in the hospital setting. However,
