Management of Diabetes and Hyperglycemia in Hospitalized Patients
KEYWORDS: diabetes, glucose, pubmed, patients, insulin, care, hyperglycemia, article, mmol, hypoglycemia, control, free, pmc free, free article, pmc


risk of hypoglycemia ( 200 ). Hospital Use of Non-Insulin Therapy in Non-Critical Care Settings Several other classes of non-insulin glucose-lowering agents have been tried in the hospital setting. However, most are not suitable for use. Metformin, while the first line for type 2 diabetes in the outpatient setting, may not be appropriate where there is any evidence of dehydration, renal impairment, or if intravenous contrast is due to be administered due to the risk of lactic acidosis or worsening of renal function ( 195 ). Despite the lack of robust evidence of benefit, it remains in everyday use in many countries ( 201 ). Thiazolidinediones are excellent at lowering glucose but are used rarely, and possibly inappropriately, in hospitalized patients because they take several weeks to reach their maximum effect, may precipitate heart failure, and may cause peripheral edema due to fluid retention ( 202 - 204 ). Sulfonylureas work rapidly and are often the drugs of choice for worsening diabetes in an outpatient setting ( 205 ). They remain in everyday use in many countries, with up to 20% of inpatients with diabetes in the USA and UK remaining on them ( 140 ; 203 ). However, they increase the risk of hypoglycemia. There is data to show that they remain one of the most frequent causes of inpatient hypoglycemia, thus extending the length of hospital stay and increasing the risk of inpatient mortality ( 141 ; 206 - 208 ). Oral glucose-lowering medication use is limited by the delay and unpredictability of onset of action, and there is also concern regarding the cardiovascular effects of sulfonylureas and the contraindication of metformin use in patients with renal or liver dysfunction ( 19 ; 209 ). Recent work using the sodium-glucose co-transporter 2 inhibitors for corticosteroid-induced hyperglycemia in acute exacerbation of chronic obstructive pulmonary disease (COPD) or used in COVID infections failed to demonstrate an improvement in outcomes ( 210 ; 211 ). Indeed, despite their clear benefits in the outpatient population with and without diabetes, robust evidence for the benefit of SGLT2i use in the inpatient population (in people with diabetes) is lacking ( 212 ; 213 ). The use of oral antidiabetic agents was not recommended in previous guidelines because of the need for more safety and efficacy studies in the inpatient setting ( 20 ). However, increasing evidence indicates that treatment with dipeptidyl peptidase-4 (DPP4) inhibitors,
