Management of Diabetes and Hyperglycemia in Hospitalized Patients
KEYWORDS: diabetes, glucose, pubmed, patients, insulin, care, hyperglycemia, article, mmol, hypoglycemia, control, free, pmc free, free article, pmc


previous guidelines because of the need for more safety and efficacy studies in the inpatient setting ( 20 ). However, increasing evidence indicates that treatment with dipeptidyl peptidase-4 (DPP4) inhibitors, alone or in combination with basal insulin, is safe and effective in general medicine and surgery with mild to moderate hyperglycemia ( 48 ). In a pilot study, general medicine and surgical inpatients with blood glucose between 140 and 400 mg/dl (7.8 – 22.2 mmol/l) treated with diet, oral antidiabetic drugs, or low-dose insulin (≤0.4 U/kg/day) were randomized to sitagliptin once daily, sitagliptin and basal insulin, or basal-bolus insulin ( 214 ). All groups received correction doses of lispro before meals and bedtime for blood glucose >140 mg/dl (>7.8 mmol/l). In those with mild-moderate hyperglycemia (<180 mg/dl [<10 mmol/l]), the use of sitagliptin plus supplemental (correction doses) or in combination with basal insulin resulted in no significant differences in mean daily blood glucose, frequency of hypoglycemia or the number of treatment failures compared to the basal-bolus regimen ( 214 ). The SITA-HOSPITAL trial, a multicenter, randomized controlled study in 279 general medicine and surgery individuals with type 2 diabetes previously treated with oral anti-diabetic agents or low-dose insulin (<0.6 U/kg/d), also reported similar glycemic control, hypoglycemia rate, hospital length-of-stay, treatment failures or hospital complications (including acute kidney injury or pancreatitis) between the combination of oral sitagliptin plus basal insulin to the more labor-intensive basal-bolus insulin regimen ( 215 ). Analysis from prospective studies using DPP4-i in various inpatient situations with type 2 diabetes (T2D) reported that treatment with DPP4-i alone or with basal insulin suggested they were safe and lowered glucose concentrations without increasing the risk of hypoglycemia ( 216 ; 217 ). For people with type 2 diabetes hospitalized with heart failure, the ADA has recommended that the use of a sodium-glucose cotransporter 2 (SGLT2) inhibitor be initiated or continued during hospitalization and upon discharge if there are no contraindications and after recovery from the acute illness ( 218 - 221 ). In patients with acute heart failure, empagliflozin was well tolerated, resulting in significant clinical benefits, including heart failure readmissions and quality of life ( 221 ). However, SGLT2 inhibitors should be avoided in cases of severe illness, in people with type 1 diabetes, ketonemia, or ketonuria, and during prolonged fasting and surgical procedures. Proactive adjustment of diuretic dosing is recommended during hospitalization and/or discharge, especially in collaboration
