Management of Diabetes and Hyperglycemia in Hospitalized Patients
KEYWORDS: diabetes, glucose, pubmed, patients, insulin, care, hyperglycemia, article, mmol, hypoglycemia, control, free, pmc free, free article, pmc


in people with type 1 diabetes, ketonemia, or ketonuria, and during prolonged fasting and surgical procedures. Proactive adjustment of diuretic dosing is recommended during hospitalization and/or discharge, especially in collaboration with a cardiology/heart failure consult team. The FDA has warned that SGLT2 inhibitors should be stopped three days before scheduled surgeries (4 days in the case of ertugliflozin) ( 222 ). This differs from the UK guideline, which states that these drugs should be omitted from the day before a procedure ( 223 ). Staffing Levels in the Hospital Inadequate levels of appropriately knowledgeable staff are a concern for patients with diabetes ( 224 ). An insufficient level of specialist diabetes staff is a factor that inhibits safe and optimal care ( 34 ). Recently, the UK JBDS group developed a simple calculator into which individual teams could enter data to calculate their staffing needs ( 49 ). That data showed the discrepancy between the number of people delivering care and the number of people that specialist teams felt was necessary to provide safe and effective care for five days or seven days per week. This was for senior medical staff, specialist nursing staff, dieticians, podiatrists, pharmacists and psychologists ( 49 ). Glucose Monitoring in the Hospital All patients admitted to the hospital with a diagnosis of diabetes and those with newly discovered hyperglycemia should be monitored closely ( 21 ). The frequency and method of monitoring and the schedule of the blood glucose checks will depend on the nutritional intake, patient treatment, and insulin schedule, as well as the ability of the individual to self-manage their diabetes ( 225 ). There is some controversy regarding the best method to monitor blood glucose. However, considering the convenience and wide availability of capillary point of care (POC) testing, we suggest this as the best approach if done with a monitoring device that has demonstrated accuracy ( 226 - 228 ). When using POC blood glucose meters, it is important to keep several things in mind. In particular, overall clinical conditions that might affect the POC value, such as hemoglobin level, perfusion, and medications, as well as the policy of the health care organization in guiding the patient and the staff on the use of POC devices or newer technologies. Bedside point-of-care (POC) capillary glucose testing is usually ordered before meals and bedtime to assess glycemic control and adjust insulin therapy in
