Management of Diabetes and Hyperglycemia in Hospitalized Patients
KEYWORDS: diabetes, glucose, pubmed, patients, insulin, care, hyperglycemia, article, mmol, hypoglycemia, control, free, pmc free, free article, pmc


the use of POC devices or newer technologies. Bedside point-of-care (POC) capillary glucose testing is usually ordered before meals and bedtime to assess glycemic control and adjust insulin therapy in the hospital ( 19 ; 228 ). However, this approach has been shown to fail to detect hypoglycemia, particularly nocturnal and asymptomatic hypoglycemia, which is a common scenario in the hospital setting ( 229 ; 230 ). Continuous glucose monitoring (CGM) has increased over the last few years, helping to improve glycemic management in the ICU. The use of this technology was accelerated during the COVID pandemic, where the use of CGM meant that close contact with sick individuals was avoided using remote sensing ( 231 - 234 ). The use of CGM is questioned, with the accuracy of readings when dealing with hypoglycemia or in the operating room ( 235 ; 236 ). However, in general, most studies have been associated with overall benefit ( 234 ; 237 ; 238 ). CGM is reliable compared to point-of-care testing and laboratory values in the inpatient setting. It is currently being evaluated for managing ICU and general ward patients ( 159 ; 185 ; 235 ; 239 - 242 ). Studies have shown that CGM offers advantages over intermittent capillary monitoring in the ICU. CGM can help identify and prevent severe hyperglycemia and hypoglycemia by allowing for more rapid and accurate adjustments to insulin infusions compared to capillary blood glucose testing. Research has also demonstrated that CGM is better at detecting hypoglycemia, predominantly asymptomatic and nocturnal hypoglycemia, than capillary glucose testing ( 243 ; 244 ). Additionally, CGM is as safe and effective as standard care in hospitalized patients and can lead to a significant decrease in recurrent hypoglycemia events compared with standard point-of-care testing ( 243 ; 245 ). Regulatory approval for CGM use in hospitals is still pending, but consensus guidelines suggest that the use of CGM in the hospital setting has the potential to provide a better glycemic assessment than capillary glucose testing (Walia et al.; other, Endo Soc Guidelines). Furthermore, advanced technology in guiding insulin therapy using machine learning and artificial intelligence is being integrated more frequently into diabetes care ( 246 ). A proof-of-concept trial in patients with type 2 diabetes evaluated the efficacy and safety of a model-based reinforcement learning framework in titrating insulin dosing. After applying the intervention, the mean daily BG was lower
