Management of Diabetes and Hyperglycemia in Hospitalized Patients
KEYWORDS: diabetes, glucose, pubmed, patients, insulin, care, hyperglycemia, article, mmol, hypoglycemia, control, free, pmc free, free article, pmc


patients with type 2 diabetes evaluated the efficacy and safety of a model-based reinforcement learning framework in titrating insulin dosing. After applying the intervention, the mean daily BG was lower by approximately 56 mg/dl (3 mmol/l) with no severe hypo- or hyperglycemia ( 247 ). The American Diabetes Association (ADA) and UK JBDS recently recommended that people with diabetes who use a personal continuous glucose monitoring (CGM) device should be allowed to continue during hospitalization ( 48 ; 159 ; 248 ). Both organizations also recommend that confirmatory point-of-care (POC) glucose measurements be used for insulin dosing decisions, hypoglycemia assessment, and treatment. A recent survey of inpatient teams across the UK showed significant variations in accessing and using technologies ( 249 ). These included networked glucose and ketone meters, and wearable diabetes technologies such as CGM, pumps, or closed loop systems. While almost two-thirds of respondents agreed that technology would help prevent hypoglycemia, there was a wide variety of specialist diabetes nursing or medical staff support available to help non-specialists, particularly on weekends or outside of regular working hours ( 249 ). Medical Nutrition Therapy (MNT) in Hospitalized Patients with Diabetes Medical nutrition therapy (MNT) is a key component of the comprehensive management of diabetes and hyperglycemia in the inpatient setting. Maintaining adequate nutrition is essential for glycemic control and to meet adequate caloric demands. Caloric demand in acute illness will differ from that in the outpatient setting. Achieving the proper nutritional balance in the inpatient setting is challenging. Anyone admitted to the hospital with diabetes or hyperglycemia should be assessed to determine the need for a modified diet to meet caloric demands. The general approach to addressing MNT in the inpatient setting is usually based on expert opinions and patients' needs. Limited data exist regarding the best approach or method to achieve the ideal caloric supply. To determine the best approach, method, and caloric needs of their patients, providers should work closely with the nutrition professional. All patients with diabetes or hyperglycemia should receive an individualized assessment. Most patients will generally receive adequate caloric needs with 3 discrete meals daily. Further, the metabolic need for patients with diabetes is usually provided by 25 to 35 calories/kg, whereas some critically ill patients might require less than 15 to 25 calories/kg per day ( 250 ; 251 ). A consistent carbohydrate meal-planning system might help to facilitate glycemic control and insulin
