Management of Diabetes and Hyperglycemia in Hospitalized Patients
KEYWORDS: diabetes, glucose, pubmed, patients, insulin, care, hyperglycemia, article, mmol, hypoglycemia, control, free, pmc free, free article, pmc


ill patients might require less than 15 to 25 calories/kg per day ( 250 ; 251 ). A consistent carbohydrate meal-planning system might help to facilitate glycemic control and insulin dosing in the inpatient setting. Most patients require 1,500-2000 calories daily with 12-15 grams of carbohydrates per meal ( 19 ). Ideally, the carbohydrates should come from low glycemic index foods such as whole grains and vegetables. Those individuals unable to achieve these goals should be evaluated to determine the need for enteral or parenteral nutrition. Enteral nutrition is the second-best option after oral nutrition and should be preferred over parenteral nutrition in hospitalized individuals ( 252 - 254 ). There are several advantages of enteral feeding versus parenteral feeding, including low cost, low risk of complications, a physiologic route, less risk for gastric mucosa atrophy, and lower risk of infectious and thrombotic complications compared with the latter form of therapy ( 252 - 254 ). The benefit of parental nutrition has been documented in critically ill patients. However, some research has shown a detrimental effect on patients with diabetes and hyperglycemia. Parental nutrition should be considered only in patients who cannot receive enteral nutrition and should be coordinated with the institution’s parenteral nutrition team. There has been guidance published in the surgical population on peri-operative nutrition, but the recommendations for people with diabetes is lacking because the literature remains scanty ( 251 ). A recent UK survey of diabetes teams showed no consensus on enteral feeding regimens ( 253 ). For those tube-fed, there were 3 main regimens: continuous 24-hour feeding, a single feed with one break in 24 hours, or multiple feeds in 24 hours. In addition, there were multiple insulin regimens used: premixed insulin, isophane insulin, analog basal insulin, variable rate intravenous insulin, or basal-bolus insulin. None of these provided adequate glycemic control ( 253 ). Enteral and parenteral nutrition can prevent the effects of starvation and malnutrition ( 252 ). Enteral nutrition over parenteral nutrition is preferred whenever possible due to a lower risk of infectious and thrombotic complications ( 254 - 256 ). Standard enteral formulas reflect the reference values for macro- and micronutrients for a healthy population and contain 1-2 cal/ml. Most standard formulas contain whole protein, lipids in the form of long-chain triglycerides, and carbohydrates. Standard diabetes-specific formulas provide low amounts of lipids (30% of total calories) combined with a high carbohydrate (
