Management of Diabetes and Hyperglycemia in Hospitalized Patients
KEYWORDS: diabetes, glucose, pubmed, patients, insulin, care, hyperglycemia, article, mmol, hypoglycemia, control, free, pmc free, free article, pmc


variable doses. A single daily dose of steroid (e.g., prednisolone/prednisone) in the morning may be the most standard mode of administration ( 205 ; 260 - 262 ). Limbachia et al. showed that, in susceptible individuals, steroid use will often result in a rise in blood glucose by late morning that continues through to the evening ( 263 ). Overnight, the blood glucose generally falls back to baseline levels by the following day. They also showed the differential effects between different steroid types, with oral or IV dexamethasone or methylprednisolone leading to higher glucose excursions than prednisolone or hydrocortisone ( 262 ). Thus, treatment should be tailored to treating the hyperglycemia while avoiding nocturnal and early morning hypoglycemia. Multiple daily doses of steroid, be it intravenous hydrocortisone or oral dexamethasone, can cause a hyperglycemic effect throughout the 24-hour period. It may be, however, that a twice-daily premixed or basal-bolus regimen may need to be started if oral medication or once-daily insulin proves insufficient to control hyperglycemia ( 205 ). Close attention will therefore need to be paid to blood glucose monitoring, and early intervention may be necessary. Glucose levels in most individuals can be predicted to rise approximately 4 to 8 hours following the administration of once-daily oral steroids and sooner following the administration of intravenous steroids. Again, capillary blood glucose monitoring is paramount to guide appropriate therapeutic interventions. Conversely, glucose levels may improve to pre-steroid levels 24 hours after intravenous steroids are discontinued. When oral steroids are weaned down, the glucose levels may decline in a dose-dependent fashion, but this may not occur, particularly in those with pre-existing undiagnosed diabetes. At the commencement of steroid therapy, or for those already on a supraphysiological dose of corticosteroid, capillary blood glucose testing should occur before meals and at bedtime, in particular before lunch or evening meal, when the hyperglycemic effects of a morning dose of steroid are likely to be greatest ( 205 ; 262 ). Subcutaneous insulin using a basal or multiple daily injection regimen will likely be the most appropriate choice for most patients to achieve glycemic control in the event of hyperglycemia. While the UK has advocated for short-acting sulfonylureas ( 205 ), the morning administration of basal human insulin may closely fit the glucose excursion induced by a single morning dose of oral steroid. Basal analog insulin may be appropriate if hyperglycemia is present for more prolonged
