Management of Diabetes and Hyperglycemia in Hospitalized Patients
KEYWORDS: diabetes, glucose, pubmed, patients, insulin, care, hyperglycemia, article, mmol, hypoglycemia, control, free, pmc free, free article, pmc


human insulin may closely fit the glucose excursion induced by a single morning dose of oral steroid. Basal analog insulin may be appropriate if hyperglycemia is present for more prolonged periods. However, if long-acting insulin analogs are used in this context, care should be taken to identify and protect against hypoglycemia overnight and in the early morning. Subsequent titration of the insulin dose may be required to maintain glucose control in the face of increasing or decreasing the steroid dose. When a patient is discharged from the hospital on steroid therapy, a clear strategy for managing hyperglycemia or potential hyperglycemia and the titration of treatment to address the hyperglycemia should be communicated to the community diabetes team and primary care team. Patients who commenced on steroids as inpatients and were discharged after a short stay with the intention of continuing high-dose steroids should receive standard diabetes education, encompassing the risks associated with hyperglycemia and hypoglycemia. Closed Loop Technology Several organizations have recommended that people who are well enough to do so should continue to use their insulin pumps in hospitals ( 108 ; 109 ; 240 ; 264 ). However, only a few recent studies have reported using closed-loop systems, also referred to as the artificial pancreas or automated insulin delivery systems, in hospitalized inpatients. Small randomized trials have reported good efficacy with improved time in target and lower mean daily blood glucose without an increased rate of hypoglycemia in the ICU ( 265 - 267 ) and non-ICU settings ( 268 - 271 ). However, some of these studies were done in those with type 2 diabetes ( 268 ; 270 ). In one non-ICU study, the time in the target range between 100-180 mg/dl (5.6-10.0 mmol/l) was reported as 59.8% in patients using the closed-loop technology compared to 38.1% with standard subcutaneous insulin regimen ( 269 ). Similarly, a closed-loop study in patients receiving nutritional support also reported higher time in target glucose (68% vs 36.4%) and lower mean glucose values (153 vs 205 mg/dl [8.5-11.4 mmol/l]) compared to a standard insulin regimen ( 270 ). As with the use of CGM in the hospital, treatment with artificial pancreas is still experimental, and larger studies are needed to prove its safety and efficacy in ICU and non-ICU settings. Further challenges lie ahead because of the unfamiliarity of these systems, with non-specialist staff the primary carers for people with
