Familial hypercholesterolaemia
KEYWORDS: people, diagnosis, quality, statement, data, treatment, testing, clinical, specialist, children, clinical diagnosis, hypercholesterolaemia, familial, familial hypercholesterolaemia, local


Quality statements Statement 1 Adults with a baseline total cholesterol above 7.5 mmol/l are assessed for a clinical diagnosis of familial hypercholesterolaemia (FH). Statement 2 People with a clinical diagnosis of FH are referred for specialist assessment. Statement 3 People with a clinical diagnosis of FH are offered DNA testing as part of a specialist assessment. Statement 4 Children at risk of FH are offered diagnostic tests by the age of 10 years. Statement 5 Relatives of people with a confirmed diagnosis of monogenic FH are offered DNA testing through a nationwide, systematic cascade process. Statement 6 Adults with FH receive lipid-modifying drug treatment to reduce LDL-C concentration by more than 50% from baseline. Statement 7 Children with FH are assessed for lipid-modifying drug treatment by a specialist with expertise in FH in a child-focused setting by the age of 10 years. Statement 8 People with FH are offered a structured review at least annually. Quality statement 1: Diagnosis Quality statement Adults with a baseline total cholesterol above 7.5 mmol/l are assessed for a clinical diagnosis of familial hypercholesterolaemia (FH). Rationale Most of the 120,000 people estimated to have FH are undiagnosed and untreated. Because untreated FH carries a very high risk of cardiovascular disease, it is important that every opportunity is taken to identify people with FH and offer them treatment. Considering a clinical diagnosis of FH in people with high cholesterol will result in greater identification of FH and support cascade testing of their relatives. This will lead to more treatment to reduce cholesterol levels and prevention of coronary events among people with FH. Quality measures The following measures can be used to assess the quality of care or service provision specified in the statement. They are examples of how the statement can be measured, and can be adapted and used flexibly. Structure Evidence of local arrangements to ensure that adults with a baseline total cholesterol above 7.5 mmol/l are assessed for a clinical diagnosis of FH. Data source: Local data collection. Process Proportion of adults with a baseline total cholesterol above 7.5 mmol/l who are assessed for a clinical diagnosis of FH. Numerator – The number of people in the denominator assessed for a clinical diagnosis of FH. Denominator – The number of adults with a baseline total cholesterol above 7.5 mmol/l. Data source: Local data collection. What the quality statement means for different audiences Service providers
