Familial hypercholesterolaemia
KEYWORDS: people, diagnosis, quality, statement, data, treatment, testing, clinical, specialist, children, clinical diagnosis, hypercholesterolaemia, familial, familial hypercholesterolaemia, local


FH. Denominator – The number of adults with a baseline total cholesterol above 7.5 mmol/l. Data source: Local data collection. What the quality statement means for different audiences Service providers ensure that systems are in place for adults with a baseline total cholesterol above 7.5 mmol/l to be assessed for a clinical diagnosis of FH. General practitioners assess adults with a baseline total cholesterol above 7.5 mmol/l for a clinical diagnosis of FH. Commissioners ensure that they commission services that identify and assess adults with a baseline total cholesterol above 7.5 mmol/l for a clinical diagnosis of FH. Adults with a total cholesterol above 7.5 mmol/l before treatment have an assessment for FH. Source guidance Familial hypercholesterolaemia: identification and management. NICE guideline CG71 (2008, updated 2019), recommendations 1.1.1, 1.1.2, 1.1.4, 1.1.5 and 1.1.9 Definitions of terms used in this quality statement Adults People aged 16 and older. Baseline total cholesterol The total cholesterol concentration before treatment. Familial hypercholesterolaemia (FH) FH relates to heterozygous FH only. Clinical diagnosis of FH Assessment for a clinical diagnosis of FH should use all 3 criteria below: • exclusion of secondary causes of hypercholesterolaemia • 2 measurements of LDL-C concentration • assessment against Simon Broome or Dutch Lipid Clinic Network criteria to make a clinical diagnosis of FH in primary care settings. [Adapted from NICE's guideline on familial hypercholesterolaemia, recommendations 1.1.4, 1.1.5 and 1.1.9] Equality and diversity considerations The statement has been restricted to adults because the criteria for assessment for a clinical diagnosis of FH are not appropriate for children and young people under 16 years. Quality statement 2: Specialist referral Quality statement People with a clinical diagnosis of familial hypercholesterolaemia (FH) are referred for specialist assessment. Rationale Diagnosing and managing FH in an individual and their relatives can be complex, and is best achieved when there is access to specialist services. Specialist assessments, which include DNA testing, can confirm a diagnosis. Once an accurate diagnosis has been made, people with FH can receive appropriate treatment, and cascade testing can be started to identify affected family members. Quality measures The following measures can be used to assess the quality of care or service provision specified in the statement. They are examples of how the statement can be measured, and can be adapted and used flexibly. Structure a) Evidence of local arrangements to ensure that people with a clinical diagnosis of FH are referred for
