Familial hypercholesterolaemia
KEYWORDS: people, diagnosis, quality, statement, data, treatment, testing, clinical, specialist, children, clinical diagnosis, hypercholesterolaemia, familial, familial hypercholesterolaemia, local


statement can be measured, and can be adapted and used flexibly. Structure a) Evidence of local arrangements to ensure that people with a clinical diagnosis of FH are referred for specialist assessment. Data source: Local data collection. b) Evidence of local arrangements to ensure that a protocol for referral for a specialist assessment is agreed between primary and secondary care. Data source: Local data collection. Process Proportion of people with a clinical diagnosis of FH referred for specialist assessment. Numerator – The number of people in the denominator referred for specialist assessment. Denominator – The number of people with a clinical diagnosis of FH. Data source: Local data collection. Outcome Ratio of observed to estimated numbers of people with FH, using an estimate based on the area's estimated prevalence of FH (based on 1 in 500) and population size. Data source: Local data collection using a dedicated database. What the quality statement means for different audiences Service providers ensure that systems are in place for people with a clinical diagnosis of FH to be referred for specialist assessment. Healthcare practitioners refer people with a clinical diagnosis of FH for specialist assessment. Commissioners ensure that they commission services that can offer specialist assessment for people with a clinical diagnosis of FH. People who are given a clinical diagnosis of FH because they have high cholesterol, family history or other signs are referred for specialist assessment. Source guidance Familial hypercholesterolaemia: identification and management. NICE guideline CG71 (2008, updated 2019), recommendations 1.2.2 and 1.3.1.17 Definitions of terms used in this quality statement Familial hypercholesterolaemia (FH) FH relates to heterozygous FH only. Clinical diagnosis of FH Assessment for a clinical diagnosis of FH should use all 3 criteria below: • exclusion of secondary causes of hypercholesterolaemia • 2 measurements of LDL-C concentration • assessment against Simon Broome or Dutch Lipid Clinic Network criteria to make a clinical diagnosis of FH in primary care settings. [Adapted from NICE's guideline on familial hypercholesterolaemia, recommendations 1.1.4, 1.1.5 and 1.1.9] Specialist assessment This should include: • confirmation of the clinical diagnosis of FH made by a GP or other healthcare professional • an offer of DNA testing to increase the certainty of the diagnosis • initiation of cascade testing if a diagnosis is confirmed. A specialist assessment should be performed by a healthcare professional with expertise in FH who has access to the wider skills of a multidisciplinary
