Familial hypercholesterolaemia
KEYWORDS: people, diagnosis, quality, statement, data, treatment, testing, clinical, specialist, children, clinical diagnosis, hypercholesterolaemia, familial, familial hypercholesterolaemia, local


testing if a diagnosis is confirmed. A specialist assessment should be performed by a healthcare professional with expertise in FH who has access to the wider skills of a multidisciplinary team. This team should include a dietitian, cardiologist and paediatrician, and a clinical genetic specialist to take a family history and obtain informed consent for a DNA test. For children and young people, this should be a specialist with expertise in FH in children and young people. Children refers to people younger than 10, young people refers to those aged 10 up to and including age 15, and adults refers to people aged 16 and older. Quality statement 3: DNA testing Quality statement People with a clinical diagnosis of familial hypercholesterolaemia (FH) are offered DNA testing as part of a specialist assessment. Rationale DNA testing is important because it increases the certainty of a diagnosis of FH and allows the identification of affected and unaffected relatives through cascade testing. Quality measures The following measures can be used to assess the quality of care or service provision specified in the statement. They are examples of how the statement can be measured, and can be adapted and used flexibly. Structure Evidence of local arrangements to ensure that people with a clinical diagnosis of FH are offered DNA testing as part of a specialist assessment. Data source: Local data collection. Process a) Proportion of people with a clinical diagnosis of FH who receive DNA testing as part of a specialist assessment. Numerator – The number of people in the denominator receiving DNA testing as part of a specialist assessment. Denominator – The number of people with a clinical diagnosis of FH. Data source: Local data collection using a dedicated database. b) Proportion of people with a clinical diagnosis of FH receiving DNA testing as part of a specialist assessment who give informed consent for the test. Numerator – The number of people in the denominator who give informed consent for the test. Denominator – The number of people with a clinical diagnosis of FH receiving DNA testing as part of a specialist assessment. Data source: Local data collection using a dedicated database. Outcome Patient satisfaction with process of informed consent. Data source: Local data collection. What the quality statement means for different audiences Service providers ensure that systems are in place for people with a clinical diagnosis of FH to be offered DNA
