Familial hypercholesterolaemia
KEYWORDS: people, diagnosis, quality, statement, data, treatment, testing, clinical, specialist, children, clinical diagnosis, hypercholesterolaemia, familial, familial hypercholesterolaemia, local


data collection. What the quality statement means for different audiences Service providers ensure that systems are in place for people with a clinical diagnosis of FH to be offered DNA testing as part of a specialist assessment. Specialists with expertise in FH offer DNA testing to people with a clinical diagnosis of FH as part of a specialist assessment. Commissioners ensure that they commission services that offer DNA testing to people with a clinical diagnosis of FH as part of a specialist assessment. People who are given a clinical diagnosis of FH because they have high cholesterol, family history or other signs are offered DNA testing as part of a specialist assessment. Source guidance Familial hypercholesterolaemia: identification and management. NICE guideline CG71 (2008, updated 2019), recommendation 1.1.6 Definitions of terms used in this quality statement Familial hypercholesterolaemia (FH) FH relates to heterozygous FH only. Clinical diagnosis of FH Assessment for a clinical diagnosis of FH should use all 3 criteria below: • exclusion of secondary causes of hypercholesterolaemia • 2 measurements of LDL-C concentration • assessment against Simon Broome or Dutch Lipid Clinic Network criteria to make a clinical diagnosis of FH in primary care settings. [Adapted from NICE's guideline on familial hypercholesterolaemia, recommendations 1.1.4, 1.1.5 and 1.1.9] DNA testing DNA testing should test for all gene mutations known to cause FH. Methods should meet the standards set out by the UK Genetic Testing Network. Informed consent should be given for DNA testing. Quality statement 4: Diagnosis in children under 10 years Quality statement Children at risk of familial hypercholesterolaemia (FH) are offered diagnostic tests by the age of 10 years. Rationale Children with FH begin to develop cardiovascular disease before clinical signs appear, with thickening of the carotid artery wall identifiable by the age of 10 years. Diagnosis by the age of 10 years allows lifestyle changes and tailored therapy if indicated, which will reduce long-term problems associated with high cholesterol and improve long-term health. Quality measures The following measures can be used to assess the quality of care or service provision specified in the statement. They are examples of how the statement can be measured, and can be adapted and used flexibly. Structure Evidence of local arrangements to ensure that children at risk of FH are offered diagnostic tests by the age of 10 years. Data source: Local data collection. Process Proportion of children at risk of FH
