Familial hypercholesterolaemia
KEYWORDS: people, diagnosis, quality, statement, data, treatment, testing, clinical, specialist, children, clinical diagnosis, hypercholesterolaemia, familial, familial hypercholesterolaemia, local


clinical genetic specialist to take a family history and obtain informed consent for a DNA test. All children and young people being investigated for a diagnosis of FH should be referred to a specialist with expertise in FH in children and young people in a child-focused setting. Child-focused setting A child-focused setting is defined as valuing the child's view and validating their voice in making decisions impacting their lives. A child-focused facility or space is one designed with the children's needs in mind. [Adapted from NICE's guideline on familial hypercholesterolaemia, terms used in this guideline] Quality statement 5: Cascade testing Quality statement Relatives of people with a confirmed diagnosis of monogenic familial hypercholesterolaemia (FH) are offered DNA testing through a nationwide, systematic cascade process. Rationale Most people in the UK with FH are undiagnosed. Cascade testing has been shown to be effective for identifying people with FH, especially when provided nationwide. Nationwide cascade testing ensures that all family members can access DNA testing wherever they live. Quality measures The following measures can be used to assess the quality of care or service provision specified in the statement. They are examples of how the statement can be measured, and can be adapted and used flexibly. Structure Evidence of local arrangements to ensure that relatives of people with a confirmed diagnosis of monogenic FH are offered DNA testing through a nationwide systematic cascade process. Data source: Local data collection. Process a) Proportion of untested first-degree relatives of people with a confirmed diagnosis of monogenic FH who are offered cascade testing. Numerator – The number of people in the denominator offered cascade testing. Denominator – The number of untested first-degree relatives of people with a confirmed diagnosis of monogenic FH. Data source: Local data collection using a dedicated database. b) Proportion of at-risk, untested, second- and third-degree relatives of people with a confirmed diagnosis of monogenic FH who are offered cascade testing. Numerator – The number of people in the denominator offered cascade testing. Denominator – The number of at-risk, untested, second- and third-degree relatives of people with a confirmed diagnosis of monogenic FH. Data source: Local data collection using a dedicated database. c) Proportion of untested first-degree relatives of people with a confirmed diagnosis of monogenic FH who receive cascade testing. Numerator – The number of people in the denominator receiving cascade testing. Denominator – The number of untested first-degree relatives of
