Familial hypercholesterolaemia
KEYWORDS: people, diagnosis, quality, statement, data, treatment, testing, clinical, specialist, children, clinical diagnosis, hypercholesterolaemia, familial, familial hypercholesterolaemia, local


confirmed diagnosis of monogenic FH who receive cascade testing. Numerator – The number of people in the denominator receiving cascade testing. Denominator – The number of untested first-degree relatives of people with a confirmed diagnosis of monogenic FH. Data source: Local data collection using a dedicated database. d) Proportion of at-risk, untested, second- and third-degree relatives of people with a confirmed diagnosis of monogenic FH who receive cascade testing. Numerator – The number of people in the denominator receiving cascade testing. Denominator – The number of at-risk, untested second- and third-degree relatives of people with a confirmed diagnosis of monogenic FH. Data source: Local data collection using a dedicated database. Outcome Prevalence of FH. Data source: Local data collection using a dedicated database. What the quality statement means for different audiences Serviceproviders ensure that systems are in place for relatives of people with a confirmed diagnosis of monogenic FH to be offered DNA testing through a nationwide, systematic cascade process. Specialists with expertise in FH offer DNA testing to relatives of people with a confirmed diagnosis of monogenic FH through a nationwide, systematic cascade process. Commissioners ensure that they commission services that offer DNA testing to relatives of people with a confirmed diagnosis of monogenic FH, through a nationwide, systematic cascade process. Relatives of people with a confirmed diagnosis of FH and a known DNA mutation are offered DNA testing themselves as part of a national scheme. Source guidance Familial hypercholesterolaemia: identification and management. NICE guideline CG71 (2008, updated 2019), recommendation 1.2.1 Definitions of terms used in this quality statement Relatives At least first- and second-degree biological relatives and third-degree biological relatives if possible. [Adapted from NICE's guideline on familial hypercholesterolaemia, terms used in this guideline] Familial hypercholesterolaemia (FH) FH relates to heterozygous FH only. Monogenic FH Present when an autosomal dominant pattern of inheritance of elevated LDL-C levels is seen in the extended family of the proband (for example, on average 50% of first-degree relatives have elevated levels). In relatives, the age- and gender-specific diagnostic cut-offs in NICE's guideline on familial hypercholesterolaemia should be used because the Simon Broome diagnostic cut-offs are not appropriate for relatives. The diagnosis of monogenic FH can also be given when the index case carries a documented FH-causing mutation in the LDLR, APOB or PCSK9 genes. Confirmed diagnosis of monogenic FH This requires evidence from DNA testing of an FH-causing mutation in the LDLR,
