Familial hypercholesterolaemia
KEYWORDS: people, diagnosis, quality, statement, data, treatment, testing, clinical, specialist, children, clinical diagnosis, hypercholesterolaemia, familial, familial hypercholesterolaemia, local


carries a documented FH-causing mutation in the LDLR, APOB or PCSK9 genes. Confirmed diagnosis of monogenic FH This requires evidence from DNA testing of an FH-causing mutation in the LDLR, APOB or PCSK9 genes. Before cascade testing is initiated in relatives, a diagnosis of monogenic FH in the index person should be confirmed by a specialist with expertise in FH. Cascade testing A mechanism for identifying people at risk of a genetic condition by a process of family tracing. For FH, the test employed is a DNA test where a disease-causing mutation has been identified in the index individual/proband. Quality statement 6: Drug treatment in adults Quality statement Adults with familial hypercholesterolaemia (FH) receive lipid-modifying drug treatment to reduce LDL-C concentration by more than 50% from baseline. Rationale Lipid-modifying drug treatment reduces LDL-C levels and prevents the development of cardiovascular disease. Studies indicate that treatment that lowers LDL-C levels by more than 50% from baseline offers greater benefit for plaque stabilisation than treatment that is less effective at reducing LDL-C. Quality measures The following measures can be used to assess the quality of care or service provision specified in the statement. They are examples of how the statement can be measured, and can be adapted and used flexibly. Structure Evidence of local arrangements to ensure that adults with FH receive lipid-modifying drug treatment to reduce LDL-C concentration by more than 50% from baseline. Data source: Local data collection. Process Proportion of adults with FH who receive appropriate lipid-modifying drug treatment. Numerator – The number of people in the denominator receiving appropriate lipid-modifying drug treatment. Denominator – The number of adults with FH. Data source: Local data collection. Outcome Number of adults with FH whose LDL-C concentration is reduced by more than 50% from baseline within 1 year. Data source: Local data collection using a dedicated database. What the quality statement means for different audiences Service providers ensure that systems are in place for adults with FH to receive lipid-modifying drug treatment to reduce LDL-C concentration by more than 50% from baseline. Healthcare practitioners offer adults with FH lipid-modifying drug treatment to reduce LDL-C concentration by more than 50% from baseline. Commissioners ensure that they commission services that offer adults with FH lipid-modifying drug treatment to reduce LDL-C concentration by more than 50% from baseline. Adults with FH are offered drugs to reduce the low-density cholesterol (bad cholesterol) in their blood
