Familial hypercholesterolaemia
KEYWORDS: people, diagnosis, quality, statement, data, treatment, testing, clinical, specialist, children, clinical diagnosis, hypercholesterolaemia, familial, familial hypercholesterolaemia, local


FH lipid-modifying drug treatment to reduce LDL-C concentration by more than 50% from baseline. Adults with FH are offered drugs to reduce the low-density cholesterol (bad cholesterol) in their blood to less than a half of the level before treatment. Source guidance Familial hypercholesterolaemia: identification and management. NICE guideline CG71 (2008, updated 2019), recommendations 1.3.1.2 to 1.3.1.4, 1.3.1.6 to 1.3.1.8 and 1.3.1.14 Definitions of terms used in this quality statement Familial hypercholesterolaemia (FH) FH relates to heterozygous FH only. Adults with FH Adults (aged 16 and older) should have a diagnosis of FH made by a specialist with expertise in FH. Baseline LDL-C The concentration before treatment. Lipid-modifying drug treatment Lipid-modifying drug treatment should be given in accordance with the following: • to achieve the recommended reduction: － offer a high-intensity statin with the lowest acquisition cost as the initial treatment － increase dose of statin to maximum licensed or tolerated dose • ezetimibe monotherapy is recommended if the person is intolerant to statin therapy or there are contraindications to initial statin therapy • co-administer ezetimibe with initial statin therapy when serum total or LDL-C concentration is not appropriately controlled and a change from initial statin therapy to an alternative statin is being considered. Statins are classified as high intensity if they produce greater LDL-C reductions than simvastatin 40 mg (for example, simvastatin 80 mg and appropriate doses of atorvastatin and rosuvastatin). Treatment for FH is usually provided by either a specialist with expertise in FH or a GP through a shared care arrangement. [Adapted from NICE's guideline on familial hypercholesterolaemia, recommendations 1.3.1.2 to 1.3.1.6, 1.3.1.11, and terms used in this guideline] Equality and diversity considerations The statement has been restricted to adults only because there is currently no evidence on which to base any specific target for lowering LDL-C in children and young people under 16 years. However, lipid-modifying drug treatment should be considered by the age of 10 years in line with NICE's guideline on familial hypercholesterolaemia. Women with FH should be advised that lipid-modifying drug treatment should not be taken if they are planning to conceive or during pregnancy because of the risk of fetal abnormality. Women should be advised that lipid-modifying drug treatment should be stopped 3 months before they attempt to conceive. Women with FH should be advised about the potential risks and benefits of re-starting lipid-modifying drug treatment for the mother and breastfed infant.
