Familial hypercholesterolaemia
KEYWORDS: people, diagnosis, quality, statement, data, treatment, testing, clinical, specialist, children, clinical diagnosis, hypercholesterolaemia, familial, familial hypercholesterolaemia, local


3 months before they attempt to conceive. Women with FH should be advised about the potential risks and benefits of re-starting lipid-modifying drug treatment for the mother and breastfed infant. Resins are the only lipid-modifying drug treatment that should be considered during breastfeeding. Quality statement 7: Drug treatment in children Quality statement Children with familial hypercholesterolaemia (FH) are assessed for lipid-modifying drug treatment by a specialist with expertise in FH in a child-focused setting by the age of 10 years. Rationale Children with FH begin to develop cardiovascular disease before clinical signs appear, with thickening of the carotid artery wall identifiable by the age of 10 years. Once a child is diagnosed as having FH, it is important they should be assessed for lipid-modifying drug treatment as soon as possible. The assessment should include a discussion of the harms and benefits of different treatments. This allows children to start treatment as soon as it is appropriate and before significant atherosclerosis has developed. Quality measures The following measures can be used to assess the quality of care or service provision specified in the statement. They are examples of how the statement can be measured, and can be adapted and used flexibly. Structure Evidence of local arrangements to ensure that children with FH are assessed for lipid-modifying drug treatment by a specialist with expertise in FH in a child-focused setting by the age of 10 years. Data source: Local data collection. Process Proportion of children with FH who are assessed for lipid-modifying drug treatment by a specialist with expertise in FH in a child-focused setting by the age of 10 years. Numerator – The number of people in the denominator assessed for lipid-modifying drug treatment by a specialist with expertise in FH in a child-focused setting. Denominator – The number of children with FH aged 10 years. Data source: Local data collection. What the quality statement means for different audiences Service providers ensure that systems are in place for children with FH to be assessed for lipid-modifying drug treatment by a specialist with expertise in FH in a child-focused setting by the age of 10 years. Specialists with expertise in FH in children and young people assess children with FH for lipid-modifying drug treatment in a child-focused setting by the age of 10 years. Commissioners ensure that they commission services in which specialists with expertise in FH assess children with FH for
