Familial hypercholesterolaemia
KEYWORDS: people, diagnosis, quality, statement, data, treatment, testing, clinical, specialist, children, clinical diagnosis, hypercholesterolaemia, familial, familial hypercholesterolaemia, local


drug treatment in a child-focused setting by the age of 10 years. Commissioners ensure that they commission services in which specialists with expertise in FH assess children with FH for lipid-modifying drug treatment, in a child-focused setting, by the age of 10 years. Children with FH have an assessment for possible drug treatment to reduce the low-density cholesterol (bad cholesterol) in their blood by a specialist in a children's department, by the age of 10 years. Source guidance Familial hypercholesterolaemia: identification and management. NICE guideline CG71 (2008, updated 2019), recommendation 1.3.1.20 Definitions of terms used in this quality statement Familial hypercholesterolaemia (FH) FH relates to heterozygous FH only. Assessment for lipid-modifying drug treatment The decision to offer or defer lipid-modifying drug treatment for a child or young person should take into account their age, age at onset of coronary heart disease within the family and the presence of other cardiovascular risk factors, including their LDL-C concentration. [Adapted from NICE's guideline on familial hypercholesterolaemia, recommendation 1.3.1.18] Specialist with expertise in FH in children and young people A healthcare professional with expertise in FH in children and young people who has access to the wider skills of a multidisciplinary team. This team should include a dietitian, cardiologist and paediatrician, and a clinical genetic specialist to take a family history and obtain informed consent for a DNA test. Child-focused setting A child-focused setting is defined as valuing the child's view and validating their voice in making decisions impacting their lives. A child-focused facility or space is one designed with the children's needs in mind. [Adapted from NICE's guideline on familial hypercholesterolaemia, terms used in this guideline] Equality and diversity considerations Boys and girls should have equal access to lipid-modifying drug treatment for FH. There is anecdotal evidence that some clinicians are less likely to recommend statins in a girl than a boy at the same level of individual risk, arguing that because the age at onset of coronary heart disease in women is later than in men, the start of drug treatment can be 'safely' delayed until adulthood. However, many young women will need to stop statins for several years when they are trying to conceive, and during pregnancy and breastfeeding. Because the accumulation of LDL-C burden is similar in boys and girls, this will result in the exposure to high LDL-C being greater in early adulthood in young women than in their
