Familial hypercholesterolaemia
KEYWORDS: people, diagnosis, quality, statement, data, treatment, testing, clinical, specialist, children, clinical diagnosis, hypercholesterolaemia, familial, familial hypercholesterolaemia, local


accumulation of LDL-C burden is similar in boys and girls, this will result in the exposure to high LDL-C being greater in early adulthood in young women than in their male siblings. Gender should not influence a clinician's decision to offer treatment; the decision should be made in accordance with the recommendations in NICE's guideline on familial hypercholesterolaemia, which indicate that lipid lowering with statins should be considered by the age of 10 years. Quality statement 8: Annual review Quality statement People with familial hypercholesterolaemia (FH) are offered a structured review at least annually. Rationale Regular structured review enables treatment to be monitored and adjusted to achieve the recommended LDL-C concentration. It also enables monitoring for the possible development of symptoms and signs of coronary heart disease and optimising management. Records can be maintained of affected family members and information can be tailored to individual circumstances. Progress with cascade testing of at-risk relatives can be monitored. Quality measures The following measures can be used to assess the quality of care or service provision specified in the statement. They are examples of how the statement can be measured, and can be adapted and used flexibly. Structure Evidence of local arrangements to ensure that people with FH are offered a structured review at least annually. Data source: Local data collection. Process Proportion of people with FH who receive a structured review at least annually. Numerator – The number of people in the denominator who had a structured review within 12 months of the last review or diagnosis. Denominator – The number of people with FH. Data source: Local data collection using a dedicated database. What the quality statement means for different audiences Serviceproviders ensure that systems are in place for people with FH to be offered a structured review at least annually. Healthcarepractitioners offer people with FH a structured review at least annually. Commissioners ensure that they commission services that offer a structured review at least annually to people with FH. People with FH are offered a detailed review of their condition at least once a year. Source guidance Familial hypercholesterolaemia: identification and management. NICE guideline CG71 (2008, updated 2019), recommendations 1.3.1.27, 1.4.2.1, 1.4.3.2, and 1.5.1.1 to 1.5.1.5 Definitions of terms used in this quality statement Familial hypercholesterolaemia (FH) FH relates to heterozygous FH only. People with FH People should have a diagnosis of FH made by a specialist with expertise in
