Familial hypercholesterolaemia
KEYWORDS: people, diagnosis, quality, statement, data, treatment, testing, clinical, specialist, children, clinical diagnosis, hypercholesterolaemia, familial, familial hypercholesterolaemia, local


in this quality statement Familial hypercholesterolaemia (FH) FH relates to heterozygous FH only. People with FH People should have a diagnosis of FH made by a specialist with expertise in FH. Structured review Structured review should include all the following components if appropriate: • recording progress of cascade testing among relatives • updating the family pedigree and noting changes in the coronary heart disease status of relatives • assessing any symptoms of coronary heart disease • assessing smoking status, and offering advice and information on smoking cessation services • measuring fasting lipid profile • discussing adherence to treatment, and possible side effects of treatment the person may be experiencing • discussing any changes in lifestyle or lipid-modifying drug treatment that may be needed to achieve the recommended LDL-C concentration • giving advice on contraception and pregnancy (to women and girls only) • monitoring growth and pubertal development (in children and young people only). Update information November 2017: Changes were made to definitions and source guidance sections throughout to ensure alignment with the updated NICE guideline on familial hypercholesterolaemia: identification and management. About this quality standard NICE quality standards describe high-priority areas for quality improvement in a defined care or service area. Each standard consists of a prioritised set of specific, concise and measurable statements. NICE quality standards draw on existing NICE or NICE-accredited guidance that provides an underpinning, comprehensive set of recommendations, and are designed to support the measurement of improvement. Expected levels of achievement for quality measures are not specified. Quality standards are intended to drive up the quality of care, and so achievement levels of 100% should be aspired to (or 0% if the quality statement states that something should not be done). However, this may not always be appropriate in practice. Taking account of safety, shared decision-making, choice and professional judgement, desired levels of achievement should be defined locally. Information about how NICE quality standards are developed is available from the NICE website. See our webpage on quality standards advisory committees for details about our standing committees. Information about the topic experts invited to join the standing members is available from the webpage for this quality standard. NICE has produced a quality standard service improvement template to help providers make an initial assessment of their service compared with a selection of quality statements. This tool is updated monthly to include new quality standards. NICE guidance and quality
