Stent-graft placement in abdominal aortic aneurysm
KEYWORDS: stent, graft, stent graft, graft placement, placement, patients, repair, aneurysm, open, evar, following, trial, procedure, group, open repair


1 Guidance This guidance replaces the previous interventional procedures guidance on stent- graft placement in abdominal aortic aneurysm (IPG10). The interventional procedures advisory committee reconsidered the procedure based on the results of a systematic review commissioned by NICE, following publication of the results of the EndoVascular Aneurysm Repair (EVAR) trials. 1.1 Current evidence on the efficacy and short-term safety of stent–graft placement in abdominal aortic aneurysm appears adequate to support the use of this procedure provided that the normal arrangements are in place for consent, audit and clinical governance. 1.2 Clinicians should ensure that patients fully understand the long-term uncertainties and the potential complications associated with this procedure. In particular, patients should understand: the risks of endovascular leaks; the possibility of secondary intervention; and the need for lifelong follow-up. Patients should be provided with clear written information. In addition, use of the information for the public for this guidance is recommended. 1.3 Patient selection is important, particularly for patients who would normally be considered unfit for surgery. 1.4 Publication of long-term data would be useful. It is recommended that all patients who have the procedure are entered onto one of the existing registries. 2 The procedure 2.1 Indications 2.1.1 Stent–graft placement is used to treat aneurysms of the abdominal aorta. Weakening of the wall of the aorta can lead to widening of the vessel, or aneurysm. Aneurysms may rupture causing internal bleeding which, if untreated, is usually fatal. 2.1.2 The standard treatment for abdominal aortic aneurysm is open surgical repair. The aneurysm is opened and a graft is then sewn in above and below the weakened area to allow normal blood flow. 2.2 Outline of the procedure 2.2.1 Stent–graft placement is a minimally invasive alternative to open repair. The graft is mounted on a stent, which is inserted into the aorta via catheters in the femoral arteries. The stent–graft is deployed under X-ray guidance and positioned across the aneurysm. Additional endovascular or surgical interventions may be necessary to complete the procedure, such as insertion of stents into the iliac arteries, occlusion of selected arteries and femoro-femoral bypass grafts. 2.3 Efficacy 2.3.1 A systematic review of the published evidence on this procedure was commissioned by the Institute and completed in June 2005. A total of 77 studies were identified for inclusion. This comprised: four randomised controlled trials (RCTs) including the EndoVascular Aneurysm Repair (EVAR) 1 trial comparing stent–graft placement and open
