Hypophysitis
KEYWORDS: hypophysitis, pituitary, patients, deficiency, pubmed, cases, primary, disease, diagnosis, related, primary hypophysitis, treatment, symptoms, avp, lymphocytic


ABSTRACT Hypophysitis is an inflammation of the pituitary gland and is a rare cause of hypopituitarism. It can be primary (idiopathic) or secondary to sella and parasellar lesions, systemic diseases, or drugs (mainly immune checkpoint inhibitors [ICI]). Primary hypophysitis has five histologic variants: lymphocytic, granulomatous, xanthomatous, IgG4-related, and necrotizing. Lymphocytic hypophysitis is the most common form; this is likely an autoimmune disease and is more frequently observed in females during pregnancy or postpartum. Granulomatous hypophysitis is the second most common variant and possible secondary causes of granulomatous infiltration of the pituitary should be excluded before concluding that a case of granulomatous hypophysitis is idiopathic. Xanthomatous, necrotizing, and IgG4-related hypophysitis are very rare and the latter is often the manifestation of a systemic disease with multi-organ involvement (IgG4-related disease). ICI are monoclonal antibodies increasingly used for the treatment of solid and hematological malignancies. They cause a T-lymphocyte activation and proliferation that lead to the anti-tumor response and may cause autoimmune manifestations known as “immune-related adverse events”. A significant number of patients treated with ICI develop immune-related hypophysitis and require prompt diagnosis and treatment. Regardless of etiology, patients with hypophysitis present with various signs and symptoms caused by the pituitary inflammation that can lead to hypopituitarism and compression of sella and parasellar structures. Contrary to other causes of hypopituitarism, adrenocorticotropic hormone and thyroid-stimulating hormone deficiencies are very frequent in the early stages of hypophysitis and must be identified immediately. The diagnosis of hypophysitis is based on clinical, laboratory, and radiological data; while pituitary biopsy is the gold standard test for diagnosing primary hypophysitis, it should be reserved for selected cases. Magnetic resonance imaging is the technique of choice for suspected hypophysitis, and the main differential diagnoses are pituitary adenomas in adults, germinomas, and Langerhans cell histiocytosis in adolescents, and metastases in those receiving ICI. The mainstay of treatment of patients with hypophysitis is pituitary hormone replacement. Those with severe signs and symptoms of sellar compression should be treated with high-dose glucocorticoids, which usually cause an excellent initial response, although relapse of pituitary inflammation is common. Pituitary surgery should be considered in patients who do not respond to glucocorticoids and have progressive and debilitating symptoms. Pituitary fibrosis and atrophy often develop in the late stage of the disease, with persistent hypopituitarism. For complete coverage of all related areas of Endocrinology, please visit our on-line FREE web-text, WWW.ENDOTEXT.ORG . INTRODUCTION Hypophysitis is a generic
