Hypophysitis
KEYWORDS: hypophysitis, pituitary, patients, deficiency, pubmed, cases, primary, disease, diagnosis, related, primary hypophysitis, treatment, symptoms, avp, lymphocytic


th decade (men). 2 nd -3 rd decade (women). 4 th decade Six cases reported (aged 12, 20, 33, 39, 40, and 52). Histopathology Diffuse lymphocyte infiltration (primarily T cells) of the pituitary gland. Lymphoid follicles can be observed and occasional plasma cells, eosinophils, and fibroblasts may also be present. Pituitary fibrosis and atrophy may occur in later stages of the disease. Large numbers of multinucleated giant cells and histiocytes with granuloma formation. Extensive gland infiltration by plasma cells with a high degree of IgG4 positivity. Storiform fibrosis is observed**. Pituitary fibrosis and atrophy occur in later stages of the disease, if not treated. Foamy histiocytes (lipid-rich macrophages) without the presence of granulomas. Plasma cells and small round mature lymphocytes are also observed. Pituitary fibrosis may be seen in later stages of the disease. Diffuse non-hemorrhagic necrosis with surrounding lymphocytes, plasma cells and eosinophils. • Prevalence derived by published cases after excluding those where the pathologic variant is unknown. Forty-one cases with mixed histology findings have been published. ** Storiform fibrosis: dense, wire-like strands of fibrotic collagen deposition radiating outward from a central point. Lymphocytic Hypophysitis Lymphocytic hypophysitis is the most common histologic variant of primary hypophysitis ( 4 , 5 , 8 ). It shows a striking temporal association with pregnancy, with 60-70% of cases in women presenting during pregnancy or postpartum ( 10 ). Most patients present in the last trimester of pregnancy or in the first 1 month after delivery ( 4 , 10 ). Lymphocytic hypophysitis is believed to have an autoimmune etiology. This is supported by the lymphocytic infiltration of the pituitary, the link with pregnancy, the frequent association with other autoimmune diseases ( Table 1 ), the frequent finding of pituitary antibodies (see below), the association with particular human leukocyte antigen alleles ( 1 ), the improvement of symptoms in response to immunosuppressive drugs, and animal models of primary hypophysitis ( 11 ). A study by Honegger et al . compared pregnancy-related and non-pregnancy-related lymphocytic hypophysitis and found distinct clinical and radiological differences ( 10 ). Women diagnosed during pregnancy or the postpartum period had higher rates of chiasmal compression symptoms (50% vs. 13%), intrasellar radiological abnormalities (94% vs. 74%), adrenal insufficiency (71% vs. 49%), and hypothyroidism (62% vs. 46%). In contrast, they showed much lower rates of arginine vasopressin (AVP) deficiency (12% vs. 54%) and – surprisingly – pituitary stalk involvement (39% vs.
