Hypophysitis
KEYWORDS: hypophysitis, pituitary, patients, deficiency, pubmed, cases, primary, disease, diagnosis, related, primary hypophysitis, treatment, symptoms, avp, lymphocytic


49%), and hypothyroidism (62% vs. 46%). In contrast, they showed much lower rates of arginine vasopressin (AVP) deficiency (12% vs. 54%) and – surprisingly – pituitary stalk involvement (39% vs. 86%). These findings suggest that pregnancy-related lymphocytic hypophysitis primarily affects the anterior pituitary and is more likely to present with compressive symptoms. The authors also noted that symptoms were more severe when the diagnosis was made before delivery, with increased rates of headache and visual disturbances, which worsened postpartum in 14.1% of cases. In contrast, adrenal insufficiency was slightly more common in cases diagnosed after delivery. Reassuringly, maternal and fetal outcomes were favorable when hypophysitis was promptly recognized and managed ( 10 ). Granulomatous Hypophysitis Granulomatous hypophysitis is the second most common subtype of primary hypophysitis and its etiology is unknown. Before concluding that a case of granulomatous hypophysitis is “primary” (i.e., idiopathic), known possible causes of granulomatous infiltration of the pituitary should be excluded. Possible secondary causes of granulomatous hypophysitis include tuberculosis, sarcoidosis, syphilis, Langerhans’ histiocytosis, granulomatosis with polyangiitis (formerly known as Wegener’s granulomatosis), and Rathke’s cleft cyst rupture (see “Hypophysitis secondary to sella and parasellar disease” and “Hypophysitis secondary to systemic disease” below). ( 12 ). IgG4-related Hypophysitis IgG4-related hypophysitis can be isolated (primary hypophysitis), but is often a manifestation of systemic disease with involvement of multiple organs ( 13 , 14 ). Some authors include IgG4-related hypophysitis among the histologic variants of primary hypophysitis, while others report this among the secondary forms of hypophysitis. Considering that the diagnosis and management does not change according to the classification used, we will discuss the features of IgG4-related hypophysitis in this section. The etiology of this disease is poorly understood and may involve autoimmunity and/or an abnormal tolerance to unspecified allergens and infectious agents ( 15 , 16 ). IgG4-related disease is diagnosed more frequently in older males and is characterized by a dense lymphoplasmacytic infiltration with a predominance of IgG4-positive plasma cells in the affected tissue and storiform fibrosis in the more advanced stages of the disease ( Table 2 ). One or (more frequently) multiple organs can be affected including lymph nodes, pancreas, liver, salivary and lacrimal glands, retroperitoneum, aorta, pericardium, thyroid, lungs, kidneys, skin, stomach, prostate, ovaries, and the pituitary gland ( 16 - 18 ). Overall, the prevalence of pituitary involvement in IgG4-related disease is believed to be low (2-8% of all cases and ∼20% of
