Hypophysitis
KEYWORDS: hypophysitis, pituitary, patients, deficiency, pubmed, cases, primary, disease, diagnosis, related, primary hypophysitis, treatment, symptoms, avp, lymphocytic


and the pituitary gland ( 16 - 18 ). Overall, the prevalence of pituitary involvement in IgG4-related disease is believed to be low (2-8% of all cases and ∼20% of cases with neurological involvement) ( 19 , 20 ). Nonetheless, a cohort study from Japan screened 27 patients with IgG4-related pancreatitis via pituitary MRI and found 1 case of hypophysitis with hypopituitarism and 4 cases of empty sella ( 21 ). Patients with pituitary abnormalities were more likely to have multi-organ disease. If confirmed by large-scale studies, these findings would advocate for routine screening for hypophysitis in patients with multiple IgG4-related organ involvement. IgG4-related disease is considered a rare cause of hypophysitis, although a Japanese group reported a strikingly high prevalence of IgG4-related hypophysitis in 170 consecutive patients with hypopituitarism/AVP deficiency and a clinical diagnosis of hypophysitis (4% and 30% respectively) ( 22 ). Moreover, Bernreuther et al. reviewed retrospectively 29 cases of biopsy-proven primary hypophysitis previously diagnosed as “lymphocytic” or “not otherwise specified, non-granulomatous” and found that 41.4% of cases fulfilled the criteria for IgG4-related hypophysitis, suggesting that this entity might be more frequent than previously thought ( 23 ). Two reviews of the literature found that the epidemiology of IgG4-related hypophysitis may differ according to sex: affected men were older, more likely to have systemic disease and higher IgG4 serum levels; women were younger and often presenting with isolated pituitary disease, lower IgG4 serum levels, and a concomitant diagnosis of other autoimmune diseases ( 24 - 26 ). The diagnosis of IgG4-related hypophysitis is confirmed by characteristic histopathologic findings at pituitary biopsy. However, pituitary biopsy is an invasive procedure and other criteria can be used to establish the diagnosis (see table 3 ) (27) . Table 3. Diagnostic Criteria for IgG4-related Hypophysitis View in own window Criteria Established diagnosis Criterion 1 PITUITARY HISTOPATHOLOGY: Mononuclear infiltration of the pituitary gland, rich in lymphocytes and plasma cells, with >10 IgG4-positive cells/high-power field. * CRITERION 1 or CRITERIA 2 + 3 or CRITERIA 2 + 4 + 5 Criterion 2 PITUITARY MRI: Sella mass or thickened pituitary stalk. Criterion 3 OTHER INVOLVEMENT: Biopsy-proven involvement in other organs. Criterion 4 SEROLOGY: Serum IgG4 level >140 mg/dL (1.4 g/L). Criterion 5 RESPONSE TO TREATMENT: Shrinkage of the pituitary mass and symptom improvement with corticosteroids. * Low level of infiltration may be seen if the patient is receiving treatment with glucocorticoids ( 28 ).
