Hypophysitis
KEYWORDS: hypophysitis, pituitary, patients, deficiency, pubmed, cases, primary, disease, diagnosis, related, primary hypophysitis, treatment, symptoms, avp, lymphocytic


TREATMENT: Shrinkage of the pituitary mass and symptom improvement with corticosteroids. * Low level of infiltration may be seen if the patient is receiving treatment with glucocorticoids ( 28 ). It should be considered that patients with IgG4-related hypophysitis have multi-organ involvement in 60-90% of cases. Therefore, they should receive an extensive evaluation for establishing the extent of the disease after the initial diagnosis. The diagnostic work-up should include physical examination, laboratory evaluation, and whole-body imaging ( 18 ). Xanthomatous Hypophysitis The pituitary shows cystic-like areas of liquefaction infiltrated by lipid-rich macrophages. It has been suggested that many cases of xanthomatous hypophysitis may represent an inflammatory response to components of a ruptured Rathke’s cleft cyst (see “Hypophysitis secondary to sella and parasellar disease” below) ( 29 , 30 ). Necrotizing Hypophysitis Necrotizing hypophysitis has been reported in six patients (of which only five histology-proven) ( 31 - 33 ). Five patients presented with AVP deficiency and some degree of anterior pituitary dysfunction was described in all reported cases. Frontal headache at presentation was reported in three patients ( 31 , 32 ). One patient presented with photophobia ( 32 ). Five patients were treated surgically and all but one had persistent postoperative panhypopituitarism and central AVP deficiency ( 31 - 34 ). Clinical Presentation of Primary Hypophysitis The signs and symptoms at diagnosis, as well as the pituitary hormone abnormalities depend on the degree of pituitary involvement ( Table 4 ) (4, 5, 8) . Primary hypophysitis more frequently involves the anterior pituitary, and patients typically present with severe headaches, visual disturbances due to chiasmal compression, and symptoms of adrenal insufficiency. Contrary to other causes of hypopituitarism, impaired adrenocorticotropic hormone (ACTH) and thyroid-stimulating hormone (TSH) secretion is very frequent in the early stages of primary hypophysitis, putting these patients at increased risk of life-threatening adrenal insufficiency . A large case series from Germany has highlighted that secretion of gonadotropins is also impaired very frequently in these patients ( 35 ). Growth hormone (GH) deficiency and hyperprolactinemia can also occur. Less frequently, the inflammation can involve primarily the posterior pituitary and the stalk. Patients with infundibulo-neurohypophysitis typically present with AVP deficiency and other pituitary hormone deficiencies are less common. As expected, signs of both anterior and posterior pituitary involvement coexist in panhypophysitis (that is, inflammation of the entire gland). Local vascular involvement in primary hypophysitis is extremely rare, but cases of
