Hypophysitis
KEYWORDS: hypophysitis, pituitary, patients, deficiency, pubmed, cases, primary, disease, diagnosis, related, primary hypophysitis, treatment, symptoms, avp, lymphocytic


the initial diagnosis) and require extended follow-up ( 47 , 49 ). Germinomas are also a documented cause of secondary hypophysitis (see “Hypophysitis secondary to sella and parasellar disease” below). Imaging and Differential Diagnosis of Primary Hypophysitis Magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) of the sella region typically shows an enlarged pituitary. In order to avoid unnecessary surgery, primary hypophysitis needs to be differentiated from other sella and parasellar masses ( Table 5 ) (50) , with pituitary adenomas being the most frequent differential diagnosis in adults. Table 5. Differential Diagnosis of Hypophysitis View in own window SELLA AND PARASELLAR MASSES Pituitary adenomas (including pituitary apoplexy); Pituitary metastases: the differential diagnosis is particularly important in patients with suspected hypophysitis and malignant tumors receiving immune checkpoint inhibitors; Other sella and parasellar tumors (e.g., craniopharyngiomas, germinomas, gliomas, lymphomas, meningiomas, pituicytomas, chordomas, teratomas, dermoids and epidermoids); Rathke’s cleft cyst; Abscesses. OTHER Physiological hypertrophy of the pituitary in children and adolescents (especially pubertal females) and perimenopausal women; Pituitary hyperplasia associated with pregnancy; Sheehan’s syndrome at onset; Thyrotropic hyperplasia associated with severe, untreated primary hypothyroidism. Primary hypophysitis typically presents as a homogeneous pituitary enlargement with intense and homogeneous enhancement post-gadolinium and no deviation of the stalk ( Figure 1 ); these and other features can help differentiate between primary hypophysitis and pituitary adenomas at MRI ( Table 6 ) (1, 4, 51, 52) . Gutenberg et al . and Wright et al. developed scoring systems using variables such as age, association with pregnancy, visual disturbances, presence of AVP deficiency, and MRI findings to distinguish hypophysitis from pituitary adenomas with high accuracy ( 52 , 53 ). Radiomics has also shown promising results for differential diagnosis ( 54 ). Further differential diagnoses, especially for lymphocytic hypophysitis, are the physiologic pituitary enlargement associated with pregnancy and Sheehan’s syndrome, although these patients have no history of obstetric hemorrhage ( 55 , 56 ). A cautious balance between radiological, clinical, and laboratory findings is necessary to reach the correct diagnosis and avoid inappropriate treatment ( 57 ). Table 6. Differential Imaging Characteristics of Primary Hypophysitis and Pituitary Adenomas View in own window MRI Primary hypophysitis Pituitary adenoma Pre-gadolinium ACUTE / SUB-ACUTE PHASE: Homogeneous pituitary enlargement with symmetrical suprasellar expansion; Suprasellar extension with compression and displacement of chiasm; Stalk thickened but not deviated (more common in non-pregnancy-related than pregnancy-related lymphocytic hypophysitis); * Loss of bright spot of the neurohypophysis in case of
