Hypophysitis
KEYWORDS: hypophysitis, pituitary, patients, deficiency, pubmed, cases, primary, disease, diagnosis, related, primary hypophysitis, treatment, symptoms, avp, lymphocytic


with compression and displacement of chiasm; Stalk thickened but not deviated (more common in non-pregnancy-related than pregnancy-related lymphocytic hypophysitis); * Loss of bright spot of the neurohypophysis in case of involvement of the posterior pituitary. ** CHRONIC PHASE: Pituitary atrophy; Empty sella. Microadenoma (<1cm): unilateral, asymmetric endosellar mass; Macroadenoma (>1cm): expanding, not homogeneous pituitary mass with asymmetrical suprasellar expansion; Compression and displacement of chiasm (macroadenoma); Contralateral deviation of the stalk; The bright spot of the neurohypophysis can be usually seen. ** Post-gadolinium Intense and homogeneous enhancement of the pituitary mass. Cystic areas with peripheral enhancement are common in the xanthomatous variant; Dural tail sign can be present (thickening of the enhanced dura that resembles a tail extending from a mass); *** Post-contrast images with fat saturation may show diffuse enhancement of the infrasellar basisphenoid bone marrow in the granulomatous variant. **** Slight, delayed and not homogeneous enhancement. Cystic and necrotic areas are frequently observed in macroadenomas; Dural tail usually absent; *** Intrasellar basisphenoid bone marrow enhancement not seen. Abbreviations: MRI, magnetic resonance imaging. • An enlarged pituitary stalk can also be found in other intracranial pathologies (e.g., sarcoidosis, metastases, Langerhans cell histiocytosis, germinoma, craniopharyngioma, astrocytoma, pituitary adenoma, lymphoma, tuberculosis, Erdheim-Chester’s disease) ( 58 ). ** The bright spot may be absent in up to 20% of healthy subjects (especially the elderly). *** The dural tail sign is not specific to hypophysitis. It can be observed in meningioma (most frequently) and other intracranial pathologies (e.g. lymphoma, chloroma, metastasis, multiple myeloma, glioblastoma multiforme, aspergillosis, chordoma, schwannoma, pleomorphic xanthoastrocytoma, hemangiopericytoma, granulomatosis with polyangiitis, sarcoidosis, medulloblastoma, eosinophilic granuloma, pituitary adenoma, pituitary apoplexy, Erdheim-Chester’s disease) ( 59 ). **** Possibly secondary to local inflammatory processes in granulomatous hypophysitis ( 60 ). Figure 1. Magnetic resonance imaging findings in a case of primary hypophysitis. Panel A) T1-weighted image, sagittal section. Panel B) T1-weighted image, coronal section. Panel C) T1-weighted image post-gadolinium, sagittal section. Panel D) T1-weighted image post-gadolinium, coronal section. A homogeneous enlargement of the pituitary with thickening of the stalk can be seen. The mass shows intense and homogeneous enhancement post-gadolinium. Autoantibodies in Primary Hypophysitis Several authors have assessed the presence and utility of serum autoantibodies (pituitary and/or hypothalamic antibodies) in patients with primary hypophysitis: An autoimmune etiology for lymphocytic hypophysitis was suggested by the presence of pituitary antibodies that may recognize α-enolase, GH, the pituitary gland-specific factors 1a and 2 (PGSF1a and PGSF2), regulatory
