Hypophysitis
KEYWORDS: hypophysitis, pituitary, patients, deficiency, pubmed, cases, primary, disease, diagnosis, related, primary hypophysitis, treatment, symptoms, avp, lymphocytic


, 77 ); Anti-Rabphilin antibodies have been proposed to be a biomarker for lymphocytic infundibulo-neurohypophysitis ( 78 ). Rabphilin is involved in the release of hormones or neurotransmitters and is expressed mainly in the brain, including the posterior pituitary and hypothalamus, where AVP is present. Whether anti-Rabphilin antibodies are a cause of central AVP deficiency or a result of infundibulo-neurohypophysitis is unknown. However, anti-Rabphilin antibodies are detected in 76% of patients with infundibulo-neurohypophysitis and 11% of patients with lymphocytic hypophysitis. In contrast, these antibodies are absent in patients with sella/suprasellar masses without lymphocytic hypophysitis, suggesting that this antibody may serve as a biomarker for the diagnosis of infundibulo-neurohypophysitis and may be useful for the differential diagnosis in patients with central AVP deficiency ( 50 , 79 , 80 ); Primary hypophysitis can eventually evolve into pituitary fibrosis and atrophy, documented at imaging as an “empty sella”. Lupi et al . have found pituitary antibodies in 6% of patients with an empty sella not linked to previous head trauma. In this cohort, the presence of pituitary antibodies also correlated with the presence of hypopituitarism ( 81 ); Antibodies recognizing GH and one peptide from proopiomelanocortin (POMC) have been described in a patient with IgG4-related hypophysitis ( 82 ). Natural History of Primary Hypophysitis Primary hypophysitis can be self-limiting and spontaneous remission may occur ( Figure 2 ). Considering the low prevalence of the disease, however, robust data regarding the natural history of primary hypophysitis are lacking ( 62 ). Moreover, most of the literature regards lymphocytic hypophysitis, while data from other histology subtypes are less robust. A review of 76 cases of primary hypophysitis from Germany has shown that patients not receiving any active treatment had improvement, stability, or progression of the pituitary involvement at MRI in 46%, 27% and 27% of cases, respectively; pituitary deficiencies improved, remained stable or worsened in 27%, 55% and 18% of patients, respectively ( 83 ). A previous study by Khare et al . showed that spontaneous resolution of sella compression symptoms occurred in all patients managed conservatively and that 33% had complete or partial recovery of pituitary function ( 84 ). Park et al . also reported similar findings ( 85 ). Primary hypophysitis frequently evolves to fibrosis and pituitary atrophy in the chronic stages of the disease, which often impair pituitary function ( Figure 2 ). The evolution to empty sella has also
