Hypophysitis
KEYWORDS: hypophysitis, pituitary, patients, deficiency, pubmed, cases, primary, disease, diagnosis, related, primary hypophysitis, treatment, symptoms, avp, lymphocytic


frequently evolves to fibrosis and pituitary atrophy in the chronic stages of the disease, which often impair pituitary function ( Figure 2 ). The evolution to empty sella has also been shown in a mouse model of autoimmune hypophysitis ( 86 ). Caturegli et al . reported that only 4% of patients had spontaneous remission with recovery of pituitary function, while most patients will require long-term replacement of one or more pituitary axes ( 4 , 62 ). Whether medical treatment with glucocorticoids has a positive impact on the natural history of primary hypophysitis is still a matter of debate. Figure 2. Natural History of Primary Hypophysitis. Most of the published case series mainly focus on the more frequent lymphocytic hypophysitis. Granulomatous hypophysitis can cause more severe signs and symptoms (headache, chiasmal compression and anterior/posterior hypopituitarism). Xanthomatous hypophysitis seems to cause sella compression and pituitary dysfunction less frequently. IgG4-related hypophysitis can cause various degrees of involvement of the anterior pituitary, posterior pituitary and the stalk. Necrotizing hypophysitis is extremely rare and is associated with a high risk of panhypopituitarism and AVP deficiency. The chronic stage of the disease is most likely related to the extent of damage to the pituitary. Some authors have suggested that some cases of lymphocytic hypophysitis may evolve to the granulomatous form, as mixed forms can rarely be observed. A death rate of 7% has been described in large case series of patients with primary hypophysitis and is probably related to unrecognized acute adrenal insufficiency (adrenal crisis). Diagnosis and Treatment of Primary Hypophysitis Pituitary biopsy is the gold standard to confirm the diagnosis of primary hypophysitis. This procedure, however, should be considered only in equivocal cases and when the outcome of the biopsy is expected to change the therapeutic management, and should be performed by a neurosurgeon with extensive expertise in pituitary surgery. Due to the rarity of the disease, the management of hypophysitis is controversial. An algorithm in line with the more recent literature is reported in Figure 3 . Initial evaluation of patients with suspected hypophysitis involves clinical and laboratory assessment. Patients with a suspicion of hypophysitis based on biochemical results should undergo a pituitary MRI, as well as visual assessment to check visual fields and acuity. Secondary causes of hypophysitis and other sella/parasellar masses should be considered in the differential diagnosis. The mainstay of treatment for primary hypophysitis is pituitary hormone replacement (
