Hypophysitis
KEYWORDS: hypophysitis, pituitary, patients, deficiency, pubmed, cases, primary, disease, diagnosis, related, primary hypophysitis, treatment, symptoms, avp, lymphocytic


fields and acuity. Secondary causes of hypophysitis and other sella/parasellar masses should be considered in the differential diagnosis. The mainstay of treatment for primary hypophysitis is pituitary hormone replacement ( 87 , 88 ). As outlined above, ACTH production is frequently impaired at presentation, and most patients will require glucocorticoid replacement. This should be started before thyroxine replacement (if TSH deficiency is present as well) to avoid precipitating acute adrenal insufficiency. Conservative management is recommended for primary hypophysitis unless symptoms are severe and progressive. The only exception to this rule is IgG4-related hypophysitis that – like other manifestations of the disease – should be promptly treated to reverse symptoms and prevent irreversible fibrosis ( 89 , 90 ). The mainstay of treatment are glucocorticoids, which often cause remission of symptoms within a few weeks. A typical starting dose is prednisone 30-40 mg/day (or equivalent), which should be continued for 2-4 weeks, and then tapered gradually over 2-6 months ( 18 ). However, some patients may benefit from long-term maintenance glucocorticoid therapy (with or without a steroid-sparing agent), especially in cases of extensive multi-organ involvement. Relapse is possible, and multiple courses of high-dose glucocorticoids are often necessary. Rituximab has also been used as monotherapy or in patients with poor response to glucocorticoids ( 18 , 20 , 91 , 92 ). A case of IgG4-related hypophysitis successfully treated with azathioprine has also been reported ( 93 ), and methotrexate, azathioprine, and cyclophosphamide have also been used in a minority of patients ( 20 ). Up to 20% of IgG4-related hypophysitis cases may require surgery due to compressive symptoms ( 20 ). High-dose glucocorticoids are the first-line treatment to improve the swelling of the pituitary and improve the symptoms related to significant sella compression. While anterior pituitary function may recover following pulse corticosteroid therapy, more than 70% of patients ultimately require long-term hormonal replacement ( 4 ). Recovery of AVP deficiency is rare. Honegger et al. reported favorable radiological responses to high-dose glucocorticoids: 65% showed improvement, 31% remained stable, and 4% experienced progression ( 83 ). However, treatment was associated with a high risk of adverse effects (e.g., weight gain, psychiatric symptoms, peripheral edema, diabetes mellitus, and glaucoma), and 38% of patients experienced a relapse of pituitary inflammation, occurring 2 to 17 months after initial treatment. Relapse risk was independent of both the initial glucocorticoid dose and treatment duration. Hormonal improvement was
