Hypophysitis
KEYWORDS: hypophysitis, pituitary, patients, deficiency, pubmed, cases, primary, disease, diagnosis, related, primary hypophysitis, treatment, symptoms, avp, lymphocytic


treat steroid-refractory hypophysitis ( 40 , 99 - 101 ). Surgery should be considered only in cases with serious and progressive deficits of the visual field, visual acuity, or nerve paralysis not responsive to medical treatment. Surgery generally improves sellar compression in the short term; however, Honegger et al . observed progression/relapse of the disease in 25% of patients after a mean follow-up of 3 years ( 83 ). Pituitary function improved only in 8% of patients after surgery, and the rates of resolution of chiasmal compression were also low ( 83 ). Further supporting the limited role of surgery in the management of hypophysitis, two small observational studies found that surgery did not significantly impact the resolution of neurological symptoms or hormonal deficits during follow-up ( 102 , 103 ). Stereotactic radiotherapy (radiosurgery) has been effectively employed in selected patients who have failed medical treatment or suffer from repeated recurrence of lymphocytic hypophysitis ( 104 - 106 ). Figure 3. Diagnosis and management of primary hypophysitis. 1 Check random ACTH and cortisol if acute adrenal insufficiency is suspected. Consider confirmatory testing (e.g., Synacthen) if equivocal or borderline results. The Synacthen test can show a normal response in the early stages of central adrenal insufficiency. During pregnancy and in patients receiving oral estrogens, the rise of corticosteroid-binding globulin (CBG) leads to falsely elevated cortisol levels and the normal reference ranges and stimulated cortisol cut-offs do not apply. 2 Pituitary surgery can also provide histology for definitive diagnosis. DRUG-INDUCED HYPOPHYSITIS: IMMUNE CHECKPOINT INHIBITORS Immune checkpoint inhibitors (ICI) are monoclonal antibodies increasingly used for solid and hematological malignancies ( 107 ). They block several regulators of the immune activation (immune checkpoints), enhancing the host’s immune response to tumor cells ( Figure 4 ). These drugs have shown a favorable toxicity profile and significant anti-tumor activity but, because of their mechanism of action, new typical side-effects have emerged (immune-related adverse events, irAEs) ( Figure 4 ) ( 108 , 109 ). Figure 4. Mechanism of Action of Immune Checkpoint Inhibitors. Tumor antigens are presented to T-cells by antigen-presenting-cells (APCs) via the interaction of the major histocompatibility complex (MHC) and the T-cell receptors, representing the primary signal for activating T-cells. Another costimulatory signal involving interaction between B7 on APCs and CD28 on T-cells is needed to complete T-cell activation and expansion (Panel A). Several co-receptors act as negative modulators of immune response at different
