Hypophysitis
KEYWORDS: hypophysitis, pituitary, patients, deficiency, pubmed, cases, primary, disease, diagnosis, related, primary hypophysitis, treatment, symptoms, avp, lymphocytic


interaction between B7 on APCs and CD28 on T-cells is needed to complete T-cell activation and expansion (Panel A). Several co-receptors act as negative modulators of immune response at different molecular checkpoints. The CTLA-4 is induced in T-cells at the time of their initial response to antigen. CTLA-4 is transported to the cell surface proportionally to the antigen stimulation; it binds to B7 with greater affinity than CD28, resulting in specific T-cell inactivation (Panel B). LAG-3’s main ligand is MHC class II and negatively regulates T-cell proliferation and activation. The PD-1/PD1-L1 pathway is not involved in initial T-cell activation: it regulates inflammatory responses in peripheral tissues sustained by already activated effector T-cells. Activated T-cells up-regulate PD-1 and inflammatory signals in the tissue, inducing the expression of PD1-L1s, which downregulate the activity of T-cells, protecting normal tissues from collateral destruction; this mechanism is also exploited by tumor cells to evade the immune system response (Panel B). Monoclonal antibodies that block either CTLA-4, PD1/PD1-L1, or LAG-3 increase cytotoxic T-cell activity by expanding T-cell activation and proliferation (Panel C). The eventual T-cell reactivation is responsible for the both anti-tumor response and the immune-related adverse events associated with these drugs. irAEs can affect multiple organs and systems, including the pituitary and other endocrine glands ( Table 7 ) ( 110 ). irAES mirror the immune response reactivation induced by ICI and may predict better survival and response to the treatment of the underlying malignancy ( 111 - 114 ). A recent study from Japan showed that the endocrine irAE development was associated with improved cancer-related survival, and patients who developed more than one endocrine irAE had a lower mortality risk than those who did not ( 20 ). Table 7. Immune-Related Adverse Events Associated with Immune Checkpoint Inhibitors View in own window ENDOCRINOPATHIES OTHER SYSTEMS AND ORGANS PITUITARY: Hypophysitis.* THYROID: Thyroiditis (both hypo- and hyperthyroidism); Euthyroid Graves’ ophthalmopathy. ADRENAL GLANDS: Adrenalitis.* PANCREAS: Insulinopenic diabetes mellitus. SKIN: Rash/inflammatory dermatitis; Bullous dermatoses; Stevens-Johnson syndrome; Toxic epidermal necrolysis; Drug rash with eosinophilia and systemic symptoms syndrome; Drug-induced hypersensitivity syndrome; Acute generalized exanthematous pustulosis; Alopecia areata; Vitiligo; Psoriasis. GASTROINTESTINAL SYSTEM: Colitis; Hepatitis; Pancreatitis. LUNGS: Pneumonitis. MUSCOSKELETAL SYSTEM: Arthritis; Polymyalgia-like syndrome; Myositis; Vasculitis. KIDNEY: Nephritis. CARDIOVASCULAR SYSTEM: Myocarditis; Pericarditis; Arrhythmias; Heart failure; Vasculitis; Venous thromboembolism. NERVOUS SYSTEM: Guillain-Barré syndrome; Myasthenia gravis; Peripheral neuropathy; Autonomic neuropathy; Aseptic meningitis; Encephalitis; Transverse myelitis. HEMATOLOGY: Autoimmune hemolytic anemia; Acquired thrombotic thrombocytopenic purpura; Hemolytic
