Hypophysitis
KEYWORDS: hypophysitis, pituitary, patients, deficiency, pubmed, cases, primary, disease, diagnosis, related, primary hypophysitis, treatment, symptoms, avp, lymphocytic


II and IV hypersensitivity, as well as the humoral immune response ( Figure 5 ). This has been suggested by histopathological findings of patients with hypophysitis following treatment with Ipilimumab (alone or in combination with Nivolumab or Pembrolizumab), evidence of pituitary antibodies in the serum of these patients, association with specific human leucocyte antigen alleles, and animal models of anti-CTLA-4-induced hypophysitis ( 8 , 14 , 133-139). Evidence regarding the pathophysiology of anti-PD1/PD1-L1 antibody-induced hypophysitis is scant, with only one autopsy study showing lymphohistiocytic pituitary changes in a patient treated with Avelumab (137). Immune response reactivation most likely targets ACTH-secreting cells, resulting in very frequent isolated ACTH deficiency ( 5 ). Kanie et al . postulated that ectopic expression of ACTH in the tumor may contribute to some cases of anti-PD1/PD1-L1 antibody-induced hypophysitis, as a form of paraneoplastic syndrome (140). Bellastella et al. identified a higher prevalence of anti-pituitary and anti-hypothalamus antibodies in patients with cancer treated with anti-PD1/PD1-L1 agents (141). In a small longitudinal study, the same group also found that more than half of patients who start anti-PD1/PD1-L1 treatment developed anti-pituitary or anti-hypothalamus antibodies after 9 weeks of treatment, with a concomitant increase prolactin and a reduction in ACTH and IGF-1 levels compared to baseline (141). These preliminary results need to be validated in a larger cohort, but the presence of anti-hypothalamus antibodies would suggest that – at least in some patients – hypothalamic autoimmunity might contribute to the development of anti-PD1/PD1-L1 antibody-induced pituitary dysfunction. Figure 5. Proposed pathogenesis of anti-CTLA-4 antibody-induced hypophysitis. Anti-CTLA-4 antibody-induced hypophysitis accounts for ~70% of immune-checkpoint induced hypophysitis cases. The CTLA-4 antibody binds to pituitary CTLA-4 antigen, inducing complement activation and infiltration with macrophages and other inflammatory cells, leading to phagocytosis and enhanced antigen presentation. Subsequently, autoimmune type IV hypersensitivity reactions start, with infiltration of the anterior pituitary by autoreactive T lymphocytes that eventually leads to pituitary cytotoxicity and inflammation. Moreover, patients with anti-CTLA-4 antibody-induced hypophysitis develop pituitary antibodies that predominantly recognize TSH- FSH- and ACTH-secreting cells. Pituitary cytotoxicity in anti-PD1/PD1-L1 antibody-induced hypophysitis presumably affects mostly ACTH-secreting cells, as isolated ACTH deficiency is the most common occurrence in these patients. Clinical Characteristics There are important differences between primary hypophysitis and ICI-induced hypophysitis ( Table 9 ) (5, 8, 116) . The latter does not have a female predominance ( 8 , 142) and seems to present more frequently with hypopituitarism at diagnosis. Both
