Hypophysitis
KEYWORDS: hypophysitis, pituitary, patients, deficiency, pubmed, cases, primary, disease, diagnosis, related, primary hypophysitis, treatment, symptoms, avp, lymphocytic


of symptoms and the severity of the disease, ICI-induced hypophysitis is graded 1 to 4 ( Table 11 ) ( 78 ). Grade 3 toxicity or worse (including death) has been described in 2-10% of reported hypophysitis cases (166, 167). Table 11. Grading of Immune Checkpoint Inhibitor-Induced Hypophysitis View in own window Grade Description Grade 1 Asymptomatic or mild symptoms. Grade 2 Moderate symptoms, able to perform ADL. Grade 3 Severe symptoms, medically significant consequences, unable to perform ADL. Grade 4 Severe symptoms, life-threatening consequences, unable to perform ADL. Grade 5 Death. Abbreviations: ADL, activities of daily living. Diagnosis and Management An algorithm for the diagnosis and management of ICI-induced hypophysitis in line with the more recent literature is shown in Figure 6 . Patients should be regularly monitored with clinical assessment and hormonal tests during treatment with ICI. Clinical vigilance is paramount, as ICI-induced hypophysitis is a leading cause of hospitalization and death in patients who develop irAEs (168, 169). Interestingly, an autopsy study of 42 patients who died from ICI-related irAEs identified 12 cases of hypophysitis, which was clinically unsuspected in 66.7% of cases (137). Almost invariably, patients who develop hypophysitis have permanent ACTH deficiency, and cases of fatal acute adrenal insufficiency have been reported (170); this highlights the importance of pituitary function assessment at baseline and during treatment, also in asymptomatic patients (171). If there is a strong suspicion of adrenal insufficiency on clinical grounds (e.g. G3-G4 symptoms), glucocorticoid replacement should be started without delay (172). TSH deficiency is also very common (>60% of patients). Indeed, a fall in serum TSH and free T4 have been suggested to be an early sign of ICI-induced hypophysitis and can be a clue to the diagnosis (172-175). A paper identified antibodies against two autoantigens (anti-GNAL and anti-ITM2B) that may aid in the diagnosis of and predict the risk of developing ICI-induced hypophysitis (176). Moreover, Kobayashi et al . evaluated the usefulness of pituitary antibodies and human leukocyte antigen alleles in predicting ICI-induced pituitary dysfunction. The authors showed distinct and overlapped patterns of pituitary antibodies and human leukocyte antigen alleles between patients who developed hypophysitis (n=5) or isolated ACTH deficiency (n=17) (135). The usefulness of anti-GNAL and anti-ITM2B antibodies, pituitary antibodies, and human leukocyte antigen alleles as biomarkers in the clinical setting needs to be validated in larger cohorts. Patients with suspected immune-checkpoint induced hypophysitis should undergo a pituitary MRI and
