Hypophysitis
KEYWORDS: hypophysitis, pituitary, patients, deficiency, pubmed, cases, primary, disease, diagnosis, related, primary hypophysitis, treatment, symptoms, avp, lymphocytic


and human leukocyte antigen alleles as biomarkers in the clinical setting needs to be validated in larger cohorts. Patients with suspected immune-checkpoint induced hypophysitis should undergo a pituitary MRI and visual assessment (172, 177). Contrary to primary hypophysitis, MRI appearances can be normal, especially in Anti-PD1/PD1-L1 antibody-induced hypophysitis ( Tables 9 and 10 ) (178, 179). Nguyen et al. recommended obtaining pituitary imaging, as in their series 33% of hypophysitis cases would have been missed if no MRI were carried out, although the clinical relevance of finding pituitary enlargement without hormonal deficits has not yet been proven (174). Also, pituitary MRI is important for the differential diagnosis of other pituitary lesions, in particular metastases ( Table 12 ). Faje et al. reported that ~50% of patients with ICI-induced hypophysitis presented with diffuse pituitary enlargement at MRI before the onset of clinical symptoms ( 112 ). 18 F-FDG PET performed as part of the staging of the underlying malignancy can show intense radiotracer uptake and may precede clinical symptoms and biochemical abnormalities (180-182); however, its routine use for the diagnosis of hypophysitis is currently not recommended. Previous guidelines on the management of immune-checkpoint induced hypophysitis suggested withholding treatment in G1-G2 hypophysitis until patients were stabilized on hormone replacement ( 110 ). However, the 2022 guidelines by the European Society of Endocrinology take a more permissive approach, advising against discontinuation of treatment when endocrine toxicities are well-controlled (183). We welcome this shift in guidance. In our view, ICI therapy should only be interrupted in cases of severe or progressive hypophysitis (G3-G4) . Most cases of ICI-induced hypophysitis are self-limited, with minimal risk of worsening sella compression. Given the potential impact of therapy on progression-free survival, decisions about treatment interruption should be made cautiously and on a case-by-case basis. When G3-G4 hypophysitis is suspected, a course of high-dose corticosteroids given during the acute phase may result in inflammation reversal and ameliorate sellar and parasellar compression. High-dose glucocorticoids should not be prescribed with the aim of restoring pituitary function. An open, randomized controlled trial compared high-dose glucocorticoid therapy with standard glucocorticoid replacement to assess hormonal recovery. Twenty patients were randomized; none recovered adrenal function, and only minimal recovery of other hormonal axes was observed. Importantly, high-dose glucocorticoids were associated with worsened glucose metabolism (184). Although the number of included patients was small and follow-up duration was short, these findings do not support the routine
