Hypophysitis
KEYWORDS: hypophysitis, pituitary, patients, deficiency, pubmed, cases, primary, disease, diagnosis, related, primary hypophysitis, treatment, symptoms, avp, lymphocytic


Importantly, high-dose glucocorticoids were associated with worsened glucose metabolism (184). Although the number of included patients was small and follow-up duration was short, these findings do not support the routine use of high-dose glucocorticoids in immune-checkpoint induced hypophysitis unless compressive symptoms are present. Whether high-dose glucocorticoids have an impact on the anti-tumor effect of ICI is uncertain. Earlier evidence suggested a neutral effect on survival ( 113 , 185, 186); however, a study from Faje et al . questioned this, showing reduced survival among patients with melanoma treated with high-doses glucocorticoids for Ipilimumab-induced hypophysitis ( 114 , 148). Nonetheless, treatment should not be delayed in patients with severe symptoms of sella compression. The resolution of the neuroradiological abnormalities is usually observed within 2 months (150, 152). Treatment with high-dose glucocorticoids, however, does not restore ACTH deficiency, and patients almost invariably have permanent adrenal insufficiency and require long-term replacement ( Table 10 ) ( 5 , 145, 160, 187). On the other hand, thyroid and gonadal deficiencies often recover, and the need for hormone replacement needs to be reassessed in the long term (145, 146, 174, 188, 189). In addition, patients developing irAEs can be severely ill and can present with a “euthyroid sick syndrome” and/or a “sick eugonadal syndrome” that can affect the interpretation of the laboratory results (152). Figure 6. Diagnosis and Management of Immune Checkpoint Inhibitor-Induced Hypophysitis. 1 Some authors suggest laboratory evaluation before the first infusion, then at 8 weeks for patients receiving Ipilimumab (i.e., prior to cycle 3) and then at week 16 if there are no interim signs/symptoms suggestive of hypophysitis. Other authors recommend laboratory evaluation for hypophysitis prior to each infusion of immune checkpoint inhibitors in the first 12-16 weeks of treatment, in order to pick up early or late onset of the disease. 2 Check random ACTH and cortisol if acute adrenal insufficiency is suspected. Exclude recent glucocorticoid use and concomitant treatment that may alter serum cortisol measurement (e.g., oral estrogens). As a guide, in patients that are unwell serum cortisol >450 nmol/L makes the diagnosis of adrenal insufficiency unlikely. Adrenal insufficiency is possible if morning cortisol 200-450 nmol/L or random cortisol 100-450 nmol/L; consider confirmatory testing with Synacthen, although this can give false-positive results in the early stages of central adrenal insufficiency. Adrenal insufficiency is likely if morning cortisol <200 nmol/L or random cortisol <100 nmol/L and patients should be started on
