Hypophysitis
KEYWORDS: hypophysitis, pituitary, patients, deficiency, pubmed, cases, primary, disease, diagnosis, related, primary hypophysitis, treatment, symptoms, avp, lymphocytic


false-positive results in the early stages of central adrenal insufficiency. Adrenal insufficiency is likely if morning cortisol <200 nmol/L or random cortisol <100 nmol/L and patients should be started on glucocorticoid replacement. These cut-offs should be seen only as a guide and need to be adapted to local laboratory assays and reference ranges. Patients receiving immune checkpoint inhibitors can also rarely develop adrenalitis and primary adrenal insufficiency. These patients have high ACTH and renin/aldosterone should be measured to investigate mineralocorticoid deficiency. 3 IGF-1 is valuable to confirm changes from baseline that may suggest new-onset hypophysitis. However, further tests to prove GH deficiency are not required because these patients would not be treated (active malignancy). 4 Pituitary MRI is normal in ~20% and ~80% of hypophysitis cases associated with anti-CTLA-4 and anti-PD1/PD1-L1 antibodies, respectively. Therefore, normal imaging does not exclude hypophysitis. MRI changes can be very subtle ( Table 11 ). 5 We believe that patients with immune checkpoint inhibitor-induced hypophysitis should not stop treatment unless they develop severe and progressive symptoms (G3-G4 hypophysitis). Once the acute symptoms of hypophysitis have resolved, restarting treatment with immune checkpoint inhibitors is not contraindicated. Adequately treated, long-term hypopituitarism is not a contraindication to restarting immune checkpoint inhibitors. An important differential diagnosis in patients with suspected drug-induced hypophysitis and a sella mass are pituitary metastases ( Table 12 ) (108, 172, 190-192) . The early studies on ICI mainly assessed their efficacy in patients with advanced melanoma. Pituitary metastases are rare in melanoma (~2.5% of pituitary metastasis cases reported in the literature); however, these drugs are increasingly used for other malignancies including lung cancer, which accounts for ~25% of pituitary metastases (190). AVP deficiency in ICI-induced hypophysitis is extremely rare; therefore, a sella mass associated with AVP deficiency is strongly suggestive of a metastasis. Table 12. Differential Diagnosis of Immune Checkpoint Inhibitor-Induced Hypophysitis and Pituitary Metastases View in own window Characteristics Immune checkpoint inhibitor-induced hypophysitis Pituitary Metastases Clinical presentation AVP deficiency is extremely rare; Anterior pituitary insufficiency is very common (chiefly ACTH, FSH/LH and TSH deficiency). Headache is a frequent presenting symptom. AVP deficiency is the most common hormonal abnormality (~45%); Cranial nerve deficits due to involvement of the chiasm and the cavernous sinus are common (22-28%); Anterior pituitary insufficiency has been described in ~24% of patients; Headache and retro-orbital pain have been reported in ~16% of patients; Imaging MRI: Mild-to-moderate diffuse enlargement of the
