Hypophysitis
KEYWORDS: hypophysitis, pituitary, patients, deficiency, pubmed, cases, primary, disease, diagnosis, related, primary hypophysitis, treatment, symptoms, avp, lymphocytic


common (22-28%); Anterior pituitary insufficiency has been described in ~24% of patients; Headache and retro-orbital pain have been reported in ~16% of patients; Imaging MRI: Mild-to-moderate diffuse enlargement of the pituitary (up to 60-100% of the baseline size). Pituitary height typically does not exceed 2 cm. Pituitary enlargement resolves in most cases over the course of weeks/months. Empty sella can develop in the long term. Extension into the cavernous sinus or above the sellar diaphragm is uncommon. Homogeneous (more frequent) or heterogeneous enhancement (less frequent) post-gadolinium; Suprasellar extension with compression and displacement of chiasm is uncommon; The pituitary stalk may be thickened but not deviated; The posterior pituitary is preserved in most of cases. MRI: Sella or suprasellar mass; Isointense or hypointense mass on T1WI, with a usually high-intensity sign on T2WI; Enhancement post-gadolinium can be homogeneous or heterogeneous. Hemorrhage, necrosis and areas of cystic degeneration can be observed; Thickened and enhancing pituitary stalk is possible, but it is typically less common than immune checkpoint inhibitor-induced hypophysitis; Presence of other brain metastases (~15%); Invasion of the cavernous sinus, chiasm, or hypothalamus (~14%) Loss of bright spot of the neurohypophysis (~13%); Dumbbell-shaped mass (~11%); Sphenoid sinus invasion (~9%); CT: may show bony destruction. Abbreviations: CT, computed tomography; MRI, magnetic resonance imaging; T1WI, T1 weighted images; T2WI, T2 weighted images. DRUG-INDUCED HYPOPHYSITIS: OTHER DRUGS Reversible or irreversible hypopituitarism may be a rare side effect following treatment with interferon-α, and interferon-α/ribavirin combination therapy has been associated with cases of granulomatous hypophysitis with anterior pituitary dysfunction (193-197). The anti-interleukin-12 and -23 monoclonal antibody ustekinumab (used in the treatment of psoriasis) has been associated with a case of hypophysitis with panhypopituitarism (198). HYPOPHYSITIS SECONDARY TO SELLA AND PARASELLAR DISEASE Pituitary inflammation can be triggered by sella and parasellar disease. The infiltrate is mainly lymphocytic or xanthogranulomatous and focuses around the lesion rather than diffusing to the entire gland ( 4 ). Germinoma Germinomas are rare brain tumors predominantly affecting mostly prepubertal children. They are highly immunogenic tumors and can induce a strong immune response that can involve the pituitary, leading to secondary hypophysitis (199-206). Histologically, lymphocytic or granulomatous hypophysitis is seen in ~80% and ~20% of cases linked to germinomas, respectively (206). Germinomas arising in the sella and parasellar region are difficult to differentiate from hypophysitis in children because of similar clinical features (AVP deficiency + GH deficiency + visual disturbances). This differentiation, nevertheless, is
