Hypophysitis
KEYWORDS: hypophysitis, pituitary, patients, deficiency, pubmed, cases, primary, disease, diagnosis, related, primary hypophysitis, treatment, symptoms, avp, lymphocytic


the sella and parasellar region are difficult to differentiate from hypophysitis in children because of similar clinical features (AVP deficiency + GH deficiency + visual disturbances). This differentiation, nevertheless, is critical for patient care due to the different treatments of the two diseases. Biopsy-proven cases of primary hypophysitis are extremely rare in children and adolescents ( 46 ); therefore, in children below 10 years, a germinoma should be considered the most likely diagnosis. Tumor markers such as α-fetoprotein, β-human chorionic gonadotropin, or placental alkaline phosphatase in the cerebrospinal fluid may be useful for diagnosing germinoma. However, a pituitary biopsy is the gold standard for differentiating the two conditions, although germinomas can have a marked lymphocytic infiltrate that can outnumber the neoplastic cells, making differential diagnosis difficult (205). If germinoma is part of the histologic differential diagnosis, markers for germinomas such as Oct3/4, PLAP and NANOG may be useful. Finally, it should be noted that the hypopituitarism caused by sella germinomas can precede a visible pituitary mass for years, so that prolonged symptomatic periods before diagnosis are common (205). Rathke’s Cleft Cyst The rupture of Rathke’s cleft cyst can cause hypophysitis associated with visual disturbances, headache, fever, and hypopituitarism including – very frequently – AVP deficiency (207-213). Histopathology can show lymphocytic, granulomatous, xanthomatous or mixed forms of hypophysitis (211). Some authors have suggested that many cases of xanthomatous hypophysitis may actually be related to rupture of Rathke’s cleft cysts ( 29 , 30 ). Other Sella and Parasellar Masses Cases of secondary hypophysitis have been described in association with craniopharyngiomas (214), pituitary adenomas (215-220), and primary pituitary lymphomas (215, 221). HYPOPHYSITIS SECONDARY TO SYSTEMIC DISEASE In the absence of a clinical presentation highly suggestive of other causes of hypophysitis (e.g., pregnancy, drug-induced, germinoma), patients should undergo a systematic diagnostic pathway to rule out systemic disease. The most common etiologies are discussed here, with the exception of hypophysitis secondary to IgG4-related disease, which has been described in earlier sections. Miquel L et al. proposed a helpful algorithm to investigate the more common causes of secondary hypophysitis (222). Sarcoidosis Sarcoidosis is a multisystem inflammatory disease of unknown origin characterized by the formation of non-caseating granulomas that can involve all organ systems. The central nervous system can be affected in 5-15% of patients (neurosarcoidosis) and pituitary involvement may be the presenting feature of the disease in up to 29% of cases (222, 223). Granulomas
