Hypophysitis
KEYWORDS: hypophysitis, pituitary, patients, deficiency, pubmed, cases, primary, disease, diagnosis, related, primary hypophysitis, treatment, symptoms, avp, lymphocytic


nervous system can be affected in 5-15% of patients (neurosarcoidosis) and pituitary involvement may be the presenting feature of the disease in up to 29% of cases (222, 223). Granulomas can involve the pituitary, hypothalamus, and the stalk in ~0.5% of patients with sarcoidosis, resulting in varying grades of hypopituitarism (224, 225). 50-60% of the cases reported in the literature are males presenting in the 3 rd and 4 th decades. AVP deficiency, FSH/LH deficiency and hyperprolactinemia are among the most frequent hormone abnormalities (222, 226). A study found that half of patients presenting with hypophysitis and FSH/LH deficiency had secondary hypophysitis due to sarcoidosis (222). Patients with sarcoidosis and hypothalamic-pituitary involvement tend to have more frequent multi-organ involvement, as well as neurosarcoidosis and sinonasal involvement (226). Granulomatosis with Polyangiitis Granulomatosis with polyangiitis (previously known as Wegener’s Granulomatosis) is an antineutrophil cytoplasmic autoantibody (ANCA)-associated vasculitis of unknown etiology with multisystem involvement and formation of necrotizing granulomas and vasculitis in small- and medium-sized blood vessels. Pituitary involvement is a rare (∼1%) and usually late manifestation of the disease (225, 227, 228), but it can also be the presenting complaint (229-232). Secondary hypogonadism and AVP deficiency are the most common endocrine abnormalities; AVP deficiency can recover after adequate treatment of the underlying vasculitis, while anterior pituitary dysfunction is permanent in the majority of patients (233). Langerhans Cell Histiocytosis Langerhans cell histiocytosis is a rare disease mainly occurring in childhood, involving clonal proliferation of myeloid Langerhans cells that can infiltrate multiple organs (bones, skin, lymph nodes, lungs, thymus, liver, spleen, bone marrow, and central nervous system including the pituitary). Patients often carry the BRAF V600E mutation in the clonal myeloid cells (234). The most common endocrine abnormality in patients with Langerhans cell histiocytosis is hypothalamic-pituitary infiltration, causing AVP deficiency. These patients usually have multi-organ and cranio-facial involvement, although localized disease of the hypothalamic-pituitary region has been reported (235, 236). Up to 40% of patients develop symptoms consistent with AVP deficiency within the first four years, particularly if there is multisystem involvement and proptosis (237-239). Anterior pituitary hormone deficiency is also possible at diagnosis and during follow-up (222, 235, 240). MRI pituitary involvement is typically asymmetrical (222). Langerhans cell histiocytosis and germinoma are the most common causes of AVP deficiency in children and adolescents; therefore, they should always be considered in the differential diagnosis (241). The definitive diagnosis of Langerhans cell histiocytosis is the
