Hypophysitis
KEYWORDS: hypophysitis, pituitary, patients, deficiency, pubmed, cases, primary, disease, diagnosis, related, primary hypophysitis, treatment, symptoms, avp, lymphocytic


most common causes of AVP deficiency in children and adolescents; therefore, they should always be considered in the differential diagnosis (241). The definitive diagnosis of Langerhans cell histiocytosis is the biopsy-proven infiltration of the pituitary with Langerhans cells with eosinophils, neutrophils, small lymphocytes, and histiocytes. However, pituitary biopsy is invasive, and the diagnosis can be suggested by the presence of the characteristic histopathologic features in other tissues when a multisystem disease is present. For patients with suspected disease isolated to the pituitary, identification of BRAF-V600E in the peripheral blood or cerebrospinal fluid can support the diagnosis and rule out germinoma, although it does not distinguish Langerhans cell histiocytosis from Erdheim-Chester disease (see below) (242). When hypophysitis secondary to Langerhans cell histiocytosis is suspected but pituitary biopsy is not available, it is reasonable to initiate therapy empirically with a plan to follow disease response with MRI. Treatment options include prednisone, alone or in combination with vinblastine, cladribine, and vemurafenib, alongside desmopressin and other pituitary hormone replacements to treat hypopituitarism. Erdheim-Chester Disease Erdheim-Chester’s disease is a rare, multisystem histiocytic disorder, most often seen in adults, which may be confused with Langerhans cell histiocytosis. Histiocytic infiltration leads to xanthogranulomatous infiltrates of multiple tissues (bones, skin, lungs, facial, orbital and retro-orbital tissue, retroperitoneum, cardiovascular system and cerebral nervous system, including the pituitary). Long bone pain and symmetric osteosclerotic lesions suggest this diagnosis, which is confirmed by tissue biopsies showing histiocytes with non-Langerhans features. Patients often carry the BRAF V600E mutation in clonal myeloid progenitor cells (234). Pituitary involvement may manifest as AVP deficiency and anterior hypopituitarism, which may occur several years prior to other manifestations and typically persist even with radiographic regression of the disease. As for Langerhans cell histiocytosis, the definitive diagnosis of Erdheim-Chester’s disease is the finding of the typical histologic features on pituitary biopsy, which can be supported by the finding of the BRAF V600E mutation. Treatment options include vemurafenib, interferon-α, dabrafenib, trametinib, cobimetinib, cladribine, cyclophosphamide, and glucocorticoids. Rosai-Dorfman Disease Pituitary involvement has been described in Rosai-Dorfman disease, a rare histiocytic disorder. Patients may have both anterior pituitary dysfunction, AVP deficiency, and visual disturbances (243, 244). Inflammatory Pseudotumor The inflammatory pseudotumor is a rare inflammatory disorder commonly involving the lung and orbit. It can be isolated or associated with the IgG4-related disease (245). Pituitary infiltration is a rare manifestation, and patients can present with anterior and posterior hypopituitarism. The inflammatory pseudotumor
