Hypophysitis
KEYWORDS: hypophysitis, pituitary, patients, deficiency, pubmed, cases, primary, disease, diagnosis, related, primary hypophysitis, treatment, symptoms, avp, lymphocytic


orbit. It can be isolated or associated with the IgG4-related disease (245). Pituitary infiltration is a rare manifestation, and patients can present with anterior and posterior hypopituitarism. The inflammatory pseudotumor can also spread to the sphenoid sinus, the cavernous sinus, and the optic chiasm (246-248). Tolosa-Hunt Syndrome Tolosa-Hunt syndrome is a painful ophthalmoplegia caused by idiopathic retro-orbital inflammation involving the cavernous sinus or the superior orbital fissure. Histology shows nonspecific granulomatous or nongranulomatous inflammation. Patients with pituitary involvement present with anterior and posterior hypopituitarism, diplopia and retro-orbital pain (often unilateral) (249-253). Other Systemic Diseases Cases of secondary hypophysitis have been described in association with Takayasu’s arteritis (granulomatous hypophysitis) (254), Cogan’s syndrome (255), and Crohn’s disease (256, 257). A case of isolated ACTH deficiency in a patient with Crohn’s disease has also been published (258). OTHER CAUSES OF SECONDARY HYPOPHYSITIS Thymoma and Other Malignancies (Anti-Pit-1 Antibody Syndrome) Pit-1 is essential for the differentiation, proliferation, and maintenance of somatotrophs, lactotrophs, and thyrotrophs in the pituitary (259). Yamamoto et al . described three cases of acquired combined TSH, GH, and PRL deficiency, with circulating anti-Pit-1 antibodies (260). Cytotoxic T-cells that react against Pit-1 are likely the cause of anti-Pit-1 antibody syndrome (261-263). All these patients later developed thymomas that express Pit-1. Removal of the thymoma resulted in a decline in antibody titer, suggesting that aberrant expression of Pit-1 in the thymoma plays a causal role in the development of this syndrome (264). A handful of cases of anti-Pit-1 antibody syndrome not associated with thymoma have since been published. The malignancies causing this paraneoplastic syndrome included diffuse large B-cell lymphoma of the bladder, colon and prostate cancer, bladder cancer, and a metastatic cancer of unknown origin (263, 265, 266). Based on these cases, Yamamoto et al . have proposed diagnostic criteria for anti-PIT-1 hypophysitis ( Table 13 ). Table 13. Diagnostic Criteria for Anti-PIT-1 Hypophysitis View in own window Criteria Probable diagnosis Established diagnosis Criterion 1 Acquired specific GH, PRL, and TSH deficiency. * CRITERION 1 CRITERION 1 and CRITERION 2 Criterion 2 Presence of anti-PIT-1 antibody or PIT-1-reactive T cells in the circulation. Criterion 3 Coexistence of thymoma or malignant neoplasm. ** • The secretion of other pituitary hormones is not impaired. The MRI of the pituitary is typically normal, but a slight atrophy of the anterior pituitary can be observed. ** Criterion 3 may help the diagnosis and clarify pathogenesis but may
