Hypophysitis
KEYWORDS: hypophysitis, pituitary, patients, deficiency, pubmed, cases, primary, disease, diagnosis, related, primary hypophysitis, treatment, symptoms, avp, lymphocytic


MRI of the pituitary is typically normal, but a slight atrophy of the anterior pituitary can be observed. ** Criterion 3 may help the diagnosis and clarify pathogenesis but may not be necessarily obvious at the time of diagnosis. Only nine cases of anti-Pit-1 antibody syndrome have been published to date, and all patients were Japanese (266). Edema was the main hypopituitarism-related complaint, leading to clinical suspicion of hypothyroidism. All patients with thymoma (five out of nine) had co-existing autoimmune diseases. Infections Infections of the pituitary are a rare cause of hypophysitis and hypopituitarism (267). They can either affect exclusively the pituitary area or be part of disseminated infections. Risk factors are diabetes mellitus, organ transplantation, human immunodeficiency virus infection, non-Hodgkin lymphoma, chemotherapy, and Cushing’s syndrome. They can occur by (225): Hematogenous spread in immuno-compromised hosts. Contiguous extension from adjacent anatomical sites (meninges, sphenoid sinus, cavernous sinus and skull base). Previous infectious diseases of the CNS of different etiologies. Iatrogenic inoculation during trans-sphenoidal surgery. However, an obvious cause cannot be identified in the majority of cases of pituitary abscess. Tuberculosis can cause granulomatous involvement of the hypothalamus, the pituitary, or the stalk. Tubercular meningitis and hypothalamic-pituitary involvement seem to affect mostly anterior pituitary function (268), although AVP deficiency has been described in up to half of cases (269). Patients almost invariably present with mass symptoms (headaches, vomiting, vision abnormalities), and 40% may not have extra-pituitary involvement (269). Several viruses can cause meningitis, meningoencephalitis, and encephalitis that can involve the hypothalamic-pituitary region. Partial or complete hypopituitarism may develop as a result (225). A study by Leow et al . has shown that ~40% of patients with severe acute respiratory syndrome (SARS)-associated with Coronavirus infection can develop reversible central adrenal insufficiency, suggesting a possible inflammation of the pituitary in these patients (270). A systematic review of the literature identified 7 cases of post-COVID-19 hypophysitis, with onset 2-3 weeks after infection symptom development (271). Very rare cases of post-COVID-19 vaccination hypophysitis have also been described (272). Hantavirus can also cause viral hypophysitis with pituitary ischemia and hemorrhage as part of the hemorrhagic fever with renal syndrome (HFRS), leading to partial or complete hypopituitarism, including AVP deficiency (225, 273, 274). Mycoses with hypothalamic-pituitary involvement are extremely rare. Patients frequently present with AVP deficiency and anterior pituitary dysfunction (mainly FSH/LH deficiency and hyperprolactinemia) (225). REFERENCES 1. Bellastella G, Maiorino MI, Bizzarro A, Giugliano D, Esposito
