NLM Citation: LiverTox: Clinical and Research Information on Drug-
KEYWORDS: asthma, agents, injury, liver, pubmed pmid, pmid, pubmed, monoclonal, drugs, hepatotoxicity, used, liver injury, med lett, therapy, mentions


Induced Liver Injury [Internet]. Bethesda (MD): National Institute of Diabetes and Digestive and Kidney Diseases; 2012-. Antiasthmatic Agents. [Updated 2020 Dec 28]. Bookshelf URL: Antiasthmatic Agents Updated: December 28, 2020. OVERVIEW Asthma is a respiratory illness marked by recurrent episodes of airway obstruction, an exaggerated bronchoconstriction response to environmental stimuli, and varying degrees of airway inflammation. Asthma is common, affecting at least 5% of the adult population and often arising in childhood. Asthma can also be severe and is a major cause of morbidity and even mortality in children and young adults. The therapy of asthma consists of various combinations of inhaled and oral medications, with parenteral agents used during severe attacks. The major classes of agents used for asthma include beta adrenergic agonists, xanthine derivatives, anticholinergic agents, corticosteroids, antileukotrienes, monoclonal antibodies, and miscellaneous agents. Hepatotoxicity is rare with most antiasthma medications but can occur, particularly with the antileukotrienes. Only oral and parenteral antiasthma agents have been linked to drug induced liver disease. The various inhaled agents have not been definitely linked to liver injury and are not discussed in any detail in this website. Beta adrenergic bronchodilators act by activation of beta-2 adrenergic receptors on smooth muscle of bronchial tissue, causing relaxation and relief of the bronchoconstriction typical of asthma. Two forms of beta agonists are used in therapy of asthma: short acting agents such as albuterol (salbutamol), bitolterol, metaproterenol and terbutaline; and, the long acting beta agonists such as salmeterol and formoterol. None of these agents has been associated with hepatotoxicity when given orally or by inhalation. Xanthine derivatives include theophylline which is available in oral forms and was formerly in common use, but has been declining in use with the availability of other more effective and better tolerated agents. Theophylline has not been associated with hepatotoxicity in usual oral doses. Anticholinergic agents are often used in inhalers to treat symptoms of asthma and chronic obstructive pulmonary disease. They act by blocking endogenous acetylcholine from engaging muscarinic receptors which results in inhibition of bronchial smooth muscle constriction and reduction in mucus secretion. Use of anticholinergic agents in asthma has not been associated with hepatotoxicity. Corticosteroids are effective in reducing symptoms in asthma and are frequently included in inhalers in combination with beta adrenergic bronchodilators. Corticosteroids act by modulating gene expression, suppressing synthesis of pro-inflammatory and increasing synthesis of antiinflammatory signaling molecules and cytokines. Administration of corticosteroids by inhalation
