NLM Citation: LiverTox: Clinical and Research Information on Drug-
KEYWORDS: asthma, agents, injury, liver, pubmed pmid, pmid, pubmed, monoclonal, drugs, hepatotoxicity, used, liver injury, med lett, therapy, mentions


in combination with beta adrenergic bronchodilators. Corticosteroids act by modulating gene expression, suppressing synthesis of pro-inflammatory and increasing synthesis of antiinflammatory signaling molecules and cytokines. Administration of corticosteroids by inhalation rather than orally avoids many of the short- and long term adverse effects of corticosteroids. There is no evidence that corticosteroid inhalers cause live injury. Antileukotrienes include the leukotriene receptor antagonists montelukast and zafirlukast, and the lipoxygenase inhibitor zileuton. These agents act by inhibiting the actions or synthesis of the leukotrienes which are potent 2 LiverTox inflammatory signals that are important mediators of inflammation and injury in asthma. These agents are used for the prevention of asthmatic attacks rather than their acute treatment. All three agents have been associated with rare instances of idiosyncratic, clinically apparent liver injury. A relatively new approach to therapy of asthma is the use of monoclonal antibodies to inflammatory mediators such as IgE or eosinophils. Omalizumab (Xolair, 2003) is a recombinant humanized monoclonal antibody to IgE that acts by preventing the binding of IgE to mast cells and thus blocking the release of inflammatory mediators of the allergic response. Mepolizumab (Nucala, 2015), reslizumab (Cinqair, 2016) and benralizumab (Fasenra, 2017) are humanized monoclonal antibodies to IL-5 and its receptor, a cytokine that promotes the production and maturation of eosinophils. More recently approved for both eosinophilic asthma and atopic dermatitis is dupilumab (Dupixent, 2019), a human monoclonal antibody to the IL-4 receptor alpha subunit, which blocks the activity of IL-4 and IL-13 which are cytokines that drive inflammation in asthma and atopic dermatitis. Th e monoclonal antibodies for asthma require parenteral administration and are typically given as an infusion or subcutaneous injection every 2, 4 or 8 weeks. They are generally reserved for cases of severe, persistent asthma with an eosinophilic phenotype that have not responded adequately to conventional therapies. The monoclonal antibodies used for asthma rarely cause serum enzyme elevations and have not been implicated in cases of clinically apparent liver injury. Miscellaneous agents include cromolyn sodium, which is used by inhaler and has not been definitely linked to cases of clinically apparent liver injury. The following links are to individual drug records. • Beta-2 Adrenergic Agonistso Albuterol, Bitolterol, Formoterol, Metaproterenol, Pirbuterol, Salbutamol, Salmeterol, Terbutaline • Leukotriene Receptor Antagonists ⚬ Montelukast, Zafirlukast • Monoclonal Antibodies ⚬ Benralizumab, Dupilumab, Mepolizumab, Omalizumab, Reslizumab, Tezepelumab • Xanthine Derivatives ⚬ Theophylline • Zileuton ANNOTATED BIBLIOGRAPHY References updated: 28 December 2020
