NLM Citation: LiverTox®: Clinical and Research Information on Drug-
KEYWORDS: lansoprazole, liver, injury, pubmed, pmid, proton pump, proton, pubmed pmid, pump, liver injury, inhibitors, drug, omeprazole, pump inhibitors, acute


Side effects are uncommon and usually mild: they can include diarrhea, nausea, vomiting, abdominal discomfort, flatulence, skin rash, headaches and dizziness. Severe adverse events are rare but can include hypersensitivity reactions. Long-term use may be associated with bone fractures, acute interstitial nephritis, lupus erythematosus, vitamin B12 deficiency and hypomagnesemia. Hepatotoxicity Despite its wide use, lansoprazole has only rarely been associated with hepatic injury. In large scale, long term trials of lansoprazole, serum ALT elevations have occurred in less than 1% of patients and at rates similar to those that occur with placebo or comparator drugs. Only a small number of cases of clinically apparent liver 2 LiverTox® disease due to lansoprazole or dexlansoprazole have been published and most have been anicteric and mild. In most instances, the time to onset was within 2 to 4 weeks and the pattern of enzyme elevations was hepatocellular or mixed. Hypersensitivity reactions with fever, rash and eosinophilia have been described due to dexlansoprazole and lansoprazole, and these reactions may be accompanied by minor serum enzyme elevations and thus qualify for DRESS syndrome (drug-rash with eosinophilia and systemic symptoms). Autoantibody formation is rare. Recovery is usually rapid (within a month) and complete upon stopping lansoprazole. Recurrence on reexposures has been reported. Likelihood score: C (probable rare cause of clinically apparent liver injury). Mechanism of Injury Several features of the hepatic injury with lansoprazole suggest a hypersensitivity reaction, but may merely reflect altered metabolism or acute toxicity of a metabolic byproduct. Lansoprazole is metabolized by the hepatic P450 system, but has little effect on the activity of the drug-metabolizing enzymes. Outcome and Management The mild and asymptomatic elevations in serum aminotransferase that have been observed during lansoprazole therapy are usually transient and usually resolve even without dose modification. Clinically apparent liver injury due to dexlansoprazole and lansoprazole, however, generally calls for prompt withdrawal of the agent. Severe injury is uncommon and most cases resolve promptly upon withdrawal. Cases of acute liver failure due proton pump inhibitors have been described, but they are exceedingly rare. There is no information about cross reactivity among the various PPIs after lansoprazole hepatotoxicity, but the PPIs all share a benzimidazole structure, and caution should be used in attempting to reintroduce another PPI after clinically apparent PPI- associated hepatic injury. Drug Class: Antiulcer Agents Other Drugs in the Subclass, Proton Pump Inhibitors: Esomeprazole, Omeprazole, Pantoprazole, Rabeprazole CASE REPORT Case 1. Acute hepatitis
