NLM Citation: LiverTox®: Clinical and Research Information on Drug-
KEYWORDS: lansoprazole, liver, injury, pubmed, pmid, proton pump, proton, pubmed pmid, pump, liver injury, inhibitors, drug, omeprazole, pump inhibitors, acute


PPI after clinically apparent PPI- associated hepatic injury. Drug Class: Antiulcer Agents Other Drugs in the Subclass, Proton Pump Inhibitors: Esomeprazole, Omeprazole, Pantoprazole, Rabeprazole CASE REPORT Case 1. Acute hepatitis attributed to lansoprazole. [Modified from: Viana de Miguel C, Alvarez García M, Sánchez Sánchez A, Carvajal García-Pando A. [Lansoprazole-induced hepatitis]. Med Clin (Barc) 1997; 108: 599. Spanish. PubMed Citation] A 62 year old man with gastroesophageal reflux disease developed fatigue and jaundice 25 days after switching from omeprazole (20 mg daily for 3 months) to lansoprazole (30 mg daily). He had no history of drug reactions, liver disease, jaundice, alcohol abuse or risk factors for viral hepatitis. Laboratory testing showed marked elevations in serum bilirubin (26.0 mg/dL) and aminotransferase levels (ALT 1498 U/L, AST 952 U/L), and mild elevations in alkaline phosphatase (346 U/L: normal values not given). Tests for hepatitis A, B, and C were negative and abdominal ultrasound showed a single gallstone without evidence of biliary obstruction. A liver biopsy was compatible with acute toxic hepatitis. Lansoprazole was discontinued promptly upon admission and he improved rapidly, all liver tests being normal when he was seen 50 days later. Key Points Medication: Lansoprazole (30 mg daily) Pattern: Hepatocellular (R=~12.5) Severity: 3+ (jaundice, hospitalization) Lansoprazole 3 Table continued from previous page. Latency: 25 days Recovery: 50 days Other medications: None mentioned Comment This brief letter to the editor describes one of the few cases of lansoprazole associated liver injury in the literature. The onset of injury was within 4 weeks of starting lansoprazole, which is typical of proton-pump inhibitor associated acute liver injury, as was the hepatocellular pattern of serum enzyme elevations. Symptoms of hypersensitivity were not mentioned nor were autoantibody test results given, but the pattern otherwise resembles the clinically apparent liver injury associated with PPIs. Interestingly, this patient had tolerated omeprazole therapy for 3 months without problems, suggesting that there is little cross reactivity to hepatic injury among the proton pump inhibitors. Unfortunately, this cannot be assumed for all such agents and caution should be used in restarting another proton pump inhibitor after clinical apparent liver injury due to another. PRODUCT INFORMATION REPRESENTATIVE TRADE NAMES Lansoprazole – Generic, Prevacid® DRUG CLASS Antiulcer Agents COMPLETE LABELING Product labeling at DailyMed, National Library of Medicine, NIH 4 LiverTox® CHEMICAL FORMULAS AND STRUCTURES DRUG CAS MOLECULAR STRUCTURE REGISTRY FORMULA NUMBER Lansoprazole 103577-45-3 C16-H14-F3-N3- O2-S Dexlansoprazole 138530-94-6 C16-H14-F3-N3- O2-S Lansoprazole 5 ANNOTATED
