Male Gonadal Disorders in the Tropics
KEYWORDS: pubmed, male, hypogonadism, pmc, free, article, article pubmed, free article, pmc free, testicular, infection, infertility, sperm, genital, men


from 13% to 40%, with a recent meta-analysis suggesting a 26% prevalence ( 13 , 14 ). Secondary hypogonadism accounts for up to 80% of the cases and is attributable to functional hypogonadotropic hypogonadism (FHH) ( 13 ). In tropical countries, socioeconomic factors such as poverty, limited education, and inadequate healthcare resources contribute to increased rates of HIV transmission and hinder access to testing and highly active antiretroviral therapy (HAART). Studies conducted in tropical Africa show a prevalence of hypogonadism ranging from 8.7% to 37% in men with HIV ( 15 , 16 ). Etiology HIV-specific factors, alongside traditional ones, contribute to testosterone deficiency in men with HIV. While some association exists between testosterone levels and HIV-related parameters, such as low CD4 count, uncontrolled HIV viremia, weight loss, and acquired immunodeficiency syndrome (AIDS) wasting, the evidence is not strong ( 17 ). The pathogenesis of hypogonadism in these men is multifactorial and complex, with classical risk factors playing a minor role compared to HIV-negative men. It's essential to note that the lack of a strong association between testosterone levels and traditional risk factors doesn't exclude their involvement; rather, numerous HIV-specific factors can mask their significance statistically ( 13 ). Role of HIV-Related Comorbidities HIV-related co-morbidities, chronic inflammation, illicit drug use, and body composition changes from HAART have been implicated in the development of hypogonadism. HIV infection makes the testes more susceptible to opportunistic infections like cytomegalovirus (CMV), Epstein-Barr virus, and tuberculosis ( 18 ). Up to 25% of individuals with AIDS will demonstrate testicular involvement with widespread opportunistic infection or systemic neoplasms, including CMV, toxoplasmosis, Kaposi sarcoma, and testicular lymphoma. However, primary hypogonadism may not develop in all cases ( 19 ). Drug-Induced Hypogonadism Several medications used for the treatment of HIV and AIDS may affect the HPG axis. Ketoconazole inhibits side-chain cleavage enzymes and other critical enzymes in testicular steroidogenesis. Megestrol acetate is used to increase appetite, but as a synthetic progesterone agent it suppresses gonadotropin secretion and results in hypogonadism. Central hypogonadism can also occur from opiate-induced inhibition of gonadotropin-releasing hormone (GnRH) release. Hyperprolactinemia and Gynecomastia Increased prolactin levels are reported in almost 20% of men living with HIV ( 20 , 21 ). In a case-control study, gynecomastia was seen in 1.8% of 2275 consecutively screened cases and was associated with hypogonadism, hepatitis C, and the degree of lipoatrophy associated with HAART ( 22 ). Efavirenz, a
