Male Gonadal Disorders in the Tropics
KEYWORDS: pubmed, male, hypogonadism, pmc, free, article, article pubmed, free article, pmc free, testicular, infection, infertility, sperm, genital, men


gynecomastia was seen in 1.8% of 2275 consecutively screened cases and was associated with hypogonadism, hepatitis C, and the degree of lipoatrophy associated with HAART ( 22 ). Efavirenz, a commonly used HAART, is often responsible for gynecomastia which is due to direct activation of the estrogen receptor ( 23 ). Hyperprolactinemia has been reported in 21% men with stable disease and was significantly associated with opioid and protease inhibitor usage. Testicular Changes HIV infection itself doesn't result in observable morphological changes, especially with the advent of HAART, which has majorly reduced the risk of primary testicular damage ( 24 ). An earlier autopsy-based study had categorized testicular findings in AIDS into five groups: "Sertoli cell-only" syndrome (43%), germ cell damage (27%), peritubular fibrosis (15%), maturation arrest (12%), and normal appearance (3%) ( 25 ). A subsequent study reported decreased spermatogenesis, subacute interstitial inflammation, or their combination in autopsy ( 26 ). Diagnosis and Management The approach to diagnosis and management is generally similar to other causes of male hypogonadism. Readers can refer to relevant sections in endotext.com for more detailed information ( 27 – 29 ). Of note, about 30% to 55% of men with HIV have increased sex hormone–binding globulin (SHBG). As a result, using bioavailable or free testosterone instead of total testosterone is recommended for diagnosis. Though, in cases of hypogonadotropic hypogonadism, addressing the primary pathology is the standard treatment, the chronic nature of the condition demands more frequent consideration for testosterone replacement therapy (TRT) for men with hypogonadism and HIV ( 30 ). Treatment options include TRT, addressing underlying comorbidities, optimizing HAART regimens to minimize side effects, and promoting healthy lifestyle practices to prevent metabolic disorders. Regularly monitoring hormone levels, bone health, and metabolic parameters is crucial for long-term management. ZIKA VIRUS INFECTION Zika virus is a flavivirus borne by mosquito vectors such as Aedes aegypti and Aedes albopictus . It is endemic to tropical countries of Africa, Asia, and South America. The virus can also spread through sexual contact, blood transfusion, and from mother to fetus ( 31 ). The infection remains asymptomatic in the majority, but manifestations may include low-grade fever, rash, conjunctivitis, myalgia, and arthralgia. Zika virus RNA persists in the semen and in male and female reproductive tracts. Zika virus has been associated with testicular inflammation and damage, leading to infertility in some cases ( 32 , 33 ). The virus's ability
