Male Gonadal Disorders in the Tropics
KEYWORDS: pubmed, male, hypogonadism, pmc, free, article, article pubmed, free article, pmc free, testicular, infection, infertility, sperm, genital, men


in male and female reproductive tracts. Zika virus has been associated with testicular inflammation and damage, leading to infertility in some cases ( 32 , 33 ). The virus's ability to alter mature sperm can reduce fertility and has implications for assisted reproduction, particularly due to its teratogenic potential ( 34 ). Typically, the testes do not show any inflammatory response, and normal morphology and hormone production are maintained. This enables the virus to remain dormant, acting as a covert carrier for asymptomatic sexual transmission. OTHER VIRAL INFECTIONS Several viruses prevalent in tropical countries have been linked to testicular damage and infertility. Human papillomavirus (HPV) infection in males is often linked to external genital warts, but asymptomatic infections are equally common. HPV has been detected in the epididymis, testicles, vas deferens, prostate, and seminal fluid. High-risk HPV strains such as HPV-16 can affect sperm parameters, including count and motility, possibly reducing fertility ( 35 , 36 ). Both herpes simplex virus (HSV)-1 and HSV-2, like HPV, can localize in the male genital tract, but it's unclear if they affect fertility ( 37 ). Hepatitis B virus (HBV) can enter male germ cells by crossing the blood-testis barrier, integrating its genome, and inducing oxidative stress and reactive oxygen species (ROS) production, leading to sperm apoptosis. HBV infection in chronic cases results in higher apoptotic sperm cells and membrane integrity loss ( 38 ). Despite its effects on sperm, fertility outcomes in assisted reproduction remain unaffected, with vertical transmission being unlikely, especially with a vaccinated female partner ( 39 ). Hypogonadism has been documented in men infected with the hepatitis C virus (HCV), but the etiology has not been clearly established and is likely to be multifactorial. While systemic inflammation associated with HCV may suppress the HPG axis, the effect of advanced liver disease on testosterone metabolism may also be responsible ( 40 ). HCV infection reduces sperm count, motility, and morphology, affecting fertility potential. Elevated oxidative stress can lead to sperm chromatin condensation and cell death. It can also trigger an autoimmune response. Interestingly, treatment with ribavirin and interferon can also worsen semen parameters ( 41 ). Male reproductive organs have been found to be vulnerable in moderate to severe illness with severe acute respiratory syndrome coronavirus 2 ( 42 , 43 ). The negative effect on seminal parameters was found to persist even at six months ( 44 ). Bacterial
