Male Gonadal Disorders in the Tropics
KEYWORDS: pubmed, male, hypogonadism, pmc, free, article, article pubmed, free article, pmc free, testicular, infection, infertility, sperm, genital, men


with severe acute respiratory syndrome coronavirus 2 ( 42 , 43 ). The negative effect on seminal parameters was found to persist even at six months ( 44 ). Bacterial Infection Bacterial infections in the male reproductive tract can lead to epididymitis, orchitis, prostatitis, and urethritis. These infections are typically caused by Chlamydia trachomatis, Neisseria gonorrhoeae , ureaplasmas, mycoplasmas, and other bacteria. They are more common in tropical developing countries. Mycobacterial affection of the male genital tract is also prevalent in these regions. Symptoms include pain and swelling of the genitalia, penile discharge, and discomfort during urination or ejaculation. Treatment usually involves antibiotics targeted at the specific bacteria causing the infection ( 45 ). Infertility can result from these infections, with underlying mechanisms possibly including damage to the germinal epithelium, ischemia, immune dysfunction, and cell damage from increased ROS ( 46 ). Spermatozoa can be affected at various stages of their development, maturation, and transport. Infections are also associated with obstruction along the seminal tract, such as urethral strictures. Many pathogens of the male genitourinary tract are asymptomatic, and it is often difficult to distinguish colonization from infection detrimental to fertility ( 47 ). Bacteriospermia is suspected when there are more than one million peroxidase-positive white blood cells per milliliter of ejaculate (leukocytospermia). It is confirmed through a semen culture or polymerase chain reaction (PCR) to identify the pathogen. Antibiotic treatment may improve sperm quality and prevent testicular damage and complications, but its effects on natural conception are not clear ( 48 ). Furthermore, leukocytospermia is a sign of inflammation and may not be associated with a bacterial or viral process, hence its clinical significance in the ejaculate is controversial ( 49 ). CHLAMYDIA C. trachomatis , an intracellular gram-negative bacterium, causes asymptomatic infection of the genital tract in 85%–90% of cases. Symptoms of epididymo-orchitis and prostatitis include mucoid or watery urethral discharge and dysuria. Some but not all studies have demonstrated an association with male infertility and altered semen quality ( 45 , 50 , 51 ). While some research suggests that C. trachomatis could affect sperm-egg penetration, impacting fertilization potential, others propose that its impact on male fertility might be related to transfer to a female partner and resulting inflammatory processes, anti-sperm antibody generation, or defective implantation. Overall, the association between C. trachomatis and male fertility remains complex and may vary depending on individual cases ( 45 ).
