Male Gonadal Disorders in the Tropics
KEYWORDS: pubmed, male, hypogonadism, pmc, free, article, article pubmed, free article, pmc free, testicular, infection, infertility, sperm, genital, men


resulting inflammatory processes, anti-sperm antibody generation, or defective implantation. Overall, the association between C. trachomatis and male fertility remains complex and may vary depending on individual cases ( 45 ). NEISSERIA N. gonorrhoeae is a leading cause of genital infection in the tropics. It primarily spreads through sexual contact and can lead to asymptomatic colonization or inflammatory diseases like urethritis, orchitis, prostatitis, and epididymitis. These infections can manifest as mucopurulent urethral discharge, or infertility from testicular damage or ductal obstruction. The bacteria attach to spermatozoa using pili or direct contact, and their infection triggers an influx of inflammatory cells. While the exact causative role of N. gonorrhoeae in pathogenesis of male infertility remains unclear, studies have noted higher infection rates in men with infertility compared to those without fertility issues ( 52 ). GENITAL UREAPLASMAS AND MYCOPLASMAS Of the genital ureaplasmas and mycoplasmas, Ureaplasma urealyticum, and Mycoplasma hominis are potentially pathogenic and can contribute to both genital infections and male infertility ( 53 , 54 ). The prevalence of U. urealyticum ranges from 10 to 40%. Both U. urealyticum and M. hominis have been linked to prostatitis and epididymitis ( 45 ). The mechanism of infertility could be due to a reduction in ejaculate's oxidoreductive potential, making sperms more susceptible to peroxidative damage ( 55 ). LEPROSY Leprosy is a chronic infectious disease caused by Mycobacterium leprae , primarily affecting the skin, peripheral nerves, mucosa of the upper respiratory tract, and eyes. The condition is prevalent in tropical countries, and according to World Health Organization (WHO) estimates, over 17 million patients received multidrug therapy (MDT) for leprosy in the past four decades. The lower temperature of the scrotal contents, between 27–30˚C, makes the testes prone to infection in those with the lepromatous form and during flares of erythema nodosum leprosum (type 2 reaction). The testes can serve as a reservoir for leprosy bacilli, potentially leading to testicular atrophy through the mediation of inflammatory cytokines and endarteritis, ultimately resulting in fibrosis. Early symptoms include testicular pain or swelling. Hypogonadism can lead to decreased or absent libido (28%), followed by gynecomastia (16.3%). Smaller, softer, and less sensitive testes is a characteristic feature of leprosy. Ultrasonography demonstrates reduced testicular volume in 72% of affected males ( 56 ). Laboratory investigations reveal oligospermia or azoospermia, elevated luteinizing hormone (LH) and follicle-stimulating hormone (FSH), and low serum testosterone levels ( 57 – 59 ). TUBERCULOSIS
