Male Gonadal Disorders in the Tropics
KEYWORDS: pubmed, male, hypogonadism, pmc, free, article, article pubmed, free article, pmc free, testicular, infection, infertility, sperm, genital, men


conventional tuberculosis chemotherapy courses. In cases of infertility or complications, additional management strategies such as surgical interventions or assisted reproductive techniques may be considered. Early recognition and treatment are crucial in managing male genital tuberculosis and preventing complications such as infertility ( 64 ). Other Mechanisms of Gonadal Dysfunction Central nervous system tuberculosis, including tuberculomas involving the sellar region, can lead to hypogonadotropic hypogonadism ( 65 ). Pro-inflammatory cytokines, such as tissue necrosis factor-α (TNFα), interferon-γ, and interleukin (IL)-6, have been implicated in the impaired production of gonadal androgens in cases with pulmonary tuberculosis. These cytokines can disrupt the normal functioning of Leydig cells, leading to reduced testosterone synthesis ( 66 ). OTHER BACTERIAL INFECTIONS Brucellar epididymo-orchitis is a rare infection affecting the testis and epididymis, occurring in approximately 2–14% of cases of brucellosis. Brucellosis is still prevalent in individuals dealing with livestock in developing countries and is reported to be hyper-endemic in Iran. Necrotizing orchitis, testicular abscess, infarction, atrophy, suppurative necrosis, azoospermia, and infertility can occur if diagnosis is delayed or management is inappropriate ( 67 ). Several other bacteria, such as Escherichia coli, Staphylococcus aureus, Enterococcus faecalis, Streptococcus agalactiae, Gardnerella vaginalis, Treponema pallidum, Helicobacter pylori have been linked to male infertility through different mechanisms ( 45 ). However, more research is needed to fully comprehend their roles, particularly in tropical regions where these bacterial infections are more prevalent. Protozoa Protozoan parasitic diseases are endemic in many tropical countries. Protozoan infections of the male genital tract are rare, and only a few species, such as Trichomonas vaginalis , Trypanosoma species, Leishmania donovani, Entamoeba histolytica , Acanthamoeba , Toxoplasma gondii , and Plasmodium falciparum , have been linked to pathogenesis of testicular damage ( 68 ). TRICHOMONAS T. vaginalis is a common sexually transmitted infection that can affect various parts of the male genital tract, including the urethra, prostate, and epididymis. Although uncommon, T. vaginalis can impact male fertility. Studies indicate a higher prevalence of T. vaginalis in infertile men compared to fertile individuals, and its presence in semen is linked to decreased sperm motility, normal morphology, and viability. In vitro studies confirm that T. vaginalis and its secretions can reduce sperm motility and fertilizing capacity ( 68 , 69 ). TOXOPLASMOSIS Congenital toxoplasmosis is characterized by meningoencephalitis with significant perivascular inflammation, particularly in the basal ganglia and periventricular regions. This condition likely affects important hypothalamic regulatory centers, resulting in
