Male Gonadal Disorders in the Tropics
KEYWORDS: pubmed, male, hypogonadism, pmc, free, article, article pubmed, free article, pmc free, testicular, infection, infertility, sperm, genital, men


). TOXOPLASMOSIS Congenital toxoplasmosis is characterized by meningoencephalitis with significant perivascular inflammation, particularly in the basal ganglia and periventricular regions. This condition likely affects important hypothalamic regulatory centers, resulting in hypothalamo-pituitary dysfunction. The clinical features of toxoplasmosis stem from both direct tissue destruction by the parasite and immunopathological changes mediated by inflammatory cytokines. Hypothalamic-pituitary dysfunction, precocious puberty, and central diabetes insipidus with hypogonadism have all been described in association with congenital toxoplasmosis ( 70 – 73 ). In immunocompromised individuals, such as individuals with AIDS, the male reproductive tract can rarely be affected, leading to conditions like epididymitis or orchitis. Although direct links to infertility aren't fully established, some studies suggest potential negative impacts on sperm health. LEISHMANIASIS Infections with Leishmania can lead to genital lesions and testicular amyloidosis, contributing to hypogonadism. Parasitism of the testes and reduced testicular size with fewer Sertoli and Leydig cells have been reported ( 74 ). Evidence of involvement of several endocrine organs- pituitary, adrenal, thyroid, and sex glands- via histopathologic studies have been documented in Visceral Leishmaniasis ( 75 ). However, abnormal endocrine function tests in some instances without clinical manifestations have been documented. Genital leishmaniasis lesions on the penis, mimicking a painless, slow-growing scabies-like ulcers, can occur uncommonly ( 76 ). TRYPANOSOMIASIS African trypanosomiasis, also known as sleeping sickness, is caused by the protozoan parasite Trypanosoma brucei , which is transmitted by the bite of a tsetse fly. In a study involving 31 Congolese men with confirmed trypanosomiasis, 70% experienced impotence, and 50% exhibited decreased testosterone levels ( 77 ). The gonadotrophins were found to be disproportionately normal, suggesting hypothalamic-pituitary involvement ( 78 ). The endocrine dysfunction observed in patients with trypanosomiasis may be secondary to inflammatory cytokines ( 79 , 80 ). However, further studies are required to confirm the hypothesis. Chagas disease, caused by Trypanosoma cruzi , affects 6–7 million people worldwide, mainly in Latin America. It is primarily transmitted by triatomine bugs, with congenital and blood-transfusion transmission also reported. In its chronic phase, the disease commonly leads to cardiac, digestive, or neurological disorders. Early antiparasitic treatment can cure the acute phase, while treatment during the chronic phase can slow progression ( 81 ). Animal experiments demonstrated the presence of amastigote forms in seminiferous tubules of infected mice ( 82 ). Subsequent autopsy studies only revealed focal chronic phlebitis and mononuclear interstitial infiltration of the testis and failed to show
