Male Gonadal Disorders in the Tropics
KEYWORDS: pubmed, male, hypogonadism, pmc, free, article, article pubmed, free article, pmc free, testicular, infection, infertility, sperm, genital, men


amastigote forms in seminiferous tubules of infected mice ( 82 ). Subsequent autopsy studies only revealed focal chronic phlebitis and mononuclear interstitial infiltration of the testis and failed to show any parasites ( 83 ). Early studies of testicular biopsies in chronic Chagas disease revealed arrested germ cell maturation and regressive alterations, worsening progressively from normospermia to azoospermia ( 84 ). Immune neuro-endocrine disturbance could possibly play a role in the pathogenesis ( 85 ). OTHER PROTOZOAL INFECTIONS Rare cases of scrotal and penile amebiasis have been described ( 86 , 87 ). Rare reports in the medical literature have mentioned cases where infections caused by Plasmodium falciparum or Plasmodium vivax , the parasites responsible for malaria, have led to testicular pain or hypogonadism ( 88 , 89 ). Fungus CANDIDA Fungal epididymitis, caused by Candida glabrata , is uncommon but should be considered, especially in individuals with diabetes and a history of catheterization or antibiotic use. Rare cases with enlarged and tender hemiscrotum responding to fluconazole and surgical excision have been described ( 90 ). The risk of epididymitis in individuals with diabetes with C. glabrata and C. albicans increases with urinary tract instrumentation and prior antibiotic therapy. Diagnosis relies on recognizing fungi in histology or pus cultures, often indicating retrograde spread from urine. Fungal epididymo-orchitis can occur as an isolated entity or, more often, during disseminated infection ( 91 ). As with any gonadal infection, fungal epididymo-orchitis can cause infertility because of gonadal destruction and resultant azoospermia. In addition to invading tissue, fungi can contribute to infertility by inducing anti-sperm effects and secreting mycotoxin. C. guilliermondii and C. albicans are able to inhibit sperm viability and motility in vitro. A proportion of infertile men and women have antibodies positive for C. guilliermondii, the implications of which are unknown. Restoration of fertility was achieved in some patients after the eradication of C. guilliermondii by ketoconazole ( 92 ) . OTHER FUNGAL INFECTIONS OF GONADS Other fungi reported to infect testis and epididymis include blastomycosis, histoplasma, aspergillus, and cryptococcus ( 93 – 95 ). Cryptococcus neoformans can also cause hypospermia and teratospermia ( 96 ). The fusarium toxin zearalenone and its metabolite zearalenol bind as agonists to estrogen receptor-α and -β, causing hyperestrogenism-mediated decreases in testosterone and libido, azoospermia, and feminization in mammals. Whether such hyperestrogenic effects occur in humans with fusariosis is unclear ( 97 ). Granulomatous epididymo-orchitis can
