Male Gonadal Disorders in the Tropics
KEYWORDS: pubmed, male, hypogonadism, pmc, free, article, article pubmed, free article, pmc free, testicular, infection, infertility, sperm, genital, men


-β, causing hyperestrogenism-mediated decreases in testosterone and libido, azoospermia, and feminization in mammals. Whether such hyperestrogenic effects occur in humans with fusariosis is unclear ( 97 ). Granulomatous epididymo-orchitis can also occur as a part of disseminated histoplasmosis in an immunocompromised state ( 94 ). Genital blastomycosis is described mostly as a part of disseminated disease. Majority present with unilateral or bilateral pain and swelling of the scrotum. Onset can be acute or insidious, with symptoms lasting from days to months. Bacterial infection on the other hand is typically unilateral and acute ( 93 ). Some fungal infections may remain asymptomatic and only get detected during autopsy. PITUITARY FUNGAL INFECTIONS Pituitary fungal infections or abscesses are extremely unusual and mostly found in immunocompromised states. ( 98 ). The mode of spread could be hematogenous, extension from adjacent structures like meninges, sphenoid sinus, cavernous sinus, and skull base, or iatrogenic during transsphenoidal procedures. Aspergillus is the most frequently reported fungal infection of the pituitary ( 99 ). Candida, Pneumocystis jirovecii in HIV/AIDS, and coccidia are also reported to infect the pituitary ( 100 – 102 ). Gonadotrophin and other pituitary hormone secretion can be affected, but such reports are very rare ( 103 ). Pituitary stalk compression due to fungal lesion can induce hyperprolactinemia ( 104 ). Helminths SCHISTOSOMIASIS Schistosomiasis, caused by Schistosoma haematobium , S mansoni, and S. japonicum, represent a major tropical disease transmitted through contact with infested freshwater. S. haematobium , common in sub-Saharan Africa, infects around 112 million people and often affects the urinary tract, with potential extension to the genitalia. The infection can persist for decades and, if untreated, becomes chronic, with potential for causing complications ( 105 ). S. manson, i prevalent in the Caribbean, South America, and Africa, and S. japonicum in Southeast Asia are primarily associated with hepato-intestinal infection with very rare occurrence of genital disease. Genital involvement is primarily observed with S. haematobium ( 106 ). Early symptoms include hemospermia, that results from mucosal ulceration caused by egg penetration into the seminal vesicle. Schistosoma eggs can become entrapped in the prostate, vas deferens, epididymis, or testes, and trigger immune reactions and granuloma formation. Clinical features include genital or ejaculatory pain, infertility, and abnormally enlarged organs from granulomatous infiltration, fibrosis, and calcifications ( 105 – 107 ). Diagnosis depends on identifying ova in semen or urine, but detecting chronic infection is challenging as
