Male Gonadal Disorders in the Tropics
KEYWORDS: pubmed, male, hypogonadism, pmc, free, article, article pubmed, free article, pmc free, testicular, infection, infertility, sperm, genital, men


abnormally enlarged organs from granulomatous infiltration, fibrosis, and calcifications ( 105 – 107 ). Diagnosis depends on identifying ova in semen or urine, but detecting chronic infection is challenging as ova might often be absent. Praziquantel (at 40 mg/kg) is the standard treatment for most forms of schistosomiasis ( 106 ). S. mansoni infection has been associated with low normal testosterone and elevated estrogen levels in males, although hepatic dysfunction may play a role in these abnormalities ( 108 ). FILARIASIS Filariasis is a neglected tropical disease transmitted by mosquitos caused by Wuchereria bancrofti , Brugia malayi , and B. timori . Filariasis occurs in Africa, Asia, South America, the Caribbean, and the Pacific. Globally, it is estimated that 25 million men have hydrocele due to lymphatic filariasis, and over 15 million people are affected by lymphoedema ( 109 ). Initial infections are often asymptomatic, but chronic disease can damage the lymphatics of the spermatic cord. Common genital manifestations include recurrent scrotal pain and swelling, hydrocele, and epididymo-orchitis ( 110 ). Azoospermia and oligospermia are also described ( 111 ). The WHO's Global Programme to Eliminate Lymphatic Filariasis (GPELF) was launched in 2000 with a strategy focused on large-scale annual treatment in endemic areas to stop infection spread and provide essential care. Ecdysteroids are compounds related to 20-hydroxyecdysone, the insect molting hormone, in Loa Cystoids and Mansonella perstans infections, the other form of filariasis. Microfilaremic males with these infections had low testosterone in 12%, and high gonadotrophins in 24%, and abnormal levels of both in 21%. Ecdysteroids were found in the serum of 90% of individuals with microfilaremia and in all urine samples, but their levels did not correlate with hormonal changes. A possible link between microfilaremia and endocrine disruptions, including hypogonadism, has been suggested, but the direct role of parasitic ecdysteroids remains unproven ( 112 ). ENVIRONMENTAL CAUSES Endocrine Disrupting Chemicals (EDCs) DEFINITION AND CONTEXT EDCs pose a significant and ubiquitous threat to global and tropical health. EDCs include both natural and synthetic chemicals widely dispersed in the environment. These chemicals can be ingested, inhaled, or absorbed through various media, including food, water, air, and consumer products, and can interfere with any aspect of hormone action. EDCs can bind to hormone receptors, such as estrogen and steroid receptors, disrupting development and reproductive function, among many other health impacts. Common EDCs include bisphenol A (BPA), found in plastics and food
