Male Gonadal Disorders in the Tropics
KEYWORDS: pubmed, male, hypogonadism, pmc, free, article, article pubmed, free article, pmc free, testicular, infection, infertility, sperm, genital, men


to hormone receptors, such as estrogen and steroid receptors, disrupting development and reproductive function, among many other health impacts. Common EDCs include bisphenol A (BPA), found in plastics and food containers, and phthalates, used to make plastics more flexible and present in products like cosmetics and toys. Polychlorinated biphenyls (PCBs), industrial chemicals in electrical equipment and paints, and dioxins, by-products of industrial processes and combustion, are also significant EDCs. Pesticides such as dichlorodiphenyltrichloroethane (DDT) and glyphosate, widely used in agriculture represent another major group of EDCs. For more details, please refer to the sections on EDC in Endotext ( 113 ). EDCS IN TROPICS Despite growing recognition of their impact, the full extent of their damage remains inadequately addressed due to insufficient evidence and lack of comprehensive testing ( 114 ). In tropical regions, extensive use of pesticides and industrial chemicals increases exposure to EDCs. For example, glyphosate, a commonly used herbicide, has been linked to endocrine disruption and adverse reproductive health outcomes ( 115 )​. Similarly, heavy metals like lead and arsenic, prevalent in some tropical areas, cause significant endocrine-related health issues ​( 116 , 117 ). A review of data on prioritized EDCs (e.g., DDT, lindane, PCBs, etc.) reported elevated concentrations in the Indian environment and human population compared to the international context ( 118 ). A recent nationwide pilot study has reported the widespread occurrence of per- and polyfluoroalkyl substances (PFASs) and phthalates in humans from different locations across India, including those residing along the Indian Himalayas ( 119 , 120 ). Both DDT and pyrethroids used for malaria control in African countries have endocrine-disrupting potential ( 121 ). EDCS AND MALE GONADAL DYSFUNCTION Hypogonadism EDCs act as anti-androgens, mimic estrogens, and inhibit steroidogenic enzymes, interfering with androgen production and function. Phthalate esters like di-(2-ethylhexyl) phthalate (DEHP) and BPA can reduce testosterone synthesis and disrupt gene expression related to hormone balance. DDT, PCBs, and their metabolites can also block hormone receptors, affecting estrogen and androgen signaling crucial for spermatogenesis and testicular development ( 122 ). Infertility EDCs are known to disrupt hormonal balance and have been linked to impaired sperm production, quality, and function. Factors such as type of EDCs, duration of exposure, and individual susceptibility play roles in their effects on reproductive health. EDCs impact sperm function by targeting testicular development and influencing the HPG axis, affecting estrogen and androgen receptors, influencing ROS production, inducing epigenetic
