Male Gonadal Disorders in the Tropics
KEYWORDS: pubmed, male, hypogonadism, pmc, free, article, article pubmed, free article, pmc free, testicular, infection, infertility, sperm, genital, men


roles in their effects on reproductive health. EDCs impact sperm function by targeting testicular development and influencing the HPG axis, affecting estrogen and androgen receptors, influencing ROS production, inducing epigenetic modifications, and directly affecting spermatozoa and testicular tissue cells ( 123 ). Pesticides have been extensively studied for their effects on sperm parameters and DNA integrity. While some studies report reductions in sperm concentration and alteration in sperm morphology due to pesticide exposure, others show no significant impact ( 124 ). DDT, BPA, and phthalates are associated with decreased semen volume and sperm concentration, motility, and abnormal morphology ( 125 ). Increased urinary BPA level is associated with reduced number, motility, and sperm vitality, leading to male infertility ( 126 ). Continued research is needed to better understand the effect of EDCs on reproductive health. Developmental Disorders Testicular dysgenesis syndrome (TDS) is a condition linking poor semen quality, testicular cancer, undescended testes, and hypospadias. Experimental and epidemiological studies indicate that TDS stems from disturbances in embryonic programming and gonadal development during fetal stages. These disorders share a common pathway by which environmental chemicals and genetics result in abnormal development of the fetal testis ( 127 , 128 ). Though harmful effects on testicular development in animals have been demonstrated, the current evidence does not conclusively clarify the impact of EDCs on human male reproductive development ( 129 ). Gynecomastia Gynecomastia prevalence has increased over recent decades, partly attributable to exposure to EDCs. Higher plasma concentrations of DEHP and its major metabolite mono(2-ethylhexyl) phthalate (MEHP) in boys with gynecomastia have been demonstrated ( 130 ). Another study reported an outbreak of gynecomastia linked to the anti-androgenic delousing agent phenothrin ( 131 ). Additionally, essential oils like lavender and tea tree oil have been associated with gynecomastia. Components of these oils have estrogen receptor (ER) agonist activities ( 132 ). Occupational exposure to gasoline vapors and combustion products may play a role in the causation of male breast cancer ( 133 ). Current literature indicates a possible link between EDC exposure and development of gynecomastia. Increasing rates of the condition indicate that environmental factors are important to disease etiology. The data from tropical countries is sparse, and epidemiological studies to evaluate the influence of EDCs on diseases of the male reproductive tract, including gynecomastia, are necessary ( 134 ). Testicular Cancers Few studies have explored the correlation between EDC exposure and testicular
