Male Gonadal Disorders in the Tropics
KEYWORDS: pubmed, male, hypogonadism, pmc, free, article, article pubmed, free article, pmc free, testicular, infection, infertility, sperm, genital, men


influence of EDCs on diseases of the male reproductive tract, including gynecomastia, are necessary ( 134 ). Testicular Cancers Few studies have explored the correlation between EDC exposure and testicular cancer, and even less so in tropical countries. The results are inconsistent, with some but not all studies showing an association between pesticide exposure and testicular cancer. Dichlorodiphenyldichloroethylene (DDE), chlordane, and PCB exposure have been linked to testicular cancer ( 135 – 137 ). These mixed findings highlight the need for more focused research on EDCs and testicular cancer, especially in tropical countries with high exposure to pesticides ( 129 ). PREVENTION Reducing exposure to EDCs through lifestyle changes, environmental regulations, and occupational safety measures can help mitigate their potential impact on male gonadal disorders. Additionally, further research is needed to understand better the mechanisms by which EDCs affect male reproductive health and to develop strategies for prevention and treatment. Temperature Heat exposure is a significant factor in male infertility, affecting sperm production and quality. Global warming and episodes of heat stress, occupational exposure, and lifestyle factors can be responsible for increasing scrotal temperature ( 138 ). The testes are located outside the body in the scrotum to maintain a temperature of 2-4°C below core body temperature, optimal for spermatogenesis. A recent meta-analysis concluded that high ambient temperatures in tropical climates can negatively affect sperm quality, including decreased semen volume, sperm count, sperm concentration, motility, and normal morphology ( 139 ). This may be especially relevant for men working in high-temperature environments (e.g., welders, bakers, and drivers) or exposed to prolonged heat (e.g., saunas and hot tubs) ( 140 , 141 ). Studies have shown that even temporary exposure to high temperatures can significantly impact sperm parameters ( 142 ). Similarly, febrile illness, prolonged sitting during work or truck driving, tight-fitting underwear, and laptop use with increased heat to the testes have been proposed to affect male fertility adversely ( 146 , 147 ). Studies in men have shown that small increases in testicular temperature accelerate germ cell loss through apoptosis. The data to support these associations are, however, inconsistent ( 143 ). Trauma Traumatic injuries to the genitalia, common in tropical regions due to occupational hazards, accidents, and interpersonal violence, can cause direct damage to the testes. Severe trauma can result in testicular rupture or vascular compromise, leading to hypogonadism due to impaired blood supply or loss of testicular
