Male Gonadal Disorders in the Tropics
KEYWORDS: pubmed, male, hypogonadism, pmc, free, article, article pubmed, free article, pmc free, testicular, infection, infertility, sperm, genital, men


violence, can cause direct damage to the testes. Severe trauma can result in testicular rupture or vascular compromise, leading to hypogonadism due to impaired blood supply or loss of testicular tissue. Radical prostatectomy or other overt genital tract trauma is a physical cause of a sudden loss of male sexual function ( 144 ). Males who experience a traumatic pelvic fracture or genital trauma may also have psychogenic erectile dysfunction ( 145 ). Post-traumatic hypopituitarism is responsible for about 7.2% of all causes of hypopituitarism and can develop after road traffic accidents, sports injuries, blast injuries, and other trauma. Peripherally placed somatotrophs and gonadotrophs are first affected by ischemic damage, while centrally located corticotrophs and thyrotrophs are subsequently involved ( 146 ). Snake Envenomation Snakebite envenoming is a medical emergency prevalent in tropical regions of Asia, Africa, and Latin America. Venom toxins can cause severe local damage and multi-organ dysfunction, impacting the neurological, hematological, and vascular systems. Endocrine disorders, though less frequently reported, can occur, with anterior pituitary insufficiency being the most common. This is typically found following bite from Russell’s viper ( Daboia russelii and D. siamensis ). The presentation of hypopituitarism can be acute or delayed ( 147 ). Pathophysiology is similar to Sheehan’s syndrome and results from hemorrhagic infarction in an engorged gland, made susceptible by venom toxin. Kidney injury and disseminated intravascular coagulation (DIC) are predictors of the development of hypopituitarism. Pituitary imaging may show a spectrum of findings from completely normal to an empty sella ( 148 ). Hypogonadotropic hypogonadism may present as erectile dysfunction. Delayed puberty has been reported in males ( 149 ). The interested reader may refer to the Endotext chapter “Snakebite Envenomation and Endocrine Dysfunction” for further details ( 150 ). CHRONIC SYSTEMIC DISEASES The prevalence of diabetes and metabolic syndrome in tropical countries has been rising significantly in recent years ( 151 ). Type 2 diabetes in tropical countries shows distinctive features such as onset at younger ages and lower levels of obesity compared to Caucasians ( 152 ). Functional hypogonadotropic hypogonadism (FHH) has emerged as an important complication of diabetes, obesity, and metabolic syndrome across the globe. FHH results from impaired HPG axis function in the absence of an organic cause, leading to decreased testosterone levels, low or normal gonadotropin levels, and subfertility or infertility ( 153 ). In a study from China, 26% of men with diabetes had
