Male Gonadal Disorders in the Tropics
KEYWORDS: pubmed, male, hypogonadism, pmc, free, article, article pubmed, free article, pmc free, testicular, infection, infertility, sperm, genital, men


organic cause, leading to decreased testosterone levels, low or normal gonadotropin levels, and subfertility or infertility ( 153 ). In a study from China, 26% of men with diabetes had hypogonadotropic hypogonadism and its presence correlated with BMI ( 154 ). Lifestyle changes and weight loss can improve insulin sensitivity and restore normal HPG axis function. Testosterone replacement therapy (TRT) may be indicated in some men, although it should be used cautiously and monitored for potential side effects. Optimizing diabetes management and treating obesity are crucial and may improve hypogonadal status ( 155 ). FHH can coexist in individuals with malnutrition and chronic energy deficit, malignancy, chronic opioid exposure, chronic kidney disease, chronic liver disease, rheumatoid arthritis, chronic obstructive pulmonary disease, depression, and other psychiatric disorders. Systemic diseases can downregulate GnRH secretion by the hypothalamus and lead to secondary hypogonadism. This is thought to be at least partly due to the direct effects of elevated inflammatory cytokines, such as IL-1, IL-6, and TNFα ( 156 ). Sickle cell disease can cause vaso-occlusive crises and can induce both primary and/or secondary hypogonadism ( 157 , 158 ). HORMONE ABUSE AND RECREATIONAL DRUG-RELATED HYPOGONADISM The misuse of anabolic steroids and other hormones for performance enhancement is described among athletes and bodybuilders. Chronic abuse of these hormones can disrupt normal endocrine function, leading to hypogonadism, testicular atrophy, gynecomastia, and infertility ( 159 ). Impairment of sperm characteristics, including alteration in total number, concentration, motility, normal morphology, prostate gland hyperplasia, and hypertrophy are recognized ( 160 ). Androgen abuse can lead to hypogonadotropic hypogonadism also, as it negatively impacts the HPG axis ( 161 ). The adverse effects may reverse over 6-18 months after discontinuation, although testicular volume and SHBG levels may not fully recover. There can be persistent quantitative and qualitative sperm changes 8–30 weeks following withdrawal of anabolic steroids ( 162 ). The use of recreational drugs, including cannabis and opioids, has been linked to negative effects on male reproductive health. Studies have shown that these substances can decrease sperm quality, increase sperm DNA fragmentation, and lower fertility in men ( 163 , 164 ). Heavy use of cannabis (marijuana) has been associated with reduced semen quality, potentially due to disruption of the endocannabinoid system (ECS) in the male reproductive tract by exogenous cannabinoids. The ECS is crucial in regulating various physiological processes, including reproduction. Exogenous cannabinoids from marijuana may interfere with
