Chapter 34: Diabetes and Disability
KEYWORDS: diabetes, disability, years, mobility, health, age, adults, defined, iadl, work, women, adl, risk, impairment, self-reporting


and ADL tended to decline between 1997 and 2000 but remained largely unchanged between 2000 and 2011 for all age strata. The percentage of diabetic adults reporting work disability declined from 23.8% in 1997 to a low of 17.9% in 2006, increasing to 19.7% in 2011. Lifestyle interventions, including weight loss with physical activity, have emerged as particularly promising approaches to reduce diabetes-related disability. However, further research is needed to determine the impact of other preventive care and diabetes manage­ ment practices on disability risk, and continued surveillance is needed to determine the impact of primary and secondary prevention approaches on disability risk in the coming decades. BACKGROUND AND PREMISE Diabetes is considered a serious threat to the health of the American public due to its growing prevalence, the diverse micro­ vascular, neuropathic, and macrovascular complications that result, and the direct impact diabetes can have on quality of life (1,2,3,4). For middle-aged and older adults in particular, diabetes and its complica­ tions frequently lead to various functional impairments and disabilities (5,6,7,8,9,10), with physical disability in particular being observed as one of the most consistent sequelae of diabetes. The impact of diabetes on disability appears to be mediated through several classic diabetes complications and is partly due to hyperglycemia itself, making disability a valuable index of the collective impact of diabetes on health status for both the indi­ vidual and the population (7,9,11,12,13,14). The importance of physical disability is heightened by several trends in the diabetes epidemic. Absolute rates of mortality have declined, and absolute rates of diabetes prevalence have increased, particularly among older adults (5,6). These factors have led to especially large increases in prevalence of diabetes in older adults. These increases in prevalence, combined with movement of the “baby boom” birth strata (born between 1945 and 1960) into the age range (50–65 years) corresponding to particularly high incidence of diabetes and complications, could increase the absolute numbers of persons with diabetes-related disability (7). This combination of factors will likely lead to an increased burden of disability and other aging-related conditions on clinical and public health systems (8). 34–2 DIABETES IN AMERICA, 3rd Edition Understanding the relationship between diabetes and disability is important from several distinct perspectives. For indi­ viduals with diabetes, loss of physical functioning may be more concerning and of greater damage to quality of life than the diagnosis of traditional clinical complications, such as retinopathy and neuropathy
