Chapter 34: Diabetes and Disability
KEYWORDS: diabetes, disability, years, mobility, health, age, adults, defined, iadl, work, women, adl, risk, impairment, self-reporting


with diabetes, loss of physical functioning may be more concerning and of greater damage to quality of life than the diagnosis of traditional clinical complications, such as retinopathy and neuropathy (9,10). For both individuals with diabetes and clinicians who care for them, prevention of disability could be a goal of preventive care. Furthermore, the presence of disabilities may affect the targets and goals of diabetes treat­ ment for two reasons. First, disability alters the life expectancy and, therefore, the likelihood of benefit from long-term treatments (11). Second, the presence of disability makes diabetes self-man­ agement more difficult because of the physical and cognitive requirements of tasks such as physical activity, food preparation, taking medications, and monitoring blood sugar. Disability can also take a profound emotional, phys­ ical, and economic toll on family and caregivers. For employers, disability affects work productivity and health insurance costs. Finally, at the population level, rates and trends in disability are important global indicators of the prog­ ress of public health programs toward the goal of increasing the number of healthy years of life and reducing the average number of years of morbidity in the popu­ lation (12,13,14). The objectives of this chapter are to: (1) summarize the association of diabetes with physical disability; (2) identify the key modifiable and nonmodifiable deter­ minants of disability among the diabetic population, along with the key factors explaining the excess disability preva­ lence among older adults; (3) describe trends in diabetes-related disability in the United States; and (4) review evidence that physical disability can be prevented or modified. Because of limitations in the specificity of national surveys, estimates in this chapter generally refer to the combination of persons with type 1 and type 2 diabetes, with the vast majority of cases being type 2 diabetes. DEFINITION AND MEASUREMENT OF DISABILITY Several conceptual frameworks have evolved to define and measure disability in ways that are useful to diverse stakeholders, including the patient, family, clinical system, employer, clin­ ical researcher, population health, and economic assessment (15,16,17). These frameworks, which have several aspects in common, have been incorporated into the model described by the International Classification of Functioning, Disability and Health, developed by the World Health Organization (18). In this model, disability is an umbrella term encom­ passing impairments, activity limitations, and restrictions in participation. Disability may be a consequence of impairments that may be physical, cognitive, mental, or developmental. Contextual factors,
