Chapter 34: Diabetes and Disability
KEYWORDS: diabetes, disability, years, mobility, health, age, adults, defined, iadl, work, women, adl, risk, impairment, self-reporting


is an umbrella term encom­ passing impairments, activity limitations, and restrictions in participation. Disability may be a consequence of impairments that may be physical, cognitive, mental, or developmental. Contextual factors, such as the social, economic, and phys­ ical environment, interact with health conditions, such as diseases, disorders, and injuries, to lead to body impairments. Impairments affect activities and partic­ ipation and, in turn, disability. The key measurement indices of functioning and disability are divided into the assessment of capacity, which is a person’s intrinsic ability to carry out tasks independent of the environment, and performance, which measures how well these are carried out in the environment. The capacity and performance of activities has been assessed across numerous domains ranging from communication and social relationships to daily domestic activities and physical mobility. Other conceptual frameworks have divided the domains of functioning into physical, psychological, social, and role functioning. Both objective and subjective tools and scales to measure capacity for and performance of functioning have been developed for clinical and epidemiologic settings, with multi-item questionnaires and simple physical tests used most often to assess the impact of chronic diseases on disability. The most commonly used questionnaire-based tools ask about the respondent’s ability to carry out specific activities (15). In addition, objective phys­ ical tests have been developed to assess the ability to carry out tasks of mobility or daily functioning (13,19). This chapter focuses on physical disability, including disabilities related to mobility and activities of daily living (ADL), such as bathing, eating, and dressing, because of the evidence for its strong association with diabetes through several mecha­ nisms, the potential for modification of risk, and because physical disability is highly predictive of subsequent decline and morbidity. Disability related to instru­ mental activities of daily living (IADL) and work/occupation are also discussed because of their impact on quality of life and for their effects on families, care­ givers, and employers. IADLs refer to activities that are not necessary for funda­ mental functioning but are necessary for living independently, such as doing house­ work, preparing meals, and managing money. For additional discussion of the association of diabetes with other domains of function and disability, the reader is referred to Chapters 16 Diabetes in Older Adults, 24 Diabetes and Cognitive Impairment, and 33 Psychiatric and Psychosocial Issues Among Individuals Living With Diabetes. Diabetes and Disability 34–3 ASSOCIATION OF DIABETES WITH LIMITATIONS AND DISABILITIES IN PHYSICAL
