Chapter 34: Diabetes and Disability
KEYWORDS: diabetes, disability, years, mobility, health, age, adults, defined, iadl, work, women, adl, risk, impairment, self-reporting


Adults, 24 Diabetes and Cognitive Impairment, and 33 Psychiatric and Psychosocial Issues Among Individuals Living With Diabetes. Diabetes and Disability 34–3 ASSOCIATION OF DIABETES WITH LIMITATIONS AND DISABILITIES IN PHYSICAL FUNCTIONING: CROSS-SECTIONAL STUDIES Perhaps the earliest population-based esti­ mates of the association of diabetes with disability were published in 1960, when the National Center for Health Statistics reported prevalences of diagnosed diabetes and disability due to diabetes based on data from the National Health Interview Surveys (NHIS) 1957–1959 (20). Prevalence of diagnosed diabetes among the overall population was only 0.9% at the time (vs. 9% in 2010), and even among the peak age group of 65–74 years, preva­ lence was 3% in men and 5% in women (in contrast, more than 27% of adults age >65 years had diabetes in 2010). Among those with diabetes, fewer than 10% of women and 7% of men reported any limitation in mobility; even among those age >65 years, prevalence of any mobility limitation was 18%. About 20% reported at least one day of restricted activity due to diabetes in the previous year, and 9% reported more than one day in bed in the previous year due to diabetes-associated disability. National studies since that early report have described stronger magnitudes of associations of diabetes with disabilities, including associations with a broad spec­ trum of specific domains and perspectives of disability, including mobility and IADL. Although the diagnostic criteria for diabetes had not yet been standardized in 1960, the large difference in prevalence, combined with the fact that mobility limitations were assessed using similar methods, underscores the large increases that have occurred in prevalence of both diabetes and mobility limitations. In Diabetes in America, 2nd edition, Songer reported that in 1989 the prevalence of any activity limitations was about three times as high among people with diagnosed diabetes (56% of persons with non-insulin-dependent diabetes [NIDDM]; 43% of persons with insulin-dependent diabetes [IDDM]) as among those without diabetes (16%) (21). Twenty-one percent of those with NIDDM and 14% of those with IDDM reported an inability to carry out their major activity, defined as the ability to work in a job or business for those age <70 years and difficulty with IADL for those age ≥70 years. These prevalence estimates were three to five times those for people without diabetes (4%). These findings were supported by several other contemporaneous studies from the 1990s, wherein diabetes was a
