Chapter 34: Diabetes and Disability
KEYWORDS: diabetes, disability, years, mobility, health, age, adults, defined, iadl, work, women, adl, risk, impairment, self-reporting


These prevalence estimates were three to five times those for people without diabetes (4%). These findings were supported by several other contemporaneous studies from the 1990s, wherein diabetes was a consistent and strong correlate of functional limitations, physical disability, and indicators of unhealthy aging (22,23,24,25,26). In a more comprehensive, nationally representative analysis of the association of diabetes and physical disability in 1988–1994, among women and men age >60 years, 25% of women with diabetes were unable to walk a quarter mile compared to 12% of nondiabetic women (27). Similarly, women with diabetes were much more likely to be unable to climb steps (19%) and do housework (14%) than women without diabetes (9% for climbing steps and 6% for doing housework). Although the absolute prevalence levels of disability were lower for all indicators among men compared to women, the magnitude of association of diabetes with disability was similar for men and women. Among both men and women, these associations of diabetes with self-reported disability were also present for objective physical performance tests. Diabetic men were twice as likely as men without diabetes to perform poorly on tests of walking speed, 89% more likely to perform poorly on balance tests, and 36% more likely to perform poorly on chair stands, a test of lower extremity function. These findings from the National Health and Nutrition Examination Surveys (NHANES) 1988–1994 were largely replicated in anal­ yses of the subsequent NHIS 1997–1999, wherein adjusting for age, sex, and race/ ethnicity showed that diabetes was associ­ ated with three times the odds of physical limitations across a diverse spectrum of physical tasks (28). In a subsequent, similar analysis using NHANES 1999–2006 data, Kalyani et al. (29) examined the association of diabetes in U.S. adults age >60 years across six domains. Seventy-four percent of participants with diabetes reported difficulty in tasks of general physical mobility (e.g., stooping, crouching, standing up), and 52% reported difficulty in lower extremity mobility (walking a quarter mile, climbing stairs). In addition, 44% of participants reported difficulty in IADL (e.g., cooking, cleaning), 37% in ADL (e.g., eating, dressing), and 34% in leisure and social activities (e.g., going out to movies and shopping; leisure activities at home). The odds ratios of disability associated with diabetes ranged from 1.97 for general mobility to 2.53 for ADL. Also of note, when disability was defined according to more severe thresholds— an inability (as opposed to “difficulty”) to
