Chapter 34: Diabetes and Disability
KEYWORDS: diabetes, disability, years, mobility, health, age, adults, defined, iadl, work, women, adl, risk, impairment, self-reporting


plasma glucose 100–125 mg/dL. Normal glucose is defined as A1c <5.7% and fasting plasma glucose <100 mg/dL. Mobility disability is defined as self-reporting needing special equipment to walk or have much difficulty/unable/do not: (1) walk a quarter mile, (2) walk up 10 steps, (3) stoop/crouch/kneel, (4) walk between rooms, (5) stand up from armless chair, or (6) get in/out of bed. IADL disability is defined as self-reporting unable/do not do: (1) household chores or (2) prepare meals. Work disability is defined as self-reporting limitations keeping you from working. Data are standardized to the National Health Interview Survey 2010 overall popula­ tion using age categories 20–44, 45–64, 65–74, and ≥75 years. Error bars represent 95% confidence intervals. Conversions for A1c and glucose values are provided in Diabetes in America Appendix 1 Conversions. A1c, glyco­ sylated hemoglobin; IADL, instrumental activities of daily living. SOURCE: National Health and Nutrition Examination Surveys 2005–2010 PREVALENCE BY PREDIABETES, DIABETES, AND MORBIDITY STATUS Figure 34.3 describes disability prevalence according to diabetes and prediabetes diagnostic classification status. The association between glucose classification and disability risk was generally continuous, with successively higher disability prevalences across those with normal glucose, prediabetes, undiagnosed diabetes, and diagnosed diabetes. The exception was young and middle-aged adults (ages 20–44 and 45–64 years), among whom those with prediabetes had prevalence rates of mobility and work disability that were approximately twice as high as among those with normal glucose, but only about one-third as high as persons with undiagnosed and diagnosed diabetes (Table 34.4). Among middle-aged adults (age 45–64 years), the association between glucose classification and disability risk was more continuous, with successively higher disability prevalence estimates from persons with normal glucose, up through 34–8 DIABETES IN AMERICA, 3rd Edition those with prediabetes, undiagnosed diabetes, diabetes duration <15 years, and diabetes duration of ≥15 years. This trend contrasted with findings in older adults, among whom associations of diabetes with disability status were weaker due to the impact of advancing age on overall disability. Among adults age ≥65 years, prediabetes was not significantly associated with a higher prevalence of functional limitations compared with normal glucose. Among the oldest men (age ≥75 years), differences in disability across diabetes duration were less pronounced than among younger men, but among the oldest women, those with undiagnosed and diagnosed diabetes had appreciably higher disability prevalence than those with prediabetes and normal glucose, with more than two-thirds of those with diagnosed diabetes
