Chapter 34: Diabetes and Disability
KEYWORDS: diabetes, disability, years, mobility, health, age, adults, defined, iadl, work, women, adl, risk, impairment, self-reporting


over half of the excess disability risk associated with diabetes among women, whereas among men, CHD and stroke were the two most dominant factors (27). Several other factors, including stroke, visual impairment, and arthritis, played significant roles in both men and women having disabilities. Subsequent analyses from the WHAS found peripheral arterial disease and peripheral nerve dysfunction to be prominent factors in disability (44). Other studies have found depression to be a major factor as well (22). The degree to which hyperglycemia itself explains the association of diabetes and disability remains unclear (51). The WHAS found that compared to women with glycosylated hemoglobin (A1c) levels <5.5% (<37 mmol/mol), those with A1c levels of ≥8.0% (≥64 mmol/mol) had about three times the incidence of frailty, difficulty walking, low walking speed, and low physical performance, adjusted for BMI and comorbidities. However, women with A1c levels in the 6.0%–7.9% (42–63 mmol/mol) range had only modest, nonsignificant differences in disability incidence compared to those with lower A1c levels. Frequent hypoglycemia, or other factors related to overtreatment, could also theoretically affect disability risk, but the authors are not aware of studies that have examined such an association. Sarcopenia, or the natural loss of muscle mass that occurs with aging, may be a central mechanism underlying the association of diabetes and disability. Hyperinsulinemia, insulin resistance, hyperglycemia, diabetes status, and longer duration of diabetes have each been associated with sarcopenia (52,53). The association of diabetes with sarco­ penia may be multifactorial, as factors in underlying behavior (physical inac­ tivity and reduced energy expenditure), central adiposity and resulting inflam­ matory factors, concurrent hormonal changes (e.g., hypogonadism, vitamin D deficiency), or concurrent comorbid conditions (e.g., kidney disease, periph­ eral artery disease) could connect diabetes to sarcopenia (53). The impact of exercise and dietary interventions on muscle mass may be a promising avenue to reduce disability risk (54). In summary, these studies found the relationship between diabetes and disability to be multifactorial and to vary between men and women and according to the definition of disability. Obesity, CHD, lower extremity diseases, stroke, and depression appeared to be the most prominent factors explaining the difference in disability risk between people with and without diabetes. Other studies suggested that factors earlier in the pathogenesis of diabetes, including inflammation, insulin resistance, and sarcopenia, may also mediate the higher disability risk in people with diabetes. Volpato and Maraldi organized explanatory factors into a conceptual
