Chapter 34: Diabetes and Disability
KEYWORDS: diabetes, disability, years, mobility, health, age, adults, defined, iadl, work, women, adl, risk, impairment, self-reporting


the pathogenesis of diabetes, including inflammation, insulin resistance, and sarcopenia, may also mediate the higher disability risk in people with diabetes. Volpato and Maraldi organized explanatory factors into a conceptual model wherein diabetes interacts in a bidirectional manner with obesity, CHD, hypertension, stroke, and depression to influence several primary impairments, including visual acuity, peripheral neuropathy, cognitive function, and strength, which combined with underlying comorbidities, lead to functional limitations and disabilities (41). 34–12 DIABETES IN AMERICA, 3rd Edition DISABILITY AND DIABETES RISK Epidemiologic studies of diabetes and disability have primarily been conducted to examine the potential for diabetes to cause disability. However, the association could conceivably act in the reverse direction, with disability increasing the risk of diabetes, particularly among high-risk adults. In a longitudinal analysis of data from 22,878 middle-aged and older adults, prevalent mild disability was associated with a 28% increased risk of diabetes incidence, while incident mild disability was associated with a 40% increased diabetes risk (55). More severe disability was associated with an even higher magnitude of diabetes risk (63% for prevalent disability and 81% for incident disability). The authors speculated that disability could contribute to diabetes risk through increases in sedentary behavior, muscle disuse, and change in the ratio of lean to fat mass affecting insulin sensitivity in vulnerable adults. EFFECTIVENESS OF INTERVENTIONS TO REDUCE DISABILITY RISK Only a few controlled intervention trials have examined the effectiveness of approaches to reduce disability among adults with diabetes or at risk for diabetes. Studies conducted among adults (with and without diabetes) with arthritis-mediated functional impairment found that lifestyle-based weight loss of 5%–6% over 18 months resulted in significant improvements in functional status (56,57). Similar effects have been reported in adults with CHD and preexisting functional limitations (58,59). In the largest intervention study to date to examine disability incidence, and the first large study among adults with diabetes, the Look AHEAD (Action for Health in Diabetes) study found that over 4 years, overweight diabetic adults assigned to an intensive lifestyle intervention achieved a sevenfold greater weight loss and 48% reduced incidence of mobility loss than persons receiving a limited diabetes education (60). The findings were strongest for severe disability; prevalence of severe mobility disability increased only 7.3 percentage points among the intensive lifestyle intervention group compared to an increase of 11.0 percentage points in the diabetes support and education group. In addition to lifestyle interventions, the observational studies of
