Chapter 34: Diabetes and Disability
KEYWORDS: diabetes, disability, years, mobility, health, age, adults, defined, iadl, work, women, adl, risk, impairment, self-reporting


among the intensive lifestyle intervention group compared to an increase of 11.0 percentage points in the diabetes support and education group. In addition to lifestyle interventions, the observational studies of disability inci­ dence point to several other potential ways to reduce disability risk. For example, the associations of depression, CHD, lower extremity arterial disease, and glycemic control suggest that achieving recommended screening and manage­ ment of risk factors in primary care could also affect disability risk. CONCLUSIONS This review of the relationship of diabetes and disability yielded several conclusions and key points. Diabetes is associated with a twofold to threefold increased risk of functional disability, including disability related to mobility, IADL, ADL, and work; longitudinal studies indicate that diabetes precedes the onset of disability in many cases, but that the diabetes and disability association is also bidirectional. Diabetes- related disability is most common among women and persons of lower education and increases rapidly with age; however, the relative associations of diabetes with disability are highest among middle-aged adults. The majority of diabetes-related disability occurs after the diagnosis of diabetes; however, prediabetes is associated with an increased disability risk in young and middle-aged adults. Prevalence of work disability among the diabetes population has gradually declined between 1997 and 2011, but prevalences of mobility and IADL disability have remained unchanged. The association of diabetes with disability is explained by multiple factors, including some that precede diabetes diagnosis as part of the pathogenesis of diabetes (e.g., obesity, insulin resistance, elevated inflammatory markers), hyperglycemia itself, diabetes-related complications (e.g., CHD, lower extremity arterial disease, stroke, visual impairment), and other comorbidities that may or may not be caused by diabetes (notably, depression and arthritis). Interventions that involve regular physical activity and weight loss appear to be effective in reducing risk for disability among overweight adults with diabetes; lifestyle interventions to prevent diabetes and primary care- based management of depression and cardiovascular disease risk management could also plausibly affect disability risk, but this hypothesis has not been examined in randomized controlled outcome trials. Continued surveillance of disability levels is important to determine whether clinical and public health approaches are reducing the collective impact of diabetes on morbidity. Inclusion of older adults and mobility and disability outcomes in future clinical trials will be important to improve the evidence base about which interven­ tions reduce disability. Diabetes and Disability 34–13 LIST OF ABBREVIATIONS A1c . . . . .
