Drug-eluting stents for the treatment of coronary artery disease
KEYWORDS: patients, dess, group, bms, des, assessment, data, assessment group, price, risk, committee, ses, pes, compared, months


1 Recommendations 1.1 Drug-eluting stents are recommended for use in percutaneous coronary intervention for treating stable angina, within their instructions for use, only if: • the target artery to be treated has less than a 3-mm calibre or the lesion is longer than 15 mm, and • the price difference between drug-eluting stents and bare-metal stents is no more than £300. [2020] For recommendations on drug-eluting stents for people with unstable angina, non-ST-segment-elevation myocardial infarction (NSTEMI) or ST-segment- elevation myocardial infarction (STEMI), see recommendation 1.1.18 and recommendation 1.2.18 in NICE's guideline on acute coronary syndromes. 2 Clinical need and practice 2.1 Coronary artery disease is also known as coronary heart disease (CHD) and ischaemic heart disease. It is narrowing (stenosis) of the coronary arteries as a result of deposition of atherosclerotic plaque, which results in an insufficient supply of oxygen to the heart muscle. CHD may affect one or more arteries, which may be of different diameters (calibres). The stenosis of arteries may be partial or total. Coronary artery stenosis may be asymptomatic or may lead to angina – chest pain that may be severe enough to restrict or prevent exertion. A critical reduction of the blood supply to the heart may result in myocardial infarction (MI) or death. 2.2 Mortality rates from CHD are decreasing but CHD remains the most common cause of mortality in the UK. It accounted for nearly 117,500 deaths in the UK in 2002 (about 103,000 deaths in England and Wales). CHD is also the cause of considerable morbidity and loss of ability to lead a normal life. In the UK, annually, approximately 259,500 people experience an acute MI and approximately 341,500 new cases of angina (the most common form of CHD morbidity) are reported. In Europe, CHD has been estimated to account for 9.7% of total disability-adjusted life years lost. 2.3 Mortality and morbidity rates associated with CHD vary by socioeconomic group (rates are higher in lower socioeconomic groups), by geographical area (rates are highest in Wales, North West England, and the Northern England and Yorkshire regions, and lowest in South East England) and by ethnic group (for example, CHD rates are highest among people from the Indian subcontinent living in the UK). The prevalence of CHD also increases with age and is higher in men than women. The disease is more common in people with high serum cholesterol and/ or high blood pressure,
