Drug-eluting stents for the treatment of coronary artery disease
KEYWORDS: patients, dess, group, bms, des, assessment, data, assessment group, price, risk, committee, ses, pes, compared, months


prevalence of CHD also increases with age and is higher in men than women. The disease is more common in people with high serum cholesterol and/ or high blood pressure, in people who have type 1 or type 2 diabetes mellitus, in people who smoke, and in people who are physically inactive and/or obese. 2.4 The symptoms and health risks associated with a stenosed artery may be treated medically, by modifying risk factors (for example, smoking, hyperlipidaemia, obesity and hyperglycaemia) and/or by drug treatment (for example, beta- adrenergic blockers, nitrates, calcium-channel blockers, antiplatelet agents and/ or statins). 2.5 If these medical treatments fail or are inappropriate, two invasive therapies are available. The first, coronary artery bypass grafting (CABG), involves major cardiac surgery. The second, balloon angioplasty (or percutaneous transluminal coronary angioplasty) involves a widening from within the artery using a balloon catheter, which is inserted through a femoral artery. When inflated, the balloon increases the calibre of the artery. Most percutaneous transluminal coronary angioplasty procedures involve the use of stents. A stent is a thin wire-mesh tube loaded over an angioplasty balloon. When the balloon inflates, the stent expands like a scaffold to hold the vessel open, and is left behind after the balloon is deflated and withdrawn. Percutaneous coronary intervention (PCI) is a generic term that encompasses percutaneous transluminal coronary angioplasty with or without stenting. The comparison of CABG with PCI including coronary artery stents (bare-metal and drug-eluting) was covered by NICE's technology appraisal on the use of coronary artery stents and is not dealt with in this appraisal. 2.6 One of the criteria for comparing the clinical effectiveness of PCI with stents with standard PCI (without stents) is the incidence of subsequent attacks of angina and major adverse coronary events (MACEs), which include death, MI and the need for further revascularisation procedures (CABG or repeat PCI). 2.7 A number of problems with PCI may occur. Recoil of the artery which happens when the balloon is deflated, usually occurs immediately or within 24 hours of completing the procedure, and may be associated with acute occlusive dissection of the vessel and require emergency CABG. In the medium term restenosis of the artery after the procedure may occur and has two main causes: contraction of the outer layer of the artery secondary to an injury reaction (3 to 6 months after the procedure) and proliferation of smooth muscle cells within the
