Drug-eluting stents for the treatment of coronary artery disease
KEYWORDS: patients, dess, group, bms, des, assessment, data, assessment group, price, risk, committee, ses, pes, compared, months


main causes: contraction of the outer layer of the artery secondary to an injury reaction (3 to 6 months after the procedure) and proliferation of smooth muscle cells within the arterial wall (4 to 6 months after the procedure), leading to intimal hyperplasia. As a consequence of restenosis, a repeat procedure may be required and the rate of reintervention is greater in patients who have arteries of small calibre ('small vessels' – less than 3 mm in calibre), saphenous vein grafts and long lesions (longer than 15 mm) or total occlusions. People with diabetes, who commonly have arteries affected by atherosclerosis, also have a higher rate of restenosis. 2.8 Stent technology (type and platform, including the design, alloy used and strut thickness) has developed rapidly, and recent advances aim to reduce the likelihood of restenosis. Because restenosis is correlated with the degree of inflammation present at the time of angioplasty, drug-eluting stents (DESs) were developed. These are bare-metal stents (BMSs) coated with a drug, usually an immune suppressant, to reduce inflammation or an antimitotic agent to reduce cell proliferation. The drug reaches therapeutic concentrations in local tissues only and may not be detectable systemically, thus avoiding systemic adverse effects. A subsequent development was the use of a drug–polymer mix where the drug is held temporarily in place within a polymer 'painted' onto the metallic stent, allowing the drug to elute slowly into surrounding tissues. However, not all stents are polymer based. 2.9 According to British Cardiovascular Intervention Society (BCIS) data, approximately 70,000 PCI procedures were undertaken in the UK in 2005, equating to 1165 per million of the population. In England, the number of procedures per million of the population was 1169, and in Wales, 873. 2.10 The National Service Framework for CHD set a target in March 2000 for revascularisations (PCIs and CABGs), of at least 1500 per million of the population (750 for each type of intervention). 2.11 According to BCIS data, in the UK, the proportion of PCI procedures using stents rose steeply between 1993 and 1999, from below 10% to nearly 80%. It continued to increase, although more slowly, to about 94% in 2005. Data for DES use were not available before 2002. In 2003 it was reported that 17% of all stents used in the UK were DESs. In 2005 this had risen to around 62% in the UK, 60% in England and 77% in
