Drug-eluting stents for the treatment of coronary artery disease
KEYWORDS: patients, dess, group, bms, des, assessment, data, assessment group, price, risk, committee, ses, pes, compared, months


was reported that 17% of all stents used in the UK were DESs. In 2005 this had risen to around 62% in the UK, 60% in England and 77% in Wales. Given the increases in numbers of PCI procedures, it may be that utilisation rates are now much higher than this. 2.12 There is a risk of stent thrombosis associated with the use of both types of stent (DESs and BMSs). To prevent thrombosis occurring, patients are required to use an antiplatelet drug, such as clopidogrel, in addition to aspirin during and after the implantation of a stent. Following data published in 2006, the US Food and Drugs Administration (FDA)'s Circulatory Devices Systems Advisory Panel recommended that the duration of clopidogrel use should be extended in patients receiving a DES. The American College of Cardiologists/American Heart Association PCI guidelines (also endorsed by the Society for Cardiovascular Angiography Interventions) and the BCIS have recommended that for patients receiving DESs the duration of clopidogrel use should be increased to at least 12 months, after which time continuation of clopidogrel should be reviewed taking into account the risk for further events on an individual patient basis. 3 The technologies 3.1 This technology appraisal focuses on DESs only. The preceding appraisal of DESs (NICE's technology appraisal on the use of coronary artery stents) considered only three devices (Taxus, Cypher and Dexamet) because at the time of publication, these were the only DESs that had been granted Conformité Européene (CE) marking for use within EU countries. Eight additional DESs have been included in this appraisal. 3.2 Each DES has an instruction for use (IFU) document that includes the indications for which the specific device can be used. The indications for use for each DES vary, although the majority specify the sizes of vessels (diameter and length) to be treated and are in accordance with their CE marking. Also included in the IFU documents are details of side effects and specific contraindications for DESs. 3.3 Different drugs elute from the stents that are included in this appraisal: paclitaxel is a broad-spectrum antimitotic agent that inhibits cell division; sirolimus (previously known as rapamycin) is an immunosuppressive agent that reduces inflammation; ABT-578 is a synthetic analogue of sirolimus; everolimus is an immunosuppressive agent that is closely related to sirolimus; tacrolimus is an immunosuppressive agent; and dexamethasone is a synthetic adrenocortical steroid that reduces inflammation. These drugs may elute
