Drug-eluting stents for the treatment of coronary artery disease
KEYWORDS: patients, dess, group, bms, des, assessment, data, assessment group, price, risk, committee, ses, pes, compared, months


everolimus is an immunosuppressive agent that is closely related to sirolimus; tacrolimus is an immunosuppressive agent; and dexamethasone is a synthetic adrenocortical steroid that reduces inflammation. These drugs may elute at different rates, depending on the presence or absence of additional polymer coatings on the stent. 3.4 The following list prices for DESs exclude VAT. • The DES Axxion (Biosensors Limited) is a non-polymeric paclitaxel-eluting stent (PES) with a list price of £995 (BMS equivalent: Nexus). • The DES CoStar (Biotronik Limited) is a non-polymeric PES (BMS equivalent: DepoStent). CoStar was originally included in this appraisal but is no longer available. • The DES Taxus (Boston Scientific) is a polymeric PES with a list price of £1,300 (BMS equivalent: Express). • The second-generation DES Taxus Liberté (Boston Scientific) is a polymeric PES with a list price of £1,300 (BMS equivalent: Liberté). • The DES Cypher (Cordis Corporation) is a polymeric sirolimus-eluting stent (SES) with a list price of £1,340 (BMS equivalent: Bx Velocity). • The second-generation DES Cypher Select (Cordis Corporation) is a polymeric SES with a list price of £1,340 (BMS equivalent: Sonic). • The DES Endeavor (Medtronic AVE) is a polymeric sirolimus analogue ABT-578 (zotarolimus)-eluting stent (ZES) with a list price of £1,450 (BMS equivalent: Driver). • The DES Janus (Sorin) is a polymeric tacrolimus-eluting stent (TES) with a list price of £1,500 (BMS equivalent: Janis). • The DES Xience V (Guidant Ltd) is a polymeric everolimus-eluting stent (EES) with a list price of £1,500 (BMS equivalent: Multi-Link Vision). • The DES Dexamet (Abbott Vascular Devices Ltd) is a polymeric dexamethasone-eluting stent (BMS equivalent: BiodivYsio). Dexamet was originally included in this appraisal but is no longer available in the EU. • The DES Yukon (Kiwimed Ltd) is a non-polymeric stent that can be coated with any drug to be eluted and has a list price of £650. 3.5 As list prices are not commonly used for procuring devices in the NHS, updated prices of DESs and BMSs were sought from the NHS Purchasing and Supply Agency. Procurement of devices is complex and it should be noted that the prices for DES and BMS are driven by a number of factors including the: market conditions at the time of contracting; contract period; renewal date for the procurement arrangements (contracts are usually updated annually and the most recent contracts show significant decreases in the prices of DESs); volume commitment; period
