Drug-eluting stents for the treatment of coronary artery disease
KEYWORDS: patients, dess, group, bms, des, assessment, data, assessment group, price, risk, committee, ses, pes, compared, months


contracting; contract period; renewal date for the procurement arrangements (contracts are usually updated annually and the most recent contracts show significant decreases in the prices of DESs); volume commitment; period commitment; combination of period and volume commitment; product rationalisation or standardisation; retrospective threshold discounts (for example, free set quantities of stents when agreed volumes have been exceeded); consignment stock (for instance, when a supplier provides an inventory to trust); and other added value inclusive arrangements (for example, the provision of additional training and related equipment). 3.6 From the sample 2007/08 data received from the NHS Purchasing and Supply Agency for NHS organisations in England for the stents included in this appraisal, the mean price of DES was £529 and the mean price of BMS was £131. The price difference between DESs compared with BMSs ranged from £203 to £615 across a number of Health Authorities in England, although it should be noted that the higher price differences tended to be seen in the older contracts which will be re- tendered in due course, in accordance with relevant contract renewal schedules. 4 Evidence and interpretation The Appraisal Committee considered evidence from a number of sources. 4.1 Clinical effectiveness DESs versus BMSs – evidence from randomised controlled trials 4.1.1 A total of 17 randomised controlled trials (RCTs) were identified that compared DESs with BMSs, and data from all 17 were included for at least one outcome in the meta-analysis. • 10 studies compared an SES (Cypher) with the equivalent BMS. • Four studies compared a PES (Taxus) with the equivalent BMS. • One study compared both an SES (Cypher) and a PES (Taxus) with a newer BMS. • One study compared the ZES (Endeavor) with the equivalent BMS. • One study compared the EES (Xience V) with the equivalent BMS. No RCT evidence has yet been reported for the Axxion, CoStar, Dexamet or Janus stents. Limited RCT data were available for the Yukon stent. 4.1.2 Study outcomes used in the RCTs included rates of mortality, acute MI, target lesion revascularisation (TLR), target vessel revascularisation (TVR), composite events (major adverse coronary event [MACE] and/or target vessel failure [TVF]), angiographic binary restenosis and late luminal loss. Revascularisation was usually prompted by protocol-driven angiographic evidence of restenosis either for all participants or for a selected subgroup of participants. Only one trial (BASKET) explicitly reported that no protocol-driven angiographic follow-up was included. This trial compared both
