Drug-eluting stents for the treatment of coronary artery disease
KEYWORDS: patients, dess, group, bms, des, assessment, data, assessment group, price, risk, committee, ses, pes, compared, months


of restenosis either for all participants or for a selected subgroup of participants. Only one trial (BASKET) explicitly reported that no protocol-driven angiographic follow-up was included. This trial compared both SES (Cypher) and PES (Taxus) DESs with a newer BMS in a three-arm study. 4.1.3 All but three of the 17 RCTs were multicentre trials. Study size ranged from 60 to over 1300 patients. Of the 17 trials, 11 included patients with single lesions. The studies covered a range of vessel diameters from 2.25 mm to 4.00 mm, although the lower range was not reported in some studies. Lesion length also varied, ranging from 10 mm to 33 mm, although again the data were not always reported. All studies permitted the inclusion of people with diabetes, and all but three studies excluded acute or evolving MI. The presence of unprotected left main coronary artery excluded patients from many trials, as did severe calcification or tortuosity, total occlusion, bifurcation, the presence of thrombus in the target vessel, previous PCI within 30 days or PCI other than balloon required as part of the study intervention. 4.1.4 A total of 12 trials described the co-therapies used. Aspirin was prescribed before intervention in 11 of these studies and used after the procedure in all 12. Clopidogrel was used as an antiplatelet therapy in all of the 12 studies; ticlopidine was available for use as an alternative to clopidogrel in five studies. In one trial, tirofiban, used in combination with a DES, was compared with abciximab used with a BMS. The duration of antiplatelet therapy after intervention ranged from 2 months in three trials to 1 year in one study. 4.1.5 Meta-analysis was carried out by the Assessment Group for rates of mortality, acute MI, TLR, TVR, composite event (MACE and/or TVF), angiographic binary restenosis and late luminal loss. Analysis of mortality, acute MI and event rates used pooled results from over 7000 participants. Data in the form of an odds ratio (OR) and 95% confidence interval (95% CI) were analysed using the Mantel–Haenszel method fixed-effect model. For continuous outcomes, weighted mean differences (WMDs) were analysed. Where there was significant heterogeneity, analysis using a random-effects model was also undertaken. 4.1.6 In addition to analyses of the individual studies, pooled estimates (giving the OR and 95% CI) were provided for each 'eluted drug' group (for example, comparing a PES [Taxus] and all BMSs in the paclitaxel
