Drug-eluting stents for the treatment of coronary artery disease
KEYWORDS: patients, dess, group, bms, des, assessment, data, assessment group, price, risk, committee, ses, pes, compared, months


studies (including two registries). 4.1.12 Outcome data were limited due to the short follow-up periods: 30 days for the PES (Taxus Liberté) study; 4 months for one PES (CoStar) study and 1 year for the other PES (CoStar) study; 6 months for the Dexamet studies and for the TES stent; and up to 1 year for the SES (Yukon) study. Angiographic outcomes, binary restenosis and/or late loss were reported for the PES (CoStar), Dexamet and the SES (Yukon). Because of the variety of DESs considered in these studies, the methodological limits of the available studies, and the varied and limited follow- up, the Assessment Group did not consider pooled analysis to be appropriate. 4.1.13 For the TES (Janus), limited data were reported; at 30 days no events (death, MI or TLR) had occurred. For the PES (Taxus Liberté) the data available at 30 days were marked as commercial in confidence. For the PES (CoStar), the only data available were for one of the two arms at 1 year for one trial and interim data from two of the four arms of the other ongoing study. 4.1.14 Data for the SES (Yukon) were reported at 1 month and 1 year. No deaths occurred in the first month. Rates of acute MI up to 1 month were 1.8% in the SES group and 1.3% in the BMS group. At 1 year, the composite of death or non-fatal MI was 2.7% for the Yukon SES and 3.9% for the BMS. No statistically significant differences were detected. At 1 year, TLR was reported in 12.6% of the SES group and 21.5% of the BMS group, and the difference was statistically significant in favour of the SES (OR 0.53, 95% CI 0.34 to 0.81). 4.1.15 The non-randomised trial that compared Dexamet (DES) with a BMS reported no deaths among the 100 participants receiving either stent and only one incidence of acute MI, which was in the BMS group, up to a mean of 8 months' follow-up. Revascularisations for this time period were 2% TLR in the DES group and 10% TLR (12% TVR) in the BMS group. Composite rates of MACEs, consisting entirely of revascularisations, were 2% for the DES and 12% for the BMS. Neither of these comparisons showed statistically significant differences. DES versus DES 4.1.16 Eight RCTs comparing different DES types were identified by the Assessment Group. Six RCTs compared a SES (Cypher)
