Drug-eluting stents for the treatment of coronary artery disease
KEYWORDS: patients, dess, group, bms, des, assessment, data, assessment group, price, risk, committee, ses, pes, compared, months


Neither of these comparisons showed statistically significant differences. DES versus DES 4.1.16 Eight RCTs comparing different DES types were identified by the Assessment Group. Six RCTs compared a SES (Cypher) with a PES (Taxus; including one trial that was also assessed in the DES versus BMS clinical section because it had a BMS arm as well as two DES arms), one studied SES (Cypher) in comparison with the newer SES (Cypher Select) and one compared the Yukon, as a SES, with a PES (Taxus). 4.1.17 Six trials were conducted in only one or two centres in European countries, and two were multicentre and multinational. Study sizes ranged from 200 to 1350 patients. Two trials were distinct in that they did not incorporate planned angiographic assessment of trial participants. Only two trials presented randomisation details and none of the studies presented adequate information on whether the RCTs were conducted under 'blind' conditions. One study did not present an intention-to-treat analysis, and for two studies it was unclear whether events were reported according to the original randomised allocations. 4.1.18 A meta-analysis was conducted according to which pairing of DES types was compared within trials (most commonly this was the SES [Cypher] versus the PES [Taxus]). No total pooled effect estimate was calculated across multiple groupings of DES versus DES trials. 4.1.19 There were no statistically significant differences in rates of mortality or acute MI for any of the pairings of DES types. 4.1.20 For TLR, one individual study showed a statistically significantly better rate of TLR, at 6 to 9 months, with the SES (Cypher) compared with the PES (Taxus; OR 0.56, 95% CI 0.33 to 0.93). Only one RCT had data available beyond 9 months; in this study, rates of TLR at 1 year were 5.7% for the SES (Cypher) compared with 9.0% for the PES (Taxus); the difference was not statistically significant. The Assessment Group's pooled analysis of TLR up to 9 months was statistically significant in favour of the SES (Cypher) over the PES (Taxus; OR 0.70, 95% CI 0.51 to 0.97). 4.1.21 A statistically significant reduction in TVR with the SES (Cypher) compared with the PES (Taxus) was determined from a meta-analysis of two trials at 6 to 9 months (OR 0.59, 95% CI 0.39 to 0.89). A reduction in the composite event rate (MACE) at 6 to 9 months was also statistically significant with the SES (Cypher)
