Drug-eluting stents for the treatment of coronary artery disease
KEYWORDS: patients, dess, group, bms, des, assessment, data, assessment group, price, risk, committee, ses, pes, compared, months


approval. The FDA has since defined off-label use to mean the use of a medical product for treatments other than those for which the product was initially approved; or use not explicitly included in product labelling (intended use and IFU). The UK Medicines and Healthcare Products Regulatory Agency (MHRA) supports this definition of off-label use for the DESs that have been approved for use in Europe. 4.1.24 Each DES included in this appraisal has an IFU document that lists the indications for which it can be used. The sizes of vessels (diameter and length) to be treated are stated in the majority of the IFUs, as are the specific contraindications. The FDA considers that although patients with diabetes were included in the pivotal trials, the number of patients was insufficient for either the SES (Cypher) or the PES (Taxus) to earn a specific labelled indication for people with diabetes. The UK MHRA supports the view of the FDA with regard to individuals with diabetes and only one of the DESs, the PES (Taxus), included in this appraisal has recently been specifically indicated for people with diabetes. Summary 4.1.25 There were no statistically significant differences detected in death or MI between the pooled subgroups and pooled any-type DES groups. The pooled DES analysis indicated that revascularisation rates were reduced by approximately three quarters compared with BMSs, consistent across most studies of the PES (Taxus) and SESs (Cypher; Endeavor at 6 to 9 months). The benefits of DESs over BMSs for TLR were seen at 1 year, and this significant difference was maintained for up to 3 years. For the TVR outcome there were statistically significant differences in favour of any-type DES over BMS for most of the time points assessed. 4.2 Cost effectiveness Published literature 4.2.1 A total of 10 full economic evaluations were included in the assessment report, all of which compared an SES with a BMS, although four evaluations also included a PES. One of the evaluations was conducted in the UK; the rest were conducted in the USA, Canada or the rest of Europe. Seven evaluations used a 1-year time horizon, one used 2 years, one used 6 months and one used a patient's lifetime. Of the 10 evaluations, nine estimated that the cost of DESs incurred a price premium/difference (the difference in cost between a given BMS and the drug- eluting equivalent), which ranged from £233 to
