Drug-eluting stents for the treatment of coronary artery disease
KEYWORDS: patients, dess, group, bms, des, assessment, data, assessment group, price, risk, committee, ses, pes, compared, months


evaluations, nine estimated that the cost of DESs incurred a price premium/difference (the difference in cost between a given BMS and the drug- eluting equivalent), which ranged from £233 to £1,225. Four of the evaluations reported health outcomes in terms of quality-adjusted life years (QALYs). Three evaluations provided incremental costs per QALY for a general population, and these costs ranged from US$27,450 to Can$96,523 (approximately US$93,000). The fourth evaluation did not include a general population because subgroups were found to be too dissimilar for comparison. Two evaluations reported the incremental cost-effectiveness ratio (ICER) per repeat revascularisation avoided; one estimated it to be US$1650 over 1 year and the other estimated it to be approximately US$7000 over 2 years. The majority of evaluations concluded that DESs are more cost effective than BMSs for patients with types of arteries that have a higher risk of restenosis, although there was great disparity between evaluations, with a variety of outcomes and a range of ICERs being reported. 4.2.2 Only one economic study, carried out alongside the BASKET RCT, reflected clinical practice because no protocol-driven angiographic follow-up was included. This study's results suggested that, at a threshold of €7800 per MACE avoided, DESs could potentially be cost effective in the following subgroups of patients: those older than 65 years; those with more than one segment treated; those with triple-vessel disease; those with a stent length of more than 20 mm; and those with small stent diameters. Manufacturers' economic models 4.2.3 Three models were submitted by DES manufacturers. 4.2.4 The decision analytic model from Boston Scientific compared the PES (Taxus) with the equivalent BMS, for a general population and for subgroups. The incremental costs per QALY at 1 year were given as £29,587 for the overall population and £1,020 for patients with diabetes. For patients with small vessels and long lesions, the PES (Taxus) was dominant (both more effective and less costly than the BMS). For the PES (Taxus) at 2 years, the incremental cost per QALY for the overall population was given as £13,394, and it was dominant for patients with small vessels and those with diabetes. The model was highly sensitive to variations in the duration of clopidogrel therapy and the average number of stents used. In the manufacturer's sensitivity analyses, when the number of stents used per procedure was increased from 1.4 to 1.7, in line with the Assessment Group's model, the estimated
