Drug-eluting stents for the treatment of coronary artery disease
KEYWORDS: patients, dess, group, bms, des, assessment, data, assessment group, price, risk, committee, ses, pes, compared, months


number of stents used for the index procedure was increased to 1.4, the ICER increased to £39,174. The Assessment Group noted that the two factors to which the model was sensitive were taken from a single positive trial. 4.2.7 The submission from Kiwimed compared an SES (Yukon) with the Kiwimed BMS for a total population. The effectiveness data were taken from the SES (Cypher) trials, so an untested assumption was made that the SES (Yukon) has equivalent effectiveness to the SES (Cypher). Extrapolation from 2 to 5 years was undertaken using an assumption that patients remained in the same health state that they were in at the end of 1 year. Kiwimed's submission stated that the model results indicated that the SES (Yukon) was dominant compared with the BMS in the total population. In a sensitivity analysis varying the cost of the stent and the probability of restenosis, the ICERs for the SES (Yukon) were always under £30,000 per QALY. Assessment Group model: methods 4.2.8 The Assessment Group's model used the framework from the original appraisal with some minor modifications as follows: the time horizon was restricted to 1 year, so no discounting was necessary; particular risk groups were examined; in addition to the modelling of any-type DES compared with BMS, some head to head comparisons were conducted (SES (Cypher) compared with the PES (Taxus). 4.2.9 A difference between the effectiveness of DES and BMS was only seen with regard to revascularisation (TLR and TVR) and event rate (MACE and TVF). For these endpoints, the clinical trials show evidence of differences between DESs and BMSs at 1 year. The clinical trials show evidence in favour of DESs over all follow-up periods up to 3 years with a trend towards the greatest benefit occurring within the first year. 4.2.10 In the Assessment Group's model the most important factors in determining the incremental cost were the additional cost per DES implanted (price premium/ difference) and the number of stents implanted per patient. The most important factors in determining benefit in the model were the absolute risk of revascularisation for patients treated with a BMS and the risk reduction attributable to the use of a DES. 4.2.11 The acquisition cost of a given stent may vary in different settings because of negotiated procurement discounts. The Assessment Group in their economic evaluation used the prices from a market survey of NHS purchasers. The survey
