Drug-eluting stents for the treatment of coronary artery disease
KEYWORDS: patients, dess, group, bms, des, assessment, data, assessment group, price, risk, committee, ses, pes, compared, months


stent may vary in different settings because of negotiated procurement discounts. The Assessment Group in their economic evaluation used the prices from a market survey of NHS purchasers. The survey was conducted by the NHS Purchasing and Supply Agency in May/June 2005 to identify the prices in contracts covering the period 2004/05 for both DESs and BMSs. The combined data from 12 purchasing bodies covering 20 hospital trusts provided consistent estimates of average unit prices and of the differences in price between DESs and BMSs. Results were provided for the two main suppliers of DESs: Boston Scientific (Taxus) and Cordis Corporation (Cypher). The effective sale price per Taxus PES (excluding VAT) was £815. Because there was only one recorded instance of a significant local volume discount agreement for Cypher in the survey, the average sample price for the Cypher SES (excluding VAT) was £937. The estimated average price for a BMS in the survey (excluding VAT) was £278, so the price differences are £537 and £659 per DES for Taxus and Cypher, respectively. 4.2.12 Information received during the consultation period for the appraisal consultation document suggested that the prices for DESs had decreased since the 2005 survey. Therefore updated prices were sought from the NHS Purchasing and Supply Agency. From the sample 2007/08 data received from the NHS Purchasing and Supply Agency for NHS organisations in England for the stents included in this appraisal, the mean price of DES was £529 and the mean price of BMS was £131. The price difference between DESs compared with BMSs ranged from £203 to £615 across a number of Health Authorities in England. 4.2.13 To calculate the PCI procedure costs it was necessary to subtract the included costs of stents (DES and BMS) from the published PCI costs, and then to add back the model estimates of the number of stents, the type of stent and the cost per stent. In the final analyses, the Assessment Group assumed a wastage rate of 1%. 4.2.14 The Assessment Group base-case analysis used results from two observational studies of stented patients treated at the Liverpool Cardiothoracic Centre, to convert the efficacy of any-type DES to effectiveness estimates for repeat revascularisations and lesions treated in repeat revascularisations. The Assessment Group found that 51% of patients who underwent a second PCI required repeat treatment to previously treated lesions only. An additional 17% of patients received repeat treatment to
