Drug-eluting stents for the treatment of coronary artery disease
KEYWORDS: patients, dess, group, bms, des, assessment, data, assessment group, price, risk, committee, ses, pes, compared, months


The Assessment Group found that 51% of patients who underwent a second PCI required repeat treatment to previously treated lesions only. An additional 17% of patients received repeat treatment to a target lesion at the same time as treatment to a previously untreated lesion in the same vessel; these are the patients in whom DESs can be expected to produce benefit. Applying these proportions to the relative risk reduction from the trials of 74.6% (for TLR obtained from the meta-analysis of any-type DES trials) yielded an expected risk reduction in all revascularisations at 12 months of between 38% (95% CI 32 to 44%) and 50% (95% CI 44 to 57%). The Assessment Group also considered the likely benefit that any-type DES may offer in reducing the number of lesions treated in repeat revascularisations. When applied to the TLR relative risk reductions from the meta-analysis, this suggested that the reduction in the number of lesions treated in subsequent interventions was between 37% (95% CI 31 to 42%) and 53% (95% CI 47 to 59%) based on TLR (the Assessment Group counted lesions treated but excluded cases undergoing CABG rather than PCI). The Assessment Group noted that the BASKET trial, which did not include protocol-driven angiography, reported a risk reduction for DESs of 41% at 6 months. The Assessment Group therefore used 41% for the risk reduction associated with DESs in its base-case analyses. 4.2.15 The Assessment Group stated that the ICERs of any-type DESs compared with any-type BMSs are very dependent on the estimates of relative risk reduction in revascularisations and on the absolute rate of revascularisation in the types of patients in whom they are used. The absolute rates of revascularisation were derived from the Liverpool Cardiothoracic Centre audit data, and the potential of benefit was reassessed on the basis of the audit data concerning those patients in whom the repeat procedure required treatment of new lesions. This resulted in an absolute rate of revascularisation for all patients of 7.43%. The Assessment Group also carried out sensitivity analyses, varying rates of revascularisation for all patients up to 13%, based on trial data. 4.2.16 Using the Liverpool Cardiothoracic Centre audit data, the Assessment Group developed separate risk models for elective and non-elective patients using patient and lesion characteristics known at the time of the index intervention. Risk factors for the patients were identified in the assessment report as being calcification, angulation
