Drug-eluting stents for the treatment of coronary artery disease
KEYWORDS: patients, dess, group, bms, des, assessment, data, assessment group, price, risk, committee, ses, pes, compared, months


non-elective patients using patient and lesion characteristics known at the time of the index intervention. Risk factors for the patients were identified in the assessment report as being calcification, angulation greater than 45 degrees, restenotic lesion, triple-vessel disease, vessel diameter of less than 2 mm and prior CABG. In the final analyses, the absolute rates of repeat revascularisations for the conventional risk factors (long lesions, small vessels, diabetes and all combinations of these) were provided using the Liverpool audit data. The Assessment Group stated that, because none of these three factors in the multivariate model achieved conventional significance using the Liverpool audit data, the individual relative risks have wide confidence intervals and should be considered only as illustrative. The mean 12-month repeat revascularisation rate for all patients with small vessels was 15.25% (95% CI 9.38% to 22.24%), with a rate difference p = 0.02; for those with long lesions it was 10.23% (95% CI 8.10% to 12.57%), p = 0.09; and for those with diabetes it was 10.61% (95% CI 7.52% to 14.14%), p = 0.14. 4.2.17 The Assessment Group used patient survey data from the Health Outcomes Data Repository (HoDAR) database for its utility values. The difference in HoDAR health-related quality of life scores between patients with severe angina and those recovered from revascularisation (0.158) was similar to the ARTS trial result (0.16), which was used in the previous appraisal. The assumptions made by the Assessment Group in the final analyses for disutilities associated with CABG versus PCI in the 6-week period following the procedure were that for a 2-week post-operative period, patients undergoing CABG experience a very low quality of life (0.0), and for the next 2 weeks the mean utility score recovers in a linear fashion achieving full benefit (0.660) by 4 weeks after the operation. Patients undergoing PCI were assumed to recover full benefit linearly over a 2-week period following the procedure. The Assessment Group concluded additionally that there was no evidence to suggest an effect on the rate of acute MI or mortality with CABG compared with PCI plus stenting. 4.2.18 When BMSs and DESs were compared, the meta-analysis showed a trend towards increased numbers of non-fatal acute MIs with BMSs. The Assessment Group concluded in their analyses that based on the reviewed evidence, the maximum likely effect of this is equivalent to, per patient, an overall cost saving of about £13 and a utility
