Drug-eluting stents for the treatment of coronary artery disease
KEYWORDS: patients, dess, group, bms, des, assessment, data, assessment group, price, risk, committee, ses, pes, compared, months


in their analyses that based on the reviewed evidence, the maximum likely effect of this is equivalent to, per patient, an overall cost saving of about £13 and a utility gain of about 0.00055 when DESs are used. 4.2.19 The clinical evidence from the meta-analyses in the assessment report suggested that the SES (Cypher) reduces repeat revascularisations compared with the PES (Taxus). Because most of the clinical trials were limited to 6 to 9 months' duration, the Assessment Group carried out the economic evaluation assuming clinical equivalence and distinguished between stents only on the basis of price. 4.2.20 In the additional analyses requested by the Committee, the Assessment Group undertook sensitivity analyses by varying a number of the parameters in the original model. The results of the sensitivity analyses were presented as a number of tables containing the ICERs for a range of price premiums, for a range of absolute risks of revascularisation of BMSs, for the total population of stented patients and the risk-factor groups (small vessel, long lesion, diabetes and all combinations of these). Tables were presented for different numbers of stents (mean number, 1, 2 or 3) per patient. The Assessment Group also undertook new sensitivity analyses that took account of an additional 9 months' use of clopidogrel in patients receiving DESs, in accordance with the recent BCIS recommendations. These additional costs were applied only to 56% of the patient population because it was suggested by Consultees that 44% of patients would have acute coronary syndrome and therefore already be receiving 12 months' treatment with clopidogrel in accordance with 'Clopidogrel in the treatment of non-ST-segment-elevation acute coronary syndrome' (NICE technology appraisal guidance on clopidogrel in the treatment of non-ST-segment-elevation acute coronary syndrome). 4.2.21 The Assessment Group, at the request of the Committee, also provided estimates based on the analyses using a relative risk reduction with DESs of 55% as the base case and a sensitivity analysis of 65%. These relative risk reductions with DESs were used for a rate of revascularisation, using BMSs, of 11%, which was obtained from combining results for all patients (equivalent to 10% for elective and 13% for non-elective patients). The corresponding risk of revascularisation using BMSs for the risk groups and the mean number of stents were also calculated from the combined datasets for the elective and non-elective patients. 4.2.22 Following consultation, the Assessment Group provided two additional analyses. The first additional
