Drug-eluting stents for the treatment of coronary artery disease
KEYWORDS: patients, dess, group, bms, des, assessment, data, assessment group, price, risk, committee, ses, pes, compared, months


clinical trials showed that the use of any-type DESs reduced the rate of revascularisation in the target lesions and the target vessels, at all follow-up time points up to 3 years, compared with any-type BMSs. The Committee noted not just the trial data, but also the recent discussions on the effects of DESs on the risks of thrombosis, MI, and mortality, and accepted the findings of the FDA review that any-type DESs conferred no statistically significant benefits in mortality or acute MI rates over any-type BMSs. The Committee concluded that the key benefit of DESs is the reduction in rates of revascularisation in target lesions and target vessels compared with BMSs. 4.3.3 The Committee considered whether there was any evidence to suggest that there were differences in the clinical effectiveness of the various types of DESs. It noted that only four of the eleven DESs had been compared with each other in head-to-head RCTs. The majority of data comparing revascularisation rates were between the SES (Cypher) and the PES (Taxus). The Committee noted that the SES (Cypher) showed a statistically significant reduction in TLR, TVR and MACEs compared with the PES (Taxus), at 9 months. It was also noted that at 1 year, for the only outcome available, rates of TLR for the SES (Cypher) compared with the PES (Taxus) showed no statistically significant difference. The Committee heard testimony from the clinical specialists that different DESs are clinically comparable and that, in practice, any of the DESs would be used, although those with the greater evidence-base would be first choice. 4.3.4 The Committee considered the evidence to suggest that there were groups of patients whose vessel anatomy was more likely to be subject to restenosis. The absolute rate of revascularisation in these groups was greater than that of other patients and they therefore had the potential to gain a greater relative benefit from DESs than other patients, and this was taken into account by the sensitivity analysis in the assessment group's economic model. The Committee considered the risk factors derived by the Assessment Group using the Liverpool Cardiothoracic Centre audit data, but it heard testimony from the clinical specialists that small vessels (less than 3 mm in calibre), long lesions (longer than 15 mm) and diabetes were the risk factors most consistently reported and that made most sense clinically. The Committee noted that, although the Assessment Group's analysis of the
