Drug-eluting stents for the treatment of coronary artery disease
KEYWORDS: patients, dess, group, bms, des, assessment, data, assessment group, price, risk, committee, ses, pes, compared, months


(longer than 15 mm) and diabetes were the risk factors most consistently reported and that made most sense clinically. The Committee noted that, although the Assessment Group's analysis of the Liverpool Cardiothoracic Centre audit data did not prove that any of these were statistically significant risk factors, taking account of other studies, small-vessel disease and long lesions were better predictors of risk groups than diabetes, and are particularly prevalent in patients with CAD who also have diabetes. The Committee was also mindful of the regulatory concerns about the 'off-label' use of DESs. The Committee concluded that small vessels and long lesions should be considered as separate risk factors whereas diabetes should not be considered as a separate risk factor. 4.3.5 The Committee noted that the Assessment Group's model was based on the Liverpool Cardiothoracic Centre audit data that distinguished elective and non- elective (emergency) patients. The Committee heard testimony from the clinical specialists that in clinical practice the differences between these patient groups specifically related to the mode of their presentation with acute coronary syndromes, that is, non-ST-segment-elevated MI or unstable angina, and to the use of adjunctive treatments, in particular anti-platelet therapy. Due to the lack of other differences the Committee concluded that elective and non-elective patients should be considered together but that the merging of the estimates should take account of the proportions of elective and non-elective patients seen in clinical practice. 4.3.6 In considering the cost effectiveness of DESs compared with BMSs, the Committee noted that the model structure used by the Assessment Group was appropriate. The Committee discussed the key parameters that drove the Assessment Group's economic model. It considered the absolute rate of revascularisation of BMSs in the total population of stented patients and noted that the Assessment Group used 7.43% for patients in its base case in the assessment report. The Committee heard testimony from the clinical specialists that the rate of revascularisation of BMSs was around 12% in the published literature. It noted that some of these published trials included protocol-driven angiography and revascularisation and therefore were likely to be an overestimate of actual revascularisation rates in clinical practice in the UK. The Committee noted that the Liverpool Cardiothoracic Centre audit data revascularisation rates were lower than those from other data sets including the BASKET trial (11%), which had not included protocol-driven angiography, and the Scottish Registry (11.5%). The Committee discussed the range
