Drug-eluting stents for the treatment of coronary artery disease
KEYWORDS: patients, dess, group, bms, des, assessment, data, assessment group, price, risk, committee, ses, pes, compared, months


rates were lower than those from other data sets including the BASKET trial (11%), which had not included protocol-driven angiography, and the Scottish Registry (11.5%). The Committee discussed the range of possible values for revascularisation and their relevance to UK practice and concluded that a rate of 11% for the absolute rate of revascularisation was a reasonable estimate for UK practice. 4.3.7 The Committee considered the relative reduction in the risk of target lesion revascularisation with DESs. The Committee noted that the trial data typically gave a relative risk reduction of 75%, but considered that this figure might over- estimate the real-life benefit of DESs because it is derived from the trials that included protocol-driven angiography and revascularisation. The Committee heard that the BASKET trial, which had not included protocol-driven angiography, had a relative risk reduction with DESs of 41% at 12 months. The Committee looked at the adjusted relative risk reduction with DESs used by the Assessment Group, and acknowledged that their approach reflected the number of patients, and not the target lesions, that would benefit from DESs. The Committee noted that the Assessment Group's figure was in line with the BASKET trial. The Committee heard from the clinical specialists that the most plausible relative risk reduction with DESs from the clinical evidence was likely to be in the range 50% to 60% for the base case and 61% to 70% for high-risk groups. Given the variation in data the Committee considered a relative risk reduction with DESs over BMSs of 55% in the base case, and of 65% in a sensitivity analysis for the higher risk groups were the most plausible. 4.3.8 The Committee considered the mean number of stents used for each of the risk groups from the Liverpool Cardiothoracic Centre audit data and concluded that the estimate of mean number of stents per patient (1.6 for elective patients, 1.5 for non-elective patients) was likely to be a representative figure of the number used in all patients in the UK and could be used as a base case for consideration of the benefits of DESs. 4.3.9 The Committee was mindful of data in the literature on the mortality and morbidity of CABG and repeat angiography. After reviewing the utility values in the Assessment Group's model the Committee acknowledged the possibility that there could be an additional disutility associated with CABG during the initial 6 weeks following the
