Med Oral Patol Oral Cir Bucal. 2026 May 1;31 (3):e423-30. PD-1 and Ligands in Oral SCC
KEYWORDS: pd-, oral, pd- pd-, stroma, figure, cells, significant, llscc, parenchyma, immunoexpression, tscc, observed, cell, ligands, statistically


Journal section: Oral Medicine and Pathology doi: Publication Types: Research Immunoexpression of programmed death receptor 1 and its ligands in oral cavity squamous cell carcinoma Raíssa Soares dos Anjos 1, Elton Fernandes Barros 2, Adriana Carla Barbosa Firmo 3, Cassiano Francisco Weege Nonaka 2, Marianne de Vasconcelos Carvalho 1, Gustavo Pina Godoy 3 1 Graduate Program in Dentistry, Oral HistoPathology Research Group, Faculty of Dentistry of Pernambuco and Integrated Cen- Correspondence: Anjos RS, Barros EF, Firmo ACB, Nonaka CFW, Carvalho MdV, Godoy Faculty of Dentistry of Pernambuco (FOP) GP. Immunoexpression of programmed death receptor 1 and its ligands Oswaldo Cruz University Hospital in oral cavity squamous cell carcinoma. Med Oral Patol Oral Cir Bucal. University of Pernambuco (UPE) 2026 May 1;31 (3):e423-30. doi: 310 Arnóbio Marques Street, Santo Amaro Recife, Pernambuco, 50050290. Brazil Article Number:27926 © Medicina Oral S. L. C.I.F. B 96689336 - pISSN 1698-4447 - eISSN: 1698-6946 eeMMaaiill:: mmeeddiicciinnaa@@mmeeddiicciinnaaoorraall..ccoomm Indexed in: Science Citation Index Expanded Journal Citation Reports Indice Médico Español Abstract Background: This study analyzed the immunoexpression of programmed death receptor 1 and its ligands in oral cav- ity squamous cell carcinoma and correlated the findings with histomorphological parameters. 10 in the lower lip, and 10 in the tongue) were selected. The percentages of cytoplasmic/membrane immunopositivity for programmed death receptor 1 and its ligands in neoplastic and stromal cells were evaluated at the tumor invasion front. level. Compared to floor of the mouth and palate, lower lip and tongue exhibited higher expression of programmed death receptor 1 and programmed death-ligand 2 in parenchymal cells and of programmed death receptor 1 in stro- mal cells, with statistically significant differences for programmed death receptor 1 expression in lower lip (p<0.05). Tongue presented the highest median percentages of positivity for programmed death-ligand 2, with statistically significant differences when compared to floor of the mouth (neoplastic cells and stromal cells) and lower lip (stromal cells) (p<0.05). Regarding histomorphological aspects, the inflammatory infiltrate appears to be an important factor for the immunoexpression of these proteins in oral cavity squamous cell carcinoma. Conclusions: The study suggests location-dependent differences in the antitumor immune response to oral cavity squamous cell carcinoma. Inflammatory infiltrate is key to protein immunoexpression. These findings are crucial for developing new immunotherapeutic strategies for oral cancer. Keywords: Oral squamous cell carcinoma, PD-1, PD-L1, PD-L2, immunohistochemistry. Introduction terventions often have significant adverse effects that im- Oral cavity cancer is one of the
