Med Oral Patol Oral Cir Bucal. 2026 May 1;31 (3):e423-30. PD-1 and Ligands in Oral SCC
KEYWORDS: pd-, oral, pd- pd-, stroma, figure, cells, significant, llscc, parenchyma, immunoexpression, tscc, observed, cell, ligands, statistically


immunotherapeutic strategies for oral cancer. Keywords: Oral squamous cell carcinoma, PD-1, PD-L1, PD-L2, immunohistochemistry. Introduction terventions often have significant adverse effects that im- Oral cavity cancer is one of the most common malig- pact patients' quality of life . Furthermore, nearly 50% 380.000 new cases worldwide , ranking 16th in global lighting the need for alternative therapeutic approaches [5- incidence . The primary treatment modalities include 6]. In this context, immunotherapy emerges as a promising surgery, radiotherapy, and chemotherapy , but these in- strategy by targeting immune checkpoints, thereby reduc- e423 Med Oral Patol Oral Cir Bucal. 2026 May 1;31 (3):e423-30. PD-1 and Ligands in Oral SCC ing the adverse effects of conventional treatments and im- Microsystems Vertrieb GmbH, Wetzlar, DE), using a proving clinical outcomes [7-8]. The evaluation of tumor grading system based on morphological criteria previ- microenvironment components, particularly through im- ously described in the literature . This system as- munohistochemistry (IHC), is crucial for determining pa- signs scores (1-4) to the following parameters: Degree tient eligibility for such treatments . of keratinization, nuclear pleomorphism, pattern of Squamous cell carcinoma (SCC) accounts for approxi- invasion, and inflammatory infiltrate. The individual mately 90% of malignant oral cavity tumors , and scores were summed to obtain a final malignancy score immune checkpoint blockade targeting PD-1 and its li- for each case. Tumors with a score ≤8 were considered gands (PD-L1 and PD-L2) has been investigated for this low-grade malignancies, and those with a score ≥9 were cancer type . While PD-1/PD-L1 inhibitors such as classified as high-grade malignancies . Discrepan- Pembrolizumab, Nivolumab, Atezolizumab, and Ave- cies between examiners were resolved by re-evaluating response is variable, likely due to differences in the Immunohistochemistry tumor microenvironment . Additionally, data on Histological sections of 3 μm thickness were mounted on PD-L2 expression in oral cavity cancer, particularly in silanized glass slides. The tissue sections were depar- the palate and floor of the mouth, remain scarce. Al- affinized, rehydrated and subjected to antigen retrieval though these findings support the relevance of immune with Tris-EDTA buffer, pH 9.0, at 90ºC in a steamer for checkpoint pathways in oral squamous cell carcinoma, 60 min. The sections were then immersed in 3% hydro- a deeper understanding of the tumor microenvironment gen peroxide to block endogenous tissue peroxidase. and its immunoexpression profile is essential for ad- After incubation with primary monoclonal antibodies vancing future therapeutic strategies. anti-PD-1 (dilution
