Med Oral Patol Oral Cir Bucal. 2026 May 1;31 (3):e423-30. PD-1 and Ligands in Oral SCC
KEYWORDS: pd-, oral, pd- pd-, stroma, figure, cells, significant, llscc, parenchyma, immunoexpression, tscc, observed, cell, ligands, statistically


the tumor microenvironment gen peroxide to block endogenous tissue peroxidase. and its immunoexpression profile is essential for ad- After incubation with primary monoclonal antibodies vancing future therapeutic strategies. anti-PD-1 (dilution 1:200, clone MAA751Hu21; Cloud- Therefore, this study aims to analyze the immunoex- Clone Corp., Katy, TX, USA), anti-PD-L1 (dilution pression of PD-1, PD-L1, and PD-L2 in oral cavity squa- 1:3000, clone MAA788Hu22; Cloud-Clone Corp., Katy, mous cell carcinoma (OCSCC) and its relationship with TX, USA) and anti-PD-L2 (dilution 1:3000, clone MAA- histomorphological characteristics of the tumor micro- 789Hu11; Cloud-Clone Corp., Katy, TX, USA), the sec- environment. These findings may contribute to future tions were washed with Tris-HCl buffer and treated with studies evaluating the role of immune checkpoint mol- a polymer-based complex (EnvisionTM Flex+, Dako ecules in oral cancer and their potential implications for North America Inc., Carpinteria, CA, USA). Peroxidase immunotherapeutic strategies. activity was visualized by immersing the sections in di- aminobenzidine (EnVisionTM Flex DAB+, Dako North Material and Methods America Inc., Carpinteria, CA, USA). Finally, tissue sec- Sample tions were counterstained with Harris hematoxylin, de- The sample consisted of 40 cases of OCSCC, selected hydrated and mounted with a coverslip. For all antibod- through convenience sampling, distributed into floor ies, histological sections of tonsils were used as positive of mouth squamous cell carcinoma (FMSCC), palate controls. The negative control consisted of the omission squamous cell carcinoma (PSCC), lower lip squamous of primary antibodies in the protocol described above. cell carcinoma (LLSCC), and tongue squamous cell Immunohistochemical analysis carcinoma (TSCC). Ten cases corresponding to each A previously trained examiner performed the immu- anatomical location were selected at the Integrated nohistochemical analyses in a blinded manner. Immu- Center for Pathological Anatomy of the Oswaldo Cruz noexpression of PD-1, PD-L1, and PD-L2 was quanti- Brazil. The sample size was defined by the number of described methodology . cases diagnosed between 2011 and 2024. Samples that Histological sections were scanned into high-resolution presented insufficient biological material available to digital images at 400× magnification (MoticEasyScan perform histomorphological and IHC analyses were ex- Pro 6, Motic Inc., Richmond, BC, CAN). Initially, areas cluded from the study. The Institutional Committee on of greater membranous/cytoplasmic to antibodies (hot Ethics in Research Involving Human Subjects approved spot) were evaluated at the tumor invasion front, at 100× the study (Protocol 50948021.9.0000.5195). magnification (DSAssistant, Motic Inc., Richmond, BC, Histomorphological analysis CAN). Next, five microscopic fields were photomicro- Histological sections
