Med Oral Patol Oral Cir Bucal. 2026 May 1;31 (3):e423-30. PD-1 and Ligands in Oral SCC
KEYWORDS: pd-, oral, pd- pd-, stroma, figure, cells, significant, llscc, parenchyma, immunoexpression, tscc, observed, cell, ligands, statistically


were evaluated at the tumor invasion front, at 100× the study (Protocol 50948021.9.0000.5195). magnification (DSAssistant, Motic Inc., Richmond, BC, Histomorphological analysis CAN). Next, five microscopic fields were photomicro- Histological sections of 5 μm thickness were obtained graphed in parenchyma and stroma under 400× magnifi- from formalin-fixed paraffin-embedded (FFPE) tissue cation, respectively (DSAssistant, Motic Inc., Richmond, and stained with hematoxylin and eosin (HE). Then, BC, CAN). The obtained images were transferred to the two experienced oral pathologists evaluated the histo- ImageJ® program (Imaging Processing and Analysis in under an optical microscope (Leica DM 500, Leica Immunostained cells, regardless of the intensity of brown e424 Med Oral Patol Oral Cir Bucal. 2026 May 1;31 (3):e423-30. PD-1 and Ligands in Oral SCC staining, and negative cells were counted in each pho- all groups (Table 1; Figure 2A). In the parenchyma, a tomicrographed field. Finally, the percentage of positive statistically significant difference was observed be- cells in relation to the total cells counted was determined. tween FMSCC and LLSCC (p=0.032). In the stroma, Statistical analysis no statistically significant differences were observed munohistochemical studies were analyzed using the Jamo- nopositivity for PD-L1 (p>0.05) (Figure 2 A-B). vi Project program (Version 2.6.24, Sydney, AU). Descrip- Regarding the histopathological grade of malignancy of tive statistics were used to characterize the sample. For the the carcinomas, no statistically significant differences comparisons based on the isolated grading parameters, the were observed in the immunoexpression of PD-L1, ei- following dichotomizations were used: Degree of kerati- ther in parenchyma or stroma (p>0.05) (Figure 3 A-B). nization (high/moderate and minimal/none), nuclear pleo- Similar results were observed for the degree of kera- morphism (little and moderate and abundant/extreme), tinization, nuclear pleomorphism, invasion pattern and pattern of invasion (well-delineated borders/solid cords inflammatory infiltrate (p>0.05) (Figure 3 C-J). and small groups/marked dissociation) and inflammatory PD-L2 immunoexpression infiltrate (marked/moderate and slight/none). The immu- In the parenchyma, PD-L2 immunoexpression was de- nohistochemical data were submitted to the Shapiro-Wilk tected in all cases of LLSCC and TSCC, in the majority test, which revealed absence of normal distribution. Thus, of PSCC (n=9; 90%) and to a lesser extent in FMSCC the percentage of positive cells for PD-1, PD-L1 and PD- (n=6; 60%) (Figure 1 I-L). Higher median percentages L2 were compared by the Kruskal-Wallis test, followed by of immunopositivity for PD-L2 were observed in TSCC the Dwass-Steel-Critchlow-Fligner post-hoc test, and the and LLSCC, with a statistically significant difference be-
