Med Oral Patol Oral Cir Bucal. 2026 May 1;31 (3):e423-30. PD-1 and Ligands in Oral SCC
KEYWORDS: pd-, oral, pd- pd-, stroma, figure, cells, significant, llscc, parenchyma, immunoexpression, tscc, observed, cell, ligands, statistically


2026 May 1;31 (3):e423-30. PD-1 and Ligands in Oral SCC Fig. 2: Box plot charts illustrating the percentages of immunopositive cells in FMSCC, PSCC, LLSCC and TSCC. A PD-1, PD-L1 and PD-L2 expression in parenchyma. B PD-1, PD-L1 and PD-L2 expression in stroma. focus on the anatomical sites of the floor of the mouth fers from most, as it describes the percentages of immu- and palate. Additionally, research on PD-L2 and oral cav- noexpression according to the stratification of location. ity malignancy is scarce. Our study identified that PD-L1 In this way, it was possible to determine the uniqueness exhibits greater immunoexpression in all subsites, espe- in the immunostaining of the PD-1/PL pathway for the cially at the parenchymal level. Moreover, PD-1 and PD- SCC subsites in the oral cavity. Understanding these L2 are strongly immunoexpressed in LLSCC and TSCC. differences is extremely important from an immuno- Such findings may guide future immunotherapeutic therapeutic point of view, since PD-1 and its ligands are strategies, with the possibility of concomitant blockade immunological checkpoints established in the literature of two immunological checkpoints, which until now has . However, they still represent an incipient therapy not been used for this type of tumor. for malignant tumors of the oral cavity. Regarding immunostaining, in all subsites and anti- Some methods can be used to select the immune check- bodies evaluated, however, great variation was noted point inhibitor (ICB), namely: IHC, gene expression between the anatomical regions (Figure 1 A-L). Other analysis, and positron emission tomography/computed research describes a positivity range from 1 to 98% in tomography (PET/CT). Emphasis should be placed on PD-1 , 18 to 98% in PD-L1 and 23.8 to 100% IHC, which provides reliable results in identifying criti- in PD-L2 . This large variation may be associated cal ICB proteins and is a lower-cost method compared with the use of different antibody clones [17-18], tumor to the others . PD-1 and its ligands are defined as type tissue depth assessed in Tissue Microarrays (TMA) and I transmembrane proteins [20-21] and exhibit immunos- positivity quantification methods . taining on the cell membrane . This justifies the As well, the methodology applied in this research dif- fact that the highest percentages of immunopositivity e427 Med Oral Patol Oral Cir Bucal. 2026 May 1;31 (3):e423-30. PD-1 and Ligands in Oral SCC e428 edarg lacigolotsiH B dna A .sretemarap lacigolohtapotsih ot gnidrocca amorts dna amyhcnerap
