Med Oral Patol Oral Cir Bucal. 2026 May 1;31 (3):e423-30. PD-1 and Ligands in Oral SCC
KEYWORDS: pd-, oral, pd- pd-, stroma, figure, cells, significant, llscc, parenchyma, immunoexpression, tscc, observed, cell, ligands, statistically


e427 Med Oral Patol Oral Cir Bucal. 2026 May 1;31 (3):e423-30. PD-1 and Ligands in Oral SCC e428 edarg lacigolotsiH B dna A .sretemarap lacigolohtapotsih ot gnidrocca amorts dna amyhcnerap ni 2L-DP dna 1L-DP ,1-DP rof sllec evitisoponummi fo segatnecrep eht gnitartsulli strahc tolp xoB :3 .giF .etartlfini yrotammaflnI J dna I .noisavni fo nrettaP H dna G .msihpromoelp raelcuN F dna E .noitazinitarek fo eergeD D dna C .ycnangilam fo in all the analyzed checkpoints occurred in the paren- chyma and not in the stroma (Table 1; Figure 1 A-L). Furthermore, the fact that PD-1 is the receptor for PD- L1 and PD-L2 may justify the statistically significant differences observed between the groups (Figure 2). Among the three proteins, PD-L1 showed greater im- munoexpression in all anatomical locations (Table 1; Figure 1 A-L). It is important to note that PD-1 interacts exclusively with PD-L1/PD-L2. PD-1 engagement with its ligands inhibits T-cell activation signaling through the T-Cell Receptor (TCR) . An interesting finding is that the B7:CD28 family revealed additional costimu- latory pathways that may provide second positive and negative signals to antigen-experienced effector T cells. Additionally, research identifies B7-1 (CD80) as a bind- ing partner for PD-L1 and indicates that PD-L1 inter- actions with B7-1 may lead to bidirectional inhibitory responses in T cells . Moreover, PD-L2 has a sequence similar to PD-L1 in approximately 60%. Although both PD-1 ligands are found on tumor cells and during chronic infections, PD- L2 expression is comparatively lower than that of PD- L1 . Also some tumors are PD-L1 positive and PD-L2 negative . Therefore, the interaction of PD- L1 with B7-1 (CD80) may justify why PD-L1 is more immunoexpressed than PD-1 and PD-L2 in OCSCC. However, in our study, the percentage of immunoposi- tivity for PD-L2 was high in TSCC (parenchyma and stroma) (Table 1; Figure 1L). As well several statisti- cally significant values were associated with anatomi- cal location (Figure 2). These findings suggest the rel- evance of PD-L2 for the anatomical subsites of TSCC. Some immunotherapeutics for head and neck cancer targeting the PD-1/PD-L1 pathway have already been response . In order to understand the reason for this discrepancy, it is necessary to understand the basic prin- ciple of immunotherapy. It consists of the modulation of the tumor-host immunological interaction and the in- filtration of immune cells is a prominent pathological feature of OCSCC . This feature is suggested
