Med Oral Patol Oral Cir Bucal. 2026 May 1;31 (3):e423-30. PD-1 and Ligands in Oral SCC
KEYWORDS: pd-, oral, pd- pd-, stroma, figure, cells, significant, llscc, parenchyma, immunoexpression, tscc, observed, cell, ligands, statistically


immunotherapy. It consists of the modulation of the tumor-host immunological interaction and the in- filtration of immune cells is a prominent pathological feature of OCSCC . This feature is suggested to be a manifestation of an immune response between tumor cells and effector cells of the immune system . Cancers can be classified into three profiles, including the immune desert phenotype, immune excluded phe- notype, and immune inflammatory phenotype . A good clinical response of tumors with inflammatory phenotype after anti-PD-1/PD-L1 therapy is described. One possible explanation is high T cell recruitment . For this reason, it is important to understand the histomorphological patterns, especially regarding the histopathological grade of malignancy. The character- ization and quantification of the tumor inflammatory infiltrate can be performed using morphological criteria described in the literature . Med Oral Patol Oral Cir Bucal. 2026 May 1;31 (3):e423-30. PD-1 and Ligands in Oral SCC The findings of this research showed that among the Acknowledgement four parameters evaluated by the authors, the only rel- Declared none. evant item for the expression of these proteins was the Institutional Review Board Statement inflammatory infiltrate (Figure 3 C-J). In the stroma This study was approved by the Ethics Committee of the Fundação de p-values close to statistical significance. However, for under protocol number 4.962.573 and CAAE 50948021.9.0000.5195. The research was conducted in accordance with the ethical standards PD-1, there was no overlap between the boxes, which of the institution and the Brazilian National Health Council (Resolu- also suggests interesting results. The findings lead to tions CNS nº 466/12 and nº 510/16). the assumption that even tumors with scarce inflamma- tory infiltrate may exhibit high immunoexpression. Re- Author Contributions garding histomorphological aspects, the inflammatory Raíssa Soares dos Anjos: Conception and design, data collection, laboratory work, manuscript drafting. infiltrate appears to be an important factor for the im- Elton Fernandes Barros: Performed immunohistochemistry experi- munoexpression of these proteins in OCSCC. ments and contributed to manuscript review. PD-1/PD-L1 inhibitors are available, each with a unique Cassiano Francisco Weege Nonaka: Statistical analysis, guidance, molecular structure and target profile. Examples of such support in immunohistochemistry, and manuscript review. Marianne de Vasconcelos Carvalho: Supervision, critical review, inhibitors include: Peptide-based PD-1/PD-L1 inhibitors, and final approval of the manuscript. small molecule-based inhibitors, PD-1/PD-L1 inhibitors Gustavo Pina Godoy: Co-supervision and general guidance. and antibody-based PD-1/PD-L1 inhibitors . Current- Adriana Carla Barbosa Firmo: Assisted in manuscript preparation ly, monoclonal antibody-based
