Despotov et al. BMC Neurology (2022) 22:178
KEYWORDS: disease, wilson, wilson disease, patient, symptoms, case, mri, multiple, reported, left, allele, white, lesions, test, treatment


Despotov et al. BMC Neurology (2022) 22:178 CASE REPORT Open Access Rare co-occurrence of multiple sclerosis and Wilson’s disease – case report Katalin Despotov1, Péter Klivényi1, István Nagy2, Attila Pálvölgyi2, László Vécsei1,3,4 and Cecília Rajda1* Abstract Background: Wilson’s disease is a hereditary disorder of copper metabolism resulting mainly in hepatic, neurologi- cal, and psychiatric symptoms. Multiple sclerosis (MS) is an immune-mediated demyelinating disease affecting the central nervous system (CNS). The co-occurrence of these two, although not unheard of in literature, is still considered to be very rare and can give rise to diagnostic difficulties. Also, comorbidity in MS highly influences quality of life and disease progression, which makes the timely diagnosis and treatment of these conditions essential. Case presentation: The aim of this study is to present a patient exhibiting symptoms of both MS and Wilson’s disease, as well as to conduct a detailed review of previously reported cases. The patient’s neurological symptoms (sensory disorder) as well as MRI and CSF findings were characteristic for MS. The diagnosis of MS preceded that of Wilson’s disease and was relatively mild in course. Currently, the patient receives cladribine as an immunomodulatory treatment after escalation from glatiramer acetate therapy. Apart from one episode of acute hepatic decompensa- tion, during which transfusion, albumin supplementation and diuretic treatment was necessary, Wilson’s disease manifested as chronic impairment of liver function. The diagnosis of Wilson’s disease was established by the analysis of serum coeruloplasmin levels, histological examination and genetic findings. Continuous oral penicillamine therapy led to the slow normalization of hepatic function and significant amelioration of the patient’s symptoms. Correlating with cases previously reported, the course of MS was relatively mild, and like in three out of four other known cases, the symptoms of Wilson’s disease were mostly restricted to hepatic dysfunction. Conclusion: The case presented in our report is similar to those reported before. The co-occurrence of the two diseases seems to be more a coincidence than a sharing of common factors in their pathogenesis; however, they are considered to influence one another. Regarding rare co-occurrences such as this one, every new case is of high istic of these cases, thus aiding the estimation of disease course as well as possible therapeutic choices. Keywords: Multiple sclerosis, Wilson’s disease, Co-morbidity, Point mutation, Case report Background psychiatric symptoms. The disease shows an autosomal Wilson’s disease is a hereditary disorder of copper cir- recessive line of inheritance, and it
