Despotov et al. BMC Neurology (2022) 22:178
KEYWORDS: disease, wilson, wilson disease, patient, symptoms, case, mri, multiple, reported, left, allele, white, lesions, test, treatment


EDSS was sent a patient with the co-occurrence of MS and Wilson’s 1, the symbol digit modality test was 56, the 25 ft test was disease. Although not unheard of in literature [7–9], such 5.75 and 5.40 seconds, and the 9 hole peg test was 23.2 constellation is still considered to be very rare and can and 19.1 seconds for the dominant right hand and 22.7 give rise to diagnostic difficulties as well as affect thera- and 21.1 seconds for the left hand. After an elective sur- peutic choices. gery because of a pleiomorphic adenoma of the parotid gland, immunomodulatory treatment (glatiramer ace- Case presentation tate) was initiated in 2019, which proved to be successful A 33-year-old female administrator, who gave her writ- in preventing further relapses with no issues concerning ten informed consent for publication, was admitted to adherence and tolerability. hyperprolactinaemia, due to which she received bro- 2013, a thorough gastrointestinal examination was con- mocriptine treatment. Investigations concerning family ducted due to constipation and flatulency. Accompa- history revealed no relevant immunological or genetic nying symptoms were anxiety, avoiding behavior, and conditions. eating problems. To evade uncomfortable situations She presented with limb ataxia and tactile sensory loss at her workplace due to flatulency, the patient woke up in both legs, accompanied by paresthesia of the hands at 4:00 in the morning to eat and fasted until the end and feet as well as anxiety and dysthymia (Fig. 1). of the working hours. She behaved the same way in the Nerve conduction study excluded peripheral neuropa- company of relatives. Consequently, she became under- thy. Cervicothoracic spinal cord MRI showed no struc- weight. Gastric, duodenal, coecum and colon biopsy tural changes. Cranial MRI revealed bilateral, multiple showed chronic, mild and non-specific signs of inflam- periventricular white matter lesions, including a gadolin- mation. Coeliac disease and alimentary allergy screen- ium enhancing lesion in the left occipital area, as well as ing was normal. Elevated liver enzymes were found in a juxtacortical lesion in the left frontal lobe, and a lesion the serum, due to which several tests were performed in the left thalamus (Fig. 2). In the cerebrospinal fluid to investigate an infective or immunological etiology, (CSF), elevated IgG index (2.31; elevated when > 0.67) all yielding negative results. During the gastrointesti- and oligoclonal bands (OCB) were detected. Cobalamine nal follow-up in 2014, the suspicion of Wilsons’s disease and folate levels were
