Despotov et al. BMC Neurology (2022) 22:178
KEYWORDS: disease, wilson, wilson disease, patient, symptoms, case, mri, multiple, reported, left, allele, white, lesions, test, treatment


when > 0.67) all yielding negative results. During the gastrointesti- and oligoclonal bands (OCB) were detected. Cobalamine nal follow-up in 2014, the suspicion of Wilsons’s disease and folate levels were within the physiological range. The was raised (Fig. 1). Serum ceruloplasmin levels were sig- CSF neurofilament light chain level was 1904 pg/ml, ret- nificantly decreased (0.092 g/l). Kayser-Fleischer ring rospectively. Parenteral methyl-prednisolone therapy was not detected. In 2015, she was hospitalized because was initiated (3.5 g during the course of 4 days), leading of massive lower limb edema, hypoproteinemia, ane- to improvement in the neurological symptoms. Based mia, and ascites. Laboratory test results were consistent criteria for dissemination in space and time were fulfilled displayed hepatomegaly and ascites. Extended virologi- in accordance with the McDonald Criteria of 2010 , cal tests showed negative results. Liver biopsy proved and the diagnosis of multiple sclerosis was established. chronic hepatic cirrhosis with copper accumulation. Despite international recommendations, at that time, the Genetic testing detected heterozygosity for the H1069Q national therapeutic protocols did not support immu- and R778Q mutations of the ATP7B gene, both of which nomodulatory treatment for patients with only one clini- are missense point mutations classified as pathogenic. cal event, while the patient herself was strongly opposed Based on these findings, the diagnosis of Wilson’s dis- to long-term medication. For these reasons, at this point, ease could be established . There were no neurologi- disease modifying therapy could not be initiated. In 2014, cal symptoms typical of Wilson’s disease. At the time a follow-up MRI scan indicated left optic neuritis with of severe hepatic decompensation, transfusion, paren- no progression of white matter lesions. Visual evoked teral albumin supplementation, and oral diuretic treat- potentials (VEP) revealed increased latency on both sides ment were necessary. Subsequently, oral penicillamine of systemic immunological diseases with potential CNS present day. This treatment led to the slow normaliza- involvement were examined and found to be within nor- tion of hepatic function and significant amelioration of mal range. Serologic tests ruled out a potential infectious the patient’s symptoms, including the disappearance Fig. 1 Disease course of multiple sclerosis and Wilson’s disease with relevant diagnostic findings. The signs, symptoms, test results, and therapy are indicated on the timeline. Left to the timeline arrow are the findings regarding multiple sclerosis, right to the timeline arrow are the results of the gastrointestinal tract examination. †Analyzed retrospectively in 2019. Abbreviations: LE –
