Despotov et al. BMC Neurology (2022) 22:178
KEYWORDS: disease, wilson, wilson disease, patient, symptoms, case, mri, multiple, reported, left, allele, white, lesions, test, treatment


to the timeline arrow are the findings regarding multiple sclerosis, right to the timeline arrow are the results of the gastrointestinal tract examination. †Analyzed retrospectively in 2019. Abbreviations: LE – lower extremity, UE: upper extremity, NCS – nerve conduction study, NFL – neurofilament light chain, OCB – oligoclonal band, SSEP – somatosensory evoked potentials, VEP – visual evoked potentials, MRI – magnetic resonance imaging, US – ultrasound, “ ” – increased/elevated, “ ” decreased ↑ ↓ of edema and ascites, as well as an improvement in her with loss of vibration in both lower limbs in 2021, mood and appetite. which led to therapy escalation to cladribine. During The patient was followed by a hepatologist moni- the last examination, EDSS was 3 (due to sensory func- toring liver function, performing laboratory tests and tional score), the symbol digit modality test result was abdominal US as well as by a neurologist clinically. The 51, the 25 ft walking test was 6.13 and 5.57 seconds, and patient displayed MRI progression (novel lesions in the 9 hole peg test was 20.24 and 19.4 seconds for the both frontal lobes as well as in the pons), and a relapse dominant right hand, while 24.96 and 23.28 seconds for the subdominant left hand. Fig. 2 Brain MRI scans upon first admission. Axial T2 scan (A) shows a lesion in the left thalamus (full white arrow). Axial FLAIR (B) and sagittal FLAIR CUBE with gadolinium contrast media (C-D) scans reveal multiple periventricular white matter lesions typical for MS including a gadolinium enhancing lesion in the left occipital area, as well as a juxtacortical lesion in the left frontal region Discussion and conclusions side optic neuritis found during a follow-up MRI scan, In this study, we present a patient diagnosed with both neither of which is usually found in Wilson’s disease. MS and Wilson’s disease. It is well recognized in lit- In 2019 and in 2021, the decision for immunomodula- erature that Wilson’s disease can cause a wide variety tory treatment was made taking into consideration the of CNS changes, the most frequent of which being the potential hepatotoxicity of these therapies. During clin- involvement of the basal ganglia, thalami and brain- ical and laboratory follow-up, both disease-modifying stem as well as the cerebral white matter, especially therapies proved to be a safe choice with no alteration the corpus callosum [11–14]. While some of the white of
