Despotov et al. BMC Neurology (2022) 22:178
KEYWORDS: disease, wilson, wilson disease, patient, symptoms, case, mri, multiple, reported, left, allele, white, lesions, test, treatment


disease-modifying stem as well as the cerebral white matter, especially therapies proved to be a safe choice with no alteration the corpus callosum [11–14]. While some of the white of hepatic function, despite the just recently revealed matter lesions seen in this case might be contributed to potential hepatotoxicity of cladribine. Wilson’s disease, gadolinium enhancement as detected Apart from the one presented in this study, four in the left occipital area upon first admission, as well other cases with coexisting Wilson’s disease and MS as spinal cord involvement occurring during the sec- could be found in the literature (Table 1) [7–9]. All five ond relapse is not characteristic for Wilson’s disease known patients had CSF OCBs and MRI white mat- . Considering that these lesions were detected ter lesions typical of MS with a mild disease course in two different regions, approximately 5 years apart, in [7–9]. Pathological changes of the basal ganglia typi- dissemination in space and time for MS could be ful- reported by Yetkin et al. , while in two other cases filled . This diagnosis was also supported by the pres- there were thalamic lesions also often present in Wil- ence of OCBs in the CSF as well as the subclinical left son’s disease . Four out of five patients were type of mutation present on the second allele, as well as other genetic and environmental factors . Only [PATIENT]. reported by Dziezyc et al. exhibited neuro- logical symptoms (hypomimia, sialorrhea, dysarthria, postural and intention tremor) which can be attrib- uted to Wilson’s disease [7–9]. Apart from the patient with an onset at age 12 reported by Gunther et al., the other four patients were diagnosed with Wilson’s dis- ease during adulthood preceded by the diagnosis of MS [7–9]. While the patient reported by Yetkin et al. had signs of encephalopathy of hepatic origin , it is questionable whether the personality changes reported by Dziezyc et al. or the mood disorders described in the present study can be regarded as a primary result of either of the diseases . While the prevalence of MS in Europe and North- America is around 100/100000 (ranging from 50 to 130/100000 in Europe), Wilson’s disease is considered to be a rather rare disease with a prevalence of 1:30.000 (3:100000) . In Hungary, the total number of Wilson’s disease patients is estimated to be around 300 . Since the probability of
