Despotov et al. BMC Neurology (2022) 22:178
KEYWORDS: disease, wilson, wilson disease, patient, symptoms, case, mri, multiple, reported, left, allele, white, lesions, test, treatment


rather rare disease with a prevalence of 1:30.000 (3:100000) . In Hungary, the total number of Wilson’s disease patients is estimated to be around 300 . Since the probability of a co-occurrence between the two diseases by coincidence is statistically low, it would be reasonable to consider some sort of connec- tion. One possibility could be that rather than a co- existence, the cases described above might be atypical manifestations of one disease, though to our knowl- edge, so far, there is no evidence of a common patho- genic factor. Another possibility could be a connection at the genetic level. While the etiology of MS is not entirely understood, it is thought to be multifactorial, and there are several genetic factors that are suspected to play a role in susceptibility to the disease . The- oretically, it is possible that there is a linkage between one of these susceptibility genes and the ATP7B gene Fig. 3 Brain and thoracic spine MRI scans: first admission (left) and second relapse (right). Axial FLAIR and sagittal FLAIR CUBE scans associated with Wilson’s disease. This theory could of the brain (B, D) as well as sagittal and axial T2 scans of the lower be supported by the fact that [PATIENT]. reported by thoracic spinal region (F, H) taken in 2018 present novel lesions (black Dziezyc et al., had one sibling diagnosed with Wilson’s arrows, white arrow) compared to scans of the same quality and level disease and another with MS (Table 1). Despite the from 2013 (A, C, E, G) above-mentioned possibilities, the co-occurrence of the two diseases still seems to be more a coincidence than a sharing of common factors in their pathogen- detected with heterozygosity for the H1069Q muta- esis; however, the two conditions are considered to tion of the ATP7B gene . This could be related to influence one another. Some authors suggest that the fact that these four patients are from populations the higher levels of copper in the central nervous sys- where this mutation is considered to have an especially tem may further promote neurodegeneration in MS, high allele frequency: Poland (72%), Germany (47.9%) while, on the other hand, elevated serum copper con- and Hungary (42.9%) . Previous studies centration, as well as D-penicillamine treatment has indicate that the phenotype of Wilson’s disease shows immunosuppressive effects, which could explain the considerable variability even amongst patients with relatively mild course
