Despotov et al. BMC Neurology (2022) 22:178
KEYWORDS: disease, wilson, wilson disease, patient, symptoms, case, mri, multiple, reported, left, allele, white, lesions, test, treatment


centration, as well as D-penicillamine treatment has indicate that the phenotype of Wilson’s disease shows immunosuppressive effects, which could explain the considerable variability even amongst patients with relatively mild course of MS in these cases. The lack the same genotype, and it has been suggested that the of means to examine the relationship and interactions clinical presentation in compound heterozygotes car- between the two conditions could be considered a lim- rying the H1069Q mutation is also determined by the itation of this case report. Table 1 Comparison of known cases with co-occurrence of MS and Wilson’s disease [PATIENT] [PATIENT] Patient III [PATIENT] Present Case Age of onset 25 years 33 years 12 years 42 years 33 years Extrapyramidal symp- hypomimia, sialorrhea, – – – – toms dysarthria, tremor, ataxia Sensory symptoms – – sensory disturbances in sensory disturbances sensory disturbances both legs on the right side of the in both legs, four limb face and body paresthesia First diagnosed MS MS Wilson’s disease MS MS Course of MS mild mild mild mild showing activity while on platform therapy Psychiatric symptoms behavior disorder – – sings of encephalopa- mood disorder, anxiety thy MRI lesions (location) periventricular WM, periventricular WM periventricular WM, periventricular and periventricular WM, pons, cerebellum, spinal cord subcortical WM, corpus thalamus, spinal cord thalamus callosum, spinal cord, basal ganglia CSF OCBs IgG index , OCBs IgG index , OCBs OCBs IgG index , OCBs ↑ ↑ ↑ Kayser-Fleischer ring – NA – + + Serum ceruloplasmin normal ↓ ↓ ↓ ↓ Genetic test (ATP7B 1. allele: H1069Q 1. allele: H1069Q 1. allele: H1069Q 1. allele: R778L 1. allele: H1069Q gene) 2. allele: Q1351X 2. allele: A1135fs 2. allele: c.2305insC, 2. allele: R778L 2. allele: R778Q Codon 769, Exon 8 Familial occurrence 1. sibling: MS 1. sibling: Wilson’s NA none none 2. sibling: Wilson’s disease disease Abbreviations: MS multiple sclerosis, NA not available, OCB oligoclonal band, WM white matter, “- “– not present, “ ” – present, “ ” – decreased + ↓ Although the case presented in our report was similar to Availability of data and materials The datasets generated during and/or analysed during the current study are those reported before, due to the rareness of such co-occur- available from the corresponding author on reasonable request. rence, each new case is of high importance, as it enables us to better evaluate and understand which clinical presenta- Declarations tions are
