Despotov et al. BMC Neurology (2022) 22:178
KEYWORDS: disease, wilson, wilson disease, patient, symptoms, case, mri, multiple, reported, left, allele, white, lesions, test, treatment


from the corresponding author on reasonable request. rence, each new case is of high importance, as it enables us to better evaluate and understand which clinical presenta- Declarations tions are more characteristic of these cases, providing aid in the estimation of disease course as well as in possible thera- Ethics approval and consent to participate Written informed consent for to participate was obtained from the patient. peutic choices, considering, for example, the potential liver All investigations including human participants were in accordance with the toxicity of disease-modifying treatments in MS. ethical standards of the institutional and/or national research committee and with the 1964 Helsinki declaration and its later amendments or comparable ethical standards. Abbreviations ATP7B gene: Adenosine-Triphosphatase-Copper Transporting Beta Polypep- Consent for publication tide; CNS: Central nervous system; EDSS: Expanded Disability Status Scale; Written informed consent for publication was obtained from the patient. MRI: Magnetic resonance imaging; MS: Multiple sclerosis; US: Ultrasound; VEP: Visual evoked potentials; WD: Wilson’s disease. Competing interests Katalin Despotov has received support for congress participation from Teva. Péter Acknowledgements Klivényi has not reported conflict of interest. István Nagy has not reported conflict Many thanks to Gabriella Tick for the English proofreading. of interest. Attila Pálvölgyi has not reported conflict of interest. László Vécsei has served as advisory board member and has received support for congress partici- Authors’ contributions pation or received speaker honoraria from Biogen, Merck, Novartis, Roche, Sanofi KD, CR collected data and contributed to writing the manuscript. PK, LV, AP, IN, Genzyme, and Teva. Cecilia Rajda has received support for congress participation CR interpreted the data and revised the manuscript. All authors have read and from Roche and Biogen, received honoraria for lecturing from Teva. approved the final manuscript. Author details Grant number 4637. The funding body did not play any roles in the design of Szeged, Hungary. 4 Faculty of Medicine, Interdisciplinary Excellence Center, manuscript. Received: 15 November 2021 Accepted: 28 April 2022
