Ambulatory antibiotic prescribing for acute bronchitis and
KEYWORDS: bronchitis, antibiotic, respiratory, acute, prescribing, hospitalizations, infections, acute bronchitis, data, study, usa, antibiotics, cough, antibiotic prescribing, years


JOURNAL OF THE ROYAL SOCIETY OF MEDICINE Volume 99 July 2006 admissions for major complications of respiratory tract (ICD–9–CM).The NAMCS and NHAMCS drug lists use infections.12 None of these studiesdirectlylinked antibiotic generic drug names. For the current study we focused on prescribing behaviour for treatment for specific conditions prescribing for acute bronchitis (466), bronchitis not (e.g. bronchitis). otherwise specified (490) and cough (786.2) as the primary In the USA, although antibiotic prescribing for acute diagnosis.Uptosixmedicationspervisitcanberecordedat bronchitis among adults decreased during the 1990s, it is the visit. Medications given either as samples or by unclear whether changes in antibiotic prescribing were prescription are included, and are referred to as prescribed associated with hospitalizations for respiratory illness. The in this study. Antibiotic prescription for each visit was purpose of this study was therefore to examine the identified by using both trade and generic named relationship between ambulatory physician antibiotic antimicrobial agents assigned by NAMCS and NHAMCS prescribing behaviour for acute bronchitis and cough with toeachmedicationprescribed.Becausethediagnosiscannot between 1998 and 2003. likelihood that an antibiotic prescription was unrelated to theprincipaldiagnosis,wecountedonlythoseprescriptions entered as the primary medicationrelatedto the office visit METHODS on the patient record form. The current study is focused on adults aged 18–64 years. Data were obtained from three annual nationally Hospitalizations for respiratory representative surveys of the USA collected from 1996– tract infections 2003. We focused on individuals 18–64 because they account for more than 66% of ambulatory visits for acute NHDS is conducted each year by the NCHS to collect bronchitis/coughduringthe8-yearperiod,andolderadults information regarding the characteristics of discharged havemoreco-morbiditiesaffectinglikelihoodofhospitaliza- inpatients. Approximately 500 short-term, non-federal tion for respiratory infections regardless of the use of hospitals across the country are used in the sample. From antibiotics.Twoofthesurveysfocusonproviderbehaviour these hospitals, nearly 270000 inpatient records are inambulatorycare.TheNationalAmbulatoryMedicalCare collected each year. Medical Care Survey (NHAMCS) focus on provider track personal medical care, but rather collects data on behaviour in ambulatory care. The National Hospital individual inpatient stays. These data provide a summary Discharge Survey (NHDS) focuses on hospitalizations in view of the burden of illness based on the morbidity of acute care hospitals. hospitalization. We operationalized inpatient stays for respiratory infections as hospitalizations with an associated ICD–9–CM code for any of the seven following recorded Ambulatory prescribing behaviour for acute diagnoses. These included: bronchitis/cough The NAMCS samples non-federally employed office-based . pneumonia (481.xx–486.xx) physicianswhoareprimarilyengagedindirectpatientcare; . acute bronchitis or bronchiolitis (466.xx) NHAMCS collects data from hospital outpatient and . bronchiectasis
