Morbidity and Mortality Weekly Report
KEYWORDS: hbv, vaccine, persons, infection, hepb, anti-hbs, dose, infants, hbsag, testing, vaccination, hepatitis, hepb vaccine, hbv infection, series


G and preventive medicine specialists), federal and state public MSM men who have sex with men NNDSS National Notifiable Diseases Surveillance reviewed epidemiology and literature, directed an economic System analysis, and deliberated upon recommendations. The PHBPP Perinatal Hepatitis B Prevention Program Work Group considered existing published ACIP and CDC PWID persons who inject drugs vaccine recommendations in summarizing recommendations QALY quality-adjusted life-year contained herein for the prevention of HBV infection. STI sexually transmitted infection This report updates and supplants ACIP recommendations VAERS Vaccine Adverse Events Reporting System for HepB vaccination of children and adults published VSD Vaccine Safety Datalink previously (7,8). This report incorporates ACIP and CDC recommendations published previously (9–11). Guidelines from AASLD inform the use of antiviral studies conducted worldwide and published in English since therapy among pregnant women with elevated HBV DNA 2000. All studies yielding pertinent information were eligible for the purpose of preventing perinatal HBV transmission. for inclusion. Search results were supplemented by additional Surveillance data were obtained from the National Notifiable relevant papers identified by subject matter experts on the Diseases Surveillance System (NNDSS) ( Work Group. Per the ACIP process, it was predetermined that gov/nndss/). Grading of Recommendations Assessment, Development and Data informing clarifications to the recommendations were Evaluation (GRADE) was not required for these updates of summarized on the basis of findings from literature searches existing recommendations. that were completed on May 11, 2016. Two search terms were To assess vaccine safety, the Work Group searched two used to ascertain data regarding maximum number of doses postlicensure surveillance systems for adverse events from for dialysis patients and minimum intervals for dialysis dosing: 2005 through 2015: the Vaccine Adverse Events Reporting “Hepatitis b vacc* dialysis boost*” and “Dialysis hepatitis b System (VAERS) ( and the Vaccine vacc* schedule.” Epidemiologic and vaccine coverage data were Safety Datalink (VSD) ( reviewed, as well as publicly available data on the number ensuringsafety/monitoring/vsd). VAERS is a national passive of infant abandonments and safely surrendered infants. The surveillance system, and VSD conducts population-based literature searches included clinical trials and comparative vaccine safety studies. VAERS can generate vaccine safety hypotheses but cannot assess causality and is subject to several limitations, including reporting biases and inconsistent data Recommendations and Reports quality (12,13). VSD can be used to assess hypotheses that (Kentucky, Tennessee, and West Virginia) increased 114% and arise from reviews of medical literature, reports to VAERS, was associated with
