Morbidity and Mortality Weekly Report
KEYWORDS: hbv, vaccine, persons, infection, hepb, anti-hbs, dose, infants, hbsag, testing, vaccination, hepatitis, hepb vaccine, hbv infection, series


quality (12,13). VSD can be used to assess hypotheses that (Kentucky, Tennessee, and West Virginia) increased 114% and arise from reviews of medical literature, reports to VAERS, was associated with increasing injection-drug use (16). new vaccines (14). that approximately 850,000 persons are living with HBV During February–September 2016, the Work Group held infection (prevalence) in the United States (17,18). Studies five teleconference meetings. Work Group and ACIP members based on data from countries of persons migrating to the also reviewed and commented on a draft of the statement prior United States and census data indicate that the total prevalence to the ACIP’s October 2016 meeting. A summary of Work of chronic hepatitis B might be as high as 2.2 million persons At that time, ACIP members voted to approve a draft HepB might be conservative. Foreign-born persons account for vaccine recommendations statement, including recommending approximately 95% of newly reported chronic infections in the universal HepB vaccination within 24 hours of birth for United States (20); the prevalence of chronic HBV infection medically stable infants weighing ≥2,000 grams. In January is approximately 3.5% among foreign-born persons (19), and 2017, the Work Group held a teleconference meeting to review the majority of chronic HBV infections in the United States results of an economic analysis of single-dose revaccination are among Asians/Pacific Islanders. for infants born to HBsAg-positive women. Results from that analysis were presented to ACIP on February 22, 2017. Strategy to Eliminate HBV Recommendations were not evaluated using GRADE, but In 1991, the United States adopted a strategy for universal expert opinion was used to shape the recommendations. At HepB vaccination of infants (21). A comprehensive strategy that time, ACIP members voted to approve language for single- to eliminate HBV transmission evolved over the ensuing three dose revaccination for infants (regardless of birth weight) born decades and encompasses 1) routine testing of all pregnant to HBsAg-positive women. Modifications were made to the women for HBsAg and prophylaxis for infants born to HBsAg- ACIP statement during the subsequent review process at CDC positive mothers, 2) universal vaccination of infants beginning at to update and clarify wording in the report. birth, 3) routine vaccination of previously unvaccinated children and adolescents, and 4) vaccination of adults at risk for HBV HBV Background infection (7–11,21–26). Preventing perinatal transmission relies upon testing all pregnant women for HBsAg and administering Epidemiology timely prophylaxis (HepB vaccine and hepatitis B
