Morbidity and Mortality Weekly Report
KEYWORDS: hbv, vaccine, persons, infection, hepb, anti-hbs, dose, infants, hbsag, testing, vaccination, hepatitis, hepb vaccine, hbv infection, series


2. Strategy to eliminate HBV transmission in the United States* serotypes and genotypes vary geographically. Infection or • Screening of all pregnant women for HBsAg immunization with one genotype generally confers immunity – HBV DNA testing for HBsAg-positive pregnant to all genotypes (7,44,46,47). women, with suggestion of maternal antiviral HBV is highly infectious, can be transmitted in the absence therapy to reduce perinatal transmission when of visible blood (22), and remains infectious on environmental HBV DNA is >200,000 IU/mL surfaces for at least 7 days (2,3). All HBsAg-positive persons are – Prophylaxis (HepB vaccine and HBIG) for infants infectious, but those with elevated HBV DNA or those with born to HBsAg-positive† women hepatitis B e antigen (HBeAg), a protein from the hepatitis B • Universal vaccination of all infants beginning at virus that circulates in the blood and is a marker of infectivity, birth§,¶ as a safeguard for infants born to HBV- are most infectious. Persons with occult HBV infection (i.e., infected mothers not identified prenatally those who test negative for HBsAg but have detectable HBV • Routine vaccination of previously unvaccinated DNA) also might transmit infection (48). children aged <19 years HBV is transmitted through percutaneous, mucosal, • Vaccination of adults at risk for HBV infection, or nonintact skin exposure to infectious blood or body including those requesting protection from HBV fluids. HBV is concentrated most highly in blood, and without acknowledgment of a specific risk factor percutaneous exposure is an efficient mode of transmission. Semen and vaginal secretions are infectious, and HBV also * Sources: Mast EE, Margolis HS, Fiore AE, et al. A comprehensive can be detected in saliva, tears, and bile. Cerebrospinal fluid, immunization strategy to eliminate transmission of hepatitis B virus synovial fluid, pleural fluid, peritoneal fluid, pericardial fluid, infection in the United States: recommendations of the Advisory Committee on Immunization Practices (ACIP). Part 1: immunization of and amniotic fluid are also considered potentially infectious. infants, children, and adolescents. MMWR Recomm Rep 2005;54(No. Urine, feces, vomitus, nasopharyngeal washings, sputum, RR-16):1–31; Mast EE, Weinbaum CM, Fiore AE, et al. A comprehensive and sweat are not efficient vehicles of transmission unless immunization strategy to eliminate transmission of hepatitis B virus infection in the United States: recommendations of the Advisory they contain blood because they contain low quantities of Committee on Immunization Practices (ACIP). Part II: immunization infectious HBV. HBsAg found in breast milk is also unlikely of
