Morbidity and Mortality Weekly Report
KEYWORDS: hbv, vaccine, persons, infection, hepb, anti-hbs, dose, infants, hbsag, testing, vaccination, hepatitis, hepb vaccine, hbv infection, series


the Advisory they contain blood because they contain low quantities of Committee on Immunization Practices (ACIP). Part II: immunization infectious HBV. HBsAg found in breast milk is also unlikely of adults. MMWR Recomm Rep 2006;55(No. RR-16):1–33. to lead to transmission, and hence HBV infection is not a † Refer to Table 3 for prophylaxis recommendations for infants born to women with unknown HBsAg status. contraindication to breastfeeding (2,7,22). § Within 24 hours of birth for medically stable infants weighing ≥2,000 grams. Among adults, HBV is transmitted primarily by percutaneous ¶ Refer to Table 3 for birth dose recommendations for infants weighing <2,000 grams. exposure to blood (e.g., by injection-drug use) and sexual contact. HBV is transmitted efficiently by sexual contact both among heterosexuals and among men who have sex Clinical Features and Natural History with men (MSM). Risk factors for sexual transmission among Clinical manifestations of HBV infection range from heterosexuals include having unprotected sex with an infected asymptomatic infection to fulminant hepatitis. The average partner, having unprotected sex with more than one partner, incubation period is 60 days (range: 40–90 days) from exposure and a history of another sexually transmitted infection (STI). to onset of abnormal serum ALT levels and 90 days (range: Risk factors associated with sexual transmission among MSM 60–150 days) from exposure to onset of jaundice (8,42,43). include having multiple sex partners, history of another Infants, children aged <5 years, and immunosuppressed adults STI, and anal intercourse. Transmission can occur from with newly acquired HBV infection typically are asymptomatic, interpersonal contact (e.g., sharing a toothbrush or razor, whereas symptomatic illness is noted in 30%–50% of older contact with exudates from dermatologic lesions, or contact children, adolescents, and adults (7,8,44,50). When present, with HBsAg-contaminated surfaces) and in settings such as signs and symptoms include nausea, vomiting, abdominal schools, child care centers, and facilities for developmentally pain, fever, dark urine, changes in stool color, hepatomegaly, disabled persons. Transmission of HBV from transfusion of splenomegaly, and jaundice. Malaise and anorexia might blood or blood products is rare because of donor screening precede jaundice by 1–2 weeks. Fulminant HBV infection is and viral inactivation procedures. Other possible sources of uncommon (<1%) but often results in death or liver failure infection include contaminated medical or dental instruments, necessitating liver transplantation. Extrahepatic manifestations unsafe injections, needle-stick injuries, organ transplantation, of disease (e.g., skin rash, arthralgias, and arthritis) also might and dialysis (49).
