Morbidity and Mortality Weekly Report
KEYWORDS: hbv, vaccine, persons, infection, hepb, anti-hbs, dose, infants, hbsag, testing, vaccination, hepatitis, hepb vaccine, hbv infection, series


include contaminated medical or dental instruments, necessitating liver transplantation. Extrahepatic manifestations unsafe injections, needle-stick injuries, organ transplantation, of disease (e.g., skin rash, arthralgias, and arthritis) also might and dialysis (49). occur (51). The fatality rate among persons with reported cases of acute HBV infection is <1.5%, with the highest rates Recommendations and Reports in adults aged ≥55 years. Because a substantial number of to their newborns. The majority of cases of perinatal HBV infections are asymptomatic and therefore are not reported, transmission occur during delivery, with rare instances of in the overall fatality rate among all persons with HBV infection utero transmission (63). HBV transmission might occur in germ is likely lower (8). cell lines, as the virus has been detected in sperm, oocytes, and Chronic infection occurs among 80%–90% of persons embryos. Available data do not support the need for a cesarean infected during infancy, 30% of persons infected before delivery among HBV-infected pregnant women with low HBV age 6 years, and <1%–12% of persons infected as an older DNA (63). Prior to the widespread availability of postexposure child or adult (7,52–54). Approximately 95% of primary prophylaxis, the proportion of infants born to HBsAg-positive infections in immunocompetent adults are self-limited, with women acquiring HBV infection was approximately 30% for elimination of the virus from blood and generally immunity those born to HBeAg-negative mothers and 85% for those born to reinfection. Chronic infection develops more frequently to HBeAg-positive mothers. With postexposure prophylaxis, in immunosuppressed persons (e.g., hemodialysis patients comprised of HepB vaccine and HBIG at birth, followed by and persons with human immunodeficiency virus [HIV] completion of the HepB vaccine series, 0.7%–1.1% of infants infection) (54,55) and persons with diabetes (54). Chronic develop infection (28,29,64); infants born to mothers with high HBV infection can result in cirrhosis of the liver, liver cancer, viral loads are at greatest risk for infection despite receipt of HepB liver failure, and death. Approximately 25% of persons who vaccine and HBIG (29). Unvaccinated infants and children are become chronically infected during childhood and 15% of also at risk for horizontal transmission from infected household those who become chronically infected after childhood will and other contacts. die prematurely from cirrhosis or liver cancer (8,56–58). There are four phases of chronic HBV infection: immune Interpretation of Serologic Markers tolerant, immune active, immune inactive, and reactivation. Serologic markers for HBV infection include HBsAg, Chronically infected persons do not
