Morbidity and Mortality Weekly Report
KEYWORDS: hbv, vaccine, persons, infection, hepb, anti-hbs, dose, infants, hbsag, testing, vaccination, hepatitis, hepb vaccine, hbv infection, series


four phases of chronic HBV infection: immune Interpretation of Serologic Markers tolerant, immune active, immune inactive, and reactivation. Serologic markers for HBV infection include HBsAg, Chronically infected persons do not necessarily pass through antibody to HBsAg (anti-HBs), immunoglobulin class M these phases in a linear fashion. Persons in the immune (IgM) antibodies to hepatitis B core antigen (IgM anti-HBc), tolerant phase have no or minimal hepatic inflammation or and immunoglobulin class G (IgG) anti-HBc (IgG anti-HBc) fibrosis; most chronically infected children will remain in the (49,65,66). At least one serologic marker is present during immune tolerant phase until late childhood or adolescence. the different phases of infection. HBV DNA is a measure The immune active phase is characterized by an active immune of viral load and reflects viral replication (49) (Table 1). response resulting in hepatic inflammation, with or without Hepatitis B e antigen (HBeAg) can be detected in persons fibrosis. Persons who remain in the immune active phase with acute or chronic HBV infection; the presence of HBeAg for prolonged periods of time are at high risk for developing correlates with viral replication and high infectivity; antibody cirrhosis and hepatocellular carcinoma. Persons in the immune to HBeAg (anti-HBe) correlates with the loss of replicating inactive phase have improvement of hepatic inflammation and virus, although reversion to HBeAg positivity can occur (7). fibrosis. Risk for progression to hepatocellular carcinoma is A confirmed positive HBsAg result indicates current HBV lower among persons in the immune inactive phase compared infection, either acute or chronic. All HBsAg-positive persons are with the active phase. Persons in the reactivation phase have infectious. If HBsAg persists for >6 months, spontaneous clearance active liver inflammation with or without fibrosis (44,59–61). is unlikely, and the infection is deemed chronic. HBV DNA can HBV reactivation might occur with immunosuppressive be detected prior to the detection of HBsAg in an infected person. therapy or treatment for HCV (62). Occult infection occurs when HBsAg is undetectable despite the No specific treatment exists for acute HBV infection; presence of HBV DNA (66–68). Transient HBsAg positivity can supportive care is the mainstay of therapy. Guidelines for occur up to 18 days following vaccination (up to 52 days among management of chronic HBV infection in children and adults, hemodialysis patients) and is clinically insignificant (69). including disease monitoring and antiviral therapy, are available In acute HBV infection, anti-HBc (initially both IgM and (5). Antiviral
