Morbidity and Mortality Weekly Report
KEYWORDS: hbv, vaccine, persons, infection, hepb, anti-hbs, dose, infants, hbsag, testing, vaccination, hepatitis, hepb vaccine, hbv infection, series


(heterosexual and MSM) exposure. Among persons or immunosuppressive therapy, with reappearance of HBsAg with case-reports of HBV infection with information about (49). Infection with a mutant HBV strain can result in positive sexual exposure, 26.4% reported having two or more sexual laboratory tests for HBsAg, total anti-HBc, anti-HBs, and partners, 3.3% reported sexual contact with an HBV-infected HBV DNA, with a negative IgM anti-HBc. person, and 11.8% of males reported having had sex with Perinatal HBV infection in a child aged ≤24 months is another male (4). As many as 10%–40% of adults seeking typically asymptomatic although fulminant hepatitis can occur; treatment in STI clinics have evidence of current or past HBV a positive HBsAg test, positive HBeAg test, or detectable HBV infection. Among adults with acute HBV infection, 39% were DNA may be considered laboratory evidence of perinatal HBV screened or sought care for an STI prior to becoming infected in an infant born to an HBV-infected mother if timing criteria with HBV (76). are met (74). Infants who are born to HBsAg-positive mothers Household contacts. An estimated 45% of persons living and who do not become infected might have detectable in households with others with chronic HBV infection have serologic evidence of past HBV infection, and 16% have Recommendations and Reports evidence of current infection (CDC, unpublished data, 2017). FIGURE 2. Acute hepatitis B virus infection with recovery Prior to universal infant vaccination, the risk for infection was greatest among unvaccinated children living with a person with chronic HBV infection in a household or in an extended family setting (67,77,78). Developmentally disabled persons in long-term-care facilities. Developmentally disabled persons in residential and nonresidential facilities historically have had a chronic HBV infection prevalence as high as 20%. The prevalence of infection has declined substantially since the implementation of routine HepB vaccination in these settings (79–82). Correctional facilities. The prevalence of chronic HBV infection has been higher among prison inmates (1.0%–3.7%) than among the general population (83,84), reflecting an overrepresentation of persons entering correctional facilities with risks for HBV infection (e.g., injection-drug use and histories of multiple sex partners). Persons at risk for occupational exposure to HBV. Before HepB vaccination was widely implemented, HBV infection was recognized as a common occupational risk among HCP (85,86). Routine HepB vaccination of HCP and the use of standard precautions have resulted in a 98% decline in HBV infections from 1983 through 2010 among
