Morbidity and Mortality Weekly Report
KEYWORDS: hbv, vaccine, persons, infection, hepb, anti-hbs, dose, infants, hbsag, testing, vaccination, hepatitis, hepb vaccine, hbv infection, series


occupational risk among HCP (85,86). Routine HepB vaccination of HCP and the use of standard precautions have resulted in a 98% decline in HBV infections from 1983 through 2010 among HCP (10). The Occupational Safety and Health Administration mandates that employers offer HepB vaccination to all employees who have occupational risk and that postexposure prophylaxis be available following an exposure (10,87). Hemodialysis patients. Since the initiation of HepB vaccination and additional infection control precautions for hepatitis B in dialysis centers, the incidence of HBV infection among hemodialysis patients has declined approximately 95% (88,89). Since 1995, the annual incidence has been stable and HBsAg seroprevalence has remained at 1% (90). Receipt of dialysis was reported in <1% of acute HBV surveillance cases with information reported to CDC (4). Persons with HCV infection. The number of reported HCV cases in four Appalachian states (Kentucky, Tennessee, Virginia, and West Virginia) increased 364% during 2006– 2012 among persons aged ≤30 years, with injection-drug use as the most common reported risk factor (91). The increase in HCV infections occurred concomitantly with an increase in HBV infections among young adults in rural communities in Appalachian states. Persons with chronic liver disease. Persons with chronic liver disease (e.g., cirrhosis, fatty liver disease, alcoholic liver disease, and autoimmune hepatitis) are not at increased risk for HBV infection unless they have percutaneous or mucosal retiT HBsAg Total anti-HBc IgM anti-HBc Anti-HBs Symptoms HBeAG Anti-HBe HBV DNA 0 4 8 12 16 20 24 28 32 36 52 100 Weeks after exposure Abbreviations: anti-HBc = antibody to hepatitis B core antigen; anti-HBe = antibody to hepatitis B e antigen; anti-HBs = antibody to hepatitis B surface antigen; HBeAg = hepatitis B e antigen; HBsAg = hepatitis B surface antigen; HBV DNA = hepatitis B virus deoxyribonucleic acid; IgM = immunoglobulin class M. exposure to blood or body fluids. However, concurrent chronic HBV infection might increase the risk for progressive chronic liver disease in these persons (92). Travelers to countries where HBV is endemic. Short- term travelers to countries in which HBV infection is of high or intermediate endemicity (Box 3) typically are at risk for infection only through exposure to blood in medical or disaster- relief activities, receipt of medical care that involves parenteral exposures, sexual activity, or drug use. Monthly incidence of 25‒420 per 100,000 travelers has been reported among long- term travelers to countries where the disease is
