Morbidity and Mortality Weekly Report
KEYWORDS: hbv, vaccine, persons, infection, hepb, anti-hbs, dose, infants, hbsag, testing, vaccination, hepatitis, hepb vaccine, hbv infection, series


care that involves parenteral exposures, sexual activity, or drug use. Monthly incidence of 25‒420 per 100,000 travelers has been reported among long- term travelers to countries where the disease is endemic (93). Persons with HIV. Approximately 10% of HIV-positive persons are coinfected with HBV (94–97). Chronic HBV infection has been identified in 6%–14% of HIV-positive persons, including in 9%–17% of MSM and in 7%–10% of PWID (98). Coinfected persons have increased rates of cirrhosis and liver-related mortality (99). Persons with diabetes. Compared with adults without diabetes, adults with diabetes have a 60% higher prevalence of past or present HBV infection and twice the odds of acquiring acute HBV. Repeated outbreaks of HBV infection associated with assisted blood glucose monitoring underscore the continued risk for this population (100–102). Data also suggest the possibility of a higher case-fatality proportion among persons with diabetes acutely infected with HBV compared with those without diabetes (9). Recommendations and Reports BOX 3. Prevalence of chronic hepatitis B virus infection, by country* High (≥8% prevalence): Angola, Benin, Burkina Faso, Russia, Saudi Arabia, Singapore, South Korea, Sri Lanka, Burundi, Cameroon, Central African Republic, Congo, Suriname, Syria, Tahiti, and Turkey. Côte d’Ivoire, Djibouti, Equatorial Guinea, Gabon, Low (≤1.9% prevalence): Afghanistan, Argentina, Gambia, Ghana, Guinea, Haiti, Kiribati, Kyrgyzstan, Laos, Australia, Austria, Bahrain, Barbados, Belgium, Bolivia, Bosnia Liberia, Malawi, Mali, Mauritania, Mongolia, Mozambique, and Herzegovina, Brazil, Canada, Chile, Costa Rica, Croatia, Namibia, Nauru, Niger, Nigeria, Niue, Papua New Guinea, Cuba, Czech Republic, Denmark, Egypt, France, Germany, Senegal, Sierra Leone, Solomon Islands, Somalia, South Greece, Guatemala, Hungary, Iceland, India, Indonesia, Sudan, Sudan, Swaziland, Togo, Tonga, Uganda, Vanuatu, Iran, Iraq, Ireland, Israel, Japan, Jordan, Kuwait, Lebanon, Vietnam, Yemen, and Zimbabwe. Lithuania, Malaysia, Mexico, Morocco, Nepal, Netherlands, Intermediate (5%–7.9% prevalence): Albania, Bhutan, Nicaragua, Norway, Palestine, Panama, Poland, Portugal, Cape Verde, China, Democratic Republic of the Qatar, Serbia, Seychelles, Slovakia, Slovenia, Spain, Sweden, Congo, Ethiopia, Kazakhstan, Kenya, Marshall Islands, Switzerland, Ukraine, UK, United Arab Emirates, United Moldova, Oman, Romania, Rwanda, Samoa, South States of America, and Venezuela. Africa, Tajikistan, Tanzania, Thailand, Tunisia, Tuvalu, No data: Andorra, Antigua and Barbuda, Armenia, Uzbekistan, and Zambia. The Bahamas, Botswana, Chad, Comoros, Cook Islands, Low Intermediate (2%–4.9% prevalence): Algeria, Dominica, El Salvador, Finland, Grenada, Guinea- Azerbaijan, Bangladesh, Belarus, Belize, Brunei Darussalam, Bissau, Guyana, Honduras, Latvia, Lesotho, Lithuania, Bulgaria, Cambodia, Colombia, Cyprus, Dominican Luxembourg, Macedonia, Maldives, Malta, Mauritius, Republic, Ecuador, Eritrea, Federated States of Micronesia, Monaco, Montenegro, North Korea, Paraguay,
