Morbidity and Mortality Weekly Report
KEYWORDS: hbv, vaccine, persons, infection, hepb, anti-hbs, dose, infants, hbsag, testing, vaccination, hepatitis, hepb vaccine, hbv infection, series


Brunei Darussalam, Bissau, Guyana, Honduras, Latvia, Lesotho, Lithuania, Bulgaria, Cambodia, Colombia, Cyprus, Dominican Luxembourg, Macedonia, Maldives, Malta, Mauritius, Republic, Ecuador, Eritrea, Federated States of Micronesia, Monaco, Montenegro, North Korea, Paraguay, Saint Kitts Fiji, Georgia, Italy, Jamaica, Kosovo, Libya, Madagascar, and Nevis, Saint Lucia, Saint Vincent and the Grenadines, Myanmar, New Zealand, Pakistan, Palau, Philippines, Peru, San Marino, Sao Tome and Principe, Timor-Leste, Trinidad and Tobago, Turkmenistan, and Uruguay. Prophylaxis Against HBV Infection HepB vaccines are available as a single-antigen formulation and in combination with other vaccines. The two single- Hepatitis B Vaccines and antigen vaccines recommended for use in the United States, Hepatitis B Immune Globulins Engerix-B (GlaxoSmithKline Biologicals, Rixensart, Belgium) and Recombivax HB (Merck & Co., Inc., Whitehouse HepB vaccination is the mainstay of HBV prevention Station, New Jersey), are used for the vaccination of persons efforts; HBIG is generally used as an adjunct to HepB vaccine starting at birth. Of the two combination vaccines, Pediarix in infants born to HBsAg-positive mothers and in certain (GlaxoSmithKline Biologicals, Rixensart, Belgium) is used for other postexposure prophylaxis situations. The first HepB the vaccination of persons aged 6 weeks–6 years and contains vaccines consisted of plasma-derived HBsAg. Recombinant recombinant HBsAg, diphtheria and tetanus toxoids and HepB vaccines containing yeast-derived HBsAg purified by acellular pertussis adsorbed, and inactivated poliovirus and biochemical and biophysical separation techniques replaced the Twinrix (GlaxoSmithKline Biologicals, Rixensart, Belgium) plasma-derived vaccines in the United States by the late 1980s is used for the vaccination of persons aged ≥18 years and (64,103,104). HepB vaccines recommended for use in the contains recombinant HBsAg and inactivated hepatitis A virus United States are formulated to contain 10–40 µg of HBsAg (Table 2). Comvax (Merck & Co., Inc., Whitehouse Station, protein/mL and do not contain thimerosal as a preservative New Jersey), which was used previously for the vaccination of (105). HBIG can augment protection until a response to persons aged 6 weeks–15 months and contained recombinant vaccination is attained. For those who do not respond to HBsAg and Haemophilus b conjugate vaccine, has not been HepB vaccination, HBIG administered alone is the primary available for purchase directly from Merck since January 1, means of protection after an HBV exposure. HBIG provides 2015. Discontinuation of Comvax was not related to any passively acquired anti-HBs and temporary protection (i.e., product safety or manufacturing issues. Aluminum salts 3–6 months). Passively acquired anti-HBs can be detected for generally are
