Morbidity and Mortality Weekly Report
KEYWORDS: hbv, vaccine, persons, infection, hepb, anti-hbs, dose, infants, hbsag, testing, vaccination, hepatitis, hepb vaccine, hbv infection, series


viruses after the first and second dose, respectively (7,8,64). Vaccine based on their size. HBIG products licensed for use in the response is decreased among infants weighing <2000 grams United States contain no preservative and are intended for and older adults. Other factors (e.g., smoking, obesity, aging, single use only (106). chronic medical conditions, drug use, diabetes, male sex, genetic factors, and immune suppression) contribute to a decreased Vaccine-Induced Seroprotection response to vaccine (113–116). Although immunogenicity is lower among immunocompromised persons, those who achieve The presence of anti-HBs typically indicates immunity and maintain seroprotective antibody levels before exposure against HBV infection. Immunocompetent children and adults to HBV have a high level of protection (8). who have vaccine-induced anti-HBs levels of ≥10 mIU/mL Birth dose. A birth dose of HepB vaccine serves as 1–2 months after having received a complete HepB vaccine postexposure prophylaxis to prevent perinatal HBV infection series are considered seroprotected and deemed vaccine among infants born to HBV-infected mothers. Although responders (107). Vaccine-induced seroprotection is considered infants requiring postexposure prophylaxis should be identified a surrogate of clinical protection. Anti-HBs levels wane by maternal HBsAg testing, administration of a birth dose over time following vaccination related in part to the age at to all infants (even without HBIG) serves as a safeguard to vaccination. Approximately 16% of persons vaccinated at age prevent perinatal transmission among infants born to HBsAg- <1 year have antibody levels of ≥10 mIU/mL 18 years following positive mothers not identified prenatally because of lack of vaccination, compared with 74% for those vaccinated at maternal HBsAg testing or failures in reporting test results. age ≥1 year (10). However, persons initially responding to HepB vaccine or HBIG given alone are 75% and 71% effective the full 3-dose HepB vaccine series and who are later found in preventing perinatal HBV transmission, respectively; their to have anti-HBs <10 mIU/mL remain protected. Most combined efficacy is 94% (29,52,117). The birth dose also persons (88%) who receive a challenge dose of HepB vaccine provides protection to infants at risk from household exposure 30 years after HepB vaccination as children or adults develop after the perinatal period (29,64). an antibody response of ≥10 mIU/mL indicating persistent Vaccination produces seroprotection in 98% of healthy immunity to HBV infection (108). Data from this and other term infants. Vaccine response is lower among infants with studies suggests protection against acute symptomatic and birth weights <2000
