Morbidity and Mortality Weekly Report
KEYWORDS: hbv, vaccine, persons, infection, hepb, anti-hbs, dose, infants, hbsag, testing, vaccination, hepatitis, hepb vaccine, hbv infection, series


and 6 months; it is not used for with longer persistence of measurable anti-HBs. the birth dose. Twinrix may be administered before travel or any other potential exposure on an accelerated schedule at 0, Response to Revaccination 7, and 21–30 days, followed by a dose at 12 months. HepB A challenge dose of HepB vaccine may be used to determine vaccination of adult hemodialysis patients consists of high-dose the presence of vaccine-induced immunologic memory (40 µg) Recombivax HB administered on a 0-, 1-, and 6-month through generation of an anamnestic response. The term schedule or high-dose (40 µg) Engerix-B administered on a “booster dose” has been used to refer to a dose of HepB vaccine 0-, 1-, 2-, and 6-month schedule (106). administered after a primary vaccination series to provide Alternative vaccination schedules (e.g., 0, 1, and 4 months rapid protective immunity against significant infection (i.e., or 0, 2, and 4 months) have been demonstrated to elicit dose- infection resulting in serologic test results positive for HBV specific and final rates of seroprotection similar to those obtained and/or clinically significant disease). Among persons who were on a 0-, 1-, and 6-month schedule. Increasing the interval vaccinated prior to age 1 year and found to have anti-HBs levels between the first 2 doses has little effect on immunogenicity <10 mIU/mL 6–18 years later, a single challenge dose of HepB or the final antibody concentration (139–141). The third dose vaccine resulted in anti-HBs levels ≥10 mIU/mL in 60%–97% confers the maximum level of seroprotection and provides of those tested. Similar results were found among persons long-term protection (142). Longer intervals between the initially vaccinated at age ≥1 year (10). Immunocompetent last 2 doses (e.g., 11 months) result in higher final antibody persons with a response ≥10 mIU/mL following a challenge levels (142) but might increase the risk for acquisition of HBV infection among persons who have a delayed response Recommendations and Reports dose are considered protected, regardless of subsequent declines TABLE 4. Hepatitis B vaccine schedules for children, adolescents, and adults in anti-HBs (10,109). Schedule* (interval represents time One study found that of infants born to HBsAg-positive Age group in months from first dose) women who were not infected at birth and who did not Children (1–10 yrs) 0, 1, and 6 mos 0, 1, 2, and 12 mos respond to a primary vaccine series, all developed seroprotective Adolescents (11–19 yrs) 0,
