Morbidity and Mortality Weekly Report
KEYWORDS: hbv, vaccine, persons, infection, hepb, anti-hbs, dose, infants, hbsag, testing, vaccination, hepatitis, hepb vaccine, hbv infection, series


in identification mothers up to age 24 months. of HBV-infected pregnant women. – HBsAg-negative infants with anti-HBs levels ≥10 mIU/ mL are protected and need no further medical management. Management of Infants Born to Women Who Are – HBsAg-negative infants with anti-HBs <10 mIU/mL HBsAg-Positive should be revaccinated with a single dose of HepB • All infants born to HBsAg-positive women should receive vaccine and receive postvaccination serologic testing HepB vaccine and HBIG within 12 hours of birth, 1–2 months later (new recommendation). Infants administered at different injection sites (e.g., separate whose anti-HBs remains <10 mIU/mL following single limbs). Only single-antigen HepB vaccine should be used dose revaccination should receive two additional doses for the birth dose (Table 3). of HepB vaccine to complete the second series followed • Infants born to women for whom HBsAg testing results by postvaccination serologic testing 1–2 months after during pregnancy are not available but other evidence the final dose. of HBV DNA, HBeAg-positive, or mother known to be HBsAg-negative infants with anti-HBs <10 mIU/mL may chronically infected with HBV) should be managed as if instead be revaccinated with a second, complete 3-dose born to an HBsAg-positive mother (new recommendation). series, followed by postvaccination serologic testing • The HepB vaccine series should be completed according performed 1–2 months after the final dose of vaccine. to the recommended schedule for infants born to HBsAg- – Available data do not suggest a benefit from positive mothers. The final dose in the series should not administering additional HepB vaccine doses to infants be administered before age 24 weeks (164 days). Although who have not attained anti-HBs ≥10 mIU/mL not indicated in the manufacturers’ package labeling, following receipt of two complete HepB vaccine series. Pediarix may be used for infants aged ≥6 weeks born to – HBsAg-positive infants should be referred for HBsAg-positive mothers to complete the vaccine series appropriate follow-up. after receipt of a birth dose of single-antigen HepB vaccine • Infants who are born to HBsAg-positive mothers and and HBIG. receive postexposure prophylaxis may be breastfed • For infants weighing <2,000 grams, the birth dose (i.e., beginning immediately after birth. the initial HepB vaccine dose) should not be counted as • For infants transferred to a different facility after birth immunogenicity of HepB vaccine in these infants; 3 the transferring and receiving facilities should communicate additional doses of vaccine (for a total of 4 doses) should
