Morbidity and Mortality Weekly Report
KEYWORDS: hbv, vaccine, persons, infection, hepb, anti-hbs, dose, infants, hbsag, testing, vaccination, hepatitis, hepb vaccine, hbv infection, series


different facility after birth immunogenicity of HepB vaccine in these infants; 3 the transferring and receiving facilities should communicate additional doses of vaccine (for a total of 4 doses) should regarding the infant’s HepB vaccination and HBIG receipt be administered beginning when the infant reaches age status to ensure prophylaxis is administered in a timely 1 month. The final dose in the series should not be manner (new recommendation). administered before age 24 weeks (164 days). Management of Infants Born to Women with • Postvaccination serologic testing for anti-HBs and HBsAg Unknown HBsAg Status should be performed after completion of the vaccine series at age 9–12 months (generally at the next well-child visit • Infants born to women for whom HBsAg testing results following completion of the HepB vaccine series). during pregnancy are not available but other evidence Postvaccination serologic testing should be performed for suggestive of maternal HBV infection exists (e.g., presence infants born to HBsAg-positive mothers and infants whose of HBV DNA, HBeAg-positive, or mother known to be mother’s HBsAg status remains unknown (i.e., those chronically infected with HBV) should be managed as if infants who are safely surrendered shortly after birth) (new born to an HBsAg-positive mother (new recommendation). recommendation). Anti-HBs testing should be performed The infant should receive both HepB vaccine and HBIG using a method that allows detection of the protective within 12 hours of birth. concentration of anti-HBs (≥10 mIU/mL). Testing should • Women admitted for delivery without documentation of not be performed before age nine months to avoid HBsAg test results should have blood drawn and tested as detection of passive anti-HBs from HBIG administered soon as possible. at birth and to maximize the likelihood of detecting late • While maternal HBsAg test results are pending, infants HBV infection. Anti-HBc testing of infants is not with birth weights ≥2,000 grams born to women with an Recommendations and Reports unknown HBsAg status should receive the first dose of – HBsAg-negative infants with anti-HBs <10 mIU/mL HepB vaccine (without HBIG) within 12 hours of birth. should be revaccinated with a single dose of HepB Only single-antigen HepB vaccine should be used for the vaccine and receive postvaccination serologic testing birth dose (Table 3). 1–2 months later (new recommendation). Infants – If the mother is determined to be HBsAg-positive, the whose anti-HBs remains <10 mIU/mL following single infant should receive HBIG as soon as possible but
