Morbidity and Mortality Weekly Report
KEYWORDS: hbv, vaccine, persons, infection, hepb, anti-hbs, dose, infants, hbsag, testing, vaccination, hepatitis, hepb vaccine, hbv infection, series


later (new recommendation). Infants – If the mother is determined to be HBsAg-positive, the whose anti-HBs remains <10 mIU/mL following single infant should receive HBIG as soon as possible but no dose revaccination should receive two additional doses later than age seven days, and the vaccine series should of HepB vaccine to complete the second series, followed be completed according to the recommended schedule by postvaccination serologic testing 1–2 months after for infants born to HBsAg-positive mothers. The final the final dose. age 24 weeks (164 days). If the mother is determined HBsAg-negative infants with anti-HBs <10 mIU/mL may to be HBsAg-negative, the vaccine series should be instead be revaccinated with a second, complete 3-dose completed according to the recommended schedule for series, followed by postvaccination serologic testing infants born to HBsAg-negative mothers. The final performed 1–2 months after the final dose of vaccine. dose in the series should not be administered before – Available data do not suggest a benefit from age 24 weeks (164 days). administering additional HepB vaccine doses to infants • Because of the potentially decreased immunogenicity of who have not attained anti-HBs ≥10 mIU/mL vaccine in infants weighing <2,000 grams, these infants following receipt of two complete HepB vaccine series. should receive both single-antigen HepB vaccine and – HBsAg-positive infants should be referred for HBIG, administered at different injection sites (e.g., appropriate follow-up. separate limbs), if the mother’s HBsAg status cannot be • Infants born to mothers with unknown HBsAg status may determined within 12 hours of birth. The birth dose of be breastfed beginning immediately after birth. vaccine should not be counted as part of the 3 doses • For infants transferred to a different facility after birth of vaccine (for a total of 4 doses) should be administered at the transferring and receiving facilities should according to a recommended schedule on the basis of the communicate regarding the infant’s HepB vaccination and mother’s HBsAg test result. The final dose in the series HBIG receipt status to ensure prophylaxis is administered should not be administered before age 24 weeks (164 days). in a timely manner (new recommendation). – If it is not possible to determine the mother’s HBsAg status (e.g., when a parent or person with lawful custody Persons Recommended for safely surrenders an infant confidentially shortly after HepB Vaccination birth), the vaccine series should be completed according to a recommended schedule for infants
