Morbidity and Mortality Weekly Report
KEYWORDS: hbv, vaccine, persons, infection, hepb, anti-hbs, dose, infants, hbsag, testing, vaccination, hepatitis, hepb vaccine, hbv infection, series


person with lawful custody Persons Recommended for safely surrenders an infant confidentially shortly after HepB Vaccination birth), the vaccine series should be completed according to a recommended schedule for infants born to HBsAg- Universal Vaccination of Infants positive mothers (new recommendation). The final • All infants should receive the HepB vaccine series as part dose in the series should not be administered before of the recommended childhood immunization schedule, age 24 weeks (164 days). These infants should receive beginning at birth as a safety net (Box 4; Table 3). postvaccination serologic testing at age 9–12 months, • For all medically stable infants weighing ≥2,000 grams at and revaccination if necessary (new recommendation). birth and born to HBsAg-negative mothers, the first dose • Anti-HBs testing should be performed using a method of vaccine should be administered within 24 hours of birth that allows detection of the protective concentration of (new recommendation). Only single-antigen HepB anti-HBs (≥10 mIU/mL). Testing should not be performed vaccine should be used for the birth dose. before age nine months to avoid detection of passive anti- • Infants weighing <2,000 grams and born to HBsAg- HBs from HBIG administered at birth and to maximize negative mothers should have their first vaccine dose the likelihood of detecting late HBV infection. Anti-HBc delayed to the time of hospital discharge or age 1 month testing of infants is not recommended because passively (even if weight is still <2,000 grams). For these infants, a acquired maternal anti-HBc might be detected in infants copy of the original laboratory report indicating that the born to HBsAg-positive mothers up to age 24 months. mother was HBsAg negative during this pregnancy should – HBsAg-negative infants with anti-HBs levels ≥10 mIU/mL be placed in the infant’s medical record. Infants weighing are protected and need no further medical management. Recommendations and Reports <2,000 grams at birth have a decreased response to HepB fluids; hemodialysis patients and predialysis, peritoneal vaccine administered before age 1 month (118). dialysis, and home dialysis patients; persons with • For infants transferred to a different facility after birth diabetes mellitus aged <60 years and persons with at the transferring and receiving facilities should treating clinician). communicate regarding the infant’s HepB vaccination and – Others (international travelers to countries with high HBIG receipt status to ensure prophylaxis is administered or intermediate levels [HBsAg prevalence of ≥2%] in a timely manner (new recommendation). [Box 3]
