Morbidity and Mortality Weekly Report
KEYWORDS: hbv, vaccine, persons, infection, hepb, anti-hbs, dose, infants, hbsag, testing, vaccination, hepatitis, hepb vaccine, hbv infection, series


Others (international travelers to countries with high HBIG receipt status to ensure prophylaxis is administered or intermediate levels [HBsAg prevalence of ≥2%] in a timely manner (new recommendation). [Box 3] of endemic HBV infection, persons with HCV • The final dose in the vaccine series should not be infection, persons with chronic liver disease [including, administered before age 24 weeks (164 days). but not limited to, those with cirrhosis, fatty liver • In populations with currently or previously high rates of disease, alcoholic liver disease, autoimmune hepatitis, childhood HBV infection (e.g., Alaska Natives; Pacific and an ALT or AST level greater than twice the upper Islanders; and immigrant families from Asia, Africa, and limit of normal] [new recommendation], persons with countries with intermediate or high endemic rates of HIV infection, incarcerated persons, all other persons infection), the first dose of HepB vaccine should be seeking protection from HBV infection without administered at birth and the final dose at age 6–12 months. acknowledgement of a specific risk factor). Vaccination of Children and Adolescents Vaccination of Pregnant Women • HepB vaccination is recommended for all unvaccinated • Pregnant women who are identified as being at risk for children and adolescents aged <19 years (Box 4). HBV infection during pregnancy (e.g., having more than • Children and adolescents who have not previously received one sex partner during the previous 6 months, been HepB vaccine should be vaccinated routinely at any age evaluated or treated for an STI, recent or current injection- (i.e., children and adolescents are recommended for drug use, or having had an HBsAg-positive sex partner) catch-up vaccination) (Table 4). should be vaccinated. • Pregnant women at risk for HBV infection during Vaccination of Adults pregnancy should be counseled concerning other methods • HepB vaccination is recommended for all unvaccinated to prevent HBV infection. adults at risk for HBV infection and for all adults requesting protection from HBV infection. Acknowledgement of a Implementation Strategies specific risk factor should not be a requirement for vaccination (Box 4). Delivery Hospital Policies and Procedures • Adults recommended to receive HepB vaccine: • All delivery hospitals and birthing facilities should implement – Persons at risk for infection by sexual exposure (e.g., policies and procedures to ensure identification of infants sex partners of HBsAg-positive persons, sexually active born to HBsAg-positive mothers and infants born to mothers persons who are not in a mutually monogamous with unknown HBsAg
