Morbidity and Mortality Weekly Report
KEYWORDS: hbv, vaccine, persons, infection, hepb, anti-hbs, dose, infants, hbsag, testing, vaccination, hepatitis, hepb vaccine, hbv infection, series


identification of infants sex partners of HBsAg-positive persons, sexually active born to HBsAg-positive mothers and infants born to mothers persons who are not in a mutually monogamous with unknown HBsAg status, initiation of prophylaxis for relationship [e.g., persons with more than one sex these infants, and routine birth dose for medically stable partner during the previous 6 months], persons seeking infants weighing ≥2,000 grams within 24 hours of birth. Such evaluation or treatment for a sexually transmitted policies and procedures should include standing orders and infection, and MSM). electronic medical record reminders or prompts. – Persons with a history of current or recent injection- drug use are at increased risk for HBV infection. An Case-Management Programs to Prevent Perinatal increased incidence of HBV incidence among young HBV Infection adults in rural U.S. communities has been associated • States and localities should establish case-management with an increase in injection-drug use. programs, including appropriate policies, procedures, laws, – Other persons at risk for infection by percutaneous or and regulations to ensure that all pregnant women are mucosal exposure to blood (household contacts of tested for HBsAg during each pregnancy, and that those HBsAg-positive persons; residents and staff of facilities who are HBsAg-positive are tested for HBV DNA to guide for developmentally disabled persons; health care and maternal antiviral therapy. Infants born to HBsAg-positive public safety personnel with reasonably anticipated risk women and women with unknown HBsAg status also for exposure to blood or blood-contaminated body should receive case management. Recommendations and Reports Settings Providing Services to Adults antiseptics is not contraindicated. The application of caustic agents (e.g., bleach) or the injection of antiseptics or • In settings in which a high proportion of persons have risk disinfectants into the wound is not recommended. targeting services to injection-drug users, correctional Occupational Settings facilities, institutions and nonresidential day care facilities Vaccinated HCP for developmentally disabled persons), all adults should be assumed to be at risk for HBV infection and should be • For vaccinated HCP (who have written documentation offered HepB vaccination if they have not previously of a complete HepB vaccine series) with subsequent completed vaccination. documented anti-HBs ≥10 mIU/mL, testing the source • HCP should implement standing orders to administer patient for HBsAg is unnecessary. No postexposure HepB vaccine as part of routine services to adults who prophylaxis for HBV is necessary, regardless of the source have not completed the vaccine series
