Morbidity and Mortality Weekly Report
KEYWORDS: hbv, vaccine, persons, infection, hepb, anti-hbs, dose, infants, hbsag, testing, vaccination, hepatitis, hepb vaccine, hbv infection, series


HBsAg is unnecessary. No postexposure HepB vaccine as part of routine services to adults who prophylaxis for HBV is necessary, regardless of the source have not completed the vaccine series and make HepB patient’s HBsAg status (Table 5). vaccination a standard component of evaluation and • For vaccinated HCP (who have written documentation treatment for STIs and HIV/AIDS. of a complete HepB vaccine series) without previous anti- • When feasible, HepB vaccination should be offered in HBs testing, the HCP should be tested for anti-HBs and outreach and other settings in which services are provided the source patient (if known) should be tested for HBsAg to persons at risk for HBV infection (e.g., needle-exchange as soon as possible after the exposure. Anti-HBs testing programs, HIV testing sites, HIV prevention programs, should be performed using a method that allows detection and homeless shelters). of the protective concentration of anti-HBs (≥10 mIU/mL). • In medical settings, HCP should implement standing orders Testing the source patient and the HCP should occur to identify adults recommended for HepB vaccination and simultaneously; testing the source patient should not be administer vaccination as part of routine services. delayed while waiting for the HCP anti-HBs test results, and likewise, testing the HCP should not be delayed while Postexposure Prophylaxis waiting for the source patient’s HBsAg results (Table 5). – If the HCP has anti-HBs <10 mIU/mL and the source This section provides recommendations for management patient is HBsAg-positive or has an unknown HBsAg of persons who are exposed to HBV through a distinct, status, the HCP should receive 1 dose of HBIG and identifiable exposure to blood or body fluids that contain be revaccinated as soon as possible after the exposure. blood, in occupational and nonoccupational settings. HepB vaccine may be administered simultaneously • Wounds and skin sites that have been in contact with blood with HBIG at a separate anatomical injection site (e.g., or body fluids should be washed with soap and water; mucous separate limb). The HCP should then receive the membranes should be flushed with water. Using antiseptics second 2 doses of HepB vaccine to complete the second (e.g., 2%–4% chlorhexidine) for wound care or expressing series (likely 6 doses total when accounting for the fluid by squeezing the wound further have not been shown original series) according to the vaccination schedule. to reduce the risk for HBV transmission; however, the use of So
