Morbidity and Mortality Weekly Report
KEYWORDS: hbv, vaccine, persons, infection, hepb, anti-hbs, dose, infants, hbsag, testing, vaccination, hepatitis, hepb vaccine, hbv infection, series


the fluid by squeezing the wound further have not been shown original series) according to the vaccination schedule. to reduce the risk for HBV transmission; however, the use of So the HCP’s vaccine response status can be documented by health care personnel HepB vaccination and response status Postexposure testing Postexposure prophylaxis Source patient Postvaccination HCP status (HBsAg) HCP testing (anti-HBs) HBIG Vaccination serologic testing Documented responder after complete series No action needed Documented nonresponder after two Positive/unknown -* HBIG x2 separated by - N/A complete series 1 month Negative No action needed Response unknown after complete series Positive/unknown <10 mIU/mL HBIG x1 Initiate revaccination Yes Negative <10 mIU/mL None Initiate revaccination Yes Any result ≥10 mIU/mL No action needed Unvaccinated/incompletely vaccinated or Positive/unknown - HBIG x1 Complete vaccination Yes vaccine refusers Negative - None Complete vaccination Yes Abbreviations: anti HBs = antibody to hepatitis B surface antigen; HBIG = hepatitis B immune globulin; HBsAg = hepatitis B surface antigen; HCP = health care personnel; N/A = not applicable. * Not indicated. Recommendations and Reports for future exposures, anti-HBs testing should be anti-HBs testing of HCP who received HBIG should be performed 1–2 months after the final vaccine dose. performed after anti-HBs from HBIG is no longer – If the HCP has anti-HBs <10 mIU/mL and the source detectable (6 months after administration), it might be patient is HBsAg-negative, the HCP should receive an necessary to defer anti-HBs testing for a period longer additional single HepB vaccine dose, followed by repeat than 1–2 months after the last vaccine dose in these anti-HBs testing 1–2 months later. HCP whose anti- situations (Table 5). HBs remains <10 mIU/mL should undergo – HCP with anti-HBs ≥10 mIU/mL after receipt of the revaccination with two more doses (likely 6 doses total primary vaccine series are considered immune. when accounting for the original series). So the HCP’s Immunocompetent persons have long-term protection vaccine response status can be documented for future and do not need further periodic testing to assess anti- exposures, anti-HBs testing should be performed HBs levels. 1–2 months after the final dose of vaccine. – HCP with anti-HBs <10 mIU/mL after receipt of the – If the HCP has anti-HBs ≥10 mIU/mL at the time of primary series should be revaccinated. For these HCP, the exposure, no postexposure HBV management is administration of a second complete series on an necessary, regardless of the source
