Morbidity and Mortality Weekly Report
KEYWORDS: hbv, vaccine, persons, infection, hepb, anti-hbs, dose, infants, hbsag, testing, vaccination, hepatitis, hepb vaccine, hbv infection, series


time of primary series should be revaccinated. For these HCP, the exposure, no postexposure HBV management is administration of a second complete series on an necessary, regardless of the source patient’s HBsAg status. appropriate schedule, followed by anti-HBs testing • For vaccinated HCP with anti-HBs <10 mIU/mL after 1–2 months after the final dose, is usually more two complete HepB vaccine series, the source patient practical than conducting serologic testing after each should be tested for HBsAg as soon as possible after the additional dose of vaccine. So the HCP’s vaccine exposure. If the source patient is HBsAg-positive or has response status can be documented for future exposures, unknown HBsAg status, the HCP should receive 2 doses anti-HBs testing should be performed 1–2 months after of HBIG (1,10). The first dose should be administered as the final vaccine dose. soon as possible after the exposure, and the second dose • If the source patient is HBsAg-negative, the HCP should should be administered 1 month later. HepB vaccine is complete the HepB vaccine series according to the not recommended for the exposed HCP who has vaccination schedule. So the HCP’s vaccine response status previously completed two HepB vaccine series. If the can be documented for future exposures, anti-HBs testing source patient is HBsAg-negative, neither HBIG nor HepB should be performed approximately 1–2 months after the vaccine is necessary (Table 5). final vaccine dose (Table 5). – HCP with anti-HBs ≥10 mIU/mL after receipt of the Unvaccinated HCP primary vaccine series are considered immune. • For unvaccinated or incompletely vaccinated HCP, the Immunocompetent persons have long-term protection source patient should be tested for HBsAg as soon as and do not need further periodic testing to assess anti- possible after the exposure. Testing unvaccinated or HBs levels. incompletely vaccinated HCP for anti-HBs is not – HCP with anti-HBs <10 mIU/mL after receipt of the necessary and is potentially misleading, because anti-HBs primary series should be revaccinated. For these HCP, ≥10 mIU/mL as a correlate of vaccine-induced protection administration of a second complete series on an has only been determined for persons who have completed appropriate schedule, followed by anti-HBs testing an approved vaccination series (107) (Table 5). 1–2 months after the final dose, is usually more practical • If the source patient is HBsAg-positive or has an unknown than conducting serologic testing after each additional HBsAg status, the HCP should receive 1 dose
