Morbidity and Mortality Weekly Report
KEYWORDS: hbv, vaccine, persons, infection, hepb, anti-hbs, dose, infants, hbsag, testing, vaccination, hepatitis, hepb vaccine, hbv infection, series


is usually more practical • If the source patient is HBsAg-positive or has an unknown than conducting serologic testing after each additional HBsAg status, the HCP should receive 1 dose of HBIG dose of vaccine. So the HCP’s vaccine response status and 1 dose of HepB vaccine administered as soon as can be documented for future exposures, anti-HBs possible after the exposure. HepB vaccine may be testing should be performed 1–2 months after the final administered simultaneously with HBIG at a separate vaccine dose. anatomical injection site (e.g., separate limb). The HCP Clinical Management of Exposed HCP should complete the HepB vaccine series according to the vaccination schedule. To document the HCP’s vaccine • HCP who have anti-HBs <10 mIU/mL (or who are response status for future exposures, anti-HBs testing unvaccinated or incompletely vaccinated) and sustain an should be performed approximately 1–2 months after the exposure to a source patient who is HBsAg-positive or has final vaccine dose. Anti-HBs testing should be performed an unknown HBsAg status should undergo baseline testing using a method that allows detection of the protective for HBV infection as soon as possible after the exposure, concentration of anti-HBs (≥10 mIU/mL). Because and follow-up testing approximately 6 months later. Testing Recommendations and Reports immediately after the exposure should consist of total anti- Nonoccupational Settings HBc, and follow-up testing approximately 6 months later HBsAg-Positive Source should consist of HBsAg and total anti-HBc. • HCP exposed to a source patient who is HBsAg-positive This section provides recommendations for management special precautions to prevent secondary transmission identifiable exposure to blood or body fluids that contain during the follow-up period; however, they should refrain blood, in nonoccupational settings (Table 6). The exposed from donating blood, plasma, organs, tissue, or semen person does not need to undergo postvaccination serologic (10). The exposed HCP does not need to modify sexual testing following vaccination based solely on being exposed. practices or refrain from becoming pregnant (10). If an • Exposed persons who have written documentation of a complete exposed HCP is breastfeeding, she does not need to HepB vaccine series and who did not receive postvaccination discontinue (7,10). No modifications to an exposed HCP’s testing should receive a single dose of HepB vaccine. patient-care responsibilities are necessary to prevent • Exposed persons who are in the process of being vaccinated transmission to patients based solely on exposure to a but who have not
