Morbidity and Mortality Weekly Report
KEYWORDS: hbv, vaccine, persons, infection, hepb, anti-hbs, dose, infants, hbsag, testing, vaccination, hepatitis, hepb vaccine, hbv infection, series


patient-care responsibilities are necessary to prevent • Exposed persons who are in the process of being vaccinated transmission to patients based solely on exposure to a but who have not completed the vaccine series should receive source patient who is HBsAg-positive or has an unknown a dose of HBIG and complete the HepB vaccine series (it HBsAg status. is not necessary to restart the HepB vaccine series). HepB vaccine may be administered simultaneously with HBIG Previously Vaccinated HCP at a separate anatomical injection site (e.g., separate limb). • Providers should only accept written, dated records as • Exposed unvaccinated persons should receive both HBIG evidence of HepB vaccination (151). and HepB vaccine as soon as possible after exposure • An increasing number of HCP have received routine HepB (preferably within 24 hours). HepB vaccine may be vaccination during childhood. No postvaccination administered simultaneously with HBIG at a separate serologic testing is recommended after routine infant or anatomical injection site (e.g., separate limbs). Studies are adolescent HepB vaccination. Because vaccine-induced limited on the maximum interval after exposure during anti-HBs wanes over time, testing HCP for anti-HBs years which postexposure prophylaxis is effective, but the after vaccination might not distinguish vaccine interval is unlikely to exceed 7 days for percutaneous nonresponders from responders. Pre-exposure assessment exposure and 14 days for sexual exposures. The HepB of current or past anti-HBs results upon hire or vaccine series should be completed according to the matriculation, followed by one or more additional doses vaccination schedule. of HepB vaccine for HCP with anti-HBs <10 mIU/mL HBsAg-Unknown Source and retesting anti-HBs, if necessary, helps to ensure that HCP will be protected if they have an exposure to HBV- • Exposed persons with written documentation of a containing blood or body fluids (Box 5; Figure 3). complete HepB vaccine series require no further treatment. – HCP who cannot provide documentation of 3 doses • Exposed persons who are in the process of being vaccinated of HepB vaccine should be considered unvaccinated but who are not fully vaccinated should complete the and should complete the vaccine series. Postvaccination HepB vaccine series (it is not necessary to restart the serologic testing for anti-HBs is recommended vaccination series). 1–2 months after the third vaccine dose. HCP who are • Exposed unvaccinated persons should receive the HepB inadvertently tested before receiving 3 documented vaccine series with the first dose administered as soon as
