Morbidity and Mortality Weekly Report
KEYWORDS: hbv, vaccine, persons, infection, hepb, anti-hbs, dose, infants, hbsag, testing, vaccination, hepatitis, hepb vaccine, hbv infection, series


third vaccine dose. HCP who are • Exposed unvaccinated persons should receive the HepB inadvertently tested before receiving 3 documented vaccine series with the first dose administered as soon as doses of HepB vaccine and have anti-HBs ≥10 mIU/mL possible after exposure, preferably within 24 hours. Studies should not be considered immune because anti-HBs are limited on the maximum interval after exposure during ≥10 mIU/mL is a known correlate of protection only which postexposure prophylaxis is effective, but the interval when testing follows a documented 3-dose series. is unlikely to exceed 7 days for percutaneous exposure and Health care facilities are encouraged to try to locate 14 days for sexual exposures. The vaccine series should be vaccine records for HCP and to enter all vaccine doses completed according to the vaccination schedule. in their state immunization information system. Recommendations and Reports Immunization Management Issues Postvaccination Serologic Testing • Serologic testing for immunity is not necessary after Prevaccination Testing routine vaccination of infants, children, or adults. • Vaccination of persons immune to HBV because of current • Testing for anti-HBs after vaccination is recommended or previous infection or HepB vaccination does not for the following persons whose subsequent clinical increase the risk for adverse events (8). However, in management depends on knowledge of their immune populations that have high rates of previous HBV status (Box 7): infection, prevaccination testing might reduce costs by – infants born to HBsAg-positive women and infants avoiding vaccination of persons who are already immune. born to women whose HBsAg status remains unknown Prevaccination testing consists of testing for HBsAg, anti- barrier to vaccination of susceptible persons, especially in in the past populations that are difficult to access. Testing is not a The issue: An increasing number of HCP have received requirement for vaccination, and in settings where testing routine hepatitis B (HepB) vaccination during childhood. is not feasible, vaccination of recommended persons No postvaccination serologic testing is recommended after should continue. routine infant or adolescent HepB vaccination. Because • The first dose of HepB vaccine should typically be vaccine-induced antibody to hepatitis B surface antigen administered immediately after collection of the blood for (anti-HBs) wanes over time, testing HCP for anti-HBs serologic testing. Prevaccination testing is recommended years after vaccination might not distinguish vaccine for the following persons (Box 6): nonresponders from responders. – household, sexual, or needle-sharing contacts of Guidance for health care institutions: Health
