Morbidity and Mortality Weekly Report
KEYWORDS: hbv, vaccine, persons, infection, hepb, anti-hbs, dose, infants, hbsag, testing, vaccination, hepatitis, hepb vaccine, hbv infection, series


recommended years after vaccination might not distinguish vaccine for the following persons (Box 6): nonresponders from responders. – household, sexual, or needle-sharing contacts of Guidance for health care institutions: Health HBsAg-positive persons; care institutions may measure anti-HBs upon hire or – HIV-positive persons; matriculation for HCP who have documentation of a – persons with elevated alanine aminotransferase (ALT)/ complete HepB vaccine series in the past (e.g., as part aspartate aminotransferase (AST) of unknown etiology; of routine infant or adolescent vaccination). HCP with – hemodialysis patients (refer to 2001 CDC anti-HBs <10 mIU/mL should receive one or more recommendations for additional information); additional doses of HepB vaccine and retesting (Figure 3). – MSM; and Institutions that decide to not measure anti-HBs upon hire – past or current injection-drug users. or matriculation for HCP who have documentation of a Testing for HBV Infection complete HepB vaccine series in the past should ensure timely assessment and postexposure prophylaxis following • Testing for HBV infection (consisting of testing for an exposure (Table 5). HBsAg, anti-HBs, and anti-HBc) is also recommended Considerations: The risk for occupational HBV for the following persons: infection for vaccinated HCP might be low enough in – persons born in countries of high and intermediate certain settings so that assessment of anti-HBs status HBV endemicity (HBsAg prevalence ≥2%); and appropriate follow-up should be done at the time of – U.S.-born persons not vaccinated as infants whose exposure to potentially infectious blood or body fluids. This parents were born in countries with high HBV approach relies on HCP recognizing and reporting blood endemicity (≥8%); and body fluid exposures and therefore may be applied – persons needing immunosuppressive therapy, including on the basis of documented low risk, implementation, chemotherapy, immunosuppression related to organ and cost considerations. Certain HCP occupations have transplantation, and immunosuppression for lower risk for occupational blood and body fluid exposures rheumatologic or gastroenterologic disorders; and (e.g., occupations involving counseling versus performing – donors of blood, plasma, organs, tissues, or semen. procedures), and nontrainees have lower risks for blood • All pregnant women should be tested for HBsAg and body fluid exposures than trainees. Some settings during each pregnancy. Pregnant women with positive also will have a lower prevalence of HBV infection in the HBsAg tests should be tested for HBV DNA. patient population served than in other settings, which will influence the risk for HCP exposure to HBsAg-positive blood and
