Morbidity and Mortality Weekly Report
KEYWORDS: hbv, vaccine, persons, infection, hepb, anti-hbs, dose, infants, hbsag, testing, vaccination, hepatitis, hepb vaccine, hbv infection, series


infection in the HBsAg tests should be tested for HBV DNA. patient population served than in other settings, which will influence the risk for HCP exposure to HBsAg-positive blood and body fluids. Recommendations and Reports not had postvaccination serologic testing* Measure antibody to hepatitis B surface antigen (anti-HBs) anti-HBs <10 mIU/mL anti-HBs ≥10 mIU/mL Administer 1 dose of HepB vaccine, postvaccination serologic testing anti-HBs anti-HBs <10 mIU/mL ≥10 mIU/mL No action for Administer 2 more doses hepatitis B prophylaxis of HepB vaccine, (regardless of source patient postvaccination serologic testing hepatitis B surface antigen status) anti-HBs anti-HBs <10 mIU/mL ≥10 mIU/mL Health care personnel need to receive hepatitis B evaluation for all exposures Source: Adapted from CDC. A comprehensive immunization strategy to eliminate transmission of hepatitis B virus infection in the United States: recommendations of the Advisory Committee on Immunization Practices (ACIP). Part II: immunization of adults. MMWR 2006;55(No. RR-16). * Should be performed 1–2 months after the last dose of vaccine using a quantitative method that allows detection of the protective concentration of anti-HBs (≥10 mIU/mL) (e.g., enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay [ELISA]). Recommendations and Reports TABLE 6. Postexposure management after distinct nonoccupational percutaneous or mucosal exposure to blood or body fluids Management Exposure* Unvaccinated person Previously vaccinated person HBsAg-positive source HepB vaccine series and HBIG HepB vaccine dose HBsAg status unknown for source Hep B vaccine series No management Abbreviations: HepB = hepatitis B; HBsAg = hepatitis B surface antigen; HBIG = hepatitis B immune globulin. * Exposures include percutaneous (e.g., bite or needlestick) or mucosal exposure to blood or body fluids, sex or needle-sharing contact, or victim of sexual assault/abuse. (e.g., infants safely surrendered shortly after birth). should not be a barrier to vaccination, and the first HepB Postvaccination serologic testing should consist of vaccine dose should be administered immediately after testing for anti-HBs and HBsAg; collection of the blood for serologic testing. – HCP and public safety workers at risk for blood or – Persons who test negative for HBsAg should be body fluid exposure; considered susceptible to HBV infection and should – hemodialysis patients (and other persons who might be counseled about precautions to prevent HBV require outpatient hemodialysis), HIV-infected infection and the need to obtain HBIG postexposure persons, and other immunocompromised persons (e.g., prophylaxis for any known or likely exposure to an hematopoietic stem-cell transplant recipients or persons HBsAg-positive source (10). receiving chemotherapy), to determine the need
