Morbidity and Mortality Weekly Report
KEYWORDS: hbv, vaccine, persons, infection, hepb, anti-hbs, dose, infants, hbsag, testing, vaccination, hepatitis, hepb vaccine, hbv infection, series


persons, and other immunocompromised persons (e.g., prophylaxis for any known or likely exposure to an hematopoietic stem-cell transplant recipients or persons HBsAg-positive source (10). receiving chemotherapy), to determine the need for • Testing HCP with documentation of complete HepB revaccination and the type of follow-up testing; and vaccination for anti-HBs upon hire or matriculation (i.e., – sex partners of HBsAg-positive persons, to determine pre-exposure assessment of prior response to HepB the need for revaccination and for other methods of vaccination), followed by one or more additional doses of protection against HBV infection. HepB vaccine for HCP with anti-HBs <10 mIU/mL, helps • Testing should be performed 1–2 months after to ensure that HCP will be protected if they have an administration of the final dose of the vaccine series using exposure to HBV-containing blood or body fluids. a method that allows determination of a protective • Anti-HBs levels of ≥10 mIU/mL are generally considered concentration of anti-HBs (≥10 mIU/mL). seroprotective; however, different assays have different – Persons found to have anti-HBs concentrations of assay cutoff values based on which reported levels of anti- ≥10 mIU/mL after the primary vaccine series are HBs might vary depending on the assay used. Refer to the considered to be immune. package insert of the test for the determination of actual/ – Immunocompetent persons have long-term protection and correct levels of anti-HBs antibodies. do not need further periodic testing to assess anti-HBs levels. Revaccination – Immunocompromised persons might need annual testing to assess anti-HBs concentrations (See Revaccination). • Revaccination (i.e., booster dose, challenge dose, or – Persons found to have anti-HBs concentrations of revaccination with a complete series) is not generally <10 mIU/mL after the primary vaccine series should recommended for persons with a normal immune status be revaccinated. Administration of all doses in the who were vaccinated as infants, children, adolescents, or anti-HBs testing 1–2 months after the final dose, is of booster doses. Revaccination when anti-HBs is usually more practical than serologic testing after one <10 mIU/mL is recommended for the following persons: or more doses of vaccine (except for when revaccinating – Infants born to HBsAg-positive mothers. HBsAg- infants born to HBsAg-positive mothers). negative infants with anti-HBs <10 mIU/mL should anti-HBs after revaccination should be tested for HBsAg. and retested 1–2 months later. Infants whose anti-HBs – If the HBsAg test result is positive, the person should remains <10 mIU/mL following single
