Morbidity and Mortality Weekly Report
KEYWORDS: hbv, vaccine, persons, infection, hepb, anti-hbs, dose, infants, hbsag, testing, vaccination, hepatitis, hepb vaccine, hbv infection, series


revaccination should be tested for HBsAg. and retested 1–2 months later. Infants whose anti-HBs – If the HBsAg test result is positive, the person should remains <10 mIU/mL following single dose receive appropriate management, and any household, revaccination should receive two additional doses of sexual, or needle-sharing contacts should be identified and HepB vaccine on a vaccine schedule to complete the vaccinated. Prevaccination testing (consisting of anti-HBc, second series, followed by anti-HBs testing 1–2 months HBsAg, and anti-HBs) to identify infected persons is later. Alternatively, these infants may be revaccinated recommended for household, sexual, or needle-sharing with a second 3-dose series and retested (HBsAg and contacts of HBsAg-positive persons; serologic testing anti-HBs) 1–2 months after the final dose of vaccine. Recommendations and Reports BOX 6. Persons recommended to receive serologic testing prior persons receiving chemotherapy), the need for booster to vaccination* doses has not been determined. Annual anti-HBs testing and booster doses should be considered for persons with • Household, sexual, or needle contacts of hepatitis B surface antigen (HBsAg)–positive persons† an ongoing risk for exposure. • HIV-positive persons† Interrupted Schedules and Minimum • Persons with elevated alanine aminotransferase/ Dosing Intervals aspartate aminotransferase of unknown etiology† • Hemodialysis patients† • For all ages, when the HepB vaccine schedule is • Men who have sex with men† interrupted, the vaccine series does not need to be • Past or current persons who inject drugs† restarted. If the series is interrupted after the first dose, the second dose should be administered as soon as possible, • Persons born in countries of high and intermediate and the second and third doses should be separated by an hepatitis B virus (HBV) endemicity (HBsAg interval of at least 8 weeks. If only the third dose has been prevalence ≥2%) delayed, it should be administered as soon as possible. The • U.S.-born persons not vaccinated as infants whose final dose of vaccine must be administered at least 8 weeks parents were born in countries with high HBV after the second dose and should follow the first dose by endemicity (≥8%) at least 16 weeks; the minimum interval between the first • Persons needing immunosuppressive therapy, and second doses is 4 weeks. Inadequate doses of including chemotherapy, immunosuppression related HepB vaccine or doses received after a shorter-than- to organ transplantation, and immunosuppression for recommended dosing interval should be readministered, rheumatologic or gastroenterologic disorders using the correct dosage
