Morbidity and Mortality Weekly Report
KEYWORDS: hbv, vaccine, persons, infection, hepb, anti-hbs, dose, infants, hbsag, testing, vaccination, hepatitis, hepb vaccine, hbv infection, series


immunosuppression related HepB vaccine or doses received after a shorter-than- to organ transplantation, and immunosuppression for recommended dosing interval should be readministered, rheumatologic or gastroenterologic disorders using the correct dosage or schedule. • Donors of blood, plasma, organs, tissues, or semen • Vaccine doses administered ≤4 days before the minimum * Serologic testing comprises testing for hepatitis B surface antigen (HBsAg), interval or age are considered valid. Because of the unique antibody to HBsAg, and antibody to hepatitis B core antigen. accelerated schedule for Twinrix, the 4-day guideline does † Denotes persons also recommended for hepatitis B vaccination. Serologic not apply to the first 3 doses of this vaccine when testing should occur prior to vaccination. Serologic testing should not be a barrier to vaccination of susceptible persons. The first dose of vaccine should administered on a 0-day, 7-day, 21–30-day, and 12-month typically be administered immediately after collection of the blood for schedule (new recommendation). serologic testing. • In infants, administration of the final dose is not recommended before age 24 weeks. Other Immunization Management Issues – HCP. Completely vaccinated HCP with anti-HBs <10 mIU/mL should receive an additional dose of HepB • No differences in immunogenicity have been observed vaccine, followed by anti-HBs testing 1–2 months later. when one or 2 doses of HepB vaccine produced by one HCP whose anti-HBs remains <10 mIU/mL should manufacturer are followed by doses from a different complete the second series (usually 6 doses total), followed manufacturer (8). Whenever feasible, the same vaccine by repeat anti-HBs testing 1–2 months after the final dose. should be used for the subsequent doses; however, if a Alternatively, it might be more practical for very recently different brand is administered, the dose should be vaccinated HCP with anti-HBs <10 mIU/mL to receive considered valid and does not need to be repeated. the second complete series (usually 6 doses total), followed • Providers should only accept dated records as evidence of by anti-HBs testing 1–2 months after the final dose. HepB vaccination. – Hemodialysis patients. For hemodialysis patients • Although vaccinations should not be postponed if records treated in outpatient centers, the need for booster doses cannot be found, an attempt to locate missing records should be assessed by annual anti-HBs testing. A should be made by contacting previous health care booster dose should be administered when anti-HBs providers, reviewing state or local immunization levels decline to <10
