Thermal Ablation for Thyroid Nodules
KEYWORDS: thyroid, ablation, nodules, thyroid nodules, benign, pubmed, rfa, benign thyroid, nerve, radiofrequency, radiofrequency ablation, nodule, baek, kim, ultrasound


ABSTRACT Thermal ablation (TA) of thyroid lesions has revolutionized the management of thyroid nodules over the past two decades. TA has emerged as an innovative, minimally invasive treatment modality for benign thyroid nodules and recurrent thyroid cancers. More recently, TA has been proposed as an alternative therapeutic option for selected cases of primary thyroid microcarcinomas. TA techniques, including radiofrequency ablation (RFA), laser ablation (LA), microwave ablation (MWA), and high-intensity focused ultrasound (HIFU), can significantly reduce nodule size while preserving normal thyroid tissue and function. This makes them valuable treatments for symptomatic benign nodules, autonomously functioning nodules (AFTN), and select cases of recurrent or small thyroid malignancies. Although TA procedures are generally well tolerated, they require dedicated techniques, an understanding of anatomy, and specialized training for the operators. Also, it is essential to inform patients about the potential complications associated with these procedures. Successful TA necessitates a thorough understanding of thyroid and perithyroidal anatomy due to the proximity of critical structures that must be protected to avoid adverse events. Specific TA techniques, such as the ‘moving-shot’ technique, trans-isthmic approach, hydrodissection, and vascular ablation techniques, have been developed to optimize safety and efficacy by minimizing collateral tissue injury. Therefore, this chapter aims to provide a comprehensive and evidence-based overview of the indications, techniques, anatomical considerations, pre- and post-procedure assessments, and complications, focusing on RFA of the benign thyroid nodules in clinical practice. For complete coverage of all related areas of Thyroidology please visit our Free web-site https://www.thyroidmanager.org . For complete coverage of all related areas of Endocrinology, please visit our on-line FREE web-text, WWW.ENDOTEXT.ORG . INDICATIONS FOR THYROID ABLATION Thyroid ablation (TA), including radiofrequency ablation (RFA), was first introduced in the early 2000s and has since become an effective minimally invasive alternative to surgery for treating benign thyroid nodules and selected malignant lesions ( 1 , 2 ). Since their introduction, RFA has been widely adopted, with numerous studies and meta-analyses consistently demonstrating the efficacy and safety for treating benign thyroid nodules. Multiple national and international organizations have issued guidelines on the application of RFA in managing benign and malignant thyroid nodules. Although many guidelines exist worldwide, here we focus on major representative guidelines from the Korean Society of Thyroid Radiology (KSThR), the American Thyroid Association (ATA), and the European Thyroid Association (ETA), specifically addressing benign thyroid nodules. Korean Society of Thyroid Radiology (KSThR) The KSThR guidelines for thyroid RFA were initially
