Thermal Ablation for Thyroid Nodules
KEYWORDS: thyroid, ablation, nodules, thyroid nodules, benign, pubmed, rfa, benign thyroid, nerve, radiofrequency, radiofrequency ablation, nodule, baek, kim, ultrasound


is positioned posteromedially within the ‘danger triangle’ along the tracheoesophageal groove. (B) In the lower neck, the RLN courses more laterally, especially on the right, and the location of the RLN is more variable (three yellow lines suggest variations of the right recurrent laryngeal nerve) at the inferior pole of the right thyroid gland. Therefore, the concept of a ‘danger area’ in the region of the posterior medial thyroid is of utmost importance. Middle Cervical Sympathetic Ganglion (MCSG) The MCSG is part of the cervical sympathetic chain, usually located at the level of the C6 vertebra near the thyroid gland. The MCSG lies anterior to the longus colli muscle and medial to the carotid sheath at the level of the thyroid gland. The relationship and the position of the MCSG with that of the CCA is classified into 2 types, lateral type (88% prevalence) or medial type (12%) ( 18 ). The medial type places the MCSG at risk during RFA of benign nodules, requiring special caution. Thermal injury to the MCSG can cause Horner’s syndrome, characterized by ptosis, miosis, and anhidrosis. PREPROCEDURE WORK-UP Table 1 summarizes the recommended preprocedural checklist for RFA of benign thyroid nodules based on the KSThR 2017 guidelines. The components of this checklist are described in detail below. Table1. Pre-Procedural Checklist Before RFA Recommended by the KSThR 2017 Guidelines View in own window Pathologic diagnosis Benign diagnosis confirmed by at least two US-guided FNA or CNB Benign diagnosis confirmed by at least one US-guided FNA or CNB in AFTN Benign diagnosis confirmed by at least 1 US-guided FNA or CNB in thyroid nodules with highly specific benign US features Ultrasound Assessment of nodule characteristics and surrounding critical structures Measurement of nodule size and volume Symptom score Cosmetic score Laboratory tests Complete blood count Coagulation panel Thyroid function test (Serum TSH, serum T3, serum fT4) CT or MRI * 99mTc pertechnetate or 123 I thyroid scan † * Selectively indicated for patients with intrathoracic goiter, † Indicated for AFTN. Pathologic Diagnosis All major guidelines recommend using fine-needle aspiration (FNA) or core-needle biopsy (CNB) to confirm benign cytology before RFA. In most cases, thyroid nodules should be confirmed as benign by at least two separate ultrasound-guided FNA or CNB prior to TA ( 4 , 19 , 20 ). The malignancy rate of thyroid nodules after confirmation of benignity with two separate FNAs is very low (
