Thermal Ablation for Thyroid Nodules
KEYWORDS: thyroid, ablation, nodules, thyroid nodules, benign, pubmed, rfa, benign thyroid, nerve, radiofrequency, radiofrequency ablation, nodule, baek, kim, ultrasound


or CNB prior to TA ( 4 , 19 , 20 ). The malignancy rate of thyroid nodules after confirmation of benignity with two separate FNAs is very low ( 21 ). However, some guidelines accept a single benign biopsy result if the nodule has highly specific benign ultrasound features or if the lesion is an AFTN ( 4 , 6 ). Imaging Studies (US, CT, MRI) Ultrasound is fundamental for lesion characterization and for assessing the proximity to critical structures. Ultrasound should be performed to measure the size and volume of the index lesion using three orthogonal diameters: the largest diameter and two perpendicular diameters. The nodule’s volume is calculated with the equation V = πabc/6, where V is the volume, and where a, b, and c are the orthogonal diameters. This volume measurement is repeated at follow-up visits, and treatment outcome is assessed by the volume reduction ratio (VRR). The VRR is defined as follows: VRR = ((Baseline Volume – Final Volume) / Baseline Volume) × 100 Cross-sectional imaging using CT or MRI may be helpful for evaluation of intrathoracic extension in large nodules or for detailed assessment in cases where US visualization is limited (beyond the ultrasound window or assessing the relationship between malignancy and surrounding structures). Additionally, in the evaluation of recurrent thyroid cancer, metastatic lymph nodes can occur at any location, and CT is useful as a thorough evaluation is often needed, especially for areas beyond the US window. However, routine pre-ablation CT or MRI is not recommended for all benign nodules. Symptom and Cosmetic Scores Symptom scores are measured using a visual analogue scale from 0 (no symptoms) to 10 (maximal symptoms), as determined by the patient. A physician also records a cosmetic score, graded as follows ( 4 ): 1= no palpable mass; 2 = no cosmetic problem but a palpable mass; 3 = cosmetic problem on swallowing only; and 4 = readily and always detected cosmetic problem. Biochemical Analyses Laboratory tests typically involve a complete blood count, coagulation profiles (platelet count, prothrombin test, activated partial thromboplastin time), and thyroid function tests (TSH (thyrotropin), triiodothyronine (T3), and free thyroxine (fT4)) ( 22 , 23 ). PROCEDURE Anesthesia For pain control during the procedure, local anesthesia is recommended over general anesthesia or deep sedation, as it provides adequate anesthesia for thyroid procedures while permitting early detection of complications (especially voice problems) ( 4 ,
