Thermal Ablation for Thyroid Nodules
KEYWORDS: thyroid, ablation, nodules, thyroid nodules, benign, pubmed, rfa, benign thyroid, nerve, radiofrequency, radiofrequency ablation, nodule, baek, kim, ultrasound


local anesthesia is recommended over general anesthesia or deep sedation, as it provides adequate anesthesia for thyroid procedures while permitting early detection of complications (especially voice problems) ( 4 , 6 ). The use of general anesthesia or deep sedation increases procedural risk and may delay recognition of adverse events such as nerve injury, skin burn, or airway compromise. Several serious complications (severe skin burn, tracheal necrosis) associated with general anesthesia during thyroid ablation have been reported ( 24 , 25 ). Device As the thyroid gland is relatively small and superficially located, thyroid-dedicated electrodes have been developed ( 26 ). Compared to conventional electrodes used for other organs, thyroid RFA employs a specially designed internally cooled electrode that is shorter (typically 7 cm) to improve maneuverability and thinner (18~19-gauge) to minimize trauma to normal thyroid tissue ( 26 - 28 ). Various sizes of active tips have been used (5, 7, 10, and 15 mm) for varying nodule sizes ( 29 ), and for treating smaller recurrent cancers; a 3.8 mm tip is commonly employed. Smaller active tips enable precise ablation with minimal collateral thermal injury to the adjacent critical structures. Recommended RF power settings according to the electrode tip size are described in Table 2 ( 6 ). A thinner 19-gauge electrode is useful for puncturing small recurrent cancers or parathyroid lesions ( 30 ). A newly developed adjustable electrode features an internally cooled 18-gauge design with a slider mechanism to change the active tip length from 5 mm to 30 mm, allowing flexible and efficient treatment of nodules of various sizes in a single session ( 31 , 32 ). A bipolar electrode is useful to treat thyroid lesions for pregnant women or for patients with cardiac pacemakers ( 4 ). Table 2. Various active tip sizes and recommended power settings according to active tip size View in own window Active tip size (cm) RF power (W) 0.38 5 – 15 0.5 10 – 30 0.7 20 – 40 1.0 50 – 80 1.25 100-120 1.5 120-150 Technique Among the various TA modalities, RFA has emerged as the mainstay, owing to its favorable efficacy and safety. This section focuses on the key RFA techniques that optimize treatment outcomes while minimizing complications ( Table 3 ). MOVING-SHOT TECHNIQUE The thyroid gland is smaller compared to other organs, and thyroid nodules are usually ellipsoid rather than round in shape.
