Thermal Ablation for Thyroid Nodules
KEYWORDS: thyroid, ablation, nodules, thyroid nodules, benign, pubmed, rfa, benign thyroid, nerve, radiofrequency, radiofrequency ablation, nodule, baek, kim, ultrasound


outcomes while minimizing complications ( Table 3 ). MOVING-SHOT TECHNIQUE The thyroid gland is smaller compared to other organs, and thyroid nodules are usually ellipsoid rather than round in shape. Therefore, ablation of thyroid nodules with a prolonged fixed electrode —traditionally employed for treating tumors in larger organs such as the liver— can cause thermal damage to adjacent structures. Instead, the “moving-shot” technique has become standard for thyroid lesion ablation ( 3 , 29 , 33 ). The thyroid nodule is conceptually divided into several ablation units of varying sizes: peripheral or adjacent-border units are smaller, while central units are larger. RFA is conducted unit by unit, advancing or retracting the electrode as each region is treated; hence the name: “moving-shot technique” ( 34 ). The electrode tip is placed first in the deepest, most remote part of the nodule, allowing continuous visualization under ultrasound. As a transient echogenic area appears, indicating ablation, the electrode is slowly withdrawn to treat remaining units sequentially. HYDRODISSECTION Hydrodissection is a technique used to create a safe margin by injecting fluid around the thyroid capsule to separate the target lesion from adjacent critical structures. This approach reduces the risk of thermal injury during ablation. Various hydrodissection techniques exist, with four main approaches based on tumor location: anterolateral, posterior, pre-tracheal, and within the danger triangle ( 35 ). The anterolateral approach is most commonly employed ( Figure 3 ). In case of anterolateral hydrodissection, a 21-G spinal needle with a three-way stopcock is used, enabling both hydrodissection and local anesthesia through a single skin puncture site. Cold (0°C to 4°C) 5% dextrose solution is used for hydrodissection, as it does not conduct electricity and provides cooling. During the procedure, the injection of fluid is carefully monitored with ultrasound to maintain an adequate separation—typically ≥5 mm—from critical structures such as nerves, the esophagus, and pain-sensitive tissues, including the strap muscles and skin. The hydrodissection technique is useful not only for securing sufficient safety margins from critical structures but also for controlling pain, reducing the total amount of lidocaine required during the procedure ( 36 ). Figure 3. Anterolateral hydrodissection covers the anterior and posterolateral thyroid. This hydrodissection technique creates a sufficient safety margin by injecting a cold 5% dextrose solution around the thyroid capsule to separate the target ablation area from adjacent critical structures. Hydrodissection also reduces pain during ablation. VASCULAR ABLATION Vascular ablation techniques have
