Thermal Ablation for Thyroid Nodules
KEYWORDS: thyroid, ablation, nodules, thyroid nodules, benign, pubmed, rfa, benign thyroid, nerve, radiofrequency, radiofrequency ablation, nodule, baek, kim, ultrasound


cold 5% dextrose solution around the thyroid capsule to separate the target ablation area from adjacent critical structures. Hydrodissection also reduces pain during ablation. VASCULAR ABLATION Vascular ablation techniques have recently been developed to improve the efficacy of thyroid nodule ablation by addressing the heat-sink effect caused by blood flow. There are two primary vascular ablation methods: artery-first ablation and marginal venous ablation. Artery-First Ablation Technique Benign thyroid nodules are sometimes hypervascular, and the heat-sink effect reduces RFA efficacy in such cases ( 1 , 37 ). Several strategies have been proposed to minimize the heat-sink effect during RFA in thyroid nodules. The artery-first ablation technique is applied primarily to hypervascular nodules that have a prominent feeding artery, especially in the isthmic area. This technique ablates the main feeding artery (prominent at the isthmus) as the first step and can be easily applied to a nodule with a feeding artery entering through the isthmus. Doppler ultrasound is used to identify the nodule’s arterial feeder. As a result, this method not only enhances the efficacy of ablation by reducing blood flow but also minimizes hemorrhagic risk during the procedure, such as blood oozing along the electrode. In some cases, wedge-shaped hypoechoic changes are observed after ablating the main feeding artery, which may represent infarction in the area supplied by that feeding artery. However, this phenomenon does not occur in every ablation, as hypervascular thyroid nodules often have multiple bypassing feeding arteries. Marginal Venous Ablation Technique Most thyroid nodules exhibit prominent draining veins along the nodule margin, which can contribute to the heat-sink effect and impede complete ablation at the nodule’s periphery, potentially leading to marginal recurrence during follow-up periods. Therefore, this technique involves ablating the marginal veins by directly puncturing them with the electrode tip and delivering energy to occlude venous drainage. When the vein is ablated, echogenic air bubbles fill the marginal vein of the nodule. At the beginning of marginal vein ablation, rapid flow of air bubbles along the marginal vein can be seen; however, when venous flow gradually decreases and eventually ceases, the air bubbles remain inside the veins, indicating a complete ablation of the marginal vein. The ultrasound feature is called ‘venous staining’. Marginal venous ablation may prevent recurrences by ensuring thorough treatment of the nodule margin. However, it is associated with the risk of thermal injury to adjacent critical structures, such as the recurrent laryngeal nerve,
