Thermal Ablation for Thyroid Nodules
KEYWORDS: thyroid, ablation, nodules, thyroid nodules, benign, pubmed, rfa, benign thyroid, nerve, radiofrequency, radiofrequency ablation, nodule, baek, kim, ultrasound


thyroid function tests, including serum TSH, T3, and fT4, should be monitored during follow-up visits to guide the adjustment or discontinuation of anti-thyroid medications. After the procedure, some patients may develop subclinical hypothyroidism. Radionuclide thyroid scanning can be helpful to assess the efficacy of ablation in AFTN. Table 4 Post-Procedural Checklist after RFA View in own window Benign thyroid nodule Autonomously functioning thyroid nodules US (Features of ablated zone to detect under-ablated portion with vascularity on color-Doppler US) P P Volume Measurement P P Symptom score P P Cosmetic score P — Laboratory tests Thyroid function tests Selectively P Serum Tg, anti-Tg antibody — Selectively CT or MRI Selectively Selectively PET — — 123 I thyroid scan — P CLINICAL OUTCOME Recent meta-analyses and systematic reviews have established TA, including RFA, MWA, and LA as effective and safe treatments for benign thyroid nodules. Here we summarize clinical outcomes based on the latest evidence, with a focus on long-term efficacy, volume reduction, symptom/cosmetic improvement, and regrowth rate. Recent meta-analyses with ≥3 years of follow-up report a significant reduction in nodule size after TA. One large-population study reported an overall VRR of 71.6% at 3 years (95% CI: 64.4–78.8%), with variability by modality: LA (53.3%), RFA (79.5%), and MWA (89.7%) ( 38 ). In the study, all modalities led to significant improvements in both symptom and cosmetic scores, sustained over multiple years ( 38 ). In comparison of RFA and MWA, RFA achieved a VRR of 83.3% at 12 months, superior to MWA (76.9%), especially with superior outcomes in less experienced (<10 years) investigators ( 39 ). The available data on the effectiveness of TA for treating hyperthyroidism associated with AFTN is limited. A systematic review and meta-analysis of TA for AFTNs reported a TSH normalization rate of 71.2% and the VRR of 69.4% at a mean follow-up period of 12.8 months ( 40 ). Comparative systematic review of long-term studies of TA shows that RFA achieves superior VRR at 12 months (83.3%) compared to MWA (76.9%), notably in less experienced operators. For the treatment of AFTN, data remain limited but suggest a 71.2% normalization rate of TSH, and a mean VRR of 69.4% at 12.8 months post-ablation ( 41 ). However, with longer follow-up, as follow-up periods extend, long-term clinical outcomes have revealed several issues, and ‘regrowth’ is one of the major problems. Reported regrowth rates range widely from as low
