Thermal Ablation for Thyroid Nodules
KEYWORDS: thyroid, ablation, nodules, thyroid nodules, benign, pubmed, rfa, benign thyroid, nerve, radiofrequency, radiofrequency ablation, nodule, baek, kim, ultrasound


with longer follow-up, as follow-up periods extend, long-term clinical outcomes have revealed several issues, and ‘regrowth’ is one of the major problems. Reported regrowth rates range widely from as low as 0.7% up to 37.5% ( 41 ). Definitions of regrowth differ but commonly refer to a volume increase >50% relative to the nadir volume post-treatment. A major concern associated with regrowth is delayed surgery. Delayed surgery rates due to regrowth range from 0.7% to 37.5%. Regrowth often originates from undertreated peripheral tissue, emphasizing the importance of complete nodule ablation, including margins. Vascular ablation combined with hydrodissection is recommended to improve complete treatment rates ( 30 ). COMPLICATIONS Although the overall complication rate of TA is low, various complications may occur ( Table 5 ). A large retrospective series including 1459 patients who underwent RFA of 1543 thyroid nodules reported an overall complication rate of 3.3% with a major complication rate of 1.4 ( 42 ). Major complications include voice changes, Horner syndrome, brachial plexus injury, nodule rupture, and permanent hypothyroidism. Minor complications included hematoma, skin burns, and nausea/vomiting. Table 5. Complications and Side Effects Resulting from Thyroid Radiofrequency Ablation and their Reported Incidence View in own window Complication or side effect Incidence of complications (%) Overall 3.3 Major 1.47 Voice change 0.00 – 1.02 Nodule rupture 0.19 – 2.5 Permanent hypothyroidism 0.07 Brachial plexus injury 0.07 Horner syndrome 0.13 Minor 1.72 Hematoma 0.9 – 2.1 Vomiting 0.62 Skin burn 0.27 Side effect Pain 0.8 – 15.7 Vasovagal reaction 0.34 Cough 1.26 Major Complications Major complications are defined by the Society of Interventional Radiology as those complications that can lead to substantial morbidity and disability, may increase the level of care, result in hospital admission, or lengthen hospital stay ( 43 ). VOICE CHANGES Voice change is one of the most concerning complications of TA. Voice change is caused primarily by thermal injury to the RLN, which is different from mechanical injury during surgery. Although most patients show complete voice recovery usually within 60 to 90 days, severe injury can result in permanent RLN palsy. Knowledge of the ‘danger triangle’ and ‘danger area’, where the RLN can be located, is important to prevent this complication. The ‘danger triangle’ is the area that encompasses the esophagus, trachea, and medial thyroid gland. On the right side, a “danger area” concept applies to the area from the tracheoesophageal groove medially to the carotid
