Thermal Ablation for Thyroid Nodules
KEYWORDS: thyroid, ablation, nodules, thyroid nodules, benign, pubmed, rfa, benign thyroid, nerve, radiofrequency, radiofrequency ablation, nodule, baek, kim, ultrasound


area that encompasses the esophagus, trachea, and medial thyroid gland. On the right side, a “danger area” concept applies to the area from the tracheoesophageal groove medially to the carotid sheath laterally that encompasses the right RLN and its variable location, in combination with the vagus nerve and the MCSG ( Figure 1 ). Typically, voice changes are noticed during or immediately after the ablation. Therefore, regular monitoring of voice changes during and after the procedure is important. If voice changes are detected during the procedure, a ‘bolus injection of cold 5% dextrose is useful to improve the voice problem ( 44 , 45 ). Specifically, to decrease damage to the nerve, a cold (~ 4°C) 5% dextrose solution is injected continuously into the area surrounding the damaged nerve using a 21-G spinal needle. A 5% dextrose solution is recommended rather than normal saline or distilled water because it is isotonic and does not conduct electricity. Immediate symptom relief associated with dextrose solution injection may be due to the cooling of the damaged nerve and a reduction of additional conductive heat transfer to the nerve. This management strategy can be applied not only to voice changes involving the RLN injury but also to other nerves. HORNER SYNDROME Damage to the MCSG (medial variation) can result in Horner syndrome (ptosis, miosis, anhidrosis). Conjunctival injection can be an early sign due to vasodilation, warranting immediate evaluation. NODULE RUPTURE Thyroid nodule rupture after TA is thought to result from disruption of the thyroid capsule, leading to leakage of nodule contents, most often into the anterior neck soft tissues. Patients typically present with sudden neck swelling and pain (7-50 days) ( 46 ). The underlying mechanism is thought to involve delayed hemorrhage secondary to microvascular leakage, as CT frequently demonstrates high-density materials with volume expansion, ultimately causing tearing of the capsule. Excessive post-procedural massaging or neck movement has also been suggested as a possible contributing factor. Standard treatment consists in the administration of oral steroids rather than surgical intervention. Gentle compression of the affected area can be useful to stop blood oozing. HYPOTHYROIDISM Although uncommon, a few cases of hypothyroidism have been reported following RFA. In a large study of 1,459 patients, only one developed permanent hypothyroidism, and laboratory results before and after the procedure showed elevated anti-TPO antibodies, suggesting an underlying autoimmune condition ( 42 ). Similarly, another study found that 1 out
