Thermal Ablation for Thyroid Nodules
KEYWORDS: thyroid, ablation, nodules, thyroid nodules, benign, pubmed, rfa, benign thyroid, nerve, radiofrequency, radiofrequency ablation, nodule, baek, kim, ultrasound


developed permanent hypothyroidism, and laboratory results before and after the procedure showed elevated anti-TPO antibodies, suggesting an underlying autoimmune condition ( 42 ). Similarly, another study found that 1 out of 875 patients experienced transient hypothyroidism within 24 hours after RFA ( 47 ). While the exact cause is uncertain, both studies indicate that autoimmune thyroiditis may play a contributing role. Therefore, preoperative antibody status may confer a higher risk for post-RFA hypothyroidism. Therefore, it is recommended that patients undergo thyroid function testing, including assessment for anti-thyroid antibodies. If hypothyroidism does occur, it can be managed with postoperative levothyroxine therapy. Minor Complications HEMATOMA Postoperative hematoma is a recognized complication following TA of thyroid nodules, with a reported incidence of approximately 0.9–2.1%. Hematomas are most commonly located in the perithyroidal, subcapsular, or intranodular regions, typically resulting from injury to the anterior jugular vein or perithyroidal vessels. Management is generally conservative, consisting of gentle neck compression for 5–10 minutes, with gradual resolution expected within 1–2 weeks. Precautions include thorough knowledge of cervical anatomy and careful evaluation of perithyroidal vessels and the anterior jugular veins before and during RFA. NAUSEA, VOMITING Postoperative nausea is a common adverse effect and is typically transient. In one study, 9 out of 1,459 patients experienced vomiting following RFA, but symptoms resolved within 1–2 days ( 42 ). In such cases, antiemetic medications may be administered for symptom relief. SKIN BURN Most burns described in the literature are superficial, limited to first-degree injuries, and typically self-limiting, resolving without sequelae within 7–10 days after RFA ( 42 ). However, a rare case of a full-thickness burn has been reported, which required 3 weeks to heal and resulted in scarring ( 24 ). In this patient, conscious sedation was used; therefore, the patient did not perceive or complain of pain during the skin injury. In case of skin burns, careful assessment of burn severity and appropriate clinical follow-up should be done. Notably, local anesthesia (rather than sedation or general anesthesia) is a standard method to minimize complications during TA, and the use of bipolar electrodes can reduce the risk of skin burns. REFERENCES 1. Jeong WK, Baek JH, Rhim H, Kim YS, Kwak MS, Jeong HJ, Lee D. Radiofrequency ablation of benign thyroid nodules: safety and imaging follow-up in 236 patients. European radiology. 2008;18(6):1244-1250. [ PubMed : 18286289 ] 2. Papini E, Guglielmi R, Bizzarri G, Graziano F, Bianchini A,
