HHS Public Access
KEYWORDS: disease, manuscript, author, author manuscript, patients, lyme, treatment, children, days, manuscript author, lyme disease, cases, infections, diagnosis, common


Author manuscript Curr Opin Pediatr. Author manuscript; available in PMC 2025 April 01. Published in final edited form as: Curr Opin Pediatr. 2024 April 01; 36(2): 156–163. doi:. Tick-borne Infections in Children in North America Emma Taylor-Salmona,b, Eugene D Shapiroa,b Connecticut Abstract Purpose of the Review: Because both incidence and awareness of tick-borne infections is increasing, review of major infections and recent advances related to their diagnosis and management is important. Recent Findings: A new algorithm, termed modified two-tier testing, for testing for antibodies to Borrelia burgdorferi, the cause of Lyme disease, has been approved and may replace traditional two-tier testing. In addition, doxycycline is now acceptable to use for treatment of and/or prophylaxis for Lyme disease for up to 21 days in children of any age. Borrelia myamotoi, a bacteria in the relapsing fever type of Borrelia, is the first of this type of Borrelia that is transmitted by hard-bodied ticks such as Ixodes scapularis. Summary: Awareness of these infections and advances in their diagnosis and treatment is important to assure the best outcomes for affected patients. Table 1 contains a summary of infections discussed. Keywords lyme disease; borrelia miyamotoi; tularemia; ehrlichiosis; anaplasmosis Bacterial infections Lyme Disease Lyme disease, caused by spirochetes in the Borrelia burgdorferi sensu lato complex, is the most common vector-borne disease in North America (1). Cases reported to the Centers for Disease Control (CDC) have increased over time, from approximately 10,000 cases in 1992 to nearly 43,000 cases in 2017 (2*). It occurs predominantly in New England and the mid-Atlantic regions, extending from Virginia north into Maine and west through Ohio, and in the upper Midwestern states, chiefly in Minnesota and Wisconsin and neighboring areas. There is a much lower incidence on the West Coast, with cases documented in northern California, Oregon, and Washington (3**). In North America, human infections Phone: 203-688-4555, . Potential Conflicts of interest: Dr. Shapiro receives royalties from UptoDate and has served as an expert witness for law firms and as a consultant to Pfizer. Author Manuscript Author Manuscript Author Manuscript Author Manuscript are caused almost exclusively by B. burgdorferi sensu stricto (hereafter referred to as B. burgdorferi), with occasional B. mayonii infections occurring in the upper Midwest. In the US, the primary vector is Ixodes scapularis; I. pacificus is responsible for transmission in the western US (3**). The primary animal reservoirs are the white-footed mouse, chipmunks, and gray squirrels (4).
