HHS Public Access
KEYWORDS: disease, manuscript, author, author manuscript, patients, lyme, treatment, children, days, manuscript author, lyme disease, cases, infections, diagnosis, common


the primary vector is Ixodes scapularis; I. pacificus is responsible for transmission in the western US (3**). The primary animal reservoirs are the white-footed mouse, chipmunks, and gray squirrels (4). After transmission of the spirochete into the skin, the erythema migrans (EM) rash appears in 3–32 days (3**). It is the most common manifestation of Lyme disease and occurs in up to 95% of cases; however only approximately 25% of patients with EM recognized the tick bite that was responsible (2*). The classic “bulls eye” appearance with central clearing occurs in only about a third of patients. More commonly, the annular rash is uniformly erythematous and may continue to expand in size for several weeks if untreated (5**). Early disseminated Lyme disease occurs within days to a few weeks after initial infection and is due to hematogenous dissemination of B. burgdorferi, leading to skin, cardiac, and neurological manifestations (2*). Patients can have multiple EMs, which are usually smaller than single EM lesions (3**). Neuroborreliosis occurs in up to 10% of patients and may affect both the peripheral and central nervous systems (6). The three most common syndromes are cranial neuropathy, lymphocytic meningitis and polyradiculopathy. Facial nerve palsy is the most common manifestation of neuroborreliosis, especially in children, among whom it occurs in up to 5% of patients (3**). Patients with late Lyme disease typically present with inflammatory monoarticular or oligoarticular arthritis in large joints, most commonly the knee (1). It occurs in up to 7% of children with Lyme disease (3**). Children typically present with a subacute swollen joint, but the joint may mimic septic arthritis, with fever, pain, and inflammation (7). Diagnostic tests for Lyme disease generally depend on detection of antibodies in serum, since sensitivity of cultures of blood, CSF, and joint fluid is poor. The EM rash usually occurs well before antibodies can be detected, so testing for antibodies is not recommended in those patients; treatment should be based on clinical history and the appearance of the rash (8). Sensitivity of serology is excellent for diagnosis of Lyme arthritis and for most manifestations of early disseminated disease except for multiple EM (1). Standard two-tier testing (STTT) for antibodies consists of an initial quantitative test, usually an enzyme immunoassay (EIA), followed by Western immunoblot (WB) tests if the initial results are either positive or equivocal (9**). Recently, a new algorithm, termed modified two-tier testing (MTTT), was approved because
