HHS Public Access
KEYWORDS: disease, manuscript, author, author manuscript, patients, lyme, treatment, children, days, manuscript author, lyme disease, cases, infections, diagnosis, common


immunoassay (EIA), followed by Western immunoblot (WB) tests if the initial results are either positive or equivocal (9**). Recently, a new algorithm, termed modified two-tier testing (MTTT), was approved because it can be completed faster, should be less expensive than STTT, and it avoids the subjectivity inherent in interpreting results of WB. It consists of two FDA-approved first-tier EIAs, run concurrently or sequentially (5**). Both EIAs must be positive for a result to be considered positive. MTTT is somewhat more sensitive than STTT for detecting early infections, but it is somewhat less specific (1). However, serologic test results cannot distinguish between active and past infection and have poor positive predictive values if done on patients with a low prior probability of Lyme disease (5**). There have been some minor changes in recommendations for treatment of Lyme disease. Patients who live in an endemic area who find an Ixodes tick that was attached for >36 hours Curr Opin Pediatr. Author manuscript; available in PMC 2025 April 01. Author Manuscript Author Manuscript Author Manuscript Author Manuscript can be given a single dose of oral doxycycline within 72 hours to prevent Lyme disease (2*). Patients with EM should be treated with doxycycline, amoxicillin or cefuroxime (7). In patients unable to tolerate a first-line agent, azithromycin can be used. However, if there is reason to suspect coinfection with Anaplasma, doxycycline should be used (1). While doxycycline has traditionally been contraindicated in children ≤8-years-old, due to possible staining of permanent teeth, this was primarily based on experience with older tetracyclines. Doxycycline is now acceptable to use for ≤21 days in young children (7). In patients with Lyme neuroborreliosis, treatment should be with either ceftriaxone or doxycycline for 14–21 days (10). Long-term outcomes in children with Lyme neuroborreliosis are very favorable, with most patients making a complete recovery. Lyme carditis can be treated orally with doxycycline, amoxicillin, or cefuroxime. Hospitalized patients should be started to oral therapy for a total of 14–21 days (11). For patients with Lyme arthritis, the recommended treatment is for 28 days with the same oral agents recommended above (9**). There are some patients that report persistent symptoms after the first course of therapy, at which point they can either be retreated with an additional 28-days of oral therapy or with ceftriaxone for 14–28 days (7). Nonsteroidal antiinflammatory agents can be used for pain and may hasten clinical improvement (3**). There is
