HHS Public Access
KEYWORDS: disease, manuscript, author, author manuscript, patients, lyme, treatment, children, days, manuscript author, lyme disease, cases, infections, diagnosis, common


with an additional 28-days of oral therapy or with ceftriaxone for 14–28 days (7). Nonsteroidal antiinflammatory agents can be used for pain and may hasten clinical improvement (3**). There is no vaccine against B. burgdorferi Some patients report having persistent or relapsing nonspecific symptoms (eg, arthralgia, myalgia, fatigue) after completing treatment for Lyme disease, which is referred to as post-treatment Lyme disease syndrome (PTLDS) if it lasts for ≥6 months and is associated with some degree of functional impairment, a subset of what is sometimes termed “chronic “chronic Lyme disease,” and the term is frequently applied to a highly heterogeneous group of patients, including many with no objective evidence of ever having had Lyme disease (7). Regardless of their underlying diagnoses, many patients diagnosed with “chronic Lyme disease” have significant disability from their symptoms (7). Children with Lyme disease are less likely to develop PTLDS (13**). Current evidence does not support prolonged antibiotic therapy for PTLDS, as it is unlikely to provide benefit and exposes these patients to significant risk (7). Borrelia miyamotoi Relatively recently, B. miyamotoi has been recognized as a cause of tick-borne relapsing fever (TBRF), the first such bacterium transmitted by hard-bodied ticks such as I. scapularis and I. pacificus. In 2016, the first case in a child was reported in a 5-year-old from Massachusetts (14). B. miyamotoi is genetically more closely related to the bacteria that cause tick-borne relapsing fever than to B. burgdorferi (15). It resides in the tick’s salivary glands and can be transmitted much more rapidly than B. burgdorferi, which resides in the tick midgut (16). Its primary reservoirs are rodents, such as squirrels, chipmunks and mice (17*). The most common presentation is non-specific flu-like symptoms, including fever (may exceed 40°C), chills, fatigue, headaches, myalgias, arthralgias, and nausea (1,16). Relapsing Curr Opin Pediatr. Author manuscript; available in PMC 2025 April 01. Author Manuscript Author Manuscript Author Manuscript Author Manuscript fever is only seen in 10–40% of cases (15). The average interval between febrile episodes is nine days, but episodes occur less frequently and with fewer cycles than with relapsing fevers due to other Borrelia species (16,17*). Diagnosis can be made via either PCR assay or serology. The most specific test for B. miyamotoi is PCR that can target the GlpQ gene, either from whole blood or CSF (1,16). GlpQ is an antigen produced by B miyamotoi but not B. burgdorferi, and is the
