HHS Public Access
KEYWORDS: disease, manuscript, author, author manuscript, patients, lyme, treatment, children, days, manuscript author, lyme disease, cases, infections, diagnosis, common


is PCR that can target the GlpQ gene, either from whole blood or CSF (1,16). GlpQ is an antigen produced by B miyamotoi but not B. burgdorferi, and is the primary discriminatory marker (17*–19). Serologic testing is often negative during the first seven days of symptoms; however, paired with convalescent serum obtained at least 3 weeks after onset of symptoms, a 4-fold rise in specific antibodies indicates acute infection (1). Laboratory findings include leukopenia, thrombocytopenia and elevated hepatic transaminases (1,15,16). There are no randomized controlled trials that evaluate treatment regimens, but typical treatment is doxycycline for 14 days (1,16). Amoxicillin and ceftriaxone have also been used. Patients usually have symptomatic improvement within 24–72 hours and typically have a full recovery (20,21). The mortality rate is 4–10% in untreated patients (20). Deaths occur primarily in infants, older adults and patients who are immunosuppressed. Rocky Mountain Spotted Fever Rickettsia rickettsii is the causative agent of Rocky Mountain Spotted Fever (RMSF), so named because it was originally described in the Snake River Valley of Idaho (22). It is most prevalent in the south eastern, and south central states. In the US, R. rickettsii is transmitted primarily by Dermacentor variabilis, the American dog tick, in the eastern, central, and Pacific coastal states (23). D. andersoni, the Rocky Mountain wood tick, is responsible for transmission in the northern and western mountainous states (24). Recently, an additional vector has been identified in parts of Arizona and along the US-Mexico border: Rhipicephalus sanguineus, the brown dog tick (24). The highest incidence is in adults 60- to 69-years old; however the case-fatality rate is highest in children under 10-years-old (23). Initial symptoms include sudden onset of fever, chills, malaise, headache, nausea, vomiting and myalgia (24). Children may also present with peripheral or periorbital edema (23). The characteristic rash appears 2–4 days after fever onset, and is more common in children <15-years-old, who are also more likely to develop the rash earlier in their illness (22). It usually begins as a faint maculopapular rash on the wrists and ankles, before spreading centripetally to the trunk (24). It can involve the palms and soles and become petechial as it progresses (23). In severe disease, patients can develop severe interstitial pneumonia, ARDS, acute renal failure, meningoencephalitis, coma, gangrene, multiorgan failure, and death (22). Laboratory abnormalities include thrombocytopenia, elevated hepatic transaminases, and hyponatremia, especially as the disease progresses (24). When CSF is
