HHS Public Access
KEYWORDS: disease, manuscript, author, author manuscript, patients, lyme, treatment, children, days, manuscript author, lyme disease, cases, infections, diagnosis, common


ARDS, acute renal failure, meningoencephalitis, coma, gangrene, multiorgan failure, and death (22). Laboratory abnormalities include thrombocytopenia, elevated hepatic transaminases, and hyponatremia, especially as the disease progresses (24). When CSF is evaluated, there can be lymphocytic pleocytosis (<100 cells/μl), with moderately elevated protein and normal glucose (22). The gold standard for diagnosis is PCR assay or indirect immunofluorescence antibody (IFA) assay; however patients seldom have detectable antibodies within the first week of illness (22). IgM is non-specific, but IgG begins to increase around days 7–10 (24). Curr Opin Pediatr. Author manuscript; available in PMC 2025 April 01. Author Manuscript Author Manuscript Author Manuscript Author Manuscript Diagnosis requires at least a fourfold increase in antigen-specific IgG between acute and convalescent sera (22). Treatment is doxycycline, and should be started as soon as the diagnosis is suspected and continued until the patient has been afebrile for at least 3 days and is clinically improving (22). Ehrlichiosis There are three Ehrlichia species in the US responsible for the human infection: Ehrlichia chaffeensis, E. ewingii, and E. muris eauclairensis (1,23). They are all obligate intracellular gram-negative cocci and replicate within intracellular inclusion bodies, called morulae (25). The most common is E. chaffeensis, the causative agent of human monocytic ehrlichiosis (HME). It has been reported throughout the southeastern US, as well as north into the Midwestern and New England states (26). This coincides with the geographic range of its vector, Amblyomma americanum or the lone star tick (25). The white-tailed deer is the major animal reservoir (1). HME initially presents as a nonspecific flu-like illness, with fever, chills, headache, malaise, myalgia and nausea. Gastrointestinal (GI) symptoms are more common in children (1). Rash, involving the extremities and trunk, as well as the palms and soles, is also more common in children (up to 60%) (25). It presents around day 5 of illness, varying from petechial to maculopapular to diffuse erythema (23). Severe disease can present with systemic, multiorgan involvement (1). Children usually are asymptomatic or have mild infections; however those under 10-years-old have the highest case-fatality rate (23). PCR assays or IFA assay for antibody-specific IgG and IgM are the most commonly used confirmatory tests; IFA assay is considered positive if there is a 4-fold increase in titers between acute and convalescent sera or a single IgG titer ≥ 1:256 (23,25). There can be high rates of cross-reactivity with Anaplasma phagocytophilum, so in areas where there
