HHS Public Access
KEYWORDS: disease, manuscript, author, author manuscript, patients, lyme, treatment, children, days, manuscript author, lyme disease, cases, infections, diagnosis, common


in titers between acute and convalescent sera or a single IgG titer ≥ 1:256 (23,25). There can be high rates of cross-reactivity with Anaplasma phagocytophilum, so in areas where there is overlap of these pathogens, serologic testing for both should be performed (23). Common laboratory findings include leukopenia with lymphopenia, thrombocytopenia, hyponatremia, and elevated serum hepatic transaminases (1). Treatment with doxycycline should be initiated as soon as HME is suspected, regardless of the patient’s age (23), and should be continued for at least 3 days after defervescence and until there is evidence of clinical improvement (25). Anaplasmosis Human granulocytic anaplasmosis (HGA) is caused by the obligate intracellular gram- negative bacterium, Anaplasma phagocytophilum (27). A. phagocytophilum is found in the eastern and midwestern US and Canada, where it is transmitted by I. scapularis, as well as in the western US and Canada, where it is transmitted by I. pacificus (27). The primary animal reservoirs are the white-footed mouse and the Eastern chipmunk (27). The majority of infections due to HGA is detected in late spring and early summer (28). Infection in children is rare, although this may be due to underdiagnosis since many are asymptomatic or mild, self-limited illnesses. The most common symptoms are nonspecific, including fever, malaise, myalgia, headache and anorexia (27). Some patients also report Curr Opin Pediatr. Author manuscript; available in PMC 2025 April 01. Author Manuscript Author Manuscript Author Manuscript Author Manuscript GI symptoms, which are more common in children, especially abdominal pain (29). In most cases, HGA is a self-limited illness. Severe or life-threatening disease is rare. Common laboratory findings include leukopenia, thrombocytopenia, and elevated hepatic transaminases (30). Neutrophilia, lymphopenia, anemia, and detection of morulae are all associated with more severe disease (23,31). However, children are less likely to have these laboratory abnormalities (32). Diagnosis is confirmed with PCR, which has a sensitivity of 74% and specificity of 100% (33). Antibody seroconversion can also be used, with a fourfold increase between acute and convalescent titers; however this has a much lower sensitivity (32%), due to high rate of antibody cross-reactivity (27). Empiric treatment should begin prior to confirmation of the diagnosis (27). Doxycycline is the treatment of choice, regardless of age (25). In patients with doxycycline allergy, rifampin is the second line option (25). However, given the possibility of co-infection with B. burgdorferi, it is important to remember that rifampin will not treat this bacteria, and
