HHS Public Access
KEYWORDS: disease, manuscript, author, author manuscript, patients, lyme, treatment, children, days, manuscript author, lyme disease, cases, infections, diagnosis, common


allergy, rifampin is the second line option (25). However, given the possibility of co-infection with B. burgdorferi, it is important to remember that rifampin will not treat this bacteria, and therefore a second agent should be added (27). Tularemia Tularemia is caused by Francisella tularensis, a small, fastidious, non-spore-forming, aerobic gram-negative coccobacillus. It is one of the most infectious microorganisms; as few as 10 organisms can cause infection in humans. It is classified as a Category A biowarfare agent (34,35). There are two subspecies responsible for human disease: F. tularensis subsp. tularensis (type A) and F. tularensis subsp. holarctica (type B). Type A is the more virulent, found almost exclusively in North America (36). Its primary animal reservoir is the cottontail rabbit (37). Most cases are reported in the southern and central states (34,35). The annual incidence is highest in children 5- to 9-years-old and in men aged 65–69 years (35). Transmission can occur through numerous mechanisms and the method impacts disease presentation (36). Dermacentor ticks are the only kind that transmit tularemia to humans, which results in glandular and ulceroglandular disease (34,38). This presents as tender regional lymphadenopathy, and in ulceroglandular tularemia, a soft, painless ulcer develops at the site of the arthropod bite and evolves into a scar; this is absent in glandular tularemia (34,39,40). Diagnosis is made with serologic testing. Initial serum antibody titer ≥1:128 by microagglutination (MA) or ≥ 1:160 by tube agglutination (TA) constitutes a presumptive diagnosis (36,40). If initial testing is non-diagnostic, a repeat titer should be obtained in 4 weeks, and the diagnosis is confirmed with a ≥ 4-fold increase in titers (40,41). In children, gentamicin is the drug of choice (34,39–41). Treatment is usually for 10 days, but can be shortened to 5–7 days in mild disease. Ciprofloxacin is an alternative to treat mild disease (41). Despite antibiotic treatment, suppuration of lymph nodes can still occur, and is the most common complication in tularemia, which occurs in up to 30% of patients (36,41). Curr Opin Pediatr. Author manuscript; available in PMC 2025 April 01. Author Manuscript Author Manuscript Author Manuscript Author Manuscript Parasitic infections Babesiosis Babesiosis is caused by intra-erythrocytic protozoa of the genus Babesia, part of the same phylum as Plasmodium, Toxoplasma, and Cryptosporidium (42,43). In North America, most human cases can be attributed to Babesia microti, and much less commonly, to B. duncani (44) and B. divergens (45,46). Since it
