HHS Public Access
KEYWORDS: disease, manuscript, author, author manuscript, patients, lyme, treatment, children, days, manuscript author, lyme disease, cases, infections, diagnosis, common


found mostly in Canada and in the northeastern and upper midwestern United States (67,68). Since its detection in 1958, approximately 270 cases have been reported in the US and Canada (68) and yearly case numbers are rising (69). POWV consists of two genetically distinct lineages. Lineage I is primarily transmitted by Ixodes cookei, which feeds on groundhogs and skunks (70). Lineage II is primarily maintained by I. scapularis and small mammals, such as shrews (71). I. scapularis more frequently feeds on humans, so lineage II is responsible for most cases Curr Opin Pediatr. Author manuscript; available in PMC 2025 April 01. Author Manuscript Author Manuscript Author Manuscript Author Manuscript of human disease (70). Infection within POWV can occur within 15 minutes after the tick attaches (72). infections is unknown, but may be large. Symptoms range from mild to severe, with a prodrome of malaise, headache, sore throat, nausea, and disorientation (1). Severe manifestations include encephalitis or meningoencephalitis, which occur in 95% of recognized patients (73). Up to half of reported cases have long-term neurological damage, and the mortality rate among reported cases is approximately 10% (74). geographic location and risk of tick exposure. Confirmatory diagnosis requires testing for POWV-specific antibodies in the serum or CSF, first with an IgM capture ELISA, followed by confirmatory neutralizing antibody testing performed by a local health department or the CDC (74). Lumbar puncture generally demonstrates CSF pleocytosis, mild protein elevation and normal glucose (75,76). There are no specific therapies available, so treatment consists of supportive care (74). Conclusion: The incidence of tick-borne infections in the US is rising, new pathogens continue to geographical distributions, and treatment of these infections. Reduction of risk of exposure, swift removal of ticks, and early treatment can be beneficial. Further research is needed regarding vaccines for these pathogens, as primary prevention is crucial in protecting children.
