Clinical Infectious Diseases
KEYWORDS: rsv, vaccine, vaccination, immunocompromised, patients, evidence, timing, consider, transplant, effectiveness, adults, optimal, risk, disease, rsv vaccination


chronic organ dysfunction ity among patients with hematologic malignancies and he- (e.g., end-stage renal disease, requiring dialysis; cirrhosis; or end- matopoietic stem cell transplant recipients, with reported stage heart disease) are not considered in this guideline. mortality rates of up to 25%–30% . Similarly, among The panel identified patient-important outcomes for both persons with human immunodeficiency virus (HIV), the inci- vaccine effectiveness and adverse events (e.g., hospitalization, dence of RSV-associated severe acute respiratory illness is high- mortality, progression to severe disease, serious adverse events er than among individuals without HIV . [SAEs], exacerbation of immunocompromising or autoim- Currently, 3 RSV vaccines have been approved by the US mune conditions, Guillain-Barré syndrome). Pooled vaccine Food and Drug Administration (FDA). These vaccines have effectiveness rates and corresponding relative effect measures demonstrated effectiveness in reducing RSV-related morbidity (relative risk [RR], hazard ratio [HR], odds ratio [OR]) and mortality among older adults, with emerging but limited were summarized in the Grading of Recommendations 2 • CID • Tan et al Downloaded from by guest on May Assessment, Development and Evaluation (GRADE) evidence hospitalization. The large size of beneficial effects combined profile. To better illustrate population effects, absolute risk with few or no SAEs justifies a strong recommendation for differences were calculated by using baseline risk estimates the administration of the RSV vaccine in immunocompro- from cohort studies as well as additional estimates from pub- mised population. lished cumulative incidence rates adjusted for immunocom- promised status. Risks of bias of included studies were evaluated using the ROBINS-I tool . The panel used the IMPLEMENTATION CONSIDERATIONS GRADE approach to assess the certainty of evidence and de- Immunocompromised patients remain at increased risk of se- termine the strength of each recommendation . A sum- vere RSV and may have attenuated vaccine responses, necessitat- mary of the systematic review and guideline development ing tailored vaccination strategies and ongoing risk mitigation. processes using the GRADE approach is available in the Implementation of RSV vaccine recommendations in this popu- Supplementary Materials. lation should address the following core considerations. SUMMARY OF EVIDENCE General Principles The search identified 2 test-negative case–control studies [22, • All immunocompromised individuals aged 18 years and old- 23] that reported on RSV-associated hospitalization in immu- er should receive the RSV vaccine. nocompromised adults. No studies were identified that report- • For immunocompromised patients younger than 18 years, ed on other vaccine effectiveness or adverse events outcomes in
