Clinical Infectious Diseases
KEYWORDS: rsv, vaccine, vaccination, immunocompromised, patients, evidence, timing, consider, transplant, effectiveness, adults, optimal, risk, disease, rsv vaccination


receive the RSV vaccine. nocompromised adults. No studies were identified that report- • For immunocompromised patients younger than 18 years, ed on other vaccine effectiveness or adverse events outcomes in administration should be guided by shared decision-making. this population. Therefore, indirect evidence from analyses • The majority of the evidence came from the protein subunit conducted in older adults from the VIP was included. vaccines. This included 1 case-control study for critical illness , 1 • Currently, only a single dose is recommended. randomized controlled trial (RCT) for SAEs , and 1 self- controlled case series for Guillain–Barré syndrome . Two ity in timing and dosing to accommodate immunosuppres- additional RCTs reporting on SAEs with RSV vaccina- sive therapy schedules, travel, and individual risk factors. tion published before the search period were also included, • Eligible household members and close contacts should be up aiming for a comprehensive assessment of comparative SAEs. to date with RSV vaccination to reduce transmission risk. Refer to the Supplementary Materialsfor exact judgments af- fecting certainty of evidence for each outcome. Subgroup-Specific Considerations Vaccine Effectiveness • Solid-organ transplant (SOT): Vaccination is optimally In immunocompromised populations, RSV vaccination was timed 2 weeks or more pretransplant. The ideal timing of found to be 70% effective against RSV-associated hospitaliza- RSV vaccination after SOT is unknown. Consider adminis- tion (pooled estimate from 2 studies, 95% CI: 66%–73%) [22, tering RSV vaccine as early as 1 month after induction/trans- 23]. One study reported vaccine effectiveness of 81% (95% plant during RSV season and delaying vaccination up to 6 CI: 52%–92%) against a composite outcome of critical illness, months if outside RSV season to ensure the best immunoge- defined as ICU admission or in-hospital death or both in older nicity. If vaccine is given earlier than the optimal timing, con- adults . sider a re-dose. • Hematopoietic cell transplantation (HCT)/CAR-T: Vaccination Adverse Events is recommended 3 or more months post-HCT/CAR-T or 6 or One self-controlled case series found an increased risk of more months after B-cell–depleting therapy, with earlier vacci- Guillain–Barré syndrome with an incidence rate ratio of nation considered during high community transmission. If vac- 2.1 (95% CI: 1.5–2.9), attributable to 11.2 excess cases per cine is given earlier than the optimal timing, consider a re-dose. 1 000 000 doses . Three RCTs reported an RR of 1.02 • Hematologic malignancy: Align vaccination with treatment (95% CI: 0.96–1.09) for SAEs
