Clinical Infectious Diseases
KEYWORDS: rsv, vaccine, vaccination, immunocompromised, patients, evidence, timing, consider, transplant, effectiveness, adults, optimal, risk, disease, rsv vaccination


the optimal timing, consider a re-dose. 1 000 000 doses . Three RCTs reported an RR of 1.02 • Hematologic malignancy: Align vaccination with treatment (95% CI: 0.96–1.09) for SAEs in older adults, indicating com- cycles, ideally 2 or more weeks before new immunosuppres- parable risks between vaccinated and unvaccinated groups sion; defer during febrile neutropenia or severe illness. [24–26]. Consider vaccination during high community transmission. If the vaccine is given earlier than the optimal timing, consid- RATIONALE FOR RECOMMENDATIONS er a re-dose. The panel agreed that the overall certainty of evidence is • Solid tumor chemotherapy: Prefer vaccination 2 or more moderate due to evidence on RSV vaccine effectiveness in im- weeks before therapy, but vaccination during or after therapy munocompromised patients driven by the prevention of is acceptable if needed; defer during severe illness. Consider Guidelines on the Prevention of RSV Infections in Immunocompromised Patients • CID • 3 Downloaded from by guest on May vaccination during high community transmission. If vaccine • Defining correlates of protection and immunogenicity is given earlier than the optimal timing, consider a re-dose. thresholds for diverse immunocompromised subgroups, in- • Primary immunodeficiency: Vaccinate when clinically stable, cluding the role of cellular and humoral immunity, and the aligning with intravenous immunoglobulin/subcutaneous impact of specific immunosuppressive regimens. immunoglobulin schedules or clinic access; defer during • Longitudinal studies of vaccine durability and waning immu- acute illness. Consider vaccinating during high community nity, potential need for booster doses, and evolving immuno- transmission. suppressive therapies. • Autoimmune immunosuppression: Vaccinate 2 or more • Comparative effectiveness studies of vaccine platforms and weeks prior to biologics or 3 or more months after therapy dosing strategies, including mRNA versus protein subunit or 6 or more months after B-cell depletion; defer during se- vaccines, and the impact of additional (booster) doses on se- vere flare or infection. Consider during high community roconversion and clinical outcomes. transmission. If vaccine is given earlier than the optimal tim- • Evaluation of modified vaccine schedules and timing relative ing, consider a re-dose. to immunosuppressive therapy, including optimal intervals • HIV: Vaccinate regardless of CD4 count or viral load, ideally for vaccination before or after transplantation, chemothera- when stable and aligned with preventive routine care; defer py, or biologic therapy. during acute illness. Consider vaccinating during high com- • Real-world effectiveness data, including breakthrough infec- munity transmission. If vaccine is given before immune re- tion rates,
