Clinical Infectious Diseases
KEYWORDS: rsv, vaccine, vaccination, immunocompromised, patients, evidence, timing, consider, transplant, effectiveness, adults, optimal, risk, disease, rsv vaccination


py, or biologic therapy. during acute illness. Consider vaccinating during high com- • Real-world effectiveness data, including breakthrough infec- munity transmission. If vaccine is given before immune re- tion rates, hospitalization, and mortality, with subgroup anal- constitution, consider a re-dose. yses by age, comorbidity, and immunosuppressive regimen. • Enhanced safety data for rare vaccine adverse events (e.g., Guillain–Barré syndrome) and concerns specific to this patient population (i.e., risk of organ transplant rejection Additional Implementation Issues or exacerbation of immunocompromising or autoimmune • Vaccine effectiveness is lower than in the immunocompetent condition) with subgroup analyses by comorbidity and im- population, supporting the need for ongoing risk assessment munosuppressive regimen. based on levels of community transmission. • Strategies to enhance vaccine response, such as temporary • Rapid access to immunoglobulin therapy and nonpharma- modification of immunosuppression, use of adjuvanted vac- ceutical interventions remains important adjuncts, especially cines, and integration of nonpharmaceutical interventions for those with poor vaccine responses or contraindications. and early therapeutics. The FDA-approved antiviral for RSV has limited efficacy. • Use of RSV vaccine in individuals younger than 18 years. • Patients may self-attest to immunocompromised status for • Equity in vaccine access and uptake, with research on barri- vaccine eligibility. ers to vaccination, disparities in coverage, and interventions to improve outreach in high-risk populations. Staying up to date with RSV vaccination is critical for immuno- Addressing these priorities will require multicenter, prospec- compromised populations, with individualized schedules, and tive studies with harmonized outcome measures, robust sub- equitable access, and integration of preventive strategies are es- endpoints. Enhanced vaccine regimens and tailored preventive sential for optimal protection. strategies remain essential for protecting immunocompro- mised patients. RESEARCH NEEDS Supplementary Data Research priorities for RSV vaccination in immunocompro- Supplementary materials are available at Clinical Infectious Diseasesonline. mised patients should address critical gaps in immunogenicity, Consisting of data provided by the authors to benefit the reader, the posted materials are not copyedited and are the sole responsibility of the authors, so questions or comments should be addressed to the corresponding egies across heterogeneous populations. Immunocompromised author. individuals exhibit variable and often attenuated immune re- sponses to vaccines, with organ transplant recipients and those Notes receiving B-cell–depleting therapies at highest risk of poor se- roconversion and breakthrough infection. Author contributions. Lindsey Baden served as Chair and The need for future booster doses of the RSV vaccine re- Chen Sabrina Tan served as the respiratory
