Clinical Infectious Diseases
KEYWORDS: rsv, vaccine, vaccination, immunocompromised, patients, evidence, timing, consider, transplant, effectiveness, adults, optimal, risk, disease, rsv vaccination


roconversion and breakthrough infection. Author contributions. Lindsey Baden served as Chair and The need for future booster doses of the RSV vaccine re- Chen Sabrina Tan served as the respiratory syncytial virus quires further investigation. (RSV) subgroup lead. Members of the RSV Key priorities include the following: subgroup included Shweta Anjan, Ella J. Ariza-Heredia, 4 • CID • Tan et al Downloaded from by guest on May Francisco Magana, Timothy Minniear; Yngve Falck-Ytter and entity desiring to use the guidelines in any way must contact Dipleen Kaur served as lead methodologists. All authors con- IDSA for approval in accordance with the terms and conditions tributed to drafting and revising the guideline and approved of third-party use, in particular any use of the guidelines in any the final version and recommendations. software product. Acknowledgments. The authors thank Lindsey Fraser-Green Financial support. This work was supported by the for medical librarian support (creation and execution of litera- Infectious Diseases Society of America. ture searches) and Genet Demisashi, Loretta Dzanya, Jonathan Potential conflicts of interest. Evaluation of relationships as Heald, and Dana Wollins for project coordination. They also potential conflicts of interest (COIs) is determined by a review thank Lara A. Kahale for leading manuscript writing. They process. The assessment of disclosed relationships for possible thank Anoma Nellore, Paul Goepfert, Kristina Bajema, COIs is based on the relative weight of the financial relationship Katherine Belden, Dean Blumberg, Morgan J. Katz, Daniel (i.e., monetary amount) and the relevance of the relationship Kaul, and Tanvi Sharma who served as subgroup leads and (i.e., the degree to which an association might reasonably be in- members of the COVID-19 and Influenza guidelines and re- terpreted by an independent observer as related to the topic or vised this guideline manuscript. They also thank Elizabeth recommendation of consideration). The following panelists York and Jennifer Loveless for providing methodological disclosed relationships with companies that own products un- support. related to the topic of COVID-19, influenza, and RSV: C. S. T. Disclaimer. It is important to recognize that guidelines can- receives research funding from the National Institutes of not always account for individual variation among patients. Health (NIH) and Eurofin-Viracor; E. J. A.-H. received re- They are assessments of current scientific and clinical informa- search funding from ASCO and receives research funding tion provided as an educational service; are not continually up- from SoftDev, Inc; L. B. receives research funding from
