Clinical Infectious Diseases
KEYWORDS: rsv, vaccine, vaccination, immunocompromised, patients, evidence, timing, consider, transplant, effectiveness, adults, optimal, risk, disease, rsv vaccination


and clinical informa- search funding from ASCO and receives research funding tion provided as an educational service; are not continually up- from SoftDev, Inc; L. B. receives research funding from the dated and may not reflect the most recent evidence (new NIH and the National Institute of Allergy and Infectious evidence may emerge between the time information is drafted Diseases (NIAID), serves as Editor for the New England and when it is published or read); should not be considered in- Journal of Medicine, and serves as an advisor for the clusive of all proper methods of care, or as a statement of the Biomedical Advanced Research and Development Authority standard of care; do not mandate any course of medical care; (BARDA)/NIH and FDA; T. D. M. receives research funding and are not intended to supplant clinician judgment with re- from NIAID. None of the panelists disclosed relationships spect to particular patients or situations. Whether to follow with companies that own products related to the topic of guidelines and to what extent is voluntary, with the ultimate de- RSV. All other authors report no potential conflicts. All authors termination regarding their application to be made by the cli- have submitted the ICMJE Form for Disclosure of Potential nician in the light of each patient’s individual circumstances. Conflicts of Interest. Conflicts that the editors consider relevant While IDSA makes every effort to present accurate, complete, to the content of the manuscript have been disclosed. and reliable information, these guidelines are presented “as Additional information. More detailed information on the is” without any warranty, either express or implied. IDSA analysis and development of recommendations is available in (and its officers, directors, members, employees, and agents) the Supplementary Material. assume no responsibility for any loss, damage, or claim with re- spect to any liabilities, including direct, special, indirect, or
