Insulin- Pharmacology, Therapeutic Regimens and Principles of Intensive Insulin Therapy
KEYWORDS: insulin, diabetes, pubmed, type, glucose, patients, type diabetes, glargine, hypoglycemia, insulin glargine, aspart, basal, article, pmc, lispro


ABSTRACT Since the introduction of insulin analogs in 1996, insulin therapy options for patients with type 1 and type 2 diabetes have expanded. Insulin therapies are now able to more closely mimic physiologic insulin secretion and thus achieve better glycemic control in patients with diabetes. This chapter reviews the pharmacology of available insulins, types of insulin regimens, and principles of dosage selection and adjustment, and provides an overview of insulin pump therapy. For complete coverage of all related areas of Endocrinology, please visit our on-line FREE web-text, WWW.ENDOTEXT.ORG . INTRODUCTION In 1922, Canadian researchers were the first to demonstrate a physiologic response to injected animal insulin in a patient with type 1 diabetes. Insulin was the first protein to be fully sequenced. The insulin molecule consists of 51 amino acids arranged in two chains, an A chain (21 amino acids) and B chain (30 amino acids) that are linked by two disulfide bonds ( 1 ) ( Figure 1 ). Proinsulin is the insulin precursor that is transported to the Golgi apparatus of the beta cell where it is processed and packaged into granules. Proinsulin, a single-chain 86 amino acid peptide, is cleaved into insulin and C-peptide (a connecting peptide); both are secreted in equimolar portions from the beta cell upon stimulation from glucose and other insulin secretagogues. While C-peptide has no known physiologic function, it can be measured to provide an estimate of endogenous insulin secretion. Figure 1. Insulin Structure. SOURCES OF INSULIN With the availability of human insulin by recombinant DNA technology in the 1980s, use of animal insulin declined dramatically. Beef insulin, beef-pork, and pork insulin are no longer commercially available in the United States. The United States FDA may allow for personal importation of beef or pork insulin from a foreign country if a patient cannot be treated with human insulin ( 2 ). Beef insulin differs from human insulin by 3 amino acids and pork insulin differs by one amino acid ( 2 ). Currently, in the United States, insulins used are either human insulin and/or analogs of human insulin. The recombinant DNA technique for producing insulin for commercial use involves insertion of the human proinsulin gene into either Saccharomyces cerevisiae (baker’s yeast) or a non-pathogenic laboratory strain of Escherichia coli (E coli) which serve as the production organism. Human insulin is then isolated and purified ( 3 – 11 ) . INSULIN ANALOGS Recombinant
