Insulin- Pharmacology, Therapeutic Regimens and Principles of Intensive Insulin Therapy
KEYWORDS: insulin, diabetes, pubmed, type, glucose, patients, type diabetes, glargine, hypoglycemia, insulin glargine, aspart, basal, article, pmc, lispro


non-pathogenic laboratory strain of Escherichia coli (E coli) which serve as the production organism. Human insulin is then isolated and purified ( 3 – 11 ) . INSULIN ANALOGS Recombinant DNA technology has allowed for the development and production of analogs to human insulin. With analogs, the insulin molecule structure is modified slightly to alter the pharmacokinetic properties of insulin, primarily affecting the absorption of the drug from the subcutaneous tissue. The B26-B30 region of the insulin molecule is not critical for insulin receptor recognition and it is in this region that amino acids are generally substituted ( 12 ). Thus, the insulin analogs are still recognized by and bind to the insulin receptor. The structures of three rapid-acting insulin analogs are shown in Figure 2 (insulin aspart, lispro and glulisine) and the structures of three long-acting insulin analogs are shown in Figure 3 (insulin glargine, detemir, and degludec). Figure 2. Insulin Aspart, Glulisine and Lispro Structures. Figure 3. Insulin Glargine and Detemir Structures. In vitro studies have demonstrated the mitogenic effects of insulin at high concentrations, as well as carcinogenic effects of insulin binding to the insulin like growth factor-1 (IGF-1) receptor, suggesting that hyperinsulinemia may promote tumorigenesis. Subcutaneously administered insulin bypasses the usual 80% hepatic first pass clearance of pancreatic islet cell-secreted insulin, and therefore contributes to systemic hyperinsulinemia in insulin-treated patients with diabetes ( 13 ). Because insulin analogs are modified human insulin, the safety and efficacy profiles of these insulins have been compared to human insulin ( 12 ) . Insulin and IGF-1 receptor binding affinities, and the metabolic and mitogenic potencies of insulin analogs relative to human insulin have been assessed. Insulin lispro and aspart are similar to human insulin on all of the above parameters, except insulin lispro was found to be 1.5-fold more potent in binding to the IGF-1 receptor compared to human insulin. Insulin glargine was found to have a 6- to 8-fold increase in mitogenic potency and IGF- 1 receptor affinity compared to human insulin. However, glargine is rapidly degraded to metabolites. The predominant metabolite M1 has been shown to have a 0.4-fold binding affinity to the IGF-1 receptor compared with human insulin ( 14 ) . In human studies, meta-analyses comparing exogenous insulin to non-insulin antihyperglycemic therapies have shown associations of insulin with several cancers ( 15 , 16 ) . However, there are inherent limitations to such analyses. A
