Insulin- Pharmacology, Therapeutic Regimens and Principles of Intensive Insulin Therapy
KEYWORDS: insulin, diabetes, pubmed, type, glucose, patients, type diabetes, glargine, hypoglycemia, insulin glargine, aspart, basal, article, pmc, lispro


comparing exogenous insulin to non-insulin antihyperglycemic therapies have shown associations of insulin with several cancers ( 15 , 16 ) . However, there are inherent limitations to such analyses. A review of large epidemiologic studies did not find evidence of an increased risk of malignancy among glargine-treated patients when compared with other insulin therapies ( 14 ). Observational studies with up to 7 years of follow up have also not shown an association of cancer with insulin glargine or detemir use ( 17 ). Insulin detemir was found to be more than 5-fold less potent than human insulin in binding to IGF-1 ( 12 ). An in vitro study showed that insulin degludec had a low IGF-1 receptor binding affinity compared to human insulin ( 18 ) . The long-term clinical significance of differences in IGF- 1 binding among available insulins is not known. IMMUNOGENICITY Because pork and beef insulin differ from human insulin by 1 and 3 amino acids respectively, they are more immunogenic than exogenous human insulin. Older formulations of insulin were less pure, containing islet-cell peptides, proinsulin, C-peptide, pancreatic polypeptides, glucagon, and somatostatin, which contributed to the immunogenicity of insulin ( 19 ). Components of insulin preparations (e.g., zinc, protamine) and subcutaneous insulin aggregates are also thought to contribute to antibody formation ( 19 ). Because of the availability of human insulin and the increased potential for animal source insulin to be immunogenic, animal source insulins are no longer available in the United States. Rare hypersensitivity responses to insulin can be immediate-type, local or systemic IgE- mediated reactions ( 19 ) . Patients who experience a true allergic reaction to insulin have typically received insulin in the past, and experience the reaction after insulin is restarted. Delayed, IgG-mediated allergic reactions also develop with animal insulins ( 19 ). Insulin therapy can rarely result in the production of insulin antibodies of the IgG class, which inactivate insulin. Immunological insulin resistance can develop in patients with very high titers of IgG- antibodies. Lipodystrophy resulting from insulin injections refers to two conditions: lipoatrophy and lipohypertrophy. Lipoatrophy is an immune-mediated condition resulting in loss of fat at insulin injection sites ( 19 ) and occurs rarely with purified human insulins. Treatment for patients who developed lipoatrophy due to animal insulin use was injection of human insulin into the atrophied site. Lipohypertrophy is a common, non-immunological side effect of insulin resulting from
