Insulin- Pharmacology, Therapeutic Regimens and Principles of Intensive Insulin Therapy
KEYWORDS: insulin, diabetes, pubmed, type, glucose, patients, type diabetes, glargine, hypoglycemia, insulin glargine, aspart, basal, article, pmc, lispro


for patients who developed lipoatrophy due to animal insulin use was injection of human insulin into the atrophied site. Lipohypertrophy is a common, non-immunological side effect of insulin resulting from insulin’s trophic effects following repeated injections of insulin into the same subcutaneous site ( 20 ) . Lipohypertrophy can delay the absorption of insulin and therefore it is best if patients do not continue to administer insulin in these locations. CONCENTRATION In the United States, all insulins are available in the concentration of 100 units/ml (denoted as U-100). Insulin syringes are designed to accommodate this concentration of insulin. Regular human insulin (Humulin R, Lilly) is available in a more concentrated insulin, U-500 (500 units/ml), and is used primarily in cases of marked insulin resistance, when large doses of insulin (generally > 200 units per day) are required. Extreme caution must be taken as each marked unit on a U-100 syringe will deliver 5 units of insulin. However, syringes specific to U- 500 insulin are available, and U-500 insulin is also available for administration via a pen device. For both the syringe and pen specific to U-500 insulin, the units, not the volume, of insulin are marked. Insulin glargine is also available in a U-300 concentration, delivering 300 units/ml, and insulin degludec and insulin lispro are available in U-200 concentrations that deliver 200 units/mL. Both U-300 and U-200 insulin are only available in pen devices, and for both U-300 and U-200, the dose of insulin a patient dials into the pen device is in units and not in mL. Outside the United States, a less concentrated insulin preparation, U-40, (40 units/ml) is still available and sometimes used, although this has become uncommon ( 21 ). Specific U-40 syringes are used with this insulin. It is important that patients traveling from one country to the next be aware of the concentration of insulin they use and that the appropriate syringe is used. PHYSICAL AND CHEMICAL PROPERTIES Regular human insulin is crystalline zinc insulin dissolved in a clear solution. It may be administered by any parenteral route: subcutaneous, intramuscular, or intravenous. Insulin aspart, glulisine and lispro are also soluble crystalline zinc insulin, but are intended for subcutaneous (SQ) injection. When administered intravenously, the action of these rapid-acting insulin analogs is identical to that of regular insulin. NPH, or neutral protamine Hagedorn, is a suspension of regular insulin complexed with protamine that delays its
