Insulin- Pharmacology, Therapeutic Regimens and Principles of Intensive Insulin Therapy
KEYWORDS: insulin, diabetes, pubmed, type, glucose, patients, type diabetes, glargine, hypoglycemia, insulin glargine, aspart, basal, article, pmc, lispro


action of these rapid-acting insulin analogs is identical to that of regular insulin. NPH, or neutral protamine Hagedorn, is a suspension of regular insulin complexed with protamine that delays its absorption. Insulin suspensions should not be administered intravenously. All insulins, except insulin glargine, are formulated to a neutral pH. Long-acting insulin glargine is a soluble, clear insulin, with a pH of 4.0 which affects its SQ absorption characteristics, discussed further in the pharmacokinetics section. Insulin glargine should not be mixed with other insulins, and should only be administered subcutaneously ( 8 ). Insulin detemir is an insulin analog coupled to an 18-chain fatty acid that binds to albumin in the SQ tissue. This results in delayed absorption and a prolonged duration of action. Insulin degludec is an ultra-long insulin analog that breaks down into monomers by dissociating from zinc molecules after administration ( 22 ). Insulins detemir and degludec should also not be mixed with other insulins and are intended only for subcutaneous use ( 5 , 7 ). PHARMACOKINETICS Absorption Insulin administered via SQ injection is absorbed into the bloodstream, and the lymphatic system also plays a role in transport ( 23 ). The absorption of human insulin into the bloodstream after SQ absorption is the rate limiting step of insulin activity. This absorption is inconsistent with the coefficients of variation of T50% (time for 50% of the insulin dose to be absorbed) varying ~ 15% within an individual and 30% between patients ( 24 ). Most of this variability of insulin absorption is correlated to blood flow differences at the various sites of injection (abdomen, deltoid, gluteus, and thigh) ( 25 ). For regular insulin, the impact of this is a more than 2 times faster rate of absorption from the abdomen than the thigh ( 25 ). The clinical significance of this is that patients should avoid random use of different body regions for their injections. For example, if a patient prefers to use their thigh for a noontime injection, this site should be used consistently for this injection. The abdomen is the preferred site of injection because it is the least susceptible to factors affecting insulin absorption (see Table 1 ). Insulin aspart, glulisine and lispro appear to have less day-to-day variation in absorption rates and also less absorption variation from the different body regions ( 3 , 9 , 10 , 26 ). Insulin glargine’s
