Insulin- Pharmacology, Therapeutic Regimens and Principles of Intensive Insulin Therapy
KEYWORDS: insulin, diabetes, pubmed, type, glucose, patients, type diabetes, glargine, hypoglycemia, insulin glargine, aspart, basal, article, pmc, lispro


appear to have less day-to-day variation in absorption rates and also less absorption variation from the different body regions ( 3 , 9 , 10 , 26 ). Insulin glargine’s pharmacokinetic profile is similar after abdominal, deltoid or thigh SQ administration ( 8 ). Similarly, the glucose-lowering effect of insulin degludec has not been found to vary between abdominal, upper arm, or thigh SQ sites ( 27 ) . Factors that alter insulin absorption do so mostly by changing local blood flow in the SQ tissue. Factors that increase SQ blood flow increase the absorption rate. Table 1 lists factors that affect insulin absorption. Table 1. Factors Affecting Insulin Absorption ( 12 , 28 ) View in own window Factor Comment Exercise of injected area Strenuous exercise of a limb within 1 hour of injection will speed insulin absorption. Clinically significant for regular insulin analogs. Local massage Vigorously rubbing or massaging the injection site will speed absorption. Temperature Heat can increase absorption rate, including use of a sauna, shower, or hot bath soon after injection. Cold has the opposite effect. Site of injection Insulin is absorbed faster from the abdomen. Less clinically relevant with rapid-acting insulins, insulin glargine, and insulin detemir. Lipohypertrophy Injection into hypertrophied areas delays insulin absorption. Jet injectors and inhaled insulin Increase absorption rate. Insulin mixtures Absorption rates are unpredictable when suspension insulins are not mixed adequately (i.e., they need to be resuspended). Insulin dose Larger doses delay insulin action and prolong duration. Physical status (soluble vs. suspension) Suspension insulins must be sufficiently resuspended prior to injection to reduce variability. Elimination The kidneys and liver account for the majority of insulin degradation. Normally, the liver degrades 50-60% of insulin released by the pancreas into the portal vein, and the kidneys ~35- 45% ( 26 , 29 ) . When insulin is injected exogenously, the degradation profile is altered since insulin is no longer delivered directly to the portal vein. The kidneys play a greater role in insulin degradation with SQ insulin (~60%), with the liver degrading ~30-40% ( 30 ). Because the kidneys are involved in the degradation of insulin, renal dysfunction will reduce the clearance of insulin and prolong its effect. This decreased clearance is seen with both endogenous insulin production (either normal production or that stimulated by oral agents) and exogenous insulin administration. Renal function generally needs to be greatly diminished before this becomes clinically
