Insulin- Pharmacology, Therapeutic Regimens and Principles of Intensive Insulin Therapy
KEYWORDS: insulin, diabetes, pubmed, type, glucose, patients, type diabetes, glargine, hypoglycemia, insulin glargine, aspart, basal, article, pmc, lispro


the rapid-acting insulin analogs lead to less postprandial hyperglycemia and less late postprandial hypoglycemia ( 41 – 43 ). Injection of rapid-acting insulin analogs 15-20 minutes pre-meal leads to maximal reduction of postprandial glucose excursions ( 44 , 45 ), as compared to 30 or more minutes pre-meal for regular insulin. This shorter interval for insulin injection pre-meal is more convenient for patients and leads to greater adherence with prescribed injection timing guidelines. In patients who are unsure of the amount of carbohydrate to be served for a meal, immediate pre-meal dosing allows more accurate dosing and reduces the risk of hypoglycemia. The use of faster aspart in Medtronic insulin pumps in people with type 1 diabetes was compared to use of insulin aspart in a randomized trial. Faster aspart was non-inferior to aspart with respect to change in A1c from baseline, and no statistically significant difference in rates of severe hypoglycemia was noted between the two arms ( 46 ). In a randomized trial of patients on insulin pumps, lispro-aabc was also shown to be non-inferior with respect to change in baseline A1c when compared with insulin lispro, with similar rates of hypoglycemia ( 47 ). Both faster aspart and lispro-aabc lower postprandial glucose levels more effectively but cause more frequent infusion site reactions than aspart and lispro, respectively. Based on manufacturer’s recommendations, any rapid-acting insulin analogs, including Fiasp and Lyumjev, can be used in Omnipod pumps ( 48 ). For Tandem and Medtronic insulin pumps, only Humalog and Novolog insulin have been approved ( 49 , 50 ). INSULIN LISPRO (HUMALOG) Insulin lispro (Humalog) results from the reversal of the B28 (proline) and B29 (lysine) amino acid sequence of insulin. Insulin lispro has been approved for injection before and immediately after a meal. Post-meal insulin dosing is useful for parents of young children with type 1 diabetes or for ill, insulin-requiring hospitalized patients, in whom the amount of carbohydrates consumed at a meal can be unpredictable. When compared with pre-meal regular insulin in prepubertal children, post meal insulin lispro showed no significant differences in post meal glucose levels, rates of hypoglycemia, or HbA1c ( 51 ). In the rare case of severe human insulin allergy, insulin lispro has been shown to be less immunogenic ( 52 ). Lispro-aabc includes 2 excipients, citrate and trepostinil that speed insulin absorption by their effects on local blood vessels ( 34 ).
