Insulin- Pharmacology, Therapeutic Regimens and Principles of Intensive Insulin Therapy
KEYWORDS: insulin, diabetes, pubmed, type, glucose, patients, type diabetes, glargine, hypoglycemia, insulin glargine, aspart, basal, article, pmc, lispro


been shown to be less immunogenic ( 52 ). Lispro-aabc includes 2 excipients, citrate and trepostinil that speed insulin absorption by their effects on local blood vessels ( 34 ). Citrate increases vascular permeability and treprostinil promotes vasodilation. INSULIN ASPART (NOVOLOG) Insulin aspart differs from human insulin by a substitution of the B28 amino acid proline with aspartic acid. Chemically it is B28-aspartic acid-human insulin. Fast-acting aspart adds 2 excipients, niacinamide and L-arginine, to conventional aspart ( 53 ). Proposed mechanisms by which niacinamide promotes more rapid insulin aspart absorption include more rapid formation of monomeric insulin, and enhanced local vascular vasodilatation and permeability ( 54 ). INSULIN GLULISINE (APIDRA) Insulin glulisine differs from human insulin by changes in the amino acid asparagine at position B3 to lysine and the lysine at position B29 to glutamic acid. Chemically, it is 3B-lysine-29B-glutamic acid-human insulin. INHALED (TECHNOSPHERE) INSULIN (AFREZZA) Inhaled insulin formulations deliver powdered recombinant human regular insulin into the lower airways using an inhaled delivery device. Exubera received FDA approval in 2006 but failed to gain market share and production was discontinued after 1 year. Technosphere insulin (Afrezza) was FDA approved in 2014. Its pulmonary absorption leads to a more rapid absorption than currently available, subcutaneously administered rapid-acting insulin preparations. In subjects with type 2 diabetes, serum insulin levels rise within 5 minutes after inhalation and peak after 17 minutes ( 55 ). When compared with pre-meal human regular insulin, technosphere insulin more effectively reduced 4-hour postprandial glucose area under the curve by 52% ( 56 ). Only 0.3% of technosphere insulin is detectable in the lungs after 12 hours. Technosphere insulin leads to a dry cough in 19-30% of subjects tested ( 36 , 55 , 57 , 58 ). Small reductions in forced expiratory volume (FEV1) are observed in the first 3-6 months of use which are non-progressive for up to 2 years of follow up and reversible after drug discontinuation ( 42 , 44 , 45 ). The use of technosphere insulin is contraindicated in patients who smoke or have COPD because of alterations in drug absorption. Spirometry needs to be performed prior to initiation of technosphere insulin, after 6 months, and then annually thereafter, with a 20% or higher decline in FEV1 being an indication for drug discontinuation ( 59 ). COMPARISONS OF PRANDIAL INSULINS No significant differences in glycemic control have been observed in most studies
