Insulin- Pharmacology, Therapeutic Regimens and Principles of Intensive Insulin Therapy
KEYWORDS: insulin, diabetes, pubmed, type, glucose, patients, type diabetes, glargine, hypoglycemia, insulin glargine, aspart, basal, article, pmc, lispro


or higher decline in FEV1 being an indication for drug discontinuation ( 59 ). COMPARISONS OF PRANDIAL INSULINS No significant differences in glycemic control have been observed in most studies comparing insulin aspart, insulin lispro, and insulin glulisine. Although insulin glulisine exhibits a more rapid onset of action than either insulin lispro or insulin aspart, this does not translate to meaningful clinical differences between these short-acting analog insulins ( 60 ). Faster aspart results in a more rapid onset of action and more glucose lowering within 30 minutes of administration than insulin aspart. However, no significant difference between faster aspart and insulin aspart has been observed in total glucose lowering ( 61 ). Lispro-aabc has a more rapid onset of action and a shorter duration of action compared with lispro ( 34 ). Insulin lispro-aabc also has faster absorption than both insulin aspart and faster aspart ( 62 ). Intermediate-Acting Insulins (NPH) NPH (Neutral Protamine Hagedorn) insulin, was created in 1936 after it was discovered that the effects of subcutaneously injected insulin could be prolonged by the addition of the protein protamine. NPH insulin is an intermediate-acting insulin, with an onset of action of approximately 2 hours, peak effect 6-14 hours, and duration of action 10-16 hours (depending on the size of the dose). Because of its broad peak and long duration of action, NPH can serve as a basal insulin only when dosed at bedtime, or a basal and prandial insulin when dosed in the morning. NPH insulin is available in various combinations with either regular insulin or rapid-acting insulins ( Table 2 ). Long-Acting (Basal) Insulin Analogs Long-acting insulins provide basal insulin coverage. Basal insulins suppress hepatic gluconeogenesis to prevent glucose levels from rising during the fasting state in insulin-deficient patients. Among patients with type 1 diabetes, basal insulins additionally prevent ketogenesis. INSULIN GLARGINE (LANTUS) Insulin glargine (21A-Gly-30Ba-L-Arg-30Bb-L-Arg-human insulin) contains two modifications to human insulin. Two arginines are added to the C-terminus of the B chain shifting the isoelectric point of the insulin from a pH of 5.4 to 6.7 ( 63 ). This change makes the insulin more soluble at an acidic pH, and insulin glargine is formulated at a pH of 4.0. The second modification is at position A21, where asparagine is replaced by glycine. This substitution prevents deamidation and dimerization that would occur with acid-sensitive asparagine. When insulin glargine is injected into subcutaneous tissue, which
