Insulin- Pharmacology, Therapeutic Regimens and Principles of Intensive Insulin Therapy
KEYWORDS: insulin, diabetes, pubmed, type, glucose, patients, type diabetes, glargine, hypoglycemia, insulin glargine, aspart, basal, article, pmc, lispro


at position A21, where asparagine is replaced by glycine. This substitution prevents deamidation and dimerization that would occur with acid-sensitive asparagine. When insulin glargine is injected into subcutaneous tissue, which is at physiologic pH, the acidic solution is neutralized. Microprecipitates of insulin glargine are formed, from which small amounts of insulin are released throughout a 24- hour period, resulting in a relatively stable level of insulin throughout the day ( 64 ). The biological activity of insulin glargine is due to its absorption kinetics and not a different pharmacodynamic activity (e.g., stimulation of peripheral glucose uptake) ( 65 ). Insulin glargine should not be mixed in the same syringe with any another insulin or solution because this will alter its pH and thus affect its absorption profile. Glargine has an onset of action of about 2 hours, and a duration of action of 20-24 hours. It may be given once daily at any time of day, or twice daily at higher doses (typically more than 50 units daily) to better maintain its relatively flat action profile. Its more consistent rate of absorption and lack of a significant peak action result in reduced nocturnal hypoglycemia when insulin glargine is used at bedtime compared with NPH insulin ( 66 , 67 ). INSULIN DETEMIR (LEVEMIR) Insulin detemir (Levemir) is a long-acting insulin analog in which the B30 amino acid is omitted and a C14 fatty acid chain (myristic acid) is bound to the B29 lysine amino acid. Insulin detemir is slowly absorbed due to its strong association with albumin in the SQ tissue. When it reaches the bloodstream it again binds to albumin delaying its distribution to peripheral tissues. Detemir has an onset of action of about 2 hours, and a duration of action of 16-24 hours. It can be given once or twice daily. Patients who experience a rise in glucose levels in the hours prior to a once daily injection due to the waning action of detemir should use a twice daily dosing regimen. INSULIN DEGLUDEC (TRESIBA) Insulin degludec (Tresiba) is an ultra-long-acting modified human insulin in which the B30 amino acid is omitted and a glutamic acid spacer links a 16-carbon fatty di-acid chain to the B29 amino acid. Deguldec forms multihexamers following SQ injection, leading to a slow release of insulin monomers into the bloodstream and a prolonged duration of action. The half-life of degludec is about 25
