Insulin- Pharmacology, Therapeutic Regimens and Principles of Intensive Insulin Therapy
KEYWORDS: insulin, diabetes, pubmed, type, glucose, patients, type diabetes, glargine, hypoglycemia, insulin glargine, aspart, basal, article, pmc, lispro


Deguldec forms multihexamers following SQ injection, leading to a slow release of insulin monomers into the bloodstream and a prolonged duration of action. The half-life of degludec is about 25 hours and its duration of action more than 42 hours. Flat insulin levels are seen within 3 days of the first injection with less daytime variability when compared with glargine insulin ( 68 ) . With overall similar HbA1c lowering when compared with glargine insulin, reduced rates of hypoglycemia have been seen with degludec use in type 2 diabetes patients, but not in type 1 diabetes patients ( 69 ). No differences in local site reactions, weight gain, or other adverse reactions have been seen with degludec use. In a preapproval cardiovascular outcomes trial of patients with type 2 diabetes with a history of cardiovascular disease or at high cardiovascular disease risk, insulin degludec was found to be non- inferior to insulin glargine with respect to the likelihood of major adverse cardiovascular events, including cardiovascular death, nonfatal MI, or nonfatal stroke ( 70 ). Insulin degludec was associated with less overall symptomatic hypoglycemia when compared to insulin glargine in a randomized, controlled trial of patients with type 1 diabetes who were at risk for hypoglycemia, with no significant difference in glycemic control between the two treatment arms ( 71 ). Similar results were noted in a randomized, controlled trial of patients with type 2 diabetes on insulin and at risk for hypoglycemia ( 72 ). COMPARISON OF BASAL INSULINS Compared to NPH, insulin glargine results in significantly less overnight hypoglycemia and a lower rate of hypoglycemic events ( 73 , 74 ). Insulin detemir also results in less overall and nocturnal hypoglycemia compared to NPH ( 73 , 75 ). Differences have also been noted between U-100 insulin glargine and U-300 insulin glargine. In a study of patients with type 2 diabetes who used mealtime insulin and were on ≥ 42 units insulin daily, U-300 insulin glargine resulted in less nocturnal hypoglycemia compared to U-100 insulin glargine ( 76 ). A similar result was seen in a study of patients with type 2 diabetes on basal insulin and oral antihyperglycemic agents ( 77 ). In a study of patients with type 2 diabetes who had not previously been treated with insulin, U-300 insulin glargine was associated with a lower risk of hypoglycemia over the study period, although there was no
