Insulin- Pharmacology, Therapeutic Regimens and Principles of Intensive Insulin Therapy
KEYWORDS: insulin, diabetes, pubmed, type, glucose, patients, type diabetes, glargine, hypoglycemia, insulin glargine, aspart, basal, article, pmc, lispro


type 2 diabetes who had not previously been treated with insulin, U-300 insulin glargine was associated with a lower risk of hypoglycemia over the study period, although there was no significant difference in the treatment groups in nocturnal hypoglycemia ( 78 ). No significant difference in A1C lowering between U-100 glargine and U-300 glargine was noted in these studies ( 76 – 78 ). Pre-mixed Intermediate with Short or Rapid-acting Insulins (50/50, 70/30 and 75/25) NPH insulin or protamine added to rapid-acting insulin analogs can be mixed together with regular or rapid-acting insulin analogs in fixed combinations. These insulins thus provide bolus insulin coverage for the meal that follows the injections well as basal coverage from the intermediate-acting component of the insulin. They are given either before a larger breakfast or dinner meal as once daily dosing, or more commonly twice daily before breakfast and dinner. Patients who require basal/bolus insulin replacement but have difficulty with frequently missed insulin dosages may benefit from a regimen utilizing twice daily mixed insulin. However, given the fixed proportions of mixed insulins and their less physiologic action, there is an increased risk of hypoglycemia using these insulin preparations when compared with basal and pre-meal bolus insulin regimens ( 79 ). Follow-on Biologic, and Biosimilar Insulins Relative to the production of other medications, the production of a biologically similar insulin is a more complicated process, which contributes to reduced cost savings in purchasing insulin ( 68 ). Basaglar, a “follow-on biologic” insulin of Lantus or insulin glargine, was approved by the FDA in 2015 ( 80 ). Similarly, Admelog is a follow-on insulin of Humalog, or insulin lispro ( 81 ). In 2021, Glargine-yfgn (Semglee)became the first biosimilar insulin to be approved in the United States. Biosimilar insulins possess the same biologic and pharmacokinetic properties as the reference insulin. Trials comparing glargine-yfgn to glargine have shown no significant differences in glycemic control or adverse effects, even when the insulins were switched during the study, among participants with type 1 and type 2 diabetes ( 82 – 84 ). Glargine-yfgn has been given the designation of an interchangeable biosimilar insulin, meaning it can be substituted for brand glargine by the pharmacy based on insurance coverage without notification of the prescriber. STORAGE All insulins have an expiration date on the package labeling that applies to insulins that are unopened and refrigerated. Unopened insulin (i.e., not previously used)
