Insulin- Pharmacology, Therapeutic Regimens and Principles of Intensive Insulin Therapy
KEYWORDS: insulin, diabetes, pubmed, type, glucose, patients, type diabetes, glargine, hypoglycemia, insulin glargine, aspart, basal, article, pmc, lispro


notification of the prescriber. STORAGE All insulins have an expiration date on the package labeling that applies to insulins that are unopened and refrigerated. Unopened insulin (i.e., not previously used) should be stored in the refrigerator at 36°F- 46°F (2°C- 8°C). Insulin should never be frozen, kept in direct sunlight, or stored in an ambient temperature greater than 86°F (30°C). Exposure to extremes of temperature can lead to loss of insulin effectiveness and a deterioration in glycemic control. Insulin that has been removal from the original vial (i.e., for pump use) should be used within two weeks or discarded. Insulin vials, cartridges, or pens may be kept at room temperature, between 59 °F-86°F (15 °C-30°C), for 28 days, or about 1 month. Insulin detemir can be stored at room temperature for up to 42 days. Regular insulin, the basal insulin analogs (glargine, detemir, and degludec) and the rapid-acting insulin analogs (lispro, aspart, and glulisine) are clear and colorless and should not be used if they become cloudy or viscous. ADVERSE EFFECTS Hypoglycemia Hypoglycemia is the most serious adverse effect of insulin therapy and the major barrier to achieving glycemic targets in patients with type 1 diabetes and insulin-requiring type 2 diabetes ( 85 ). Intensive insulin therapy in patients with type 1 diabetes in the DCCT was associated with a 2-3 fold increase in severe hypoglycemia (SH), defined as hypoglycemia requiring assistance from others ( 86 ). In studies of intensive therapy in type 2 diabetes, including the UKPDS, VADT, ADVANCE, and ACCORD trials, intensive therapy resulted in significantly more common SH when compared with standard therapy ( 29 , 87 – 89 ). SH can cause confusion, motor vehicle accidents, seizures and coma, and is estimated to be a cause of death in 4-10% of patients with type 1 diabetes ( 90 ). In one study, the adjusted probability of SH was found to range between 1.02 to 3.04% in patients with type 2 diabetes, depending on clinical complexity and intensity of treatment ( 91 ). Patients with type 2 diabetes who have had SH are at increased risk of death regardless of the intensity of their glycemic control. Hypoglycemia increases heart rate, systolic blood pressure, myocardial contractility and cardiac output, which may adversely affect those with diabetes who frequently have underlying coronary artery disease (CAD). Glucose levels below 70 mg/dl have been shown to cause ischemic ECG changes
