Insulin- Pharmacology, Therapeutic Regimens and Principles of Intensive Insulin Therapy
KEYWORDS: insulin, diabetes, pubmed, type, glucose, patients, type diabetes, glargine, hypoglycemia, insulin glargine, aspart, basal, article, pmc, lispro


cardiac output, which may adversely affect those with diabetes who frequently have underlying coronary artery disease (CAD). Glucose levels below 70 mg/dl have been shown to cause ischemic ECG changes in patients with type 2 diabetes and CAD during continuous glucose and ECG monitoring ( 92 ). Hypoglycemia may lead to increased mortality due to the pro-arrhythmic effects of sympathoadrenal activation and hypokalemia ( 93 ), or from cardiac repolarization, especially in older patients with underlying cardiac disease. Risk factors for hypoglycemia among insulin-treated patients include older age, longer duration of diabetes, renal insufficiency, hypoglycemia unawareness, prior hypoglycemia, and lower HbA1c ( 94 – 97 ). Avoidance of hypoglycemia therefore takes on particular importance in older patients, given the greater prevalence of cardiovascular disease, cognitive dysfunction, and higher risk of falls and fractures. To help reduce the incidence of hypoglycemia, the American Diabetes Association (ADA) advises targeting a higher HbA1c of less than 8% in patients who are older, with a longer duration of disease, more comorbidities, frequent hypoglycemia, and underlying cardiovascular disease ( 98 ). All patients receiving insulin should learn to recognize the symptoms of hypoglycemia and how best to treat low glucose levels. The use of continuous glucose monitoring (CGM) in adolescent, young and older adults with type 1 diabetes has been shown to reduce the frequency of hypoglycemia, while lowering hemoglobin A1c ( 99 , 100 ). Whether CGM use reduces death from hypoglycemia remains to be determined. Weight Gain Weight gain is a common side effect of insulin therapy. In part, the weight gain can be a result of frequent hypoglycemic episodes in which patients consume extra calories to treat the low glucose level and often overeat in response to hunger. Additionally, amelioration of glycosuria can prevent the loss of calories in the urine. One of the anabolic effects of insulin is to promote the uptake of fatty acids into adipose tissue. The amount of weight gain in the DCCT (type 1 patients) and UKPDS (type 2 patients) associated with insulin therapy was 4.6 kg and 4.0 kg respectively ( 86 , 87 ). Less weight gain is encountered with detemir insulin than with NPH or glargine insulin ( 101 , 102 ). The etiology of lower weight gain with detemir when compared with NPH or glargine is not entirely understood ( 103 ). Basal insulin added to oral antihyperglycemic agents leads to less weight
