Insulin- Pharmacology, Therapeutic Regimens and Principles of Intensive Insulin Therapy
KEYWORDS: insulin, diabetes, pubmed, type, glucose, patients, type diabetes, glargine, hypoglycemia, insulin glargine, aspart, basal, article, pmc, lispro


of lower weight gain with detemir when compared with NPH or glargine is not entirely understood ( 103 ). Basal insulin added to oral antihyperglycemic agents leads to less weight gain than either biphasic insulin aspart or prandial aspart insulin ( 79 ). Lispro mix 75/25 insulin leads to greater weight gain than glargine insulin when added to oral antihyperglycemic agents ( 104 ). Local Reactions True allergic reactions and cutaneous reactions are rare with human insulin and insulin analogs. Hypersensitivity reactions rarely develop in response to the insulin or one of its additives (protamine for example) and can result in local erythema, pruritus, a wheal or more systemic reactions including anaphylaxis. Successful approaches to insulin allergies include continuous subcutaneous insulin infusions, and use of lispro insulin which appears to be less allergenic ( 52 , 105 ). Lipoatrophy was common with use of less pure and animal insulins, but is now rarely seen with insulin analogues and believed to be immune-mediated. Cases of lipoatrophy have been reported with the use of glargine, aspart, and lispro insulins ( 106 ). To avoid the lipohypertrophic effects of insulin, patients should be instructed to rotate their insulin injection sites, preferably rotating within one area and not reusing for one week. Mitogenic Properties Several retrospective, observational studies have shown correlations between insulin dose and cancer risk for most insulin types (human insulin, aspart, lispro or glargine) ( 107 – 109 ). These observational studies assessed large patient databases and have significant, inherent limitations, such as the potential for different pre-treatment characteristics of the groups, selection bias, the small numbers of cancer cases found, and short duration of follow-up. Meta-analyses of studies comparing exogenous insulin to non-insulin antihyperglycemic therapies have shown associations of insulin with several cancers ( 15 , 16 ). However, there are also inherent limitations to such analyses. In a randomized, 5-year, open-label trial comparing the progression of retinopathy in NPH and insulin glargine users, no increased risk of cancer was found in the 1,017 patient sample ( 102 ). In an analysis of 31 randomized controlled trials from the Sanofi-Aventis safety database (phase 2, 3, and 4 studies), insulin glargine was not associated with an increased risk of cancer ( 110 ). The 7-year, randomized ORIGIN trial assessed the cardiovascular effects of insulin glargine versus standard care in more than 12,500 individuals with diabetes or pre-diabetes and found no increased
