Insulin- Pharmacology, Therapeutic Regimens and Principles of Intensive Insulin Therapy
KEYWORDS: insulin, diabetes, pubmed, type, glucose, patients, type diabetes, glargine, hypoglycemia, insulin glargine, aspart, basal, article, pmc, lispro


110 ). The 7-year, randomized ORIGIN trial assessed the cardiovascular effects of insulin glargine versus standard care in more than 12,500 individuals with diabetes or pre-diabetes and found no increased risk of all- cancer-combined or of cancer mortality among glargine-treated individuals ( 111 ). A review of large epidemiologic studies did not find evidence of an increased risk of malignancy among glargine- treated patients when compared with other insulin therapies ( 16 ). Cardiovascular Disease Among intensively controlled patients in the VADT (Veterans Affairs Diabetes Trial), ADVANCE (Action in Diabetes and Vascular Disease: Preterax and Diamicron MR Controlled Evaluation), and ACCORD (Action to Control Cardiovascular Risk in Diabetes), a higher proportion (41–90%) required insulin therapy than among the standard control groups (24–74%) ( 29 , 88 , 89 ). Nonsignificant reductions in cardiovascular events were seen with intensive diabetes control when compared with standard control in ADVANCE, ACCORD, and VADT respectively. An increased mortality rate was observed in ACCORD after 3.5 years of intensive therapy when patients were targeted to an HbA1c of less than 6.0%, 73% of whom received insulin. However, mortality was not temporally associated with severe hypoglycemia. The results of ACCORD support less aggressive diabetes management among patients at high risk for a cardiovascular event. The 7-year, randomized ORIGIN trial assessed the cardiovascular effects of insulin glargine versus standard care in more than 12,500 individuals with diabetes or pre-diabetes and found no increased risk of cardiovascular events or of cardiovascular mortality among glargine-treated individuals ( 111 ). In a retrospective study of more than 57,000 insulin-treated persons with type 2 diabetes followed for 4 years, treatment with combined long and short-acting insulins compared to long-acting insulin alone was associated with increased all-cause mortality, but fewer myocardial infarctions, and no difference in major cardiovascular events or cardiovascular mortality ( 112 ). TYPES OF REGIMENS General Principles TYPE 1 DIABETES Autoimmune beta cell destruction results in a progressive decline in insulin production in patients with type 1 diabetes who eventually require insulin for survival. Patients with type 1 diabetes generally require a replacement dose of 0.5-1.0 units per kg of body weight per day of insulin ( 113 ). During the early stages of type 1 diabetes, patients commonly require less insulin because remaining beta cells still produce some insulin; during their “honeymoon period” insulin requirements can be in the range of 0.2-0.6 units per kg per day (
