Insulin- Pharmacology, Therapeutic Regimens and Principles of Intensive Insulin Therapy
KEYWORDS: insulin, diabetes, pubmed, type, glucose, patients, type diabetes, glargine, hypoglycemia, insulin glargine, aspart, basal, article, pmc, lispro


require less insulin because remaining beta cells still produce some insulin; during their “honeymoon period” insulin requirements can be in the range of 0.2-0.6 units per kg per day ( 113 , 114 ). Intensive insulin therapy (defined as 3 or more insulin injections daily or insulin pump therapy) is indicated for patients with type 1 diabetes to provide better glycemic control with less glucose variability than 1 or 2 daily injections, and reduce the development and progression of microvascular and macrovascular complications ( 86 , 115 , 116 ). TYPE 2 DIABETES The slowly progressive beta cell loss in patients with type 2 diabetes means many patients with type 2 diabetes will eventually require insulin therapy to attain adequate glycemic control. Initiation of basal insulin can be considered in any of the following situations: 1) a patient with an HbA1C > 11% with concern for insulin deficiency; 2) a patient without atherosclerotic cardiovascular disease and/or chronic kidney disease with an HbA1C above goal after 3 months of metformin monotherapy; 3) a patient with atherosclerotic cardiovascular disease and/or chronic kidney disease with an HbA1C above goal after 3 months of treatment with metformin, a GLP-1 receptor agonist, and/or an SGLT2 inhibitor ( 98 ). Since type 2 diabetes is associated with insulin resistance, insulin requirements can exceed 1 unit/kg/day. When initiating insulin therapy in patients with type 2 diabetes, basal insulin is often used in combination with other non-insulin antihyperglycemic medications a patient is taking. An intermediate or long-acting insulin (e.g., NPH, glargine, detemir, or degludec) is added at bedtime, and the dose titrated to attain a target fasting glucose ( 117 ). Basal insulin is effective at lowering HbA1c when added to oral hypoglycemic agents starting at a dose of 10 U daily or 0.2 U/kg. When used in patients uncontrolled on oral agents, basal insulin lowers HbA 1c 1.2–1.5% ( 79 , 102 ) . In these treat-to-target studies, patients were instructed to titrate their basal insulin dosages up every 2–3 days by 1–4 units based on algorithms to achieve fasting plasma glucose (FPG) levels in the 70- to 126mg/dl range. Those studies targeting a FPG < 108 mg/dl achieve modestly better success in achieving an HbA 1c < 7% (63.2 vs. 52%) than those targeting a FPG of less than 126 mg/dl, with mildly higher rates of hypoglycemia ( 79 , 102 ). Basal insulin, by suppressing
