Insulin- Pharmacology, Therapeutic Regimens and Principles of Intensive Insulin Therapy
KEYWORDS: insulin, diabetes, pubmed, type, glucose, patients, type diabetes, glargine, hypoglycemia, insulin glargine, aspart, basal, article, pmc, lispro


< 7% (63.2 vs. 52%) than those targeting a FPG of less than 126 mg/dl, with mildly higher rates of hypoglycemia ( 79 , 102 ). Basal insulin, by suppressing hepatic glucose output during the night, will control the fasting blood glucose (FPG), while concomitant use of other antihyperglycemic medications control postprandial glucose levels throughout the day ( 118 ). A starting dose of 10 units of basal insulin is commonly utilized, though starting a dose of 0.1-0.2 units/kg will more rapidly attain the target fasting glucose level ( 119 ). In patients whose fasting glucose levels become well controlled with basal insulin, but whose glucose levels rise significantly higher later in the day with a persistently elevated HbA1C, prandial insulin is indicated. At this point, the patient is experiencing beta- cell failure. If the patient is taking an insulin secretagogue (e.g., a sulfonylurea or meglitinide) it should be discontinued, as insulin will now be replaced exogenously. However, other agents not having a predominantly insulin-stimulating effect should be continued to address insulin resistance and reduce insulin requirements. GOALS OF THERAPY Before starting a patient on insulin, or adjusting their current insulin therapy, it is important to establish glycemic goals tailored to the patient. The American Diabetes Association currently recommends individualized glycemic goals ( 98 ). Those with a longer duration of diabetes, shorter life expectancy, presence of important comorbidities or established vascular complications, and at higher risk of hypoglycemia should have higher glycemic targets, with an A1C of < 8% reasonable for those with the least to gain from more intensive control and at highest risk for adverse outcomes from hypoglycemia. For the majority of patients who are otherwise healthy, glycemic targets include the following: preprandial plasma glucose 80-130 mg/dl; postprandial plasma glucose <180 mg/dl; and A1C <7% ( 98 ). In the DCCT, retinopathy initially worsened during the first year in patients with type 1 diabetes who received intensive therapy ( 86 ). This was associated with rapid lowering of glucose levels. Thus, in patients with proliferative retinopathy or those with underlying non-proliferative diabetic retinopathy and a high A1C (e.g., >10%), slower lowering of glucose is warranted. Another example of individualizing glycemic goals is a patient with hypoglycemic unawareness, in whom glycemic goals should be less aggressive to reduce the frequency of severe hypoglycemia ( 115 ). REPLACEMENT STRATEGIES Physiologic Insulin Replacement A functioning pancreas releases insulin continuously, to
