Insulin- Pharmacology, Therapeutic Regimens and Principles of Intensive Insulin Therapy
KEYWORDS: insulin, diabetes, pubmed, type, glucose, patients, type diabetes, glargine, hypoglycemia, insulin glargine, aspart, basal, article, pmc, lispro


in whom glycemic goals should be less aggressive to reduce the frequency of severe hypoglycemia ( 115 ). REPLACEMENT STRATEGIES Physiologic Insulin Replacement A functioning pancreas releases insulin continuously, to supply a basal amount to suppress hepatic glucose output and prevent ketogenesis between meals and overnight, and also releases a bolus of insulin prandially to promote glucose utilization after eating ( 108 ) . Replacing insulin in a manner that attempts to mimic physiologic insulin release is commonly referred to as basal/bolus insulin therapy. Physiologic replacement requires multiple daily injections (3 or more) or the use of an insulin pump. Basal insulin requirements are approximately 40-50% of the total daily amount. Prandial insulin is 50-60% of the total daily insulin requirement administered before meals ( 114 ) . Providing basal-bolus insulin regimens allows patients to have flexibility in their mealtimes and achieve better glycemic control. Non-Physiologic Insulin Replacement When insulin is given once or twice daily, insulin levels do not mimic physiologic insulin release patterns. For people with type 2 diabetes, in whom bolus insulin replacement is not as critical, once or twice daily basal insulin injection regimens often work well with reasonable glycemic control achieved when combined with non-insulin agents that control postprandial glucose levels. In patients with type 2 diabetes, a starting daily basal insulin dose can be calculated by multiplying 0.1 or 0.2 by the patient’s weight in kilograms and increased after taking into account factors such as the severity of hyperglycemia ( 98 ). The basal insulin dose in type 2 patients is adjusted to attain a target fasting glucose level. The patient’s other non-insulin anti-hyperglycemic agents then can better control daytime glucose levels. The current American Diabetes Association guidelines recommend that if a patient’s A1C is not at goal despite the use of basal insulin attaining target fasting glucose levels, then an additional injection of prandial insulin, with a starting dose comprised of 4 units or 10% of the daily basal insulin dose, can be added before the biggest meal of the day. Prandial insulin can be titrated based on blood glucose measurements by 10-15% twice a week. If glycemic control is suboptimal, then more prandial insulin injections can be added before other meals ( 98 ). EXAMPLES OF REGIMENS Once Daily Insulin Regimen (for patients with type 2 diabetes on oral agents) NPH ( Figure 7 ), insulin glargine ( Figure 8 ), or
