Insulin- Pharmacology, Therapeutic Regimens and Principles of Intensive Insulin Therapy
KEYWORDS: insulin, diabetes, pubmed, type, glucose, patients, type diabetes, glargine, hypoglycemia, insulin glargine, aspart, basal, article, pmc, lispro


98 ). EXAMPLES OF REGIMENS Once Daily Insulin Regimen (for patients with type 2 diabetes on oral agents) NPH ( Figure 7 ), insulin glargine ( Figure 8 ), or insulin detemir are most often given at bedtime. However, given their longer duration of action, insulin glargine and insulin degludec can be administered anytime of the day ( 101 ). For patients who eat large amounts of carbohydrates at dinner, an insulin mixture, regular and NPH or a premixed insulin, can be given prior to dinner ( Figure 9 ). Figure 7. PM NPH Administration. Figure 8. Glargine Administration. Figure 9. NPH and Regular Insulin at Dinner. Twice-Daily Insulin Regimen (Split-Mixed and Pre-Mixed Regimens) Two-thirds of the insulin dose is typically given in the morning before breakfast and one-third is given before dinner. Premixed insulins can be used or a mixture of a short-acting insulin (e.g., regular, insulin aspart/glulisine/lispro) and an intermediate-acting insulin (e.g., NPH) ( Figure 10 ) ( 114 ) . Figure 10. NPH and Twice a Day Regular Insulin. 2/3 total daily dose at breakfast: given as 2/3 NPH and 1/3 Regular (or insulin aspart/glulisine/lispro) 1/3 total daily dose at dinner: divided in equal amounts of NPH and Regular (or insulin aspart/glulisine/lispro) For patients who experience nocturnal hypoglycemia when NPH is administered at dinner with a short-acting insulin, moving the NPH dose to bedtime helps reduce the risk for nocturnal hypoglycemia ( 120 ). Conversely, NPH at dinner can result in fasting hyperglycemia due to dissipation of insulin activity and the early morning rise in counter-regulatory hormones cortisol and growth hormone (the dawn phenomenon). Moving the NPH dose to bedtime can also help resolve this problem ( 121 ) ( Figure 11 ). An obvious limitation to using premixed insulin is reduced flexibility in dosing; if the dose is adjusted, both types of insulin in the mixture will be adjusted. Figure 11. Twice a Day NPH and Regular. Multiple Daily Insulin Injection Regimen: Basal plus Prandial Insulin Many different types of regimens are possible with multiple daily injections. Regular, insulin aspart, glulisine and lispro are used to provide prandial insulin. NPH, insulin glargine, insulin detemir, and insulin degludec are used to provide basal insulin. Regular, insulin aspart/glulisine/lispro before meals and NPH, insulin glargine, insulin detemir, or insulin degludec at bedtime (hs) ( Figure 12 , 13 ). Insulin aspart/glulisine/lispro before meals and NPH twice daily (breakfast and
