Insulin- Pharmacology, Therapeutic Regimens and Principles of Intensive Insulin Therapy
KEYWORDS: insulin, diabetes, pubmed, type, glucose, patients, type diabetes, glargine, hypoglycemia, insulin glargine, aspart, basal, article, pmc, lispro


before meals and NPH, insulin glargine, insulin detemir, or insulin degludec at bedtime (hs) ( Figure 12 , 13 ). Insulin aspart/glulisine/lispro before meals and NPH twice daily (breakfast and bedtime) ( Figure 14 ). Figure 12. Bedtime NPH and Regular Insulin with Meals. Figure 13. Bedtime Glargine Insulin and Lispro/Aspart with Meals. Figure 14. NPH Twice a Day and Lispro/Aspart with Meals. Insulin Pump Therapy Insulin pump or continuous subcutaneous insulin infusion (CSII) therapy is another option for intensive insulin therapy using only rapid-acting insulin. Insulin pump therapy is indicated in patients with type 1 diabetes, and in those with markedly insulin-deficient type 2 diabetes ( 122 ). Patients initiated on insulin pump therapy need to have been trained in the components of intensive diabetes management or will not gain significant benefit from conversion to insulin pump therapy. The components of intensive diabetes management include knowledge of carbohydrate counting and adjustments in the insulin bolus dose based on the carbohydrate content of meals and snacks, the measured glucose level, and the amount and duration of exercise. Some insulin pumps are able to deliver insulin boluses in as low as 0.01-unit increments, ideal for patients who are insulin sensitive. The basal insulin infusion can be delivered in as low as 0.001-unit increments and can be adjusted based on an individual patient’s needs. Basal rate requirements are typically higher in the early morning hours to counter the dawn rise in glucose levels and lower in the afternoon when patients are more active and overnight when patients are at rest. Temporary basal rates can be programmed to be increased during times of inactivity or illness when insulin requirements are higher, and decreased when physically active and insulin requirements are reduced. The bolus calculator function of insulin pumps helps patients determine insulin bolus doses required for the carbohydrate content of foods and the measured glucose level. After a patient enters this information into the pump, a recommended bolus dose is displayed by the pump based on the patient’s insulin-to-carbohydrate ratio and insulin sensitivity factor. This function is especially helpful when a patient needs to determine the amount of supplemental insulin required to correct a high postprandial glucose level. The pump takes into account the active insulin remaining from the pre-meal bolus (insulin on board), and recommends a reduced corrective supplemental insulin dose, thereby preventing insulin stacking and hypoglycemia. Potential benefits of insulin pumps
