Insulin- Pharmacology, Therapeutic Regimens and Principles of Intensive Insulin Therapy
KEYWORDS: insulin, diabetes, pubmed, type, glucose, patients, type diabetes, glargine, hypoglycemia, insulin glargine, aspart, basal, article, pmc, lispro


the active insulin remaining from the pre-meal bolus (insulin on board), and recommends a reduced corrective supplemental insulin dose, thereby preventing insulin stacking and hypoglycemia. Potential benefits of insulin pumps include less weight gain, less hypoglycemia, and lowering of hemoglobin A1c levels when compared to multiple daily injections ( 123 – 126 ). The addition of continuous glucose monitoring to patients on insulin pumps has been shown to further improve glycemic control and reduce the frequency of symptomatic and severe hypoglycemia. Insulin pumps are available with a threshold suspend function which can discontinue the basal insulin infusion for up to a period of 2 hours when the monitor detects a low glucose level that is untreated. This prevents a further decline in glucose levels ( 127 ). To date, several hybrid closed loop (HCL) systems exist. The Medtronic 670G and 770G HCL systems have an “Auto Mode,” in which the basal rate of the insulin pump is adjusted up or down every 5 minutes based on data from the continuous glucose monitoring (CGM) system to achieve a target glucose of 120 mg/dl ( 128 ). For the Tandem X2 HCL system, not only is the basal rate of the pump suspended, increased, or decreased every 5 minutes based on CGM data, but automatic bolus doses of insulin, which are comprised of 60% of a calculated corrective bolus dose, are administered up to every hour, to target a glucose of 110 mg/dl ( 129 ). Finally, in the Omnipod 5 HCL system, different target blood glucose values can be set, and basal rates are automatically adjusted ( 130 ). It should be noted that once in the automated insulin delivery mode, for Medtronic HCL systems and the Omnipod 5 system, adjustments to manual basal rates do not affect the amount of insulin delivered during basal insulin delivery. For the Medtronic HCL systems, the insulin to carbohydrate ratio and active insulin time can be adjusted, and a temporary target glucose of 150 mg/dl can be selected to better prevent hypoglycemia as during exercise or when fasting for a medical or surgical procedure. For the Omnipod 5, the insulin to carbohydrate ratio, correction factor, and active insulin time can be adjusted. For the Tandem X2 HCL system, active insulin time and target blood glucose cannot be modified, but the basal rate, insulin to carbohydrate ratio, and correction factor can be adjusted ( 130
