Insulin- Pharmacology, Therapeutic Regimens and Principles of Intensive Insulin Therapy
KEYWORDS: insulin, diabetes, pubmed, type, glucose, patients, type diabetes, glargine, hypoglycemia, insulin glargine, aspart, basal, article, pmc, lispro


Tandem X2 HCL system, active insulin time and target blood glucose cannot be modified, but the basal rate, insulin to carbohydrate ratio, and correction factor can be adjusted ( 130 , 131 ). Timing of Prandial Insulin Injections The onset of action of regular insulin is approximately 30 minutes; while insulin aspart/glulisine/lispro begin to lower glucose levels within about 15 minutes after a subcutaneous bolus is given. Ultra-rapid-acting Lispro-aabc and Faster aspart can be measured in the blood within 1-2.5 minutes after subcutaneous injection. The timing of the pre-meal insulin bolus can be reduced when the measured glucose level is low and lengthened when hyperglycemia is present before eating. To best match the insulin action with the glycemic effect of meals, regular insulin is optimally given 30 minutes before the meal, the rapid-acting insulins 15-20 minutes before the meal, and the ultra-rapid-acting insulins 0-2 minutes before meals. When dosed immediately before a solid mixed meal tolerance test, lispro-aabc resulted in a lower postprandial glucose compared with insulin lispro, over 2 and 5 hours ( 34 ). Insulin pumps and multi-dose insulin injection regimens using basal analog insulin combined with a rapid-acting or ultra-rapid-acting insulin provide patients with the greatest flexibility of varying the time of meals without sacrificing an increased risk of hypoglycemia, when compared with NPH-based insulin regimens. ADJUSTMENTS Insulin doses should be adjusted to achieve glycemic targets. Typically, a 10-20% increase or decrease in an insulin dose is appropriate, based on the degree of hyper- or hypoglycemia, and the insulin sensitivity of the patient. Hypoglycemia that is frequent or severe should prompt an immediate reduction in the responsible insulin dose. Increases to insulin doses should be based on the occurrence of consistently elevated glucose levels at a particular time of day, rather than periodic glucose elevations that are more likely diet-mediated. Adjustment of Intermediate to Long-Acting Insulin When a dose of intermediate or long-acting insulin is adjusted, it is recommended to wait at least 3-5 days before further changes in the dose to assess the response ( 114 ) . Adjustment of Once-Daily Evening Insulin Basal insulin can be started either using 10 units or 0.1-0.2 units/kg body weight at bedtime. The FPG is used to adjust the intermediate (NPH), long-acting insulin (glargine, detemir, or degludec) given in the evening. Algorithms provided to patients to adjust their basal insulin dose based on fasting glucose levels have been shown
