Insulin- Pharmacology, Therapeutic Regimens and Principles of Intensive Insulin Therapy
KEYWORDS: insulin, diabetes, pubmed, type, glucose, patients, type diabetes, glargine, hypoglycemia, insulin glargine, aspart, basal, article, pmc, lispro


insulin sensitivity factor (ISF): ISF= 1800/TDD An individual using 60 units of insulin each day would have a calculated ISF of 1:30, and would use 1 unit of supplemental insulin for every 30 mg/dl the glucose is above the glucose target (usually 100 mg/dl before meals) as a starting supplemental dose ( 123 ). For example, if this person’s pre-meal glucose was 280 mg/dl, 6 units of supplemental insulin would be added to their usual dose of pre-meal insulin to decrease glucose by 180mg/dl. Carbohydrate Counting In patients on set dose of prandial insulin, post meal glucose variability can be controlled by having patients keep the carbohydrate content of the meal similar at mealtimes from day to day. A more sophisticated type of prandial insulin regimen is one in which a patient doses their prandial insulin based on the number of carbohydrates eaten at the meal. By learning how to count carbohydrates, and dosing their insulin accordingly, patients are afforded flexibility in the carbohydrate content of their meals. Adjusting the prandial insulin dose based on the accurately-assessed carbohydrate content of the meal will reduce glucose. The rule of 500 can be used to approximate the amount of carbohydrates covered by 1 unit of prandial insulin, termed the insulin to carbohydrate ratio (ICR), using the total daily dose (TDD) of insulin: Calculation of the insulin to carbohydrate ratio: ICR= 500/TDD For example, for a patient using 60 units of insulin per day, the ICR would be 500/60 or approximately 1:8, or 1 unit for each 8 grams of carbohydrate in the meal or snack. This ratio is adjusted based on post meal glucose levels and may be different for each meal. The ICR is adjusted to attain post meal glucose levels in the target range (usually 100-180 mg/dl). The ICR can also be used for snacks ( 134 ) . Carbohydrate counting can be challenging for some patients. Education in medical nutrition therapy is critical for patients on insulin. A comprehensive diabetes education class that teaches self-management skills, such as how to dose prandial insulin by matching it to the amount of carbohydrate intake is an excellent resource to facilitate patients in adopting an intensive insulin therapy regimen ( 135 ). Adjustments for Exercise Exercise improves insulin sensitivity. Thus, when a patient exercises, it is often necessary to decrease insulin delivery (and/or increase caloric intake) to prevent hypoglycemia. For morning exercise,
