Insulin- Pharmacology, Therapeutic Regimens and Principles of Intensive Insulin Therapy
KEYWORDS: insulin, diabetes, pubmed, type, glucose, patients, type diabetes, glargine, hypoglycemia, insulin glargine, aspart, basal, article, pmc, lispro


Adjustments for Exercise Exercise improves insulin sensitivity. Thus, when a patient exercises, it is often necessary to decrease insulin delivery (and/or increase caloric intake) to prevent hypoglycemia. For morning exercise, the pre-breakfast insulin dose should be reduced (by about 25%) depending on the duration and intensity of the exercise. For late-morning/early-afternoon and evening exercise, the pre-lunch and pre-dinner insulin dose should be reduced respectively ( 136 ). A more recent consensus statement notes that nutritional insulin should be decreased between 25-75%, depending on the intensity of exercise planned after the meal, with a 25% nutritional insulin dose reduction prior to low-intensity exercise, and a 75% nutritional insulin dose reduction prior to high-intensity exercise ( 137 ). In addition, for individuals with type 1 diabetes, before exercise is undertaken, different glycemic thresholds can be set at which point carbohydrates should be ingested, depending on risk of hypoglycemia and intensity of exercise, with a higher glucose goal for the more prolonged exercise and/or for those at highest risk of hypoglycemia ( 138 ). The effect of exercise on insulin sensitivity can last for many hours; so more than 1 insulin dose may need to be adjusted. After more prolonged exercise, the bedtime long-acting insulin dose may need to be reduced should such exercise lead to a pronounced fall in overnight glucose levels. In patients on insulin pumps, temporary basal rate reductions can be employed starting 0-60 minutes before exercise to prevent exercise-induced hypoglycemia. The Tandem X2 and OmniPod 5 automated insulin delivery systems have an “exercise/activity” modes, that target a higher glucose goal within the glucose range of the automated delivery system. The Medtronic automated insulin delivery system has a temporary target glucose level of 150 mg/dl, that can be used during exercise. SELF-MONITORING OF BLOOD GLUCOSE Self-monitoring of blood glucose (SMBG) allows patients and physicians to recognize glucose trends to guide insulin dosage adjustments. In those using short or rapid-acting inulin, SMBG also provides a patient with the information needed to give an accurate supplemental insulin dose to return an elevated glucose level back to the target glucose range. Studies in patients with type 1 diabetes have shown a progressive reduction in hemoglobin A1C levels with more frequent glucose monitoring ( 139 ) Currently, the ADA recommends that patients with diabetes on multiple daily injections of insulin or on an insulin pump check blood glucose before eating, exercise, and bedtime, for
