Insulin- Pharmacology, Therapeutic Regimens and Principles of Intensive Insulin Therapy
KEYWORDS: insulin, diabetes, pubmed, type, glucose, patients, type diabetes, glargine, hypoglycemia, insulin glargine, aspart, basal, article, pmc, lispro


139 ) Currently, the ADA recommends that patients with diabetes on multiple daily injections of insulin or on an insulin pump check blood glucose before eating, exercise, and bedtime, for symptoms of hypoglycemia, and periodically after meals. For patients with type 2 diabetes not on multiple daily injections of insulin, no specific frequency of SMBG is recommended but rather it is recommended that SMBG and its assessment be a part of patients’ treatment and management plan ( 139 ). Most glucose meters are now plasma-referenced, correlating better to the ADA’s glycemic goals. Plasma glucose concentrations are approximately 10-15% higher than whole blood glucose concentrations ( 140 ) . CGM, which measures interstitial glucose, is available in 2 forms: an intermittent or “flash” CGM system and real-time CGM systems ( 141 ). To date, the intermittent CGM system and one of the real-time CGM systems do not require calibration with blood glucose. Intermittent CGM has been associated with less time spent in hypoglycemia in patients with type 1 diabetes and in patients with type 2 diabetes ( 142 , 143 ) , and the real-time CGM systems have been associated with improved glycemic control, more so when used consistently, and less time spent in hypoglycemia, and less severe hypoglycemia in patients with type 1 diabetes ( 144 , 145 ). SICK DAY GUIDELINES A common misconception among patients is that if they are sick enough that they do not eat or they vomit, they should not take their anti-hyperglycemic medications, insulin included. Patients who are ill should be instructed to continue their basal insulin therapy, maintain fluid intake, eat smaller meals as tolerated, and test their glucose levels every 1-4 hours (ketones as well for people with type 1 diabetes when glucose levels are over 200 mg/dl). Supplemental insulin doses to correct hyperglycemia can be given up to every 4 hours as needed for persistent hyperglycemia, or more often when the insulin on board from an insulin pump or a smart insulin pen is taken into account. For patients using the bolus calculator function of their insulin pump, the recommended bolus dose to correct an elevated glucose level automatically takes into account the insulin on board from prior insulin boluses. If the glucose is >240 mg/dl with large ketonuria, patients should contact their provider immediately, or proceed to an emergency room for treatment of ketoacidosis using intravenous fluids and insulin. Sick
