Pathogenesis of Type 1A Diabetes
KEYWORDS: diabetes, type, type diabetes, autoantibodies, insulin, risk, patients, journal, autoimmunity, children, figure, disease, anti-islet, cell, hla


ABSTRACT Type 1A diabetes (T1D) represents an autoimmune disorder that can affect individuals from within a year of birth until age 60. A number of genes strongly influence the development of disease, including genes found within the human lymphocyte antigen (HLA) complex. The role of non-HLA genes is being defined in recent studies, and we are beginning to identify pathways that lead to autoimmunity and eventually pancreatic islet cell destruction. Although genes can predispose one to type 1A diabetes, environmental factors may also play a significant role in the pathogenesis. These as-yet-undefined factors appear to have accelerated the onset and markedly increased the frequency of disease in many populations around the world over the last 30 years. The development of ever more sophisticated immunoassays to detect antibodies directed against pancreatic antigens have helped define the autoimmune nature of the disorder, but as importantly have also provided an opportunity to identify those individuals with prediabetes and to stratify their risk of developing overt hyperglycemia. Immunologic assays as well as intervention trials are allowing us to learn more about the immune pathways that are disordered and offer hope for future therapeutic approaches to prevent and reverse type 1A diabetes. For extensive review of all related areas of Endocrinology, visit WWW.ENDOTEXT.ORG. INTRODUCTION Type 1A diabetes mellitus is defined as immune mediated diabetes mellitus.(1-6). It can become manifest with hyperglycemia presenting in the first days of life or in adults over the age of 60. Current estimates indicate that immune mediated diabetes represents approximately 5 to 10% of the diabetes developing in adults and that approximately as many individuals develop this form of diabetes as adults as do children(7-9). In the United States the great majority (>90%) of Caucasian children developing diabetes have type 1A diabetes; whereas, approximately 50% of African American and Hispanic American children developing diabetes lack the autoantibody and immunogenetic markers of typical type 1A diabetes(10-12). Most of these latter children appear to have variants of type 2 diabetes with a small number having specific characteristic genetic syndromes (e.g. MODY: Maturity Onset Diabetes of Youth) with identified mutations of genes such as glucokinase and HNF (Hepatic Nuclear Factors)(13). In addition, studies of the pathology of the pancreas of Hispanic and African American children who lack islet autoantibodies show that all islets have some beta cells, but in decreased numbers(11). In contrast, in the pancreas of patients with type 1A diabetes, there
