Pathogenesis of Type 1A Diabetes
KEYWORDS: diabetes, type, type diabetes, autoantibodies, insulin, risk, patients, journal, autoimmunity, children, figure, disease, anti-islet, cell, hla


American children who lack islet autoantibodies show that all islets have some beta cells, but in decreased numbers(11). In contrast, in the pancreas of patients with type 1A diabetes, there is lobular loss of beta cells (termed pseudoatrophic islets)(11). When an individual presents with type 1A diabetes it indicates that they and their relatives have an increased risk of having or developing a series of autoimmune disorders(12). Celiac disease, hypothyroidism, hyperthyroidism, Addison's disease and pernicious anemia are some of the most prominent associated diseases. For example approximately 1/20 patients with type 1 diabetes have celiac disease(14,15). Most of these patients are asymptomatic and the disorder is only discovered if anti-transglutaminase autoantibodies are measured and individuals with positive antibodies biopsied. In that the therapy for celiac disease, namely gluten avoidance, is highly effective, at the Barbara Davis Center we routinely screen all type 1 diabetic patients. We also screen for thyroid disease, which has an incidence of approximately 20% in type 1 diabetes, with yearly TSH measurements and for Addison's disease (21-hydroxylase autoantibodies)(16). Studies of the pathogenesis of type 1 diabetes have blossomed during the past two decades and there are now complete books devoted to this subject (e.g., Immunology of Type 1 Diabetes available at www.barbaradaviscenter.org with appended "Teaching" slides). In terms of summarizing the pathogenesis of this disorder it is convenient to divide the disease into a series of stages ( Figure 1 ) beginning with genetic susceptibility and ending (from an immunologic standpoint) with complete islet beta cell destruction(16). This is only a general description of the disease process. It is likely for instance that genetic determinants influence many of the stages of disease progression and are important determinants of individuals who express anti-islet autoantibodies but do not progress to diabetes (e.g., a major subset of those with anti-islet autoantibodies and the protective HLA allele DQB1*0602 allele)(17). Figure 1 Hypothetical stages and loss of beta cells in an individual progressing to type 1A diabetes. From Eisenbarth, NEJM, 1986 (18) STAGE I. GENETIC SUSCEPTIBILITY An expert committee of the American Diabetes Association has divided type 1 diabetes into type 1A (immune mediated) and 1B (not immune mediated but with profound loss of insulin secretion)(19). The great majority of patients with insulin dependent diabetes have type 1A, and firm examples of type 1B are either lacking or controversial. One recent example is a description from Japan of patients who extremely
