Pathogenesis of Type 1A Diabetes
KEYWORDS: diabetes, type, type diabetes, autoantibodies, insulin, risk, patients, journal, autoimmunity, children, figure, disease, anti-islet, cell, hla


with insulin dependent diabetes have type 1A, and firm examples of type 1B are either lacking or controversial. One recent example is a description from Japan of patients who extremely rapidly developed type 1 diabetes (fulminant diabetes) such that they had marked hyperglycemia, but at diabetes presentation their HbA1c was near normal, suggesting very recent onset of hyperglycemia(20). These patients lacked anti-islet autoantibodies, a subset had elevated serum pancreatic enzymes, but many had HLA alleles associated with type 1A diabetes. On biopsy beta cells were destroyed, there were lymphocytes in the acinar pancreas, but no typical insulitis (invasion of islets by lymphocytes). Whether this is truly type 1B or an extremely rapid variant of type 1A is currently debated. Figure 2 Genetic heterogeneity of immune mediated type 1 diabetes with monogenic, polygenic, and oligogenic forms. Modified from teaching slides www.barbaradaviscenter.org Type 1A diabetes is itself heterogeneous, with several forms of immune mediated diabetes with known genetic causes as parts of autoimmune syndromes (thus likely to be classified as other Specific Forms of Diabetes). In particular, patients develop immune mediated diabetes when they have mutations of the AIRE (Autoimmune Regulator) gene(21) and the human gene homologous to the mutated gene causing Scurfy in mice (22)( figure 2 : monogenic disorders). Mutations of the AIRE gene result in Autoimmune Polyendocrine Syndrome Type I (23,24). Mutations of the Scurfy homologue lead to overwhelming neonatal autoimmunity (IPEX syndrome: Immune dysregulation, Polyendocrinoptahy, Enteropathy, X-linked)(21). A mutation of the FoxP3 genes, an essential transcription factor for CD4+CD25+ regulatory T cells, is the cause of the IPEX syndrome(25,26). These children can develop type 1 diabetes in the first days of life and illustrate the importance of T cell regulation. Most other forms of type 1A diabetes are polygenic in etiology, and polymorphisms of genes within the major histocompatibility complex (HLA genes) play a major role in determining disease susceptibility(27,28). Such heterogeneity is also apparent in three spontaneous animal models of type 1A diabetes, the BB rat (Biobreeding), the NOD (Non-obese diabetic), and the Tokushima rat ( Figure 3 ). For all three strains polymorphisms of genes homologous to HLA DR and DQ of man are essential for disease(29). In addition, more than 15 other loci play an important role in diabetes susceptibility of the NOD mouse, but each locus contributes relatively little (polygenic inheritance) by itself. Figure 3 Three rodent strains that develop immune mediated diabetes. Modified
