Pathogenesis of Type 1A Diabetes
KEYWORDS: diabetes, type, type diabetes, autoantibodies, insulin, risk, patients, journal, autoimmunity, children, figure, disease, anti-islet, cell, hla


important role in diabetes susceptibility of the NOD mouse, but each locus contributes relatively little (polygenic inheritance) by itself. Figure 3 Three rodent strains that develop immune mediated diabetes. Modified from teaching slides www.barbaradaviscenter.org For the BB rat and Tokushima rat there are major loci outside of the MHC contributing to disease (Oligogenic inheritance)(30,31). It is not likely that human type 1 diabetes is less heterogeneous than these few animal models. Identical twins of patients with type 1A diabetes have an overall risk of developing type 1 diabetes approaching seventy percent.(32) Consistent with heterogeneity, that risk varies dramatically with the diabetic twin's age of diabetes onset. If one identical twin develops diabetes prior to age 5, the risk for the other twin exceeds 50%. In contrast if the twin develops diabetes after age 25, the other twin’s risk is less than 10%(29). The risk of developing diabetes is approximately 1/20 for a sibling or offspring of a patient with type 1A diabetes. The U.S. population risk for type 1A diabetes is approximately 1/300 and the country with the highest incidence in the world (Finland) has a risk of approximately 1/100. As will be discussed subsequently, genetic polymorphisms greatly influence disease risk. A sibling of a patient with type 1 diabetes who has the highest risk genotype DR3/4 DQB1*0302 has an almost 50% risk of developing anti-islet autoantibodies and progressing to diabetes(33). Polymorphisms of genes within the major histocompatibility complex contribute to disease of both humans and rodent models. Figure 4 Schematic of the human major histocompatibility complex approximately 4 million base pairs in length. Redondo MJ, et al. Recent Prog Horm Res, 56: 69-89, 2001.(34) Copyright The Endocrine Society. Figure 5 Hierarchy of HLA terminology with specific alleles, groups of alleles of different genes on the same chromosome, and finally genotype. Modified from teaching slides www.barbaradaviscenter.org The alleles of different HLA genes (e.g., DRB1 and DQB1) are non-randomly associated with each other, such that with DRB1*0401 one usually finds one of three DQ alleles (e.g., DQB1*0301, DQB1*0302, DQB1*0303) rather than any one of more than forty different DQB molecules. Such non-random association of alleles of different genes on the same chromosome is termed linkage dysequilibrium .The histocompatibility complex is divided into three regions, class II, class III and class I ( Figure 4 ). The most important determinants of type 1 diabetes are the HLA DQ and DR alleles. These
