Pathogenesis of Type 1A Diabetes
KEYWORDS: diabetes, type, type diabetes, autoantibodies, insulin, risk, patients, journal, autoimmunity, children, figure, disease, anti-islet, cell, hla


age 5) are DR3/4 heterozygotes versus 30% of young adults presenting with type 1A diabetes. There are three HLA molecules that provide dominant protection. The most common is DQB1*0602 that occurs in approximately 20% of U.S. individuals(41-43). Protection is not absolute, but less than 1% of children with type 1A diabetes have this molecule. DQA1*0201 with DQB1*0303 and DRB1*1401 also provide dramatic protection, rarely being found in patients with type 1 diabetes and rarely transmitted from a parent with the alleles to their diabetic offspring(38,39). It is noteworthy that both DR and DQ alleles can protect. The specific mechanism underlying both susceptibility and protection are not fully understood. One attractive hypothesis is that protective alleles when expressed within the thymus lead to deletion of T cells with receptors that recognize a critical islet peptide(44). With deletion of such T cells, the risk of diabetes would be reduced. In addition it is likely that high-risk HLA alleles present specific peptides of target islet molecules to T lymphocytes(28). Figure 7 Summary of subset of confirmed loci from whole genome screens associated with type 1A diabetes (from Teaching Slides www.barbaradaviscenter.org) www.barbaradaviscenter.org. Modified from Todd et al. Robust Association of four new chromosomes regions from genome-wide analyses of type 1 diabetes, Nature Genetics, June 6, 2007. (45) Multiple additional loci ( Figure 7 ) have been implicated with estimates that approximately 50% of the familial aggregation of type 1 diabetes is attributable to the HLA region, perhaps 10% to the insulin locus, with all other loci contributing much less, though in aggregate their contribution is important. In the Cox analysis ( Figure 7 ) of approximately 700 sibling pairs the only significant LOD score was for a locus on chromosome 16q that was not given an iddm designation with earlier genome screens. Several areas implicated in the past had suggestive scores, but there is overlap with the families from which the original evidence was generated. It is likely that contributing loci may differ between populations contributing to the initial difficulty of replicating putative loci in different studies(56,57).More than 40 genetic loci contributing to diabetes risk have been implicated ( Figure 7 ). Polymorphisms of the insulin gene are well established as contributing to risk. A repeat sequence upstream (5') of the insulin gene termed a Variable nucleotide tandem repeat or VNTR, is divided into three general repeat sizes with the longest set of repeats
