Pathogenesis of Type 1A Diabetes
KEYWORDS: diabetes, type, type diabetes, autoantibodies, insulin, risk, patients, journal, autoimmunity, children, figure, disease, anti-islet, cell, hla


A repeat sequence upstream (5') of the insulin gene termed a Variable nucleotide tandem repeat or VNTR, is divided into three general repeat sizes with the longest set of repeats associated with protection from diabetes(46-48). This set of alleles is also associated with greater thymic production of insulin messenger RNA(49), leading to the hypothesis that greater thymic message and presumably greater proinsulin production dampens anti-insulin autoimmunity(49-51). A functional polymorphism of the LYP gene (Lymphocyte Specific Phosphatase; PTPN22- Protein Tyrosine Phosphatase) has been associated with type 1 diabetes, rheumatoid arthritis, and lupus erythematosus(52-54). The R620W missense mutation (tryptophan replacing arginine) disrupts the binding of the phosphatase to the molecule Csk and this blocks its ability to down-regulate T cell receptor signaling. With an odds ratio of between 1.7 and 2.0 of the "autoimmunity” allele which is relatively common (5-10% allele frequency) there is a large genetic effect that is much greater than CTLA-4 polymorphisms associated with diabetes risk(55). Combining known diabetogenic polymorphisms of LYP, the insulin gene, alleles of DP, DQ, and DR class II immune response genes, as well all of the new loci account for approximately 48% of the familial aggregation of type 1A diabetes, with DR and DQ loci accounting for 41% of this 48%(45). A recent study suggests that for a major subset of individuals with the highest risk HLA genotype (DR3/4-DQ2/DQ8 heterozygotes) who share both HLA haplotypes with a diabetic sibling, risk of activating anti-islet autoimmunity is as high as 80%(33). STAGE II: TRIGGERING Anti-islet autoimmunity (i.e., insulin autoantibodies), insulitis, and immune mediated diabetes can be triggered in a number of animal models by a large number of immunologic and genetic manipulations(58-60). Perhaps the most relevant of these manipulations is the administration of poly-IC (poly inosinic cytodylic acid) to normal rat strains that have the diabetes susceptible major histocompatibility RT1-U haplotype(61). Administration of poly-IC in some of these normal strains leads to insulitis while in others it leads to overt diabetes with islet beta cell destruction. Poly-IC interacts with Toll 3 receptors of the innate immune system leading to a cascade of intracellular and cytokine mediated events. Infection of Diabetes Resistant BB rats, a strain of rats that does not develop diabetes and lacks the lymphopenia gene of the spontaneously diabetic BB rat strain, leads to diabetes probably by a pathogenic mechanism similar to the effects of poly-IC(62). Poly-IC is a mimic of viral double stranded
