Pathogenesis of Type 1A Diabetes
KEYWORDS: diabetes, type, type diabetes, autoantibodies, insulin, risk, patients, journal, autoimmunity, children, figure, disease, anti-islet, cell, hla


gene of the spontaneously diabetic BB rat strain, leads to diabetes probably by a pathogenic mechanism similar to the effects of poly-IC(62). Poly-IC is a mimic of viral double stranded RNA and thus it is easy to envision that many common RNA viral infections may induce diabetes in genetically susceptible patients. Normal mouse strains such as Balb/c mice rapidly develop insulin autoantibodies if challenged with an insulin peptide (B chain peptide, amino acids 9 to 23)(58). If the peptide is administered with poly-IC, insulitis is induced and in genetically susceptible mice diabetes can be induced. These and many other studies in animal models indicate that normal animals harbor autoreactive B and T lymphocytes that can be expanded and activated, with resultant diabetes. Though these strains are "normal” they have variants of MHC molecules that determine disease susceptibility, by influencing T cell responses to relevant peptides. The class II MHC molecules (equivalent of DR and DQ of man) appear to be most important, and these molecules probably influence disease either by the peptides they bind and present to T cells within islets and draining lymph nodes and by their influence on the thymic T cell repertoire(63). It has recently been appreciated that the position or “register” of insulin B chain amino acids 9-23 presented by the class II MHC molecule activates insulin specific T cells towards islet autoimmunity in a spontaneous mouse model of autoimmune diabetes. With the remarkable homology between mouse and humans (e.g., similar MHC class II molecules contributing genetic risk, identical amino acid sequences for insulin B chain amino acids 9-23, and similar T cell receptors responding to insulin), the underlying biology of insulin presentation may be identical in mouse and humans(64,65). In humans, environmental factors that trigger anti-islet autoimmunity are largely unknown. Congenital rubella infection is associated with a risk of type 1 diabetes that exceeds 1/5(66,67). It is however only congenital infection that increases the risk of diabetes, and leads to a series of autoimmune disorders (e.g., thyroid autoimmunity). It is thus likely that the congenital infection damages the developing immune system leading to relatively broad disease susceptibility(68). Figure 8 lists a number of additional environmental factors that may impact on the development of type 1A diabetes. The enteroviruses are probably the most extensively studied(69,70). Investigators have associated for instance antibodies to Coxsackie viruses and Coxsackie viral RNA with type 1A diabetes(71). An important study from
