Pathogenesis of Type 1A Diabetes
KEYWORDS: diabetes, type, type diabetes, autoantibodies, insulin, risk, patients, journal, autoimmunity, children, figure, disease, anti-islet, cell, hla


diabetes. The enteroviruses are probably the most extensively studied(69,70). Investigators have associated for instance antibodies to Coxsackie viruses and Coxsackie viral RNA with type 1A diabetes(71). An important study from Finland has provided Figure 8 Environmental factors that may increase or decrease diabetes risk. Congenital rubella infection is bolded as it is the only clearly defined factor. evidence that enterovirus infection may be associated with the activation of anti-islet autoimmunity as measured by the appearance of anti-islet autoantibodies. Such studies have been difficult to replicate, and the DAISY study from Denver, Colorado, that also follows newborns from birth for evidence of anti-islet autoimmunity has not found an association with the enteroviral infection(70). Figure 9 Secular trend in the incidence of type 1A diabetes in Finland subdivided by the age of appearance of diabetes. Modified from teaching slides www.barbaradaviscenter.org Dietary factors that may contribute to diabetes are being extensively studied. One hypothesis is that bovine milk ingestion, particularly in the first months of life, is associated with development of diabetes(72). Again there is conflicting data with reports that bovine milk ingestion increases the development of anti-islet autoantibodies, and reports from Denver, Munich, and Melbourne, that it does not(73). Recently two studies (Germany and Denver) have implicated early (<3 months) introduction of cereals as a risk factor for type 1 diabetes(74,75). In the Denver study, late introduction (>7 months) also increased risk. At present it is my view that the data do not allow any firm recommendation in terms of changing infant diet, except to emphasize the current standard recommendation for introduction of cereals between 3 and 7 months. Environmental factors might not only increase the development of diabetes but may also provide protection. There is a very wide range in the risk of type 1 diabetes ranging from an annual incidence of less than 1/100,000 in China to approximately 50/100,000 in Finland(76). Much of this difference may relate to genetic factors, but there is strong evidence that environmental factors are influencing diabetes risk. The strongest evidence comes from a marked secular trend in terms of increasing diabetes incidence in multiple populations(77). As shown in figure 9 , the incidence has increased dramatically particularly for children developing diabetes prior to age 5, increasing more than 3 fold over the past three decades. Such a rapid change in disease incidence cannot be due to changes in gene pool. Something that increases risk has
