Pathogenesis of Type 1A Diabetes
KEYWORDS: diabetes, type, type diabetes, autoantibodies, insulin, risk, patients, journal, autoimmunity, children, figure, disease, anti-islet, cell, hla


increasing more than 3 fold over the past three decades. Such a rapid change in disease incidence cannot be due to changes in gene pool. Something that increases risk has been added, or more likely an environmental factor that decreases risk, has been removed from the population. With increasing public health, a "hygiene” hypothesis has been advanced, particularly directed at asthma and type 1 diabetes(78). It is hypothesized that as the environment becomes "cleaner” the normal development of the immune system is disrupted (e.g., regulatory T cell development is subnormal) resulting in increases of both presumed Th2 (asthma) and Th1 (Type 1 diabetes) mediated diseases. For instance, one review discusses decreasing pinworm infection as a potential factor(78). STAGE III AUTOIMMUNITY The assays for anti-islet autoantibodies have improved remarkably over the past three decades(79). A series of anti-islet autoantibody workshops where sera is sent blinded to multiple laboratories throughout the world has stimulated assay improvements and standardization(69). Such workshops have evaluated not only anti-islet autoantibodies of humans but also of the NOD mouse model of type 1 diabetes. In the mouse model the only specific autoantibody detected reacted with insulin(80) and similar to studies in humans, fluid phase radioassays provided better sensitivity and specificity compared to ELISA. Newer assays using electrochemiluminescence to detect islet autoantibodies has allowed for higher sensitivity and specificity and the potential to multiplex each individual assay.(81,82) The autoantibodies that are primarily measured in humans react with insulin, glutamic acid decarboxylase 65, and ICA512 (IA-2) and ZnT8 (zinc transporter 8) ( Figure 10 ). GAD67 autoantibodies are primarily a subset of antibodies that cross-react with GAD65, and similarly IA-2beta antibodies are predominantly a subset of ICA512 autoantibodies. Figure 10 Five characterized islet autoantigens with specific/sensitive autoantibody assays. Modified from teaching slides www.barbaradaviscenter.org Insulin autoantibodies are usually the first autoantibody to appear in children followed from birth for the development of type 1A diabetes(84,85). These autoantibodies can appear in the first six months of life. Once insulin autoantibodies appear in such young children there is a high risk of development of additional anti-islet autoantibodies and progression to diabetes. More than 90% of children developing type 1A diabetes prior to age 5 have insulin autoantibodies while less than 50% of children developing diabetes after age 12 have such autoantibodies(86). Therapy with human insulin induces insulin antibodies that cannot at present be distinguished from insulin autoantibodies. Thus if an individual has
