Pathogenesis of Type 1A Diabetes
KEYWORDS: diabetes, type, type diabetes, autoantibodies, insulin, risk, patients, journal, autoimmunity, children, figure, disease, anti-islet, cell, hla


children developing diabetes after age 12 have such autoantibodies(86). Therapy with human insulin induces insulin antibodies that cannot at present be distinguished from insulin autoantibodies. Thus if an individual has been treated with insulin for more than several weeks, positive insulin autoantibodies are not interpretable. For all autoantibodies measured in the first 9 months of life, the antibodies may be transplacental in origin, a particular problem if a mother has type 1 diabetes and is treated with insulin.There are a number of important caveats in the utilization of anti-islet autoantibody assays. The field developed from the initial observation that patient's sera "stained” islets of cut sections of human pancreas, the cytoplasmic islet cell antibody (ICA) assay(83). This assay, given its utilization of human pancreas from cadaveric donation and subjective reading of slides, has proven the most difficult to standardize(69). The assay predominantly detects antibodies reacting with GAD65, IA-2 and ZnT8, but does not detect anti-insulin autoantibodies. Given the difficulty in standardization, reliability over time, and major overlap with defined autoantibody assays, a number of investigators no longer utilize this assay. For research purposes and potentially in older adults with what has been termed LADA (latent autoimmune diabetes of adults) the ICA assay may have utility in that there is evidence of one or more additional autoantibodies detected with this assay and not with GAD65, IA-2, ZnT8 and insulin autoantibody determination. Figure 11 Progression to diabetes of first-degree relatives of patients with type 1 diabetes subdivided by the number of autoantibodies expressed (of GAD65, IA-2, and insulin). Adapted from Verge et al, Diabetes 1996 (87) A single autoantibody, even when present on multiple occasions, is associated with only a modest risk of progression to diabetes: approximately 10%(87,88). Once two or more anti-islet autoantibodies are present in children, progression to diabetes is very high, approaching almost 100% after 15 years of follow up(89) ( Figure 11 ). In addition, once multiple autoantibodies are present it is very unusual for an individual to lose all expression of autoantibodies prior to the development of overt diabetes. Following the development of diabetes, IA-2 and more slowly GAD65 (over decades) autoantibodies wane. Following islet or pancreatic transplantation expression of GAD65 and IA-2 autoantibodies can be induced in patients with long-standing diabetes(90). The most specific of the autoantibodies react with the molecule IA-2, but IA-2 autoantibodies are usually detected following the appearance of insulin and/or GAD65 autoantibodies(84).
