Pathogenesis of Type 1A Diabetes
KEYWORDS: diabetes, type, type diabetes, autoantibodies, insulin, risk, patients, journal, autoimmunity, children, figure, disease, anti-islet, cell, hla


in patients with long-standing diabetes(90). The most specific of the autoantibodies react with the molecule IA-2, but IA-2 autoantibodies are usually detected following the appearance of insulin and/or GAD65 autoantibodies(84). Even with IA-2 autoantibodies, however, there are apparent "false” positives in terms of diabetes risk. We evaluated approximately 10 individuals with either transient IA-2 autoantibodies or normal controls with IA-2 autoantibodies. None of these individuals expressed an additional anti-islet autoantibody. In contrast to patients diagnosed with or developing type 1 diabetes, the ICA512/IA-2 autoantibodies of nine out of ten of these normal individuals did not recognize multiple ICA512 epitopes and did not react with the dominant ICA512 autoantigenic domain(91). This indicates that even with a highly specific radioassay, if one screens tens of thousands of sera, one can find sera that presumably by chance cross-react with some epitope of the IA-2 molecule. It is much less likely to find an individual with antibodies that by chance react with two different islet autoantigens using fluid phase radioassays set with specificity at the 99th percentile of controls. STAGE IV. LOSS OF INSULIN SECRETION Not all individuals with two or more autoantibodies are destined to progress to type 1 diabetes. For instance the diabetes risk is unknown for individuals with expression of two or more anti-islet autoantibodies with the protective HLA molecule DQA1*0102, DQB1*0602. Figure 12 is a life table of progression to diabetes of first-degree relatives with high titer cytoplasmic autoantibodies with a subset of relatives having the protective HLA allele DQB1*0602. Two of the DQB1*0602 relatives expressed multiple "biochemical” anti-islet autoantibodies (one with two autoantibodies and the other three) and neither of these individuals has yet progressed to diabetes. In that approximately 1% of patients with type 1 diabetes have DQB1*0602 it is possible that these individuals will eventually progress to diabetes. Figure 12 Lack of progression to diabetes of cytoplasmic ICA positive first-degree relatives that have the protective HLA allele DQB1*0602. Modified from teaching slides www.barbaradaviscenter.org There are three general hypotheses in terms of progression to type 1A diabetes ( Figure 13 ). At present, beta cell mass is not readily measured over time in humans, so it is not possible to absolutely define progression of beta cell loss. There is however no doubt that measurable anti-islet autoimmunity precedes the development of diabetes in terms of anti-islet autoantibodies in humans, and autoantibodies and T cell invasion in animal models. In
