Pathogenesis of Type 1A Diabetes
KEYWORDS: diabetes, type, type diabetes, autoantibodies, insulin, risk, patients, journal, autoimmunity, children, figure, disease, anti-islet, cell, hla


is however no doubt that measurable anti-islet autoimmunity precedes the development of diabetes in terms of anti-islet autoantibodies in humans, and autoantibodies and T cell invasion in animal models. In the NOD mouse there is evidence of some beta cell destruction and beta cell regeneration prior to the onset of diabetes (92). There is also evidence for a change in the immune system close to the time of onset of diabetes (i.e., Th2 to Th1)(93-96). This change is associated with more rapid disease progression, ability to transfer diabetes by T cells, and a time window during which a specific immunotherapy (monoclonal anti-CD3 antibodies) is effective(97). In humans the best evidence for progressive loss of beta cell function comes from studies of insulin and C-peptide secretion(98). C-peptide, the connecting peptide of proinsulin, is secreted in equimolar amount to insulin, but C-peptide is not present in insulin preparations utilized to treat diabetes. Thus C-peptide has become an important indicator of remaining beta cell function. Following the onset of diabetes it has long been appreciated that C-peptide secretion progressively declines, until for most patients with type 1 diabetes C-peptide becomes non-detectable, associated with true insulin dependence. In a similar manner, first phase insulin secretion following a bolus of glucose on intravenous glucose tolerance testing is progressively lost for relatives followed to the development of type 1 diabetes(99). Such metabolic abnormalities may result in part from functional inhibition of beta cell secretion, but pathologic studies indicate that beta cell mass is normal for identical twins of patients that have not activated anti-islet autoimmunity, and for new onset patients that bulk of beta cells are destroyed(100). Within the pancreas of a patient with type 1 diabetes there is heterogeneity of islet lesions, with most islets lacking all beta cells and with no lymphocytic infiltrates (pseudoatrophic islets), few normal islets with no infiltrates, and few islets with remaining beta cells and infiltrates. This is perhaps analogous to the progressive development of vitiligo in patients, with patches of skin with all melanocytes destroyed, whereas other skin is normal.STAGE IV. LOSS OF INSULIN SECRETION Figure 13 Three hypotheses of progression to type 1A diabetes. Modified from teaching slides www.barbaradaviscenter.org STAGE V. OVERT DIABETES The development of type 1 diabetes is usually perceived as an abrupt event, and some individuals may rapidly manifest severe hyperglycemia. Now that we can follow individuals to the development of type 1A diabetes, we
