Pathogenesis of Type 1A Diabetes
KEYWORDS: diabetes, type, type diabetes, autoantibodies, insulin, risk, patients, journal, autoimmunity, children, figure, disease, anti-islet, cell, hla


diabetes is usually perceived as an abrupt event, and some individuals may rapidly manifest severe hyperglycemia. Now that we can follow individuals to the development of type 1A diabetes, we can see that anti-islet autoantibodies can precede hyperglycemia by years, and there is usually some deterioration in glucose tolerance more than one year prior to diabetes onset (particularly with intravenous glucose tolerance testing)(101). The majority of individuals identified to be diabetic following autoantibody testing are found to have a diabetic 2-hour glucose on oral glucose tolerance testing (>200mg/dl) rather than fasting hyperglycemia. The acute presentation with severe hyperglycemia and ketoacidosis is life threatening, and it is estimated that approximately 1/200 children die at the onset of type 1 diabetes(102,103). Such children typically have a medical history where the first health care providers have failed to make the diagnosis of diabetes; the child then presents again later and dies with cerebral edema. The classic symptoms of polyuria, polydipsia, and weight loss are usually present but the initial diagnosis is still missed. The alternative diagnosis of nausea and vomiting due to viral illness is the most common mistaken diagnosis, and with the ready availability of glucose determination from a finger or heel stick, there should be a low threshold in emergency rooms and physicians’ offices for ruling out diabetes. Though transient hyperglycemia can occur, such children obviously need close follow up. We usually arrange glucose monitoring for children thought to have transient hyperglycemia, and measure anti-islet autoantibodies(104). Of those with anti-islet autoantibodies and transient hyperglycemia, almost all progress to type 1 diabetes within several months.STAGE V. OVERT DIABETES A report by Barker and coworkers illustrates the potential importance of screening for anti-islet autoantibodies and monitoring high-risk children. Less than 5% of children in such intensive follow-up who developed diabetes were hospitalized with ketoacidosis compared to 40% of children not being screened. Figure 14 illustrates the blood glucose for the two groups at the time of diagnosis with markedly elevated levels in the non-screened children, including values greater than 1,000 mg/dl associated with severe metabolic decompensation(105). Figure 14 Glucose at diagnosis in children screened for anti-islet autoantibodies and metabolically monitored, versus children from the general population presenting with diabetes(105). Modified from teaching slides www.barbaradaviscenter.org of Type 1 Diabetes: Molecular, Cellular and Clinical Immunology. At the onset of type 1 diabetes, almost all individuals have residual insulin secretion, and there is convincing evidence that
