Pathogenesis of Type 1A Diabetes
KEYWORDS: diabetes, type, type diabetes, autoantibodies, insulin, risk, patients, journal, autoimmunity, children, figure, disease, anti-islet, cell, hla


www.barbaradaviscenter.org of Type 1 Diabetes: Molecular, Cellular and Clinical Immunology. At the onset of type 1 diabetes, almost all individuals have residual insulin secretion, and there is convincing evidence that residual insulin secretion as measured by C-peptide secretion is of clinical benefit (less hypoglycemia, less microvascular complications, and much easier diabetes management). With many immunologic therapies it is possible to prevent diabetes in animal models, and as reviewed, the disorder is predictable in humans. At present there is no proven therapy to either prevent progression to type 1 diabetes or to halt beta cell loss after presentation with diabetes. One arm of the DPT-1 prevention trial, where low doses of subcutaneous insulin were administered, did not delay progression to diabetes(106). The DPT-1 trial of oral insulin indicated that overall, oral insulin did not delay progression to diabetes. A subset analysis of antibody positive relatives entering the trial with elevated levels of insulin autoantibodies, however, suggests a delay in progression to diabetes of approximately 4 years. A repeat trial of oral insulin for diabetes prevention is underway by TrialNet(107). Several studies of anti-CD3 monoclonal antibody modified to reduce cytokine release have shown promise in patients with new onset and recent onset diabetes(108-111), but these monoclonal antibodies only transiently delay the loss of c-peptide secretion(112-114). Other therapies include anti-CD20 monoclonal antibody (rituximab targeted to B cells). Treatment with CTLA-4 Ig and alefacept (anti-CD2) similarly transiently delays the loss of c-peptide(115-117). In contrast, trials of a GAD/alum vaccine did not delay the loss of endogenous c-peptide production nor did therapies targeting the IL-1 pathway(118-120). It is our belief that more specific therapies targeting autoreactive immune cells such as recently reported by Roep and colleagues(121) used in combination will allow for disease prevention and potentially a cure of type 1 diabetes when done in conjunction with islet replacement .SUMMARY The National Institutes of Health has created a cooperative trial network to develop therapies to prevent beta cell loss in prediabetics and new onset patients, termed TrialNet. Relatives of type 1 patients throughout North America can be screened for diabetes risk, and trials are underway to preserve beta cell function in new onset patients. A contact number for TrialNet is 1-800-HALT-DM1. In addition, the Immune Tolerance Network is evaluating therapies in a series of disorders designed to restore "tolerance,” including type 1A diabetes. They are seeking applications to test innovative therapies at immunetolerance.org. Acknowledgments: Our
