braz j infect dis 2 0 1 9;2 3(5):368–370
KEYWORDS: mucormycosis, lung, gastrointestinal, transplantation, abdominal, transplant, fungal, lung transplantation, dis, case, patient, figure, infection, invasive, manifestations


braz j infect dis 2 0 1 9;2 3(5):368–370 www.elsevi The er.com/locate/bjid Brazilian Journal of INFECTIOUS DISEASES Letter to the editor Gastrointestinal mucormycosis post lung transplantation Abbreviations: CF, cystic fibrosis; GI, gastrointestinal; DIOS, dis- tal intestinal obstruction syndrome; LTx, lung transplantation; PGD, primary graft dysfunction; PO, post-operative; CT, com- puted tomography. Dear Editor: Lung transplantation has become the standard therapy for the treatment of eligible patients with terminal pulmonary dis- ease. The last record published by the International Society for Heart and Lung Transplantation – Registry Report of 2018 showed that 64,803 lung transplantations had been performed up to June 2017. The mortality in the first 30 days is high and multifactorial: infections, acute rejection, graft failure 1and abdominal complication.2 In patients with cystic fibrosis (CF), abdominal complica- tion are common in the immediate postoperative period.3 The most common early abdominal complication in these patients are distal intestinal obstruction syndrome (DIOS), gastroparesis, and Ogilve’s syndrome that may need surgical intervention.2 We describe a case of a cystic fibrosis patient who underwent bilateral lung transplantation with intermittent obstructive abdominal pain and distension. Post mortem diagnosis was intestinal invasive mucormycosis without pul- monary involvement.4 A 25 year-old woman, diagnosed with CF at seven months of age and exocrine pancreatic insufficiency was included in the waiting list for lung transplant. She had airway colo- nization by Staphylococcus aureus methicillin-resistant (MRSA), Pseudomonas aeruginosa and Achromobacter sp. No fungal col- onization was identified before the transplant; therefore no antifungal therapy was used. She underwent bilateral sequential lung transplantation (LTx) without cardiopulmonary bypass. Left lung ischemic time was 315 minutes and right lung 415 minutes. The donor was a 15 year-old man with a traumatic brain injury as cause of death, no comorbidities, six days on mechanical ventilation, PaO2/FiO2of 410 and no use of antibiotics. Cultures of donor’s bronchoalveolar lavage were all nega- tive. Recipient’s airway samples were also negative for cultures fungal and explanted lungs had no signs of fungal infection or colonization. Post-LTx antimicrobial prophylaxis consisted of inhaled amphotericin and tobramycin, cotrimoxazol, and ganci- clovir. Metilprednisolone and basiliximab were used as induction immunosuppression and maintenance was with cyclosporine, mycophenolate and prednisone. Patient also received teicoplanin and piperacillin-tazobactam according to pre-LTx bacterial colonization as well as fluconazole due to vulvovaginal candidiasis. She developed grade 3 primary lung graft dysfunction (PGD) and extubation was possible only on the 12thpost-operative (PO) day. The first abdominal manifes- tation
