braz j infect dis 2 0 1 9;2 3(5):368–370
KEYWORDS: mucormycosis, lung, gastrointestinal, transplantation, abdominal, transplant, fungal, lung transplantation, dis, case, patient, figure, infection, invasive, manifestations


as fluconazole due to vulvovaginal candidiasis. She developed grade 3 primary lung graft dysfunction (PGD) and extubation was possible only on the 12thpost-operative (PO) day. The first abdominal manifes- tation occurred on the 4thPO day with abdominal distension. Computed tomography (CT) of abdomen was performed and showed small bowel and colon distension only, no obstruction points were evidenced, cecum measuring 7 cm and free fluid in the cavity. On the 9th PO day, she had a new abdominal distention episode. GI surgeons diagnosed metabolic ileus or DIOS (Figure 1A) for this intermittent abdominal pain and distension. Fleet enema, prokinetics, laxatives (polyethylene glycol) and parenteral diet improved abdominal distension and patient was discharged from the intensive care unit on 26thPO day. A new episode of abdominal pain and distension hap- pened two days later. A new CT scan of the abdomen was performed (Figure 1B and 1C), showing hepatic abscess and increased densification of the colon and its surroundings. Patient rapidly developed renal dysfunction and metabolic acidosis. Anidulafungin substituted fluconazole and van- comycin plus meropenem were initiated on 31stPO day. Urgent exploratory laparotomy was performed, evidencing free fluid in the cavity, presence of right colon necrosis in the hepatic angle, liver and duodenal ischemia. Patient presented refrac- tory shock with no response to the therapeutic interventions and died on immediate postoperative period. The patient‘s family did not authorize necropsy but the pathology study of the laparotomy product showed: acute col- itis with extensive necrosis of the intestinal wall and invasive fungal infection with morphological aspect of Mucorales order: large hyphae, rare septations and irregular ramifications at b r a z j i n f e c t d i s . 2 0 1 9;2 3(5):368–370 369 Figure 1 – A. Abdomen CT showing colonic wall thickening, mural striation, mesenteric soft-tissue infiltration, increased pericolonic fat mimetizing distal intestinal obstruction syndrome. B. Abdomen CT showing hepatic abscess; C. Increased densification of the colon. D. Large hyphae, rare septations and irregular ramifications at right or acute angle, thin, irregular walls. E. Thrombosis (mycotic thrombi), vascular necrosis and subsequent infarction, and ischemic/hemorrhagic necrosis of affected tissues. F. Angioinvasion, with thrombosis (mycotic thrombi). (D H&E 100x; E H&E 40x; F H&E 40x). right or acute angle, thin, irregular walls (Figure 1D). Thrombo- sis (Figure 1E) and angioinvasion (Figure 1F), associated with discrete inflammatory tissue reaction. Lymphadenitis with numerous fungi in the subcapsular sinuses. Acute extensive
