braz j infect dis 2 0 1 9;2 3(5):368–370
KEYWORDS: mucormycosis, lung, gastrointestinal, transplantation, abdominal, transplant, fungal, lung transplantation, dis, case, patient, figure, infection, invasive, manifestations


angle, thin, irregular walls (Figure 1D). Thrombo- sis (Figure 1E) and angioinvasion (Figure 1F), associated with discrete inflammatory tissue reaction. Lymphadenitis with numerous fungi in the subcapsular sinuses. Acute extensive ulcerated ileitis and fungal infection. Liver necrosis with dif- fuse fungal infiltration. This case is emblematic because the post-LTx period has many common but misleading events: primary graft dysfunc- tion, antibiotics, immunosuppressive therapy, and abdominal manifestations misdiagnosed due to the underlying lung dis- ease. The patient presented an intermittent abdominal pain and distension that the LTx team thought about innumerous hypotheses, including DIOS. Ischemic bowel disease is one of the differential diagnosis and may be due to invasive fungal infection such as mucormycosis The gastrointestinal manifestations in CF patients include pancreatic insufficiency, DIOS and biliary tract complications, which can lead to cirrhosis and hepatic failure.3,5 Gastroin- testinal mucormycosis in immunocompromised hosts 6also (68%), gastrointestinal bleeding (48%), fever (19%), change in bowel habits (10%). Furthermore, only 25% of all GI mucormy- cosis have bowel involvement alone among solid organ transplant recipients. There are only few case reports and most of then confirmed only at autopsy, just like our case.4 Gastrointestinal mucormycosis is a rare condition after solid organ transplantation. Herein we report a case of invasive fun- gal infection in small bowel and liver without coinfection with other fungi and no evidence of explanted lung The infection.7 diagnosis of gastrointestinal mucormycosis is delayed because of its nonspecific presentation and requires a high degree of suspicion, leading to early biopsy. In most cases, with negative fungal culture, histopathologic sample is enough to establish the fungal invasive diagnosis.8,9 However, histopathologic examination is suggestive, but not confirmatory, as the morphology of fungi in tissue may be difficult to interpret.9Presence of a thick, non-septate hypha branching at right angle on histopathological examination is specific for mucormycosis. Molecular techniques can be used to confirm the diagnosis, although there are no standardized molecular tests currently available. Galactomannan and (cid:2)-D- glucan test do not detect antigen components of Mucorales cell wall.10 Mucormycosis has emerged as an important fungal infec- tion with high associated mortality rates. Although any organ system may be affected, the most common reported sites of invasive mucormycosis are paranasal sinuses (39%), lungs (24%), and skin (19%). Mucormycosis restricted to the gas- trointestinal tract is uncommon and accounts for only 7% of cases.11 Mucormycosis confined to gastrointestinal tissue accounts for only 4%–7% of all documented cases.12
