NLM Citation: LiverTox: Clinical and Research Information on Drug-
KEYWORDS: asenapine, placebo, pubmed pmid, pmid, pubmed, elevations, schizophrenia, alt, patients, weight, hepatotoxicity, mention, alt elevations, liver, disorder


Induced Liver Injury [Internet]. Bethesda (MD): National Institute of Diabetes and Digestive and Kidney Diseases; 2012-. Asenapine. [Updated 2023 Jun 5]. Bookshelf URL: Asenapine Updated: June 5, 2023. OVERVIEW Introduction Asenapine is a second generation (atypical) antipsychotic agent that is taken sublingually and used in the treatment of schizophrenia and manic or mixed episodes associated with bipolar 1 disorder. Asenapine is associated with a low rate of transient and mild serum aminotransferase elevations during therapy but has not been linked to instances of clinically apparent acute liver injury. Background Asenapine (a sen' a peen) is a second generation antipsychotic agent which appears to act as a dopamine type 2 (D2) and serotonin (5-HT)-2A receptor antagonist. It is a somewhat unique antipsychotic agent that has a tetracyclic structure similar to that of mirtazapine, and it is administered as a sublingual tablet, being poorly absorbed by the oral route. Several randomized controlled trials have shown that sublingual asenapine improves symptoms of schizophrenia with effects comparable to risperidone and olanzapine. It also has beneficial activity in acute manic and mixed episodes associated with bipolar 1 disorder. Asenapine was approved for use in the United States in 2009 and is available in sublingual tablets of 2.5, 5 and 10 mg generically and under the brand name Saphris. The typical maintenance dose in adults is 2.5 to 10 mg twice daily. Asenapine is also available for treatment of schizophrenia as a transdermal formulation available in doses of 3.8, 5.7 and 7.6 mg per 24 hours under the brand name Secuado. The recommended initial dose of the transdermal patch is 3.8/24 hours, which can be increased to 5.7/24 hours and 7.6 mg/24 hours based upon effect and tolerance. Common side effects of asenapine include dizziness, somnolence, fatigue, nausea, anxiety, restlessness (akathisia) and weight gain. Rare, but potentially severe adverse reactions (mentioned in most antipsychotic and antidepressant product labels) include tardive dyskinesia, major neurologic events, neuroleptic malignant syndrome, orthostatic hypotension, seizures, neutropenia, hypersensitivity reactions, prolongation of the QTc interval, increased cerebrovascular events, and suicidal ideation or behavior. Asenapine also has a boxed warning of increased mortality in elderly patients with dementia-related psychosis. Hepatotoxicity Liver test abnormalities occur in 1% to 2.5% of patients receiving asenapine, but similar rates are reported with placebo therapy (0.6% to 1.3%) and with comparator agents. The ALT elevations are usually mild, transient and often resolve even without dose modification or drug discontinuation.
