NLM Citation: LiverTox: Clinical and Research Information on Drug-
KEYWORDS: asenapine, placebo, pubmed pmid, pmid, pubmed, elevations, schizophrenia, alt, patients, weight, hepatotoxicity, mention, alt elevations, liver, disorder


rates are reported with placebo therapy (0.6% to 1.3%) and with comparator agents. The ALT elevations are usually mild, transient and often resolve even without dose modification or drug discontinuation. There has been a single case report of cholestatic serum enzyme elevations arising 3 to 4 weeks after starting asenapine, resolving within a month of stopping. Thus, asenapine may be a rare cause of mild cholestatic liver injury. Likelihood score: D (possible rare cause of clinically apparent liver injury). 2 LiverTox Mechanism of Injury The mechanism by which asenapine might cause serum enzyme elevations or liver injury is not known. Asenapine is metabolized to some extent by the cytochrome P450 system (CYP 2D6 and 3A4), but is an uncommon cause of significant drug-drug interactions with agents that inhibit or induce these microsomal enzymes. Outcome and Management The serum aminotransferase elevations that occur with asenapine therapy are usually self-limited and often do not require dose modification or discontinuation. No instances of acute liver failure, chronic hepatitis or vanishing bile duct syndrome have been attributed to asenapine. Cross sensitivity to liver related or other hypersensitivity reactions between asenapine and other antipsychotic agents have not been demonstrated. Drug Class: Antipsychotic Agents, Atypicals PRODUCT INFORMATION REPRESENTATIVE TRADE NAMES Asenapine – Saphris®, Secuado® DRUG CLASS Antipsychotic Agents COMPLETE LABELING Product labeling at DailyMed, National Library of Medicine, NIH CHEMICAL FORMULA AND STRUCTURE DRUG CAS REGISTRY NUMBER MOLECULAR FORMULA STRUCTURE Asenapine 65576-45-6 C17-H16-Cl-N-O Asenapine 3 ANNOTATED BIBLIOGRAPHY References updated: 05 June 2023 Meyer JM. Pharmacotherapy of psychosis and mania. In, Brunton LL, Hilal-Dandan R, Knollman BC, eds. Goodman & Gilman's the pharmacological basis of therapeutics. 13th ed. New York: McGraw-Hill, 2018, pp. 279-302. (Textbook of pharmacology and therapeutics). Larry D. Hepatotoxicity of psychotropic drugs and drugs of abuse. In, Kaplowitz N, DeLeve LD, eds. Drug- induced liver disease. 2nd ed. New York: Informa Healthcare USA, 2007, pp. 507-26. (Review of hepatotoxicity of psychiatric agents, does not discuss asenapine). Potkin SG, Cohen M, Panagides J. Efficacy and tolerability of asenapine in acute schizophrenia: a placebo- and risperidone-controlled trial. J Clin Psychiatry. 2007;68:1492–500. PubMed PMID: 17960962. (Among 174 patients with acute schizophrenia treated with sublingual asenapine [5 mg] or risperidone [3 mg] or placebo twice daily for 6 weeks, symptom scores improved more with asenapine and risperidone than with placebo, although adverse event rates were similar; no mention of ALT elevations or hepatotoxicity). Parsons B, Allison DB, Loebel
