Journal of Visualized Experiments www.jove.com
KEYWORDS: culture, colon, antimicrobial, organ, organ culture, il-, cells, cell, intestinal, coli, pieces, responses, colon organ, vivo, defense


Journal of Visualized Experiments www.jove.com Video Article The Ex Vivo Colon Organ Culture and Its Use in Antimicrobial Host Defense Studies S. M. Nashir Udden1, Sumyya Waliullah1, Melanie Harris1, Hasan Zaki1 Correspondence to: Hasan Zaki at URL: DOI: doi: Keywords: Immunology, Issue 120, Colon organ culture, Bacterial killing assay, Antimicrobial peptides, E. coli, Inflammasomes, Intestine, Antimicrobial host defense, Ex vivo organ culture Date Published: [DATE] Citation: Udden, S.M., Waliullah, S., Harris, M., Zaki, H. The Ex Vivo Colon Organ Culture and Its Use in Antimicrobial Host Defense Studies. J. Vis. Exp. (120), e55347, doi: (2017). Abstract The intestine displays an architecture of repetitive crypt structures consisting of different types of epithelial cells, lamina propia containing immune cells, and stroma. All of these heterogeneous cells contribute to intestinal homeostasis and participate in antimicrobial host defense. Therefore, identifying a surrogate model for studying immune response and antimicrobial activity of the intestine in an in vitro setting is extremely challenging. In vitro studies using immortalized intestinal epithelial cell lines or even primary crypt organoid culture do not represent the exact physiology of normal intestine and its microenvironment. Here, we discuss a method of culturing mouse colon tissue in a culture dish and how this ex vivo organ culture system can be implemented in studies related to antimicrobial host defense responses. In representative experiments, we showed that colons in organ culture express antimicrobial peptides in response to exogenous IL-1β and IL-18. Further, the antimicrobial effector molecules produced by the colon tissues in the organ culture efficiently kill Escherichia coli in vitro. This approach, therefore, can be utilized to dissect the role of pathogen- and danger-associated molecular patterns and their cellular receptors in regulating intestinal innate immune responses and antimicrobial host defense responses. Video Link The video component of this article can be found at Introduction The intestine represents a dynamic system that acts as a barrier for commensal microorganisms, fights against invading pathogens, and regulates the microbial composition1. The intestinal epithelial cells, consisting of enterocytes, goblet cells, Paneth cells and enteroendocrine cells, are the major cell populations that provide host defense responses against intestinal microbiota. The goblet cells produce mucins that create a demilitarized zone on the top of the epithelial layer2. The Paneth cells and enterocytes produce antimicrobial peptides, cytokines, and reactive oxygen and nitrogen species that constitute antimicrobial host defense responses and contribute to shaping the intestinal microbial composition3,4. In addition to
