Journal of Visualized Experiments www.jove.com
KEYWORDS: culture, colon, antimicrobial, organ, organ culture, il-, cells, cell, intestinal, coli, pieces, responses, colon organ, vivo, defense


cells and enterocytes produce antimicrobial peptides, cytokines, and reactive oxygen and nitrogen species that constitute antimicrobial host defense responses and contribute to shaping the intestinal microbial composition3,4. In addition to epithelial cells, the immune cells including macrophages, dendritic cells, neutrophils, natural killer cells, lymphocytes, and innate lymphoid cells in the lamina propria and submucosa play a critical role in intestinal antimicrobial host defense responses by producing cytokines, chemokines, and other mediators5-7. In order to understand how the mucosal immune system regulates microbiota and provides protection against microbial infection, it is important to consider the complex interaction of the heterogeneous cell populations of the gut. However, an in vitro model that encompasses all of the features of the intestine is not available. Therefore, molecular studies on host-pathogen interaction in the intestine are highly challenging. Over the past few years, several model systems that mimic aspects of the intestinal mucosa have been developed for investigating the pathophysiological processes involved in inflammatory bowel diseases (IBD) and other gastrointestinal disorders8-14. Immortalized intestinal epithelial cell lines are often used to study epithelial cell specific responses. However, because of differential gene expression and function in culture has recently emerged as a potential tool for assessing the response of the intestinal epithelium to different stimuli13. In this system, crypt stem cells are allowed to grow and develop a 3D organoid structure. While the organoid culture system is very useful for studying many aspects of the intestinal epithelium, it does not mimic the complex interaction of immune cells, epithelial cells and microbial products. The ex vivo culture of the intestinal tissue offers a better representation of in vivo host defense responses. In this method, a part of the intestine is cultured in a cell culture plate with appropriate media allowing the different types of cell populations in the intestine to be metabolically active for at least 48 h. Thus, an ex vivo culture of the organ can be used to measure the expression of antimicrobial genes and the host defense responses of the intestine to a particular stimulus. Investigators have been using the ex vivo organ culture system to study host defense responses against microbial infection in the intestine15-21. We recently adopted the organ culture system to study the role of the inflammasome in antimicrobial host defense responses in mouse colons22. The inflammasome is a molecular platform for the activation of caspase-1, which is required for the production
