Journal of Visualized Experiments www.jove.com
KEYWORDS: culture, colon, antimicrobial, organ, organ culture, il-, cells, cell, intestinal, coli, pieces, responses, colon organ, vivo, defense


the role of the inflammasome in antimicrobial host defense responses in mouse colons22. The inflammasome is a molecular platform for the activation of caspase-1, which is required for the production of matured IL-1β and IL-18. We showed that IL-1β and IL-18 induce antimicrobial peptides which effectively kill commensal pathobionts such as E. coli. This observation Journal of Visualized Experiments www.jove.com was consistent with increased E. coli burden in inflammasome-defective mouse colons22. This system therefore can be used to study the role of pattern recognition receptors (PRRs) and other innate immune molecules in intestinal antimicrobial host defense responses as well as pathogenesis of intestinal disorders such as inflammatory bowel disease (IBD) and colorectal cancer (CRC). There are more than 200 IBD susceptibility genes, and mutations in many of these genes are associated with altered microbial composition in the gut. It is of great clinical significance to determine the precise mechanism through which the IBD-susceptibility genes regulate gut microbiota. The overall goal of this method is to introduce a basic protocol of ex vivo colon organ culture and demonstrate how this culture method can be used to study antimicrobial host defense responses of the intestine. Protocol All experiments described here were performed using 6-8 weeks old male wild-type (C57BL6/J) mice maintained in a specific pathogen free and Use Committee (IACUC) and were conducted in accordance with the IACUC guidelines and the National Institutes of Health Guide for the Care and Use of Laboratory Animals. 1. Collection and Preparation of the Colon 1. Euthanize mice with CO asphyxiation followed by cervical dislocation. 2. Spray mice with 70% ethanol and pin limbs to a pinning board keeping the mouse dorsal side down on the board. 3. Using pre-sterilized dissecting scissors and forceps, make a mid-line incision in the peritoneum of the abdomen. Open the abdomen by folding the peritoneum with forceps. 4. Remove the intestine from the abdominal cavity with dissecting forceps and scissors. Separate the colon from the small intestine by cutting at the bottom of the cecum and the other end at the rectum. 5. Place the colon in a sterile petri dish containing ice-cold PBS. Flush the contents of the lumen of the colon with ice-cold PBS using a 20 mL syringe holding a 20 G needle or an oral gavage needle until the stool within the lumen of the colon is completely removed. 6. Cut the colon with scissors longitudinally.
