Journal of Visualized Experiments www.jove.com
KEYWORDS: culture, colon, antimicrobial, organ, organ culture, il-, cells, cell, intestinal, coli, pieces, responses, colon organ, vivo, defense


tissues and ex vivo stimulation with IL-1β and IL-18. The colon from one mouse is longitudinally dissected into three parts. Each part was cut into small pieces and weighed. The colon pieces from each section of the colon are transferred onto cell strainers placed on wells of a 6-well plate containing 2 ml DMEM/F12 medium plus 5% FBS and antibiotics. Following a 2 h incubation, colon pieces from a single cell strainer are transferred into a single well of a 12-well cell culture plate. DMEM/F12 plus 5% FBS (no antibiotics) is added into each well and the volume of the medium is adjusted according to the weight of the tissue (1 mL media for 100 mg tissue). Colon tissues are stimulated with IL-1β (20 ng/ml) and IL-18 (20 ng/ml) for 12 h. Culture supernatants are centrifuged and used for E. coli killing assay and/or other immune assays. The colon tissues are collected into commercial trypsin reagent for figure. Journal of Visualized Experiments www.jove.com Figure 3: Mouse colon tissues express cytokines and antimicrobial peptides in response to IL-1β or IL-18 during ex vivo culture. Colon organ cultures were stimulated with IL-1β (20 ng/ml) or IL-18 (20 ng/ml) for 12 h. The expression of BD2, Reg3γ, S100a8, S100a9, and iNOS figure. Journal of Visualized Experiments www.jove.com Figure 4: Supernatant of mouse colon organ culture exhibits bactericidal activity. Colon pieces were cultured ex vivo in the presence or absence of IL-1β (20 ng/mL) or IL-18 (20 ng/mL) for 12 h. 500 µl of the culture supernatants were incubated with E. coli (1,000 cfu) for 1 hr at 37 °C. Colon organ culture supernatant without E. coli was also incubated as a control. Following 1 h incubation, 50 µL of each sample was placed dropwise on MacConkey agar plates and incubated at 37 °C overnight. (A) Picture of E. coli colonies on MacConkey agar showing antimicrobial activity of colon organ culture. (B) E. coli count showing killing efficiency of IL-1β- and IL-18-treated colon organ culture supernatant. (C) Picture of MacConkey agar plate showing no bacterial growth in colon organ culture incubated without E. coli. (D) No E. coli colonies were identified in colon organ culture incubated without E. coli, indicating the absence of any contaminating bacteria in the sample. Data represent means ± SD; Discussion The intestinal epithelial cells are very sensitive in terms of their growth requirements and therefore difficult to culture. The
