Journal of Visualized Experiments www.jove.com
KEYWORDS: culture, colon, antimicrobial, organ, organ culture, il-, cells, cell, intestinal, coli, pieces, responses, colon organ, vivo, defense


contaminating bacteria in the sample. Data represent means ± SD; Discussion The intestinal epithelial cells are very sensitive in terms of their growth requirements and therefore difficult to culture. The epithelial cells isolated crypt or primary epithelial cells are very challenging. Recently, Sato et al. described a crypt organoid culture system which is very promising and useful for studies related to intestinal pathophysiology13. While organoids represent many features of intestinal crypt, there are concerns as to whether the immune responses of the organoid cells, which are being grown in a sterile environment, recapitulate the responses of intestinal epithelial cells in vivo. The precise techniques required for isolation and culture of epithelial stem cells and requirement of expensive reagents for the culture of organoids prevent many laboratories from taking advantage of this system. While the use of ex vivo organ culture is not an alternative to organoid culture, this system offers an easy and inexpensive method to study the antimicrobial responses of intestinal epithelium. The major advantage of this technique is that the tissue architecture of the intestine is maintained while culturing in the dishes. We observed that the colon tissues are physiologically active for at least 24 h after their culture. During the culture of the colon, the colonic epithelial cells respond to exogenous stimuli as measured by expression of cytokines and antimicrobial peptides. The viability of the epithelial cells of the intact tissue can be further enhanced by the addition of appropriate growth factors and inhibitors of cell death in the culture medium. Previous reports suggest that the normal human colonic tissue organ could be maintained ex vivo for several days8,23,24. The protocol for the ex vivo culture of mouse colonic organ may have many applications in studies related to antimicrobial immune responses of the intestinal epithelium. The pathogens and their PAMPs are recognized by PRRs such as Toll-like receptors (TLRs) and NOD-like receptors (NLRs) present in epithelial and immune cells. Defective expression and function of many TLRs and NLRs are associated with susceptibility to niche, the ex vivo colon organ culture is a very useful experimental tool. Using this system, we can examine the effect of various PAMPs or stimuli on the induction of antimicrobial effector molecules in the intestinal epithelial cells. In the representative experiment, we showed that cytokines like IL-1β and IL-18 trigger the expression of antimicrobial peptides (Figure 3). We also show here that antimicrobial
