Journal of Visualized Experiments www.jove.com
KEYWORDS: culture, colon, antimicrobial, organ, organ culture, il-, cells, cell, intestinal, coli, pieces, responses, colon organ, vivo, defense


the intestinal epithelial cells. In the representative experiment, we showed that cytokines like IL-1β and IL-18 trigger the expression of antimicrobial peptides (Figure 3). We also show here that antimicrobial peptides Journal of Visualized Experiments www.jove.com produced by colon tissue can effectively kill E. coli (Figure 4). These techniques can be applied to test the influence of lipopolysaccharide (LPS), peptidoglycan (PGN), muramyldipeptide (MDP), and other PAMPs in antimicrobial host defense responses in the gut. We have slightly modified the colon organ culture protocol as described previously12,16,20,25. We cultured the colon in two phases. At first, we incubated the colon tissue in antibiotics containing medium for 2 h. We then removed the antibiotics with repeated washing of the colon pieces followed by incubation with antibiotics free media. Thus, the culture supernatant obtained from overnight culture of the colon exhibits only the effect of secreted antimicrobial peptides when incubated with E. coli. This approach can be utilized to see the bactericidal effect of colon or intestine derived antimicrobial peptides on any bacteria of interest. An appropriate selective agar media should be used to culture the bacteria. grow and proliferate and therefore cannot be expanded. Second, intestinal epithelial cells are very sensitive and they die relatively quickly without additional growth factors and apoptosis inhibitors, which are used for crypt organoid culture. Third, the immune response observed from the organ culture is a collective response of different kinds of cell populations. Therefore, the role of individual cell type in the expression of antimicrobial and effector genes cannot be assessed. Additionally, unlike in cell lines and organoid culture, the expression of antimicrobial peptides and other effector molecules in the colons may vary from mouse to mouse of same genetic background. In summary, we describe here a simple protocol for ex vivo colonic organ culture that is very useful for studying intestinal antimicrobial immune responses. This approach can be employed to test the role of diverse innate immune genes in the expression of antimicrobial peptides by antimicrobial responses of IBD patients by conducting organ culture of colonic biopsy samples. Disclosures The authors have no competing financial interests. Acknowledgements
