Hypertension in adults
KEYWORDS: hypertension, pressure, blood, adults, blood pressure, quality, statement, diagnosis, measured, cardiovascular, risk, disease, quality statement, target, cardiovascular disease


Quality statements Statement 1 Adults with suspected hypertension have ambulatory blood pressure monitoring (ABPM) or home blood pressure monitoring (HBPM) to confirm a diagnosis of hypertension. Statement 2 Adults with newly diagnosed hypertension receive investigations for target organ damage within 1 month of diagnosis. Statement 3 This statement has been replaced by quality statements on primary and secondary prevention of cardiovascular disease in NICE's quality standard for cardiovascular disease risk assessment and lipid modification. Statement 4 Adults with hypertension have a blood pressure target set that is appropriate for their age and whether blood pressure is measured in clinic or by ambulatory or home monitoring Statement 5 Adults with hypertension have an annual review of risk factors for cardiovascular disease. Statement 6 Adults with resistant hypertension who are receiving 4 antihypertensive drugs and whose blood pressure remains uncontrolled are referred for specialist assessment. Quality statement 1: Diagnosis – ambulatory blood pressure monitoring Quality statement Adults with suspected hypertension have ambulatory blood pressure monitoring (ABPM) or home blood pressure monitoring (HBPM) to confirm a diagnosis of hypertension. Rationale ABPM is the most accurate method for confirming a diagnosis of hypertension, and its use should reduce unnecessary treatment in adults who do not have true hypertension. ABPM has also been shown to be superior to other methods of multiple blood pressure measurement for predicting blood pressure-related clinical events. HBPM may be used if ABPM is unsuitable or the person is unable to tolerate ABPM, for example, for adults with particular learning or physical disabilities. Quality measures The following measures can be used to assess the quality of care or service provision specified in the statement. They are examples of how the statement can be measured, and can be adapted and used flexibly. Process Proportion of adults with a new diagnosis of hypertension whose diagnosis has been confirmed by ABPM or HBPM. Numerator – the number of adults in the denominator whose diagnosis has been confirmed by ABPM or HBPM. Denominator – the number of adults with a new diagnosis of hypertension. Data source: Data can be collected from information recorded on GP systems. What the quality statement means for different audiences Service providers (such as general practices and community pharmacies) ensure that systems are in place to offer ABPM and HBPM to confirm a diagnosis of hypertension. Healthcare professionals (such as GPs, practice nurses or community pharmacists) offer ABPM or HBPM to
