Hypertension in adults
KEYWORDS: hypertension, pressure, blood, adults, blood pressure, quality, statement, diagnosis, measured, cardiovascular, risk, disease, quality statement, target, cardiovascular disease


systems are in place to offer ABPM and HBPM to confirm a diagnosis of hypertension. Healthcare professionals (such as GPs, practice nurses or community pharmacists) offer ABPM or HBPM to confirm a diagnosis of hypertension. Commissioners ensure that they commission services that offer ABPM and HBPM to confirm a diagnosis of hypertension. Adults with suspected hypertension (high blood pressure) have ambulatory blood pressure monitoring (which involves wearing a blood pressure monitor during their normal waking hours) or home blood pressure monitoring to confirm whether they have hypertension. Source guidance Hypertension in adults: diagnosis and management. NICE guideline NG136 (2019, updated 2023), recommendations 1.2.3 and 1.2.4 Definitions of terms used in this quality statement Suspected hypertension Clinic blood pressure between 140/90 mmHg and 180/120 mmHg without a confirmed diagnosis of hypertension. [NICE's guideline on hypertension in adults, recommendation 1.2.3] Ambulatory blood pressure monitoring (ABPM) ABPM involves a cuff and bladder connected to electronic sensors that detect changes in cuff pressure and allow blood pressure to be measured oscillometrically. Systolic and diastolic pressure readings are deduced from the shape of oscillometric pressure changes using an algorithm built into the measuring device. A patient's blood pressure can be automatically measured at repeated intervals throughout the day and night while they continue routine activities. Systolic and diastolic pressure can be plotted over time, with most devices providing average day, night and 24-hour pressures. NICE recommends recording a daytime average to confirm diagnosis. [NICE's 2011 full guideline on hypertension in adults, section 5.7.3] Home blood pressure monitoring (HBPM) HBPM devices are oscillometric and measure blood pressure on the upper arm, the wrist or the finger. Home monitoring potentially offers some similar benefits to ABPM. Frequent measurement produces average values that may be more reproducible and reliable than traditional clinic measurement. To confirm a diagnosis of hypertension, blood pressure should be measured twice daily, ideally in the morning and evening and continued for at least 4 days, ideally 7 days. For each blood pressure recording, 2 consecutive measures should be taken at least 1 minute apart when seated. [NICE's 2011 full guideline on hypertension in adults, section 5.7.3, and NICE's guideline on hypertension in adults, recommendation 1.2.7] Quality statement 2: Investigations for target organ damage Quality statement Adults with newly diagnosed hypertension receive investigations for target organ damage within 1 month of diagnosis. Rationale Assessment of target organ damage can alert the clinician to possible secondary
