Hypertension in adults
KEYWORDS: hypertension, pressure, blood, adults, blood pressure, quality, statement, diagnosis, measured, cardiovascular, risk, disease, quality statement, target, cardiovascular disease


test for haematuria using a reagent strip • take a blood sample to measure glycated haemoglobin, electrolytes, creatinine, estimated glomerular filtration rate, serum total cholesterol and high-density lipoprotein cholesterol • examine the fundi for the presence of hypertensive retinopathy • arrange for a 12-lead electrocardiograph to be performed. [NICE's guideline on hypertension in adults, recommendation 1.3.3] Target organ damage Damage to organs such as the heart, brain, kidneys and eyes. Examples are left ventricular hypertrophy, chronic kidney disease, hypertensive retinopathy or increased urine albumin:creatinine ratio. [NICE's guideline on hypertension in adults, terms used in this guideline] Quality statement 3: Statin therapy Quality statement 3 has been replaced by quality statements on primary and secondary prevention of cardiovascular disease in NICE's quality standard for cardiovascular risk assessment and lipid modification. Quality statement 4: Blood pressure targets Quality statement Adults with hypertension have a blood pressure target set that is appropriate for their age and whether blood pressure is measured in clinic or by ambulatory or home monitoring. Rationale Hypertension is associated with a higher risk of cardiovascular events. Setting blood pressure to recommended levels aims to promote primary and secondary prevention of cardiovascular disease, and to lower the risk of cardiovascular events. The target depends on the person's age (aged under 80 or 80 and over) and whether blood pressure is measured in a clinic setting or by ambulatory blood pressure monitoring (ABPM) or home blood pressure monitoring (HBPM). Quality measures The following measures can be used to assess the quality of care or service provision specified in the statement. They are examples of how the statement can be measured, and can be adapted and used flexibly. Outcome a) The proportion of adults aged under 80 years with hypertension who have a blood pressure below 140/90 mmHg, or below 135/85 mmHg if measured using ABPM or HBPM. Numerator – the number of adults in the denominator who have a blood pressure below 140/90 mmHg, or below 135/85 mmHg if measured using ABPM or HBPM. Denominator – the number of adults aged under 80 years with hypertension. Data source:Quality and Outcomes Framework indicator HYP008 reports the percentage of patients aged 79 years or under with hypertension in whom the last blood pressure reading (measured in the preceding 12 months) is 140/90 mmHg or less (or equivalent home blood pressure reading). CVD Prevent indicator CVDP002HYP reports the percentage of patients aged 18 to
