Hypertension in adults
KEYWORDS: hypertension, pressure, blood, adults, blood pressure, quality, statement, diagnosis, measured, cardiovascular, risk, disease, quality statement, target, cardiovascular disease


is measured in their GP practice or clinic or by ambulatory or home monitoring. Source guidance Hypertension in adults: diagnosis and management. NICE guideline NG136 (2019, updated 2023), recommendations 1.4.20 to 1.4.22 Equality and diversity considerations Targets are based on evidence of safe practice. An adult aged 80 years or over with diagnosed hypertension would not have a target clinic blood pressure of 150/90 mmHg if their blood pressure was already treated to below this threshold. Healthcare professionals should use clinical judgement when agreeing blood pressure targets with adults with frailty or multimorbidity. Quality statement 5: Review of cardiovascular disease risk factors Quality statement Adults with hypertension have an annual review of risk factors for cardiovascular disease. Rationale Adult's blood pressure and cardiovascular disease risk increases over time. A review of risk factors for cardiovascular disease delivered as part of an annual review of care should support identification of increased risk and provide an opportunity to address modifiable risk factors. Quality measures The following measures can be used to assess the quality of care or service provision specified in the statement. They are examples of how the statement can be measured, and can be adapted and used flexibly. Process Proportion of adults who have had hypertension for 12 months or longer who have had a review of risk factors for cardiovascular disease within the past 12 months. Numerator – the number of adults in the denominator who have had a review of risk factors for cardiovascular disease within the past 12 months. Denominator – the number of adults who have had hypertension for 12 months or longer who do not have established cardiovascular disease. Data source: Data can be collected from information recorded locally by healthcare professionals and provider organisations, for example, from patient records. CVD Prevent indicator CVD004HYP reports the percentage of patients aged 18 and over with GP- recorded hypertension who have had a blood pressure reading within the preceding 12 months. CVD Prevent indicator CVDP001SMOK reports the percentage of patients aged 18 and over with GP-recorded cardiovascular disease or risk factors (including hypertension) who are GP-recorded current smokers or have no smoking status recorded, whose notes record smoking status in the preceding 12 months. Quality and Outcomes Framework indicator SMOK002 reports the percentage of patients with hypertension whose notes record smoking status in the preceding 12 months. Quality and Outcomes Framework indicators no longer in QOF (INLIQ)
