Hypertension in adults
KEYWORDS: hypertension, pressure, blood, adults, blood pressure, quality, statement, diagnosis, measured, cardiovascular, risk, disease, quality statement, target, cardiovascular disease


Framework indicator SMOK002 reports the percentage of patients with hypertension whose notes record smoking status in the preceding 12 months. Quality and Outcomes Framework indicators no longer in QOF (INLIQ) indicator CVD-PP02 reports the percentage of patients diagnosed with hypertension (on or after 1 April 2009) who are given lifestyle advice in the preceding 12 months for smoking cessation, safe alcohol consumption and healthy diet. What the quality statement means for different audiences Service providers (such as general practices) ensure that systems are in place to offer adults with hypertension an annual review of risk factors for cardiovascular disease. Healthcare professionals (such as GPs and practice nurses) offer adults with hypertension an annual review of risk factors for cardiovascular disease. Commissioners ensure that they commission services that offer adults with hypertension an annual review of risk factors for cardiovascular disease. Adults with hypertension (high blood pressure) are offered a review of risk factors for cardiovascular disease each year. Source guidance Hypertension in adults: diagnosis and management. NICE guideline NG136 (2019, updated 2023), recommendation 1.4.24 Definitions of terms used in this quality statement Annual review An annual review to monitor blood pressure, provide adults with support and discuss their lifestyle, symptoms and medication. [NICE's guideline on hypertension in adults, recommendation 1.4.24] Review of risk factors for cardiovascular disease Review of risk factors for cardiovascular disease could include: • smoking status • alcohol consumption • blood pressure • body mass index or other measure of obesity • full lipid profile • diabetes status • renal function • transaminase level (alanine aminotransferase or aspartate aminotransferase) • thyroid-stimulating hormone in people with symptoms of underactive or overactive thyroid. [Adapted from NICE's guideline on cardiovascular disease: risk assessment and reduction, including lipid modification, recommendation 1.5.5] Quality statement 6: Referral to a specialist for adults with resistant hypertension Quality statement Adults with resistant hypertension who are receiving 4 antihypertensive drugs and whose blood pressure remains uncontrolled are referred for specialist assessment. Rationale Adults with resistant hypertension will usually be at high risk of cardiovascular disease. Specialist assessment and evaluation supports management of their condition. Quality measures The following measures can be used to assess the quality of care or service provision specified in the statement. They are examples of how the statement can be measured, and can be adapted and used flexibly. Process Proportion of adults with resistant hypertension who are receiving 4 antihypertensive drugs and
