Chapter 12: Genetics of Type 1 Diabetes
KEYWORDS: diabetes, type, type diabetes, risk, hla-, genes, genetic, loci, diabetes risk, hla, mhc, alleles, association, variants, disease


12–1 CHAPTER 12 GENETICS OF TYPE 1 DIABETES Stephen S. Rich, PhD, Henry Erlich, PhD, and Patrick Concannon, PhD Dr. Stephen S. Rich is Director of the Center for Public Health Genomics, University of Virginia, Charlottesville, VA. Dr. Henry Erlich is Senior Scientist at the Children’s Hospital Oakland Research Institute, Oakland, CA, and past Director of Human Genetics and Vice- President of Discovery Research, Roche Molecular Systems, Pleasanton, CA. Dr. Patrick Concannon is Director of the Genetics Institute, University of Florida, Gainesville, FL. Received in final form December 27, 2015. SUMMARY Type 1 diabetes is a complex disease that has both genetic and environmental determinants. Based on twin and family studies, the estimated contribution of genetic factors to type 1 diabetes risk is ~50%. Genes and their variants within the human major histocompat­ ibility complex (MHC), including the human leukocyte antigen (HLA) class I (HLA-A, -B, and -C) and class II (HLA-DR, -DQ, and -DP) loci, account for about one-half of the genetic risk of type 1 diabetes. Three amino acid positions in HLA-DQ and HLA-DR define ~90% of the variation in the MHC, with evidence of interactions between pairs of HLA haplotypes that affect antigen binding. Other major contribu­ tors to type 1 diabetes genetic risk have been identified through candidate gene and linkage studies and include variants in or near the INS, CTLA4, IL2RA, and PTPN22 genes. Genome-wide association approaches have revealed additional loci containing common vari­ ants with relatively small individual effects on type 1 diabetes risk. International efforts led by the Type 1 Diabetes Genetics Consortium and others have identified over 40 non-MHC loci and narrowed the likely candidate genes and variants substantially. The majority of non-MHC variants affect gene regulation rather than directly altering protein structure. Both analytic and molecular work are required to assess the functional significance of the variants in type 1 diabetes susceptibility genes in order to identify critical biologic pathways that could lead to novel interventions and therapeutics. INTRODUCTION The natural history of type 1 diabetes is based on precipitating events in an individual with genetic susceptibility. The evidence for genetic factors contributing to type 1 diabetes risk comes from twin and family studies that estimate the familial aggregation of the disease based on risk in relatives of an affected indi­ vidual. In monozygotic twins, who share 100% of their genes, when a member of the pair has type 1 diabetes,
