Chapter 12: Genetics of Type 1 Diabetes
KEYWORDS: diabetes, type, type diabetes, risk, hla-, genes, genetic, loci, diabetes risk, hla, mhc, alleles, association, variants, disease


disease based on risk in relatives of an affected indi­ vidual. In monozygotic twins, who share 100% of their genes, when a member of the pair has type 1 diabetes, the risk to the co-twin is ~50%, suggesting that both genetic and nongenetic factors contribute to risk (1). This concordance increases to 65% by age 60 years and 89% for auto­ antibody-positive pairs (2). Presence of high-risk genotypes of the human leukocyte antigen (HLA) loci (HLA-DR3, -DR4) in the major histocompatibility complex (MHC) (3) and the INS gene (4) are found in higher frequency in concordant pairs, suggesting a major impact of genetic factors and heterogeneity in concordance rates. The population risk is decreased to ~8% in dizy­ gotic twin pairs, similar to the risk observed for siblings, who also share 50% of their genes, but have a lesser extent of common environmental exposures than twins. In population studies, the estimated preva­ lence of type 1 diabetes in non-Hispanic whites is approximately 4 per 1,000; thus, the increased risk in siblings (8%) relative to the prevalence in the general population (4/1,000) is consistent with a major genetic contribution to type 1 diabetes risk (5,6). Type 1 diabetes is most common in non-Hispanic whites (i.e., populations of European ancestry); it also occurs in those of African, Hispanic, and Asian ancestry but at decreasing prevalence and inci­ dence. Despite extensive epidemiologic data on prevalence of type 1 diabetes in varied ethnic groups, there is a critical absence of data on risk to siblings in diverse populations, preventing estimation of genetic impact on type 1 diabetes risk in nonwhite populations. Although nearly one-half of type 1 diabetes in non-Hispanic white populations is diagnosed after age 20 years, there is a similar absence of information on the risk to siblings of adult- onset type 1 diabetes. This lack of data can be attributed to the concept that onset of diseases (e.g., type 1 diabetes) early in life is more likely to be “genetic” than when the disease has onset later in life. As a result, estimates of the impact of genetic factors on risk of type 1 diabetes in adults (of any population ancestry) are lacking. The genetic risk ratio in siblings (λS), defined by the ratio of the sibling risk to the population prevalence, is ~16 in type 1 diabetes of European ancestry (7), much higher than that in type 2 diabetes, for
