Chapter 12: Genetics of Type 1 Diabetes
KEYWORDS: diabetes, type, type diabetes, risk, hla-, genes, genetic, loci, diabetes risk, hla, mhc, alleles, association, variants, disease


affected offspring are “case” alleles, while those not transmitted are “control” alleles). The case-control approach was used to determine the frequency of the alleles in cases and controls, with a signif­ icant difference in frequency suggesting an association with type 1 diabetes for that genetic variant. As collection of large numbers of affected sibpair (ASP) families (for robust statistical power) was difficult, much of the genetic evaluation of genes contributing to type 1 diabetes employed a case-control design. The following sections expand on the evolution of the genetic technology and findings related to the genetic basis of type 1 diabetes. MAJOR HISTOCOMPATIBILITY COMPLEX AND TYPE 1 DIABETES RISK Early efforts (i.e., 1970s to 2000) to localize and identify genes that contribute to the occurrence of type 1 diabetes, as well as other autoimmune diseases, focused on genes involved in the immune response. Obvious candidates, in this regard, were genes encoding the highly polymorphic HLA molecules that play critical roles in the immunologic distinc­ tion between self and non-self, as well as in the presentation of antigens to the cellular immune system. In humans, the MHC is a gene-rich region on chro­ mosome 6p21.3 that includes genes encoding the HLA class I (HLA-A, -B, and -C) and class II (HLA-DR, -DQ, and -DP) molecules (Figure 12.1). The importance of the MHC in type 1 diabetes risk is likely through its role in the presentation of peptide antigens to T cells; genetic variation in this system could act centrally by interfering with the tolerance of lymphocytes during their maturation in the thymus, or peripherally by altering the repertoire of antigens presented. The immune response is centered on antigen presentation, in which foreign antigens are recognized by antigen-presenting cells (APCs), processed into peptides, complexed to the MHC, and presented on the cell surface, where they can potentially be recognized by T cells (Figure 12.2). As the T cell does not recognize “free” foreign peptides, the processing requires APCs and the action FIGURE 12.1. Human Leukocyte Antigen Major Histocompatibility Complex Genomic localization of the human major histocompatibility complex (MHC) on chromosome 6p21.3 and positions of the human leukocyte antigen (HLA) class I (HLA-A, -B, -C) and class II (HLA-DR, -DQ, -DP) loci are shown. SOURCE: Reference 44 Genetics of Type 1 Diabetes 12–3 FIGURE 12.2. Antigen Presentation and T Cell Activation Antigen is linked to APC via multiple mechanisms (step 1) followed by MHC
