Chapter 12: Genetics of Type 1 Diabetes
KEYWORDS: diabetes, type, type diabetes, risk, hla-, genes, genetic, loci, diabetes risk, hla, mhc, alleles, association, variants, disease


SOURCE: Reference 44 Genetics of Type 1 Diabetes 12–3 FIGURE 12.2. Antigen Presentation and T Cell Activation Antigen is linked to APC via multiple mechanisms (step 1) followed by MHC class II recognition, antigen processing (step 2), and presentation to T cells for removal (step 3). APC, antigen-presenting cell; MHC, major histocompatibility complex. SOURCE: Reference 45, copyright © 2012 Frontiers, reprinted with permission of a number of other genes, some also located in the HLA region, to complex the peptide with MHC. Thus, a critical aspect of protection is the ability of the MHC to provide a broad array of options to receive the foreign peptide, with these options defined by genetic variation. The genes in the MHC contain many alter­ native forms (many alleles) and thereby provide extensive variation in humans, perhaps the most variable in the human genome. This variation is critical, as the MHC controls a major part of the human immune response through the interac­ tions of its cell surface molecules with other molecules or peptides (both from itself and from external sources). The pres­ ence of many alleles in each of the HLA genes (class I and class II) makes it highly likely that any two individuals in a popula­ tion (except for monozygotic twins) have a different combination of MHC alleles. Most cells in the body can use MHC class I molecules to present foreign peptide to (CD8+) T cells and “act” as APCs. Typically, the APCs internalize the foreign peptide and display a fragment bound to an MHC class II molecule on the cell surface (Figure 12.2). The T cell will then recognize this complex and initiate T cell activation. This becomes critical as the focus of the MHC is on immune surveillance. Thus, while there can be relatively broad ability for the MHC to recognize a broad array of peptides, there can also be specificity as to which peptides are bound. The vari­ ation permits both a broad response to peptides with a few highly variable genes and also provides protection in a popu­ lation of individuals from a new foreign peptide due to extreme diversity. The initial report of a strong association of HLA with type 1 diabetes occurred in 1973 with alleles of the class I HLA-A (or, then, HL-A) locus (8). Many reports confirmed and extended the association of type 1 diabetes with antigens/alleles of the class I (HLA-A
