Chapter 12: Genetics of Type 1 Diabetes
KEYWORDS: diabetes, type, type diabetes, risk, hla-, genes, genetic, loci, diabetes risk, hla, mhc, alleles, association, variants, disease


with alleles of the class I HLA-A (or, then, HL-A) locus (8). Many reports confirmed and extended the association of type 1 diabetes with antigens/alleles of the class I (HLA-A and -B) and class II (HLA- DR, -DQ, and -DP) loci. Importantly, the structure of the MHC on 6p21.3 contains a cluster of HLA loci that are physically close (within 4 Mb, Figure 12.1) and, therefore, genetically correlated (in linkage disequilibrium, LD). The extent of the LD in the MHC spans the ~4 Mb interval and results in the transmission of HLA “haplotypes” from parent to child. As LD is the occurrence of some combinations of alleles at adjacent loci more (or less) often than expected from the frequencies of the individual alleles, groups of alleles on a chromosomal segment can be inherited as a unit, or as a haplotype. The human MHC exhibits strong LD and specific HLA haplotypes are associated with type 1 diabetes risk and provide a “fingerprint” of the transmission of disease-associated variation across populations. Although statistical methods can be used to construct HLA haplotypes from unrelated individuals, the most precise method for observation and estimation of haplotypic association comes from family studies. As noted above, family studies have been conducted in non-Hispanic white populations, with a high prevalence and typically restricted to those probands with onset of type 1 diabetes before age 16 years (but onset up to age 35 years in siblings). A common measure of association is the odds ratio (OR), an epidemiologic statistic that measures the relationship between an exposure (in this case, genotype or haplotype) and an outcome (type 1 diabetes). As the odds ratio is used to compare the relative odds of the outcome given the exposure, it can be interpreted as “risk” (OR >1), “protec­ tion” (OR <1), or neutral (OR 1). A family study of type 1 diabetes (9) demonstrated that the strongest class I associations with type 1 diabetes occurred with the HLA-B8 (OR 3.20) and HLA-B15 (OR 3.69) alleles and the class II associations with HLA-DR2 (OR 0.21), HLA-DR3 (OR 3.54), HLA-DR4 (OR 6.81), HLA-DR5 (OR 0.30), and HLA-DR7 (OR 0.24) alleles. Presence of the HLA-B8, -B15, -DR3, and -DR4 alleles increased type 1 diabetes risk, while the presence of HLA-DR2, -DR5, and -DR7 decreased type 1 diabetes risk. However, the haplotypes formed by HLA-B7-DR2 (OR 0.10) and HLA-B15-DR4 (OR 7.55) exhibited greater extremes of association
