Chapter 12: Genetics of Type 1 Diabetes
KEYWORDS: diabetes, type, type diabetes, risk, hla-, genes, genetic, loci, diabetes risk, hla, mhc, alleles, association, variants, disease


of the classical HLA sites and amino acid residues account for over 90% of the MHC-type 1 diabetes association. 12–6 DIABETES IN AMERICA, 3rd Edition NON-MAJOR HISTOCOMPATIBILITY COMPLEX RISK LOCI The fundamental process by which genetic variation is associated with type 1 diabetes risk is through assessing DNA sequence variation that differs in type 1 diabetes cases and controls or through co-segregation with type 1 diabetes in families. One such DNA variant occurs when a single nucleotide in the genome differs in a population with greater than 5% frequency. This variant is then termed a single nucleotide polymorphism (SNP). There are millions of SNPs throughout the human genome, roughly one SNP every 2,000 bases. LINKAGE MAPPING The primary focus of genome-wide linkage scans in type 1 diabetes was to identify regions of the genome that exhib­ ited a significant deviation of “sharing” (identity-by-descent, IBD) by sibling pairs from that expected for Mendelian segregation of chromosomes (e.g., 25% sharing two alleles IBD, 50% sharing one allele IBD, 25% sharing no alleles IBD). In type 1 diabetes, this process was typically performed on multiple affected siblings in a family, with a large number of families required to achieve robust statistical power given the expected size of risk in non-MHC genes (18,19). This strategy effectively addressed an under­ lying hypothesis of detecting a gene with variant alleles that have a large effect on risk of type 1 diabetes. Unlike the MHC, for which a sample of 100 ASP families could detect significant evidence of linkage, the estimated risks for other genes suggested a sample size of as many as 4,000 ASP families might be required. The Type 1 Diabetes Genetics Consortium (T1DGC) was created to assemble a collection of ASP families for the purpose of conducting genome-wide linkage scans for type 1 diabetes (20). Although the resolution of the linkage approach was limited to ~1 Mb regions, the first major analysis of 2,658 ASPs confirmed the contribution of the HLA region, insulin (INS) gene, and CTLA4 (18). With additional ASP family collection, analysis of 4,422 ASP families continued to identify the contribution of the MHC and the INS locus, but no compelling evidence for other susceptibility genes with similar large effects was observed (19). These results suggested that addi­ tional loci contributing as much as 50% of the genetic risk have smaller effects, may be common (allele frequency greater than 5%) in the
