Chapter 12: Genetics of Type 1 Diabetes
KEYWORDS: diabetes, type, type diabetes, risk, hla-, genes, genetic, loci, diabetes risk, hla, mhc, alleles, association, variants, disease


(19). These results suggested that addi­ tional loci contributing as much as 50% of the genetic risk have smaller effects, may be common (allele frequency greater than 5%) in the population or private (unique) to individual families, and require a different experimental approach for detection. GENOME-WIDE ASSOCIATION SCANS With the improved genomic coverage through SNP discovery from the International HapMap Project (21) and decreasing costs of genotyping, the use of genome-wide association scans (GWAS) with robust statistical power is feasible. The primary source of participants for GWAS is unrelated type 1 diabetes cases and controls, as the statistical method is association and not linkage. Through asso­ ciation, the SNP that exhibits a difference in frequency between cases and controls (type 1 diabetes-associated variant) is thought to be in LD with the “true” type 1 diabetes causal variant. However, family-based association analyses provide important complementary results because of their resistance to stratification bias, caused (for example) when genetic differ­ ences in cases and controls occur due to sampling from populations of different ancestry, and are unrelated to disease. The first GWAS publications in type 1 diabetes focused on nonsynonymous SNPs (those that change the amino acid sequence of protein), with the assump­ tion that variants resulting in an amino acid change would increase the likeli­ hood of detecting a functional change associated with type 1 diabetes risk (22). From this design, a novel gene, IFIH1, was identified as having multiple rare protein coding variants associated with type 1 diabetes. The function of IFIH1 was not in the obvious immune pathway of cytokines or beta cell proteins—IFIH1 is a cytoplasmic sensor of viral RNA that is part of the innate immune system and the response to viral infection. Notably, IFIH1 is involved in the response to picor­ naviruses, a family that includes viruses previously implicated in type 1 diabetes risk (23). Rare, inactivating alleles of IFIH1 are underrepresented among those with type 1 diabetes, suggesting that loss-of-function is protective from type 1 diabetes. In this manner, GWAS results can lead to discovery of genes that iden­ tify novel biologic pathways and avenues to novel therapeutic (or interventional) drug targets to prevent or reduce the burden of type 1 diabetes. The Wellcome Trust Case-Control Consortium (WTCCC) conducted the first extensive GWAS using the Affymetrix GeneChip 500K Mapping Array Set in participants from the United Kingdom (24). Approximately 2,000 subjects for each of seven
