Chapter 12: Genetics of Type 1 Diabetes
KEYWORDS: diabetes, type, type diabetes, risk, hla-, genes, genetic, loci, diabetes risk, hla, mhc, alleles, association, variants, disease


there being significant SNP genotype frequency differences. After unequivocal replication of type 1 12–8 DIABETES IN AMERICA, 3rd Edition FIGURE 12.7. Gene Content of Type 1 Diabetes Susceptibility Loci Identified by Genome-Wide Association Study Meta-Analysis SOURCE: References 26 and 28 diabetes risk loci, the next steps involve dense SNP mapping to better define causal genes and variants. Identification of causal type 1 diabetes genes with both positional and functional evidence for a role in type 1 diabetes pathogenesis could reveal the pathways and early precursors or biomarkers underlying type 1 diabetes. FINE MAPPING WITHIN TYPE 1 DIABETES SUSCEPTIBILITY LOCI Most common variants identified through a GWAS are located between genes (intergenic), in regions that contain regulatory DNA, or (if located in a gene) not in a protein-coding region (intronic). Relatively few robustly type 1 diabetes-associated variants with likely deleterious effects have been located in coding regions (exons). Thus, the variants that are associated with type 1 diabetes from the GWAS typically do not have obvious functional consequences. This result suggests the tentative conclusion that many of the disease-associated variants affect the regulation of gene expression, although the possibility that these variants are correlated with one or more causative variants within a coding region cannot typically be excluded based upon the initial GWAS results. GWAS actually provide limited informa­ tion on the likely causal gene given the sparse coverage of a given region of the genome even with high-density SNP genotyping arrays. Thus, prior to detailed examination of genes and regulation, dense SNP mapping of the type 1 diabe­ tes-associated locus is required to firmly establish the most likely associated SNPs and causal genes. The T1DGC GWAS meta-analysis (26), when combined with previous studies, identified more than 40 loci that were significantly associated with type 1 diabetes risk; however, within each type 1 diabetes locus, there was an average of seven genes with a range of 0–27 (Figure 12.7) (26,28). Some regions harbored potential candidate genes (such as those involved in the immune response), but in other cases, only a single gene without obvious functional relevance to type 1 diabetes or autoim­ munity was identified. Indeed, for a few regions, no coding genes were present (Figure 12.7). The novel loci identified in the GWAS meta-analysis typically had modest-small effects on type 1 diabetes risk, with C10orf159 (RNLS, renalase) having the largest effect (OR ~1.3) and others with decreasing effect size, consistent
