Chapter 12: Genetics of Type 1 Diabetes
KEYWORDS: diabetes, type, type diabetes, risk, hla-, genes, genetic, loci, diabetes risk, hla, mhc, alleles, association, variants, disease


in the GWAS meta-analysis typically had modest-small effects on type 1 diabetes risk, with C10orf159 (RNLS, renalase) having the largest effect (OR ~1.3) and others with decreasing effect size, consistent with the dependence of their detection on large sample sizes. A large number of previously detected loci had smaller effects, including those with strong or confirmed candidate causal genes (e.g., CTLA4, IFIH1). In most GWAS regions, the locus associated with disease is typically defined by few (perhaps 100) SNPs. The size of the average type 1 diabetes susceptibility locus from the meta-analysis (26) was defined by an ad hoc algorithm based upon the most associated SNP at the center with boundaries for that region defined by site of high recombination. With multiple candidate genes in each type 1 diabetes region, functional studies are necessary to establish a role for a particular gene and/or allelic variant in type 1 diabetes pathogenesis. Such studies require significant time and resources and, in the absence of unambiguous identification of at least the disease-relevant gene within a region, could well target the incorrect gene or variant, elucidating regulatory mechanisms not relevant to type 1 diabetes. In order to refine GWAS regions of susceptibility for type 1 diabetes and address this concern, dense genotyping (fine-mapping) was required that could comprehensively assess the impact of thousands of SNPs in a region. A GWAS seeks to capture genomic archi­ tecture with high information content using a standard set of SNPs. In contrast, fine-mapping requires saturation of specific regions of the genome, with the predetermined boundaries of each region defining the set of SNPs to be genotyped. In order to meet the needs of type 1 diabetes and other autoimmune diseases with genome-wide significant regions to be interrogated, the ImmunoChip consor­ tium was established. The consortium consisted of investigators who provided data (including unpublished) to design a genotyping array (the ImmunoChip) for Genetics of Type 1 Diabetes 12–9 fine-mapping autoimmune disease suscep­ tibility genes. The ImmunoChip is a custom Illumina Infinium high-density genotyping array consisting of 196,524 SNPs over 186 regions of the human genome. For type 1 diabetes, the initial analyses of ImmunoChip data included 6,670 type 1 diabetes cases, 9,416 controls, 2,601 T1DGC ASP families, and 69 T1DGC trio (affected child and both parents) families (29). A large proportion of these samples (98% of cases, 76% of controls, and 57% of family samples) were used in the
