Chapter 12: Genetics of Type 1 Diabetes
KEYWORDS: diabetes, type, type diabetes, risk, hla-, genes, genetic, loci, diabetes risk, hla, mhc, alleles, association, variants, disease


ACCOUNTING FOR THE GENETIC RISK OF TYPE 1 DIABETES The genetic prediction of type 1 diabetes risk, unlike other autoimmune diseases, is relatively effective due, in part, to modest risk to relatives (8% sibling risk) and low disease prevalence (4/1,000). Following fine-mapping with the ImmunoChip, 27 MHC SNPs could account for the majority of independent additive effects in the region (tagging the classical HLA alleles) and 46 non-MHC SNPs could account for the remaining independent associations. These SNPs were used to determine the area under the Receiver Operator Characteristic (ROC) curve for prediction of type 1 diabetes (W.-M. Chen, personal communication). The area under the ROC curve for MHC SNPs is 0.741, which under a polygenic model, corresponds to a sibling recurrence risk ratio (λS) of 1.52, consistent with the estimate from the previous GWAS meta-analysis. When the 46 non-MHC SNPs are combined with 27 SNPs in the MHC, the area under the ROC curve is increased to 0.918 (Figure 12.8). Using this genetic risk score in an indepen­ dent set of data, the sensitivity of these 27 MHC SNPs and 46 non-MHC SNPs was 86% with a specificity of 81%. These results are consistent with those initially determined from the GWAS meta-analysis, but with greater sensitivity and specificity from novel loci detected and identification of SNPs more associated with type 1 diabetes in each locus (37). These estimates of sensitivity and spec­ ificity of the type 1 diabetes-associated SNPs are high, but results should be considered with caution, as they are based on Caucasian samples with well-defined case-control status and not in a clinical setting. Further, the predictive values (posi­ tive and negative) will be low, using SNPs only, as the prevalence of type 1 diabetes is low (~4/1,000). Thus, the use of genetic data to predict risk of type 1 diabetes will be useful only in the context of other (e.g., autoantibody) predictive markers. Genetics of Type 1 Diabetes 12–11 FIGURE 12.8. Receiver Operator Characteristics in Type 1 Diabetes Case-Control Validation Study The receiver operator characteristics (ROC) curve represents the proportion of cases and controls in a validation data set with the risk scores greater than a threshold. When the average of the median risk score from the training set (2,330 cases, 2,330 controls) is used as the threshold in the validation set (1,190 cases, 3,470 controls), the sensitivity is 86% and specificity is 81%. Risk score is
