Chapter 12: Genetics of Type 1 Diabetes
KEYWORDS: diabetes, type, type diabetes, risk, hla-, genes, genetic, loci, diabetes risk, hla, mhc, alleles, association, variants, disease


training set (2,330 cases, 2,330 controls) is used as the threshold in the validation set (1,190 cases, 3,470 controls), the sensitivity is 86% and specificity is 81%. Risk score is based on 27 SNPs in the MHC and 46 non-MHC SNPs. MHC, major histocompatibility complex; SNP, single nucleotide polymorphism. SOURCE: Original figure created by W.-M. Chen. FROM GENE TO FUNCTION The proximity of a disease-associated SNP to a particular gene is often thought of as providing evidence that the gene plays a role in disease pathogenesis. While this is one possible hypothesis, it is equally likely that a variant could affect the expression of one or more genes at a distance, even on other chromosomes. For many of the non-MHC type 1 diabetes-associated loci identified and fine-mapped in GWAS studies, the most significant type 1 diabe­ tes-associated SNP is located within the transcription unit of a gene (29); however, in only four cases is the most associated SNP a coding variant assumed to alter the amino acid sequence of a particular gene product (rs2476601, PTPN22; rs35667974, IFIH1; rs34536443, TYK2; rs6043409, SIRPG). Findings such as these encourage functional studies of the allelic forms of the specific proteins in the four genes with coding variants to determine whether they impact pathways that could plausibly contribute to type 1 diabetes pathogenesis. As shown by the T1DGC ImmunoChip analyses (29), the majority of type 1 diabetes-associated SNPs are in DNA regulatory regions, specifically those regions that have clusters of transcription factors (enhancers) that have tissue-spe­ cific function. In type 1 diabetes, these cell types are those most likely relevant to autoimmunity—CD4+ T cells, CD8+ T cells, B cells, and CD34+ stem cells (29). Variants that affect transcription factors and enhancers require consideration of other possible mechanisms of action. These mechanisms include effects on the coding region of a previously unrec­ ognized gene, the transcription of one or several nearby genes, or effects on genes that are distant from the most associated SNP, most recently shown as a funda­ mental mechanism in obesity (38,39). Evidence of gene-gene interaction would be suggestive of long-range regulatory effects. One approach (among many) to examining the putative functional effects of disease-associated genetic variants is to consider whether they alter the primary sequence of known regulatory motifs. As more information is obtained from functional research at the genomic level, the interpretation of the genetic variants discovered as important in type
