Chapter 12: Genetics of Type 1 Diabetes
KEYWORDS: diabetes, type, type diabetes, risk, hla-, genes, genetic, loci, diabetes risk, hla, mhc, alleles, association, variants, disease


the primary sequence of known regulatory motifs. As more information is obtained from functional research at the genomic level, the interpretation of the genetic variants discovered as important in type 1 diabetes will, perhaps, identify novel mechanisms of risk that can be used for prevention and therapeutic targets. GENES AND INITIATION OF TYPE 1 DIABETES While most studies of the genetic basis of type 1 diabetes focus on the presence or absence of type 1 diabetes in independent subjects or family members, the process by which type 1 diabetes develops in a genetically susceptible individual is also amenable to genetic study. Diagnosis of type 1 diabetes follows a preclinical phase 12–12 DIABETES IN AMERICA, 3rd Edition of undetermined length during which autoimmunity reduces pancreatic islet beta cell mass. Biomarkers of this process, such as metabolic measures of blood glucose or insulin release, and immunologic measures, such as the timing of appearance, diversity, or titer of autoantibodies directed at islet antigens in a given patient, offer opportunities to explore the genetic contribution to disease progression. The analysis of initiation of type 1 diabetes and the discovery of genes and variants contributing to variation in initiation have been limited due to the limited number of at-risk participants being followed for evidence of change in biomarkers and transition to pre-type 1 diabetes states (defined by autoantibodies) and clinical type 1 diabetes. Past studies have involved type 1 diabetes cases with longer disease duration in whom autoantibody status would not reflect true prevalence prior to type 1 diabetes diagnosis or at disease initiation. The Environmental Determinants of Diabetes in the Young (TEDDY) study (40) suggests that close follow-up of participants at risk of type 1 diabetes with biomarkers and genetic data should provide insights in initiation and progression of type 1 diabetes. The first GWAS of autoantibody positivity in type 1 diabetes was conducted in T1DGC cases with measurement of two anti-islet autoantibodies (glutamate decarboxylase [GAD] and insulinoma- associated antigen 2 [IA-2A]), antibodies to the autoimmune thyroid (Graves’) disease autoantigen thyroid peroxidase, and antibodies against gastric parietal cells (PCA) that are associated with autoimmune gastritis (41). Genome-wide, variants in FCRL3/1q23 were associated with IA-2A positivity, and variants in ABO/9q34 were associated with presence of PCA (41). These studies were limited, however, as the T1DGC samples were obtained from prevalent cases, and a more appropriate design would be to assess the development of islet autoimmunity
