Chapter 12: Genetics of Type 1 Diabetes
KEYWORDS: diabetes, type, type diabetes, risk, hla-, genes, genetic, loci, diabetes risk, hla, mhc, alleles, association, variants, disease


PCA (41). These studies were limited, however, as the T1DGC samples were obtained from prevalent cases, and a more appropriate design would be to assess the development of islet autoimmunity over time in the context of genetic factors (as in prospective cohort studies, such as TEDDY, the Diabetes and Autoimmunity Study in the Young [DAISY], BABYDIAB, and the Diabetes Prediction and Prevention study [DIPP]). Critically, genome-wide (rather than candidate gene) approaches will be necessary to interrogate and discover those variants contributing to initiation, as well as progression, of the autoimmune process. Age at onset of type 1 diabetes has often been used as a simple measure of disease initiation in type 1 diabetes. There have been conflicting reports of possible effects of type 1 diabetes risk variants on age at onset, largely from studies of modest sample size. However, many reports have recognized the role of HLA alleles, particularly HLA-DR and HLA-DQ, on age at onset (42), with those having onset at age <6 years more likely to have the HLA-DR3 allele and the HLA-DR3/DR4 genotype. The association of type 1 diabetes-associated SNPs with age at onset was reexamined utilizing information on risk variants identified from GWAS and fine-mapping studies, as well as a sufficiently large sample size to provide adequate statistical power to test for interaction effects (43). Two loci, RNLS at 10q23.31 and IL2 at 4q27, displayed significant associations with age at onset. For IL2/4q27, the G allele for the rs2069763 variant is “protective,” so the age at diagnosis increases with the number of protective alleles (mean age at diagnosis for those with the TT genotype is 8.7 years, the GT genotype 9.0 years, and the GG genotype 9.3 years). This effect is seen similarly for the RNLS/10q23.3 rs10500540 variant, in that the mean age at diagnosis increases with the number of protective C alleles (mean age at diagnosis for those with the TT genotype is 8.9 years, the TC genotype 9.3 years, and the CC genotype 9.4 years). CONCLUSIONS Type 1 diabetes is a complex disorder that results from the actions, and possibly the interactions, of multiple genetic and environmental factors. The advent of high-throughput genotyping methodolo­ gies enabling GWAS combined with large collections of biospecimens from type 1 diabetes cases and unaffected control individuals has facilitated the identifica­ tion of substantial numbers of genetic loci that contribute to type 1 diabetes risk. Fine-mapping studies building upon
