Volanesorsen for treating familial chylomicronaemia syndrome
KEYWORDS: volanesorsen, committee, clinical, levels, patients, treatment, fcs, people, company, approach, noted, model, risk, effect, erg


1 Recommendations 1.1 Volanesorsen is recommended, within its marketing authorisation, as an option for treating familial chylomicronaemia syndrome in adults with genetically confirmed familial chylomicronaemia syndrome who are at high risk of pancreatitis, and when response to diet and triglyceride-lowering therapy has been inadequate. It is recommended only if the company provides volanesorsen according to the commercial arrangement. Why the committee made these recommendations Familial chylomicronaemia syndrome is a rare and potentially life-threatening condition that has a significant effect on the quality of life of people with the condition, and their families and carers. People with the condition have severe abdominal pain, unpredictable and recurrent acute pancreatitis and fatigue, and need to have a restricted low-fat diet. Current treatment options are limited. Clinical trial evidence shows short-term benefits with volanesorsen, including reduced triglyceride (a type of fat found in the blood) levels. It is uncertain whether this is maintained in the longer term, particularly at the licensed dose, which was not used in clinical trials. There are also other uncertainties, especially around volanesorsen's effect on acute pancreatitis and the utility values used in the economic model. Despite these, volanesorsen is likely to provide important clinical and psychological benefits for people with familial chylomicronaemia syndrome, and value for money within the context of a highly specialised service. It is therefore recommended for use in the NHS. 2 The condition 2.1 Familial chylomicronaemia syndrome (FCS) is a rare genetic metabolic disorder of lipid metabolism caused by homozygous mutations in the lipoprotein lipase gene. It is characterised by high levels of triglycerides in the plasma and a build-up of chylomicrons (the lipoprotein particles responsible for transporting dietary fat from the intestine to the rest of the body). Symptoms include repeated episodes of severe abdominal pain, unpredictable and recurrent episodes of acute pancreatitis, liver and spleen enlargement, and fatigue. Acute pancreatitis is a life-threatening condition for which intensive care may be needed. Repeated attacks of acute pancreatitis may lead to chronic pancreatitis. Diabetes can develop as a result of pancreatitis and often makes FCS more difficult to manage. 2.2 Current treatment options for people with FCS are limited. To keep plasma triglyceride levels low, management consists of severely restricting dietary fat intake (usually to between 10 g and 20 g daily, about a quarter of the normal daily intake suggested for an adult) and consuming no alcohol. People with the condition may take several
