Volanesorsen for treating familial chylomicronaemia syndrome
KEYWORDS: volanesorsen, committee, clinical, levels, patients, treatment, fcs, people, company, approach, noted, model, risk, effect, erg


between 10 g and 20 g daily, about a quarter of the normal daily intake suggested for an adult) and consuming no alcohol. People with the condition may take several drugs to control pain and other symptoms of FCS, including corticosteroids, analgesics, anxiolytics, antidepressants, diabetes treatments and antithrombotic drugs. People on a fat-restricted diet need supplements of essential fatty acids (linoleic and alpha linolenic acids) and fat- soluble vitamins (vitamins A, D, E and K). In addition, treatments for hypercholesterolaemia (such as fibrates, nicotinic acids and statins) may be prescribed but are of limited value. The strict dietary regimen is highly restrictive and often challenging for people with the condition and their families. Also, people often still have high triglyceride levels even when the diet is closely followed. 2.3 The prevalence of FCS is estimated to be 1 to 2 per million people, which equates to about 55 to 110 people in England. At the time of the evidence submission, there were thought to be around 80 to 100 people with FCS eligible for treatment with volanesorsen in the UK. 2.4 Treatment with volanesorsen has been provided since March 2018 under an Early Access to Medicines Scheme at several specialist centres. The company explained that, at the time of evaluation, 20 people were having volanesorsen (with treatment duration ranging from 1 to 15 months). A further 5 people have been identified to start treatment. 3 The technology 3.1 Volanesorsen (Waylivra, Akcea) is an antisense oligonucleotide inhibitor of apolipoprotein C-III (apoC-III) production. ApoC-III inhibits the metabolism of triglycerides via the actions of both the lipoprotein lipase and lipoprotein lipase-independent pathways. It selectively binds to apoC-III mRNA to prevent the production of the apoC-III protein, so increasing metabolism of triglycerides. Volanesorsen has a marketing authorisation 'as an adjunct to diet in adult patients with genetically confirmed familial chylomicronemia syndrome (FCS) and at high risk for pancreatitis, in whom response to diet and triglyceride-lowering therapy has been inadequate'. Volanesorsen is administered by subcutaneous injection. The recommended starting dosage, as described in the summary of product characteristics, is 285 mg once weekly for 3 months, followed by down titration to a maintenance dosing schedule of once every 2 weeks. If there has not been a greater than 25% reduction in triglyceride levels, or if these remain above 22.6 mmol per litre at 3 months, treatment should be stopped. If response is inadequate (in terms
