Volanesorsen for treating familial chylomicronaemia syndrome
KEYWORDS: volanesorsen, committee, clinical, levels, patients, treatment, fcs, people, company, approach, noted, model, risk, effect, erg


a greater than 25% reduction in triglyceride levels, or if these remain above 22.6 mmol per litre at 3 months, treatment should be stopped. If response is inadequate (in terms of serum triglyceride reduction) after 6 months of treatment, an increase in dosing frequency to 285 mg once weekly should be considered. Dosing may also change at 9 months and later depending on response to treatment and platelet levels. 3.2 The adverse reactions listed as very common (that is, occurring in 1 in 10 people or more) in the summary of product characteristics for volanesorsen include thrombocytopenia and injection site reactions. For full details of adverse reactions and contraindications, see the summary of product characteristics. 3.3 Before starting treatment with volanesorsen, platelet count should be measured. If it is below 140×109 per litre, another measurement should be taken about a week later to reassess. If platelet count remains below 140×109 per litre at a second measurement, treatment should not be started. Because of concerns about thrombocytopenia, an enhanced monitoring scheme has been implemented during clinical trials and in clinical practice. For full details of monitoring schedules, see the summary of product characteristics. 3.4 The price of volanesorsen for a single-use syringe (285 mg) is £11,394 (excluding VAT; company's evidence submission). The company has a commercial arrangement. This makes volanesorsen available to the NHS with a discount. The size of the discount is commercial in confidence. It is the company's responsibility to let relevant NHS organisations know details of the discount. 4 Consideration of the evidence The evaluation committee (see section 6) considered evidence submitted by Akcea Therapeutics, the views of people with the condition, those who represent them and clinical experts, NHS England and a review by the evidence review group (ERG). See the committee papers for full details of the evidence. In forming the recommendations, the committee took into account the full range of factors that might affect its decision, including in particular the nature of the condition, the clinical effectiveness, value for money and the impact beyond direct health benefits. Nature of the condition Burden of disease 4.1 The patient and clinical experts explained how the condition affects all aspects of the lives of people with familial chylomicronaemia syndrome (FCS), and their families and carers. It has a significant effect on a person's independence, and their ability to work and have a social life. People with FCS live
