Volanesorsen for treating familial chylomicronaemia syndrome
KEYWORDS: volanesorsen, committee, clinical, levels, patients, treatment, fcs, people, company, approach, noted, model, risk, effect, erg


syndrome (FCS), and their families and carers. It has a significant effect on a person's independence, and their ability to work and have a social life. People with FCS live in constant fear of having a life-threatening attack of acute pancreatitis (AP) and recurrent hospital admissions. This can be depressing for them, and worrying for their families and carers. Unpredictable hospital admissions can disrupt both a patient's and carer's work. Also, the children of people with FCS often have to be carers for their parents and siblings. The committee also heard that people with FCS are often unable to participate in usual family activities because of strict dietary restrictions. This can have a substantial emotional effect on them and their families. The patient experts explained that FCS is a hidden disease because people who do not have the condition often find it difficult to understand the challenges associated with it. This has made it difficult for people with FCS, and their families and carers, to get support. The committee concluded that FCS is a rare, serious and potentially life-threatening condition that can affect the lives of people with the condition, and their families and carers. Unmet need 4.2 The clinical experts explained that FCS is a relentless condition, and that currently there are no effective drug treatments available. They noted that, in the absence of treatment targeting FCS, dietary advice is a mainstay of supportive treatment. The patient experts noted their frustration with this because dietary control can be very challenging, particularly if diabetes develops. They also explained that people may have mixed experiences of symptom and disease management approaches, depending on their triglyceride (TG) levels, but that a new treatment option would offer considerable hope to them and to their families. The committee recognised that there is a significant unmet need for effective treatment options for FCS. Diagnosis 4.3 The clinical experts explained that, historically, FCS has been diagnosed by several clinical criteria, including abdominal pain, AP and raised TG levels refractory to lipid-lowering therapy (but not due to other causes such as type 2 diabetes or hypothyroidism). Given the rarity of the disease, people with FCS often have delayed diagnosis, or misdiagnosis and inappropriate treatment. Genetic diagnosis is becoming more common. It identifies some mutations in lipoprotein lipase, apolipoprotein 2 and 5, lipase maturation factor 1 or GPIHPB1 genes, which code for proteins involved in lipoprotein lipase activity.
