Volanesorsen for treating familial chylomicronaemia syndrome
KEYWORDS: volanesorsen, committee, clinical, levels, patients, treatment, fcs, people, company, approach, noted, model, risk, effect, erg


becoming more common. It identifies some mutations in lipoprotein lipase, apolipoprotein 2 and 5, lipase maturation factor 1 or GPIHPB1 genes, which code for proteins involved in lipoprotein lipase activity. The expert from NHS England noted that genetic testing would become available from April 2020, which will help with the identification and genetic confirmation of FCS. Impact of the new technology Clinical evidence 4.4 The clinical evidence available for volanesorsen included: • APPROACH (n=66) – a double-blind randomised placebo-controlled trial that assessed the efficacy and safety of volanesorsen (n=33) compared with placebo (n=33). Volanesorsen was administered by subcutaneous injection (285 mg) once weekly. After the 52-week trial period, patients could either have a 13-week follow up or enter the APPROACH OLE open-label extension study. • COMPASS (n=114) – a multicentre double-blind randomised placebo- controlled trial in patients with hypertriglyceridaemia from many different causes; only 7 patients had FCS. Volanesorsen was administered by subcutaneous injection (285 mg) once weekly. After 26 weeks, patients could either have a 13-week follow up or enter the APPROACH OLE open-label extension study. • APPROACH OLE – an ongoing single-arm open-label study assessing the safety and efficacy of dosing and extended dosing with volanesorsen. Volanesorsen was administered by subcutaneous injection (285 mg) once weekly. Information about treatment arms and patient numbers is considered academic in confidence by the company, so cannot be presented. • The Early Access to Medicines Scheme (EAMS; n=20) – an ongoing programme that provides access to volanesorsen (administered by subcutaneous injection, 285 mg once every 2 weeks) for people with FCS, including those who have previously had treatment in APPROACH and APPROACH OLE. Emphasis on clinical efficacy outcomes was given to data from APPROACH and APPROACH OLE. The committee noted some small differences in baseline characteristics between the people in the trials and the clinical population in England. These included levels of abdominal pain, which was high in APPROACH compared with the population in England. Also, 11% of patients in APPROACH had previously had alipogene tiparvovec (a gene therapy for treating lipoprotein lipase deficiency). This may have lowered the baseline levels of pancreatitis compared with levels seen in patients in clinical practice in England. The ERG noted that the baseline differences added uncertainty to the estimates of true relative treatment effect, although the level of additional uncertainty was unclear. The committee agreed that this introduced uncertainty into consideration of the clinical data,
