Volanesorsen for treating familial chylomicronaemia syndrome
KEYWORDS: volanesorsen, committee, clinical, levels, patients, treatment, fcs, people, company, approach, noted, model, risk, effect, erg


uncertainty to the estimates of true relative treatment effect, although the level of additional uncertainty was unclear. The committee agreed that this introduced uncertainty into consideration of the clinical data, but concluded that it was acceptable for decision making. Generalisability of the trial population to clinical practice 4.5 Most of the patients in the company's clinical trials had a genetic diagnosis of FCS, in line with the marketing authorisation. The committee discussed whether the trial populations would represent people with FCS seen in the NHS. It noted that about 50% of patients in APPROACH lacked known functional mutations in the lipoprotein lipase gene. However, it understood that some patients with FCS may have unknown gene mutations that cannot currently be identified, and such patients may have entered the trial. However, because the marketing authorisation requires a genetic diagnosis of FCS, these patients would not be part of the NHS population potentially eligible for treatment with volanesorsen. The company explained that there is no clear correlation between types of gene mutation and disease prognosis. The committee agreed that, given this, it was reasonable to consider the trial population to be generalisable to clinical practice. High risk of pancreatitis in relation to TG levels 4.6 The marketing authorisation for volanesorsen stipulates that people must have a high risk of pancreatitis to be able to have the drug. The committee discussed how clinicians would interpret this in clinical practice. The ERG explained that anyone with high TG levels could be considered to be at high risk of pancreatitis but queried whether clinicians might interpret the marketing authorisation differently. The clinical experts explained that TG levels can be variable and volatile in people with FCS but agreed that they would generally consider people with high TG levels to be at high risk of pancreatitis. They also explained that TG levels vary across and within patients with FCS and fluctuate over time, and that TG levels are high most of the time if they are uncontrolled. The clinical experts explained that the decision to treat is based on discussions with patients and consideration of their needs. The committee concluded that the definition in the marketing authorisation for 'high risk of pancreatitis' is likely to include anyone with high TG levels. Dosing 4.7 The volanesorsen dose stated in the marketing authorisation was not used in the clinical trials or for the population in the EAMS (see
