Volanesorsen for treating familial chylomicronaemia syndrome
KEYWORDS: volanesorsen, committee, clinical, levels, patients, treatment, fcs, people, company, approach, noted, model, risk, effect, erg


anyone with high TG levels. Dosing 4.7 The volanesorsen dose stated in the marketing authorisation was not used in the clinical trials or for the population in the EAMS (see section 4.4). The committee discussed the implications of this for interpreting the evidence on volanesorsen's clinical efficacy and safety. It queried the frequent dose adjustments and pauses seen in studies. It concluded that these would be more likely under the intensified monitoring regime of the EAMS and the clinical trials, than in clinical practice. It also considered the effect of these on patients, TG levels and clinical outcomes. It understood that, in the EAMS, patients all started on once every 2 weeks dosing but could up titrate to the licensed dose if response was not sufficient. The committee considered that the reason given for the dose adjustments and pauses was understandable from a general pharmacological point of view. But in the clinical trials the dose adjustments and pauses added uncertainty to the long- term efficacy and safety of volanesorsen and the likely rate of stopping treatment. The committee concluded that the difference between the licensed and trialled dosing regimens contributed to further uncertainties. It also concluded that, because of the higher dosing and initially less-intensive monitoring in trials, volanesorsen's short-term effect on clinical and safety outcomes may have been overestimated and there are uncertainties in interpreting its clinical benefits in the long term. Percentage change in TG level as a surrogate outcome 4.8 The primary outcome measure in APPROACH was the percentage change from baseline in TG levels at month 3 (there were no formally designated primary and secondary outcomes in APPROACH OLE). In APPROACH, at month 3, volanesorsen treatment was associated with a statistically significant and clinically meaningful change in TG levels compared with placebo (percentage difference in change from baseline in TG: 94.1%, 95% confidence interval [CI] -121.7 to -66.6; p<0.0001). Clinical data from APPROACH OLE is considered academic in confidence by the company, so cannot be presented here. However, the company stated that the results showed a substantial decrease in TG levels with volanesorsen at month 3. The committee was aware that percentage change in TG levels is a surrogate outcome for clinical outcomes such as AP. The company explained that percentage change in TG levels is a commonly used and important outcome that shows an effect of volanesorsen. The ERG explained that, at subsequent time points,
