Volanesorsen for treating familial chylomicronaemia syndrome
KEYWORDS: volanesorsen, committee, clinical, levels, patients, treatment, fcs, people, company, approach, noted, model, risk, effect, erg


The company explained that percentage change in TG levels is a commonly used and important outcome that shows an effect of volanesorsen. The ERG explained that, at subsequent time points, the decrease in TG levels was generally lower than that seen at month 3 in APPROACH, but that any possible waning effect of volanesorsen is probably small. This was supported by additional evidence from APPROACH OLE that became available during consultation, although the ERG also noted that follow up in studies did not appear to go beyond around 3 to 4 years. Therefore, the long-term effects of volanesorsen measured by percentage change in TG levels were uncertain. The committee concluded that volanesorsen was effective in lowering TG levels in people with FCS, although the extent of the effect in the long term was unclear. Relationship between TG levels and AP in people with FCS 4.9 The committee considered the company's evidence on a possible dose-response relationship between TG levels and the risk of AP, suggesting that increased TG levels lead to an increased risk of AP. TG levels below 10 mmol per litre are associated with a low risk of AP. Risk increases with TG levels above 10 mmol per litre, becoming particularly high at levels of 22.6 mmol per litre or more. These assumptions were used in the company's economic model to define certain health states (see section 4.17). The clinical experts noted that there is a linear relationship between TG levels and risk of AP in the general population. However, there is a lack of evidence about whether this dose-response relationship is generalisable to FCS. TG levels can be variable and volatile among people with FCS (see section 4.6), and they are likely to have individual thresholds at which they are at high risk of developing AP. The clinical experts also suggested that people with FCS may have AP at lower TG levels than patients with raised TG levels from other causes. 4.10 During consultation, the company provided further information on the possible relationship between TG and AP in people with FCS. It explained that people with FCS are at a higher risk of AP compared with those with other hypertriglyceridaemia disorders. This is because they have chronically higher mean serum TG levels, their TG levels are more volatile and they have higher rates of previous AP. The ERG argued that the peaks in TG concentration may simply
