Volanesorsen for treating familial chylomicronaemia syndrome
KEYWORDS: volanesorsen, committee, clinical, levels, patients, treatment, fcs, people, company, approach, noted, model, risk, effect, erg


higher mean serum TG levels, their TG levels are more volatile and they have higher rates of previous AP. The ERG argued that the peaks in TG concentration may simply be a function of higher average TGs, and that there is no evidence linking incidence of AP to peak TG levels. The clinical experts noted that TG concentration alone may not be an adequate surrogate for AP in people with FCS. This is because the relationship between TGs and chylomicrons (the lipoprotein particles that transport triglycerides derived from dietary fat from the intestine to the rest of the body via lipoprotein lipase activity) may be more relevant for this condition. Because FCS is caused by a defect in lipoprotein lipase, TGs cannot be converted in people with this condition, resulting in chylomicron accumulation and consequently pancreatitis. There are no clinical data supporting this argument because chylomicrons are less readily quantified. However, a reduction in both TGs in chylomicrons and AP events in people having volanesorsen was seen in APPROACH. The committee accepted that there is a general linear relationship between TG levels and risk of AP, but it remained uncertain whether this was generalisable to people with FCS. It concluded that, although it is uncertain whether the linear relationship applies in FCS, reduced TG levels may be associated with reduced risk of AP in this population, as shown in the clinical trials. Study outcomes Responder analysis 4.11 The company did several responder analyses. The committee particularly looked at 2 of them. This is because they were highly relevant to the decision making for TG level bands as defined in the company's economic model (see section 4.17) and to volanesorsen's stopping rule in the summary of product characteristics (see section 3.1 and section 4.17). These analyses included: • attaining fasting TG levels of below 750 mg per decilitre (8.5 mmol per litre) between baseline and month 3 • a 40% reduction in fasting TG levels between baseline and month 3. In APPROACH, 76.7% (23 out of 33) of patients having volanesorsen and 9.7% (3 out of 33) of those on placebo met the first of these endpoints (odds ratio: 186.16, 95% CI 12.86 to not applicable; p<0.0001). Similarly, for the second of these endpoints, evidence from APPROACH showed that more patients on volanesorsen (87.9%, 29 out of 33) met the endpoint compared with those on placebo (9.1%, 3 out of 33)
