Volanesorsen for treating familial chylomicronaemia syndrome
KEYWORDS: volanesorsen, committee, clinical, levels, patients, treatment, fcs, people, company, approach, noted, model, risk, effect, erg


of these endpoints, evidence from APPROACH showed that more patients on volanesorsen (87.9%, 29 out of 33) met the endpoint compared with those on placebo (9.1%, 3 out of 33) at month 3 (odds ratio: 99.69, 95% CI 15.75 to 631.06; p<0.0001). Generally, a reduction in TG levels at month 3 or a moderate-to-high relative reduction in TG levels was seen. The ERG noted that this showed that a substantial proportion of patients were likely to continue treatment after stopping rules are applied (see section 3.1). The clinical experts explained that it is difficult to identify a population threshold in TG levels for clinical events (such as pancreatitis) in FCS. However, they agreed that there is likely to be a level below which someone is unlikely to have pancreatitis, so it is appropriate to consider that people whose TG levels reach the endpoints defined above are at 'lower risk'. The ERG highlighted that the evidence showed that response rates wane over time, so the treatment effect may vary. But the committee concluded that, based on the evidence, TG levels would likely fall to levels at which pancreatitis is less likely in a substantial proportion of patients. However, it remained uncertain whether this benefit would last in the long term. Acute pancreatitis 4.12 Evidence from a preplanned safety analysis showed that 1 patient having volanesorsen (n=33) and 3 patients on placebo (n=33) had AP (p=0.6132) in APPROACH. A post-hoc analysis comparing the AP event rate 5 years before treatment with the AP event rate while on treatment in the same trial showed a statistically significant difference in favour of volanesorsen (p=0.0242). The same post-hoc analysis comparing the event rate of AP 5 years before treatment with that while on treatment in APPROACH OLE gave a rate ratio of 0.13 (p value not reported). The ERG highlighted that this risk estimate was highly uncertain because it was derived from a before–after comparison using patients as their own control, so there was a high risk of recollection bias. In general, the ERG noted that volanesorsen might reduce AP events, but the effect size was unclear. The committee agreed with the ERG and noted that the company's risk estimate of AP was uncertain and subject to risk of bias because of the methods used. Abdominal pain 4.13 The preplanned efficacy analyses describing the average maximum intensity of abdominal pain during the on-treatment period in
