Volanesorsen for treating familial chylomicronaemia syndrome
KEYWORDS: volanesorsen, committee, clinical, levels, patients, treatment, fcs, people, company, approach, noted, model, risk, effect, erg


subject to risk of bias because of the methods used. Abdominal pain 4.13 The preplanned efficacy analyses describing the average maximum intensity of abdominal pain during the on-treatment period in APPROACH did not show a statistically significant difference between treatment arms. However, an exploratory analysis showed that, among those who had abdominal pain at baseline in APPROACH (17 out of 66 patients across the 2 arms), patients having volanesorsen (7 out of 33) had a statistically significant reduction in the average maximum intensity of abdominal pain, compared with those on placebo (10 out of 33; p=0.0227). The ERG commented that this difference may have been because of the higher baseline rates of abdominal pain in this subgroup, making it easier to detect an effect. The committee noted that some patients continued to have a certain level of abdominal pain while on volanesorsen, which made its effect on abdominal pain unclear. However, it acknowledged that, because abdominal pain is a frequent symptom associated with FCS, the reduction in pain seen in the trial would be beneficial for people with the condition. Overall study results 4.14 The committee concluded that the clinical trial evidence showed that volanesorsen would likely provide benefits in lowering TG levels and on clinical outcomes (AP and abdominal pain). It also considered the additional data from APPROACH OLE and the EAMS that became available during consultation (mostly confidential, therefore cannot be presented here). These data showed a trend towards a TG-lowering benefit in people having the treatment at weekly and fortnightly dosing. The ERG noted that the evidence raised the possibility that response to the treatment may wane over time, but any reduction was likely to be small. The committee concluded that volanesorsen would likely provide some long-term benefits, although this was associated with substantial uncertainty, particularly at the licensed dose. Health-related quality of life 4.15 Health-related quality of life was measured using the EQ-5D and SF-36 in APPROACH and APPROACH OLE. In APPROACH, there was no statistically significant change from baseline for the EQ-5D-5L or SF-36 at month 3 (p=0.2920 and p=0.6627 respectively), at month 6 (p=0.5923 and p=0.9226 respectively) and at month 12 (p=0.4079 and p=0.7912 respectively). Baseline EQ-5D values were very high for both treatment arms (utility more than 0.97) in APPROACH. The committee noted that this was not in line with the patient testimonies, which indicated that FCS substantially affects every aspect of their
