Volanesorsen for treating familial chylomicronaemia syndrome
KEYWORDS: volanesorsen, committee, clinical, levels, patients, treatment, fcs, people, company, approach, noted, model, risk, effect, erg


arms (utility more than 0.97) in APPROACH. The committee noted that this was not in line with the patient testimonies, which indicated that FCS substantially affects every aspect of their lives. One patient expert explained that the EQ-5D does not measure the aspects of quality of life that FCS affects, for example, strict adherence to a low-fat diet and the effect of that on their family and social lives. The committee noted that the EQ-5D does not contain questions about difficulties posed by the restricted diet, but does measure usual activities, pain and anxiety. Another patient expert noted that people with FCS may have adapted because living with the condition is their normal (for example, the fear of having AP, restrictions to usual activities related to dietary restrictions), so no difference from baseline would be detected. The committee recognised that the intermittent symptoms of FCS might explain why a one-off questionnaire might not fully capture its effect on quality of life. But it did not think that the clinical trial results showed that volanesorsen had no effect on quality of life. Adverse events 4.16 The committee discussed the adverse events reported in the 2 main clinical trials. Common events (occurring in between 1 in 100 or more and fewer than 1 in 10 patients) in APPROACH were wide ranging, but the most frequent (in 1 in 10 or more patients) were limited to injection site reactions, fatigue, headache and thrombocytopenia. Seven (21%) patients in the volanesorsen group had serious adverse events compared with 5 (15%) patients on placebo. The committee recalled that safety risks had been identified with volanesorsen (see section 3.3), and an intensified routine monitoring scheme had been implemented in clinical trials and the EAMS. It noted, however, that the effect of volanesorsen on safety outcomes and, consequently of stopping treatment, was uncertain at the licensed dose in the long term. Cost to the NHS and value for money Company's economic model 4.17 The company presented an economic model comparing volanesorsen alongside a low-fat diet with standard care. The model had 2 components: a 3-month decision tree model and a long-term Markov model. In each 3-month model cycle, patients moved between TG bands or remained in the same band, had AP, developed chronic pancreatitis or died. Patients with historical AP moved to the recurrent AP category when having AP. Treatment with volanesorsen was assumed to be weekly within
