Volanesorsen for treating familial chylomicronaemia syndrome
KEYWORDS: volanesorsen, committee, clinical, levels, patients, treatment, fcs, people, company, approach, noted, model, risk, effect, erg


band, had AP, developed chronic pancreatitis or died. Patients with historical AP moved to the recurrent AP category when having AP. Treatment with volanesorsen was assumed to be weekly within the initial 3-month period and fortnightly in the Markov stage until treatment was stopped or death (in line with the dosing schedule in the summary of product characteristics). All patients who had standard care in the initial phase progressed to the standard-care Markov model. Patients who had volanesorsen had to meet continuation criteria (a TG level reduced by 25% or more or below 22.6 mmol per litre, or both) to remain on volanesorsen, otherwise they progressed to the standard-care arm. The population in the model was in line with the indication (see section 3.1). A high risk of pancreatitis was defined as having had a previous AP event in the model. The hypothetical cohort of patients: • was assumed to be 41 years • comprised 54.5% women and • was assumed to have the same characteristics as patients in APPROACH: － AP history – 0 or 1 or more episodes in the past 5 years － baseline TG levels – below 10 mmol per litre (low-risk band); between 10 mmol per litre and below 22.6 mmol per litre (medium-risk band); 22.6 mmol per litre or more (high-risk band), which were used to define health states in the Markov model. 4.18 The company's economic analysis adopted an NHS perspective and implemented a 59-year time horizon (assumed to represent the maximum remaining lifetime of a patient). A discount rate of 3.5% per year was used for both cost and health outcomes. The committee was satisfied that the model structure reflected the general course of the condition, although it recalled the uncertainty in the relationship between TG levels and risk of AP in people with FCS (see section 4.10). Model assumptions Assumptions on volanesorsen's indirect and direct effects on AP 4.19 In the model, the company assumed that volanesorsen would reduce the risk of AP: • indirectly by reducing patients' TG-risk band, and • directly by reducing the risk of AP independent of TG-risk bands. In the company's original base case, the risk estimate associated with volanesorsen's direct protective effect on the risk of AP (0.13, p value not reported) was estimated from a post-hoc analysis. This compared the event rate of AP in patients 5 years before enrolment in APPROACH OLE with
