Volanesorsen for treating familial chylomicronaemia syndrome
KEYWORDS: volanesorsen, committee, clinical, levels, patients, treatment, fcs, people, company, approach, noted, model, risk, effect, erg


of AP (0.13, p value not reported) was estimated from a post-hoc analysis. This compared the event rate of AP in patients 5 years before enrolment in APPROACH OLE with their event rate while on treatment (see section 4.12). The rate ratio of 0.13 was applied to patients with historical and recurrent APs in the model. The ERG noted this would represent double counting of the benefits because it was calculated from a population in whom there was already potential for reducing TG levels (via the indirect effect of volanesorsen on TG levels). It was also subject to risk of bias because patients were their own control and because of regression to the mean. The ERG therefore removed some of the double counting by applying a multiplication factor of 0.50 to both historical and recurrent AP rates within specific TG-risk bands. The committee preferred the ERG's assumption, given the lack of clinical trial data, but acknowledged that volanesorsen was likely to have some protective effect on risk of AP. 4.20 At consultation, the company explained that using an additional multiplication factor was necessary because the size of the reduction in risk of AP with volanesorsen was not adequately captured in the model. Therefore, in its updated model, a rate ratio of 0.27 (to low or medium TG health states) and 0.28 (to high TG health states) was applied. The company noted these ratios were midpoints between 0.13 (original submission) and 0.35 (the ratio of pooled event rates of volanesorsen once every 2 weeks dosing from APPROACH, APPROACH OLE and COMPASS compared with the pooled event rates of placebo from APPROACH and COMPASS in patients with a history of AP). The ERG highlighted that both estimates were subject to considerable risk of bias because 0.13 was derived from a before–after comparison using patients as their own controls, and 0.35 may be confounded because there was no placebo arm in APPROACH OLE. It also suggested that some double counting will remain irrespective of the rate ratio selected. The committee recalled the concern about the relationship between TG level and risk of AP. It recognised the limitations of developing an evidence base for an ultra-rare disease, and around estimating the most plausible rate-ratio values associated with using volanesorsen given the lack of trial data. In the absence of robust evidence, the committee considered that a rate ratio of 0.29, applied to all patients
