Volanesorsen for treating familial chylomicronaemia syndrome
KEYWORDS: volanesorsen, committee, clinical, levels, patients, treatment, fcs, people, company, approach, noted, model, risk, effect, erg


values associated with using volanesorsen given the lack of trial data. In the absence of robust evidence, the committee considered that a rate ratio of 0.29, applied to all patients in the model, was reasonable. Stopping treatment 4.21 The committee noted that relatively high stopping rates were seen across the clinical studies. In APPROACH, 42% (14 out of 32) of patients stopped treatment before month 12, and 79% stopped before week 104. It understood that adverse events were the most common reason for stopping. Stopping rates from APPROACH OLE were considered academic in confidence by the company, so cannot be presented here. The committee was also aware that only 1 patient stopped treatment in the EAMS because of cancer recurrence. However, it questioned whether this would be seen in clinical practice because of the different dosing regimen (see section 3.1 and section 4.17). The ERG explained that the stopping rate at the licensed dose in clinical practice was currently unknown but was unlikely to be zero. 4.22 At consultation, the ERG clarified that, based on clinical expert opinion, it would expect a stopping rate of 10% per year and up to 20% continuing treatment in total. The committee understood that stopping treatment in trials was not only because of the stopping rules in the summary of product characteristics (see section 3.1). Stopping rates (including rate of dose pauses and missed doses) from the EAMS are commercial in confidence by the company, so cannot be presented here. However, the committee noted that the data suggested some people would stop treatment or pause doses in the trials and the EAMS, regardless of dosing regimen even after being on treatment for 2 or 3 years. Therefore, this trend seems to support some late treatment stopping. 4.23 The company explained that, because of the strengthened monitoring schemes put in place since APPROACH, fewer people in the EAMS have stopped treatment. This is perhaps because these patients have the highest risk of AP and it is difficult to manage the disease on diet alone. The ERG noted the uncertainties about stopping treatment because of the limited follow-up time for patients in the EAMS. The committee noted that, because of the relatively high drop-out rate seen in the clinical trials, some stopping would be likely in clinical practice, even with education and monitoring in place. It concluded that there were likely to be dose pauses and
