Volanesorsen for treating familial chylomicronaemia syndrome
KEYWORDS: volanesorsen, committee, clinical, levels, patients, treatment, fcs, people, company, approach, noted, model, risk, effect, erg


in the clinical trials, some stopping would be likely in clinical practice, even with education and monitoring in place. It concluded that there were likely to be dose pauses and people stopping treatment in the long term, but at a much lower rate than in clinical trials. Time on treatment 4.24 The committee recognised that the rate of stopping treatment affected the model results. Stopping could happen in the model because of not meeting the continuation criteria (see section 4.17), death, lack of adherence to the treatment and monitoring, or adverse events. In the company's original model, stopping was modelled by fitting parametric survival functions to time-on-treatment data for 32 patients on volanesorsen once every 2 weeks within APPROACH OLE and using log-normal curves to predict when treatment would stop. After consultation, the company capped the stopping rate at 20%. The committee understood that relatively high stopping rates were seen across the clinical studies (see section 4.21) and considered this cap implausible. However, it was also aware that only 1 person stopped treatment in the EAMS even though patients had volanesorsen once every 2 weeks from the start in the scheme (see section 4.21). The committee recalled the discussion on declining stopping rates in the long term, and that there may be differences in the stopping rate between clinical trials and the EAMS because of the different settings as explained by the company (see section 4.14). Based on this, it preferred the ERG's exponential function, which does not suggest that most patients continue after a high initial rate of drop out. The committee agreed that the ERG's initial stopping rate of 10% per year (see section 4.22) was more likely in clinical practice than the low rate in the EAMS. It therefore concluded that the ERG's exponential curve best reflected the likely change in stopping rate with volanesorsen in clinical practice over time, and that this assumption should be used in the model. Source of utility data 4.25 The utility data collected in APPROACH were not used in the model. The company explained that this was because utility values for both treatment arms were higher than the average UK index value and it considered them implausible. Instead, the utility values for the base case were derived from a vignette study commissioned by the company. In response to concerns raised by the committee about the vignette study, the company provided additional
