Volanesorsen for treating familial chylomicronaemia syndrome
KEYWORDS: volanesorsen, committee, clinical, levels, patients, treatment, fcs, people, company, approach, noted, model, risk, effect, erg


for the base case were derived from a vignette study commissioned by the company. In response to concerns raised by the committee about the vignette study, the company provided additional information on the methodology after consultation. Substantial information about this study is considered academic in confidence by the company, so cannot be discussed in detail here. The committee noted several methodological issues associated with the study, including the process of constructing the vignettes, uncertainties in the dimensions that defined health states and value-laden language used throughout the vignette. The committee concluded that the source of utility values was subject to risk of bias and that this would contribute to uncertainty in the incremental cost-effectiveness ratio (ICER). Using utility values derived from the vignette study 4.26 The ERG noted that the vignettes did not distinguish between patients who were on treatment and those who were not, but instead by low- or high-risk TG bands and whether an AP event occurred. This contrasted with how the utility values were used in the company's model. In the model, utility for a patient was determined by whether they were having volanesorsen or standard care on the basis that mean TG levels were considerably lower in patients who were having treatment. The ERG had concerns about this approach. It provided alternative utilities in its base case, which used the vignette results but linked the utility to TG levels rather than treatment. It also assumed that values for patients with historical AP lay halfway between those with no prior AP and those with AP with lingering effects. The committee preferred the ERG's approach of linking utility values to TG levels and health states. 4.27 After consultation, the company changed the allocation of utility values in its model. It assigned the high TG utility value from the vignette to those with a TG level of more than 22.6 mmol per litre, and the low TG utility value from the vignette to remaining patients. The ERG explained that this logic was not consistent with the vignette or the original submission, pointing out that people with TG levels between 10 mmol per litre or more to less than 22.6 mmol per litre should not be considered as having non-elevated TGs. The committee considered that the company's approach in allocating the utility values for the intermediate group was problematic. It concluded that the ERG's approach of linking utility values to
