Volanesorsen for treating familial chylomicronaemia syndrome
KEYWORDS: volanesorsen, committee, clinical, levels, patients, treatment, fcs, people, company, approach, noted, model, risk, effect, erg


TGs. The committee considered that the company's approach in allocating the utility values for the intermediate group was problematic. It concluded that the ERG's approach of linking utility values to TG levels and health states was acceptable for decision making. Utility for carers 4.28 The company included utility decrements for carers in the economic model, based on estimates from the literature. In the company's original base case, it used the values from NICE highly specialised technology submission (metreleptin for treating lipodystrophy) as a proxy for carers of people with FCS, assuming a 0.1 utility decrement for carers. In the evaluation consultation document, the committee and ERG highlighted concerns about the source of the proxy value and around the value itself. The committee asked the company to explore alternative values. 4.29 After consultation, the company presented an alternative utility value, decreasing the decrement from 0.1 to 0.04 in the updated model. The company explained that the decrement was a midpoint value between the effect on family utility for patients with new musculoskeletal conditions (0.03) and the utility decrement between treated and untreated groups (0.05) in the metreleptin submission. The company believed that this was a fair valuation of quality-adjusted life year (QALY) gain with volanesorsen treatment for the families of people living with FCS. The committee discussed the appropriateness of applying the new value. It recalled that the patient and clinical experts explained the substantial effect of FCS on the lives of patients, and their families and carers (see section 4.1). It noted that people with FCS are often unable to participate in usual family activities because of strict dietary restrictions. This can have a substantial emotional and psychological effect on them and their families. The patient experts explained that the effect of volanesorsen on social interaction, including engaging with their families, was substantial. They also explained that not getting recurrent pain and being able to go out and socialise with their families made a lot of difference to them and their families. 4.30 The ERG was concerned that the new decrement may be an overestimation. It noted that, in the literature, the loss in utility with existing mental or musculoskeletal conditions would be 0.01. It also noted that volanesorsen does not remove the need for a low-fat diet, so some social isolation for the family could remain and 0.01 may be more appropriate than 0.04. The committee acknowledged the positive
