Volanesorsen for treating familial chylomicronaemia syndrome
KEYWORDS: volanesorsen, committee, clinical, levels, patients, treatment, fcs, people, company, approach, noted, model, risk, effect, erg


not remove the need for a low-fat diet, so some social isolation for the family could remain and 0.01 may be more appropriate than 0.04. The committee acknowledged the positive psychological effect that volanesorsen may have on patients and carers, and on their lifestyle. It agreed that there would be some effect of FCS on the utility for carers but thought that applying the 0.04 utility decrement may be unrealistic. It considered that it may be smaller than 0.03, which represents a family decrement for patients with new musculoskeletal conditions. It concluded that it would prefer a utility decrement of 0.02 applied in the model. Factors not considered by the committee: comorbidities and malnutrition 4.31 The company explained that some comorbidities and symptoms such as joint pain, numbness or tingling of digits, use of corticosteroids and opioids, and nutritional status were not included in the model. It pointed out that these can all seriously affect the quality of life of people with FCS, but were not captured in the model because of similar features with either the vignette descriptions or other symptoms. The committee understood that these factors could have affected quality of life and therefore cost effectiveness. However, it considered that, if these factors were associated with either a decrease or increase in TGs, it would have preferred to see them in the vignette study. It also noted that it was not presented with sufficient evidence on this in the clinical trials. The committee concluded that, because no empirical data were provided, the possible effect of these factors on the cost-effectiveness estimate was unknown. Applying QALY weighing 4.32 The committee understood that the interim process and methods of the highly specialised technologies programme (2017) specifies that a most plausible ICER of below £100,000 per QALY gained for a highly specialised technology is normally considered an effective use of NHS resources. For a most plausible ICER above £100,000 per QALY gained, judgements about the acceptability of the highly specialised technology as an effective use of NHS resources must take account of the magnitude of the incremental therapeutic improvement, as revealed through the number of additional QALYs gained and by applying a 'QALY weight'. It understood that a weight between 1 and 3 can be applied when the QALY gain is between 10 and 30 QALYs. The committee discussed the QALY gains associated with volanesorsen. It highlighted that these were below
