Volanesorsen for treating familial chylomicronaemia syndrome
KEYWORDS: volanesorsen, committee, clinical, levels, patients, treatment, fcs, people, company, approach, noted, model, risk, effect, erg


and 3 can be applied when the QALY gain is between 10 and 30 QALYs. The committee discussed the QALY gains associated with volanesorsen. It highlighted that these were below 10 in the analysis that was most plausible to the committee (the exact QALY gains are considered commercial in confidence by the company, so cannot be reported here). The committee concluded that there was no evidence to suggest that volanesorsen would meet the criteria for applying a QALY weight. Cost-effectiveness results 4.33 The committee considered the results of the economic analysis, taking into account the company's base case and the ERG's exploratory scenario analyses. It acknowledged that neither the company's base case nor the ERG scenarios were without flaws. The committee's preferred base case included the following assumptions: • a rate ratio of 0.29 for volanesorsen's protective effect on AP risk • a stopping rate of 10% per year (exponential model) • applying utility data in the model using the ERG's approach of linking utility values to TG levels and health states • a carer utility decrement of 0.02. The committee acknowledged that substantial uncertainties remained about volanesorsen's protective effect on AP risk and applying utility data from the vignette study in the model. It noted that, because of the outstanding uncertainties, the company revised its commercial offer for volanesorsen. This brought the ICER down to £98,013 per QALY gained compared with best supportive care and using the committee's preferred assumptions. Taking this into account, the committee concluded that the most plausible ICER could be considered an effective use of NHS resources for highly specialised technologies. Impact of the technology beyond direct health benefits and on the delivery of the specialised service 4.34 The committee discussed the effects of volanesorsen beyond its direct health benefits and the testimony of the patient experts. It understood from patient and clinical experts that all aspects of patients', families' and carers' lives are affected by the condition. It noted that there could be a significant negative financial effect for families if they have to give up work, but considered this less likely because of the age of the patients. The patient experts explained that volanesorsen has changed their experience of living with FCS, although they still have to restrict dietary fat intake. The committee concluded that volanesorsen may affect patients beyond the direct health benefits, but it noted that the full effect of these
