Volanesorsen for treating familial chylomicronaemia syndrome
KEYWORDS: volanesorsen, committee, clinical, levels, patients, treatment, fcs, people, company, approach, noted, model, risk, effect, erg


they still have to restrict dietary fat intake. The committee concluded that volanesorsen may affect patients beyond the direct health benefits, but it noted that the full effect of these benefits had not been quantified. The committee considered these benefits in its decision making. Other factors 4.35 The committee noted a potential equality issue raised by clinical experts, recognising that FCS prevalence can be higher in some cultural and ethnic groups in the UK. However, it concluded that its recommendation applies equally, regardless of ethnicity, so a difference in disease prevalence does not in itself represent an equality issue. 4.36 The committee was aware that, according to the IN-FOCUS study, having FCS affects the decision of women who may wish to become pregnant. It recognised that people who are pregnant or wish to become pregnant are an important clinical group. However, while not contraindicated in pregnancy, the summary of product characteristics advises that the use of volanesorsen should be avoided during pregnancy. Therefore, the committee concluded that it would be inappropriate to consider pregnant women as a specific subgroup. It also noted that it was not presented with data on the use of volanesorsen during pregnancy, or how the drug could influence the outcome of pregnancy (it does not cross the blood barrier). The committee concluded that any recommendations would apply equally, regardless of pregnancy, so this does not represent an equality issue. 4.37 The committee discussed the innovative nature of volanesorsen, noting that the company considered that the drug's mechanism of action represents a step change in managing FCS. The patient experts explained that having a treatment available would give people with the condition hope, both for themselves and for family members and carers. Conclusion 4.38 The committee recognised that FCS is a rare, serious and, at times, life- threatening condition that can substantially affect the lives of patients, and their families and carers. The committee understood that there is an unmet need for an effective treatment. After considering all available evidence, and the opinions of the clinical and patient experts, the committee agreed that volanesorsen was associated with improved TG levels and likely reduced the risk of clinical outcomes such as AP and abdominal pain in the short term. It concluded that volanesorsen would likely provide some long-term benefits too. However, this was associated with substantial uncertainty, particularly at the licensed dose, which was not used in the
