Volanesorsen for treating familial chylomicronaemia syndrome
KEYWORDS: volanesorsen, committee, clinical, levels, patients, treatment, fcs, people, company, approach, noted, model, risk, effect, erg


term. It concluded that volanesorsen would likely provide some long-term benefits too. However, this was associated with substantial uncertainty, particularly at the licensed dose, which was not used in the clinical trial that provided the evidence base for decision making. 4.39 Overall, the committee considered that the available evidence suggested that volanesorsen could provide important clinical benefits. It considered that there were uncertainties in interpreting the evidence and the company's assumptions in the model, especially around volanesorsen's protective effect on AP and the utility values used in the model. It also noted that volanesorsen did not meet the criteria for a QALY weighting to be applied. Acknowledging the uncertainties and taking into account other benefits of volanesorsen that may not be fully captured in the analysis, the committee concluded that volanesorsen can be considered a cost-effective use of NHS resources for highly specialised technologies. Therefore, the committee recommended volanesorsen as an option for treating FCS. 5 Implementation 5.1 Section 8(6) of the National Institute for Health and Care Excellence (Constitution and Functions) and the Health and Social Care Information Centre (Functions) Regulations 2013 requires clinical commissioning groups, NHS England and, with respect to their public health functions, local authorities to comply with the recommendations in this evaluation within 3 months of its date of publication. Because volanesorsen has been available through the early access to medicines scheme, NHS England and commissioning groups have agreed to provide funding to implement this guidance 30 days after publication. 5.2 The Welsh ministers have issued directions to the NHS in Wales on implementing NICE highly specialised technologies guidance. When a NICE highly specialised technologies guidance recommends the use of a drug or treatment, or other technology, the NHS in Wales must usually provide funding and resources for it within 2 months of the first publication of the final evaluation document. 5.3 When NICE recommends a treatment 'as an option', the NHS must make sure it is available within the period set out in the paragraph above. This means that, if a patient has familial chylomicronaemia syndrome and the doctor responsible for their care thinks that volanesorsen is the right treatment, it should be available for use, in line with NICE's recommendations.
