Patent ductus arteriosus overview
KEYWORDS: ductus, arteriosus, ductus arteriosus, heart, pda, pulmonary, patent, patent ductus, left, infants, congenital, artery, pulmonary artery, findings, child


Overview Patent Ductus Arteriosus (PDA) is a remnant of the distal sixth aortic arch and connects the pulmonary artery at the junction of the main pulmonary artery and the origin of the left pulmonary artery to the proximal descending aorta just after the origin of the left subclavian artery. Normally, the ductus closes within a few hours or days of birth; when it does not, the result is patent ductus arteriosus. This defect is common in premature infants but rare in full-term infants. Symptoms include shortness of breath and cardiac arrhythmia, and may progress to congestive heart failure if left uncorrected. Anatomy Patent ductus arteriosus is a heart condition that is normal but reverses soon after birth. In a persistent PDA, there is an irregular transmission of blood between two of the most important arteries (aorta and pulmonary artery) in close proximity to the heart. Although the ductus arteriosus normally seals off within a few days, in PDA, the newborn's ductus arteriosus does not close but remains patent. Historical Perspective PDA is a congenital heart defect when a child's ductus arteriosus fails to close after birth, producing a heart murmur described in 1898 by Gibson as the classic machinery murmur. Pathophysiology The pathophysiological consequences depend on the size of the defect and the pulmonary vascular resistance. Causes Causes of patent ductus arteriosus is not known. However, increased incidence have been associated with mother's rubella and genetic causes Epidemiology and Demographics The PDA is commonly found in infants and constitutes only 2% of all congenital defects found in adults. The incidence is greater is in children who are born prematurely with history of perinatal asphyxia and infants with congenital rubella. Risk Factors Like many congenital heart disease, the cause of patent ductus arteriosus is not clear. Clinical studies suggest that the genetic and environmental factors both play an important role during the pregnancy. Natural History, Complications and Prognosis The natural history of unoperated patients of patent ductus arteriosus depends on the amount of left to right shunting. The left to right shunting, in turn, depends on the size of the ductus and the difference in resistance between the left and right side of heart. PDA can cause complications such as heart failure, infective endocarditis, rhythm disturbance, pulmonary hypertension and Eisenmenger syndrome. Diagnosis Laboratory Findings Polycythemia may be present if the child has any other congenital heart disease. Hypoxemia or hypercarbia may
