Patent ductus arteriosus overview
KEYWORDS: ductus, arteriosus, ductus arteriosus, heart, pda, pulmonary, patent, patent ductus, left, infants, congenital, artery, pulmonary artery, findings, child


failure, infective endocarditis, rhythm disturbance, pulmonary hypertension and Eisenmenger syndrome. Diagnosis Laboratory Findings Polycythemia may be present if the child has any other congenital heart disease. Hypoxemia or hypercarbia may be present. Chest X Ray The findings on chest x ray depends on the degree of shunting between left and right system. MRI Magnetic resonance imaging can be helpful as a diagnostic tool in conditions where the echocardiographic findings are inconclusive. CT Computed tomography can be helpful as a diagnostic tool in conditions where the echocardiographic findings are inconclusive. Echocardiography Echocardiogram is the non-invasive method and can diagnose patent ductus arteriosus. Echo along with doppler can be used to visualize the shunt from the aorta to the left pulmonary artery. Other Imaging Findings Cardiac Catheterization Cardiac catheterization serves to establish the presence of a PDA by assessment of the increase of oxygen in the pulmonary artery. It also serves to identify the anatomy of the PDA, the severity of a left-to-right shunt, and the presence of pulmonary hypertension. Treatment Medical Therapy Preterm Infants Prostaglandin E2 plays a key role in maintaining the patency of ductus arteriosus before birth. Thus, prostaglandin E2 inhibitors are used as a therapeutic options to close the patent ductus arteriosus. Term and Older Children In term infants and older patients, the prostaglandin E2 inhibitors (indomethacin and ibuprofen) have not shown to be effective. This is so because the ductus in premature baby is different histological from in older patients. As a result, pharmacologic therapy is only used routinely in preterm infants. Surgery Infants without overt symptoms may simply be monitored as outpatients, while symptomatic PDA can be treated with both surgical and non-surgical methods. Surgically, the ductus arteriosus may be closed by ligation, wherein the DA is manually tied shut, or with intravascular coils or plugs that lead to the formation of a thrombus in the duct. Surgical ligation of the PDA can be accomplished with excellent results in uncomplicated patients. Recent experience with transcatheter closure has also been favorable, being today the procedure of choice for most patients.In certain cases it may be beneficial to the newborn to prevent the closure of the ductus arteriosus. For example, in transposition of the great vessels, a PDA may prolong the child's life until surgical correction is possible. The ductus arteriosus can be induced to remain open by administering prostaglandin analogs. Primary Prevention The development of a fetal
