Ectopic Supraventricular Arrhythmias
KEYWORDS: atrial, tachycardia, beats, rate, atrial tachycardia, heart, sinus, rhythm, beats minute, minute, usually, junctional, ectopic, heart rate, escape


from atrial tachycardia by being slower with an arbitrary rate cut-off (usually 100 or 120 beats/minute). Junctional escape beats are ectopic beats that emerge after long sinus pauses or sinus arrest when not terminated by an atrial escape beat. The "junction" includes the atrioventricular (AV) node, His bundle, and adjacent atrial tissue that produce escape beats that cannot be more specifically localized by the ECG. They may be single or multiple; escape beats from a single junctional focus may produce a continuous rhythm (called ectopic or escape junctional rhythm). Heart rate is typically slow (35 to 50 beats/minute), P wave morphology typically shows low to high atrial activation (negative P waves in leads II, III, aVF), and P waves are located immediately before (< 0.1 second), during (thus hidden), or immediately after (< 0.1 second) the QRS complex. Focal atrial tachycardia Focal atrial tachycardia is a regular rhythm caused by consistent, rapid atrial activation from a single atrial focus. Heart rate is usually 150 to 200 beats/minute; however, with a very rapid atrial rate, nodal dysfunction, and/or digitalis toxicity, AV block may be present, and ventricular rate may be slower. Mechanisms include abnormal automaticity, triggered activity, and micro-reentry. Focal atrial tachycardia is the least common (5 to 10%) form of paroxysmal supraventricular tachycardia (4) and usually occurs in patients with a structural heart disorder. Other causes include atrial irritation (eg, pericarditis), medications (eg, digoxin), alcohol, and toxic gas inhalation. Symptoms are those of other tachycardias (eg, light-headedness, dizziness, palpitations, and rarely syncope). When focal atrial tachycardia is incessant, it may lead to a tachycardic cardiomyopathy and heart failure. Diagnosis is by electrocardiography (ECG); P waves, which differ in morphology from normal sinus P waves, precede QRS complexes but may be hidden within the preceding T wave (see figure Focal Atrial Tachycardia). 3/6 Focal Atrial Tachycardia This narrow QRS tachycardia arises from an abnormal automatic focus or micro-reentry. P waves precede the QRS complexes; it is often a long RP interval tachycardia (PR < RP) but may be a short RP tachycardia (PR > RP) if atrioventricular nodal conduction is slow. Vagal maneuvers may be used to slow the heart rate, allowing visualization of P waves when they are hidden, but these maneuvers do not usually terminate the arrhythmia (because the AV node is not an obligate part of the arrhythmia circuit). Acute treatment begins with IV adenosine, which may terminate
