Ectopic Supraventricular Arrhythmias
KEYWORDS: atrial, tachycardia, beats, rate, atrial tachycardia, heart, sinus, rhythm, beats minute, minute, usually, junctional, ectopic, heart rate, escape


these maneuvers do not usually terminate the arrhythmia (because the AV node is not an obligate part of the arrhythmia circuit). Acute treatment begins with IV adenosine, which may terminate atrial tachycardias due to adenosine- sensitive delayed after depolarizations (DAD) that result from intracellular calcium overload (one form of triggered activity) or reveal the mechanism by producing AV block without termination of the tachycardia. Acute treatment includes discontinuing digoxin therapy when this is the cause. The ventricular response rate may be slowed with an IV beta-blocker,IV verapamil, or IV diltiazem (5), although this is often unsuccessful. The atrial arrhythmia may be terminated by IV procainamide, IV flecainide, or IV amiodarone. An episode may also be terminated by direct current cardioversion. Pharmacologic approaches to prevention of focal atrial tachycardia include beta-blockers, non- dihydropyridine calcium channel blockers, and/or antiarrhythmic medications in class Ia, Ic, or III (5). Transcatheter ablation of focal atrial tachycardia, which is effective and reasonably safe, is the preferred approach for chronic prophylaxis. Multifocal atrial tachycardia Multifocal atrial tachycardia (chaotic atrial tachycardia) is an irregularly irregular rhythm caused by the random discharge of multiple ectopic atrial foci. By definition, heart rate is > 100 beats/minute. On ECG, P-wave morphology differs from beat to beat, and there are ≥ 3 distinct P-wave morphologies. The presence of P waves distinguishes multifocal atrial tachycardia from atrial fibrillation. Except for the rate, features are the same as those of wandering atrial pacemaker. Symptoms, when they occur, are those of rapid tachycardia. Multifocal atrial tachycardia can be due to an underlying pulmonary disorder such as chronic obstructive pulmonary disease, especially when accompanied by hypoxia, acidosis, theophylline-intoxication, or a combination. Less commonly, it is caused by underlying cardiac disease such as coronary artery disease, and electrolyte abnormalities such as hypokalemia. Treatment is 4/6 directed at the underlying disorder. When therapy directed at the arrhythmia is required, the most effective agents are IV magnesium, IV verapamil, and a beta-blocker (5). Treatment with digoxin, class I or III antiarrhythmic medications, or cardioversion is usually ineffective (5). Wandering atrial pacemaker Wandering atrial pacemaker (multifocal atrial rhythm) is an irregularly irregular rhythm caused by the random discharge of multiple ectopic atrial foci. By definition, heart rate is ≤ 100 beats/minute. Except for the rate, features are the same as those of multifocal atrial tachycardia. Treatment is directed at causes, which tend to be the same as the causes of
