Ectopic Supraventricular Arrhythmias
KEYWORDS: atrial, tachycardia, beats, rate, atrial tachycardia, heart, sinus, rhythm, beats minute, minute, usually, junctional, ectopic, heart rate, escape


beats/minute. Except for the rate, features are the same as those of multifocal atrial tachycardia. Treatment is directed at causes, which tend to be the same as the causes of atrial premature beats. Nonparoxysmal junctional tachycardia Nonparoxysmal junctional tachycardia is caused by abnormal automaticity in the AV node or adjacent tissue, which typically follows open heart surgery, acute inferior myocardial infarction, myocarditis, or digitalis toxicity. Heart rate is 60 to 120 beats/minute; thus, symptoms are usually absent. ECG shows regular, normal-appearing QRS complexes without identifiable P waves or with retrograde P waves (inverted in the inferior leads) that occur shortly before (< 0.1 second) or after the QRS complex. The rhythm is distinguished from paroxysmal supraventricular tachycardia by the lower heart rate and gradual onset and offset. Treatment is directed at the underlying heart disorder. Junctional ectopic tachycardia Junctional ectopic tachycardia (JET) is a rare (< 1%) supraventricular tachycardia that is caused by enhanced automaticity, abnormal automaticity, or triggered activity in the AV node, His bundle, or adjacent atrial tissue; the automaticity may be congenital (occurring in utero or in the first 6 months of life), postoperative (in children after heart surgery that includes surgery near the junction), or in adults with myocardial ischemia or digoxin-intoxication (6). Heart rate is 200 to 250 beats/minute in children; thus, a tachycardia-induced cardiomyopathy and heart failure may result. JET is distinguished from nonparoxysmal junctional tachycardia by the faster rate and the sudden onset-sudden/offset character of JET. JET is rare in adults, and the rate is slower, in the range of 120 to 200 beats/minute. Antiarrhythmic pharmacotherapy may be successful with amiodarone, flecainide, ivabradine, procainamide, propranolol, or verapamil (5). Transcatheter ablation is less successful than in other supraventricular tachycardias and has a higher risk of inadvertent creation of AV block.
