Florid Cushing’s Syndrome
KEYWORDS: adrenal, cortisol, acth, syndrome, cushing, disease, patients, table, treatment, cushing syndrome, diagnosis, clinical, used, hydroxylase, test


by missense mutation (<1%) Endogenous CS is more common in women. Corticotrophin (ACTH)-dependent CS is caused mainly by a pituitary corticotroph adenoma (Cushing’s disease, CD) secreting ACTH, or by an extra-pituitary tumor (ectopic ACTH syndrome, EAS, ( Table 4 ). ACTH-independent CS is caused by unilateral adrenocortical tumors or by bilateral adrenal hyperplasia or dysplasia. In ACTH-dependent CS, elevated ACTH secretion results in excess adrenal gland cortisol secretion. The normal cortisol feedback mechanism of the hypothalamic-pituitary-adrenal (HPA) axis is distorted, with loss of the circadian rhythm, excess cortisol production, and loss of normal suppression to the exogenous administration of glucocorticoids. EAS can have a rapid onset with severe features, although in some patients a paraneoplastic wasting syndrome can mask the hypercortisolism. The metabolic abnormalities such as hyperglycemia and hypokalemia tend to be more florid in EAS. Table 4 Tumors More Frequently Associated with Ectopic ACTH Syndrome View in own window Tumors Percentage reported (%) Small cell lung carcinoma 3.3-50 Bronchial carcinoids 5-40 Islet cell tumors/ pancreatic carcinoids 7.5-25 Thymic carcinoids 5-42 Pheochromocytoma 2.5-25 Medullary thyroid carcinoma 2-8 Gastrinoma 5 Tumour not identified 12-37.5 In ACTH-independent CS, the most common pathology is an adrenal adrenocortical adenoma (AAA) or carcinoma (AAC) (Table 3). Adrenal adenomas occur most often around 35 years of age and are more common in women with an incidence of approximately 0.6 per million per year. The incidence of ACC is approximately 0.2 per million per year. Different frequencies have been observed in childhood ( Table 5 ). Table 5 Cushing’s Syndrome Presence In Children View in own window Age group Mean age (yr) McCune Albright syndrome infants 1.2 Adrenal adrenocortical carcinoma young children 4.5 Ectopic ACTH syndrome (rare) older children 10.1 Primary pigmented nodular adrenal disease adolescents 13.0 Cushing’s disease adolescents 14.1 DIAGNOSTIC TESTS NEEDED AND SUGGESTED Diagnostic assessment is usually prompted by clinical suspicion in cases of florid CS seen as medical emergencies. In the investigation of CS, the initial biochemical tests should ideally have maximal sensitivity rather than specificity in order to identify individuals with the mild forms of this rare disease; later, more specific tests are used to exclude false positives ( Table 6 ). Hypercortisolemia must be established before any attempt at the differential diagnosis. A combination of the following tests is initially used: 24-h urinary free cortisol (UFC), ideally measured by liquid chromatography tandem-mass spectrometry to improve accuracy, low-dose dexamethasone suppression test (LDDST)
