Florid Cushing’s Syndrome
KEYWORDS: adrenal, cortisol, acth, syndrome, cushing, disease, patients, table, treatment, cushing syndrome, diagnosis, clinical, used, hydroxylase, test


20% specific for CD; h-CRH: ACTH > 105%/ or cortisol >14; sensitivity:94%; BIPPS ACTH pituitary-to-periphery gradient Basal central-to-peripheral ratio > 2, or post-CRH>3: CD; sensitivity/speciﬁcity: 94% ACTH levels (±potassium, bicarbonate) < 1.1pmol/L (5pg/mL) ACTH-independent CS; > 3.3pmol/L (15pg/mL) ACTH-dependent pathologies; in-between further investigation BIPPS: Bilateral inferior petrosal sinus sampling; CRH: corticotrophin releasing hormone; CS: Cushing’s syndrome; h-CRH: recombinant human; CRH HDDST: High-dose dexamethasone suppression test; iv: intravenous; o-CRH: ovine-sequence CRH If ACTH is very low or undetectable, then the next step is imaging of the adrenals. ( Table 8 ). High-resolution computed tomography (CT) scanning of the adrenal glands gives the best resolution of adrenal anatomy and it is accurate for masses >1cm allowing evaluation of the contralateral gland. A mass >5 cm in diameter is considered to be malignant until proven otherwise. Table 8 Adrenal Gland Imaging In Different Types Of Cushing’s Syndrome View in own window Disease Adrenal gland morphology Adrenal tumours typically unilateral mass + atrophic contralateral gland PPNAD normal or slightly lumpy (multiple small nodules); not enlarged AIMAH bilaterally huge (>5cm) with nodular pattern ACTH-dependent forms of CS enlarged (70%) Cushing’s disease Enlarged ± nodules; adrenal hyperplasia not always symmetrical ± adrenal autonomy EAS virtually always homogeneously enlarged Exogenous administrationof glucocorticoids adrenal atrophy and very small glands. AIMAH: • ACTH-independent bilateral macronodular adrenal hyperplasia; EAS: ectopic ACTH syndrome; PPNAD: primary pigmented nodular adrenal disease Go to: THERAPY The goals of treatment are the normalization of cortisol levels with a reversal of clinical symptoms. However, it is important in the short-term to manage the metabolic problems associated with florid CS. Diabetes needs to be controlled in the standard manner, often requiring insulin , while the blood pressure will also require urgent attention. Hypokalemia is a problem in almost all patients with EAS and some 10% of patients with other etiologies. Spironolactone at a dose of 50 or 100mg is usually effective, but triamterene is sometimes a good alternative. These patients also have a high pro-thrombotic tendency, and we would usually use sc heparin at prophylactic doses as opposed to severe cases where low molecular weight heparins should be used at therapeutic doses. Where the mental changes are severe and causing problems in management, haloperido l may be necessary to calm the patient, although there is also some experience with olanzapine . These patients are at high risk of sepsis, often with minimal clinical signs, and any such
