Florid Cushing’s Syndrome
KEYWORDS: adrenal, cortisol, acth, syndrome, cushing, disease, patients, table, treatment, cushing syndrome, diagnosis, clinical, used, hydroxylase, test


necessary to calm the patient, although there is also some experience with olanzapine . These patients are at high risk of sepsis, often with minimal clinical signs, and any such infection must be vigorously treated. This includes bacterial, fungal and viral causes, as is seen in other immunosuppressed patients. In terms of specific treatment of the hypercortisolemia ( Table 9 ), where available metyrapone is rapid in onset and highly effective, but doses up to 1g qid may be required. Osilodrostat, displaying a similar profile but with higher potency and a better adverse effect profile, seems a promising currently experimental drug. Ketoconazole can be used additionally or in place of metyrapone, although its onset of action is slower, occurring over several days: up to 400mg tid may be used. As the dose is titrated upwards close monitoring of liver function tests is important. Levoketoconazole may have a better safety profile particularly regarding hepatotoxicity and is currently under trial. When neither drug alone or in combination is effective or tolerated, then intravenous etomidate at sub-anesthetic doses may be very useful: it acts within hours and is almost always very effective but should be administered in an intensive care unit. Finally, if all else fails, mifepristone 400-800mg daily can reduce the symptoms and signs of CS but there two caveats; serum cortisol cannot be used as marker of efficacy and the patient can become Addisonian unless care is taken, and severe hypokalemia may be induced (this is treatable with spironolactone). In patients with severe infection, the serum cortisol should be lowered to a level compatible with that seen in other patients with life-threatening infection, which we take as 600-1000 nmol/L. Some would prophylactically treat for the possibility of pneumocytis carinii pnemonia. In the long-term, surgical removal of the tumor of ACTH-dependent or ACTH-independent origin is the first-line therapeutic approach. Anti-glucocorticoid medical treatment is usually required before surgery to reverse the metabolic consequences and poor healing or in patients who cannot undergo surgical procedures because of co-morbidities, or who are unwilling to receive other types of treatment. Table 9 Medical Treatment: Adrenal Secretion Inhibitors Or Adrenolytic Drugs View in own window Drugs Drawbacks Blockage Metyrapone Escape phenomenon; hypertension, hypokalemia, edema; women: hirsutism 11ß-hydroxylase Osilodrostat Possible escape phenomenon, weight gain, edema, hypernatremia, gastrointestinal effects, fatigue, headache, hypokalemia, 11ß-hydroxylase and aldosterone synthase Ketoconazole Escape phenomenon; men: gynecomastia, hypogonadism; mild liver enzyme elevation; rarely: liver failure
