Florid Cushing’s Syndrome
KEYWORDS: adrenal, cortisol, acth, syndrome, cushing, disease, patients, table, treatment, cushing syndrome, diagnosis, clinical, used, hydroxylase, test


Osilodrostat Possible escape phenomenon, weight gain, edema, hypernatremia, gastrointestinal effects, fatigue, headache, hypokalemia, 11ß-hydroxylase and aldosterone synthase Ketoconazole Escape phenomenon; men: gynecomastia, hypogonadism; mild liver enzyme elevation; rarely: liver failure cytochromeP450 enzymes (17,20-lyase; cholesterol side-chain cleavage,16a-/ 17a-/ 18-/ 11ß-hydroxylase Levoketoconazole better safety and efficacy compared to ketoconazole mainly 21-hydroxylase, 17α-hydroxylase, 11β-hydroxylase Etomidate Sedation 11ß-hydroxylase; 17ß-hydroxylase 17,20-lyase; cholesterol side chain cleavage Fluconazole Not well studied; possibly better tolerated compared to ketoconazole As ketoconazole Mitotane Slow onset of action; digestive symptoms; neurotoxicity; hypercholesterolemia Cholesterol side-chain cleavage 11ß- and 18-hydroxylase 3ß-hydroxysteroid dehydrogenase Compounds targeting glucocorticoid function: Glucocorticoid antagonists mifepristone No follow-up marker Competitive binding to the glucocorticoid, androgen and progestin receptors In patients with CD trans-sphenoidal surgery (TSS) offers the potential to leave the remaining pituitary function intact. Initial remission rate is 60-80% but with a recurrence rate of up to 20% after prolonged follow-up. Macroadenoma remission rates are lower. Reoperation is possible. Hypocortisolemia in the immediate postoperative period needs glucocorticoid replacement treatment until HPA axis recovery. Postoperative concentration of cortisol <50nmol/L defines cure but is not predictive of no recurrence. After surgery failure, conventional fractionated external beam radiotherapy achieves control of hypercortisolemia in approximately 50–60% of patients within 3-5 years but with long-term hypopituitarism, and delayed effectiveness; this treatment seems more effective in children. Stereotactic radiosurgery has also been reported to be effective with probably the same time of onset of control, but as the beam is more focused there may be less hypopituitarism; the tumor needs to be well clear of the optic chiasm. Resection of the causative tumor is the optimum treatment for EAS. If this is not feasible because of metastatic or occult disease an individualized approach has to be used. In any cause of ACTH-dependent CS, bilateral adrenalectomy induces a rapid resolution of the clinical features after first-line treatment failure or when drugs are not effective or tolerated or when the rapid control of hypercortisolemia is crucial; however, patients will need lifelong treatment with glucocorticoids and mineralocorticoids besides the careful education and the meticulous evaluation of patients. Adrenal gland removal laparoscopically is the treatment of choice for unilateral adrenal adenomas. Prognosis after removal of an adenoma is good, as opposed to ACC which is poor. Those latter tumors are not usually radiosensitive or chemosensitive and the most important predictor of favorable outcome in this disease is complete resection. In AIMAH, cortisol secretion can be controlled in some cases
