CLINICAL CASE REPORT
KEYWORDS: liver, growth, hormone, disease, growth hormone, liver disease, sld, patient, replacement, steatohepatitis, deficiency, case, causes, chronic, elevated


increased mitochondrial reactive mass removed, so he was treated with thyroid, oxygen species that cause lipid peroxidation and steroid, growth, and sex hormone replacement. inflammation (8,9). Evidence of hepatic steatosis He presented with elevated liver enzymes, nor- and inflammation may be seen on liver imaging mal liver function, elevated cholesterol, obesity, or on pathohistologic findings from liver biopsy andnofindingsofliverdiseaseonphysicalexami- and can aid in the diagnosis of liver disease (9). nation. Investigations into causes of liver disease, Steatohepatitis may advance to liver fibrosis, cir- including infectious, autoimmune, drug-induced, rhosis, hepatocellular carcinoma, liver failure, and and genetic cause, were negative. An abdomi- mayrequireforlivertransplant(3). nal ultrasound showed liver inflammation and The development of SLD has been reported to enlargement. Liver-toxic medications were with- beassociatedwithhypothalamicandpituitarydys- drawnbutlaboratoryfindingsremainedthesame. function, in particular growth hormone deficiency Aliver biopsy showed inflammation and scarring (3,5,10,11). Growth hormone stimulates the pro- of the liver tissue and determined that due to his duction of insulin-like growth factor 1 (IGF-1) in inadequate production of pituitary hormones, he the liver and exerts its physiologic effects through developed growth hormone deficiency, metabolic increasing lipolysis in adipose tissue, increasing dysfunction, and ultimately liver disease. The pa- beta-oxidation of free fatty acids, and downregu- tient’s case is unique, as he was found to have latingdenovolipogenesisinhepatocytes(3,12,13). severeliverdamage,andlong-termtreatmentwith IGF-1 displays anti-inflammatory and anti-fibrotic growth hormone therapy did not lead to any im- propertiesintheliver(3).Individualswithhypopi- provement. Physicians should consider fatty liver tuitarismandresultinggrowthhormonedeficiency disease as a complication of pituitary dysfunc- may experience metabolic changes, such as cen- tion and follow patients closely given the high tralobesity,hyperlipidemia,andinsulinresistance likelihoodofdiseaseprogression. (8,11,14). Derangements in the growth hormone andIGF-1pathwaymaycontributetothedevelop- mentofSLDandsteatohepatitisbypromotinglipid INTRODUCTION accumulation in hepatocytes, insulin resistance, Metabolic dysfunction-associated steatotic liver andliverinflammation(1,4).Therehavebeendocu- disease (MASLD) is a leading cause of steatotic mentedcasesofpatientswithhypopituitarismwho liver disease (SLD) and a large contributor to displayedrapidweightgainanddevelopedhyper- liver-related morbidity and mortality (1,2). The lipidemia, hyperglycemia, and SLD after the onset presenceofsteatosisandtheaccumulationoflipids of hormonal dysfunction (2,14). Growth hormone within hepatocytes is a defining characteristic of replacementtherapyhasbeenshowntoreverseab- MASLD(3,4).Severalcardiometabolic riskfactors, normal liver enzymes and improve steatosis and 512 CanadianLiverJournalNovember2024 Steatoticliverdiseasearisinginanasymptomatic20-year-oldmanwithpanhypopituitarismandelevatedtransaminases Table1:Patientlaboratoryvaluesattimeofreferraltothehepatologyclinicwithnormalranges LaboratoryTest InitialResult ReferenceRange AlanineTransaminase(μkat/L) 9.23 0–0.9 AspartateTransaminase(μkat/L) 4.28 0.08–0.75 AlkalinePhosphatase(μkat/L) 2.92 0.63–2.5 Gamma-GlutamylTransferase(μkat/L) 6.05 0–0.82 TotalBilirubin(μmol/L) 15.9 0.0–20.4 InternationalNormalizedRatio 1.0 0.8–1.2 Albumin(g/L) 50 35–50 Platelets(×109/L) 261 150–350 Cholesterol(mmol/L) 7.2 – Triglycerides(mmol/L) 2.5 <1.7 Low-densityLipoprotein(mmol/L) 4.8 – fibrosis, highlighting its importance as a potential with a BMI of 31 (Table 1). There were no ex- therapy in patients with SLD (2,11). The following trahepatic manifestations of chronic liver
