CLINICAL CASE REPORT
KEYWORDS: liver, growth, hormone, disease, growth hormone, liver disease, sld, patient, replacement, steatohepatitis, deficiency, case, causes, chronic, elevated


highlighting its importance as a potential with a BMI of 31 (Table 1). There were no ex- therapy in patients with SLD (2,11). The following trahepatic manifestations of chronic liver disease case describes a 20-year-old man with panhypopi- or liver-related decompensation, such as ascites, tuitarism who was found to have significantly hepaticencephalopathy,peripherallegswelling,or elevated liver enzymes with steatohepatitis and varices. He had no family history of liver disease. fibrosisseenonliverbiopsy. Investigations into causes of chronic liver disease included elevated cholesterol markers (Table 1), normalimmunoglobulins,negativehepatitisCan- CASE tibodyscreen,non-reactivehepatitisBsurfaceanti- A20-year-old man was referred to the hepatology gen, normal ceruloplasmin (264 mg/L), negative Thepatienthadexperiencedheadachesofincreas- (5.4%),normalalpha-1-antitrypsin(28.15μmol/L), ing frequency and intensity for three years before negative anti–liver-kidney-microsomal antibody, diagnosis of a Rathke cleft cyst in his pituitary negativeantimitochondrialantibody,negativeanti- gland with associated pituitary dysfunction. Fol- smooth muscle antibody, and normal tissue trans- < lowingtranssphenoidalsurgeryin2017,hestarted glutaminase immunoglobulin A ( 0.5 U/mL). hormonereplacementtherapywithlevothyroxine, There was no history of alcohol, illicit drug, hydrocortisone, somatropin (growth hormone), over-the-countermedication,orherbalsupplement and gonadotropin alpha (testosterone). He was use. An abdominal ultrasound showed moder- first seen by the neuropituitary specialist in May ate hepatic steatosis with mild hepatomegaly and 2022, where his IGF-1 level was 339 ng/mL (nor- splenomegaly. mal range, 105–346 ng/mL) and testosterone level The patient’s growth hormone and testosterone was34.9nmol/L(normalrange,8.0–32.0nmol/L). therapy continued to be ‘held’. However, his The growth hormone medication was withdrawn liver enzymes remained elevated over the next as therapy was not indicated since he was post- year (alanine transaminase level, 8.98 μkat/L; as- pubertal. Subsequent IGF-1 measurements were partate transaminase level,6.39 μkat/L; alkaline low (80 ng/mL in July 2022 and 30 ng/mL in phosphatase level 2.47 μkat/L; gamma-glutamyl April 2024). He was also found to have elevated transferase level, 6.03 μkat/L), with liver function transaminase levels, so testosterone therapy was remaining normal. A percutaneous liver biopsy discontinued out of caution (Table 1). Of note, the revealed grade 2 of 3 steatohepatitis and mild patient reported liver enzyme abnormalities since macrovesicular steatosis, in transition to cirrhosis 2017. However, we lacked access to these results with stage 3-4 of 4 fibrosis (Figure 1). The iron because his care before 2022 was in a different stainintheliverbiopsywasnegative.AFibroScan country. demonstrated a liver stiffness score of 21.8 kPa, At the time of initial assessment by a hepa- whichalignedwiththebiopsyresultandindicated tologist in February 2023, he had normal liver advanced chronic liver disease. The pathologic function and had a normal physical examination findings suggested causes of chronic liver disease, CanadianLiverJournalNovember2024
