CLINICAL CASE REPORT
KEYWORDS: liver, growth, hormone, disease, growth hormone, liver disease, sld, patient, replacement, steatohepatitis, deficiency, case, causes, chronic, elevated


whichalignedwiththebiopsyresultandindicated tologist in February 2023, he had normal liver advanced chronic liver disease. The pathologic function and had a normal physical examination findings suggested causes of chronic liver disease, CanadianLiverJournalNovember2024 513 NWiebe,AStueck,MMcLeod Figure1:(A)Liverparenchymashowingmacrovesicularsteatosis(*)andsteatohepatitisincludinghepatocyteswithballooning degenerationandpoorlyformedMallory-Denkbodies(arrows)andinflammation(arrowheads).Hematoxylin–eosinstain;original magnification, ×300. (B) The same area with extensive pericellular “chicken wire” fibrosis. Masson trichrome stain, original magnification,×300 includingmetabolicdysfunction-associatedsteato- insulin resistance, accumulation of lipids in hepa- hepatitis, drug-induced, or growth hormone defi- tocytes, and increased oxidative stress (9,14). The ciency, and ruled out other rare causes, including severity of SLD has been found to be inversely re- lysosomal acid lipase deficiency, Wilson disease, lated to growth hormone levels (3). In our case, and hemochromatosis. Based on the severity of thepatienthadahistoryofpanhypopituitarismof his biopsy findings, the patient’s liver disease unknown duration due to a Rathke cleft cyst. His was presumed to be largely due to panhypopitu- panhypopituitarism appeared corrected on hor- itarism with resultant metabolic dysfunction and monereplacement,andhepresentedwithanormal intermittentgrowthhormonedeficiency. IGF-1level.However,herapidlydevelopedgrowth The hepatologist continues to follow the patient hormonedeficiencyoncereplacementtherapywas with bloodwork every four months and abdom- discontinued and this coincided with significant inal imaging every six months. They have ad- worsening of transaminitis. He was found to with hormone replacement therapy based on age- atitis and advanced fibrosis at only 20-years-old. appropriate and clinical guidelines. He has been This is suggestive that the severity of his liver restarted on testosterone therapy, but he has not disease had been driven by panhypopituitarism, resumed growth hormone replacement due to in- specifically growth hormone deficiency, and com- surance coverage. The patient continues to be free pounded by metabolic dysfunction (obesity and dominal ultrasound remains unchanged, despite The initial step in ruling out causes of elevated persistentlyelevatedliverenzymes. transaminases and chronic liver disease in our pa- tientwaswithdrawingmedicationsknowntohave adverse effects on the liver. The patient’s growth DISCUSSION hormone and testosterone replacement medica- TheprevalenceofMASLDisknowntobehigherin tions were withdrawn, as they have been shown patientswithpanhypopituitarism,andspecifically to cause transient increases in serum liver enzyme growth hormone deficiency, with the underly- levels (15–17). Although, treatment with corticos- ing mechanisms consisting of the development of teroids has been shown to cause steatohepatitis, it 514 CanadianLiverJournalNovember2024 Steatoticliverdiseasearisinginanasymptomatic20-year-oldmanwithpanhypopituitarismandelevatedtransaminases rarely causes progression to fibrosis or cirrhosis, would support our hypothesis that growth hor- makingitlesslikelytobethecauseofliverdisease mone deficiency is a major contributor to his liver in our patient (2). Most notably, he is prescribed disease. 15mgofhydrocortisoneaday,whichisconsidered In conclusion, this case report describes an un- a daily physiologic dose in adults. Further inves- usual presentation of SLD with
