CLINICAL CASE REPORT
KEYWORDS: liver, growth, hormone, disease, growth hormone, liver disease, sld, patient, replacement, steatohepatitis, deficiency, case, causes, chronic, elevated


patient (2). Most notably, he is prescribed disease. 15mgofhydrocortisoneaday,whichisconsidered In conclusion, this case report describes an un- a daily physiologic dose in adults. Further inves- usual presentation of SLD with advanced fibro- tigation into the cause of the patient’s SLD proved sis likely related to panhypopituitarism, growth unrevealing.Themarkedalaninetransaminaseand hormone deficiency, and metabolic derangement. aspartate transaminase elevation is uncharacter- Based on his young age at both presentation and istic of most causes of chronic SLD and further diagnosis of advanced chronic liver disease, it is suggests that panhypopituitarism with intermit- imperativeforphysicianstorecognizethatpanhy- tentgrowthhormonedeficiencymaybedrivinghis popituitarism may lead to a more aggressive form disease. ofSLDcomparedtoothercauses,whichclassically There has been documented normalization of progress slowly before causing advanced fibrosis. serumtransaminaselevelsinpatientswithgrowth There is sufficient evidence to support that treat- hormone deficiency and steatohepatitis or in pa- ment with growth hormone, even into adulthood, tients with obesity and MASLD who received maydecreasethelikelihoodofdevelopingSLDby growth hormone replacement for at least six increasingIGF-1levels,andbyultimatelyreducing months(5,9,12,18).However,ourpatientpresented hepatic steatosis, inflammation, and cell damage with elevated liver enzymes despite being on (1,11). Unfortunately, the cost of growth hormone growth hormone replacement for approximately therapyprohibitsourpatientfromcurrentlyreceiv- five years, but, interestingly, transaminitis signif- ing treatment, potentially further worsening his icantly worsened after withdrawing growth hor- liver fibrosis. In the future, the case patient, and mone and testosterone replacement medications. other similar patient presentations, would benefit Previous cases of growth hormone deficiency due from receiving treatment and follow-up as part of topanhypopituitarism,withfindingsofsteatohep- amultidisciplinaryteam,withdifferentphysicians and hepatocyte ballooning, have shown signifi- work, and occupational therapy, given the degree cant improvement in fatty changes of the liver of his multimorbidity, and to assist with enabling and liver function with growth hormone replace- earlier recognition of liver involvement. Endocri- mentoverasix-to-twelve-monthtimeperiod(5,8– nologists and hepatologists should screen for SLD 10). In our patient, despite five years of growth inallpatientswithpanhypopituitarismandgrowth hormone replacement, his SLD may have devel- hormonedeficiencyandarrangelong-termfollow- opedimmediatelyfollowingtheonsetofimpaired up, as disease may occur and progress even if on growthhormonesignaling,whichwasofuncertain adequatehormonereplacement. duration before diagnosis. Replacement therapy may have been insufficient to reverse the liver CONTRIBUTIONS: Conceptualization, N Wiebe, A Stueck, M McLeod; Data curation, N Wiebe, AStueck; damage (1). This case suggests that panhypopi- Writing – Original Draft, N Wiebe, AStueck; Writing – tuitarism can cause rapid progression of fibrosis, ReviewandEditing,NWiebe,AStueck,MMcLeod. even in young individuals, likely due to the inter- playwithmetabolicdysfunctionanditsassociation ETHICSAPPROVAL: N/A with obesity and diabetes mellitus, which has been previously highlighted in a few cases in the INFORMED CONSENT: We confirm that written in-
