Key points from “Diabetes in America”
KEYWORDS: diabetes, risk, people, complications, america, disease, diabetes america, niddk, people diabetes, nih, diabetes complications, data, research, type, type diabetes


Diabetes in America While you may know that diabetes can damage the eyes, kidneys, nerves, and heart, diabetes affects many other parts of the body as well. For example, diabetes doubles risk of some forms of dementia. Also, it not only increases overall cancer risk, but increases specific risk of many types of cancer. These and other important facts are found in Diabetes in America, 3rd Edition—a research resource with comprehensive data on diabetes and its complications in the United States. The resource also includes data about progress made in providing treatments that research has shown can improve diabetes outcomes. Data from Diabetes in America, illustrated here, show how diabetes affects a person from head to toe. Brain People with diabetes have about twice the risk for stroke, a higher risk of dementia, and increased symptoms of depression. Eyes Diabetes increases the risk for eye diseases such as retinopathy, cataracts, and glaucoma, contributing to an overall increased risk of vision loss. Teeth and Gums People with diabetes, especially those with poorly controlled diabetes, have a greater risk for gum disease, a major cause of tooth loss. Ears Diabetes approximately doubles the risk of hearing loss, especially in the speaking range. Heart and Blood Vessels People with diabetes are twice as likely to have heart disease and have an increased risk of peripheral artery disease. Airways Two in three people with diabetes have obstructive sleep apnea, which can lead to fatigue, irritability, and deficits in attention and memory. Liver People with diabetes are more than twice as likely to have nonalcoholic fatty liver disease, which can lead to cirrhosis and liver cancer. Kidneys and Lower Urinary Tract Diabetes is the leading cause of kidney failure and can also lead to complications of the lower urinary tract, such as urinary incontinence and erectile dysfunction. Feet Diabetic foot ulcers are common in people with diabetes. Healing of foot ulcers may take months to years, and ulcers can lead to amputation. Bone Bone fractures, osteoarthritis, and rheumatoid arthritis are more common in people with diabetes. Connect and Continue the Conversation healthinfo@niddk.nih.gov @NIDDKgov www.niddk.nih.gov Diabetes in America, 3rd Edition Diabetes in America, 3rd Edition, is a compilation and assessment of public health, clinical, epidemiologic, and clinical trial data on diabetes and its complications in the United States. Written by leading diabetes experts under the auspices of the NIH’s National Institute of Diabetes and Digestive and
