Key points from “Diabetes in America”
KEYWORDS: diabetes, risk, people, complications, america, disease, diabetes america, niddk, people diabetes, nih, diabetes complications, data, research, type, type diabetes


clinical trial data on diabetes and its complications in the United States. Written by leading diabetes experts under the auspices of the NIH’s National Institute of Diabetes and Digestive and Kidney Diseases (NIDDK), Diabetes in America serves as a reliable scientific resource to convey the scope and impact of diabetes and its complications and medical care, to help guide diabetes health policy and priorities, and to identify research opportunities. Diabetes in America describes the epidemiology of diabetes in the United States; provides data on both the known and lesser-known complications of diabetes; and addresses clinical trials and studies to prevent diabetes, medication use and self-care practices, health care utilization and quality of care, and economic aspects. Search online for “NIDDK Diabetes in America” The Good News About Diabetes in America Type 2 diabetes can be prevented or delayed. The NIDDK-funded Diabetes Prevention Program (DPP) found that people who are at high risk for type 2 diabetes can prevent or delay the disease by losing a modest amount of weight. The diabetes drug metformin was also found to prevent the disease, though to a lesser extent. A version of the NIH’s lifestyle change program is now widely available through the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention’s National DPP, and Medicare will cover eligible participants. People with type 1 diabetes are living longer, healthier lives. The NIDDK-funded Diabetes Control and Complications Trial/Epidemiology of Diabetes Interventions and Complications (DCCT/EDIC) study found that people with type 1 diabetes who kept their blood glucose levels as close to normal as safely possible early in the course of disease could slow the development of eye, kidney, nerve, and heart disease, and lengthen life. These findings have changed the way type 1 diabetes is treated worldwide. Rates of some complications are declining. Improvements in management of diabetes have led to a decline in the frequency of some complications of diabetes. For example, the number of adults with diabetes requiring lower extremity amputations has decreased. The frequency of visual impairment in people with diabetes has also declined. Diabetes doubles the risk of many devastating conditions in the body, quite literally from head to toes. With this third edition of Diabetes in America, we hope to shine a light on the many consequences of this costly and chronic disease and how research continues to improve the outlook for people with or at risk for diabetes or its complications. Written
