Submit a Manuscript: World J Gastroenterol 2016 July 14; 22(26): 6089-6094
KEYWORDS: perforation, bowel, abdominal, intestinal, purpura, ischemia, pain, intestinal perforation, henoch-, hsp, henoch- purpura, peritonitis, treatment, corticosteroid, ileum


Submit a Manuscript: World J Gastroenterol 2016 July 14; 22(26): 6089-6094 Help Desk: ISSN 1007-9327 (print) ISSN 2219-2840 (online) DOI: © 2016 Baishideng Publishing Group Inc. All rights reserved. CASE REPORT Henoch-Schönlein purpura from vasculitis to intestinal perforation: A case report and literature review Butsabong Lerkvaleekul, Suporn Treepongkaruna, Pawaree Saisawat, Pornsri Thanachatchairattana, Napat Angkathunyakul, Nichanan Ruangwattanapaisarn, Soamarat Vilaiyuk Butsabong Lerkvaleekul, Soamarat Vilaiyuk, Division of Open-Access: This article is an open-access article which was Thailand Commons Attribution Non Commercial (CC BY-NC 4.0) license, which permits others to distribute, remix, adapt, build upon this Suporn Treepongkaruna, Division of Gastroenterology, work non-commercially, and license their derivative works on licenses/by-nc/4.0/ Thailand. 10400, Thailand and Therapeutic Radiology, Faculty of Medicine Ramathibodi First decision: April 14, 2016 Author contributions: Lerkvaleekul B designed the report Article in press: May 23, 2016 in patient care and writing the manuscript; Treepongkaruna S, Saisawat P, Thanachatchairattana P, Angkathunyakul N, and Ruangwattanapaisarn N participated in patient care and editing the manuscript; Angkathunyakul N provided the histology and Abstract pathology images; all authors have read and approved the final manuscript. Henoch-Schönlein purpura (HSP) is generally a self- limited vasculitis disease and has a good prognosis. Institutional review board statement: This report was We report a 4-year-old Thai boy who presented with Review Board. eventually developed intestinal ischemia and perforation despite adequate treatment, including corticosteroid Informed consent statement: The legal guardian of the study and intravenous immunoglobulin therapy. Imaging participant provided informed written consent prior to study modalities, including ultrasonography and contrast- enrollment. enhanced computed tomography, could not detect Conflict-of-interest statement: All authors declare that they intestinal ischemia prior to perforation. In this patient, have no conflicts of interest. we also postulated that vasculitis-induced mucosal WJG|www.wjgnet.com 6089 July 14, 2016|Volume 22|Issue 26| Lerkvaleekul B et al. Henoch-Schönlein purpura from vasculitis to intestinal perforation ischemia was a cause of the ulcer, leading to intestinal ischemia and perforation without intussusception perforation, and high-dose corticosteroid could have despite early and adequate corticosteroid therapy. been a contributing factor since the histopathology revealed depletion of lymphoid follicles. Intestinal CASE REPORT perforation in HSP is rare, but life-threatening. Close monitoring and thorough clinical evaluation are A 4-year-old Thai boy was referred to our hospital essential to detect bowel ischemia before perforation, due to persistent severe abdominal pain and seizure. particularly in HSP patients who have hematochezia, He had been hospitalized at a private hospital due to persistent localized abdominal
