Submit a Manuscript: World J Gastroenterol 2016 July 14; 22(26): 6089-6094
KEYWORDS: perforation, bowel, abdominal, intestinal, purpura, ischemia, pain, intestinal perforation, henoch-, hsp, henoch- purpura, peritonitis, treatment, corticosteroid, ileum


before perforation, due to persistent severe abdominal pain and seizure. particularly in HSP patients who have hematochezia, He had been hospitalized at a private hospital due to persistent localized abdominal tenderness and guarding. colicky abdominal pain and palpable purpura for two In highly suspicious cases, exploratory laparotomy may days prior to admission. On admission, the abdomen be needed for the definite diagnosis and prevention of was soft on palpation and not tender. Furthermore, further complications. there was palpable purpuric rash on both legs. His CBC revealed hemoglobin 125 g/L, WBC 11.4 × Key words: Henoch-Schönlein purpura; Corticosteroids; 109/L, platelet 501 × 109/L. ESR was 14 mm/h. Vasculitis; Intestinal perforation; Bowel ischemia; Kidney function was normal; BUN was 1.99 mmol/L, Peritonitis Creatinine was 23 μmol/L, and the urinary analysis showed specific gravity 1.020, no protein, no glucose, © The Author(s) 2016. Published by Baishideng Publishing no blood, no bilirubin, WBC 0-1 cells/HPF, RBC 0-1 Group Inc. All rights reserved. cells/HPF. The serum electrolyte showed sodium 132 mmol/L, potassium 4.2 mmol/L, chloride 94 Core tip: Henoch-Schönlein purpura (HSP) with intestinal perforation during the course of corticosteroid mmol/L, bicarbonate 17.2 mmol/L, and the skin biopsy treatment was a rare condition. We report a HSP demonstrated small vessel vasculitis. Therefore, HSP patient with vasculitis-induced mucosal ischemia, was diagnosed and intravenous methylprednisolone eventually leading to ulcer and intestinal perforation. (IVMP) 2 mg/kg per day was started promptly. His No imaging modality could detect bowel ischemia abdominal pain had improved after the treatment, before perforation. Histopathology of resected bowel however two days later (D5) the pain recurred and also suggested that high-dose corticosteroids might was progressive. Abdominal ultrasonography revealed be a contributing factor to intestinal perforation in no intussusception. Abdominal computed tomography this patient. Early treatment by surgical resection of (CT) showed mild bowel wall edema at duodenum and ischemic bowel can prevent intestinal perforation and proximal jejunum. On day six, he developed status peritonitis, which are life-threatening complications. epilepticus and alteration of consciousness. He was intubated and put on ventilator support. Antiepileptic drug treatment was started. While he was in an Lerkvaleekul B, Treepongkaruna S, Saisawat P, Thanachat- euvolemic state, his serum sodium was 120 mmol/L, chairattana P, Angkathunyakul N, Ruangwattanapaisarn N, urine osmolarity 100 mmol/kg, and serum osmolarity Vilaiyuk S. Henoch-Schönlein purpura from vasculitis to 256 mmol/kg. The etiology of seizure was thought to intestinal perforation: A case report and literature review. World be
