Submit a Manuscript: World J Gastroenterol 2016 July 14; 22(26): 6089-6094
KEYWORDS: perforation, bowel, abdominal, intestinal, purpura, ischemia, pain, intestinal perforation, henoch-, hsp, henoch- purpura, peritonitis, treatment, corticosteroid, ileum


mmol/kg, and serum osmolarity Vilaiyuk S. Henoch-Schönlein purpura from vasculitis to 256 mmol/kg. The etiology of seizure was thought to intestinal perforation: A case report and literature review. World be hyponatremia due to syndrome of inappropriate J Gastroenterol 2016; 22(26): 6089-6094 Available from: URL: antidiuretic hormone. MRI and MRA of the brain DOI: revealed no evidence of central nervous system (CNS) vasculitis. CSF fluid analysis was normal. Blood tests for anti-nuclear antibody, anti-double stranded DNA, and C3 were normal. Since CNS vasculitis could not be excluded, one dose of pulse methylprednisolone (MP) INTRODUCTION 30 mg/kg was commenced. Then he was referred Henoch-Schönlein purpura (HSP) is the most common to our hospital for further management. On the first palpable purpura, arthritis or arthralgia, abdominal examination revealed drowsiness and no abdominal colicky pain, and nephritis. It is multi-systemic small distension or guarding. CBC revealed thrombocytosis vessel vasculitis, 50%-80% of which typically involves (553 × 109/L), WBC 10 × 109/L, and hemoglobin the gastrointestinal tract (GI), causing diffuse colicky 110 g/L. ESR and CRP were 32 mm/h and 5 mg/L pain due to submucosal or subserosal hemorrhage and respectively. Urinalysis and serum creatinine level edema. This GI disease is generally benign and has a were normal. He subsequently regained consciousness good response to corticosteroid therapy in most cases. and was extubated after serum sodium returned However, severe complications such as intussusception, to normal level. The EEG was normal, therefore massive GI bleeding, and intestinal perforation can antiepileptic drug treatment was discontinued. The occur. HSP-associated intestinal perforation is a rare purpura faded away and the abdominal pain markedly complication but it is life-threatening and mortalities improved, therefore IVMP was continued at the have been reported. We present here a pediatric dose of 2 mg/kg per day. Abdominal pain recurred patient with severe HSP who developed intestinal five days after admission to our hospital (D12) with WJG|www.wjgnet.com 6090 July 14, 2016|Volume 22|Issue 26| Lerkvaleekul B et al. Henoch-Schönlein purpura from vasculitis to intestinal perforation cm × 1.5 cm, on the ischemic bowel. The pathological examination macroscopically revealed a large per- forated ulcer with fibrofibrinous exudates (Figure 1). The histopathology revealed mixed inflammatory cell infiltrate with granulation tissue and fibrosis at the base of ulcer. The remaining bowel showed depletion of lymphoid follicles (Peyer’s patch), submucosal and subserosal congestion and diffuse peritonitis (Figure 2). After surgery, his general symptoms gradually improved and abdominal pain resolved. IVMP
