Submit a Manuscript: World J Gastroenterol 2016 July 14; 22(26): 6089-6094
KEYWORDS: perforation, bowel, abdominal, intestinal, purpura, ischemia, pain, intestinal perforation, henoch-, hsp, henoch- purpura, peritonitis, treatment, corticosteroid, ileum


remaining bowel showed depletion of lymphoid follicles (Peyer’s patch), submucosal and subserosal congestion and diffuse peritonitis (Figure 2). After surgery, his general symptoms gradually improved and abdominal pain resolved. IVMP was switched to oral prednisolone, and then discontinued in week 3. The patient was discharged thirteen days after surgery (D31). He has been well without disease Figure 1 Specimen after fixation revealed a perforated ulcer with recurrence at the 4 mo follow-up. The summaries of course of disease are shown in Table 1. A B DISCUSSION This patient developed intestinal perforation due to a bowel ischemia-related ulcer at day 17 after the onset of disease despite receiving corticosteroid and IVIG therapy. HSP-associated intestinal perforation is a rare complication with an estimated prevalence of 0.38%. To the best of our knowledge, only 11 pediatric cases have been reported in the English literature (Table 2). The most common site of perforation is the small intestine, particularly the ileum followed by the jejunum. The pathogenesis of bowel perforation may Figure 2 Histopathologic findings (hematoxylin-eosin staining, result from vasculitis-induced thrombosis, leading to magnification × 40). A: Base of ulcer revealed inflammation, granulation ischemia and consequently total necrosis of the bowel tissue and fibrosis; B: Remaining ileum showed lymphoid follicle depletion, wall. In addition, intussusception and spontaneous submucosal and serosal congestion with diffuse peritonitis. bowel perforation can concurrently occur in children with HSP[3-6]. tenderness and voluntary guarding at the right lower Treatment of HSP remains controversial. Patients quadrant. Abdominal ultrasound revealed diffuse small with mild GI disease may recover without any bowel wall thickening and minimal ascites without therapy. Corticosteroids have been used in patients intussusception. Corticosteroid resistant HSP was with moderate to severe GI involvement as the considered, and intravenous immunoglobulin (IVIG) 2 standard therapy, whereas IVIG is an alternative g/kg was initiated. Two days later (D14), he developed treatment for steroid-resistant disease. Other hematochezia with tenderness and voluntary guarding reported treatment for refractory GI diseases in HSP at the right lower quadrant. Intestinal ischemia was were plasma exchange and immunosuppressive suspected. A contrast-enhanced CT of the whole drugs, including cyclophosphamide, azathioprine, and abdomen was performed and revealed a long segment cyclosporine. Early corticosteroid therapy in HSP of mild circumferential bowel wall thickening with patients results in better resolution of abdominal pain preserved wall enhancement involving jejunum within 24 h and reduces the risk of persistent renal and ileum, but the evidence of bowel
