Submit a Manuscript: World J Gastroenterol 2016 July 14; 22(26): 6089-6094
KEYWORDS: perforation, bowel, abdominal, intestinal, purpura, ischemia, pain, intestinal perforation, henoch-, hsp, henoch- purpura, peritonitis, treatment, corticosteroid, ileum


patients results in better resolution of abdominal pain preserved wall enhancement involving jejunum within 24 h and reduces the risk of persistent renal and ileum, but the evidence of bowel ischemia was disease. In contrast, some studies demonstrated inconclusive. He was also evaluated by pediatric that corticosteroids may increase the risk of bowel surgeons and the continuation of medical treatment perforation through the reduction of mucosal renewal was suggested. Three days later (D17), he developed and lymphoid patches. A presentation of persistent signs of peritonitis with abdominal distension, severe abdominal pain despite corticosteroid the- generalized guarding and tenderness. His body rapy is uncommon and could be due to refractory temperature was 38.3 ℃, blood pressure was 100/60 disease, intussusception and intestinal ischemia. mmHg, pulse rate was 130 beats/min, and respiratory In our case, we postulated that vasculitis-induced rate was 26 breaths/min. Upright abdominal radio- mucosal ischemia was the cause of the ulcer which graph demonstrated intraperitoneal free air. An emer- subsequently perforated, leading to diffuse peritonitis. gency exploratory laparotomy was performed and Based on the histopathological findings of granulation revealed ischemic ileum of 35 cm at 35 cm proximal to tissue and fibrosis at the base of ulcer, we inferred the ileocecal valve and large perforated ulcers, size 3.5 that the perforation happened some time prior to WJG|www.wjgnet.com 6091 July 14, 2016|Volume 22|Issue 26| Lerkvaleekul B et al. Henoch-Schönlein purpura from vasculitis to intestinal perforation Category D1-3 D5 D6 D7 D12 D14 D17 D31 8-[DATE] [DATE] [DATE] [DATE] [DATE] [DATE] [DATE] [DATE] Private hospital This hospital Symptoms Intermittent Abdominal Seizure Regained Abdominal pain Persistent Low grade No abdominal pain, pain consciousness, progressed abdominal pain with fever, severe abdominal purpuric rash progressed abdominal hematochezia abdominal pain pain, normal pain appetite improved, purpura faded away Abdominal signs Soft, mild Generalized Soft, not Localized Localized guarding Distend, Soft, not tenderness voluntary tender guarding and and tenderness at generalized tender guarding tenderness at RLQ guarding RLQ Investigations US - no Hyponatremia Normal EEG US - Diffuse Radiograph - no free Radiograph - intussuscep- MRI/MRA - small bowel air, CT - bowel wall intraperitoneal tion no vasculitis, wall thickening, thickening, normal free air CSF fluid - minimal ascites, homogeneous normal no intussuscep- enhancement tion IVMP (mg/kg/d) 2 1 30 2 2 2 2 Switch to oral prednisolone Treatment Nexium, ET tube, 3% Extubation, NPO, IVIG NPO NPO, ATB, sucralfate NaCl, Keppra, off Keppra 2 gm/kg/dose
