Submit a Manuscript: World J Gastroenterol 2016 July 14; 22(26): 6089-6094
KEYWORDS: perforation, bowel, abdominal, intestinal, purpura, ischemia, pain, intestinal perforation, henoch-, hsp, henoch- purpura, peritonitis, treatment, corticosteroid, ileum


(mg/kg/d) 2 1 30 2 2 2 2 Switch to oral prednisolone Treatment Nexium, ET tube, 3% Extubation, NPO, IVIG NPO NPO, ATB, sucralfate NaCl, Keppra, off Keppra 2 gm/kg/dose exploratory Refer laparotomy RLQ: Right lower quadrant; US: Ultrasonography; CT: Computerized tomography; EEG: Electroencephalogram; IVIG: Intravenous immunoglobulin; IVMP: Intravenous methylprednisolone; NPO: Nothing by mouth; ATB: Antibiotic; ET: Endotrachial; NaCl: Sodium chloride. surgery. However, the exact time of perforation from a contrast-enhanced CT scan, as seen in this cannot be accurately estimated. It is likely that he had patient. A plain abdominal radiograph is useful only concealed bowel perforation, masking the symptoms in cases of perforation but it could not detect bowel and signs and leading to a delay in detecting the ischemia. Abdominal ultrasound is more frequently bowel perforation. We also speculated that high-dose used to identify other abdominal pathology, such as corticosteroid treatment was a contributing factor due intussusception and bowel perforation. However, this to reducing mucosal lymphoid follicles (Peyer’s patches) technique is limited if the patient has a large amount of and compromising mucosal renewal and healing. air in the bowel loops. Ultrasonography may be useful Early detection of intestinal ischemia is crucial for in the late phase of ischemic bowel by demonstrating early surgical resection. Delayed diagnosis can result in bowel wall thickening, a fluid-filled lumen, decreased intestinal perforation and peritonitis which are severe or absent bowel movement, and extra-luminal fluid. and life-threatening complications. Unfortunately, Since bowel perforation can occur at 1 to 4 wk after the signs and symptoms of intestinal ischemia are initial presentation[1,6,9-15], close observation and not specific, ranging from decreased bowel sound, frequent physical examination are essential for the abdominal tenderness, abdominal distension, to early detection of bowel ischemia, especially when hematochezia. Moreover, some patients had transient the patients have hematochezia, persistent localized improvement during the course of disease. The abdominal tenderness, and guarding. Finally, in highly gold standard investigation for intestinal ischemia suspicious patients, exploratory laparotomy may be is arteriography but it is invasive and difficult to needed for the definite diagnosis and treatment of perform in children. CT scan, particularly multidetector intestinal ischemia and bowel perforation. computed tomography, is a major investigation in In conclusion, HSP is generally a self-limited the diagnosis of bowel ischemia. The diagnostic disease and rarely requires surgical intervention. findings in CT scan include decreased or absent bowel Corticosteroid therapy is indicated in moderate to wall enhancement
