Submit a Manuscript: World J Gastroenterol 2016 July 14; 22(26): 6089-6094
KEYWORDS: perforation, bowel, abdominal, intestinal, purpura, ischemia, pain, intestinal perforation, henoch-, hsp, henoch- purpura, peritonitis, treatment, corticosteroid, ileum


Intestinal IVMP Hematochezia, Peritonitis Survive ischemia, IVIG RLQ pain and Subphrenic free air necrosis guarding NA: Not available; IVMP: Intravenous methylprednisolone; IVIG: Intravenous immunoglobulin; RLQ: Right lower quadrant. necessary for decreasing morbidity and mortality in ischemia. these patients. Laboratory diagnosis Acute phase reactants were elevated. ACKNOWLEDGMENTS The authors thank Dr. Mahippathorn Chinnapha and Imaging diagnosis Adam Dale, a native speaker of English with former Upright abdominal radiograph demonstrated intraperitoneal free air. journalism experience now working as an English Pathological diagnosis language Instructor at IGenius Language Institute for A large perforated ulcer with fibrofibrinous exudates and the remaining bowel proofreading the English. showed depletion of lymphoid follicles (Peyer’s patch), submucosal and subserosal congestion and diffuse peritonitis. C COOMMMMEENNTTSS Treatment Case characteristics Exploratory laparotomy with ileal resection and end to end ileoileosanastomosis. A 4-year-old Thai boy, who was diagnosed with Henoch Schönlein purpura (HSP), had persistent severe abdominal pain despite receiving corticosteroid Related reports therapy. HSP with intestinal perforation is a rare condition. To the best of our knowledge, only 11 pediatric cases have been reported in the English literature. The Clinical diagnosis literature reports showed that bowel perforation can occur 1 to 4 wk after initial Physical examination revealed abdominal distention, localized guarding and presentation. tenderness. Term explanation Differential diagnosis Syndrome of inappropriate antidiuretic hormone secretion is the condition that Gastrointestinal vasculitis from refractory HSP, intussusception, intestinal causes increased secretion or enhanced antidiuretic hormone, resulting in WJG|www.wjgnet.com 6093 July 14, 2016|Volume 22|Issue 26| Lerkvaleekul B et al. Henoch-Schönlein purpura from vasculitis to intestinal perforation excess fluid in the body and leading to hyponatremia. ileal perforation in Henoch-Schönlein purpura. Pediatr Int 2008; 50: 709-710 [PMID: 19261128 DOI: - 200X.2008.02716.x] Experiences and lessons 7 Yang HR, Choi WJ, Ko JS, Seo JK. Intravenous immunoglobulin Despite adequate corticosteroid therapy and non-specific findings in the for severe gastrointestinal manifestation of Henoch-Schonlein abdominal computed tomography, intestinal ischemia could not be excluded purpura refractory to corticosteroid therapy. Korean J Pediatr especially in HSP patients with hematochezia, persistent severe abdominal 2006; 49: 784-789 [DOI: ] pain and localized guarding. 8 Weiss PF, Feinstein JA, Luan X, Burnham JM, Feudtner C. Effects of corticosteroid on Henoch-Schönlein purpura: a systematic Peer-review review. Pediatrics 2007; 120: 1079-1087 [PMID: 17974746 DOI: This is a very interesting case report and review of the literature. The authors ] case. Additionally, the discussion was well-balanced and provided needed Taktak A, Gür G. Plasma exchange therapy
