Abdominal Aortic Branch Occlusion - Cardiovascular Disorders - Merck Manual Professional Edition
KEYWORDS: occlusion, chronic, acute, aortic, mesenteric, abdominal, chronic occlusion, symptoms, pta, angioplasty, artery, embolectomy, surgical, branch occlusion, branch


of Abdominal Aortic Branch Occlusion Imaging tests Diagnosis is based primarily on history and physical examination and is confirmed by duplex ultrasound, CT angiography, magnetic resonance angiography, or conventional angiography. Treatment of Abdominal Aortic Branch Occlusion Embolectomy or percutaneous transluminal angioplasty for acute occlusion Surgery or angioplasty for chronic, severe occlusion Acute occlusion is a surgical emergency requiring embolectomy or percutaneous transluminal angioplasty (PTA) with or without stent placement. A laparotomy with bypass graft and bowel resection may be necessary if embolectomy or PTA is unsuccessful. Chronic occlusion, if symptomatic, may require surgery or angioplasty. Risk factor modification and antiplatelet medications may help. Acute mesenteric occlusion (eg, in the superior mesenteric artery), which causes significant morbidity and mortality, requires prompt revascularization. Prognosis is poor if the intestine is not revascularized within 4 to 6 hours. For chronic occlusion of the superior mesenteric artery and celiac axis, dietary modifications may temporarily relieve symptoms. If symptoms are severe, surgical bypass from the aorta to the splanchnic arteries distal to the occlusion usually results in revascularization. Long-term patency of the grafts is 89% (1). In appropriately selected patients (particularly among older patients who may be poor candidates for surgery), revascularization by PTA with or without stent placement may be successful. Symptoms may resolve rapidly, and weight may be regained. 2/3 Acute renal artery occlusion requires embolectomy; sometimes PTA can be done. Initial treatment of chronic occlusion involves antihypertensives. If blood pressure is not controlled adequately or if renal function deteriorates, PTA with stent placement or, when PTA is impossible, open surgical bypass or endarterectomy can improve blood flow. Acute occlusion of the aortic bifurcation requires urgent embolectomy, usually done transfemorally. If chronic occlusion of the aortic bifurcation causes claudication, an aortoiliac or aortofemoral graft can be used to surgically bypass the occlusion. PTA is an alternative for selected patients. Key Points Abdominal aortic branch occlusion can be acute or chronic. Symptoms vary depending on the acuity of the occlusion and the artery involved. Diagnose abdominal aortic branch occlusion based on history and physical examination and confirm with imaging tests. Treat acute occlusion as a surgical emergency with embolectomy, percutaneous transluminal angioplasty, or surgical bypass. Treat chronic occlusion with medications and lifestyle changes and, if severe, surgery or angioplasty.
