A 15 year old with acute chest pain
KEYWORDS: acute, omi, rare, myocarditis, chest, leads, angiogram, today, troponin, troponins, healthy, adolescent, coronary, old, year old


This was sent to me real time by an outstanding former EM resident, Quin Stevens. Quin wrote that a 15 year old presented with sudden onset chest pressure one hour prior. There were no symptoms of viral illness. Here is his ED ECG: What do you think? There is quite a bit of ST Elevation in I and aVL, with reciprocal ST depression in lead III, as well as V1–V3. In an adult, one would need to assume OMI until proven otherwise. Interestingly, the Queen of Hearts said “Not OMI with low confidence.” The model output was 0.35 and it must be above 0.50 to have 98% specificity. I’m not certain what the specificity is at 0.35. I sent the ECG real time to my EKG Nerdz friends without any info. The response was “OMI”. When I told them it was from a 15yo, they wrote that “it could be myocarditis, but doesn’t look like pericarditis.” Those were my exact thoughts. “I would have a low threshold for angiogram.” Also my exact thoughts. So I texted back to encourage an angiogram. So she called cardiology. Then the first troponin I returned at 11,000 ng/L. This is typical of subacute OMI or of myocarditis. Both would have reciprocal ST depression. Both would have wall motion abnormalities. Now it is OMI until proven otherwise. There is simply no way to tell the difference with this data between acute OMI and myocarditis. Only angiogram can tell you if intervention is necessary. Only MRI can make the definitive diagnosis of MI vs. myocarditis, but that takes time. To not do an angiogram is to play Russian Roulette with a child’s heart. Maybe the probability is 20:1 for myocarditis over OMI, but children do get acute MI. They can have atherosclerosis (just because it is rare does not mean it is impossible — it is especially likely in an adolescent with acute chest pain, an ischemic ECG, and a very high troponin). They can also have coronary spasm, coronary aneurysms (especially if they had Kawasaki disease, which can go undiagnosed), coronary dissection. So my ex-resident called cardiology and transferred the patient to a pediatric hospital. The cardiologist said that they will “Trend Troponins,” and not do an emergent cath “because it is so exceedingly rare.” “Trending troponins” is the most useless management imaginable. Is there any way that this is going to aid in the
