A 15 year old with acute chest pain
KEYWORDS: acute, omi, rare, myocarditis, chest, leads, angiogram, today, troponin, troponins, healthy, adolescent, coronary, old, year old


OMI until proven otherwise. IF an adolescent — then probably myocarditis. For clarity in Figure-1 — I’ve reproduced today’s tracing from this presumably healthy 15-year old who presented with sudden onset chest pressure of 1 hour duration. The abnormalities are undeniable: There is ST elevation in high-lateral leads I and aVL, which especially in lead aVL with its high J-point takeoff and ST segment straightening looks acute (RED arrows in these leads). The small narrow q waves in these high-lateral leads are of uncertain significance. While one might attribute ST elevation in an adolescent to “repolarization abnormalities” — the ST depression seen in leads III, aVF and in the anterior leads (BLUE arrows) is not a finding of benign repolarization in patients with new symptoms. I’ve highlighted the lateral chest lead ST elevation in leads V5, V6 with GRAY arrows — since as isolated findings, this would be consistent with repolarization changes (but it isn’t in association with the above-noted findings in 7 other leads). Figure-1: I’ve labeled today’s initial tracing. As per Dr. Smith — acute MI can occur in otherwise healthy adolescents (Ramphul et al — Arch Med Sci Atheroscler Dis 8(1):177–181, 2023 — and — Lande and Ben Shachar — Pediatrics 120(4):e938–43, 2007 — and — Rakash et al — JACC 81(8), 2023). Assuming no cocaine/illicit drug use — Anomalous Coronary Artery is a rare but potentially life-threatening congenital defect in which the first symptom may be an acute MI or sudden death (Borns et al — Front Cardiovasc Med 22(7):559794, 2020). BOTTOM LINE We all know and accept that acute OMI is rare in otherwise healthy adolescents. And, the literature I was able to find suggests from retrospective studies that cardiac catheterization in otherwise healthy adolescents with chest pain and abnormal ECGs usually does not change management. But rare ≠ never. At the least — today’s 15-year old patient has acute myocarditis (despite no symptoms of acute viral illness). That said — I don’t know how to rule out an acute OMI or some rare congenital abnormality (like an anomalous coronary artery) in an adolescent with new acute symptoms — a clearly abnormal ECG — and a serum Troponin value = 11,000 ng/L. I don’t know how “trending Troponins” will possibly change the situation in today’s case (ie, what will be different regardless if serial Troponins trend toward normal — or increase to 50,000?).
