THE YALEJOURNAL OFBIOLOGY AND MEDICINE 56(1983), 551-556
KEYWORDS: prostatitis, patients, ureaplasma, fluid, chronic, chlamydia, prostatic, isolated, study, mycoplasma, urealyticum, non-specific, symptoms, prostatic fluid, serotypes


Role of Mycoplasmas in Chronic Prostatitis M.F. PEETERS, M.D.,aA.A. POLAK-VOGELZANG, Ph.D.,b F.M.J. DEBRUYNE, M.D.,cAND J. VAN DER VEEN, M.D.d aDepartment ofMedicalMicrobiology andRegionalPublicHealth Laboratory, St. Elisabeth ziekenhuis, Tilburg, TheNetherlands; bNationalInstitute ofPublic MedicalMicrobiology, St. Radboudziekenhuis, UniversityofNijmegen, Nijmegen, The Netherlands Received January4, 1983 In 17outof102patientswithclinicallydiagnosedchronicprostatitisthediseasecouldbeat- tributed to known urogenital tract pathogens. Of the remaining 85 patients, Ureaplasma urealyticum was isolated from 38, Chlamydia trachomatis from five, and both organisms togetherfromtwo.Theresultsofantimicrobialtreatmentofthepatientssuggestanetiological relationshipbetween Ureaplasmaurealyticumandcertaincasesofchronicprostatitis. Inthese casesurethritisseemstobeanaccompanyingsymptom(urethro-prostatitis). Norelationcould be demonstrated between a favorable outcome of therapy and particular serotypes of ureaplasma. Our study could not establish anypathogenic role forMycoplasma hominis. INTRODUCTION The term "prostatitis" designates various inflammatory conditions affecting the prostate, including acute and chronic infections with specific bacteria and, more commonly, instances in which signs and symptoms of prostatic inflammation are present but no specific microorganisms can be detected. Talking aboutprostatitis itisextremelyimportant touseuniformterminology. At the moment no generally recognized, strictly defined criteria for the diagnosis of chronicprostatitis areavailable. Drachet al. dividebenignpainful diseases ofthe prostate into four categories: 1. Acute bacterial prostatitis 2. Chronic bacterial prostatitis 3. Non-bacterial prostatitis 4. Prostatodynia Acute prostatitis is usually caused by one of the common gram-negative urinary tract pathogens or Staphylococcus aureus. In the pre-antibiotic eraN. gonorrhoeae was a common cause. The disease generally affects young male adults and is characterized by fever, chills, and dysuria. Acute prostatitis is nowadays arelatively rare condition. Chronic bacterial prostatitis is caused by the same bacteria as acute prostatitis. Although chronic prostatitis may followanattack ofacuteprostatitis, most patients 747, 5000AS Tilburg, The Netherlands Allrightsofreproduction inanyformreserved. PEETERS ET AL. give no history of this. Chronic bacterial prostatitis is one of the most common causes of relapsing urinary tract infection in men and is often secondary to struc- tural disease; for instance, prostatic calculi. Non-bacterial prostatitis (which is almost always chronic) and prostatodynia are the least well understood entities. Some authors combine thetwo categories andcall it prostatosis. According to Drach et al. non-bacterial prostatitis exists when significant numbers ofbacteriacannot be cultured from prostatic fluid but the fluid consistently reveals 10-20 whitebloodcellsperhigh-power field. Inthiscategoryare those patients with rare conditions such as urethro-prostatic trichomoniasis or tubercular or fungal prostatitis. This category may also include infections with chlamydia or mycoplasma. In the fourth category, prostatodynia, remain those patients who have persistent complaints ofurinaryurgency, dysuria, poor urinaryflow, and prostaticdiscomfort butwho haveno significantbacteriaor purulenceintheprostatic fluid. Theprostate ofthese patients is often painful and congested. This condition is veryprobablynot an infection. Many clinicians consider
