THE YALEJOURNAL OFBIOLOGY AND MEDICINE 56(1983), 551-556
KEYWORDS: prostatitis, patients, ureaplasma, fluid, chronic, chlamydia, prostatic, isolated, study, mycoplasma, urealyticum, non-specific, symptoms, prostatic fluid, serotypes


persistent complaints ofurinaryurgency, dysuria, poor urinaryflow, and prostaticdiscomfort butwho haveno significantbacteriaor purulenceintheprostatic fluid. Theprostate ofthese patients is often painful and congested. This condition is veryprobablynot an infection. Many clinicians consider the symptoms of a substantial number of these patients to be psychological rather than somatic in origin. When a urologist is talking about a patient with chronic prostatitis he usually can be very difficult to decide in which category the patient belongs. Chronic pros- tatitis is a verycommon disease. It has been estimatedthat everyyear about0.1 per- cent of the male population between 18 and 60 years will seek advice because of symptoms of prostatitis. Whether or not a microorganism is the cause ofthe condition can onlybe proven by microbiological study of the prostatic fluid. The microbiological study of the prostatic fluid must be accompanied by careful study of the urethral flora and the bladder urine since microorganisms ofnon-prostatic origin can readilycontaminate the prostatic secretion as it passes through theurethraduringmassage. Biopsyofthe prostate by needle puncture seems to be the only way of avoiding contamination from urethra or urine. Needle biopsy is very unpleasant for the patient, and there is always therisk ofcausing septicemia. Apart fromthistheinfectionmaybefocaland the biopsy is difficult to quantitate microbiologically. Furthermore, it is difficult to diagnoseprostatitis by histologic examination, because inflammatorychangesinthe prostate can be demonstrated in the absence of symptoms of prostatitis. In our study the role of various microorganisms, including mycoplasmas and ureaplasmas, in the pathogenesis of chronic prostatitis was investigated. MATERIALS AND METHODS Study Population The study included 102 patients with symptoms and signs of chronic prostatitis which had been present for at least threemonths. Thepatients variedin age from 18 to 69 years, and the mean age was 40. Sampling and Culture From each patient the following specimens were collected as described byMeares and Stamey : urethral samples (takenwithasterileloop), thefirst 10mlofvoided urine, the midstream portion of urine, prostatic fluid (expressed by massage), and the first 10 ml of urine after prostatic massage. One week later seminal fluid ob- tained by masturbation was received. All specimenswereinoculatedontobloodagar plates and incubated under aerobic and anaerobic conditions. ROLE OF MYCOPLASMAS IN CHRONIC PROSTATITIS 553 The specimens were further tested for the presence of Neisseria gonorrhoeae, yeasts, Trichomonas vaginalis, Mycoplasma hominis, Ureaplasma urealyticum, Chlamydia trachomatis, herpes simplex virus, and cytomegalovirus, as follows: TM medium was used for cultivating N. gonorrhoeae, Sabouraud dextrose agar for yeasts, and a casein hydrolysate serum medium for
