THE YALEJOURNAL OFBIOLOGY AND MEDICINE 56(1983), 551-556
KEYWORDS: prostatitis, patients, ureaplasma, fluid, chronic, chlamydia, prostatic, isolated, study, mycoplasma, urealyticum, non-specific, symptoms, prostatic fluid, serotypes


urealyticum, Chlamydia trachomatis, herpes simplex virus, and cytomegalovirus, as follows: TM medium was used for cultivating N. gonorrhoeae, Sabouraud dextrose agar for yeasts, and a casein hydrolysate serum medium for T. vaginalis. For cultivating and identification of M. hominis and U. urealyticum, we used trypticase soy broth urea U9 medium , differential agar medium A7 , and Herderschee medium . Because serotypes of ureaplasma may differ in pathogenicity , all isolated strains were serotyped by means of indirect immunofluorescence , using an- tisera kindly provided by Dr. B. de Swaan (Rotterdam) and by Dr. J. Robertson (Edmonton, Canada). For isolation of C. trachomatis diethylaminoethyl-dextran and cycloheximide- treated HeLa-229 cells were used . Virus isolationtestswerecarriedoutbyinoculatingthespecimensintohumanem- bryonic lung fibroblast tissuecultures. Beforebeingdiscarded, thecultures wereob- served for six weeks for any cytopathic effect. Controls The results of the study ofthe patients were compared to those obtained from a group of51 healthy men, varyinginagefrom27to 52years, whosemeanagewas 38 years. Tocollect specimens, these51 menweresubjected tothesameprocedures, ex- cept for prostatic massage. Thereason for omitting the massage was thatit was very difficult to find avolunteer for such aprocedure, which is painful. The omission of tests ofprostatic fluid in controls was probably not a serious shortcoming, because oneoftheresults ofthestudyofthepatientswasthatseminal fluidwas agoodalter- native for prostatic fluid in microbiological study. RESULTS Culture In 15 out ofthe 102 patients aerobicbacteriawere foundtobethecauseofthe ill- ness (11 E. coli, 2 Staphylococcus aureus, 1 Klebsiella pneumoniae, 1 Neisseria gonorrhoeae). Thebacteria werepresent in prostatic fluid as well as in seminal fluid inquantities ofapproximately 100,000 perml. In mostcases therewas apositivean- tibody coating. Thus, approximately 15 percent of the patients had chronic pros- tatitis due to bacteria. Similar figures have been mentioned in other studies. In one of our patients Trichomonas vaginalis was discovered and in another a yeast (Torulopsis glabrata) was found to be the cause of the illness. From one patient with bacterial prostatitis, herpes simplex virus was isolated; from two patients, cytomegalovirus. In the latter two cases the virus disappeared spontaneously without any change in the patient's condition. Anaerobic bacteria were isolated from the urethral samples and the seminal fluid from more than half of the patients as well as from healthy controls (mostly pep- tococci, peptostreptococci, veillonellae, and bacteroides) but always in very low quantities. Apurecultureofanaerobes inprostatic orseminal fluidwas never found in quantities exceeding 10,000 per ml. Theoverall results indicated that only 17 ofthe 102 patients had prostatitis dueto known urogenital tract pathogens, whereas 85 had
