THE YALEJOURNAL OFBIOLOGY AND MEDICINE 56(1983), 551-556
KEYWORDS: prostatitis, patients, ureaplasma, fluid, chronic, chlamydia, prostatic, isolated, study, mycoplasma, urealyticum, non-specific, symptoms, prostatic fluid, serotypes


inprostatic orseminal fluidwas never found in quantities exceeding 10,000 per ml. Theoverall results indicated that only 17 ofthe 102 patients had prostatitis dueto known urogenital tract pathogens, whereas 85 had "non-specific" prostatitis. The term "non-specific" is used here in the sense of"not caused by known pathogens." 554 PEETERS ET AL. Approximately 30 ofthese 85 patients had in addition symptoms ofprostatitis, and also symptoms of, in most cases, mild urethritis. Mycoplasma hominis was found in two (3.9 percent) of the 51 healthy controls and in ten (11.8 percent) ofthe 85 patients with "non-specific" prostatitis. The dif- ference between the two groups was not significant (p = 0.26). Ureaplasma urealyticum was isolated from 13 (25.5 percent) of the 51 healthy controls and from40(47.1 percent) ofthe85 patientswith"non-specific" prostatitis. The difference between the two groups was significant (p = 0.02). However, it is well known that the rate of colonization with ureaplasma is closely associated with the number of sexual partners. We had no data to evaluate the possibility that the patientswithprostatitishadmoresexualpartnersthanthecontrolgroup. Therefore, it cannot definitely be concluded that there is an etiological relationship between U. urealyticum and chronic "non-specific" prostatitis. Chlamydia trachomatis was isolated from seven (8.2 percent) of the 85 patients with"non-specific" prostatitis and from noneofthe51 healthycontrols (p = 0.04). No chlamydiae were isolated from the 17 patients with prostatitis caused by bacteria, yeasts, or T. vaginalis; M. hominis was additionally cultured from only one of them and U. urealyticum from two. Table 1 shows the frequencies of isolation of mycoplasma, ureaplasma, and chlamydia alone and in combination from the 85 patients with "non-specific" pros- tatitis. From 38 patients we isolated only commensal flora. All seven patients with chlamydia had symptoms of prostatitis (rectal palpation disclosed a swollen, painful prostate), and also ofurethritis. Their main complaint was urethral discharge. The organism was isolated in all cases from the urethral samples and in six cases also from prostatic fluid, urine after prostatic massage, or seminal fluid. Antimicrobial Treatment All patients with mycoplasmas, ureaplasmas, or chlamydiae were treated with tetracycline, 1 gr a day, for at least three weeks. The sexual partners were also TABLE I Frequency ofIsolation ofMycoplasma, Ureaplasma, and ChlamydiaAlone and in Combination from Patients with "Non-Specific" Prostatitis, and Effect ofAntimicrobial Therapy Number ofPatients Number of Free ofSymptoms Organisms Isolated Patients after Therapy Mycoplasma 2 0 Ureaplasma 30 10 Mycoplasma + Ureaplasma 8 2 Chlamydia 5 5 Chlamydia + Mycoplasma 0 Chlamydia
