THE YALEJOURNAL OFBIOLOGY AND MEDICINE 56(1983), 551-556
KEYWORDS: prostatitis, patients, ureaplasma, fluid, chronic, chlamydia, prostatic, isolated, study, mycoplasma, urealyticum, non-specific, symptoms, prostatic fluid, serotypes


Number ofPatients Number of Free ofSymptoms Organisms Isolated Patients after Therapy Mycoplasma 2 0 Ureaplasma 30 10 Mycoplasma + Ureaplasma 8 2 Chlamydia 5 5 Chlamydia + Mycoplasma 0 Chlamydia + Ureaplasma 2 2 Chlamydia + Mycoplasma + Ureaplasma 0 Only"commensal" flora isolated (i.c. diphteroids, St. epidermidis, a-streptococci, micrococci, peptococcus, peptostreptococcus) 38a 3 Total 85 22 ,Only 18 weretreated in the same way as the other patients. ROLE OF MYCOPLASMAS IN CHRONIC PROSTATITIS 555 treated. The organisms disappeared from all (two patients needed two cures). Twelveofthe38 patientswithureaplasmarespondedwelltotherapy, remainingfree of symptoms during the follow-up of the study (12 months). The 12 patients had high leucocyte counts in the prostatic fluid, in the urine after prostatic massage, or in the seminal fluid, and 11 of the 12 patients also had symptoms and signs of urethritis. The seven patients with chlamydia were also cured. Eighteen of the 38 patients from whom only commensal flora could be cultured weretreated inthesame way; thatis, togetherwith theirpartners, andthreebecame free of complaints. The other 20 patients were treated with tetracycline for three weeks without any success. Their sexual partners were not treated. These were pa- tients without significant numbers of leucocytes in the prostatic fluid and were therefore classified as having prostatodynia. Serotypes of Ureaplasma Several serotypes of ureaplasma were found to occur (Table 2). One strain was lost and typing of another strain has not yet been completed. The figures were too small for statistical analysis and allowed tentative conclusions only. There was no distinct difference in distribution of serotypes of ureaplasma between patients and healthy controls. Furthermore, no relation could bedemonstrated between a favorable outcome of tetracycline therapy and particular serotypes. In only one patient we found two serotypes of ureaplasma; this is less then expected. Perhaps there has been some cloning during culturing and subculturing. CONCLUSIONS The results of our study suggest that Ureaplasma urealyticum (and also Chlamydia trachomatis) plays a role in the pathogenesis of certain cases of pros- tatitis accompanied by urethritis (the so-called "urethro-prostatitis"). The urethritis seems to extend to the prostate gland. That the prostate can be infected during the course of a ureaplasma infection has already been indicated by studies of Taylor- Robinson and co-workers . Other studies also have shown a relation between ureaplasma and prostatitis [12-14]. TABLE 2 Isolation ofVarious Serotypes of U. urealyticum from Patients with "Non-Specific" Prostatitis and from Healthy Controls No. ofPatients No. ofHealthyControls Serotype
