Cardiovascular risk assessment and lipid modification
KEYWORDS: risk, cvd, adults, treatment, lipid, quality, cardiovascular, statement, disease, cholesterol, cardiovascular disease, risk assessment, assessment, used, people


Quality statements Statement 1 General practices use a systematic strategy to identify adults likely to be at high risk of cardiovascular disease. [new 2025] Statement 2 Adults with a 10-year risk of cardiovascular disease of 10% or more receive tailored advice on diet and lifestyle changes within 3 months of their cardiovascular disease risk assessment score being recorded. [2015, updated 2025] Statement 3 Adults with a 10-year risk of cardiovascular disease of 10% or more are prescribed a high-intensity statin or other lipid-lowering treatment if a high-intensity statin is contraindicated or not tolerated. [2015, updated 2025] Statement 4 Adults starting or changing lipid-lowering treatment have a full lipid profile and their liver transaminases measured at 2 to 3 months. [2015, updated 2025] Statement 5 Adults with cardiovascular disease have a low-density lipoprotein (LDL) cholesterol level of 2.0 mmol per litre or less, or a non-high-density lipoprotein (non-HDL) cholesterol level of 2.6 mmol per litre or less. [new 2025] In 2025 this quality standard was updated and statements prioritised in 2015 were updated (2015, updated 2025) or replaced (new 2025). For more information, see update information. The previous version of the quality standard for cardiovascular risk assessment and lipid modification is available as a pdf. Quality statement 1: Identifying adults who are likely to be at high risk Quality statement General practices use a systematic strategy to identify adults likely to be at high risk of cardiovascular disease. [new 2025] Rationale Cardiovascular disease (CVD) is the most common cause of death in the UK, and is a major cause of illness, disability and poor quality of life. To improve primary prevention, adults at increased risk of CVD need to be identified using a systematic strategy so that their risk factors can be managed in the most effective way. This should not prevent people being identified opportunistically but may help to ensure that those with the highest risk of CVD are reviewed in an effective and efficient way. Factors routinely recorded in electronic patient records can be used to estimate CVD risk using a CVD risk assessment tool, and those at high risk should be invited for full formal risk assessment. Quality measures The following measures can be used to assess the quality of care or service provision specified in the statement. They are examples of how the statement can be measured, and can be adapted and used flexibly. Structure a) Evidence
