Cardiovascular risk assessment and lipid modification
KEYWORDS: risk, cvd, adults, treatment, lipid, quality, cardiovascular, statement, disease, cholesterol, cardiovascular disease, risk assessment, assessment, used, people


quality of care or service provision specified in the statement. They are examples of how the statement can be measured, and can be adapted and used flexibly. Structure a) Evidence that general practices use a systematic strategy to identify adults who are likely to be at high risk of CVD. Data source: Data can be collected from local implementation plans. b) Evidence that general practices use the QRISK3 tool to estimate CVD risk, or QRISK2 if QRISK3 is not currently embedded in electronic clinical systems. Data source: Data can be collected from local implementation plans. Process The systematic strategies used by different localities will focus on different groups of people depending on the individual GP practice and so example process measures have not been provided. Some localities may want to focus on known local health inequalities or NHS England's Core20PLUS5, for example, by disaggregating data by socioeconomic status, ethnic family background, sex or presence of a learning disability. Measures could also focus on adults with modifiable risk factors or coexisting conditions that increase CVD risk. What the quality statement means for different audiences Service providers (primary care providers) ensure that they use a systematic strategy to identify adults who are likely to be at high risk of CVD. The strategy could use general practice records or systematic searches in pre-identified areas or with specific populations. Healthcare professionals (such as GPs, nurses and pharmacists) identify adults who are likely to be at high risk of CVD using risk factors already in patient records. They review estimates of CVD risk on an ongoing basis for adults aged over 40. Commissioners ensure that they commission services that use systematic strategies to identify adults who are likely to be at high risk of CVD using CVD risk factors already recorded. Adults who are likely to have a high risk of CVD are identified by their healthcare provider so that their risk factors can be managed in the most effective way. Source guidance • Cardiovascular disease: risk assessment and reduction, including lipid modification. NICE guideline NG238 (2023), recommendations 1.1.1 to 1.1.4 • Cardiovascular disease: identifying and supporting people most at risk of dying early. NICE guideline PH15 (2008), recommendation 1 Definitions of terms used in this quality statement Factors routinely recorded in electronic patient records Factors routinely recorded in general practice patient records that could be used as part of a systematic strategy to identify
