Cardiovascular risk assessment and lipid modification
KEYWORDS: risk, cvd, adults, treatment, lipid, quality, cardiovascular, statement, disease, cholesterol, cardiovascular disease, risk assessment, assessment, used, people


and reduction, including lipid modification, recommendation 1.1.10] Quality statement 2: Diet and lifestyle advice for primary prevention Quality statement Adults with a 10-year risk of cardiovascular disease of 10% or more receive tailored advice on diet and lifestyle changes within 3 months of their cardiovascular disease risk assessment score being recorded. [2015, updated 2025] Rationale Making improvements to diet, stopping smoking, increasing physical activity, managing weight and reducing alcohol consumption can reduce the risk of cardiovascular disease (CVD). Healthcare professionals should offer advice to adults with a 10-year CVD risk score of 10% or more after a full formal risk assessment, based on their individual needs, preferences and circumstances. Quality measures The following measures can be used to assess the quality of care or service provision specified in the statement. They are examples of how the statement can be measured, and can be adapted and used flexibly. Process Proportion of adults with a 10-year risk of CVD of 10% or more who receive advice on diet and lifestyle changes within 3 months of their CVD risk assessment score being recorded. Numerator – the number in the denominator who receive advice on diet and lifestyle changes within 3 months of their CVD risk assessment score being recorded. Denominator – the number of adults with a 10-year risk of CVD of 10% or more. Data source: Data can be collected from information recorded locally by healthcare professionals and provider organisations, for example from electronic patient records. What the quality statement means for different audiences Service providers (such as primary care services) ensure that systems are in place for adults with a 10-year risk of CVD of 10% or more to be given advice on diet and lifestyle changes within 3 months of their cardiovascular risk assessment score being recorded. Healthcare professionals (such as GPs, nurses, healthcare support workers, and pharmacists) give advice on diet and lifestyle changes for the primary prevention of CVD to adults with a 10-year risk of CVD of 10% or more within 3 months of their cardiovascular risk assessment score being recorded. They take the person's individual needs, preferences and circumstances into account when giving advice. Commissioners ensure that they commission services that can deliver diet and lifestyle advice to adults with a 10-year risk of CVD of 10% or more within 3 months of their cardiovascular risk assessment score being recorded. Adults with a 1 in 10
