Cardiovascular risk assessment and lipid modification
KEYWORDS: risk, cvd, adults, treatment, lipid, quality, cardiovascular, statement, disease, cholesterol, cardiovascular disease, risk assessment, assessment, used, people


advice to adults with a 10-year risk of CVD of 10% or more within 3 months of their cardiovascular risk assessment score being recorded. Adults with a 1 in 10 chance or more of developing CVD in the next 10 years (a 10-year risk of 10% or more) are given advice on diet and lifestyle changes, such as stopping smoking, losing weight, eating a healthy diet and exercising when they are found to be at risk. These changes may help to reduce their chances of having a heart attack or stroke in the future. The advice reflects their needs, preferences and circumstances. Source guidance Cardiovascular disease: risk assessment and reduction, including lipid modification. NICE guideline NG238 (2023), recommendations 1.3.1 to 1.3.11, 1.6.2 and 1.6.3 The 3-month timeframe is based on expert opinion. The 3-month timeframe is not derived from NICE guideline on cardiovascular disease: risk assessment and reduction, including lipid modification. It is considered a practical timeframe to enable stakeholders to measure performance. The timeframe is used in NICE's indicator on cardiovascular disease prevention: primary prevention with lifestyle changes. Definitions of terms used in this quality statement Diet and lifestyle changes Diet and lifestyle changes include: • stopping smoking • healthy eating • reaching and maintaining a healthy weight • increasing physical activity • reducing alcohol consumption. [NICE's guideline on cardiovascular disease: risk assessment and reduction, including lipid modification, recommendations 1.3.1 to 1.3.11] Equality and diversity considerations Clinical judgement should inform interpretation of results from CVD risk tools because tools may underestimate the risk in certain groups of people, including, but not limited to: • people treated for HIV • people already taking medicines to treat CVD risk factors • people who have recently stopped smoking • people taking medicines that can cause dyslipidaemia, such as immunosuppressant drugs • people with severe mental illness • people with autoimmune disorders, and other systemic inflammatory disorders. When using a QRISK3 risk score to inform treatment decisions in these populations, particularly if it is near the threshold for treatment, take into account other factors that may predispose the person to premature CVD that may not be included in calculated risk scores. [Adapted from NICE's guideline on cardiovascular disease: risk assessment and reduction, including lipid modification, recommendation 1.1.10] A person's sex will affect their CVD risk assessment score, and this should be considered when estimating risk for trans people. [Adapted from NICE's guideline on
