Cardiovascular risk assessment and lipid modification
KEYWORDS: risk, cvd, adults, treatment, lipid, quality, cardiovascular, statement, disease, cholesterol, cardiovascular disease, risk assessment, assessment, used, people


lipid modification, recommendation 1.1.10] A person's sex will affect their CVD risk assessment score, and this should be considered when estimating risk for trans people. [Adapted from NICE's guideline on cardiovascular disease: risk assessment and reduction, including lipid modification, rationale and impact section on full formal risk assessment]. Quality statement 3: Lipid-lowering treatment for primary prevention Quality statement Adults with a 10-year risk of cardiovascular disease of 10% or more are prescribed a high- intensity statin or other lipid-lowering treatment if a high-intensity statin is contraindicated or not tolerated. [2015, updated 2025] Rationale High-intensity statins are the most clinically effective treatment option for the primary prevention of cardiovascular disease (CVD). After a full formal risk assessment that estimates an adult without CVD has a 10-year risk of CVD of 10% or more and following a discussion with a healthcare professional about the risks and benefits of starting statin treatment, an adult may choose statin treatment to reduce their risk of CVD. Atorvastatin 20 mg is recommended as the preferred high-intensity statin, but other lipid-lowering treatment could be used if atorvastatin 20 mg is contraindicated or not tolerated. Quality measures The following measures can be used to assess the quality of care or service provision specified in the statement. They are examples of how the statement can be measured, and can be adapted and used flexibly. Process Proportion of adults with a 10-year risk of CVD of 10% or more who are prescribed a lipid- lowering treatment. Numerator – the number in the denominator who are prescribed a lipid-lowering treatment. Denominator – the number of adults with a 10-year risk of CVD of 10% or more. Data source:CVDPREVENT indicator CVDP006CHOL reports the proportion of patients with no GP recorded CVD and a GP-recorded QRISK score of 10% or more, who are currently treated with lipid-lowering therapy. The indicator also reports data for inequality markers including sex, age, ethnicity, deprivation level and presence of a learning disability. What the quality statement means for different audiences Service providers (primary care services) ensure that systems are in place for adults with a 10-year risk of CVD of 10% or more to be offered a high-intensity statin or other lipid- lowering treatment, if required, to achieve their individual lipid target of a greater than 40% reduction in non-high density (HDL) cholesterol. Healthcare professionals (such as GPs, nurses and pharmacists) offer a high-intensity statin to adults
