Cardiovascular risk assessment and lipid modification
KEYWORDS: risk, cvd, adults, treatment, lipid, quality, cardiovascular, statement, disease, cholesterol, cardiovascular disease, risk assessment, assessment, used, people


achieve their individual lipid target of a greater than 40% reduction in non-high density (HDL) cholesterol. Healthcare professionals (such as GPs, nurses and pharmacists) offer a high-intensity statin to adults with a 10-year risk of CVD of 10% or more, or other lipid-lowering treatment if required, to achieve their individual lipid target of a greater than 40% reduction in non- high density (HDL) cholesterol. They are aware of strategies to address adverse effects of high-intensity statins when reported by an adult on a high-intensity statin. They could use the NHS England statin intolerance pathway to address statin intolerance. Commissioners ensure that lipid-lowering treatment is available for adults with a 10-year risk of CVD of 10% or more. Adults with a 1 in 10 chance or more of developing CVD in the next 10 years (a 10-year risk of 10% or more) are offered medicine to lower their cholesterol. They can use the NICE patient decision aid on should I take a statin? to talk about options with their doctor, nurse or pharmacist. Source guidance • Cardiovascular disease: risk assessment and reduction, including lipid modification. NICE guideline NG238 (2023), recommendations 1.6.1, 1.6.2, 1.6.7, 1.6.13, 1.9.1, 1.9.3, 1.10.1 and 1.10.2 • Bempedoic acid with ezetimibe for treating primary hypercholesterolaemia or mixed dyslipidaemia. NICE technology appraisal guidance 694 (2021) • Ezetimibe for treating primary heterozygous-familial and non-familial hypercholesterolaemia. NICE technology appraisal guidance 385 (2016). Definitions of terms used in this quality statement High-intensity statin or other lipid-lowering treatment See NHS England's summary of national guidance for lipid management. Equality and diversity considerations Clinical judgement should inform interpretation of results from CVD risk tools because tools may underestimate the risk in certain groups of people , including, but not limited to: • people treated for HIV • people already taking medicines to treat CVD risk factors • people who have recently stopped smoking • people taking medicines that can cause dyslipidaemia, such as immunosuppressant drugs • people with severe mental illness • people with autoimmune disorders, and other systemic inflammatory disorders. When using a QRISK3 risk score to inform treatment decisions in these populations, particularly if it is near the threshold for treatment, take into account other factors that may predispose the person to premature CVD that may not be included in calculated risk scores. [Adapted from NICE's guideline on cardiovascular disease: risk assessment and reduction, including lipid modification, recommendation 1.1.10] A person's sex
