Cardiovascular risk assessment and lipid modification
KEYWORDS: risk, cvd, adults, treatment, lipid, quality, cardiovascular, statement, disease, cholesterol, cardiovascular disease, risk assessment, assessment, used, people


premature CVD that may not be included in calculated risk scores. [Adapted from NICE's guideline on cardiovascular disease: risk assessment and reduction, including lipid modification, recommendation 1.1.10] A person's sex will affect their CVD risk assessment score, and this should be considered when estimating risk for trans people. [Adapted from NICE's guideline on cardiovascular disease: risk assessment and reduction, including lipid modification, rationale and impact section on full formal risk assessment]. For adults aged 85 and older, treatment with atorvastatin 20 mg should be considered with awareness of factors that may make treatment inappropriate, such as the person's preference, presence of comorbidities, whether they are on multiple medications, whether they are frail, their cognitive status, and their life expectancy. [NICE's guideline on cardiovascular disease: risk assessment and reduction, including lipid modification, recommendations 1.5.2 and 1.6.9 and expert opinion] Quality statement 4: Assessing response to lipid-lowering treatment Quality statement Adults starting or changing lipid-lowering treatment have a full lipid profile and their liver transaminases measured at 2 to 3 months. [2015, updated 2025] Rationale Repeating lipid profiles and measuring liver transaminases after starting or changing lipid- lowering treatment (and after a baseline blood sample has been taken), is important for patient safety and to ensure the effectiveness of the treatment. A repeat lipid profile can be used to determine whether the expected lipid levels have been met and can indicate the need for escalation of treatment. Measurement of liver transaminase is important to detect any increased levels of these enzymes, which may indicate problems with liver function. Quality measures The following measures can be used to assess the quality of care or service provision specified in the statement. They are examples of how the statement can be measured, and can be adapted and used flexibly. Process Proportion of adults starting or changing lipid-lowering treatment who had a full lipid profile and their liver transaminases measured at 2 to 3 months. Numerator – the number in the denominator who had a full lipid profile and their liver transaminases measured at 2 to 3 months. Denominator – the number of adults starting or changing lipid-lowering treatment. Data source: Data can be collected from information recorded locally by healthcare professionals and provider organisations, for example from electronic patient records. What the quality statement means for different audiences Service providers (such as primary care services or secondary care services) ensure that adults on lipid-lowering treatment
