Cardiovascular risk assessment and lipid modification
KEYWORDS: risk, cvd, adults, treatment, lipid, quality, cardiovascular, statement, disease, cholesterol, cardiovascular disease, risk assessment, assessment, used, people


example from electronic patient records. What the quality statement means for different audiences Service providers (such as primary care services or secondary care services) ensure that adults on lipid-lowering treatment have a full lipid profile and their liver transaminases measured 2 to 3 months after starting or changing treatment. Healthcare professionals (such as GPs, doctors, nurses and pharmacists) measure a full lipid profile and liver transaminases 2 to 3 months after adults start or change lipid- lowering treatment. Commissioners ensure that adults on lipid-lowering treatment have a full lipid profile and liver transaminases measured 2 to 3 months after starting or changing treatment. Adults taking medicine to reduce their chance of a heart attack or stroke have a blood test 2 to 3 months after starting or changing medicine to check that it is reducing their cholesterol levels and not affecting their liver. Source guidance Cardiovascular disease: risk assessment and reduction, including lipid modification. NICE guideline NG238 (2023), recommendation 1.11.1 Definitions of terms used in this quality statement Full lipid profile This involves taking a blood sample to measure total cholesterol, HDL cholesterol and triglyceride levels and then calculating non-HDL cholesterol and LDL cholesterol (a fasting sample is not mandated). LDL cholesterol results may not be reported in participants with triglyceride levels more than 4.5 mmol per litre or 9 mmol per litre depending on the formula used by local laboratories. [NICE's guideline on cardiovascular disease: risk assessment and reduction, including lipid modification, terms used in this guideline] Quality statement 5: Secondary prevention of cardiovascular disease Quality statement Adults with cardiovascular disease have a low-density lipoprotein (LDL) cholesterol level of 2.0 mmol per litre or less, or a non-high-density lipoprotein (non-HDL) cholesterol level of 2.6 mmol per litre or less. [new 2025] Rationale Management of LDL cholesterol or non-HDL cholesterol is important to reduce the risk of future cardiovascular events in adults with existing cardiovascular disease. High-intensity statins are the most clinically effective treatment option for the secondary prevention of cardiovascular disease (CVD) by reduction of lipid levels. Atorvastatin 80 mg is recommended as the preferred high-intensity statin, but other lipid-lowering treatments could be used if atorvastatin 80 mg is contraindicated, not tolerated or the target cholesterol level is not achieved. A non-HDL cholesterol target can be used if an LDL cholesterol level has not been requested or calculated. Quality measures The following measures can be used to assess the
