Cardiovascular risk assessment and lipid modification
KEYWORDS: risk, cvd, adults, treatment, lipid, quality, cardiovascular, statement, disease, cholesterol, cardiovascular disease, risk assessment, assessment, used, people


achieved. A non-HDL cholesterol target can be used if an LDL cholesterol level has not been requested or calculated. Quality measures The following measures can be used to assess the quality of care or service provision specified in the statement. They are examples of how the statement can be measured, and can be adapted and used flexibly. Outcome Proportion of adults with CVD in whom the last recorded LDL or non-HDL cholesterol level (measured in the preceding 12 months) is 2.0 mmol per litre or less for LDL cholesterol, or 2.6 mmol per litre or less for non-HDL cholesterol. Numerator – the number in the denominator in whom the last recorded LDL or non-HDL cholesterol level (measured in the preceding 12 months) is 2.0 mmol per litre or less for LDL cholesterol, or 2.6 mmol per litre or less for non-HDL cholesterol. Denominator – the number of adults with CVD. Data source:CVDPREVENT indicator CVDP012CHOL reports the proportion of patients with GP-recorded CVD (narrow definition which includes coronary heart disease [CHD], non-haemorrhagic stroke and stroke cause not specified, transient ischaemic attack [TIA] and peripheral arterial disease), whose most recent blood cholesterol level is LDL cholesterol less than or equal to 2.0 mmol per litre or, non-HDL cholesterol less than or equal to 2.6 mmol per litre in the preceding 12 months. The indicator also reports data for inequality markers including sex, age, ethnicity, deprivation level and presence of a learning disability. QOF indicator CHOL004 reports the percentage of patients on the QOF CHD, PAD or stroke/TIA register with the most recent cholesterol measurement in the preceding 12 months, showing as 2.0 mmol per litre or less if it was an LDL (low-density lipoprotein) cholesterol reading or 2.6 mmol per litre or less if it was a non-HDL (high-density lipoprotein) cholesterol reading. What the quality statement means for different audiences Service providers (for example primary care services and secondary care services) ensure that systems are in place for adults with CVD to achieve their lipid target, for example ensuring that LDL cholesterol or non-HDL cholesterol can be measured, and that lipid- lowering treatment can be offered. Healthcare professionals (such as GPs, nurses, doctors, and specialist nurses) are aware of treatment targets for secondary prevention of CVD and offer adults with CVD treatment with atorvastatin 80 mg, or other lipid-lowering treatment if required, to achieve the target. They could use NHS England's summary
