Cardiovascular risk assessment and lipid modification
KEYWORDS: risk, cvd, adults, treatment, lipid, quality, cardiovascular, statement, disease, cholesterol, cardiovascular disease, risk assessment, assessment, used, people


secondary prevention of CVD and offer adults with CVD treatment with atorvastatin 80 mg, or other lipid-lowering treatment if required, to achieve the target. They could use NHS England's summary of national guidance for lipid management. They discuss lifestyle change with the patient at the same time. Treatment and any changes to treatment should be made after an informed discussion between the healthcare professional and the adult with CVD. They are aware of strategies to address adverse effects of high-intensity statins if reported by the adult on a high-intensity statin and could use NHS England's statin intolerance pathway to address statin intolerance. They repeat measurement of LDL cholesterol or non-HDL cholesterol in adults with CVD after 2 to 3 months of treatment and consider escalation of treatment with alternative lipid-lowering treatment if the target is not achieved. Commissioners ensure that they commission services in which adults with CVD have treatment to achieve their target lipid level. Adults with CVD are aware of their target cholesterol level and receive treatment, and advice on lifestyle changes, that lower their bad cholesterol (non-high-density lipoprotein [non-HDL], which is mainly composed of low-density lipoprotein [LDL] cholesterol) to a level that reduces their chances of having a heart attack or stroke in the future after discussion with their healthcare professional. Source guidance Cardiovascular disease: risk assessment and reduction, including lipid modification. NICE guideline NG238 (2023), recommendation 1.7.1 Definitions of terms used in this quality statement Adults with cardiovascular disease Including coronary heart disease, ischaemic stroke or TIA (excluding a history of haemorrhagic stroke) or peripheral arterial disease. [Adapted from Quality and Outcomes Framework indicator CHOL004, NICE's indicator on cardiovascular disease prevention: secondary prevention with lipid lowering therapies and expert opinion] Update information July 2025: This quality standard was updated and statements prioritised in 2015 were replaced. The topic was identified for update following the annual review of quality standards. The review identified updated guidance on cardiovascular disease: risk assessment and reduction, including lipid modification. Statements are marked as: • [new 2025] if the statement covers a new area for quality improvement • [2015, updated 2025] if the statement covers an area for quality improvement included in the 2015 quality standard and has been updated. The previous version of the quality standard for cardiovascular risk assessment and lipid modification is available as a pdf. Minor changes since publication September 2025: We update the source guidance for statement
