Mineralocorticoid Defects in Children
KEYWORDS: aldosterone, adrenal, sodium, children, mineralocorticoid, deficiency, pubmed, type, resistance, hypoaldosteronism, synthesis, hyperkalemia, defects, infants, salt


ABSTRACT Isolated aldosterone deficiency in children related either to impaired secretion by the adrenal gland or to aldosterone resistance in target tissues is rare. The incidence is estimated to be <1:1,000,000 for congenital isolated primary hypoaldosteronism and 1:66,000 to 1:166,000 for congenital aldosterone resistance ( 1 ). Children may present with salt wasting, hyponatremia, hypotension, hyperkalemia, metabolic acidosis, and failure to thrive. There is a wide phenotypic spectrum based on the severity and etiology of aldosterone deficiency or action. In this chapter, we briefly discuss the physiology of mineralocorticoids in newborns, categorize the causes of isolated hypoaldosteronism, and review the etiologies to guide clinical and laboratory evaluation and treatment. For complete coverage of all related areas of Endocrinology, please visit our on-line FREE web-text, WWW.ENDOTEXT.ORG . INTRODUCTION Mineralocorticoids are a class of steroids produced in the zona glomerulosa in the adrenal cortex that regulate sodium, potassium and water balance; aldosterone is the primary mineralocorticoid. Its synthesis involves several enzymes within the adrenal, the final step regulated by aldosterone synthase ( CYP11B2 ) ( Figure 1 ). Aldosterone secretion involves an intricate feedback loop involving multiple organs including the adrenal glands, kidneys, liver, lungs, and blood vessels. The major regulators of aldosterone synthesis and secretion are the renin-angiotensin-aldosterone (RAA) axis and potassium ( Figure 2 ). Aldosterone binds to the mineralocorticoid receptor at the kidney to activate specific amiloride-sensitive sodium (ENaC) channels and a Na-K- ATPase pump. Through these actions, aldosterone promotes sodium reabsorption and urinary potassium excretion ( Figure 2 ). Mineralocorticoid deficiency (also referred to as hypoaldosteronism) refers to compromised aldosterone secretion from the adrenal glands or its cellular action. Hypoaldosteronism is observed as part of global adrenal cortex dysfunction in both congenital and acquired disorders, such as primary adrenal insufficiency (PAI), adrenal hypoplasia congenita (AHC), and congenital adrenal hyperplasia (CAH). In these disorders, hypoaldosteronism occurs together with glucocorticoid deficiency (i.e., adrenal insufficiency) and/or other deficient or dysregulated adrenal steroid secretion. While rare in children, hypoaldosteronism may occur as an isolated condition, either congenital or acquired, and can be classified into 1) defective aldosterone biosynthesis 2) disturbances in stimulation of aldosterone secretion, and 3) impaired aldosterone action at the target tissue, mainly the kidneys (resistance) ( 2 ). The latter is also referred to as “pseudohypoaldosteronism” since circulating aldosterone levels are elevated despite clinical symptoms and signs of mineralocorticoid deficiency due to dysfunctional mineralocorticoid receptor or its downstream effects
