Mineralocorticoid Defects in Children
KEYWORDS: aldosterone, adrenal, sodium, children, mineralocorticoid, deficiency, pubmed, type, resistance, hypoaldosteronism, synthesis, hyperkalemia, defects, infants, salt


latter is also referred to as “pseudohypoaldosteronism” since circulating aldosterone levels are elevated despite clinical symptoms and signs of mineralocorticoid deficiency due to dysfunctional mineralocorticoid receptor or its downstream effects ( 2 ). In this chapter, we discuss isolated aldosterone-deficient conditions other than PAI, AHC, and CAH. In depth coverage of adrenal insufficiency can be found in Endotext.org chapter: Adrenal Insufficiency in Children ( 3 ). Normal aldosterone production, regulation, and action are essential in neonates, infants, and children for salt balance and overall growth. If untreated, defects in aldosterone secretion or action in children may lead to salt wasting, hypotension, hyperkalemia, metabolic acidosis, and failure to thrive. Severe hyponatremia (salt wasting) and metabolic acidosis can be life-threatening in newborns and infants. In depth coverage of mineralocorticoid deficiency and resistance can be found in Endotext.org chapter: Aldosterone Deficiency and Resistance ( 4 ). Our chapter focuses on isolated aldosterone defects in the pediatric population. Figure 1. Enzyme defects related to aldosterone synthesis. Schematic of adrenal steroidogenesis demonstrating the various enzymes involved in aldosterone synthesis (large black box). The red lines indicate the specific enzymatic defects that result in defects in aldosterone synthesis. Cortisol circulates in the bloodstream at higher concentrations than aldosterone and it also interacts with MR. However, within the kidney and target tissues, there is selectivity of MR by aldosterone due to the enzyme 11βHSD2 that converts active cortisol to inactive cortisone (small black box). SCC: side-chain cleavage. HSD: hydroxysteroid dehydrogenase. MR: mineralocorticoid receptor. DHEA: dehydroepiandrosterone. Aldo: aldosterone. PATHOPHYSIOLOGY Aldosterone Synthesis Aldosterone biosynthesis occurs at the zona glomerulosa, the outermost layer of the adrenal cortex, via the action of several enzymes: cholesterol desmolase [also known as cholesterol side-chain cleavage enzyme] ( CYP11A1 ), 3β-hydroxysteroid dehydrogenase ( HSD3B2 ), 21-hydroxylase ( CYP21A2 ), 11-hydroxylase ( CYP11B1 ) and aldosterone synthase ( CYP11B2 ) ( Figure1 ). The first four enzymes are also expressed in the zona fasciculata and are involved in cortisol biosynthesis. Defects in any of these enzymes may lead to combined aldosterone/cortisol deficiencies as part of the syndromes seen in Congenital Adrenal Hyperplasia. Aldosterone synthase encoded by CYP11B2 , the last enzymatic step in aldosterone biosynthesis, is expressed only at the zona glomerulosa and genetic defects in this gene result in isolated aldosterone deficiency ( Figure 1 ). Aldosterone synthesis involves two steps. The first includes the 18-hydroxylation of corticosterone to form 18-hydroxycorticosterone (18OH corticosterone) and the
