Mineralocorticoid Defects in Children
KEYWORDS: aldosterone, adrenal, sodium, children, mineralocorticoid, deficiency, pubmed, type, resistance, hypoaldosteronism, synthesis, hyperkalemia, defects, infants, salt


this gene result in isolated aldosterone deficiency ( Figure 1 ). Aldosterone synthesis involves two steps. The first includes the 18-hydroxylation of corticosterone to form 18-hydroxycorticosterone (18OH corticosterone) and the second is the 18-oxidation of 18OH corticosterone to form aldosterone. Although it was previously considered that these two steps are catalyzed by two different enzymes, it is now known to involve the same enzyme, aldosterone synthase ( 5 ). Based on the two final steps in aldosterone synthesis, two subtypes of aldosterone synthase deficiency (ASD) have been described; however, with further clarification of the enzymatic process this is now thought to be an overlapping clinical spectrum, depending on the degree of enzyme deficiency ( 5 ). Aldosterone Regulation and Action Serum potassium concentrations and the Renin, Angiotensin, Aldosterone (RAA) axis are the main regulators of aldosterone synthesis. Hyperkalemia has a direct stimulating effect independent of RAA axis ( 2 ). The RAA axis is a feedback loop that regulates sodium, potassium, water, fluid volume, and blood pressure ( 2 ). The cells in the macula densa of the juxtaglomerular apparatus are triggered to release renin in response to a drop in perfusion. Angiotensinogen is a protein produced from the liver that is cleaved to angiotensin I (Ang I) by renin ( 2 ). Angiotensin-converting enzyme (ACE) in vascular endothelium rapidly converts Ang I to Angiotensin II (Ang II). Ang II is the most potent stimulus for aldosterone production and release ( 2 ). Of note, tissue and plasma peptidase inactivate angiotensin within minutes and circulating renin levels are the rate-limiting factor of this process ( 1 ). Aldosterone mediates its effects by binding to the mineralocorticoid receptor (MR; aka NR3C2 ) at the distal convoluted tubules and collecting duct epithelial cells of the kidneys ( Figure 2 ). The MR is a member of the nuclear receptor family, and along with the glucocorticoid and androgen receptors, forms the steroid receptor subfamily. In its unliganded state, the MR is located in the cytoplasm. Upon binding with its ligand, MR is translocated into the nucleus, where it modulates the transcription of several genes, such as those that encode the ENaC subunits ( 1 ). Mutations that inactivate the MR result in aldosterone resistance or pseudo-hypoaldosteronism type 1 (PHA1). Aldosterone, 11-deoxycorticosterone (DOC), and cortisol are all endogenous agonists of the MR. Specifically, cortisol and aldosterone have an equal affinity for the mineralocorticoid receptor
