Mineralocorticoid Defects in Children
KEYWORDS: aldosterone, adrenal, sodium, children, mineralocorticoid, deficiency, pubmed, type, resistance, hypoaldosteronism, synthesis, hyperkalemia, defects, infants, salt


resistance or pseudo-hypoaldosteronism type 1 (PHA1). Aldosterone, 11-deoxycorticosterone (DOC), and cortisol are all endogenous agonists of the MR. Specifically, cortisol and aldosterone have an equal affinity for the mineralocorticoid receptor ( 2 ); however, selectivity of MR receptor for aldosterone is ensured in epithelial target tissues by 11βHSD2 enzyme that converts active cortisol to inactive cortisone ( 1 ) ( Figure 1 ). This is of particular importance as cortisol circulates at concentrations 100 to 1,000-fold higher than aldosterone. Loss-of-function mutations of the kidney 11βHSD2 result in excessive cortisol-dependent MR activation and cause an autosomal recessive form of familial hypertension called apparent mineralocorticoid excess ( 6 ). After binding to MR, aldosterone activates ENaC gene transcription, decreases ENaC degradation, and activates Na-K ATPase pump. ENaC, located at the apical membrane of epithelial cells, plays a crucial role in sodium reabsorption, potassium secretion, and subsequent volume expansion. ENaC consists of 3 subunits (a, b, and g) that are encoded by unique genes ( SCNN1A , SCNN1B , SCNN1G , respectively) ( 1 ). Defects in these genes can impair ENaC function and lead also to aldosterone resistance or pseudo hypoaldosteronism type Ib. In addition to the epithelial cells of the distal convoluted tubule, ENaC is expressed at the epithelial cells of other tissues that are involved in salt conservation, such as colon, sweat glands, and lungs. Dysfunction of ENaC, therefore, has systemic manifestations from muti-organ water and salt loss. Figure 2. Physiology of aldosterone secretion and action. The figure demonstrates the renin-angiotensin-aldosterone (RAA) system and its effects on sodium and potassium homeostasis, and blood pressure. Aldosterone secretion is regulated by decreased blood volume and hyponatremia via activation of the RAA axis, and indirectly, by hyperkalemia. Aldosterone then binds to the mineralocorticoid receptor (MR; aka NR3C2) at the distal convoluted tubules and collecting duct of the kidneys. Upon binding with aldosterone, MR translocate into the nucleus, where it modulates the transcription of the genes that encode the epithelial sodium channel (ENaC). ENaC is a sodium-selective ion channel that plays a crucial role in sodium reabsorption. Aldosterone action results in urinary potassium excretion and sodium reabsorption, and thus, increased blood volume. Aldosterone Secretion in the Newborn There are limited studies in infants investigating the interaction between water, sodium, and the renin-angiotensin-aldosterone system. Various changes related to water turnover, sodium metabolism, and kidney adaptation to extrauterine life occur in the neonatal period ( 1
