Mineralocorticoid Defects in Children
KEYWORDS: aldosterone, adrenal, sodium, children, mineralocorticoid, deficiency, pubmed, type, resistance, hypoaldosteronism, synthesis, hyperkalemia, defects, infants, salt


the interaction between water, sodium, and the renin-angiotensin-aldosterone system. Various changes related to water turnover, sodium metabolism, and kidney adaptation to extrauterine life occur in the neonatal period ( 1 ). The immediate postnatal phase in the first week of life is characterized by oliguria followed by a diuretic phase with extracellular contraction and net loss of sodium and water ( 1 ). Maximum weight loss occurs during this period (up to 10% of birth weight is considered normal). Kidneys in the neonate exhibit tubular immaturity resulting in sodium wasting and impaired ability to reabsorb water ( 1 ). Additionally, aldosterone and renin concentrations are higher in the newborn period, whereas expression of renal MR is reduced, leading to transient renal resistance to aldosterone ( 7 ). In very preterm infants, there is decreased activity of 11β-hydroxylase ( CYP11B1 ) and low aldosterone synthase ( CYP11B2 ) activity, possibly due to immaturity of these enzymes in the fetal adrenal cortex, leading to deficient aldosterone secretion ( 8 , 9 ). After the first week of life, water losses decrease, and positive sodium balance is important for growth ( 1 ). It is essential to acknowledge these physiologic changes when evaluating mineralocorticoid function in the neonatal period. CLINICAL PRESENTATION The clinical presentation of aldosterone deficiency is variable depending on the etiology. Broadly, the signs of hypoaldosteronism include hypotension, hyponatremia (salt wasting), hyperkalemia, and metabolic acidosis. The symptoms that can be seen in infants and children related to these electrolyte derangements are dehydration, vomiting, irritability, weakness, seizures, and failure to thrive. ETIOLOGY OF ISOLATED HYPOALDOSTERONISM Isolated aldosterone disorders can be classified into disorders of defective synthesis, aldosterone resistance and diminished stimulation ( Table 1 ). Defective Aldosterone Synthesis This refers to hyperreninemic hypoaldosteronism in which the renin production is intact, and the defect is at the level of the adrenal gland. The etiology of defective aldosterone synthesis can be separated into congenital and acquired causes. It is important to note that aldosterone deficiency due to defect in synthesis can be the first presenting sign of adrenal cortex failure and later progress to involve insufficient cortisol production. For descriptions of disorders involving adrenal cortical failure such as congenital adrenal hyperplasia and Addison’s disease, see Endotext.org chapter: Adrenal Insufficiency in Children ( 3 ). CONGENITAL CAUSES Prematurity Very preterm infants (<33 weeks’ gestation) have deficient aldosterone concentrations, thought to be related to both the
