Mineralocorticoid Defects in Children
KEYWORDS: aldosterone, adrenal, sodium, children, mineralocorticoid, deficiency, pubmed, type, resistance, hypoaldosteronism, synthesis, hyperkalemia, defects, infants, salt


see Endotext.org chapter: Adrenal Insufficiency in Children ( 3 ). CONGENITAL CAUSES Prematurity Very preterm infants (<33 weeks’ gestation) have deficient aldosterone concentrations, thought to be related to both the general immaturity of the fetal adrenal cortex and specifically a defect in aldosterone production, perhaps due to low aldosterone synthase activity ( 10 ). This also aligns with other defects in adrenal steroidogenesis seen in preterm infants (e.g. low 11β-hydroxylation leading to high 17OHP and false positive on the newborn screening) ( 11 ). Aldosterone Synthase Deficiency Variants in the CYP11B2 gene result in variable loss of enzyme activity and aldosterone deficiency. As seen in Figure 1 , aldosterone synthase is responsible for the hydroxylation of corticosterone to 18-hydroxycorticosterone followed by oxidation from 18-hydroxycorticosterone to aldosterone. Previously, these steps were thought to be controlled by 2 different enzymes and this disorder was called corticosterone methyl-oxidase (CMO) deficiency with 2 subtypes described (CMOI and CMOII) based on the aldosterone and precursor relative concentrations. These subtypes are now thought to be a spectrum of severity ( 12 ). Due to continued production of DOC and corticosterone, there is some mineralocorticoid activity. However, this may be insufficient in the setting of aldosterone resistance of the neonate and salt loss may occur in infancy. Children are more affected than adults who may even have normal renin levels as the mineralocorticoid sensitivity improves and exogenous salt from table food intake increases. ACQUIRED CAUSES Critical Illness Despite intact ACTH and renin secretion as well as angiotensin II production, a portion of critically ill patients may have low aldosterone levels ( 13 , 14 ). This is considered to represent a shift in the adrenal cortex prioritizing cortisol production to aid in recovery. Adrenalectomy Typically, unilateral adrenalectomy would not be expected to lead to a glucocorticoid or mineralocorticoid defect; however, this may occur in the setting of a hyperfunctioning defect in one adrenal with contralateral atrophy. In the case of mineralocorticoid function, a patient with Conn’s syndrome (also known as primary hyperaldosteronism) who undergoes unilateral adrenalectomy can experience signs and symptoms of hypoaldosteronism including hyperkalemia, with reports indicating this occurrence in 6-62% of patients ( 15 - 17 ). Post surgical monitoring is recommended, although few patients require medical treatment. Medication Induced While other medications may lead to diminished aldosterone stimulation or resistance, heparin is known to reduce aldosterone synthesis leading to natriuresis and hyperkalemia without an
