Mineralocorticoid Defects in Children
KEYWORDS: aldosterone, adrenal, sodium, children, mineralocorticoid, deficiency, pubmed, type, resistance, hypoaldosteronism, synthesis, hyperkalemia, defects, infants, salt


require medical treatment. Medication Induced While other medications may lead to diminished aldosterone stimulation or resistance, heparin is known to reduce aldosterone synthesis leading to natriuresis and hyperkalemia without an impact on corticosteroid production ( 18 ). Aldosterone Resistance This refers to impaired action of aldosterone at the level of the target tissue and can further be categorized into congenital and acquired causes. CONGENITAL CAUSES Pseudo-Hypoaldosteronism (PHA) Type 1 The genetic form of aldosterone resistance occurs due to a mutation impacting the mineralocorticoid receptor ( 19 ). Despite the prevalent consideration of PHA1 as a genetic form of type IV renal tubular acidosis (RTA), the biochemical profile can differ. Hyperkalemia, hyponatremia, and acidosis are universal; however, while RTA type IV involves a hyperchloremic non-anion gap acidosis, there are descriptions of both hyper and hypochloremia as well as an anion gap acidosis in PHA1 ( 20 ). PHA can be either autosomal dominant or recessive. The autosomal recessive disease (PHA1b ) occurs due to a mutation in the genes encoding one of the 3 ENaC subunits ( SCNN1A , SCNN1B , SCNN1G ) ( 21 ). The presentation of PHA1b is often severe given the systemic nature of ENaC outside of the kidney and in the epithelial cells of other tissues including colon, sweat glands, and lungs. The autosomal dominant disease (PHA1a) occurs due to a mutation in the gene encoding the mineralocorticoid receptor ( NR3C2) and is restricted to the kidney ( 21 , 22 ). This form is milder and tends to improve during childhood. However, despite its isolation to the kidney, the hyperkalemia that results can be devastating if not identified and treated early; cases are described involving cardiac arrest and hypoxic ischemic encephalopathy as an outcome ( 23 ). Despite the classification of PHA1 based on mutation (PHA1a vs. PHA1b), some individuals with features of PHA1 do not have identifiable molecular defects. ACQUIRED CAUSES Secondary Pseudo-Hypoaldosteronism (PHA Type 3) PHA Type 3 is often associated with urinary tract infections (UTI) and/or related to underlying urinary anomalies, primarily urinary tract obstruction, resulting in decreased aldosterone responsiveness ( 24 ). PHA Type 3 occurs frequently in male infants; a recent systematic review identified 80% of cases in male babies under 4 months of age ( 25 ). Presentation can include failure to thrive and vomiting and laboratory evaluation reveals hyperreninemic, hyperaldosteronism with impaired responsiveness, and hyponatremic, hyperkalemic metabolic acidosis.
