Mineralocorticoid Defects in Children
KEYWORDS: aldosterone, adrenal, sodium, children, mineralocorticoid, deficiency, pubmed, type, resistance, hypoaldosteronism, synthesis, hyperkalemia, defects, infants, salt


under 4 months of age ( 25 ). Presentation can include failure to thrive and vomiting and laboratory evaluation reveals hyperreninemic, hyperaldosteronism with impaired responsiveness, and hyponatremic, hyperkalemic metabolic acidosis. Early identification allows for prevention of electrolyte related morbidity and expedited resolution of urinary obstruction through surgical management in over 40% of cases ( 24 , 25 ). Medication Related Medications that block the ENaC channel (amiloride) or MR (spironolactone) will cause aldosterone resistance. These medications are used therapeutically in resistant hypertension and to prevent hypokalemia seen with other diuretics. Spironolactone is also used for its anti-androgenic properties and the potential for dehydration and hyperkalemia should be considered and monitored. Other ENaC blockers include triamterene, trimethoprim, and pentamidine, while other aldosterone antagonists include synthetic progestins and calcineurin inhibitors. Diminished Stimulation Decreased renin or angiotensin II results in decreased aldosterone production due to diminished adrenal stimulation. When this hyporeninemic hypoaldosteronism occurs with hyperchloremia and non-anion gap metabolic acidosis, it is called Type 4 RTA. In adults, this is most often associated with nephropathy (diabetes, autonomic neuropathy, sickle cell disease, HIV, SLE) and medications (beta blockers, ACE inhibitors) ( 26 ). In children, Gordon Syndrome (Familial Hyperkalemic hypertension or pseudo-hypoaldosteronism type II [PHA2]) is rare and associated with low renin/low aldosterone (or inappropriately normal for degree of hyperkalemia) state with normal glomerular filtration. This is thought to be due to abnormal thiazide-sensitive sodium-chloride co-transporter in the distal nephron (mutations in WNK1, WNK4, CUL3, or KLHL3 genes) ( 27 ). The increased sodium and chloride reabsorption leads to hypertension, volume expansion, and decreased potassium and hydrogen excretion resulting in hyperkalemia and metabolic acidosis. In contrast to PHA1, PHA2 does have a biochemical profile that aligns with Type IV RTA including hyponatremic, hyperkalemic, and hyperchloremic non-anion gap metabolic acidosis ( 28 ). These causes of defective aldosterone stimulation are rare in the pediatric population, so when identified, affected children should be referred to the appropriate subspecialities such as nephrology for evaluation and treatment. Given the rare nature and lack of a primary endocrine etiology, these causes are not reviewed in the table below. Table 1. CAUSES OF ISOLATED ALDOSTERONE DEFECTS IN CHILDREN View in own window Condition Cause Presentation Congenital – Aldosterone Synthesis Prematurity (transient) Immaturity of aldosterone synthase in very premature infants HYPERreninemic, HYPOaldosteronism Hyponatremia and hyperkalemia Increased corticosterone Aldosterone synthase deficiency Formerly divided into: CMO I deficiency (low 18-OH corticosterone) -CMO II
