Mineralocorticoid Defects in Children
KEYWORDS: aldosterone, adrenal, sodium, children, mineralocorticoid, deficiency, pubmed, type, resistance, hypoaldosteronism, synthesis, hyperkalemia, defects, infants, salt


deficiency. If there is global adrenal dysfunction resulting in both cortisol and aldosterone deficiency, the differential diagnosis can be narrowed to causes of primary adrenal insufficiency (see Endotext: Adrenal Insufficiency in Children) ( 3 ). It is critical to identify primary adrenal insufficiency, especially in infants, and promptly treat with hydrocortisone to avoid adrenal crisis. If an isolated aldosterone defect is considered, the second step is to evaluate whether the defect is at the level of the adrenal glands or kidneys. High renin and low aldosterone points to a defect at the level of the adrenal glands (defective aldosterone synthesis). High renin and high aldosterone points to a defect at the level of the kidneys causing resistance to aldosterone. The various causes of aldosterone resistance are detailed above in the section “Etiology”. Briefly, these include congenital (mutations in MR or ENaC channel) and acquired causes (medications, transient resistance in the setting of UTI, or renal tubular dysfunction). Low renin and low aldosterone states do not commonly occur in children, as they are often the consequence of chronic illness causing type IV RTA (i.e. in adults with diabetic nephropathy); however, there is also a genetic form, Gordon Syndrome or pseudo-hypoaldosteronism type 2 which is characterized by hypertension, hyperkalemia, and metabolic acidosis. As stated above, measurement of renin and aldosterone at the time of hyponatremia and hyperkalemia are important biochemical markers to differentiate the etiology of hypoaldosteronism. Furthermore, if there is suspicion for aldosterone synthase deficiency, corticosterone and 18-hydroxycorticosterone measurements can be useful (see figure 1 ). Values need to be interpreted according to age of the patient. Hemolyzed lblood may result in a falsely elevated potassium level and must be repeated to ensure accuracy of test values. Figure 3. A proposed approach in the differential and diagnostic evaluation of children with suspected aldosterone deficiency. Genetic Testing In addition to biochemical evaluation, genetic testing is an invaluable tool to help guide treatment and prognosis, especially in infanta and children where the clinical manifestations of aldosterone defects vary widely ( 29 ). Genetic testing including whole exome sequencing or gene panels (for pseudo-hypoaldosteronism) may clarify the diagnosis, treatment, and prognosis. Genes associated with hypoaldosteronism and pseudo-hypoaldosteronism include CYP11B2, NR3C2, SCNN1A, SCNN1B, SCNN1G, WNK1, WNK4, CUL3, KLHL3 ( 2 ). TREATMENT The initial management depends upon severity of presentation and etiology of the mineralocorticoid defect. Infants or children who are acutely ill with salt-wasting
