Mineralocorticoid Defects in Children
KEYWORDS: aldosterone, adrenal, sodium, children, mineralocorticoid, deficiency, pubmed, type, resistance, hypoaldosteronism, synthesis, hyperkalemia, defects, infants, salt


WNK4, CUL3, KLHL3 ( 2 ). TREATMENT The initial management depends upon severity of presentation and etiology of the mineralocorticoid defect. Infants or children who are acutely ill with salt-wasting crisis must undergo fluid resuscitation to correct salt and water losses. It is essential to give stress dose corticosteroids (intramuscular or intravenous hydrocortisone 100mg/m2) if co-existing glucocorticoid deficiency exists. Hydrocortisone at high doses has mineralocorticoid effect, and fludrocortisone tablets may be added once hydrocortisone is weaned to be below about 50-60 mg/m2/day ( 3 ). Oral treatment options for children with aldosterone defects include mineralocorticoid replacement (fludrocortisone), sodium chloride tablets, and sodium bicarbonate. The management plan depends on the underlying mineralocorticoid defect and is separated according to those children who are not able to produce aldosterone, and those who have resistance to its action. Primary Hypoaldosteronism Children with primary hypoaldosteronism (including those with adrenal insufficiency such as Addison’s Disease or CAH) should start mineralocorticoid replacement (fludrocortisone 0.05-0.2 mg/day). Infants and young children usually need higher doses of fludrocortisone in addition to sodium chloride supplementation due to renal resistance and general diet that is lower in salt. Sodium chloride is weaned over time as renin activity normalizes, and salt is incorporated into the diet. Fludrocortisone is continued for mineralocorticoid replacement and titrated based on normalization of blood pressure, electrolytes, and renin levels. Aldosterone Resistance Children with autosomal recessive (PHA1b) and autosomal dominant (PHA1a) pseudo-hypoaldosteronism are usually treated with high dose sodium chloride supplementation. Those who have PHA1a (mild form only affecting the kidneys) usually need lower doses of salt supplementation with gradual clinical improvement (typically no need for salt supplementation by 1-3 years of age) ( 30 ). Infants and children with the severe/systemic form (PHA1b) are more difficult to manage given the need for higher doses of salt supplementation, potassium lowering agents, and potential for recurrent pulmonary infections ( 31 ). Some of these children might need gastrostomy tubes to allow for consistent high dose salt supplementation which is not always tolerated by mouth. Sodium bicarbonate is another medication used to improve metabolic acidosis which can impact growth and development if acidosis persists. Given the rarity of pseudo-hypoaldosteronism, the doses of sodium chloride and sodium bicarbonate are not well established and must be titrated based on serum sodium and bicarbonate concentrations. Table 2. SUMMARY OF TREATMENT OPTIONS FOR CHILDREN WITH ALDOSTERONE DEFECTS View in own window Treatment Dose Considerations Fludrocortisone
