Chapter
KEYWORDS: women, disease, conditions, countries, gender, health, diseases, treatment, developing, percent, daly, developing countries, cancer, specific, men


ni dna ,serocs oitar redneg fo noitubirtsid eht fo DS eno sulp Table 10.4 Priority Conditions by Category, 2001 towomenincludereachingpoorandsociallyexcludedwomen with basic maternal and reproductive health services; Region where strengthening the adoption of preventive health behaviors in Gender gender ratio is developing countries; extending the quality of care to other Category and condition ratio apparent conditions specific to women,including neoplasms;and edu- Conditions specific to women catingandempoweringwomentopromotetheirownhealthy Maternal hemorrhage n.a. n.a. behaviors. Maternal sepsis n.a. n.a. Hypertensive disorders related n.a. n.a. to maternal conditions Conditions Associated with Women’s Greater Longevity Obstructed labor n.a. n.a. The main group of diseases with excess burdens for women Abortion n.a. n.a. associated with women’s greater longevity are Alzheimer’s Other maternal conditions n.a. n.a. disease; musculoskeletal disorders, such as osteoarthritis, Breast cancer 244.62 World rheumatoid arthritis,and osteoporosis;and cardiovascular dis- Cervix uteri cancer n.a. n.a. eases,3 which together account for 12 percent of total DALY losses for women worldwide.LMICs account for about 80 per- Corpus uteri cancer n.a. n.a. cent of the DALYs resulting from these conditions, likely Ovarian cancer n.a. n.a. because of the lack of medical care during the early stages of Chlamydia 9.76 World these diseases. Conditions associated with women’s greater longevity Alzheimer’sdiseaseandotherdementiasaccountfor1.5per- Alzheimer’s disease and 1.81 World cent oftotal female DALYs,and this burden is almost twice as other dementias high as that for men. About 46 percent of this burden is Osteoarthritis 1.64 World concentrated in HICs and 54 percent in LMICs,but DALYs lost Cerebrovascular diseases 1.47 Sub-Saharan Africa per capita are much greater in the HICs than in more densely Other cardiovascular diseases 1.45 Middle East and populated LMICs. Because of population aging, during the North Africa next 50 years the number ofpeople with Alzheimer’s disease is Age-related vision disorders 1.63 Europe and expected to more than double,with more women affected than Central Asia men (McCann and others 1997).Studies ofthe effects ofestro- Conditions arising from the interaction of sex and gender gen therapy on Alzheimer’s disease have been inconsistent: Unipolar depressive disorders 1.53 World estrogen may increase the risk ofboth dementia and other dis- Migraine 2.81 Latin America and eases such as stroke in postmenopausal women (Shumaker and the Caribbean others 2003). As concerns musculoskeletal disorders,osteoarthritis affects Gender-based conditions 9.6 percent ofmen and 18.0 percent ofwomen age 60 or older Fires 2.43 South Asia worldwide and accounts for 1.5 percent oftotal female DALYs. Source: WHO 2001. Osteoarthritis is related to aging and
