Chapter
KEYWORDS: women, disease, conditions, countries, gender, health, diseases, treatment, developing, percent, daly, developing countries, cancer, specific, men


and 18.0 percent ofwomen age 60 or older Fires 2.43 South Asia worldwide and accounts for 1.5 percent oftotal female DALYs. Source: WHO 2001. Osteoarthritis is related to aging and is most common in over- n.a. (cid:1)not applicable. weight women over the age of 45. Demographic changes in developing countries, especially middle-income countries, of death or disability resulting from complications through indicate that osteoarthritis prevention and treatment needs will emergency obstetric care. Proven technologies also exist for increase during the next decade. Most prevention and treat- screening and early detection of some neoplasms, although ment are linked to regular exercise, healthy weight manage- their implementation has been uneven.Problems pertaining to ment, physical and occupational therapy, and pain manage- conditions in this category are not simply related to the avail- ment with over-the-counter medications. ability of medical technologies,but also to the behavioral and Because cardiovascular diseases are generally thought of social factors that influence women’s exposure to risks and by society as “men’s diseases,” women tend to delay seeking underuse of services as well as the economic and institutional treatment for cardiac-related events (Seils, Friedman, and factors that influence the availability and quality of services, Schulman2001).However,cardiovascularandcerebrovascular especially in developing countries. diseases account for about 8.2 percent of total female DALYs, Even though the international women’s health movement more than half of which is caused by cerebrovascular has promoted significant advances in the quality of care diseases. 25years,themainchallengesinrelationtoconditionsspecific that exposes women to a greater burden of cardiovascular Gender Differentials in Health | 201 diseases is depression, which is associated with increased depression in developing countries by creating systems that morbidity and mortality from heart diseases and is highly help them overcome social stigma and economic and social prevalent in women (Linfante and others 2003).Also,women’s barriers. symptoms of heart disease tend to be different from men’s, In addition to treatment, prevention of depression and increasing the difficulties of diagnosis (Seils, Friedman, and other mental illness needs to address women’s role in society Schulman 2001). Finally, evidence suggests that physical and the control they have over their lives and circumstances. however,women tend to exercise less than men (Manson and are related to having sufficient autonomy to exercise some others 2002).Whether this observation can be generalized to all control in response to severe events, access to adequate age groups and whether it occurs because ofbiological factors resources to be able to make choices, and social
