Chapter
KEYWORDS: women, disease, conditions, countries, gender, health, diseases, treatment, developing, percent, daly, developing countries, cancer, specific, men


generalized to all control in response to severe events, access to adequate age groups and whether it occurs because ofbiological factors resources to be able to make choices, and social supports or social norms deserve further attention. .The promotion of healthy behaviors,including exercise,is also crucial for prevention. Conditions Arising from the Interaction of Sex and Gender Gender-Based Conditions In the group of conditions resulting from the interaction of biological and social factors,unipolar depressive disorders have The main characteristic ofgender-based conditions is that they the most significant gender ratio and most unequal burden have no biological referent and can,therefore,be prevented by of disease in every region except East Asia and the Pacific. means ofbehavioral change.The role ofsocial components in Unipolar depressive disorders account for 4.2 percent of this category explains excessive health burdens for women in women’s global burden ofdisease.Even though the DALYs lost particular world regions.For example,women are dispropor- per capita are similar in LMICs and HICs, these disorders tionately affected by fires in South Asia,an outcome ofthe vio- represent a higher share of women’s total burden of disease lence caused by dowries. Too often women die in what are in HICs (7.3 percent) than in LMICs (3.9 percent). Another called “cooking fire accidents,”whereas in reality they are mur- important consideration is the high comorbidity between dered so that their husbands may remarry and obtain another depression and other psychiatric disorders (for example, dowry. anxiety disorders). Neuropsychiatric disorders account for Another characteristic of the diseases and injuries in this 11.8 percent of women’s total global burden of disease and category is that they are often underreported because of 23.5percent in HICs. stigma and social pressures. As a result, the data probably The exact contributions ofbiology and society in the etiol- underreport the true extent ofthe problem.FGM and domes- ogy of depression are unknown. Some believe that genetic tic violence are two examples. In 2000, estimates indicated causes account for about half of the risk for mood disorders that 100 million to 140 million girls and women had under- (Zubenko and others 2002),whereas others suggest that gender gone FGM and that more than 2 million girls were at risk.At roles, stressors, social relationships, and personality traits least 28 African and Middle Eastern countries practice FGM may play a larger role than hormones and neurotransmitters for social, cultural, or religious reasons . predisposition, the fluctuation of sex hormones, especially the resulting DALYs
