Chapter
KEYWORDS: women, disease, conditions, countries, gender, health, diseases, treatment, developing, percent, daly, developing countries, cancer, specific, men


Eastern countries practice FGM may play a larger role than hormones and neurotransmitters for social, cultural, or religious reasons . predisposition, the fluctuation of sex hormones, especially the resulting DALYs lost.Regarding violence against women, estrogen,during women’s reproductive life is believed to be an 10 to 50 percent of women report having been physically important risk factor for depression . As abused by an intimate partner, and 12 to 25 percent report concerns social factors, poverty; lack of proper nutrition and attempted or completed forced sex.Although men experience education; stressful and insecure life circumstances; and more absolute DALY losses from violence, women are also domestic and sexual violence and the concomitant feelings of seriously affected. In 1998, interpersonal violence was the loss, entrapment, and lack of control are likely at the root of 10th-leading cause of death for women age 15 to 44 depression(Bromberger 2004;WHO 2000). worldwide. chotherapy or counseling, and instruments are available to sive interventions are necessary. Changes are needed in the assess the severity of depression,including prenatal and post- following areas: partum depression.In developing countries,severe depression and anxiety disorders go mostly untreated (76 to 85 percent of • legislation and law enforcement rance, social barriers, and stigmatization, which may affect tion,and police and legal services women’s access to treatment .A main challenge, • training of service providers and creation of gender- therefore, is increasing women’s access to treatment for sensitive services,especially at the community level 202 | Disease Control Priorities in Developing Countries | Mayra Buvini´c, André Medici, Elisa Fernández, and others • better data collection, research, and understanding of cesarean section ranges from US$56 to US$104 (Rosenthal and the individual and social mechanisms sustaining these Percy 1991), and the cost of a normal delivery varies from problems. US$11 to US$16 (Dmytraczenko and others 1998). In developing countries, 61 percent of maternal deaths occur 23 to 48 hours after delivery because ofsuch problems as COST-EFFECTIVENESS OF INTERVENTIONS postpartum hemorrhage and hypertensive disorders or after 48 hours because of sepsis.Complications from unsafe abor- gies to address conditions that are specific to women and figure is probably an underestimate because of the scarcity of conditions that affect women disproportionately. Table 10.5 data.Little information is available on costs related to postna- presents cost-effectiveness estimates for recognized effective tal care given the different kind ofinterventions and the sever- interventions. ity of cases,but the literature generally agrees that emergency obstetric care can reduce
