Chapter
KEYWORDS: women, disease, conditions, countries, gender, health, diseases, treatment, developing, percent, daly, developing countries, cancer, specific, men


presents cost-effectiveness estimates for recognized effective tal care given the different kind ofinterventions and the sever- interventions. ity of cases,but the literature generally agrees that emergency obstetric care can reduce costs.As concerns postabortion care, costs per case in LMICs could vary from US$4.40 to US$17.19 Conditions Specific to Women (Dayaratna and others 2000). Conditions specific to women include the cluster of diseases Millionsofprematuredeaths,illnesses,andinjuriescouldbe related to women’s maternal function plus chlamydia (which is avoidedbyhelpingwomenpreventunwantedpregnanciesand predominantly but not exclusively a female disease) and obtainprompttreatmentforreproductivehealthproblems.The female-specific cancers. contraception costs per couple-year of protection could vary, depending on the method used, from US$6 (intrauterine Maternal Conditions. The analysis developed in chapter 26 device) to US$20 (condoms or injections) (Dayaratna and uses a model for maternal and perinatal conditions that gener- others 2000).A 1999 experiment by the Planned Parenthood ates 128 potential scenarios.According to the findings of this Association of South Africa considered total health planning theoretical exercise,the cost per DALY averted of mother and costspercouple-yearofprotection,includingtravelexpensesto baby packages could vary from US$77 to US$151 in Sub- healthclinics.Comparingthesecostswithtotalhealthplanning Saharan Africa and from US$143 to US$278 in South Asia, costs in services provided by community-based doctors, the depending on the complexity ofthe intervention. studyfoundthattheformercostUS$44percouple-yearofpro- Prenatal care prevents almost a quarter of maternal deaths, tectionandthelattercostUS$42. especially when backed by essential and emergency obstetric care to deal with conditions detected during the course of Chlamydia. Although not specific to women, chlamydia is pregnancy care.Good prenatal care includes information,edu- nine times more prevalent among women than among men, cation, and communication activities and behavior-change and its consequences and treatment are much more compli- communication to increase women’s skills in relation to the cated and severe for women, affecting women’s and infants’ identification of danger signs and potential complications and health during pregnancy and the postnatal period.Chlamydia where toseek care in these cases (Dayaratna and others 2000). is widespread in low-income countries.Chlamydia,as well as In Uganda, for example, integral prenatal care ranged from other sexually transmitted diseases, could be prevented by US$2.26 (public services) to US$6.43 (religious mission using condoms, with an average cost per DALY averted in services) per pregnant woman per year (Levin and others 1999). developing countries estimated at US$3.40 in noncore target Another important service is supplementation with iron groups and US$12.60 in core target groups (Mumford and and folic acid. Iron deficiency accounts for 1.8 percent of others 1998). Detecting chlamydia in pregnant women could women’s
