Chapter
KEYWORDS: women, disease, conditions, countries, gender, health, diseases, treatment, developing, percent, daly, developing countries, cancer, specific, men


Osteoarthritis Celecoxib monotherapy Sweden US$1,394 per QALY n.a. Haglund and Svarvar 2000 Rofecoxib monotherapy United Kingdom US$2,184perlifeyearsaved(result n.a. Moore and others 2001 wassensitivetotheuseofgas- trointestinalprotectiveagents) Different packages of drugs, United States US$2,001 to US$2,140 per QALY, n.a. Sigal 2002 including acetaminophen, depending on the drug naproxen, misoprostol, combination celecoxib, and rofecoxib Total hip arthroplasty United States US$6,893 per QALY for n.a. Chang, Pellissier, and Hazen 85-year-old men 1996 Knee replacement Australia US$6,000 per QALY Sigal and others 2004 Source: Authors. QALY (cid:1)quality-adjusted life year. kept the costs in the currency informed by the authors. n.a. indicates that information is not available. cancer being one ofthe most important.Recommended strate- in Zimbabwe. Differences in treatment costs are associated gies involve early detection and treatment. The following are with the kinds of procedures used. How the results of cost- the main strategies to prevent cervical cancer: effectiveness studies for cervical cancer prevention and screen- ing interventions in developed countries might translate to • screening and treatment performed during the same visit • screening and treatment performed at two separate visits but prevention could clearly play an important role. • traditionalthree-visitintervention,inwhichacytologysam- Many studies of breast cancer prevention view diet as an pleisobtainedduringthefirstvisit,adiagnosticcolposcopy important condition explaining the predisposition for breast isperformedforthosewhoscreenedpositiveduringthesec- cancer.Ministriesofhealthinmanydevelopingcountriesinvest ondvisit,andtreatmentisprovidedatthethirdvisit. in promotion and prevention, issuing communications and The data on costs associated with cervical cancer detection guidelinesforearlydetectionusingself-testingasacost-effective and treatment in developing countries are limited. In waytoprovideinformation.Fewstudiesofthecost-effectiveness Honduras in 1991,costs per visit for cervical cancer detection ofdifferentbreastcancertreatmentsareavailable,especiallyin varied from US$5.60 (small clinics) to US$12.90 (larger clinics) developingcountries.Oneonthemanagementofbreastcancer (Mumford and others 1998).Lower detection costs were found inBrazilin1995showedextremelyhighcostsofUS$1,678per in Ecuador in 1996 (US$2.95 to US$3.51 per visit) and in deathaverted(Arredondo,Lockett,andIcaza1995). Zimbabwe in 1995 (US$3.00 to US$3.90 per visit).Recent stud- Conditions That Affect Women Disproportionately ies on cervical cancer screening in South Africa show that the two-visit method is more cost-effective than the traditional Few studies on shared diseases that affect women dispropor- three-visit method, US$39 per DALY averted compared with tionately include gender-related considerations, especially in US$81 (Goldie and others 2001). Studies in Vietnam found developing countries. Most literature on Alzheimer’s disease, costs equivalent to US$725 per DALY averted with cytology unipolar depressive disorders, and osteoarthritis presented in screening (Suba and others 2001). this section is based on studies in developed countries with Regarding treatment of cervical cancer, Rose and Lappas’s no specific analysis of gender differences in relation to cost- (2000) studies in developed countries
