Chapter
KEYWORDS: women, disease, conditions, countries, gender, health, diseases, treatment, developing, percent, daly, developing countries, cancer, specific, men


based on studies in developed countries with Regarding treatment of cervical cancer, Rose and Lappas’s no specific analysis of gender differences in relation to cost- (2000) studies in developed countries find costs varying from effectiveness. US$2,384 to US$28,770 per DALY averted.Costs are lower in developing countries, ranging from US$52.51 to US$432.42 Alzheimer’s Disease and Other Dementias. Alzheimer’s dis- per visit in Mexico and from US$12.35 to US$95.82 per visit ease is linked to genetic and other risk factors, including Gender Differentials in Health | 205 increasing age,positive family history of dementia,and lower measures ofusing several kinds ofmedicines (acetaminophen, levels of education. Treatment is based mostly on drugs, and naproxen,misoprostol,celecoxib,and rofecoxib) under differ- the practical benefits of treatment translate mainly into ent conditions are available.Sigal (2002) shows that by using reduced caregiver hours. different combinations of medicines,treatment costs can vary Somestudieshavefoundthatinterventionsaimedatreduc- from US$2,001 to US$2,140 per quality-adjusted life year,but ing caregiver stress, even providing low-dose antipsychotic these costs are prohibitive for developing countries. medication,canbeeffective.However,thecostsofundertaking Anothertreatmentforosteoarthritisissynovialfluidreplace- suchinterventionshavenotbeenquantified;thus,theircost- ment,butgiventhecostsofthisintervention,itisnotcurrently effectiveness cannot be calculated. Institutional care for recommended for developing regions. Surgical interventions patients with any form of dementia is extremely limited in forosteoarthritis,suchasjointreplacement,aremostcommonly LMICs. The costs of setting up institutions for those with performed in developed countries. Sigal and others (2004) Alzheimer’sdiseaseandthecostsofcareareprohibitive.Inthis reviewanumberofinterventionsforosteoarthritisandsuggest context,inexpensive,home-basedcareappearstobetheonly a cost per quality-adjusted life year of US$6,000 for knee viable option for Alzheimer’s disease patients in developing replacements.Indevelopingcountries,however,theavailability countries.Thesecountrieswillthereforehavetofacethechal- of surgicalinterventionsisconstrainedbyitscostsandbythe lengesofaddressingfamilies’needsinrelationtofinancialand availabilityofsurgeonsqualifiedtoperformtheoperation. social support and caregiver training. Another issue is the tradeoffbetweenwomen’sincome-earningopportunitiesand RESEARCH AGENDA theirtraditionalprimaryroleasfamilycaregivers. Health research and practice should give priority attention to Unipolar Depressive Disorders. Depression is among the the 19 conditions with excess burdens for women that this most disabling and costly illnesses in the world,especially for chapter has identified and clustered into four main groups, women. Despite good short-term treatment outcomes, long- according to the interplay ofsex and gender in their etiology,to term outcomes remain disappointing. Costs associated with improve women’s health status worldwide.A number of cost- families and friends (time dedicated to caregiving);employers because these technologies are not available and accessible to (payment for treatment and care,as well as for reduced pro- all. Thus, a priority need is to deploy them more widely in financed by taxpayers). Most of these costs are difficult to given the unacceptably high disease burdens for women in obtain,but the consensus is that the indirect costs ofdepression developing countries and the rising numbers of older women are
