Chapter
KEYWORDS: women, disease, conditions, countries, gender, health, diseases, treatment, developing, percent, daly, developing countries, cancer, specific, men


difficult to given the unacceptably high disease burdens for women in obtain,but the consensus is that the indirect costs ofdepression developing countries and the rising numbers of older women are larger than the direct costs. worldwide. Research on sex and gender factors affecting The treatment setting for depression is usually primary women’s disease burdens should give physicians new informa- healthcare,withmanykindsofepisodictreatmentscombining tion that will increase their options in relation to diagnostic old and new generations of antidepressants and psychosocial practices and drug approaches, not only for women, but procedures. Averting depressive episodes results in average also for men, thereby improving the provision of gender- gainsofupto50disabilitydayspertreatedcaseperyear.Studies appropriate health care for all. ofthefactorsinfluencingwomen’saccesstoscreening,preven- Key general items in a research agenda to reduce women’s tion,andtreatmentfordepressionandthecost-effectivenessof excess disease burdens include the following: treatmentoptionsshouldbeapriorityindevelopingcountries. • Expand and sharpen analyses of sex and gender and their Osteoarthritis. Despite clear evidence ofa reduction in symp- interaction in the etiology, onset, progression, prevention, toms and delayed progression of osteoarthritis with weight and treatment of diseases that women and men share,but Education and exercise programs for osteoarthritis are avail- assessment ofcost-effective interventions. able in developed countries,but such programs are unknown • Increase research to identify the determinants of women’s cal exercise in preventing osteoarthritis in women are a priority accessibility, affordability, and appropriateness of services. countries with fiscally strapped health systems and growing that incorporate gender variables to inform training and elderly populations. human resource development programs for health sector Acetaminophen is thought to be the most cost-effective ini- providers in developing countries for both services specific tial treatment with drugs.In addition,some cost-effectiveness to women and general services. 206 | Disease Control Priorities in Developing Countries | Mayra Buvini´c, André Medici, Elisa Fernández, and others • Investigate how interactions between sex and gender,race, demiology studies to assess the importance of different ethnicity, and poverty affect the etiology, onset, and pro- genetic risks. gression ofdisease as well as access to and compliance with • Expand research on the biological and behavioral determi- prevention and treatment.Investigate the effects ofstigma- nants of depression in women, on screening alternatives, tization and discrimination on service quality and use. and on cost-effective prevention and treatment options • Use demographic accounting methods to project and plan adapted to specific contexts in developing countries. for the demands that women’s overall greater longevity Explore ways to reduce the stigmatization and discrimina- imposes on health systems and investigate cost-effective tion
