Chapter
KEYWORDS: women, disease, conditions, countries, gender, health, diseases, treatment, developing, percent, daly, developing countries, cancer, specific, men


to specific contexts in developing countries. for the demands that women’s overall greater longevity Explore ways to reduce the stigmatization and discrimina- imposes on health systems and investigate cost-effective tion associated with depression in developing countries. treatment options,effect of gender variables on prevention • Continue research to document the risks and benefits of and treatment, and viable options for increasing older common, but unproven, approaches of preventing and tection mechanisms.Investigate affordable options for fam- long-term hormone replacement therapy does not reduce ily care of elderly patients that take into account the time cardiovascular disease in postmenopausal women as had and the physical and emotional burdens on women, the long been thought but instead increases risks for cardiovas- traditional family caretakers. cular disease and breast cancer. • Improvethemethodologyusedfordiseaseclassification,and • Establish a research program to document the prevalence expand data collection efforts to address the largely unre- and disease burdens associated with FGM,and seek preven- portedcausesofwomen’sdiseaseburdens,emphasizingcon- tion and treatment alternatives. ditionsspecifictowomen,includingFGMandotherdomes- tic-,social-,andreligious-basedviolenceagainstwomen. services, and advocacy efforts that will help women adopt desirablenutritionandphysicalexercisepracticesforopti- The purpose of this chapter has been to move beyond the mal health. Exercise is a preventive measure that can help traditional international health focus on women’s diseases reducewomen’sexcessdiseaseburdensthroughoutthelife related to their reproductive and maternal functions and to cycle and has numerous indirect psychological and social highlight those conditions for which sex and gender consider- benefits,butitwilloftenrequirechangingdeeplyrootedcul- ations, if adequately incorporated into prevention and treat- ments for diseases that affect both men and women but the chapter has excluded a set of important conditions for affect women disproportionately, especially in developing which the gender ratio is similar or is unfavorable for men, countries. including HIV/AIDS, injuries resulting from domestic vio- lence, and malaria. Therefore, this chapter should not be Research needs pertaining to specific conditions include the viewed as covering all diseases and conditions important to following: women or all conditions that result from the interaction ofsex and gender. • Carry out further testing of innovative technologies for Thechapterhastwoothermainlimitations.First,thedataset diagnosing neoplasms specific to women and explore new (the global burden of disease) understates certain disease options for preventing their growth and proliferation. burdens, especially for women, because it does not estimate Regarding treatment,the literature describes few best prac- disability weights for some gender-based conditions, such as tices and cost-effective measures, especially for breast and FGM.Second,the information available for cost-effectiveness ovarian cancer. analysisisinadequate.Followingthischapter’semphasisonthe • Evaluate the viability of applying the results of
