Chapter
KEYWORDS: children, pneumonia, countries, vaccine, percent, treatment, hib, respiratory, health, disease, developing, infection, vaccines, severe, days


Acute Respiratory Infections in Children Eric A. F. Simoes, Thomas Cherian, Jeffrey Chow, Sonbol A. Shahid- Salles, Ramanan Laxminarayan, and T. Jacob John Acute respiratory infections (ARIs) are classified as upper res- CAUSES OF ARISAND THE BURDEN OF DISEASE piratory tract infections (URIs) or lower respiratory tract infec- ARIs in children take a heavy toll on life,especially where med- tions (LRIs).The upper respiratory tract consists ofthe airways ical care is not available or is not sought. from the nostrils to the vocal cords in the larynx,including the paranasal sinuses and the middle ear. The lower respiratory tract covers the continuation of the airways from the trachea Upper Respiratory Tract Infections and bronchi to the bronchioles and the alveoli.ARIs are not confined to the respiratory tract and have systemic effects URIs are the most common infectious diseases.They include because of possible extension of infection or microbial toxins, rhinitis(commoncold),sinusitis,earinfections,acutepharyn- inflammation, and reduced lung function. Diphtheria, per- gitis or tonsillopharyngitis, epiglottitis, and laryngitis—of tussis (whooping cough),and measles are vaccine-preventable which ear infections and pharyngitis cause the more severe diseases that may have a respiratory tract component but also complications (deafness and acute rheumatic fever, respec- affect other systems;they are discussed in chapter 20. tively). The vast majority of URIs have a viral etiology. Except during the neonatal period,ARIs are the most com- Rhinovirusesaccountfor25to30percentofURIs;respiratory mon causes ofboth illness and mortality in children under five, syncytial viruses (RSVs),parainfluenza and influenza viruses, who average three to six episodes ofARIs annually regardless of humanmetapneumovirus,andadenovirusesfor25to35per- where they live or what their economic situation is (Kamath cent;coronavirusesfor10percent;andunidentifiedvirusesfor and others 1969;Monto and Ullman 1974).However,the pro- theremainder(Denny1995).BecausemostURIsareself-limit- portion ofmild to severe disease varies between high- and low- ing,theircomplicationsaremoreimportantthantheinfections. income countries,and because ofdifferences in specific etiolo- Acuteviralinfectionspredisposechildrentobacterialinfections gies and risk factors,the severity ofLRIs in children under five ofthesinusesandmiddleear(Berman1995a),andaspiration is worse in developing countries, resulting in a higher case- ofinfectedsecretionsandcellscanresultinLRIs. fatality rate.Although medical care can to some extent mitigate therapy,largely because ofthe lack ofhighly effective antiviral more than 70 percent ofcases in young children.Mild pharyn- drugs.Some 10.8 million children die each year (Black,Morris, geal redness and swelling and tonsil enlargement are typical. and Bryce 2003).Estimates indicate that in 2000,1.9 million of Streptococcal infection is rare in children under five and more them died because of ARIs,70 percent of them in Africaand common in older children. In countries with crowded living Southeast Asia (Williams and others 2002).The World Health conditions and populations that may
