Chapter
KEYWORDS: children, pneumonia, countries, vaccine, percent, treatment, hib, respiratory, health, disease, developing, infection, vaccines, severe, days


because of ARIs,70 percent of them in Africaand common in older children. In countries with crowded living Southeast Asia (Williams and others 2002).The World Health conditions and populations that may have a genetic predispo- Organization (WHO) estimates that 2 million children under sition,poststreptococcal sequelae such as acute rheumatic fever five die ofpneumonia each year (Bryce and others 2005). and carditis are common in school-age children but may also occur in those under five. Acute pharyngitis in conjunction pharyngeal cultures do not always reveal the pathogen that is with the development of a membrane on the throatis nearly the cause of the LRI.Bacterial cultures of lung aspirate speci- always caused by Corynebacterium diphtheriae in developing mens are often considered the gold standard,but they are not countries. However, with the almost universal vaccination of practical for field application.Vuori-Holopainen and Peltola’s infants with the DTP (diphtheria-tetanus-pertussis) vaccine, (2001) review of several studies indicates that S. pneumoniae diphtheria is rare. and Hib account for 13 to 34 percent and 1.4 to 42.0 percent of bacterial pneumonia,respectively,whereas studies by Adegbola Acute Ear Infection. Acute ear infection occurs with up to and others (1994),Shann,Gratten,and others (1984),and Wall 30 percent of URIs. In developing countries with inadequate and others (1986) suggest that Hib accounts for 5 to 11 percent medical care,it may lead to perforated eardrums and chronic ofpneumonia cases. ear discharge in later childhood and ultimately to hearing Reduced levels ofclinical or radiological pneumonia in clin- impairmentordeafness(Berman1995b).Chronicearinfection ical trials of a nine-valent pneumococcal conjugate vaccine followingrepeatedepisodesofacuteearinfectioniscommonin provide an estimate ofthe vaccine-preventable disease burden developingcountries,affecting2to6percentofschool-agechil- (valency indicates the number of serotypes against which the dren.Theassociatedhearinglossmaybedisablingandmayaffect vaccine provides protection;conjugaterefers to conjugation of learning.Repeatedearinfectionsmayleadtomastoiditis,which polysaccharides to a protein backbone). In a study in The inturnmayspreadinfectiontothemeninges.Mastoiditisand Gambia,37 percent ofradiological pneumonia was prevented, othercomplicationsofURIsaccountfornearly5percentofall reflecting the amount ofdisease caused by S.pneumoniae,and ARIdeathsworldwide(Williamsandothers2002). mortality was reduced by 16 percent(Cutts and others 2005). Upper respiratory tract colonization with potentially patho- genic organisms and aspiration ofthe contaminated secretions Lower Respiratory Tract Infections have been implicated in the pathogenesis ofbacterial pneumo- The common LRIs in children are pneumonia and bronchi- nia in young children.Infection of the upper respiratory tract olitis.The respiratory rate is a valuable clinical sign for diag- with influenza virus or RSVs has been shown to increase the nosing acute LRI in children who are coughing and breathing binding of both H. influenzae (Jiang and others 1999) and rapidly.The presence of lower chest
