Chapter
KEYWORDS: children, pneumonia, countries, vaccine, percent, treatment, hib, respiratory, health, disease, developing, infection, vaccines, severe, days


been shown to increase the nosing acute LRI in children who are coughing and breathing binding of both H. influenzae (Jiang and others 1999) and rapidly.The presence of lower chest wall indrawing identifies S. pneumoniae (Hament and others 2004; McCullers and more severe disease (Mulholland and others 1992;Shann,Hart, Bartmess 2003) to lining cells in the nasopharynx.This finding and Thomas1984). may explain why increased rates ofpneumococcal pneumonia Currently,the most common causes ofviral LRIs are RSVs. parallel influenza and RSV epidemics.A study in South Africa They tend to be highly seasonal,unlike parainfluenza viruses, showed that vaccination with a nine-valent pneumococcal con- the next most common cause of viral LRIs.The epidemiology jugate vaccine reduced the incidence ofvirus-associated pneu- of influenza viruses in children in developing countries monia causing hospitalization by 31 percent, suggesting that deserves urgent investigation because safe and effective vac- pneumococcus plays an important role in the pathogenesis of cines are available.Before the effective use of measles vaccine, virus-associated pneumonia (Madhi, Petersen, Madhi,Wasas, the measles virus was the most important viral cause ofrespi- and others 2000). ratory tract–related morbidity and mortality in children in Entry of bacteria from the gut with spread through the developing countries. bloodstream to the lungs has also been proposed for the patho- genesis ofGram-negative organisms (Fiddian-Green and Baker Pneumonia. Both bacteria and viruses can cause pneumonia. 1991), but such bacteria are uncommon etiological agents of Bacterial pneumonia is often caused by Streptococcus pneumo- pneumonia in immune-competent children. However, in niae (pneumococcus) or Haemophilus influenzae,mostly type b neonates and young infants,Gram-negative pneumonia is not (Hib),and occasionallybyStaphylococcus aureus or other strep- uncommon (Quiambao forthcoming). tococci.Just 8 to 12 ofthe many types ofpneumococcus cause Viruses are responsible for 40 to 50 percent of infection in most cases ofbacterial pneumonia,although the specific types infants and children hospitalized for pneumonia in developing may vary between adults and children and between geographic countries (Hortal and others 1990; John and others 1991; locations. Other pathogens, such as Mycoplasma pneumoniae Tupasi and others 1990). Measles virus, RSVs, parainfluenza and Chlamydia pneumoniae,cause atypical pneumonias.Their viruses,influenza type A virus,and adenoviruses are the most role as a cause ofsevere disease in children under five in devel- important causes of viral pneumonia.Differentiating between oping countries is unclear. viral and bacterial pneumonias radiographically is difficult, The burden of LRIs caused by Hib or S. pneumoniae is partly because the lesions look similar and partly because bac- difficult to determine
