Chapter
KEYWORDS: children, pneumonia, countries, vaccine, percent, treatment, hib, respiratory, health, disease, developing, infection, vaccines, severe, days


and bacterial pneumonias radiographically is difficult, The burden of LRIs caused by Hib or S. pneumoniae is partly because the lesions look similar and partly because bac- difficult to determine because current techniques to establish terial superinfection occurs with influenza,measles,and RSV bacterial etiology lack sensitivity and specificity.The results of infections (Ghafoor and others 1990). 484 | Disease Control Priorities in Developing Countries | Eric A. F. Simoes, Thomas Cherian, Jeffrey Chow, and others In developing countries, the case-fatality rate in children 34percent,much higher than the 5 to 10 percent for children with viral pneumonia ranges from 1.0 to 7.3 percent (John and not infected with HIV (Bobat and others 1999; Madhi, others 1991; Stensballe, Devasundaram, and Simoes 2003), Petersen,Madhi,Khoosal,and others 2000;Nathoo and others with bacterial pneumonia from 10 to 14 percent and with 1993;Zwi,Pettifior,and Soderlund 1999).Pneumocystis jirove- mixed viral and bacterial infections from 16 to 18 percent ciand cytomegalovirus are important opportunistic infections (Ghafoor and others 1990;Shann 1986). in more than 50 percent of HIV-infected infants (Jeena, Coovadia,and Chrystal 1996;Lucas and others 1996).Gram- Bronchiolitis. Bronchiolitisoccurspredominantlyinthefirst negative bacteria are also important in more than 70 percent of year of life and with decreasing frequency in the second and HIV-infected malnourished children (Ikeogu,Wolf,and Mathe thirdyears.Theclinicalfeaturesarerapidbreathingandlower 1997).Patient studies have confirmed the frequent association chestwallindrawing,feverinone-thirdofcases,andwheezing of these bacteria but added S. pneumoniae and S. aureus as (Cherian and others 1990). Inflammatory obstruction of the important pathogens (Gilks 1993;Goel and others 1999).The small airways,which leads to hyperinflation of the lungs,and first South African report on the overall burden of invasive collapse of segments of the lung occur.Because the signs and pneumococcal disease reported a 41.7-fold increase in HIV- symptomsarealsocharacteristicofpneumonia,healthworkers infected children compared with uninfected children (Farley mayfinddifferentiatingbetweenbronchiolitisandpneumonia and others 1994). difficult.Twofeaturesthatmayhelpareadefinitionofthesea- sonalityofRSVsinthelocalityandtheskilltodetectwheezing. RSVs are the main cause of bronchiolitis worldwide and can INTERVENTIONS causeupto70or80percentofLRIsduringhighseason(Simoes 1999; Stensballe, Devasundaram, and Simoes 2003). The Interventions to control ARIs can be divided into four basic recently discoveredhumanmetapneumovirusalsocausesbron- categories: immunization against specific pathogens, early chiolitis (Van den Hoogen and others 2001) that is indistin- diagnosis and treatment ofdisease,improvements in nutrition, guishablefromRSVdisease.Othervirusesthatcausebronchi- and safer environments .The first two fall within under public health and require multisectoral involvement. Influenza. Even though influenza viruses usually cause URIs in adults,they are increasingly being recognized as an impor- Vaccinations tant cause of LRIs in children and perhaps the second most important cause after RSVs ofhospitalization ofchildren with Widespread use of vaccines against measles, diphtheria, per-
