Chapter
KEYWORDS: children, pneumonia, countries, vaccine, percent, treatment, hib, respiratory, health, disease, developing, infection, vaccines, severe, days


will Rapid breathing,as defined by WHO,detects about 85 per- tions.One additional study evaluating the effect ofan 11-PCV children with potentially fatal pneumonia are probably suc- on radiological pneumonia is ongoing in the Philippines; cessfully identified and treated using the WHO diagnostic cri- results are expected in the second halfof2005. teria.Antibiotic treatment ofchildren with rapid breathing has been shown to reduce mortality (Sazawal and Black 2003).The problem of the low specificity of the rapid breathing criterion Case Management is that some 70 to 80 percent of children who may not need Thesimplificationandsystematizationofcasemanagementfor antibiotics will receive them. Nevertheless, for primary care earlydiagnosisandtreatmentofARIshaveenabledsignificant workers for whom diagnostic simplicity is essential, rapid pediatricians is limited.WHO clinical guidelines forARI case management(WHO1991)usetwokeyclinicalsigns:respiratory Pneumonia Diagnosis Based on Chest Wall Indrawing. nia requiring referral and hospital admission. Children with (antibioticsadministeredbyotherthanoralmeans)areneeded audiblestridorwhencalmandatrestorsuchdangersignsof or when they lack confidence in mothers’ability to cope.The severediseaseasinabilitytofeedalsorequirereferral.Children rationale ofparenteral antibiotics is to achieve higher levels of withoutthesesignsareclassifiedashavinganARIbutnotpneu- antibiotics and to overcome concerns about the absorption of monia.Childrenshowingonlyrapidbreathingaretreatedfor oral drugs in ill children. pneumonia with outpatient antibiotic therapy. Children who The Papua New Guinea study (Shann, Hart, and Thomas have a cough for more than 30 days are referred for further 1984) used chest wall indrawing as the main indicator ofsever- assessmentoftuberculosisandotherchronicinfections. ity,but studies from different parts ofthe world show large dif- ferences in the rates of indrawing because of variable defini- Pneumonia Diagnosis Based on Rapid Breathing. The initial tions. Restriction of the term to lower chest wall indrawing, guidelines for detecting pneumonia based on rapid breathing defined as inward movement ofthe bony structures ofthe chest were developed in Papua New Guinea during the 1970s.In a wall with inspiration, has provided a better indicator of the study of200 consecutive pediatric outpatients and 50 consecu- severity of pneumonia and one that can be taught to health tive admissions (Shann,Hart,and Thomas 1984),72 percent of workers.It is more specific than intercostal indrawing,which children with audible crackles in the lungs had a respiratory frequently occurs in bronchiolitis. rate of50 or more breaths per minute,whereas only 19 percent In a study in The Gambia (Campbell, Byass, and others of children without crackles breathed at such a rapid rate. 1989), a cohort of 500 children from birth to four years old Therefore, the initial WHO guidelines used a threshold of was visited at home weekly for one year. During this time, 50breaths per minute,at or above which a child with
