Chapter
KEYWORDS: children, pneumonia, countries, vaccine, percent, treatment, hib, respiratory, health, disease, developing, infection, vaccines, severe, days


old Therefore, the initial WHO guidelines used a threshold of was visited at home weekly for one year. During this time, 50breaths per minute,at or above which a child with a cough 222episodes ofLRI (rapid breathing,any chest wall indrawing, was regarded as having pneumonia. nasal flaring,wheezing,stridor,or danger signs) were referred The major concern was the relatively low sensitivity of this to the clinic.Chest indrawing was present in 62 percent ofthese approach,which could miss 25 to 40 percent ofcases ofpneu- cases,many with intercostal indrawing.Ifall children with any monia.A study in Vellore, India, found that sensitivity could chest indrawing were hospitalized, the numbers would over- beimproved by lowering the threshold to 40 for children age 1 whelm pediatric inpatient facilities. to 4,while keeping the 50 breaths per minute cutofffor infants Studies in the Philippines and Swaziland (Mulholland and age 2 months through 11 months (Cherian and others 1988). others 1992) found that lower chest wall indrawing was more Subsequent studies showed that when these thresholds were specific than intercostal indrawing for a diagnosis of severe Philippines and from 65 to 77 percent in Swaziland, but at (Cherian and others 1988), lower chest wall indrawing cor- thesame time,the specificity fell from 92 to 77 percent in the rectly predicted 79 percent of children with an LRI who were Philippines and 92 to 80 percent in Swaziland(Mulholland and hospitalized by a pediatrician. Acute Respiratory Infections in Children | 487 Antimicrobial Options for Oral Treatment of Pneumonia. chloramphenicol are common,this complication is extremely The choice ofan antimicrobial drug for treatment is based on rare in young children.There is no evidence that intramuscu- the well-established finding that most childhood bacterial lar chloramphenicol succinate is more likely to produce side pneumonias are caused by S. pneumoniae or H. influenzae.A effects than other forms and routes ofchloramphenicol. single injection of benzathine penicillin, although long last- ing, does not provide adequate penicillin levels to eliminate Hypoxemia Diagnosis Based on WHO Criteria. The ARI H.influenzae.WHO has technical documents to help assess the case-management and integrated management of infant and relevant factors in selecting first- and second-line antimicro- childhood illness (IMCI) strategies depend on accurate referral bials and comparisons ofdifferent antimicrobials in relation to of sick children to a hospital and correct inpatient manage- their antibacterial activity, treatment efficacy, and toxicity mentofLRIwithoxygenorantibiotics.Hypoxemia(deficiency . ofoxygen in the blood) in children with LRI is a good predic- The emergence ofantimicrobial resistance in S.pneumoniae
