Chapter
KEYWORDS: children, pneumonia, countries, vaccine, percent, treatment, hib, respiratory, health, disease, developing, infection, vaccines, severe, days


correct inpatient manage- their antibacterial activity, treatment efficacy, and toxicity mentofLRIwithoxygenorantibiotics.Hypoxemia(deficiency . ofoxygen in the blood) in children with LRI is a good predic- The emergence ofantimicrobial resistance in S.pneumoniae tor of mortality, the case-fatality rate being 1.2 to 4.6 times and H.influenzaeis a serious concern.In some settings,in vitro higher in hypoxemic LRI than nonhypoxemic LRI (Duke, tests show that more than 50 percent of respiratory isolates of Mgone,and Frank 2001;Onyango and others 1993),and oxy- both bacteria are resistant to co-trimoxazole, and penicillin gen reduces mortality. Thus, it is important to detect hypox- resistance to S. pneumoniae is gradually becoming a problem emia as early as possible in children with LRI to avert death. worldwide. Although diagnoses of acute LRIs are achieved very easily by In pneumonia, unlike in meningitis, in vitro resistance of recognizing tachypnoea,and although severe LRI is associated Reports from Spain and South Africa suggest that pneumonia emia is more problematic.Different sets of clinical rules have caused by penicillin-resistant S.pneumoniaecan be successfully been studied to predict the presence ofhypoxemia in children treated with sufficiently high doses ofpenicillin.Amoxicillin is with LRI (Cherian and others 1988;Onyango and others 1993; directly correlated with oral dosages. Therefore, higher doses high sensitivity for detecting hypoxemia, a good number of than in the past—given twice a day—are now being used to hypoxemic children would still be missed using these criteria. successfully treat ear infections caused by penicillin-resistant Pulse oximetry is the best tool to quickly detect hypoxemia in S.pneumoniae.Amoxicillin is clearly better than penicillin for sick children.However,pulse oximeters are expensive and have such infections.The situation with co-trimoxazole is less clear recurring costs for replacing probes,for which reasons they are (Strauss and others 1998),and in the face of high rates of co- not available in most district or even referral hospitals in devel- trimoxazole resistance, amoxicillin may be superior for chil- oping countries. dren with severe pneumonia. TreatmentGuidelines. Currentrecommendationsareforco- Intramuscular Antibiotics for Treatment of Severe trimoxazoletwiceadayforfivedaysforpneumoniaandintra- Pneumonia. Even though chloramphenicol is active against muscularpenicillinorchloramphenicolforchildrenwithsevere both S. pneumoniae and H. influenzae, its oral absorption is pneumonia. The problems of increasing resistance to co- erratic in extremely sick children.Thus,the WHO guidelines trimoxazoleandunnecessaryreferralsofchildrenwithanychest recommend giving intramuscular chloramphenicol at half the wallindrawinghaveledtostudiesexploringalternativestothe daily dose before urgent referral ofsevere pneumonia cases.An antibioticscurrentlyusedinARIcasemanagement.Onestudy additional rationale is that extremely sick children may have indicatedthatamoxicillinandco-trimoxazoleareequallyeffec- sepsis or meningitis that are difficult to rule out and must be tive for nonsevere pneumonia (Catchup
