Chapter
KEYWORDS: children, pneumonia, countries, vaccine, percent, treatment, hib, respiratory, health, disease, developing, infection, vaccines, severe, days


program for community-level vention for rich countries.As a result ofall these factors,actual management ofpneumonia . demand for the vaccine has remained low,even when support • In the Siaya district ofKenya,a nongovernmental organiza- has been available through GAVI and the Vaccine Fund. tion efficiently provides treatment by community health In 2004,the GAVI board commissioned a Hib task force to workers for pneumonia and other childhood diseases explore how best to support national efforts to make evidence- . based decisions about introducing the Hib vaccine. On the • In Honduras, ARI management has been incorporated in basis of the task force’s recommendations, the GAVI board the National Integrated Community Child Care Program, approved establishment of the Hib Initiative to support those whereby community volunteers conduct growth monitor- or to explore whether introducing Hib vaccine should be a diarrhea in more than 1,800 communities . London School ofHygiene and Tropical Medicine,the Centers program covering 10 subdistricts,using volunteer commu- selected to lead this effort. childhood pneumonia in some 100 to 120 households after a three-day training program. • In Nepal during 1986–89,a community-based program for Case-Management Strategies management of ARIs and diarrheal disease was tested in Sazawal and Black’s (2003) meta-analysis ofcommunity-based two districts and showed substantial reductions in LRI trials ofthe ARI case-management strategy includes 10 studies mortality (Pandey and others 1989, 1991).As a result, the control group.The meta-analysis found an all-cause mortality being implemented in 17 of the country’s 75 districts by infants,and 24 percent among children age one to four.LRI- treat pneumonia. 492 | Disease Control Priorities in Developing Countries | Eric A. F. Simoes, Thomas Cherian, Jeffrey Chow, and others approximately 70,000 women, who work in communities countries will need financial support so that the vaccines can be providing education and management of childhood pneu- introduced into their immunization programs.These activities monia to more than 30 million people . are being initiated before the launch of vaccine formulations designed for use in developing countries,so as to inform capac- RESEARCH AND DEVELOPMENT AGENDA ity planning,product availability,and pricing. The research and development agenda outlined below summa- Case-Management Strategies rizes the priorities that have been established by advisory groups to the Initiative for Vaccine Research (vaccine interven- In2003,WHO’sDivisionofChildandAdolescentHealthcon- tion strategies) and the WHO Division of the Child and venedameetingtoreviewdataandevidencefromrecentARI Adolescent Health (case-management strategies). case-managementstudiesandtosuggestthefollowingrevisions tocase-managementguidelinesandfutureresearchpriorities: Vaccine Intervention Strategies The GAVI task force on Hib immunization made a number of • Nonsevere pneumonia: recommendations
