Chapter
KEYWORDS: children, pneumonia, countries, vaccine, percent, treatment, hib, respiratory, health, disease, developing, infection, vaccines, severe, days


Division of the Child and venedameetingtoreviewdataandevidencefromrecentARI Adolescent Health (case-management strategies). case-managementstudiesandtosuggestthefollowingrevisions tocase-managementguidelinesandfutureresearchpriorities: Vaccine Intervention Strategies The GAVI task force on Hib immunization made a number of • Nonsevere pneumonia: recommendations that vary depending on the country. — Improve the specificity ofclinical diagnostic criteria. Countries that have introduced Hib vaccine should focus on — Reassess WHO’s current recommended criteria for documenting its effect and should use the data to inform detecting and managing treatment failure, given the national authorities,development partners,and other agencies high rates oftherapy failure. involved in public health to ensure sustainedsupport to such — Reanalyze data from short-course therapy studies to vaccination programs.Countries eligible for GAVI support that better identify determinants oftreatment failure. have not yet introduced Hib vaccines are often hindered by a — Carry out placebo-controlled trials among children pre- lack oflocal data and a lack ofawareness ofregional data.They senting with wheezing and pneumonia in selected set- can address these issues through subregional meetings at which tings that have a high prevalence of wheezing to deter- country experts can pool data and review information from mine whether such children need antibiotics. carry out economic analyses that are based on a standardized trolled environment,Addo-Yobo and others (2004) showed instrument. Finally, all countries that face a high Hib disease that oral amoxicillin is as effective as parenteral penicillin or burden need to develop laboratory facilities so that they can ampicillin;however,the following actions need to be under- establish the incidence of Hib meningitis at selected sites. taken before it can be recommended on a general basis: Countries in which the disease burden remains unclear may — Analyze data on exclusions from the trial. have limited capacity to document the occurrence of Hib dis- — Identify predictors that may help distinguish children ease using protocols that are based on surveillance for menin- who require hospitalization and who subsequently gitis invasive disease.They will need to explore the possibilities deteriorate. of using alternative methods for measuring disease burden, — Reassess WHO’s current recommended treatment including the use ofvaccine-probe studies. failure criteria for severe pneumonia, given the overall On the basis ofexperience with introducing Hib and hepa- high rates oftherapy failure. Public Health in Baltimore to implement an accelerated devel- comes oforal amoxicillin in children age 2 to 59 months opment and introduction program for pneumococcal vaccines who present with lower chest wall indrawing. (the PneumoADIP; see — Document the effectiveness ofWHO’s treatment guide-
