Thorax 1982;37:598-601
KEYWORDS: patients, tuberculosis, diagnosis, brushings, biopsy, sputum, active, positive, pulmonary, specimens, fibreoptic, bronchoscopy, direct, disease, bronchial


Use of the flexible fibreoptic bronchoscope in diagnosis of sputum-negative pulmonary tuberculosis PA WILLCOX, SR BENATAR, PD POTGIETER Cape Town, SouthAfrica ABSTRACT In four years' use of the flexible fibreoptic bronchoscope in diagnosing sputum- negative pulmonary tuberculosis, of275 patients with tuberculosis suspected from chest radiog- raphic appearances, 89 (32.4%) were shown to have active disease. In 60 (67.4%) of these patientsthediagnosiswasmadefrom samplesobtained through the fibreopticbronchoscope (56 frombronchialbrushings,fourfromtransbronchialbiopsysamples). Ofthe 56positivebronchial brushings, 35 were positive on direct smear and 21 only on culture. Transbronchial biopsy exclusively accountedforonlyfourofthe60positivediagnoses. Inthe remaining29patients,the diagnosis was made from further sputum or biopsy specimens in 15, from the response to treatment in 12, and at necropsy in two. In sixof 10patients with miliary tuberculosis, bronchial brushings were positive on direct smear. The accurate diagnosis of active pulmonary tuber- populationnotifiedayear). Wehavehadtheoppor- culosis is generally made by finding acid-fast bacilli tunity to evaluate the role of fibreoptic broncho- inspecimensofsputum. Whenaclinicianisfacedwith scopyin thediagnosisofsputum-negative suspected a patient having a chest radiograph suggestive of tuberculous lung disease overfour years. active tuberculosis but with several sputum speci- mens negative for acid-fast bacilli on direct smear Methods examination, twocourses ofaction are open: either treatmentmaybestartedinthelightofthepatient's Two hundred and seventy-five patients who were and the radiographic appearances or the results of on the basis of abnormal chest radiographs but culture may be awaited and, if these are negative, whose sputa were negative on repeated direct the patient may be observed with regular radio- smears, or who were unable to produce sputum, graphs and further sputum examination. More underwentbronchoscopyfromAugust 1976toSep- recently, with the advent of the flexible fibreoptic tember 1980. Full details of the procedure have bronchoscope,amoreaggressive approachtoinves- been described elsewhere.' Bronchial brushings tigation has been adopted in such patients in an obtained from the relevant abnormal pulmonary attempt to diagnose tuberculosis at an earlier stage segments were placed in normal saline, examined in its natural history. As the pulmonary damage after Ziehl-Neelsen staining, cultured formycobac- caused by tuberculosis can be minimised by early teria, and inoculated into guinea pigs. Transbron- diagnosis and treatment, and as the amount of chial lung biopsy specimens were plafced in 10% treatment required to achieve the desired effect formol saline and subsequently examined by probablydependsontheextentofthediseaseatthe haematoxylin and eosin and Ziehl-Neelsen stains. time of diagnosis, such an approach has a sound Whenever possible, postbronchoscopy sputum was availablefrompublishedreportsonthevalueofthis approach. In CapeTown pulmonary tuberculosis is Results still a common disease (250 new cases per 100000
