Thorax 1982;37:598-601
KEYWORDS: patients, tuberculosis, diagnosis, brushings, biopsy, sputum, active, positive, pulmonary, specimens, fibreoptic, bronchoscopy, direct, disease, bronchial


carefully performed fibreoptic bronchoscopy makes smear of bronchial brushings in six out of seven this an ideal investigation in such patients. patients in whom brushings were positive on either Active tuberculosis was ultimately diagnosed in directsmearorcultureandinsixoutofninepatients one-third ofthe 275 patientsinwhomthisdiagnosis in whom brushings were performed for suspected was considered on the basis of an abnormal chest miliarytuberculosis. Transbronchialbiopsyaddedto radiograph. Although there are no other reports the diagnostic accuracy in such cases, two patients withwhichtocompareourresults,webelievethata havingthediseasediagnosedexclusivelyonthebasis diagnostic rate of 67% in the group of 89 patients of biopsy and one other having both a positive ultimately shown to have tuberculosis is very satis- biopsy specimen and positive brushings. factory. In general, the radiographic lesions of sus- In the 186 patients in whom tuberculosis was pectedpulmonarytuberculosisweremoreamenable excluded various diagnoses were subsequently thegreater numberofbrushings performed and the follow-up or by specific histological or cytological greater contribution ofbrushings to diagnosis. study. The list of diagnoses was long, including Of the 56 patients in whom bronchial brushings uncommon conditions such as septic pulmonary contained acid-fast bacilli, these were identified on emboli, aspergillus infection, andpulmonary alveo- directsmearin62.5% andoncultureonlyin37.5%. lar proteinosis, to mention but a few. Acute Thus a positive diagnosis was frequently made pneumonia, old inactivetuberculosis, slowly resolv- rapidly and treatment could be started without ing pneumonia, chronic inflammation, and malig- delay. Our diagnostic yield from patients in whom nant disease, however, accounted for 66% ofdiag- tuberculosis was ultimately proved was significantly noses in these patients. In a community where higherthan that reportedbyDanek and Bower.2 In tuberculosis is common and can mimic many other their study of 41 patients with tuberculosis whose conditions radiographically, bacteriological proofis sputumwasnegative ondirectsmear, theyobtained important ifunnecessary antituberculous treatment positive results on direct smearofbrushingsinonly is to be avoided. eightpatients (20%). These authorsmade no men- The finding of coexistent tuberculosis and car- tion of the frequency with which the diagnosis of cinomainfourofourpatientsissimilartopreviously tuberculosismaybemissedevenwithbronchoscopy. described experience. Ting and colleagues found Transbronchial biopsies were performed in only concomitant carcinoma in 5% of patients with 18 ofour 89 patients and the specimens were posi- tuberculosis.4 Other authors have noticed that car- tiveinnine,givingadiagnosticyieldof50%.Fiveof cinoma occurs 20 times more frequentlyin patients these patients also hadpositive results onbronchial with tuberculosis than in the general population.5 brushings, while in the four remaining patients the The frequency with which this combination of dis- diagnosis was made exclusively from the biopsy easesoccursshouldencourage ahighdegreeofsus- Use oftheflexiblefibreoptic bronchoscope 601 picion and an active search
