3 Iron and HIV/AIDS
KEYWORDS: dna, iron, nori, htiw, hiv, vih, aimena, saw, rof, hiv-infected, shtnom, anemia, stneitap, nemow, erew


Nabila R. Khondakar and Julia L. Finkelstein 90 Nutrition and HIV: Epidemiological Evidence to Public Health INTRODUCTION iron Iron is a trace element required for essential physiological and cellular pathways in all life forms, including oxygen transport to tissues via hemoglobin, oxidative energy production, cell prolifera- tion, and immune function (Camaschella, 2017). Iron is required for pathogen growth and is a key micronutrient in the context of immune function, with bidirectional associations between iron status and infection. Iron deficiency has been associated with impaired immune function, bacteri- cidal macrophage activity, and T-cell function (Jonker and van Hensbroek, 2014). However, because pathogens also require iron for survival, host sequestration of iron is a defense mechanism and part of the innate immune response, and it has been associated with lower incidence of bacterial and viral infections (Murray et al., 1978; Weinberg, 1996; Berlim and Abeche, 2001). Findings from these studies have led to the use of iron deprivation to target some infections, such as Mycobacterium tuberculosis (Gomes, 1999; Pal et al., 2015). iron and Hiv As with many infections, the associations between iron and HIV are complex and bidirectional. Whereas iron deficiency and anemia are common in HIV-infected individuals, higher iron status has also been associated with increased HIV infection and replication (Traoré and Meyer, 2004; Chang et al., 2015). Based on evidence that HIV utilizes iron to replicate, iron deprivation has been proposed as a potential strategy to target HIV-associated bacterial infections, as well as the course of HIV infection itself . iron and Hiv/aidS: EvidEncE from obSErvationaL StudiES Anemia and Iron Deficiency Are Common in HIV-Infected Individuals outcomes, impaired development, and increased susceptibility to infectious diseases and often coexisting with infection, including HIV (WHO, 2017). Iron deficiency is also a leading cause of anemia, accounting for approximately 50% of cases of anemia worldwide (50%; 95% CI, 47–53) (WHO, 2015). Anemia is one of the most common conditions in patients with HIV (Fuchs, 1993; Dikshit et al., 2009; Ogbe et al., 2012; Redig and Berliner, 2013). Epidemiological studies have noted a high prevalence of anemia in HIV-infected populations, ranging from 42.5% to 73% in HIV- infected adults in varying regions (Dikshit et al., 2009; Omoregie et al., 2009; Meidani et al., 2012; Petraro et al., 2016): HIV-infected pregnant women in southwestern Nigeria , injection drug users in Maryland , and children in Cape Town , in Thailand and Cambodia , and
