3 Iron and HIV/AIDS
KEYWORDS: dna, iron, nori, htiw, hiv, vih, aimena, saw, rof, hiv-infected, shtnom, anemia, stneitap, nemow, erew


. Observational studies have also noted associations between higher serum ferritin concentrations and increased HIV disease progression (Tohill et al., 2007; Rawat et al., 2009), lower CD4 T-cell counts , and higher HIV RNA viral load . However, some of these studies did not assess or adjust for inflammation, such as C-reactive protein (CRP), which constrains the interpretation of findings. iron SuppLEmEntation in tHE contExt of Hiv: a doubLE-EdgEd SWord? Iron is required for survival by both the host and virus, and iron supplementation is the standard of care for prevention and treatment of anemia (WHO, 2012). However, associations between elevated iron stores and increased HIV disease progression and mortality raise concern regarding the safety and efficacy of iron supplementation in the context of HIV, particularly in iron-replete individuals. Iron may be a “double-edged sword”—that is, because HIV also utilizes iron for growth and repli- cation, iron interventions (i.e., additional iron in circulation) may be harmful in the context of HIV infection (Sunder-Plassmann et al., 1999; Clark and Semba, 2001; Gordeuk et al., 2001). rESEarcH gapS Findings from observational studies to date suggest that the associations between iron and HIV are complex and likely bidirectional. Emerging evidence regarding the associations between higher iron status and advanced HIV disease progression and mortality have raised concerns regarding for iron supplementation in HIV-infected populations. Further research is needed regarding iron supplementation in the context of antiretroviral therapy (ART). Antiretroviral therapy regimens have had varying effects on iron status in different HIV-infected populations. Whereas prenatally administered zidovudine has been associated with maternal and infant anemia postpartum, highly active antiretroviral therapy (HAART) has also been associated with increased hemoglobin con- centrations in non-pregnant HIV-infected adults (Widen et al., 2015; Dryden-Peterson et al., 2011). Cotrimoxazole, recommended as prophylaxis for infants born to HIV-infected mothers, has been associated with increased risk of anemia . Conflicting findings on the efficacy of iron supplementation, as well as uncertainty regarding the role of antiretroviral therapy, high- light the need for future studies to elucidate the multifactorial etiology of anemia in HIV-infected populations. Further research is necessary to evaluate the role of iron status in HIV infection and to establish the efficacy and safety of iron supplementation in HIV-infected populations, particularly in the context of antiretroviral therapy. 92 Nutrition and HIV: Epidemiological Evidence to Public Health objEctivES The objective of this review was to examine the role of iron in the
