3 Iron and HIV/AIDS
KEYWORDS: dna, iron, nori, htiw, hiv, vih, aimena, saw, rof, hiv-infected, shtnom, anemia, stneitap, nemow, erew


outcomes in HIV-infected populations. Although all of the eligible studies were assessed for data for all a priori outcomes (see Methods section), most studies included data on a narrow subset of these outcomes. For example, most stud- ies included data on the following HIV-related outcomes: all-cause mortality, AIDS-related mor- tality, WHO HIV disease stage, HIV disease progression, opportunistic infections, CD4 and CD8 T-cell counts, and HIV RNA viral load. Although most studies focused on hemoglobin concentra- tions or anemia, iron status biomarkers assessed included SF, sTfR, CRP, and AGP. Finally, stud- ies conducted among HIV-infected pregnant women focused on a subset of perinatal outcomes: mother-to-child transmission of HIV, gestational age at delivery, preterm birth, birthweight, low birthweight, small-for-gestational age, and infant iron status. iron and Hiv-rELatEd HEaLtH outcomES Mortality Outcomes Iron Supplementation and Mortality mentation on mortality in HIV-infected individuals. An unblinded trial was conducted to examine the effects of different treatment options on health outcomes in adult patients diagnosed with AIDS: iron protoxalate–dapsone (30 mg/day soluble iron and 50 mg/day dapsone) plus aerosolized pent- amidine (300 mg administered over a 30-minute period through a jet nebulizer one time per month) compared to aerosolized pentamidine regimen alone . After 31 months (i.e., at the time the trial was terminated early), patients in the iron protoxalate–dapsone group had a significant twofold higher risk of mortality compared to the control group, after adjusting for age, time since diagnosis of AIDS, and CD4 T-cell count (42% vs. 21%; risk ratio [RR], 2.18; 95% CI, 1.27–3.74; p < 0.003). Similarly, the mortality rate at 18 months was significantly higher in the iron protoxalate–dapsone group compared to the control (53.1% vs. 24.6%; p < 0.003; log-rank test). There were no significant differences between groups for cause-specific mortality. Anemia and Mortality Anemia is common in HIV-infected individuals and has been associated with increased risk of mortality. Several prospective observational analyses have been conducted as part of the Trial of Vitamins (TOV), a randomized trial in Dar es Salaam, Tanzania, in which 1078 HIV-infected, ART-naïve pregnant women were randomized to receive vitamin A, multivitamins and vitamin A, multivitamins without vitamin A, or placebo in a 2 × 2 factorial design. In this trial, all HIV- infected, pregnant women also received daily supplementation of 400 mg ferrous sulfate (i.e., equivalent to 120 mg ferrous iron) and 5 mg folic acid, along with weekly chloroquine (500 mg) as malaria
