3 Iron and HIV/AIDS
KEYWORDS: dna, iron, nori, htiw, hiv, vih, aimena, saw, rof, hiv-infected, shtnom, anemia, stneitap, nemow, erew


= 0.04), although the Hb concentra- tions were not significantly associated at other time-points during follow-up (at infection, 6-month, and 12-month follow-up) (p > 0.05) . Findings did not vary by anemia status. Inflammatory Markers Shet et al. (2015) found that there was no significant change in chronic inflammation among people who received iron. Kupka et al. (2007) found that the correlation between SF and viral load (VL) was stronger among women with elevated CRP (>10.0 mg/L). Rawat et al. (2009) found that the associa- tions between SF and VL were attenuated when controlling for AGP, but SF and VL were still sig- nificantly correlated. In women with elevated AGP (>1 g/L), there was no association between SF and VL (β = 0.191; p = 0.148). Similarly, Gordeuk et al. (2009) reported that HIV-infected individuals with high dietary iron intake (defined as estimated life consumption of traditional beer > 1000 L) had lower neopterin levels than HIV-infected individuals with low dietary iron (p < 0.0001). In another study, Sarcletti et al. (2003) longitudinally assessed Hb levels in individuals taking ART over six months and found an inverse relationship between Hb changes and neopterin, with decreasing neopterin lev- els associated with increased Hb between start of ART and three and six months. Co-infections and Other Clinical Morbidities Several cross-sectional and case-control studies have been conducted to examine the links between iron status and the occurrence of co-infections in HIV-infected populations; however, to date, only one randomized controlled trial and four cohort studies have investigated the associations of iron Iron and HIV/AIDS 139 supplementation with the risk of co-infections in HIV-infected individuals. One of these studies examined hospitalizations for intercurrent infections as an outcome . In the afore- mentioned cohort study conducted among children infected perinatally with HIV in Bangalore, India, children provided with iron supplements for three months (3-mg/kg/day dose) and followed for one year exhibited no significant difference in the absolute number of hospitalizations for inter- current infections as compared to those who were not supplemented . The total number of children (i.e, percent) in each group was not given. The remaining studies considered iron supplementation in the context of co-infections involving either malaria or tuberculosis. Malaria In the aforementioned randomized trial among HIV-infected children in Malawi, iron supplemen- tation was associated with increased risk of malaria at six months of follow-up (IR, 120.2 vs. 71.7; adjusted IRR, 1.81; 95%
