3 Iron and HIV/AIDS
KEYWORDS: dna, iron, nori, htiw, hiv, vih, aimena, saw, rof, hiv-infected, shtnom, anemia, stneitap, nemow, erew


Child Health Outcomes This review would not be complete without consideration of the relationships among maternal examined the associations between maternal iron status and pediatric outcomes, including infant mortality, child growth, infection, breast milk viral load, and child CD4 T-cell counts. One study examined the association between child iron status and HIV-related health outcomes. In an analysis of the TOV study, Isanaka et al. (2012) found that severe maternal anemia (<8.5 g/dL) in HIV- infected women was associated with a twofold increase in the risk of child mortality (adjusted HR, 2.58; 95% CI, 1.66–4.01; p-trend < 0.0001), as compared to HIV-infected mothers with no anemia. Severe hypochromic microcytosis (hypochromasia ≥ 25% and microcytic cells observed), as com- pared to absent hypochromic microcytosis, was also associated with increased risk of child mortal- ity (adjusted HR, 2.36; 95% CI, 1.27–4.38; p-trend = 0.001) . These analyses were adjusted for maternal age, BMI at baseline (kg/m2), viral load at baseline (copies/mm3), CD4 140 Nutrition and HIV: Epidemiological Evidence to Public Health ity, prenatal compliance with iron and folic acid supplementation based on attendance, treatment arm in the vitamin study, and child time-varying HIV infection status. However, maternal anemia was not associated with risk of child total HIV transmission (defined as HIV transmission in utero, intrapartum, or during breastfeeding), compared to mothers without anemia. Severe anemia had an adjusted HR of 1.46 (95% CI, 0.91–2.33; p-trend = 0.08), and mild anemia had an adjusted HR of 1.43 (95% CI, 1.0–2.04; p-trend = 0.08) compared to no anemia. These two analyses were adjusted for maternal age, BMI at baseline (kg/m2), viral load at baseline (copies/mm3), CD4 at baseline compliance with iron and folic acid supplementation based on attendance, and treatment arm in the vitamin study. In a cohort study conducted in Lusaka, Zambia, among 135 HIV-infected and lactating women participating in the ZVITAMBO study, neither iron supplementation nor maternal Hb concentra- tions was associated with breast milk HIV viral load . In the study of perinatally HIV-infected children 2 to 12 years of age in Bangalore, India, Shet et al. (2015) found no associa- tion between iron supplementation of the children and child growth from baseline to one year of follow-up. Improvements in WAZ and height for age (HAZ) were observed in groups that both did and did not receive iron supplements. As previously reviewed, no difference in the number of hos- pitalizations for intercurrent
