3 Iron and HIV/AIDS
KEYWORDS: dna, iron, nori, htiw, hiv, vih, aimena, saw, rof, hiv-infected, shtnom, anemia, stneitap, nemow, erew


height for age (HAZ) were observed in groups that both did and did not receive iron supplements. As previously reviewed, no difference in the number of hos- pitalizations for intercurrent infections was observed between children who received and did not stages of HIV (defined as stages 3 and 4). In the iron-supplemented group, prevalence of advanced WHO clinical stage decreased from 25.7% at baseline to 10.9% after one year of follow-up. In the 12.5% after one year of follow-up . Post-ART Era: Associations between Iron/Hematological Status with HIV- Related Health Outcomes in the Context of ART and HAART The role of iron in HIV-related health outcomes must be considered within the context of antiretrovi- ral therapy, since antiretrovirals (ARVs) are known to differentially influence both iron metabolism and HIV disease progression; for example, anemia is a known side effect of zidovudine (ZDV). However, several observational studies have found ART to be associated with reduced risk of anemia (Shet et al., 2009, 2012; Kruger et al., 2013). Longitudinal studies have also observed resolution of anemia upon treatment with ARVs in adults and pregnant women (Odhiambo et al., 2016). It has been hypothesized that reducing viral load with ART reduces cytokine activity, allowing erythroid progenitor cells to proliferate and thereby reducing anemia . In a nested cohort study among 852 HIV-infected patients (161 on ZDV, 628 on stavudine [d4T], and 63 on tenofovir [TDF]), ZDV was associated with severe anemia, and the greatest increase in Hb was associated with stavudine . Different classes of ARVs are known to also have different obstetric impacts on HIV-infected pregnant women. In this population, additional infected pregnant women both alone (excluding in labor, when single-dose nevirapine is used) and in combination with other ARVs (Sebitloane and Moodley, 2017). No trials have been conducted to date to investigate the effects of iron supplementation on HIV-related outcomes in the context of ART. In the cohort study in Bangalore, India, among perinatally HIV-infected children (43.3% on ART at baseline), iron supplementation and ART were associated with lower prevalence of HIV disease progression to WHO stages 3 or 4 during 12 months of follow-up compared to ART alone: WHO stages 3 or 4 at baseline 25.7% with iron vs. 16.7% with no iron (p = 0.04); at one year, 10.9% with iron vs. 12.5% with no iron (p > 0.05) . Iron supplementation was not associated with improvement in growth
