3 Iron and HIV/AIDS
KEYWORDS: dna, iron, nori, htiw, hiv, vih, aimena, saw, rof, hiv-infected, shtnom, anemia, stneitap, nemow, erew


significant (mean, 5.45%; SE, 1.76; p < 0.01) compared to that of the no-treatment group. The mean change among children taking ART alone was not significant (mean, 2.54%; SE, 1.79; p = 0.09) compared to that of the no-treatment group. Among children taking iron alone, the mean change in percent CD4 T-cell counts was not significant (mean, –0.73%; SE, 4.59; p = 0.87) compared to that of the no-treatment group. Hiv/aidS and HEmatoLogicaL outcomES HIV disease may contribute to the etiology of anemia and iron deficiency through a number of mechanisms, such as infection of marrow stromal cells , impaired hematopoietic progenitor cell growth , bone marrow pathologies, autoimmune hemolysis, and intestinal blood loss (Coyle, 1997; Kreuzer and Rockstroh, 1997; Sullivan, 1998). Several case- control and cross-sectional studies have noted an association between HIV and adverse hematologi- cal outcomes; however, few prospective studies have been conducted to examine the associations of HIV and iron status over time. The search strategy presented in this chapter, which resulted in 68 studies overall, yielded one cohort study among adults and three cohort studies among mothers and infants that examined the association of HIV infection and hematological status. Additionally, four studies were found that assessed associations of antiretroviral therapy with hematological out- comes. In the aforementioned CAPRISA Acute Infection Study prospectively examining iron bio- markers in women at high risk of HIV infection, development of HIV infection was associated with a decline in Hb concentrations and an increase in the prevalence of anemia post-infection (mean decline in Hb, 0.46 g/dL; SD, 1.09; anemia prevalence pre-infection, 25.0%; 3 months post, 52.6%; 6 months post, 61.1%; 12 months post, 51.4%) . A similar decline in mean corpuscular volume (MCV) was noted from pre- to post-HIV infection (decline in MCV, 1.78 fL; SD, 2.74), although mean SF concentrations increased from 65.13 µg/L to 79.09 µg/L during the same time period. HIV/AIDS and Maternal/Child Hematological and Other Relevant Outcomes In a cohort study conducted among infants born to HIV-infected (n = 575) and HIV-uninfected (n = 136) mothers participating in the ZVITAMBO study (i.e., only mothers, both HIV-infected and HIV-uninfected, and infants assigned to the placebo group were included), the infants were categorized into the following groups: (1) mother HIV-uninfected, baby HIV-uninfected (Nn); (2) 142 Nutrition and HIV: Epidemiological Evidence to Public Health mother HIV-infected, baby HIV-uninfected (Pn); and (3) mother HIV-infected, baby HIV-infected (Pp) . Gestational age
