3 Iron and HIV/AIDS
KEYWORDS: dna, iron, nori, htiw, hiv, vih, aimena, saw, rof, hiv-infected, shtnom, anemia, stneitap, nemow, erew


disease progression and other adverse HIV-associated outcomes. Iron supplementation is the standard of care in the treatment of iron 144 Nutrition and HIV: Epidemiological Evidence to Public Health deficiency and anemia. However, several factors complicate the use of iron supplementation in HIV- infected individuals. Cell-based studies have found that iron promotes HIV growth and replication , and pathology-based studies have found associations between tissue iron and the prevalence of HIV-associated infections, including TB (Moyo et al., 1997; Gangaidzo et al., 2001; Lounis et al., 2001; McDermid et al., 2013). Studies have also observed decreased HIV repli- cation and proliferation with iron chelators (Shatrov et al., 1997; Georgiou et al., 2000, 2002; Meyer, 2006; Debebe et al., 2007). Epidemiological studies have also observed that higher iron stores inde- pendently predict HIV-related mortality, and some studies have noted that prolonged iron supple- mentation may increase disease progression in individuals at an advanced stage of disease (Jacobus, 1996). However, HIV-infected individuals with anemia have poorer prognoses than HIV-infected individuals without anemia. Due to evidence suggesting a “double-edged sword”—the association between iron and advanced HIV/AIDS —the use of iron supplementation for HIV-infected individuals warrants caution. EvidEncE from triaLS on iron SuppLEmEntation The safety and efficacy of iron supplementation for HIV-infected individuals has not been exten- sively studied through randomized trials. To date, only one randomized trial has been conducted with the explicit purpose of assessing the effects of iron supplementation without other micronutri- ents on health outcomes in HIV-infected populations. Among HIV-infected children with moderate anemia (7.0–9.9 g/dL Hb), iron supplementation was not associated with worsened HIV disease progression but was associated with increased risk of malaria ; however, findings from a randomized study suggest that iron supplementation in patients at later stages of disease may worsen disease progression (Salmon-Ceron et al., 1995; Jacobus 1996). A recent analysis of a his- torical, randomized, low-dose iron supplementation trial conducted in 1994 found that low-dose (60 mg) iron supplementation provided twice weekly for four months did not increase viral load (Olsen et al., 2004). A randomized trial of iron supplementation in combination with other micronutrients (iron + micronutrients vs. micronutrients alone) in HIV-infected female drug users indicated that iron reduces anemia without increasing HIV RNA levels . To date, the majority of evidence regarding the association between outcomes in iron and hematological status with HIV/ AIDS comes from observational studies. Findings from these studies consistently suggest
