3 Iron and HIV/AIDS
KEYWORDS: dna, iron, nori, htiw, hiv, vih, aimena, saw, rof, hiv-infected, shtnom, anemia, stneitap, nemow, erew


. To date, the majority of evidence regarding the association between outcomes in iron and hematological status with HIV/ AIDS comes from observational studies. Findings from these studies consistently suggest that HIV is associated with worsened hematological outcomes, including anemia, although findings from observational studies regarding the association between iron and hematological status with HIV- related outcomes are less consistent. EvidEncE from obSErvationaL StudiES Outcomes Related to HIV Disease Progression and HIV-Related Mortality There is strong and consistent evidence that anemia is associated with increased risk of HIV disease progression and HIV-related mortality (Eley et al., 2002; Mugisha et al., 2013). Studies from the TOV study have consistently found that anemia in HIV-infected women is associated with increased risk of mortality and that the greater the severity of anemia, the greater the risk of mortality (O’Brien et al., 2005; Kupka et al., 2007; Chatterjee et al., 2010; Isanaka et al., 2012). Cohort studies have also found that anemia among HIV-infected children and among adults (Minchella et al., 2015) is associated with disease progression, as measured by CD4 T-cell counts. The association between elevated iron stores with HIV disease progression and HIV-related mortality is less clear, and no randomized trials have been conducted to assess this associa- tion. Observational cohort studies have found associations between elevated iron stores, as mea- sured by SF, and both HIV-related and all-cause mortality (Gordeuk et al., 2006; McDermid et al., 2007; McDermid et al., 2009; Rawat et al., 2009). Elevated hepcidin has also been associated Iron and HIV/AIDS 145 with HIV-related TB and mortality in cohort stud- ies. Case-control studies have also found associations between higher serum hepcidin and patients with detectable viral load compared to lower hepcidin levels in patients with undetectable viral load and an inverse relationship between serum hepcidin and CD4 T-cell count . A cohort analysis of ZVITAMBO found associations between SF above 45 µg/L and increased viral load, and between higher SF and mortality when controlling for AGP . A cross-sectional analysis found inverse associations between ferritin levels and CD4 T-cell count (López-Calderón et al., 2015). However, in an analysis of the TOV study, high SF, as compared to low SF, was not associated with a greater risk of mortality . Additionally, a study among 135 anemic patients (42 HIV-infected, 93 HIV-uninfected) found no dif- ference in SF levels between HIV-infected and HIV-uninfected individuals . Outcomes Related to Iron and
