3 Iron and HIV/AIDS
KEYWORDS: dna, iron, nori, htiw, hiv, vih, aimena, saw, rof, hiv-infected, shtnom, anemia, stneitap, nemow, erew


. Additionally, a study among 135 anemic patients (42 HIV-infected, 93 HIV-uninfected) found no dif- ference in SF levels between HIV-infected and HIV-uninfected individuals . Outcomes Related to Iron and Hematological Status There is strong and consistent evidence from observational epidemiological studies and laboratory studies that HIV is associated with increased risk of anemia. Case-control studies have consistently found that anemia is more prevalent among HIV-infected children than HIV-uninfected children (Totin et al., 2002; Miller et al., 2006). Evidence from cohort studies also provides support that HIV is associated with increased risk of anemia; however, findings also suggest that HIV is associated with elevated iron stores (Banjoko et al., 2012; Visser and Mostert, 2013), although the directional- ity of this association is unclear from observational studies. To date, no randomized trials have assessed the impact of maternal iron supplementation in HIV- infected mothers on infant iron and/or HIV status. Most evidence regarding the association between iron supplementation and HIV relating to maternal and child health comes from observational stud- ies. Studies included in this review suggest that, although maternal anemia may lead to adverse HIV-related neonatal and infant outcomes, the long-term effects of maternal iron supplementation on child health are unclear. An analysis of the TOV study found that maternal anemia among HIV- infected mothers was associated with the risk of child HIV infection and an increased risk of child mortality compared to those without maternal anemia (O’Brien et al., 2005). One cohort study found that receipt of iron supplementation in the postpartum period did not increase the HIV RNA viral load in breast milk . A cohort study that examined the association between maternal iron supplementation in mothers infected with HIV and infant outcomes found no adverse for providing maternal iron supplementation is weak, and further research is needed to identify how iron supplementation in HIV-infected mothers may affect infant HIV status. Post-ART Era Certain ARVs are known to impact iron metabolism. ZDV is known to decrease Hb levels, impair iron metabolism, and increase the risk of anemia (Ezechi et al., 2013; Phe et al., 2013). Maternal ARVs have been shown to decrease infant Hb levels (Bae et al., 2008; Dryden-Peterson et al., 2011). A large-scale study assessing differences in incidence of severe anemia among HIV-uninfected infants born to HIV-infected mothers on various in utero and postnatal ARV regimes, all of which included ZDV, found that most cases of
