3 Iron and HIV/AIDS
KEYWORDS: dna, iron, nori, htiw, hiv, vih, aimena, saw, rof, hiv-infected, shtnom, anemia, stneitap, nemow, erew


in incidence of severe anemia among HIV-uninfected infants born to HIV-infected mothers on various in utero and postnatal ARV regimes, all of which included ZDV, found that most cases of infant anemia were resolved with cessation of ZDV or with provision of multivitamin and iron supplementation . However, one study found that, although maternal initiation with ZDV increased the risk of anemia among new- borns, ZDV unexpectedly decreased the risk of maternal anemia at the end of pregnancy (Pinnetti et al., 2011). There is consistent evidence that iron supplementation may be warranted in HIV-infected individuals taking HAART, which has generally been shown to improve hematological status and increase Hb levels . There is moderately strong and consistent evidence that HAART, combined with iron supplementation, improves HIV and hematological status more than 146 Nutrition and HIV: Epidemiological Evidence to Public Health HAART alone . Further research is needed to assess the impact of combined iron between HAART and iron/hematological status. rESEarcH gapS Findings from this review highlight the need for further research to elucidate the directionality of the association between HIV-related health outcomes and iron/hematological status. The majority of studies to date that assess this association are observational. The most recent Cochrane Systematic Review concluded that there was weak evidence from observational stud- ies and expert opinions that iron supplementation should be provided to HIV-infected children. Since then, one randomized trial in anemic HIV-infected children has been conducted (Esan et al., 2013). Iron supplementation was found to protect against the progression to AIDS in children and, therefore, may be recommended in children; however, further research is needed to assess whether this recommendation would apply to adults and pregnant women living with HIV, as well as to populations living in areas where other infections, such as TB, are endemic. No randomized trial has observed a relationship between iron supplementation and incidence of TB in an HIV-infected population. Further research is also needed to assess the proper dosage and timing of iron supple- mentation that would reduce anemia and not result in adverse HIV-related health outcomes. IMPLICATIONS FOR CLINICAL CARE AND PUBLIC HEALTH PRACTICE Iron and hematological abnormalities are prevalent in HIV-infected individuals and have been associated with increased risk of adverse health outcomes. Iron supplementation is the standard of care for iron deficiency and anemia. Based on evidence from observational studies, the safety and efficacy of therapeutic iron in individuals with HIV
