Chronic Heart Failure
KEYWORDS: heart, patients, failure, heart failure, chronic, symptoms, chronic heart, therapy, treatment, ejection fraction, ejection, fraction, cardiac, used, medications


Heart failure (HF) is a clinical syndrome in which the heart is not able to meet the demands of the body, manifested by low cardiac output, elevated ventricular filling pressure, or both. Chronic heart failure refers to the long- term state of this clinical syndrome. Chronic heart failure may be compensated, indicating a relatively stable state that may or may not be symptomatic. When chronic heart failure involves an acute or subacute worsening of symptoms or hemodynamics, it becomes acute decompensated heart failure. Diagnosis is by examination, blood tests, and imaging. Treatment focuses on management of lifestyle and risk factors and guideline-directed medical therapy. In addition to the 6.7 million people in the United States with heart failure, about one-third of the adult population is at risk for developing heart failure, and about 1 in 4 people will develop it at some point in their lifetime (1). The definition, pathophysiology, and causes of heart failure, including chronic heart failure, are reviewed in Overview of Heart Failure. Chronic heart failure is staged as follows (2): A: Risk of HF but no structural or functional cardiac abnormalities or symptoms B: Structural or functional cardiac abnormalities but no symptoms C: Structural heart disease with symptoms D: Refractory HF requiring advanced therapies or palliative care Patient functional status in stages B to D can be further classified based on symptoms using the New York Heart Association Functional Classification system. The type of heart failure can be further classified based on the left ventricular ejection fraction. Symptoms and Signs of Chronic Heart Failure Common chronic heart failure symptoms include exertional dyspnea, exercise intolerance, and peripheral edema (particularly in the ankles and feet) (1). Other symptoms may include anorexia or early satiety, nausea, presyncope or syncope, and coughing or wheezing (part of cardiac asthma). In earlier or milder stages, dyspnea occurs with varying degrees of exertion. As HF worsens, dyspnea can occur during rest and at night, sometimes causing nocturnal cough. Dyspnea occurring immediately or soon after lying flat and relieved promptly by sitting up (orthopnea) is common as heart failure advances. In paroxysmal nocturnal dyspnea,dyspnea awakens patients several hours after they lie down and is relieved only after they sit up for 15 to 20 minutes. In severe HF, periodic cycling of breathing (Cheyne-Stokes respiration—from a brief period of apnea, patients breathe progressively faster and deeper, then slower and shallower until they become apneic and
