Chronic Heart Failure
KEYWORDS: heart, patients, failure, heart failure, chronic, symptoms, chronic heart, therapy, treatment, ejection fraction, ejection, fraction, cardiac, used, medications


minutes. In severe HF, periodic cycling of breathing (Cheyne-Stokes respiration—from a brief period of apnea, patients breathe progressively faster and deeper, then slower and shallower until they become apneic and repeat the cycle)—can occur during the day or night; the sudden hyperpneic phase may awaken the patient from sleep. Cheyne-Stokes breathing differs from paroxysmal nocturnal dyspnea in that the hyperpneic phase is short, lasting only 10 to 15 seconds, but the cycle recurs regularly, lasting 30 seconds to 2 minutes. Paroxysmal nocturnal dyspnea is associated with pulmonary congestion, and Cheyne-Stokes respiration with low cardiac output. Severely reduced cerebral blood flow and hypoxemia can cause chronic irritability and impair mental performance. Sleep-related breathing disorders, such as sleep apnea (central and obstructive), are common in HF and may both aggravate HF and be worsened by HF. Physical signs specific to heart failure included jugular venous distention or elevated jugular venous pulsations, a third heart sound (S3) or summation gallop, displaced apical impulse due to cardiomegaly, and the hepatojugular reflex (1). Signs of pulmonary edema (crackles, hypoxemia), poor perfusion (cool extremities, delayed capillary refill), decreased stroke volume (narrow pulse pressure), or a compensatory response (tachycardia, hypertension) may also occur. Weight loss and cardiac cachexia may occur in advanced heart failure. Diagnosis of Chronic Heart Failure Diagnostic techniques in heart failure are discussed in detail under Acute Heart Failure. Attention to symptoms, weight, serial imaging (eg, echocardiography) and measurement of natriuretic peptides and other biomarkers can help guide treatment and identify acute decompensation. Treatment of Chronic Heart Failure Diet and lifestyle changes Treatment of cause Medication therapy Multidisciplinary care Sometimes device therapy (eg, implantable cardioverter-defibrillator, cardiac resynchronization therapy, mechanical circulatory support) Sometimes cardiac transplantation Treatment goals for chronic heart failure include correcting hypertension, preventing myocardial infarction and progression of atherosclerosis, improving cardiac function, reducing hospitalizations, improving quality of life, and lengthening survival. Treatment involves dietary and lifestyle changes, medications, devices, and sometimes percutaneous coronary interventions or surgery. Treatment is multidisciplinary and tailored to the patient, considering causes, symptoms, and response to medications, including adverse effects. There are several evidence-based therapies for chronic heart failure with reduced ejection fraction (HFrEF) (1, 2). There are fewer evidence-based treatments for chronic heart failure with preserved ejection fraction (HFpEF), chronic heart failure with mildly reduced ejection fraction and improved ejection fraction (HFmrEF and HRimpEF), and chronic right ventricular failure (3). Medications See Medications for Heart Failure for detailed
