Chronic Heart Failure
KEYWORDS: heart, patients, failure, heart failure, chronic, symptoms, chronic heart, therapy, treatment, ejection fraction, ejection, fraction, cardiac, used, medications


(HFpEF), chronic heart failure with mildly reduced ejection fraction and improved ejection fraction (HFmrEF and HRimpEF), and chronic right ventricular failure (3). Medications See Medications for Heart Failure for detailed information on specific medications and classes. Guideline-directed medical therapy of heart failure with reduced ejection fraction (HFrEF) Guideline-directed medical therapy consists of evidence-based medications that have been shown to improve clinical outcomes for patients with HF. Medical treatment of chronic HRrEF generally consists of 4 foundational classes of therapy for all patients, as all classes have been demonstrated to reduce mortality (1, 2, 4). These include: Beta-blockers Angiotensin receptor/neprilysin inhibitor (ARNI) 3/11 Mineralocorticoid receptor antagonist (MRA) Sodium-glucose co-transporter 2 (SGLT2) inhibitor Doses of medications in these pharmacologic classes are generally titrated to maximum tolerable doses to achieve optimal benefit. Beta-blockers (eg, bisoprolol, carvedilol, metoprolol) reduce sympathetic nervous system tone and overall neurohormonal activation and have been a main stay of chronic heart failure therapy (1, 2). Beta-blockers can also help to control arrhythmias associated with heart failure, in addition to being antianginal agents for patients with ischemic cardiomyopathy. Reduction of basal heart rate has been demonstrated to be an important marker of outcome. Because of their negative inotropic effects, beta- blockers are avoided in the acute decompensated phase of heart failure; they are initiated when a patient is stable and well compensated. Beta-blockers are the only foundational class of pharmacologic chronic heart failure agents that have demonstrated value only for patients with reduced ejection fraction, and not for patients with preserved left ventricular ejection fraction. For patients who are unable to tolerate beta-blockers or who achieve suboptimal resting heart rate reduction (> 77 beats/minute for those in sinus rhythm), ivabradine, a sinus node inhibitor, can be used to achieve heart rate reduction. Treatment with an angiotensin receptor/neprilysin inhibitor (sacubitril/valsartan) is the standard for patients with chronic heart failure (1, 2, 5, 6, 7). This medication combination is a potent vasodilator and may induce symptomatic hypotension. Therefore, caution is recommended when initiating or uptitrating sacubitril/valsartan, especially for patients with a systolic blood pressure of less than 100 mm Hg. Sacubitril/valsartan has demonstrated superior mortality reduction, compared to angiotensin- converting enzyme-inhibitors or angiotensin II receptor blockers, although both classes of medication are still used routinely, particularly in patients who are intolerant of sacubitril/valsartan. Spironolactone and eplerenone are mineralocorticoid receptor antagonists used for the treatment of chronic heart failure (1, 2, 8). Agents,
