Chronic Heart Failure
KEYWORDS: heart, patients, failure, heart failure, chronic, symptoms, chronic heart, therapy, treatment, ejection fraction, ejection, fraction, cardiac, used, medications


still used routinely, particularly in patients who are intolerant of sacubitril/valsartan. Spironolactone and eplerenone are mineralocorticoid receptor antagonists used for the treatment of chronic heart failure (1, 2, 8). Agents, such as finerenone, are under investigation in different patient subpopulations, including those with significant diabetes and those with significant renal dysfunction. Spironolactone has a relatively weak diuretic effect, but is potassium sparing and can be associated with hyperkalemia. Potassium levels must be monitored in patients when initiating spironolactone or when increasing the dose. Spironolactone can also be associated with gynecomastia, and should be discontinued If this adverse effect develops. Eplerenone has a more favorable adverse effect profile, including less relative hyperkalemia and gynecomastia. SGLT2 inhibitors (eg, dapagliflozin, empagliflozin) have demonstrated significant survival benefit for patients with heart failure, regardless of ejection fraction (1, 2, 9, 10). They are generally well tolerated and have a relatively weak diuretic effect. Originally developed as oral hypoglycemic agents, they can reduce blood glucose levels. Other pharmacologic therapies are available for specific populations of patients with chronic heart failure, particularly those who remain symptomatic despite optimal doses of the foundational pharmacologic therapy classes (1, 2). 4/11 Digoxin can be used to reduce the risk of heart failure hospitalizations in patients with reduced ejection fraction. Digoxin is contraindicated in patients with moderate to severe chronic kidney disease due to the risk of toxicity. Additional diuretic therapy, particularly loop diuretics, are frequently used in patients with ongoing symptoms of congestion, despite optimal medical therapy for chronic heart failure. Ivabradine can be used to control resting heart rate in patients who are in sinus rhythm who are either poorly tolerant of beta-blockers or do not achieve satisfactory resting heart rate control with them. Ivabradine is recommended therapy for patients with HRrEF and an EF < 35% with a resting heart rate ≥ 70 beats per minute on beta blocker therapy (11). Vericiguat is an oral, soluble guanylate cyclase agonist that has vasodilator effects. It can be added to other heart failure therapies in patients with heart failure with reduced ejection fraction with ongoing symptoms who have also had an acute decompensation within the last 6 months (12). Vasodilators, as a combination of isosorbide dinitrate and hydralazine, can be used in patients with persistent symptoms of congestion, particularly those who are unable to tolerate ARNIs or when they are contraindicated due to poor kidney function. Calcium channel blockers, nonsteroidal
