Chronic Heart Failure
KEYWORDS: heart, patients, failure, heart failure, chronic, symptoms, chronic heart, therapy, treatment, ejection fraction, ejection, fraction, cardiac, used, medications


used in patients with persistent symptoms of congestion, particularly those who are unable to tolerate ARNIs or when they are contraindicated due to poor kidney function. Calcium channel blockers, nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs, thiazolidinediones, and class 1C antiarrhythmic medications can worsen heart failure and should be avoided unless no alternative exists; patients who must take such medications should be followed closely. Medical therapy of heart failure with mildly reduced or improved ejection fraction (HRmrEF and HRimpEF) In general, the therapeutic approach for HRmrEF and HRimpEF is similar to that for HRrEF, although far less evidence exists to support specific medications or classes (1, 2). Diuretics are recommended for anti-congestive therapy. SGLT2 inhibitors may be beneficial in preventing hospitalization in HRmrEF. Data directly supporting beta blockade, angiotensin-renin system inhibition, and mineralocorticoid antagonists are lacking and recommendations are based on observational or post-hoc analyses. Medical therapy of heart failure with preserved ejection fraction (HRpEF) Recommended therapies for HRpEF include an SGLT2 inhibitor for all patients, diuretics for patients with congestion and symptoms, and mineralocorticoid antagonists and angiotensin-renin system inhibition for select patient groups (1, 2, 13). Cardiovascular comorbidities, including hypertension, atherosclerotic disease, and atrial fibrillation should be treated. As with HRmrEF, SGLT2 inhibitors, beta blockers, angiotensin-renin system inhibitors, and mineralocorticoid antagonists may be considered. See Medications for Heart Failure for more detailed information on specific medication classes. Disease management General measures, especially patient and caregiver education and diet and lifestyle modifications, are important for all patients with heart failure (1). Education Sodium restriction 5/11 Appropriate weight and fitness levels Correction of underlying conditions Patient and caregiver education are critical to long-term success. The patient and family should be involved in treatment choices. They should be taught the importance of medication adherence, warning signs of an exacerbation, and how to link cause with effect (eg, increased salt in the diet with weight gain or symptoms). Many centers (eg, specialized outpatient clinics) have integrated health care practitioners from different disciplines (eg, HF nurses, pharmacists, social workers, rehabilitation specialists) into multidisciplinary teams or outpatient heart failure management programs. These approaches can improve outcomes and reduce hospitalizations and are most effective in the sickest patients. Dietary sodium restriction helps limit fluid retention. All patients should eliminate salt in cooking and at the table and avoid salted foods; the most severely ill should limit sodium to < 2 g/day by consuming only low-sodium foods (1, 2). Monitoring daily
