Chronic Heart Failure
KEYWORDS: heart, patients, failure, heart failure, chronic, symptoms, chronic heart, therapy, treatment, ejection fraction, ejection, fraction, cardiac, used, medications


in cooking and at the table and avoid salted foods; the most severely ill should limit sodium to < 2 g/day by consuming only low-sodium foods (1, 2). Monitoring daily morning weight helps detect sodium and water accumulation early (1, 2). If weight increases > 2 kg over a few days, patients may be able to adjust their diuretic dose themselves, but if weight gain continues or symptoms occur, patients should seek medical attention. Intensive case management, particularly by monitoring medication adherence and frequency of unscheduled visits to the physician or emergency department and hospitalizations, can identify when intervention is needed (1, 2). Nurses who specialize in the care of patients with HF are valuable in education, follow-up, and dosage adjustment according to predefined protocols. Patients with atherosclerosis or diabetes should strictly follow a diet appropriate for their disorder. Obesity may cause and always aggravates the symptoms of HF; patients should attain a body mass 2 2 index (BMI) ≤ 30 kg/m (ideally 21 to 25 kg/m ). Regular light activity (eg, walking), tailored to symptoms, is encouraged (1, 2). Activity prevents skeletal muscle deconditioning, which worsens functional status; however, activity does not appear to improve survival or decrease hospitalizations (1, 2). Rest is appropriate during acute exacerbations. Formal exercise through cardiac rehabilitation is useful for patients with chronic HFrEF and is likely helpful for patients with chronic HFpEF. Patients should have annual influenza vaccination because influenza can precipitate HF exacerbations, particularly in institutionalized or older patients. Patients should be vaccinated against SARS-CoV-2. If causes such as hypertension, persistent tachyarrhythmia, severe anemia, hemochromatosis, uncontrolled diabetes, thyrotoxicosis, beriberi, alcohol use disorder, or toxoplasmosis are successfully treated, patients may dramatically improve. Anemia is common among patients with chronic heart failure and is frequently multifactorial. Anemia is associated with worse symptoms and outcomes in HF and so reversible causes should be sought and treated. Iron deficiency is among the most common causes of anemia in HF, and iron replacement therapy should be considered once treatable causes such as blood loss (gastrointestinal or other) have 6/11 been excluded (2). Oral iron replacement is often less effective due to poor absorption and other reasons, thus intravenous iron replacement is preferred. Management of extensive ventricular infiltration (eg, in amyloidosis) has improved considerably. Treatments for amyloidosis have markedly improved prognosis for many of these patients. Device therapy Use of an implantable cardioverter-defibrillator (ICD) or cardiac resynchronization therapy
