Chronic Heart Failure
KEYWORDS: heart, patients, failure, heart failure, chronic, symptoms, chronic heart, therapy, treatment, ejection fraction, ejection, fraction, cardiac, used, medications


(eg, in amyloidosis) has improved considerably. Treatments for amyloidosis have markedly improved prognosis for many of these patients. Device therapy Use of an implantable cardioverter-defibrillator (ICD) or cardiac resynchronization therapy (CRT) is appropriate for some patients. An implantable cardioverter-defibrillator is recommended for patients with an otherwise good life expectancy if they have symptomatic sustained ventricular tachycardia or ventricular fibrillation or if they remain symptomatic and have an left ventricular ejection fraction persistently < 35% while receiving guideline-directed medical therapy (2). The data for ICD use in HFrEF are stronger for ischemic cardiomyopathy than in nonischemic cardiomyopathy. A clinical trial that included patients with HFrEF with nonischemic cardiomyopathy demonstrated no mortality benefit from prophylactic (primary prevention) ICD placement (14). Cardiac resynchronization therapy is a mode of pacing that synchronizes contraction of the left ventricle by simultaneously pacing its opposing wall, thereby improving stroke volume. CRT may relieve symptoms and reduce heart failure hospitalizations for patients who have HF, left ventricular ejection fraction < 35%, and a widened QRS complex with a left bundle branch block pattern (> 0.15 second—the wider the QRS, the greater potential benefit) (2). Many CRT devices also incorporate an ICD in their mechanism. An implantable device that remotely monitors invasive hemodynamics (eg, pulmonary artery pressure) to guide therapy can help reduce frequency of heart failure exacerbation and hospitalization in selected patients (4, 15). Durable or ambulatory LV assist devices (LVADs) are longer-term implantable pumps that augment LV output. They are commonly used to maintain patients with severe HF who are awaiting transplantation and are also used as "destination therapy" (ie, as a long-term or permanent solution) in some patients who are not candidates for transplant. Surgery and percutaneous procedures Surgery may be appropriate when certain underlying disorders are present. Surgery in patients with advanced HF should be done in a specialized center. Surgical closure of congenital or acquired intracardiac shunts can be curative. Coronary artery bypass grafting (CABG) for patients with LV systolic dysfunction secondary to coronary artery disease and evidence of myocardial viability may be beneficial (1, 2); however, those patients with prior myocardial infarction and non-viable myocardium are less likely to benefit from CABG. Thus, the decision to use revascularization in a patient with HF and multivessel coronary artery disease should be made on a case-by-case basis. 7/11 If HF is primarily due to a valvular disorder, valve repair or replacement should be considered (1,
