Chronic Heart Failure
KEYWORDS: heart, patients, failure, heart failure, chronic, symptoms, chronic heart, therapy, treatment, ejection fraction, ejection, fraction, cardiac, used, medications


and multivessel coronary artery disease should be made on a case-by-case basis. 7/11 If HF is primarily due to a valvular disorder, valve repair or replacement should be considered (1, 2). Patients with primary mitral regurgitation are more likely to benefit than patients with mitral regurgitation secondary to LV dilation, in whom poor myocardial function is likely to continue postoperatively. Surgery is preferably done before myocardial dilation and damage become irreversible. Percutaneous mitral valve repair procedure (also called transcatheter end-to-end repair [TEER]), in which a clip is applied to approximate the anterior and posterior mitral leaflets, has been shown to reduce death and HF hospitalization in carefully selected patients with symptomatic HF despite optimal medical management and moderate to severe or severe mitral regurgitation with preserved LV size (end-systolic dimension ≤ 70 mm) (16). Heart transplantation is the treatment of choice for patients < 70 years who have severe HF refractory to guideline-directed medical therapy (1, 2). Some older patients with otherwise good health are also considered if they meet other criteria for transplantation. Treatment of persistent heart failure symptoms Management may need to be adjusted when symptoms persist despite treatment. Reasons and appropriate actions include: Persistence of an underlying disorder (eg, hypertension, ischemia or infarction, valvular disease) despite treatment: Optimize treatment of underlying disorder Suboptimal treatment of heart failure: Escalate or optimize heart failure treatment regimen Medication nonadherence: Adherence strategies Excess intake of dietary sodium or alcohol: Reduction of sodium intake, alcohol intake, or both; refer to dietician or addiction specialist as necessary Presence of an undiagnosed thyroid disorder, anemia, or supervening arrhythmia (eg, atrial fibrillation with rapid ventricular response, intermittent ventricular tachycardia): Test for and treat undiagnosed disorders End-of-life care All patients and family members should be taught about disease progression and the risk of sudden cardiac death. For some patients, improving quality of life is as important as increasing quantity of life. Thus, it is important to determine patients’ wishes about resuscitation (eg, endotracheal intubation, CPR [cardiopulmonary respiration]) if their condition deteriorates, especially when HF is already severe. All patients should be reassured that symptoms will be relieved, and they should be encouraged to seek medical attention early if their symptoms change significantly. Involvement of pharmacists, nurses, social workers, and clergy (when desired), who may be part of an interdisciplinary team or disease management program already in place, is particularly important in end-of-life care. Prognosis for Chronic
