Chronic Heart Failure
KEYWORDS: heart, patients, failure, heart failure, chronic, symptoms, chronic heart, therapy, treatment, ejection fraction, ejection, fraction, cardiac, used, medications


social workers, and clergy (when desired), who may be part of an interdisciplinary team or disease management program already in place, is particularly important in end-of-life care. Prognosis for Chronic Heart Failure HF usually involves gradual deterioration, interrupted by bouts of severe decompensation, and ultimately death, although the time course is being lengthened with modern therapies. However, death can also be sudden and unexpected, without prior worsening of symptoms. Overall 1-year mortality in patients with chronic HF is approximately 7 to 14% (1, 2, 3). Specific factors that suggest a poor prognosis include older age at diagnosis, male gender, New York Heart Assocation class III or IV symptoms, ejection fraction < 30%, frequent or recent hospitalization, presence of chronic kidney, lung, or pulmonary disease, diabetes, lower measures of exercise tolerance (such as peak oxygen consumption or 6-minute walk distance), elevation of natriuretic peptide levels, and hyponatremia (4, 5, 6). CLINICAL CALCULATORS MAGGIC Score Predicting Heart Failure Survival BNP, NTproBNP, and risk scores such as the Meta-Analysis Global Group in Chronic Heart Failure (MAGGIC) Risk Score and the Seattle Heart Failure model, are helpful to predict prognosis in HF patients as an overall group, although there is significant variation in survival among individual patients (7, 8). Key Points Chronic heart failure affects over 6 million people in the United States. Chronic heart failure is staged based on structural and functional abnormalities as well as the presence and degree of symptoms. Pharmacologic treatment of chronic heart failure with reduced ejection fraction involves 4 key medication classes: beta-blockers, renin-angiotensin system-neprilysin antagonist, sodium-glucose co-transporter 2 (SGLT2) inhibitor, and mineralocorticoid receptor antagonist. Multidisciplinary care and lifestyle changes are important elements for treatment of chronic heart failure. Implantable cardioverter-defibrillators and cardiac resynchronization therapy are used in select patients.
