JGastroenterol(2021)56:303–322
KEYWORDS: ulcers, patients, ulcer, therapy, peptic, ppis, pylori, recommendation, treatment, prevention, eradication, evidence, agreed, level, etal


including, for the first time, epidemiology and ‘‘Evidence-BasedClinicalPracticeGuidelinesforPeptic remnantgastriculcer.Bothepidemiologyandconservative Ulcer,’’theJapaneseSocietyofGastroenterology(JSGE),6F therapyforperforationandstenosisincludedonlyBQ.The Shimbashii-MARKBldg.,2-6-2Shimbashi,Minato-ku, Tokyo105-0004,Japan prevention of hemorrhagic peptic ulcers in patients taking 304 JGastroenterol(2021)56:303–322 antithrombotic drugs and the treatment of ischemic duo- • Recommended that aspirin be continued for conditions denal ulcers have been added as a CQ and FRQ, at high risk for thromboembolic events. respectively. Recommendation: strong, 100% agreed, evidence level AliteraturesearchofMedlineandtheCochraneLibrary B. was performed for data regarding the CQs published • Suggested to change antiplatelet agents to aspirin in between 1983 and October 2018, and the Igaku Chuo patients with conditions with a high risk of throm- Zasshidatabasesweresearchedfordatapublishedbetween boembolic events. 1983 and December 2018. The guidelines were developed Recommendation: weak, 100% agreed, evidence level using the Grading of Recommendations Assessment, D. Development and Evaluation (GRADE) system . The • Suggested to suspend antiplatelet agents, except for in quality of evidence was graded as A (high), B (moderate), patients at high risk for thromboembolic events. C (low), and D (very low). Recommendation strength was Recommendation: weak, 100% agreed, evidence level indicatedaseithera‘‘strongrecommendation’’ora‘‘weak D. recommendation’’ The systematic review (SR) team con- • Recommended to suspend warfarin, if necessary, in ducted meta-analysis (MA) and decided the total strength endoscopic hemostasis patients. If warfarin is discon- oftheevidencefromAtoD.Theconsensuswaspreviously tinued, we suggest heparin or resuming warfarin as defined as 70% or more votes in agreement. soon as hemostasis is established. In Japan, incidence of cerebral infarction and myocar- Recommendation: strong, 100% agreed, evidence level dial infarction are increasing, and many patients undergo C. antithrombotic therapy including dual antiplatelet therapy • Suggested to resume DOACs early (within 1–2 days) from the risk of gastrointestinal (GI) bleeding to throm- Recommendation: weak, 100% agreed, evidence level boembolism associated with the withdrawal of antithrom- D. botic therapy . In addition, for nearly 50 years, the • In patients receiving both antiplatelet agents and only oral anticoagulants were vitamin K antagonists warfarin, suggested to change antiplatelet agents to (warfarin); however, four non-vitamin K antagonist direct aspirin or cilostazol. Continue warfarin under a suit- oral anticoagulants (DOACs) are currently available. The able prothrombin time-international normalized ratio hemorrhagic gastric and duodenal ulcer section of the (PT-INR) or to change warfarin to heparin. revised guidelines emphasizes methods for the discontin- Recommendation: weak, 100% agreed, evidence level uationofantithrombotictherapyincludingDOACsandfor D. the prevention of hemorrhagic ulcers in patients taking • In patients receiving dual antiplatelet agents, recom- anticoagulant and antiplatelet drugs, such as DAPT. mended that
