JGastroenterol(2021)56:303–322
KEYWORDS: ulcers, patients, ulcer, therapy, peptic, ppis, pylori, recommendation, treatment, prevention, eradication, evidence, agreed, level, etal


agreed, evidence level uationofantithrombotictherapyincludingDOACsandfor D. the prevention of hemorrhagic ulcers in patients taking • In patients receiving dual antiplatelet agents, recom- anticoagulant and antiplatelet drugs, such as DAPT. mended that aspirin alone should be continued. Vonoprazan (VPZ) provides potent and long-lasting Recommendation: strong, 100% agreed, evidence level inhibition of gastric acid secretion, and its efficacy is, D. therefore, expected to be superior to that of proton pump Comment: The risk of re-bleeding due to continuing inhibitors (PPIs). Recent reports have shown that triple anticoagulant and/or antiplatelet agents and the risk of therapy including VPZ is as effective as first-line and thromboembolism associated with their withdrawal second-line therapies for the eradication of Helicobacter should be considered. One randomized controlled trial pylori . Several reports have indicated that VPZ effec- (RCT) reported significantly lower mortality in the tivelyhealspepticulcersandpreventstherecurrenceof continuing LDA group compared with the group that nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs (NSAIDs) and didnot.However,clinicalevidenceiscurrentlylacking low-dose aspirin (LDA)-related ulcers . This revised to support the management of patients who receive DOACs with peptic ulcer bleeding (PUB). We consid- ered that these recommendations are based on expert Hemorrhagic gastric and duodenal ulcers opinionsoftheguidelinesofJapanGastroenterological Endoscopy, Asia–Pacific working group and European Non-endoscopic hemostatic therapy Society of Gastroenterological Endoscopy. It is neces- sary to collaborate closely with gastroenterologists and CQ-1 cardiologists as patients at high risk of thromboem- bolism with PUB could be unstable. Treatment of with patients with hemorrhagic peptic ulcers iftheyprescribedanticoagulantsand/orantiplateletagents? JGastroenterol(2021)56:303–322 305 CQ-2 Prevention of hemorrhagic peptic ulcer Is interventional radiology (IVR) effective in patients CQ-4 undergoing refractory endoscopic treatment for hemor- rhagic peptic ulcers? What drugs are recommended for the prevention of hem- orrhagic ulcers in antithrombotic users? • In patients undergoing refractory endoscopic treatment for hemorrhagic peptic ulcers, interventional radiology • In DAPT, we recommend the combined use of PPIs to (IVR) is suggested due to its safety and effectiveness. prevent upper gastrointestinal bleeding (UGIB). Recommendation: weak, 100% agreed, evidence level Recommendation: strong, 100% agreed, evidence level C. A. Comment: The effectiveness of IVR with transcatheter • If taking warfarin, we suggest using PPIs to prevent arterial embolization was proven by two MAs . UGIB in patients taking antiplatelet drugs or NSAIDs Theyreportedthatcomparedtosurgery,IVRexhibitsa in combination. higher re-bleeding rate, but no significant difference in Recommendation: weak, 100% agreed, evidence level mortality, need for additional interventions, or compli- C. cation rates between treatments. IVR could be a viable (PPI is not covered by Japanese insurance for
