JGastroenterol(2021)56:303–322
KEYWORDS: ulcers, patients, ulcer, therapy, peptic, ppis, pylori, recommendation, treatment, prevention, eradication, evidence, agreed, level, etal


weak, 100% agreed, evidence level mortality, need for additional interventions, or compli- C. cation rates between treatments. IVR could be a viable (PPI is not covered by Japanese insurance for primary option for the treatment of refractory PUB; however, a preventionofPUBinpatientstakingLDAorNSAIDs). limited number of institutions can perform IVR. Comment: MAs of RCTs aimed to determine whether the combination of PPIs is useful for the prevention of UGIB in DAPT with clopidogrel and aspirin. In CQ-3 addition to the large randomized COGENT trial , an MA was conducted involving three studies (two Ismedicationwithantacidagentsrequiredafterendoscopic RCTs)comparingPPIusage.PPIssignificantly treatment for hemorrhagic peptic ulcers? prevented UGIB (risk ratio [RR]0.26;95% confidence • PPI administration after endoscopic treatment for interval [CI] 0.13–0.53, P = 0.0002) (Fig. 1). There hemorrhagic peptic ulcers is recommended to improve was no significant difference in major adverse cardio- treatment outcomes. vascularevents,withorwithoutPPI(RR1.01;95%CI Recommendation: strong, 100% agreed, evidence level 0.80–1.26, P = 0.96). In the 2017 focused update on A. DAPT in coronary artery disease of the European Comment: Compared with placebo, intravenous PPI SocietyofCardiology,PPIsincombinationwithDAPT therapy after endoscopic treatment for hemorrhagic were recommended (recommendation class I) . peptic ulcers has been proven to reduce the rate of re- Onlyobservationalstudieswereavailableregardingthe bleeding, volume of blood transfusion, period of UGIB preventive effect of PPI in patients taking admission, and rate of conversion to surgery in two warfarin. Ray et al. , in large retrospective cohort MAs and some randomized controlled trials. study, found that PPI administration significantly Theefficacyofhigh-dosePPItherapyisnothigherthan reducedtheriskofhospitalizationforUGIBinpatients non-high-dose PPI regarding decreasing re-bleeding, receiving warfarin with concomitant antiplatelet drugs surgicalintervention,ormortalityafterpost-endoscopic or NSAIDs (45% reduction (hazard ratio 0.55; 95% CI hemostasis . 0.39–0.77), P = 0.0004). Therewasnosignificantdifference effectbetween oral and intravenous PPI therapy on mortality, re-bleeding, H. pylori eradication therapy surgery . Compared to intravenous histamine 2-receptor antago- First-line eradication therapy nist(H RA)therapy,PPItherapyreducesratesofulcer re-bleeding, surgical intervention, and overall duration CQ-5 of hospital stay with no significant difference in mortality .Consideringpatient benefits, werecom- What kind of regimen should we select for first-line H. mended PPI therapy after endoscopic treatment for pylori eradication therapy? hemorrhagic peptic ulcers. • As triple eradication therapy using VPZ with amoxi- cillin and clarithromycin has a high eradication rate 306 JGastroenterol(2021)56:303–322 Fig. 1 Forest plots of proton pump inhibitors (PPIs) against control for upper gastrointestinal bleeding preventive effect in dual antiplatelet therapy(DAPT).Inmeta-analysis,PPIssignificantlyhavereducedbleedingriskcomparedtocontrols(RR0.26;95%CI0.13–0.53,P=0.0002) compared with that of PPIs, VPZ is recommended as a culture/sensitivity testing is not performed before first-line therapy. eradication, first-line therapy using clarithromycin
