JGastroenterol(2021)56:303–322
KEYWORDS: ulcers, patients, ulcer, therapy, peptic, ppis, pylori, recommendation, treatment, prevention, eradication, evidence, agreed, level, etal


bleeding preventive effect in dual antiplatelet therapy(DAPT).Inmeta-analysis,PPIssignificantlyhavereducedbleedingriskcomparedtocontrols(RR0.26;95%CI0.13–0.53,P=0.0002) compared with that of PPIs, VPZ is recommended as a culture/sensitivity testing is not performed before first-line therapy. eradication, first-line therapy using clarithromycin Recommendation: strong, 100% agreed, evidence level should not be used; bismuth quadruple (PPI/bismuth/ A. tetracycline/metronidazole) or concomitant quadruple • The recommended antibiotics for first-line therapy therapy (PPI/amoxicillin/clarithromycin/nitroimidazole include amoxicillin, clarithromycin, or metronidazole. ormetronidazole)isrecommended.Inaddition,in In Japan, the combination of amoxicillin and metron- areaswithlowmetronidazole-andhighclarithromycin- idazole is recommended due to the high incidence rate resistance rates, PPI/amoxicillin/metronidazole has a of clarithromycin-resistant strains (not covered by the higher eradication rate than PPI/amoxicillin/clar- Japanese insurance system). ithromycin (Fig. 3) . Recommendation: strong, 100% agreed, evidence level A. Second-line eradication therapy • When PPIs are used, sequential therapy and concomi- tant quadruple therapy are suggested due to the high CQ-6 eradication rate in the first-line therapy compared with triple therapy (not covered by the Japanese insurance What regimen should we select for second-line H. pylori system). eradication therapy? Recommendation: weak, 100% agreed, evidence level A. • Triple therapy with PPI/VPZ, amoxicillin, and metron- Comment: In the Japanese insurance system, triple idazole is recommended. therapy with a PPI or VPZ, amoxicillin, and clar- Recommendation: strong, 100% agreed, evidence level ithromycin is used as first-line therapy . As the A. degreeanddurationofacidinhibitionarerelatedtothe Comment: Two MAs found that tetracycline/ cure rate of H. pylori , an MA compared the quinolone-based quintuple or quadruple therapies were efficacy of VPZ-containing therapies to PPI-containing more effective than other therapies. One RCT revealed therapies (Fig. 2) . In areas with high clar- thatlevofloxacinsequentialtherapywasmoreeffective ithromycin-resistance rates ([15%), the Maastricht than levofloxacin triple therapy . These drugs have V/Florence Consensus Report suggested that when not been approved for H. pylori eradication therapy in Fig.2 Forestplotsoferadicationrates offirst-line therapybetween meta-analysis, the eradication rates of vonoprazan-containing triple vonoprazan-containing triple therapy and proton pump inhibitor therapy are significantly higher than that of PPI-containing triple (PPI)-containing triple therapy in the randomized control trials. In therapy(oddsratio0.28;95%CI0.19–0.41,P\0.00001) JGastroenterol(2021)56:303–322 307 Fig. 3 Forest plots of eradication rates of second-line therapy (PAC) therapy in the randomized control trials in Japan. In meta- between proton pump inhibitor/amoxicillin/metronidazole (PAM) analysis,theeradicationratesofPAMtherapyaresignificantlyhigher therapy and proton pump inhibitor/amoxicillin/clarithromycin thanthatofPACtherapy(oddsratio0.14;95%CI0.08–0.24) Japan. In addition, the rate of H. pylori infection with successfulH.pylorieradicationincludeusingLDAand primaryresistancetolevofloxacinishighinJapan.The NSAIDs, reinfection with H. pylori, and smoking eradication rate of triple therapy with PPI/VPZ, amox- habits. To prevent peptic ulcer recurrence, the exclu- icillin,andmetronidazoleisstillhigh,anddoesnot sion of these factors is
