JGastroenterol(2021)56:303–322
KEYWORDS: ulcers, patients, ulcer, therapy, peptic, ppis, pylori, recommendation, treatment, prevention, eradication, evidence, agreed, level, etal


primaryresistancetolevofloxacinishighinJapan.The NSAIDs, reinfection with H. pylori, and smoking eradication rate of triple therapy with PPI/VPZ, amox- habits. To prevent peptic ulcer recurrence, the exclu- icillin,andmetronidazoleisstillhigh,anddoesnot sion of these factors is necessary. Idiopathic peptic differ between the two regimens [29–31]. ulcers are thought to be one of unknown causes of peptic ulcers after successful H. pylori eradication; therefore, long-term maintenance treatment with PPIs Third-line eradication therapy or H RAs is suggested, when the cause of peptic ulcer recurrence is unclear. CQ-7 What regimen should we select for third-line H. pylori eradication therapy? Non-eradication therapy • Triple therapy with PPI, sitafloxacin, and metronida- Initial therapy. zole or PPI, sitafloxacin, and amoxicillin is suggested (not covered by the Japanese insurance system). Gastric ulcer Recommendation: weak, 100% agreed, evidence level B. CQ-9 Comment:ThreeJapaneseRCTsofthird-linetherapies showed that the eradication rates were 70.0–90.9% What is the first-line drug for the initial non-eradication [32–34].TheeradicationrateoftripletherapywithPPI, treatment of gastric ulcers? sitafloxacin, and metronidazole was 70.0–88.9% [32–34], and that of PPI, sitafloxacin, and amoxicillin • Either PPIs or P-CAB is recommended. was 72.4–90.9% . Because these eradication Recommendation: strong, 100% agreed, evidence level rates were not high enough, these regimens are not A. recommended, but suggested. • If PPIs and P-CAB cannot be prescribed, H RAs are recommended. Recommendation: strong, 100% agreed, evidence level Ulcer recurrence after H. pylori eradication B. • If PPIs and P-CAB cannot be prescribed, pirenzepine, CQ-8 sucralfate, and misoprostol are suggested. Recommendation: weak, 100% agreed, evidence level Is maintenance treatment necessary for the recurrence of B. peptic ulcer after successful H. pylori eradication? • If the above drugs cannot be prescribed, gastric • When the cause of peptic ulcer recurrence is unclear, mucosa-protecting agents (excluding sucralfate and long-term maintenance treatment with PPIs or H RAs misoprostol) are suggested. is suggested. Recommendation: weak, 100% agreed, evidence level Recommendation: weak, 100% agreed, evidence level B. D. Comment:WerecommendeitherPPIsorP-CABdueto Comment: There are currently no published RCTs or their demonstrated ulcer healing rate of PPIs being MAs. Causes of the recurrence of peptic ulcers after significantly higher than that of H RAs [35–38]. 308 JGastroenterol(2021)56:303–322 P-CAB gained popularity in recent years due to their Comment:GastricandduodenalulcersinNSAIDusers highulcerhealingrateforgastriculcerscomparedwith healtoahighratewhenNSAIDsarewithdrawn.In lansoprazole . When PPIs and P-CAB cannot be comparativestudiesofPPIsvs.H RAandPPIsvs. prescribed, H RAs are recommended. There were no PG analogs , the healing rate of gastric and reported significant differences in ulcer healing rates duodenalulcerswashighestinPPIgroups.Theoriginal betweenH RAs.Moreover,pirenzepine,sucralfate,and MA in this guideline indicated that the
