JGastroenterol(2021)56:303–322
KEYWORDS: ulcers, patients, ulcer, therapy, peptic, ppis, pylori, recommendation, treatment, prevention, eradication, evidence, agreed, level, etal


recommended. There were no PG analogs , the healing rate of gastric and reported significant differences in ulcer healing rates duodenalulcerswashighestinPPIgroups.Theoriginal betweenH RAs.Moreover,pirenzepine,sucralfate,and MA in this guideline indicated that the healing rate of misoprostol are suggested as their ulcer healing rates peptic ulcers over 8 weeks was higher in PPI groups are equivalent to those of H RAs. than in H RA groups; thus PPIs are recommended as 2 2 the first-line therapy (Fig. 4). Duodenal ulcer Prevention CQ-10 CQ-12 What is the first-line drug for the initial non-eradication treatment of duodenal ulcer? If a patient receiving NSAIDs tests positive for H. pylori infection, should H. pylori eradication therapy be • Either PPIs or P-CAB is recommended. administered? Recommendation: strong, 100% agreed, evidence level A. • EradicationofH.pyloriisrecommendedforprevention • If PPIs and P-CAB cannot be prescribed, H RAs are of ulcers in NSAID-na¨ıve patients. recommended. Recommendation: strong, 100% agreed, evidence level Recommendation: strong, 100% agreed, evidence level A. B. Comment:IncomparativestudiesofPPIsandH.pylori • If PPIs and P-CAB cannot be prescribed, pirenzepine, eradication, PPIs are superior to the eradication of H. sucralfate, and misoprostol are suggested. pylori in preventing recurrent bleeding in patients Recommendation: weak, 100% agreed, evidence level taking NSAIDs . B. Studies have indicated that H. pylori eradica- Comment:WerecommendeitherPPIsorP-CABasthe tion therapy reduces the incidence of ulcers in patients ulcer healing rate of PPIs is significantly higher than receiving NSAIDs; however, an effect of H. pylori thatofH RAs.P-CABgainedpopularityinrecent eradication therapy on preventing peptic ulcer cannot years due to their high ulcer healing rate for duodenal beexpectedduringNSAIDtherapy.InanMAreported ulcers compared with lansoprazole . When PPIs in2012,theefficacyofH.pylorieradicationtherapyfor cannot be prescribed, H RAs are recommended. preventing peptic ulcer was observed, especially in na¨ıve users and in Asian populations . Drug-induced ulcer CQ-13 Nonselective NSAID-induced ulcer. Is preventive therapy for NSAID-induced ulcers necessary in patients with no history of ulcers? Treatment • PreventionofNSAID-inducedulcers byadministration ofPPIsisnecessaryandsuggestedeveninpatientswith CQ-11 no history of ulcers. Recommendation: weak, 100% agreed, evidence level How should NSAID-induced ulcers be treated? A. • NSAIDs should be discontinued, and administration of (PPIs are not covered by Japanese insurance for anti-ulcer drugs is recommended. primary prevention of ulcers in patients taking Recommendation: strong, 100% agreed, evidence level NSAIDs). A. Comment: In patients receiving NSAID therapy for • If NSAIDs cannot be discontinued, administration of more than three months, the efficacy of PG analogs PPIs is recommended as a first-line therapy. , PPIs , or high-dose H RAs given as
