JGastroenterol(2021)56:303–322
KEYWORDS: ulcers, patients, ulcer, therapy, peptic, ppis, pylori, recommendation, treatment, prevention, eradication, evidence, agreed, level, etal


cannot be discontinued, administration of more than three months, the efficacy of PG analogs PPIs is recommended as a first-line therapy. , PPIs , or high-dose H RAs given as Recommendation: strong, 100% agreed, evidence level primary preventions has been reported. Scally B et al. A. showedthatPPIshadlargerprotectiveeffectsthan JGastroenterol(2021)56:303–322 309 Fig. 4 Meta-analysis of comparison of ulcer curative effect between PPI and H RA under the NSAIDs continuation. In meta-analysis, the healingrateofpepticulcersfor8weeksishigherinthePPIgroupsthanintheH RAgroups H RAs or PG analogs for peptic ulcers and further the second prevention of NSAID-induced peptic ulcer bleeding; therefore, PPIs are suggested as a first-line as well as PPIs. therapy. CQ-15 CQ-14 How should NSAID-induced ulcers be prevented in How should recurrence be prevented in patients with a patients receiving high-dose NSAIDs or a combination of historyofulcersorbleedingulcerswhoarestartingNSAID NSAIDs and antithrombotic drugs or glucocorticoids or therapy? bisphosphonates, who are elderly, or have severe complications? • PPIs are recommended, and VPZ is suggested to prevent NSAID-induced ulcers in patients with a • In patients receiving combinations of NSAIDs and history of ulcers. glucocorticoidsorantithromboticdrugs,administration Recommendation: weak, 100% agreed, evidence level of a COX-2 inhibitor is recommended for ulcer B. prevention. • Concomitant administration of the selective cyclooxy- Recommendation: strong, 100% agreed, evidence level genase (COX)-2 inhibitor with a PPI is recommended B. for preventing recurrence of bleeding NSAID-induced • In elderly or patients with severe complications, ulcers in patients with a history of bleeding ulcers. administration of PPIs is recommended for the preven- Recommendation: strong, 100% agreed, evidence level tion of NSAID-induced ulcers. B. Recommendation: strong, 100% agreed, evidence level Comment:AlthoughtheefficacyofPGanalogsfor A. secondary prevention was observed in high-risk Comment:ConcomitantuseofnonselectiveNSAIDsor patients with a history of peptic ulcers, patient drop- LDA, but not selective COX-2 inhibitors, with corti- out due to diarrhea is common. costeroids, or anticoagulants, increases the risk of reducingtheriskofgastricorduodenalulcerrecurrence notincreasetheriskofUGIB.TheefficacyofPPIs in patients with a history of ulcers requiring long-term for prevention of complications has been demonstrated NSAID therapy . The original MA in this in a previous study . guideline indicated that the recurrence rate of peptic Selective NSAID (COX-2 selective inhibitor)-induced ulcers in patients with a history of ulcers requiring ulcers. long-termNSAIDtherapywaslowerinPPIgroupsthan inplacebogroups.Therefore,PPIsarerecommendedas CQ-16 the first-line therapy (Fig. 5). Chan et al. suggested that combination treatment Is a COX-2 selective inhibitor useful for the prevention of with a selective COX-2 inhibitor and a PPI was more NSAID-induced ulcers? effective than a selective COX-2 inhibitor alone for prevention of ulcer
