JGastroenterol(2021)56:303–322
KEYWORDS: ulcers, patients, ulcer, therapy, peptic, ppis, pylori, recommendation, treatment, prevention, eradication, evidence, agreed, level, etal


COX-2 selective inhibitor? What kind of concomitant use of medicine should be effective for reducing the incidence and prevalence of • Prevention with anti-ulcer agents is recommended for LDA-related peptic ulcers? patients taking COX-2 selective inhibitors with a history of peptic ulcers or hemorrhage. • PPIsorH RAsisrecommendedforthereductionofthe Recommendation: strong, 100% agreed, evidence level incidenceandprevalenceofLDA-relatedpepticulcers. B. Recommendation: strong, 100% agreed, evidence level • No prevention with anti-ulcer agents is recommended A. forpatientstakingCOX-2selectiveinhibitorswithouta (PPIs and H RAs are not covered by Japanese insur- past history of peptic ulcer. anceforprimarypreventionofulcersinpatientstaking Recommendation: strong, 100% agreed, evidence level LDA). B. (H RAs are not covered by Japanese insurance for Comment:AnMArevealedthattheincidenceofdrug- secondarypreventionofulcersinpatientstakingLDA). induced peptic ulcer development was similar between Comment: MA indicated that LDA treatment with patients who received COX-2 selective inhibitors and concomitant use of H RAs or PPIs reduced the risk of placebos,suggestingthatCOX-2selectiveinhibitorsdo LDA-related peptic ulcers . PPIs were superior not increase the risk of drug-induced peptic ulcers toH RAsinpreventingupperGIulcersrelatedtoLDA [60–62]. In a network MA, concomitant dosing of .However,aRCTbyChanetal.indicatedthat COX-2 selective inhibitors with PPIs effectively pre- there were no significant differences between rabepra- vented the development of drug-induced peptic ulcer zoleandfamotidineintheincidenceofrecurrentulcers compared with COX-2 selective inhibitors alone . in patients taking LDA. We used data from two RCTs However,patientswithahistoryofpepticulcershavea in Mo et al. and one RCT to higher risk of developing drug-induced peptic ulcers. independentlyconductanMA.Wefoundnosignificant difference (RR 0.26; 95% CI 0.04–1.81, P = 0.17) in the incidence of LDA-related upper GI ulcers between PPIs and H RAs (Fig. 7). LDA-induced ulcer 2 Treatment CQ-20 CQ-18 What kind of concomitant use of medicine should be effective for reducing the incidence and prevalence rate of How should LDA-related peptic ulcers be treated? LDA-related PUB? • ConcomitantuseofPPIswithcontinuousLDAtherapy • PPIs or VPZ is recommended for the reduction of the is recommended for LDA-related peptic ulcers. incidence and prevalence of LDA-related PUB. 312 JGastroenterol(2021)56:303–322 Fig. 7 Effects of proton pump inhibitors (PPIs) and histamine meta-analysis demonstrates that no significant difference (RR 0.26; 2-receptor antagonists (H RAs) in preventing upper gastrointestinal 95%CI0.04–1.81,P=0.17)intheincidenceofLDA-relatedupper (GI) ulcers related to low dose aspirin (LDA). An independently GIulcersbetweenPPIsandH RAs Recommendation: strong, 100% agreed, evidence level • PPIsinadditiontotheeradicationofH.pyloriinfection A. arerecommendedforthereductionoftheincidenceand (PPI and VPZ are not covered by Japanese insurance prevalence rate of LDA-related PUB. for primary and secondary prevention of PUB in Recommendation: strong, 100% agreed, evidence level patients taking LDA). B. Comment: MA revealed that LDA treatment with (PPI is not covered by Japanese insurance
