JGastroenterol(2021)56:303–322
KEYWORDS: ulcers, patients, ulcer, therapy, peptic, ppis, pylori, recommendation, treatment, prevention, eradication, evidence, agreed, level, etal


and secondary prevention of PUB in Recommendation: strong, 100% agreed, evidence level patients taking LDA). B. Comment: MA revealed that LDA treatment with (PPI is not covered by Japanese insurance for second concomitant use of H RAs or PPIs reduced the risk of prevention of peptic ulcer bleeding in patients taking LDA-related PUB . PPIs were superior to LDA). H RAsinpreventingupperGIulcerbleedingrelatedto • H RAs in addition to the eradication of H. pylori 2 2 LDA . We used data from three RCTs [68–70] infection are suggested for the reduction of the in Mo et al. and three RCTs [72–74], which incidence and prevalence rate of LDA-related PUB. comparedPPIsandH RAstoindependentlyconductan Recommendation: weak, 100% agreed, evidence level MA. We found that PPIs were superior to H RAs (RR C. 0.28;95%CI0.16–0.50,P\0.0001)intheprevention (H RAs are not covered by Japanese insurance for of LDA-related upper GI bleeding (Fig. 8). Further- second prevention of PUB in patients taking LDA). more, the incidence of bleeding in the stomach or Comment:TheeradicationofH.pyloriisequivalentin duodenumwassignificantlylowerwithboth10 mgand the probability of recurrent bleeding to treatment with 20 mg of VPZ compared to 15 mg of lansoprazole in omeprazole in patients receiving LDA . In patients patients taking LDA with a history of ulcers . withulcercomplicationsrelatedtothelong-termuseof LDA, treatment with lansoprazole in addition to the eradication of H. pylori significantly reduced recur- CQ-21 rence rates of ulcer bleeding compared to placebo plus H.pylorieradication.InpatientswithLDA-related What kind of concomitant use of medicine should be peptic ulcers, high-dose famotidine therapy is inferior effective for reducing the incidence and prevalence rate of to pantoprazole in preventing recurrent ulcer bleeding recurrent LDA-related PUB? that continues to receive LDA . LDA treatment Fig. 8 Effects of proton pump inhibitors (PPIs) and histamine independently meta-analysis demonstrated that PPIs are superior to 2-receptor antagonists (H RAs) in preventing upper gastrointestinal H Ras (RR 0.28; 95% CI 0.16–0.50, P\0.0001) in prevention of 2 2 (GI) ulcer bleeding related to low dose aspirin (LDA). An LDA-relatedupperGIbleeding JGastroenterol(2021)56:303–322 313 with concomitant use of rabeprazole showed no differ- indicated that esomeprazole reduced the occurrence of ence in the incidence of recurrent upper GI ulcer pepticulcersinpatientstakingLDAin73%ofpatients bleeding rates compared to famotidine in patients with without a history of peptic ulcers. Ng et al. found a history of LDA-related peptic ulcer bleeding . that esomeprazole was superior to famotidine in preventing upper GI complications related to LDA, clopidogrel, and thrombolytics in 95% of patients CQ-22 without a peptic ulcer.
