JGastroenterol(2021)56:303–322
KEYWORDS: ulcers, patients, ulcer, therapy, peptic, ppis, pylori, recommendation, treatment, prevention, eradication, evidence, agreed, level, etal


peptic ulcer bleeding . that esomeprazole was superior to famotidine in preventing upper GI complications related to LDA, clopidogrel, and thrombolytics in 95% of patients CQ-22 without a peptic ulcer. How should LDA-related peptic ulcer recurrence be pre- vented in patients with a history of peptic ulcers? CQ-24 • PPI or VPZ is recommended to reduce the recurrence Can COX-2 selective inhibitors reduce the risk of peptic rate of LDA-related peptic ulcers. ulcers compared to nonselective NSAIDs when adminis- Recommendation: strong, 100% agreed, evidence level tered with LDA? A. • H RAs are suggested to reduce the recurrence rate of • COX-2 selective inhibitors reduce the risk of peptic LDA-related peptic ulcers. ulcersandbleedinginpatientstakingLDAcomparedto Recommendation: weak, 100% agreed, evidence level nonselective NSAIDs. C. Recommendation: strong, 100% agreed, evidence level Comment: In patients with a history of LDA-related A. peptic ulcers who continued to receive LDA, panto- • Concomitant use of celecoxib with PPIs is recom- prazole was superior to famotidine in preventing mended for the prevention of gastric injury in patients recurrent bleeding ulcers . LDA treatment with with moderate or lower risk of peptic ulcers requiring concomitant use of 20 mg rabeprazole showed no LDA and NSAIDs. difference in the recurrence of upper GI ulcer bleeding Recommendation: strong, 100% agreed, evidence level compared to 40 mg of famotidine in patients with a A. history ofLDA-related PUB.An independentMA Comment: Concomitant use of a COX-2 selective of four RCT articles [77–80] demonstrated that PPIs inhibitor with LDA increased the incidence of peptic weresuperiortocontroldrugs,placebos,gefarnate,and ulcers , whereas COX-2 selective inhibitors low- teprenone,inpreventingtherecurrenceofLDA-related ered the risk of peptic ulcers compared to nonselective upper GI ulcers (RR 0.09; 95% CI 0.06–0.15, NSAIDs when using LDA . In patients taking P\0.00001). A study found that 47–53% of patients LDA, the use of celecoxib or naproxen with PPIs with gastroduodenal ulcer scars on endoscopy at resulted in similar rates of gastroduodenal ulceration baseline, famotidine was superior to placebo in pre- . In patients at high risk of both CV and GI events vention of the incidence of gastroduodenal ulcers in requiring concomitant LDA and NSAIDs, celecoxib patients taking LDA . An RCT by Kawai et al. withPPIswasthepreferredtreatmenttoreducetherisk indicated that 10 mg of VPZ was superior to 15 mg of of recurrent upper GI bleeding compared to naproxen lansoprazole in the prevention of peptic ulcer recur- with esomeprazole . A study found that in 45% of rence in
