JGastroenterol(2021)56:303–322
KEYWORDS: ulcers, patients, ulcer, therapy, peptic, ppis, pylori, recommendation, treatment, prevention, eradication, evidence, agreed, level, etal


mg of of recurrent upper GI bleeding compared to naproxen lansoprazole in the prevention of peptic ulcer recur- with esomeprazole . A study found that in 45% of rence in patients with a history of peptic ulcers who arthritispatientstakingLDA,theriskofGIeventswas required LDA . lower with celecoxib than with naproxen or ibuprofen . COX-2 selective inhibitors and nonselective NSAIDs increasedtheriskandincidenceofCVevents CQ-23 , whereas celecoxib was non-inferior to naproxen or ibuprofen with regard to CV safety . In In patients without a history of peptic ulcer, is the pre- vention of LDA-related peptic ulcers necessary? (ACG) guidelines suggest that concomitant use of • PPIs are recommended for the primary prevention of COX-2 selective inhibitors or nonselective NSAIDs in LDA-related peptic ulcers without a history of ulcers. patients taking LDA should not be prescribed in Recommendation: strong, 82% agreed, evidence level patients at high risk of peptic ulcer . A. Comment: In an RCT by Takeuchi et al., famotidine was superior to teprenone in reducing the number of erosions during LDA use in 94% of patients without a history of peptic ulcers . Scheiman et al. 314 JGastroenterol(2021)56:303–322 CQ-25 24 months was 0.88% for PPI (lansoprazole: 30 mg onceperday)and2.63%forH RA(famotidine:40 mg Is PPI recommended for the prevention of recurrence of onceperday)Theeffectwasnotsignificantlydifferent peptic ulcers with NSAID treatment in patients taking between the two groups (P = 0.336) . Therefore, LDA? wesuggestthatbothPPIsandH RAsarecandidatesfor the prevention of recurrence. • Celecoxib with concomitant use of PPI is recom- mended for the prevention of peptic ulcer recurrence after NSAID treatment in patients taking LDA. Remnant gastric ulcer Recommendation: strong, 100% agreed, evidence level A. CQ-27 (PPI is not covered by Japanese insurance for the primary prevention of ulcers in patients taking LDA). What is the treatment for ulcers in the gastric remnant? Comment: In patients with a history of ulcer who are • PPI treatment is recommended for ulcers in the gastric receiving combinations of NSAIDs and LDA, con- remnant. comitant use of PPI lowered the risk for gastric ulcer Recommendation: strong, 100% agreed, evidence level recurrence as misoprostol . In addition, Goldstein C. et al. indicated that naproxen with esomeprazole Comment:Thefirstchoiceforthetreatmentofulcersin lowered the incidence of gastric ulcers compared to gastric remnant is drug therapy. In an open-label trial naproxen in LDA users . There were fewer GI comparingomeprazole,cimetidine,sucralfate,colloidal events in patients using both COX-2 inhibitors and bismuth, and misoprostol for ulcers in the gastric LDAthannonselectiveNSAIDsandLDA,and remnant, omeprazole was
