JGastroenterol(2021)56:303–322
KEYWORDS: ulcers, patients, ulcer, therapy, peptic, ppis, pylori, recommendation, treatment, prevention, eradication, evidence, agreed, level, etal


naproxen in LDA users . There were fewer GI comparingomeprazole,cimetidine,sucralfate,colloidal events in patients using both COX-2 inhibitors and bismuth, and misoprostol for ulcers in the gastric LDAthannonselectiveNSAIDsandLDA,and remnant, omeprazole was the best interms ofcure rate there were no differences in the occurrence of CV andcurespeed.Thecureratesofulcerin2 weeks’ events between celecoxib and naproxen or ibuprofen treatment were 66.7, 43.3, 22.2, 22.2, and 16.7% for . omeprazole, cimetidine, sucralfate, colloidal bismuth, and misoprostol, respectively. Non-H. pylori, non-NSAIDs ulcer To date, there has not been a RCT regarding the H. pylori eradication effect. However, in several cross- CQ-26 sectionalstudiescomparingtheH.pyloripositivityrate betweengastricremnantswithandwithoutulcers,there How should non-H. pylori and non-NSAIDs ulcers be was no difference [99–102]. From these results, the treated? eradication effect for ulcer occurrence in the gastric remnant is unknown. The preventive effect of eradica- • PPIs are suggested for the initial treatment of non-H. tion for carcinogenesis in the gastric remnant is also pylori and non-NSAID idiopathic ulcers with PPIs or undefined. However, speculating from histological H RAs for the prevention of recurrence. 2 improvement after eradication, it would be effective Recommendation: weak, 100% agreed, evidence level: for preventing carcinogenesis. We should be cautious C. about the recovery of acid secretion after eradication Comment: As hyperacidity and hypergastrinemia have for ulcer occurrence in the gastric remnant. been observed in patients with idiopathic ulcers , we suggest PPIs as the initial treatment. However, Kanno et al. reported that the healing rate at Surgical treatment 12 weeks with PPIs was 77.4% for idiopathic ulcers comparedto95.0%forH.pyloriulcers.Therefore,PPIs CQ-28 may be insufficient for the treatment of idiopathic ulcers. Wong et al. reported that the cumulative Is eradication of H. pylori recommended after surgery for recurrencerateoftheidiopathiculcergroupfor7 years peptic ulcers? without preventive treatment was 42.3%, higher than • Eradication of H. pylori is recommended after omental thatoftheH.pyloriulcergroup (11.2%). Furthermore, patchoromentalfillingprocedureforpepticulcersifH. in the following RCT conducted by them, they pylori positive. compared the efficacy of PPI and H RA in preventing 2 Recommendation: strong, 100% agreed, evidence level recurrence of idiopathic ulcers and reported that the A. cumulative incidence of upper GI bleeding at Comment: For post-surgery treatment, reports JGastroenterol(2021)56:303–322 315 regarding eradication therapy were found, but not for Therapeutic algorithm PPI or H RA treatment. Several reports were in agreement with the recommendation of eradication Figure 9 shows the algorithm for the treatment of peptic therapy for prevention of peptic ulcer recurrence after ulcer disease. If complications are present, they are stomachpreservingsurgery[103–107].El-Nakeebetal.
