JGastroenterol(2021)56:303–322
KEYWORDS: ulcers, patients, ulcer, therapy, peptic, ppis, pylori, recommendation, treatment, prevention, eradication, evidence, agreed, level, etal


recommendation of eradication Figure 9 shows the algorithm for the treatment of peptic therapy for prevention of peptic ulcer recurrence after ulcer disease. If complications are present, they are stomachpreservingsurgery[103–107].El-Nakeebetal. addressedpriortothetreatmentoftheulcer.Perforationor indicated that early eradication after omental stenosis is treated with surgery or conservative therapy. patch surgery for duodenal ulcer perforation is recom- Hemorrhagic ulcers are treated via endoscopic hemostasis. mended for accelerating ulcer healing 8 weeks after When endoscopic hemostasis failed, surgery or IVR is surgery. performed. When no complications are present, medical Preventive effects for ulcer recurrence by eradication therapy is provided immediately (Fig. 9a). after gastrectomy were not consistent between reports. NSAIDs are discontinued, and anti-ulcer therapy is Further analysis is needed to determine the effect of provided for the treatment of NSAID-induced ulcers. If acid secretion recovery after eradication of peptic NSAIDs cannot be discontinued, the ulcer should be trea- ulcers. ted with a PPI. Patients with peptic ulcers who do not use NSAIDsshouldbetestedforH.pylori.Eradicationtherapy is recommended for patients who are H. pylori positive. If FRQ-1 first-line therapy fails, second-line therapy is provided. If What is the treatment for an ischemic duodenal ulcer? third-line therapy. For patients without an indication for • Suggested PPIs or misoprostol as conservative treat- eradication therapy, non-eradication therapy is provided ments. Background conditions such as thrombosis and followed by maintenance therapy to prevent ulcer recur- arterial stenosis should be investigated. IVR or surgery rence.AremnantgastriculceristreatedwithaPPI,andan may be considered if the patient’s condition is exac- idiopathic ulcer is treated with PPI followed by mainte- erbated following conservative treatment. nance therapy with a PPI or H RA (Fig. 9b). Comment: Fourteen case reports regarding ischemic *1Contraindications. Only when administration is duodenal ulcers were identified. Symptoms included unavoidable as it cannot be discontinued. chronic abdominal pain, and weight loss. Typical negative are considered to have idiopathic peptic ulcers. endoscopic findings for ischemia were longitudinal Figure 10 shows the algorithm for the prevention of ulcers, and edematous and reddish changes in the NSAID-induced ulcers. In patients with no ulcer history surroundingmucosaotherthantheulcer.Thecausesof receiving NSAID therapy, celecoxib (CXB) is recom- acute ischemia include embolization for GI bleeding mended and PPIs are suggested for ulcer prevention. hemostasis or embolization therapy for hepatocellular However, PPIs are recommended for elderly patients and carcinoma,systemicthromboembolism,and patients with serious complications. If patients are both unknown cases. Chronic symptoms were reported in NSAID-na¨ıveandH.pyloripositive,eradicationtherapyis patients at risk of atherosclerotic disease and severe recommended.Forpatientswithahistoryofulcersthatdo stenosis of the celiac
