Control of Energy Expenditure in Humans
KEYWORDS: energy, expenditure, energy expenditure, activity, body, fat, physical, physical activity, intake, pubmed, water, heat, weight, balance, production


of the first calorimeters, measuring energy expenditure in a guinea pig. The animal was placed in a wire cage, which occupied the center of an apparatus. The surrounding space was filled with chunks of ice ( Figure 1 ). As the ice melted from the animal's body heat, the water was collected in a container, and weighed. The ice cavity was surrounded by a space filled with snow to maintain a constant temperature. Thus, no heat could dissipate from the surroundings to the inner ice jacket. Today, heat loss is measured in a calorimeter by removing the heat with a cooling stream of air or water or measuring the heat flow through the wall. In the first case, heat conduction through the wall of the calorimeter is prevented and the flow of heat is measured by the product of temperature difference between inflow and outflow and the rate of flow of the cooling medium. In the latter case instead of preventing heat flow through the wall, the rate of this flow is measured from differences in temperature over the wall. This method is known as gradient layer calorimetry . Figure 1. Lavoisier’s calorimeter. Heat expended by the animal melts the ice in the inner jacket. Snow in the outer jacket prevents heat exchange with the surrounding environment (From reference ( 1 )). In indirect calorimetry, heat production is calculated from chemical processes. Knowing, for example, that the oxidation of 1 mol glucose requires 6 mol oxygen and produces 6 mol water, 6 mol carbon dioxide and 2.8 MJ heat, the heat production can be calculated from oxygen consumption or carbon dioxide production. Heat production and the energy equivalent of oxygen and carbon dioxide varies with the nutrient oxidized ( Tables 1 and 2 ). Table 1. Gaseous Exchange and Heat Production of Metabolized Nutrients View in own window Nutrient Consumption oxygen (l/g) Production carbon dioxide (l/g) Heat (kJ/g) Carbohydrate 0.829 0.829 17.5 Protein 0.967 0.775 18.1 Fat 2.019 1.427 39.6 Brouwer ( 2 ) drew up simple formulae for calculating the heat production and the quantities of carbohydrate (C), protein (P) and fat (F) oxidized from oxygen consumption, carbon dioxide production and urine-nitrogen loss. The principle of the calculation consists of three equations with the mentioned three measured variables: Oxygen consumption = 0.829 C + 0.967 P + 2.019 F Carbon dioxide production = 0.829 C + 0.775 P +
