Control of Energy Expenditure in Humans
KEYWORDS: energy, expenditure, energy expenditure, activity, body, fat, physical, physical activity, intake, pubmed, water, heat, weight, balance, production


of three equations with the mentioned three measured variables: Oxygen consumption = 0.829 C + 0.967 P + 2.019 F Carbon dioxide production = 0.829 C + 0.775 P + 1.427 F Heat production = 21.1 C + 18.7 P + 19.6 F Usually, only urine nitrogen is measured when information on the contribution of C, P, and F to energy production is needed. Protein oxidation (g) is calculated as 6.25 x urine-nitrogen (g), and subsequently oxygen consumption and carbon dioxide production can be corrected for protein oxidation to allow calculation of carbohydrate and fat oxidation. The general formula for the calculation of energy production (E) derived from these figures is: E = 16.20 * oxygen consumption + 5.00 * carbon dioxide production - 0.95 P. In this formula the contribution of protein (P) to energy production (E), the so-called protein correction, is very small. In the case of a normal protein oxidation of 10-15 per cent of the daily energy production, the protein correction for the calculation of E is about one per cent. For this reason, in the calculation of energy production, the protein correction is often neglected. Metabolizable energy is available for energy production in the form of heat and for external work. At present, the state of the art for assessing total energy expenditure is with indirect calorimetry. With indirect calorimetry, the energy expenditure is calculated from gaseous exchange of oxygen and carbon dioxide. The result is the total energy expenditure of the body for heat production and work output. With direct calorimetry, only heat loss is measured. At rest, total energy expenditure is converted to heat. During physical activity, there is work output as well. The proportion of energy expenditure for external work is the work efficiency. At rest, indirect calorimetry-assessed energy expenditure matches heat loss as measured with direct calorimetry. During physical activity, heat loss is systematically lower than indirect calorimetry-assessed energy expenditure and can be up to 25% lower than total energy expenditure during endurance exercise. The difference increases with exercise intensity. For example, during cycling, indirect calorimetry assessed energy expenditure matches the sum of heat loss and power output ( 3 ) and work efficiency during cycling, the power output divided by energy expenditure, is in the range of 15 to 25%. Current techniques utilizing indirect calorimetry for the measurement of energy expenditure in humans include a facemask or ventilated hood, respiration
