Control of Energy Expenditure in Humans
KEYWORDS: energy, expenditure, energy expenditure, activity, body, fat, physical, physical activity, intake, pubmed, water, heat, weight, balance, production


energy expenditure, is in the range of 15 to 25%. Current techniques utilizing indirect calorimetry for the measurement of energy expenditure in humans include a facemask or ventilated hood, respiration chamber (whole room calorimeter), and the doubly labelled water method. A facemask is typically used to measure energy expenditure during standardized activities on a treadmill or a cycle ergometer. A ventilated hood is used to measure resting energy expenditure and energy expenditure during nutrient processing and absorption (diet-induced energy expenditure). A respiration chamber is an airtight room that is ventilated with fresh air, with the only difference between a usually, ventilated hood system and respiration chamber being size. In a respiration chamber the subject is fully enclosed instead of enclosing the head only, allowing physical activity depending on the size of the chamber. For measurements under a hood or in a respiration chamber, air is pumped through the system and blown into a mixing chamber where a sample is taken for analysis. Measurements taken are those of the airflow and of the oxygen and carbon dioxide concentrations of the air flowing in and out. The most common device to measure the airflow is a dry gas meter comparable to that used to measure natural gas consumption at home. The oxygen and carbon dioxide concentrations are commonly measured with a paramagnetic oxygen analyzer and an infrared carbon dioxide analyzer respectively. The airflow is adjusted to keep differences in oxygen and carbon dioxide concentrations between inlet and outlet within a range of 0.5 to 1.0%. For adults, this means airflow rates around 50 l/min at rest under a hood, 50-100 l/min when sedentary in a respiration chamber, while in exercising subjects the flow has to be increased to over 100 l/min. In the latter situation, one has to choose a compromise for the flow rate when measurements are to be continued over 24 hours that include active and inactive intervals. During exercise bouts, the 1% carbon dioxide level should not be surpassed for long. During times of rest, like an overnight sleep, the level should not fall too far below the optimal measuring range of 0.5-1.0%. Changing the flow rate during an observation interval reduces the accuracy of the measurements due to the response time of the system. Though the flow rate of a hood and a chamber system is comparable, the volume of a respiration chamber is more than 20 times
