Control of Energy Expenditure in Humans
KEYWORDS: energy, expenditure, energy expenditure, activity, body, fat, physical, physical activity, intake, pubmed, water, heat, weight, balance, production


the response time of the system. Though the flow rate of a hood and a chamber system is comparable, the volume of a respiration chamber is more than 20 times the volume of a ventilated hood. Consequently, the minimum length of an observation period under a hood is about 0.5 hours and in a respiration chamber in the order of 5-10 hours. The doubly labelled water method is an innovative variant on indirect calorimetry based on the discovery that oxygen in the respiratory carbon dioxide is in isotopic equilibrium with the oxygen in body water. This technique involves enriching the body water with an isotope of oxygen and an isotope of hydrogen and then determining the washout kinetics of both isotopes. Doubly labelled water provides an excellent method to measure total energy expenditure in unrestrained humans in their normal surroundings over a time period of one to four weeks. After enriching the body water with labelled oxygen and hydrogen by drinking doubly labelled water, most of the oxygen isotope is lost as water, but some is also lost as carbon dioxide because CO 2 in body fluids is in isotopic equilibrium with body water due to exchange in the bicarbonate pools ( 4 ). The hydrogen isotope is lost as water only. Thus, the washout for the oxygen isotope is faster than for the hydrogen isotope, and the difference represents the CO 2 production. The isotopes of choice are the stable, heavy, isotopes of oxygen and hydrogen, oxygen-18 ( 18 O) and deuterium ( 2 H), since these avoid the need to use radioactivity and can be used safely. Both isotopes naturally occur in drinking water and thus in body water. The CO 2 production, calculated from the difference in elimination between the two isotopes, is a measure of metabolism. In practice, the observation duration is set by the biological half-life of the isotopes as a function of the level of the energy expenditure. The minimum observation duration is about three days in subjects with high energy turnover like premature infants or endurance athletes. The maximum duration is 30 days or about 4 weeks in elderly (sedentary) subjects. An observation period begins with collection of a baseline sample. Then, a weighed isotope dose is administered, usually a mixture of 10% 18 O and 6% 2 H in water. For a 70 kg adult, between 100-150 cc water would be used.
