Control of Energy Expenditure in Humans
KEYWORDS: energy, expenditure, energy expenditure, activity, body, fat, physical, physical activity, intake, pubmed, water, heat, weight, balance, production


weighed isotope dose is administered, usually a mixture of 10% 18 O and 6% 2 H in water. For a 70 kg adult, between 100-150 cc water would be used. Subsequently, the isotopes equilibrate with the body water and the initial sample is collected. The equilibration time is dependent on body size and metabolic rate. For an adult the equilibration would take between 4-8 hours. During equilibration, the subject usually does not consume any food or drink. After collecting the initial sample, the subject performs routines according to the instructions of the experimenter. Body water samples (blood, saliva or urine) are collected at regular intervals until the end of the observation period. The doubly labelled water method gives precise and accurate information on carbon dioxide production. Converting carbon dioxide production to energy expenditure needs information on the energy equivalent of CO 2 ( Table 2 ), which can be calculated with additional information on the substrate mixture being oxidized. One option is the calculation of the energy equivalent from the macronutrient composition of the diet. In energy balance, substrate intake and substrate utilization are assumed to be identical. Table 2. Energy Equivalents of Oxygen and Carbon Dioxide View in own window Nutrient Oxygen (kJ/l) Carbon dioxide (kJ/l) Carbohydrate 21.1 21.1 Protein 18.7 23.4 Fat 19.6 27.8 ENERGY EXPENDITURE AND COMPONENTS Daily energy expenditure consists of four components: 1) sleeping metabolic rate, 2) the energy cost of arousal, 3) the thermic effect of food (or diet-induced energy expenditure (DEE)), and 4) the energy cost of physical activity or activity-induced energy expenditure (AEE). Usually, sleeping metabolic rate and the energy cost of arousal are combined and referred to as resting energy expenditure (REE). Overnight when one sleeps quietly, food intake and physical activity are generally low or absent and energy expenditure gradually decreases to a daily minimum before increasing upon awakening ( Figure 2 ). Then, increases in energy expenditure during arousal are primarily the result of activity-induced energy expenditure as well as diet-induced energy expenditure. Thus, energy expenditure varies throughout a day as a function of body size and body composition (the major components determining REE), physical activity as determinant of AEE, and food intake as determinant of DEE. Figure 2. Average energy expenditure (upper line) and physical activity (lower line) as measured over a 24-h interval in a respiration chamber. Arrows denote meal times. Data are the average of 37
