Control of Energy Expenditure in Humans
KEYWORDS: energy, expenditure, energy expenditure, activity, body, fat, physical, physical activity, intake, pubmed, water, heat, weight, balance, production


closed symbols; 20 men: open symbols) with the calculated linear regression line (REE (MJ/d) = 2.27 + 0.091 fat-free mass (kg), r 2 = 0.78). Diet-induced energy expenditure is defined as the energy-required for intestinal absorption of nutrients, the initial steps of their metabolism and the storage of the absorbed but not immediately oxidized nutrients during the post-prandial period. As such, the amount of food ingested quantified as the energy content of the food is a determinant of DEE. The most common way to express DEE is derived from the difference between energy expenditure after food consumption and REE, divided by the rate of nutrient energy administration. Theoretically, based on the amount of ATP required for the initial steps of metabolism and storage, the DEE is different for each nutrient. Reported DEE values for separate nutrients are 0 to 3% for fat, 5 to 10% for carbohydrate, and 20 to 30% for protein ( 7 ). In healthy subjects in energy balance with a mixed diet, DEE represents about 10% of the total amount of energy ingested over 24 hours. A typical mean pattern of DEE throughout the day is presented in Figure 4 . Data are from a study where DEE was calculated by plotting the residual of the individual relationship between energy expenditure and physical activity in time, as measured over 30-min intervals from a 24-h observation in a respiration chamber. The level of REE after waking up in the morning, and directly before the first meal, was defined as basal metabolic rate. Resting metabolic rate had still not returned to basal metabolic rate before lunch four hours after breakfast, or before dinner at five hours after lunch. Instead, basal metabolic rate was restored overnight, approximately eight hours after dinner consumption. Figure 4. The mean pattern of resting energy expenditure throughout the day, where arrows denote meal times (adapted from reference ( 8 )). Activity-induced energy expenditure, the most variable component of daily energy expenditure, is derived from total energy expenditure (TEE) minus resting energy expenditure and diet-induced energy expenditure. AEE = TEE – REE – DEE. Total energy expenditure is measured with doubly labelled water as described above. When diet induced energy expenditure is assumed to be 10% of TEE in subjects consuming the average mixed diet and being in energy balance, AEE can be calculated as: AEE = 0.9 TEE – REE. A frequently used method
