Control of Energy Expenditure in Humans
KEYWORDS: energy, expenditure, energy expenditure, activity, body, fat, physical, physical activity, intake, pubmed, water, heat, weight, balance, production


10% of TEE in subjects consuming the average mixed diet and being in energy balance, AEE can be calculated as: AEE = 0.9 TEE – REE. A frequently used method to quantify the physical activity level (PAL) of a subject is to express TEE as a multiple of REE: PAL = TEE/REE. This assumes that the variation in total energy expenditure is due to body size and physical activity. The effect of body size is corrected for by expressing TEE as a multiple of REE. Data on daily energy expenditure, as measured with doubly labelled water, permit the evaluation of limits to the physical activity level. In our site, data were compiled for more than 500 subjects, where energy expenditure was measured over an interval of two weeks with the same protocol. The sample excludes individuals aged less than 18 years, involved in interventions of restricted or forced excess energy intake, whose physical activity including athletic performance, who were pregnant or lactating, and with an acute or chronic illness. The sample includes similar numbers of women and men, with a wide range for age, height, weight, and body mass index. Despite the wide variation in subject characteristics, a narrow range of the physical activity level (between 1.1 and 2.75) amongst the subjects was found ( Figure 5 ) with no sex differences ( 9 ). The physical activity level of a subject can be classified in three categories as defined by the last Food and Agriculture Organization/World Health (FAO/WHO/UNU) expert consultation on human energy requirements ( 10 ). The physical activity for sedentary and light activity lifestyles ranges between 1.40 and 1.69, for moderately active or active lifestyles between 1.70 and 1.99, and for vigorously active lifestyles between 2.00 and 2.40. An active lifestyle improves heath parameters like insulin sensitivity ( 11 ). Higher PAL values, while difficult to maintain over a long period, generally result in weight loss. An alternative for the measurement of energy expenditure with indirect calorimetry is a prediction equation for resting energy expenditure, in combination with an estimation of activity energy expenditure from measurement of body movement with an accelerometer. Typically, prediction equations for resting energy expenditure can explain 70-80% of the variation from race, height, age, weight and gender of a subject ( 12 ). Doubly labelled water studies show the best accelerometers for movement registration so far can explain 50-70% of variation in
