Control of Energy Expenditure in Humans
KEYWORDS: energy, expenditure, energy expenditure, activity, body, fat, physical, physical activity, intake, pubmed, water, heat, weight, balance, production


height, age, weight and gender of a subject ( 12 ). Doubly labelled water studies show the best accelerometers for movement registration so far can explain 50-70% of variation in activity energy expenditure ( 13 ). Figure 5. Frequency distribution of the value of the physical activity level (PAL) calculated as the total energy expenditure / resting energy expenditure, in a group of 556 healthy adults, women closed bars and men open bars (data from reference ( 9 )). DETERMINANTS OF ENERGY EXPENDITURE The main determinants of energy expenditure are body size and body composition, food intake, and physical activity. Additional determinants are ambient temperature and health. As most people are able to live in a thermoneutral environment or prevent heat loss with appropriate clothing, energy expenditure is not affected by ambient temperature for longer time intervals. Body size and body composition determine REE, the largest component of daily energy expenditure ( Figure 6 ). Energy expenditure is generally higher in men than in women because men generally have a larger metabolic body size. They are on average heavier than women and for the same weight men have relatively more fat-free mass. For similar reasons, gaining weight implicates gaining fat mass and fat-free mass, and daily energy expenditure is generally higher in people who are overweight and have obesity compared with people who are lean matched for age, height and gender. This higher energy expenditure in people with obesity is mainly a consequence of higher resting energy expenditure than people who are lean ( Figure 6 ). Figure 6. The three components of energy expenditure: resting energy expenditure (closed bar), diet-induced energy expenditure (stippled bar), and activity-induced energy expenditure (open bar) as observed in subjects who are lean and who have obesity. In the lean group, women and men weighed 61 kg and 74 kg with 29% and 17% body fat, respectively. In the group with obesity, subjects were, on average, 40 kg heavier, where 70% of the additional weight was fat mass and 30% fat-free mass. The figure illustrates the higher energy expenditure (primarily in resting energy expenditure) in men than women and in those with obesity compared to those who are lean. (After reference ( 14 )). Food intake affects all three components of daily (total) energy expenditure: REE, DEE and AEE. The most obvious effect is on DEE, which represents about 10% of the amount of daily
