Control of Energy Expenditure in Humans
KEYWORDS: energy, expenditure, energy expenditure, activity, body, fat, physical, physical activity, intake, pubmed, water, heat, weight, balance, production


intake affects all three components of daily (total) energy expenditure: REE, DEE and AEE. The most obvious effect is on DEE, which represents about 10% of the amount of daily energy ingested. Thus, changing energy intake changes total energy expenditure accordingly. Overeating induces an additional increase for storage of excess energy, estimated at about 10% of the energy surplus ( 15 ). When overfeeding is lower than twice the maintenance requirements, there does not seem to be an effect of this overfeeding on physical activity ( 16 ). Undereating induces a decrease in REE, DEE and AEE. Undereating induces weight loss accompanied by adaptive thermogenesis, a disproportional or greater than expected reduction of REE. The reduction in REE is sustained even while weight loss is maintained ( 17 ). Weight loss due to a negative energy balance is accompanied by a decrease in AEE as well. Here, the decrease is due to less body movement and a lower cost to move a smaller body mass. The reduction in body movement recovers to baseline values or higher when weight loss in maintained ( 18 ). A classic example of the effect of undereating on energy expenditure is the Minnesota Experiment from the 1950’s ( 19 ). Energy intake of normal-weight men was reduced for 24 weeks from 14.6 MJ/d to 6.6 MJ/d. The subjects reached a new energy balance by saving 8 MJ/d ( Table 3 ). Of the total saving of 8 MJ/d the main part stemmed from reduced AEE, which was mainly due to moving less. Table 3. Energy Saved by 24 Weeks Underfeeding in the Minnesota Experiment ( 19 ) View in own window MJ/d % of saving Explanation Resting energy expenditure 2.6 32 65% for a decreased bodyweight 35% for a lowered tissue metabolism Diet-induced expenditure 0.8 10 Activity-induced expenditure 4.7 58 40% for a decreased bodyweight 60% for less body movement Total 8.0 Activity induced energy expenditure is the most variable component of daily expenditure and can be increased through exercise. Variation in energy expenditure between subjects is a function of body size and physical activity, where AEE is an important contributor. Most of the variation in AEE is accounted for by genetic factors. Genes determine for a large part whether a person is prone to engage in activities and how much energy is expended for these activities ( 20 ). Exercise training can increase AEE.
