Control of Energy Expenditure in Humans
KEYWORDS: energy, expenditure, energy expenditure, activity, body, fat, physical, physical activity, intake, pubmed, water, heat, weight, balance, production


for a large part whether a person is prone to engage in activities and how much energy is expended for these activities ( 20 ). Exercise training can increase AEE. However, under some conditions the added exercise expenditure is compensated for by a reduction of non-training activity. Examples are non-ad libitum food intake and older age ( Figure 7 ). Figure 7. The physical activity level, total energy expenditure as a multiple of resting energy expenditure, before (open bar) and at the end of a training program (closed bar), for eight studies displayed in a sequence of age of the participants as displayed on the horizontal axis (After reference ( 21 )). Activity-induced energy expenditure does not increase linearly with increasing physical activity. For example, novice runners training to run a half marathon could increase the training amount without a change in AEE ( 22 ). In the selected group of sedentary subjects, the initial training-induced increase in AEE was twice as high as predicted from the training load. However, subsequent training allowed a doubling of the training load for the same AEE, probably through an improvement of exercise economy. Similarly, exercise training has been shown to decrease the energetic cost of walking in older adults ( 23 ). Physical activity level reaches a maximum value of 2.0-2.4 ( Figure 7 ). Higher values can be reached over shorter time intervals. For example, runners in a 140-day transcontinental race across the USA showed an initial increase in PAL from a pre-race value of 1.76 to 3.76 over the first five days of running ( 24 ). In the final week (week 20) of running, PAL had decreased to a mean value of 2.81. This subsequent decrease in PAL during sustained physical activity was hypothesized to have resulted from a limit in alimentary energy supply. During negative energy balance, additional exercise is compensated by a reduction of non-training activity. In elderly subjects, exercise training has a similar compensatory effect on spontaneous physical activity, even under ad-libitum food conditions. Despite the absence of an effect of exercise training on total energy expenditure in elderly people, there are many beneficial effects of exercise training like aerobic capacity, endurance, flexibility, and range of motion. ENERGY BALANCE Adult humans maintain weight stability through a balance between energy intake and energy expenditure. When weight is stable, the energy store of the body does not fluctuate much,
