Control of Energy Expenditure in Humans
KEYWORDS: energy, expenditure, energy expenditure, activity, body, fat, physical, physical activity, intake, pubmed, water, heat, weight, balance, production


ENERGY BALANCE Adult humans maintain weight stability through a balance between energy intake and energy expenditure. When weight is stable, the energy store of the body does not fluctuate much, as evident by constancy in body weight and body composition. This weight constancy can be achieved through the balanced control of energy intake and expenditure. This balance does not, however, take place on an immediate basis. For example, on days with high energy expenditure, energy intake is usually normal or even below normal. The 'matching' increase in energy intake comes several days afterwards ( 25 ). Energy intake can change by at least a factor of three when adapting to changes in energy expenditure. Under sedentary living conditions the energy balance is maintained at about 1.5 times basal metabolic rate (BMR), while during sustained exercise levels of 4.5 times BMR are reached ( 26 ). Humans are discontinuous eaters and continuous metabolizers. An animal that takes its food in meals, such as a human, periodically consumes more than their physiological needs even when in (daily) energy balance. During meal-related hyperphagia, metabolites are initially stored then mobilized during inter-meal intervals of energy deficiency. This pattern of intermittent feeding and fasting has consequences for energy expenditure ( Figure 4 ). During and after a meal, expended energy increases to process the ingested food, while energy deficiency before a new meal is started can lead to a reduction of energy expenditure. The latter probably does not occur during short-term energy deficiency. However, people tend to be less energetic during prolonged inter-meal intervals or extended fasts. Disturbances of energy balance result in energy mobilization from, or energy storage in, body reserves. Energy intake occurs via macronutrients consumed in meals in the form of carbohydrate, protein, fat and alcohol. During positive energy balance, excess energy is stored as carbohydrate in glycogen, primarily in the liver, and as fat in adipose depots. The storage capacity for carbohydrate is small, typically covering energy needs during the overnight fast that accompanies sleep. Longer-term shortages are mainly covered by mobilization of the larger energy stores in fat. On days with a positive energy balance, protein and carbohydrate intake match protein and carbohydrate oxidation and the difference between energy intake and energy expenditure shows up in a positive fat balance ( 27 ). In the early morning, at arousal, carbohydrate oxidation goes up and continues to increase at the first
