Control of Energy Expenditure in Humans
KEYWORDS: energy, expenditure, energy expenditure, activity, body, fat, physical, physical activity, intake, pubmed, water, heat, weight, balance, production


and energy expenditure shows up in a positive fat balance ( 27 ). In the early morning, at arousal, carbohydrate oxidation goes up and continues to increase at the first food intake of the day ( 28 ). After awakening, initial energy (‘fast’) requirements are met by glycogen reserves. Subsequently, carbohydrate requirement is higher at breakfast, and one eats relatively more fat at the evening dinner ( 29 , 30 ). Energy balance does not equate to substrate balance, and when in substrate balance one does not produce energy just from the foods consumed. Fat, as a substrate for energy metabolism is at the bottom of the oxidation hierarchy that determines fuel selection and studies show a direct link between macronutrient balance for fat and energy balance. Changes in alcohol, protein, and carbohydrate intake elicit auto regulatory adjustments in oxidation whereas a change in fat intake fails to elicit such a response, or only in the long term ( 31 ). One explanation for this macronutrient oxidation disparity is the routing of dietary fat. Fat metabolism can be traced with isotope-labelled fatty acids. Oxidation and adipose tissue uptake of dietary fat can be measured by adding fatty acid labelled with heavy hydrogen ( 2 H) to meals. Upon oxidation, these deuterated fatty acids enrich the body water with deuterium, which is subsequently detectable in urine. Therefore, the urine enrichment for deuterium is a measure of dietary fat oxidation. The first label appears in the urine in about two hours and the peak concentration is reached after 12-24h ( Figure 8 ). After 24 hours, 5-30% of the fat from a meal is oxidized and the remaining part partitioned to the reserves. The percentage of dietary fat oxidation is independent of the composition of the meal with respect to protein, carbohydrate and fat. However, there is a clear relation of dietary fat oxidation with the body fat content. The larger the fat mass, the lower the fractional oxidation of the fat consumed on the same day ( 32 ). The observed reduction in dietary fat oxidation in subjects with greater body fat may therefore play a role in expression and maintenance of human obesity. This low dietary fat oxidation makes subjects prone to weight gain. Figure 8. Cumulative oxidation (mean ± standard deviation) of dietary fat as a percentage of intake, over time after ingestion, as calculated from tracer recovery in
