Hypocalcemia
KEYWORDS: calcium, hypocalcemia, hypoparathyroidism, magnesium, vitamin, serum, pth, causes, table, deficiency, chronic, serum calcium, symptoms, patients, treatment


CLINICAL RECOGNITION Hypocalcemia can occur acutely over minutes to hours or chronically over weeks to months. Correspondingly, the signs and symptoms of hypocalcemia can develop acutely or chronically and can be life-threatening. The clinical manifestations of hypocalcemia are due to the increased neuromuscular tingling in the extremities and around the mouth. Chvostek’s and Trousseau’s signs can be elicited. When severe, tetany, convulsions, laryngospasm and bronchospasm can occur. Hypocalcemic symptoms are a result of both the absolute level of serum calcium and the rate of change in serum calcium concentration. Major signs and symptoms of hypocalcemia are summarized in Table 1 . Table 1. Signs/Symptoms of Hypocalcemia View in own window I. Neuromuscular . Paresthesias - perioral and extremities . Muscle spasms . Laryngeal stridor, bronchospasm . Seizures . Cardiac arrhythmias . Coma . Chvostek’s sign . Trousseau’s sign (main d’accoucheur) . Tetany - Clinical or latent . Pseudotumor cerebri . Papilledema II. Cardiovascular . Arrhythmias . Hypotension . Congestive heart failure III. Other . Cataracts - subcapular, punctate . Extra-skeletal calcifications - Basal ganglia, Ligamentous and soft tissue . Dental enamel hypoplasia . Alopecia . Xeroderma DIAGNOSIS AND DIFFERENTIAL The major causes of hypocalcemia are summarized in Table 2 . Table 2. Causes of Hypocalcemia View in own window Renal failure Hypoparathyroidism (see Table 3 ) Magnesium deficiency Pancreatitis Osteoblastic metastases Hyperphosphatemia Pseudohypocalcemia (e.g. hypoalbuminemia, gadolinium-contrast agents) Massive transfusion of citrated blood products Osteomalacia Malabsorption Vitamin D deficiency Vitamin D receptor defect(s) Calcium-sensing receptor (CaSR) constitutive activating mutations Drugs (e.g., imatinib, bisphosphonates, denosumab, calcitonin) Renal Failure Hypocalcemia in chronic renal failure is due to two primary causes - increased serum phosphorus and decreased renal production of 1,25 (OH)2 vitamin D. The former causes hypocalcemia by complexing with serum calcium and depositing it into bone and other tissues. The latter causes hypocalcemia by decreasing the GI absorption of calcium. Hypoparathyroidism There are several causes of hypoparathyroidism, as summarized in Table 3 . Neck surgery that removes or destroys the parathyroid glands is the most common cause of hypoparathyroidism. These operations include: (1) thyroidectomy due to thyroid cancer or benign goiter, with inadvertent removal or destruction of parathyroid tissue; (2) parathyroidectomy, especially for multigland hyperplasia; and (3) laryngectomy. Post-surgical hypoparathyroidism can occur within hours after surgery or gradually over time when glands injured at surgery ultimately become non-functioning. Idiopathic hypoparathyroidism can occur in isolation or in association with other endocrine or autoimmune
