Hypocalcemia
KEYWORDS: calcium, hypocalcemia, hypoparathyroidism, magnesium, vitamin, serum, pth, causes, table, deficiency, chronic, serum calcium, symptoms, patients, treatment


within hours after surgery or gradually over time when glands injured at surgery ultimately become non-functioning. Idiopathic hypoparathyroidism can occur in isolation or in association with other endocrine or autoimmune disorders ( Table 4 ), typically with adrenal insufficiency. The parathyroid glands can be absent, remnant, or compromised by an immune destruction. Anti-cytokine antibodies (e.g., against alpha interferons) or antibodies directed against parathyroid cell antigens (e.g., NALP5) may be present. Pseudohypoparathyroidism (PHP) is a genetic disorder characterized by target-organ unresponsiveness to PTH. PHP mimics the hormone-deficient forms of hypoparathyroidism, with hypocalcemia and hyperphosphatemia, but PTH levels are elevated rather than low or absent. Hypoparathyroidism can occur in an autoimmune setting ( Table 4 ) associated with autoantibodies. The most commonly associated disorders are Addison disease and mucocutaneous candidiasis. Two of the 3 disorders in the triad are necessary for the diagnosis of APS1. These patients can be affected by other endocrinopathies or immune-mediated disorders (e.g., thyroid disease, diabetes mellitus, pernicious anemia, and ovarian failure). Table 3 Causes of Hypoparathyroidism View in own window Postoperative – acute and chronic Parathyroidectomy Thyroidectomy Cancer surgery – laryngeal, thyroid Idiopathic Isolated Associated with autoimmune polyendocrine syndrome Functional Magnesium deficiency (or excess) Newborn of mother with hyperparathyroidism Pseudohypoparathyroidism (Types 1a, 1b, 2) Genetic disease DiGeorge Syndrome – aplasia/dysgenesis of the parathyroids and thymus along with other features Activating mutation of the calcium-sensing receptor (CaSR) or of the G protein subunit G alpha 11 PTH gene mutation GATA3 deficiency GCMS deficiency Mitochondrial DNA mutations Infiltration of the glands Iron deposits (Hemochromatosis, transfusions) Copper deposits (Wilson’s Disease) Radiation to neck Metastases to the parathyroid glands from non-parathyroid tumors Magnesium deficiency Drugs (e.g., calcimimetics cinacalcet and etelcalcitide) TABLE 4. Autoimmune polyendocrine syndrome type 1 (APS1) associated with hypoparathyroidism View in own window Mucocutaneous candidiasis Addison disease Hypothyroidism Graves disease Hypogonadism Vitiligo Alopecia Malabsorption (steatorrhea) Chronic active hepatitis Pernicious anemia Diabetes mellitus Mucocutaneous candidiasis Graves’ disease Keratoconjunctivitis Other Causes of Hypocalcemia Magnesium deficiency causes hypocalcemia by interfering with the end-organ actions of PTH and/or by inhibiting its secretion. Pancreatitis causes hypocalcemia through sequestration of calcium by saponification with fatty acids. Osteoblastic metastases similarly take up blood calcium. Excessive transfusion of citrated blood products may transiently lower ionized calcium and cause symptoms until citrate is cleared by the liver. In hyperphosphatemia, high levels of blood phosphorus complexes with calcium, and the product can precipitate into organs and soft tissues. Causes
