Hypocalcemia
KEYWORDS: calcium, hypocalcemia, hypoparathyroidism, magnesium, vitamin, serum, pth, causes, table, deficiency, chronic, serum calcium, symptoms, patients, treatment


cause symptoms until citrate is cleared by the liver. In hyperphosphatemia, high levels of blood phosphorus complexes with calcium, and the product can precipitate into organs and soft tissues. Causes include renal failure, administration of phosphate, rhabdomyolysis, tumor lysis, and some cases of tumoral calcinosis. Vitamin D deficiency (or resistance syndromes) contributes to the hypocalcemia of osteomalacia and malabsorption. Iatrogenic causes include cancer chemotherapy, notably certain tyrosine kinase inhibitors. Other drugs reported to cause hypocalcemia include inhibitors of bone resorption; loop diuretics; and agents that accelerate vitamin D metabolism, like anticonvulsants. All inhibitors of bone resorption used to treat hypercalcemia (e.g., calcitonin, intravenous bisphosphonates, the receptor activator of nuclear factor kappa B ligand or RANK-L inhibitor denosumab) and the calcimimetics cinacalcet or etelcalcitide used to treat hyperparathyroidism can cause hypocalcemia. DIAGNOSTIC TESTING The first step in assessing hypocalcemia is to confirm the results and rule out artifactually low calcium due to hypoalbuminemia. In hypoalbuminemic patients, ionized calcium can be measured, or total serum calcium can be corrected using the following formula: corrected Ca=measured Ca + (0.8) X (measured albumin). In critically ill patients with acid-base disturbances, measurement of ionized calcium is preferable due to altered calcium-albumin binding that can occur. Measuring serum phosphorus, PTH, creatinine, and 25 hydroxyvitamin D can usually identify the cause of the hypocalcemia. Interpreting PTH levels must be done in the context of serum calcium concentration. PTH can be low in hypoparathyroidism and hypomagnesemia and high when there is secondary (compensatory) hyperparathyroidism or pseudohypoparathyroidism. The PTH assay used should be an intact assay with reliable performance at the low end of the normal range. Patients with hypoparathyroidism may have a frankly low intact PTH or a low normal PTH that is inappropriate in the presence of hypocalcemia. Additional testing is done according to the clinical presentation and can include magnesium (hypomagnesemia), pancreatic enzymes (lipase), biochemical markers of bone turnover (osteoblastic metastases), ACTH/cortisol and TSH (polyendcrine failure), and 25-hydroxyvitamin D and 1,25 dihydroxyvitamin D (deficiency states). Imaging can be useful for bone disease (osteomalacia, osteoblastic metastases). TREATMENT Acute Hypocalcemia Hypocalcemia can be an endocrine emergency requiring rapid intervention. Patients with either severe hypocalcemia, usually <7.5 mg/dl, or with neurological manifestations or stridor (laryngo/bronchospasm) should receive intravenous calcium. Calcium gluconate (90 mg calcium per 10 mL) should be given as intravenous slow pushes, generally one vial over 10 minutes, repeated once with electrocardiographic monitoring. A chronic intravenous drip
