Hypocalcemia
KEYWORDS: calcium, hypocalcemia, hypoparathyroidism, magnesium, vitamin, serum, pth, causes, table, deficiency, chronic, serum calcium, symptoms, patients, treatment


Calcium gluconate (90 mg calcium per 10 mL) should be given as intravenous slow pushes, generally one vial over 10 minutes, repeated once with electrocardiographic monitoring. A chronic intravenous drip is then started if the patient is still symptomatic and oral treatment cannot act rapidly enough. The infusion rate should be guided by signs, symptoms, and calcium measurements checked every 1-2 hours, preferably ionized calcium levels. Magnesium deficiency should also be treated when present, since it can attenuate the effect of the treatment by calcium and vitamin D (see below). Oral calcium (e.g., 1-2 grams of elemental calcium) and a rapidly acting preparation of vitamin D (e.g., 0.5-1.0 micrograms of calcitriol in divided doses) should be started as soon as practical. This is often limited by neck surgery. If necessary, intravenous calcium can be given for as long as necessary until oral therapy has taken effect. Patients taking cardiac drugs, especially digoxin, are predisposed to cardiotoxicity by infusion of calcium, so an EKG should be used for cardiac monitoring. Treatment must be assessed with frequent serum ionized calcium levels. Several preparations of calcium for oral use are available. The most commonly used are calcium carbonate and calcium citrate (Table 5) . Recombinant human PTH (1-84) has been recently approved for the treatment of chronic hypoparathyroidism in adults and can reduce the amount of calcium and activated vitamin D supplements that a patient is required to take to control serum calcium levels in this disorder. TABLE 5. CALCIUM PREPARATIONS View in own window Grams to provide 1 gm of elemental calcium Carbonate 2.5 Chloride 3.7 Acetate 4.0 Citrate 5.0 Glycerolphosphate 5.7 Levulinate 7.7 Lactate 7.7 Orthophosphate 9.0 Gluconate 11.1 Glubionate 15.2 Hypomagnesemia should always be considered as a potential contributory cause of hypocalcemia, especially in post-operative and hospitalized patients. Low serum magnesium may reveal this, but the serum magnesium may be normal or low normal, since serum magnesium does not accurately reflect the stores of this primarily intracellular ion. Therefore, a therapeutic trial of magnesium, usually parenteral, may be needed to assess for magnesium deficiency. Oral magnesium is used for mild, chronic magnesium deficiency (e.g., daily dose of 200-300 mg). Many preparations are available including magnesium oxide, magnesium carbonate or magnesium sulfate. Parenteral magnesium (10% or 50% solutions of magnesium sulfate) is used for severe hypomagnesemia. A common regimen is 2-4 mls IV of a 50% solution given over 10-15 minutes
