Hypocalcemia
KEYWORDS: calcium, hypocalcemia, hypoparathyroidism, magnesium, vitamin, serum, pth, causes, table, deficiency, chronic, serum calcium, symptoms, patients, treatment


sulfate. Parenteral magnesium (10% or 50% solutions of magnesium sulfate) is used for severe hypomagnesemia. A common regimen is 2-4 mls IV of a 50% solution given over 10-15 minutes followed by similar amounts given daily. Several days of treatment are usually required to replete magnesium stores. The objective of chronic therapy for hypocalcemia is to keep the patient free of symptoms and to maintain serum calcium at approximately 8.0-9.0 mg/dL. With lower serum calcium levels, the patient may continue to experience symptoms over time. With serum calcium concentrations in the upper normal range, there may be significant hypercalciuria, especially when the hypocalciuric effect of PTH has been lost. This can predispose to nephrolithiasis, nephrocalcinosis, and renal damage. When the calcium x phosphorus product rises to near 55 mg 2 /dL 2 or greater, as it can in patients with hypoparathyroidism who also have a chronically elevated serum phosphorus level (due to the loss of PTH actions in the kidney), ectopic calcifications in other soft tissues like the brain (especially the basal ganglia), blood vessels, and eyes can occur. Chronic Hypocalcemia Calcium and vitamin D are used to treat most causes of chronic hypocalcemia, such as renal failure and hypoparathyroidism. Vitamin D is used to establish a baseline calcium level and calcium is added (or subtracted) for acute changes in calcium. Calcitriol is the preferred preparation of vitamin D because it is rapidly active and has a short half-life (i.e., rapidly reversible) in contrast to the other forms of vitamin D ( Table 6 ). In patients with renal failure, treatment is directed at maintaining normal levels of calcium, phosphorus, and the calcium x phosphorus product and the intact PTH within an acceptable range for the chronic kidney disease. 1,25 dihydroxy-vitamin D or calcitriol or one of its analogs can be given orally or parenterally. Vitamin D2 or D3 may be used for nutritional deficiency. Recombinant human PTH(1-84) has been recently approved for the treatment of chronic hypoparathyroidism in adults and can reduce the amount of calcium and activated vitamin D supplements that a patient is required to take to control serum calcium levels in this disorder. Table 6. Vitamin D preparations for hypocalcemia treatment. View in own window Name Daily dose Time till normocalcemia Duration of action Vitamin D 2 (Ergocalciferol) 400 units 4-8 weeks 2-6 months Vitamin D 3 (Cholecalciferol) Same as D 2 Same as D 2
