Clinical Infectious Diseases
KEYWORDS: risk, treatment, covid-, ton, rewef, suoires, moderate, nirmatrelvir, ritonavir, patients, evidence, panel, severe, molnupiravir, eht


RightsLink service via the Permissions link on the article page on our site—for further information • Patients’ medications should be screened for serious drug in- please contact . teractions with nirmatrelvir/ritonavir. 2025 IDSA COVID-19 Treatment and Management Guideline Update: Antiviral Treatment • CID • 1 Downloaded from by guest on May • Dosing based on renal function: In patients with mild to moderate COVID-19, does treat- ⚬ Estimated glomerular filtration rate (eGFR) >60 ml/min: ment with molnupiravir versus no treatment result in better 300 mg nirmatrelvir/100 mg ritonavir every 12 hours for outcomes (eg, time to symptom resolution, hospitalization, 5 days progression to severe or critical illness)? ⚬ eGFR<60 mL/min and ≥30 mL/min: 150 mg nirmatrel- Recommendation: In adults with mild to moderate vir/100 mg ritonavir every 12 hours for 5 days COVID-19 at high risk (Table 1) or with several factors associ- ⚬ eGFR<30 mL/min including hemodialysis: 300 mg nir- ated with increased risk for progression to severe disease matrelvir/100 mg ritonavir once on day 1 and then (Table 2) and who have no other treatment options*, the IDSA 150 mg nirmatrelvir/100 mg ritonavir once daily on days guideline panel suggests molnupiravir over no antiviral treat- 2–5 ment (conditional recommendation, low certainty of evidence). *Other options for treatment and management of ambulatory Recommendation: In adults with mild to moderate patients include 5-day treatment with oral nirmatrelvir/ritona- COVID-19 at increased but not high risk for progression to se- vir or 3-day treatment with intravenous remdesivir. vere disease (Table 2), the IDSA guideline panel suggests using Remarks: nirmatrelvir/ritonavir over no antiviral treatment (conditional recommendation, moderate certainty of evidence). • See Figure 1 for information from the US Food and Drug Remarks: Administration (FDA) emergency use authorization (EUA). • Patients who place a higher value on avoiding reproductive • Patients who place a higher value on avoiding adverse events concerns, or the putative mutagenesis, and a lower value on and/or drug–drug interactions and a lower value on the small the uncertain benefits would reasonably decline molnupiravir. reduction in hospitalization risk or faster symptom resolu- • Molnupiravir is not authorized under the FDA EUA for use tion may reasonably decline nirmatrelvir/ritonavir. in patients <18 years because it may affect bone and cartilage growth. Recommendation: In adults without risk factors for pro- • Molnupiravir is not authorized under the FDA EUA for in- gression to severe disease (Tables 1and 2), the IDSA guideline patient
