Clinical Infectious Diseases
KEYWORDS: risk, treatment, covid-, ton, rewef, suoires, moderate, nirmatrelvir, ritonavir, patients, evidence, panel, severe, molnupiravir, eht


Recommendation: In adults without risk factors for pro- • Molnupiravir is not authorized under the FDA EUA for in- gression to severe disease (Tables 1and 2), the IDSA guideline patient use. panel suggests against the routine use of nirmatrelvir/ritonavir • People who engage in sexual activity that may result in concep- (conditional recommendation, moderate certainty of evidence). tion should use effective contraception during and for 3 months In patients with mild to moderate COVID-19, does treat- following treatment with molnupiravir. Molnupiravir is not ment with remdesivir versus no treatment result in better recommended under the FDA EUA for use during pregnancy. outcomes (eg, time to symptom resolution, hospitalization, progression to severe or critical illness)? Recommendation: In adults with mild to moderate Recommendation: In adults with mild to moderate COVID-19 at increased but not high risk for progression to se- COVID-19 at high risk (Table 1) or with several factors associ- vere disease (Table 2), the IDSA guideline panel suggests ated with increased risk for progression to severe disease against the routine use of molnupiravir (conditional recommen- (Table 2), the IDSA guideline panel recommends intravenous dation, low certainty of evidence). remdesivir over no antiviral treatment (strong recommenda- Recommendation: In adults without risk factors for pro- tion, moderate certainty of evidence). gression to severe disease (Tables 1and 2), the IDSA guideline Recommendation: In adults with mild to moderate panel recommends against the use of molnupiravir (strong rec- COVID-19 at increased but not high risk for progression to se- ommendation, moderate certainty of evidence). vere disease (Table 2), the IDSA guideline panel suggests intra- Tables 1and 2list examples of risk factors broadly catego- venous remdesivir over no antiviral treatment (conditional rized by medical condition or immunosuppressive treatment recommendation, low certainty of evidence). (partially adapted from the Centers for Disease Control and Remarks: Prevention [CDC] guidance “Underlying Conditions and the • Patients who place a higher value on avoiding daily intrave- Higher Risk for Severe COVID-19”) . Categorization is nous infusions for 3 days and a lower value on the small re- based on cohort data from the Omicron era and may not reflect duction in hospitalization risk may reasonably decline the impact on progression of increasing population immunity remdesivir. or variant characteristics. The risk of progression to severe COVID-19 is a continuum Recommendation: In adults without risk factors for pro- influenced by various factors, including the severity of risk fac- gression to severe
