Clinical Infectious Diseases
KEYWORDS: risk, treatment, covid-, ton, rewef, suoires, moderate, nirmatrelvir, ritonavir, patients, evidence, panel, severe, molnupiravir, eht


risk of progression to severe COVID-19 is a continuum Recommendation: In adults without risk factors for pro- influenced by various factors, including the severity of risk fac- gression to severe disease (Tables 1and 2), the IDSA guideline tor and/or immunosuppression. The categorization of risk and panel suggests against the routine use of remdesivir (condition- the examples provided in Tables 1and 2are illustrative and are al recommendation, moderate certainty of evidence). not exhaustive or a thorough list of all conditions. 2 • CID • Shumaker et al Downloaded from by guest on May Table 1. Examples of Factors Associated With High Risk of Progression BACKGROUND AND APPROACH TO RISK CATEGORIZATION Example Health Condition Example Therapeuticsa Mild to moderate COVID-19 is defined as symptoms of re- • Age ≥75 y • B-cell–depleting agents in the past spiratory infection with an oxygen saturation of >94% on • Fewer than 1% peripheral B-cells 12 m (eg, rituximab, ofatumumab, assessed in past 6 m ocrelizumab) room air without the need for supplemental oxygen • Congenital agammaglobulinemia • CAR-T therapy in the past 12 m (Figure 2). Over the past few years, and particularly since • Graft-versus-host disease • Abatacept • Hematological malignancy on • Tyrosine kinase inhibitor (eg, December 2021, the risk of severe COVID-19, hospitaliza- therapy ibrutinib, acalabrutinib) tion, and death have substantially decreased because of in- • HIV infection with CD4 • High-dose corticosteroids (≥20 mg <200 cells/mm3 prednisone or equivalent for creased immunity and the emergence of the Omicron • Other severe primary ≥4 wks) variant. Therefore, the panel decided to adopt a risk-based immunodeficiency • Anthracycline derivates approach to recommending antiviral treatment, recognizing • Solid organ transplant • Solid tumor on that the strength of recommendation will likely be sensitive immunosuppressive therapy to varying baseline risks. • Stem cell transplant <2 y As mortality risk among patients hospitalized primarily for aExample therapeutics that predispose to substantial immunosuppression. COVID-19 has substantially decreased , avoiding morbidity leading to hospitalization was the major driver for recommen- Table 2. Examples of Factors Associated With Increased But Not High dations on the use of antiviral agents. The CDC reported that Risk of Progressiona cumulative COVID-19–related hospitalization rates dropped in all age groups but remained significantly elevated in those Example Health Condition Example Therapeuticsb aged 65 years and older . • Age 65–74 y • Anti-IL-6 The guideline panel set a threshold for a minimum clinically •
