Clinical Infectious Diseases
KEYWORDS: risk, treatment, covid-, ton, rewef, suoires, moderate, nirmatrelvir, ritonavir, patients, evidence, panel, severe, molnupiravir, eht


in those Example Health Condition Example Therapeuticsb aged 65 years and older . • Age 65–74 y • Anti-IL-6 The guideline panel set a threshold for a minimum clinically • Atherosclerotic cardiovascular disease • Anti-IL-12 and 23 • Asthma • Corticosteroids 10–20 mg meaningful reduction of hospitalizations for any antiviral treat- • Cardiomyopathy for ≥4 wks ment at 10–20 in 1000 (ie, an expected 1–2% fewer hospitaliza- • Cerebral vascular disease • Chronic liver diseases tions from baseline). • Chronic lung diseases To estimate the risk for hospitalization in patients with risk • Cirrhosis factors for progression to severe disease, the panel relied on • Dementia • Diabetes mellitus event rates from the untreated control arms of recent • Disabilities including Down syndrome randomized controlled trials (RCTs) because obtaining • End-stage renal disease • Heart failure homogeneous risk groups is challenging. For example, the • HIV with CD4 >200 cells/mm3 PANORAMIC trial started enrollment in December • Inflammatory bowel disease • Mental health conditions 2021 at the beginning of the Omicron period and appeared • Obesity to provide a reasonable estimate of hospitalization risk in • Parkinson’s disease the placebo group. Despite a substantial proportion of • Physical inactivity • Pregnancy (current or within 6 wks of participants in the PANORAMIC trial having risk pregnancy) factors for progression to severe outcomes, only 96 of • Smoking history • Solid tumor (on immunosuppressive 12 525 (0.77%) people with COVID-19 required hospitaliza- therapy >12 m prior) tion. Based on progression rates in PANORAMIC, the panel • Tuberculosis judged that the group without risk factors for progression aThese factors vary in the degree of risk they confer. For those that confer less risk, the benefit of antiviral therapy will likely be lower. to severe disease would have an expected hospitalization bExample therapeutics that are less likely to predispose to substantial immunosuppression rate of 0.5% (or even substantially lower). Figure 1. FDA EUA criteria for the use of molnupiravir . 2025 IDSA COVID-19 Treatment and Management Guideline Update: Antiviral Treatment • CID • 3 Downloaded from by guest on May the midpoint of this range (3%) for illustrative purposes in the Evidence Profiles. This category is a heterogeneous group, with substantial uncertainty regarding risk for pro- gression. Observational studies are often discordant regard- ing risk of progression for a particular population (eg, people with chronic liver diseases or those living with mental health conditions)
