Clinical Infectious Diseases
KEYWORDS: risk, treatment, covid-, ton, rewef, suoires, moderate, nirmatrelvir, ritonavir, patients, evidence, panel, severe, molnupiravir, eht


for pro- gression. Observational studies are often discordant regard- ing risk of progression for a particular population (eg, people with chronic liver diseases or those living with mental health conditions) . The group was selected to accommo- date conditions and therapeutics that historically have been thought to elevate risk for adverse COVID-19 outcomes but are now considered less likely to cause significant immu- nosuppression (eg, use of tumor necrosis factor-alpha inhib- itors) . Rationale for Using Anti–SARS-CoV-2 Antivirals Three direct-acting antivirals are currently available to target SARS-CoV-2 replication at different enzymatic steps: • Nirmatrelvir/ritonavir (Paxlovid) blocks the viral main protease (Mpro), halting polyprotein cleavage and replica- tion. Ritonavir boosts nirmatrelvir levels via CYP3A4 inhibi- tion, allowing twice-daily oral dosing. The agent carries full FDA approval for adults with mild to moderate COVID-19 who are at high risk for progression to severe disease and re- mains under EUA for adolescents ≥12 years (weight ≥40 kg) . • Remdesivir (Veklury) is a nucleotide analog that binds the viral RNA-dependent RNA polymerase, causing premature chain termination of viral RNA. Initially reserved for in- Figure 2. Stages of COVID-19 Severity (Positive antigen or molecular test for ized patients and high-risk outpatients (3-day intravenous SARS-CoV-2). Figure adapted from Shumaker AH, Bhimraj A. Pharmacologic treat- [IV] course) across all age groups—from term neonates ment and management of coronavirus disease 2019. Infect Dis Clin North Am 2022; 36(2):349–64. (≥1.5 kg) to adults . • Molnupiravir (Lagevrio) is an oral pro-drug converted to β-D-N4-hydroxycytidine (NHC), then phosphorylated to the active triphosphate (NHC-TP) before incorporation In contrast, numerous medical conditions and immuno- into viral RNA by the viral RNA polymerase, inducing lethal suppressive drugs increase the risk for progression to severe mutagenesis. It is available through an EUA for adults disease, of which B-cell–depleting agents and hematologic ≥18 years with mild to moderate COVID-19 who are at malignancies are high on the list. It is important to note high risk for severe outcomes . that the risk of progression to severe COVID-19 is a contin- uum influenced by various factors, including the degree of Most people with mild to moderate COVID-19 cases are immunosuppression. Based on progression rates in cohort managed as outpatients, though some are encountered in emer- studies , the panel judged that those at high risk or gency or inpatient settings; treatment decisions depend on dis- with several factors associated with increased risk for pro- ease
