Clinical Infectious Diseases
KEYWORDS: risk, treatment, covid-, ton, rewef, suoires, moderate, nirmatrelvir, ritonavir, patients, evidence, panel, severe, molnupiravir, eht


studies , the panel judged that those at high risk or gency or inpatient settings; treatment decisions depend on dis- with several factors associated with increased risk for pro- ease severity, not venue, so the guideline addresses gression to severe disease would have an expected hospital- anti-SARS-CoV-2 antivirals by severity rather than setting. ization rate of at least 6%. For example, the risk of hospitalization has been reported to be as high as 20–50% METHODS among cancer patients , though selection bias is difficult to completely exclude. The panel’s recommendations are based on evidence derived The panel then judged that those with increased but not from systematic reviews and adhere to a standardized methodol- high risk for progression to severe disease would have an ex- ogy for rating the certainty of evidence and strength of recom- pected hospitalization rate of >0.5 to <6%; the panel used mendation according to the Grading of Recommendations, 4 • CID • Shumaker et al Downloaded from by guest on May Assessment, Development, and Evaluation (GRADE) approach All-cause mortality through day 28 pooled from 4 trials may (Supplementary Figure 1) . The recommendations have be lower in patients receiving nirmatrelvir/ritonavir compared been endorsed by the Society of Critical Care Medicine and to no nirmatrelvir/ritonavir (Relative risk 0.53; 95% CI: 0.18, the Society for Healthcare Epidemiology of America. 1.58; low certainty of evidence; Supplementary Figure 2). The Strong recommendations (“the panel recommends”) are certainty of evidence was rated down due to few events leading made when the recommended course of action would apply to an imprecise estimate. to most people with few exceptions. Conditional recom- mendations (“the panel suggests”) are made when the sug- Harms of Nirmatrelvir/Ritonavir gested course of action would apply to the majority of Evidence from RCTs in people with mild to moderate people with many exceptions and shared decision making COVID-19 receiving nirmatrelvir/ritonavir demonstrate fewer is important. SAEs (RR 0.52; 95% CI: 0.20, 1.35; Supplementary Figure 4), Literature searches were conducted in September 2024 as suggesting that most SAEs are related to the underlying illness part of the systematic reviews. Key eligibility criteria at both rather than the antiviral treatment, as well as fewer adverse studies for inclusion. There was a higher rate of dysgeusia in the nirmatrelvir/ritona- A critical appraisal of the evidence according to the GRADE vir group compared to placebo, 5.8% versus 0.2%, respectively approach, along with an assessment
