Clinical Infectious Diseases
KEYWORDS: risk, treatment, covid-, ton, rewef, suoires, moderate, nirmatrelvir, ritonavir, patients, evidence, panel, severe, molnupiravir, eht


rate of dysgeusia in the nirmatrelvir/ritona- A critical appraisal of the evidence according to the GRADE vir group compared to placebo, 5.8% versus 0.2%, respectively approach, along with an assessment of the benefits and harms . of care options, informed the recommendations . Co-administration is contraindicated with agents whose Details of the systematic review and guideline development concentrations are markedly altered by nirmatrelvir/ritonavir processes are available in the Supplementary Data. or with agents that accelerate its metabolism. These interac- tions can undermine antiviral efficacy and promote resistance, leading to treatment failure. They can also cause SAEs or life- NIRMATRELVIR/RITONAVIR threatening toxicity from elevated levels of concomitant medications (Figures 3and 4). Summary of Evidence for Nirmatrelvir/Ritonavir Less severe but clinically meaningful drug interactions may The literature search identified 4 RCTs reporting on treatment also occur when nirmatrelvir/ritonavir is co-administered of mild to moderate COVID-19 in patients at risk for progres- with other agents. Levels of immunosuppressive agents such sion to severe disease with nirmatrelvir/ritonavir [11, 17–20] in as tacrolimus, cyclosporine, or sirolimus can be increased ambulatory and hospital settings (Supplementary Table 1). when administered with nirmatrelvir/ritonavir. Although These studies reported on the following outcomes: mortality, dose adjustments are possible, the narrow therapeutic index, hospitalization, serious adverse events (SAEs), adverse events risk of toxicity, and challenges in managing these interactions requiring discontinuation of treatment, and symptom resolu- may make concomitant use inadvisable in many settings. tion (Table 3). Hormonal contraceptives containing ethinyl estradiol may have reduced effectiveness due to lowered ethinyl estradiol lev- Benefits of Nirmatrelvir/Ritonavir els when administered with nirmatrelvir/ritonavir. Women of antiviral therapy drove the panel’s recommendations, mortality non-hormonal method of contraception for 1 menstrual cycle data from all care settings are also presented to illustrate the after stopping nirmatrelvir/ritonavir. Although nirmatrelvir/ri- downstream effects of antiviral treatment. tonavir has numerous potential drug-drug interactions, most Two RCTs showed a relative risk reduction in hospitaliza- can be effectively managed through temporary discontinua- tions of 83% (Supplementary Figure 3). For the high-risk pa- tion, dose adjustment, or substitution of the interacting medi- tient group, this translates into a robust absolute risk cation. Therefore, providers should not routinely avoid its use reduction of 50 fewer hospitalizations per 1000 (95% CI: 54 solely due to interaction concerns. fewer to 41 fewer), exceeding the threshold set by the panel of at least 20 hospitalizations in 1000 (moderate certainty of ev- Other Considerations for Nirmatrelvir/Ritonavir idence). In
