Clinical Infectious Diseases
KEYWORDS: risk, treatment, covid-, ton, rewef, suoires, moderate, nirmatrelvir, ritonavir, patients, evidence, panel, severe, molnupiravir, eht


rep rewef 57.0 RR )%5.0( 1881/9 )%3.1( 5981/42 enoN asuoireS suoires toN suoires toN toN dezimodnaR ,71 ,11[ etaredoM ot rewef morf( –5.0( suoires slairt ]81 )erom )31.1 c)d :pu-wollof( ksir hgih ta stneitap rof noituloser motpmyS tnatropmI ◯⨁⨁⨁ rep erom 02.1 RH )%4.75( 689/665 )%8.36( 079/916 enoN dsuoireS suoires toN suoires toN toN dezimodnaR ]02[ etaredoM ot erom morf( –70.1( suoires slairt )erom )53.1 6 • CID • Shumaker et al Downloaded from by guest on May The evidence confirms that using nirmatrelvir/ritonavir ear- ly in the disease process confers maximum benefit. It is critical to make a rapid diagnosis and treat ambulatory patients with COVID-19 early in the disease course. Observational studies have shown a similar benefit among vaccinated patients infect- ed with newer variants . Symptomatic Viral Rebound in Patients Treated With and Without Antiviral Agents, Including Nirmatrelvir/Ritonavir Symptomatic viral rebound has been estimated to occur in 0.8- 6.6% of nirmatrelvir/ritonavir-treated patients in various trials, including EPIC-HR (Table 4) [24–27]. Symptom recurrence has also been described with molnupiravir (5.9%) and no anti- viral treatment . Symptom recurrence has generally not been associated with hospitalization . No comparative evidence was found on the effect of repeat treatment with nir- matrelvir/ritonavir (on any other direct-acting antivirals) in pa- tients experiencing symptomatic viral rebound after initial antiviral treatment. The effectiveness of repeating the same an- tiviral in this context remains unknown, particularly with re- spect to patient-important outcomes such as hospitalization, need for invasive ventilation, or death. Study limitations of ob- servational medical records database studies include misclassi- fications in admission diagnosis and absence of adequate compliance determination, among others. Conclusions and Research Needs for Nirmatrelvir/Ritonavir The guideline panel recommends the use of nirmatrelvir/rito- navir for patients with mild to moderate COVID-19 at high risk for progression to severe disease within 5 days of symptom onset. However, patients with mild to moderate COVID-19 without risk factors (and an estimated hospitalization risk of 0.5% or less) are unlikely to benefit from antiviral treatment. Patients with increased but not high risk may or may not ben- efit from antiviral treatment, and treatment is only suggested after applying shared decision making weighing the benefits and potential downsides of treatment. REMDESIVIR Summary of Evidence for Remdesivir The literature search identified 5 RCTs (Supplementary Table 1) assessing the outcomes of mortality, hospitalizations for any cause, and COVID-19–related medically attended vis- its, as well as SAEs
