Clinical Infectious Diseases
KEYWORDS: risk, treatment, covid-, ton, rewef, suoires, moderate, nirmatrelvir, ritonavir, patients, evidence, panel, severe, molnupiravir, eht


the small baseline risk of mortality, within the limitation of a limited sample size. The panel agreed the reduction may not be clinically meaningful (absolute effect: that benefits are likely to outweigh any potential harms in 8 • CID • Shumaker et al Downloaded from by guest on May Figure 4. Drugs that are strong CYP3A inducers where significantly reduced nirmatrelvir or ritonavir plasma concentrations may be associated with the potential for loss of virologic response and possible resistance. Paxlovid cannot be started immediately after discontinuation of any of the following medications due to the delayed offset of the recently discontinued CYP3A inducer . people with COVID-19 who are at high risk for severe disease. unvaccinated people with COVID-19 with either 800 mg of The evidence confirms that using remdesivir early in the dis- molnupiravir or placebo for 5 days . In 1 phase III trial ease process confers maximum benefit. It is critical to make a (MOVe-OUT trial) reporting on the outcomes of death, hospi- rapid diagnosis and treat ambulatory patients with talization, and SAEs, people with mild to moderate COVID-19 COVID-19 early in the disease course. received either molnupiravir or placebo within 5 days after the While effective, remdesivir is administered intravenously, onset of symptoms. A phase IIa trial reported on the outcomes which may present logistical challenges in the outpatient set- of death and SAEs in people with symptom duration <7 days ting. These include the need for 3 consecutive days of IV access, who received molnupiravir or placebo . potential complications related to IV placement, and higher costs compared to oral antiviral agents. These practical consid- Benefits of Molnupiravir erations, along with patient preferences and access to infusion Molnupiravir may prevent COVID-19–related hospitaliza- facilities, should be part of a shared decision making process tions, but the pooled relative effect estimate was imprecise between the provider and patient. (RR 0.86; 95% CI: 0.70, 1.05; moderate to low certainty of evi- No dosage adjustment is needed for remdesivir for any de- dence depending on assumed baseline risk; Supplementary gree of renal dysfunction, including hemodialysis. Figure 8). For the high-risk patient group, this translates into 8 fewer hospitalizations per 1000 (95% CI: 18 fewer to 3 more; low cer- Conclusions and Research Needs for Remdesivir The guideline panel recommends remdesivir for people with tainty of evidence). mild to moderate disease who are at high risk for severe COVID-19–related mortality
