Clinical Infectious Diseases
KEYWORDS: risk, treatment, covid-, ton, rewef, suoires, moderate, nirmatrelvir, ritonavir, patients, evidence, panel, severe, molnupiravir, eht


from animal reproduction studies, molnu- risk) may not benefit from antiviral treatment, and the guide- piravir may cause fetal harm when administered during preg- line panel suggests against routine treatment with molnupiravir nancy . Molnupiravir raises particular concerns in while applying shared decision making weighing the benefits immunocompromised individuals, who may have prolonged and potential downsides of treatment. viral shedding and impaired clearance, increasing the theoret- More data are needed on the potential adverse effects of this ical risk of treatment-associated viral mutagenesis. Females of medication. childbearing potential should be counseled to use a reliable method of contraception during treatment and for 4 days after How to Apply Guidelines to Management of Ambulatory Patients With the last dose. Breastfeeding is not recommended during treat- Mild to Moderate COVID-19 ment with molnupiravir. Lactating individuals may consider Patients presenting with COVID-19 should be assessed for dis- interrupting breastfeeding and may consider pumping and dis- ease severity prior to any clinical decision making regarding carding breast milk during treatment and for 4 days after the therapeutic options (Figure 2). Identifying the patient’s disease last dose of molnupiravir . Men of reproductive potential severity is necessary to ensure that the agents are used in the who are sexually active with females of childbearing potential way they were studied for COVID-19 as well as in concordance should be counseled to use a reliable method of contraception with FDA EUA (if applicable). during treatment and for at least 3 months after the last dose of The guideline panel has developed a point-of-care clinical molnupiravir. Molnupiravir is also not recommended in chil- decision aid (Figure 5) to help prescribers identify the most ap- dren <18 years of age for the concern of bone growth. propriate treatment options for ambulatory patients with Molnupiravir does not require renal or hepatic dose COVID-19. Prescribers can apply these guidelines by first iden- adjustment. tifying the baseline risk for severe outcomes for COVID-19 for their individual patient, such as the need for hospitalization, Other Considerations for Molnupiravir noninvasive or invasive ventilation, progression to ICU care, The panel agreed that the overall certainty of evidence for treat- or death. Table 1lists conditions that are considered high-risk ment of people with mild to moderate COVID-19 was low, in factors of progression to severe COVID-19 outcomes, and favor of molnupiravir treatment in the higher-risk groups (giv- Table 2 lists other risk factors that may confer
