Clinical Infectious Diseases
KEYWORDS: risk, treatment, covid-, ton, rewef, suoires, moderate, nirmatrelvir, ritonavir, patients, evidence, panel, severe, molnupiravir, eht


COVID-19 was low, in factors of progression to severe COVID-19 outcomes, and favor of molnupiravir treatment in the higher-risk groups (giv- Table 2 lists other risk factors that may confer increased risk en concerns with imprecision and a relatively small effect), and for severe COVID-19 outcomes. Patients may be considered moderate for the absence of clinically relevant effect in people “high risk” if they have 1 factor associated with high risk of pro- without risks for progression to severe disease (Supplementary gression or several factors associated with increased but not Table 2). high risk of progression. If the patient does not have a high-risk Molnupiravir use presents additional considerations and po- condition or lacks a risk factor, the patient can be considered tential concerns regarding viral mutagenesis in immunocom- without risk factors for progression to severe disease. promised persons and safety in persons of reproductive age, When patients present with symptomatic mild to moderate for which more data are needed to quantify such effects. The COVID-19, the choice of antiviral therapy depends on several panel recognizes that alternative treatment options exist with factors. These include overall effectiveness (ie, absolute risk re- the possibility of greater benefit and fewer safety concerns. duction), the certainty of underlying evidence, and ease of ad- The FDA required manufacturers to conduct additional animal ministration (eg, need for IV access or hospitalization), as well studies on the impact of the drug on spermatogenesis and to es- as patient-specific factors such as symptom duration, renal tablish a pregnancy registry if the drug was inadvertently ad- function, drug-drug interactions, and patient values and ministered during pregnancy . At the time of publication, preferences. there are no published pregnancy cases in the registry. Currently, there is not sufficient evidence to support combi- nation antiviral treatment of mild to moderate COVID-19. Conclusions and Research Needs for Molnupiravir Because nirmatrelvir/ritonavir has high efficacy and is admin- The guideline panel suggests the use of molnupiravir for people istered orally, it should be the first option considered for ambu- with mild to moderate COVID-19 at high risk for progression latory patients with mild to moderate COVID-19. While to severe disease who are within 5 days of symptom onset and molnupiravir lacks clinically significant drug-drug interactions, have no other treatment options, particularly for patients at using it solely for convenience—without first evaluating wheth- highest risk such as treatment with B-cell–depleting agents. er nirmatrelvir/ritonavir or
