Clinical Infectious Diseases
KEYWORDS: risk, treatment, covid-, ton, rewef, suoires, moderate, nirmatrelvir, ritonavir, patients, evidence, panel, severe, molnupiravir, eht


COVID-19 Treatment and Management Guideline Update: Antiviral Treatment • CID • 11 Downloaded from by guest on May often prescribed in settings less familiar with ritonavir—such as primary care offices, urgent care centers, and emergency de- partments—where complete medication histories may not be readily available. Clinicians should carefully review the pa- tient’s full medication list and use tools such as www. COVID19-druginteractions.org/checker, along with pharmacy input, to assess and manage interaction risks at the point of care. Some patients may have drug-drug interactions that pre- clude the use of nirmatrelvir/ritonavir. For example, a person with cardiovascular disease and recent coronary intervention may be taking clopidogrel and a statin. While the statin can be held during treatment, clopidogrel should not be co-admin- istered with nirmatrelvir/ritonavir, as it reduces clopidogrel’s effectiveness and may lead to poor outcomes such as restenosis. Another group at elevated risk for severe COVID-19 outcomes is transplant recipients on immunosuppressants such as cyclo- sporine or tacrolimus. Co-administration of nirmatrelvir/rito- navir with these agents can lead to adverse events such as acute kidney injury or neurotoxicity due to their narrow therapeutic index. While transplant centers may be equipped to adjust cal- cineurin inhibitor doses, such monitoring may not be feasible in the outpatient settings where nirmatrelvir/ritonavir is often prescribed. When nirmatrelvir/ritonavir is not a suitable option due to drug-drug interactions, remdesivir may be preferred. However, logistical barriers—such as the need for 3 consecutive days of IV infusion—can limit its feasibility. If neither option is available and the patient is at high risk for progression to severe disease (Table 1), molnupiravir may be considered, with clear communication about its uncertain benefits and potential con- cerns regarding mutagenicity and possible effects on fertility in individuals of childbearing potential. RESEARCH NEEDS AND FUTURE DIRECTIONS With the emergence of newer variants and subvariants along with increasing immunity, it is difficult to ascertain the magni- tude of risk decline for severe COVID-19 outcomes, which may also differ substantially across risk groups. Data on risk associ- ated with specific risk conditions are heterogeneous and often contradictory. Longitudinal, observational data on morbidity and mortality trends may help inform but are often fraught with confounding variables that limit the certainty of risk esti- mates. Researchers can help to mitigate some of these concerns by using standard definitions/criteria for high-risk conditions when describing the risk of severe COVID-19 outcomes in their research. Newer antiviral agents are needed that
