Clinical Infectious Diseases
KEYWORDS: risk, treatment, covid-, ton, rewef, suoires, moderate, nirmatrelvir, ritonavir, patients, evidence, panel, severe, molnupiravir, eht


ksir enilesaB .ssentceridni ni gnitluser etamitse tceffe eht gnitceffa yllaitnetop ,denilced yltnacfiingis evah setar noitazilatipsoh ;are norcimO-erp morf atad yduts emoSc .ecnedive fo ytniatrec eht nwod etar ot ton dediced lenap eht ,erofereht .)13.1 ,10.1 :IC %59( 51.1 RH ;)8 ,6 :IC %59( obecalp rof d 7 ;)7 ,6 :IC %59( rivaripunlom rof d 6 :noituloser ot emit naideMd .tfieneb tnaveler yllacinilc on sa llew sa tfieneb elbaicerppa sedulcni IC %59e .)81.1 ,29.0 :IC %59( 40.1 ,RH ;)11 ,8 :IC %59( obecalp rof d 01 ;)11 ,9 :IC %59( rivaripunlom rof d 01 :noituloser ot emit naideMf .ksir hgih ta stneitap dna ,ksir hgih ton tub desaercni ta stneitap ,esaesid ereves ot noissergorp rof srotcaf ksir tuohtiw stneitap rof sksir enilesab evitartsulli tneserper segatnecrep ,noitazilatipsoh dna ytilatrom roF* 14 • CID • Shumaker et al Downloaded from by guest on 07 May 2026 Figure 5. Approaches to treatment of mild to moderate COVID-19. antiviral agents are appropriately utilized as evidence suggests Notes that current antiviral agents are underprescribed in at-risk pop- ulations . Acknowledgments. The expert panel acknowledges former panelists for their work on the primary guideline. The panel ac- Supplementary Data knowledges the following organizations and selected reviewers Supplementary materials are available at Clinical Infectious Diseasesonline. for their review of the draft manuscript: Pediatric Infectious Consisting of data provided by the authors to benefit the reader, the posted Diseases Society, Society of Infectious Diseases Pharmacists, materials are not copyedited and are the sole responsibility of the authors, Society for Healthcare Epidemiology, and Society for Critical so questions or comments should be addressed to the corresponding author. Care Medicine; Drs. Jason Gallagher and Roy Gulick; and 2025 IDSA COVID-19 Treatment and Management Guideline Update: Antiviral Treatment • CID • 15 Downloaded from by guest on May Drs. Melissa Badowski and Melissa Nolan on behalf of the must contact IDSA for approval in accordance with the terms Infectious Diseases Society of America (IDSA) Standards & and conditions of third-party use, in particular any use of the Practice Guidelines Subcommittee. guidelines in any software product. Drs. Adarsh Bhimraj and Rajesh T. Gandhi are chair and vice Financial support. This work was supported by the chair of the panel, respectively. The Nonhospitalized Patients Infectious Diseases Society of America. This project has been subgroup, under the leadership of Dr. Amy Shumaker, led funded in whole or in part with federal funds from the assisted
