Clinical Infectious Diseases
KEYWORDS: risk, treatment, covid-, ton, rewef, suoires, moderate, nirmatrelvir, ritonavir, patients, evidence, panel, severe, molnupiravir, eht


Infectious Diseases Society of America. This project has been subgroup, under the leadership of Dr. Amy Shumaker, led funded in whole or in part with federal funds from the assisted with interpretation of data, as well as drafting, revising, contract no. 75N91019D00024. The content of this publication and approving the recommendations and manuscript. Drs. does not necessarily reflect the views or policies of the methodologist, were responsible for designing and performing of trade names, commercial products, or organizations imply the data analyses and leading the panel according to the endorsement by the US government. GRADE process. Jennifer Loveless, methodologist, was respon- Potential conflicts of interest. Evaluation of relationships as sible for project planning and management, including revisions potential conflicts of interest (COIs) is determined by a review to and final approval of the recommendations and manuscript. process. The assessment of disclosed relationships for possible Disclaimer. It is important to recognize that guidelines can- COIs is based on the relative weight of the financial relationship not always account for individual variation among patients. (ie, monetary amount) and the relevance of the relationship (ie, They are assessments of current scientific and clinical informa- the degree to which an association might reasonably be inter- tion provided as an educational service; are not continually up- preted by an independent observer as related to the topic or rec- dated and may not reflect the most recent evidence (new ommendation of consideration). The following panelists have evidence may emerge between the time information is drafted scientific advisory/consultant roles not related to the topic of and when it is published or read); should not be considered in- COVID-19 with indicated companies: R. B. with Merck and clusive of all proper methods of care, or as a statement of the Gilead, E. S. D. with Gilead, D. V. G. with Merck and Gilead, and are not intended to supplant clinician judgment with re- ing panelists have scientific advisory/consultant roles related to spect to particular patients or situations. Whether to follow outpatient antivirals but not nirmatrelvir/ritonavir, remdesivir, guidelines and to what extent is voluntary, with the ultimate de- or molnupiravir with indicated companies: R. B. with Shionogi, termination regarding their application to be made by the cli- K. W. C. with Pardes Biosciences (concluded), A. Y. K. with nician in light of each patient’s individual circumstances. Shionogi, S. S. with Adamis and Immunome (concluded), While IDSA makes every effort
