Consolidated guideline on
KEYWORDS: hiv, women, living, living hiv, women living, health, services, guideline, rights, support, violence, recommendations, including, evidence, sexual


guidance which consolidates existing recommendations specific to women living with HIV along with new recommendations managers and public health policy-makers around the world to better address the sexual and reproductive health and rights (SRHR) of women living with HIV. The starting point for this guideline is the point at which a woman has learnt that she is living with HIV, and it therefore covers key issues for providing comprehensive SRHR-related services and support for women living with HIV. As women living with HIV face unique challenges and human rights violations related to their where they seek care, particular emphasis is placed on the creation of an enabling environment to support more effective health interventions and better health outcomes. This guideline is meant to help countries to more effectively and efficiently plan, develop and monitor programmes and services that promote gender equality and human rights and hence are more acceptable and appropriate for women living with HIV, taking into account the national and local epidemiological context. It discusses implementation issues that health interventions and service delivery must address to achieve gender equality and support human rights. ix This guideline aims to provide: n Evidence-based recommendations for the SRHR of women living with HIV in all of their diversity, with a particular focus on settings where the health system has limited capacity and resources; and n Good practice statements on key operational and service delivery issues that need to be addressed to (ii) improve human rights and (iii) promote gender equality for women living with HIV. A woman-centred approach Woman-centred health services involve an approach to health care that consciously adopts the perspectives in humane and holistic ways. Care is provided in ways that respect women’s autonomy in decision-making informed choices. The needs and perspectives of women, their families and communities are central to provision of care, and to the design and implementation of programmes and services. A woman-centred approach is underpinned by two guiding principles: promotion of human rights and gender equality. Guiding principles Human rights: An integrated approach to health and human rights lies at the heart of ensuring the dignity and well-being of women living with HIV. This includes, but is not limited to, the right to the highest attainable and non-discrimination on the basis of sex; and the right to freedom from torture or cruel, inhuman or International Covenant on Economic, Social and Cultural Rights. Gender equality: The
