Consolidated guideline on
KEYWORDS: hiv, women, living, living hiv, women living, health, services, guideline, rights, support, violence, recommendations, including, evidence, sexual


attainable and non-discrimination on the basis of sex; and the right to freedom from torture or cruel, inhuman or International Covenant on Economic, Social and Cultural Rights. Gender equality: The promotion of gender equality is central to the achievement of SRHR of all women, including women living with HIV in all their diversity. This means recognizing and taking into account how unequal power in women’s intimate relationships, harmful gender norms and women’s lack of access to and control over resources affect their access to and experiences with health services. Guideline development methods The WHO Department of Reproductive Health and Research (RHR) led the development of this consolidated guideline, following WHO procedures and reporting standards laid out in the 2014 WHO handbook for guideline development. To help ensure that the guidance appropriately reflects the concerns of women living with HIV in all their diversity, WHO commissioned a global survey on the SRHR priorities of women living with HIV – the Global Values and Preferences Survey (GVPS)1. This process was placed at the heart of the development of this guideline and the findings of the survey are included throughout the guideline. To develop the scope of this guideline, the WHO Guideline Steering Group (SG) mapped all existing WHO SRHR guidance for women living with HIV, then reviewed these documents to determine the relevance of existing recommendations that have undergone the Grading of Recommendations, Assessment, Development and Evaluation (GRADE) for inclusion in this consolidated guideline. The SG identified the following eight topic areas for new recommendations or good practice statements: psychosocial support, ageing and healthy sexuality, economic empowerment and resource access (including food security), integration of SRHR and HIV services, empowerment and self-efficacy around safer sex and reproductive decision-making, facilitating safe disclosure for women living with HIV who fear or experience violence, modes of delivery for best maternal and perinatal outcomes (specifically caesarean section), and safe medical and surgical abortion. Development of the new recommendations and good practice statements to respond to these eight topic areas began with systematic and narrative reviews of the evidence. The Guideline Development Group (GDG) assessed the quality of the available evidence for the new recommendations and considered the benefits and risks, values and preferences, human rights, equity, costs and feasibility of implementation to determine the strength of each recommendation. x Consolidated guideline on sexual and reproductive health and rights of women living with HIV Creating an enabling
