Consolidated guideline on
KEYWORDS: hiv, women, living, living hiv, women living, health, services, guideline, rights, support, violence, recommendations, including, evidence, sexual


costs and feasibility of implementation to determine the strength of each recommendation. x Consolidated guideline on sexual and reproductive health and rights of women living with HIV Creating an enabling environment Implementing comprehensive and integrated SRHR and HIV programmes to meet the health needs and rights of the diverse group of women living with HIV requires that interventions be put into place to overcome barriers to service uptake, use and continued engagement. In all epidemic contexts, these barriers occur at the individual, interpersonal, community and societal levels. They may include challenges such as social exclusion and marginalization, criminalization, stigma, gender-based violence and gender inequality, among affordability, uptake, equitable coverage, quality, effectiveness and efficiency of services for women living with Implementation and updating of the guideline Action on the recommendations in this guideline requires a strategy that is informed by evidence, appropriate to the local context, and responsive to the needs and rights of women living with HIV. In addition, programmes care efficiently at all times. Effective implementation of the recommendations and good practice statements in low- and middle-income countries. Potential barriers are noted and a phased approach to adoption, adaptation and implementation of the guideline recommendations is advised. During the guideline development process, the GDG identified important knowledge gaps that need to be addressed through primary research. This guideline will be updated five years after publication unless significant new evidence emerges that necessitates earlier revision. Tables 1 and 2 present the new and existing recommendations and good practice statements, respectively. Figure 2.1, at the end of Chapter 2, presents a visual framework that brings together all the elements of the guideline, with women living with HIV at the core. Executive summary xi Table 1: Summary list of WHO recommendations for the sexual and reproductive health and rights (SRHR) of women living with HIV Note: Where recommendations apply to “key populations” this includes women living with HIV and therefore these have been included in these guidelines. A. Creating an enabling environment Recommendation (REC) Strength of recommendation, quality of evidence Healthy sexuality across the life course services to ensure engagement and improved outcomes.1 quality evidence Integration of SRHR and HIV services REC A.2: In generalized epidemic settings, antiretroviral therapy (ART) should be Strong recommendation, very initiated and maintained in eligible pregnant and postpartum women and in infants low-quality evidence care and ART, where appropriate. REC A.3: Sexually transmitted infection (STI) and family
