Consolidated guideline on
KEYWORDS: hiv, women, living, living hiv, women living, health, services, guideline, rights, support, violence, recommendations, including, evidence, sexual


Strong recommendation, very initiated and maintained in eligible pregnant and postpartum women and in infants low-quality evidence care and ART, where appropriate. REC A.3: Sexually transmitted infection (STI) and family planning services can be Conditional recommendation, integrated within HIV care settings. very low-quality evidence REC A.4, A.5 and A.6: Decentralization of HIV treatment and care should be considered as a way to increase access to and improve retention in care: quality evidence quality evidence at the community level. moderate-quality evidence REC A.7: Trained and supervised lay providers can distribute ART Strong recommendation, low- to adults, adolescents and children living with HIV. quality evidence can initiate first-line ART. moderate-quality evidence can maintain ART. moderate-quality evidence between regular clinical visits. moderate-quality evidence Protection from violence and creating safety REC A.11: Women who disclose any form of violence by an intimate partner Strong recommendation, indirect (or other family member) or sexual assault by any perpetrator should be offered evidence support when women disclose violence. If health-care providers are unable to provide first line support, they should ensure that someone else (within their health-care setting or another that is easily accessible) is immediately available to do so.2 violence when assessing conditions that may be caused or complicated by evidence intimate partner violence, in order to improve diagnosis/identification and subsequent care. 1. Reference for this and all the existing recommendations in the next section on integration of services: Consolidated guidelines second edition. Geneva: World Health Organization; 2016 ( eng.pdf). 2. Reference for this and all the rest of the existing recommendations in this section on violence and safety: Responding to intimate partner violence and sexual violence against women: WHO clinical and policy guidelines. Geneva: World Health Organization; 2013 ( xii Consolidated guideline on sexual and reproductive health and rights of women living with HIV REC A.13: In-service training and training at pre-qualification level and in first-line Strong recommendation, very support for women who have experienced intimate partner violence and sexual low-quality evidence and midwives). REC A.14: Pregnant women who disclose intimate partner violence should be Conditional recommendation, offered brief to medium-duration empowerment counselling (up to 12 sessions) low-quality evidence and advocacy/support, including a safety component, offered by trained service providers where health-care systems can support this. The extent to which this may apply to settings outside of antenatal care, or its feasibility in low- or middle- income countries, is uncertain. REC A.15: Care for women
