Consolidated guideline on
KEYWORDS: hiv, women, living, living hiv, women living, health, services, guideline, rights, support, violence, recommendations, including, evidence, sexual


this. The extent to which this may apply to settings outside of antenatal care, or its feasibility in low- or middle- income countries, is uncertain. REC A.15: Care for women experiencing intimate partner violence and sexual Strong recommendation, very rather than as a stand-alone service. REC A.16: Mandatory reporting of intimate partner violence to the police by the Strong recommendation, very offer to report the incident to the appropriate authorities (including the police) if the woman wants this and is aware of her rights. Community empowerment in need facilitating the delivery of these services in a non-stigmatizing, gender- evidence off-site.3 REC A.18: Introduce new, or reinforce existing, policies that prevent discrimination Strong recommendation, reduction among colleagues and supervisors.4 B. Health interventions Recommendation (REC) Strength of recommendation, quality of evidence Sexual health counselling and support REC B.1 (NEW): WHO recommends that for women living with HIV, interventions Strong recommendation, low- on self-efficacy and empowerment around sexual and reproductive health and quality evidence rights should be provided to maximize their health and fulfil their rights. prevention of sexually transmitted infections among adults and adolescents in moderate-quality evidence primary health services.5 skills of BSC is recommended.6 very low-quality evidence Geneva: World Health Organization; 2010 ( 4. Ibid. 5. Brief sexuality-related communication: recommendations for a public health approach. Geneva: World Health Organization; 2015 ( 6. Ibid. Executive summary xiii Violence against women services REC B.4 (NEW): WHO recommends that policy-makers and service providers Strong recommendation, low- who support women living with HIV who are considering voluntary HIV disclosure quality evidence should recognize that many fear, or are experiencing, or are at risk of intimate partner violence. REC B.5 (NEW): WHO recommends that interventions and services supporting Strong recommendation, low- women living with HIV who are considering voluntary HIV disclosure should quality evidence include discussions about the challenges of their current situation, the potential associated risk of violence, and actions to disclose more safely, and facilitate links to available violence prevention and care services. REC B.6: Adolescents should be counselled about the potential benefits and Conditional recommendation, risks of disclosure of their HIV status to others and empowered and supported very low-quality evidence to determine if, when, how and to whom to disclose.7 REC B.7: HIV testing services for couples and partners, with support for mutual Strong recommendation, low- disclosure, should be offered to individuals with known HIV status and their quality evidence for all
