Consolidated guideline on
KEYWORDS: hiv, women, living, living hiv, women living, health, services, guideline, rights, support, violence, recommendations, including, evidence, sexual


and NET-EN), and LNG and ETG implants (MEC Category 1) (Part I, section 12d). REC B.17: Women using ART containing either efavirenz or nevirapine can Low- to very low-quality evidence generally use COCs, patches, rings, CICs, POPs, NET-EN and implants (MEC Category 2). However, women using efavirenz or nevirapine can use DMPA without restriction (MEC Category 1) (Part I, section 12d). REC B.18: Women using the newer non-nucleoside/nucleotide reverse Low- to very low-quality evidence transcriptase inhibitors (NNRTIs), etravirine and rilpivirine, can use all hormonal contraceptive methods without restriction (MEC Category 1) (Part I, section 12d). REC B.19: Women using protease inhibitors (e.g. ritonavir and antiretrovirals Low- to very low-quality evidence [ARVs] boosted with ritonavir) can generally use COCs, contraceptive patches and rings, CICs, POPs, NET-EN, and LNG and ETG implants (MEC Category 2), and can use DMPA without restriction (MEC Category 1) (Part I, section 12d). REC B.20: Women using the integrase inhibitor raltegravir can use all hormonal Low- to very low-quality evidence contraceptive methods without restriction (MEC Category 1) (Part I, section 12d). REC B.21: Intrauterine device (IUD): Women using ARV medication can generally Low- to very low-quality evidence asymptomatic or mild (WHO stage 1 or 2). Women living with severe or advanced HIV clinical disease (WHO stage 3 or 4) should generally not initiate use of the LNG-IUD (MEC Category 3 for initiation) until their illness has improved to an LNG-IUD inserted and who develop severe or advanced HIV clinical disease need not have their IUD removed (MEC Category 2 for continuation). LNG-IUD users with severe or advanced HIV clinical disease should be closely monitored for pelvic infection (Part I, section 12d). 14. Consolidated guidelines on HIV prevention, diagnosis, treatment and care for key populations – 2016 update. Geneva: World Health Organization; 2016 ( 15. Reference for this and all the rest of the existing recommendations in this section on contraception, and for the next footnote: bitstream/10665/181468/1/9789241549158_eng.pdf). 16. MEC categories (Medical eligibility criteria for contraceptive use, fifth edition, WHO, 2015): 1: A condition for which there is no restriction for the use of the contraceptive method 2: A condition where the advantages of using the method generally outweigh the theoretical or proven risks 3: A condition where the theoretical or proven risks usually outweigh the advantages of using the method 4: A condition which represents an unacceptable health risk if the contraceptive method is used. Executive summary xv
