Consolidated guideline on
KEYWORDS: hiv, women, living, living hiv, women living, health, services, guideline, rights, support, violence, recommendations, including, evidence, sexual


and sexual pleasure as they age. Women living with HIV who choose not to be sexually active should also be supported in their choice. Economic empowerment and resource access GPS A.3 (NEW): Comprehensive assessment of food security with linkage to appropriate services is an integral component of the care of women living with HIV. Integration of SRHR and HIV services GPS A.4 (NEW): Women living with HIV should have access to integrated and tailored comprehensive* sexual and reproductive health (SRH) and HIV services. GPS A.5 (NEW): Women living with HIV should be included in the design and delivery of these services. Protection from violence and creating safety GPS A.6: Violence against people from key populations should be prevented and addressed in partnership with key population-led organizations. All violence against people from key populations should be monitored and reported, and redress mechanisms should be established to provide justice.27 GPS A.7: Health and other support services should be provided to all persons from key populations who experience violence. In particular, persons experiencing sexual violence should have timely access to comprehensive post-rape care in accordance with WHO guidelines. GPS A.8: Law enforcement officials and health- and social-care providers need to be trained to recognize and uphold the human rights of key populations and to be held accountable if they violate these rights, including perpetration of violence. Social inclusion and acceptance organizations in their efforts to monitor stigma, confront discrimination against key populations and change punitive legal and social norms. GPS A.10: Health-care workers should receive appropriate recurrent training and sensitization to ensure that they have the skills, knowledge and understanding to provide services for adults and adolescents from key populations based on GPS A.11: It is recommended to make contraceptives affordable to all, including adolescents, and that law and policy support access to contraception for disadvantaged and marginalized populations. 26. Reproductive health strategy to accelerate progress towards the attainment of international development goals and targets. Global Strategy adopted by the 57th World Health Assembly. Geneva: World Health Organization; 2004 ( iris/bitstream/10665/68754/1/WHO_RHR_04.8.pdf). 27. Reference for this and all the rest of the existing good practice statements in section A of this table: Consolidated guidelines ( Executive summary xvii Community empowerment GPS A.12: Programmes should be put in place to provide legal literacy and legal services to key populations so that they know their rights and applicable laws and can receive support from the justice
