Consolidated guideline on
KEYWORDS: hiv, women, living, living hiv, women living, health, services, guideline, rights, support, violence, recommendations, including, evidence, sexual


be put in place to provide legal literacy and legal services to key populations so that they know their rights and applicable laws and can receive support from the justice system when aggrieved. Supportive laws and policies and access to justice GPS A.13: Countries should work towards decriminalization of behaviours such as drug use/injecting, sex work, same- sex activity and nonconforming gender identities, and towards elimination of the unjust application of civil law and regulations against people who use/inject drugs, sex workers, men who have sex with men and transgender people. GPS A.14: Countries should work towards developing non-custodial alternatives to incarceration of drug users, sex workers and people who engage in same-sex activity. GPS A.15: Countries are encouraged to examine their current consent policies and consider revising them to reduce age-related barriers to HIV services and to empower providers to act in the best interest of the adolescent. services, be provided for adolescent girls without mandatory parental and guardian authorization/notification. GPS A.17: Countries should work towards developing policies and laws that decriminalize same-sex behaviours and nonconforming gender identities. GPS A.18: Countries should work towards legal recognition for transgender people. GPS A.19: For transgender people the legal recognition of preferred gender and name may be important to reduce access, uptake and provision of HIV services. B. Health interventions: Good practice statements (GPS) Brief sexuality communication (BSC) Contraception GPS B.2: It is recommended that third-party authorization requirements be eliminated, including spousal authorization requirements for women living with HIV for obtaining contraceptives and related information and services.29 Prevention of perinatal transmission of HIV GPS B.3: Mothers living with HIV and health-care workers can be reassured that ART reduces the risk of postnatal HIV transmission in the context of mixed feeding. Although exclusive breastfeeding is recommended, practising mixed feeding is not a reason to stop breastfeeding in the presence of ARV drugs.30 28. Brief sexuality-related communication: recommendations for a public health approach. Geneva: World Health Organization; 2015 ( 29. Consolidated guidelines on HIV prevention, diagnosis, treatment and care for key populations – 2016 update. Geneva: World Health Organization; 2016 ( feeding practices among mothers living with HIV. Geneva: World Health Organization; 2016 ( am/10665/246260/1/9789241549707-eng.pdf). xviii Consolidated guideline on sexual and reproductive health and rights of women living with HIV Chapter 1. Introduction 1.1 Background There were an estimated 17.8 million women aged 15 and older living with HIV in 2015, constituting 51% of
