Consolidated guideline on
KEYWORDS: hiv, women, living, living hiv, women living, health, services, guideline, rights, support, violence, recommendations, including, evidence, sexual


rights of women living with HIV Chapter 1. Introduction 1.1 Background There were an estimated 17.8 million women aged 15 and older living with HIV in 2015, constituting 51% of all adults living with HIV (1). Adolescent girls and young women are particularly affected; in 2015 they constituted 60% of young people aged 15–24 years who were living with HIV, and they also accounted for 58% of newly acquired HIV infections among young persons in that age group (1). In many countries, women living with HIV do not have equitable access to good-quality health services and are also faced with multiple and intersecting forms of stigma and discrimination. Furthermore, women living with HIV are disproportionately vulnerable to violence (2), including violations of their sexual and reproductive rights (3). In 2016, the United Nations (UN) Committee on Economic, Social and Cultural Rights (CESCR) defined the right to sexual and reproductive health (SRH) as an “integral part of the right to health” (4). To ensure the the following critical dimensions (5): n Human rights and gender equality must be placed at the centre of a comprehensive approach to health negatively affect women living with HIV. n Women living with HIV should be empowered and engaged in the development of policies and programmes that affect them. n Monitoring, evaluation and accountability procedures must be strengthened to provide good-quality data, and to ensure remedies for violations of the rights of women living with HIV. This new consolidated guideline has been developed by the World Health Organization (WHO) Department of Reproductive Health and Research (RHR) in response to requests from a wide range of organizations and with HIV/AIDS: guidelines on care, treatment and support for women living with HIV/AIDS and their children in resource-constrained settings (6). Many significant changes in HIV-related policies, research and practice have occurred in the 10 years since the publication of the 2006 guidelines. These changes include the rapid expansion of antiretroviral therapy (ART), and the release in 2015 of WHO recommendations to offer immediate ART to all individuals living with HIV and to offer pre-exposure prophylaxis (PrEP) to individuals at substantial risk of HIV infection as an additional prevention choice (7). These changes in turn have contributed to advancing the SRHR of women living with HIV (8). Consequently, this guideline was considered by the Guidelines Review Committee (GRC) as a new guideline. This guideline aims to provide: n Evidence-based recommendations
