Consolidated guideline on
KEYWORDS: hiv, women, living, living hiv, women living, health, services, guideline, rights, support, violence, recommendations, including, evidence, sexual


SRHR of women living with HIV (8). Consequently, this guideline was considered by the Guidelines Review Committee (GRC) as a new guideline. This guideline aims to provide: n Evidence-based recommendations for the SRHR of women living with HIV in all of their diversity, with a particular focus on settings where the health system has limited capacity and resources; and n Good practice statements on key operational and service delivery issues that need to be addressed to (i) increase access to, uptake of, and the quality of outcomes of SRH services, (ii) improve human rights and (iii) promote gender equality for women living with HIV. WHO guidance exists on several specific aspects of SRHR and of HIV, but not all include considerations specific to the SRHR of women living with HIV. This consolidated guideline seeks to bring together both new and existing recommendations and good practice statements related to the SRHR of women living with HIV into one document. Where current WHO guidance applies to all women, including women living with HIV, this document refers readers to these other publications for further information, as well as to other relevant WHO tools and documents on programme activities. The recommendations and good practice statements presented in this guideline relate to either creating and related interventions relevant to the SRHR of women living with HIV (Chapter 4). All of the new and existing WHO recommendations presented in this guideline (and summarized in Table 1 in the Executive summary) have been developed using the Grading of Recommendations Assessment, Development and Evaluation (GRADE) approach (9). This guideline is meant to help countries to more effectively and efficiently plan, develop and monitor programmes and services that promote gender equality and human rights and hence are more acceptable and appropriate for women living with HIV. This guideline also includes discussion of implementation issues that managers of health interventions and service delivery must address to achieve gender equality and uphold human rights. Box 1.1: Definitions as used in this guideline An adolescent*: a person 10–19 years of age, inclusive. An adult*: a person older than 19 years of age. Key populations**: People in the following groups: men who have sex with men, people in prisons and other closed settings, people who inject drugs, sex workers and transgender people, including adolescents and young people from key populations and people with overlapping vulnerabilities and differing risks. Key populations may also include
