Consolidated guideline on
KEYWORDS: hiv, women, living, living hiv, women living, health, services, guideline, rights, support, violence, recommendations, including, evidence, sexual


people who inject drugs, sex workers and transgender people, including adolescents and young people from key populations and people with overlapping vulnerabilities and differing risks. Key populations may also include other groups of women living with HIV in contexts of marginalization or vulnerability, as defined by the local context. * It is acknowledged that countries may have other definitions under their respective national laws. ** The definition of key populations is taken from the WHO Consolidated guidelines on HIV prevention, diagnosis, treatment and care for key populations – 2016 update (10). 1.2 Target audience health policy-makers around the world to better address the SRHR of women living with HIV. It is primarily designed for national-level programme managers, policy-makers and other decision-makers within the ministry of health. Acknowledging that the woman-centred approach of this guideline (see section 1.4.1) may require multisectoral engagement, the guideline will also be useful for national-level programme managers from other ministries, such as the ministries of education, gender, family and social welfare, who can be partners in delivering interventions that support a holistic approach to SRHR. as they face the greatest challenges in providing services tailored to women living with HIV in all their diversity. However, this guideline is relevant for all settings regardless of the situation of the HIV epidemic or the economic context, and should, therefore, be considered as global guidance. In implementing these global recommendations, WHO regions and countries can adapt them to the local context, taking into account the 2 Consolidated guideline on sexual and reproductive health and rights of women living with HIV approach to addressing the SRH needs, aspirations and rights of women living with HIV, and to (ii) meet the health needs and support the aspirations of all women living with HIV throughout all stages of the life course, including the post-menopausal years. 1.3 Scope 1.3.1 Population of interest With reference to the 2015 WHO Consolidated guidelines on HIV testing services (11), this guideline will not include HIV testing, but is relevant for women from the point when they already know they are living with HIV. Women living with HIV who are not aware that they have HIV must first be reached by safe, voluntary, non- coercive HIV testing and counselling, and follow-on services, which need to be expanded and strengthened. In addition, although this guideline focuses on women who have been tested and know their positive HIV serostatus, it
