Consolidated guideline on
KEYWORDS: hiv, women, living, living hiv, women living, health, services, guideline, rights, support, violence, recommendations, including, evidence, sexual


counselling, and follow-on services, which need to be expanded and strengthened. In addition, although this guideline focuses on women who have been tested and know their positive HIV serostatus, it is acknowledged that the SRHR issues highlighted are, in many cases, similar for all women. This guideline focuses on the SRHR of women living with HIV; while the SRHR of men living with HIV must also be addressed, this is not within the scope of this guideline. HIV is not only driven by gender inequality, but it also entrenches gender inequality, leaving women more vulnerable to its impact. The focus on women living with HIV is justified because many face unique and particular challenges and rights violations in relation to their gender, sexuality and reproductive roles within their families and communities, as well as from the health-care institutions where they seek services. 1.3.2 Creating and maintaining an enabling environment The SRHR of women living with HIV is strongly influenced by a range of social, cultural, political and economic factors. Factors that can impede SRHR include, but are not limited to: inequitable gender norms; gender- based and intimate partner violence (GBV and IPV); stigma and discrimination; lack of empowerment among women and girls; violations of human rights; and restrictive and often punitive laws and policies that increase factors also pose significant barriers to accessing and utilizing high-quality SRH and HIV services. Policies, programmes and interventions to improve the SRHR of women living with HIV exist in some places, but these alone will not bring about improved health outcomes in the absence of a safe and supportive enabling environment. For this reason, issues related to creating and maintaining an enabling environment, and specific relevant recommendations and good practice statements, including five new good practice statements (GPSs A.1–A.5), are included in the scope of this new consolidated guideline. These are presented in Chapter 3 under the following eight topic areas: psychosocial support; healthy sexuality across the life course; economic empowerment and resource access; integration of SRHR and HIV services; protection from violence and creating safety; social inclusion and acceptance; community empowerment; and supportive laws and policies as well as access to justice (see also section A of Tables 1 and 2 in the Executive summary, and Figure 2.1 at the end of Chapter 2). 1.3.3 Priority questions and outcomes of interest for health interventions Four priority questions in PICO format (population, intervention, comparator,
