Consolidated guideline on
KEYWORDS: hiv, women, living, living hiv, women living, health, services, guideline, rights, support, violence, recommendations, including, evidence, sexual


of the women themselves rather than disease management and control. This guideline is intended to address women living with HIV in all their diversity, including, but not limited to: women who are heterosexual, lesbian, bisexual, transgender or intersex; women who use or have used drugs; women who are or have been involved in sex work; women who are single, married or in stable relationships, separated, divorced or widowed; women who are and are not sexually active; women and girls who have undergone female genital mutilation (FGM); women who have tuberculosis (TB), malaria, hepatitis B or C and/ or other co-morbidities; women who are currently or have previously been incarcerated, detained or homeless; women who are economic or political migrants; women who are indigenous; women living with disabilities; as well as adolescent girls who have acquired HIV perinatally, in childhood or during adolescence. This guideline themselves, women living with HIV who have their own priorities, needs and aspirations that require special promote SRHR are important for women throughout all stages of the life course, including the post- menopausal years. Many women living with HIV face multiple and intersecting forms of inequality and discrimination, depending on the local context. Each country should therefore understand and identify specific populations of women living with HIV that are particularly vulnerable and also those groups that are most relevant to the local epidemic, and should develop their response based on this local epidemiological and social context. This guideline makes every effort to use language that is respectful of women living with HIV. It also promotes rather than disease-centred, orientation can reduce stigma and support a life-enhancing, positive approach to SRHR (13). 4 Consolidated guideline on sexual and reproductive health and rights of women living with HIV 1.4.2 Guiding principles: human rights and gender equality An integrated approach to health and human rights lies at the heart of ensuring the dignity and well-being of women living with HIV. The protection of human rights for all women living with HIV is therefore fundamental to this guideline. This includes a variety of human rights, namely: the right to the highest attainable standard of right to equality and non-discrimination on the basis of sex (15); and the right to freedom from torture or cruel, inhuman or degrading treatment or punishment (16). Furthermore, article 27 of the Universal Declaration of Human Rights states that everyone has the right freely to share
