Consolidated guideline on
KEYWORDS: hiv, women, living, living hiv, women living, health, services, guideline, rights, support, violence, recommendations, including, evidence, sexual


from torture or cruel, inhuman or degrading treatment or punishment (16). Furthermore, article 27 of the Universal Declaration of Human Rights states that everyone has the right freely to share in scientific advancement and its benefits (16). Committee on Economic, Social and Cultural Rights (CESCR) defined the right to SRH as an “integral part of the The Programme of Action of the International Conference on Population and Development (ICPD) in 1994 international and regional human rights standards and jurisprudence related to the right to SRH have evolved considerably. Most recently, the 2030 Agenda for Sustainable Development includes Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) and targets to be achieved in the area of SRH (18), as does the Global Strategy on Women’s, Children’s and Adolescents’ Health 2016–2030 (19). well-being, and not merely the absence of disease or infirmity, in all matters relating to the reproductive system purpose of which is the enhancement of life and personal relations, and not merely counselling and care related to reproduction and sexually transmitted diseases”. It further defines reproductive rights as follows: [R]eproductive rights embrace certain human rights that are already recognized in national laws, international human rights documents and other consensus documents. These rights rest on the recognition of the basic right of all couples and individuals to decide freely and responsibly the number, spacing and timing of their children and to have the information and make decisions concerning reproduction free of discrimination, coercion and violence, as expressed in human rights documents (17, para 7.3). Importantly, the CESCR’s recent General Comment No. 22 recognizes that “people living with HIV/AIDS are more likely to experience multiple discrimination” and that “States must reform laws that impede the exercise recommends adoption of “appropriate legislative, administrative, budgetary, judicial, promotional and other In the course of developing this guideline, two literature reviews were conducted to support the rights-based case for strengthened services that meet the needs and aspirations of women living with HIV. These reviews included a special focus on: (i) the challenges of ensuring that human rights considerations are highlighted by normative bodies (20); and (ii) analysis of human rights within policies and programmes affecting women living with HIV (21). The reviews highlighted key gaps in jurisprudence among international, regional and national bodies. The guidance from these bodies reflects only a few health and human rights considerations related to women living with HIV and SRH. The approach of these bodies has
