Consolidated guideline on
KEYWORDS: hiv, women, living, living hiv, women living, health, services, guideline, rights, support, violence, recommendations, including, evidence, sexual


national bodies. The guidance from these bodies reflects only a few health and human rights considerations related to women living with HIV and SRH. The approach of these bodies has been largely ad hoc and lacks a systematic integration of the human rights concerns of women living with HIV in relation to their SRH. Of the articles and documents reviewed, not a single peer-reviewed article described the explicit implementation of human rights in SRH programming, and only two documents from the grey literature did so. With one possible exception, no articles or documents were found that addressed human rights comprehensively, or addressed the majority of relevant rights. As the two literature reviews were explicitly about the SRHR of women living with HIV, and they reviewed articles that implicitly dealt with these issues and built upon the nine agreed-upon human rights dimensions that are the foundation to good SRHR (see Table 1.1), this highlights a significant gap. Chapter 1. Introduction 5 Table 1.1: Human rights dimensions that are foundational to good SRHR Standard terminology Alternative terminology Equality and non-discrimination reduce discrimination, reduce criminalization, combat negative social and cultural attitudes, stigma, prejudice, (domestic) violence, gender inequality Participation involvement, engagement, advocacy, influence Privacy and confidentiality – Informed decision-making (direct) consent, choice, informed, comprehensible Availability make available, provide, exist Accessibility access, receive, affordable, eligible Acceptability conscientious objection, medical ethics, human rights sensitivity Quality of services proper medical care, adequacy Accountability liability, responsibility, calling upon States Parties, enforcement, legal measures Source: WHO, 2014 (22). In addition, in the articles included in the reviews, the language of rights was used most often to describe the apparent neglect or violation of human rights, as opposed to describing efforts to protect, promote or fulfil rights. When rights-related language was used, it primarily addressed only a few rights (most commonly the rights to access and non-discrimination) in the context of a few areas within SRH, while the issues of STIs, violence and ageing, for instance, were largely neglected. The two reviews also highlighted the need for Member States to establish and enforce antidiscrimination and protective laws, derived from international human rights standards, in order to eliminate stigma, discrimination and violence faced by women living with HIV (20, 21). Such laws and policies should also address gender inequalities, including harmful gender norms and stereotypes, unequal power in intimate relationships, and women’s relative lack of access to and control over resources.
