Consolidated guideline on
KEYWORDS: hiv, women, living, living hiv, women living, health, services, guideline, rights, support, violence, recommendations, including, evidence, sexual


laws and policies should also address gender inequalities, including harmful gender norms and stereotypes, unequal power in intimate relationships, and women’s relative lack of access to and control over resources. All of these inequalities exacerbate the vulnerability of women living with HIV, affect their access to including women living with HIV in all their diversity. 1.4.3 Applying the woman-centred approach and guiding principles In recognition of all the issues and gaps that have been identified and mentioned here, this guideline aims to propose a comprehensive package of SRH services for women living with HIV, emphasizing that attention must be paid to adopting a woman-centred approach and applying the principles of human rights and gender equality, with reference to the guidance presented in Box 1.2. Box 1.3 provides a list of key WHO resources on human rights and SRH in general and in relation to specific health interventions and stakeholders. While the focus in this guideline is on human rights as they pertain to SRH, it is acknowledged that all aspects of human rights are important. 6 Consolidated guideline on sexual and reproductive health and rights of women living with HIV Box 1.2: Guidance on the application of a woman-centred approach based on principles of human rights and gender equality for SRHR of women living with HIV 1. Uphold and foster human rights and gender equality to address power imbalances, GBV, stigma, discrimination and rights-related barriers to SRH at all levels. 2. Strengthen health systems to increase programme effectiveness and efficiency to facilitate improved delivery of a holistic range of high-quality woman-centred health services. 3. Engage and empower women living with HIV in the development of policies and programmes that affect them, to ensure these address their lived realities. 4. Promote or advocate for a conducive legal and policy environment which safeguards and promotes SRHR of women living with HIV. SRH concerns. 6. Ensure acceptability of services to women living with HIV in all their diversity to overcome barriers based on exclusion, isolation, criminalization and poor understanding of women’s strengths and needs. them to make informed choices and enact decisions that promote their own, their families’ and their communities’ health. 8. Strengthen linkages and/or integration in service provision where needed, to ensure holistic woman-centred health care. 9. Promote accountability of health systems to ensure avenues for redress of rights violations and problems if they arise. Box 1.3: Key WHO human rights
