Consolidated guideline on
KEYWORDS: hiv, women, living, living hiv, women living, health, services, guideline, rights, support, violence, recommendations, including, evidence, sexual


discussions. Respondents ranged in age from 15 to 72 years and came from a diverse range of backgrounds and experiences, including: women identifying as heterosexual, lesbian, bisexual, transgender or intersex; women who reported that they use or have used drugs; women involved in sex work; women who reported being single, married or in stable relationships; women who had undergone FGM; women who had TB, malaria, hepatitis B or C and/or other co-morbidities; women who had been incarcerated, detained or homeless; women who reported being economic or political migrants; women identifying as indigenous; women living with disabilities; and women who work as health-care providers. The GVPS results were presented at a stakeholder consultation on SRHR of women living with HIV at the community of women living with HIV, including representatives from key constituencies and different regions of the world. A special supplement in the Journal of the International AIDS Society (JIAS), published in December 2015, highlighted a few of the key issues that have emerged from the discussions and addition, several activities have taken place as a result of the survey, including the development of further peer-reviewed publications and webinars, led by the community of women living with HIV. The findings of the GVPS (summarized in Box 1.4) informed the development of this guideline as a whole. The Guideline Development Group (GDG) took the findings of the GVPS into account when drafting the PICO (population, intervention, comparison, outcome) questions for the development of new recommendations (see Chapter 2, section 2.5 and Table 2.2) and when drafting the questions that formed the starting point for the new good practice statements. The GVPS also informed the GDG in writing and finalizing the recommendations, the good practices statements and the full guideline document. In particular, relevant survey findings are included in each topic area addressed throughout Chapters 3 and 4. 8 Consolidated guideline on sexual and reproductive health and rights of women living with HIV This symbol representing the values and preferences of women living with HIV is used to alert the reader wherever results from the GVPS are reported. Box 1.4: Key findings of the Global Values and Preferences Survey (GVPS) • For women living with HIV, safety was considered paramount. Most survey respondents had experienced violence or fear of violence, before, since or because of their HIV diagnosis, and they called for measures to • Respondents highlighted the need to redress human
