Consolidated guideline on
KEYWORDS: hiv, women, living, living hiv, women living, health, services, guideline, rights, support, violence, recommendations, including, evidence, sexual


respondents had experienced violence or fear of violence, before, since or because of their HIV diagnosis, and they called for measures to • Respondents highlighted the need to redress human rights violations, including mandatory testing, involuntary disclosure, and coerced or forced sterilization and abortion. ception-to-old-age approach to SRH care, with a comprehensive package of age- and stage-appropriate services, was consequently felt to be essential. respect for their ability to make informed decisions about their own SRH care, was considered indispensable, particularly given the reported difficulty and considerable lack of empowerment in decision-making around when, how and with whom to have sex, and whether and when to have children. • Women living with HIV sought further acknowledgement of the importance of peer support and meaningful involvement in decisions that affect their own lives. • Widespread concerns about punitive and repressive laws were reported, with these laws viewed as barriers to their achievement of health and human rights. • Many reported challenges to achieving a pleasurable and satisfying sex life, including lack/loss of sexual desire and fear of onward HIV transmission, pregnancy and STIs, linked with difficulties around condom availability, negotiation and use, as well as fears of the impact and consequences of HIV disclosure (including violence). • Fear of onward transmission of HIV to a child or partner was often compounded by stigmatizing attitudes from health workers. • Many respondents reported being on HIV treatment and experiencing side-effects that they felt affected their sexual health and overall well-being. • Respondents also emphasized the challenges of poverty and financial insecurity, which could be a barrier to accessing services and realizing human rights, as well as the associated strain on mental, physical and sexual with HIV highlighted the complex implications of an HIV-positive diagnosis. • Finally, women wanted support for interactions with their children, partners and communities Source: The Salamander Trust, 2016 (37). Chapter 1. Introduction 9 Chapter 2. Methodology and process for development of the guideline The WHO Department of Reproductive Health and Research (RHR) led the development of this consolidated guideline, following WHO procedures and reporting standards laid out in the WHO handbook for guideline development (39). Given the significant difference in scope to the 2006 guidelines (6), a new title was proposed by the WHO Guideline Steering Group: Consolidated guideline on sexual and reproductive health and rights of women living with HIV. Consequently, this guideline was presented and viewed as
