Consolidated guideline on
KEYWORDS: hiv, women, living, living hiv, women living, health, services, guideline, rights, support, violence, recommendations, including, evidence, sexual


was proposed by the WHO Guideline Steering Group: Consolidated guideline on sexual and reproductive health and rights of women living with HIV. Consequently, this guideline was presented and viewed as a new submission by the WHO Guidelines Review Committee (GRC) and not considered an update of the 2006 document. 2.1 Guideline development working groups The RHR Department set up three working groups to perform specific guideline development functions: the WHO Guideline Steering Group (SG), the Guideline Development Group (GDG) and the External Review Group (ERG). Members of the groups were selected so as to ensure a range of expertise and experience, including appropriate representation in terms of geography, gender and the community of people living with HIV. The three working groups are described in the following subsections and the names and institutional affiliations of the participants of each group are listed in Annex 1. 2.1.1 The WHO Guideline Steering Group (SG) Africa, the Americas, Europe, the Eastern Mediterranean and South-East Asia. The SG drafted the initial scope of the guideline and drafted the priority questions in PICO format (population, intervention, comparator, outcome), identified individuals to participate as guideline methodologists and as members of the systematic review teams, the Guideline Development Group (GDG) and the External Review Group (ERG). The SG also finalized and published the guideline document, and will oversee dissemination of the guideline and be involved in the development of implementation tools. 2.1.2 The Guideline Development Group (GDG) The SG identified and invited external experts and stakeholders from the six WHO regions to form the GDG, ensuring geographic representation and gender balance. The members of the GDG had expertise in a wide range of SRHR and HIV issues covered in this guideline; they included clinicians, researchers, policy-makers, programme managers and representatives of communities of people living with HIV. The GDG members were involved in reviewing and finalizing key PICO questions and reviewing evidence summaries from the commissioned systematic reviews. They were also responsible for formulating new WHO recommendations and good practice statements, as well as for achieving consensus on the final content. 2.1.3 The External Review Group (ERG) The ERG included peer reviewers with a broad range of expertise in issues related to SRHR and HIV, drawn from the community of people living with HIV, clinicians, researchers, policy-makers and programme managers. The group ensured that the guideline decision-making processes had considered and incorporated 10 Consolidated guideline on sexual and
