Consolidated guideline on
KEYWORDS: hiv, women, living, living hiv, women living, health, services, guideline, rights, support, violence, recommendations, including, evidence, sexual


handbook for guideline development (39), all prospective members of the GDG and ERG and the other selected external collaborators were asked to declare in writing any academic, financial or other competing interests at the time of the invitation to participate in the development of the guideline. The standard WHO form for declaration of interests (DOI) was completed and signed by each expert and sent electronically, along with their curriculum vitae, to the responsible technical officer. This officer collated the signed DOI forms and curriculum vitae and, together with members of the SG, reviewed the information and determined whether a conflict of interest existed before granting final approval for the experts’ invitations to participate. Where any conflict of interest was declared, the SG determined whether it was serious enough to affect the individual’s ability to make objective judgements about the evidence or recommendations. To ensure consistency, the SG applied the criteria for assessing the severity of a conflict of interest in the WHO handbook for guideline development (39). All findings from the received DOI statements were managed in accordance with the WHO DOI guidelines on a case-by-case basis. Where a conflict of interest was not considered significant enough to pose any risk to the guideline development process or reduce its credibility, the expert was only required to declare such conflict at the GDG meeting (also called the Technical Consultation) and no further action was taken. There were no cases of conflicts of interest that warranted management of DOI and assessment of potential conflicts of Chapter 2. Methodology and process for development of the guideline 11 interest by the WHO Office of Compliance, Risk Management and Ethics (CRE). On confirmation of their invitations to participate, all experts were instructed to notify the responsible technical officer of any change in relevant interests during the course of the guideline development process, in order to update and review any conflicts of interest accordingly. At both the scoping meeting in January 2015 and again at the GDG meeting in April 2016 (both held in Geneva, Switzerland), members were required to state any conflicts of interest openly to the entire group, and were required to submit a signed and updated DOI form. A summary of the DOI statements and information on how conflicts of interest were managed are included in Annex 2. 2.4 Defining the scope and topic areas for new recommendations and good practice statements Working
