Consolidated guideline on
KEYWORDS: hiv, women, living, living hiv, women living, health, services, guideline, rights, support, violence, recommendations, including, evidence, sexual


statements and information on how conflicts of interest were managed are included in Annex 2. 2.4 Defining the scope and topic areas for new recommendations and good practice statements Working within the general scope of the guideline as presented in Chapter 1, section 1.3 – the population of interest and the intention of addressing both an enabling environment and specific relevant health interventions – the SG first mapped all existing WHO SRHR guidance with relevance for women living with HIV. The SG then reviewed these and other materials to identify gaps, overlaps and inconsistencies and to determine the relevance of existing recommendations for inclusion in this consolidated guideline. The SG identified the following eight topic areas where new recommendations or good practice statements needed to be developed for this guideline: psychosocial support; ageing and healthy sexuality; economic empowerment and resource access (including food security); integration of SRHR and HIV services; empowerment and self-efficacy around safer sex and reproductive decision-making; facilitating safe disclosure for women living with HIV who fear or experience violence; modes of delivery for best maternal and perinatal outcomes (specifically caesarean section); and safe medical and surgical abortion. The outcome of the mapping exercise was presented at the scoping meeting in January 2015. 2.5 Review of the evidence and formulation of recommendations 2.5.1 Defining and reviewing priority questions Table 1 in the Executive summary, and Chapter 4) began with formulating the PICO questions and subsequently conducting relevant systematic reviews of the evidence. The four PICO questions for the new recommendations were as follows: 1. What interventions improve self-efficacy and empowerment around safer sex and reproductive decision- making for women living with HIV? 2. What interventions facilitate safe disclosure of HIV status for women living with HIV who fear violence or who disclose that they are currently experiencing violence? 3. What modes of delivery result in the best maternal and perinatal outcomes for women living with HIV? 4. Do outcomes of medical and surgical abortion among women living with HIV differ from outcomes among HIV-uninfected women? The full details on the population, intervention, comparator and outcomes for each of the four PICO questions are presented in Annex 3, while the summaries of the methods for each of those four systematic reviews, including the search strategies and flow charts for inclusion of studies, are included along with the evidence base (the GRADE tables) in the Web supplement to this guideline.1
