Consolidated guideline on
KEYWORDS: hiv, women, living, living hiv, women living, health, services, guideline, rights, support, violence, recommendations, including, evidence, sexual


GRADE profile was prepared for each quantitative outcome within each PICO. The GRADE tables are presented in the Web supplement. 2.5.3 Determining the strength of a recommendation The strength of a recommendation – assigned as either “strong” or “conditional” – reflects the degree of confidence of the GDG that the desirable effects of the recommendation outweigh the undesirable effects. Desirable effects (i.e. potential benefits) may include beneficial health outcomes for individuals (e.g. reduced include adverse health outcomes for individuals (e.g. increased morbidity and mortality) and increased burden example, the resource use and cost implications of implementing the recommendations – which programmes, health-care providers or clients would have to bear – as well as potential legal ramifications where certain practices are criminalized. A strong recommendation (for or against the intervention) is one for which there is confidence that the desirable effects of adherence to the recommendation clearly outweigh the undesirable effects. The higher the quality of the scientific evidence base, the more likely that a strong recommendation can be made. New strong recommendations in this guideline are worded as “WHO recommends…”. A conditional recommendation (for or against the intervention) is one for which the quality of the scientific evidence base may be low or may apply only to specific groups or settings; or it may be assigned in cases where the GDG concludes that the desirable effects of adherence to the recommendation probably outweigh the undesirable effects or are closely balanced, but the GDG is not confident about these trade-offs in all situations. New conditional recommendations in this guideline are worded as “WHO suggests…”. Chapter 2. Methodology and process for development of the guideline 13 If implemented, an intervention that received only a conditional recommendation should be monitored closely and evaluated rigorously. Further research will be required to address the uncertainties and this may provide new evidence that may change the calculation of the balance of trade-offs. The values and preferences of the end-users (women living with HIV), as well as consideration of the relevant feasibility, cost and equity issues, all contribute to determining the strength of a recommendation. Table 2.2: Domains considered when assessing the strength of recommendations Domain Rationale Benefits and risks When a new recommendation is developed, desirable effects (benefits) need to be weighed against undesirable effects (risks), considering any previous recommendation or another alternative. The larger the gap or gradient in favour of the benefits over the
