Consolidated guideline on
KEYWORDS: hiv, women, living, living hiv, women living, health, services, guideline, rights, support, violence, recommendations, including, evidence, sexual


effects (benefits) need to be weighed against undesirable effects (risks), considering any previous recommendation or another alternative. The larger the gap or gradient in favour of the benefits over the risks, the more likely that a strong recommendation will be made. Values and preferences If the recommendation is likely to be widely accepted or valued highly, it is likely that (acceptability) a strong recommendation will be made. If there is a great deal of variability or strong reasons that the recommended course of action is unlikely to be accepted, it is more likely that a conditional recommendation will be made. Costs/financial implications Lower costs (monetary, infrastructure, equipment or human resources) or greater cost- effectiveness are more likely to support a strong recommendation. Feasibility The greater the feasibility of an intervention to all stakeholders, the greater the likelihood of a strong recommendation. Equity If an intervention will reduce inequities, improve equity or contribute to the realization of human rights, the greater the likelihood of a strong recommendation. Source: Schünemann et al., 2013 (45). 2.6 Decision-making by the GDG during guideline development The GDG members were guided by a clear protocol for WHO guideline development (39). The GDG reviewed the evidence and discussed the topics under consideration, led by the guideline methodologist. The GDG meeting or Technical Consultation in April 2016, in Geneva, Switzerland, was designed to allow participants to draft and consider each of the recommendations through a process of group discussion and revision. In order to gain an initial indication of GDG members’ views on the direction of each recommendation (to recommend for or against an intervention), and on the strength of each recommendation (strong or conditional) as drafted, the methodologist asked participants to raise their hands in support of each separate option. This was not a formal vote, but a decision-making aid to allow the methodologist and chairs to gauge the distribution of opinion and subsequently work towards consensus through further discussion. The final adoption of each recommendation, including its direction and strength, was confirmed by unanimous consensus among all GDG members. The GDG also determined the context of recommendations by the same process of consensus, based on discussions around the balance of evidence on the potential benefits and disadvantages of the interventions across the domains evaluated. The judgements made by the GDG related to each recommendation are noted in Annex 5. 2.7 Compilation and presentation of guideline content
