Consolidated guideline on
KEYWORDS: hiv, women, living, living hiv, women living, health, services, guideline, rights, support, violence, recommendations, including, evidence, sexual


disadvantages of the interventions across the domains evaluated. The judgements made by the GDG related to each recommendation are noted in Annex 5. 2.7 Compilation and presentation of guideline content Following the GDG meeting, members of the SG prepared a draft of the full guideline document, including revisions to the recommendations to accurately reflect the deliberations and decisions of the GDG participants. 14 Consolidated guideline on sexual and reproductive health and rights of women living with HIV The draft guideline was then sent electronically to the GDG participants for further comment, and their feedback was integrated into the document before it was sent to the External Review Group (ERG) for their input. The SG then carefully evaluated the input of the ERG members for inclusion in the guideline document. After the GDG meeting and the external peer-review process, any further modifications made to the guideline by the SG were limited to correction of factual errors and improvement in language to address any lack of clarity. The revised final version was returned electronically to the participants of the GDG for their final approval. This guideline presents WHO recommendations that have been newly developed and published for the first time in this guideline in 2017 (indicated by the label of “NEW” after the recommendation number) and existing recommendations that have been previously published in other WHO guidelines that applied the GRADE approach (all the recommendations not labelled as “NEW”), as well as new and existing good practice statements (again the former are labelled as “NEW”). The five new good practice statements (GPSs) apply to the creation and maintenance of the enabling environment required for successful achievement of optimal SRHR of women living with HIV. These new good practice statements are presented in Chapter 3: Creating an enabling environment. Each new good practice statement is presented in a shaded box along with remarks on key implementation considerations highlighted by the GDG. Additional information relating to each of the eight topics in Chapter 3 is presented in the following order after the box or boxes presenting new or existing recommendations and/or good practice statements: (i) background information about the topic; (ii) barriers to SRHR; (iii) components of an enabling environment that will address the barriers and support SRHR; and, only in the case of the NEW GPSs, (iv) a summary of evidence and considerations of the GDG, including any additional implementation considerations, to support
