Consolidated guideline on
KEYWORDS: hiv, women, living, living hiv, women living, health, services, guideline, rights, support, violence, recommendations, including, evidence, sexual


barriers and support SRHR; and, only in the case of the NEW GPSs, (iv) a summary of evidence and considerations of the GDG, including any additional implementation considerations, to support optimal understanding, implementation and outcomes. The six new recommendations (RECs) relate to health interventions and they address new topic areas or replace previous recommendations. These new recommendations are presented in Chapter 4: Health interventions. Each new recommendation is presented in a shaded box, including information about the strength of the recommendation and the quality of the evidence it is based on (assessed using the GRADE method, as previously described in section 2.5.2), followed by a list of remarks, including key considerations for implementation highlighted by the GDG. Additional information relating to each of the six types of services in Chapter 4 is presented in the following order after the box or boxes presenting new or existing recommendations and/or good practice statements (if any): (i) background information; and, only in the case of the NEW RECs, (ii) a summary of evidence and considerations of the GDG, including results and explanations about the quality of the evidence and the strength of the recommendation, and any additional implementation considerations, including feasibility and costs, if any information is available. For each topic area in this guideline, in both Chapters 3 and 4, there is also an icon referencing the GVPS which is placed to clearly indicate to readers the presentation of information on the values and preferences of women living with HIV, which has been drawn from the findings of the GVPS (37). The SG also consolidated existing recommendations (only those based on the GRADE approach) and existing good practice statements into this guideline from other recent, GRC-approved WHO guidelines if they were relevant to the SRHR of women living with HIV. In all instances, these existing recommendations and good practice statements are worded exactly as in the separate guidelines where they were previously published. For existing recommendations, the strength of each recommendation and the quality of the evidence as determined by the respective GDGs for those guidelines have also been noted. These existing recommendations have not been reviewed or changed during the guideline development process in 2016 and they remain valid. The evidence base for these recommendations is not included in the supplementary material for this new consolidated guideline since it was already presented at the time of publication of the original guidance.
