Consolidated guideline on
KEYWORDS: hiv, women, living, living hiv, women living, health, services, guideline, rights, support, violence, recommendations, including, evidence, sexual


base for these recommendations is not included in the supplementary material for this new consolidated guideline since it was already presented at the time of publication of the original guidance. For all existing recommendations and good practice statements, the title and web link for the existing WHO guidance is also provided in the lists of remarks, for easy access to further information from the original source. Chapter 2. Methodology and process for development of the guideline 15 In all, this consolidated guideline includes 52 recommendations (including six new ones) and 22 good practice statements (including five new ones) relevant to SRHR of women living with HIV. All the recommendations (RECs) and good practice statements (GPSs) related to creating an enabling environment are presented in Chapter 3 (and summarized in section A in Tables 1 and 2 in the Executive summary, and in Figure 2.1) and they are labelled as REC A.1, REC A.2, etc. and GPS A.1, GPS A.2, etc., respectively, and all those relating to health interventions are presented in Chapter 4 (and summarized in section B in Tables 1 and 2 in the Executive summary, and in Figure 2.1) and they are labelled as REC B.1, REC B.2, etc. and GPS B.1, GPS B.2, etc., respectively, grouped into subsections according to the topic area and type of service. Chapter 5 on guideline implementation and service delivery presents a discussion of key issues that would guide implementation of the recommendations to support realization of the maximum possible benefits, based on GDG discussions. Chapter 6 of the guideline presents a list of research gaps and priorities, as identified by the GDG, which require further study, and discusses the elements of a recommended inclusive approach for expanding the evidence base on SRHR of women living with HIV. Chapter 7 describes the plans for dissemination, application, monitoring and evaluation, and updating of the guideline and recommendations. Evidence derived from the four systematic reviews in support of the six new recommendations (see Annex 4) was summarized in GRADE tables to provide the evidence base on effectiveness that informed the new recommendations in this guideline. These GRADE tables, along with the systematic review search strategies and flow charts, are presented separately in the Web supplement. The framework presented in Figure 2.1 illustrates the essential structure of this consolidated guideline and points the reader to specific topics and relevant WHO recommendations (REC) and good practice
