Consolidated guideline on
KEYWORDS: hiv, women, living, living hiv, women living, health, services, guideline, rights, support, violence, recommendations, including, evidence, sexual


health services Protection from violence and creating safety (REC A.11–A.16 + GPS A.6–A.8) – Values and preferences GPS – Good practice statement REC – Recommendation – Enabling environment – Health interventions C-section: caesarean section; SRHR: sexual and reproductive health and rights; STI: sexually transmitted infection. WHO guidance. Chapter 2. Methodology and process for development of the guideline 17 Chapter 3. Creating an enabling environment: recommendations and good practice statements Implementing comprehensive sexual and reproductive health and rights (SRHR) and HIV programmes to meet the health priorities of the diverse group of women living with HIV in all epidemic contexts requires that interventions be put in place to overcome major barriers to service uptake, including social exclusion and marginalization, criminalization, gender-based violence (GBV), stigma and gender inequality. These barriers need to be taken into account when putting in place strategies for improving the accessibility, acceptability, uptake, equitable coverage, quality, effectiveness and efficiency of services for women living with HIV. If left unaddressed, such barriers undermine the SRHR of women living with HIV. The Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) launched at the start of 2016 create a vision for leaving no one behind and, in doing so, call for reaching those who are furthest behind first. Women living with HIV in many societies around the world continue to face multiple and intersecting forms of discrimination and are denied health (SRH) services – must work to eliminate barriers faced by women living with HIV. Drawing on the WHO environment for effective services (see Figure 3.1). This enabling environment can be characterized as follows: and equality. Health-care providers and managers of health-care facilities should be held accountable when they do not deliver services appropriately or fail to meet standards based on professional ethics and internationally agreed human rights principles. Delivery of care and treatment services should be accomplished in a people-centred and non-judgemental way, allowing women living with HIV to lead the decision-making about their own care in an informed, supported fashion. n Necessary medical products and technologies must be made available to allow health workers to deliver services, implement interventions and to create and maintain the enabling environment. manner, and should capture the wide range of determinants of good SRH for women living with HIV. This community to address clinical and non-clinical aspects of SRHR. Information gaps should be identified and filled through appropriate research, including community-driven research. Information should be reliable and accurate
