Consolidated guideline on
KEYWORDS: hiv, women, living, living hiv, women living, health, services, guideline, rights, support, violence, recommendations, including, evidence, sexual


HIV. This community to address clinical and non-clinical aspects of SRHR. Information gaps should be identified and filled through appropriate research, including community-driven research. Information should be reliable and accurate and it needs to be trusted by patients, who rely on it to support their informed decision- making about their personal health and well-being and about their interactions with health systems. must also be acceptable and of high quality. n Budgetary allocations and financing strategies need to be recognized as playing a critical role in creating effectiveness of service delivery. n Policies, regulations and operational incentives must take into consideration and must support an workers. Due to the range of determinants of SRHR, creating a supportive environment requires leadership and coalition-building across a range of sectors – including collaboration with and meaningful engagement of the community of women living with HIV. The health system should lead these efforts to ensure a comprehensive approach. 18 Consolidated guideline on sexual and reproductive health and rights of women living with HIV Figure 3.1: The WHO Health System Framework System building blocks Overall goals/outcomes Service delivery Health workforce Access Improved health (level and equity) Coverage Information Responsiveness Medical products, vaccines and technologies Social and financial risk protection Quality Financing Safety Improved efficiency Leadership/governance Source: WHO, 2007 (47). Creating an enabling environment for the SRHR of women living with HIV should embrace the following strategies: 1. Take a holistic approach: Making the environment more enabling requires working at multiple levels across the social ecological framework (see section 3.1), including the individual, relationship, community and institutional levels. Some examples of this approach: n supporting women’s psychosocial health can decrease internalized stigma on the individual level; n continuing HIV education in communities and supporting social protections for all people can decrease stigma in the social settings of women living with HIV; n ensuring that health-care facilities do not allow discriminatory practices can reduce institutional stigma; n promoting policies and enacting laws that prevent stigma and discrimination can begin to address stigma at its roots. These are all pieces of a comprehensive approach to an enabling environment for good SRH and realization of the rights of women living with HIV. 2. Invest in long-term programming: Examples of this approach include creating SRH and HIV programme plans with a 10–15 year horizon, investing in capacity-building, and working to change destructive social norms, instead of short-term crisis-response activities. Even if
