Consolidated guideline on
KEYWORDS: hiv, women, living, living hiv, women living, health, services, guideline, rights, support, violence, recommendations, including, evidence, sexual


approach include creating SRH and HIV programme plans with a 10–15 year horizon, investing in capacity-building, and working to change destructive social norms, instead of short-term crisis-response activities. Even if plans are concretized in five-year phases, the use of long-term planning strategies and indicators can support long-term goals. Capacity-building people living with HIV, will support locally owned and locally appropriate, sustainable programmes (48). 3. Focus on positive messages: If needs and deficiencies lead the conversation, interventions will not identify or build on strengths that exist among women living with HIV and within the health system. Techniques such as appreciative inquiry (38) allow for the identification of achievements that can serve as a foundation for future progress. Also, an exclusive focus on negative experiences may lead to re- traumatization of women who have had negative experiences, without supporting them to consider ways to move forward, towards recovery, healing and resilience. 4. Acknowledge the importance of language: Positive, inclusive language creates new opportunities for advancement and collaboration, instead of exclusively focusing on ending existing problems. For example, discussing “promoting health” instead of “ending disease” can create opportunities to think about the next Chapter 3. Creating an enabling environment: recommendations and good practice statements 19 use language that puts people ahead of disease, such as saying “people living with HIV” instead of “HIV-infected people” or “HIV-positive people”. HIV or AIDS should be used instead of HIV/AIDS, thereby disassociating the virus and the clinical syndrome. “Acquire” is a more neutral term than “infected” when referring to the transmission of HIV. Comprehensive prevention of “vertical transmission” can be used instead of saying “mother-to-child transmission” (or MTCT), to reduce possible blame that women living with HIV may experience. This is central to creating an environment that promotes SRHR (13). 5. Develop interventions in partnership with the end-user communities: This approach will ensure that services respond to the needs, priorities and realities of the intended beneficiaries. In the remainder of this chapter, section 3.1 discusses the application of a social ecological framework to defining an enabling environment for the SRHR for women living with HIV, and section 3.2 presents essential strategies for creating and maintaining an enabling environment. This section includes new and existing good practice statements and existing recommendations across eight different topic areas, ranging from the personal (psychological support) to the policy level (supportive laws and policies). It also includes discussion of relevant barriers that
