Consolidated guideline on
KEYWORDS: hiv, women, living, living hiv, women living, health, services, guideline, rights, support, violence, recommendations, including, evidence, sexual


and existing recommendations across eight different topic areas, ranging from the personal (psychological support) to the policy level (supportive laws and policies). It also includes discussion of relevant barriers that compromise access to appropriate, good-quality, rights-based SRH services for women living with HIV, with consideration of women’s own values and preferences in each area, which are drawn from the Global Values and Preferences Survey (GVPS) of women living with HIV (37). Taken together, the information in this chapter is intended to support the creation of the enabling environment required for successful achievement of SRHR for women living with HIV. 3.1 Applying a social ecological framework to defining an enabling environment for the SRHR of women living with HIV A social ecological framework provides a comprehensive model for understanding the multiple determinants of the SRHR of women living with HIV. This model is widely applied in understanding determinants of a wide SRHR of women living with HIV, the social ecological framework helps to bring together additional considerations for defining an enabling environment, including interrelated, multi-level factors that affect the capacity of women living with HIV to access relevant and necessary SRH and HIV services, information and products that are key to shaping their SRHR outcomes as well as other aspects of their health and well-being. No single factor determines SRHR outcomes for women living with HIV. A social ecological framework has four guiding principles. First, it recognizes that multiple factors influence and societal levels. Second, it posits that these influences interact across these different levels. Third, it influence the specific behaviour or outcome at each level of the framework. Last, the framework suggests that interventions that address factors at multiple levels are likely to be more effective than those that address only one level. Applying this framework to SRHR outcomes for women living with HIV means that: 1. At the individual level, there is a need to focus on supporting women living with HIV to achieve outcomes such as increased self-confidence and personal agency to make and enact decisions that interactions with women living with HIV to decrease stigma, discrimination and interpersonal violence, and to promote equality and inclusion. 20 Consolidated guideline on sexual and reproductive health and rights of women living with HIV 3. At the community level, there is a need to create positive and equitable social norms and support, including interventions aimed at broader community members and institutions
