Consolidated guideline on
KEYWORDS: hiv, women, living, living hiv, women living, health, services, guideline, rights, support, violence, recommendations, including, evidence, sexual


living with HIV 3. At the community level, there is a need to create positive and equitable social norms and support, including interventions aimed at broader community members and institutions outside the family unit stigma and the risk of violence, and to promote equality and inclusion. 4. At the societal level, there is a need to promote laws, policies and institutional practices supportive of to build broad societal norms and structures to support women living with HIV to realize their full SRHR. safe and supportive environment for women living with HIV requires collaboration across multiple sectors, such as justice, housing, agriculture, education, welfare and labour. Creating such an environment also requires collaboration across actors including government, civil society and the private sector, as well as the meaningful involvement of the community of women living with HIV in all aspects. A social ecological understanding of the SRHR of women living with HIV will shape and target interventions that are more likely to succeed in comprehensively addressing the interactive SRHR challenges for women living with HIV and the larger society. An example of the application of the social ecological framework to SRHR for women living with HIV is provided in Box 3.1. Box 3.1: How the social ecological framework can guide SRHR service delivery Example: Promoting healthy sexuality for women living with HIV Interventions at the individual level: Provide individual counselling and information to assist women to understand their own rights and SRH options and to help them determine how to go about achieving their aspirations; women may then be better able to achieve their rights and aspirations. Interventions at the relationship level: Ensure that health workers at health-care facilities respect and support women they interact with, instead of judging or stigmatizing them; women may then be better able to access the contraceptive or fertility support services they need in support of their SRH aspirations. Interventions at the community level: Implement interventions to shift social norms relating to violence and stigma; women may then be better able to achieve healthy sexuality if they experience less violence and feel that all their sexual identities are accepted. Interventions at the societal level: Enact law and policy reforms; women may then be better able to exercise their agency if they share power facilitated by the ability to legally inherit wealth and to benefit from health system policies that provide them a wide range of contraceptive
