Consolidated guideline on
KEYWORDS: hiv, women, living, living hiv, women living, health, services, guideline, rights, support, violence, recommendations, including, evidence, sexual


exercise their agency if they share power facilitated by the ability to legally inherit wealth and to benefit from health system policies that provide them a wide range of contraceptive options or fertility support services, to help them achieve their fertility desires. The health system should intervene in matters that influence health outcomes across the levels of the social ecological framework, and consider how they may interact to support women to achieve healthy sexuality. 3.2 Essential strategies for creating and maintaining an enabling environment The components of an enabling environment that need to be addressed across the individual, relationship, community and societal levels to support SRHR for women living with HIV include the following, in the order in which they are addressed in the remainder of this chapter: 1. psychosocial support 2. healthy sexuality across the life course 3. economic empowerment and resource access 4. integration of SRHR and HIV services Chapter 3. Creating an enabling environment: recommendations and good practice statements 21 5. protection from violence and creating safety 6. social inclusion and acceptance 7. community empowerment 8. supportive laws and policies and access to justice. Each of these subsections in this chapter presents new and/or existing good practice statements (GPSs) and existing recommendations (RECs) and additional information on these topics, including (i) background information; (ii) barriers; (iii) components of an enabling environment; and, only in the case of the NEW GPSs, (iv) a summary of evidence and considerations of the GDG. The WHO Guideline Steering Group (SG) for development of this guideline identified eight topic areas where new RECs or GPSs needed to be developed for this guideline (see Chapter 2, section 2.4). Four of those topics are covered in this chapter (the first four topics listed above) while the other four are covered in Chapter 4. The five new GPSs included in this guideline are presented in the first four subsections of this chapter (and they are labelled as “NEW”). Relevant findings from the Global Values and Preferences Survey (GVPS) of the priorities of women living with HIV are also presented in each sub-section and embedded in the information provided with the new GPSs. 3.2.1 Psychosocial support NEW good practice statement on psychosocial support GPS A.1: Psychosocial support interventions, such as support groups and peer support, provided by, with, and for women living with HIV, should be included in HIV care. Remarks • Psychosocial support interventions are
