Consolidated guideline on
KEYWORDS: hiv, women, living, living hiv, women living, health, services, guideline, rights, support, violence, recommendations, including, evidence, sexual


support interventions, such as support groups and peer support, provided by, with, and for women living with HIV, should be included in HIV care. Remarks • Psychosocial support interventions are optimally created, delivered and evaluated by, with and for women • Among the possible outcomes to address, psychosocial support interventions appear best able to improve coping, self-esteem, social support, depressive symptoms, stress and perceived stigma. • Interventions should use formative research to ensure that the intervention developed is relevant for the specific population, context and location. i. Background Many women living with HIV experience psychosocial challenges including stress, depressive symptoms, low self-esteem, and others. A higher proportion of people living with HIV experience depression and anxiety than the general population – with some studies also reporting higher prevalence in females than males – and there is also evidence of a negative impact of psychological distress on quality of life (49–51). In the Global Values and Preferences Survey (GVPS) among women living with HIV, of the 489 women who responded to the rejection (37). HIV diagnosis itself can initiate immediate and ongoing mental health challenges. Survey respondents reported that after diagnosis, on average, they experienced 3.5 times the number of mental that many women living with HIV experience – including stigma, fear, discrimination, violence, financial strain and treatment side-effects – interact to limit women’s SRH. Further analysis of the GVPS data showed a related to identities and behaviours that are subject to social and/or legal sanctions – such as sex work, drug use, same-sex relationships, poverty and non-conforming gender identities, among others – intersects with felt to carry their own stigma, adding yet another layer of difficulty for women when seeking support and services. These interacting issues affect health and well-being in multiple ways: they can create barriers to healthy sexual and intimate relationships, resulting in coping behaviours, such as substance use, which can increase vulnerability and risk; and they can also lead to violations of rights of excluded members of society who are living in the context of the unequal power dynamics associated with both an HIV-positive status and 22 Consolidated guideline on sexual and reproductive health and rights of women living with HIV mental health concerns (52). Psychosocial support “addresses the ongoing psychological and social problems of individuals living with HIV, their partners, families and caregivers” (53). ii. Barriers sexual relationships, and from asserting agency and control in those
