Consolidated guideline on
KEYWORDS: hiv, women, living, living hiv, women living, health, services, guideline, rights, support, violence, recommendations, including, evidence, sexual


“addresses the ongoing psychological and social problems of individuals living with HIV, their partners, families and caregivers” (53). ii. Barriers sexual relationships, and from asserting agency and control in those relationships. Psychosocial challenges can negatively affect the general well-being of women living with HIV, which may create or exacerbate social turn, can have an impact on adherence to treatment. iii. Components of an enabling environment HIV can have an impact on mental and emotional well-being, and there is a need for psychological support and counselling that is affordable, accessible, holistic and integrated with other SRH and HIV services. iv. Summary of evidence and considerations for the new good practice statement Despite the high prevalence of psychosocial challenges among women living with HIV, the identified association between psychosocial concerns and SRH outcomes (54, 55), and recommendations to include psychosocial support as a part of HIV care (53, 56), no reviews have looked at the impact of psychosocial support interventions on the SRHR of women living with HIV. Based on findings from the GVPS (see Background above and “Values and preferences” box at the end of this section) and the critical importance of process a new systematic review of studies evaluating psychosocial support interventions delivered by non-specialized providers to evaluate the impact on outcomes including mental, emotional and/or social well-being and quality of life, as well as SRHR decision-making in women living with HIV (57). In the studies lay providers or other persons with or without any training in the provision of psychosocial support services (58). Lay-provider-delivered interventions were included because many psychosocial support interventions are currently delivered by lay providers due to shortages of formally trained health-care providers. This also offers the opportunity for these lay providers to empathize with clients in a unique way; for example, through their shared experience of having HIV, if they are living with HIV and feel able to share their positive status with the client. Among the possible outcomes to address, psychosocial support interventions appear best able to improve coping, self-esteem, social support, depressive symptoms, stress and perceived stigma. However, the reviewed studies did not find statistically significant effects for these outcomes. There were no patterns for significant results for interventions that were delivered in groups versus individually, for different frequency of interventions, or for different primary outcomes or populations (e.g. women seeking antenatal care, mothers or other groups). Guidance related to formal mental health
