Consolidated guideline on
KEYWORDS: hiv, women, living, living hiv, women living, health, services, guideline, rights, support, violence, recommendations, including, evidence, sexual


groups versus individually, for different frequency of interventions, or for different primary outcomes or populations (e.g. women seeking antenatal care, mothers or other groups). Guidance related to formal mental health services is provided in WHO’s Mental health action Values and preferences Women living with HIV responding to the GVPS expressed a need for: psychological support for disclosure, self-confidence, acceptance and positive body image; ongoing psychosexual counselling, including with partner(s); care for past traumas; support in learning, understanding and believing in rights; and treatment and support for alcohol and drug use as both a symptom and cause of mental health problems. Respondents also articulated the need for: counselling that helps to build a life based on well-being and acceptance; peer support to provide safe spaces where women can talk without being judged; and policies that challenge stigma and promote human rights – including stigma related to mental health problems and to HIV (37). Chapter 3. Creating an enabling environment: recommendations and good practice statements 23 3.2.2 Healthy sexuality across the life course a. Puberty and adolescence Existing recommendation on healthy sexuality in puberty and adolescence REC A.1: Adolescent-friendly health services should be implemented in HIV services to ensure engagement and improved outcomes. (strong recommendation, low-quality evidence) Remarks • This recommendation was integrated into this guideline from WHO’s 2016 Consolidated guidelines on the use of antiretroviral drugs for treating and preventing HIV infection: recommendations for a public health approach (7). • Further information can be found in the original publication, available at: bitstream/10665/208825/1/9789241549684_eng.pdf • See also information on age of consent policies under section 3.2.8 for specific good practice recommendations (GPS A.15 and GPS A.16) on supporting adolescent women with HIV to achieve SRHR. i. Background Girls going through puberty need information and support to understand the changes taking place in their bodies. They need comprehensive sexuality education (CSE) (25), including information about how pregnancy, STIs and HIV transmission occur, and they need to be equipped with the knowledge and tools – including self-confidence and awareness – to navigate early sexual desires and experiences. As a high proportion of girls’ first sexual encounters are forced or coercive (60), girls need to be empowered to recognize, avoid or report violence and coercion if and when they encounter them. ii. Barriers Adolescent girls and young women living with HIV are often poorly informed about their SRHR. They often lack access to appropriate commodities due
