Consolidated guideline on
KEYWORDS: hiv, women, living, living hiv, women living, health, services, guideline, rights, support, violence, recommendations, including, evidence, sexual


and when they encounter them. ii. Barriers Adolescent girls and young women living with HIV are often poorly informed about their SRHR. They often lack access to appropriate commodities due to social and legal restrictions on contraceptives and other Moralistic attitudes or values and lack of the required competencies often stand in the way of health workers ongoing support can enable them to provide the necessary services (62). In several countries, there are discrepancies between the age of consent for sexual activity, for marriage and for access to services, thus creating barriers for young people needing to access SRH services. It has been documented that adolescents may opt not to seek care because they want to avoid telling their parents about services, particularly SRH services (63). A survey of a nationally representative sample of adolescents in the USA found that 35% avoided contact with health services so as not to have to tell their parents about their from learning about their high-risk behaviour (63). While some laws serve to protect young people, national age of consent laws and social norms can also influence service providers’ attitudes and behaviours and create barriers to service access. Thus, it is not surprising that adolescents from key affected populations (e.g. sex workers, men who have sex with men, and people who inject drugs) and vulnerable populations (e.g. incarcerated youth, young women) are even less likely to have access to HIV testing and counselling or care and treatment compared with the general adolescent population (64). iii. Components of an enabling environment SRH services should support healthy sexuality throughout the life course, including offering accessible and acceptable services to all adolescents living with HIV (65). 24 Consolidated guideline on sexual and reproductive health and rights of women living with HIV As with older women living with HIV, sexual support and counselling programmes should be designed by, with and for young women living with HIV, including those from key affected populations and especially those from vulnerable communities, such as adolescent girls living with HIV who also have other disabilities. To facilitate implementation of the recommendations, providers of SRH and HIV services should receive training, job aids and ongoing supervision in providing supportive counselling specific to SRHR for adolescent girls and young women. Girls who were born with HIV, or who acquired it in childhood, may require special support as they reach adolescence, enter into sexual relationships, and
