Consolidated guideline on
KEYWORDS: hiv, women, living, living hiv, women living, health, services, guideline, rights, support, violence, recommendations, including, evidence, sexual


adolescent girls and young women. Girls who were born with HIV, or who acquired it in childhood, may require special support as they reach adolescence, enter into sexual relationships, and consider their SRH priorities and rights – including contraceptive advice – for the first time. For girls who acquire HIV during adolescence it is important that they receive accurate and timely information and counselling regarding their SRHR as young women living with HIV, including information and advice on starting/continuing sexual relationships, marriage and fertility choices. Trauma counselling and ongoing psychosocial support may be required for girls and young women who have acquired HIV as a result of rape, incest or sexual violence (for information on adolescent status disclosure, see section 4.2.1: Safe disclosure). Peers provide many benefits for adolescents. They can be an important source of psychological support, helping to build confidence and resilience and helping to reduce anxiety and promote a sense of belonging. Because of their common experiences, peers can also help adolescents living with HIV to cope with fear, hopelessness, stigma and discrimination, and they can facilitate problem solving. Peers can also be good sources of practical information, motivation and positive reinforcement for adherence to treatment, Health-care providers for adolescents living with HIV should make an assessment of sexual activity and provide full and accurate information on available SRH services (67). WHO’s 2011 Guidelines on preventing early pregnancy and poor reproductive outcomes among adolescents in developing countries outline specific concerns related to creating an enabling environment for the health and rights of all adolescents, including adolescent girls living with HIV. These include recommendations to prevent early pregnancy by influencing factors such as early marriage, coerced sex, unsafe abortion, access to contraceptives and access to maternal health services for adolescents. These recommendations should be reviewed when creating an enabling environment for young women living with HIV, as for all young women (68). Values and preferences Women living with HIV responding to the GVPS articulated the need for SRHR support for girls and women living with HIV to be available throughout the life course. Social protection mechanisms are perceived as necessary to prevent child sexual abuse, including child and teenage marriages and coerced or transactional sex. Girls and young women living with HIV need access to a full range of information about body changes, menstruation, sexual maturity, sex and sexuality, contraception, and family and pregnancy planning options; this is
