Consolidated guideline on
KEYWORDS: hiv, women, living, living hiv, women living, health, services, guideline, rights, support, violence, recommendations, including, evidence, sexual


women living with HIV need access to a full range of information about body changes, menstruation, sexual maturity, sex and sexuality, contraception, and family and pregnancy planning options; this is especially needed by those transitioning from child to adult services – these services should be provided free from judgement, coercion or the need for parental consent. Comprehensive sexuality education (CSE) offered in and out of school for girls and young women should be complemented by behavioural interventions provided by doctors and other care providers, within the context of holistic, woman-centred and culturally-competent care throughout the life course, so that the whole girl or woman is considered, and not just the virus. There is a need for services, including sex and relationships counselling, to be of high quality and unbiased. Unmarried women, lesbian, bisexual and transgender women, as well as those without children, need to be treated in accordance with the same standards of attention and care as those who are married or have children (37). Chapter 3. Creating an enabling environment: recommendations and good practice statements 25 b. Ageing, menopause and post-menopause NEW good practice statement on ageing and healthy sexuality GPS A.2: Women living with HIV in all their diversity should be supported in their choice to have safe and fulfilling sexual relationships and sexual pleasure as they age. Women living with HIV who choose not to be sexually active should also be supported in their choice. Remarks • Sexual support and counselling programmes should be designed by, with and for women living with HIV from • Women living with HIV must be supported in their voluntary choices around sexual relationships and be given information and resources to engage in safe, enjoyable sexual experiences, or to not engage in sex, depending on their personal preference, with counselling and support tailored to their decision-making, desires and needs. This is true for all women, including those beyond their reproductive years. • To facilitate implementation of the recommendations, providers of SRH and HIV services should receive and rights, including for women beyond reproductive age. The training should cover what women are told when they are diagnosed with HIV in relation to their sexuality across the life course, and for their specific life course stage. The health system may need to pay special attention to helping HIV service providers implement these recommendations, given their general focus on treatment adherence and transmission supervision and
