Consolidated guideline on
KEYWORDS: hiv, women, living, living hiv, women living, health, services, guideline, rights, support, violence, recommendations, including, evidence, sexual


course stage. The health system may need to pay special attention to helping HIV service providers implement these recommendations, given their general focus on treatment adherence and transmission supervision and job aids, and the creation of materials with and for women living with HIV. • Criminalization of non-disclosure, exposure and transmission makes it harder for women to enter into sexual relationships. i. Background Considerations around SRHR for women living with HIV change throughout the life course. The focus of many SRH and HIV programmes is on women in their reproductive years. Evidence relating to post-menopausal women is limited. While some women experience menopause at a young age and require appropriate services years. In older age, lengthened life expectancies of women – including women living with HIV – mean that many more adults over the age of 50 are acquiring and living with HIV. They will need support for ongoing healthy sexuality and sexual health decision-making. ii. Barriers Research examining sexual relationships and ageing in people aged 50 years and older has largely been conducted with HIV-negative populations. Little is known about supporting SRHR, particularly supporting healthy sexuality, among older women living with HIV. Judgemental attitudes or lack of awareness about the importance of satisfying sexuality for older women can lead to poor care. Similarly, more research is needed into the possible effects of HIV, or HIV treatment, on the menopause. HIV stigma, disclosure, body image concerns and possible loss of libido, among other issues, can inhibit the development of relationships and safer sexual practices among older women living with HIV. iii. Components of an enabling environment SRH services should support healthy sexuality across the life course, including offering accessible and acceptable services to all women living with HIV, including older women. iv. Summary of evidence and considerations for the new good practice statement Based on findings from the GVPS and the lack of existing research on healthy sexuality and older women living with HIV, the GDG used a systematic review of studies that examined the association between ageing and sexual behaviours or experiences of intimacy among women living with HIV (69). The review identified 26 Consolidated guideline on sexual and reproductive health and rights of women living with HIV only four studies that met the inclusion criteria. Overall they showed that while women living with HIV are living longer lives and remaining sexually active in later life, there continue to
