Consolidated guideline on
KEYWORDS: hiv, women, living, living hiv, women living, health, services, guideline, rights, support, violence, recommendations, including, evidence, sexual


four studies that met the inclusion criteria. Overall they showed that while women living with HIV are living longer lives and remaining sexually active in later life, there continue to be significant barriers to being sexually active and maintaining healthy sexual relationships. Values and preferences Women living with HIV – especially older women participating in the GVPS – raised concerns about the impact of living with HIV and long-term adherence to antiretroviral therapy (ART) on the menopause. They also highlighted the dearth of SRHR information and services available to post-menopausal women. They articulated the need for SRHR information and support for women living with HIV to be available throughout the life course, including: information about any known or potential interactions between HIV/use of ART and the menopause; appropriate care and support to women going through the menopause; and training, sensitization and other behaviour change support efforts for to older women. Sex and relationships counselling should be available to women of all ages, including for lesbian, bisexual and transgender women (37). 3.2.3 Economic empowerment and resource access NEW good practice statement on food security GPS A.3: Comprehensive assessment of food security with linkage to appropriate services is an integral component of the care of women living with HIV. Remarks • Food insecurity is often a significant challenge for women living with HIV. • There are other significant challenges for women living with HIV that are linked to resources, including housing and low socioeconomic status. • Multidimensional programmes that seek to reduce hunger, poverty, malnutrition and food insecurity, and which enhance women’s legal and social rights in conjunction with food assistance and income generation, should be considered part of the HIV response. • Food access is important. Provision of information regarding sustainable food practices can be a useful and relatively low-cost intervention. It should be accompanied by information on foods that are good for women living with HIV, such as those that help to maintain good nutrition and a healthy weight. Other options may include improving access to overall economic empowerment and social protection interventions or services to support food security and other related needs, such as housing and economic independence. This may include connecting women living with HIV to income-generating opportunities. • Multisectoral collaboration is essential for delivery of a comprehensive SRH package of care using a rights- based approach. facilities may need to be made for all individuals to avoid
