Consolidated guideline on
KEYWORDS: hiv, women, living, living hiv, women living, health, services, guideline, rights, support, violence, recommendations, including, evidence, sexual


• Multisectoral collaboration is essential for delivery of a comprehensive SRH package of care using a rights- based approach. facilities may need to be made for all individuals to avoid tensions between people living with HIV and those who are not but who also need food, and to avoid incentivizing HIV acquisition. Economic empowerment and services supporting access to resources should consider the overall situation of each woman living with HIV and link her to other appropriate services, as needed. i. Background A positive HIV status may be linked to livelihood insecurity, increased poverty and a lack of resources to meet key needs and expenses. This leads to greater vulnerability and poor SRHR outcomes. Therefore, interventions focused on economic empowerment, poverty reduction and resource access, such as housing and food support, have the potential to bolster the status of women living with HIV within their families, Chapter 3. Creating an enabling environment: recommendations and good practice statements 27 gender or marital status limit wealth acquisition by women through limits on property ownership, inheritance from family or partners who have died, and other means. Also, socioeconomic vulnerabilities can make it difficult for women living with HIV to exercise their sexual and reproductive rights, such as in situations where women are dependent on violent or abusive partners, or transactional sex, to ensure that their and/or their children’s basic needs are met. ii. Barriers Women living with HIV report experiencing livelihood insecurity as a result of abandonment, widowhood, loss partner violence, and negative treatment side-effects. Economic dependence can force women to remain in violent relationships and deter them from accessing treatment, and can thus have a negative impact on the mental health of women living with HIV. HIV treatment can increase the need for food security, as women living with HIV may not only need food for ART side-effects. Studies also show that some women engage in transactional sex to ensure food access (61). iii. Components of an enabling environment Economic and legal empowerment interventions could strengthen vocational skills, provide mentorship, bolster self-esteem, provide a sense of solidarity, and build skills in communication and negotiation with sexual partners among women living with HIV. Such interventions may also enhance women’s ability to claim property and inheritance rights so they may not be forced to rely on others for economic and food security. iv. Summary of evidence and considerations for the new good practice statement
