Consolidated guideline on
KEYWORDS: hiv, women, living, living hiv, women living, health, services, guideline, rights, support, violence, recommendations, including, evidence, sexual


and inheritance rights so they may not be forced to rely on others for economic and food security. iv. Summary of evidence and considerations for the new good practice statement Food insecurity Food insecurity refers to the lack of access to adequate nutrition. Among people living with HIV, food insecurity has been linked to increased vulnerability to HIV transmission, more rapid disease progression, and incomplete HIV viral load suppression. Several studies have identified food insecurity as a motivation for women to engage in transactional sex in exchange for food and/or other resources, or to engage in sex work. Food insecurity is one of a number of significant challenges for women living with HIV that are linked to resources including housing and low socioeconomic status. The GDG considered the systematic review of studies that examined the impact of food insecurity on sexual risk behaviours and ART adherence among women living with HIV (70), which was conducted in support of the development of this guideline. The review identified five studies that met the inclusion criteria, including qualitative and quantitative data from Africa and North America in the peer-reviewed literature. Four major themes were identified in relation to food insecurity: sex as a means of survival (i.e. sex work and transactional sex); lack of control in relationships; a barrier to ART initiation and adherence; ART adherence and women’s health. Housing Housing services can also be particularly important. Housing can enhance quality of life by creating a safe home, a safe setting for women trying to leave violent relationships, and a setting where a woman can store and take her medication, including ART. Enhancing inheritance and property rights for women who are widowed (especially due to HIV) can also support similar beneficial outcomes. It is critical that receipt of food and other services does not stigmatize women living with HIV or put women at risk of unintentional disclosure of their HIV status. 28 Consolidated guideline on sexual and reproductive health and rights of women living with HIV There is increasing evidence on the role of social protection in the response to HIV (71). HIV-sensitive social protection means not exclusively focusing on people living with or affected by HIV. Through an HIV-sensitive approach, people living with HIV and other key populations are served together so as not to exclude equally underserved groups. Social protection has been defined as “all public and private initiatives that provide
