Consolidated guideline on
KEYWORDS: hiv, women, living, living hiv, women living, health, services, guideline, rights, support, violence, recommendations, including, evidence, sexual


with HIV and other key populations are served together so as not to exclude equally underserved groups. Social protection has been defined as “all public and private initiatives that provide income or consumption transfers to the poor, protect the vulnerable against livelihood risks and enhance the social status and rights of the marginalized with the overall objective of reducing the economic and social vulnerability of the poor, vulnerable and marginalized groups” (71). Economic empowerment of people living with HIV in support of their basic needs, including food, housing and nutrition, and increasing the effectiveness of HIV treatment for prolonged and improved quality of life are key components of a typical combination of HIV and social protection instruments (71). While supporting empowerment and resource access can improve individual well-being, at a structural level, poverty is linked to HIV and to challenges of maintaining wellness and SRHR. To facilitate the SRHR of women social protection actors to reduce poverty and increase resource access. Values and preferences Throughout their responses to the GVPS, women living with HIV emphasized the challenges of (raised by 67% of respondents) was lack of employment opportunities for women living with HIV. The survey also revealed a number of issues linking economic insecurity to the SRHR of women living with HIV. For example, violence against women living with HIV – including denial of property and inheritance rights in the event of widowhood – creates and exacerbates poverty and financial vulnerability; economic dependence can force women to stay in violent relationships, and also creates a lack of negotiating and decision-making power within the relationship, including in relation to sex and child-bearing. Financial stability also bears on whether and when women living with HIV decide to have or not have children, including the ability to access private fertility services and private, safe abortion services. Financial insecurity may have a bigger impact on more marginalized women living with HIV, such as sex workers and other women with multiple vulnerabilities. Poverty emerged as a major concern respondents highlighted the need for: increasing the number of health centres offering HIV treatment and care and SRH services in rural areas; enabling access to health insurance; offering affordable fertility treatment; and ensuring that transport and childcare costs are not barriers to accessing services. The intersecting nature of the challenges experienced by women living with HIV calls for multidisciplinary teams, including peer mentors, able to work across
