Consolidated guideline on
KEYWORDS: hiv, women, living, living hiv, women living, health, services, guideline, rights, support, violence, recommendations, including, evidence, sexual


should be included in the design and delivery of these services. * As defined in WHO’s 2004 Reproductive health strategy to accelerate progress towards the attainment of international development goals and targets, comprehensive SRH services include the following: improving antenatal, perinatal, postpartum and newborn care; providing high-quality services for family planning, including infertility services; eliminating unsafe abortion; combating sexually transmitted infections including HIV, reproductive tract infections, cervical cancer and other gynaecological morbidities; and promoting sexual health (65). Remarks • Both on-site care models and enhanced referral models of integration have demonstrated positive outcomes. Thus, the model of integration used should be driven by the care setting and should reduce existing barriers to access. • A full range of family planning and STI services can be provided regularly throughout the course of routine HIV care, rather than exclusively at enrolment or treatment initiation. • Service integration needs to consider the context of women’s lives, including services related to gender-based violence (GBV) and other health concerns. i. Background Integrating SRH and HIV services may improve women’s SRHR outcomes. Such integration recognizes the importance of empowering people to make informed choices about their own SRH, and recognizes the vital role that sexuality plays in people’s lives (72). Comprehensive, rights-based family planning (FP) services are a core component of an integrated SRH and HIV services package, which enables women with HIV to pursue their fertility goals, including planning for safer pregnancies, spacing desired pregnancies and preventing unintended pregnancies. A list of essential SRHR services for women living with HIV is detailed in Box 3.2. The provision of ART to women living with HIV is also a part of effective clinical management of HIV among women seeking FP services (7). Strengthening service access or quality may not suffice to improve health outcomes in the absence of a safe and supportive enabling environment, necessitating the inclusion of screening and management of GBV and prevention of stigma as a part of FP service delivery. It is never acceptable for a provider to coerce or force a woman to prevent conception if she does not want to do so. A woman should be counselled on the full range of healthy pregnancy planning and contraceptive options, to support her in making voluntary choices. Integrating FP services with HIV services has been one approach to make both services more accessible to women and couples living with HIV. The importance of
