Consolidated guideline on
KEYWORDS: hiv, women, living, living hiv, women living, health, services, guideline, rights, support, violence, recommendations, including, evidence, sexual


in making voluntary choices. Integrating FP services with HIV services has been one approach to make both services more accessible to women and couples living with HIV. The importance of linking SRH with HIV and AIDS responses is now widely recognized. Linkages need to be and social determinants affecting both HIV and SRH. There is international consensus around the need for effective linkages between responses to HIV and SRH, including recommendations for specific actions at the levels of policy, systems and services (73). Chapter 3. Creating an enabling environment: recommendations and good practice statements 31 Box 3.2: Essential SRHR services for women living with HIV • Information and counselling to support women’s rights to make decisions about reproduction, including planning desired pregnancies and preventing unintended pregnancies • Effective clinical management of HIV to improve health irrespective of pregnancy intention • Rights-based family planning counselling and services, including contraceptives and infertility screening and services • Sexually transmitted infection (STI) screening and management • Gender-based violence (GBV) response • An environment free of stigma and discrimination. Source: The Inter-agency Task Team for Prevention and Treatment of HIV Infection in Pregnant Women, Mothers, and their Children, 2012 (74). ii. Barriers Women living with HIV who seek HIV care may be unable to consistently access or utilize SRH services due to barriers, including lack of awareness, distance, timing, discrimination, GBV and others. This may increase negative SRH outcomes, including unplanned, undesired or inadequately spaced pregnancies, untreated STIs, and others. The vertical nature of HIV services in many countries may create a barrier to the provision of FP information systems to connect services. iii. Components of an enabling environment Ensuring access to the full range of choice of SRH services delivered in a respectful, supportive environment is critical for women living with HIV to achieve optimal SRHR outcomes. Health-care facilities can create a supportive environment that facilitates good SRH. iv. Summary of evidence and considerations for the new good practice statements While prior WHO guidelines included the integration of HIV into SRH services (6), in the development of the current guideline two reviews were undertaken to characterize the range of models of integration of SRH services (STI and FP services, respectively) into HIV treatment that have been evaluated using a comparison group, and to synthesize the evidence on their positive and negative outcomes. In the context of these two reviews, SRH and HIV integration services
