Consolidated guideline on
KEYWORDS: hiv, women, living, living hiv, women living, health, services, guideline, rights, support, violence, recommendations, including, evidence, sexual


have been evaluated using a comparison group, and to synthesize the evidence on their positive and negative outcomes. In the context of these two reviews, SRH and HIV integration services could include (i) STI services, such as testing, treatment and syndromic management of STIs; (ii) FP services, including information, education and communication (IEC), behaviour change communication (BCC), counselling and assessment; and/or (iii) commodity provision, either on-site or through referrals. The reviews included a wide range of outcomes. In the review on integration of FP and HIV services (75), primary outcomes reported by the reviewed studies included changes in unmet need for FP, use of modern contraceptive methods, use of more effective methods, use of dual modern method with condoms, use of any contraceptive, and rates of unintended pregnancy. Secondary outcomes included knowledge about contraceptive methods and attitudes towards their use, cost–effectiveness and client satisfaction with services. Modern methods of contraception included hormonal injectable contraceptives, oral contraceptives (pills), intrauterine devices (IUDs), implants, female or male sterilization, and consistent use of male or female condoms. More effective contraceptive methods include all modern methods except condoms. In the review on integration of STI and HIV services (76), outcomes included uptake of STI services, STIs (re-infection), client satisfaction and service quality, and provider knowledge and attitudes about STI services for women living with HIV. Based on review of this evidence, the GDG reached consensus on new good practice statements GPS A.4 and GPS A.5. accessible, affordable and available, with provision of integrated SRH services. Services need to uphold the human rights of women living with HIV in the integration and delivery of services to ensure that their informed consent is respected, that they are accorded a full range of ART treatment options, and that they are not subjected to coerced termination of pregnancy, coerced sterilization or pressure to start treatment (77). 32 Consolidated guideline on sexual and reproductive health and rights of women living with HIV Special considerations for the SRHR of young women living with HIV who inject drugs are presented in Box 3.3. Box 3.3: Special considerations for the SRHR of young women living with HIV who inject drugs Integration and service access: • Separate services for TB, HIV, viral hepatitis, SRH and for other aspects of harm reduction make it difficult for young people who inject drugs to access care to address all their needs (78). • As reported by the
