Consolidated guideline on
KEYWORDS: hiv, women, living, living hiv, women living, health, services, guideline, rights, support, violence, recommendations, including, evidence, sexual


and for other aspects of harm reduction make it difficult for young people who inject drugs to access care to address all their needs (78). • As reported by the Youth RISE consultation, young women who inject drugs in Kyrgyzstan said that SRH services were important to them, but they felt stigmatized when accessing them (78). • Pregnant women who inject drugs are less likely than non-injecting pregnant women to have access to antenatal care and services for the prevention of perinatal transmission of HIV, thus they face an increased risk of passing HIV to their newborns (79). treatment of young people or perceived lack of privacy and confidentiality – discourage young people who inject drugs from seeking the services they need. In some countries, a conservative social climate makes it harder for young people, especially girls and young women, to access SRH services. Overarching considerations for services for young adolescents who inject drugs: • Primary consideration should be given to the best interests of the young adolescents and children in the design and delivery of all programmes and services for children who inject drugs (including HIV and SRH services), in accordance with the Convention on the Rights of the Child (80; Article 1) and other relevant international treaties. Values and preferences Women living with HIV responding to the GVPS articulated that health care for women and girls living with HIV should be accessible, affordable and available, with provision of integrated SRH services. Respondents reported negative experiences with regard to contraceptive choice: many have been told by service providers that they may only use condoms; others have been coerced or forced into using long-acting or permanent contraceptive methods. Additionally, these methods are sometimes given as a condition for receiving other services, such as safe abortion and post-abortion care or ART. Furthermore, only around half of women surveyed reported receiving practical support for safe conception or for realizing their fertility desires, despite these topics being discussed during contact with health-care providers 70% of the time. Experiences of violence were also reported as barriers to optimal SRHR outcomes. Women living with HIV stated that compassionate, holistic, unconditional care and support and informed choice should be provided to all women living with HIV in the context of services related to pregnancy and fertility desires, and the enjoyment of healthy sexuality. Survey respondents expressed the need for pregnancy and childbirth among women living with
