Consolidated guideline on
KEYWORDS: hiv, women, living, living hiv, women living, health, services, guideline, rights, support, violence, recommendations, including, evidence, sexual


in the context of services related to pregnancy and fertility desires, and the enjoyment of healthy sexuality. Survey respondents expressed the need for pregnancy and childbirth among women living with HIV – as well as the right to enter into sexual relationships and marriage – to be “normalized” at the level of the health services and within the community at large, instead of being seen as deviant and dangerous. Women want to be able to choose they want to. Women living with HIV recommended peer learning, sharing and counselling to enable access to information, training and awareness relating to risks (of onward transmission), safety and sexual pleasure (for themselves and their partners), and to promote self-acceptance and self-confidence. Women living with HIV need access to male and female condoms, lubricants and other safe-sex-enhancing commodities, and skills to negotiate their use (37). Chapter 3. Creating an enabling environment: recommendations and good practice statements 33 3.2.5 Protection from violence and creating safety Existing recommendations on protection from violence and creating safety REC A.11: Women who disclose any form of violence by an intimate partner (or other family member) or another that is easily accessible) is immediately available to do so. (strong recommendation, indirect evidence) * Note: First-line support includes: • being non-judgemental and supportive and validating what the woman is saying • providing practical care and support that responds to her concerns, but does not intrude • asking about her history of violence, listening carefully, but not pressuring her to talk (care should be taken when discussing sensitive topics when interpreters are involved) • helping her access information about resources, including legal and other services that she might think helpful • assisting her to increase safety for herself and her children, where needed • providing or mobilizing social support. Providers should ensure: • that the consultation is conducted in private • confidentiality, while informing women of the limits of confidentiality (e.g. when there is mandatory reporting) (81). REC A.12: Health-care providers should ask about exposure to intimate partner violence when assessing conditions** that may be caused or complicated by intimate partner violence, in order to improve diagnosis/identification and subsequent care. (strong recommendation, indirect evidence) ** Note: Examples of clinical conditions associated with intimate partner violence (IPV): • symptoms of depression, anxiety, post-traumatic stress disorder (PTSD), sleep disorders • suicidality or self-harm • alcohol and other substance use • unexplained chronic gastrointestinal symptoms
