Consolidated guideline on
KEYWORDS: hiv, women, living, living hiv, women living, health, services, guideline, rights, support, violence, recommendations, including, evidence, sexual


partnership with key population-led organizations. All violence against people from key populations should be monitored and reported, and redress mechanisms should be established to provide justice. GPS A.7: Health and other support services should be provided to all persons from key populations who experience violence. In particular, persons experiencing sexual violence should have timely access to comprehensive post-rape care in accordance with WHO guidelines. GPS A.8: Law enforcement officials and health- and social-care providers need to be trained to recognize and uphold the human rights of key populations and to be held accountable if they violate these rights, including perpetration of violence. Remarks • These existing good practice statements were integrated into this guideline from WHO’s Consolidated guidelines on HIV prevention, diagnosis, treatment and care for key populations – 2016 update (10). • Key populations include women living with HIV. • Further information on all of the above existing good practice statements can be found in the original publication, available at: Chapter 3. Creating an enabling environment: recommendations and good practice statements 35 i. Background Violence against women living with HIV can take various forms, including physical, sexual and psychological abuse and controlling behaviours by an intimate partner (60). Studies suggest that violence is strongly associated with HIV; violence and HIV interact, resulting in multiple negative outcomes. Importantly for this guideline, violence may be associated with a woman’s HIV-positive status (82). According to WHO estimates, women with HIV are at least 1.5 times more likely to experience violence than other women, which could be because violence preceded HIV acquisition or because HIV acquisition and disclosure resulted in violence (83). In addition, reported rates of violence against sex workers and transgender women living with HIV are high (10), and these rates are likely to be underreported, particularly where certain populations or activities are criminalized, or – in the case of transgender persons – where legal protections are lacking. Violence may also challenge the ability of a woman living with HIV to make and enact health-promoting decisions related to her sexual and reproductive life, or to access and utilize SRH and HIV services, including ART, or to adhere to treatment regimens. Further, the negative psychological outcomes of violence may inhibit self-care (82). During the scoping meeting in January 2015, the GDG decided to review violence-specific questions related to safe disclosure (see RECs B.4–B.10, presented in Chapter 4, section 4.2.1), but decided not
