Consolidated guideline on
KEYWORDS: hiv, women, living, living hiv, women living, health, services, guideline, rights, support, violence, recommendations, including, evidence, sexual


During the scoping meeting in January 2015, the GDG decided to review violence-specific questions related to safe disclosure (see RECs B.4–B.10, presented in Chapter 4, section 4.2.1), but decided not to review other existing recommendations on related issues since they were considered to be current and relevant. Key existing recommendations (RECs A.11–A.16) and good practice statements (GPSs A.6–A.8) for creating safety for women living with HIV are included in the boxes at the beginning of this subsection, and other related recommendations and guidance are available in the referenced documents. ii. Barriers Violence against women living with HIV is fuelled by the imbalance in the power dynamics of gender, and by prejudice and discrimination against women living with HIV and women from other key affected populations. Also, multiple other structural factors influence vulnerability to violence, including discriminatory or harsh laws and policing practices, and cultural and social norms that legitimize stigma and discrimination (10, 60). At the interpersonal level, women living with HIV experience violence from intimate partners or family members when attitudes and behaviours, and forced sterilization (84). iii. Components of an enabling environment Efforts to address violence against women living with HIV must involve other sectors along with the health sector. Together, they must create an enabling environment to promote physical, sexual and emotional well-being and safety. Critical components of an enabling environment include: mechanisms for documenting understand human rights; fostering the accountability of law enforcement officials and health-care professionals to prevent and respond to violence and infringements of human rights; and addressing the structural elements that facilitate violence, such as gender inequality in decision-making and resource access, social norms, unfair laws and policies, and stigma and discrimination (84). In some settings, violence is pervasive for many women. While appropriate action around violence could help improve SRHR for all women, special attention should be paid to women who may be more vulnerable to stigma and exclusion, including women living with HIV as well as lesbian, bisexual and transgender women, women who use drugs and women engaged in sex work. Certain core values should accompany interventions to create safety for women living with HIV and thereby foster improved SRH and realization of their rights. The following will help to create an enabling environment for safety for women living with HIV: n taking a human rights approach; n putting women’s safety first and ensuring confidentiality; 36 Consolidated guideline on sexual and
