Consolidated guideline on
KEYWORDS: hiv, women, living, living hiv, women living, health, services, guideline, rights, support, violence, recommendations, including, evidence, sexual


an enabling environment for safety for women living with HIV: n taking a human rights approach; n putting women’s safety first and ensuring confidentiality; 36 Consolidated guideline on sexual and reproductive health and rights of women living with HIV possible backlash that could result when violence is addressed among women’s partners, families and communities; n promoting gender equality; n treating all people with respect; and n facilitating the meaningful participation of women living with HIV in efforts to end violence and create safety (84). Prevention of violence against women living with HIV It is critical that whenever possible, as for all women, violence against women living with HIV is prevented and safety is promoted. This includes implementing community interventions to transform gender norms; conducting training for health workers on economic and gender issues and HIV; promoting laws and policies to support gender empowerment; and integrating motivational interviewing and counselling interventions into efforts for HIV risk reduction and HIV testing and counselling (see Box 3.4) (84). With regard to the role of law and policy reforms to better protect the rights and safety of all women, including women living with HIV in all their diversity, this can include: n advocacy to increase awareness of reporting mechanisms and disciplinary action; n conducting sensitization workshops for people with pivotal roles in the community (e.g. government n creation of safe spaces; n creation of early warning and rapid response mechanisms with the involvement of women living with HIV, health workers and law enforcement officials. Integrating community representatives into these efforts also helps to create channels of communication among women living with HIV, civic officials and police (10). Unfortunately, law enforcement practices can increase the risk of violence faced by women living with HIV, especially those involved in activities that are criminalized or subject to legal sanctions, such as sex work or drug use. Indeed, law enforcement officers themselves can be perpetrators of violence. Work with law enforcement officers can involve training on the human rights of women living with HIV as well as promoting accountability for rights-based law enforcement (10). women living with HIV should be tackled through strategies to eliminate any form of violence. Box 3.4: Addressing violence against women in the context of HIV: a programming tool For specific ideas to foster an improved supportive environment by addressing violence, see the programming tool: 16 Ideas for addressing violence against women in the
