Consolidated guideline on
KEYWORDS: hiv, women, living, living hiv, women living, health, services, guideline, rights, support, violence, recommendations, including, evidence, sexual


of HIV: a programming tool For specific ideas to foster an improved supportive environment by addressing violence, see the programming tool: 16 Ideas for addressing violence against women in the context of the HIV epidemic (84). It presents ideas for: • integrating violence against women and HIV services • empowering women • transforming cultural and social norms • promoting and implementing laws and policies. Support for persons experiencing violence All women living with HIV who experience either sexual violence or intimate partner violence (IPV) and who disclose this to a health-care provider in an SRH or HIV service-delivery setting should receive first-line support in line with WHO guidelines for responding to IPV and sexual violence (81). In addition, women who experience sexual assault should be offered post-rape care that includes: emergency contraception; safe abortion and post-abortion care as needed, to the fullest extent of the law; post-exposure prophylaxis for HIV (PEP) and screening/testing and treatment for STIs; hepatitis B immunization; and psychosocial care and support. Where necessary, they should be referred to or offered medico-legal care, including forensic examination, in accordance with WHO guidelines (85, 86). Chapter 3. Creating an enabling environment: recommendations and good practice statements 37 should ask about their risk of IPV. Those who disclose IPV should be treated for their most immediate clinical needs including any injuries, offered first-line support, offered psychosocial support, assessed for mental health conditions and provided with mental health care in accordance with WHO clinical and policy guidelines for responding to IPV and sexual violence (81) and the WHO Mental Health Gap Action Programme (mhGAP) recommendations (87). It also is important to monitor and document incidents of violence, both as evidence for advocacy and to inform programme design. Documenting the levels of violence faced by women living with HIV is often the first step in creating awareness. Documentation of such violence must be undertaken ethically with women’s consent and with care to maintain confidentiality so as to not compromise their safety. Values and preferences The single most prominent finding of the GVPS was that women living with HIV experience high levels of violence – which many of them termed “intolerable”. The vast majority of survey respondents, 89%, reported that they had experienced violence or fear of violence in one or more settings before, since or because of their diagnosis. HIV diagnosis acts as a specific trigger for IPV and/ or violence from
