Consolidated guideline on
KEYWORDS: hiv, women, living, living hiv, women living, health, services, guideline, rights, support, violence, recommendations, including, evidence, sexual


in their efforts to monitor stigma, confront discrimination against key populations and change punitive legal and social norms. Remarks • This existing good practice statement was integrated into this guideline from WHO’s Consolidated guidelines on HIV prevention, diagnosis, treatment and care for key populations – 2016 update (10). • In addition, a relevant “critical enabler” should be noted: “Countries should work towards implementing and enforcing antidiscrimination and protective laws, derived from human rights standards, to eliminate stigma, discrimination and violence against people from key populations” (10). • Further information on the above good practice statement and critical enabler can be found in the original publication, available at: Existing good practice statements on providing friendly services GPS A.10: Health-care workers should receive appropriate recurrent training and sensitization to ensure that they have the skills, knowledge and understanding to provide services for adults and adolescents GPS A.11: It is recommended to make contraceptives affordable to all, including adolescents, and that law and policy support access to contraception for disadvantaged and marginalized populations. Remarks • These existing good practice statements were integrated into this guideline from WHO’s Consolidated guidelines on HIV prevention, diagnosis, treatment and care for key populations – 2016 update (10). • Key populations include women living with HIV. • Further information can be found in the original publication, available at: bitstream/10665/246200/1/9789241511124-eng.pdf i. Background Women living with HIV often experience and/or fear violence in the form of stigma, discrimination and negative discrimination persists with impunity due to lack of national laws and policies against discrimination and/or by-laws that criminalize and impose sanctions on particular behaviours, actions or occurrences, such as same-sex practices between consenting adults, personal drug use, sex work, and HIV transmission or exposure. ii. Barriers The effects of such HIV-related stigma and discrimination against women living with HIV can lead to poor uptake of SRH and HIV services, and create challenges for adherence to ART (88, 89). Chapter 3. Creating an enabling environment: recommendations and good practice statements 39 limiting the FP options of women living with HIV who wish to prevent pregnancy, programmes should instead offer the full available range of contraceptive options and support women to select their preferred, optimal method. For women living with HIV, there is often an intersection between stigma related to HIV and stigma related to other socially disadvantaged identities, such as identifying as lesbian, bisexual or transgender, having mental living with HIV
