Consolidated guideline on
KEYWORDS: hiv, women, living, living hiv, women living, health, services, guideline, rights, support, violence, recommendations, including, evidence, sexual


is often an intersection between stigma related to HIV and stigma related to other socially disadvantaged identities, such as identifying as lesbian, bisexual or transgender, having mental living with HIV from these communities, and complex layers of stigma, discrimination and violence (52). iii. Components of an enabling environment Efforts to reduce stigma and discrimination at a national level, such as promoting anti-discrimination and rights-protective policies for all women living with HIV, can foster a supportive environment at a community when they simultaneously address individual, organizational and public policy factors that enable or allow stigma and discrimination (91). Programmes both within and outside the health sector need to institute pro-safety-related responses, including anti-stigma and anti-discrimination policies and codes of conduct, as well as raising awareness among service providers and community members about human rights issues. Monitoring and oversight are important to ensure that standards are implemented and maintained. Additionally, mechanisms should be made available to women living with HIV to anonymously report occurrences of stigma, negative attitudes, or offensive language or questions, and/or other forms of discrimination when they try to obtain health services. Providing friendly services to women living with HIV tailor these services to their needs and priorities (90). Interventions and services for women living with HIV should adopt woman-centred, patient-friendly and rights-based principles, paying particular attention to accessibility and the expertise and attitudes of staff members. The meaningful involvement of peer educators in service provision may help to create a safer environment for women living with HIV from different communities to access services. Peer and community support strategies can promote treatment readiness, uptake, adherence and lifelong retention in care; reduce stigma and discrimination; and mitigate potential violence stemming from HIV disclosure (77). barrier for women living with HIV to obtain information and commodities, and to feel supported in expressing their SRH needs and concerns. Safe spaces (both within health-care facilities and social services) and confidential and stigma-free environments can encourage women living with HIV to access the services they need (10). Further information on training and sensitizing health workers is provided in Box 3.5. 40 Consolidated guideline on sexual and reproductive health and rights of women living with HIV Box 3.5: Training and sensitizing health workers Creating inclusive health services requires sensitizing and educating providers and other staff members in health care and social services. This can be done in both pre-service and in-service training, through on-the-job support
