Consolidated guideline on
KEYWORDS: hiv, women, living, living hiv, women living, health, services, guideline, rights, support, violence, recommendations, including, evidence, sexual


health services requires sensitizing and educating providers and other staff members in health care and social services. This can be done in both pre-service and in-service training, through on-the-job support and supervision, and by creating an organizational norm of inclusiveness and non-discrimination. Attitudes: Health-care providers working with adults or adolescents from key populations should be non- judgemental, supportive, responsive and respectful, and should understand the issues faced by women living with HIV. Training, with the involvement of key population representatives and groups, can be developed to Skills: It is important that health workers are able to respond to the specific needs of key populations and provide quality services, know what interventions, tools and materials are available to provide information, can advise on HIV risk-reduction strategies, and know how to support treatment adherence and retention in care. Improving and maintaining providers’ attitudes and skills is a continual process consisting of multiple components, such as formal training events, job aids, supportive supervision, training follow-up and mentorship. Multidisciplinary training and work environments can strengthen linkages to community-based providers so that referrals and adequate follow-up are more available. Particularly where there are workforce shortages, it is important that all providers receive adolescent-specific training, including lay counsellors, to enable task shifting. Source: WHO, 2016 (10). Values and preferences Women and girls with HIV from key affected populations – including sex workers, women who use/ inject drugs, lesbian, bisexual and other women who have sex with women, transgender women, and women with disabilities (among others) – face many of the same challenges that women and girls in general who are living with HIV face, based on gender inequality, assumptions and HIV-related stigma, discrimination and violence. However, gender norms and other societal perceptions and values may also play out within the specific context of their lives to create additional layers of social and structural barriers to accessing services and claiming human rights. Actions to support the rights of these women from key populations should include: • sensitizing health workers and other service providers about the specific needs and rights of women living with HIV of all ages, and in particular those who use drugs, engage in sex work, and/or are lesbian, bisexual, transgender or intersex, in order to eliminate stigma and discrimination on the basis of HIV status, drug use, sex work, sexuality, gender identity or age; • ensuring continuity of treatment and holistic care for women
