Consolidated guideline on
KEYWORDS: hiv, women, living, living hiv, women living, health, services, guideline, rights, support, violence, recommendations, including, evidence, sexual


to eliminate stigma and discrimination on the basis of HIV status, drug use, sex work, sexuality, gender identity or age; • ensuring continuity of treatment and holistic care for women in prison or detention; • increasing access to harm reduction services for women who use drugs; • repealing laws that criminalize HIV transmission and exposure, and those that criminalize personal drug use, sex work and same-sex practices; • ensuring that people in authority see it as a part of their duty and role to remove barriers to SRH access for women living with HIV in all their diversity (37). Chapter 3. Creating an enabling environment: recommendations and good practice statements 41 3.2.7 Community empowerment Existing recommendations on women living with HIV who are health workers REC A.17: Provide free HIV and TB treatment for health workers in need facilitating the delivery of these services in a non-stigmatizing, gender-sensitive, confidential, and convenient setting when there is no (strong recommendation, weak evidence) with HIV or TB, and adopt interventions aimed at stigma reduction among colleagues and supervisors. (strong recommendation, moderate-quality evidence) Remarks • These existing recommendations were integrated into this guideline from the 2010 publication, Joint WHO/ and TB (92). These guidelines address important aspects of ensuring that the SRHR guidance applies to women living with HIV who are also health workers. • Further information can be found in the original publication, available at: bitstream/10665/44467/1/9789241500692_eng.pdf Existing good practice statement on community empowerment GPS A.12: Programmes should be put in place to provide legal literacy and legal services to key populations so that they know their rights and applicable laws and can receive support from the justice system when aggrieved. Remarks • This existing good practice statement was integrated into this guideline from WHO’s Consolidated guidelines on HIV prevention, diagnosis, treatment and care for key populations – 2016 update (10). • Key populations include women living with HIV. • Further information can be found in the original publication, available at: bitstream/10665/246200/1/9789241511124-eng.pdf i. Background Community empowerment refers to the process of enabling communities to increase control over their lives (84). Some women living with HIV are leaders in promoting SRHR for women living with HIV. Several peer- support programmes have been successful in providing life skills and safe spaces for women living with HIV, ensuring safety, building assets, and connecting women with a social network of mentoring and positive role models, which are seen
