Consolidated guideline on
KEYWORDS: hiv, women, living, living hiv, women living, health, services, guideline, rights, support, violence, recommendations, including, evidence, sexual


life skills and safe spaces for women living with HIV, ensuring safety, building assets, and connecting women with a social network of mentoring and positive role models, which are seen by women living with HIV as essential to improving their SRHR outcomes. Similarly, critical to good SRHR outcomes. Communities play an important role in both developing evidence-informed policies, through sharing evidence from the community, and ensuring effective implementation of national policies and uptake of services. 42 Consolidated guideline on sexual and reproductive health and rights of women living with HIV ii. Barriers Women living with HIV often have little or no control over SRH risk factors that are driven by their legal, political and social environment and the context of their personal lives. For instance, they may not have the power to negotiate consistent condom use to prevent an unintended pregnancy or STI. This lack of empowerment is exacerbated if women are unaware of their legal and human rights, specifically their right to iii. Components of an enabling environment Community empowerment is a collective process that enables women living with HIV to address the structural improve access to health services. Community empowerment can foster the wider reach and greater effectiveness of services for women living with HIV, and have positive outcomes across a broad range of concerns, such as living conditions, developing strategies for SRH interventions and redressing violations of human rights. Community empowerment can take many forms, such as meaningful participation in: designing, decision-making, implementation and monitoring of services; peer education; implementation of legal literacy and service programmes; and in fostering peer-led groups, programmes, research and service delivery (10). in which women with HIV are living. This flexibility, responsiveness, adaptability and sustainability are also essential to community empowerment initiatives. Policies on access to health services and information need to be improved. Ensuring that women living with HIV are aware of their legal and human rights as individuals – specifically that their right to health includes the right to information – can increase their access to health services. Since women living with HIV are often the target of exploitation, marginalization, criminalization, stigma and discrimination, programmes are particularly needed to ensure that women living with HIV know their legal and human rights, including applicable education and support programmes can help improve awareness (93). If better informed, networks of women living with HIV can better organize to advance their rights and raise
