Consolidated guideline on
KEYWORDS: hiv, women, living, living hiv, women living, health, services, guideline, rights, support, violence, recommendations, including, evidence, sexual


rights, including applicable education and support programmes can help improve awareness (93). If better informed, networks of women living with HIV can better organize to advance their rights and raise awareness of their rights, priorities and the policies and legal issues that critically affect them (90, 94, 95). More information on supportive laws and policies is provided in section 3.2.8. Values and preferences Survey respondents repeatedly referred to the benefits of connecting with other women living with HIV as fundamental to their ability to accept their HIV diagnosis and serostatus, disclose it to make positive decisions about pregnancy and childbirth, among other things. Peer support was also cited as important in identifying and seeking redress for experiences of violence and other human rights violations. Respondents articulated the need for investment in networks and organizations of women living with HIV to provide peer support, safe spaces and counselling, as well as training for leadership and advocacy to challenge structural barriers, including gender inequality, stigma, discrimination and cultural norms (37). Chapter 3. Creating an enabling environment: recommendations and good practice statements 43 3.2.8 Supportive laws and policies and access to justice Existing good practice statements on decriminalization and sentencing related to HIV GPS A.13: Countries should work towards decriminalization of behaviours such as drug use/ injecting, sex work, same-sex activity and nonconforming gender identities, and towards elimination of the unjust application of civil law and regulations against people who use/inject drugs, sex workers, men who have sex with men and transgender people. GPS A.14: Countries should work towards developing non-custodial alternatives to incarceration of drug users, sex workers and people who engage in same-sex activity. Remarks • These recommendations apply to women living with HIV who use/inject drugs, are sex workers, engage in same-sex activity and who are transgender. They were integrated into this guideline from WHO’s Consolidated guidelines on HIV prevention, diagnosis, treatment and care for key populations – 2016 update (10). • Further information can be found in the original publication, available at: bitstream/10665/246200/1/9789241511124-eng.pdf Existing good practice statements on age of consent policies and laws for adolescents GPS A.15: Countries are encouraged to examine their current consent policies and consider revising them to reduce age-related barriers to HIV services and to empower providers to act in the best interest of the adolescent. information and services, be provided for adolescent girls without mandatory parental and guardian authorization/notification. Remarks • These existing
