Consolidated guideline on
KEYWORDS: hiv, women, living, living hiv, women living, health, services, guideline, rights, support, violence, recommendations, including, evidence, sexual


to empower providers to act in the best interest of the adolescent. information and services, be provided for adolescent girls without mandatory parental and guardian authorization/notification. Remarks • These existing good practice statements, which are relevant to adolescent girls living with HIV, were integrated into this guideline from WHO’s Consolidated guidelines on HIV prevention, diagnosis, treatment and care for key populations – 2016 update (10). • Further information can be found in the original publication, available at: bitstream/10665/246200/1/9789241511124-eng.pdf Existing good practice statements on transgender people GPS A.17: Countries should work toward developing policies and laws that decriminalize same-sex behaviours and nonconforming gender identities. GPS A.18: Countries should work towards legal recognition for transgender people. GPS A.19: For transgender people, the legal recognition of preferred gender and name may be important services can support better access, uptake and provision of HIV services. Remarks • These existing good practice statements, which are relevant to transgender women living with HIV, were integrated into this guideline from WHO’s Consolidated guidelines on HIV prevention, diagnosis, treatment and care for key populations – 2016 update (10). • Further information can be found in the original publication, available at: bitstream/10665/246200/1/9789241511124-eng.pdf 44 Consolidated guideline on sexual and reproductive health and rights of women living with HIV i. Background Many countries have made legally binding commitments to a number of international agreements and consensus documents to protect the needs and rights of people living with HIV. However, in practice, many laws and policies are not in line with international human rights norms and standards. For example, many from sexual violence. Moreover, even where good laws exist, they need to be implemented through political commitment, adequate resource allocation, capacity-building of those responsible for upholding and enforcing the law, and the creation of systems of accountability when laws are violated. ii. Legal barriers Often, instead of facilitating access for women and girls living with HIV, laws and policies at the national level restrict access and in some cases impose punitive sanctions. Sixty per cent of countries report having laws, regulations or policies that are barriers to effective HIV services for many women living with HIV (96). In particular, over 100 countries criminalize some or all aspects of sex work (96). Although living with HIV is not itself indicative of sexual transmission of the infection, individuals are often discriminated against for their HIV-positive status based on a presumption of sexual activity that
