Consolidated guideline on
KEYWORDS: hiv, women, living, living hiv, women living, health, services, guideline, rights, support, violence, recommendations, including, evidence, sexual


living with HIV is not itself indicative of sexual transmission of the infection, individuals are often discriminated against for their HIV-positive status based on a presumption of sexual activity that is often considered socially unacceptable (23). Criminalization of HIV non-disclosure, HIV exposure and HIV transmission make it more difficult for women living with HIV to enter into healthy sexual relationships (97). HIV transmission has been criminalized in various ways and women are particularly affected by these laws since access health services. Human rights bodies have called on states to ensure that a person’s actual or travel, social security, housing and asylum, this amounts to restricting human rights and it constitutes discrimination (98). Additionally, transgender people are not legally recognized in many countries and face restrictive policies that regulate their gender identity and expression (96). In many settings, punitive drug use policies call for harsh penalties for the possession of small amounts of drugs for personal use, and in some settings policies mandate compulsory detention as “treatment” for people who use or inject drugs (96). For women living with HIV in many prisons and other closed settings, SRH and HIV services are substandard or entirely lacking. While laws vary, adolescents under 18 years of age are classified legally as minors in many settings or jurisdictions, and are therefore often required to have parental consent for medical care, including SRH and HIV-related services. Such laws and policies can be barriers to or can discourage adolescents from seeking services (64). These restrictions may create complex dilemmas for providers who endeavour to act in the best interests of their clients but who may have concerns about their own legal liability and about the safety of their young clients. iii. Components of an enabling environment Laws and policies can help to protect the human rights of women in relation to HIV – both those living with HIV and those at risk of acquiring HIV. Legal reforms – such as decriminalizing drug use and sexual practices, including sex work and sex between consenting adults, and legal recognition of transgender status and of the evolving capacity of children/adolescents – are critical enablers that can change a hostile environment for women living with HIV into a supportive environment. Specific consideration should be given to such legal reforms as part of any revision of policies or programmes for women living with HIV. For example, in many countries, possession, use
