Consolidated guideline on
KEYWORDS: hiv, women, living, living hiv, women living, health, services, guideline, rights, support, violence, recommendations, including, evidence, sexual


Specific consideration should be given to such legal reforms as part of any revision of policies or programmes for women living with HIV. For example, in many countries, possession, use and sale of clean needles and syringes or possession of condoms remains justification for arrest. Where this is the case, this warrants review. indeed, all people living with and most impacted by HIV. Chapter 3. Creating an enabling environment: recommendations and good practice statements 45 expression or perceived sexual orientation are currently criminalized may require changing legislation and adopting new policies and protective laws in accordance with international human rights standards. Without protective policies and decriminalization of HIV transmission and exposure, sex work, possession of drugs fear that seeking health care will expose them to adverse legal consequences (99). Improve access to justice and legal support for women living with HIV Policies and procedures are needed to ensure that women living with HIV can safely report rights violations, services. For example, women living with HIV can be trained as paralegals or a network of women living with HIV can serve as a third-party reporter of complaints (10). For violence against women and other rights violations, the most important consideration in facilitating women’s access to justice should be safety, confidentiality, choice and autonomy in terms of whether or not a woman wants to report her experience of violence to the police. Health-care providers should facilitate access to justice by offering to support the woman should she wish to report to the police, and to refer her for forensic examination and evidence collection as appropriate and in line with WHO guidance (84, 100). However, they should not be mandated to do so. Law enforcement Law enforcement can play an important role by ensuring that the human rights of women living with HIV are not violated. Police should receive continual training on ways to support – or at least not to impede – access to essential health services. Systems to promote good policing practices and to provide safe avenues for reporting human rights violations will help ensure that police are protecting both the public health and the human rights of all persons. As mentioned previously, unfortunately, law enforcement practices and personnel can also harm women living with HIV. Law enforcement work should promote the human rights of women living with HIV as well as internal accountability for rights-based law enforcement (10). Access to
