Consolidated guideline on
KEYWORDS: hiv, women, living, living hiv, women living, health, services, guideline, rights, support, violence, recommendations, including, evidence, sexual


harm women living with HIV. Law enforcement work should promote the human rights of women living with HIV as well as internal accountability for rights-based law enforcement (10). Access to SRH and HIV services for women living with HIV in prison or detention There are more than 10 million men and women in prisons and other closed settings, with an annual turnover of around 30 million moving between prison and the community. Globally, the prevalence of HIV, other STIs, hepatitis B and C, and TB in prison populations is estimated to be 2–10 times higher than in the general population. In addition to HIV risk behaviours in prison (e.g. unsafe sexual activities, injecting drug use and tattooing), factors related to the prison infrastructure, prison management and the criminal justice system contribute to increased risk of HIV, hepatitis B and C, and TB in prisons. Due to the conditions of imprisonment, including overcrowding, sexual violence, drug use and lack of access to HIV prevention commodities such as condoms and lubricants, transmission risk is very high. In some settings, HIV prevalence rates are higher among women in prisons than among men, and much higher than among women in the general population (10). Access to HIV treatment and care programmes is often poor in prisons and other closed settings. Few countries implement comprehensive HIV programmes in prisons. Not only are such services needed in prison and other closed settings, but linkages to HIV services in the community are also needed to maintain continuity after a person is released from prison. 46 Consolidated guideline on sexual and reproductive health and rights of women living with HIV Values and preferences Women living with HIV who responded to the GVPS reported that laws that criminalize certain practices act as a disincentive to getting tested for HIV and seeking SRH and HIV services, and also undermine the efforts of women living with HIV to protect their own and others’ health. They articulated that a supportive legal environment enhances the ability of women living with HIV to access and children from onward transmission of HIV. Conversely, punitive laws and policies that criminalize HIV exposure and transmission, drug use, sex work and same-sex activities between consenting adults not only stand in the way of women’s access to SRHR and HIV services, but also position them as a threat to others and something to be feared, thereby entrenching existing stigma
