Consolidated guideline on
KEYWORDS: hiv, women, living, living hiv, women living, health, services, guideline, rights, support, violence, recommendations, including, evidence, sexual


stand in the way of women’s access to SRHR and HIV services, but also position them as a threat to others and something to be feared, thereby entrenching existing stigma and discrimination at the community level. Survey respondents called for the decriminalization of HIV exposure/transmission as well as of sex work, drug use and same-sex activity. At the same time, they called for a strengthening of laws to protect all women – including women living with HIV – from all forms of violence, including date and marital rape, as well as laws and policies to protect and uphold the rights of people living with HIV. Laws, policies and practices should be reviewed and, where necessary, revised by policy-makers and government leaders, with meaningful engagement of women living with HIV, to allow and support their increased access to services (37). Chapter 3. Creating an enabling environment: recommendations and good practice statements 47 Chapter 4. Health interventions: recommendations and good practice statements This chapter covers health interventions related to the sexual and reproductive health and rights (SRHR) of women living with HIV, grouped into six types of services, in the order in which they are presented in the remainder of this chapter: 1. sexual health counselling and support services 2. violence against women services 3. family planning and infertility services 4. antenatal care and maternal health services 5. safe abortion services; and 6. sexually transmitted infection (STI) and cervical cancer services. Each of these sections in this chapter presents new and/or existing recommendations (RECs) and existing good practice statements (GPSs) as well as background information on each type of service. In the case of the NEW RECs, a summary of evidence and considerations of the GDG is also presented. The WHO Guideline Steering Group (SG) for development of this guideline identified eight topic areas where new RECs or GPSs needed to be developed for this guideline (see Chapter 2, section 2.4). Four of those topics are covered in this chapter – under topics 1, 2, 4 and 5 as listed above – while the other four are covered in Chapter 3. The six new RECs included in this guideline are presented in four sub-sections of this chapter (and labelled as “NEW”): 4.1.1 Empowerment and self-efficacy; 4.2.1 Safe disclosure; 4.4.1 Caesarean section; and 4.5.1 Safe abortion. Relevant findings from the Global Values and Preferences Survey (GVPS) of the priorities of women living with
