Consolidated guideline on
KEYWORDS: hiv, women, living, living hiv, women living, health, services, guideline, rights, support, violence, recommendations, including, evidence, sexual


Empowerment and self-efficacy; 4.2.1 Safe disclosure; 4.4.1 Caesarean section; and 4.5.1 Safe abortion. Relevant findings from the Global Values and Preferences Survey (GVPS) of the priorities of women living with HIV are also presented in each sub-section and embedded in the information provided with the new RECs. 48 Consolidated guideline on sexual and reproductive health and rights of women living with HIV 4.1 Sexual health counselling and support 4.1.1 Empowerment and self-efficacy NEW recommendation on empowerment and self-efficacy REC B.1: WHO recommends that for women living with HIV, interventions on self-efficacy and empowerment around sexual and reproductive health and rights should be provided to maximize their health and fulfil their rights. (strong recommendation, low-quality evidence) Remarks • These interventions should meaningfully engage women living with HIV throughout the development, implementation and evaluation process, include consultations and involvement during the planning, design, delivery and monitoring of the interventions. This will increase the relevance, acceptability and, likely, the accessibility and effectiveness of the interventions. However, the responsibility for the provision of these interventions lies with the health system and does not fall solely on women living with HIV. • Women living with HIV, including those from key populations, may need further special considerations to overcome additional layers of disempowerment, marginalization and exclusion resulting from intersecting forms of stigma, discrimination and violence – often legitimated by laws that criminalize or fail to protect them. • The power imbalances and inequalities that cause women living with HIV to be unable to exercise their sexual and reproductive rights operate on multiple levels. Not only should women be supported at the individual level to develop self-efficacy and empowerment, but interventions should also be considered at the interpersonal, community and societal levels to shift these norms. Supporting women to gain access to improved economic, food, housing and other resources may support their ability to make decisions and exercise their rights. Chapter 3 of the guideline discusses economic empowerment (see section 3.2.3). • Further ideas for empowering women living with HIV are available in the programming tool: 16 Ideas for addressing violence against women in the context of the HIV epidemic (84). i. Background Women living with HIV often experience inequitable gender norms and power imbalances that prevent them from being able to achieve their sexual and reproductive health (SRH) goals and exercise their rights. The disempowerment in their interactions with their sexual partners and other members of
