Consolidated guideline on
KEYWORDS: hiv, women, living, living hiv, women living, health, services, guideline, rights, support, violence, recommendations, including, evidence, sexual


them from being able to achieve their sexual and reproductive health (SRH) goals and exercise their rights. The disempowerment in their interactions with their sexual partners and other members of their community. Women living with HIV often face multiple layers of disempowerment, including gender norms that prevent women from participating in decision-making, as well as stigma and marginalization that can accompany their HIV-positive status. These challenges influence the SRH behaviours and choices of women living with HIV. Health-care services and health workers can support women to achieve good SRHR outcomes through empowerment and self-efficacy interventions. Strategies that focus on women’s empowerment have the and families. ii. Summary of evidence and considerations for the new recommendation At the scoping meeting in January 2015, the Guideline Development Group (GDG) decided that interventions that improve self-efficacy and empowerment should be reviewed. The PICO question (population, intervention, comparator, outcome) was: What interventions improve self-efficacy and empowerment around safer sex and reproductive decision-making for women living with HIV? Self-efficacy is defined as “an individual’s belief in his or her capacity to execute behaviours necessary to produce specific performance attainments” (101). Empowerment is defined as “the process of increasing the capacity of individuals or groups to make choices and to transform those choices into desired actions and outcomes” (102). The relevant systematic review conducted in support of the development of this guideline included studies with comparison groups, drawn from a search of the peer-reviewed and grey literature for women living with HIV Chapter 4. Health interventions: recommendations and good practice statements 49 aged 10 years and older. Outcomes of interest included: self-efficacy; empowerment or other measures of a woman’s ability to make her own decisions around SRH; SRH behaviours; and SRH outcomes, such as sexually transmitted infections (STIs), pregnancy and others (103). Results The review found 20 studies (17 randomized controlled trials [RCTs], 2 quasi-experimental studies and 1 matched case–control study) evaluating 10 interventions and international adaptations of interventions from five countries: Nigeria, South Africa, the USA, Zambia and Zimbabwe. The interventions were administered to individuals or small groups, during discussion or counselling sessions with one computer module-based intervention. The content and delivery of the interventions varied across the studies. The interventions included 2–11 sessions and covered topics such as: gender pride; supportive social network use; HIV transmission risk behaviours; communication and safe sex negotiation; condom use; managing abusive relationships; goals and values; prevention of perinatal
