Consolidated guideline on
KEYWORDS: hiv, women, living, living hiv, women living, health, services, guideline, rights, support, violence, recommendations, including, evidence, sexual


covered topics such as: gender pride; supportive social network use; HIV transmission risk behaviours; communication and safe sex negotiation; condom use; managing abusive relationships; goals and values; prevention of perinatal transmission; nutrition; and adherence. Interventions were each grounded in a theoretical framework or approach including: cognitive behavioural stress management; social cognitive theory; the theory of gender power; the theory of reasoned action; motivational interviewing; and stages of change. Intervention providers included nurses, psychologists and peer educators. While there was a wide range of outcomes of interest for this topic (see Annex 3), including the relevant outcomes reported in the studies were STI incidence, condom use, contraceptive use, condom use negotiation self-efficacy, sexual communication self-efficacy, and the balance of power within the relationship. STI incidence was measured in two studies using the same set of interventions, adapted for different settings. Statistically significant decreases were seen for chlamydia, gonorrhoea and trichomoniasis. Results for bacterial vaginosis were not significant. Studies used varying measures for condom use but generally found an increase or no change, with high baseline rates of reported use. While the evidence was inconsistent, several studies found improvements in condom use and negotiation self-efficacy, as well as improvements in the balance of power within the relationship. Harms from the interventions were not evaluated. The primary objective of many of the interventions was sexual risk reduction, but empowerment or self-efficacy was often included as a secondary objective or as the approach to achieve the primary objective. This highlights the need for more comparative studies evaluating interventions focusing on empowering women living with HIV to achieve good SRH, which includes healthy sexuality, family planning, antenatal care, avoiding STIs and unsafe abortion, and freedom to exercise sexual and reproductive rights. Quality of the evidence for the recommendation The quality of the evidence is low. The GDG downgraded the evidence due to inconsistency, as studies showed mixed results for condom and other contraceptive use, and imprecision, because of the low number of events included in the studies. The variations in intervention topics, providers, timing and objectives may explain the variation in estimates. It was not possible to assess consistency for all outcomes, as some were measured by only one study. Rationale for the strength and direction of the recommendation While evidence is limited, self-efficacy and empowerment is of critical importance to women living with HIV, as indicated by the findings of the Global Values and
