Consolidated guideline on
KEYWORDS: hiv, women, living, living hiv, women living, health, services, guideline, rights, support, violence, recommendations, including, evidence, sexual


direction of the recommendation While evidence is limited, self-efficacy and empowerment is of critical importance to women living with HIV, as indicated by the findings of the Global Values and Preferences Survey (GVPS) (37). There are arguments from therefore a high value was placed on self-efficacy and empowerment by the GDG. The GDG discussed whether to make REC B.1 a strong or conditional recommendation. In order to gain an initial indication of GDG members’ views on this, the methodologist asked participants to raise their hands in support of each separate option. This was not a formal vote, but a decision-making aid to allow the methodologist and chairs to gauge 50 Consolidated guideline on sexual and reproductive health and rights of women living with HIV the distribution of opinion and subsequently work towards consensus through further discussion. The final adoption of REC B.1 as a strong recommendation was confirmed by unanimous consensus among all GDG members. Feasibility There were 10 different programmes with multiple, international adaptations studied in five countries, interventions than others, based on training and resources. Values and preferences Women living with HIV responding to the GVPS raised a number of issues relating to gender equality and social justice. Respondents said that women’s and girls’ agency and autonomy around SRHR-related decision-making is affected by a range of cultural, economic, social/ structural and legal factors, including gender norms and power relations, religious and cultural beliefs, stigma and discrimination related to HIV and/or a range of other demographic factors (e.g. age, gender, sexuality, ethnicity and race, class, disability). Other factors influencing their agency and autonomy include access to information and services, and the existence of laws that either uphold or erode the rights of women living with HIV in all their diversity. Women living with HIV reported widespread difficulty in decision-making around when, how and with whom to have sex, and whether and when to have children. They also reported difficulty in decision-making around condom use, negotiating safer sex and, in particular, identified achieving a pleasurable and satisfying sex life as a challenge. Financial inequality and lack of formal economic opportunities for women were raised repeatedly by survey respondents in relation to decision-making around their sex life, fertility desires, and accessing and utilizing SRH services. They also reported that financial insecurity or hardship had a severe impact on their mental health. Women articulated that social relations predicated on gender inequality can
