Consolidated guideline on
KEYWORDS: hiv, women, living, living hiv, women living, health, services, guideline, rights, support, violence, recommendations, including, evidence, sexual


and utilizing SRH services. They also reported that financial insecurity or hardship had a severe impact on their mental health. Women articulated that social relations predicated on gender inequality can severely limit women’s ability to exercise agency in relation to SRH, and to claim and realize their human rights. They argued that SRH and human rights for all women, including women living with HIV and women from key populations, must be embedded in a framework of gender equality and social justice. Women reported that severe stigma and discrimination experienced by women living with HIV from key affected populations, especially women who are lesbian, transgender or sex workers, negatively affects their self-efficacy for SRH decision-making (37). Cultural and gender norms that perpetuate poor knowledge and access to resources (such as comprehensive sexuality education [CSE] and SRH services for girls and young women) and legal barriers (such as age of consent laws and restriction of access to safe abortion and post-abortion care) limit their ability and self-efficacy to make SRH decisions. Chapter 4. Health interventions: recommendations and good practice statements 51 4.1.2 Brief sexuality communication (BSC) Existing recommendations and good practice statement on BSC REC B.2: BSC is recommended for the prevention of sexually transmitted infections among adults and adolescents in primary health services. (strong recommendation, low- to moderate-quality evidence) REC B.3: Training of health-care providers in sexual health knowledge and in the skills of BSC is recommended. (strong recommendation, low- to very low-quality evidence) GPS B.1: Health policy-makers and decision-makers in health-care professional training institutions need Remarks • These existing recommendations and good practice statement were integrated into this guideline from approach (25). epidemiology as well as the local context of the epidemic, in line with national STI control and prevention strategies, and it should be inclusive of all national stakeholders” (25). Providers will need to consider the enabling environment for women living with HIV, as outlined in Chapter 3 of this document, and the specific situation of each woman to ensure the protection of rights and promotion of SRH. • Further information can be found in the original publication, available at: bitstream/10665/170251/1/9789241549004_eng.pdf i. Background psychological and social dimensions of sexual health and well-being along with the biological ones (25). Values and preferences Survey respondents emphasized the importance of: access to information relating to positive sexuality and sexual pleasure (including addressing gender norms and sexual taboos); access to psychosexual counselling; trust
