Consolidated guideline on
KEYWORDS: hiv, women, living, living hiv, women living, health, services, guideline, rights, support, violence, recommendations, including, evidence, sexual


and preferences Survey respondents emphasized the importance of: access to information relating to positive sexuality and sexual pleasure (including addressing gender norms and sexual taboos); access to psychosexual counselling; trust between intimate partners and also between clients and SRH providers; provision of support with regard to disclosure; and access to SRH providers who are sensitized and well informed about the SRH needs of women in same-sex relationships and transgender women (37). 52 Consolidated guideline on sexual and reproductive health and rights of women living with HIV 4.1.3 Mental health No new or existing recommendations or good practice statements were identified or developed for this topic. SRHR of women living with HIV. Existing comprehensive WHO mental health guidance is discussed below. i. Background Comprehensive guidelines on mental health exist in the 2015 edition of the WHO mhGAP Intervention Guide (mhGAP-IG) (87), the update to the first version of that guide, which was published in 2010 (104). As such, at the scoping meeting in January 2015, to avoid duplication, the GDG chose not to develop specific of the approaches for addressing issues of depression, anxiety and post-traumatic stress disorder (PTSD) that women living with HIV may face as a result of trauma and stress are similar to those that would apply to all women. The mhGAP-IG presents guidance on providing integrated management of priority conditions using psychosis, bipolar disorders, epilepsy, developmental and behavioural disorders in children and adolescents, dementia, alcohol use disorders, drug use disorders, self-harm/suicide, and other significant emotional or medically unexplained complaints. The full guidance should be utilized for each woman as appropriate for her specific situation, with special attention to how the recommendations may need to be implemented to support a woman living with HIV and her associated needs, situation and concerns (87). Further guidance is available from the 2014 Guidelines for the identification and management of substance use and substance use disorders in pregnancy (105). mental, neurological and substance use (MNS) conditions, and their carers. It aims to “promote respect for the service users and their carers, and ensure care is provided in a non-judgmental, non-stigmatizing, and supportive manner” (87). Furthermore it outlines the following general principles and essentials of mental health clinical practice. General principles: 1. Use effective communication skills: Using effective communication skills allows health-care providers to deliver good-quality care to adults, adolescents and children with MNS conditions. 2. Promote respect and dignity: Persons with MNS
