Consolidated guideline on
KEYWORDS: hiv, women, living, living hiv, women living, health, services, guideline, rights, support, violence, recommendations, including, evidence, sexual


effective communication skills: Using effective communication skills allows health-care providers to deliver good-quality care to adults, adolescents and children with MNS conditions. 2. Promote respect and dignity: Persons with MNS conditions should be treated with respect and dignity in a and preference of people with MNS conditions and support and engage them and their carers in the most inclusive way. Persons with MNS conditions are often more vulnerable to human rights violations. conditions in line with international human rights standards, including the UN Convention on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities (CRPD). Essentials of mental health clinical practice: 1. Assess physical health: Persons with MNS disorders are at higher risk of premature mortality from preventable disease and therefore must always receive a physical health assessment as part of a comprehensive evaluation. 2. Conduct an MNS assessment: First, the presenting complaint is explored, then a history is obtained including Observe the person (Mental Status Exam), establish a differential diagnosis, and identify the MNS condition. 3. Manage MNS conditions: Once the assessment is conducted, follow the management algorithm in mhGAP-IG to manage the MNS disorder (87). Chapter 4. Health interventions: recommendations and good practice statements 53 Values and preferences Women living with HIV who responded to the GVPS described a complex nexus of HIV diagnosis, violence and other stress factors including livelihoods and treatment side-effects, which impact on SRHR. Ways in which mental health disorders affect the SRHR of women living with HIV include: loss/ lack of libido or sex drive, or increased need for sexual intimacy; lack of assertiveness in sexual relationships, including inability to negotiate condom use; secrecy in relationships in relation to HIV disclosure; difficulty in committing to sexual relationships, lack of trust, or choosing to stay with violent or abusive partners; anxiety-related sleep disorders and pain; and alcohol or drug dependence, which can prevent the formation of close, intimate relationships. Key factors identified by women in the survey that can support them with mental health issues include: peer counselling and support; access to support groups by and for women living with HIV (see also section 3.2.1); access to holistic health services that include support for/attention to mental health issues; safety; and a supportive legal and is paramount (37). 4.2 Violence against women services 4.2.1 Safe disclosure NEW recommendations on safe disclosure REC B.4: WHO recommends that policy-makers and service providers who support women living with HIV who are
