Consolidated guideline on
KEYWORDS: hiv, women, living, living hiv, women living, health, services, guideline, rights, support, violence, recommendations, including, evidence, sexual


4.2 Violence against women services 4.2.1 Safe disclosure NEW recommendations on safe disclosure REC B.4: WHO recommends that policy-makers and service providers who support women living with HIV who are considering voluntary HIV disclosure should recognize that many fear, or are experiencing, or are at risk of intimate partner violence. (strong recommendation, low-quality evidence) REC B.5: WHO recommends that interventions and services supporting women living with HIV who are considering voluntary HIV disclosure should include discussions about the challenges of their current situation, the potential associated risk of violence, and actions to disclose more safely, and facilitate links to available violence prevention and care services. (strong recommendation, low-quality evidence) Remarks • Disclosure of HIV status is a process, not a single event for women living with HIV. Women must have informed choice about to whom they disclose, for whom they disclose, and when, where and how they disclose. Women living with HIV would benefit from support to consider the possible benefits of disclosure, such as support from family, friends and members of the community of women living with HIV to take antiretroviral therapy (ART). They would also benefit from support as they consider the possible challenges this disclosure may present, particularly related to the reactions of sexual partners, family members and friends – or others, such as employers or clients – which could possibly lead to increased stigma, violence or reduced access to resources. • An important way to support women and to ensure that they can exercise their human rights is to ensure workers, and are not forced to disclose or have their status disclosed on their behalf. • Counselling should include information for women about the risk of violence and should take into consideration the high prevalence and risk of violence experienced by women living with HIV. • In countries where HIV transmission is criminalized, safe disclosure may not be possible. Furthermore, many women face violence independent of the disclosure of their status. Violence related to disclosure and otherwise is covered further in Chapter 3 of this guideline (see section 3.2.5). 54 Consolidated guideline on sexual and reproductive health and rights of women living with HIV Existing recommendations on safe disclosure REC B.6: Adolescents should be counselled about the potential benefits and risks of disclosure of their HIV status to others and empowered and supported to determine if, when, how and to whom to disclose. (conditional recommendation, very
