Consolidated guideline on
KEYWORDS: hiv, women, living, living hiv, women living, health, services, guideline, rights, support, violence, recommendations, including, evidence, sexual


the potential benefits and risks of disclosure of their HIV status to others and empowered and supported to determine if, when, how and to whom to disclose. (conditional recommendation, very low-quality evidence) Remarks • This existing recommendation was integrated into this guideline from the 2013 WHO publication, HIV and adolescents: guidance for HIV testing and counselling and care for adolescents living with HIV: recommendations for a public health approach and considerations for policy-makers and managers (64). • Further information can be found in the original publication, which is also available as an online interactive planners (67), available at: REC B.7: HIV testing services for couples and partners, with support for mutual disclosure, should be offered to individuals with known HIV status and their partners. (strong recommendation, low-quality evidence for all people with HIV in all epidemic settings; conditional recommendation, low-quality evidence for HIV-negative people depending on the country-specific HIV prevalence) Remarks • This existing recommendation was integrated into this guideline from WHO’s 2012 Guidance on couples HIV testing and counselling including antiretroviral therapy for treatment and prevention in serodiscordant couples: recommendations for a public health approach (106). • Further information can be found in the original publication, available at: bitstream/10665/44646/1/9789241501972_eng.pdf norms that prevent discrimination and promote tolerance and acceptance of people living with HIV. This can help create environments where disclosure of HIV status is easier. (strong recommendation, low-quality evidence) REC B.9: Children of school age should be told their HIV positive status; younger children should be told their status incrementally to accommodate their cognitive skills and emotional maturity, in preparation for full disclosure. (strong recommendation, low-quality evidence) REC B.10: Children of school age should be told the HIV status of their parents or caregivers; younger children should be told this incrementally to accommodate their cognitive skills and emotional maturity. (conditional recommendation, low-quality evidence) Remarks • These three existing recommendations have been integrated into this guideline from WHO’s 2011 Guideline on HIV disclosure counselling for children up to 12 years of age (107). • It should be noted that in that document, school-age children are defined as those with the cognitive skills and emotional maturity of a normally developing child of 6–12 years (107). • Further information can be found in the original publication, available at: bitstream/10665/44777/1/9789241502863_eng.pdf Chapter 4. Health interventions: recommendations and good practice statements 55 i. Background therapy (ART) for prevention of perinatal transmission, as well as access
