Consolidated guideline on
KEYWORDS: hiv, women, living, living hiv, women living, health, services, guideline, rights, support, violence, recommendations, including, evidence, sexual


in the original publication, available at: bitstream/10665/44777/1/9789241502863_eng.pdf Chapter 4. Health interventions: recommendations and good practice statements 55 i. Background therapy (ART) for prevention of perinatal transmission, as well as access to social support and opportunities for future planning with partners (108, 109). However, HIV status disclosure can also bring risks. A systematic review of rates, barriers and outcomes of HIV serostatus disclosure among women living with HIV found reported disclosure rates in peer-reviewed articles and conference abstracts ranged from 17% to 86% (110). Following disclosure, between 4% and 15% of women reported a violent response from their partner (110). Women may be hesitant to disclose their status due to potential negative outcomes such as violence, abandonment, relationship dissolution, stigma, and loss of their children and/or their home (111). A recent study shows the health sector can play a preventive role by sensitizing health-care providers to the potential risks for partner violence following disclosure and by ensuring that every decision of women living with HIV to disclose is fully informed and voluntary (112). HIV testing services must be confidential, meaning that what the provider and the client discuss will not be disclosed to anyone else without the expressed consent of the person being tested. Confidentiality should be respected, but it should not be allowed to reinforce secrecy, stigma or shame. Counsellors should discuss, among other issues, whom the person may wish to inform and how they would like this to be done. Shared confidentiality with a partner or family members – trusted others – and health-care providers is often highly beneficial (11). As stated in a UNAIDS/WHO guidance publication (2000): UNAIDS and WHO encourage beneficial disclosure. This is disclosure that is voluntary; respects the autonomy and dignity of the affected individuals; maintains confidentiality as appropriate; leads to beneficial results for those individuals, and for their families and sexual and drug-injecting partners; leads to greater openness in the community about HIV/AIDS; and meets the ethical imperatives of the situation where there is need to prevent onward transmission of HIV” (113). It is critical to support women living with HIV in accessing a full range of SRHR services and social support opportunities while ensuring their well-being and safety. In 2006, WHO issued a meeting report on addressing violence against women (VAW) that occurs during HIV testing and counselling services. The report called for operational research to assess counselling, communication and referral tools to
