Consolidated guideline on
KEYWORDS: hiv, women, living, living hiv, women living, health, services, guideline, rights, support, violence, recommendations, including, evidence, sexual


meeting report on addressing violence against women (VAW) that occurs during HIV testing and counselling services. The report called for operational research to assess counselling, communication and referral tools to support women through the disclosure and risk-reduction planning processes. ii. Summary of evidence and considerations for the new recommendations At the scoping meeting for the current guideline, in January 2015, the GDG decided that interventions to facilitate safer disclosure of HIV status for women living with HIV should be reviewed for this guideline. The PICO question was: What interventions facilitate safe disclosure of HIV status for women living with HIV who fear violence or disclose currently experiencing violence? The review included studies with comparison groups, and used definitions for violence, intimate partner and other relevant topics from the WHO 2013 guidelines on intimate partner violence (IPV) and sexual violence (81). The PICO question included all populations of women living with HIV, all lengths of time of living with HIV, and all types of violence. Current violence was defined as violence that occurred within the past 12 months or another definition that indicated present risk of violence; it does not include a risk or experience of violence from long ago that is no longer present. More information on the review can be found in the Web supplement to this guideline.2 2. Available at: www.who.int/reproductivehealth/publications/gender_rights/srhr-women-hiv/en/ 56 Consolidated guideline on sexual and reproductive health and rights of women living with HIV Results The evidence on interventions that facilitate safer disclosure of HIV status is limited. Only two studies, both RCTs, were identified from a systematic review of the peer-reviewed and grey literature. Both studies identified system or other setting. Further, both studies evaluated interventions that integrated screening for IPV into HIV testing and counselling, and trained counsellors to facilitate discussions about disclosure based on a woman’s risk of violence. Counselling included structured questionnaires to help women assess their risk of harm following disclosure. Counsellors were then trained to explore women’s risk of disclosure-related violence and to explore alternative options when indicated. Additional intervention components included community mobilization activities to counteract violence, support groups and on-site legal aid services. Outcomes included in the studies were: disclosure, physical violence, sexual violence, emotional violence. Neither study provided clear evidence for the effectiveness of a safer disclosure intervention as they were not designed to isolate the contribution of the safer disclosure components from the broader multiple-component interventions.
