Consolidated guideline on
KEYWORDS: hiv, women, living, living hiv, women living, health, services, guideline, rights, support, violence, recommendations, including, evidence, sexual


provided clear evidence for the effectiveness of a safer disclosure intervention as they were not designed to isolate the contribution of the safer disclosure components from the broader multiple-component interventions. The evidence suggests, however, that women who disclose their status are more likely to be in non-violent relationships. Findings from the studies also “suggest that while IPV continues to be a significant barrier to disclosure for women who fear violence, it has not been adequately addressed in current Future studies need to examine other disclosure relationships (i.e. other than disclosure to partners) and community settings. This may help underscore the potential contribution of peer support, and may thus reduce the health-care resources needed for the intervention. Quality of the evidence for the recommendation The quality of the evidence was low to very low, with downgrades for serious indirectness, as outcomes were measured for all women living with HIV rather than just for those receiving the safe disclosure interventions, and for inconsistency, as the two studies showed different results. Rationale for the strength and direction of the recommendation The GDG determined that the strength of the recommendation was strong despite the low-quality evidence. This decision was based on (i) the very high value placed on safety during and after disclosure for women living with HIV; (ii) the potential for great benefit to individuals, partners, families and communities; and (iii) the understanding that implementation of the intervention would improve equity. The GDG discussed at length the for this recommendation would be high within feasibility constraints. Feasibility The GDG considered the feasibility of the intervention to be uncertain. This was partially due to the additional prevalence of VAW, with 35% of women aged 15 years and older experiencing physical or sexual violence worldwide (114). The GDG was also concerned about the required resources for implementation. Community- based as well as clinic-based interventions may be needed to manage strategies and address resource- related concerns. The GDG discussed the need to ensure that disclosure is always voluntary. If a woman decides to disclose, however, she should be supported and safe. Laws and policies that require disclosure would make these recommendations unfeasible. Chapter 4. Health interventions: recommendations and good practice statements 57 Values and preferences In the GVPS, women articulated that safety for women living with HIV is paramount. The single most prominent finding of the survey was that women living with HIV experience high levels
