Consolidated guideline on
KEYWORDS: hiv, women, living, living hiv, women living, health, services, guideline, rights, support, violence, recommendations, including, evidence, sexual


the GVPS, women articulated that safety for women living with HIV is paramount. The single most prominent finding of the survey was that women living with HIV experience high levels of violence – which many of them termed “intolerable” – with 89% of respondents reporting that they had experienced violence or fear of violence, before, since or because of their diagnosis. Women reported that HIV diagnosis acts as a specific trigger for violence. Some respondents feared disclosure to a partner. address interpersonal violence was viewed as key. Women articulated that health care for women and girls living with HIV should be accessible, affordable and available, with provision of integrated care and support for both SRH and gender-based violence (GBV). Women reported experiences of involuntary to disclose to partners or other family members, and stigma, discrimination or judgemental attitudes from service providers themselves. Respondents highlighted that health services should be safe places for women to go without fear of these experiences or attitudes. They articulated that women newly diagnosed with HIV should be offered peer counselling and support. Women living with HIV reported a need for women experiencing violence or fear of violence in connection with disclosure to have health staff reach out beyond the clinic setting to promote and provide links to community-based programmes. They would like health staff to provide or refer them to care and support options for women experiencing IPV (mental and/or physical violence), such as safe houses and income-generating opportunities, among others (37). 4.3 Family planning and infertility services 4.3.1 Strategies for achieving safe and healthy pregnancy Existing recommendations on strategies for achieving safe and healthy pregnancy REC B.11: In countries where HIV transmission occurs among serodiscordant couples, where discordant couples can be identified and where additional HIV prevention choices for them are needed, daily oral PrEP (specifically tenofovir or the combination of tenofovir and emtricitabine) may be considered as a possible additional intervention for the uninfected partner. (conditional recommendation, high-quality evidence) Remarks • This existing recommendation was integrated into this guideline from WHO’s 2012 Guidance on oral pre- exposure prophylaxis (PrEP) for serodiscordant couples, men and transgender women who have sex with men at high risk of HIV: recommendations for use in the context of demonstration projects (115). • Further information can be found in the original publication, available at: pub/guidance_prep/en/ CD4 cell count. (strong recommendation, moderate-quality evidence) Remarks • This existing recommendation was integrated
