Consolidated guideline on
KEYWORDS: hiv, women, living, living hiv, women living, health, services, guideline, rights, support, violence, recommendations, including, evidence, sexual


demonstration projects (115). • Further information can be found in the original publication, available at: pub/guidance_prep/en/ CD4 cell count. (strong recommendation, moderate-quality evidence) Remarks • This existing recommendation was integrated into this guideline from WHO’s 2016 Consolidated guidelines on the use of antiretroviral drugs for treating and preventing HIV infection: recommendations for a public health approach (7). • Further information can be found in the original publication, available at: bitstream/10665/208825/1/9789241549684_eng.pdf 58 Consolidated guideline on sexual and reproductive health and rights of women living with HIV i. Background There are several key principles that should underpin the design and provision of fertility care for women living with HIV. Family planning counselling tailored to women living with HIV is important for good SRHR. Counselling is a way for health-care providers to communicate with a client to identify fertility desires and to help advise a woman living with HIV, or a couple, about fertility and pregnancy. The WHO’s 2012 publication, Reproductive choices and family planning for people living with HIV counselling tool, guides providers to move through a process with the client to assess, advise, agree, assist and arrange (116). In delivering counselling, it is important that providers uphold equality of access to resources to enable informed decision-making about reproductive choices, to create environments that reduce stigma associated with HIV and infertility, and environments that encourage safe, voluntary disclosure of HIV and fertility status to partners (117). There are several options identified to support achieving pregnancy safely for women living with HIV in serodiscordant relationships. These include: antiretroviral therapy (ART) use by the woman living with HIV to suppress her viral load; use of oral pre-exposure prophylaxis (PrEP) by the partner who does not have HIV; use of condoms when the woman is not at peak fertility; screening and treatment of STIs in both partners; voluntary medical male circumcision to reduce HIV transmission; and manual insemination. Fertility screening and management is important for all couples that experience fertility problems (117). It is currently not possible to develop definitive guidance on how best to deliver daily oral PrEP to the HIV-negative partners (male or female) in serodiscordant couples; demonstration project research is needed and ongoing. Additional relevant WHO guidelines are in development on infertility and on safer conception strategies. Values and preferences Women living with HIV responding to the GVPS reported experiencing negative reactions from health-care providers when they expressed the desire or intention
