Consolidated guideline on
KEYWORDS: hiv, women, living, living hiv, women living, health, services, guideline, rights, support, violence, recommendations, including, evidence, sexual


and on safer conception strategies. Values and preferences Women living with HIV responding to the GVPS reported experiencing negative reactions from health-care providers when they expressed the desire or intention to have a child (whether or not they already had other children). These reactions included discouragement, disapprobation, pressure to terminate the pregnancy if already pregnant, misinformation about the potential or likely labour. Women living with HIV who have been engaged in sex work were sometimes treated especially poorly by health-care providers during pregnancy and labour. Cases of women living with HIV being forced or coerced into being sterilized have been documented; this practice is now widely considered a violation of the human rights of women living with HIV and an act of institutional GBV. In some countries, women living with HIV reported being denied fertility treatment. Women living with HIV expressed a desire to be given advice on a full range and choice of appropriate and safe conception techniques, and on pregnancy and childbirth, and to have equitable access to fertility treatment if needed, as well as access to legal adoption services. They articulated a need for access to accurate, up-to-date information on the risk of transmission to partners during conception as well as on the risk of perinatal transmission to children. Survey respondents emphasized the importance of support from trusted doctors and other health-care providers in realizing their fertility desires – to have children born free of HIV – and of peer support from other women living with HIV who have had children (37). Chapter 4. Health interventions: recommendations and good practice statements 59 4.3.2 Contraception Existing recommendation on contraception REC B.13: The correct and consistent use of condoms with condom-compatible lubricants is recommended for all key populations to prevent sexual transmission of HIV and STIs. (strong recommendation, moderate-quality evidence) Remarks • This existing recommendation was integrated into this guideline from WHO’s Consolidated guidelines on HIV prevention, diagnosis, treatment and care for key populations – 2016 update (10). • Key populations include women living with HIV. • Further information can be found in the original publication, available at: bitstream/10665/246200/1/9789241511124-eng.pdf Existing recommendations on medical eligibility criteria (MEC) for hormonal contraceptive use Note: MEC categories (118): 1. A condition for which there is no restriction for the use of the contraceptive method.A condition where the advantages of using the method generally outweigh the theoretical or proven risks. 2. A condition where
