Consolidated guideline on
KEYWORDS: hiv, women, living, living hiv, women living, health, services, guideline, rights, support, violence, recommendations, including, evidence, sexual


there is no restriction for the use of the contraceptive method.A condition where the advantages of using the method generally outweigh the theoretical or proven risks. 2. A condition where the theoretical or proven risks usually outweigh the advantages of using the method. 3. A condition which represents an unacceptable health risk if the contraceptive method is used. 4. These categories are provided in the source document in place of strength of recommendation information. REC B.14: Women living with asymptomatic or mild HIV clinical disease (WHO stage 1 or 2) can use the following hormonal contraceptive methods without restriction: combined oral contraceptive pills (COCs), combined injectable contraceptives (CICs), contraceptive patches and rings, progestogen-only pills (POPs), progestogen-only injectables (POIs, DMPA and NET-EN), and levonorgestrel (LNG) and etonogestrel (ETG) implants (MEC Category 1). Women living with asymptomatic or mild HIV clinical disease (WHO stage 1 or 2) can generally use the LNG-IUD (MEC Category 2). (MEC Part I, section 12b) (moderate- to very low-quality evidence) REC B.15: Women living with severe or advanced HIV clinical disease (WHO stage 3 or 4) can use the following hormonal contraceptive methods without restriction: COCs, CICs, contraceptive patches and rings, POPs, POIs (DMPA and NET-EN), and LNG and ETG implants (MEC Category 1). Women living with severe or advanced HIV clinical disease (WHO stage 3 or 4) should generally not initiate use of the LNG-IUD (MEC Category 3 for initiation) until their illness has improved to asymptomatic or mild HIV clinical disease (WHO stage 1 or 2). However, women who already have an LNG-IUD inserted and who develop severe or advanced HIV clinical disease need not have their IUD removed (MEC Category 2 for continuation). LNG-IUD users with severe or advanced HIV clinical disease should be closely monitored for pelvic infection. (MEC Part I, section 12c) (moderate- to very low-quality evidence) REC B.16: Women taking any nucleoside/nucleotide reverse transcriptase inhibitor (NRTI) can use all hormonal contraceptive methods without restriction: COCs, contraceptive patches and rings, CICs, POPs, POIs (DMPA and NET-EN), and LNG and ETG implants (MEC Category 1). (MEC Part I, section 12d) (low- to very low-quality evidence) REC B.17: Women using ART containing either efavirenz or nevirapine can generally use COCs, patches, rings, CICs, POPs, NET-EN and implants (MEC Category 2). However, women using efavirenz or nevirapine can use DMPA without restriction (MEC Category 1). (MEC Part I, section 12d) (low- to very low-quality evidence)
