Consolidated guideline on
KEYWORDS: hiv, women, living, living hiv, women living, health, services, guideline, rights, support, violence, recommendations, including, evidence, sexual


be eliminated, including spousal authorization requirements for women living with HIV for obtaining contraceptives and related information and services. Remarks • This existing good practice statement was integrated into this guideline from WHO’s Consolidated guidelines on HIV prevention, diagnosis, treatment and care for key populations – 2016 update (10). • The term “recommended” is included in the text because this was originally termed a “good practice recommendation”; but it is not a GRADE-based WHO recommendation – it is a good practice statement. • Further information can be found in the original publication, available at: bitstream/10665/246200/1/9789241511124-eng.pdf i. Background As stated in a 2014 interagency statement: Human rights standards recognize that women living with HIV have a right to contraception and other reproductive health services on the same grounds as all other women. These standards state that safe and affordable means of contraception should be available and that women should have the right to freely choose or refuse family planning services (including confidentiality, and that reproductive freedom should not be restricted as part of a family planning, HIV prevention or other public health agenda (28). Chapter 4. Health interventions: recommendations and good practice statements 61 Voluntary use of contraception by women living with HIV who wish to prevent pregnancy is important for upholding their reproductive rights. It also continues to be an important strategy for reducing perinatal HIV transmission (74). The fifth edition of WHO’s Medical eligibility criteria for contraceptive use (the MEC), published in 2015, prioritized the availability of a wide range of contraceptive options (118). Because there may be interactions between certain methods of hormonal contraception and certain interactions (available in the MEC) when counselling women living with HIV on contraceptive efficacy. A woman living with HIV and using ARVs should discuss the potential impact of particular ARVs on stages of HIV (118). This underscores the need for the availability of a comprehensive range of contraceptives, that they can explore their options in depth. The updated third edition of WHO’s Selected practice recommendations for contraceptive use (the SPR), published in 2016, provides guidance for how to use contraceptive methods safely and effectively once they are deemed to be medically appropriate (119). The SPR serves as a companion document to the MEC guidance, which focuses on who can use contraceptive methods safely, providing guidance on the safety of various contraceptive methods in the context of specific women with AIDS can safely
