Consolidated guideline on
KEYWORDS: hiv, women, living, living hiv, women living, health, services, guideline, rights, support, violence, recommendations, including, evidence, sexual


MEC guidance, which focuses on who can use contraceptive methods safely, providing guidance on the safety of various contraceptive methods in the context of specific women with AIDS can safely and effectively use most methods of contraception (118). Condoms remain a key component of high-impact HIV prevention programmes, but are also a critical component in a comprehensive and sustainable approach for combination prevention against STIs and unintended pregnancy (120). Consequently, male and female condoms are also important for women living with HIV to protect themselves. To ensure safety, efficacy and effective use, condoms must be manufactured according to the international standards, specifications and quality assurance procedures established by WHO, UNFPA and the International Organization for Standardization (ISO) (121, 122) and they must be made available either free or at at affordable price. People in low-resource settings are more likely to use condoms when they can access them at no cost or at subsidized prices (120). Many young women and girls, especially those who are married or in long-term relationships and those who to using condoms and they generally hold more of the power in these relationships. Within relationships, the suggestion to use condoms may be taken to signal a lack of trust or intimacy. Counselling is a way for health-care providers to communicate with a client to identify fertility desires and to share information about the full range of contraceptive options, if a woman voluntarily wants to avoid pregnancy. The WHO’s 2012 Reproductive choices and family planning for people living with HIV counselling tool guides providers through a process with the client to assess, advise, agree, assist and arrange (116). Family planning counselling tailored to the needs and rights of women living with HIV is essential to advance their SRHR. Where HIV and family planning services are provided through separate vertical programming, women need to be supported to connect to the services they may need (see section 3.2.4). Box 4.1 presents further information on contraceptive guidance tools, and Box 4.2 presents key considerations on contraception for women living with HIV from key populations. 62 Consolidated guideline on sexual and reproductive health and rights of women living with HIV Box 4.1: Contraceptive guidance tools Family planning is essential to promoting the well-being and autonomy of women, including women living with HIV, their families and their communities. Ensuring quality of care in contraceptive services is paramount for achieving high programmes need to
