Consolidated guideline on
KEYWORDS: hiv, women, living, living hiv, women living, health, services, guideline, rights, support, violence, recommendations, including, evidence, sexual


well-being and autonomy of women, including women living with HIV, their families and their communities. Ensuring quality of care in contraceptive services is paramount for achieving high programmes need to include certain elements, such as: • choice among a wide range of contraceptive methods; • evidence-based information on the effectiveness, risks and benefits of different methods; • provider–user relationships based on respect for informed choice, privacy and confidentiality; and • an appropriate constellation of services available at the same locality. options based on each client’s current health status: • Medical eligibility criteria wheel for contraceptive use – 2015 update (123). • Medical eligibility criteria for contraceptive use, fifth edition (the MEC, 2015). This publication includes tables summarizing guidance for women at different stages of HIV progression (118). • Selected practice recommendations for contraceptive use, third edition (the SPR, 2016) (119). Box 4.2: Key considerations on contraception for women living with HIV from key populations • It is important that contraceptive services are free, voluntary and non-coercive for all people from key populations. • It is important that prison health services offer contraception to women in closed settings. • It is important to counsel transgender women who use oral contraceptive pills for feminization about the higher risk of thrombotic events with ethinyl estradiol than with 17-beta estradiol. • Female sex workers should be offered contraceptive counselling to explore pregnancy intention and should be offered a range of contraceptive options, including dual protection. hormonal contraceptives, as part of a standard package of care. Source: WHO, 2016 (10). Values and preferences Women living with HIV responding to the GVPS reported that they are sometimes only offered a limited range of contraceptive options and they are sometimes forced or coerced into accepting long-term or permanent contraceptive methods. Women living with HIV reported male condoms as both an enabler and challenge to having a safe and pleasurable sex life. The majority reported very limited access to or experience with using female condoms. Some survey respondents reported that within health-care settings they are denied a full range of choice of contraceptives, with service providers pushing them to use condoms for the sake of reducing the risk of onward transmission. Given the difficulty many women living with HIV experience in negotiating and consistently using either male or female condoms, restricting their choice of contraceptives to those that rely on partner cooperation may put them at risk of
