Consolidated guideline on
KEYWORDS: hiv, women, living, living hiv, women living, health, services, guideline, rights, support, violence, recommendations, including, evidence, sexual


HIV experience in negotiating and consistently using either male or female condoms, restricting their choice of contraceptives to those that rely on partner cooperation may put them at risk of unintended pregnancy. Nearly 60% of GVPS respondents had experienced an unplanned pregnancy. Only 40% said they had accessed family planning services. Participants in some settings revealed a very low level of understanding, awareness and education on sexuality, pregnancy and pregnancy prevention (37). This is true for many women, including young women and adolescents, and women from key populations, including sex workers. It is important to note that gender dynamics play a key role in decision-making around accessing and using contraception, and in decision-making about the number and spacing of children. Chapter 4. Health interventions: recommendations and good practice statements 63 4.4 Antenatal care and maternal health services 4.4.1 Caesarean section NEW recommendation on caesarean section REC B.22: WHO recommends that elective caesarean section (C-section) should not be routinely recommended to women living with HIV. (strong recommendation, low-quality evidence) Remarks • The benefits and risks of different modes of delivery should be discussed with women living with HIV, including vaginal delivery, and elective and non-elective C-section. • When indicated for other medical or obstetric reasons, C-section should still be offered, as for all women. • Wide communication of this recommendation through policy briefs and other means will be important, as to coerced delivery decisions and practices. • Women undergoing C-sections are also sometimes sterilized without their consent. Coerced or forced sterilization is never acceptable (28). especially in rural areas. When C-section is medically indicated, it should be available, accessible, affordable and safe. i. Background Caesarean section (C-section) before onset of labour and before rupture of membranes (“elective C-section”) has been suggested as an intervention for the prevention of perinatal HIV transmission. For all women, when medically justified, a C-section can effectively prevent maternal and perinatal mortality and morbidity. the procedure. As with any surgery, C-sections are associated with short- and long-term risks, which can pregnancies. In addition, while C-section is sometimes a medically necessary and life-saving intervention, in settings with limited local capacity and skills to perform C-section and treat potential complications, it can be dangerous and can sometimes lead to maternal death. These risks may be heightened for women with compromised immune systems, such as women living with HIV, and for women with limited access to comprehensive obstetric care. Therefore,
