Consolidated guideline on
KEYWORDS: hiv, women, living, living hiv, women living, health, services, guideline, rights, support, violence, recommendations, including, evidence, sexual


maternal death. These risks may be heightened for women with compromised immune systems, such as women living with HIV, and for women with limited access to comprehensive obstetric care. Therefore, unnecessary C-sections should be avoided, and C-sections should only be performed for standard obstetric indications (124). For women living with HIV, as for all women, the decision on whether or not to have an elective C-section must take into account the range of potential risks as well as benefits for both the mother and the infant. These risks and benefits vary depending on the underlying risk of perinatal transmission during delivery, which is associated with disease stage and ART use, as well as on the underlying risks of C-section compared with vaginal delivery for both the mother and infant. ii. Summary of evidence and considerations for the new recommendation At the scoping meeting in January 2015, the GDG agreed to examine the modes of delivery related to the best maternal and child outcomes for women living with HIV. The PICO question was: What modes of delivery result in the best maternal and perinatal outcomes for women living with HIV? Reviewed studies each included a comparison group of women living with HIV who underwent a mode of delivery other than C-section. Outcomes included: (a) morbidity and mortality among women (e.g. febrile morbidity, 64 Consolidated guideline on sexual and reproductive health and rights of women living with HIV endometriosis, haemorrhage, severe anaemia, pneumonia, urinary tract infections); (b) HIV in infants; (c) other morbidity and mortality among infants (e.g. respiratory morbidity, skin lacerations); and (d) breastfeeding (success or timing of initiation and continuation). More information on the methods and findings of the review can be found in the Web supplement. Results The review included 31 articles but far fewer studies, due to multiple publications on a small number of multicountry studies (125). Only one was an RCT and all others were observational studies (cohort or case– control). Most of the studies had been conducted in the USA or Europe (10 countries) and others were from Argentina, the Bahamas, Brazil, India, Jamaica, Mexico, Nigeria, Peru and South Africa. Almost all of the morbidities. Despite a significant number of studies, there were few recent studies that focused on women who were on ART and/or who were virally suppressed. Low- to very low-quality evidence suggests that elective C-section appears to reduce infant HIV acquisition but increase
