Consolidated guideline on
KEYWORDS: hiv, women, living, living hiv, women living, health, services, guideline, rights, support, violence, recommendations, including, evidence, sexual


that focused on women who were on ART and/or who were virally suppressed. Low- to very low-quality evidence suggests that elective C-section appears to reduce infant HIV acquisition but increase maternal and infant morbidity. Very low-quality evidence suggests that, in the context of ART use, differences in both infant HIV acquisition and maternal and infant morbidity are less pronounced between modes of delivery. Quality of the evidence for the recommendation The available evidence is low to very low. It was downgraded for a serious risk of bias due to a high likelihood of multiple other confounders, and for imprecision for all outcomes, and for inconsistency for the outcome of “any morbidity”. Rationale for the strength and direction of the recommendation The GDG discussed this recommendation at length and determined that it should be strong despite low- quality evidence for the following reasons: (i) the potential harms (e.g. sepsis, haemorrhage) of providing C-sections outweigh the benefits; (ii) C-sections are difficult and not feasible to perform in many settings with high HIV prevalence in the general population; (iii) C-sections can be costlier than vaginal births, which is a possible deterrent to optimal SRH for women living with HIV who have limited means, and which can create barriers to future health seeking. The GDG agreed that it was key that C-sections not be recommended routinely for all women living with HIV simply because they were living with HIV, but noted that it was essential to provide C-section to women living with HIV when medically indicated, as for all women. Feasibility C-sections are difficult and potentially harmful to perform in many settings. They are expensive, require equipment that may be limited, and may have adverse outcomes, such as sepsis. Not performing routine C-sections would be more feasible than routine C-sections. It is important to support medical practitioners with correct and current information on best practices, and to inform and empower women so that they can decide with confidence to avoid unnecessary C-sections. There can be financial incentives for health-care providers to perform C-sections; however, they should only be performed when medically indicated for the health of the mother and baby (28). Values and preferences Women living with HIV who responded to the GVPS reported experiencing a routine lack of inclusion in decision-making and lack of choice about their own SRH care, including modes of delivery. They clearly articulated that principles of human rights need
