Consolidated guideline on
KEYWORDS: hiv, women, living, living hiv, women living, health, services, guideline, rights, support, violence, recommendations, including, evidence, sexual


experiencing a routine lack of inclusion in decision-making and lack of choice about their own SRH care, including modes of delivery. They clearly articulated that principles of human rights need to be embedded in all acceptable (37). Chapter 4. Health interventions: recommendations and good practice statements 65 4.4.2 Labour and delivery No new or existing recommendations or good practice statements were identified or developed for this topic. Recommendations for all women, including women living with HIV (but none that are specific to these women), can be found in the following two 2015 WHO publications: Pregnancy, childbirth, postpartum and newborn care: a guide for essential practice, third edition (127), and Recommendations for prevention and treatment of maternal peripartum infections (128). i. Background Human rights violations experienced by women living with HIV include “being dissuaded from having children, mistreatment while pregnant [such as being neglected during child birth] and forced or coerced sterilization” due to their HIV-positive status (82). Many women experience disrespectful, abusive or neglectful treatment during childbirth in health-care facilities worldwide. Such treatment not only violates the rights of women to discrimination (26). Such practices may have direct adverse consequences for both the mother and infant (26). Reports of disrespectful and abusive treatment during childbirth in facilities have included outright physical abuse, profound humiliation and verbal abuse, coercive or forced medical procedures (including sterilization), lack of confidentiality, failure to get fully informed consent, refusal to give pain medication, gross violations of may suffer life-threatening, avoidable complications – and detention of women and their newborns in facilities after childbirth due to an inability to pay (26, 126). Among others, adolescents, unmarried women, women of low socioeconomic status, women from ethnic minorities, migrant women and women living with HIV are particularly likely to experience disrespectful and abusive treatment during childbirth (26, 126). managed in a manner that ensures respect for women’s SRH and human rights (26). In order to prevent and eliminate disrespect and abuse during facility-based childbirth globally, the following actions should be taken: 1. Secure greater support from governments and development partners for research and action on disrespect and abuse. strong focus on respectful care as an essential component of quality care. 4. Generate data related to respectful and disrespectful care practices; systems of accountability and meaningful professional support are required. 5. Involve all stakeholders, including women, in efforts to improve quality of care and eliminate disrespectful and abusive practices
