Consolidated guideline on
KEYWORDS: hiv, women, living, living hiv, women living, health, services, guideline, rights, support, violence, recommendations, including, evidence, sexual


care practices; systems of accountability and meaningful professional support are required. 5. Involve all stakeholders, including women, in efforts to improve quality of care and eliminate disrespectful and abusive practices (26). Values and preferences Women living with HIV who participated in the GVPS highlighted labour and delivery as a time of rights of women living with HIV; (ii) to normalize “positive” pregnancy and childbirth; and (iii) to ensure that women have the right to care and support, which is not conditional on disclosure to partners. The women particularly when women living with HIV are, themselves, well informed about their choices as a result of having access to relevant, up-to-date and trustworthy information on HIV, pregnancy and transmission. Self-awareness and trust in one’s own decisions was also an important factor (37). 66 Consolidated guideline on sexual and reproductive health and rights of women living with HIV 4.4.3 Prevention and treatment of postpartum haemorrhage (PPH) Existing recommendation on prevention and treatment of PPH REC B.23: Late cord clamping (performed approximately 1–3 minutes after birth) is recommended for all births while initiating simultaneous essential newborn care. (strong recommendation, moderate-quality evidence) Remarks • This existing recommendation was integrated into this guideline from the 2012 publication, WHO recommendations for the prevention and treatment of postpartum haemorrhage (129). • The recommendations in the 2012 publication apply to all women, including women living with HIV. Considerations for women living with HIV are included in the document. Only the recommendation given above, on late cord clamping, includes dedicated comment with reference to women living with HIV, as follows: “Late cord clamping is recommended even among women living with HIV or women with unknown HIV status”. • Further information can be found in the original publication, available at: bitstream/10665/75411/1/9789241548502_eng.pdf i. Background As described in the 2012 publication, WHO recommendations for the prevention and treatment of postpartum haemorrhage, early cord clamping and cutting was previously considered to be a key component of active management of the third stage of labour for prevention of PPH (129). But this and other key components of this approach (administration of prophylactic uterotonic after delivery, controlled cord traction and uterine massage) have been reviewed and revised, and the 2012 publication contains the current recommendations, including REC B.23 presented above. Some health-care professionals working in areas of high HIV prevalence have expressed concern regarding delayed cord clamping as part of management of the third stage of
