Consolidated guideline on
KEYWORDS: hiv, women, living, living hiv, women living, health, services, guideline, rights, support, violence, recommendations, including, evidence, sexual


REC B.23 presented above. Some health-care professionals working in areas of high HIV prevalence have expressed concern regarding delayed cord clamping as part of management of the third stage of labour. These professionals are concerned that during placental separation, a partially detached placenta could be exposed to maternal blood and this could lead to a micro-transfusion of maternal blood to the baby. It has been demonstrated that the potential for maternal-to-child transmission of HIV can take place at three different points in time: (a) micro-transfusions of maternal blood to the fetus during pregnancy (intrauterine HIV transmission), (b) exposure to maternal blood and vaginal secretions when the fetus passes through the birth canal in vaginal deliveries (intrapartum transmission), and (c) during breastfeeding (postnatal transmission). For this reason, the main intervention to reduce perinatal transmission is the reduction of maternal viral load through the use of ARV medicines during pregnancy, childbirth and the postnatal period. There is no evidence that delaying the cord clamping increases the possibility of HIV transmission from the mother to the newborn. Maternal blood percolates through the placental intervillous space throughout pregnancy with a relatively low risk of maternal–fetal transmission before delivery. It is highly unlikely that separation of the placenta increases exposure to maternal blood, and is highly unlikely that it disrupts the fetal placental circulation (i.e. it is unlikely that during placenta separation the newborn circulation is exposed to maternal blood). Thus, the proven benefits of a delay of at least 1–3 minutes in clamping the cord after delivery of the baby outweigh the theoretical, and unproven, harms (129). Values and preferences In order to improve safe childbirth and delivery outcomes, women living with HIV who responded to the GVPS emphasized the need for the normalization of “positive” pregnancy and childbirth. They suggested education on the rights of women living with HIV for families, friends, communities and which is not conditional on disclosure to partners (37). Chapter 4. Health interventions: recommendations and good practice statements 67 4.4.4 Prevention of perinatal transmission of HIV Existing recommendations on initiation of antiretroviral therapy (ART)* at any CD4 cell count. (conditional recommendation, low-quality evidence) disease (WHO clinical stage 3 or 4) and adolescents with a CD4 count ≤ 350 cells/mm3. (strong recommendation, moderate-quality evidence) Remarks • These existing recommendations were integrated into this guideline from WHO’s 2016 Consolidated guidelines on the use of antiretroviral drugs for treating and preventing HIV
