Consolidated guideline on
KEYWORDS: hiv, women, living, living hiv, women living, health, services, guideline, rights, support, violence, recommendations, including, evidence, sexual


HIV infection is prevalent and women may present in labour with unknown HIV status”. REC B.29: The use of amniotomy and oxytocin for treatment of confirmed delay in labour is recommended. (weak recommendation, very low-quality evidence) Note: It is stated in the 2014 recommendations that: “There is a need to exercise caution among women with HIV”. Remarks • These existing recommendations were integrated into this guideline from the 2014 publication, WHO recommendations for augmentation of labour (131). • These recommendations include specific guidance on when the recommendations vary for women living between women living with HIV and other women. • Further information can be found in the original publication, available at: bitstream/10665/112825/1/9789241507363_eng.pdf. i. Background Perinatal transmission of HIV, also known as vertical transmission and mother-to-child transmission of HIV, refers to transmission of HIV from a woman living with HIV to her infant during pregnancy (intrauterine), labour and delivery (intrapartum), and during breastfeeding (postpartum). Prevention of perinatal transmission focuses mainly on interventions to prevent intrauterine and intrapartum transmission, as well as on early initiation of ART in the woman and on assuring the woman’s health. The following four components of a comprehensive strategy for prevention of perinatal transmission are recommended (74): 1. Primary prevention of HIV acquisition among women of childbearing age 2. Prevention of unintended pregnancies among women living with HIV 3. Prevention of HIV transmission from women living with HIV to their infants 4. Provision of appropriate treatment, care and support to mothers living with HIV, their children and families. In the third component, which focuses on direct interventions to prevent vertical transmission, the preventive interventions consist of a cascade of services: HIV testing and counselling, ART, safe delivery, safer infant feeding, infant prophylaxis, postpartum interventions in the context of ongoing ART, early infant diagnosis and final diagnosis for HIV-exposed infants, and, finally, linkage of both the mother and child to appropriate care and treatment (fourth component) (10). The global community has committed itself to eliminating perinatal transmission of HIV and syphilis as a public health priority. The initiative to eliminate mother-to-child transmission (EMTCT) of HIV and syphilis focuses on a harmonized approach to improving health outcomes for women and children. This integrated approach is necessary to improve the efficiency and quality of maternal and child health services and to offer women more comprehensive primary care services (132). It is essential to note that in the context of efforts
