Consolidated guideline on
KEYWORDS: hiv, women, living, living hiv, women living, health, services, guideline, rights, support, violence, recommendations, including, evidence, sexual


efficiency and quality of maternal and child health services and to offer women more comprehensive primary care services (132). It is essential to note that in the context of efforts to prevent perinatal transmission, the SRHR of women living babies alike (see Box 4.3). Chapter 4. Health interventions: recommendations and good practice statements 69 Box 4.3: A human rights-based approach to antiretroviral therapy (ART) All ART should be prescribed using a human rights-based approach. This means that the pregnant or breastfeeding woman receives full information and medical guidance that is appropriate to her situation, and is supported to make voluntary choices around medical therapy initiation, continuation and adherence/retention in of their children. To achieve all four components of the approach to avoid perinatal transmission of HIV, this section works together with section 4.3.1: Strategies for achieving safe and healthy pregnancy, and with section 4.3.2: recommendations emphasize both equity and a rights-based approach to implementation. This means that all women should have access to the required resources for all four components and should be empowered to make an individual informed choice about family planning and HIV treatment. Constructive male engagement, in cases where women living with HIV have male partners, can support good feeding and mortality outcomes. However, women should always be consulted about whether and how they wish their partners to be involved – male partner engagement should never be a condition to accessing male partner. Gender inequalities can negatively affect prevention of perinatal transmission. More information on gender transformative programming to improve equality and involvement can be found in the 2012 WHO publication, Male Involvement in the prevention of mother-to-child transmission of HIV (133). Additional implementation considerations to support components 3 and 4 are available in the 2013 publication, Toolkit: expanding and simplifying treatment for pregnant women living with HIV: managing the transition to Option B/B+ (134). Implementation considerations for a national health system include: n rapid assessment of prevention of mother-to-child transmission (PMTCT) progress; n agreement on the choice of the PMTCT ART regimen; n exploration of the acceptability of the choice among women; n identification of policies, procedures and resource requirements necessary to adopt option B+; delivery; n monitoring, evaluation and quality assurance; n point-of-care early infant diagnosis; and n implementation driven by community involvement, including women living with HIV. 70 Consolidated guideline on sexual and reproductive health and rights of women living with HIV Values and
