Consolidated guideline on
KEYWORDS: hiv, women, living, living hiv, women living, health, services, guideline, rights, support, violence, recommendations, including, evidence, sexual


diagnosis; and n implementation driven by community involvement, including women living with HIV. 70 Consolidated guideline on sexual and reproductive health and rights of women living with HIV Values and preferences Women living with HIV responding to the GVPS emphasized the need for women living with HIV themselves to know that it is possible to have children born HIV-free through access to programmes for prevention of vertical transmission, which include advice and support on delivery and infant feeding options, and access to fertility treatments, if needed. Respondents recommended workers thus need to be trained to provide relevant services. Women living with HIV have experienced care providers with regard to conceiving a child or carrying a pregnancy to term (whether or not they already have children from earlier pregnancies) to the point of judgemental and abusive language and pressure to terminate an existing pregnancy. Women articulated that, as with all SRHR interventions, Option B+ should be offered in the context of a human rights-based approach. Women should be given choices about initiating antiretroviral therapy (ART) and the length of ART maintenance after the birth of their child. Lifelong maintenance of ART, while offered as an option for pregnant and breastfeeding women living with HIV, should be decided upon with the woman. A great many survey respondents articulated experiencing side-effects from antiretroviral (ARV) medicines, ranging from relatively mild to severe, which have a negative impact on several areas of their lives, including their ability to work and enjoy their full SRHR. Some respondents also raised a number of actual or potential problems associated with achieving undetectable viral load. These included ceasing to take medication in the belief that they are “cured” and increased challenges to practicing safer sex with partners who perceive them to be “non-infectious” (37). 4.5 Safe abortion services 4.5.1 Safe abortion NEW recommendations on safe abortion services REC B.30: WHO recommends that safe abortion services should be the same for women living with HIV who want a voluntary abortion as for all women. (strong recommendation, very low-quality evidence) REC B.31: WHO suggests that women living with HIV who want a voluntary abortion can be offered a choice of medical or surgical abortion, as for all women. (conditional recommendation, very low-quality evidence) Remarks • Abortion services should be free of coercion and offered in a respectful and non-judgemental manner. HIV by (a) providing access if desired and (b) ensuring women
