Consolidated guideline on
KEYWORDS: hiv, women, living, living hiv, women living, health, services, guideline, rights, support, violence, recommendations, including, evidence, sexual


low-quality evidence) Remarks • Abortion services should be free of coercion and offered in a respectful and non-judgemental manner. HIV by (a) providing access if desired and (b) ensuring women make the choice for themselves. • If only one type of abortion (medical or surgical) is offered in a specific setting, women living with HIV should have access to that option. Limited options for all women should not result in women living with HIV having less access than other women. Chapter 4. Health interventions: recommendations and good practice statements 71 i. Background Eliminating unsafe abortion is one of the pillars of SRH. In 2012, WHO issued guidance for safe abortion that covers clinical care guidelines in a variety of situations (32). The 2012 guidance used the following definitions: Medical methods of abortion (medical abortion): Use of pharmacological drugs to terminate pregnancy. Sometimes the terms “non-surgical abortion” or “medication abortion” are also used. Surgical methods of abortion (surgical abortion): Use of transcervical procedures for terminating pregnancy, including vacuum aspiration and dilatation and evacuation. Additional detail on each type of abortion method is provided in WHO’s 2012 publication, Safe abortion: technical and policy guidance for health systems (32). Further information is also available in the 2014 Clinical practice handbook for safe abortion (135). Guidelines on who can provide safe abortion care are available in The GDG also considered it important to note the following: a. Women living with HIV have been coerced or forced into involuntary abortion due to stigma, discrimination and misconceptions around conception, pregnancy and childbirth for women living with HIV; they often still face hostility in relation to realizing their fertility desires (28). Women living with HIV have been given sterilization consent forms to sign under pressure or without proper discussion of the form, and have had family members asked to provide consent on their behalf (28). Abortion should never be coerced or forced. b. Safe abortion should also include post-abortion care, as described in the following excerpt from WHO’s Following an induced or spontaneous abortion, women should receive appropriate post-abortion care. For those women whose abortions were performed unsafely, post-abortion care is used as a strategy to attenuate the morbidity and mortality associated with complications, including uterine aspiration for incomplete abortion; offer of contraception to prevent future unintended pregnancies; and linking women with other needed services in the community. Following safe, induced abortion, post-abortion care may not require
