Consolidated guideline on
KEYWORDS: hiv, women, living, living hiv, women living, health, services, guideline, rights, support, violence, recommendations, including, evidence, sexual


for incomplete abortion; offer of contraception to prevent future unintended pregnancies; and linking women with other needed services in the community. Following safe, induced abortion, post-abortion care may not require a follow-up visit if the woman has adequate information about when to seek care for complications and has received any needed supplies or information to meet her contraceptive needs. All women should receive contraceptive information and be offered counselling for and methods of post-abortion may be particular to women living with HIV. While medical and surgical abortion methods are both recommended as safe for the general population, concerns have been raised that they may have different clinical outcomes among women living with HIV. Women living with HIV may be at greater risk for anaemia and bleeding as a result of surgical abortion, and vomiting caused by medicines used for medical abortion may reduce the efficacy of ARVs for HIV treatment (137). ii. Summary of evidence and considerations for the new recommendations At the scoping meeting in January 2015, the GDG decided that risks and outcomes for women living with HIV for each type of abortion should be examined. The group developed a PICO question to address the topic: Do outcomes of medical and surgical abortion among women living with HIV differ from outcomes among HIV-uninfected women? To address this question, studies were included in a systematic review if they had comparison groups of legal abortion outcomes for all women living with HIV, including efficacy (complete abortion), serious adverse events (death, hospitalization, blood transfusion, major operative intervention [e.g. laparotomy], etc.), other adverse events (e.g. haemorrhage not requiring blood transfusion, vomiting) and patient satisfaction, and if they were published in a peer-reviewed journal or presented as an abstract at a scientific conference (138). The review outcomes of surgical and medical abortion among women living with HIV (137). It expanded on that review by 72 Consolidated guideline on sexual and reproductive health and rights of women living with HIV updating the search using a rigorous systematic review process that included reviewing articles in languages other than English, searching conference abstracts, and contacting authors for unpublished data on women living with HIV. More information on this new systematic review can be found in the Web supplement. Results The 2012 review by Manski et al. included peer-reviewed articles published through 2011 and found few studies on surgical abortion and no studies on medical abortion (137).
