Consolidated guideline on
KEYWORDS: hiv, women, living, living hiv, women living, health, services, guideline, rights, support, violence, recommendations, including, evidence, sexual


Web supplement. Results The 2012 review by Manski et al. included peer-reviewed articles published through 2011 and found few studies on surgical abortion and no studies on medical abortion (137). The studies identified in that review mostly covered illegal or non-specified abortion but suggested no significant differences in complications by HIV status. In addition, gynaecological procedures similar to or more invasive than abortion reportedly showed no differences in complications by HIV status. Changes in haemoglobin levels due to blood loss from medical abortion where anaemia is prevalent, and frequency and duration of vomiting due to medical abortion drugs are relatively minor concerns. Based on the limited data available, the authors concluded that both medical and surgical abortions are safe and appropriate for women living with HIV. The updated review identified one conference abstract on complications of medical abortions for women living with HIV that met the criteria and concluded that this extremely limited evidence base is due at least in part to the illegality of abortion in many settings with a high burden of HIV (138). However, indirect evidence from other gynaecological and health procedures suggests no clear reason to suspect that health outcomes of medical or surgical abortion differ by HIV status. Quality of the evidence for the recommendations The quality of the evidence for both of the new recommendations (REC B.30 and REC B.31) was judged to be very low. It was downgraded twice for indirectness, as there was no comparison of women living with HIV to women without HIV, or of medical versus surgical abortion. Inconsistency was not applicable, as the review included only a single study. It was also downgraded for imprecision due to the limited number of events in the study. Rationale for the strength and direction of the recommendations Given the low quality of the evidence, the GDG considered not making any recommendations on safe abortion for women living with HIV. In order to gain an initial indication of GDG members’ views on this, the methodologist asked participants to raise their hands in support of making recommendations on this. This was not a formal vote, but a decision-making aid to allow the methodologist and chairs to gauge the distribution of opinion and subsequently work towards consensus through further discussion. It was decided by unanimous consensus among all members that the GDG would make recommendations. This was based not recommend anything specific in terms of
