Consolidated guideline on
KEYWORDS: hiv, women, living, living hiv, women living, health, services, guideline, rights, support, violence, recommendations, including, evidence, sexual


towards consensus through further discussion. It was decided by unanimous consensus among all members that the GDG would make recommendations. This was based not recommend anything specific in terms of the type of clinical abortion recommended for women living with HIV. By a similar process, it was unanimously agreed to make REC B.30 strong and REC B.31 conditional. The rationale for making REC B.30 strong is based on the findings of the GVPS, which identified this as an important human rights and equity topic for women living with HIV (37). Given that there is no current evidence to suggest an optimal mode of abortion for women without HIV, the GDG agreed to make REC B.31 conditional, with women living with HIV having the same choices as women without HIV. Feasibility The recommendations were judged to be feasible, as they direct existing safe abortion services to be provided to women living with HIV if requested by the woman. An enabling regulatory and policy environment is needed to ensure that every woman who is legally eligible has ready access to safe abortion care. Policies should be geared to respecting, protecting and fulfilling the human rights of women, to meeting the particular needs of poor women, adolescents, rape survivors and women living with HIV (32). Chapter 4. Health interventions: recommendations and good practice statements 73 Values and preferences Women living with HIV participating in the GVPS indicated having limited access to safe abortion; financial stability influenced access to private safe abortion services. Survey participants recommended that free and safe abortions and post-abortion care should be included as part of a holistic and comprehensive package of rights-based integrated SRH and HIV services for women living with HIV, and as part of comprehensive post-rape care. Respondents described a routine lack of inclusion or choice in decision-making about their own SRH care and care pathways, and recommended that principles of human rights need to be embedded in all into any course of action (especially pregnancy termination), whether explicitly without consent or even unwittingly (37). 4.6 Sexually transmitted infection and cervical cancer services 4.6.1 Sexually transmitted infections (STIs) Existing recommendation on STI services REC B.32: Sexually transmitted infection (STI) and family planning services can be integrated within HIV care settings. (conditional recommendation, very low-quality evidence) Remarks • This existing recommendation was integrated into this guideline from WHO’s 2016 Consolidated guidelines on the use of antiretroviral drugs for
