Consolidated guideline on
KEYWORDS: hiv, women, living, living hiv, women living, health, services, guideline, rights, support, violence, recommendations, including, evidence, sexual


HIV care settings. (conditional recommendation, very low-quality evidence) Remarks • This existing recommendation was integrated into this guideline from WHO’s 2016 Consolidated guidelines on the use of antiretroviral drugs for treating and preventing HIV infection: recommendations for a public health approach (7). • Further information can be found in the original publication, available at: bitstream/10665/208825/1/9789241549684_eng.pdf i. Background STI care includes screening for and comprehensive case management of STIs and reproductive tract infections (RTIs) including: syphilis, chancroid, herpes, ulcer, bacterial vaginosis and trichomoniasis leading to vaginal infection, vaginal candidiasis, human papillomavirus (HPV), cervical cancer, gonorrhoea, chlamydia and pelvic inflammatory disease (PID). Appropriate and prompt case management of STIs reduces the risk of associated reproductive tract and obstetric complications. Although the presentation and response to treatment of some STIs – in particular genital herpes and chancroid – may be altered in women living with HIV, standard treatment protocols are effective (6). The main existing WHO guidelines related to STI management include the 2003 WHO Guidelines for the management of sexually transmitted infections (139), the 2005 Sexually transmitted and other reproductive tract infections: a guide to essential practice (140), and the updated modules for four specific infections, published in 2016: WHO guidelines for the treatment of Chlamydia trachomatis (141), WHO guidelines for the treatment of Treponema pallidum (syphilis) (142), WHO guidelines for the treatment of Neisseria gonorrhoeae (143) and WHO guidelines for the treatment of genital herpes simplex virus (144). Given that the latter four STI treatment guidelines were already in the process of being updated, the GDG chose not to review the existing 74 Consolidated guideline on sexual and reproductive health and rights of women living with HIV STI-related recommendations and other current guidance (see Box 4.4) for the purposes of this guideline. In reference to HIV, all four of the new WHO STI treatment guidelines state the following: Both ulcerative and non-ulcerative STIs are associated with a several-fold increased risk of transmitting or acquiring HIV. Infections causing genital ulcers are associated with the highest HIV transmission risk; in addition to curable ulcer-causing STIs (e.g. syphilis and chancroid), highly prevalent HSV-2 infections substantially increase that risk. Non-ulcerative STIs, such as gonorrhoea, chlamydia and trichomoniasis, have been shown to increase HIV transmission through genital shedding of HIV. Treating STIs with the right medicines at the right time is necessary to reduce HIV transmission and improve sexual and reproductive health. Efforts should therefore be
