Consolidated guideline on
KEYWORDS: hiv, women, living, living hiv, women living, health, services, guideline, rights, support, violence, recommendations, including, evidence, sexual


genital shedding of HIV. Treating STIs with the right medicines at the right time is necessary to reduce HIV transmission and improve sexual and reproductive health. Efforts should therefore be taken to strengthen STI diagnosis and treatment (141–144). Box 4.4: Guidance specific to the dual morbidity of HIV and an STI or reproductive tract infection (RTI) Genital ulcers and HIV: In chancroid, atypical lesions have been reported in individuals living with HIV. The lesions tend to be more extensive, or multiple lesions may form that are sometimes accompanied by systemic manifestations such as fever and chills. Reports of rapidly aggressive lesions have been noted by some clinicians. This emphasizes the need for early treatment, especially in individuals living with HIV. There is evidence to suggest that HIV infection may increase rates of treatment failure in chancroid, especially when single-dose therapies are given. More research is needed to confirm these observations. In immunosuppressed individuals, herpes simplex lesions may present as persistent multiple ulcers that require medical attention, as opposed to the self-limiting vesicles and ulcers which occur in immunocompetent individuals. Thus, herpes antiviral treatment is particularly important in such instances, to be given therapeutically or prophylactically to offer comfort to the patient. Adequate education needs to be given to the patient as well, to explain the nature and purpose of treatment and in order to avoid false expectations of cure (139). Syphilis and HIV: There is an increase in vertical transmission of HIV among pregnant women coinfected with syphilis and HIV (142). The treatment recommendations for syphilis, as provided in the 2016 WHO guidelines for the treatment of Treponema pallidum (syphilis), apply to all adults and adolescents (10–19 years of age), including pregnant women, people living with HIV, people who are immunocompromised and key populations, including sex workers, men who have sex with men (MSM) and transgender persons (142). Herpes and HIV: Herpes simplex virus type 2 (HSV-2) is of particular concern due to its epidemiological synergy with HIV infection and transmission. People with HSV-2 are approximately three times more likely to acquire HIV, and people with both HIV and HSV-2 are more likely to transmit HIV to others. In addition, infection with HSV-2 in people living with HIV is often more severe and can lead to serious, although rare, complications, such as brain, eye or lung infections (144). The treatment recommendations for genital herpes simplex virus, as provided in the
