Consolidated guideline on
KEYWORDS: hiv, women, living, living hiv, women living, health, services, guideline, rights, support, violence, recommendations, including, evidence, sexual


more severe and can lead to serious, although rare, complications, such as brain, eye or lung infections (144). The treatment recommendations for genital herpes simplex virus, as provided in the 2016 WHO guidelines for the treatment of genital herpes simplex virus, apply to all adults, adolescents (10–19 years of age), pregnant women, people living with HIV, people who are immunocompromised and key populations, including sex workers, MSM and transgender persons. Suggested dosages are provided in the publication for people living with HIV and people who are immunocompromised for recurrent clinical episodes of genital HSV. Suppressive therapy for HSV-2 should be considered in areas with high HIV prevalence. Immunocompromised patients, including those with HIV, generally have more frequent recurrences with more severe symptoms. Recurrent ulcers can cause significant physical and psychological morbidity (144). Vulvo-vaginal candidiasis and HIV: Candidiasis at several sites, including the vulva and vagina, is an important correlate of HIV infection. It is often quite severe and frequently relapses. Prolonged treatment is generally required and chronic suppressive therapy is frequently employed (139). Gonorrhoea and HIV: The treatment recommendations for sexually transmitted gonococcal infections, as provided in the 2016 WHO guidelines for the treatment of Neisseria gonorrhoeae, apply to all adults and adolescents (10–19 years of age), including people living with HIV and key populations, including sex workers, MSM and transgender persons and pregnant women (143). Chapter 4. Health interventions: recommendations and good practice statements 75 According to information in WHO’s Consolidated guidelines on HIV prevention, diagnosis, treatment and care for key populations – 2016 update, “Screening, diagnosis and treatment of STIs should be offered routinely as part of comprehensive HIV prevention and care for key populations”, including for women living with HIV. Furthermore, “STI management should accord with existing WHO guidance and be adapted to the national context. Also, it should be confidential and free from coercion, and patients must give informed consent for treatment” (10). Further information on STIs for women living with HIV from key populations is presented in Box 4.5. Box 4.5: Key considerations on STIs for women living with HIV from key populations • Screening, including periodic screening of people from key populations for asymptomatic STIs, diagnosis and treatment of STIs are crucial parts of a comprehensive response to HIV; this includes services for key populations. STI management should accord with existing WHO guidance and be adapted to the national context. Also, it should be
