Consolidated guideline on
KEYWORDS: hiv, women, living, living hiv, women living, health, services, guideline, rights, support, violence, recommendations, including, evidence, sexual


a comprehensive response to HIV; this includes services for key populations. STI management should accord with existing WHO guidance and be adapted to the national context. Also, it should be confidential and free from coercion, and patients must give informed consent for treatment. • In the absence of laboratory tests, symptomatic people from key populations should be managed syndromically in line with national STI management guidelines. • Periodic presumptive treatment (PPT) for asymptomatic STIs should be offered to female sex workers in services are being further developed in settings where STI prevalence is high, e.g. > 15% prevalence of N. gonorrhoeae and/or C. trachomatis infection. • Health-care providers should be sensitive to and knowledgeable about the specific health needs of transgender people. In particular, genital examination and specimen collection can be uncomfortable or upsetting whether or not the person has undergone genital reconstructive surgery. Source: WHO, 2016 (10). Values and preferences Survey participants described a number of challenges around decision-making with regard to when and how to have sex, and how to achieve a healthy and satisfying sex life. Intimate partner challenges all pose a threat to women’s sexual agency and bodily autonomy. For younger and older women, among others, legal and social sanctions can act as barriers to accessing information and counselling on safer sex and relationships (including STI prevention), on how to communicate with sexual partners about pleasure, and on how to build trust and negotiate shared decision-making. GVPS respondents indicated that they want access to a full range of services for STIs and HIV, and access to quality services for STI and HIV prevention, diagnosis, treatment and care. They expressed a need for access to male and female condoms and lubricants – and the skills to use them – as well as information, training and awareness around sexual risks, safety and pleasure, including through peer learning, counselling and sharing. Women from key populations, including women who are lesbian, bisexual and transgender, sex workers and women with disabilities, all need tailored information from non- judgemental service providers who are sensitized to their specific needs for STI prevention, including their greater vulnerability to violence (37). 76 Consolidated guideline on sexual and reproductive health and rights of women living with HIV 4.6.2 Cervical cancer Existing recommendation on the HPV vaccine for girls REC B.33: WHO recommends the HPV vaccine for girls in the age group of 9–13 years. Girls receiving
