Consolidated guideline on
KEYWORDS: hiv, women, living, living hiv, women living, health, services, guideline, rights, support, violence, recommendations, including, evidence, sexual


HIV 4.6.2 Cervical cancer Existing recommendation on the HPV vaccine for girls REC B.33: WHO recommends the HPV vaccine for girls in the age group of 9–13 years. Girls receiving a first dose of HPV vaccine before the age of 15 years can use a two-dose schedule. The interval between the two doses should be six months. There is no maximum interval between the two doses; however, an interval of no greater than 12–15 months is suggested. If the interval between doses is shorter than five months, then a third dose should be given at least six months after the first dose. Immunocompromised individuals, including those who are living with HIV, and females aged 15 years and older should also receive the vaccine and need three doses (at 0, 1–2, and 6 months) to be fully protected. (Strength of recommendation and quality of evidence: information not provided, but original source indicates use of GRADE methodology ). Remarks • This existing recommendation was integrated into this guideline from the 2014 WHO publication Comprehensive cervical cancer control: a guide to essential practice (146). • Further information can be found in the original publication, available at: bitstream/10665/144785/1/9789241548953_eng.pdf i. Background Cervical cancer is the second most common cancer in women living in low- and middle-income countries. Deaths from cervical cancer are unnecessary because cervical cancer is preventable and curable if detected and treated early. Women living with HIV are more likely to develop persistent HPV infections with multiple high-risk HPV types at an earlier age and to have more rapid progression to pre-cancer and cancer than women not living with HIV. Women living with HIV are at 4–5 times greater risk of developing cervical cancer, which is a defining illness of AIDS in women with HIV (146). Women living with HIV are at increased risk for HPV and HPV-related tumours, including cervical intraepithelial neoplasia (CIN) grade 2 or 3, and invasive cervical carcinoma. The prevalence of HPV and CIN has been reported to increase with increasing immunosuppression. ART does not seem to improve cervical cancer outcomes (146). The above points strongly suggest the need to develop specific cervical cancer vaccination, screening and treatment protocols for women living with HIV and for all women living in countries or regions with a high prevalence of HIV. This could include cervical screening, treatment of precancerous lesions, and management of invasive cancer. Existing protocols are based on experience,
