Consolidated guideline on
KEYWORDS: hiv, women, living, living hiv, women living, health, services, guideline, rights, support, violence, recommendations, including, evidence, sexual


in countries or regions with a high prevalence of HIV. This could include cervical screening, treatment of precancerous lesions, and management of invasive cancer. Existing protocols are based on experience, and studies are ongoing to determine whether or not these protocols include the best possible practices (146). The 2014 WHO publication Comprehensive cervical cancer control: a guide to essential practice provides the following additional guidance relevant to women and girls living with HIV (146), and these points were considered by the GDG to be essential components of a complete approach to SRHR for women living with HIV: Screening and treatment of cervical pre-cancer: n Screening for cervical pre-cancer and cancer should be done in women and girls who have initiated sexual activity as soon as the woman or girl has tested positive for HIV, regardless of age; these women and girls living with HIV should be re-screened 12 months after treatment for pre-cancer, or within three years after negative screening results. n Any of the three screening tests for cervical cancer (visual inspection with acetic acid [VIA], HPV testing or cytology) can be used for women living with HIV, as can cryotherapy and loop electrosurgical excision procedure (LEEP) treatments. n Cervical cancer screening and treatment should be done with informed choice and informed consent. n Women living with HIV whose screening results are negative (i.e. no evidence of precancer is found) should be rescreened within three years. Chapter 4. Health interventions: recommendations and good practice statements 77 n Women living with HIV who have been treated for cervical pre-cancer should receive post-treatment follow-up after 12 months. n Management of abnormalities, including colposcopy and biopsy, should not be modified on the basis of a woman’s HIV status. During the healing process after any procedure, women living with HIV might have increased viral shedding. In counselling, it is very important for the provider to stress that the patient should discuss this with her partner(s) and abstain from intercourse until healing has occurred (146). Managing cervical cancer in women living with HIV: n Because there are no well-designed or longitudinal studies on the treatment of cervical cancer in women living with HIV, there are no evidence-based guidelines on this subject to include in this guide. In their absence, this section presents some practices that are commonly used in the international and national arenas. n It is best for women living with HIV who
