Consolidated guideline on
KEYWORDS: hiv, women, living, living hiv, women living, health, services, guideline, rights, support, violence, recommendations, including, evidence, sexual


this guide. In their absence, this section presents some practices that are commonly used in the international and national arenas. n It is best for women living with HIV who have cervical cancer to be fully diagnosed, staged and treated at a tertiary-level institution with the appropriate expertise. Most institutions treating women living with HIV use multidisciplinary teams; each woman will be evaluated individually and an assessment made of her overall health and the existence of other chronic illnesses that may further compromise her immune system and her ability to tolerate immunosuppressive anti-cancer therapy (e.g. tuberculosis). n Both radiotherapy and chemotherapy are immunosuppressive therapies and surgery requires women to be relatively healthy in order to avoid complications such as postoperative sepsis, bleeding or wound problems. Therefore, a baseline CD4 count is a key element of care for women living with HIV and should be one of the initial evaluative tests obtained, regardless of the extent of the cancer. CD4 counts will also be needed to monitor the patient’s immune status throughout treatment. If the CD4 count is or becomes low during therapy, she may be started on ART, which may delay treatment to allow for recovery of her immune system (146). Further information, including information on screen-and-treat strategies for women with HIV-positive status or unknown HIV status in areas with high endemic levels of HIV, can be found in the 2014 WHO publication Comprehensive cervical cancer control: a guide to essential practice (146). Box 4.6 presents key considerations for transgender men living with HIV in relation to cervical cancer. Box 4.6: Key considerations on cervical cancer for transgender men living with HIV • Transgender men who retain their female genitalia often miss out on cervical screening and other sexual increased risk of ovarian, uterine and cervical disease. • Following total hysterectomy, if there is a history of high-grade cervical dysplasia and/or cervical cancer, a Papanicolaou test of the vaginal cuff can be performed annually until three normal tests are documented, and then every two to three years. • Following removal of ovaries, but where the uterus and cervix remain intact, WHO cervical screening guidelines for natal females can be followed. This may be deferred if there is no history of genital sexual activity. It is important to inform the pathologist of current or prior testosterone use, as cervical atrophy can mimic dysplasia. Source: WHO, 2016 (10). Values and preferences Women
