Consolidated guideline on
KEYWORDS: hiv, women, living, living hiv, women living, health, services, guideline, rights, support, violence, recommendations, including, evidence, sexual


genital sexual activity. It is important to inform the pathologist of current or prior testosterone use, as cervical atrophy can mimic dysplasia. Source: WHO, 2016 (10). Values and preferences Women respondents participating in the GVPS articulated that cervical cancer screening for women living with HIV should be included in a standardized package of holistic, quality, woman- friendly, confidential, non-discriminatory and integrated HIV and SRH services, including in resource-limited and rural settings, and in restricted settings, such as prisons and detention centres (37). 78 Consolidated guideline on sexual and reproductive health and rights of women living with HIV Chapter 5. Service delivery and guideline implementation 5.1 Overview The ultimate goal of this guideline and its recommendations and good practice statements is to improve the quality of health services and sexual and reproductive health and rights (SRHR) outcomes for women living with HIV. The respect, protection and fulfilment of internationally recognized human rights, such as the right to have access to high quality and affordable health services. An effective process for developing and implementing a national or subnational response to the SRHR of women living with HIV should follow a woman-centred approach and the guiding principles of human rights and gender equality, as outlined in Chapter 1 (section 1.4) and also the strategies described in Chapter 3. This process involves both an ethical and rights-based approach, and coordination among all key stakeholders, including meaningful participation of women living with HIV. Ensuring that the needs and rights of women living with HIV in relation to sexual and health-care providers. Such investment should be considered a top priority because quality SRH care and support of rights for women, including women living with HIV, has far-reaching benefits for individuals, families, communities and countries affected by HIV. The recommendations and good practice statements for creating an enabling environment and for health interventions presented in Chapters 3 and 4, respectively, form part of a comprehensive package of interventions that are specific to women living with HIV. Many other SRHR considerations and interventions are the same as for the general population, and recommendations related to those areas can be found in a range of WHO guidelines, including many of those cited in Chapters 3 and 4. Contextual factors influencing implementation of the recommendations and best practices for the SRHR and well-being of women living with HIV are addressed in Chapter 3. Action on the recommendations in this guideline
