Consolidated guideline on
KEYWORDS: hiv, women, living, living hiv, women living, health, services, guideline, rights, support, violence, recommendations, including, evidence, sexual


influencing implementation of the recommendations and best practices for the SRHR and well-being of women living with HIV are addressed in Chapter 3. Action on the recommendations in this guideline requires a strategy that is informed by evidence, appropriate to the local context, and responsive to the needs and rights of women living with HIV. Programmes should aim at all times. The current chapter focuses on the optimal approaches for delivery of health services and implementation of the recommendations and good practice statements in this guideline to best support women living with HIV in all their diversity. The guiding principles for these efforts are outlined in Box 5.1. Putting these guiding principles into operation, while taking a woman-centred approach underpinned by the principles of human rights and gender equality (as outlined in Chapter 1, section 1.4) means that: n The needs, priorities and perspectives of women, their families and communities are central to the provision of care, and to the design of programmes and services. systems that respond to their priorities, rights and aspirations in humane and holistic ways. n The promotion of gender equality is central to the achievement of SRHR for all women including women living with HIV and requires recognition and taking account of existing imbalances in power between men and women, practices that exclude transgender women, and the prevalence of gender-based violence (GBV). The intersection of issues that women living with HIV who are from marginalized communities or key populations may face includes multiple layers of stigma, discrimination and/or violence. Promoting gender equality means that women are empowered to make and enact decisions in all aspects of their lives which should be organized around their own health needs and expectations rather than around disease management and control. n The interactive influences on SRHR from across the individual, relational, community and societal levels are acknowledged and, hence, the creation of an enabling environment for women living with HIV to achieve optimal SRHR outcomes is critical. dignity and well-being of women living with HIV. Box 5.1: Guiding principles for a response to the SRHR of women living with HIV The way in which services are provided has long been recognized as a crucial determinant of whether, and to national or subnational response to the SRHR of women living with HIV follows these guiding principles: • Ethics and rights: An ethical and rights-based approach should inform all decision-making. The
