Consolidated guideline on
KEYWORDS: hiv, women, living, living hiv, women living, health, services, guideline, rights, support, violence, recommendations, including, evidence, sexual


national or subnational response to the SRHR of women living with HIV follows these guiding principles: • Ethics and rights: An ethical and rights-based approach should inform all decision-making. The planned response, and the decision-making process itself, should be non-discriminatory and accountable to women living with HIV in all their diversity, respecting and upholding their autonomy and rights. Principles of fairness and equity should be followed. This can include gender-transformative approaches to health service delivery which take into account, address and challenge the norms and structures that can act as barriers to women’s access to, and utilization of, services (147). • Meaningful participation of women living with HIV: This is critical to ensure that the decisions made, the plans formulated and the programmes developed are acceptable to community members, equitable, and responsive to community needs. Representatives of women living with HIV in all their diversity, including from key population constituencies, should be involved at all stages, from designing the response through its implementation, to monitoring and evaluation (M&E) (10). Successful community empowerment develops the capacity of community members and organizations to participate in these processes in a meaningful way. Community-led organizations play a crucial role in delivering services that best meet the needs and priorities of women living with HIV. • Involvement of all stakeholders: Addressing SRHR among women living with HIV requires a multisectoral response. Accordingly, planning of the response needs to involve multiple sectors. • Coordinated approach: The national HIV programme manager, an appropriate body such as a national HIV/ the ministry of health should take joint responsibility for managing the overall planning process and facilitating the participation of stakeholders and community members. Designating individuals to work specifically on developing and coordinating services may facilitate this. In large and diverse countries, developing a national programme requires formulating strategies at the local and subnational levels as well, with central guidance and coordination at the national level. • Openness and transparency: The evidence and rationale for decisions should be publicly available, including for women living with HIV. • Evidence-based: Policies, interventions and approaches should be based on sound evidence or experience. • Equity: Programmes should aim to achieve equitable health outcomes across all populations and settings and to promote gender equity. • Efficiency and sustainability: Programmes should seek to deliver effective services most efficiently and to ensure that they are sustainable over the long term. • Quality: Services should deliver
