Consolidated guideline on
KEYWORDS: hiv, women, living, living hiv, women living, health, services, guideline, rights, support, violence, recommendations, including, evidence, sexual


equity. • Efficiency and sustainability: Programmes should seek to deliver effective services most efficiently and to ensure that they are sustainable over the long term. • Quality: Services should deliver the highest quality care at all times. Quality may be a process, requiring ongoing review of service delivery and outcomes. 80 Consolidated guideline on sexual and reproductive health and rights of women living with HIV (148), provides broad guidance on implementing a people-centred approach where everyone has access to effective, timely, efficient and of an acceptable quality. This vision promotes a continuum of care that meets To support implementation of this guideline, it will be important to update or develop implementation tools and to include the community of women living with HIV in the development process. 5.2 Key service-delivery reforms Based on evidence and experience, WHO recommends three overarching reforms to improve HIV service delivery: (1) integration; (2) decentralization; and (3) task shifting (149). These reforms, separately or in combination, can improve access to care. Community-led and community-based approaches are integral to implementing these reforms, particularly for women living with HIV. To support women living with HIV in all their diversity, with varying SRHR needs and preferences, and with the range of social and epidemiological contexts in which they live, these strategies are best implemented based on a situational assessment and undertaken in consultation with the community of women living with HIV and health-care providers. Relevant specific recommendations and good practice statements to be implemented were presented in Chapter 3, section 3.2.4. 5.2.1 Integration of services The goal of programme planning should be to create delivery systems that best facilitate access to holistic care, which takes a woman-centred, gender-sensitive approach, considering women’s needs, aspirations and priorities beyond HIV. WHO recommends integrating SRH services with a range of HIV interventions as well as drug-dependence treatment (7). Integration of services facilitates provision of comprehensive and consistent care. It also allows individuals to attend to their various health-care needs at the same time and in the same location. Collaboration between programmes at every level of the health system is therefore important to the that need consideration include mobilizing and allocating resources; training, mentoring and supervising health workers; procuring and managing medicines and other medical supplies; and M&E. Integrated health services are managed and delivered in a way that ensures people receive a continuum of throughout the life course (150). This includes SRH as
