Consolidated guideline on
KEYWORDS: hiv, women, living, living hiv, women living, health, services, guideline, rights, support, violence, recommendations, including, evidence, sexual


medical supplies; and M&E. Integrated health services are managed and delivered in a way that ensures people receive a continuum of throughout the life course (150). This includes SRH as well as other services that women living with HIV may utilize. Linking SRH and HIV interventions recognizes the vital role that sexuality plays in people’s lives, and the importance of empowering people to make informed choices about their SRH. SRH linkages and integration are defined in Box 5.2. Box 5.2: Defining SRH linkages and integration Linkages: The policy, programmatic, service and advocacy synergies between SRH and HIV. Integration: The different kinds of SRH and HIV services and/or operational programmes that can be joined together to ensure collective outcomes. This would include referrals from one service to another. It is based on the need to offer comprehensive services. Source: WHO, UNFPA, IPPF, UNAIDS, IPPF, 2005 (151). 3. This definition appears on the WHO web page for the Framework on IPCHS: people-centred-care/en/ Chapter 5. Service delivery and guideline implementation 81 An updated Integrated EMTCT commodities framework has been developed; this work involved collaboration among UNFPA, WHO and several other partners, including communities of people living with HIV (152). This framework will enable programme and supply chain management to understand the full range of commodities that should be made available to support comprehensive integration of programmes delivering SRHR services brings together a number of existing commodities packages, including those that make up a comprehensive four-component service for elimination of mother-to-child transmission (EMTCT) of HIV, and commodities for For WHO tools that can help guide implementation of other HIV-related services, refer to Box 5.3, and for tools offering guidance on how to link SRH with HIV, see Box 5.4. Box 5.3: WHO guidance on HIV-related service delivery approaches The 2016 publication, Consolidated guidelines on the use of antiretroviral drugs for treating and preventing HIV on when to start antiretroviral therapy and on pre-exposure prophylaxis for HIV (153) provide broad guidance in essential operational and service delivery areas: • Offering antiretroviral therapy (ART), assisting with initiation of ART and providing adherence support • Retention of clients living with HIV in care, across the continuum of care • Service integration and linkage, and decentralization of HIV care and treatment • Human resources, including task shifting • Laboratory and diagnostic services • Commodity procurement and supply management systems. Box 5.4: Tools offering guidance on how to link
