Consolidated guideline on
KEYWORDS: hiv, women, living, living hiv, women living, health, services, guideline, rights, support, violence, recommendations, including, evidence, sexual


care and treatment • Human resources, including task shifting • Laboratory and diagnostic services • Commodity procurement and supply management systems. Box 5.4: Tools offering guidance on how to link SRH with HIV • SRH & HIV linkages resource pack, 2012 (154) • Integrating HIV voluntary counselling and testing services into reproductive health settings: stepwise guidelines for programme planners, managers and service providers, 2004 (155) • Reproductive choices and family planning for people living with HIV: counselling tool, 2012 (116) 5.2.2 Decentralization of services Decentralization aims to deliver SRH and HIV services at sites that are more local to the client. While decentralization can take many forms, such as deconcentration, delegation or devolution, the focus here is on the outcome of decentralization for antiretroviral therapy (ART) and access to SRH services (specific recommendations on this are presented in Chapter 3, section 3.2.4). Decentralizing access to these services can be a key reform for women living with HIV since it may improve access to services, care-seeking behaviour and retention in care (7). In many settings, transport costs and long waiting times at central hospitals are significant barriers to service access and retention in care. Particularly in rural areas, decentralization can reduce the difficulty and cost of travel and shorten waiting times. If carefully planned and implemented – with due consideration for confidentiality and high-quality care – decentralization may provide 82 Consolidated guideline on sexual and reproductive health and rights of women living with HIV or actual clients of these services should be involved in the planning and development of the decentralization efforts, as well as in monitoring and evaluation to ensure that services are acceptable and appropriate. Decentralizing HIV care and treatment for women living with HIV can also further strengthen community engagement and link community-based interventions with health-care facilities. n Community-based approaches to service delivery can increase accessibility and acceptability for key populations. Outreach, mobile services, drop-in centres and venue-based approaches are useful for decentralization. Community-based programmes can also refer to programmes that are led and delivered by women living with HIV who are also members of key population communities. Staff members, including peers, involved in community-based approaches need to be appropriately supported in terms of training, counselling, supervision and management, and also incentives and remuneration. n Community-led services are interventions designed, delivered and monitored by community members. They enable community members to address structural barriers to the exercise of
