Consolidated guideline on
KEYWORDS: hiv, women, living, living hiv, women living, health, services, guideline, rights, support, violence, recommendations, including, evidence, sexual


management, and also incentives and remuneration. n Community-led services are interventions designed, delivered and monitored by community members. They enable community members to address structural barriers to the exercise of their rights and empower them to change social norms, thus reducing vulnerabilities that go beyond HIV. For example, their roles include: – providing adequate and reliable access to commodities (condoms, lubricants and temporary contra- ceptives) and clinical services through outreach and referrals and community-based distribution (156); – responding to violence against women living with HIV and implementing other structural interventions; and – offering formal and informal means for the community to provide feedback on the quality of services and to engage with services beyond the SRH or HIV programme. 5.2.3 Task shifting and sharing delivery of services Task shifting involves the rational redistribution of tasks among health workers and lay providers. Where complementary qualifications (7). Many countries face a shortage of health workers; task shifting can increase the effectiveness and efficiency of available personnel, enabling the existing workforce to serve more people. Community-led organizations can also play important roles in reaching women living with HIV, engaging with promotion. Specific recommendations on task shifting and task sharing in relation to ART are presented in Chapter 3, section 3.2.4. health interventions through task shifting (OptimizeMNH) recommends tasks that can be shifted to specific cadres based on a review of existing evidence (58). Many recommendations in that document have relevance for SRHR of women living with HIV although they are not specific to women living with HIV. These recommendations can be accessed in that publication, available at: bitstream/10665/77764/1/9789241504843_eng.pdf. Additional information on task shifting that can be considered with additional evidence reviews, as well as tasks that are recommended not to be shifted, are also included in that publication. In addition to this, peer-to-peer models are effective prevention and treatment strategies to reach women and girls living with HIV. Several programmes have shown, for instance, the potential to significantly increase HIV testing uptake, and success in providing peer support for ART adherence. n Peer interventions – also termed peer-based or peer-driven interventions – are an important method for delivering services and exchanging information and skills that promote safer behaviours to individuals or networks of women living with HIV. Beyond providing services, peers can act as role models and offer non-judgemental and respectful support that may contribute to reducing stigma, enhancing trust between potential sustainability.
