Consolidated guideline on
KEYWORDS: hiv, women, living, living hiv, women living, health, services, guideline, rights, support, violence, recommendations, including, evidence, sexual


women living with HIV. Beyond providing services, peers can act as role models and offer non-judgemental and respectful support that may contribute to reducing stigma, enhancing trust between potential sustainability. Chapter 5. Service delivery and guideline implementation 83 5.3 Key considerations when providing services for women living with HIV Programmes need to provide equitable services that are (1) people-centred, (2) accessible, (3) acceptable and (4) affordable. Furthermore, women living with HIV need to be made aware of and empowered to avail themselves of services. Directed support may help those women who experience extreme challenges in receiving care. Such women may include: transgender women, who might not be considered eligible to might present barriers; and women with disabilities, who might have problems with access. It is important that their SRHR are supported, as they should be for all women. It is recommended that these women receive non-stigmatizing, gender-sensitive, confidential services in a convenient setting, and that interventions are adopted to prevent discrimination and reduce stigma (92). It is important to remember that health workers themselves may also be women living with HIV. 5.3.1 People-centred People-centred health services represent an approach to care that consciously adopts the perspectives of individuals, families and communities, and sees them as participants in – as well as beneficiaries of – trusted health systems that respond to their needs and preferences in humane and holistic ways. This approach requires that people have the education and support they need to make decisions and participate in their own care. It is organized around the health needs and expectations of people rather than diseases (157)4. people-centred health services (IPCHS) proposes five interdependent strategic directions that need to be adopted in order for health-service delivery to become more people-centred and integrated (148): n empowering and engaging people through providing opportunities, skills and resources; n strengthening governance and accountability; n reorienting the model of care so that efficient and effective health-care services are purchased and provided through models of care that prioritize primary and community care services and the coproduction of health; n coordinating services around the needs of people at every level of care, as well as promoting activities to integrate different health-care providers and create effective networks between health and other sectors; and n creating an enabling environment that brings together the different stakeholders to undertake the transformational change needed. Interventions in specific country contexts need to be developed and
