Consolidated guideline on
KEYWORDS: hiv, women, living, living hiv, women living, health, services, guideline, rights, support, violence, recommendations, including, evidence, sexual


other sectors; and n creating an enabling environment that brings together the different stakeholders to undertake the transformational change needed. Interventions in specific country contexts need to be developed and negotiated locally. In each context the exact mix of strategies to be used will need to be designed and developed taking account of local conditions, values and preferences (157). 5.3.2 Accessible Address age barriers: Age-of-consent laws should be examined to determine their effects on access to services. Countries may consider revising age-of-consent policies and creating exceptions to age limits (i.e. mature minor status; early child marriage). Countries may also consider how best to assess adolescents’ capacity to consent. Make services convenient: Programmes may consider offering mobile and/or drop-in services, and interventions via mobile phone and home-visiting services, can also increase access. 4. Available at: 84 Consolidated guideline on sexual and reproductive health and rights of women living with HIV Decentralize services: Shifting services from centralized locations to community-based and/or mobile based sexuality education, peer counselling and community-level activities can disseminate behavioural messages, promote follow-up on referrals to services, improve adherence to treatment and increase people’s participation in their own health care. Invest in creating an enabling environment: Countries can support access to services by women living with HIV, including those from key populations, by investing in critical enablers such as integrated treatment, programmes to improve literacy on human rights, legal services, programmes to reduce stigma and 5.3.3 Acceptable support staff and management) should receive sensitization and education on issues specific to women living with HIV, including those from key populations, and on non-discriminatory, gender-sensitive practices and eliminating stigma. This can be achieved through pre-service and in-service training, job aids, supportive supervision and training follow-up. Where possible, training should involve women living with HIV. Create a safe and supportive environment: Safe spaces (for provision of both health care and social services) and confidential and stigma-free environments can encourage access by women living with HIV. For example, providing separate and well lit entrances or locating services in an appropriate setting can decrease barriers to access. Similarly, confidentiality must be respected, avoiding unintentional disclosure of status through differences between how or where women living with HIV access health care compared with others. Inclusion of women living with HIV in planning access to services may improve the effectiveness of services. This also includes women living with HIV who are themselves health workers. Provide high-quality
