Consolidated guideline on
KEYWORDS: hiv, women, living, living hiv, women living, health, services, guideline, rights, support, violence, recommendations, including, evidence, sexual


of women living with HIV in planning access to services may improve the effectiveness of services. This also includes women living with HIV who are themselves health workers. Provide high-quality services: Services should be acceptable and of high quality. One way to assess quality is to monitor clients’ experience using national and global indicators. Assure voluntary and informed consent: Programmes must promote individuals’ right to decide on their own treatment and must accept their right to refuse services. All services should be voluntary, without any sense of coercion or conditional requirements for obtaining services or commodities. Information on services and treatment should be clear, explicit and in the appropriate language, and also provided in a way that is accessible for women with limited or no literacy. Information for adolescents needs to be appropriate to their developmental stage. Ensure confidentiality: Attention should be devoted to protecting privacy and confidentially – for example, by closing the consultation room door or finding a private place to talk. Clients should be reassured of Programmes should address the complexities of maintaining confidentiality, particularly in community-based, outreach and peer approaches. Ensuring that medical records are kept confidential is one step that health- care providers can take to increase trust between health services and women living with HIV. Engage women living with HIV: Women living with HIV, including those who are members of various key populations, should be involved in the design of programmes, including planning, implementation and M&E, and also should be invited to take part as service providers and advocates. Such involvement can increase the community’s sense of ownership, thereby enhancing programme success. 5.3.4 Affordable Ensure monetary resources: Countries should use timely, appropriate and reliable strategic information to prioritize resource allocation, evaluate responses and inform accountability processes, given that government commitment and funding are important. This includes investment and support to civil society, including Chapter 5. Service delivery and guideline implementation 85 networks of people living with, at risk of and affected by HIV, scaled up to enhance their essential role in the response. Minimize or eliminate fees: Wherever possible, services should be provided free of charge or at a reduced price. Insurance or health subsidies should cover any fees for services. Reduce costs: Costs to the health system and the user can be reduced through the integration and decentralization of services, including community-based and community-led approaches, using convenient locations, while ensuring quality and confidentiality.
