Consolidated guideline on
KEYWORDS: hiv, women, living, living hiv, women living, health, services, guideline, rights, support, violence, recommendations, including, evidence, sexual


to the health system and the user can be reduced through the integration and decentralization of services, including community-based and community-led approaches, using convenient locations, while ensuring quality and confidentiality. Costs to the individual can be reduced by shortening waiting times at health-care facilities through flexible appointment systems and by separating clinic consultation visits from picking up medicines. 5.3.5 Special considerations for the SRHR of young transgender women living with HIV Human rights bodies have also called on states to ensure timely and affordable access to good quality health services, including for adolescents, delivered in a way that ensures informed consent, respects dignity, guarantees confidentiality, and is sensitive to people’s needs and perspectives (158). However, many young transgender women living with HIV are particularly stigmatized and discriminated against. Refusal to make shaming and public disparagement are among the discriminatory practices and abuses that have been reported, along with hurried and inferior care (159). The remainder of this subsection highlights special considerations for the SRHR of young transgender women living with HIV relevant to a range of issues affecting provision of services for these women. More information on young transgender people and HIV is available in the 2015 publication, Technical brief: HIV and young transgender people (160). Service delivery The difficulty of negotiating the tension between a desire to express one’s identity and the fear of being stigmatized for doing so often has a negative impact on the emotional well-being of transgender adolescents and may deter them from seeking guidance and information about gender identity as well as SRH and HIV (160). Participants in UN community consultations identified discrimination by health-care providers as one of the most significant barriers to accessing testing, treatment and care (evidence from the HIV Young Leaders Fund [HYLF] consultation and UNFPA consultation ). Young transgender people may fear having their gender identity divulged to others by health-care providers. Those who are open about their gender identity may be denied health services. Some patients report being refused HIV treatment by doctors who clearly disapproved of their transgender identity (161). knowledge needed to deal with health issues specific to transgender people (162). Some transgender women are frustrated to find their SRH concerns conflated with those of men who have sex with men, or feel that they must educate health-care providers about their needs. They also express concern about the lack of guidance from health-care professionals regarding interactions between
