Consolidated guideline on
KEYWORDS: hiv, women, living, living hiv, women living, health, services, guideline, rights, support, violence, recommendations, including, evidence, sexual


have sex with men, or feel that they must educate health-care providers about their needs. They also express concern about the lack of guidance from health-care professionals regarding interactions between HIV treatment and hormone therapy (160). Studies conducted in the United States have shown that transgender people who have had negative experiences with health-care providers tend to avoid accessing health care in the future (163). Services that are not acceptable to transgender people fail to provide effective HIV prevention, treatment and care to this population. SRH service uptake Young transgender people in relationships, like non-transgender people, may use condoms less frequently with their main partners than with casual or commercial partners (160). 86 Consolidated guideline on sexual and reproductive health and rights of women living with HIV economic pressure and low self-esteem, which may reduce rates of condom use (164). Commercial sex work Evidence suggests that a significant proportion of young transgender women sell sex in some settings, often as a result of social exclusion, economic vulnerability and difficulty in finding employment (165, 166). Considerations for programmes and service delivery n Ensure that young transgender people have access to appropriate SRH information, regardless of their marital status and without any requirement for consent of parents/guardians (167), and that medical treatment without parental/guardian consent is possible and effectively considered when in the best interests of the individual. n Prevent all forms of physical, emotional and sexual violence and exploitation, whether by law enforcement officials or other perpetrators, and promote community-led response initiatives. Considerations for law and policy reform n Examine current consent policies to consider removing age-related barriers and parent/guardian consent requirements that impede access to HIV and STI testing, treatment and care. Address social norms and stigma around sexuality, gender, gender identities and sexual orientation through age-appropriate comprehensive sexuality education in schools, supportive information and parenting guidance for families, 5.4 Understanding local HIV and STI epidemiology Development and implemention of an evidence-based plan requires understanding the characteristics of the populations of women living with HIV who are affected; the physical, social and political environments that influence risk and vulnerability; the needs and priorities of women living with HIV, and any factors that might enable or hinder efforts to address those needs and priorities; and the health systems and community infrastructure. While many SRHR risks, needs and aspirations may be common to all women, some factors will differ among women living
