Consolidated guideline on
KEYWORDS: hiv, women, living, living hiv, women living, health, services, guideline, rights, support, violence, recommendations, including, evidence, sexual


needs and priorities; and the health systems and community infrastructure. While many SRHR risks, needs and aspirations may be common to all women, some factors will differ among women living with HIV, and some will be specific to a particular group or context. Accordingly, for a local response to be appropriate, acceptable and effective, these risks, needs and aspirations must be examined locally, and local communities, networks and women living with HIV in all their diversity must be consulted and actively involved in the situational analysis. Those most at risk are likely to be people who could be considered members of more than one key population. For example, some transgender women living with HIV may also be engaging in sex work and be status, their gender identity and/or their engagement in sex work. Also, women living with HIV in resource- constrained settings may be homeless and/or may experience mental health conditions or fear violence. It is critical that information-gathering processes, and the information itself, serve to protect, and not put at risk, the safety and privacy of women living with HIV. At all times, ethical principles must be observed, and the human rights of women living with HIV must be protected. In some circumstances, determining population size or mapping the SRHR needs of women living with HIV can unintentionally endanger community members or subject them to increased stigma or violence by identifying them as living with HIV and/or as being from key population groups. When undertaking information-gathering exercises, it is important to maintain strict privacy, confidentiality and security of the information collected. If the safety and human rights of women living with HIV cannot be protected, collection of certain data, such as identifying locations of women living with HIV, is better avoided. Chapter 5. Service delivery and guideline implementation 87 environmental factors. Ongoing M&E will identify changing parameters and make it possible to refine or refocus the response. A situational analysis will identify gaps in knowledge and an agenda for further research can address these gaps, some of which are outlined in Chapter 6, Table 6.1. 88 Consolidated guideline on sexual and reproductive health and rights of women living with HIV Chapter 6. Developing the research agenda 6.1 Defining priority research considerations to strengthen the evidence base The evidence base was limited for many of the questions addressed by new recommendations in this guideline. The reasons for this included: (i)
