Consolidated guideline on
KEYWORDS: hiv, women, living, living hiv, women living, health, services, guideline, rights, support, violence, recommendations, including, evidence, sexual


research considerations to strengthen the evidence base The evidence base was limited for many of the questions addressed by new recommendations in this guideline. The reasons for this included: (i) few rigorous studies related to the topics of interest have been published in peer-reviewed journals; (ii) there was little geographic diversity between the studies; and (iii) few outcomes of interest were included in the studies. The certainty of evidence was rated as “low” or “very low” for a number of interventions evaluated. According to the Grading of Recommendations Assessment, Development and Evaluation (GRADE) methodology (9), where the certainty of evidence is “low” or “very low” for important outcomes, this implies that further research on these interventions is likely to have an impact on future certainty and subsequent recommendations related to these interventions. The quality of the evidence was also generally low and was commonly affected by imprecision (small sample size) and indirectness. In many cases, the available evidence was not exclusive to women living with HIV within the context of the intervention, and in other cases the evidence lacked an appropriate comparison group against which to measure the intervention. Data were particularly limited around the following interventions: mode of abortion, self-efficacy and empowerment, sexual satisfaction, support for voluntary disclosure, and entrenchment of human rights. During the guideline development process, the Guideline Development Group (GDG) identified important knowledge gaps that need to be addressed through further primary research. Table 6.1 lists these identified gaps, but this is not intended to be a comprehensive list and many other topics may also merit further research (169). Table 6.1: Priority questions for further research on the sexual and reproductive health and rights (SRHR) of women living with HIV Topic Priority research questions to address gaps A. Creating and maintaining an enabling environment Ageing and sexual health • How can services best support healthy sexuality among older women living with HIV, including heterosexual, lesbian, bisexual and transgender women? • What are the possible effects of HIV and HIV treatment during post-menopause? Protection from violence during • What are the protective and risk factors associated with the transition of adolescence adolescent girls to adulthood in the context of violence and other barriers to good SRHR? • What are the best interventions to support healthy outcomes? Hard-to-reach populations • How can services for women living with HIV incorporate the concerns of women who are hard to reach
