Consolidated guideline on
KEYWORDS: hiv, women, living, living hiv, women living, health, services, guideline, rights, support, violence, recommendations, including, evidence, sexual


What are the best interventions to support healthy outcomes? Hard-to-reach populations • How can services for women living with HIV incorporate the concerns of women who are hard to reach and serve them more effectively? • How can positive social norms help to address stigma and discrimination? young transgender people (aged 10–24 years)? Topic Priority research questions to address gaps A. Creating and maintaining an enabling environment (continued) living with HIV system towards women living with HIV who are health workers? • What is health-care leadership currently doing with regard to access to services for these women? • What is the prevalence of gender-based violence (GBV), including intimate are also women living with HIV? Human rights and health • How can we effectively integrate human rights into health care and health-care systems? • How can human rights techniques be used to improve health outcomes? • What are the ongoing human rights abuses within the health-care system and what can be done to prevent them? HIV treatment services • What are the long-term effects of antiretroviral (ARV) medicines on the quality of life of women living with HIV? implications of life-long treatment? • How treatment-literate are women, and how can that be improved if it is low? • How can the new treatment guidelines be best implemented to support good • How can continued access to HIV treatment services be best supported as funding models transition from external donor support to local support, including the use of health insurance? Integration of SRHR and HIV • How does funding influence service integration, particularly when donor services priorities and metrics differ from those of national programmes and other donors? • What are the effects of integrated service delivery of HIV and SRH care on health workers’ service-delivery capacity, and what are the impacts on clients? B. Health interventions Empowerment and self efficacy • What is the best way to promote equality and empowerment of women living with HIV for healthy and enjoyable sexuality? Safe disclosure • What are the best methods for HIV status disclosure? Options that require further research may include: assisted partner notification and other methods to support disclosure; methods of HIV testing and safe disclosure that could explain why people prefer not to disclose and innovatively address the barriers; functional support associated with disclosure (e.g. safe houses), particularly in environments of high levels of other barriers to good SRH, such
