Consolidated guideline on
KEYWORDS: hiv, women, living, living hiv, women living, health, services, guideline, rights, support, violence, recommendations, including, evidence, sexual


prefer not to disclose and innovatively address the barriers; functional support associated with disclosure (e.g. safe houses), particularly in environments of high levels of other barriers to good SRH, such as violence; wrap-around services with disclosure support. Brief sexuality communication • What are the most effective interventions to support safe, pleasurable sexual relationships for women with HIV who choose to engage in them, based on evidence on healthy sexuality and sexual dysfunction among women living with HIV? Caesarean section • What are the C-section-associated morbidities for women living with HIV compared with those not living with HIV? 90 Consolidated guideline on sexual and reproductive health and rights of women living with HIV Topic Priority research questions to address gaps B. Health interventions (continued) Labour and delivery • What is the impact of an HIV diagnosis during pregnancy? • How can women who are diagnosed during pregnancy be best supported to manage negative associated outcomes? • What proportion of women are tested for HIV outside of pregnancy? • How are HIV testing and pregnancy care related? • How can breastfeeding women be retained in HIV care? • What is the association between antiretroviral therapy (ART) and pre-eclampsia? It should be noted that WHO’s 2011 recommendations for prevention and treatment of pre-eclampsia and eclampsia are not specific to women living with HIV (170). Safe abortion • Do outcomes of medical and surgical abortion among women living with HIV differ using mifepristone and misoprostol? It should be noted that an important research gap is that the included studies looked only at abortions using misoprostol instead of the recommended mifepristone and misoprostol (32). Mental health • What is the association between post-traumatic stress disorder in women living with HIV and their experiences of HIV diagnosis, their experiences of violence and other common HIV-related experiences? 6.2 Towards an appropriate approach to research on SRHR 6.2.1 Women living with HIV as equal partners in research Research about women living with HIV should be conducted with, by and for women living with HIV, as equal research partners. Research that is pursued and funded in this area should include justification for why it is important to women living with HIV. Work is needed to ensure that human rights are actively and effectively integrated into health service planning considerations and associated outcome measurements into their study designs and should ensure that the language they use is appropriate to the
