Consolidated guideline on
KEYWORDS: hiv, women, living, living hiv, women living, health, services, guideline, rights, support, violence, recommendations, including, evidence, sexual


are actively and effectively integrated into health service planning considerations and associated outcome measurements into their study designs and should ensure that the language they use is appropriate to the SRHR context. Research on broader research questions should include women living with HIV in the study population, and should present subgroup analyses to show how the findings may be specific to this group. For example, the larger research agenda around violence prevention, including stigma, could examine the role of HIV in marginalized populations such as sex workers, without focusing exclusively on HIV. These linkages may provide important insights for future action for all women, not only those living with HIV. Research should be respectful of the unique situations of participants. For example, key considerations for conducting research with women who have experienced violence are outlined in the 2016 publication, Ethical and safety recommendations for intervention research on violence against women. Building on lessons from the WHO publication: Putting women first: ethical and safety recommendations for research on domestic violence against women (171). A potentially empowering, action-oriented research approach is participatory action research (PAR). Women HIV activists have called this respectful engagement with, and learning from, communities “MIWA” – meaningful involvement of women living with HIV and AIDS. The approach taken in the development of this guideline and the engagement of communities of women living with HIV reflects a large breadth and depth of engagement, with comprehensive research results and detailed positive feedback that acknowledges that it is possible to achieve the MIWA principles of participation, diversity and ethics (40). When it is properly Chapter 6. Developing the research agenda 91 facilitated, PAR can help to change mindsets and spur change (172). A useful tool for planning PAR is the 6.2.2 Study design To increase the evidence base for making recommendations, studies should use the most rigorous design possible to answer the research question. For questions on the effectiveness of particular interventions, randomized controlled trials (RCTs) and other comparative designs should be used. However, it is critical to note that context is required to understand what is truly being tested in an RCT, to enable accurate interpretation of the results, and to support potential transferability of the findings to other populations or settings. Therefore, qualitative and quantitative process documentation should accompany these trials. More implementation science and demonstration research would provide information on how to – and how not to –
