Consolidated guideline on
KEYWORDS: hiv, women, living, living hiv, women living, health, services, guideline, rights, support, violence, recommendations, including, evidence, sexual


or settings. Therefore, qualitative and quantitative process documentation should accompany these trials. More implementation science and demonstration research would provide information on how to – and how not to – implement recommended practices effectively, in addition to addressing a wide range of other potentially relevant research questions (173). Research should be designed and implemented not only to answer relevant research questions but also to facilitate possible future action based on the research findings. Research questions and discussions of findings should take into consideration future implementation actors, contexts and resources. Adoption of implementation research as a valid method to deliver robust results is key to addressing this (174). resources and actors, the relationships between actors, and the variety of influences across the social ecological framework that may need to be addressed to facilitate beneficial outcomes (175). While not every elements of SRHR and HIV and, at a minimum, to consider the limitations of their work in the absence of either. In writing up the research, the authors should fully describe the interventions and the context in which they operate so that they can be transferred to other settings, with appropriate adaptations as needed to ensure the highest probability of success. When it is more appropriate to use qualitative or non-comparative study designs to answer a research question, researchers should be explicit about their methods to ensure the robustness of their results. For example, the theoretical grounding, hypotheses used, level of engagement of the researcher, sampling approach and analysis techniques should be elucidated. This will both improve the rigour of studies and allow for easier translation of findings into effective action. It is important that research identifies achievements, strengths and platforms upon which to build as well as challenges (38). Strength- and asset-based approaches and paradigms should be used when planning, conducting and analysing research studies (150). The Global Values and Preferences Survey (GVPS) both through study leadership coming from the affected community and through surveys identifying positive practices that can be built upon for action (37). 6.2.3 Funding One underlying reason for the limited evidence base on women living with HIV is that these women are often excluded from participation in research. Discouraging the use of HIV-positive status as a criterion for exclusion from study participation is important in order to build the evidence base. Funders should ensure that they support studies that include women who are living with HIV and
