Consolidated guideline on
KEYWORDS: hiv, women, living, living hiv, women living, health, services, guideline, rights, support, violence, recommendations, including, evidence, sexual


for exclusion from study participation is important in order to build the evidence base. Funders should ensure that they support studies that include women who are living with HIV and who voluntarily agree to participate. They should ensure that these women are supported in understanding the research and that research results are reported back to these participants. In addition, the financial precarity which many women living with HIV face needs to be acknowledged and addressed when meaningfully engaging communities of women living with HIV, as their time and involvement is often not compensated. 92 Consolidated guideline on sexual and reproductive health and rights of women living with HIV Chapter 7. Dissemination, applicability and updating of the guideline and recommendations 7.1 Dissemination This guideline will be available online for download and also as a printed publication. Online versions will be available via the websites of the WHO Department of Reproductive Health and Research (RHR) and the HIV/ AIDS Department and through the WHO Reproductive Health Library (RHL).5 Print versions will be distributed collaborating centres, NGO partners and professional associations, and communities of people living with HIV. Technical meetings will be held jointly with the WHO Departments of RHR and HIV to share the recommendations and derivative products, which will include implementation tools for the new recommendations and good practice statements. For the recommendation on safe disclosure of HIV status, and counselling services, to help women at risk of or experiencing intimate partner violence to make decisions on disclosure that take safety into account. This module will have to be used in conjunction with the WHO including practical tips and job aids (176). Two sets of evidence briefs will also be developed – one set for policy-makers and programme managers and the other for health-care professionals – highlighting the recommendations and implementation-related contextual issues. Should finances allow, the dissemination plans will also include workshops and briefings with different stakeholders at the global and regional levels. It is expected that detailed plans for development of the evidence briefs and implementation tools, as well as for dissemination and implementation of the guideline, will be formulated in collaboration with implementing partners, national stakeholders and communities of women living with HIV, and will allow for derived products to be tailored to the needs in different national contexts. The executive summary and recommendations from this publication will be translated into the six UN languages for dissemination through
