Consolidated guideline on
KEYWORDS: hiv, women, living, living hiv, women living, health, services, guideline, rights, support, violence, recommendations, including, evidence, sexual


products to be tailored to the needs in different national contexts. The executive summary and recommendations from this publication will be translated into the six UN languages for dissemination through the WHO regional offices and during meetings organized or attended by staff of the WHO Departments of RHR and HIV, among others. electronic newsletter6. HRP News currently has over 3000 subscribers including clinicians, programme several knowledge-sharing platforms, including the Implementing Best Practices (IBP) initiative7 and on the website of the Interagency Working Group on SRH & HIV Linkages;8 both groups reach key partners working in the field of SRHR and HIV. In addition, a number of articles will be published presenting the systematic and literature reviews that were conducted for the development of this guideline (see Annex 4) and presenting the 5. Available at: 6. Please see the “What’s new?” page of the RHR/HRP website, which includes a link to subscribe to HRP News: who.int/reproductivehealth/news/en/ 7. For further information, see: 8. For further information, see: recommendations and key implementation considerations, in compliance with WHO’s open access and copyright policies. In an effort to increase the dissemination of WHO guidelines on SRHR, a search function with the ability to search the database of WHO guidelines and recommendations has been created and recently launched by the Department of RHR. The recommendations of this guideline will be made available via this new search function.9 7.2 Applicability 7.2.1 Anticipated impact of the guideline Effective implementation of the recommendations and good practice statements in this guideline will likely income countries (LMICs). The potential barriers to implementation include the following: n lack of human resources with the necessary expertise and skills to implement, supervise and support recommended practices, including client counselling; n lack of infrastructure to support the intervention; n lack of physical space to conduct individual or group counselling; n lack of physical resources, such as equipment, test kits, supplies, medicines and nutritional supplements; n lack of effective referral mechanisms and integrated SRH/HIV services and care pathways for women identified as needing additional care (e.g. for TB or malaria); n lack of understanding of the value of newly recommended interventions among health-care providers and health system managers; n lack of health management information systems (HMISs) designed to document and monitor recommended practices (e.g. client cards, registers). Given the potential barriers noted above, a phased approach to adoption, adaptation and implementation of the guideline recommendations may
