Consolidated guideline on
KEYWORDS: hiv, women, living, living hiv, women living, health, services, guideline, rights, support, violence, recommendations, including, evidence, sexual


designed to document and monitor recommended practices (e.g. client cards, registers). Given the potential barriers noted above, a phased approach to adoption, adaptation and implementation of the guideline recommendations may be prudent. Various strategies for ensuring that the woman-centred approach and guiding principles of human rights and gender equality that underpin this guideline are operationalized, and for addressing these barriers and facilitating implementation, have been suggested in the list of considerations in Chapter 5, section 5.1. 7.2.2 Monitoring and evaluating the impact of the guideline It is critical that monitoring and evaluation (M&E) systems are practical, not overly complicated, and collect information that is current, useful and can be readily applied. The implementation and impact of these criteria and indicators that are associated with locally agreed targets, and with the involvement of women living with HIV, where possible. WHO and UN partner agencies have developed frameworks for monitoring the health care and health system response to HIV and SRHR in the general population and for people living with HIV. Selected examples of these frameworks are listed in Box 7.1, and each of these recommends a set of national-level indicators or actions. Some also provide recommended indicators or actions at the global, subnational and community levels. These indicators assess key factors related to the enabling environment; measure the availability, coverage and quality of specific interventions; and examine the outcomes and impacts of the interventions. In addition, the Interagency Working Group on SRH & HIV Linkages and several M&E experts, including country, donor, UN agency and civil society representatives, undertook a collaborative process to identify and assess existing indicators and tools, and provide recommendations for a compendium of indicators that can be used to measure SRH and HIV integration and linkages at policy, systems and service-delivery levels, as well as at 9. Available at: search.optimizemnh.org 94 Consolidated guideline on sexual and reproductive health and rights of women living with HIV output, outcome and impact levels. The results of this process were published in the 2014 SRH and HIV linkages compendium: indicators and related assessment tools (177). Building upon this, the SRHR and HIV Linkages Index has been developed with publication expected in 2017;10 this Index provides the first ever composite score for measuring country progress towards linking SRHR and HIV in 60 countries using 30 indicators. The Index can be used to support advocacy to improve SRHR and HIV linkages, to guide
