Consolidated guideline on
KEYWORDS: hiv, women, living, living hiv, women living, health, services, guideline, rights, support, violence, recommendations, including, evidence, sexual


another designated WHO staff person), in conjunction with the WHO Steering Group, will assess the currency of the recommendations and the need for new guidance on the topic. This will be achieved by performing a to identify controversial or priority areas where further evidence-based guidance may be needed. All technical products developed during the process of developing this guideline – including full reports of systematic reviews, corresponding search strategies and dates of searches – will be archived in the 10. Information will be available soon at: toolkit.srhhivlinkages.org Chapter 7. Dissemination, applicability and updating of the guideline and recommendations 95 departmental shared folder for future reference and use. Where there are concerns about the validity of a particular recommendation based on new evidence, the systematic review addressing the primary question will be updated. To update the review, the search strategy used for the initial review will be applied, either by the same systematic review team or by another team if the initial review team is no longer available. Any new questions identified following the scoping exercise at the end of five years will undergo a similar process of evidence retrieval, synthesis and grading in accordance with the standards in the WHO handbook for guideline development (39). The guideline development process identified a fair number of knowledge gaps, which are highlighted in Chapter 6 (Table 6.1). WHO aims to develop further guidance around topics that would be likely to promote equity, be feasible to implement, and contribute to improvements in SRHR of women living with HIV, so that the appropriate recommendations can be included in a future update of this guideline. 96 Consolidated guideline on sexual and reproductive health and rights of women living with HIV
