Chapter 21 SURGERY OF THE THYROID
KEYWORDS: thyroid, patients, nerve, cancer, thyroidectomy, surgery, neck, gland, carcinoma, laryngeal, papillary, parathyroid, recurrent, disease, laryngeal nerve


of the thyroid gland to the recurrent laryngeal nerve and to the external branch of the superior laryngeal nerve is of major surgical significance because damage to these nerves leads to disability in phonation and/or to difficulty breathing (4). Both nerves are branches of the vagus nerve. Injury to the external branch of the superior laryngeal nerve leads to difficulty in singing and projection of the voice. Injury to one recurrent laryngeal nerve may lead to hoarseness of the voice, aspiration, and difficulty breathing. Bilateral recurrent laryngeal nerve injury is much more serious and often leads to the need for a tracheostomy. These injuries will be discussed in greater detail later in this chapter under “Postoperative Complications.” Recurrent Laryngeal Nerve The right recurrent laryngeal nerve arises from the vagus nerve, loops posteriorly around the subclavian artery, and ascends behind the right lobe of the thyroid (Fig. 4a). It enters the larynx behind the cricothyroid muscle and the inferior cornu of the thyroid cartilage and innervates all the intrinsic laryngeal muscles except the cricothyroid. The left recurrent laryngeal nerve comes from the left vagus nerve, loops posteriorly around the arch of the aorta, and ascends in the tracheoesophageal groove posterior to the left lobe of the thyroid, where it enters the larynx and innervates the musculature in a similar fashion as the right nerve. Several factors make the recurrent laryngeal nerve vulnerable to injury, ­especially in the hands of inexperienced surgeons (4,6) Figure 4a Anatomy of the recurrent laryngeal nerves. (From Thompson NW, Demers M: Exposure is not necessary to avoid the recurrent laryngeal nerve during thyroid operations. In Simmons RL, Udekwu AO [eds, Debates in Clinical Surgery, Chicago, Year Book Publishers, 1990.) The presence of a nonrecurrent laryngeal nerve (Fig. 4b). Nonrecurrent nerves occur more often on the right side (0.6%) than on the left (0.04%) (5). They are associated with vascular anomalies such as an aberrant takeoff of the right subclavian artery from the descending aorta (on the right) or a right-sided aortic arch (on the left). In these abnormal positions, each nerve is at greater risk of being divided. Figure 4b “Nonrecurrent” right laryngeal nerves coursing (A) near the superior pole vessels or (B) around the inferior thyroid artery. Because of the abnormal location of “nonrecurrent” nerves, they are much more likely to be damaged during surgery. (From Skandalakis JE, Droulis C, Harlaftis N, et al: The recurrent
