Chapter 21 SURGERY OF THE THYROID
KEYWORDS: thyroid, patients, nerve, cancer, thyroidectomy, surgery, neck, gland, carcinoma, laryngeal, papillary, parathyroid, recurrent, disease, laryngeal nerve


artery. Because of the abnormal location of “nonrecurrent” nerves, they are much more likely to be damaged during surgery. (From Skandalakis JE, Droulis C, Harlaftis N, et al: The recurrent laryngeal nerve. Am Surg 42:629–634, 1976.) 2. Proximity of the recurrent nerve to the thyroid gland. The recurrent nerve is not always in the tracheoesophageal groove where it is expected to be. It can often be posterior or anterior to this position or may even be surrounded by thyroid parenchyma. Thus, the nerve is vulnerable to injury if it is not visualized and traced up to the larynx during thyroidectomy. 3. Relationship of the recurrent nerve to the inferior thyroid artery. The nerve often passes anterior, posterior, or through the branches of the inferior thyroid artery. Medial traction of the lobe often lifts the nerve ante­riorly, thereby making it more vulnerable. Likewise, ­ligation of the inferior thyroid artery, practiced by many surgeons, may be dangerous if the nerve is not identified first. 4. Deformities from large thyroid nodules (6). In the presence of large nodules the laryngeal nerves may not be in their “correct” anatomic location but may be found even anterior to the thyroid (Fig. 5). Once more, there is no substitute for identification of the nerve in a gentle and careful manner. Figure 5 Recurrent laryngeal nerve displacements by cervical and substernal goiters. Such nerves are at risk during lobectomy unless the surgeon anticipates the unusual locations and is very careful. Rarely, the nerves are so stretched by the goiter that spontaneous palsy results. After careful dissection and preservation, functional recovery may occur postoperatively. (From Thompson NW, Demers M: Exposure is not necessary to avoid the recurrent laryngeal nerve during thyroid operations. In Simmons RL, Udekwu AO, eds, Debates in Clinical Surgery. Chicago, year Book, 1990.) External Branch of the Superior Laryngeal Nerve On each side, the external branch of the superior laryngeal nerve innervates the cricothyroid muscle. In most cases, this nerve lies close to the vascular pedicle of the superior poles of the thyroid lobe which requires that the vessels be ligated with care to avoid injury to it (Fig. 6) (7). In 21% of cases, the nerve is intimately associated with the superior thyroid vessels. In some patients the external branch of the superior laryngeal nerve lies on the anterior surface of the thyroid lobe, making the possibility of damage during thyroidectomy even greater (8).
