Chapter 21 SURGERY OF THE THYROID
KEYWORDS: thyroid, patients, nerve, cancer, thyroidectomy, surgery, neck, gland, carcinoma, laryngeal, papillary, parathyroid, recurrent, disease, laryngeal nerve


Used by permission of McGraw-Hill Book Company.)”] Figure 8 Descent of the lower parathyroid. Whereas the upper parathyroid occupies a relatively constant position in relation to the middle or upper third of the lateral thyroid lobe, the lower parathyroid normally migrates in embryonic life and may end up anywhere along the course of the dotted line. When this gland is in the chest, it is nearly always in the anterior mediastinum. (From Kaplan EL: Thyroid and parathyroid. In: Principles of Surgery, Schwartz SI [ed], 6th edition, Chpt 36, McGaw-Hill, Inc., New York, NY, 1993, pp 1611-1680). The lower parathyroid glands arise from the third pharyngeal pouch, along with the thymus; hence, they often descend with the thymus. Because they travel so far in embryologic life, they have a wide range of distribution in adults, from just beneath the mandible to the anterior mediastinum (see Fig. 8) (11). Usually, however, these glands are found on the lateral or posterior surface of the lower part of the thyroid gland or within several centimeters of the lower thyroid pole within the thymic tongue. Parathyroid glands can be recognized by their tan appearance; their small vascular pedicle; the fact that they bleed freely when a biopsy is performed, as opposed to fatty tissue; and their darkening color of hematoma formation when they are traumatized. With experience, one becomes much more adept at recognizing these very important structures and in differentiating them from either lymph nodes or fat. Frozen section examination during surgery can be helpful in their identification. LYMPHATICS A practical description of the lymphatic drainage of the thyroid gland for the thyroid surgeon has been proposed by Taylor (12). The results of his studies, which are clinically very relevant to the lymphatic spread of thyroid carcinoma, are summarized in the following. Central Compartment of the Neck The most constant site to which dye goes when injected into the thyroid is the trachea, the wall of which contains a rich network of lymphatics. This fact probably accounts for the frequency with which the trachea is involved by thyroid carcinoma, especially when it is anaplastic. A chain of lymph nodes lies in the groove between the trachea and the esophagus (Level 6, Fig. 8). Lymph can always be shown to drain toward the mediastinum and to the nodes intimately associated with the thymus (Level 7, Fig. 8). One or more nodes lying above the isthmus,
