Chapter 21 SURGERY OF THE THYROID
KEYWORDS: thyroid, patients, nerve, cancer, thyroidectomy, surgery, neck, gland, carcinoma, laryngeal, papillary, parathyroid, recurrent, disease, laryngeal nerve


can always be shown to drain toward the mediastinum and to the nodes intimately associated with the thymus (Level 7, Fig. 8). One or more nodes lying above the isthmus, and therefore in front of the larynx, are sometimes involved. These nodes have been called the Delphian nodes (named for the oracle of Delphi) because it has been said that if palpable, they are diagnostic of carcinoma. However, this clinical sign is often misleading. A bilateral central lymph node dissection, called a level 6 dissection (See Fig. 8) clears out all these lymph nodes from one carotid artery to the other carotid artery and down into the superior mediastinum as far as possible (12a). Figure 9 The lymph node regions of the neck are divided into levels I through VII: Level I nodes are the submental and submandibular nodes; Level II are the upper jugular nodes; Level III are the midjugular nodes; Level IV are the lower jugular nodes; Level V are the posterior triangle and supraclavicular nodes; Level VI or central compartment nodes incorporate the Delphian/prelaryngeal, pretracheal, and paratracheal lymph nodes; and Level VII nodes are those within the superior mediastinum. Lateral Compartment of the Neck A constant group of nodes lies along the jugular vein on each side of the neck (Levels 2, 3, and 4). The lymph glands found in the supraclavicular fossae or more laterally in the neck (Level 5) may also be involved in more extensive spread of malignant disease from the thyroid gland (12a). It should not be forgotten that the thoracic duct on the left side of the neck, a lymph vessel of considerable size, arches up out of the mediastinum and passes forward and laterally to drain into the left subclavian vein or the internal jugular vein near their junction. If the thoracic duct is damaged, the wound is likely to fill with lymph; in such cases, the duct should always be sought and ligated. A wound that discharges lymph postoperatively should always raise suspicion of damage to the thoracic duct or a major tributary. A lateral lymph node dissection encompasses removal of these lateral lymph nodes (Fig. 9a). Rarely, the submental nodes (Level 1) are involved by metastatic thyroid cancer as well. Figure 9a Lateral neck dissection. Note that during this procedure lymph nodes from Levels 2, 3, 4, and 5 are removed. The vagus nerve, sympathetic ganglia, phrenic nerve, brachial
