Chapter 21 SURGERY OF THE THYROID
KEYWORDS: thyroid, patients, nerve, cancer, thyroidectomy, surgery, neck, gland, carcinoma, laryngeal, papillary, parathyroid, recurrent, disease, laryngeal nerve


well. Figure 9a Lateral neck dissection. Note that during this procedure lymph nodes from Levels 2, 3, 4, and 5 are removed. The vagus nerve, sympathetic ganglia, phrenic nerve, brachial plexus, and spinal accessory nerve are preserved. In a modified radical neck dissection the sternocleidomastoid muscle is not usually divided, and the jugular vein is not removed unless lymph nodes with tumor are adherent to it. (From Sedgwick CE, Cady B: In Surgery of the Thyroid and Parathyroid Glands. Philadelphia, WB Saunders, 1980, p 180.) INDICATIONS FOR THYROIDECTOMY Thyroidectomy is usually performed for the following ­reasons: 1. As therapy for some individuals with thyrotoxicosis, both those with Graves’ disease and others with hot nodules 2. To establish a definitive diagnosis of a mass within the thyroid gland, especially when cytologic analysis after fine-needle aspiration (FNA) is either nondiagnostic, equivocal, or indeterminate 3. To treat benign and malignant thyroid tumors 4. To alleviate pressure symptoms or respiratory difficulties associated with a benign or malignant process 5. To remove an unsightly goiter (Figs. 9b and 9c) 6. To remove large substernal goiters, especially when they cause respiratory difficulties Figure 9b Large goiters are prevalent in areas of iodine deficiency. A woman from Switzerland operated upon by Dr. Theodor Kocher (From Kocher (3)). Figure 9c Large goiters are prevalent in areas of iodine deficiency. Large goiters still occur in many parts of the world, as demonstrated in this woman from a mountainous region of Vietnam, 1970. SOLITARY THYROID NODULES Solitary thyroid nodules are found in 4% to 9% of patients by clinical examination, and in 22% or more of patients by ultrasound in the United States; most are benign (13). Therefore, rather than operating on every patient with a thyroid nodule, the physician or surgeon should select patients for surgery who are at high risk for thyroid cancer. Furthermore, each surgeon must know the complications of thyroidectomy and be able to either perform a proper operation for thyroid cancer in a safe and effective manner or refer the patient to a center where it can be done. LOW-DOSE EXTERNAL IRRADIATION OF THE HEAD AND NECK A history of low-dose external irradiation of the head or neck (less than 1500 to 2000 rads) is probably the most important historical fact that can be obtained in a patient with a thyroid nodule because it indicates that cancer of the thyroid, usually papillary cancer, is more
