Chapter 21 SURGERY OF THE THYROID
KEYWORDS: thyroid, patients, nerve, cancer, thyroidectomy, surgery, neck, gland, carcinoma, laryngeal, papillary, parathyroid, recurrent, disease, laryngeal nerve


probably the most important historical fact that can be obtained in a patient with a thyroid nodule because it indicates that cancer of the thyroid, usually papillary cancer, is more likely (in up to 35% of cases), even if the gland is multinodular (14,15). Low-dose irradiation and its implications are discussed elsewhere (15a). Fortunately, treatments of low-dose radiation for benign conditions--thymic enlargement, tonsils, and acne-- have long been discontinued. However, patients who had this therapy in infancy or childhood are still seen and are still at a greater risk of cancer (15b). HIGH-DOSE EXTERNAL IRRADIATION THERAPY High-dose external irradiation therapy (more than 2000 rads), does not confer safety from thyroid carcinoma, as was previously thought (16). Rather, an increased prevalence of thyroid carcinoma, usually papillary cancer, has been found, ­particularly in patients with Hodgkin’s disease and other lymphomas who received upper mantle irradiation that included the thyroid gland (15b). Usually, a dose of approximately 4000 to 5000 rads was given. Both benign and malignant thyroid nodules have been recognized, now that these persons survive for longer periods (17). If a thyroid mass appears, it should be treated aggressively. These patients should also be observed carefully for the development of hypothyroidism. RISK OF IONIZING RADIATION Children exposed to ionizing radiation in the area of the Chernobyl nuclear accident have been shown to have at least a 30-fold increase in papillary thyroid cancer (18). This cancer may also be more aggressive than the usual papillary carcinoma and demonstrated more local invasion and lymph node metastases. It is thought to be the result of exposure to iodine isotopes that were inhaled or that entered the food chain. The mechanism of radiation-induced thyroid cancer is thought to be caused primarily by chromosomal rearrangements such as RET/PTC (19) and less commonly to BRAF mutations (19a, 19b). DIAGNOSIS OF THYROID NODULES Ultrasound examinations are used very commonly as screening procedures for thyroid nodules or as exams after a thyroid nodule has been palpated to look for multicentricity, invasion, etc. When suspicious thyroid nodules are detected, the sonographer should examine the central and lateral neck areas for suspicious lymph nodes which suggest metastatic disease. Diagnostic modalities such as nuclear scans had been used widely in the past, but currently they have been superseded by a fine needle aspiration (FNA) of the mass with cytologic analysis (Fig. 10). In the hands of a good thyroid ­cytologist, more than
