Chapter 21 SURGERY OF THE THYROID
KEYWORDS: thyroid, patients, nerve, cancer, thyroidectomy, surgery, neck, gland, carcinoma, laryngeal, papillary, parathyroid, recurrent, disease, laryngeal nerve


but currently they have been superseded by a fine needle aspiration (FNA) of the mass with cytologic analysis (Fig. 10). In the hands of a good thyroid ­cytologist, more than 90% of nodules can be categorized histologically. Approximately 60% to 70% are found to be compatible with a colloid (benign) nodule. Fifteen percent to 30% demonstrate sheets of follicular cells with little or no colloid (an indeterminate lesion). An indeterminate lesion can be classified further as a follicular lesion of undetermined significance (FLUS) or as a possible follicular neoplasm (Table 1). Five percent to 10% of FNA’s are malignant, and less than 10% are nondiagnostic. In order to improve the diagnostic ability of FNA, researchers are adding biomarkers to the cytologic analyses (20, 21). A system for reporting thyroid cytopathology with the potential risk of malignancy, called the Bethesda system, is shown in Table 1 (20a). TABLE 1. Implied Risk of Malignancy and Recommended Clinical Management TABLE 1. I mplied Risk of Malignancy and Recommended Clinical Management View in own window Diagnostic category Risk of malignancy (%) Usual management Nondiagnostic or unsatisfactory 1-4 Repeat FNA with ultrasound guidance Benign 0-3 Clinical follow-up Atypia of undetermined significance or follicular lesion of undetermined significance ˜5-15 Repeat FNA (or operate) Follicular neoplasm or suspicious for a follicular neoplasm 15-30 Surgical lobectomy Suspicious for malignancy 60-75 Near-total thyroidectomy or surgical lobectomy Malignant 97-99 Near-total or total thyroidectomy Adapted from: Cibas ES and Ali SZ: The Bethesda System for Reporting Thyroid Cytology. Thyroid 19:1159-1165, 2009 (20a). As shown in Table 1, all patients who have malignant cytologic results should be operated upon. False positive results are rare. Patients with a “suspicious of malignancy” cytologic diagnosis should also be operated upon and are also likely to have a malignant lesion. Patients with the cytologic diagnosis of a follicular neoplasm or suspicion of a follicular neoplasm should also be operated upon, for up to 30% of these tumors prove to be carcinoma. When atypia of undetermined significance or a follicular lesion of undetermined significance (FLUS) is reported, some clinicians recommend a repeat FNA several months later (Table 1). However, others recommend operation, since up to 15% of these FLUS lesions also prove at operation to be malignant. In studies of follicular lesions, experiments are being conducted to determine whether the use of molecular markers such as BRAF, RAS, RET/PTC, PAX8-PPAR, or Galectin 3 will aid in differentiating
