Chapter 21 SURGERY OF THE THYROID
KEYWORDS: thyroid, patients, nerve, cancer, thyroidectomy, surgery, neck, gland, carcinoma, laryngeal, papillary, parathyroid, recurrent, disease, laryngeal nerve


In studies of follicular lesions, experiments are being conducted to determine whether the use of molecular markers such as BRAF, RAS, RET/PTC, PAX8-PPAR, or Galectin 3 will aid in differentiating benign from malignant lesions (21a). In another recent study of 265 indeterminate nodules, classified by FNA and then operated upon, 85 (32%) proved to be carcinomas. Using a diagnostic test that measures the expression of 167 genes, investigators were able to identify 78 of the 85 carcinomas as suspicious and to recognize most of the other lesions as benign (21b). Thus, in the future, perhaps these or similar tests will become routine and will reduce the number of operations currently performed for these indeterminate lesions which are ultimately found to be benign. An excellent review of the value of molecular diagnosis of FNA specimens for indeterminate nodules was written by Keutgen and associates (21c). When the diagnosis of colloid nodule is made cytologically, the patient should be observed and not operated on unless tracheal compression or a substernal goiter is present, or unless the patient desires the benign mass to be removed. Finally, if an inadequate specimen is obtained, FNA with cytologic examination should be repeated. Usually one waits several months between needle biopsies. Especially with small, nonpalpable masses, and probably in all cases, it is wise to perform FNA under sonographic guidance to be certain that the needle is in the correct location. Furthermore, when performing an FNA on a suspicious lymph node in the neck, one should measure thyroglobulin in the specimen as well as perform a cytologic analysis. The presence of thyroglobulin is diagnostic of metastatic thyroid cancer even if the cytology is non-diagnostic. FNA with cytologic assessment is the most powerful tool in our armamentarium for the diagnosis of a thyroid nodule. In summary, the algorithm for the diagnosis of a thyroid nodule with isotope scintigraphy and ultrasonography as initial steps has been replaced in most hospitals by emphasizing the importance of early cytologic examination using fine needle aspirate (FNA) (Fig. 10). Far fewer isotope scans are being done because carcinomas represent only 5% to 10% of all cold nodules. This test is usually reserved for diagnosis of a “hot” nodule. Figure 10 Algorithm for the diagnosis of a thyroid nodule with fine-needle aspiration (FNA) and cytologic examination of each nodule. Greater accuracy is obtained by using this diagnosis scheme. (Courtesy of Dr. Jon van Heerden.)
