Chapter 21 SURGERY OF THE THYROID
KEYWORDS: thyroid, patients, nerve, cancer, thyroidectomy, surgery, neck, gland, carcinoma, laryngeal, papillary, parathyroid, recurrent, disease, laryngeal nerve


regimen to prevent hypothyroidism and to decrease the size of the gland. Beta-adrenergic blockers such as propranolol (Inderal) have increased the safety of thyroidectomy for patients with Graves’ disease (23). We use them commonly with antithyroid drugs to block adrenergic receptors and ameliorate the major signs of Graves’ disease by decreasing the patient’s pulse rate and eliminating the tremor. Some surgeons recommend preoperative use of propranolol alone or with iodine (24). These regimens, they believe, shorten the preparation time of patients with Graves’ disease for surgery and make the operation easier because the thyroid gland is smaller and less friable than it would otherwise be. We do not favor these regimens for routine preparation because they do not appear to offer the same degree of safety as do preoperative programs that restore a euthyroid state before surgery. Instances of fever and tachycardia have been reported in persons with Graves’ disease who were taking only propranolol. We have used propranolol therapy alone or with iodine without difficulty in some patients who are allergic to antithyroid medications. In such patients it is essential to continue the propranolol for several weeks postoperatively. Remember that they are still in a thyrotoxic state immediately after surgery, although the peripheral manifestations of their disease have been blocked. The major advantages and disadvantages of radioiodine vs. thyroidectomy as definitive treatment of Graves’ disease are listed in Table 2. In our patients we have never had a death from thyroidectomy for Graves’ disease in over 45 years. Surgical resection involves subtotal, near total thyroidectomy (Fig. 11), or lobectomy with contralateral subtotal or near total lobectomy (Dunhill procedure). Previously we left 2 to 2.5 grams of thyroid in the neck. However, this resulted in a recurrence rate of approximately 12% at about the 10 year followup (25). Hence, we leave very small thyroid remnants and treat the patients with thyroxine replacement. Especially in children and adolescents, one should consider a total thyroidectomy or leaving a very small amount of tissue because the incidence of recurrence of thyrotoxicosis appears to be greater in this young group. Finally, when operating for severe ophthalmopathy, we try to perform near-total or total thyroidectomy, for improvement in the eyes may occur after this procedure. When operating on the thyroid, and especially in young patients with a benign condition, the surgeon should be very careful to avoid permanent hypoparathyroidism and nerve injury. These complications will
