Chapter 21 SURGERY OF THE THYROID
KEYWORDS: thyroid, patients, nerve, cancer, thyroidectomy, surgery, neck, gland, carcinoma, laryngeal, papillary, parathyroid, recurrent, disease, laryngeal nerve


When operating on the thyroid, and especially in young patients with a benign condition, the surgeon should be very careful to avoid permanent hypoparathyroidism and nerve injury. These complications will be discussed later in this chapter. The major benefits of thyroidectomy appear to be the removal of nodules if they are present, the speed with which normalization of thyroid function is achieved, possible improvement in the eyes, and possibly a lower rate of hypothyroidism than is seen after radioiodine therapy. (Basic Surgery, 4th ed. St. Louis, Quality Medical Publishing, 1993, pp 162–195) Figure 11 Common operations on the thyroid. In near-total thyroidectomy, a small amount of thyroid tissue is left to protect the recurrent laryngeal nerve and upper parathyroid gland. (From Kaplan EL: Surgical endocrinology. In Polk HC, Stone HH, Gardner B, eds, Basic Surgery, 4th edition, St. Louis, Quality Medical Publishing, 1993, pp 162-195.) TABLE 2. Ablative Treatment of Graves’ Disease with Thyrotoxicosis View in own window Method Dose or extent of surgery Onset of responses Complications Remarks Surgery Subtotal excision of gland (leaving about 1-2 g remnant or less) Immediate Mortality: <1% Permanent hypothyroidism: 20-30% or greater Recurrent hyperthyroidism: <15% Vocal cord paralysis: ~1% Hypoparathyroidism: ~1% Applicable in young patients and pregnant women Radioiodine 5-10 mCi Several weeks to months Permanent hypoparathyroidism: 50%-70% or more, often with delayed onset; multiple treatments sometimes necessary; recurrence possible Avoid in children or pregnant women SURGICAL APPROACH TO THYROID NODULES Colloid Nodule(s) If a colloid nodule is diagnosed on FNA, there is no urgency to operate in most cases. Patients often are rebiopsied in the future to reduce the chance of error and are followed in 6 to 12 months with repeat ultrasound. Respiratory compromise, substernal goiter, rapid growth, and pain are reasons for operation. Some patients desire a thyroidectomy to get over the problem of further evaluation or wish to have surgery to rid themselves of an unsightly mass. Thyroid lobectomy, subtotal thyroidectomy, or near total or total thyroidectomy can be done for a goiter and each approach has advocates.A “toxic nodule” can occur and can be cured by enucleation since it is rarely a carcinoma and since normal thyroid function might follow this approach. Otherwise, a thyroid lobectomy is appropriate. Follicular (indeterminate) Nodules The surgical treatment of a nodule which is diagnosed on FNA as either a follicular lesion of undetermined significance (FLUS) or a follicular neoplasm is more controversial.
