Chapter 21 SURGERY OF THE THYROID
KEYWORDS: thyroid, patients, nerve, cancer, thyroidectomy, surgery, neck, gland, carcinoma, laryngeal, papillary, parathyroid, recurrent, disease, laryngeal nerve


Follicular (indeterminate) Nodules The surgical treatment of a nodule which is diagnosed on FNA as either a follicular lesion of undetermined significance (FLUS) or a follicular neoplasm is more controversial. The problem is that the pathologist rarely can tell which nodules are benign and which are malignant on frozen section. He/She cannot tell which are follicular adenomas and which are follicular carcinomas, for example, at the time of operation. This usually requires careful evaluation of many sections for capsular invasion or vascular invasion on permanent sections. Of course, at operation, lymph nodes can be biopsied, but in most small masses of this type they are negative. These difficulties should be discussed with the patient preoperatively and usually he or she will guide the surgeon. There are two possible operative courses: a lobectomy or a near-total or total thyroidectomy. The American Thyroid Association guidelines recommend a thyroid lobectomy in such an instance and to await the final diagnosis (21a). This is the choice of most patients. However, if the lesion turns out to be a carcinoma on permanent pathologic analysis, a second operation is necessary, with a second anesthesia, etc., and may be more difficult because of adhesions. Furthermore, many patients are already on thyroid hormone or require thyroid hormone replacement therapy after only a thyroid lobectomy. Thus, some patients choose to have a near-total or total thyroidectomy at the first operation, especially if they have bilateral nodules. But the wise surgeon will have this discussion preoperatively and do what the patient wants, since there is no correct answer. Irradiated Patients Patients who received low-dose (less than 2000 rads) or high-dose external irradiation or who were exposed to excessive ionizing radiation are at increased risk of developing single or multiple nodules of the thyroid, both benign and malignant (15b). There is a greater chance of malignancy than in the non-irradiated gland. For single nodules, FNA analysis is performed and the decision as to whether or not to operate is determined by the result of the cytology. Multiple nodules in such a patient present more of a diagnostic problem since it is difficult to evaluate each nodule preoperatively and benign and malignant nodules often are found in the same gland. In such a patient, a decision to operate is likely. When an operation is performed in a patient with a radiation history and a suspicious nodule, we are more inclined to perform
