Chapter 21 SURGERY OF THE THYROID
KEYWORDS: thyroid, patients, nerve, cancer, thyroidectomy, surgery, neck, gland, carcinoma, laryngeal, papillary, parathyroid, recurrent, disease, laryngeal nerve


a patient, a decision to operate is likely. When an operation is performed in a patient with a radiation history and a suspicious nodule, we are more inclined to perform a near-total or total thyroidectomy rather than a lobectomy. This procedure removes all of the nodules and also removes all potentially damaged thyroid tissue. SURGICAL APPROACH TO THYROID CANCER : PAPILLARY CARCINOMA It is estimated that 62,450 new cases of thyroid cancer will be diagnosed in 2015, with 3 or 4 times the number of cases occurring in women when compared to men (26c). Thyroid cancer is the fastest increasing cancer in both men and women. Since 2004, incidence rates have been rising 6.6% per year in women and 5.5% per year in men. An estimated 1950 deaths from thyroid cancer are expected in 2015. The death rates of women and men have increased slightly from 2004 to present as well (25a). Approximately 80% to 85% of all thyroid cancers are papillary cancer. The surgical treatment of papillary cancer is best divided into two groups based on the size, clinical characteristics, and aggressiveness of these lesions. Treatment of Minimal or Micro-Papillary Carcinoma The term minimal or micro papillary carcinoma refers to a small papillary cancer, less than 1 cm in diameter, that demonstrates no local invasiveness through the thyroid capsule, that is not associated with lymph node metastases, and that is often found in a young person as an occult lesion when thyroidectomy has been performed for another benign condition. In such instances, especially when the cancer is unicentric and smaller than 5 mm, lobectomy is sufficient and reoperations are unnecessary. Thyroid hormone is given to suppress serum TSH levels, and the patient is monitored at regular intervals (21a). In recent studies from Japan (25b), between 1993 and 2011, 1235 patients with low risk papillary micro carcinomas were followed and not operated upon. Patients were operated upon if the lesions grew to 12 mm in size or if they developed lymph nodes suggestive of malignancy. One hundred ninety one of the 1235 patients underwent surgery after some period of observation. During this follow up period, none of the 1235 patients showed distant metastases or died of papillary cancer. Only a small number showed progression or developed clinical disease. This study demonstrates that many micro carcinomas (less than 10 mm in diameter) may be safely actively observed and not operated upon.
