Chapter 21 SURGERY OF THE THYROID
KEYWORDS: thyroid, patients, nerve, cancer, thyroidectomy, surgery, neck, gland, carcinoma, laryngeal, papillary, parathyroid, recurrent, disease, laryngeal nerve


small number showed progression or developed clinical disease. This study demonstrates that many micro carcinomas (less than 10 mm in diameter) may be safely actively observed and not operated upon. They grow very slowly or not at all and were harmless. These studies add evidence for not performing FNA on most lesions of the thyroid that are less than 10 mm in diameter and suggest that a less aggressive treatment may be appropriate for these small papillary cancers. Standard Treatment of Most Papillary Carcinomas Most papillary carcinomas are neither minimal nor occult. These tumors are known to be microscopically multicentric in up to 80% of patients; they are also known occasionally to invade locally into the trachea or esophagus, to metastasize commonly to lymph nodes and later to the lungs and other tissues, and to recur clinically in the other thyroid lobe in 7% to 18% of patients if treated only by thyroid lobectomy (26a, 26b). Most surgeons have treated papillary cancer that is not a micro-papillary lesion by near-total or total thyroidectomy (see Fig. 11), with appropriate central and lateral neck dissection when nodes are involved. The so-called cherry-picking operations, which remove only the enlarged lymph nodes, should not be performed. Rather, when lymph nodes with tumor are found in the lateral triangle, a modified radical neck dissection should be performed (Fig. 9a) (27). At the conclusion of a modified radical neck dissection, the lymph node–bearing tissue from the lateral neck is removed, whereas the carotid artery, jugular vein, phrenic nerve, sympathetic ganglia, brachial plexus, and spinal accessory nerve are spared and left in place. Sensory nerves--the posterior occipital, and greater auricular nerves--should be retained as well. On the left side, care should be exercised not to injure the thoracic duct. Prophylactic neck dissection of the lateral triangle should not be performed for papillary cancer; such dissections should be done only when enlarged nodes with tumor are found. For clarity and uniformity of reporting, the location of lymph nodes in the neck and upper mediastinum has been defined as shown in Fig. 8. Central lymph nodes (level VI) are frequently involved with metastases from ipsilateral thyroid cancers, as are levels III, IV, and V which are removed in most lateral neck dissections. Level II nodes may be involved as well and often require removal. Should Prophylactic Central (Level 6) Lymph Node Dissections be Performed? There is agreement that therapeutic
