Chapter 21 SURGERY OF THE THYROID
KEYWORDS: thyroid, patients, nerve, cancer, thyroidectomy, surgery, neck, gland, carcinoma, laryngeal, papillary, parathyroid, recurrent, disease, laryngeal nerve


lateral neck dissections. Level II nodes may be involved as well and often require removal. Should Prophylactic Central (Level 6) Lymph Node Dissections be Performed? There is agreement that therapeutic central and lateral lymph node dissections should be performed at the time of total thyroidectomy when lymph nodes are suspicious or proved to harbor cancer by sonographic appearance or by FNA analyses preoperatively or when suspicious lymph nodes are found at operation. Prophylactic lateral lymph node dissections were common in the past, but have been abandoned for several decades or longer (12a). Delbridge and his group and others have proposed that unilateral or bilateral prophylactic central lymph node dissections (level 6 dissections) with parathyroid autotransplantation be performed in all cases of papillary thyroid cancer at the time of total thyroidectomy (12a, 27a). This, they state, might decrease mortality from thyroid cancer, would greatly decrease recurrence of cancer, and would further clarify who needs radioiodine therapy postoperatively. Some studies by very experienced surgeons demonstrate no increase in hypoparathyroidism or recurrent laryngeal nerve injuries after this procedure, while other equally competent surgeons have found an increase in permanent hypoparathyroidism (27b, 27c). We and others have not practiced routine bilateral central lymph node dissections prophylactically, but have generally reserved unilateral dissection for instances in which lymph nodes are clearly involved with tumor (27d). However, recently we have performed some prophylactic unilateral central lymph node dissections when a large carcinoma is present, as well as in some children. Finally, surgeons with limited experience probably should not perform total or near-total thyroidectomy unless capable of doing so with a low incidence of recurrent laryngeal nerve injuries and permanent hypoparathyroidism, because these complications are serious. Otherwise, it may be advisable to refer such patients to a major medical center where such expertise is available. Radioiodine Therapy In the past, radioiodine therapy with 131I was commonly used in order to ablate any remaining normal thyroid remnant that was present in the thyroid bed after near-total or total thyroidectomy or to treat local or distant metastatic thyroid cancer (28, 28a). In order to prepare for RAI therapy, patients are placed on a low iodine diet for two to three weeks prior to treatment. Furthermore, in order to increase TSH levels to high values, either L-thyroxine is stopped for three weeks or injections of genetically engineered TSH (Thyrogen) are given for two days without stopping thyroxine. Then the radioiodine
