Chapter 21 SURGERY OF THE THYROID
KEYWORDS: thyroid, patients, nerve, cancer, thyroidectomy, surgery, neck, gland, carcinoma, laryngeal, papillary, parathyroid, recurrent, disease, laryngeal nerve


TSH levels to high values, either L-thyroxine is stopped for three weeks or injections of genetically engineered TSH (Thyrogen) are given for two days without stopping thyroxine. Then the radioiodine is given. More recently, there has been a trend to use radioiodine more sparingly in low risk patients with small tumors because this treatment has not been shown to definitively decrease mortality in such individuals. Radioiodine is commonly recommended postoperatively in patients with high risk papillary cancer and in all patients with metastatic disease, gross extrathyroidal extension, or when tumors are greater than 4 cm. It is recommended for selected patients with tumors 1 cm to 4 cm in diameter and others with lymph node metastases, but is optional in low risk patients with tumors less than 1 cm in diameter (21a). Controversy remains in this area. Many reports indicate decreased recurrences after RAI is given to patients with tumors 1 cm or larger and without known metastases. Also, RAI ablation using low does (30 mCi) carries minimal risk, makes postoperative scans and the use of thyroglobulin (TG) determinations more effective and reliable, and simplifies follow-up. In higher doses, both short-term and long-term complications have been associated with radioactive iodine therapy. These are discussed elsewhere in these chapters. If all or a substantial part of a lobe of normal thyroid remains after the first operation and radio-iodine therapy is to be given for treatment of metastases, this can be performed effectively after completion thyroidectomy has been performed. Usually, reoperative completion thyroidectomy is done and then the radioiodine is given. Total Thyroidectomy versus thyroid Lobectomy? Controversies Because randomized prospective studies have not been performed, controversy still exists over the proper treatment of papillary cancer in some patients. Most clinicians now accept that patients with this disease can be separated into different risk groups according to a set of prognostic factors. Using the AGES (29), AMES (30), or MACIS (31) criteria, which evaluate risk by age, distant metastases, extent of local involvement, and size (MACIS adds completeness of excision), approximately 80% of patients fall into a low-risk group. Treatment of this low-risk group is most controversial, perhaps because the cure rate is so good, certainly in the high 90% range. Should a lobectomy be done, or is bilateral thyroid resection more beneficial? Low-risk Papillary Cancer Hay and associates studied 1685 patients treated at the Mayo Clinic between 1940 and 1991; the mean
