Chapter 21 SURGERY OF THE THYROID
KEYWORDS: thyroid, patients, nerve, cancer, thyroidectomy, surgery, neck, gland, carcinoma, laryngeal, papillary, parathyroid, recurrent, disease, laryngeal nerve


lobectomy be done, or is bilateral thyroid resection more beneficial? Low-risk Papillary Cancer Hay and associates studied 1685 patients treated at the Mayo Clinic between 1940 and 1991; the mean follow-up period was 18 years (32). Of the total, 98% had complete tumor resection and 38% had initial nodal involvement. Twelve percent had unilateral lobectomy, whereas 88% had bilateral lobar resection; total thyroidectomy was done in 18%; while near-total thyroidectomy was performed in 60%. Cause-specific mortality at 30 years was 2%, and distant metastases occurred in 3%. These indices did not differ between the surgical groups; however, local recurrence and nodal metastases in the lobectomy group (14% and 19%, respectively) were significantly higher than the 2% and 6% rates seen after near-total or total thyroidectomy. This study is excellent. Although no differences in mortality were reported, a three-fold increase in tumor recurrence rates in the thyroid bed and lymph nodes was reported in the lobectomy group. In addition, this study recognizes patients’ anxiety about tumor recurrence, and their strong desire to face an operation only once and to be cured of their disease. If the operation can be done safely with low morbidity, this study supports the use of near-total or total thyroidectomy for patients with low-risk papillary cancer. More recently, studies from Japan have shown excellent results (99% cause specific survival) for low-risk patients for papillary thyroid cancer treated by less than a total or near total thyroidectomy. This study and others like it are causing a reexamination of how low-risk papillary cancer is treated in the U.S. High-risk Papillary Cancer For high-risk patients, it is agreed that bilateral thyroid resection improves survival (29) and reduces recurrence rates (33) when compared with unilateral resection. The Authors’ Series In a retrospective study at the University of Chicago, total or near-total thyroidectomy has been practiced and most patients also received radioiodine ablation or treatment with radioiodine as indicated (34). In general, our studies (34, 35) and those of Mazzaferri and Jhiang (36) have demonstrated a decrease in mortality and in recurrence after near-total or total thyroidectomy followed by radioiodine ablation or therapy, when compared with lesser operations in papillary cancers 1 cm or greater. Our series of patients have now been followed for a mean time of 27 years (36a). Predictors of death were increasing age, metastases, and advancing stages of disease. The mean time following diagnosis until recurrence of disease
