Chapter 21 SURGERY OF THE THYROID
KEYWORDS: thyroid, patients, nerve, cancer, thyroidectomy, surgery, neck, gland, carcinoma, laryngeal, papillary, parathyroid, recurrent, disease, laryngeal nerve


followed for a mean time of 27 years (36a). Predictors of death were increasing age, metastases, and advancing stages of disease. The mean time following diagnosis until recurrence of disease was 8.1 years and mean time of death was 9 years. However, 4% of recurrences and 17% of deaths were recognized only after a mean of 20 years, which emphasizes the importance of long-term followup of patients with papillary cancer. FOLLICULAR CARCINOMA True follicular carcinomas are far less common than papillary cancer. Remember that the “follicular variant” of papillary cancer should be classified and treated as a papillary carcinoma. Patients with follicular carcinoma are usually older than those with papillary cancer, and females predominate. Microscopically, the diagnosis of follicular cancer is made when vascular and/ or capsular invasion is present. Tumor multicentricity and lymph node metastases are far less common than in papillary carcinoma. Metastatic spread of tumor often occurs by hematogenous dissemination to the lungs, bones, and other peripheral tissues. A follicular cancer that demonstrates only microinvasion of the capsule has a very good prognosis (37). In this situation, ipsilateral lobectomy is probably sufficient. However, for patients with follicular cancer that demonstrates gross capsular invasion or vascular invasion, the ideal operation is similar to that for papillary cancer, although the rationale for its performance differs. Near-total or total thyroidectomy should be performed not because of multicentricity but rather to facilitate later treatment of metastatic disease with radioiodine (36). Remnants of normal thyroid in the neck are ablated by radioiodine, and if peripheral metastases are detected (Fig. 12), they should be treated with high-dose radioiodine therapy. Although lymph node metastases in the lateral region of the neck are not ­commonly found, a modified radical neck dissection should be performed if metastatic nodes are identified. Figure 12 Despite the fact that the chest radiograph was read as normal, a total body scan using radioiodine demonstrated uptake in both lung fields, thus signifying the presence of unknown metastatic thyroid cancer. Note that the thyroid has been removed surgically because no uptake of isotope is present in the neck. Finally, regardless of the operation, patients with papillary or follicular cancer are usually treated for life with levothyroxine therapy in sufficient doses to suppress TSH to the appropriate level (36). Care should be taken to not cause cardiac or other problems from thyrotoxicosis, however. Recent studies have questioned whether TSH suppression is necessary in
