Chapter 21 SURGERY OF THE THYROID
KEYWORDS: thyroid, patients, nerve, cancer, thyroidectomy, surgery, neck, gland, carcinoma, laryngeal, papillary, parathyroid, recurrent, disease, laryngeal nerve


TSH to the appropriate level (36). Care should be taken to not cause cardiac or other problems from thyrotoxicosis, however. Recent studies have questioned whether TSH suppression is necessary in low-risk patients. HÜRTHLE CELL TUMORS AND CANCER Hürthle cell (oncocytic) tumors are thought to be variants of follicular neoplasms, but others regard them as a totally separate disease entity (38a). They are more difficult to treat than the usual follicular neoplasms, however, for several reasons (38): 1) the incidence of carcinoma varies from 5.3% to 62% in different clinical series; 2) benign-appearing tumors later metastasize in up to 2.5% of patients; and 3) Hürthle cell cancers are far less likely to concentrate radioiodine than are the usual follicular carcinomas, which makes treatment of metastatic disease particularly difficult. The difficulty in diagnosing Hurtle cell cancers and differentiating them from benign lesions is shown in the following study. Of 54 patients with Hürthle cell tumors whom we treated, four had grossly malignant lesions (38). But during a mean follow-up period of 8.4 years, three additional Hürthle cell tumors were recognized as malignant after metastases were discovered. Thus, 7 of 54 (13%) of our patients who had a Hürthle cell tumor had Hürthle cell carcinoma. One of the seven patients with Hürthle cell cancer died of widespread metastases after 35 years, and the other six were currently free of disease. In a more recent study, the size of the tumor was the major factor in determining whether or not a Hurthle cell neoplasm was malignant (38b). Overall, 20% of the tumors were malignant, but those less than 2 cm were always benign. Tumors 4 cm or larger had a greater than 50% chance of malignancy, and all tumors greater than 6 cm were universally cancers. Finally, overexpression of Cyclin D1 and D3 may help predict malignant behavior in fine needle aspirates suspicious for malignant behavior (38c). We believe that treatment of these lesions should be individualized (38, 39). Total thyroid ablation is appropriate for frankly malignant Hürthle cell cancers, for all Hürthle cell tumors in patients who received low-dose childhood irradiation, for patients with associated papillary or follicular carcinomas, for all large tumors, certainly for those greater than 2 cm in diameter, and for patients whose tumors exhibit partial capsular invasion. On the other hand, single, well-encapsulated, benign-appearing Hürthle cell tumors that are small may be treated by lobectomy and careful follow-up because
