Chapter 21 SURGERY OF THE THYROID
KEYWORDS: thyroid, patients, nerve, cancer, thyroidectomy, surgery, neck, gland, carcinoma, laryngeal, papillary, parathyroid, recurrent, disease, laryngeal nerve


for patients whose tumors exhibit partial capsular invasion. On the other hand, single, well-encapsulated, benign-appearing Hürthle cell tumors that are small may be treated by lobectomy and careful follow-up because the chance that they will later exhibit malignant behavior is low (2.5% in our series and 1.5% among patients described in the literature) (38). Nuclear DNA analysis may aid the surgeon in recognizing tumors that are potentially aggressive, because such tumors usually demonstrate aneuploidy (40). Furthermore, increased genetic abnormalities have been shown in Hürthle cell carcinomas when compared with Hürthle cell adenomas (41). In a review of follicular cancers at the University of Chicago, the overall mortality rate was 16%, twice that of papillary carcinomas (39). However, in non–Hürthle cell follicular cancers the mortality was 12%, whereas in Hürthle cell cancers it was 24%. This demonstrates the difficulty in treating metastatic disease which cannot be resected in the Hurthle group, because radioiodine therapy is almost always ineffective. These data are similar to those found in a recent large database study in which the overall death rate was approximately 18% for patients with Hurthle cell cancer and 11% for other well-differentiated thyroid cancers (41a). ANAPLASTIC CARCINOMA Anaplastic thyroid carcinoma remains one of the most aggressive of all cancers in humans. It makes up 1.3% to 9.8% of all thyroid cancers globally (1.7% of cancers in the U.S.) (40a, 40b, 40c). This tumor often arises from a differentiated thyroid cancer or from a prior goiter. It grows very rapidly, and systemic symptoms are common. Survival for most patients is measured in months. Median survival is 5 to 6 months, and one year survival is approximately 20%. The previously so-called small cell type is now known to be a lymphoma and is most often treated by a combination of external radiation and chemotherapy. The large cell type may be manifested as a solitary thyroid nodule early in its clinical course. If it is operated on at that time, near-total or total thyroidectomy should be performed, with appropriate central and lateral neck dissection. However, anaplastic cancer is almost always advanced when the patient is first evaluated. Widespread metastases to lymph nodes or to the lungs are common. Be sure to check vocal cord function preoperatively, for unilateral vocal cord paralysis is frequent. With advanced disease, surgical cure is unlikely no matter how aggressively it is pursued. In particularly advanced cases, diagnosis by needle biopsy
