Chapter 21 SURGERY OF THE THYROID
KEYWORDS: thyroid, patients, nerve, cancer, thyroidectomy, surgery, neck, gland, carcinoma, laryngeal, papillary, parathyroid, recurrent, disease, laryngeal nerve


preoperatively, for unilateral vocal cord paralysis is frequent. With advanced disease, surgical cure is unlikely no matter how aggressively it is pursued. In particularly advanced cases, diagnosis by needle biopsy or by small open biopsy may be all that is appropriate. Sometimes the isthmus must be divided to relieve tracheal compression, or a tracheostomy might be beneficial. Most treatment, however, has been by external radiation therapy, chemotherapy, or both. Hyperfractionated external radiation therapy that uses several treatments per day has some enthusiasts, but complications may be high (42). Radioiodine treatment is almost always ineffective because tumor uptake is absent. Although some success has been observed with doxorubicin, prolonged remissions are rarely achieved, and multidrug regimens, especially with Paclitaxel or Cisplatin, and combinations of chemotherapy with radiation therapy are being tried (43). Although remissions do occur, cures have rarely been achieved in advanced cases. New experimental drugs (44) including monoclonal antibodies, kinase inhibitors, antiangiogenic drugs, and others are being tried because results of conventional therapy have been so dismal (40c). A phase 2 trial of efatutazone (alpha PPAR-gamma agonist) with paclitaxel versus efatutazone alone for patients with advanced anaplastic cancer is being conducted by the NIH (40d). American Thyroid Association guidelines for management of patients with anaplastic cancer including ethical considerations have recently been published (44a). MEDULLARY THYROID CARCINOMA Medullary thyroid carcinoma accounts for 5% to 8% of all thyroid cancers. It is a C-cell, calcitonin-producing tumor that contains amyloid or an amyloid-like substance. In addition to calcitonin, it may elaborate or secrete other peptides and amines such as carcinoembryonic antigen, serotonin, neurotensin, and a high-molecular-weight adrenocorticotropic hormone-like peptide. These substances may result in a carcinoid-like syndrome with diarrhea and Cushing’s syndrome, especially when widely metastatic tumor is present. Most medullary cancer of the thyroid is sporadic (about 70% to 80%), but it can also be transmitted in a familial pattern in 20% to 30% of cases. In the familial form, this tumor or its precursor, C-cell hyperplasia, occurs as a part of the multiple endocrine neoplasia type 2A (MEN2A) and type 2B (MEN2B) syndromes (45) ( Table 3 ; Figs. 13 and 14); or, rarely, as part of the familial medullary thyroid cancer syndrome. MEN2A makes up approximately 95% of all hereditary cases and MEN2B approximately 5%. The MEN2 syndromes are transmitted as an autosomal-dominant trait, so 50% of the offspring would be expected to have this disease. Mutations of
