Chapter 21 SURGERY OF THE THYROID
KEYWORDS: thyroid, patients, nerve, cancer, thyroidectomy, surgery, neck, gland, carcinoma, laryngeal, papillary, parathyroid, recurrent, disease, laryngeal nerve


all hereditary cases and MEN2B approximately 5%. The MEN2 syndromes are transmitted as an autosomal-dominant trait, so 50% of the offspring would be expected to have this disease. Mutations of the RET oncogene on chromosome 10 (10 of 11.2) have been found to be the cause of the MEN2 syndromes (46). These defects are germ-line mutations and can therefore be found in blood samples. All patients with medullary thyroid carcinoma should probably be screened for hyperparathyroidism and pheochromocytoma (47). However, the risk of these two disease states accompanying the medullary cancer in MEN 2A is greatest in patients with a 630 or 634 RET mutation (50c). If a pheochromocytoma (or its precursor, adrenal medullary hyperplasia) is present, this should be operated on first because it has the greatest immediate risk to the patient. Family members, especially children, of a patient with medullary cancer of the thyroid should also be screened for medullary cancer of the thyroid if a patient has MEN2 with a RET oncogene mutation, but also if the tumor is bilateral or if C-cell hyperplasia is present. Genetic testing for RET mutations has largely replaced screening by calcitonin in family members. However, calcitonin and CEA measurements are still useful for evaluating patients with a thyroid mass when FNA analysis raises the possibility of medullary thyroid cancer. The degree of clinical aggressiveness of a medullary cancer corresponds with the mutation of RET which is found (50d). A list of all known mutations with corresponding phenotype and risk profile can be found in the American Thyroid Association guidelines (50d). The most aggressive tumors called “highest risk, HST” are found in patients with the MEN2B and those with a RET codon M918T mutation. The “high risk, H” includes patients with RET codon C634 mutations, and the “moderate risk, MOD” category includes patients with RET codon mutations other than M918T and C634. In all of the hereditary cases (MEN2A, MEN2B, and familial MTC) germline mutations are found. However, about 50% of sporadic MTC have somatic RET mutations (only in the tumor). A RET codon M918T mutation found in a sporadic medullary cancer, for example, portends an aggressive clinical course and a poor prognosis, as well. Figure 13 An 18-year-old female who demonstrates the appearance typically associated with multiple endocrine neoplasial type 2B (MEN2B) was found to have bilateral medullary carcinoma of the thyroid gland at surgery. The Marfan-like body habitus and facial
