Chapter 21 SURGERY OF THE THYROID
KEYWORDS: thyroid, patients, nerve, cancer, thyroidectomy, surgery, neck, gland, carcinoma, laryngeal, papillary, parathyroid, recurrent, disease, laryngeal nerve


the appearance typically associated with multiple endocrine neoplasial type 2B (MEN2B) was found to have bilateral medullary carcinoma of the thyroid gland at surgery. The Marfan-like body habitus and facial features typically present in patients with MEN2B are clearly seen. Figure 14 An 18-year-old female who demonstrates the appearance typically associated with multiple endocrine neoplasial type 2B (MEN2B) was found to have bilateral medullary carcinoma of the thyroid gland at surgery. Multiple neuromas of the tongue and lips are demonstrated. (Courtesy of Glen W. Sizemore.) TABLE 3 Diseases Included in the MEN2 Syndromes View in own window MEN2A MEN2B Medullary carcinoma Medullary carcinoma Pheochromocytoma Pheochromocytoma Hyperparathyroidism-unlikely Ganglioneuroma phenotype Hyperparathyroidism MEN = Multiple endocrine neoplasia Medullary cancer spreads to the lymph nodes of the neck and mediastinum, and disseminates to the lungs, bone, liver, and elsewhere. The tumor is relatively radioresistant, does not take up radioiodine, and is not responsive to thyroid hormone suppression. Hence, an aggressive surgical approach is mandatory. The operation of choice for medullary cancer is total thyroidectomy coupled with aggressive resections of central and lateral lymph nodes, as well as mediastinal lymph nodes (46). Careful and extensive modified radical neck dissections are required. Reoperations for metastatic tumor were rarely considered to be rewarding until the work of Tisell and Jansson (48). Their work, and that of others (49), demonstrated that 25% to 35% of patients with ­elevated circulating calcitonin levels could be rendered eucalcitoninemic after extensive, meticulous, reoperative neck dissection under magnification to remove all the tiny lymph nodes. In other patients, computed tomography (CT) and magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) have localized some sites of tumor recurrence, whereas octreotide and meta-iodobenzylguanidine scanning have sometimes been helpful. Positron emission tomography combined with computerized tomography (PET-CT) have been successful in many patients (49a). Laparoscopic evaluation of the liver is helpful before a reoperation since small metastatic lesions on its surface can sometimes be identified. Cure is best in young children who are found by genetic screening to have a mutated RET oncogene associated with the MEN2A syndrome. One hopes to operate on them when C-cell hyperplasia is present and before medullary cancer has started (46a). Patients with MEN2A syndrome have a better prognosis than do those with sporadic tumor (45). Patients with MEN2B syndrome have the most aggressive tumors and rarely survive to middle age. Thus, in recent years, children 5 years of age or younger who are found
