Chapter 21 SURGERY OF THE THYROID
KEYWORDS: thyroid, patients, nerve, cancer, thyroidectomy, surgery, neck, gland, carcinoma, laryngeal, papillary, parathyroid, recurrent, disease, laryngeal nerve


(45). Patients with MEN2B syndrome have the most aggressive tumors and rarely survive to middle age. Thus, in recent years, children 5 years of age or younger who are found by genetic screening to have MEN2A with a 634 RET mutation have received prophylactic total thyroidectomy to prevent the development of medullary cancer. In children with MEN2B, screening for RET oncogene mutation should be done soon after birth because this cancer develops at a younger age than does MEN2A. With a mutated RET oncogene in MEN2B, total thyroidectomy should be done as early as possible within the first year of life in an experienced tertiary care setting. In MEN2B patients or infants and children older than one year, a prophylactic Level VI neck dissection should be considered as well since metastatic disease has been sometimes found in these very young children (50c). In all of these infants and children, preservation of parathyroid function and recurrent nerve integrity is of the highest priority (49). With these ­prophylactic operations, cures are possible. Careful genetic counseling is highly recommended. Long-term studies of medullary cancer from the Mayo Clinic group have shown that in patients without initial distant metastatic involvement and with complete resection of their medullary cancer, the 20-year survival rate, free of distant metastatic lesions, was 81% (50). Overall 10- and 20-year survival rates were 63% and 44%, respectively. Thus, early diagnosis and complete initial resection of tumor are very important. A number of new therapies using tyrosine kinase inhibition are now being evaluated for metastatic disease (50a). Screening and treatment for pheochromocytoma and hyperparathyroidism in children with MEN syndromes are discussed elsewhere. An excellent review of medullary cancer has been written by Pacini and colleagues (50b). In 2009, a very comprehensive set of guidelines for diagnosis, screening, surgical and medical treatment and followup of MEN2A and 2B, their pheochromocytomas and hyperparathyroidism as well as for sporadic medullary cancer has been published (50c). A recent paper, “Revised American Thyroid Association guidelines for the management of medullary thyroid carcinoma” is excellent and is highly recommended (50d). OPERATIVE TECHNIQUE FOR THYROIDECTOMY While some groups have utilized local anesthesia with superficial cervical block, essentially all of our patients receive general anesthesia. The following description of thyroidectomy is used by many surgeons. The patient is placed in a supine position with the neck extended. A low collar ­incision is made and carried down through the subcutaneous
