Chapter 21 SURGERY OF THE THYROID
KEYWORDS: thyroid, patients, nerve, cancer, thyroidectomy, surgery, neck, gland, carcinoma, laryngeal, papillary, parathyroid, recurrent, disease, laryngeal nerve


thyroidectomy is used by many surgeons. The patient is placed in a supine position with the neck extended. A low collar ­incision is made and carried down through the subcutaneous tissue and platysma muscle (Fig. 15A). Currently, small incisions are the rule unless a large goiter is present. Superior and inferior subplatysmal flaps are developed, and the strap muscles are divided vertically in the midline and retracted laterally (Fig. 15B). Figure 15 Upper left: Incision for thyroidectomy. The neck is extended and a symmetrical, gently curved incision is made 1 to 2 cm above the clavicle. In recent years, a much smaller incision is used except when a large goiter is present. Upper right: The sternohyoid and sternothyroid muscles are retracted to expose the surface of the thyroid lobe. Lower left: The surgeon’s hand retracts the gland anteriorly and medially to expose the posterior surfaces of the thyroid gland. The middle thyroid vein is identified, ligated and divided. Lower right: The superior thyroid vessels are ligated close to the thyroid capsule of the superior pole to avoid inadvertent injury to the external branch of the superior laryngeal nerve. This nerve can be seen in many cases. The thyroid isthmus is often divided early in the course of the operation. The thyroid lobe is rotated medially. The middle thyroid vein is ligated (Fig. 15C). The superior pole of the thyroid is dissected free, and care is taken to identify and preserve the external branch of the superior laryngeal nerve (see Fig. 6). The superior pole vessels are ligated adjacent to the thyroid lobe, rather than cephalad to it, to prevent damage to this nerve (Fig. 15D). This nerve can be visualized in over 90% of patients if it is carefully dissected (51). The inferior thyroid artery and recurrent laryngeal nerve are identified (Fig. 15E). To preserve blood supply to the parathyroid glands, the inferior thyroid artery should not be ligated laterally as a single trunk; rather, its branches should be ligated individually on the capsule of the lobe after they have supplied the parathyroid glands (Fig. 15F). The parathyroid glands are identified, and an attempt is made to leave each with an adequate blood supply while moving the gland off the thyroid lobe. Any parathyroid gland that appears to be devascularized can be placed in saline and later minced and implanted into the sternocleidomastoid muscle after a frozen section biopsy confirms
