Chapter 21 SURGERY OF THE THYROID
KEYWORDS: thyroid, patients, nerve, cancer, thyroidectomy, surgery, neck, gland, carcinoma, laryngeal, papillary, parathyroid, recurrent, disease, laryngeal nerve


thyroid lobe. Any parathyroid gland that appears to be devascularized can be placed in saline and later minced and implanted into the sternocleidomastoid muscle after a frozen section biopsy confirms that it is, in fact, a parathyroid gland. Care is taken to identify the recurrent laryngeal nerve and to gently follow along its course if a total lobectomy is to be done (Fig. 15G). The nerve is gently unroofed from surrounding tissue, with care taken to avoid trauma to it. The nerve is in greatest danger near the junction of the trachea with the larynx, where it is adjacent to the thyroid gland. Once the nerve and parathyroid glands have been identified and preserved, the thyroid lobe can be removed from its tracheal attachments by dividing the ligament of Berry (Fig. 15G). The contralateral thyroid lobe is removed in a similar manner when total thyroidectomy is performed. A near-total thyroidectomy means that a very small amount of thyroid tissue is left on the contralateral side to protect the parathyroid glands and recurrent nerve. Careful hemostasis and visualization of all important anatomic structures are mandatory for success. Some surgeons utilize the harmonic scalpel or electrothermal bipolar vessel sealing system and believe that they decrease the time of operation. However, one must be careful not to cause thermal damage (51a). Figure 15 Top: With careful retraction of the lobe medially, the inferior thyroid artery is placed under tension. This facilitates exposure of the recurrent laryngeal nerve and the parathyroid glands. Lower left: The inferior thyroid artery is not ligated as a single trunk, but rather its tertiary branches are ligated and divided on the thyroid capsule. This preserves the blood supply to the parathyroid glands, which can be moved away from the thyroid lobe. Lower right: The ligament of Berry is then ligated and divided and the thyroid lobe is removed. (Courtesy of Drs. Alan P. B. Dackiw and Orlo H. Clark.) When closing, some surgeons do not tightly approximate the strap muscles in the midline; this allows drainage of blood superficially and thus prevents a hematoma in the closed deep space. Furthermore, one can obtain better cosmesis by not approximating the platysmal muscle. Rather, the dermis is approximated by interrupted 4-0 sutures, and the epithelial edges are approximated with a running subcuticular 5-0 absorbable suture. Sterile paper tapes (Steri-strips) are then applied and left in place for approximately one to two
