Chapter 21 SURGERY OF THE THYROID
KEYWORDS: thyroid, patients, nerve, cancer, thyroidectomy, surgery, neck, gland, carcinoma, laryngeal, papillary, parathyroid, recurrent, disease, laryngeal nerve


sutures, and the epithelial edges are approximated with a running subcuticular 5-0 absorbable suture. Sterile paper tapes (Steri-strips) are then applied and left in place for approximately one to two weeks. When it is needed, a small suction catheter is inserted through a small stab wound; it is generally removed within 12 hours. SUBTOTAL THYROIDECTOMY Bilateral subtotal or near total lobectomy is the operation which is often used for Graves’ disease. An alternative operation, which is equally good, is lobectomy on one side and subtotal or near total lobectomy on the other side (Dunhill procedure). Once more, the parathyroid glands and recurrent nerves should be identified and preserved. Great care should be taken to not damage the recurrent laryngeal nerve when cutting across or suturing the thyroid lobe. At the end of the operation, 1 or 2 grams or less of thyroid tissue is usually left in place. The aim is to achieve an euthyroid state without a high recurrence of hyperthyroidism. When the operation is performed for severe ophthalmopathy, however, near-total or total thyroidectomy is performed. After thyroidectomy, even if a modified neck dissection is done for carcinoma, many patients can be safely discharged on the first postoperative day. Others are kept longer if the need arises. Some surgeons do not think that it is safe to discharge a patient on the day of surgery because of the risks of bleeding or hypocalcemia; however, same-day discharge is being practiced at some centers, usually after lobectomy (52). ALTERNATIVE TECHNIQUE OF THYROIDECTOMY An alternative technique of thyroidectomy is practiced by some excellent surgeons and is used by the authors in some operations (6, 53). In this technique, the dissection is begun on the thyroid lobe and the parathyroids are moved laterally, as described previously. However, the recurrent laryngeal nerve is not dissected along its length, but rather small bites of tissue are carefully divided along the thyroid capsule until the nerve is encountered near the ligament of Berry. Proponents of this technique believe that visualization of the recurrent laryngeal nerve by its early dissection may lead to greater nerve damage; however, most surgeons feel that seeing the nerve and knowing its pathway is safer and facilitates the dissection in many instances. MINIMALLY INVASIVE OPTIONS FOR THYROIDECTOMY Over recent years, the development of ultrasonic shears and other electrothermal bipolar vessel sealing devices for hemostasis and small size endoscopes has allowed surgeons to
