Chapter 21 SURGERY OF THE THYROID
KEYWORDS: thyroid, patients, nerve, cancer, thyroidectomy, surgery, neck, gland, carcinoma, laryngeal, papillary, parathyroid, recurrent, disease, laryngeal nerve


MINIMALLY INVASIVE OPTIONS FOR THYROIDECTOMY Over recent years, the development of ultrasonic shears and other electrothermal bipolar vessel sealing devices for hemostasis and small size endoscopes has allowed surgeons to perform thyroidectomies through much smaller incisions than using traditional techniques. Two different approaches have been taken to minimally invasive thyroidectomies. One technique, largely popularized in areas of the Far East such as Japan, China, and Korea, involves making incisions away from the neck in hidden areas such as in the axillae, chest, or the areola of the breast. The surgeon then creates a tunnel up to the neck where the thyroidectomy is performed with endoscopic instruments utilizing the endoscope for visualization. Approaches such as this are generally performed with low pressure insufflation and can completely avoid any incisions on the neck itself. Thus, the major advantage is a thyroidectomy without a neck scar (54-57). Most reports suggest significantly longer operative times, especially during a learning period. Perhaps most concerning to many American surgeons with these approaches is that if bleeding problems are encountered in the course of the thyroid dissection, a separate neck incision may need to be made to solve the problem. Additionally, recent reports have suggested the possibility that recurrent thyroid cancer can develop in the subcutaneous tunnel after the performance of an endoscopic thyroidectomy (57a). Such complications will need to be carefully evaluated before wide acceptance of this technique can be recommended in cases of malignancy. An alternative technique, developed by Dr. Paolo Miccoli, more widely utilized in Europe and to a less extent in the United States, utilizes a smaller incision than usual that is placed in the conventional location in the neck (58, 59). In general, a 1.5 to 2.0 cm incision is made in a conventional location in the neck and after the strap muscles are retracted from the thyroid gland, a 5 mm 30 degree endoscope is introduced into the incision. The scope is utilized to visualize the tissue along the lateral aspect of the thyroid gland and especially for the superior pole vessels. Usually after the superior and lateral aspects of the thyroid gland have been dissected free, the parathyroid glands and recurrent nerve are visualized and then the thyroid lobe is delivered through the neck incision. The remainder of the operation is performed in the conventional manner through the small cervical incision. Several authors in the United States have reported good
