Chapter 21 SURGERY OF THE THYROID
KEYWORDS: thyroid, patients, nerve, cancer, thyroidectomy, surgery, neck, gland, carcinoma, laryngeal, papillary, parathyroid, recurrent, disease, laryngeal nerve


delivered through the neck incision. The remainder of the operation is performed in the conventional manner through the small cervical incision. Several authors in the United States have reported good results in small series with this video-assisted approach (60, 61, 61a). A significant benefit of this approach is that the incision is in the usual location so that if any bleeding results in difficulty with visualization during the procedure, the incision can be enlarged and a conventional thyroidectomy can readily be completed. Most authors have found this approach to be similar to conventional thyroidectomy in operative time, although the small neck incision does limit the size of the thyroid gland that could be resected utilizing this technique (62-64). Recently Miccoli and his group have shown that minimally invasive video-assisted thyroidectomy and conventional thyroidectomy have the same rate of hypoparathyroidism and recurrent laryngeal nerve injury following operations for papillary thyroid cancer (64a). Furthermore, no differences in outcome were noted at five years or in exposure to radioiodine therapy, suggesting the same degree of completeness of resection by both techniques. They believe that minimally invasive video-assisted thyroidectomy is a valid option to treat low and intermediate risk papillary thyroid cancer. In the United States, minimally invasive video-assisted thyroidectomy is offered in few specialized centers for selected patients with small thyroid nodules (usually less than 3 cm) and without evidence of thyroiditis. Except in the hands of surgeons very experienced in the technique, it should not be utilized for the treatment of most thyroid cancers. An excellent review of these minimally invasive techniques was written by Grogan and Duh (63a). Robotic Transaxillary Thyroid Surgery Using the da Vinci robot, several groups, largely from Korea, have developed a transaxillary approach to thyroidectomy (64b, 64c, 64d). An incision between 5 and 10 cm is made unilaterally or in both axillae and the dissection progresses from the axilla to the neck with performance of a lobectomy or total thyroidectomy. In malignant cases, a neck dissection can be performed as well (64c). In their hands, robotic surgery can be performed with low complications, but the procedure takes longer than open surgery. There is a prolonged learning curve. Furthermore, use of the robot is expensive. While reimbursement in Korea was higher for robotic surgery than for conventional thyroidectomy, in the U.S. reimbursement was the same for both procedures and the costs were higher for robotic thyroidectomy. The obvious
