Chapter 21 SURGERY OF THE THYROID
KEYWORDS: thyroid, patients, nerve, cancer, thyroidectomy, surgery, neck, gland, carcinoma, laryngeal, papillary, parathyroid, recurrent, disease, laryngeal nerve


Korea was higher for robotic surgery than for conventional thyroidectomy, in the U.S. reimbursement was the same for both procedures and the costs were higher for robotic thyroidectomy. The obvious advantage is cosmetic, since no scar is placed in the neck. Initially there was considerable enthusiasm for robotic thyroidectomy in the U.S. However, because of increased costs and probably increased complications in American patients, who are generally larger than Korean counterparts, Intuitive Surgical, the company that makes the robots, decided it could no longer support the use of its robots for thyroid surgery. In 2010 to 2011 in the National Cancer Database, 224 patients with thyroid cancer underwent robotic thyroidectomy and close to 58,000 patients underwent open surgery (64e). More recently, fewer robotic thyroidectomy operations are being done in the U.S. and this procedure is limited to only a few institutions. In Korea, on the other hand, this procedure remains very popular. Transoral Thyroidectomy Experiments have been conducted to determine whether or not it is possible and safe to perform a thyroidectomy through the floor of the mouth (64f). Once more, the objective is to eliminate a scar in the neck. A number of investigators have moved this procedure to clinical practice. Both endoscopic and robotic techniques have been described. A summary of the experience in 2014 and the complications associated with these techniques are reviewed by Clark et al (64g). POSTOPERATIVE COMPLICATIONS Many authors have reported large series of thyroidectomies with no deaths. In other reports, mortality does not differ greatly from that from anesthesia alone. However, each patient should be evaluated for comorbidities, for it has been shown that elderly patients are more likely to suffer postoperative complications and longer hospitalizations than their younger counterparts following thyroidectomy (64h). Five major complications are associated with thyroid surgery: 1) thyroid storm, 2) wound hemorrhage, 3) wound infection, 4) recurrent laryngeal nerve injury, and 5) hypoparathyroidism. Thyroid Storm Thyroid storm reflects an exacerbation of a thyrotoxic state; it is seen most often in Graves’ disease, but it occurs less commonly in patients with toxic adenoma or toxic multinodular goiter. Clinical manifestations and management of thyroid storm are discussed elsewhere in this text. Wound Hemorrhage Wound hemorrhage with hematoma is an uncommon complication reported in 0.3% to 1.0% of patients in most large series. However, it is a well-recognized and potentially lethal complication (52). A small hematoma deep to the strap muscles
