Chapter 21 SURGERY OF THE THYROID
KEYWORDS: thyroid, patients, nerve, cancer, thyroidectomy, surgery, neck, gland, carcinoma, laryngeal, papillary, parathyroid, recurrent, disease, laryngeal nerve


complication reported in 0.3% to 1.0% of patients in most large series. However, it is a well-recognized and potentially lethal complication (52). A small hematoma deep to the strap muscles can compress the trachea and cause respiratory distress. A small suction drain placed in the wound is not usually adequate for decompression, especially if bleeding occurs from an arterial vessel. Swelling of the neck and bulging of the wound can be quickly followed by respiratory impairment. Wound hemorrhage with hematoma is an emergency situation, especially if any respiratory compromise is present. Treatment consists of immediately opening the wound and evacuating the clot, even at the bedside. Pressure should be applied with a sterile sponge and the patient returned to the operating room. Later, the bleeding vessel can be ligated in a careful and more leisurely manner under optimal sterile conditions with good lighting in the operating room. The urgency of treating this condition as soon as it is recognized cannot be overemphasized, especially if respiratory compromise is present. Injury to the Recurrent Laryngeal Nerve Injuries to the recurrent laryngeal nerve occur in 1% to 2% of thyroid operations when performed by experienced neck surgeons, and at a higher prevalence when thyroidectomy is done by a less experienced surgeon. They occur more commonly when thyroidectomy is performed for malignant disease, especially if a total thyroidectomy is done. Sometimes the nerve is purposely sacrificed if it runs into an aggressive thyroid cancer. Nerve injuries can be unilateral or bilateral and temporary or permanent, and they can be deliberate or accidental. Loss of function can be caused by transection, ligation, clamping, traction, or handling of the nerve. Tumor invasion can also involve the nerve. Occasionally, vocal cord impairment occurs as a result of pressure from the balloon of an endotracheal tube on the recurrent nerve as it enters the larynx. In unilateral recurrent nerve injuries, the voice becomes husky because the vocal cords do not approximate one another. Shortness of breath and aspiration of liquids sometimes occur as well. Most nerve injuries are temporary and vocal cord function returns within several months; it certainly returns within 9 to 12 months if it is to return at all. If no function returns by that time, the voice can be improved by operative means. The choice is insertion of a piece of Silastic to move the paralyzed cord to the midline; this procedure is called
