Chapter 21 SURGERY OF THE THYROID
KEYWORDS: thyroid, patients, nerve, cancer, thyroidectomy, surgery, neck, gland, carcinoma, laryngeal, papillary, parathyroid, recurrent, disease, laryngeal nerve


time, the voice can be improved by operative means. The choice is insertion of a piece of Silastic to move the paralyzed cord to the midline; this procedure is called a laryngoplasty. Early in the course of management of a patient with hoarseness or aspiration, the affected vocal cord can be injected with various substances to move it to the midline and to alleviate or improve these symptoms. Bilateral recurrent laryngeal nerve damage is much more serious, because both vocal cords may assume a medial or paramedian position and cause airway obstruction and difficulty with respiratory toilet. Most often, tracheostomy is required. In the authors’ experience, permanent injuries to the recurrent laryngeal nerve are best avoided by identifying and carefully tracing the path of the recurrent nerve. Accidental transection occurs most often at the level of the upper two tracheal rings, where the nerve closely approximates the thyroid lobe in the area of Berry’s ligament. If recognized, many believe that the transected nerve should be reapproximated by microsurgical techniques, although this is controversial. A number of procedures to later reinnervate the laryngeal muscles have been performed with improvement of the voice in unilateral nerve injuries, but with only limited success when a bilateral nerve injury has occurred (65). Injury to the external branch of the superior laryngeal nerve may occur when the upper pole vessels are divided (Fig. 6) if the nerve is not visualized (9). This injury results in impairment of function of the ipsilateral cricothyroid muscle, a fine tuner of the vocal cord. This injury causes an inability to forcefully project one’s voice or to sing high notes because of loss of function of the cricothyroid muscle. Often, this disability improves during the first few months after surgery. Recurrent Laryngeal Nerve Monitoring Many surgeons have sought to try to further diminish the low incidence of recurrent laryngeal nerve (RLN) injury by use of nerve monitoring devices during surgery. Although several devices have been utilized, all have in common some means of detecting vocal cord movement when the RLN or the ipsilateral vagus nerve is stimulated. Many small series have been reported in the literature assessing the potential benefits of monitoring to decrease the incidence of nerve injury (65a, 65b). Given the low incidence of RLN injury, it is not surprising that no study has shown a statistically significant decrease in RLN injury when using a nerve monitor. The
