Chapter 21 SURGERY OF THE THYROID
KEYWORDS: thyroid, patients, nerve, cancer, thyroidectomy, surgery, neck, gland, carcinoma, laryngeal, papillary, parathyroid, recurrent, disease, laryngeal nerve


65b). Given the low incidence of RLN injury, it is not surprising that no study has shown a statistically significant decrease in RLN injury when using a nerve monitor. The largest series in the literature by Dralle reported on a multi-institutional German study of 29,998 nerves at risk in thyroidectomy (65c). Even with a study this large, no statistically significant decrease in rates of RLN injury could be shown with nerve monitoring. Despite this, the use of nerve monitoring has become more popular. Among the problems of nerve monitoring technology are that the devices can malfunction, often because of endotracheal tube misplacement, so that the surgeon cannot depend on the device to always identify the nerve. Proponents of nerve monitoring suggest that the technology is helpful even if a statistically significant decrease in the rate of RLN cannot be shown. Goretzki and his group, for example, have published data that when operating upon bilateral thyroid disease, if nerve monitoring suggests a nerve injury on the first side, they have modified or restricted the resection of the contralateral thyroid lobe (65d). In this way, they have decreased or eliminated the incidence of bilateral RLN injuries. This is very important. Many authors have suggested that RLN monitors may be most helpful in difficult reoperative cases when significant scar tissue is encountered, and have limited their use to such cases. This has not generally been shown to be the case. Most authors have advocated routine use (67a). Nerve monitoring technology in thyroid surgery should never take the place of meticulous dissection. Surgeons may choose to use the technology, but the data do not support the suggestion that nerve monitors allow thyroid surgery to be performed in a safer fashion than that by a good surgeon utilizing careful technique. An excellent international guide to the use of electrophysiologic RLN monitoring during thyroid and parathyroid surgery has been published (65f). Furthermore, a review of the medical, legal, and ethical aspects of RLN monitoring has been written by Angelos (65e). A recent advance is continuous intraoperative recurrent laryngeal monitoring, done by continuously stimulating the ipsilateral vagus nerve. It has been shown that a decrease in signal amplitude and an increase in signal latency often occur before some recurrent laryngeal nerves are permanently damaged. In a recent experimental study, it was shown that modification of the surgical maneuver by the operator (such as release of traction) led
