Chapter 21 SURGERY OF THE THYROID
KEYWORDS: thyroid, patients, nerve, cancer, thyroidectomy, surgery, neck, gland, carcinoma, laryngeal, papillary, parathyroid, recurrent, disease, laryngeal nerve


some recurrent laryngeal nerves are permanently damaged. In a recent experimental study, it was shown that modification of the surgical maneuver by the operator (such as release of traction) led to recovery of the EMG changes and aversion of the impending recurrent nerve injury (65G). This technique shows great promise for helping the surgeon intraoperatively, for it signals that the nerve is in danger and that the surgeon should stop doing whatever is causing the problem. A note of caution is appropriate, however. Terris and associates recently described two serious adverse events in nine patients who underwent continuous vagal nerve monitoring—hemodynamic instability and reversible vagal neuropraxia—both attributable to the monitoring apparatus (65h). They feel that this technique may cause harm and they have stopped its routine use. Clearly, further clarification and study must be done, but surgeons should use caution until it’s safety has been proved. HYPOPARATHYROIDISM Postoperative hypoparathyroidism can be temporary or permanent. The incidence of permanent hypoparathyroidism has been reported to be as high as 20% when total thyroidectomy and radical neck dissection are performed, and as low as 0.9% for subtotal thyroidectomy. Other excellent neck surgeons have reported a lower incidence of permanent hypoparathyroidism, even about one percent following total thyroidectomy (66). Postoperative hypoparathyroidism is rarely the result of inadvertent removal of all of the parathyroid glands but is more commonly caused by disruption of their delicate blood supply. Devascularization can be minimized during thyroid lobectomy by dissecting close to the thyroid capsule, by carefully ligating the branches of the inferior thyroid artery on the thyroid capsule distal to their supply of the parathyroid glands (rather than ligating the inferior thyroid artery as a single trunk), and by treating the parathyroids with great care. If a parathyroid gland is recognized to be ischemic or nonviable during surgery, it can be autotransplanted often after identification by frozen section. The gland is minced into 1 to 2 mm cubes and placed into a pocket(s) in the sternocleidomastoid muscle. Postoperative hypoparathyroidism results in hypocalcemia and hyperphosphatemia; it is manifested by circumoral numbness, tingling of the fingers and toes, and intense anxiety occurring soon after surgery. Chvostek’s sign appears early, and carpopedal spasm can occur. Symptoms develop in most patients when the serum calcium level is less than 7.5 to 8 mg/dL. Parathyroid hormone is low or absent in most cases of permanent hyopoparathyroidism. Patients who have had a thyroid lobectomy
