Chapter 21 SURGERY OF THE THYROID
KEYWORDS: thyroid, patients, nerve, cancer, thyroidectomy, surgery, neck, gland, carcinoma, laryngeal, papillary, parathyroid, recurrent, disease, laryngeal nerve


the serum calcium level is less than 7.5 to 8 mg/dL. Parathyroid hormone is low or absent in most cases of permanent hyopoparathyroidism. Patients who have had a thyroid lobectomy rarely develop significant hypocalcemia postoperatively since two contralateral parathyroid glands are left intact. Many of these patients may be discharged on the day of operation if they are otherwise satisfactory. However, patients who have had a total or near total thyroidectomy for cancer or for Graves’ disease are at greater risk of a low calcium and are generally observed in the hospital postoperatively. We have found the one hour postoperative PTH level to be equivalent to the parathyroid hormone level drawn the following morning. A value of 15 pg/ml or greater at one hour is very reassuring and is rarely associated with symptomatic postoperative hypocalcemia or with permanent hypoparathyroidism. A central lymph node dissection makes transient hypocalcemia more likely. As well as one hour PTH, we measure the serum calcium and parathyroid hormone levels approximately 12 hours after operation and thereafter. Most patients are able to leave the hospital on the morning after surgery if they are asymptomatic and their serum calcium level is 7.8 mg/dL or above. Oral calcium pills are used liberally. Patients with severe symptomatic hypocalcemia are treated in the hospital with 1 g (10 mL) of 10% calcium gluconate infused intravenously over several minutes. Then, if necessary, 5 g of this calcium solution is placed in each 500 mL intravenous bottle to run continuously, starting with approximately 30 mL/hour. Oral calcium, usually as calcium carbonate (1250 mg to 2500 mg four times per day), should be started. Each 1250 mg pill of calcium carbonate contains 500 mg of calcium. With this treatment regimen most patients become asymptomatic. The intravenous therapy is tapered and stopped as soon as possible, and the patient is sent home and told to take oral calcium pills. This condition is referred to as transient or temporary hypocalcemia or transient hypoparathyroidism. Serum phosphorus determinations are helpful to rule out bone hunger in which both calcium and phosphorus levels are low, while PTH may be normal. Management of persistent severe hypocalcemia requires the addition of a vitamin D preparation to facilitate the absorption of oral calcium. We prefer the use of 1,25-­dihydroxyvitamin D (Calcitriol) because it is the active metabolite of vitamin D and has a more rapid action than regular vitamin D. Calcitriol
