Chapter 21 SURGERY OF THE THYROID
KEYWORDS: thyroid, patients, nerve, cancer, thyroidectomy, surgery, neck, gland, carcinoma, laryngeal, papillary, parathyroid, recurrent, disease, laryngeal nerve


oral calcium. We prefer the use of 1,25-­dihydroxyvitamin D (Calcitriol) because it is the active metabolite of vitamin D and has a more rapid action than regular vitamin D. Calcitriol 0.5 mcg with oral calcium carbonate therapy is given four times daily for the first several days, then this priming dose of vitamin D is reduced. The usual maintenance dose for most patients with permanent hypoparathyroidism is Calcitriol 0.25 to 0.5 mcg once daily, along with calcium carbonate, 500 mg Ca 2 + once or twice daily, although some patients require larger doses. When high doses of vitamins are used, serum calcium levels must be monitored carefully after discharge, and the dosage of the medications is adjusted promptly to prevent hypercalcemia as well as hypocalcemia. Finally, the serum parathyroid hormone level should be analyzed periodically to determine whether permanent hypoparathyroidism is truly present, because the authors and others have seen cases of postoperative tetany, perhaps caused by “bone hunger,” that later resolved completely. In such cases, circulating parathyroid hormone is normal and all therapy can be stopped. Remember that in bone hunger, both the serum calcium and phosphorus values are low, whereas in hypoparathyroidism, the serum calcium value is low but the phosphorus level is elevated. Permanent hypoparathyroidism is usually not diagnosed until at least six months have passed and parathyroid hormone remains low or absent. McHenry has shown that the incidence of complications following thyroidectomy varies greatly (66a). In general, those surgeons with excellent training and a large experience with this operation have fewer complications, particularly following cancer procedures and reoperative surgery. DEVELOPMENTAL ABNORMALITIES OF THE THYROID To understand the different thyroid anomalies, it is important to briefly review normal development of this gland. The ­thyroid is embryologically an offshoot of the primitive alimentary tract, from which it later becomes separated (Figs. 16 and 17) (67-70). During the third to fourth week in utero, a median anlage of epithelium arises from the pharyngeal floor in the region of the foramen cecum of the tongue (i.e., at the junction of the anterior two thirds and the posterior third of the tongue). The main body of the thyroid, referred to as the median lobe or median thyroid component, follows the descent of the heart and great vessels and moves caudally into the neck from this origin. It divides into an isthmus and two lobes, and by 7 weeks it forms a
