Chapter 21 SURGERY OF THE THYROID
KEYWORDS: thyroid, patients, nerve, cancer, thyroidectomy, surgery, neck, gland, carcinoma, laryngeal, papillary, parathyroid, recurrent, disease, laryngeal nerve


of the heart and great vessels and moves caudally into the neck from this origin. It divides into an isthmus and two lobes, and by 7 weeks it forms a “shield” over the front of the trachea and thyroid cartilage. It is joined by a pair of lateral thyroid lobes originating from the fourth and fifth branchial pouches (Fig. 17). From these lateral thyroid components, now commonly called the ultimobranchial bodies, C cells (parafollicular cells) enter the thyroid lobes. C cells contain and secrete calcitonin and are the cells that give rise to medullary carcinoma of the thyroid gland. Williams and associates have described cystic structures in the neck near the upper parathyroid glands in cases in which thyroid tissue was totally lingual in location (71). These cysts contained both cells staining for calcitonin and others staining for thyroglobulin. This study, they believe, offers evidence that the ultimobranchial body contributes both C cells and follicular cells to the thyroid gland of humans. Figure 16 Early embryologic development of the pharyngeal anlage in a 4mm embryo. Note the beginning of thyroid development in the median thyroid diverticulum. (From Sedgwick CE, Cady B: Surgery of the Thyroid and Parathyroid Glands, 2d ed. Philadelphia, WB Saunders, 1980, p 7; adapted from Weller GL: Development of the thyroid, parathyroid and thymus glands in man. Contrib Embryol Carnegie Inst Wash 24:93–142, 1933.) Figure 17 Stages in the development of the thyroid gland. A, 1, Thyroid primordium and pharyngeal epithelium of a 4.5mm human embryo; 2, section through the same structure showing a raised central portion. B, 1, Thyroid primordium of a 6.5mm embryo; 2, section through the same structure. C, 1, Thyroid primordium of an 8.2mm embryo beginning to descend; 2, lateral view of the same structure. D, Thyroid primordium of an 11mm embryo. The connection with the pharynx is broken, and the lobes are beginning to grow laterad. E, Thyroid gland of a 13.5mm embryo. The lobes are thin sheets curving around the carotid arteries. Several lacunae, which are not to be confused with follicles, are present in the sheets. (From Weller GL: Development of the thyroid, parathyroid and thymus glands in man. Contrib Embryol Carnegie Inst Wash 24:93–142, 1933.) As the gland moves downward, it leaves behind a trace of epithelial cells known as the thyroglossal tract. From this structure both thyroglossal duct cysts and the pyramidal lobe of the thyroid develop. The
