Chapter 21 SURGERY OF THE THYROID
KEYWORDS: thyroid, patients, nerve, cancer, thyroidectomy, surgery, neck, gland, carcinoma, laryngeal, papillary, parathyroid, recurrent, disease, laryngeal nerve


downward, it leaves behind a trace of epithelial cells known as the thyroglossal tract. From this structure both thyroglossal duct cysts and the pyramidal lobe of the thyroid develop. The mature thyroid gland may take on many different configurations depending on the embryologic development of the thyroid and its descent (Fig. 18). Figure 18 Variations of normal adult thyroid anatomy resulting from embryologic descent and division of the thyroid gland. (From Sedgwick CE, Cady B: Surgery of the Thyroid and Parathyroid Glands, 2d ed. Philadelphia, WB Saunders, 1980; adapted from Gray SW, Skandalakis JE: Embryology for Surgeons. Philadelphia, WB Saunders, 1972.) THYROID ABNORMALITIES The median thyroid anlage may, on rare occasions, fail to develop. The resultant athyrosis, or absence of the thyroid gland, is associated with cretinism. The anlage also may differentiate in locations other than the isthmus and lateral lobes. The most common developmental abnormality, if looked on as such, is the pyramidal lobe (Fig. 18), which has been reported to be present in as many as 80% of patients in whom the gland was surgically exposed. Usually, the pyramidal lobe is small; however, in Graves’ disease or in lymphocytic thyroiditis, it is often enlarged and is commonly clinically palpable. The pyramidal lobe generally lies in the midline but can arise from either lobe. Origin from the left lobe is more common than is origin from the right lobe (72). THYROID HEMIAGENESIS More than 100 cases have been reported in which only one lobe of the thyroid is present (73). The left lobe is absent in 80% of these patients. Often, the thyroid lobe that is present is enlarged, and both hyperthyroidism and hypothyroidism have been reported at times. Females are affected three times as often as males. Both benign and malignant nodules have been reported in this condition (74). Other variations involving the median thyroid anlage represent an arrest in the usual descent of part or all of the thyroid-forming material along the normal pathway. Ectopic thyroid development can result in a lingual thyroid (Fig. 19) or in thyroid tissue in a suprahyoid, infrahyoid, or intratracheal location. Persistence of the thyroglossal duct as a sinus tract or as a cyst (called a thyroglossal duct cyst) is the most common of the clinically important anomalies of thyroid development (Fig. 20). Finally, the entire gland or part of it may descend more caudally; this results in thyroid tissue located in
