Chapter 21 SURGERY OF THE THYROID
KEYWORDS: thyroid, patients, nerve, cancer, thyroidectomy, surgery, neck, gland, carcinoma, laryngeal, papillary, parathyroid, recurrent, disease, laryngeal nerve


common of the clinically important anomalies of thyroid development (Fig. 20). Finally, the entire gland or part of it may descend more caudally; this results in thyroid tissue located in the superior mediastinum behind the sternum, adjacent to the aortic arch or between the aorta and pulmonary trunk, within the upper portion of the pericardium, and even within the interventricular septum of the heart. Most intrathoracic goiters, however, are not true anomalies, but rather are extensions of pathologic elements of a normally situated gland into the anterior or posterior mediastinum. Each of these abnormalities is discussed in greater depth. ECTOPIC THYROID Lingual Thyroid A lingual thyroid is relatively rare and is estimated to occur in 1 in 3000 cases of thyroid disease. However, it represents the most common location for functioning ectopic thyroid tissue. Lingual thyroid tissue is associated with an absence of the normal cervical thyroid in 70% of cases. It occurs much more commonly in women than in men. The diagnosis is usually made by the discovery of an incidental mass on the back of the tongue in an asymptomatic patient (Fig. 19). The mass may enlarge and cause dysphagia, dysphonia, dyspnea, or a sensation of choking (75). Hypothyroidism is often present and may cause the mass to enlarge and become symptomatic, but hyperthyroidism is very unusual. In women, symptomatic lingual thyroid glands develop during puberty or early adulthood in most cases. Buckman, in his review of 140 cases of symptomatic lingual thyroids in females, reported that 30% occurred in puberty, 55% between the ages of 18 and 40 years, 10% at menopause, and 5% in old age (76). He attributed this distribution to hormonal disturbances, which are more apparent in female subjects during puberty and may be precipitated by pregnancy. The incidence of malignancy in lingual thyroid glands is low (77). The diagnosis of a lingual thyroid should be suspected when a mass is detected in the region of the foramen cecum of the tongue, and it is definitively established by radioisotope scanning (see Fig. 19). Figure 19 Left , The appearance of a large lingual thyroid. Right , A radioiodine scan demonstrating all activity to be above the hyoid bone, with no evidence of the presence of normally placed thyroid issue. (From Netter RA: Endocrine system and selected metabolic diseases. In Ciba Collection of Medical Illustrations. Summit, NJ, Ciba-Geigy, 1974, p 45.) The usual treatment of
