Chapter 21 SURGERY OF THE THYROID
KEYWORDS: thyroid, patients, nerve, cancer, thyroidectomy, surgery, neck, gland, carcinoma, laryngeal, papillary, parathyroid, recurrent, disease, laryngeal nerve


of normally placed thyroid issue. (From Netter RA: Endocrine system and selected metabolic diseases. In Ciba Collection of Medical Illustrations. Summit, NJ, Ciba-Geigy, 1974, p 45.) The usual treatment of this condition is thyroid hormone therapy to suppress the lingual thyroid and reduce its size. Only rarely is surgical excision necessary. Indications for extirpation include failure of suppressive therapy to reduce the size, ulceration, hemorrhage, and suspicion of malignancy (78). Autotransplantation of thyroid tissue has been tried on rare occasions when no other thyroid tissue is present, and it has apparently been successful. A lingual thyroid was reported in two brothers, which suggests that this condition may be inherited (79). Suprahyoid and Infrahyoid Thyroid In these cases, thyroid tissue is present in a midline position above or below the hyoid bone. Hypothyroidism with elevation of thyrotropin (TSH) secretion is commonly present because of the absence of a normal thyroid gland in most instances. An enlarging mass commonly occurs during infancy, childhood, or later life. Often, this mass is mistaken for a thyroglossal duct cyst, because it is usually located in the same anatomic position (80). If it is removed, all thyroid tissue may be ablated, a consequence that has definite physiologic as well as possible medicolegal implications. To prevent total thyroid ablation, it is recommended that an ultrasound examination be performed in all cases of thyroglossal duct cyst before its removal to be certain that a normal thyroid gland is present. Furthermore, before removing what appears to be a thyroglossal duct cyst, a prudent surgeon should be certain that no solid areas are present. If any doubt exists, the normal thyroid gland should be explored and ­palpated. Finally, if ectopic thyroid tissue rather than a thyroglossal duct cyst is encountered at surgery in an infant, its blood supply should be preserved; the ectopic gland divided vertically; and each half translocated laterally, deep to the strap muscles, where it is no longer manifested as a mass. If normal thyroid tissue is demonstrated to be present elsewhere or in the adult, it may be ­better to remove the ectopic tissue rather than transplant it, because carcinoma arising from these developmental abnormalities, although rare, has been reported. THYROGLOSSAL DUCT CYSTS Both cysts and fistulas can develop along the course of the thyroglossal duct (Fig. 20) (81). These cysts are the most common anomaly in thyroid development seen in clinical practice (82). Normally, the
