Chapter 21 SURGERY OF THE THYROID
KEYWORDS: thyroid, patients, nerve, cancer, thyroidectomy, surgery, neck, gland, carcinoma, laryngeal, papillary, parathyroid, recurrent, disease, laryngeal nerve


fistulas can develop along the course of the thyroglossal duct (Fig. 20) (81). These cysts are the most common anomaly in thyroid development seen in clinical practice (82). Normally, the thyroglossal duct becomes obliterated early in embryonic life, but occasionally it persists as a cyst. Such lesions occur equally in males and females. They are seen at birth in about 25% of cases; most appear in early childhood; and the rest, about one third, become apparent only after age 30 years (83). Cysts usually appear in the midline or just off the midline between the isthmus of the thyroid and the hyoid bone. They commonly become repeatedly infected and may rupture spontaneously. When this complication occurs, a sinus tract or fistula persists. Removal of a thyroglossal cyst or fistula requires excision of the central part of the hyoid bone and dissection of the thyroglossal tract to the base of the tongue (the Sistrunk procedure) if recurrence is to be minimized. This procedure is necessary because the thyroglossal duct is intimately associated with the central part of the hyoid bone (Fig. 21). Recurrent cysts are very common if this operative procedure is not followed. Figure 20 Location of thyroglossal cysts: (A) in front of the foramen cecum; (B) at the foramen cecum; (C) suprahyoid; (D) infrahyoid; (E) area of the thyroid gland; (F) suprasternal. (From Sedgwick CE, Cady B: Surgery of the Thyroid and Parathyroid Glands, 2nd ed. Philadelphia, WB Saunders, 1980.) Figure 21 Diagram of the course of the thyroglossal tract. Note its proximity to the hyoid bone. (From Allard RHB: The thyroglossal cyst. Head Neck Surg 5:134–146, 1982.) At least 115 cases of thyroid carcinoma have been reported to originate from the thyroglossal duct (82). Often, in such cases an association is noted with low-dose external irradiation of the head and neck in infancy or childhood. Almost all carcinomas have been papillary, and their prognosis is excellent. If a carcinoma is recognized, at the time of surgery the thyroid gland should be inspected for evidence of other tumor nodules, and the lateral lymph nodes should be sampled. Our practice and that of many others is to perform near-total or total thyroidectomy with appropriate nodal resection when a thyroglossal duct carcinoma is found and resected. In one series of 35 patients with papillary carcinoma arising in a thyroglossal duct cyst, the thyroid gland of 4 patients (11.4%) also contained papillary
