Chapter 21 SURGERY OF THE THYROID
KEYWORDS: thyroid, patients, nerve, cancer, thyroidectomy, surgery, neck, gland, carcinoma, laryngeal, papillary, parathyroid, recurrent, disease, laryngeal nerve


were performed. This large variability is undoubtedly caused partly by a difference in classification among the authors, but it may also be caused by the incidence of endemic goiter. More recent series report an incidence of 2% or less (87). Many substernal goiters are found on routine chest radiography in patients who are completely asymptomatic. Other patients may have dyspnea or dysphagia from tracheal or esophageal compression or displacement. Superior vena caval obstruction can occasionally occur with edema and cyanosis of the face, and venous engorgement of the arms and face (Fig. 22) (88). Most individuals with substernal goiters are euthyroid or hypothyroid; however, hyperthyroidism occurs as well. Although the goiters of Graves’ disease are rarely intrathoracic, single or multiple “hot” nodules may occur within an intrathoracic goiter and result in hyperthyroidism as part of a toxic nodular goiter. Figure 22 Large substernal goiter resulting in superior vena caval syndrome. Left , A venogram demonstrated complete obstruction of the superior vena cava, displacement of the innominate veins, and marked collateral circulation. Right , Three weeks after thyroidectomy, patency of the vena cava was restored. Some displacement of the innominate veins remained at that time. (From Lesavoy MA, Norberg HP, Kaplan EL: Substernal goiter with superior vena caval obstruction. Surgery 77:325–329, 1975.) Intrathoracic goiters are usually found in the anterior mediastinum and, less commonly, in the posterior mediastinum. In either instance the diagnosis is suggested if a goiter can be palpated in the neck and if it appears to continue below the sternum. Rarely, however, no thyroid enlargement in the cervical area is present, and instead of being in continuity, the intrathoracic component may be attached to the cervical thyroid only by a narrow bridge of thyroid or fibrous tissue. The diagnosis of an intrathoracic thyroid mass can be made by the use of a thyroid isotope scan; however, CT or MRI are usually more helpful. Regarding therapy, we generally agree with the recommendation made by Lahey and Swinton more than 50 years ago that goiters that are definitely intrathoracic should usually be removed if the patient is a good operative risk (89). Because of the cone-shaped anatomy of the upper thoracic outlet, once part of a thyroid goiter has passed into the superior mediastinum, it can increase its size only by descending further into the chest. Thus, delay in surgical management may lead to increased size of the lesion, a
