Chapter 21 SURGERY OF THE THYROID
KEYWORDS: thyroid, patients, nerve, cancer, thyroidectomy, surgery, neck, gland, carcinoma, laryngeal, papillary, parathyroid, recurrent, disease, laryngeal nerve


into the superior mediastinum, it can increase its size only by descending further into the chest. Thus, delay in surgical management may lead to increased size of the lesion, a greater degree of symptoms, and perhaps a more difficult or hazardous operative procedure. Substernal goiters should be operated on initially through a cervical incision, because the blood supply to the substernal thyroid almost always originates in the neck and can be readily controlled in this area. Only rarely does an intrathoracic goiter receive its blood supply from mediastinal vessels; however, such a finding favors a developmental cause. Thus, in most instances, good hemostasis can be obtained by control of the superior and inferior thyroid arteries in the neck. Thus, most substernal goiters can be removed through the neck, but in some cases a VATS procedure or a partial sternotomy may be necessary. The authors like to divide the isthmus and the upper pole vessels early in the dissection. The affected thyroid lobe is then carefully dissected along its capsule by blunt dissection into the superior mediastinum. While gentle traction is exerted from above, the mass is elevated by the surgeon’s ­fingers or blunt, curved clamps (Fig. 23). Usually these maneuvers suffice to permit extraction of a mass from the mediastinum and into the neck area. Any fluid-filled cysts may be aspirated to reduce the size of the mass and permit its egress through the thoracic outlet. However, piecemeal morcellation of the thyroid gland should not be practiced, because this occasionally has led to severe bleeding. Furthermore, rarely a substernal goiter has been found to contain carcinoma, and this technique violates all principles of cancer surgery. Figure 23 Finger dissection of a substernal goiter. Note that the index finger is inserted into the mediastinum outside the thyroid capsule and is swept around until the gland is freed from the pleura and other tissue in the mediastinum. Occasionally, despite traction, a substernal goiter does not pass out through the superior thoracic outlet because of its size. In such cases, it may be necessary to evacuate some of the colloid material from within the goiter. Then, with gentle upward traction on the capsule, the mass can be elevated into the neck wound and resected. Occasionally a partial sternotomy is necessary. (From Sedgwick CE, Cady B: Surgery of the Thyroid and Parathyroid Glands, 2nd ed. Philadelphia, WB Saunders, 1980.) With the use of this
