Chapter 21 SURGERY OF THE THYROID
KEYWORDS: thyroid, patients, nerve, cancer, thyroidectomy, surgery, neck, gland, carcinoma, laryngeal, papillary, parathyroid, recurrent, disease, laryngeal nerve


resected. Occasionally a partial sternotomy is necessary. (From Sedgwick CE, Cady B: Surgery of the Thyroid and Parathyroid Glands, 2nd ed. Philadelphia, WB Saunders, 1980.) With the use of this method, the great majority of substernal thyroid glands can be removed transcervically. If the thyroid gland cannot be easily extracted from the mediastinum, however, a partial or complete sternotomy should be performed. This procedure affords direct control of any mediastinal vessels and permits resection of the thyroid gland to be carried out safely. As in all thyroid surgery, the recurrent laryngeal nerves must be preserved and treated with care. The parathyroid glands should be identified and preserved, and the inferior thyroid artery’s branches should be ligated close to the thyroid capsule to prevent ischemia of the parathyroid glands, which might result in hypoparathyroidism. STRUMA OVARII Ectopic development of thyroid tissue far from the neck area can also lead to difficulties in rare instances. Dermoid cysts or teratomas, which are uncommon ovarian germ cell tumors, occur in female subjects of all age groups. About 3% can be classified as an ovarian struma, because they contain functionally significant thyroid tissue or thyroid tissue occupying more than 50% of the volume of the tumor. Many more such tumors contain small amounts of thyroid tissue. Some strumae ovarii are associated with carcinoid-appearing tissue. These strumal-carcinoid tumors secrete or contain thyroid hormones as well as somatostatin, chromogranin, serotonin, glucagon, insulin, gastrin, or calcitonin (90). Some are associated with carcinoid syndromes. Struma ovarii is sometimes manifested as an abdominal mass lesion, often with a peritoneal or pleural effusion that may be bloody. Most of these lesions synthesize and iodinate thyroglobulin poorly, and thus, despite growth of the mass, thyrotoxicosis does not develop. However, perhaps one fourth to one third of ovarian strumae are associated with thyrotoxicosis (91, 92). Many of these lesions may be contributing to autoimmune hyperthyroidism in response to a common stimulator such as thyroid-stimulating immunoglobulins. In other instances, the struma alone is clearly responsible for the thyrotoxicity. An elevated free thyroxine index or free T4, a suppressed TSH value, and uptake of radioiodine in a mass in the pelvis are the obvious prerequisites for making the diagnosis (93). Often, in ovarian struma, symptoms and findings of thyrotoxicosis are present in patients who have low uptake of radioiodine in their thyroid glands. Thus, a “high index of suspicion” is most important. Usually, operative resection
