Benign Breast Disease in Women
KEYWORDS: breast, cancer, breast cancer, risk, lesions, women, benign, pain, figure, benign breast, journal, tissue, discharge, disease, biopsy


ABSTRACT Benign breast disease in women is a very common finding and results in a diagnosis in approximately one million women annually in the United States (1). An understanding of the hormonal and growth factor control of breast development and function is key to the rational and systematic evaluation and treatment of patients. A firm understanding of benign breast disease is important since sequential steps are necessary to distinguish lesions which impart a high risk of subsequent breast cancer from those which do not. This chapter will review the physiology of breast function, provide histologic examples of common lesions, and detail practical approaches to evaluation and treatment. For complete coverage of all related areas of Endocrinology, please see our online FREE web-book, www.endotext.org . BREAST PHYSIOLOGY IN WOMEN: Hormones and growth factors act upon stromal and epithelial cells to regulate mammary gland development, maturation and differentiation (2). Broadly summarized, estrogen mediates development of ductal tissue; progesterone facilitates ductal branching and lobulo-alveolar development; and prolactin regulates milk protein production. At puberty, estradiol and progesterone levels increase to initiate breast development. A complex tree-like structure results and comprises 5 to 10 primary milk ducts originating at the nipple, 20 to 40 segmental ducts, and 10 to 100 sub-segmental ducts ending in glandular units called terminal duct lobular units (TDLUs) (3). During the menstrual cycle the increments in estrogen and progesterone stimulate cell proliferation during the luteal phase (Figure1). Cycle dependent apoptosis balances proliferation (4). In response to enhanced proliferation, the breast can increase by as much as 15% in size during the luteal phase. AGE RELATED CHANGES IN BREAST MORPHOLOGY Anatomic and histologic structures of the breast undergo substantial change during the period from early adolescence to menopause (5). The normal histologic appearance represents a spectrum ranging from a predominance of ducts, lobules, and intra- and inter-lobular stroma to patterns with a predominance of fibrous change and cyst formation, a process formerly called fibrocystic disease ( Figure 2 ). The term “fibrocystic changes” is now preferred since up to 50 to 60 percent of normal women may have this pattern histologically (6). This new term implies that women with lumpy breasts or non-discrete nodules do not have breast disease. Importantly, fibrocystic changes detected clinically incur no increased risk of breast cancer. Specific changes in the breast, relating to stromal, ductal and glandular tissue occur as a function of age. During the early
