Benign Breast Disease in Women
KEYWORDS: breast, cancer, breast cancer, risk, lesions, women, benign, pain, figure, benign breast, journal, tissue, discharge, disease, biopsy


detected clinically incur no increased risk of breast cancer. Specific changes in the breast, relating to stromal, ductal and glandular tissue occur as a function of age. During the early reproductive years, stromal hyperplasia may occur and produces juvenile breast hypertrophy (7) or rarely, the more significant problems of unilateral or bilateral macromastia (enlargement of breast tissue beyond what is considered normal) (8). Changes in glandular and ductal tissue occur uncommonly. In the middle reproductive years, glandular breast tissue continues to undergo changes in response to cyclic increments in plasma levels of estradiol and progesterone and, if substantial, is called adenosis. Ductal changes remain uncommon while stromal hyperplasia may occur resulting in areas of ill-defined fullness (“lumpy-bumpy” consistency) on physical exam or in firm areas requiring biopsy. Figure 1. Influence of the cycle phase on breast total labeling index (TLI) of women less than 34 years of age according to whether cycles were natural or regulated by oral contraceptives (OC). (Reprinted with permission from Going JJ, Anderson TJ, Battersby et al. Proliferative and secretory activity in human breast during natural and artificial menstrual cycles (Am. J Pathol. 130:193-204, 1988). Figure 2 Simplified anatomy of the female breast illustrating the major structural components of the breast, the anatomic location of various lesions, and the histology of those lesions and corresponding sites of origin of potential lesions. In the late reproductive period, glandular tissue may become hyperplastic with sclerosing adenosis or lobular hyperplasia. The hyperplastic glandular lesions may progress to palpable or mammographically detectable abnormalities requiring biopsy. Ductal tissue also may undergo hyperplastic change with an increase in number of ductal cells but without alterations in their appearance. This change, when associated with a 2% or greater prevalence of Ki67 positive cells, is associated with an approximately two fold increase of subsequent breast cancer (9). Further proliferative changes result in lobules approaching 100µ in diameter and called hyperplastic elongated lobular units (HELUs). With progression of the HELUs, atypical ductal or lobular hyperplasia, or ductal carcinoma in situ (DCIS) may ensue. The linear pathway illustrated in Figure 3 depicts this progression but, while considered by some to be overly simplistic, provides a useful framework. This orderly progression depends upon the number of acquired genetic mutations accumulated by clonal cells in the breast. This originally was suggested by loss of heterozygosity studies. Recent specific genetic data suggests that an average of 11 “driver” mutations
