Benign Breast Disease in Women
KEYWORDS: breast, cancer, breast cancer, risk, lesions, women, benign, pain, figure, benign breast, journal, tissue, discharge, disease, biopsy


genetic mutations accumulated by clonal cells in the breast. This originally was suggested by loss of heterozygosity studies. Recent specific genetic data suggests that an average of 11 “driver” mutations and 100 bystander mutations are present in established invasive breast cancer (10). Based on the number of mutations required for cancer, current opinion suggests that breast cancer is a process that takes many years to develop with the age of menarche as the earliest factor influencing this process. The progression from the earliest neoplastic changes to invasive breast cancer is considered to take a median of 16 years with a range of 1 to 30 years based on doubling time. Careful assessment of serial mammograms allows an estimation of doubling times which range from 25 to more than 700 days ( Figure 4 ). Figure 3 Model of the linear progresion from normal, to hyperplastic enlogated lobular units ( HELU), to atypical ductal hyperplasia (ADH), to ductal carcinoma in situ ( DCIS), to occult invasive breast cancer ( IBC), to IBC that has exceeded detection threshold and can be diagnosed by mammogram. Kinetic modeling data suggest that it takes 10 to 20 years for the progression from atypical hyperplasia to a clinically detectable tumor Figure 4 Cumulative frequency distribution of the doubling times of occult breast cancer obtained by serial mammograms. Figure reproduced with the permision of the author and publisher. After the onset of menopause, glandular tissue undergoes involution and stroma and fatty tissue (i.e. approximately 97%) replace glandular elements (12). The degree of involution is inversely related to the risk of subsequent breast cancer. When comparing the lowest with the highest quartile of involution, the relative risk of subsequent breast cancer is more than 2 fold increased I (OR 2.44 , 95% confidence interval (0.96-6.19) (1). With aging, the degree of involution increases (1), which contributes substantially to the decrease in breast density. On histologic examination, lesions appearing dense on mammography contain a larger than normal proportion of stromal and glandular tissue. SPECIFIC BENIGN BREAST LESIONS: A wide variety of benign breast lesions have been described and the histologic appearance fully characterized. On a practical basis, these can be subdivided into those associated with no substantial increased risk of breast cancer ( i.e. < 1.49%), those with an increase of 1.5-2% and those with a >2% increase (Table 1) (13) . Table 1. Relative risk of breast cancer
