Benign Breast Disease in Women
KEYWORDS: breast, cancer, breast cancer, risk, lesions, women, benign, pain, figure, benign breast, journal, tissue, discharge, disease, biopsy


of breast cancer ( i.e. < 1.49%), those with an increase of 1.5-2% and those with a >2% increase (Table 1) (13) . Table 1. Relative risk of breast cancer imparted by specific benign breast lesions (Data from Reference 13) No Increased risk: The more common lesions Included in this category are fibrocystic changes, periductal fibrosis, hamartomas, lipomas, phylloides tumors, and neurofibromas. Another lesion is duct ectasia ( Figure 5 ), characterized by distention of subareolar ducts and presence within them of yellowish-orange material. Penetration of the duct wall by this material may produce acute inflammatory changes in the surrounding tissues. Histologically, crystalline oval and round structures thought to be lipid in origin are present. Resolution may occur but residual periductal fibrosis and nodule formation often persist. This lesion is thought to be more frequent in cigarette smokers and represents a more chronic and extensive inflammatory process. A less common lesion is diabetic mastopathy which consists of localized or diffuse areas of fibrosis occurring in patients with diabetes (14). Figure 5 Histological appearance of duct ectasia showing the characteristic crystalline formation of the intraluminal contents. Abnormalities of ductal secretion may result in discharge of clear, cloudy, blue, green or black aqueous material. Stromal hyperplasia can result in nipple retraction or in palpable lesions requiring biopsy to distinguish from breast carcinoma. Histologically, the tissue may contain fibroblasts nearly exclusively or predominantly fibroblasts with admixture of glandular epithelium. Some degree of stromal hyperplasia may occur in 50-60% of normal women, particularly those in their middle and late reproductive periods. Traumatic lesions (hematomas and fat necrosis) and inflammatory conditions (granulomas and mastitis) are also not associated with an increased breast cancers (15). 1.5 To 2.0 Fold Increase In Relative Risk: Fibroadenomas:During the early reproductive period, glandular components of the breast may respond to cyclic hormonal stimuli in an exaggerated fashion with the development of single fibroadenomas. These consist of lobular units which grow to larger than normal size and contain both epithelial and stromal elements. Fibroadenomas range in size from slightly larger than a normal single lobular unit to larger, more discrete palpable lesions. When exceeding 5 cm, these are called giant fibroadenomas which are seen primarily at puberty or during pregnancy. The incidence of fibroadenomas peaks at age 20-24 ( Figure 6 ). The prevalence on physical examination in young women is 2% in young women but 15-23% when evaluated prospectively at
