Benign Breast Disease in Women
KEYWORDS: breast, cancer, breast cancer, risk, lesions, women, benign, pain, figure, benign breast, journal, tissue, discharge, disease, biopsy


incidence of fibroadenomas peaks at age 20-24 ( Figure 6 ). The prevalence on physical examination in young women is 2% in young women but 15-23% when evaluated prospectively at autopsy (16). When complex and containing cysts >3mm in diameter, sclerosing adenosis, epithelial calcification or papillary changes, these lesions are associated with an increased risk of breast cancer (17) (Table 1). Figure 6 Incidence of fibrocystic breast changes and fibroadenoma by age group. (Reprinted with permission of the publisher and authors from Goehring C, Morabia A. Epidemiology of Bengin Breast Disease, with special attention to histologic types Epidemiologic Reviews 19:310-327, 1997) (16). Note that the term “fibrocystic disease” is used in the legend but this term has now been changed to “fibrocystic changes”. Other lesions: Hyperplasia without atypia, papillomas, papillomatosis, radial scar, blunt duct adenosis, and sclerosing adenosis are also associated with an increased risk. Greater Than A Two-Fold Risk: Atypical hyperplasia This lesion can be subdivided into atypical ductal hyperplasia ( figure 7 ) and atypical lobular hyperplasia but both impart a similar increase in relative risk of breast cancer of 3 to 4 fold (18) (Table 1). In the first ten years after diagnosis of AH, the breast tumors occur predominantly in the same breast but subsequently, occur with equal frequency in the contralateral as in the ipsilateral breast (19). These observations suggest the AH is both a precursor lesion for breast cancer and a marker of an underlying predisposing condition termed a “field defect” or alternatively a “mutator phenotype (15) When the amount of hyperplastic tissue increases according to specific criteria (20) the lesions are no longer called benign but are classified as ductal carcinoma in situ. Recent emphasis has been directed toward identification of molecular genetic markers which could predict which patients with AH are at increased risk of developing breast cancer. Over-expression of HER-2/neu is one such marker (21). The presence of aberrant p53, p21, interleukin 6, and TNF alpha and aneuploidly on flow cytometery have also been reported as markers of increased risk (22). Figure 7 Photomicrograph of atypical ductal hyperplasia histology reprinted from Hartmann LC et al (23). Recent data from the Mayo Clinic report the absolute rates of breast cancer during prolonged 20+ year follow-up and the important role of multifocality (23;24). As shown in Figure 8 , the risk approximates 24% with one lesion, 36% with two and 47% with 3
