Benign Breast Disease in Women
KEYWORDS: breast, cancer, breast cancer, risk, lesions, women, benign, pain, figure, benign breast, journal, tissue, discharge, disease, biopsy


20+ year follow-up and the important role of multifocality (23;24). As shown in Figure 8 , the risk approximates 24% with one lesion, 36% with two and 47% with 3 or more lesions. The increased risk with multifocality has been confirmed in an independent cohort follow at Vanderbilt (18;19). Although previous studies indicated that family history added to this risk (18), the updated data suggest that neither family history or other risk factors independently contribute to breast cancer risk (23). It is important to emphasize the AH appears to impart a risk of breast cancer which is lower but may approach that from BrCa1 and 2 mutations. As noted above, the presence of atypical hyperplasia imparts a risk over time of both ipsilateral and contralateral breast cancer ( Figure 9 ). Figure 8 Incidence of breast cancer in cohort of patients with a histologic diagnosis of atypical hyperplasia. Top panel: mean (solid line) and 95% confidence limits (dashed lines). Bottom panel: Incidence in patients with 1, 2, or 3 or more independent lesions. Reprinted with the permission of the authors and publisher from Hartmann LC et al (23). Figure 9 Ipsilateral versus contralateral distribution of breast cancers diagnosed over time in patients initially diagnosed with atypical hyperplasia. Reproduced with the permission of the authors and publishers from Hartmann LC et al (24). Lobular Carcinoma in situ: Even though called lobular carcinoma in situ, this lesion is not generally considered to have reached the neoplastic stage but is analogous to atypical hyperplasia. This lesion imparts approximately a 10 fold increase in relative risk of breast cancer developing over time. The subsequent breast cancer can occur in the same or contralateral breast; accordingly, this lesion is thought to represent a filed defect or mutator phenotype which increases breast cancer risk but the lesion itself is not a precursor of breast cancer. Mammographic Density And Breast Cancer Risk: The percent breast density on mammography correlates with breast cancer risk as shown on Figure 10 . When comparing the lowest density category with highest, the relative risk is increased by 5.3 fold. Recent studies examined the histologic composition of dense and non-dense breast tissue. When dense lesions are biopsied and compared to areas of low density, they are found to contain a higher proportion of stroma and glandular tissue and lesser amount of fat (26). Notably, dense lesions contain more of the enzyme aromatase,
