Benign Breast Disease in Women
KEYWORDS: breast, cancer, breast cancer, risk, lesions, women, benign, pain, figure, benign breast, journal, tissue, discharge, disease, biopsy


low density, they are found to contain a higher proportion of stroma and glandular tissue and lesser amount of fat (26). Notably, dense lesions contain more of the enzyme aromatase, when quantitated by an immunologic histologic score after staining with an aromatase monoclonal antibody (27). These findings are likely associated with a higher local production of estradiol and could explain the higher incidence of breast cancer with both of these lesions. Taking these observations together, determination of breast density assessed by Bi-RADS criteria or quantitated with a computer assisted method of determining breast density, provides the most powerful means of predicting risk of breast cancer over time ( Figure 10 ). Figure 10 The percentage of breast tissue which is dense on a mammogram is determined by computer assisted analysis and classified as none, <10%, 10-25%, 25-50%, 50-75%, >75%.The relative risk of breast cancer increases with each step of increased breast density. Adapted from that data of Boyd et al (25). ETIOLOGY OF BENIGN BREAST DISORDERS Clinical observations in women receiving estrogens and anti-estrogens suggest that hormonal events play a role in the etiology of benign breast lesions. In post-menopausal women receiving estrogens ± progestins for >8 years, the prevalence of benign breast lesions increased by 1.7 fold (95 percent CI 1.06-2.72) (28). In the Women’s Health Initiative study (WHI), the use of estrogen plus progestin was associated with a 74% increase in the risk of benign proliferative breast disease [hazard ratio, 1.74; 95% confidence interval (CI), 1.35-2.25] (29). The anti-estrogen, tamoxifen, when used for breast cancer prevention, was associated with a 28 percent (RR 0.72, 95 percent Confidence Intervals 0.65-0.79) reduction in prevalence of benign breast lesions, including adenosis, cysts, duct ectasia, and hyperplasia (30). Underlying and acquired genetic changes are also associated with benign breast lesions. Loss of heterozygosity (LOH), a finding caused by deletions of small segments of DNA (31;32) is commonly found in benign breast lesions. Women frequently have multi-focal lesions, each of which exhibit loss of heterozygosity (LOH) of differing regions of DNA. Women with BRCA1/2 mutations are found to have a high frequency of multiple benign or malignant breast lesions when bilateral mastectomy specimens are meticulously examined (33). These findings support the current theory of an underlying predisposition to mutations in some patients as the cause of multiple breast lesions (34). In the past, this phenomenon was termed a “field effect” and more recently,
