Benign Breast Disease in Women
KEYWORDS: breast, cancer, breast cancer, risk, lesions, women, benign, pain, figure, benign breast, journal, tissue, discharge, disease, biopsy


of an underlying predisposition to mutations in some patients as the cause of multiple breast lesions (34). In the past, this phenomenon was termed a “field effect” and more recently, a “mutator phenotype” (34). CLINICAL MANIFESTATIONS: Clinical presentations of benign breast disease are divided into those with pain, lumps, or breast discharge (Table 2). Breast Pain: Cyclic breast pain Usually occurs during the late luteal phase of the menstrual cycle, in association with the premenstrual syndrome or independently (35-40), and resolves at the onset of menses (35;36;38). A recent study in 1171 healthy American women indicated that 11% experience moderate to severe cyclic breast pain and 58%, mild discomfort (39). Breast pain interfered with usual sexual activity in 48% and with physical (37%), social (12%), and school (8%) activity in others. A role for caffeine, iodine deficiency, alterations in fatty acid levels in the breast, fat intake in the diet, and psychological factors in the etiology of breast pain remain unproven. Non-cyclic breast pain is unrelated to the menstrual cycle. Detection of focal tenderness is helpful diagnostically and suggests a tender cyst, rupture through the wall of an ectatic duct, or a particularly tender area of breast nodularity. Acute enlargement of cysts and periductal mastitis may cause severe, localized pain of sudden onset. Non-breast pain : When arising from the chest wall, pain may be mistakenly attributed to the breast. Pain localized to a limited area and characterized as burning or knife like in nature suggests this possibility. Several distinct subtypes can be distinguished including localized or diffuse lateral chest wall pain, radicular pain from cervical arthritis and Tietze’s syndrome or costochondritis. The method to distinguish between breast and non-breast pain by careful physical examination is illustrated on Figure 11, panels A-D. Figure 11. A Focal chest wall pain—lateral. The patient is turned 90º on her side so that breast tissue is no longer under the area of palpation. The index finger elicits a focal area of pain. B. Focal chest wall pain over costochondral junctions anteriorly. C. Diffuse lateral chest wall pain. With the patient turned over 90 degrees on her side, pain is elicited over a wider area of the chest wall. D. Verification that squeezing breast tissue does not elicit pain ensures that the pain is not related to the breast but represents chest wall pain. Breast Nodule: Proliferation of ductal or lobular tissue causes histologic changes
