Benign Breast Disease in Women
KEYWORDS: breast, cancer, breast cancer, risk, lesions, women, benign, pain, figure, benign breast, journal, tissue, discharge, disease, biopsy


does not elicit pain ensures that the pain is not related to the breast but represents chest wall pain. Breast Nodule: Proliferation of ductal or lobular tissue causes histologic changes that are manifested by the presence of palpable lumps or nodules. Patients often present with the finding of a new breast nodule on self-exam or are found to have a lump by their health care provider. Ninety percent of these new nodules in premenopausal women are benign and usually represent fibroadenomas in the early reproductive period (16). In the middle reproductive period, focal areas of fibrosis, hyperplasia, or cyst formation are more likely. In the later reproductive period, hyperplasia, cysts, and carcinoma in situ are more common. Some lesions present with symptoms suggesting the cause. With duct ectasia , penetration of the duct wall by lipid material may be associated with a nodule exhibiting acute redness, and causing pain, and fever; after resolution, a subareolar nodule persists. Other specific lesions present as lumps. These include multiple papillomas, sclerosing adenosis, and radial scars. Multiple papillomas may present as breast lumps, nodules on ultrasound, or may be the cause of bloody nipple discharge and can be seen on ductography. Sclerosing adenosis is a lobular lesion with increased fibrous tissue and interspersed glandular cells. It can present as a mass or a suspicious finding on mammograms. Radial scars are a pathologic diagnosis, usually diagnosed following mammography or palpation and then biopsy. Radial scars are characterized microscopically by a fibroelastic core with radiating ducts and lobules and impart a minimally increased risk of breast cancer similar to that of proliferative changes without atypia (41). Nipple discharge: 6.8 percent of referrals to physicians for breast concerns result from this symptom. Although particularly distressing to the patient, only 5 percent are found to have serious underlying pathology. Age is an important factor with respect to risk of malignancy (42). In one series, 3 percent of women younger than age 40, 10 percent between 40 and 60 and 32 percent >60 with nipple discharge as their only symptom were found to have a malignancy. A careful history characterizes breast discharge as either spontaneous or expressible. On examination, one can detect by careful inspection whether the discharge emanates from a single or multiple ducts. Nipple discharge can be divided into physiologic and pathologic types. Characteristics of physiologic discharge include non-spontaneous, multiple duct, bilateral, and non-bloody. Pathologic discharge is
