Benign Breast Disease in Women
KEYWORDS: breast, cancer, breast cancer, risk, lesions, women, benign, pain, figure, benign breast, journal, tissue, discharge, disease, biopsy


from a single or multiple ducts. Nipple discharge can be divided into physiologic and pathologic types. Characteristics of physiologic discharge include non-spontaneous, multiple duct, bilateral, and non-bloody. Pathologic discharge is characterized as spontaneous, serous or bloody, usually unilateral and usually single duct. Reassuring characteristics are that it must be expressed; is green yellow, brown or milky; that it is bilateral and involves multiple ducts. Spontaneous discharge, whether serous or bloody, requires careful evaluation. A hemoccult card or urine dipstick can be used to test for occult blood if the discharge is spontaneous, unilateral, and from one duct. Cytologic examination is not recommended. Milky discharge (galactorrhea) should be evaluated with measurement of a serum prolactin level. If the discharge is physiologic and the patient is under 35, only reassurance is necessary. Screening mammogram is recommended for patients over 35 with physiologic discharge. Pathologic discharge requires diagnostic mammogram, galactography ( Figure 12 ) (43), and referral to a surgeon. Figure 12 Galactogram illustrating space occupying lesion. A catheter is inserted into the duct from which the bloody discharge emerges. Contrast material is then injected through the catheter. The various branches of the duct are outlined. The presence of crusting, scaling, and flaking of the nipple could be a manifestation of Paget’s disease of breast and underlying cancer or of dermatologic problems. The approach is to obtain a history of other dermatologic problems, or a history of change in soap or clothing. If absent, a diagnostic mammogram should be obtained if the patient is over 35. In a large recent series of 1251 patients with nipple discharge, 433 had unilateral discharge and 194 had no breast lump in association with this symptom. Of these, the lesions found included solitary papilloma (n=49), minimal breast cancer (n=20), fibrocystic disease(n=11), papillomatosis (n=7), lobular cancer (n=5) and duct ectasia (n=2)(42) (30A). For women with bloody discharge from a single duct, galactography is warranted. Filling defects can be due to intraductal papilloma, intraductal carcinoma, papillomatosis, debris, or air bubbles. APPROACH TO THE PRACTICAL MANAGEMENT OF BENIGN BREAST DISEASE A detailed history and physical exam systematically evaluates the entire breast and chest wall and focuses on areas involving the patient’s symptoms (Table 3). Diagnostic studies may then be ordered. For lumps, “The Triple Test” is recommended which includes palpation, imaging and percutaneous biopsy (either core or fine needle aspirate <FNA>). Mammography, often in conjunction with ultrasound examination (44-47) is
