Benign Breast Disease in Women
KEYWORDS: breast, cancer, breast cancer, risk, lesions, women, benign, pain, figure, benign breast, journal, tissue, discharge, disease, biopsy


For lumps, “The Triple Test” is recommended which includes palpation, imaging and percutaneous biopsy (either core or fine needle aspirate <FNA>). Mammography, often in conjunction with ultrasound examination (44-47) is required for evaluation of discrete palpable lesions in women over 35 whereas ultrasound provides an optional substitute in younger women (43). Round dense lesions on mammography often represent cysts which require only ultrasonography to distinguish them from solid lesions. Complex cysts containing both fluid and solid matter require biopsy. For solid lesions, radiographically or ultrasonically directed core biopsy provides highly discriminative information regarding the presence or absence of malignancy. Core biopsy utilizes a large cutting needle deployed with a spring loaded, automated biopsy instrument and obtains tissue suitable for histologic analysis familiar to most pathologists. FNA frequently yields sufficient cellular material to allow adequate cytologic evaluation but requires an experienced cytopathologist. However, the amount of material obtained is insufficient to render a diagnosis in 35-47% of non-palpable lesions (48) and core biopsy is recommended. The exact role of MRI in evaluating breast lesions is currently being determined (49). Galactography (ductography) is useful for detection of focal lesions in a single duct. Cytology of nipple discharge is of limited value with the sensitivity of detecting malignancy only 35 to 47 percent (50). Diagnostic Procedures Ideally a team including a radiologist experienced in mammography, ultrasound, MRI and core needle biopsy as well as an internist, gynecologist, or surgeon with expertise in breast diseases should be involved in the evaluation of patients with breast disorders. MRI mammography, ductography, or ultrasound may be utilized (Figures 12 and 13). Information to be obtained by a focused history and physical examination are outlined on Table 3. The method of documenting whether breast pain is chest wall related is illustrated on Figure 11 A-D. Imaging has become an integral part of the management of benign breast disorders. Imaging studies: Mammography is useful for evaluation of palpable lesions, particularly in those over 35. Digital mammography is preferred because of its ability to penetrate through dense breast tissue which is commonly found in younger women. Ultrasound is often used as initial evaluation of a palpable mass in women under age 35. If a simple cyst is present, no further evaluation is necessary ( Figure 13 ). If not, mammography may also be necessary to fully evaluate the lump. If the mass has findings suggestive of a fibroadenoma by ultrasound
