Benign Breast Disease in Women
KEYWORDS: breast, cancer, breast cancer, risk, lesions, women, benign, pain, figure, benign breast, journal, tissue, discharge, disease, biopsy


evaluation is necessary ( Figure 13 ). If not, mammography may also be necessary to fully evaluate the lump. If the mass has findings suggestive of a fibroadenoma by ultrasound and mammography, short term follow-up and re-imaging can be considered (usually performed in 6 months). Experts are divided as to the necessity to biopsy all fibroadenomas. MRI is more sensitive than digital mammography but false positives are more common (49). Routine yearly MRI is now recommended for women whose lifetime risk of breast cancer is > 20%. As an illustration of its sensitivity, 3% of the contralateral breasts in women with diagnosed breast cancer are found to have a second lesion in the opposite breast when examined by MRI (49). Figure 13 Upper panel illustrates by ultrasound a non-dense black area representing cyst fluid. The lower panel is the corresponding area on mammogram showing a dense area. With the combination of mammogram and ultrasound, the lesion can be shown to be a cyst. Findings On Imaging Studies Fibrocystic change typically presents on mammogram as round or oval, well defined masses that can be subsequently shown to represent cysts on ultrasound ( Figure 13 ). Diffusely scattered dystrophic calcifications may also be found on the mammogram. Consequently, the goal of mammographic evaluation is to provide reassurance to the patient and physician that the risk of neoplasm is low. Aspiration of cysts is usually necessary only in a those cases where the mass does not fulfill all criteria for a simple cyst or if the cyst is painful. Biopsy may be necessary to confirm the benign nature of calcifications, particularly if clustered, linear or variously shaped. For round masses or round calcifications on a first mammogram, the risk of cancer is less than 2%, and repeat mammography in 6 months is recommended. These lesions are termed “probably benign” using the lexicon terminology required by the Mammography Quality Standards Act (in the USA). If the risk is believed to be greater, core biopsy is recommended. Stereotactically directed core biopsy is ideal for evaluation of calcifications and provides highly discriminative information regarding the presence or absence of malignancy. If this technique is not available, insertion of a wire into the lesion radiographically followed by surgical excision or mere removal of a palpable lesion is warranted. CLINICAL GUIDELINES FOR EVALUATION OF NODULES AND DISCHARGE Careful examination distinguishes solitary, discrete, dominant, persistent masses from vague nodularity
