Benign Breast Disease in Women
KEYWORDS: breast, cancer, breast cancer, risk, lesions, women, benign, pain, figure, benign breast, journal, tissue, discharge, disease, biopsy


surgical excision or mere removal of a palpable lesion is warranted. CLINICAL GUIDELINES FOR EVALUATION OF NODULES AND DISCHARGE Careful examination distinguishes solitary, discrete, dominant, persistent masses from vague nodularity and thickening. Practice Guidelines of the Society of Surgical Oncology (51) recommend the following evaluation: In women less than age 35, all dominant discrete palpable lesions require referral to a surgeon. If vague nodularity, thickening or asymmetrical nodularity is present, the examination is repeated at midcycle after one or two menstrual cycles. If the abnormality resolves, the patient is reassured and if not, referred to a surgeon. Breast imaging may be appropriate. In women > age 35 with a dominant mass, a diagnostic mammogram (and frequently a sonogram) (44-47) is obtained and the patient referred to a surgeon. With vague nodularity or thickening, one obtains a mammogram with repeat physical exam at mid-cyle 1 to 2 months later and refers to surgeon if the abnormality persists. Post-menopausal women are referred for surgical consultation after a mammogram. For gross cysts (i.e. >4 cm), the guidelines suggest needle aspiration with repeat imaging within six months. If the aspirated fluid does not contain blood, the fluid is discarded without further histologic analysis unless the cyst contains solid components (i.e. complex cyst). If the fluid contains blood or if the cyst is complex, the, fluid is sent for cytology and consultation from a surgeon requested. With persistent refilling of the same cyst after aspiration, surgical consultation is warranted. Usual practice requires “the triple test” with palpation, mammography (often in conjunction with ultrasonography) and biopsy in women over age 35 with dominant masses. When mammography is negative but a dominant mass is present, biopsy is required to rule out malignancy since lobular carcinoma may not be seen on mammograms. In those younger, mammography may be omitted if ultrasound and biopsy yield definitive information. Many experts omit biopsy in younger women with lesions characteristic of fibroadenoma on ultrasound and elect to follow carefully with serial ultrasounds at six monthly intervals for two years and yearly thereafter. Since careful studies have shown that a lesion appearing benign on mammography and ultrasound is benign >99 percent of the time, clinical judgment may allow follow-up without biopsy in experienced hands (44-47). However, other experienced surgeons disagree and believe that all fibroadenomas require diagnostic core biopsy or FNA and especially in BRCA mutation carriers in whom medullary cancer may be
