Benign Breast Disease in Women
KEYWORDS: breast, cancer, breast cancer, risk, lesions, women, benign, pain, figure, benign breast, journal, tissue, discharge, disease, biopsy


hands (44-47). However, other experienced surgeons disagree and believe that all fibroadenomas require diagnostic core biopsy or FNA and especially in BRCA mutation carriers in whom medullary cancer may be found. Biopsy confirmation of a fibroadenoma eliminates the need for serial ultrasounds . For those with a diagnosis of ADH (Atypical Ductal Hyperplasia) on FNA or core biopsy, excisional biopsy is then required since more complete resection often changes the diagnosis to DCIS. Breast discharge is evaluated according to the algorithm illustrated below on Figure 14 . Careful attention to several factors are necessary including determination whether the discharge arises from one duct or multiple ducts, is bloody, or is milky. Figure 14 Algorithm to assess breast discharge. TREATMENT OF BENIGN BREAST DISEASE IN WOMEN The initial step in evaluating pain is to distinguish true breast pain from chest wall pain (Figure 11). Several well designed, randomized, controlled, double blind, cross over trials have validated the efficacy of medical therapy for cyclic mastalgia . Based upon these studies, we categorize therapies as definitely effective, definitely ineffective , possibly effective , and insufficiently studied . For classification as definitely effective, two or more randomized trials are required. For the category, possibly effective, one randomized trial must be positive in some respect but others may be negative. For the category definitely ineffective, prospective trials must be uniformly negative. For the category, insufficiently studied, only one randomized trial, either negative or positive is available. For full details and references see Table 162-1 in Endocrinology, Fourth Edition, LJ DeGroot and JL Jameson, editors, WB Saunders Company, Philadelphia publishers; Chapter 162 Benign Breast Disorders, RJ Santen page 2194) Danazol, bromocriptine, and tamoxifen have been proven to be effective (52-55) ( Figure 15 ). Linoleic acid in the form of evening primrose oil has been shown effective in two randomized trials but not in the third, the largest trial. Its role in treatment therefore remains uncertain (56-58) . Vitamin E is considered definitely ineffective and iodine and vaginal progesterone possibly effective . Medroxyprogesterone acetate, caffeine avoidance, and progesterone have not been sufficiently studied. Several other therapies have not been examined in randomized controlled trials but are likely to be beneficial since they are based upon physiologic principles. For example, precise fitting of a bra to provide support for pendulous breasts has been reported to relieve pain in observational studies. GnRH agonist analogues are used to lower
