Benign Breast Disease in Women
KEYWORDS: breast, cancer, breast cancer, risk, lesions, women, benign, pain, figure, benign breast, journal, tissue, discharge, disease, biopsy


principles. For example, precise fitting of a bra to provide support for pendulous breasts has been reported to relieve pain in observational studies. GnRH agonist analogues are used to lower LH, FSH, and estradiol levels and to create a temporary post-menopausal state (59;60). Onset of menopause is known to reduce the frequency of breast pain. This therapy is reserved for patients in whom all other measures fail and the pain is considered severe. Reduction of the dosage of estrogens in post-menopausal women or addition of an androgen to estrogen replacement therapy (e.g. Estrotestâ tablets) appears to be beneficial in reducing breast pain (personal observations of author). Figure 15 Relative efficacy of agents to treat breast pain. These data are from the Breast Clinic in Cardiff, Wales and represent observational studies and not randomized, controlled efficacy trails. Relative efficacy of effective therapies: No large randomized, controlled studies have compared the relative efficacy of danazol, bromocriptine, evening primrose oil and tamoxifen. Figure 15 rank orders them according to efficacy based upon data from individual reports from the same clinic. Minimal data are available from clinical trials which involve direct head to head comparisons. It should be noted that overall responses to danazol, bromocriptine and evening primrose oil are lower in those with non-cyclic pain than those with cyclic pain. However, not all studies have carefully excluded patients with non-breast pain and therefore conclusions regarding non-cyclic pain should be considered tentative. The approach to non-breast pain is outlined in Figure 16 . Figure 16 Algorithm to treat non-breast pain WOMEN AT HIGH RISK FOR BREAST CANCER A major consideration for women who present with breast problems is whether they have a higher than normal risk of developing breast cancer. Certain breast lesions such as fibrocystic changes are associated with no increased risk of subsequent breast cancer (Table I). A 1.5 to 2-fold greater risk of development of breast cancer over a 20 year period of follow-up occurs with proliferative lesions including ductal hyperplasia , lobular hyperplasia without atypia , sclerosing adenosis , diffuse papillomatosis and complex fibroadenomas. A recent report also suggested that radial scars increase relative risk by 1.8, a risk similar to that found in proliferative disease without atypia. It should be noted that the Gail model for assessing breast cancer risk, which is based predominantly on reproductive factors, underestimates the long term risk of breast cancer in women with benign
