Benign Breast Disease in Women
KEYWORDS: breast, cancer, breast cancer, risk, lesions, women, benign, pain, figure, benign breast, journal, tissue, discharge, disease, biopsy


be noted that the Gail model for assessing breast cancer risk, which is based predominantly on reproductive factors, underestimates the long term risk of breast cancer in women with benign breast disease. On the other hand, the five year prediction is more accurate (61). The presence of dense breast tissue on mammography has also been reported to be a predictor of increased incidence of breast cancer ( Figure 10 ).Two components of this finding must be considered : one , the presence of high breast density makes it more difficult to read mammograms and masks the sensitivity of finding a breast cancer initially but identifies it later and two , there is an increased risk of breast cancer associated with increased breast density. With long tem follow-up studies, masking is not the explanation for the increased breast cancer risk (62). According to classic twin studies, heritability accounts for approximately 60% of the variation in breast density (63;64). Breast cancer risk is also increased in association with high plasma estradiol and testosterone levels in postmenopausal women (62;65) and 20 kg or more weight gain (66) in the pre-menopausal years. Another risk factor is use of hormone replacement therapy. Current data from the Women’s Health Initiative suggests a 26% increase in relative risk of breast cancer with conjugated equine estrogen (CEE) when combined with medroxyprogesterone acetate when used for an average of 7.1 years. (67). This risk is probably increased further in women starting this therapy shortly after the menopause (i.e. a short gap between onset of menopause and start of menopausal hormone therapy)(68). Starting this therapy a long time after experiencing menopause (long gap) is associated with a lesser relative risk (68). The use of estrogen alone in the WHI was associated with a trend toward reduction of risk of breast cancer at five years and a statistically significant reduction in those adhering to therapy (68). In a follow up report, after 5 years of use and 8 additional follow-up years, the reported decrease of 23% was statistically significant (69) (manson). Available data suggest that the effects of menopausal hormone therapy in the WHI is a class effect and not related to the specific type of estrogen or progestin. One study, however, suggests that use of crystalline progesterone as the progestogen is associated with a lesser risk than use of medroxyprogesterone acetate (70). To aid in assessing breast cancer risk, a
