Benign Breast Disease in Women
KEYWORDS: breast, cancer, breast cancer, risk, lesions, women, benign, pain, figure, benign breast, journal, tissue, discharge, disease, biopsy


however, suggests that use of crystalline progesterone as the progestogen is associated with a lesser risk than use of medroxyprogesterone acetate (70). To aid in assessing breast cancer risk, a questionnaire developed by Gail, utilizes answers to 7 questions to calculate the 5 year and lifetime risk of developing breast cancer (71). This model has recognized deficiencies in that it does not consider second degree relatives with breast cancer, proliferative lesions of breast other than ADH, alcohol intake, obesity, or birth control pill and menopausal hormone therapy (MHT) use. Nonetheless, the Gail model has been prospectively validated in over 6000 women followed for an average of 4.5 years. A more recently developed model, the Tyrer–Cuzick (IBIS II) model (72) incorporates second degree relatives, obesity and use of MHT into its risk calculations and provides more robust information than the Gail model. BREAST CANCER PREVENTION Patients with benign breast lesions imparting an increased risk of breast cancer can be offered tamoxifen (or raloxifene) as a prevention strategy. The risk of breast cancer is determined using the Gail or Tyrer-Cuzick model and the benefits versus risks of tamoxifen evaluated. Risk factors not included in the Gail or Claus models include degree of breast density, plasma free estradiol levels, bone density, weight gain after menopause, and waist-hip ratio (25;65;66;73). Current recommendations suggest that women with a five year risk of breast cancer of over 1.67 percent and no contraindications to tamoxifen should be informed about the possibility of taking tamoxifen for five years (74-77). A recent overview has shown a 38 percent reduction of the relative risk of breast cancer with tamoxifen but benefits may be offset by increased risks of thromboembolic phenomena, endometrial cancer, and maturation of cataracts (78). The Star trial addressed whether raloxifene might be preferable to tamoxifen and (79) demonstrated relative equivalence. However, of interest was the fact that tamoxifen prevented more non-invasive breast cancers than did raloxifene (79). More intensive and frequent screening with multi-modality imaging (i.e. digital or standard mammography plus ultrasound or MRI) may be required in high risk patients. Atypical hyperplasia lesions appear to be more amenable to breast cancer prevention as reviewed from non-head-to-head studies showing prevention ranging from 62 to 75% reduction in four separate randomized studies (23) when compared to a 38% reduction in women selected to be at high risk based on reproductive factors (78). REFERENCE LIST (1) Figueroa JD, Pfeiffer
