NLM Citation: LiverTox: Clinical and Research Information on Drug-
KEYWORDS: amodiaquine, malaria, pmid, pubmed pmid, pubmed, liver, alt, injury, patients, children, year, days, hepatitis, cases, controlled


Induced Liver Injury [Internet]. Bethesda (MD): National Institute of Diabetes and Digestive and Kidney Diseases; 2012-. Amodiaquine. [Updated 2017 Feb 2]. Bookshelf URL: Amodiaquine Updated: February 2, 2017. OVERVIEW Introduction Amodiaquine is an aminoquinoline used for the therapy of malaria. Amodiaquine has been linked to severe cases of acute hepatitis which can be fatal, for which reason it is recommended for use only as treatment and not for prophylaxis against malaria. Background Amodiaquine (am" oh dye' a kwin) is a synthetic aminoquinoline that acts by binding to the protozoal or parasitic DNA and preventing DNA and RNA production and subsequent protein synthesis. It is active against the asexual erythrocytic forms of Plasmodium species. Amodiaquine is related in structure to chloroquine, and highly chloroquine-resistant P. falciparum is also resistant to amodiaquine. Amodiaquine remains a useful agent for treating falciparum malaria, but because of its potential for causing hepatotoxicity, it is no longer used for antimalarial prophylaxis. Amodiaquine is available in tablets of 150 to 600 mg in generic forms and under the brand names Camoquin and Flavoquine. The recommended dosage is 10 mg/kg of amodiaquine base once daily for 3 days usually in combination with other antimalarial agents. Common side effects of amodiaquine include nausea, diarrhea, skin rash and itching. Hepatotoxicity Amodiaquine has been linked to serum aminotransferase elevations in a small proportion of patients (1%). More importantly, there have been multiple reports of idiosyncratic acute liver injury due to amodiaquine. Th e onset of injury is usually within 1 to 4 months and is often associated with agranulocytosis. The pattern of serum enzyme elevations is most frequently hepatocellular, and symptoms resembling acute viral hepatitis are typical. Features of hypersensitivity are uncommon, as are autoantibodies. The hepatitis can be severe, and several fatal instances or cases requiring emergency liver transplantation have been reported. The frequency of serious hepatic injury is estimated to be ~1:15,000. Because of the risks of agranulocytosis and liver injury, amodiaquine is no longer recommended for use as prophylaxis against malaria and is used largely for therapy in endemic areas outside of the United States. General recommendations on the therapy of malaria including specific details on diagnosis, management, drug dosage and safety are available at the CDC website: malaria/. Likelihood score: A (well established cause of clinically apparent liver injury). 2 LiverTox Mechanism of Injury antibodies suggest an idiosyncratic immunological reaction to a hepatic metabolite may be responsible.
