Raynaud Phenomenon
KEYWORDS: raynaud, phenomenon, raynaud phenomenon, secondary, systemic, primary, disorders, cold, cyanosis, medications, cause, testing, changes, disease, pallor


Raynaud phenomenon, is vasospasm of parts of the hand in response to cold or emotional stress, causing reversible discomfort and color changes (pallor, cyanosis, erythema, or a combination) in one or more digits. Occasionally, other acral parts (eg, nose, tongue) are affected. The condition may be primary or secondary. Diagnosis is clinical; testing focuses on distinguishing primary from secondary disease. Treatment of uncomplicated cases includes avoidance of cold, biofeedback, smoking cessation, and, as needed, vasodilating calcium channel blockers (eg, nifedipine) or other medications. Overall prevalence is approximately 3 to 5%; women are affected more than men, and younger people are affected more than older people (1, 2). Raynaud phenomenon is probably due to an exaggerated alpha-2 adrenergic response that triggers vasospasm; the mechanism is not defined. Primary Raynaud phenomenon (also called Raynaud disease) is much more common (80 to 90% of cases) than secondary; it occurs without symptoms or signs of other disorders (3, 4). In the remaining 10 to 20% of patients with Raynaud symptoms, a causative underlying disease (eg, systemic sclerosis) will be evident at initial presentation or diagnosed subsequently. Secondary Raynaud phenomenon (also called Raynaud syndrome) accompanies various disorders and conditions, mostly systemic rheumatic diseases (see table Causes of Secondary Raynaud Phenomenon). TABLE Causes of Secondary Raynaud Phenomenon Cause Examples Systemic rheumatic diseases Mixed or undifferentiated connective tissue disease Idiopathic inflammatory myopathies (eg, Cause Examples polymyositis, dermatomyositis) Rheumatoid arthritis Sjögren syndrome Systemic lupus erythematosus Systemic sclerosis Endocrine disorders Hypothyroidism Cold agglutinin disease Hematologic disorders Polycythemia vera Carcinoid Neoplastic disorders Paraneoplastic syndrome Neurologic disorders Carpal tunnel syndrome Frostbite Trauma Vibration Vascular disorders Thoracic outlet syndrome Beta-blockers Cocaine Medications and substances Ergot preparations Nicotine Sympathomimetic medications Nicotine commonly contributes to secondary Raynaud phenomenon but is often overlooked. Raynaud phenomenon may accompany migraine headaches, variant angina, and pulmonary hypertension, suggesting that these disorders share a common vasospastic mechanism. Symptoms and Signs of Raynaud Phenomenon Sensations of coldness, burning pain, paresthesias, or intermittent color changes of one or more digits are precipitated by exposure to cold, emotional stress, or vibration. All can be reversed by removing the stimulus. Rewarming the hands accelerates restoration of normal color and sensation. Color changes are clearly demarcated across the digit. They may be triphasic (pallor, followed by cyanosis and after warming by erythema due to reactive hyperemia), biphasic (cyanosis, erythema), or uniphasic (pallor or cyanosis only). Changes are often symmetric. Raynaud phenomenon does not occur
