Raynaud Phenomenon
KEYWORDS: raynaud, phenomenon, raynaud phenomenon, secondary, systemic, primary, disorders, cold, cyanosis, medications, cause, testing, changes, disease, pallor


followed by cyanosis and after warming by erythema due to reactive hyperemia), biphasic (cyanosis, erythema), or uniphasic (pallor or cyanosis only). Changes are often symmetric. Raynaud phenomenon does not occur proximal to the metacarpophalangeal joints; it most commonly affects the middle 3 fingers and rarely affects the thumb. Vasospasm may last minutes to hours but is rarely severe enough to cause tissue loss in primary Raynaud phenomenon. Raynaud phenomenon secondary to a systemic rheumatic disease may progress to painful digital gangrene; Raynaud phenomenon secondary to systemic sclerosis tends to cause extremely painful, infected ulcers on the fingertips. Manifestations of Raynaud Phenomenon Raynaud Phenomenon With Cyanosis Multiple fingertips are cyanotic. Raynaud Phenomenon With Pallor Pallor develops irregularly in the fingers. Raynaud Phenomenon With Digital Gangrene Ulceration and gangrene affect the second finger in this patient who had Raynaud phenomenon secondary to systemic sclerosis. Diagnosis of Raynaud Phenomenon History and physical examination Evaluation and testing for underlying disorder Sometimes Doppler ultrasound and laboratory testing Diagnostic criteria for Raynaud phenomenon are based upon a history of unusual cold sensitivity, biphasic color changes involving white and blue digits (pallor or duskiness in patients with dark-skin), and additional history and examination-based elements (1). Acrocyanosis also causes color change of the digits in response to cold but differs from Raynaud phenomenon in that it is persistent, not easily reversed, and does not cause trophic changes (thin, shiny, or discolored skin; hair loss; brittle nails), ulcers, or pain. 4/7 Primary and secondary forms are distinguished clinically, supported by vascular laboratory studies and blood testing. Clinical findings A thorough history and physical examination directed at identifying a causative disorder are helpful but rarely diagnostic. Findings suggesting primary Raynaud phenomenon are the following (1): Age at onset < 40 years (in two-thirds of cases) Mild symmetric attacks affecting both hands No tissue necrosis or gangrene Negative or low (< 1:40) antinuclear antibody (ANA) titer No history or physical findings suggesting another cause Findings suggesting secondary Raynaud phenomenon are the following: Age at onset > 40 years Severe painful attacks that may be asymmetric and unilateral Ischemic lesions History and findings suggesting an accompanying disorder Laboratory testing Vascular laboratory testing includes measuring digital pulse wave forms and pressures. The main blood tests are to diagnose autoimmune or inflammatory diseases (eg, measurement of erythrocyte sedimentation rate [ESR] or C-reactive protein, antinuclear and anti-DNA antibodies, rheumatoid factor, anticentromere antibody, anti-cyclic citrullinated peptide
