Open Access Case
KEYWORDS: copper, symptoms, patient, disease, diagnosis, hepatic, treatment, neurological, case, mri, ceruloplasmin, low, liver, improvement, brain


and T2 signals in the basal ganglia, indicative of copper deposition . The Leipzig criteria provide a method for diagnosing WD based on clinical and laboratory data. The criteria involve a combination of clinical examination and laboratory findings, and a diagnosis is confirmed if a minimum of four points is obtained. Although especially when genetic testing is not readily available . Case Presentation A 20-year-old woman presented to the Emergency Room with progressive motor decline over several months. She reported uncontrolled upper limb tremors, anorexia, and episodes of lipothymia. Initially, her symptoms were attributed to her psychiatric condition related to a history of sexual abuse. Despite psychiatric treatment, her symptoms continued to worsen. On examination, the patient exhibited hypomimia, bradyphrenia, bradykinesia, severe dysarthria, sialorrhea, dystonia of the upper limbs (more pronounced in the left arm), muscle stiffness, and wing-beating tremor. The ophthalmological evaluation patient was admitted with a probable diagnosis of Wilson's disease (WD). Subsequently, she underwent additional investigations, and laboratory tests revealed low levels of ceruloplasmin. (3.62 mg/dL; reference range: 22-58 mg/dL) and elevated serum copper (29 μg/dL). The urinary copper excretion rate was within the normal range (32 μg/24h). Brain MRI demonstrated extensive hypersignals in the caudate nuclei, putamina, thalamus, cerebral peduncle, mesencephalon, and protuberance, along with characteristic hypointensities in the capsular striate regions (Figure 2). Abdominal MRI revealed a liver with diffuse heterogenic nodular structure and mild splenomegaly (Figure 3). A diagnosis of WD was established using Leipzig's Eighth International Meeting on Wilson's disease score, which accounted for severe neurological symptoms and brain MRI findings (2 points), the presence of Kayser-Fleischer rings (2 points), low ceruloplasmin level (2 points) and elevated serum copper (1 point), making a total score of 7 points . Treatment was initiated with increasing doses of penicillamine and zinc acetate. The patient showed symptom improvement and a daily dose of 900 mg of penicillamine was achieved without hepatic function deterioration. A low copper diet was prescribed, and the patient underwent physical rehabilitation, resulting in significant symptomatic How to cite this article João Soares R, Monteiro N, Machado J, et al. (July 29, 2023) A Challenging Case of Wilson's Disease. Cureus 15(7): e42655. DOI improvement. At discharge, her dystonia and tremors were reduced, and she could walk without assistance. Follow-up showed continued improvement, with the patient regaining the ability to run and feed herself. Urinary copper excretion increased to values well above the normal
