Open Access Case
KEYWORDS: copper, symptoms, patient, disease, diagnosis, hepatic, treatment, neurological, case, mri, ceruloplasmin, low, liver, improvement, brain


she could walk without assistance. Follow-up showed continued improvement, with the patient regaining the ability to run and feed herself. Urinary copper excretion increased to values well above the normal threshold (938 μg/24h and 1894 μg/24h at one and two months, respectively) under penicillamine treatment. Treatment with penicillamine at the maximum dose was maintained, with regular monitoring of hepatic function. FIGURE 1: Kayser-Fleischer (KF) ring (arrow). Evaluation of KF ring was done by naked eye examination using torch light. FIGURE 2: Patient's brain MRI. (A) T2 FLAIR images revealed symmetrical hypersignal in the thalami, lentiform nuclei, and lateral aspects of the brainstem. (B, C) Axial T2 FLAIR images showed hypersignal in the tegmental and mesencephalic roof. 2023 João Soares et al. Cureus 15(7): e42655. DOI 2 of 4 FIGURE 3: Patient's abdominal MRI revealing a liver with diffuse heterogenic nodular structure (white arrow) and mild splenomegaly (orange arrow). Discussion In WD, approximately 40% of patients initially present with hepatic manifestations, while 40%-50% present with neurological symptoms, and 10% primarily exhibit psychiatric symptoms. Hepatic manifestations can range from asymptomatic to acute hepatic failure . Half of the patients with hepatic presentations have Kayser-Fleischer rings. In this case, the patient presented only with psychiatric and neurological symptoms. It is challenging to determine whether the psychiatric symptoms preceded the neurological symptoms or if they were solely attributed to the disease, given the patient's history of trauma. However, the presence of typical neurological signs and Keyser-Fleischer rings during the Emergency Room evaluation raised suspicion of WD. Typical laboratory findings in WD include increased hepatic copper concentration, increased non-ceruloplasmin-bound copper concentration, and low plasma ceruloplasmin levels. In this case, the patient had a low ceruloplasmin level and elevated serum copper, resulting in an estimated non- ceruloplasmin-bound copper concentration of 17.6 μg/dL, which alone was insufficient for a definitive diagnosis. The Leipzig score was utilized to assist in the diagnosis of WD, considering the neurological symptoms, brain MRI findings, presence of Kayser-Fleischer rings, low ceruloplasmin level, and elevated serum copper, confirming the diagnosis . Although a urinary copper excretion rate of >100 μg/24h is commonly observed in WD , the patient's rate was within the normal range. However, urinary copper excretion was used to monitor treatment response, with values exceeding the normal threshold at one and two months. This, along with objective neurological improvement, supported the continuation of penicillamine treatment, the only available chelator in the
