Chapter
KEYWORDS: information, health, data, countries, use, systems, costs, national, cost, ofthe, development, year, percent, health information, statistics


health facili- 100 percent reporting was achieved and sustained within six ties.Licensure and accreditation can be paired with incentives months of rollout of a pilot surveillance system using cellular to ensure service quality and private sector contributions to telephones (Lescano and others 2003). The system is to be achieving public health goals. expanded to national coverage this year. The national health account (NHA) framework provides Although individual citizens will not soon have equal access services and interventions.An NHA framework tracks the flow which can then apply this knowledge to improve local manage- providers and government service programs or from house- agers to unexpected findings that require double-checking or holds to pharmacies and private providers.These internation- immediate interventions (for example,outbreaks ofinfectious ally comparable data enable benchmarking of performance disease, low immunization coverage, or other management among countries (Peters and others 2000). problems). Of the 68 countries that have implemented NHAs, only Use of free software, such as the U.S. Centers for Disease one-third have used the framework more than once.However, Control and Prevention’s Epi Info, can lower costs, but often 19 of 21 countries studied can report at least one instance in these software packages require substantial adaptation to local which the NHA system has informed and shaped policies (De needs, along with additional training and technical support. and others 2003). For example, South Africa’s NHA analysis Acquisition ofcomputer equipment should be viewed not as a documented a higher per capita health expenditure in the rich- one-time capital expenditure but as a long-term commitment est districts, leading to intensified efforts to mitigate these to buy periodic upgrades,maintenance,and technical support. inequities (Abt Associates 2003). Experience shows that purchase of inexpensive software and computers, such as in the Eastern Cape Province of South InformationandCommunicationsTechnologies. The rapid Africa, may actually increase overall costs when they require evolution of information and communications technologies early replacement with more adequate alternatives. (ICT)overthepast30yearshasimmenseimplicationsforthe Geographic information system (GIS) technologies have potentialspeed,cost,andeffectivenessofanHIS.Buta“digital also been successfully used in districts in several countries to divide”persists,withpoorcountriesfailingtobenefitfullyfrom enable mapping and visual representation of the geographic these ICT advances. Lack of access to reliable power sources, distribution ofrisk factors,disease,and services.A desktop GIS absenceofInternetconnectivity,inabilitytoprocurecomputer viewer and mapping software are available in several shareware supportaresomeofthebarriers.Africanusersaccountforonly can be produced at little cost. Other potentially promising 1percentoftheworld’sInternettraffic,80percentofwhichis technologies include electronic scanners and personal in SouthAfrica( digital assistants for data capture ( than0.001percentoftheInternetuseinAfricaisamonghealth and global positioning systems to facilitate the
