Chapter
KEYWORDS: information, health, data, countries, use, systems, costs, national, cost, ofthe, development, year, percent, health information, statistics


produced at little cost. Other potentially promising 1percentoftheworld’sInternettraffic,80percentofwhichis technologies include electronic scanners and personal in SouthAfrica( digital assistants for data capture ( than0.001percentoftheInternetuseinAfricaisamonghealth and global positioning systems to facilitate the mapping professionals,thisusageisgrowingrapidly. process. effective and efficient by enabling instantaneous transmittal of however,are human,not technological.Substantial investment data to central locations. Internet access in facilities can also in training and technical support must accompany the intro- speed data transmission and improve clinical outcomes by pro- duction of any new technology.If the HIS is not functionally care (Godlee and others 2004;McLellan 2001).Even in remote problems. 1022 | Disease Control Priorities in Developing Countries | Sally K. Stansfield, Julia Walsh, Ndola Prata, and others tives,ordonorstodeterminewhethertheyareobtainingvalue for money” (Cibulskis and Hiawalyer 2002; see also Mackay availability ofreliable information does not guarantee its use or 1998).Providingfullaccesstothemediawillhelptoaccelerate improved decision making.Because decisions are often driven expectationsof evidence-baseddecisionmakingandaccount- as much by politics as by evidence,it is critical to design infor- ability.Civilsociety,includingnongovernmentalorganizations, mation systems to meet the needs of decision makers and to shouldbetheprincipalusersofinformationtocreateandsustain create a culture of evidence that provides incentives and ac- citizendemandforqualityservices.TheHealthyCommunities countability for evidence-based decision making. Extensive Foundation’s“dashboard”of lead indicators of health system dissemination promotes widespread use and accountability. performanceexemplifiesonepromisingexampleof thevisual The many users ofinformation include the following: display of data ( aboutus.htm).Suchdisseminationanduseof healthinforma- tion has enhanced government accountability for improved • researchers and evaluators healthinPapuaNewGuinea,wherereportsoflocalgovernment • legislative and policy analysts performanceinimprovinghealthsystemstransformedelection • nongovernmental organizations and consumer organizations results(G.Hiawalyer,personalcommunication). • advocacy groups • private sector health providers and insurers • communities,including groups ofpatients BENEFITS, COSTS, AND COST-EFFECTIVENESS • journalists OFIMPROVED INFORMATION • donors and international agencies concerned with health • individuals and families. There is broad agreement that information—plus the knowl- edge it enables—creates value.Yet it is challenging,indeed,to complaints ofthe neglect ofexisting information,yet remark- is necessary but never sufficient to achieve improved outcomes. ably little is known regarding the effectiveness ofinterventions Other resources—human, material, and financial—are to improve the use of information.The NHA experience (De required for change. Nonetheless, it is possible to define the and others 2003) suggests that policy makers are most likely to interventions necessary to improve health information and to use information when it contributes to and informs a preferred draw on a few studies to estimate the cost and cost-effectiveness government direction, especially if that information is not ofthese investments. available to stakeholders outside the health ministry.But sys- Strengthening of Systems tems and dissemination patterns for information can be engi- neered
