Chapter
KEYWORDS: information, health, data, countries, use, systems, costs, national, cost, ofthe, development, year, percent, health information, statistics


training, especially in sion,GIS-based mapping ofindicators,and compelling presen- skills for presentation and communication ofresults,may also tation for decision making by policy makers, managers, and inhibit the use ofhealth information.The demand from inter- other stakeholders. Research and development efforts are national organizations and global programs, such as the needed to devise software—or preferably shareware—that is Expanded Program on Immunization and Stop TB,for reports specifically tailored to support the consensus technical frame- on vast numbers of indicators has retarded the smooth devel- work developed by the HMN. 1028 | Disease Control Priorities in Developing Countries | Sally K. Stansfield, Julia Walsh, Ndola Prata, and others entire information value chain, with special attention to edge ofthe wedge,”giving governments and politicians a posi- improving the identification of information needs, to over- tive experience with information sharing and overcoming the coming the natural disincentives to information sharing,and natural disincentives to transparency and accountability. HIS to enabling better use of information for constructive change. investments hold the promise, therefore, not only of trans- mation and knowledge in the developing world.However,the good governance in every sector. future will bring the larger challenge of improving the man- agement and use ofinformation and the knowledge such infor- NOTES mation can bring. Research in the HIS will be instrumental in both accelerating equitable access to information and 1.Sauerborn and Lippeveld (2000) have defined a health information improving the management and use of knowledge for systemas the “set ofcomponents and procedures organized with the objec- improved health. tive of generating information that will improve health management decisions at all levels ofthe health system.” 2.The dollar amounts given are quoted from the references and are not CONCLUSIONS adjusted for current dollar value. More than ever before,it is in the mutual interest ofthe devel-
