Chapter
KEYWORDS: deficiency, child, children, programs, iron, zinc, vitamin, nutrition, growth, health, iodine, countries, disease, black, interventions


Stunting, Wasting, and Micronutrient Deficiency Disorders Laura E. Caulfield, Stephanie A. Richard, Juan A. Rivera, PhilipMusgrove, and Robert E. Black Undernutrition and micronutrient deficiencies contribute sub- Growth Faltering stantially to the global burden of disease (Ezzati and others Becausenutritionalinputsarenecessaryforchildren’sgrowth, 2002). Impoverished communities experience high rates of undernutrition is generally characterized by comparing the undernutrition and increased exposure to infectious diseases weightsorheights(orlengths)ofchildrenataspecificage and caused by crowding and inadequate sanitation. Women of sexwiththedistributionofobservedweightsorheightsinaref- reproductive age and children experience devastating health erence population of presumed healthy children of the same consequences as a result of limited resources, cultural influ- ageand sex andthencalculatingz-scores,thatis,thedifference ences,and biological vulnerabilities.Undernutrition and infec- betweenachild’sweightorheightandthemedianvalueatthat tious diseases exist in a baleful synergy:undernutrition reduces ageandsexinthereferencepopulation,dividedbythestandard immunological capacity to defend against diseases, and dis- deviation (SD) of the reference population. A child whose eases deplete and deprive the body of essential nutrients. height-for-ageislessthan(cid:1)2SDisconsideredstunted,because Undernutrition and infectious diseases further exacerbate the chances of the child’s height being normal are less than most insidiously—impaired intellectual development that can considered underweight, and one whose weight-for-height significantly reduce earning potential. Health experts have is less than (cid:1)2 SD is deemed wasted. Stunting results from recently recognized the long-term effects of early undernutri- chronic undernutrition,which retards linear growth,whereas tion and inadequate infant feeding for obesity and chronic dis- wastingresults from inadequate nutrition over a shorter peri- eases, including diabetes and cardiovascular diseases. This chapter summarizes the problems ofundernutrition and vita- Typically,growth faltering begins at about six months ofage,as min A,iron,zinc,and iodine deficiencies in young children and children transition to foods that are often inadequate in quan- current programmatic efforts to prevent and treat them. tity and quality, and increased exposure to the environment increases their likelihood ofillness. Although knowledge about the prevalence of stunting and NATURE, CAUSES, AND BURDEN wasting is preferred, information about underweight is more available globally. The high correlation between stunting and OF UNDERNUTRITION underweight and the low prevalence of wasting mean that the The following section describes the magnitude, distribution, prevalence ofunderweight directly describes the magnitude of and etiology of growth faltering and specific micronutrient the problem of growth faltering and stunting in young chil- deficiencies in young children. dren. About 130 million children under the age of five are underweight, with the highest prevalences in South Asia and thegreatesttotalburdenofdisease(Fishmanandothers2004). Sub-Saharan Africa (table 28.1). The prevalence of stunting, Children whose weight-for-age is less than (cid:1)1 SD are also at underweight, and wasting is
