Chapter
KEYWORDS: deficiency, child, children, programs, iron, zinc, vitamin, nutrition, growth, health, iodine, countries, disease, black, interventions


papayas) and vegetables (pumpkins, squash, trition with diabetes,hypertension,renal disease,and cardio- carrots),are common sources of carotenoids (vitamin A pre- vascular disease mean that child undernutrition also leads to cursors),which are generally less bioavailable than preformed high adult health care costs. vitamin A but tend to be more affordable. Table 28.1 shows recent estimates ofthe prevalence ofVAD in young children (Rice, West, and Black 2004). Of those Vitamin A Deficiency affected,250,000 to 500,000 each year will lose their sight as a VitaminAdeficiency(VAD)isacommoncauseofpreventable result. The overall prevalence of VAD is decreasing markedly blindness and a risk factor for increased severity of infectious because of increased awareness of VAD as a public health diseaseandmortality(Rice,West,andBlack2004).Oneofthe problem and increased measles immunization and vitamin A firstsymptomsofmarginalVADisnightblindness.IfVADwors- supplementation or fortification programs. However, the ens, additional symptoms of xerophthalmia arise, eventually prevalence ofVAD is increasing or is unknown in some regions resultinginblindness.AchildwhobecomesblindfromVADhas because of political instability,high rates of infectious disease, onlya50percentchanceofsurvivingtheyear.Evenifchildren and increasing poverty. survive,blindnessseverelydiminishestheireconomicpotential. VADmaycauseanemiainsomeregions,butitdoesnotappear Iron Deficiency toimpairchildren’sgrowth(Ramakrishnanandothers2004). Increased mortality is associated with VAD, most likely More than 2 billion people,mostly women and young children, because of the detrimental effects on the immune system, are thought to be iron deficient (Stoltzfus and Dreyfuss 1998). which result in increased severity ofillness (Sommer and West Iron is found in all plant foods but is more plentiful and 1996). According to Rice, West, and Black (2004), VAD is bioavailable in meat. Deficiency results from insufficient responsible for almost 630,000 deaths each year from infectious absorption ofiron or excess loss.Absorption is tightly regulated disease (table 28.2),accounting for 20 to 24 percent ofthe mor- in the intestines,depending on the iron status ofthe individual, tality from measles, diarrhea, and malaria (Rice, West, and the type of iron, and other nutritional factors. Once iron is Black 2004). Attributable fractions are highest where VAD is absorbed, it is well conserved. Iron is depleted primarily prevalent and mortality is high.Linking morbidity with VAD is through blood loss,including from parasitic infections such as far more difficult. Vitamin A supplementation decreases the schistosomiasis and hookworm. severity of diarrhea and complications from measles, but in Mainly found in hemoglobin,iron is essential for the bind- some trials, supplementation has been associated with ing and transport ofoxygen,as well as for the regulation ofcell increased lower respiratory infections. growth and differentiation .Iron deficiency is the VAD results from inadequate intakes of vitamin A because primary cause ofanemia,although vitamin A deficiency,folate of low intakes
