Chapter
KEYWORDS: deficiency, child, children, programs, iron, zinc, vitamin, nutrition, growth, health, iodine, countries, disease, black, interventions


ofcell increased lower respiratory infections. growth and differentiation .Iron deficiency is the VAD results from inadequate intakes of vitamin A because primary cause ofanemia,although vitamin A deficiency,folate of low intakes of animal foods;inadequate intakes of nonani- deficiency,malaria,and HIV also result in anemia.Iron defi- mal sources ofcarotenoids that are converted to vitamin A;and ciency anemia is most prevalent in South Asia and Sub-Saharan Stunting, Wasting, and Micronutrient Deficiency Disorders | 553 Africa,but it is not limited to developing countries (table 28.1). global coverage,and control ofIDD through salt iodation rep- not be fully reversible (Grantham-McGregor and Ani 1999). Nevertheless,significant numbers ofpeople remain at risk. Finally,iron deficiency is known to decrease immune function, but some investigators have also hypothesized that deficiency Zinc Deficiency protects against infectious disease or that iron supplementation Zinc is ubiquitous within the body and is vital to protein syn- increases infectious disease (Caulfield, Richard, and Black thesis, cellular growth, and cellular differentiation. Studies in 2004).Iron deficiency and anemia do not appear to contribute children have demonstrated important roles for zinc in relation to growth faltering (Ramakrishnan and others 2004). to immune function, growth, and development (Brown and Stoltzfus,Mullany,andBlack(2004)findthatirondeficiency others 2002;Shankar and Prasad 1998). anemia was an underlying factor in 841,000 deaths per year Zinc deficiency results from inadequate intakes and, to resulting from maternal and perinatal causes, and it directly some extent, increased losses. Only animal flesh, particularly causes the deaths of 134,000 young children annually oysters and shellfish, is a good source of zinc, and fiber and (table28.2).Worldwide,irondeficiencyisasubstantialcontrib- phytates inhibit absorption. Thus, as with iron deficiency, utortoDALYlosses(table28.3). populations consuming a primarily plant-based diet are sus- ceptible. Deficiency can also result from losses during diar- Iodine Deficiency rheal illness. Iodine is necessary for the thyroid hormones that regulate Consensus is currently lacking on how to measure zinc growth,development,and metabolism and is essential to pre- deficiency in individuals. The International Zinc Nutrition vent goiter and cretinism. Inadequate intake can result in Consultative Group recommended using serum or plasma zinc impaired intellectual development and physical growth. A concentrations to identify the risk ofdeficiency at the popula- range of impairments resulting from iodine deficiency are tion level. In addition, the group used information on referred to as iodine deficiency disorders (IDD) absorbable zinc in the food supplies of 176 countries to esti- and can include fetal loss,stillbirth,congenital anomalies,and mate the proportion of each national population at risk of hearing impairment.The vast majority
