Chapter
KEYWORDS: deficiency, child, children, programs, iron, zinc, vitamin, nutrition, growth, health, iodine, countries, disease, black, interventions


on iodine forti- attributable burden of pneumonia and diarrhea, with Sub- fication programs in earnest in the early 1920s.Success resulted Saharan Africa accounting for nearly the entire attributable in enthusiastic political and financial support for increased malaria burden. 554 | Disease Control Priorities in Developing Countries | Laura E. Caulfield, Stephanie A. Richard, Juan A. Rivera, and others INTERVENTIONS Promotion of Optimal Feeding of Infants and Young Children. Much ofthe early focus on optimal feeding was on Clearly, growth faltering and micronutrient deficiency disor- breastfeeding,which should be immediate and exclusive until ders are prevalent,have deleterious consequences for children’s six months ofage.At that time nutritious and safe foods should be added to a diet that is still based on breast milk until early in global burden of disease. Economic development is not the the second year of life.A consensus has been reached that six only path to solving childhood undernutrition.Improvements months is the recommended duration of exclusive breastfeed- in family income may not translate into increased food intakes ing and that the total duration is a decision left to because the income elasticity for caloric intake is relatively low. the mother. The effects on micronutrient deficiencies might be greater if Multiple approaches exist to promote the initiation of the food sources ofthose nutrients (meat,seafood,eggs,forti- breastfeeding and to prolong exclusive breastfeeding—health fied food products) were more sensitive to income increases education; professional support; lay support; health sector and if children had access to those foods.Price subsidies may changes (for example, infant friendly hospitals); and media reduce undernutrition in young children if targeted to foods campaigns—through health facilities and community pro- consumed by them;the potential contribution of price subsi- grams.A recent Cochrane review estimates the potential effec- dies to family nutrition is discussed elsewhere (see chapter 11). tiveness of these approaches (Sikorski and others 2002). This chapter focuses on specific public health measures that are Women who received any form of support for breastfeeding intended to address the problems directly. Progress has been were 22 percent less likely to stop exclusive breastfeeding,and made in some areas, but the current magnitude of the prob- women who received lay support,in particular,were 34 percent lems and ofthe associated disease burden underscore the need less likely to stop exclusive breastfeeding.Substantial evidence for more investment in nutritional interventions. indicates that interventions can be effective in prolonging breastfeeding and exclusive breastfeeding and that operational Growth Faltering and Childhood Stunting
