Chapter
KEYWORDS: deficiency, child, children, programs, iron, zinc, vitamin, nutrition, growth, health, iodine, countries, disease, black, interventions


stop exclusive breastfeeding.Substantial evidence for more investment in nutritional interventions. indicates that interventions can be effective in prolonging breastfeeding and exclusive breastfeeding and that operational Growth Faltering and Childhood Stunting research is needed for program implementation and sustain- ability. If such programs were fully successful, they would Infants and young children falter in their growth because of reduce deaths in children under five by 13 percent (Jones and inadequate dietary intakes and recurrent infectious diseases, others 2003). which reduce appetite, increase metabolic requirements, and Complementary feeding is the process ofintroducing other increase nutrient loss.Even though this problem is understood, foods and liquids into the child’s diet when breast milk alone progress to reduce malnutrition has been slow. Over time, is no longer sufficient to meet nutritional requirements. thinking on how to reduce growth faltering and childhood According to Brown,Dewey,and Allen (1998),complementary stunting has shifted.Whereas previous efforts focused almost feeding practices are suboptimal from several perspectives: exclusively on identifying and rehabilitating severely malnour- ished children, current efforts emphasize prevention through • Complementary foods are introduced too early or too late. combined nutritional and disease prevention and treatment • Foodsareservedtooinfrequentlyorininsufficientamounts, interventions. ortheirconsistencyorenergydensityisinappropriate. Initially,these efforts to prevent undernutrition focused on • The micronutrient content of foods is inadequate to meet diseases rather than on improved child feeding practices as the child’s needs, or other factors in the diet impair the such.However,according to Becker,Black,and Brown (1991), absorption offoods. despite the devastating effects of illness on nutritional status, • Microbial contamination may occur. improving dietary intakes is more effective than disease matic reductions in appetite during illness,efforts to improve offered to them, interaction between the caregiver and the dietary intakes initially focused on maintaining energy intakes child, along with other psychosocial aspects of care during despite anorexia and on increasing intakes during recupera- feeding, requires attention. The amount of complementary tion, when appetite may be normal or high. More recent food a child needs depends on breast milk intake.Guidelines interventions aim at feeding healthy children optimal diets, are available for determining energy and nutrient intakes from which includes paying attention to dietary quality. Finally, complementary foods, given breast milk intakes (Dewey and some have argued that,for nutritional advice to be effective,it Brown 2003). needs to be provided alongside growth monitoring and pro- Several reviews of the multiple approaches to improving motion; however, it is increasingly recognized that messages infant and young child feeding practices are
