Chapter
KEYWORDS: deficiency, child, children, programs, iron, zinc, vitamin, nutrition, growth, health, iodine, countries, disease, black, interventions


be provided alongside growth monitoring and pro- Several reviews of the multiple approaches to improving motion; however, it is increasingly recognized that messages infant and young child feeding practices are available (Allen for prevention are largely universal and that integrated growth and Gillespie 2001; Caulfield, Huffman, and Piwoz 1999; monitoring and promotion are not the only model for service Dewey 2002;Hill,Kirkwood,and Edmond 2004;Swindale and delivery. others 2004). Caulfield, Huffman, and Piwoz (1999) review Stunting, Wasting, and Micronutrient Deficiency Disorders | 555 16 programs in 14 countries to improve dietary intakes of principlesforoptimalfeedingofthebreastfedchild(PAHOand infants 6 to 12 months ofage.The programs were designed to WHO 2003).These principles,outlined in box 28.1,build on promote exclusive breastfeeding and appropriate feeding dur- lessons from previous programmatic efforts such as those ing illness up to age three, and the content and approaches reviewedhereandprovideabasisfordesigningcomprehensive reflected current thinking regarding nutrition and behavior programs to reduce malnutrition. The international public change. The approaches employed included using the mass health community faces the challenge of implementing and media to reach both caregivers and the population as a whole evaluatingtheseapproaches. to change cultural norms about complementary feeding and using one-on-one or small group interactions with community Disease Control and Prevention. Interventions to prevent or health workers to provide individualized information and decrease malnutrition or infectious disease are expected to support. decrease child mortality, and interventions that accomplish Most ofthe projects achieved good coverage (50 to 70 per- both will have the greatest effect (Pelletier, Frongillo, and cent), with rates varying depending on the communication Habicht 1993).This subsection considers the potential for dis- strategy. They resulted in large shifts in maternal knowledge ease control and prevention efforts to reduce undernutrition in and attitudes and changes in infant feeding practices.In the few young children. programs assessing dietary intakes,intakes improved by 70 to Malaria is responsible for a large portion ofchildhood mor- 165 kilocalories per day. Differences in nutritional status at tality in Sub-Saharan Africa. The effect of undernutrition on 12 months indicated weight-for-age and height-for-age gains susceptibility to malaria has been discussed at length elsewhere of0.24 to 0.87 SD.Even with a 50 percent overestimation ofthe (Caulfield,Richard,and Black 2004),but the nutritional defi- effects,the effect ofsuch programs could translate into tangible ciencies resulting from malaria have been insufficiently reductions in malnutrition and attributable mortality.In addi- explored.Insecticide-treated bednets have been shown to pre- tion in malnutrition from programs that benefit children’s anemia in children .Improvements in growth
