Chapter
KEYWORDS: deficiency, child, children, programs, iron, zinc, vitamin, nutrition, growth, health, iodine, countries, disease, black, interventions


care. Despiteevidenceoftheeffectivenessofnutritionalinterven- Beyond the use of supplementation for symptoms that result tionsinimprovingfeedingpracticesandpreventingundernu- directly from deficiency,its use as part of the treatment regi- optimizinginfantfeeding,perhapsbecauseofalackofconsen- outcomes.In deficient areas,high-dose oral supplementation is sus on the key components of a comprehensive strategy. In recommended every four to six months for children under five 2002,participantsataWHOconsultationdeveloped10guiding and is highly efficacious in reducing ocular effects as well as 556 | Disease Control Priorities in Developing Countries | Laura E. Caulfield, Stephanie A. Richard, Juan A. Rivera, and others Box 28.1 Guiding Principles for Complementary Feeding of the Breastfed Child 1. Practice exclusive breastfeeding from birth to six riesperdayat9to11months,and550kilocalories per months ofage and introduce complementary foods at dayat12to23months. six months of age (180 days) while continuing to 6. Increasefoodconsistencyandvarietygraduallyasthe breastfeed. infantgetsolder,adaptingtotheinfant’srequirements 2. Continue frequent, on-demand breastfeeding until and abilities. Infants can eat pureed, mashed, and two years ofage or beyond. semisolid foods beginning at six months. By eight 3. Practice responsive feeding,applying the principles of monthsmostinfantscanalsoeatfingerfoods—thatis, • Feed infants directly and assist older children when childrencaneatthesametypesoffoodsthattherestof they feed themselves,being sensitive to their hunger the family consumes, keeping in mind the need for and satiety cues. nutrient-densefoods.Avoidfoodsthatcausechoking. • Feed slowly and patiently; encourage children to 7. Increase the frequency with which the child is fed • Experiment with different food combinations, appropriate number of feedings depends on the tastes, textures, and methods of encouragement if energy density of local foods and the usual amounts children refuse many foods. consumed at each feeding. For the average healthy, • Minimize distractions during meals if the child breastfed infant, meals should be provided two or loses interest easily. three times a day at 6 to 8 months ofage and three or • Remember that feeding times are periods of learn- four times a day at 9 to 23 months ofage,with addi- ing and love, and talk to children during feeding, tional snacks. including making eye contact. 8. Feed a variety of foods to ensure that nutrient needs 4. Practice good hygiene and proper food handling: are met. The child should eat meat, poultry, fish, or • Wash hands before food preparation and eating eggs daily, or as often as possible. Vegetarian diets (both caregivers and children). cannot meet nutrient needs at this age unless nutrient • Store foods safely and serve foods immediately after supplements or fortified products are used. preparation. 9. Use fortified complementary foods or vitamin and • Use clean
