Chapter
KEYWORDS: deficiency, child, children, programs, iron, zinc, vitamin, nutrition, growth, health, iodine, countries, disease, black, interventions


infants beginning at 2 months (Stoltzfus and Dreyfuss increase iron intakes and contribute to anemia reduction.Such 1998).Also,various scientific documents synthesize and com- approaches have been promoted for many years,but research is municate current knowledge about the consequences of iron still needed to document their efficacy and effectiveness (Ruel deficiency anemia and programming efforts. and Levin 2000). Ampleevidenceindicatesthatirondeficiencyistheprincipal causeof anemiainchildren;thatironsupplementsareeffica- Iodine Deficiency Disorders ciousinpreventingandtreatingirondeficiencyanemia,increas- inghemoglobinconcentrationsbyabout1gramperdeciliteron Interventions to diminish iodine deficiency using either averageincontrolledtrials;andthatsupplementsreducesevere supplementation or fortification are both efficacious and inex- anemiaeveninmalariousareas.Thecontributionof parasitic pensive,and WHO,the United Nations Children’s Fund,and 558 | Disease Control Priorities in Developing Countries | Laura E. Caulfield, Stephanie A. Richard, Juan A. Rivera, and others the International Council for the Control ofIodine Deficiency Fortification interventions include the traditional method Disorders have pledged to eliminate iodine deficiency and the of adding zinc to a commercial food, consumer fortification spectrum ofIDD. using sprinkles, and plant-breeding techniques. For example, For regions with severe endemic iodine deficiency, high- Mexico has introduced several large-scale programs,including dose iodine supplementation is indicated while longer-term the fortification ofmaize and wheat flours and the distribution solutions are put into place.Iodized oil and iodide tablets are of fortified complementary food and fortified milk to low- the most common means of direct administration.Injections income children (Rivera and Sepulveda 2003).Researchers are of iodized oil have been used with much success to decrease investigating the possibility ofhome fortification offood using the prevalence ofIDD and have been shown to be effective for sprinkles containing iron and zinc (Zlotkin and others 2003), three to four years, depending on the dosage . but further research is needed to determine whether sprinkles Although injected oil is effective,it is also expensive,requires are a viable option.Through plant breeding and genetic engi- trained personnel to administer,and carries the risk of infec- neering,staple crops may be made to contain more zinc or less tious disease transmission from contaminated needles. phytate, resulting in increased zinc bioavailability (Ruel and Because of those drawbacks,researchers began exploring oral Bouis 1998). Other dietary strategies target food preparation administration as an alternative. Oral administration of techniques,such as fermentation ofunrefined flour to increase iodized oil in liquid and tablet form has been successful in the zinc bioavailability. oral administration was associated with a reduction in infant mortality (Cobra and others 1997). INTERVENTION COSTS AND Iodized or iodated salt is the primary strategy for correct- COST-EFFECTIVENESS ing iodine deficiency because of the nearly universal con- sumption
