Chapter
KEYWORDS: deficiency, child, children, programs, iron, zinc, vitamin, nutrition, growth, health, iodine, countries, disease, black, interventions


with oral Robberstad and others 2004 2004 n.a. 0.47 per child 2,100 73 rehydration salts Source:[Add Source] — (cid:3)not available; n.a. (cid:3)not applicable. Note:Deaths prevented by promoting or supporting breastfeeding are assumed to occur around age one. Deaths prevented by other programs to reduce underweight and all programs to reduce micronu- trient deficiency are assumed to occur between ages one and five. Authors’ estimates of costs per DALY (in parentheses) using region-specific life expectancies at ages one and five, reflect this range. a. Assumes that all the DALY gains come from preventing deaths. b. Assumes that an undernourished child has a chance of 1 in 16 to 1 in 12 (6 to 8 percent) of dying before age five, the same as estimated for child survival programs. US$58 per adopter of exclusive breastfeeding. In Ghana, an in Central America. In 1994, estimates indicated that a pro- estimated 883 deaths were averted,yielding a program cost of gram in Guatemala cost US$0.17 per child,and US$1,000 per US$7.80 per DALY gained or US$203 per death prevented. death averted.Counting only the losses from mortality,the cost The range of costs within each program depended on the ofsaving a DALY was US$33 to US$35.However,for each death baseline prevalence of the behavior, the population density, prevented, there were probably several cases of eye damage themselves. Programs will be more cost-effective when the account of nonfatal effects would reduce the cost per DALY baseline prevalence is lower;the population density is higher; somewhat. and the organizations involved are focused,highly motivated, Iron supplementation is more costly than distribution of and well organized. vitamin A capsules, as it involves a daily supplement over an Less information is available on the costs of community- extended period. Estimates indicate that such programs cost based nutrition programs to prevent growth faltering,to con- US$3.17 to US$5.30 per child. Numerous cost estimates are trol morbidity,and to improve survival.The costs ofa program available for iron fortification programs, because these pro- in Mali (Ross,Loening,and Mbele 1987),which included pro- grams have been the principal strategy to prevent and control motion ofbreastfeeding,counseling,and education on optimal iron deficiency anemia.Such programs have traditionally cost child feeding; prevention of diarrheal disease; and growth US$0.09 to US$1.00 per child,depending on the country and monitoring, were estimated to be US$282 per death averted the vehicle for fortification.These estimates are based on ele- and US$11 per DALY gained.This estimate is consistent with mental iron as the
