Chapter
KEYWORDS: deficiency, child, children, programs, iron, zinc, vitamin, nutrition, growth, health, iodine, countries, disease, black, interventions


were estimated to be US$282 per death averted the vehicle for fortification.These estimates are based on ele- and US$11 per DALY gained.This estimate is consistent with mental iron as the fortifier. Even though this is the cheapest others that nutrition programs cost US$2 to US$10 per child, form available,critics have questioned the bioavailability ofele- depending on the intensity of nutrition counseling,including mental iron,and many researchers now advocate using other Fiedler’s (2003) study ofthe Integrated Community Child Care forms ofiron. Program in Honduras, which had an estimated cost of US$4 Iodine fortification programs cost little, about US$0.02 to per child. (For a fuller analysis of such programs, including US$0.05 per child. Iodized oil injections are more costly at contextual and programmatic characteristics that affect out- US$0.80 to US$2.75 per beneficiary,but these programs may comes,see chapter 56.) be recommended for settings where people consume little In the past five years,investigators have undertaken several commercialized and easily fortified food. cost analyses of national programs to distribute vitamin A Currently, no examples of zinc intervention programs are capsules.Two reports from Ghana and Zambia are particularly available from which to estimate cost-effectiveness. However, informative (Rassas, Hottor, and others 2004; Rassas, Robberstad and others’ (2004) simulation analysis examines Nakamba, and others 2004). As table 28.4 shows, such pro- the potential costs and cost-effectiveness of providing zinc as death averted ranging from US$162 to US$277.(Deaths from children.Providing zinc as part ofcase management carries an micronutrient deficiencies are assumed to occur between ages estimated incremental cost of US$0.47 per treatment,ranging one and five, and estimates of cost per DALY ranging from from US$0.33 to US$0.62.Given the relationship between zinc US$6 to US$11 reflect this range,as well as region-specific life provision and mortality risk,this addition to current manage- expectancies at those ages.) These costs are comparable with ment programs would cost, on average, US$2,100 per death estimates of a vitamin A program in Nepal that cost US$1.25 adverted and US$73 per DALY gained. per child and US$327 per death averted .Ching Despite the enormity of the nutritional problems, the and others (2000) examine the costs of incorporating vita- associated loss of DALYS, and the existence of programs to min A capsule distribution into immunization campaigns in combat malnutrition, surprisingly little data on the costs or 50 countries in 1998 and 1999. Their analysis finds that the cost-effectiveness of nutritional programs are available. This total costs per death averted ranged
