Chapter
KEYWORDS: deficiency, child, children, programs, iron, zinc, vitamin, nutrition, growth, health, iodine, countries, disease, black, interventions


little data on the costs or 50 countries in 1998 and 1999. Their analysis finds that the cost-effectiveness of nutritional programs are available. This total costs per death averted ranged from about US$150 to problem represents a serious gap in information for health US$600,with the incremental costs for vitamin A distribution planning, implementation, and advocacy. Nonetheless, con- amounting to only about US$30 to US$150 per death averted. siderable evidence indicates that when programs to promote The costs per death averted depended on the country setting, breastfeeding or child growth or to correct micronutrient defi- the program’s coverage,the delivery ofvitamin A (one or two ciencies are delivered to populations with a relatively high doses),and the underlying level ofmortality.The incremental prevalence of malnutrition,the cost per participating child is cost per DALY gained could be as low as US$1 or as high as usually so low that deaths can be averted at a cost per DALY US$6. that is less than US$100, and often less than US$10, even in Fewer examples of vitamin A fortification programs are regions with low life expectancy.Few health interventions are available,with the only clear example being sugar fortification comparably cost-effective. Stunting, Wasting, and Micronutrient Deficiency Disorders | 561 ECONOMIC BENEFITS OF INTERVENTION and Remley’s (1999) meta-analysis estimates gains of 3.5 IQ points,adjusting for important covariates. Theprevioussectionsoutlinedthecoststosocietyintermsof Irondeficiencyhaslongbeenassociatedwithdevelopmental deaths and disabilities resulting from growth faltering and delays, and iron supplementation studies have demonstrated micronutrient malnutrition, as well as the costs and cost- improvements in cognitive function. Whether the negative effectiveness of options for their alleviation and prevention; effects of iron deficiency and anemia on development are reversible remains controversial, which implies the need for benefits to society from effective nutrition programs. For strong preventive measures.More research is needed to learn example,eventhoughtheeffectof irondeficiencyonmental about the effects of iron deficiency on development and to retardationinchildrencontributestotheattributableDALYs develop measures for evaluating programs that provide iron. (Stoltzfus, Mullany, and Black 2004), the negative effects of Multiple lines of evidence indicate that zinc influences iron deficiency on cognition that do not constitute retarda- development .Despite a clear biological role,epi- tionarenotconsidered.Othereffectsofmalnutritiononcog- demiological studies provide insufficient evidence to draw con- nitive and physical functioning that ultimately affect labor clusions on the gain in human capital if zinc deficiency were productivityarealsonotconsidered,norareotherlong-term reduced through public health interventions. Research to healthconsequencesofchildundernutrition.Finally,because address this gap is under way. undernutrition increases the frequency and severity of dis- The public health community has
