Chapter
KEYWORDS: deficiency, child, children, programs, iron, zinc, vitamin, nutrition, growth, health, iodine, countries, disease, black, interventions


deficiency were productivityarealsonotconsidered,norareotherlong-term reduced through public health interventions. Research to healthconsequencesofchildundernutrition.Finally,because address this gap is under way. undernutrition increases the frequency and severity of dis- The public health community has long recognized that iodine deficiency is the most common cause of preventable carecosts,whicharealsonotcapturedinburdenestimates. mental retardation. Even though the problem of maternal iodine deficiency and cretinism in the offspring is well recog- nized,evidence also suggests that deficiency in children is neg- Malnutrition and Human Capital Formation atively associated with cognitive abilities.Bleichrodt and Born’s Researchers have studied cognitive function using global meas- (1994) meta-analysis finds losses of 13.5 IQ points in those ures of development and intelligence, such as IQ, along with with iodine deficiency. Some of these effects occur in the school performance and more narrowly defined intellectual, absence ofgoiter,the hallmark ofIDD.More research is needed psychomotor, and behavioral skills. A large body of research to fully understand the human consequences of milder forms has examined whether undernutrition causes lasting cognitive of iodine deficiency that are probably still prevalent in devel- deficits in later life and whether potential deficits are amenable oping countries. to subsequent nutritional interventions. Acute malnutrition is associated with negative neuroanatomical, emotional, and Malnutrition and Loss of Productivity behavioral effects on children’s development. After recovery, results of behavioral and developmental tests, generally Abundant evidence demonstrates that both anemia and iron improve, but the long-term developmental implications deficiency decrease fitness and capacity for aerobic work by remain unclear. Many studies find IQ scores 8 to 18 points decreasingoxygentransportandrespiratoryefficiencyinmus- lower in children who suffered from severe malnutrition cles.Theconsequencesof irondeficiencyarethusmeasurable (Fishman and others 2004).Studies ofchronic undernutrition in terms of loss of economic productivity.Aguayo,Scott,and also report deficits in IQ and school performance with stunting Ross’s(2003)casestudyinSierraLeoneestimatesthatanemia during early childhood. Evidence from nutritional interven- among women is associated with agricultural productivity tions among high-risk or undernourished children suggests losses of US$19 million per year. For children, the economic that early supplementary feeding (but no sooner than two years costsarenotasclear,butthosecostsmaybesubstantialdepend- ofage) improves developmental scores during the intervention, ingonthechildren’sagesandthetypesofworktheyperform. with some evidence oflong-term benefits.For example,follow- Growth faltering that leads to stunting in early childhood up of Guatemalan children exposed to prenatal and early translates into shortened adult stature.Adult height is related postnatal supplementation demonstrated long-term cognitive not only to total food consumption but also to protein intake benefits even after adjusting for socioeconomic factors and (Jamison, Leslie, and Musgrove 2003), which reinforces the educational experience (Pollitt and
