Chapter
KEYWORDS: deficiency, child, children, programs, iron, zinc, vitamin, nutrition, growth, health, iodine, countries, disease, black, interventions


to population-based assessment with more generalized withtheaccompanyingeffectsonschooling,leadtoa12percent dissemination of key messages for behavior change.Available reductioninlifetimeearningsinZimbabwe.Currentprogram- data suggest high cost-effectiveness for such programs. Key mingcouldrestoreasignificantproportionofthoselostwages. challenges involve scaling up and sustainability, as well as strengthening of monitoring and evaluation systems.A gap in this knowledge concerns optimal feeding in the presence of Resource Allocation HIV infection,and testing options and designing programs in Malnutrition increases the likelihood that a child will be sick such settings are ofthe highest priority. and,whensick,willbecomeseriouslyill.Thus,resourcesmustbe Iodine fortification has been a clear success over decades, allocatedtohealthcareservicestodealwiththeincreasedfre- which underscores the need for continued and consistent fund- quency and severity of illness caused by undernutrition and ing and advocacy for such programs. Even when universal micronutrient deficiencies.To our knowledge,this increase in access to iodine becomes a reality, policy and programmatic likelihoodandseverityofillnesshasneverbeenquantified,but supports will be necessary to maintain it. itislikelytobehigh,consideringnotonlythecostsofhealthcare Thesuccessofiodinefortificationcontrastswithotherexam- infrastructure,but also the time costs and costs of lost wages plesoffortificationthathavemadeslowandunevenprogress. or schooling borne by the family for each episode of illness. Fortification of foodstuffs with vitamin A is limited geo- Furthermore,totheextentthatundernutritionormicronutrient graphically,andeventhoughmanycountrieshaveembarkedon deficienciesleadtodeficitsincognitivedevelopment,resources ironfortification,theseprogramslagbecauseof controversies need to be allocated to special education, rehabilitation, and about the effectiveness of existing programs, the evaluation vocationalservices.Thecostsassociatedwithnotprovidingsuch methodsused,andthelackofinfrastructurefor fortificationin servicesareultimatelypaidinmortalityandeconomicstatistics. some settings. Concerted efforts to address the controversies and toprovideevidenceof theeffectivenessof fortificationin controllingirondeficiencyareunderway.Inaddition,recogni- Adult Disease and Disability tion that fortification should address multiple micronutrient In the past 10 years,a growing literature has identified associa- deficiencies,chieflytheBvitaminsandzinc,hasgrown. tions between small size at birth; early patterns of postnatal Programs to distribute vitamin A capsules twice a year are a growth;and adult conditions as diverse as diabetes,cardiovas- reality in many areas characterized by VAD.Jones and others cular disease, and schizophrenia. More research is needed to (2003) estimate that current coverage of supplementation for provide evidence of causality for such associations and to children living in areas with VAD is 55 percent.In the past few create the evidence base for attributing those effects to mal- years,studies have provided solid data on the costs and cost- nutrition in burden-of-disease calculations. Given current effectiveness ofsuch programs in diverse settings. likely be strained to deal with the burden ofchronic diseases of mentalconsequencesofirondeficiencyandanemia,fewexam- adulthood caused by the failure to prevent maternal and child ples are available of even small-scale iron supplementation undernutrition. programsforyoungchildren.Supplyandadherencecontinueto Stunting, Wasting, and Micronutrient Deficiency Disorders | 563 constrain progress, with adherence depending on program Despite decades of nutrition programs,with identifiable suc- workers’and families’perceptions of benefits and their reluc- cesses,uncertainty
