Chapter
KEYWORDS: deficiency, child, children, programs, iron, zinc, vitamin, nutrition, growth, health, iodine, countries, disease, black, interventions


with those reported Despite progress,much work remains unfinished.Other chap- earlier, then such programs would be highly cost-effective, ters focus on research and development needs in relation to considering the prevalence and burden of disease associated packaging services, scaling up, and ensuring sustainability. with zinc deficiency. Here the focus is on research for strengthening the database for Childmalnutritionresultsfrommultiplefactors,andeven policy making. thougheachcontexthasitsownuniquefeatures,theetiology Gaps in knowledge remain with respect to recognized has many more commonalities. Thus, for program planners strategies for intervention programs. Often information on andpolicymakersintentonalleviatingmalnutritiontobegin intervention efficacy exists,yet little scientific literature on pro- designingandimplementingprogramsintheirparticularset- gram effectiveness is available.Key gaps include the following: tingsfromscratchisstrikinglyinefficient.Inthepastdecade, thispointhasbeenrecognized,anddocumentsthatarticulate • evaluation of the effectiveness of national iron fortification processes for program implementation and evaluation have programs to reduce iron deficiency anemia mushroomed. These “road maps” permit policy makers and • implementation and evaluation of the effectiveness of iron programplannerstocapitalizerapidlyoninterestinaddress- supplementation programs for young children ing nutrition problems. The road maps also communicate a • evaluation of the effect on child mortality of multifaceted sense of feasibility by streamlining the complex processes of programs to reduce child undernutrition programdesignandevaluation.Thus,theirusecanreducethe • evaluation of the effectiveness of programs based on the likelihood that programs will be diffuse (too many inputs), new guiding principles for reducing undernutrition and willbeculturallyinappropriate,willhaveunrealisticexpecta- micronutrient malnutrition in young children tions, and will have no possibility of sustainability and no • implementation and evaluation ofthe effectiveness offood- plansforprocessorimpactevaluation. based strategies to reduce micronutrient malnutrition Demonstrating that nutrition programs are effective is key • implementationandevaluationof theeffectivenessof early to translating scientific findings into policies and programs as postnatal vitamin A supplementation to reduce infant well as to ensuring the continuity and expansion of funding. mortality. 564 | Disease Control Priorities in Developing Countries | Laura E. Caulfield, Stephanie A. Richard, Juan A. Rivera, and others Costing studies should accompany the evaluations to allow Allen,L.,and S.Gillespie.2001.What Works? A Review ofthe Efficacy and estimates ofcost-effectiveness for decision making. Effectiveness of Nutrition Interventions. Geneva: United Nations, Administrative Committee on Coordination and Subcommittee on Because of the logistical difficulties in developing fortifica- Nutrition in collaboration with the Asian Development Bank. tion approaches in settings with little industry infrastructure, Anderson,J.W.,B.M.Johnstone,and D.T.Remley.1999.“Breast-Feeding alternative fortification approaches are needed, such as and Cognitive Development: A Meta-Analysis.”American Journal of research is needed to develop, implement, and evaluate pro- Beard,J.L.2001.“Iron Biology in Immune Function,Muscle Metabolism, and Neuronal Functioning.” Journal of Nutrition 131 (2 Suppl. 2): gramstoimprovezincstatus.Neverhassomuchevidencebeen S568–79. amassedontheconsequencesof
