Adipose Tissue: Physiology to Metabolic Dysfunction
KEYWORDS: pubmed, adipocytes, insulin, free, adipose, article, pmc, free article, pmc free, leptin, article pubmed, adiponectin, adipocyte, obesity, fat


and body mass index (BMI) ( 14 ). Seasonal correlations have also been observed with BAT activity being higher in the winter and lower in the summer, possibly due to either the temperature or, more likely, the photoperiod ( 14 , 15 ). In healthy humans, BAT activity contributes to whole-body fat oxidation and diet-induced thermogenesis ( 16 ), supporting a physiological role for this AT depot in adults. Brown and white adipocytes differ in shape, size, and the intracellular structure of their organelles ( Figure 2 ). White adipocytes are generally spherical in shape and each contains a large, single lipid droplet that pushes all other organelles, including the nucleus, to the cell’s periphery. Brown adipocytes contain multiple lipid droplets dispersed throughout a more ellipsoidal-shaped cell that is enriched with iron-containing mitochondria, giving the cell (and the BAT as a whole) a brownish hue. The thermogenic activity of brown adipocytes is conferred by the presence of its numerous mitochondria containing uncoupling protein 1 (UCP-1), a proton transporter that short-circuits the ATP (energy)-generating proton gradient and allows for concurrent heat production as protons flow back into the mitochondrial matrix ( 17 ). Brown fat cells typically grow to 15 to 50 µm, while white fat cells have a larger capacity for lipid storage and can expand to nearly 100 µm in diameter ( 18 ). The capacity of white adipocytes to expand in number and size is depot-dependent and is discussed in more detail in the Adipose Tissue Expandability and Metabolic Health section. Figure 2. Adipocyte types are described by color hues. The primary characteristic of an adipocyte is its ability to store lipid; white, brown, beige, and pink adipocytes all share this property. However, each type of fat cell is somewhat specialized and has a distinct intracellular distribution of organelles and gene expression profile. All fat cells have Golgi and endoplasmic reticulum, but these organelles make up a more significant portion of pink adipocytes than other adipocyte types. Recently, two additional adipocyte hues – beige and pink – have been described. Beige adipocytes display characteristics of both brown and white fat cells ( Figure 2 ) and typically develop within subcutaneous WAT from a distinct subset of preadipocytes ( 19 ) or via the transdifferentiation of existing white adipocytes ( 20 , 21 ). However, gene expression analyses indicate that beige fat cells represent a distinct type of thermogenic
