Adipose Tissue: Physiology to Metabolic Dysfunction
KEYWORDS: pubmed, adipocytes, insulin, free, adipose, article, pmc, free article, pmc free, leptin, article pubmed, adiponectin, adipocyte, obesity, fat


lipase (LPL) ( 33 ). Adipocytes secrete LPL, which is transported to the adjacent capillary lumen to catalyze the hydrolysis of FFA’s from circulating triglyceride-containing lipoproteins ( 34 , 35 ), such as chylomicrons produced in the small intestine and very low density lipoproteins (VLDLs) synthesized by the liver ( 36 ). Adipocytes also take up glucose, which is converted to glycerol and serves as the backbone for the sequential esterification of fatty acids for form TAG. The final step in TAG synthesis, re-esterification of circulating free fatty acids, mediated by diacylglycerol acyltransferase (DGAT) ( 37 , 38 ). The second process is by de novo lipogenesis (DNL) within the adipocytes themselves. Lipogenesis comprises both de novo synthesis of fatty acids from acetyl-coenzyme A (acetyl-CoA) and the esterification of these fatty acids to a glycerol backbone producing TAGs ( Figure 4 ) . De novo lipogenesis can occur in the fasting and fed states ( 36 ). Following a meal, especially one high in carbohydrates, excess glucose oxidation yields elevated levels of acetyl-CoA that become substrate to generate fatty acids. This occurs through actions of the DNL enzymes acetyl-CoA carboxylase 1 (ACC1) and fatty acid synthase (FAS) to convert acetyl-CoA to palmitate, which can then be elongated and desaturated to form other fatty acid species ( 39 ). Surprisingly, in rodents DNL is relatively low in WAT compared to BAT and liver, and it plays an even lesser role in WAT lipid storage in humans under physiological conditions ( 40 , 41 ). Typically, hepatic DNL activity exceeds that of AT and is a more substantial contributor DNL-generated circulating lipids. However, in humans fed high-carbohydrate diets, liver DNL contributes only a small portion of total de novo fat biosynthesis, suggesting that AT contributes significantly to whole body DNL when there is a carbohydrate surplus ( 39 , 42 ). Under this condition, adipocyte DNL is usually quite low but has been shown to be important for whole body substrate metabolism ( 43 , 44 ) as inhibition of WAT DNL is associated with insulin resistance ( 45 ). A primary transcriptional regulator of adipocyte DNL is carbohydrate response element-binding protein (ChREBP) ( 39 ). Mice lacking AT ChREBP have decreased DNL and insulin resistance ( 46 ). The other major DNL regulator in AT is sterol regulatory element-binding protein 1 (SREBP1). Mice with whole body knockout of SREBP1 do not
