Adipose Tissue: Physiology to Metabolic Dysfunction
KEYWORDS: pubmed, adipocytes, insulin, free, adipose, article, pmc, free article, pmc free, leptin, article pubmed, adiponectin, adipocyte, obesity, fat


glucose production (EGP) in isolated hepatocytes, the decreased AT lipolysis indirectly attenuates EGP because of reduced glycerol (gluconeogenic substrate) delivery to the liver ( 50 ). Additional evidence from humans support a role for increased DNL and ChREBP activity in maintaining metabolic health. These include restoration of DNL in WAT following as bariatric surgery-induced weight loss ( 52 ) and reported observations of elevated WAT DNL in other metabolically favorable states including caloric restriction and adaptive thermogenesis ( 53 , 54 ). Collectively, these studies in mice and man support a potential role of WAT DNL in metabolic health. LIPOLYSIS Under physiological conditions when metabolic fuels are low and/or energy demand is high, such as fasting, exercise, and cold exposure, adipocytes mobilize their TAG stores via the catabolic process of lipolysis to supply fuel to peripheral tissues ( 55 ). Lipolysis is a highly regulated biochemical process that generates glycerol and FFAs from the enzymatic cleavage of TAGs by lipases ( 36 ) and can occur in all tissues, although it is most prevalent in AT where the bulk of TAG is stored. As shown in Figure 4 , TAGs are broken down into diacylglycerols (DAGs) and monoacylglycerols (MAGs) by the sequential action of adipocyte triglyceride lipase (ATGL), hormone sensitive lipase (HSL), and monoacylglycerol lipase (MGL). At each step a single FFA is released, and in the final step MGL releases the glycerol backbone from the last FFA. These breakdown products can be re-esterified within the adipocyte or released into circulation to be used by other tissues ( 36 , 55 ), including by the liver for gluconeogenesis (glycerol) and for oxidative phosphorylation by muscle or other oxidative tissues ( 56 ). Lipolysis is controlled by sympathetic nervous system (SNS) input as well as a variety of hormones ( 55 ). The best understood of these regulators is the catecholamine, noradrenaline (NA), also known as norepinephrine. Noradrenaline stimulates β-adrenergic receptors ( Figure 4 ), which, in turn, stimulate protein kinase A (PKA) via adenylyl cylase (AC)-mediated production of cyclic AMP (cAMP). PKA activates the lipolytic action of ATGL and HSL by different mechanisms. Several lipid droplet-associated proteins, such as perilipin 1 (PLIN1) and comparative gene identification-58 (CGI-58) are also important in regulating lipolysis ( 57 , 58 ). Whereas PKA can directly phosphorylate and activate HSL ( 59 – 62 ), it primarily stimulates ATGL activity indirectly by phosphorylating PLIN1.
