Adipose Tissue: Physiology to Metabolic Dysfunction
KEYWORDS: pubmed, adipocytes, insulin, free, adipose, article, pmc, free article, pmc free, leptin, article pubmed, adiponectin, adipocyte, obesity, fat


in regulating lipolysis ( 57 , 58 ). Whereas PKA can directly phosphorylate and activate HSL ( 59 – 62 ), it primarily stimulates ATGL activity indirectly by phosphorylating PLIN1. This phosphorylation releases CGI-58 to potently activate ATGL ( 58 , 63 , 64 ). Non-adrenergic lipolytic stimuli include glucocorticoids, natriuretic peptides, growth hormone, and tumor necrosis factor alpha (TNFα) ( 58 ). These hormones are typically less potent lipolytic inducers than β-adrenergic stimulation and the molecular mechanisms responsible for their lipolytic abilities have not been clearly elucidated. However, some of these hormones clearly utilize different pathways than β-adrenergic signaling with additive or synergistic affects to increase lipolysis ( 55 , 58 ). After a meal, the post-prandial increase in circulating insulin readily suppresses lipolysis ( 65 ) by increasing the activity of phosphodiesterase 3 (PDE3B) and decreasing cAMP levels ( 58 ). In the fasting state, insulin levels drop and NA is released, thus promoting lipolysis ( 66 ). Physiologically, exercise is another major pro-lipolytic stimulus in humans ( 58 ). Growth hormone, along with NA, adrenaline, and cortisol increase with exercise intensity, while insulin levels decrease. These changes culminate in an overall lipolytic response, the magnitude of which depends on exercise intensity and duration ( 58 , 67 ). When AT becomes insulin resistant, as occurs in patients with diabetes and may also be present in patients with obesity, insulin’s ability to inhibit adipocyte lipolysis and reduce serum levels of FFA and glycerol are impaired. As a result, excessive lipolysis leads to increased FFA levels in both the fasted and fed state. Constant exposure of the liver and muscle to these high FFA levels is thought to promote the uptake and ectopic storage of lipids in these tissues ( 68 ). Ectopic lipids have been shown to impair insulin signaling, and thus insulin resistance at the level of adipocyte via increased lipolysis may be a major contributor to whole body insulin resistance ( 69 ). In addition to impaired insulin responsiveness in fat cells, elevated lipolysis in obesity may be mediated by decreased expression of adipocyte lipid droplet proteins such as PLIN1 and Fsp27/Cidec (fat-specific protein 27/cell death-inducing DFFA-like effector c) ( 70 ). These proteins coat the lipid droplet and promote TAG retention via the inhibition of lipolysis, and mice or humans deficient for PLIN1 ( 71 ) or Fsp27 ( 72 , 73 ) exhibit lipodystrophy
