Adipose Tissue: Physiology to Metabolic Dysfunction
KEYWORDS: pubmed, adipocytes, insulin, free, adipose, article, pmc, free article, pmc free, leptin, article pubmed, adiponectin, adipocyte, obesity, fat


in the 1990s, positional cloning studies identified the product of the ob gene, dubbed leptin, which was derived from the Greek word “leptos” meaning to be thin. Further characterization of leptin revealed that adipocytes were its predominant source ( 5 ). Following this discovery, the first directly observed function of leptin was its effect on food intake ( 79 ) followed shortly thereafter by demonstration that leptin levels in mice and men strongly correlate with fat mass and play a key role in body-weight (energy) homeostasis as described below. Leptin Receptor and Signaling Another spontaneously arising mutant mouse that developed obesity and type 2 diabetes is the diabetes or db/db mouse ( 80 ). In contrast to ob/ob mice, parabiosis of db/db mice to wild type littermates did not improve body weight or diabetes, but instead resulted in unhealthy weight loss in the lean littermates, leading investigators to deduce that mice with the db mutation lacked a functioning receptor for the ob gene but still manufactured a circulating protein that crossed over to the lean littermates to induce anorexia ( 81 ). Further confirmation of these hypotheses came when parabiosis of ob/ob with db/db mice induced weight loss in the ob/ob mouse while the obese state was preserved in the db/db mouse ( 81 – 83 ). Although the db gene was cloned in 1990 ( 84 ), it was not until almost 5 years later ( 85 ) following the identification of leptin that the db gene was identified to encode the leptin receptor (LR). The LR is a class 1 cytokine receptor with substantial homology to glycoprotein 130, a plasma membrane receptor that mediates the actions of many cytokines. Unlike other plasma membrane receptors, such as the insulin receptor, the LR lacks intrinsic kinase activity and signals via Janus kinases (JAKs). Six LR isoforms exist, designated LRa-LRf, with LRb being the best characterized. It is the longest LR isoform that is capable of full signaling via the JAK/STAT pathway ( 86 ). Leptin-regulated circuits involved in energy homeostasis have been mapped to distinct yet diverse brain regions ( 87 ) expressing the long form of the LR ( 88 ). Increased central leptin signaling inhibits food intake and elevates energy expenditure, while leptin deficiency (such as during fasting or starvation) has opposite effects. Expression of the LR has also been detected in peripheral tissues, but the exclusivity of
