Adipose Tissue: Physiology to Metabolic Dysfunction
KEYWORDS: pubmed, adipocytes, insulin, free, adipose, article, pmc, free article, pmc free, leptin, article pubmed, adiponectin, adipocyte, obesity, fat


elevates energy expenditure, while leptin deficiency (such as during fasting or starvation) has opposite effects. Expression of the LR has also been detected in peripheral tissues, but the exclusivity of the central leptin circuits to modulate energy intake and expenditure is supported by studies showing that deletion of the long form LR in peripheral tissues had no effects on these processes ( 89 ). Leptin levels strongly correlate with fat mass in mice and men ( 90 , 91 ), and as such leptin acts as a sensor of energy stores signaling the availability of body fat to the brain and regulating adipose reserves. However, during obesity the negative feedback loop between increasing leptin levels that signal high energy availability and inhibit food intake becomes disrupted due to the development of leptin resistance ( 92 ) — the inability to respond to leptin despite having sufficient or excess levels in circulation during accumulation of excess adipose stores. Although the physiological causes of leptin resistance are not well understood, it has been shown that hyperleptinemia is required for the development of leptin resistance during obesity. When leptin levels of mice are clamped to low levels (similar to lean mice), these clamped mice still develop obesity on HFD, but they do not become leptin resistant ( 93 ). The inability to overcome leptin resistance by giving supplemental doses has precluded leptin’s use as an anti-obesity therapeutic. Interestingly, leptin resistance that accompanies obesity appears to result from selective impairment of leptin’s ability to reduce food intake, while preserving its other capacity to raise energy expenditure ( 94 ). The molecular basis for this phenomenon has not yet been elucidated and remains under active investigation. Leptin also has central nervous system effects not directly related to energy balance, including modulation of reproduction and thermoregulation. Additionally, research into the role of leptin to mediate anxiety and depression is currently ongoing ( 95 ). Leptin can also act peripherally on hepatocytes and pancreatic β-cells to regulate glucose and lipid metabolism independently of its central effects ( 96 ). Leptin has also been shown to affect innate and adaptive immunity ( 7 ), bone formation ( 97 ), bone metabolism ( 98 , 99 ), angiogenesis, and wound healing ( 88 ). Skeletal muscle, liver, and intestines have been described as targets for leptin action ( 100 ), and some evidence suggests that leptin may also act
