Adipose Tissue: Physiology to Metabolic Dysfunction
KEYWORDS: pubmed, adipocytes, insulin, free, adipose, article, pmc, free article, pmc free, leptin, article pubmed, adiponectin, adipocyte, obesity, fat


wound healing ( 88 ). Skeletal muscle, liver, and intestines have been described as targets for leptin action ( 100 ), and some evidence suggests that leptin may also act in an autocrine manner on AT ( 101 ). How leptin mediates responses in peripheral tissues is poorly understood and complicated by the existence of its six receptor isoforms, their differential expression across tissues, the pleiotropic nature of leptin’s effects, the demonstration of “selective” or tissue-specific leptin resistance, and the complexity of the signaling pathways involved. Leptin and Cancer Given the elevated risk for many cancers in patients with obesity in whom leptin levels are also high, it is not surprising that leptin has been implicated in tumorigenesis. Indeed, leptin levels or leptin signaling has been found to be dysregulated in breast, thyroid, endometrial, and gastrointestinal malignancies ( 102 ). Ectopic leptin expression in colorectal adenomas increases during the progression to colorectal cancer ( 103 , 104 ) yet associates with a favorable prognosis of the cancer ( 103 ). In papillary thyroid cancer, increased circulating leptin levels occur independently of body mass index (BMI), coincide with elevated LR expression on the tumor cells, and associate with aggressive carcinogenesis and poor prognosis ( 105 , 106 ). In contrast, reported associations between leptin levels and endometrial cancer are not maintained when adjusted for BMI, suggesting that leptin is not likely a causative factor in the development of this cancer ( 107 – 109 ). Studies show that postmenopausal women with obesity have a 20-40% greater risk of developing breast cancer compared to normal weight women ( 110 ). In breast cancer, particularly in high-grade tumors, overexpression of both leptin and LR is associated with cancer progression and poor patient survival. Leptin’s ability to stimulate angiogenesis, regulate endothelial cell proliferation, and crosstalk with insulin and human epidermal growth factor receptor 2 (HER2) signaling pathways represent a few of the possible mechanisms by which leptin plays a role in breast cancer ( 111 ). As obesity rates continue to rise, it is likely that studies examining the relationship between leptin and cancer will become even more relevant. Adiponectin Adiponectin is a unique and extensively studied adipocyte-derived hormone with complex biology. Efforts to identify genes regulated during adipogenesis led to the discovery of adiponectin in 1995 ( 112 ) and 1996 by three separate research groups employing different approaches ( 113 – 115
