Adipose Tissue: Physiology to Metabolic Dysfunction
KEYWORDS: pubmed, adipocytes, insulin, free, adipose, article, pmc, free article, pmc free, leptin, article pubmed, adiponectin, adipocyte, obesity, fat


identify genes regulated during adipogenesis led to the discovery of adiponectin in 1995 ( 112 ) and 1996 by three separate research groups employing different approaches ( 113 – 115 ). Secreted by adipocytes, adiponectin is characterized by its remarkably high circulating levels reaching plasma concentrations in humans of 2-20 ug/ml ( 116 ), values that are more than 1000-fold higher than most other secreted factors ( Figure 7 ). Unlike leptin, adiponectin levels decease as a function of increasing fat mass in both rodents and humans with obesity ( 115 ); thus, they are lower in patients with obesity than those who are lean. Adiponectin’s widely reported anti-hyperglycemic, anti-atherogenic, and anti-inflammatory effects have made it an attractive therapeutic target for the treatment of obesity and insulin resistance. However, efforts to develop therapies targeting adiponectin function have been impeded by its complex structure and regulation ( 117 ). Figure 7. Typical circulating concentrations of select adipokines and insulin for normal weight, healthy humans. Adipokine levels in the blood are several orders of magnitude higher than that of insulin. Adipocytes secrete different forms of adiponectin: low-molecular weight (LMW) trimers (the most basic form), medium-molecular weight (MMW) hexamers, and high-molecular weight (HMW) oligomers ( 118 ), as well as globular adiponectin, a proteolytic fragment of the protein ( 119 , 120 ). In humans, the MMW and HMW oligomers make up most of the circulating adiponectin while the LMW trimer constitutes less than 30% of serum adiponectin. The HMW oligomer is most closely associated with enhanced insulin sensitivity and reduced glucose levels ( 121 ). Adiponectin signaling is complex and incompletely understood. Three adiponectin receptors have been identified. Adiponectin receptor-1 and -2, referred to as AdipoR1 and AdipoR2, bind the LMW and globular forms ( 122 ). T-cadherin binds HMW adiponectin ( 123 ). Both AdipoR1 and AdipoR2 can modulate insulin sensitivity and metabolic gene expression in insulin-responsive tissues, and both receptors have demonstrated roles in the pathophysiology of insulin resistance and T2D ( 124 , 125 ). T-cadherin, which is expressed in a variety of tissues including the liver ( 126 ), belongs to a family of cell surface proteins involved in cell-cell interactions ( 127 ). Mice lacking T-cadherin accumulate adiponectin in circulation and have a similar cardiovascular phenotype to adiponectin knockout mice ( 128 ), suggesting that T-cadherin is the primary effector of cardioprotection by adiponectin ( 129 –
