Adipose Tissue: Physiology to Metabolic Dysfunction
KEYWORDS: pubmed, adipocytes, insulin, free, adipose, article, pmc, free article, pmc free, leptin, article pubmed, adiponectin, adipocyte, obesity, fat


adiponectin in circulation and have a similar cardiovascular phenotype to adiponectin knockout mice ( 128 ), suggesting that T-cadherin is the primary effector of cardioprotection by adiponectin ( 129 – 131 ). Adiponectin enhances fatty acid oxidation through activation of AMP-activated kinase ( AMPK ) ( 132 , 133 ), a cellular energy sensor, which then inhibits acetyl CoA carboxylase, a rate limiting enzyme in DNL ( 134 ). This, in turn, reduces malonyl-CoA production and enhances fatty acid oxidation. Adiponectin can activate AMPK through two independent pathways, and can also modulate lipid metabolism by increasing mitochondrial density and mitochondrial DNA content ( 135 , 136 ). Adiponectin has diverse effects in many tissues, including bone and cartilage ( 137 ), and can act in an autocrine or paracrine manner in AT and other tissues ( 138 ). Adiponectin also appears to modulate a wide range of biological processes, including reproduction and embryonic development ( 139 , 140 ). The heart, liver, and skeletal muscle are considered the primary targets for adiponectin action, and adiponectin’s prominent insulin-sensitizing effects have been most fully characterized at the mechanistic level in liver and muscle ( 117 ) ( Figure 6 ). The liver performs a critical function in maintaining normal blood glucose levels by releasing glucose (i.e. hepatic glucose output) into circulation in conditions such as fasting, exercise, and pregnancy. Conversely, the ability of the liver to reduce its glucose output when demand is low, as in the fed state, is also crucial to preventing hyperglycemia, and this process is often impaired with obesity and insulin resistance. Adiponectin can robustly reduce plasma glucose levels predominantly by inhibition of hepatic glucose production as opposed to effects on whole-body glucose uptake into cells and glycolysis ( 141 ). The importance of adiponectin in regulating glucose output in the liver is underscored by studies showing that mouse models with genetic deletion ( 142 ) or overexpression ( 143 ) of adiponectin have impaired or enhanced hepatic insulin sensitivity, respectively. Adiponectin levels are increased by thiazolidinediones (TZDs), which is thought to be the predominant mechanism of action that improves insulin sensitivity and glucose tolerance with this class of medications ( 142 – 144 ). Adiponectin also promotes hepatocyte survival, inhibits hepatic fibrosis and inflammation, stimulates fatty acid oxidation ( 133 , 145 ) and modulates fatty acid uptake and metabolism ( 146 ). In patients with nonalcoholic
