Adipose Tissue: Physiology to Metabolic Dysfunction
KEYWORDS: pubmed, adipocytes, insulin, free, adipose, article, pmc, free article, pmc free, leptin, article pubmed, adiponectin, adipocyte, obesity, fat


hepatocyte survival, inhibits hepatic fibrosis and inflammation, stimulates fatty acid oxidation ( 133 , 145 ) and modulates fatty acid uptake and metabolism ( 146 ). In patients with nonalcoholic fatty liver disease (NAFLD) who are insulin resistant, low plasma adiponectin levels are associated with the progression of NAFLD and non-alcoholic steatohepatitis ( 147 , 148 ). In summary, adiponectin has beneficial effects in the liver, where it protects against metabolic dysfunction and hepatic diseases ( Figure 6 ). Skeletal muscle is responsible for up to 80% of insulin-mediated glucose uptake in healthy individuals ( 149 , 150 ). Adiponectin can promote glucose uptake ( 151 , 152 ), enhance fatty acid oxidation ( 152 , 153 ), and enhance insulin sensitivity ( 154 ) in cultured muscle cell lines and mouse skeletal muscle. Adiponectin administration to obese, insulin-resistant adiponectin-knockout mice improves skeletal muscle insulin sensitivity ( 146 , 155 , 156 ). In human myotubes, adiponectin promotes fat oxidation via AMPK activation; this response is impaired in myotubes from patients with T2D and obesity ( 157 ). Thus, adiponectin has an important role in skeletal muscle metabolism in humans as well as rodents, and defective adiponectin signaling in skeletal muscle may contribute to insulin resistance. Finally, in addition to its insulin-sensitizing and glucose-lowering effects in liver and skeletal muscle, adiponectin is also cardioprotective. Low circulating adiponectin levels correlate significantly and independently with coronary artery disease ( 158 ), and are considered a risk factor for cardiovascular diseases (CVD) such as hypertension, coronary artery disease, and restenosis ( 159 ). The vascular endothelium is believed to mediate some of the cardioprotective effects of adiponectin via AMPK activation and subsequent activation of eNOS (endothelial nitric oxide synthase) ( 160 ). In light of these beneficial functions, adiponectin has significant therapeutic potential in the treatment of T2D, CVD, and NAFLD. Several years ago, small molecule screening efforts produced the first small molecule AdipoR agonist. “AdipoRon”, as it was named, not only recapitulated adiponectin’s effects on AdipoR signaling pathways but also had profound anti-hyperglycemia effects in both diet-induced obese mice and a genetic mouse model for diabetes ( 161 ) . A more recent study has now shown that AdipoRon can also decrease ceramides and lipotoxicity, and mitigate diabetic nephropathy ( 162 ). Hence, small molecule activators of adiponectin signaling show promise in the management of obesity-associated metabolic diseases like insulin resistance, NAFLD,
