Adipose Tissue: Physiology to Metabolic Dysfunction
KEYWORDS: pubmed, adipocytes, insulin, free, adipose, article, pmc, free article, pmc free, leptin, article pubmed, adiponectin, adipocyte, obesity, fat


disease states is an area of active investigation. Cells in the SVF produce hormones and cytokines that can act in a paracrine manner on adjacent adipocytes. In the early 1990s, it was shown that TNF alpha production was increased in AT during metabolic disease states, in particular, T2D ( 190 ). Yet, it wasn’t for another ten years that adipose tissue macrophages (ATMs) were identified as the primary cellular source of AT TNF alpha ( 191 ). It is now largely accepted that in conditions of obesity and T2D, TNF alpha is produced in ATMs and acts on adjacent adipocytes within AT to promote insulin resistance. Hence, it is important to consider the presence and dynamic interactions of the SVF cells, especially when determining the cellular sources of AT-derived paracrine and endocrine hormones. Figure 8. Constituents of adipose tissue (AT). Left: Along with mature, functional adipocytes and precursor cells, many cell types related to vasculature and immune function reside within AT. They perform both physiological and pathophysiological functions by communicating with the adipocytes via secreted factors and scavenging lipid from dying fat cells. The number and diversity of these cell types increases with developing obesity and metabolic dysfunction. Right: The non-adipocyte cells are collectively referred to as the stromal vascular fraction (SVF), and the SVF can be separated from lipid-containing adipocytes by digesting the extracellular matrix (ECM) and centrifuging the cellular mixture. The SVF will form a pellet at the bottom of the tube, while the adipocytes will float and form a visible lipid layer at the top of the aqueous medium. This separation technique is critical to studying the cellular composition of adipose tissue and gaining insight regarding the individual functions of these diverse and distinct cell types under physiological and pathophysiological conditions. Adipogenesis To understand how adipocytes contribute to systemic metabolic regulation, it is important to understand their development. Adipogenesis refers to the process by which precursor cells differentiate and become committed to storing lipid and maintaining energy homeostasis as adipocytes. Adipogenesis is regulated by hundreds of factors, including nutrients, cellular signaling pathways, miRNAs, cytoskeletal proteins, and endocrine hormones such as growth hormone, insulin-like growth factor 1, insulin, and several steroid hormones, as well as cytokines. Generally, pro-inflammatory cytokines inhibit adipogenesis ( 192 ), although some cytokines within the same family exert opposing effects ( 192 ). Cytoskeletal proteins ( 193 ), ECM proteins and their regulators (
