Adipose Tissue: Physiology to Metabolic Dysfunction
KEYWORDS: pubmed, adipocytes, insulin, free, adipose, article, pmc, free article, pmc free, leptin, article pubmed, adiponectin, adipocyte, obesity, fat


cytokines inhibit adipogenesis ( 192 ), although some cytokines within the same family exert opposing effects ( 192 ). Cytoskeletal proteins ( 193 ), ECM proteins and their regulators ( 194 ), microRNAs (miRNAs) ( 195 ), and long noncoding RNAs (lncRNAs) ( 196 ) differentially modulate adipogenesis. Dozens of different transcription factors, briefly described below, also regulate adipogenesis ( Figure 9 ). Figure 9. Transcriptional regulation of adipogenesis as determined in vitro in a fibroblast-like preadipocyte clonal cell line. Preadipocytes are grown to confluence and become growth arrested. Following induction of differentiation, they re-enter the cell cycle and undergo several rounds of proliferation, a process known as mitotic clonal expansion. At the end of this short proliferative phase, preadipocytes terminally differentiate into adipocytes as they begin synthesizing lipid and assume characteristics of mature fat cells. Numerous transcription factors have been determined to promote (green arrows) or inhibit (orange horizontal ended line) adipogenesis either during clonal expansion or at later stages of terminal differentiation. The timing of activation (i.e. when each transcription factor is turned on and off) is critical to the progression of adipocyte differentiation. Promotors of Adipogenesis The transcription factor peroxisome proliferator activated receptor gamma (PPARg) is considered the principal adipogenesis regulator ( 197 ). Its discovery substantially enhanced our understanding of the adipocyte and its role in metabolic disease. For example, mice with adipocyte-specific PPARg deletion have decreased AT mass and are insulin resistant ( 198 ). In humans, PPARg gene mutations can also cause lipodystrophy (partial or generalized loss of fat in the body) and severe insulin resistance ( 199 – 201 ). The discovery of PPARg as the functional receptor for the insulin-sensitizing TZDs resulted in a significant effort to understand PPARg action and identify additional agonists. Synthetic TZDs induce weight gain in humans and rodents by increasing fat mass, more so in the subcutaneous adipose depot, which is associated with improved metabolic outcomes. However, this weight gain is also considered as a negative side effect of TZD treatment, especially in the typical patient who has pre-existing obesity. Other adverse side effects of TZDs, such as bone fractures and heart failure, have spawned the search for structurally distinct PPARg ligands capable of inducing unique receptor-ligand conformations with signature affinities for diverse co-regulators ( 202 ). Several selective PPARg modulators (SPPARMs) with fewer side effects have been identified. These act as partial PPARg agonists, alter specific
