Adipose Tissue: Physiology to Metabolic Dysfunction
KEYWORDS: pubmed, adipocytes, insulin, free, adipose, article, pmc, free article, pmc free, leptin, article pubmed, adiponectin, adipocyte, obesity, fat


conformations with signature affinities for diverse co-regulators ( 202 ). Several selective PPARg modulators (SPPARMs) with fewer side effects have been identified. These act as partial PPARg agonists, alter specific post-translational modifications of PPARg, and preserve anti-hyperglycemia effects while minimizing or eliminating the adipogenic effect that leads to increased fat mass via activation of distinct gene profiles that may be cell and tissue specific ( 203 , 204 ). Interestingly, the TZD, rosiglitazone, is capable of improving glucose homeostasis even in the absence of PPARg in mature adipocytes ( 205 ), suggesting that its adipogenic effects (in addition to its non-adipogenic ones) may also be important for its anti-hyperglycemic action. In addition to TZDs, PPARg binds endogenous lipophilic molecules, including: long chain fatty acids (LCFAs), oxidized or nitrated FAs, prostaglandins, and arachidonic acid derivatives ( 206 ). Interestingly, serotonin (5-hydroxytryptamine, 5-HT) has also been shown to be a high affinity agonist for PPARg ( 207 ). Many of the endogenous PPARg ligands enhance adipocyte differentiation and regulate fat cell functions such as lipolysis, glucose uptake, and lipogenesis through PPARg-dependent and independent methods ( 208 – 214 ). Overall, these endogenous ligands have low affinity and limited subtype selectivity for PPARg relative to other PPARs, suggesting that much remains to be understood regarding this critical adipogenesis regulator. While there is no question that PPARg is essential for adipogenesis and lipid accumulation within fat cells, a better mapping of its gene expression profiles in discrete cell and tissue types and with endogenous and synthetic ligands will improve our understanding of AT development and function under both physiological and pathophysiological conditions. The CCAAT/enhancer-binding proteins (C/EBPs) are widely expressed transcription factors that regulate proliferation and differentiation of various cell types in mammals. Studies in vivo and in vitro have identified C/EBP isoforms α, β and δ as important regulators of adipogenesis ( 215 ). C/EBPs β and δ work together in early adipogenesis to promote fat cell differentiation by inducing expression of C/EBPα and PPARg ( 216 ). Additionally, the transcription factors Krox20 and ZNF638 can modulate adipogenesis by affecting C/EBPβ function ( 217 , 218 ). The Signal Transducer and Activator of Transcription (STAT) family of transcription factors was first identified over 20 years ago ( 219 ). Both the protein expression of STATs and their ability to regulate gene expression are tissue-specific ( 220 ). In AT, STATs regulate gene expression during
