Adipose Tissue: Physiology to Metabolic Dysfunction
KEYWORDS: pubmed, adipocytes, insulin, free, adipose, article, pmc, free article, pmc free, leptin, article pubmed, adiponectin, adipocyte, obesity, fat


years ago ( 219 ). Both the protein expression of STATs and their ability to regulate gene expression are tissue-specific ( 220 ). In AT, STATs regulate gene expression during adipogenesis, and the expression of STATs 1, 3, 5A, and 5B is induced during differentiation of murine and human preadipocytes ( 221 , 222 ). Notably, the ability of STAT5 proteins to promote adipogenesis has been documented by over a dozen independent laboratories using both in vitro and in vivo approaches ( 17 ). Of the three isoforms of Sterol Response Element Binding Proteins (SREBP-1a, SREBP-1c, and SREBP-2), SREBP-1c is the predominant form expressed in white AT ( 223 , 224 ) and is an important regulator of lipogenesis genes, while SREBP-2 regulates the expression of cholesterol biosynthesis genes ( 225 ). Intriguingly, two miRNAs (miR-33a and miR-33b) located within the SREBP genes are highly induced during adipogenesis ( 226 ). Although SREBP-1 clearly plays a promoting role in adipogenesis in vitro , in vivo studies suggest that SREBP-1 is not critical for AT development and/or expansion, perhaps due to compensatory SREBP-2 overexpression ( 47 , 227 ). Members of the early B-cell factor (EBF) family of transcription factors are characterized for their ability to modulate islet beta-cell maturation and neural development. Three primary members of this family (EBFs 1, 2, and 3) are expressed in fat cells. EBFs 1 and 2 can promote adipogenesis ( 228 , 229 ), and EBF2 can also play roles in determining brown versus white adipocyte identity in vivo ( 230 ) and the beiging process of adipose tissue in mice ( 231 ). Inhibitors of Adipogenesis The interferon-regulatory factor (IRF) family of transcription factors has functionally diverse roles in the immune system, but also plays a role in adipocyte development. All nine IRF family members are regulated to different degrees during adipogenesis in vitro , and some members can repress adipogenesis ( 232 ) and contribute to insulin resistance ( 233 ). For example, knockdown of IRF3, whose is expression is elevated in visceral and subcutaneous AT of obese mice as well as in subcutaneous AT from humans with obesity and diabetes decreases fat mass and prevents insulin resistance in high fat diet-fed mice ( 233 ). Wingless-related integration site (Wnt) proteins regulate development and cell fate through both autocrine and paracrine signaling ( 234 ) by using three well-characterized pathways: the canonical
