Adipose Tissue: Physiology to Metabolic Dysfunction
KEYWORDS: pubmed, adipocytes, insulin, free, adipose, article, pmc, free article, pmc free, leptin, article pubmed, adiponectin, adipocyte, obesity, fat


mice ( 233 ). Wingless-related integration site (Wnt) proteins regulate development and cell fate through both autocrine and paracrine signaling ( 234 ) by using three well-characterized pathways: the canonical Wnt signaling and the planar cell polarity and Wnt/calcium pathways, which are non-canonical. The canonical pathway is dependent upon the transcription factor, β-catenin ( 235 ). Wnt10b is the best studied member of the Wnt signaling family in terms of adipocyte development. In the presence of Wnt10b, β-catenin translocates to the nucleus where it inhibits PPARγ and C/EBPα activity, thereby impeding adipogenesis ( 236 , 237 ). On the other hand, extracellular antagonists of Wnt/β-catenin signaling have been reported to promote adipocyte differentiation ( 238 , 239 ). The GATA family of transcription factors were named based on their ability to bind the DNA sequence GATA ( 240 ). Only GATAs 2 and 3 are expressed in preadipocytes residing in white AT ( 241 ), and both are repressed during adipogenesis. In fact, GATA2 can directly bind to the PPARγ promoter to suppress its activity ( 241 ). In addition to inhibition of PPARγ expression, GATAs 2 and 3 can also associate with C/EBPs to disrupt their transcriptional activity ( 242 ). GATA3 expression is driven by the canonical Wnt signaling pathway ( 243 , 244 ). Collectively, these studies demonstrate that two GATA proteins can attenuate adipocyte development via multiple transcriptional and signaling pathways. Transcription Factor Families that can either Promote or Inhibit Adipogenesis The Krüppel-like transcription factors (KLFs) include 17 members that can either activate or repress transcription. In relation to adipocyte development, KLFs 4, 5, 6, 9 and 15 can promote adipogenesis, while KLFs 2, 3 and 7 repress adipocyte development. Most studies on the roles of KLFs in adipogenesis have been performed in vitro using a variety of cell culture models, and have demonstrated that KLFs act in concert with other transcription factors modulate adipogenesis ( 245 ). The transcription factor activator protein 1 (AP-1) consists of Jun proteins (c-Jun, JunB, and JunD), Fos proteins (c-Fos, FosB, Fra1, and Fra2), ATF and JDP family members, several of which are induced during adipogenesis ( 222 ). In humans, a mutation in the c-fos gene that is associated with lipodystrophy has been shown to reduce c-fos activity and adipocyte development ( 246 ). Many in vitro and in vivo studies demonstrate that, like KLFs, AP-1 transcription factors can
