Adipose Tissue: Physiology to Metabolic Dysfunction
KEYWORDS: pubmed, adipocytes, insulin, free, adipose, article, pmc, free article, pmc free, leptin, article pubmed, adiponectin, adipocyte, obesity, fat


with lipodystrophy has been shown to reduce c-fos activity and adipocyte development ( 246 ). Many in vitro and in vivo studies demonstrate that, like KLFs, AP-1 transcription factors can positively and negatively regulate adipogenesis. Many of the zinc finger proteins (ZFPs) function as transcription factors with several contributing to adipocyte determination and/or adipogenesis. Zfp423 and Zfp467 can promote adipocyte differentiation by enhancing PPARγ expression and activity ( 247 , 248 ). In addition to stimulating adipogenesis, Zfp423 can suppress ‘beige-like’ properties in white adipocytes that are typically associated with improved metabolic health ( 249 ). Zfp521 can inhibit Zfp423 to reduce adipocyte development and is also considered a critical regulator of the commitment to either osteogenic or adipogenic lineages ( 250 , 251 ). The transforming growth factor beta (TGF-β) superfamily encompasses a large number of proteins, including bone morphogenetic proteins (BMPs) ( 252 ). BMPs and TGF-β have been reported to be involved in both adipocyte commitment and differentiation ( 253 – 255 ). Specifically, BMPs 2 and BMP4 can promote adipogenesis via the Smad signaling pathway ( 256 ) to regulate transcription of target genes such as PPARγ ( 257 , 258 ). While BMPs are known to promote adipogenesis, in vitro and in vivo studies demonstrated that TGF-β primarily inhibits fat cell differentiation. Hormonal Regulation of Adipogenesis Steroids are prominent regulators of AT development and distribution, and adipocytes express high levels of many steroid hormone receptors. These lipophilic hormones diffuse through plasma membranes, dimerize, and bind to their specific receptors to impart both genomic and non-genomic responses ( 259 , 260 ). Since steroid-bound receptors act as transcription factors, their capabilities should be fully considered in the transcriptional regulation of adipogenesis. Two types of estrogen receptors, ERα and ERβ, are expressed in rat and human preadipocytes, mature adipocytes, and in other AT cells ( 261 – 263 ). Although many studies describing the role of estrogens in AT are contradictory, most investigations indicate that estrogen inhibits adipocyte differentiation ( 245 ) and the adipogenic action of PPARγ ( 264 ). Aromatase is an enzyme found in several tissues, including AT, that aromatizes androgens into estrogens . Both ERα- and aromatase-knockout mice have increased adiposity, suggesting that both estrogen and its receptor can reduce adipocyte development ( 265 , 266 ). Mice lacking ERα have enhanced visceral AT deposition and increased weight gain compared with wild-type mice
