Adipose Tissue: Physiology to Metabolic Dysfunction
KEYWORDS: pubmed, adipocytes, insulin, free, adipose, article, pmc, free article, pmc free, leptin, article pubmed, adiponectin, adipocyte, obesity, fat


on the potential contributions of environmental pollutants known as endocrine disrupting chemicals (EDCs) in the development of metabolic diseases. Studies reveal that EDCs can promote adipogenesis through GR activation ( 277 ), thereby implicating these compounds in the rising rates of obesity and diabetes. In addition to regulating water and salt homeostasis, the mineralocorticoid aldosterone and its receptor (MR) have also been shown to play a role in the regulation of adipocyte development. This is important since MR is a high-affinity receptor for both mineralocorticoids and GCs. Aldosterone promotes adipogenesis in an MR-dependent manner ( 278 ) and a MR antagonist can inhibit adipogenesis ( 279 ). Although GRs and MRs are expressed in AT and thought to mediate cortisol’s actions on AT, the levels of GR are several hundred-fold higher than MR in both human preadipocytes and adipocytes ( 280 ). Loss of GR, but not MR, blocks the adipogenic capabilities of cortisol in human preadipocytes ( 280 ). However, MR expression is higher in omental than in subcutaneous AT, so there could potentially be depot differences in the relative importance of MR and GR in cortisol-induced adipogenesis ( 280 ). There could also be differences in the contribution of MR to adipogenesis during obesity when MR and 11 beta HSD1 expression levels are increased, while the GR and 11 beta HSD2 (the enzyme that deactivates cortisol) levels do not increase accordingly ( 280 ). Most of the current evidence suggests that the ability of aldosterone to modulate adipogenesis in vitro is largely dependent on MR. Additional studies are needed to determine if MR plays a role in adipocyte development in vivo . Vitamin D is another steroid hormone with strong experimental evidence that it can regulate adipogenesis. Unlike most of the water-soluble vitamins that are excreted via urine when in excess, Vitamin D, along with the other fat-soluble vitamins (A, E, and K), can be stored within fat-laden adipose tissue. The vitamin D receptor (VDR) and 1α-hydroxylase (CYP27B1), the enzyme that activates vitamin D, are expressed in human AT, primary preadipocytes, and newly-differentiated adipocytes ( 281 ). The most active form of Vitamin D, 1, 25-Dihydroxyvitamin D, represses adipocyte differentiation ( 282 , 283 ) and the VDR can block adipogenesis by inhibiting C/EBPβ expression ( 284 ). Vitamin D-induced inhibition of adipogenesis also involves direct suppression of C/EBPα and PPARg ( 285 ). Vitamin D and VDR
