Adipose Tissue: Physiology to Metabolic Dysfunction
KEYWORDS: pubmed, adipocytes, insulin, free, adipose, article, pmc, free article, pmc free, leptin, article pubmed, adiponectin, adipocyte, obesity, fat


can block adipogenesis by inhibiting C/EBPβ expression ( 284 ). Vitamin D-induced inhibition of adipogenesis also involves direct suppression of C/EBPα and PPARg ( 285 ). Vitamin D and VDR also play a role in the inhibition of adipogenesis of bone marrow stromal cells ( 286 ), in part by suppressing the expression of inhibitors of the canonical Wnt/β-catenin signaling pathway ( 287 ). Although vitamin D inhibits adipogenesis in the widely used murine and bone marrow-derived cells, both 25-hydroxyvitamin D and 1,25-dihydroxyvitamin D 3 can promote the differentiation of human subcutaneous preadipocytes ( 281 ). Overall, a case could be made that concentrations of vitamin D as well as the type of adipocyte precursor determine whether this hormone exerts pro- or anti-adipogenic actions via the VDR. On the other hand, evidence regarding Vitamin D’s role in adipocyte development in humans is controversial and contradictory. According to a systematic review and meta-analysis of 23 studies between 2002 and 2014, overweight or obese subjects exhibit a higher prevalence of Vitamin D deficiency ( 288 ). In two double-blind, placebo-controlled randomized clinical trials, Vitamin D-supplemented individuals with healthy overweight or obesity lost significantly more fat mass than the placebo group when fed either a calorie-restriction ( 289 ) or weight-maintenance ( 290 ) diet for 12 weeks. While decreased fat mass may result from Vitamin-D induced inhibition of adipogenesis, this hypothesis was not directly tested in the studies, and two other longer term studies demonstrated no change in fat mass with Vitamin D supplementation between 14,000 and 20,000 IU per week ( 291 , 292 ). The relationship between adipocyte development and thyroid hormones has been recognized since 1888 when a report on myxedema proposed that obesity was a requirement for a diagnosis of hypothyroidism ( 293 ). The most biologically active form of thyroid hormone, T3, can induce brown adipocyte differentiation ( 294 ). Hyperthyroidism in rodents induces adipocyte hyperplasia, whereas hypothyroidism impedes AT development ( 295 ). Overall, studies on the involvement of thyroid hormones in AT development are controversial. While the induction of adipogenesis is differentially regulated by various thyroid hormone receptor (TR) isoforms, studies largely indicate that TRs promote adipogenesis in the majority of model systems ( 245 ). Adipocyte Progenitors In AT, pools of adipose stem/progenitor cells (APs) exist that can differentiate into mature adipocytes ( 296 , 297 ). At least two distinct progenitor populations give
