Adipose Tissue: Physiology to Metabolic Dysfunction
KEYWORDS: pubmed, adipocytes, insulin, free, adipose, article, pmc, free article, pmc free, leptin, article pubmed, adiponectin, adipocyte, obesity, fat


302 , 306 – 308 ) and are thought to represent an AP pool that contributes to this adipocyte renewal. Flow cytometry techniques that use a variety of cell surface and stem cell markers, have helped identify stromal cells that can undergo adipogenesis ( 302 , 306 , 307 , 309 ). These adult APs arise from tissue-resident mesenchymal stem cells, and are a major source of new adipocytes in AT ( 297 , 310 ). Bone marrow-derived APs from the myeloid lineage can also be recruited to AT where they become adipocytes ( Figure 10 ). Bone marrow-derived adipocytes (BMDAs) are more abundant in female mice and are more frequent in visceral depots ( 297 , 311 , 312 ). Though BMDAs have been observed in human AT and are increased in patients with obesity, the processes and factors involved in BMDA recruitment to AT remain unclear. Compared to normal adipocytes, BMDAs have reduced expression of lipid metabolism genes and increased pro-inflammatory gene expression, suggesting that they may have negative metabolic effects ( 297 , 311 , 313 ). Figure 10. Adipocytes are derived from both resident mesenchymal cells in the stromal-vascular fraction of adipose tissue and hematopoietic progenitors that reside in the bone marrow. In addition to adipocytes, mesenchymal progenitors can form other connective tissue cells, such as myocytes and osteocytes. Myeloid progenitors derived from hematopoietic progenitors in bone marrow give rise to adipocytes as well as neutrophils, macrophages, dendritic cells, and granulocytes. Most of the information regarding AP proliferation in obesity comes from rodent models. In mice fed high-fat diets to induce obesity, APs form new adipocytes primarily in the visceral depot ( 299 , 302 ). Although limited data report decreased AP proliferation and differentiation capacity from humans with obesity compared to lean individuals ( 314 ), convincing evidence for depot-specific AP populations in humans has emerged. Subcutaneous APs were shown to have a higher growth rate and adipogenic potential than visceral APs, giving rise to more functional adipocytes ( 315 , 316 ). Increasingly sophisticated methods for assessing APs in mice will help facilitate the identification of the origins of all APs for each adipose depot as well as the niches in which they reside. Adipose Extracellular Matrix: From Normal Development to Fibrosis An underappreciated influence on AT physiology is the adipose extracellular matrix (ECM). The dynamics and composition of the ECM are critical for
