Adipose Tissue: Physiology to Metabolic Dysfunction
KEYWORDS: pubmed, adipocytes, insulin, free, adipose, article, pmc, free article, pmc free, leptin, article pubmed, adiponectin, adipocyte, obesity, fat


rodent and human subcutaneous (SubQ) and visceral AT depots. In the figure SubQ depots are colored as beige, while visceral depots are white, and BAT or BAT-like depots are brown. It is well-established that the various adipose depots display metabolic heterogeneity and are intrinsically different within each species. In humans, fat deposition in the upper body, mainly the visceral but also the subcutaneous abdominal depot, is linked to a higher risk of metabolic dysfunction; while lower body adiposity in the subcutaneous gluteal and femoral regions is associated with lower risk and may even be protective ( 336 ). Rodent studies reveal that surgical removal of visceral fat pads improves insulin action, glucose tolerance, and longevity ( 337 , 338 ), while the removal of subcutaneous fat pads can cause metabolic syndrome ( 339 ). In addition, subcutaneous, but not visceral, donor AT transplanted into the visceral region of recipient mice improves glucose metabolism ( 340 ). In contrast, human studies have shown that the removal of small amounts of omental AT in individuals with obesity provided no metabolic health benefits ( 341 ). Likewise, liposuction (~10 kg) of subcutaneous AT in humans neither harmed nor improved the cardio-metabolic profile ( 342 , 343 ). Nevertheless, fat is redistributed from the subcutaneous to visceral depots during aging ( 344 ) in conjunction with increasing prevalence of chronic diseases such as hypertension, T2DM, and cardiovascular disease, suggesting that subcutaneous AT may be metabolically beneficial in humans as has been extensively reported in rodents. Studies of depot-specific expression patterns have enhanced our understanding of the mechanisms underlying abdominal versus gluteal and femoral adiposity ( 345 – 347 ). Unique expression patterns in different adipose tissue depots in mice indicate substantial difference in the expression of homeobox (HOX) developmental genes ( 348 ). Not surprisingly, HOX genes exhibit differential expression patterns in human compared to mouse fat depots ( 346 , 347 ). In contrast, structural and hormonal regulators, including collagen VI ( 349 , 350 ) and glucocorticoids ( 351 , 352 ), respectively, that influence fat distribution are similarly associated with AT expansion in both rodents and humans. Similar to humans ( 353 ), female rodents have a higher percentage fat mass relative to males, yet remain more insulin sensitive ( 354 ). However, there are many notable sex differences in rodent versus human depots. The inguinal depots of female mice contain
