Adipose Tissue: Physiology to Metabolic Dysfunction
KEYWORDS: pubmed, adipocytes, insulin, free, adipose, article, pmc, free article, pmc free, leptin, article pubmed, adiponectin, adipocyte, obesity, fat


relative to males, yet remain more insulin sensitive ( 354 ). However, there are many notable sex differences in rodent versus human depots. The inguinal depots of female mice contain mammary glands and the gonadal fat pad is near reproductive tissue, which is not the case in humans. In addition, high-fat diet-induced obesity affect men and women alike, but in many strains of mice females are resistant HFD obesity, unlike male mice ( 355 , 356 ). Furthermore, the periovarian (visceral) fat pad in female mice has been shown to be more insulin sensitive than the inguinal fat pad ( 354 ), which is contrary to human data that indicates in women the gluteal and femoral depots are more insulin sensitive relative to the visceral AT ( 357 ). Current literature suggests that the secretion patterns of adipokines (including leptin, interleukin-6, and tumor necrosis factor α) in the visceral versus subcutaneous depots of humans are relatively similar to that of rodents. Interestingly, lower body AT has been shown to secrete more metabolically favorable adipokines such as adiponectin ( 358 ). These observations are similar in rodents studies ( 340 ). While lipolysis can be stimulated in rodents and humans under similar physiological conditions, important biological differences in AT lipolysis among these species have been suggested. The β1 and β2 adrenergic receptors (AR) are ubiquitously expressed in rodents and humans, while β3-AR expression is confined to white AT in rodents and only marginally expressed in human adipocytes ( 359 ). The α2-ARs are highly expressed in the subcutaneous AT of humans and act to inhibit lipolysis ( 360 ), but are absent in rodent adipocytes. Though common factors, including catecholamines, growth hormone, and cortisol, are similar among species in regulating lipolysis, differences in the response to other lipolytic agents have also been reported. Natriuretic peptide induces lipolysis in humans, but not in rodents ( 361 ), while adrenocorticotropic hormone and alpha-melanocyte-stimulating hormone modulate lipolysis in rodent but not human adipocytes ( 362 , 363 ). Therefore, it is important to account for these differences and commonalities in AT lipolysis among species. Rodent studies are essential to expand our understanding of pathways underlying the associations between fat distribution and metabolic health and disease. Fortunately, there are many shared traits among rodent fat pads and human fat depots. However, given the clear differences in adipose depot location and physiology between the species, interpretation
