Adipose Tissue: Physiology to Metabolic Dysfunction
KEYWORDS: pubmed, adipocytes, insulin, free, adipose, article, pmc, free article, pmc free, leptin, article pubmed, adiponectin, adipocyte, obesity, fat


disease. Fortunately, there are many shared traits among rodent fat pads and human fat depots. However, given the clear differences in adipose depot location and physiology between the species, interpretation of experimental data and the extrapolation of conclusions drawn from rodent data to humans should be conducted with appropriate caution and caveats. Dermal Adipose Tissue A thick layer of adipocytes, historically referred to as subcutaneous AT, underlies the reticular dermis in both rodents and humans ( 364 ). Recent studies have revealed major differences between the adipocytes from this dermal layer and more typical subcutaneous adipocytes found in other locations ( 364 – 366 ). Today, dermal adipose tissue (dWAT) is considered a separate adipose depot that is distinguishable from subcutaneous fat ( 364 ). Two unique features of dermal adipocytes in this regard are that they can alter their cellular characteristics and have high turnover rates ( 366 ). An additional distinguishing factor for dWAT is its organization. In rodents, dWAT forms several adipocyte layers between the dermis and muscle layer (panniculus carnosus) ( 367 ). Human dWAT is present as individual units referred to as dermal cones. These cones are concentrated around pilosebaceous units that functionally interact with each other to form the dWAT structure ( 366 , 368 ). Interestingly, only body regions prone to scarring contain dermal cones ( 368 ), indicating a potential role for dWAT in scarring and wound healing. Also, dWAT can regenerate after injury. Following injury, adipogenesis is activated in the proliferative phase of wound healing and dermal adipocytes repopulate the wound ( 366 , 367 ). This is a critical event, as mouse models lacking mature adipocytes cannot recruit the fibroblasts required for wound healing ( 369 – 371 ). Other identified roles for dWAT include insulation ( 372 ), barrier protection from skin infection ( 373 ), and hair follicle cycling ( 374 ). It is well known that brown adipose tissue (BAT) rapidly responds to cold temperature challenges by mobilizing lipids for heat generation (adaptive thermogenesis), yet dWAT slowly responds to these challenges by thickening/expanding over days to provide an effective layer of insulation ( 367 , 372 ). Mouse models lacking adequate dWAT undergo chronic activation of BAT since the dWAT cannot provide adequate mitigation of body temperature ( 367 ). Conversely, obese mice with excess dWAT undergo minimal adaptive thermogenesis ( 367 ). The dWAT thickening observed
