Adipose Tissue: Physiology to Metabolic Dysfunction
KEYWORDS: pubmed, adipocytes, insulin, free, adipose, article, pmc, free article, pmc free, leptin, article pubmed, adiponectin, adipocyte, obesity, fat


since the dWAT cannot provide adequate mitigation of body temperature ( 367 ). Conversely, obese mice with excess dWAT undergo minimal adaptive thermogenesis ( 367 ). The dWAT thickening observed with cold exposure also occurs with bacterial exposure. Adipocytes in dWAT differentiate and become hypertrophic and result in a thicker dWAT layer in response to epidermal Staphylococcus aureus. This dWAT adipocyte reaction is also critical for immune response to bacterial invasion ( 373 ). Hair follicles go through repeated rounds of death and regrowth, referred to as the hair follicle cycle ( 367 ). Robust dWAT expansion is characterized by increased adipogenesis and dermal adipocyte hypertrophy that accompanies the regrowth of hair follicles ( 374 ). Conversely, inhibiting adipogenesis impedes hair follicle regeneration. In several species of mammals, a thickening of the hair coat accompanies dWAT expansion in response to cold exposure ( 367 ). In summary, dWAT has distinct roles from subcutaneous AT. Thus far, unlike other AT depots, the contribution of dWAT to metabolic health has not been investigated. Nonetheless, there is clear evidence that dWAT has distinct structures and functions and plays a role in variety of physiological processes. Epicardial AT Epicardial AT (EAT) has recently emerged as an important player in the development of cardiovascular disorders ( 375 , 376 ). Notably, EAT is distinct from pericardial fat. While pericardial AT surrounds the pericardium, EAT lies between the visceral pericardium and the myocardium and shares a blood supply with the coronary arteries ( 375 – 378 ). The adipocytes in EAT are smaller than those in other visceral or subcutaneous depots and are outnumbered by preadipocytes; this is thought to be related to the high energy requirement of the heart, which normally favors oxidation of fatty acids over other substrates ( 376 , 379 ). Furthermore, the gene expression and adipokine secretion profiles of EAT are unique from those of other depots ( 376 , 380 , 381 ). In normal physiological conditions, EAT behaves like BAT and serves to protect the coronary vessels and myocardium against hypothermia ( 376 , 382 ). In pathologies such as coronary artery disease and type 2 diabetes, EAT can display an extensive pro-inflammatory signature ( 383 – 385 ). Macrophages and mast cells have been shown to infiltrate EAT, undergo activation, and through a cascade of signaling events facilitate lipid accumulation in atherosclerotic plaques ( 376 , 384 ).
