Adipose Tissue: Physiology to Metabolic Dysfunction
KEYWORDS: pubmed, adipocytes, insulin, free, adipose, article, pmc, free article, pmc free, leptin, article pubmed, adiponectin, adipocyte, obesity, fat


remove debris from the damaged area. During this process, macrophages acutely produce inflammatory cytokines ( 413 , 416 ). In obesity, this cytokine production often fails to resolve, becomes chronic, and leads to impaired adipocyte insulin signaling, further inflammation, and a continued worsening of AT dysfunction ( 413 , 416 , 417 ). In a field that is rapidly changing, it is worth mentioning that some degree of inflammatory signaling might be required for normal AT function. The pro-inflammatory cytokines TNF alpha and oncostatin M have been shown to be required for proper AT expansion and maintenance of insulin sensitivity in mice ( 414 , 418 – 420 ). Although AT inflammation clearly has detrimental effects in obesity, evidence also indicates adaptive and homeostatic roles for pro-inflammatory signaling in AT expansion and function. Metabolically Healthy (MHO) versus Metabolically Unhealthy (MUO) Obesity An estimated 10-30% of individuals with obesity are considered to have “metabolically healthy obesity” (MHO) with favorable metabolic profiles ( 421 ). Although there is currently no consensus for parameters used to classify MHO, these individuals are characterized by normal insulin sensitivity, normal fasting glucose levels, low incidence of hypertension, and blood lipid profiles in the healthy range ( 422 , 423 ) ( Figure 13 ). In contrast, individuals with “metabolically unhealthy obesity” (MUO) have comparable body mass indices (BMI) but develop metabolic aberrations. Factors that distinguish individuals with MHO from MUO ( Figure 13 ) highlight the premise that metabolic health risk is not solely dependent on body weight and are described in more detail below. Understanding these characteristics and potential mechanisms underlying the MHO and the perceived healthy metabolic state of these individuals is an important area of ongoing research. Figure 13. Clinical and biological factors thought to distinguish metabolically healthy obesity (MHO) from metabolically unhealthy obesity (MUO). Abbreviations: VAT – Visceral AT, SubQ AT – Subcutaneous AT, EMCL - extramyocellular lipid; IMCL – intramyocellular lipid; HDL – high density lipoprotein. Evidence suggests that WAT plays a critical role in the development of MHO vs MUO, as its properties, location, and function are closely linked with cardiometabolic risk. Fat distribution ( 422 ), as well as changes associated with AT expansion, including the capacity for adipocyte differentiation ( 403 ) and parameters related to ECM remodeling ( 424 ), may also contribute to the MHO phenotype. In addition, adipose-derived circulating factors that impact whole-body metabolism have
