Adipose Tissue: Physiology to Metabolic Dysfunction
KEYWORDS: pubmed, adipocytes, insulin, free, adipose, article, pmc, free article, pmc free, leptin, article pubmed, adiponectin, adipocyte, obesity, fat


differentiation ( 403 ) and parameters related to ECM remodeling ( 424 ), may also contribute to the MHO phenotype. In addition, adipose-derived circulating factors that impact whole-body metabolism have been implicated in MHO vs MUO differences ( 425 ). However, studies have shown that the location of AT, rather than overall obesity, may be a stronger predictor of metabolic health risks ( 336 ). The accumulation of upper-body fat, namely visceral AT (VAT) but also subcutaneous abdominal (scABD) adipose tissue, confers a higher risk of obesity-related disorders ( 426 ), while lower-body fat (subcutaneous gluteal and femoral) may be metabolically protective ( 427 ). The preserved metabolic function of individuals with MHO may be attributed to significantly lower accumulation of VAT relative to MUO ( 422 , 428 , 429 ). As described in the previous section, enlarged adipocyte size, independent of adiposity, is positively correlated with the development of insulin resistance and impaired metabolic health ( 396 ). MUO individuals have been shown to have larger adipocytes than their MHO counterparts ( 430 , 431 ). Hypertrophic adipocytes may represent the failure of subcutaneous AT to expand and store excess fat, which can ultimately lead to ectopic lipid deposition in non-adipose tissues such as the liver and skeletal muscle ( 402 ). Ectopic lipid accumulation in both the liver and skeletal muscle is of pathophysiological significance as part of the “lipotoxicity” hypothesis and may also impact the varying health risk of MHO vs MUO. Extramyocellular lipid (EMCL) and intramyocellular lipid (IMCL) are postulated to cause defects in insulin signaling and reduce insulin-stimulated skeletal muscle glucose uptake ( 432 ). These lipid stores are strong correlates of insulin resistance and are increased in individuals with T2D ( 402 ). Paradoxically, increased IMCL is also observed in ‘insulin sensitive’ athletes, which may be attributed to the oxidative capacity of skeletal muscle ( 433 ) and increased glucose transport in trained muscle ( 434 ). Intrahepatic lipid accumulation strongly associates with impaired insulin-induced suppression of hepatic glucose production, even independently of visceral AT amount, and the development of T2D ( 435 ). Ectopic fat in both the liver and skeletal muscle has been shown to be lower in MHO than MUO individuals ( 422 , 436 , 437 ) (refer to Figure 13 ). The differential secretion of pro-inflammatory adipokines has also been proposed as a mechanism underlying the MHO phenotype
