Adipose Tissue: Physiology to Metabolic Dysfunction
KEYWORDS: pubmed, adipocytes, insulin, free, adipose, article, pmc, free article, pmc free, leptin, article pubmed, adiponectin, adipocyte, obesity, fat


intake in these patients ( 460 ). Transgenic animal models shed light on the pathology of lipodystrophy and confirm the importance of AT in normal physiology. Fatless rodents, created via AT ablation, display hypertriglyceridemia and ectopic lipid accumulation, along with severe insulin resistance ( 457 , 461 ). In addition, several groups have successfully treated the metabolic derangements in these fatless mice by transplanting AT from wild-type animals ( 461 – 464 ). However, transplantation of AT from leptin-deficient mice did not improve the metabolic abnormalities in fatless mice ( 465 ), while leptin administration in the fatless mice ameliorated insulin resistance and hepatic steatosis ( 466 ). In humans with total lipodystrophy, leptin treatment also markedly improves the severe hypertriglyceridemia and insulin resistance that accompanies this disorder ( 467 ). These studies confirm that both AT and leptin deficiency play a central role in lipodystrophy-associated pathologies. Adiponectin has insulin-sensitizing and anti-inflammatory effects, and low levels of this adipokine have also been observed in patients with lipodystrophies ( 468 ). Recombinant adiponectin, adiponectin analogues (i.e. osmotin), and compounds that upregulate endogenous adiponectin (i.e. TZDs) have all been proposed as treatment approaches for lipodystrophy ( 469 ). In a fatless mouse model, treatment with the globular domain of adiponectin significantly improved the hyperglycemia and hyperinsulinemia characteristic of these lipoatrophic diabetic mice ( 146 ). Interestingly, the insulin resistance observed in these mice was completely ameliorated by treatment with both adiponectin and leptin, but only partially by either adiponectin or leptin alone ( 146 ), suggesting that both adiponectin and leptin deficiency may contribute to the insulin resistance in humans with lipodystrophy. Studies to date support the premise that too little AT, as seen in lipodystrophy, appears to be just as deleterious as too much AT. Emerging data reveal that patients with lipodystrophy may have reduced survival and high mortality at an early age, predominantly due to cardiometabolic complications ( 470 – 472 ). Lipodystrophy has no cure; therefore, the primary treatment option is to improve metabolic outcomes via physical activity and dietary and pharmacological interventions. Conventional insulin-sensitizing agents, such as metformin and TZDs, are often used ( 453 , 473 ), and leptin replacement is also an approved therapy for total congenital lipodystrophy ( 467 ). Future investigations to better understand the pathogenesis and the clinical manifestation of lipodystrophy syndromes are essential for the development of improved therapeutics. Adipose Tissue and
