Adipose Tissue: Physiology to Metabolic Dysfunction
KEYWORDS: pubmed, adipocytes, insulin, free, adipose, article, pmc, free article, pmc free, leptin, article pubmed, adiponectin, adipocyte, obesity, fat


congenital lipodystrophy ( 467 ). Future investigations to better understand the pathogenesis and the clinical manifestation of lipodystrophy syndromes are essential for the development of improved therapeutics. Adipose Tissue and Reproduction While many studies have primarily examined the influence of white AT on the metabolic consequences associated with obesity, less frequently mentioned is the interplay between AT and reproductive health. Nevertheless, it is well established that AT is important for the normal function of the reproductive system, including the production and regulation of sex and reproductive hormones, pubertal development, and the maintenance of pregnancy and lactation ( 474 ). Leptin and adiponectin are the most investigated adipokines as mediators of reproductive health and pathology. Receptors for both leptin and adiponectin have been identified in all major reproductive tissues, including the testes, placenta, ovaries, oviducts and endometrium ( 475 ). Obese mice that are deficient in leptin or the leptin receptor are unable to reproduce ( 476 ). Although rare, humans with leptin mutations have been identified, and studies in these individuals have validated the infertility findings in rodents ( 477 ). Leptin administration in rodents was shown to increase luteinizing hormone (LH), follicle stimulating hormone (FSH), and ovarian and uterine weights in females, and testosterone, testicular weights and sperm counts in males ( 478 , 479 ). During human pubertal development, there is a steady increase in leptin, stimulating a rise in testosterone levels and fat-free mass in boys and in estradiol and fat mass in girls ( 480 , 481 ). Adiponectin administration was shown to inhibit gonadotrophin releasing hormone (GnRH), LH, and FSH ( 482 , 483 ) in pigs and increase estrogen and progesterone ( 484 ) in rats, while circulating levels in humans have been shown to be associated with serum levels of sex hormones (primarily estrogens), though this correlation was largely mediated by body weight ( 485 ). In humans, leptin levels increase during pregnancy and rapidly fall in the post-partum period ( 486 ), and other reports have suggested that adiponectin may influence the amount of gestational weight gain and weight maintenance post-partum, even after adjusting for the sum of skinfold thickness and BMI ( 487 , 488 ). The effects of leptin on fetal development continue to be investigated, and have been suggested to correlate with fetal growth, birth weight, and organogenesis ( 489 ). Adiponectin plasma levels were shown to be significantly
