Adipose Tissue: Physiology to Metabolic Dysfunction
KEYWORDS: pubmed, adipocytes, insulin, free, adipose, article, pmc, free article, pmc free, leptin, article pubmed, adiponectin, adipocyte, obesity, fat


fetal development continue to be investigated, and have been suggested to correlate with fetal growth, birth weight, and organogenesis ( 489 ). Adiponectin plasma levels were shown to be significantly lower in overweight patients than normal weight women during pregnancy and negatively correlated with progressive gestational age and weight gain ( 490 ). In addition, women with low adiponectin concentrations experienced a significantly increased risk of gestational diabetes mellitus ( 491 , 492 ), and large reductions in adiponectin levels during pregnancy may also predict large-for-gestational-age offspring and increased birth weight ( 493 ). Interestingly, several studies have shown that higher adiponectin levels are associated with increased conception success in women undergoing assisted reproduction approaches ( 494 ). Overall, these studies are consistent with adipose-derived leptin and adiponectin having critical roles in reproductive function. Many lines of evidence also demonstrate that either insufficient or excessive AT can have detrimental effects on reproductive health. Women with lipodystrophy disorders (see above), are characterized by AT and leptin deficiency and are frequently infertile ( 495 , 496 ). Anorexia nervosa is an eating disorder characterized by very low AT mass that is often accompanied by amenorrhea (absence of at least three menstrual periods in a row) ( 497 ). It is estimated that ~38% of women affected by anorexia experience infertility ( 498 ). Leptin deficiency is common in these patients ( 499 ) and may lead to disruptions in downstream neuroendocrine signaling ( 500 ). This was tested when leptin replacement to women with hypogonadotrophic hypogonadism due to anorexia nervosa or excessive exercise was found to restore normal periods ( 501 ). Estrogen deficiency in these women results in major implications for bone health, ultimately contributing to increased osteopenia or osteoporosis ( 502 ). Body weight has been shown to predict testosterone levels in men ( 503 ); and obesity, specifically central adiposity, is associated with low testosterone levels ( 504 ). Increased AT also leads to elevated estradiol, resulting in reduced circulating testosterone through feed-back inhibition of gonadotrophs ( 504 , 505 ). A common medical condition in women at the crossroads of dysfunctional AT and reproduction is polycystic ovary syndrome (PCOS), which in roughly 50% of affected women is associated with increased central obesity and metabolic health risk. PCOS is commonly defined using the consensus of Rotterdam, which requires two of three criteria: polycystic ovaries on ultrasonography, hyperandrogenism, or amenorrhea.
