Adipose Tissue: Physiology to Metabolic Dysfunction
KEYWORDS: pubmed, adipocytes, insulin, free, adipose, article, pmc, free article, pmc free, leptin, article pubmed, adiponectin, adipocyte, obesity, fat


in obesity and diabetes may provide insight into our understanding of the pathogenesis of metabolic disease states. Another developing area of fat cell biology is the effects of exercise on adipocyte function. Recent studies have shown that transplantation of subcutaneous AT from exercise-trained mice improves glucose tolerance and insulin sensitivity in recipient, non-exercised mice ( 512 ), and strongly suggest that exercise favorably remodels AT to improve systemic metabolic health. Recently, an AT-derived lipid was shown to increase fatty acid uptake in skeletal muscle ( 513 ). The importance of AT to whole-body energy metabolism is well established; yet, the impacts of different types of endurance or resistance exercise on adipose tissue dynamics remains largely understudied, particularly in the context of obesity and other metabolic disease states. A newly discovered pathway shows that lipids can be released by adipocytes in the form of exosome-sized, lipid-filled vesicles ( 514 ). This process occurs independently of canonical lipolytic pathways, and adipocyte exosomes deliver excess lipid to local macrophages in obesity ( 514 ). Other novel pathways of paracrine regulation have also been demonstrated in AT. These paradigm-shifting observations demonstrated that extracellular vesicles (EV) from endothelial cells in adipose tissue can provide lipids and proteins to adjacent adipocytes. This EV communication between endothelial cells and adipocytes within AT is bi-directional and is regulated by fasting/refeeding and in conditions of obesity ( 515 ). These very recent observations reveal the highly complex signaling mechanisms that exist in AT. Though it was once considered a mere energy storage site, AT is now considered an important endocrine organ and site of inflammatory cell signaling that governs not only survival but also plays critical roles in reproduction and in glucometabolic homeostasis. As scientific methods for the study of AT continue to rapidly evolve, so does our understanding regarding the metabolic, biomechanical, immune, and secretory functions of AT in normal physiology and metabolic disease. Acknowledgements The authors are grateful to Anik Boudreau and Christina Zunica for their assistance in editing and referencing the chapter. This work was supported by National Institutes of Health Grant R01 DK052968. References 1. Cuthbertson D, Tompsett S. The degree of unsaturation of the fats of human adipose tissue in relation to depth from skin surface. Biochem. J. 1933; 27 (4):1103–1106. [ PMC free article : PMC1252994 ] [ PubMed : 16745196 ] 2. Cook KS, Min HY, Johnson D, Chaplinsky RJ, Flier JS,
