TThhiiss aarrttiiccllee iiss lliicceennsseedd uunnddeerr CCCC--BBYY 44..00
KEYWORDS: antimicrobial, resistance, apdt, therapy, photodynamic, bacterial, antibiotics, antibiotic, bacteria, photodynamic therapy, mechanisms, light, treatment, acs, infections


excluded based on the enhance antimicrobial efficacy and prevent resistance.22,23 following criteria: articles focusing solely on oncological Thesignificantclinicalimplicationsofresistancehavedrawn applications of PDT, without relevance to antimicrobial interest in studies of resistance in various areas. The therapy; studies lacking experimental validation of aPDT- widespread resistance of microorganisms is the cause of antibiotic synergy; reports without detailed methodologies, hundreds of thousands of deathsevery year. The mostserious such as opinion papers or editorial comments; duplicated problem is the increasing resistance of microorganisms to studies across multiple databases; clinical trials that did not antibiotics and antifungals.24,25 Over the past seven decades, include microbial resistance analysis; studies that did not the indiscriminate and extensive use of antibiotics has led to specify the type of photosensitizer or irradiation parameters theselectionofresistantstrainsfornearlyeveryantibioticever used in aPDT. For each included study, data were extracted introduced. Resistance was first noted shortly after the introduction of the earliest antimicrobial agents, such as strains tested; photosensitizers used and their properties; light sulfonamides, in the late 1930s.26,27 At the beginning of the sources and irradiation parameters; antibiotic combinations 20th century, bacterial epidemics were a global and essential and dosing regimens; outcome measures (bacterial reduction, cause of mortality. In contrast, fungal infections were almost notconsidered.However,sincethelate1960s,coincidingwith ■ the development of antibiotic therapies, there has been a SUMMARY OF RELEVANT LITERATURE marked increase in microbial infections, which now pose a The importance of aPDT lies in its ability to circumvent century, the medical landscape was radically redefined by the many of the limitations associated with conventional anti- discovery of antibiotics, bioactive molecules synthesized by biotics. Based on light-induced ROS production, the therapy’s specific microorganisms that curtail the proliferation of mechanism is effective against many bacteria, fungi, and even competing bacteria. Before that, infectious diseases such as biofilm-associated pathogens.30 Furthermore, its ability to smallpox, pneumonia, tuberculosis, syphilis, and cholera were synergize with antibiotics opens new avenues for combination among the leading deadly diseases worldwide and kept the 2672 ACSInfect.Dis.2025,11,2671−2691 ACS Infectious Diseases pubs.acs.org/journal/aidcbc Review Figure 1. Schematic illustration of bacterial cell targets of antibiotic action, such as inhibition of cell wall synthesis, cell membrane alteration, nucleicacidsynthesis,inhibition of protein synthesis,andantimetaboliteactivity. average life expectancy below 50 years in industrialized strictly, conforming to established medical protocols that nations.34 prescribe appropriate dosages and treatment durations. Such denotesatargetedpharmacologicalinterventionthateffectively Mechanisms of Action of Antimicrobials. In antimicrobial eradicates pathogens while minimizing adverse effects on the pharmacotherapy, the specificity of antibiotics (ATBs) arises host organism. This principle
