TThhiiss aarrttiiccllee iiss lliicceennsseedd uunnddeerr CCCC--BBYY 44..00
KEYWORDS: antimicrobial, resistance, apdt, therapy, photodynamic, bacterial, antibiotics, antibiotic, bacteria, photodynamic therapy, mechanisms, light, treatment, acs, infections


to more energetic levels, the photosensitizer (PS) internalized in the bacteria transfers the energy or electronstotheoxygenmolecule,producingreactiveoxygenspecies(ROS)thatwilldegradecarbohydrates,proteins,lipids,andgeneticmaterial. Photosensitizersingletstate (S), singletexcitedstate (S), tripletexcited state(T),and O molecularoxygen. 0 1 1 2 the specific microorganism and the depth of the infection. unoccupied molecular orbital (LUMO) is lower. Therefore, However,lightintheredandinfraredspectraregionhasdrawn light in the visible and near-infrared regions of the spectrum great medical interest, for (“pois”) light in those spectra hasahighprobabilityofbeingabsorbedbythePS,promoting reaches deeper tissues and can perform less invasive treat- the transition of the ground-state electron (S0) to the excited ments.76,77 aPDT is a promising alternative for treating singletstate(S1),whichisunstableandhasashortlifetimeof infectious diseases, especially those caused by pathogens approximately nanoseconds. Consequently, several processes resistant to conventional ATBs.32 occur to stabilize the excited PS (e.g., returning to the initial Mechanism of Action of Antimicrobial Photodynamic state (S0) by emitting heat (internal conversion) or light Therapy.aPDTisatechniquethatproducesROSthattriggers (fluorescence)).79 An intriguing possibility for aPDT is the oxidative stress. Cell death occurs when the molecular intersystem crossing to the excited triplet state (T ), which is mechanisms of protection against oxidative agents are less energetic than S , resulting in a higher stability of the PS. inefficient. According to the method, the production of ROS Such a nonradiative process involves electron spin inversion, results from the absorption of a photon at a wavelength preventing a return to S , since it would violate the Pauli corresponding to the absorption band of the photosensitizer Exclusion Principle because the quantum numbers would be molecule, typically in the blue, green, or red regions of the identical to those of its paired electron. With a longer lifetime electromagnetic spectrum,73 as schematized in the Jablonski of the order of microseconds, the excited PS can engage in diagram in Figure 3. chemical reactions by two distinct pathways.74,80 ThechoiceofaPSdependsonthetypeofinfection.Internal In type I reactions, electrons (or Hydrogen, H+) are infections require PSs that absorb light at longer wavelengths transferred to biomolecules such as amino acids, proteins, topromotelightpenetrationthroughthetissuetotheinfection unsaturatedlipids,andnitrogenousbases,whichcanreduceor site.73 Additionally,differentPSsmay showvaryingdegreesof oxidize other molecules even after irradiation, initiating redox affinity in the function of the composition of the bacterial cell reactions. Electron transfer to oxygen produces a superoxide wall, whether Gram-negative or Gram-positive, which can radical (O −), which undergoes a redox reaction to produce 2. affect the aPDT effectiveness.78 hydrogenperoxide(H O )inthebiologicalmedium,catalyzed 2 2 Most PSs are aromatic organic molecules with extensive by the Superoxide Dismutase enzyme (SOD). The hydroxyl electronic delocalization. When compared to less delocalized radical (OH−) can
