TThhiiss aarrttiiccllee iiss lliicceennsseedd uunnddeerr CCCC--BBYY 44..00
KEYWORDS: antimicrobial, resistance, apdt, therapy, photodynamic, bacterial, antibiotics, antibiotic, bacteria, photodynamic therapy, mechanisms, light, treatment, acs, infections


O )inthebiologicalmedium,catalyzed 2 2 Most PSs are aromatic organic molecules with extensive by the Superoxide Dismutase enzyme (SOD). The hydroxyl electronic delocalization. When compared to less delocalized radical (OH−) can be generated via the Fenton reaction by molecules, the energy required to excite electrons from the reducing metal ions such as ferrous ions (Fe3+, Fe2+), with highest occupied molecular orbital (HOMO) to the lowest superoxideactingasthereducingagent.Anotherpossibilityof 2676 ACSInfect.Dis.2025,11,2671−2691 ACS Infectious Diseases pubs.acs.org/journal/aidcbc Review Figure 4. Comparison of publications on antimicrobial resistance, antimicrobial photodynamic therapy, and photosensitizers. (A) Number of articlesindexed inthe Webof SciencePlatform. (B)Numberof articles onthe Scopus platform. hydroxyl radical generation is the direct reaction of hydrogen combination of PDT with antibiotics, can help mitigate the peroxide with superoxide, known as the Haber-Weiss antimicrobial resistance problem. reaction.78,81 LightSource. InPDT,selectinganappropriatelightsource Type II photoprocess produces singlet oxygen (1O ) plays a fundamental role in determining the efficiency of the through energy transfer from the excited triplet state of the treatment since light is a key factor in the photodynamic PS to oxygen in the triplet state (3O ), i.e., its ground state. activity, enabling the creation of reactive oxygen species. Singletoxygenhasanunoccupiedπ∗2porbital,whichmakesit Several light sources are available to meet distinct needs, highly reactive with electron-rich compounds, a short lifetime including standard lamps, LEDs, and lasers, with some (10−4−10−8 s), and low diffusion (>200 nm). Therefore, its application differences (e.g., emission spectra, coherence, reaction occurs with biomolecules close to the photo- power, and price). In addition to the type of light source, sensitizer.79,80 thephotosensitizer’sexcitationenergyrequirementsandability Type I and Type II reactions co-occur, and their efficiency to penetrate tissue and target cells must be considered.76 depends on both the photosensitizer and the availability of For better technique performance, the light source must oxygen molecules in the medium. However, Type II reactions fulfillaseriesofrequirementstobeabletospecifyapplications. draw greater interest since the protection mechanisms against The interaction with the tissue can be complex due to the aPDT is efficient and has a low likelihood of resistance.32 compound as it can be reflected, refracted, scattered, and Photosensitizer. The PS can be molecules, nanoparticles, absorbed.108 Moreover, depending on the application depth, micelles, and emulsions. Molecules are known as first- and lightpenetrationisconsideredwhenchoosingalightsource.In second-generation photosensitizers and broadly divided into this regard, the therapeutic window, which encompasses the two major groups: porphyrinoids and nonporphyrinoids.82 range of wavelengths capable of inducing therapeutic effects, Some examples of porphyrinoids used in PDT are porphyrin, has been delineated as falling between
