TThhiiss aarrttiiccllee iiss lliicceennsseedd uunnddeerr CCCC--BBYY 44..00
KEYWORDS: antimicrobial, resistance, apdt, therapy, photodynamic, bacterial, antibiotics, antibiotic, bacteria, photodynamic therapy, mechanisms, light, treatment, acs, infections


the two major groups: porphyrinoids and nonporphyrinoids.82 range of wavelengths capable of inducing therapeutic effects, Some examples of porphyrinoids used in PDT are porphyrin, has been delineated as falling between 600 and 800 nm for chlorin, pheophorbide, and phthalocyanine. On the other nonsuperficial treatments. This range is attributed to the hand, PSs such as methylene blue (MB), 83 toluidine blue, penetration capacity of light at these wavelengths. More eosin MB, hypericin, and curcumin are classified as non- energeticwavelengths,suchasbluelight(∼400nm),areused porphyrinoids.83−86 The PS characteristics that interfere with for superficial treatments.109,110 the aPDT outcome are partition coefficient, electric charge, Standard lamps are often chosen due to their low cost and optical characteristics, and ROS generation rate.87−90 broad applicability. They are simple, affordable, and offer a Besides molecules, there are also nanoparticles (NPs),87−90 broad range of power and wavelength illumination. However, nanomaterials (NMs),91,92 and biopolymers,93 among others. they require optical filtering (UV and NIR radiation), manage Among metallic nanoparticles, gold nanoparticles94,95 sil- thermaleffects,experiencehighenergylosses,andproducinga ver,96,97 copper, and functionalized metallic nanoparticles98 nonhomogeneous power distribution.76,109 canbementioned.Thoseagentscanalsoyielddifferentresults Light-emittingdiodes(LEDs)alsoofferbenefits,suchaslow infunctionoftheirbasematerial,synthesisroute,size,electric cost and efficiency in small application areas with reduced charge, optical characteristics, and functionalization.99−105 thermal effects. They provide more specific emission spectra, Thedevelopmentofnewphotosensitizers,newapplications, determinedbythesemiconductor’sbandgap,coveringmostof and formulations of first- and second-generation photo- the photosensitizer’s absorption spectra without filtering. sensitizershasbeenwidelystudiedandpublished.91,95,98,106,107 ArraysofLEDscancoverlargerareaswithmorehomogeneous Figure 4 shows the growing research development on irradiance and power distribution.77,111 photosensitizers, photodynamic therapy, and antimicrobial For more specific applications, lasers provide exact wave- resistance indexed in the Web of Science (Clarivate). lengthtargetingwithaspectralbandwidthsmallerthan0.1nm According to the Figure 4, the number of articles on and high power output, enabling deep tissue penetration and antimicrobial resistance is higher than the subgroups of effective treatment of target cells. They can be coupled with photodynamic therapy and photosensitizers. The data suggest optical fibers for flexible and precise light delivery to specific that traditional aPDT has not yet dominated debates on and internal areas. They produce a localized and coherent combating antimicrobial resistance. In this sense, new beam, which is ideal for targeted therapy, and feature faster alternatives, such as using associated therapies like the modulation speeds than LEDs, hence, more dynamic and 2677 ACSInfect.Dis.2025,11,2671−2691 ACS Infectious Diseases pubs.acs.org/journal/aidcbc Review responsive treatment protocols. However, they consistently ROS generated from Type I reactions.57 On the other hand, deliver light to smaller areas than LEDs and lamps.77,109 regardingsingletoxygen,theliteraturereportsnoenzymesthat Another aspect of light source technologies is how the degrade it. The photooxidative action of aPDT occurs on
