TThhiiss aarrttiiccllee iiss lliicceennsseedd uunnddeerr CCCC--BBYY 44..00
KEYWORDS: antimicrobial, resistance, apdt, therapy, photodynamic, bacterial, antibiotics, antibiotic, bacteria, photodynamic therapy, mechanisms, light, treatment, acs, infections


efficacy of aPDT- InaPDT,thesingletoxygenproducedinTypeIIreactionsis antibiotic combinations in overcoming resistance mechanisms themostreactiveROS.Cellularmetabolismdoesnotproduce in Klebsiella pneumoniae, using methylene blue and photo- singlet oxygen; however, it can be generated by endogenous dithazine as photosensitizers.124 PSs such as flavins and porphyrins in the presence of light.120 Nevertheless, not all combinations yield beneficial effects. In photosynthetic cells, it is produced by the excitation of Depending on the sequence of administration, bacterial chlorophyll or bacteriochlorophyll pigments.79 species, and class of antibiotic, certain combinations may Type I photodynamic reactions produce ROS, which are result in antagonism, where the photodynamic process alters commonly secondary products in cellular metabolic pro- bacterialphysiologyinawaythatdiminishesantibioticactivity. cesses.120 Therefore, intrinsic protection mechanisms combat For example, ciprofloxacin combined with certain PSs under 2678 ACSInfect.Dis.2025,11,2671−2691 ACS Infectious Diseases pubs.acs.org/journal/aidcbc Review sublethalphotodynamic conditions has shown variable results, checkerboard, post-ATB effects, time-kill assays) or analysis sometimes reducing efficacy due to oxidative stress-induced models (e.g., Loewe, Bliss) to correctly classify interactions as DNA repair responses or metabolic shifts.125 synergistic or antagonistic.12 To accurately characterize synergism or antagonism in such aPDT has demonstrated strong antimicrobial potential, combinations, rigorous experimental validation is essential. effectively inhibiting microorganisms using only a PS, oxygen, Mathematical models such as Loewe Additivity and Bliss and light. While effective, some pathogens require additional Independencearecommonlyusedtoassessinteractioneffects. measures for complete eradication, leading to research on The choice of model is critical, as it influences both data complementary approaches that enhance synergy.12,20,33 interpretation and clinical applicability. Standardizing these According to Willis et al.9 methylene blue-mediated aPDT methodologies ensures reproducibility and comparability increased the susceptibility of methicillin-resistant Staph- across studies.126 ylococcus aureus (MRSA) to chloramphenicol and tetracycline. In conclusion, the integration of aPDT with antibiotic Similarly, Aroso et al.10 demonstrated that cationic imidazole- therapy presents a robust, multifaceted strategy to enhance based PS significantly reduced the minimum inhibitory antimicrobial outcomes and combat resistant pathogens. The concentration (MIC) of ciprofloxacin in E. coli. Studies on dual-action approach disrupts biofilms, impairs resistance curcumin-mediatedaPDTfurtherrevealedthatitcouldreduce mechanisms, and potentiates antibiotic effects, offering new MIC values of amoxicillin and erythromycin while breaking translation will depend on the development of optimized populations.7 treatment protocols, personalized to the type of infection and Inanotherstudy,Iluzetal.investigatedthesynergybetween resistance profile, alongside the continued refinement of deuteroporphyrin-based aPDT and oxacillin against S. aureus, analytical models and delivery systems, such as nanocarriers, VISA,h-VISA,andMRSAstrains.Lightdosesof15and46J/ hydrogels, and implantable light sources. cm2 induced synergistic and bactericidal effects, with the Synergism and Antagonism. The growing threat of highest dose achieving complete bacterial
