TThhiiss aarrttiiccllee iiss lliicceennsseedd uunnddeerr CCCC--BBYY 44..00
KEYWORDS: antimicrobial, resistance, apdt, therapy, photodynamic, bacterial, antibiotics, antibiotic, bacteria, photodynamic therapy, mechanisms, light, treatment, acs, infections


2680 ACSInfect.Dis.2025,11,2671−2691 Along-term(5days)methyleneblueaPDTandamoxicillin in S. aureus found no significant bacterial resistance develop- ment. Additionally, oxacillin-resistant MRSA exhibited MIC reduction when treated with deuteroporphyrin-mediated aPDT, suggesting that the PS was not maintained for descendant generations of the treated cells.133 In general, these studies highlight the therapeutic potential of aPDTinenhancingATBefficacy,particularlywhenapplied sequentially rather than simultaneously. However, many studies still lack standardized methodologies and mechanistic must focus on establishing validated protocols to ensure that aPDT-ATB combinations effectively combat bacterial resist- ance without promoting its further evolution.57,65 DifferentStrategiesforCombiningaPDTandAntibiotics. The coadministration and development of combined delivery systems are crucial strategies for the conjugation of antimicrobial photodynamic therapy (aPDT) and antimicro- bials,whichcanenhancetreatmentefficacybyovercomingthe limitations of each therapy individually. Luetal.,testedtheefficacyofaPDTmediatedbytricationic fullerene(PS)combinedwithasuboptimaldoseoftobramycin in mice with wounds infected by highly virulent Pseudomonas aeruginosa,reporting a synergistictherapeutic effectthatcured 60% of the animals.137 Similar results were obtained by (Collins and co-workers, who combined another PS from the porphyrinclasswiththesameantimicrobialandachievedmore significant bacterial inactivation and a decrease in the minimum inhibitory concentration of tobramycin.42 A clinical studyappliedaPDTmediatedby5-aminolevulinicacid(ALA) combined with standard antimicrobials in four patients with skin infections caused by atypical mycobacteria. All patients showed complete cures after receiving the combined therapy forthreemonths,withnosignificantsideeffectsreported,thus suggestingthecoadministrationofaPDTwithantimicrobialsis a safe and effective method for treating those infections.138 InastudyconductedbyChoietal.,astrategyinvolvingthe coadministration of an antimicrobial with aPDT enhanced 10,000 times the efficacy of isolated aPDT, which used tetracycline as both an antimicrobial agent and a photo- sensitizer against Clostridium difficilein vitro, applying chitosan as an auxiliary material to enhance antimicrobial activity. CombiningtetracyclinewithchitosanplusaPDTcausedmore damage to treated bacteria’s cell membrane and DNA than isolated therapies.139 New materials have been developed to potentiate the antimicrobial activity when combined with aPDT. Yin et al. synthesized a quaternized chitosan hydrogel with specific properties for attracting microorganisms.140 The hydrogel, containing upconversion nanoparticles and methylene blue, with its cationic macroporous properties, can attract bacterial outer membranes into its structure, leading to their rupture. Besides the mechanical effect, the nanoparticles activate the PS, generating photodynamic reactions that inactivate micro- organisms.CombiningmechanicaleffectswithaPDTenhances antibacterial action, suggesting a promising new material for treating drug-resistant bacterial infections. Another strategy involved a pH-sensitive metal−organic framework material capable of targeting methylene blue to the infection site in cases of endophthalmitis. The material also carries silver nanoparticles and antimicrobial vancomycin to potentiate the antimicrobial effect of aPDT. It was biocompatible and effective against in vitro and in vivo S. aureus, E. coli biofilms, deunitnoc .1 elbaT noitcefni/ledom esodthgil htgnelevaw .fer etis msinagroorcim tceffedevresbo laiborcimitna )2mc/J( )mn( emitnoitabucni rezitisnesotohp ovivnidnaortivni iloc.E 4.5dna+4eM-H-PIhtiwtceffecitsigrenys
