TThhiiss aarrttiiccllee iiss lliicceennsseedd uunnddeerr CCCC--BBYY 44..00
KEYWORDS: antimicrobial, resistance, apdt, therapy, photodynamic, bacterial, antibiotics, antibiotic, bacteria, photodynamic therapy, mechanisms, light, treatment, acs, infections


effective against in vitro and in vivo S. aureus, E. coli biofilms, deunitnoc .1 elbaT noitcefni/ledom esodthgil htgnelevaw .fer etis msinagroorcim tceffedevresbo laiborcimitna )2mc/J( )mn( emitnoitabucni rezitisnesotohp ovivnidnaortivni iloc.E 4.5dna+4eM-H-PIhtiwtceffecitsigrenys nicaxolforpic ni(4.5−8.1 ,)der(956 h1 -rop,)+4tE-nZcPI(eninaycolahthp )ecimnidnuow( yassadraobrekcehcni2mc/J 05,)ortiv )+4eM,+2eM-H-PI(niryhp )ovivni( )eulb( ortivni eliciffid.C TDPsvtnemecnahne×000,01>:ygrenys enilcycartet 004−513 nasotihc+enilcycartet )9005CTCK( enola )AVU( ortivni -RDM,suerua.S gol-5.4otpu:tceffecitsigrenysgnorts nicimatneg eulbenidiulot suerua.S -RDMrofgol-3.2,suerua.Srofnoitcuder suerua.S ovivnidnaortivni CCMC(suerua.S ni/ortivnidemrifnocygrenysladiciretcab nicimatneg h1 eulbenidiulot ledomnrub CCTA,30062 oviv )00334 ovivnidnaortivni ,suerua.S,iloc.E /TDP(stnemtaertlaudividniotroirepus nicymocnav /Wm202 h4 GEP-naV@sPNgA@BM-AAP-8-FIZ -hpodne,ecim( ASRM )sPNgA 2mc )sitimlaht ACS Infectious Diseases pubs.acs.org/journal/aidcbc Review 2681 ACSInfect.Dis.2025,11,2671−2691 ACS Infectious Diseases pubs.acs.org/journal/aidcbc Review and MRSA. After testing the antimicrobial activity of each indicated a reduction of >99.9% in treatments that used a therapy separately, the authors concluded that combining combination of therapies. Histological analyses indicated aPDT with nanoparticles and theantimicrobial along with the greater bone tissue regeneration and a lower incidence when material’s properties resulted in a synergistic therapeutic light and drugs were applied, in addition to less tissue effect.141 damage.145 Conjugating antimicrobials with photosensitizers is another Liu et al. sought to evaluate the combined action of the strategyresearchershaveexploredtoachieveenhancedeffects. antibiotic gentamicin and PDT using toluidine blue as a FS Le Guern et al., synthesized a new conjugated molecule that against the bacterium S. aureus, both sensitive and multidrug- combinedcationicporphyrinPSwithapolymyxinBderivative. resistant strains. The results indicated that the action of ROS The conjugate showed higher efficiency in eliminating Gram- was ableto reducethevirulence of the microorganism,due to positive and Gram-negative bacteria during aPDT. It could its indirect action on pathogenicity genes (AgrA, AgrB, and selectively bind to bacterial cell walls, leading to a more PSM). Furthermore, the combination of treatments may have effectivetreatment.142Ucuncuetal.,synthesizedaconjugateof beneficially influenced wound healing in infected mice, due to polymyxin with methylene blue. The isolated molecule the reduction of inflammation in the wound region.146 exhibited relative antimicrobial activity, reducing approx- APDT and antimicrobial ciprofloxacin were tested on S. imately 3 log CFU/mL. However, when illuminated, bacterial aureusandE.colicellsandbiofilms.Thebestsynergisticeffect inactivation was complete in both planktonic Gram-negative was produced when aPDT was applied before exposure to bacteriaandbiofilmsandskininfectionmodels,demonstrating ciprofloxacin, resulting in a more significant reduction of increased efficacy of the combined therapies.143 bacteriaandbacterialbiofilmthanmonotherapies.135Soareset Iluz et al., investigated the synergism between aPDT al.,investigatedtheeffectofapplyingpartialcyclesofaPDTon mediated by porphyrin and conventional antimicrobials in resistant bacteria isolated from patients and bacteria that treating infections caused by S. aureus and MRSA. No became resistant in the laboratory, demonstrating that the synergistic or antagonistic effect was observed for some tested technique can
