TThhiiss aarrttiiccllee iiss lliicceennsseedd uunnddeerr CCCC--BBYY 44..00
KEYWORDS: antimicrobial, resistance, apdt, therapy, photodynamic, bacterial, antibiotics, antibiotic, bacteria, photodynamic therapy, mechanisms, light, treatment, acs, infections


bacteria that treating infections caused by S. aureus and MRSA. No became resistant in the laboratory, demonstrating that the synergistic or antagonistic effect was observed for some tested technique can reverse S. aureus resistance to three different antimicrobials; however, for oxacillin, the coadministration of antimicrobials. The authors suggested that aPDT combined boththerapiesshowedasynergisticeffect,reducingtheMICin with antimicrobials might be an important tool for treating resistant clinical isolates.133 bacterial resistance and infections through its oxidative action. Willis, Willis et al. evaluated the photodynamic action of The study demonstrated the capacity of aPDT to eliminate methylene blue (1−4 μM) in combination with antibiotic bacteria,includingresistantstrains,anditsabilitytoovercome therapy with chloramphenicol, tetracycline, ampicillin, and resistance. When combined with antimicrobials, the technique kanamycin against different strains of methicillin-resistant enhances the action of drugs, potentially restoring their Staphylococcus aureus (MRSA). The results indicated a effectiveness, reducing the necessary dose for infection reduction in MIC values with the combination of IFD and treatment, and minimizing side effects.7 antibiotics, reducing antimicrobial resistance and restoring As previously discussed, the combined action of antibiotics sensitivity.PDTslowedthereturnofdrugresistance,allowing and PDT can yield better results in the inactivation and >5 passages for the strains to become resistant again. The treatment of bacterial infections. This can be explained by the combination of therapies likely yielded promising results due combined mechanisms of action of both therapies, in which to the potential binding of methylene blue to the bacterial the oxidizing action of ROS can damage the cellular and membrane, especially in regions containing efflux pumps. The metabolic structure of the bacteria, facilitating the entry of generation of ROS may have caused damage to these regions, drugs. PDT can damage the bacterial cell wall and membrane facilitating the entry and action of antibiotics, significantly due to the oxidation of lipids, proteins, and DNA, slowing the bacterial population of this species.9 compromising membrane integrity, which can increase Liaoetal.reportedacaseinwhicha19-year-oldpatienthad membrane permeability to drugs. The action of ROS on the a biopsy-proven lesion on his finger caused by the bacterium bacterial membrane can also damage efflux pumps, preventing Mycobacterium marinum. Treatment consisted of alternating them from expelling antibiotics and leading to increased drug therapies, starting with 4 months of the antibiotics concentrationsintheintracellularenvironment.Thedisruption minocycline, clarithromycin, or rifampin (dual therapy) and, of biofilm protective barriers caused by oxidative damage may subsequently, 2 months of rifampin, clarithromycin, minocy- allow the antibiotic to enter the matrix and, in addition, the cline, or doxycycline (triple therapy). After 6 months of
