TThhiiss aarrttiiccllee iiss lliicceennsseedd uunnddeerr CCCC--BBYY 44..00
KEYWORDS: antimicrobial, resistance, apdt, therapy, photodynamic, bacterial, antibiotics, antibiotic, bacteria, photodynamic therapy, mechanisms, light, treatment, acs, infections


oxidative damage may subsequently, 2 months of rifampin, clarithromycin, minocy- allow the antibiotic to enter the matrix and, in addition, the cline, or doxycycline (triple therapy). After 6 months of presence of persistent bacteria in biofilms could hinder the antibiotic therapy, PDT treatment was initiated, using 20% 5- action of the drug, since they are less susceptible. However, aminolevulinate (ALA) SP, with light application at a PDT damage can directly affect these cells, inactivating wavelength of 635 nm and an energy dose of 100 J/cm2, them.33,147 with three sessions every 15 days. Alternating therapies Other mechanisms may also explain the effectiveness of the provided significant improvement in the lesion and treatment combination of antibiotic therapy and phototherapy, such as of the M. marinum infection. The use of PDT can reduce the damage to antibiotic-inhibiting enzymes, such as beta- treatment time for infections and enable better drug lactamases, preventing them from affecting drug action. PDT effectiveness.144 can also disrupt bacterial resistance mechanisms, affecting Yin et al. demonstrated the effectiveness of PDT and other microbial DNA repair and cellular oxidative control. Photo- drugsinosteomyelitisinrabbitswithboneinfectionscausedby therapy can induce an inflammatory response in the infected MRSA. The PS used was LD4, a porphyrin compound, in organism, activating the immune system, which helps control different concentrations. Energy doses of 95 J/cm2 were and eliminate the infection.148 appliedatawavelengthof650nmfor10min.Whencombined As we’ve seen, combining therapies has the potential to with medications, the antibiotic gentamicin was injected into improve treatment outcomes for infections, as the application animals at a concentration of 0.4 mL per day. The results of PDT and the generation of reactive species cause oxidative 2682 ACSInfect.Dis.2025,11,2671−2691 ACS Infectious Diseases pubs.acs.org/journal/aidcbc Review damagetobacterialcells,affectingtheirstructuresandallowing patient awaiting tonsillectomy. To avoid antibiotic use, aPDT theentryofantibioticsthatwerepreviouslyinaccessibledueto was applied, resulting in the elimination of exudate and the development of resistance mechanisms. Therefore, the hyperemia within 1 week, as well as a reduction in tonsil and combination of PDT and antibiotics may be a potential crypt size after six months.180 These findings reinforce the treatment option due to its high efficacy in inactivating potential of aPDT as a complementary therapy for bacteria. inflammatory diseases of the pharynx, significantly reducing Therapeutic Perspectives of Combining Therapies. bacterial load and promoting tissue healing.181 Since this Technical Challenges, Limitations, and Safety Concerns infection site allows easy access to PS application and Related to the Combined Use of aPDT and Antibiotics. irradiation, a localized treatment may be preferable over
