TThhiiss aarrttiiccllee iiss lliicceennsseedd uunnddeerr CCCC--BBYY 44..00
KEYWORDS: antimicrobial, resistance, apdt, therapy, photodynamic, bacterial, antibiotics, antibiotic, bacteria, photodynamic therapy, mechanisms, light, treatment, acs, infections


Limitations, and Safety Concerns infection site allows easy access to PS application and Related to the Combined Use of aPDT and Antibiotics. irradiation, a localized treatment may be preferable over a Therapeutic approaches will face challenges and limitations, systemic approach. However, the patient’s medicinal history especially regarding aPDT combined with antibiotic therapy. mustbeevaluated,astheymayhavepreviouslyreceivedorare As discussed elsewhere, the choice of antimicrobial concen- currently getting antimicrobial treatment. Understanding the trations and the optimization of aPDT parameters such as PS combination of aPDT with antibiotic therapy is therefore maximum efficacy without damaging surrounding tissues In contrast, difficult-to-reach illnesses, like as pulmonary influence the treatment’s synergistic and antagonistic re- infections, necessitate tailored PS formulation and dosimetry sponses.12,32,159−161 Limited parameter optimization and the procedures. Animal model studies have demonstrated the implementationofthetreatmentinvivoorhumanmodelsare viability of this strategy. For example, hairless mice infected technical challenges. Those include attention to the depth of with Streptococcus pneumoniae underwent aPDT 2 days light penetration, ensuring adequate light penetration to reach postinfection using a 780 nm laser and ICG as the PS. In deeperbacterial infections, especially inthick or dense tissues, controlgroups,bacterialcountsrangedfrom103to104CFU/ and uniform light distribution, achieving consistent light mouse, whereas 80% of mice treated with aPDT had no exposure across the treatment area to avoid uneven photo- detectable bacteria. The survival rate was monitored for 50 dynamic effects.32,33,162,163 days.182 However, when transitioning to larger animal models Another limitation associated with aPDT is ensuring the such as pigs, new challenges were identified, particularly in stability and bioavailability of the PS in the body, as some extracorporeal illumination183 and efficient PS delivery. The photosensitizersmaydegradeorloseefficacydependingonthe persistence of residual pathogens may justify the combined solvent or route of administration.10,164−167 Although the administration of antibiotics to ensure complete infection mechanism of action of aPDT is via oxidative stress, eradication.184,185 interaction with the PS is critical; since most PSs are large These examples demonstrate that aPDT holds promise as a molecules, they are less uptake into Gram-negative bacteria therapeuticstrategyforbothsuperficialandinternalinfections. than Gram-positive ones.168−171 This is a key point in the However, monotherapy with aPDT may not be sufficient in performance of aPDT, as better responses are obtained with some cases, either due to the patient’s medical history or the good interaction between the pathogen and the PS. At the persistence of pathogenic cells. Therefore, future studies same time, resistance development is possibly related to the should consider the combined approach with antibiotic aPDT protocol used. Multiple exposures to the
