Received: 28 December 2020 | Revised: 4 April 2021 | Accepted: 15 April 2021
KEYWORDS: gut, microbiota, brain, patients, bipolar, intestinal, gut microbiota, bbb, type, expression, ifn, blood, equal, barrier, disorder


provide a new perspective Microbiology Project.47 Intestinal microbes are involved in the regu- to investigate the role of these genes by paying special attention lation of host development and physiological processes, including to TRANK1 and its interaction with human intestine microbiota, the formation of various organs, energy metabolism and host im- which is also recognized as a critical environmental factor for human biota may also participate in the occurrence and development of and the brain communicate bidirectionally. Indeed, the peripheral diseases by affecting the expression of host genes.49,50 For example, inflammation and neuroinflammation in the CNS is a distinguished the complex interaction between the host genome and the intestinal hallmark of BD and may have a close relationship with the gut micro- microbiota may affect the age of onset and clinical manifestations of bial compositional alterations. Increasing evidence has revealed that patients with inflammatory bowel disease.49 In BD patients, it was gut microbiota can regulate local and systemic inflammation via the also found that the diversity of intestinal commensal bacteria was type 1 IFN signalling. Herein, we propose that the gut mircobiota- negatively correlated with the methylation level of cg05733463 on derived type 1 IFN signalling is essential in regulating the host ex- the biological clock gene ARNTL.50 However, few studies have ever pression of TRANK1 gene, which participates in the destruction of explored the relationships between gut microbiota and susceptibil- BBB integrity and facilitates CNS inflammatory processes. Over- ity genes of BD. activated neuroinflammation thereby promotes the occurrence and In addition to the regulatory role of gut microbiota on pro- development of BD. inflammatory factors, such as IL- 1β, IL- 6 and TNF- α, type 1 IFN More evidence is needed to confirm this speculation mech- pathway is also modulated by the signals from the commensal mi- anistically. For example, germ- free mice receiving faecal micro- criobiota.51 As a pleiotropic family of cytokines, type 1 IFN plays biota transplantation from critically ill BD patients should be as a critical mediator of host immune response to intestine- derived constructed to verify the disease- like phenotypes, inflammatory antigens, including bacteria and virus.51 However, only some specific status, expression level of TRANK1 and markers of impaired BBB. LAI et AL. | 6467 FIGURE 1 Gut microbiota- dependent type 1 IFN signalling induces TRANK1 expression and BBB impairment. Compared with healthy individuals, the diversity and compositions of the intestinal microbiota of BD patients
