Received: 28 December 2020 | Revised: 4 April 2021 | Accepted: 15 April 2021
KEYWORDS: gut, microbiota, brain, patients, bipolar, intestinal, gut microbiota, bbb, type, expression, ifn, blood, equal, barrier, disorder


FIGURE 1 Gut microbiota- dependent type 1 IFN signalling induces TRANK1 expression and BBB impairment. Compared with healthy individuals, the diversity and compositions of the intestinal microbiota of BD patients is altered. Various metabolites produced by the commensal microbiota, such as bacterial lipopolysaccharide (LPS), short- chain fatty acids (SFCA) and other metabolites, can enter the peripheral circulation through the intestinal mucosal barrier. Circulating bacterial antigens, such as LPS, are recognized by the Toll- like receptors on the surface of dendritic cells and stimulate the release of cytokines including type 1 IFN, IL- 6, TNF- α and other inflammatory mediators. Type 1 IFN stimulates neutrophils and other immune cells to synthesize and secrete TRANK1 protein. TRANK1 protein in the peripheral circulation acts on the BBB, resulting in decreased integrity and increased permeability of the BBB. Various inflammatory mediators are more easily to enter the central nervous system and activate microglia to induce neuroinflammation, which is involved in the pathogenesis of BD Whether inhibition of the type 1 IFN signalling can down- regulate CONFLICT OF INTEREST the expression of TRANK1 and protect the BBB integrity remains The authors confirm that there are no conflicts of interest. to be studied. In human tissues, although up- regulated expression of TRANK1 in postmortem brain from BD patients has been ob- AUTHOR CONTRIBUTIONS served,13 the expression level of TRANK1 in the peripheral circu- Jianbo Lai: Conceptualization (lead); Writing- original draft (lead). lation also needs to be explored. Researches in TRANK1 knockout Jiajun Jiang: Conceptualization (equal); Writing- original draft animals can help to elucidate the gene function and its interaction (equal). Peifen Zhang: Conceptualization (equal); Writing- original with the gut microbiota. draft (equal). Caixi Xi: Conceptualization (equal); Writing- original Overall, it is intriguing that if the expression of bipolar suscep- draft (equal). Lingling Wu: Conceptualization (equal); Writing- tibility genes can be regulated by targeting the gut microbiota, original draft (equal). Xingle Gao: Conceptualization (equal); microorganism- derived metabolites or downstream type 1 IFN sig- Writing- original draft (equal). Yaoyang Fu: Conceptualization nalling pathway. Better understanding the role of gut microbiota in (equal); Writing- original draft (equal). Danhua Zhang: human health and diseases helps to elucidate the pathogenesis of Conceptualization (equal); Writing- original draft (equal). Yiqing BD and provides novel treatment strategies. Chen: Conceptualization (equal); Writing- original draft (equal). 6468 | LAI et AL. Huimin Huang: Conceptualization (equal); Writing- original draft 17. Irudayam JI, Contreras D, Spurka L, et
