A Literature Review of Zika Virus
KEYWORDS: virus, zika, zika virus, appendix, online, technical, technical appendix, reference, online technical, appendix reference, cases, reported, transmission, infection, testing


Anna R. Plourde, Evan M. Bloch Zika virus is a mosquitoborne flavivirus that is the focus of the Americas (9), with sporadic exportations to Europe an ongoing pandemic and public health emergency. Pre- (Figures 1–3; online Technical Appendix Table 2). viously limited to sporadic cases in Africa and Asia, the Zika virus was first reported in May 2015 in continen- emergence of Zika virus in Brazil in 2015 heralded rapid tal South America in Brazil, where ≈440,000–1,300,000 spread throughout the Americas. Although most Zika vi- persons have subsequently been infected (as of February rus infections are characterized by subclinical or mild in- 16, 2016). Furthermore, 29 other countries in the Ameri- fluenza-like illness, severe manifestations have been de- cas have reported autochthonous Zika virus transmission, scribed, including Guillain-Barre syndrome in adults and including Puerto Rico and US Virgin Islands (Figure 3; microcephaly in babies born to infected mothers. Neither online Technical Appendix Table 2) (13). Except for 2 an effective treatment nor a vaccine is available for Zika vi- es on preventing infection, particularly in pregnant women. Canada, and Europe has been restricted to travelers from Despite growing knowledge about this virus, questions affected areas (Figure 1; online Technical Appendix Table remain regarding the virus’s vectors and reservoirs, patho- 2); a patient who delivered an infant with microcephaly in genesis, genetic diversity, and potential synergistic effects Hawaii had spent part of her pregnancy in Brazil (14). of co-infection with other circulating viruses. These ques- Given the wealth of new information about Zika vi- tions highlight the need for research to optimize surveil- rus, we conducted a literature review to summarize the published findings. This review contextualizes the ongo- in the current Zika virus epidemic. ing Zika virus epidemic in the Americas and identifies knowledge gaps that must be addressed to combat Zika Zika virus is a flavivirus that was first isolated in 1947 virus successfully. from a febrile rhesus macaque monkey in the Zika Forest of Uganda and later identified in Aedes africanus The Review mosquitoes from the same forest (1). In 1954, the first 3 cases of human infection were reported in Nigeria (2). Se- Search Strategy and Selection Criteria rosurveillance studies in humans suggest that Zika virus is Using the keywords “Zika,” “ZIKV,” “ZIKAV,” and “Zika widespread throughout Africa, Asia, and Oceania (online virus,” we searched Google, PubMed, Web of Science, Technical Appendix Table 1, Scopus, and ProMed
