A Literature Review of Zika Virus
KEYWORDS: virus, zika, zika virus, appendix, online, technical, technical appendix, reference, online technical, appendix reference, cases, reported, transmission, infection, testing


Using the keywords “Zika,” “ZIKV,” “ZIKAV,” and “Zika widespread throughout Africa, Asia, and Oceania (online virus,” we searched Google, PubMed, Web of Science, Technical Appendix Table 1, Scopus, and ProMed Mail. We reviewed all literature pub- article/[DATE]-1990-Techapp1.pdf). However, these studies lished through February 16, 2016, including peer-reviewed may overestimate the virus’s true prevalence, given serolog- journal articles, infectious disease reporting system broad- as dengue virus (DENV) and West Nile virus (WNV) (3,4). ters for Disease Control and Prevention [CDC] and Euro- Historically, symptomatic Zika virus infections were pean Centre for Disease Prevention and Control [ECDC]). limited to sporadic cases or small clusters of patients (on- To ensure the capture of all information, we cross-refer- line Technical Appendix Table 2). This pattern changed in enced the bibliographies of reviewed articles. The search 2007, when the first major outbreak of Zika virus infection included English-language and foreign-language articles, occurred in Yap (Federated States of Micronesia), where which were computer translated. ≈73% of the population were infected and symptomatic disease developed in ≈18% of infected persons (5). Since Virology and Pathogenesis then, Zika virus infection has spread rapidly. Outbreaks Zika virus is a positive-sense single-stranded RNA virus have occurred in French Polynesia (6), Cook Islands (6), in the family Flaviviridae, which includes several other WNV, and yellow fever virus [YFV]) (15). Its closest Baltimore, Maryland, USA (E.M. Bloch); Blood Systems Research encoding 3,419 aa (16). Like other flaviviruses, Zika virus an open reading frame (16), which encodes a polyprotein DOI: Emerging Infectious Diseases • www.cdc.gov/eid • Vol. 22, No. 7, July 2016 1185 SYNOPSIS Figure 1. Cases of laboratory-confirmed, imported Zika virus infections in the United States, by state, January 1, 2015–February 10, 2016 (10). All cases are imported, with the exception of 2 sexually acquired autochthonous cases (11,12). cleaved into the capsid, precursor of membrane, envelope, virus enters skin cells through cellular receptors, enabling and 7 nonstructural proteins (16). migration to the lymph nodes and bloodstream. Few studies Phylogenetic analysis shows that Zika virus can be have investigated the pathogenesis of Zika virus infection. classified into distinct African and Asian lineages; both One study showed that human skin fibroblasts, keratino- emerged from East Africa during the late 1800s or early cytes, and immature dendritic cells allow entry of Zika virus 1900s (17). The Asian lineage originated during the virus’s (19). Several entry and adhesion factors (e.g., AXL receptor migration from Africa to
