A Literature Review of Zika Virus
KEYWORDS: virus, zika, zika virus, appendix, online, technical, technical appendix, reference, online technical, appendix reference, cases, reported, transmission, infection, testing


immature dendritic cells allow entry of Zika virus 1900s (17). The Asian lineage originated during the virus’s (19). Several entry and adhesion factors (e.g., AXL receptor migration from Africa to Southeast Asia, where it was first tyrosine kinase) facilitate infection, and cellular autophagy, detected in Malaysia. From there, Zika virus spread to the needed for flaviviral replication, enhances Zika virus replica- Pacific Islands, separately to Yap and French Polynesia, tion in skin fibroblasts (19). After cellular entry, flaviviruses and then to New Caledonia, Cook Islands, Easter Island, typically replicate within endoplasmic reticulum-derived and the Americas (17). vesicles. However, Zika virus antigens were found exclu- A study of Zika virus’s molecular evolution, based on sively in the nuclei of infected cells; this finding suggests a viral strains collected from 4 countries in West Africa dur- location for replication that differs from that of other flavivi- ing 1947–2007, identified several sites within the Zika vi- ruses and merits further investigation (20). ral genome that were under strong negative selection pres- sure. This finding suggests frequent purging of deleterious Transmission polymorphisms in functionally important genes and the Zika virus, like other flaviviruses, is transmitted by mosqui- possibility of recombination, which occurs rarely among toes, primarily of the Aedes (Stegomyia) genus. Several Ae- flaviviruses (18). The implications of this finding require des spp. have been implicated, including Ae. aegypti, Ae. af- further evaluation with respect to viral spread, zoonotic ricanus, Ae. hensilli, and Ae. albopictus (1,21–23). The Ae. maintenance, and epidemiologic potential. aegypti mosquito appears to be the major vector in Asia (24) After mosquito inoculation of a human host, cellular en- and was the suspected primary vector for the French Polyne- try likely resembles that of other flaviviruses, whereby the sia outbreak (25). Zika virus has been detected in wild-caught 1186 Emerging Infectious Diseases • www.cdc.gov/eid • Vol. 22, No. 7, July 2016 A Literature Review of Zika Virus Figure 2. All countries and regions reporting laboratory-confirmed autochthonous Zika virus cases, January 1, 2015–February 10, 2016 (online Technical Appendix Table 2, Data represent outbreaks and case reports for all reported autochthonous laboratory-confirmed cases of Zika virus infection, including those reported in the peer-reviewed Ae. aegypti mosquitoes, which laboratory experiments have (32). Isolation of the virus or of anti-Zika virus antibod- shown to be capable of transmitting Zika virus (26,27). Ae. ies from various nonhuman primates and other wild and hensilli mosquitoes were implicated
