A Literature Review of Zika Virus
KEYWORDS: virus, zika, zika virus, appendix, online, technical, technical appendix, reference, online technical, appendix reference, cases, reported, transmission, infection, testing


the virus or of anti-Zika virus antibod- shown to be capable of transmitting Zika virus (26,27). Ae. ies from various nonhuman primates and other wild and hensilli mosquitoes were implicated in the Yap outbreak, yet domestic animals suggests multiple animal reservoirs (33). Zika virus has never been isolated from these mosquitoes One study examined the kinetics of Zika virus infectivity in (28,29). In Africa, the predominant Aedes species vector has Ae. aegypti mosquitoes by using blood-feeding membranes not been definitively identified, although viral isolation stud- (27); viral content was high on the day of feeding (inocu- ies suggest that Ae. albopticus was the likely vector in a 2007 lation), decreased to undetectable levels through day 10, Zika virus outbreak in Gabon (23). increased by day 15, and remained high on days 20–60. Aedes mosquitoes are widely distributed globally, and These findings suggest an incubation period in mosquitoes native habitats of most species are warm tropical and sub- of ≈10 days. tropical regions (29–31). Some species show a limited dis- Other nonvector modes of Zika virus transmission in- tribution (e.g., Ae. luteocephalus in Africa and Ae. hensilli clude congenital (34), perinatal (35), and sexual (11,36). in the Pacific Islands); others have a broad geographic span Possible transmission by blood transfusion (37,38), ani- (e.g., Ae. aegypti and Ae. albopictus) (29–31). Ae. albop- mal bite (39), and laboratory exposure (40; online Techni- ictus does not yet appear to be a major vector of Zika vi- cal Appendix reference 41) has been described; however, rus. However, its role in the 2007 Gabon outbreak, its wide confounding by contemporaneous vectorborne transmis- distribution throughout the United States, and Zika virus’s sion in these instances cannot be excluded. For example, lack of restriction to a specific Aedes sp. indicate that this the patient who became infected with Zika virus after a species could serve as a vector in the United States (9). monkey bite had concomitant exposure to mosquitoes, a Mosquito acquisition of the virus likely occurs dur- more plausible route of acquisition (39). Similarly, 1 of 2 ing a blood meal; after uptake, the virus replicates and is patients with potentially laboratory-acquired infection (40; transmitted to a reservoir animal at the next blood meal online Technical Appendix reference 41) reported recent Emerging Infectious Diseases • www.cdc.gov/eid • Vol. 22, No. 7, July 2016 1187 SYNOPSIS Figure 3. South America, Central America, and Caribbean countries and regions
