A Literature Review of Zika Virus
KEYWORDS: virus, zika, zika virus, appendix, online, technical, technical appendix, reference, online technical, appendix reference, cases, reported, transmission, infection, testing


(8,36,40). Symp- French Polynesia outbreak, a study found that 42 (2.8%) of toms resolve within 2 weeks; accounts of longer persistence 1,505 asymptomatic blood donors were positive for Zika are rare (25; online Technical Appendix reference 47). virus by RT-PCR; 11 donors described a Zika fever-like More severe clinical sequelae have increasingly been syndrome 3–10 days after donation (37). associated with Zika virus. During the ongoing outbreak 1188 Emerging Infectious Diseases • www.cdc.gov/eid • Vol. 22, No. 7, July 2016 A Literature Review of Zika Virus in Brazil, reports of infants born with microcephaly have cultured Zika virus particles in his semen (36). In addition, markedly increased (>3,800 cases; 20 cases/10,000 live a 36-year-old man from the United States contracted Zika births vs. 0.5/10,000 live births in previous years) (online virus infection while in Senegal, and subsequently, his wife Technical Appendix reference 48). However, concern ex- was infected in the United States; this case supports sexual ists that these findings may in part be artifactual, resulting transmission (11). A second sexually acquired case was re- from previous underreporting of cases and confounding by ported in Texas (online Technical Appendix reference 58). other risk factors for microcephaly (online Technical Ap- Rare deaths have been described in patients infected pendix reference 49). Because systematic surveillance for with Zika virus (online Technical Appendix reference 44). microcephaly was not previously undertaken, the baseline Besides 1 infant death, 3 other fatalities were reported (2 rate of microcephaly in Brazil is unknown, and subsequent from Brazil and 1 from Colombia): 1 man with lupus ery- reports suggest that a substantial proportion of infants that thematosus, chronic corticosteroid use, rheumatoid arthri- dition (online Technical Appendix reference 50). le cell disease (online Technical Appendix reference 59). Health officials in French Polynesia have reported (Medical history was not reported for the other girl [online an apparent increase in congenital central nervous system Technical Appendix reference 44].) (CNS) malformations, coinciding with the outbreak occur- ring during 2013–2014 (online Technical Appendix refer- General Laboratory Findings ence 51). However, this finding should be cautiously in- Information on laboratory findings for Zika virus infection terpreted; reports included only 17 cases, and none were is limited. Complete blood count is often normal; even if laboratory-confirmed Zika virus cases. In addition, the true blood count is abnormal, changes may be nonspecific (e.g., baseline rate of such malformations before the outbreak is mild lymphopenia, mild neutropenia,
