A Literature Review of Zika Virus
KEYWORDS: virus, zika, zika virus, appendix, online, technical, technical appendix, reference, online technical, appendix reference, cases, reported, transmission, infection, testing


drying wet environments or using insecticide treatment algorithms are based on sampling relative to symptom on- (online Technical Appendix reference 68). Pregnant wom- set, and serologic testing should be considered if samples en residing in countries that are not Zika virus–endemic are are negative for Zika virus by RT-PCR (online Technical advised against travel to affected countries (online Techni- Appendix reference 63). cal Appendix reference 69). Testing should be offered to Serologic testing has limitations. Zika virus IgM and all pregnant women who have traveled to areas with on- IgG are notoriously cross-reactive with those against other going Zika virus transmission (online Technical Appendix flaviviruses (particularly DENV), limiting specificity (5,15; reference 70). Serial fetal ultrasounds should be considered online Technical Appendix reference 46). Therefore, posi- to monitor fetal anatomy and growth every 3–4 weeks in tive serologic test results should be confirmed with testing pregnant women with positive or inconclusive Zika virus that uses an alternative platform such as a seroneutraliza- test results, and the infant should be tested at birth (online tion assay (e.g., plaque-reduction neutralization test) (22). Technical Appendix reference 70). Men who reside in or However, flaviviral cross-reactivity can also pose problems have traveled to an area of active Zika virus transmission in confirmatory assays, especially for patients immunized and who have a pregnant partner should abstain from sex- (e.g., against YFV or Japanese encephalitis virus) or in- ual activity or use condoms during sex; similar guidelines fected with another flavivirus (e.g., WNV or St. Louis en- apply for men with a nonpregnant female sex partner who cephalitis virus); presence of antibodies confounds diagno- is concerned about sexual transmission of Zika virus (on- sis (online Technical Appendix reference 63). line Technical Appendix reference 58). The type of sample can also affect the probability of detection. Although diagnostic testing is performed primar- Discussion of other specimen types (e.g., urine, saliva, amniotic fluid, many as 1.3 million persons have been affected in Brazil and tissue) is being evaluated (online Technical Appendix alone (online Technical Appendix Table 2), and 20 coun- reference 63). Urine and saliva may offer alternatives, par- tries or territories have reported local transmission of the ticularly when blood collection is difficult (e.g., in children virus during 2016 (Figures 2,3). Because of the ease of air or remote locations). Viruria may persist longer than vire- travel and international trade, further spread into regions mia. One study reported
