A Literature Review of Zika Virus
KEYWORDS: virus, zika, zika virus, appendix, online, technical, technical appendix, reference, online technical, appendix reference, cases, reported, transmission, infection, testing


2016 (Figures 2,3). Because of the ease of air or remote locations). Viruria may persist longer than vire- travel and international trade, further spread into regions mia. One study reported that Zika virus RNA was detected where the virus is not endemic is likely, and transmission in urine up to 20 days after viremia had become undetect- is probable in locations with competent mosquito vectors. able (online Technical Appendix reference 62); therefore, A robust, multifaceted response is underway that involves virus is clinically suspected, despite negative serum test- medical industry, medical practitioners, and researchers. ing (22,33,35,36; online Technical Appendix reference However, uncertainty remains regarding aspects of the vi- 62). Similarly, RT-PCR conducted with saliva has been rus’s vectors, epidemiology, and pathogenesis. As the epi- shown to increase the detection rate during the acute phase demic unfolds, evaluating incoming data critically will be of infection but does not extend the window of detection of necessary to separate fact from speculation. Zika virus RNA; consequently, blood remains the preferred Foremost, diagnosis remains suboptimal. Diagnostic sample (online Technical Appendix reference 66). guidelines are contingent on laboratory testing that is not widely available. Although commercial tests for Zika virus Management and Prevention are limited in number and availability, more are in devel- No specific treatment or vaccine is available for Zika virus opment, including prototype multiplex molecular assays infection. Management is supportive and includes rest, fluids, that concurrently test for Zika virus, CHIKV, and DENV 1190 Emerging Infectious Diseases • www.cdc.gov/eid • Vol. 22, No. 7, July 2016 A Literature Review of Zika Virus (M.P. Busch, pers. comm.). However, although not unique The epidemic has serious medical, ethical, and economic to Zika virus, laboratory infrastructure and testing capabil- ramifications, particularly in countries where the resources ity is lacking in resource-constrained settings where Zika for early diagnosis are lacking and potential intervention virus is most prevalent. measures (e.g., contraception or termination of pregnancy) Prevention measures (specifically, vector control) are are discouraged or illegal (online Technical Appendix ref- a current priority, pending advances in diagnostics; the erence 73). Although autochthonous transmission in the World Health Organization and the Pan American Health United States is unlikely to match the scale of the epidemic Organization have issued recommendations (online Tech- in Central and South America, much about Zika virus and nical Appendix reference 44). In the United States, multi- the way the pandemic will evolve are unknown. Continued
