A Literature Review of Zika Virus
KEYWORDS: virus, zika, zika virus, appendix, online, technical, technical appendix, reference, online technical, appendix reference, cases, reported, transmission, infection, testing


(online Tech- in Central and South America, much about Zika virus and nical Appendix reference 44). In the United States, multi- the way the pandemic will evolve are unknown. Continued ple factors guard against the explosive epidemic occurring vigilance is warranted, along with a concerted effort toward throughout Central and South America. Specifically, lower improving our understanding, management, and prevention rates of human crowding in urban areas, wider access to of this emerging pathogen. air conditioning and mosquito repellants, and waste man- agement limit mosquitoborne transmission, which has been Acknowledgments the case for DENV (online Technical Appendix reference We thank Matthew L. Brandwein for his technical expertise in 71). Nonetheless, further entomologic research is needed generating the figures. to define the range of Zika virus vectors and identify new Dr. Plourde is a resident physician in the Departments of areas where autochthonous transmission could take place Pathology and Laboratory Medicine at the University of to enable early intervention. Investment is also needed in durable control measures such as adaptable vaccine plat- public health microbiology and emerging infectious diseases. forms for arboviruses; currently, no Zika virus vaccines are in advanced development (9). Dr. Bloch is an assistant professor in the Department of Aspects of Zika virus pathogenesis remain unclear. Pathology and an associate director of the Transfusion Division ing potential neuropathophysiologic mechanisms, is be- His interests include neglected tropical diseases and transfusion- ing actively investigated. Continued epidemiologic study, transmissible infections. combined with research involving animal models, will of- fer increased insight, which could spur novel prevention
