Varicose veins in the legs
KEYWORDS: veins, varicose, varicose veins, ablation, people, service, vascular, nice, statement, vascular service, data, quality, endothermal ablation, endothermal, nice guideline


Quality statements Statement 1 People with varicose veins that are causing symptoms or complications (including ulceration) are referred to a vascular service. Statement 2 People with varicose veins who are seen by a vascular service are assessed with duplex ultrasound. Statement 3 People with confirmed varicose veins and truncal reflux are offered a suitable treatment in this order: endothermal ablation, ultrasound-guided foam sclerotherapy, surgery, compression hosiery. Quality statement 1: Referral to a vascular service Quality statement People with varicose veins that are causing symptoms or complications (including ulceration) are referred to a vascular service. Rationale If left untreated, varicose veins will continue to cause symptoms that affect quality of life, and may progress to bleeding, skin damage and ulceration. Referral to a vascular service is a first step to interventional treatment for varicose veins that can relieve symptoms, and slow disease progression and improve people's quality of life. Quality measures The following measures can be used to assess the quality of care or service provision specified in the statement. They are examples of how the statement can be measured, and can be adapted and used flexibly. Structure Evidence of local arrangements and written referral criteria to ensure that people with varicose veins that are causing symptoms or complications (including ulceration) are referred to a vascular service. Data source: Local data collection. Process Proportion of people with varicose veins that are causing symptoms or complications (including ulceration) who are referred to a vascular service. Numerator – the number in the denominator who are referred to a vascular service. Denominator – the number of people who present with varicose veins that are causing symptoms or complications (including ulceration). Data source: Local data collection. Outcome Progression of venous leg disease. Data source: Local data collection. What the quality statement means for different audiences Service providers (such as GPs and vascular services) ensure that local referral pathways into vascular services are consistent with the evidence-based referral criteria in NICE's guideline on varicose veins, which include varicose veins that are causing symptoms or complications (including ulceration). Healthcare professionals (such as GPs) follow local referral pathways into vascular services to ensure that people with varicose veins that are causing symptoms or complications (including ulceration) are referred to a vascular service. Commissioners monitor activity across local referral pathways to ensure that the evidence-based referral criteria in NICE's guideline on varicose veins are being followed. People with varicose
