Varicose veins in the legs
KEYWORDS: veins, varicose, varicose veins, ablation, people, service, vascular, nice, statement, vascular service, data, quality, endothermal ablation, endothermal, nice guideline


to a vascular service. Commissioners monitor activity across local referral pathways to ensure that the evidence-based referral criteria in NICE's guideline on varicose veins are being followed. People with varicose veins that are causing symptoms (for example pain, aching, discomfort, swelling, heaviness and itching) or problems such as bleeding, eczema or leg ulcers are referred to a specialist vascular service (a team of healthcare professionals who have training and experience in diagnosing and treating varicose veins). Source guidance Varicose veins: diagnosis and management. NICE guideline CG168 (2013), recommendation 1.2.2 (key priority for implementation) Definitions of terms used in this quality statement Symptoms of varicose veins Symptoms of varicose veins include troublesome lower limb symptoms (typically pain, aching, discomfort, swelling, heaviness and itching). The symptoms may be associated with primary or recurrent varicose veins. [Adapted from NICE's guideline on varicose veins, recommendation 1.2.2] Complications of varicose veins Complications of varicose veins are: • lower-limb skin changes, such as pigmentation or eczema, thought to be caused by chronic venous insufficiency • bleeding varicose veins • superficial vein thrombosis (characterised by the appearance of hard, painful veins) and suspected venous incompetence • a venous leg ulcer (a break in the skin below the knee that has not healed within 2 weeks) or a healed venous leg ulcer. [Adapted from NICE's guideline on varicose veins, recommendation 1.2.2] Vascular service A vascular service is a team of healthcare professionals who have the skills to undertake a full clinical and duplex ultrasound assessment and provide a full range of treatment. [NICE's guideline on varicose veins, recommendation 1.2.1] Quality statement 2: Duplex ultrasound Quality statement People with varicose veins who are seen by a vascular service are assessed with duplex ultrasound. Rationale Duplex ultrasound is a non-invasive scan used to image the blood vessels of the body. It provides detailed information that helps to confirm the diagnosis and pattern of venous disease and determine the most appropriate treatment option. The handheld doppler is still used in some services, but it is outdated and does not provide the detailed, accurate information produced by duplex ultrasound. Quality measures The following measures can be used to assess the quality of care or service provision specified in the statement. They are examples of how the statement can be measured, and can be adapted and used flexibly. Structure Evidence of local arrangements to ensure that people with varicose veins seen by a
