Varicose veins in the legs
KEYWORDS: veins, varicose, varicose veins, ablation, people, service, vascular, nice, statement, vascular service, data, quality, endothermal ablation, endothermal, nice guideline


examples of how the statement can be measured, and can be adapted and used flexibly. Structure Evidence of local arrangements to ensure that people with varicose veins seen by a vascular service are assessed with duplex ultrasound. Data source: Local data collection. Process Proportion of people with varicose veins seen by a vascular service who are assessed with duplex ultrasound. Numerator – the number in the denominator who are assessed with duplex ultrasound. Denominator – the number of people with varicose veins seen by a vascular service. Data source: Local data collection. What the quality statement means for different audiences Service providers (secondary care) ensure that vascular services have adequate numbers of duplex ultrasound machines and that staff have undergone appropriate training, so that all people with varicose veins referred to a vascular service are assessed with duplex ultrasound. Healthcare professionals working in a vascular service ensure that people with varicose veins are assessed with duplex ultrasound. Commissioners ensure that they commission vascular services that have sufficient capacity, equipment and skilled staff to assess varicose veins using duplex ultrasound. People with varicose veins who have been referred to a vascular service have a duplex ultrasound scan (a scan that uses high-frequency sound waves to produce a picture of the veins). The scan shows the blood flow and helps the vascular service team locate any damaged valves that might be causing the varicose veins. Source guidance Varicose veins: diagnosis and management. NICE guideline CG168 (2013), recommendation 1.3.1 (key priority for implementation) Definitions of terms used in this quality statement Vascular service A vascular service is a team of healthcare professionals who have the skills to undertake a full clinical and duplex ultrasound assessment and provide a full range of treatment. [NICE's guideline on varicose veins, recommendation 1.2.1] Duplex ultrasound A device utilising doppler ultrasound that permits colour-coded visualisation of blood flow in the superficial, perforating and deep veins, as well as grey-scale imaging of the veins and surrounding tissue. It can also be used to image blood flow in arteries. [NICE's full guideline on varicose veins, glossary] Quality statement 3: Treatment of varicose veins Quality statement People with confirmed varicose veins and truncal reflux are offered a suitable treatment in this order: endothermal ablation, ultrasound-guided foam sclerotherapy, surgery, compression hosiery. Rationale Historically surgery and compression therapy were the only treatments available to people with varicose veins, but in recent years other
