Varicose veins in the legs
KEYWORDS: veins, varicose, varicose veins, ablation, people, service, vascular, nice, statement, vascular service, data, quality, endothermal ablation, endothermal, nice guideline


order: endothermal ablation, ultrasound-guided foam sclerotherapy, surgery, compression hosiery. Rationale Historically surgery and compression therapy were the only treatments available to people with varicose veins, but in recent years other treatments including endothermal ablation and ultrasound-guided foam sclerotherapy have been developed. These newer therapies are less invasive than surgery, promote faster recovery and need shorter hospital stays. Not all treatments are suitable for all people and therefore it is important that the person's needs and preferences are also considered when deciding which is the most suitable treatment. Quality measures The following measures can be used to assess the quality of care or service provision specified in the statement. They are examples of how the statement can be measured, and can be adapted and used flexibly. Structure Evidence of local arrangements that the full range of treatments for varicose veins is commissioned in accordance with NICE's guideline on varicose veins. Data source: Local data collection. Process a) Proportion of people with confirmed varicose veins and truncal reflux suitable for endothermal ablation who are offered endothermal ablation. Numerator – the number in the denominator offered endothermal ablation. Denominator – the number of people with confirmed varicose veins and truncal reflux suitable for endothermal ablation. Data source: Local data collection. b) Proportion of people with confirmed varicose veins and truncal reflux unsuitable for endothermal ablation who are offered ultrasound-guided foam sclerotherapy. Numerator – the number in the denominator offered ultrasound-guided foam sclerotherapy. Denominator – the number of people with confirmed varicose veins and truncal reflux unsuitable for endothermal ablation, but suitable for ultrasound-guided foam sclerotherapy. Data source: Local data collection. c) Proportion of people with confirmed varicose veins and truncal reflux unsuitable for endothermal ablation and ultrasound-guided foam sclerotherapy who are offered surgery. Numerator – the number in the denominator offered surgery. Denominator – the number of people with confirmed varicose veins and truncal reflux unsuitable for endothermal ablation and ultrasound-guided foam sclerotherapy, but suitable for surgery. Data source: Local data collection. d) Proportion of people with confirmed varicose veins and truncal reflux unsuitable for endothermal ablation, ultrasound-guided foam sclerotherapy and surgery who are offered compression hosiery. Numerator – the number in the denominator offered compression hosiery. Denominator – the number of people with confirmed varicose veins and truncal reflux unsuitable for endothermal ablation, ultrasound-guided foam sclerotherapy and surgery. Data source: Local data collection. What the quality statement means for different audiences Service
