Varicose veins in the legs
KEYWORDS: veins, varicose, varicose veins, ablation, people, service, vascular, nice, statement, vascular service, data, quality, endothermal ablation, endothermal, nice guideline


with confirmed varicose veins and truncal reflux unsuitable for endothermal ablation, ultrasound-guided foam sclerotherapy and surgery. Data source: Local data collection. What the quality statement means for different audiences Service providers (secondary care) ensure that the local treatment pathway is consistent with the evidence-based treatment order in NICE's guideline on varicose veins. Healthcare professionals ensure that they follow the local treatment pathway to offer people a treatment that is consistent with the evidence-based treatment order in NICE's guideline on varicose veins. Commissioners ensure that the full range of treatments for varicose veins is commissioned in accordance with NICE's guideline on varicose veins. People with varicose veins caused by problems with the blood flow in the leg are offered treatment with: • endothermal ablation (in which the veins are closed off using heat) • or, if endothermal ablation is unsuitable, a treatment called ultrasound-guided foam sclerotherapy (in which the veins are closed off using a chemical foam) • or, if both endothermal ablation and ultrasound-guided foam sclerotherapy are unsuitable, surgery to remove the varicose veins. They should only be offered compression hosiery (stockings designed to improve blood flow by squeezing the legs) as a permanent treatment if none of the other treatments are suitable for them. Source guidance Varicose veins: diagnosis and management. NICE guideline CG168 (2013), recommendations 1.3.2 and 1.3.4 (key priority for implementation) Definitions of terms used in this quality statement Suitable treatment order Endothermal ablation, ultrasound-guided foam sclerotherapy or surgery may be offered in that order, according to suitability. It recommends compression hosiery only if those 3 interventions are unsuitable for the person. The suitability of each option will depend on the person's clinical circumstances and their preferences. [Adapted from NICE's guideline on varicose veins] Truncal reflux Truncal reflux is the failure of competence of valves in 1 or more of the 3 truncal veins – the great saphenous vein, the small saphenous vein and the anterior accessory saphenous definition of reflux] Endothermal ablation There are 2 types of endothermal ablation in common use: radiofrequency ablation and laser ablation (see NICE's interventional procedures guidance on radiofrequency ablation of varicose veins and endovenous laser treatment of the long saphenous vein). Radiofrequency ablation uses radio wave electromagnetic energy to cause venous ablation and closure by raising the temperature of the inner lumen of the vein. Laser ablation uses laser energy to cause venous ablation and closure by raising the temperature
