HHS Public Access
KEYWORDS: polymyxin, colistin, author, manuscript, author manuscript, patients, therapy, combination, dose, manuscript author, cms, evidence, studies, combination therapy, data


became available in the 1950s and thus did not undergo contemporary drug development procedures. Their clinical use has recently resurged, assuming an important role as salvage therapy for otherwise untreatable gram- the existence of several different conventions used to describe doses of the polymyxins, differences in their formulations, outdated product information, and uncertainties about susceptibility testing that has led to lack of clarity on how to optimally utilize and dose colistin and polymyxin B. We report consensus therapeutic guidelines for agent selection and dosing of the of Anti-Infective Pharmacology (ISAP), Society for Critical Care Medicine (SCCM), and Society of Infectious Diseases Pharmacists (SIDP). The European Society for Clinical Microbiology and Infectious Diseases (ESCMID) endorses this document as a consensus statement. The overall conclusions in the document are endorsed by the European Committee on Antimicrobial Susceptibility Testing (EUCAST). We established a diverse international expert panel to make therapeutic recommendations regarding the pharmacokinetic and pharmacodynamic properties of the drugs and pharmacokinetic targets, polymyxin agent selection, dosing, dosage adjustment and monitoring of colistin and polymyxin B, use of polymyxin-based combination therapy, intrathecal therapy, inhalation therapy, toxicity, and prevention of renal failure. The treatment guidelines provide the first ever consensus recommendations for colistin and polymyxin B therapy that are intended to guide optimal clinical use. Keywords polymyxin B; colistin; dosing guidelines This practice guideline provides consensus recommendations pertaining to the clinical use of the polymyxin antibiotics, colistin (polymyxin E) and polymyxin B, for the treatment of bacterial infections in adults. The polymyxin antibiotics became available clinically in the 1950s and thus did not undergo contemporary drug development procedures.1 Polymyxins have a unique mechanism of action involving disruption of the outer membrane integrity of Pharmacotherapy. Author manuscript; available in PMC 2020 August 19. Author Manuscript Author Manuscript Author Manuscript Author Manuscript gram-negative bacteria that in addition to providing rapid bactericidal activity may enhance polymyxins have assumed an important role as salvage therapy for otherwise untreatable gram-negative infections, most notably multidrug-resistant (MDR) and extensively drug- resistant (XDR) strains of Pseudomonas aeruginosa, Acinetobacter baumannii, and Enterobacteriaceae.2 remains regarding polymyxin use due to differences in the formulations. Colistin is administered as an inactive prodrug, colistimethate (also known as colistin methanesulfonate [CMS]), whereas polymyxin B is administered in its active form. Also, different conventions are used to describe dosing of the polymyxins, particularly colistin; product information is outdated; and uncertainties remain regarding susceptibility testing.3, 4 Thus a lack of
