HHS Public Access
KEYWORDS: polymyxin, colistin, author, manuscript, author manuscript, patients, therapy, combination, dose, manuscript author, cms, evidence, studies, combination therapy, data


active form. Also, different conventions are used to describe dosing of the polymyxins, particularly colistin; product information is outdated; and uncertainties remain regarding susceptibility testing.3, 4 Thus a lack of clarity remains about how optimally to utilize and dose colistin and polymyxin B.5, 6 Unfortunately, polymyxins are highly nephrotoxic agents, and acute kidney injury (AKI) occurs frequently with conventional doses.7, 8 Given the narrow therapeutic windows (low therapeutic indices) of polymyxins, this guideline provides clinicians with a practical framework for use in treating infections caused by MDR and XDR gram-negative pathogens. Methods Consensus Panel Composition The Consensus Panel was composed of international experts. They represent membership in Diseases Society of America [IDSA], International Society of Anti-Infective Pharmacology [ISAP], Society of Critical Care Medicine [SCCM], and the Society of Infectious Diseases Pharmacists [SIDP]). Consensus Development Based on Evidence Consensus Panel members were assigned key topics that contribute to current knowledge and optimal utilization of the polymyxins. A draft document addressing these areas that included specific recommendations was reviewed and approved by all panel members. The panel conducted face-to-face meetings and teleconferences to complete the guideline work. The purpose of the meetings and teleconferences was to determine and discuss the clinical questions to be addressed, assign topics for review and writing of the initial draft, and develop recommendations. The entire panel reviewed all sections. After review by members of the ACCP, ESCMID, IDSA, SCCM, ISAP, and SIDP, the panel reviewed the submitted comments and recommendations. After careful discussion and consideration of these suggestions, the document was revised and circulated among the panel and supporting societies for final approval. Literature Review and Analysis The recommendations in this guideline were developed following a review of studies published before December 31, 2018, in English. Studies were identified through Library of Pharmacotherapy. Author manuscript; available in PMC 2020 August 19. Author Manuscript Author Manuscript Author Manuscript Author Manuscript Congress, LISTA (Library, Information Science & Technology Abstracts [EBSCO]), and PubMed database searches with no date restrictions using Medical Subject Headings. Examples of keywords used to conduct literature searches were polymyxin, colistin, polymyxin B, nephrotoxicity, pharmacokinetics, pharmacodynamics, area under the curve, toxicodynamics, resistance, carbapenem, A. baumannii, P. aeruginosa, and Klebsiella pneumoniae. Process Overview To evaluate evidence, the panel followed a process consistent with other contemporary guidelines. The process for evaluation was based on the Grading of Recommendations Assessment, Development, and Evaluation (GRADE) system, a newly created system for
