HHS Public Access
KEYWORDS: polymyxin, colistin, author, manuscript, author manuscript, patients, therapy, combination, dose, manuscript author, cms, evidence, studies, combination therapy, data


followed a process consistent with other contemporary guidelines. The process for evaluation was based on the Grading of Recommendations Assessment, Development, and Evaluation (GRADE) system, a newly created system for grading the quality of evidence and strength of recommendations for health care.9 Some topics were determined to be ungradable such as those that involved nonclinical evidence (such as recommendations for in vitro minimum inhibitory concentration [MIC] breakpoints) and thus were not evaluated according to the GRADE criteria. Some recommendations were labeled as best practice recommendations, particularly in scenarios where the recommendations lack sufficient randomized controlled trial (RCT) evidence. Panel members were divided into groups consisting of a primary lead author and coauthors for each section. Each author was asked to review the literature, evaluate the evidence, develop and determine the strength of recommendations, and provide an evidence summary supporting each recommendation. The panel reviewed all recommendations, the assigned strength of the recommendations, and quality of evidence. Discrepancies were discussed and resolved. We acknowledge this as a potential limitation. Similar to other guidelines, some of the evidence used to establish the recommendations was published by the authors writing each section. Clinical Questions and Recommendations Susceptibility and Pharmacokinetics/Pharmacodynamics I. How Should Susceptibility Be Tested, and What Are the Minimum Inhibitory Concentration Breakpoints for the Polymyxins to Guide Therapy? Recommendation. R1: The joint European Committee on Antimicrobial Susceptibility Testing (EUCAST) and Clinical and Laboratory Standards Institute (CLSI) polymyxin breakpoint working group recommended that standard broth microdilution ISO-74 2077610 be used as the reference method for the MIC testing of colistin and be performed with cation-adjusted Mueller Hinton broth, with sulfate salts of colistin in plain polystyrene trays without additives such as polysorbate-80.11, 12 Sulphate salts of polymyxins must be used (the methanesulfonate derivative of colistin must not be used - it is an inactive pro-drug that breaks down slowly in solution).11, 12 Agar dilution, disk diffusion, and gradient diffusion are not currently recommended by CLSI-EUCAST as these methods yield unacceptably high error rates compared to broth microdilution.11–13 We recommend that the CLSI/EUCAST Joint Working Group clinical breakpoints be used for colistin (Table 1). Pharmacotherapy. Author manuscript; available in PMC 2020 August 19. Author Manuscript Author Manuscript Author Manuscript Author Manuscript Evidence Summary.: CLSI14 and EUCAST15 established a Joint Working Group regarding susceptibility testing and breakpoints for colistin.11, 12 Polymyxin B was not addressed by this group. The CLSI/EUCAST Joint Working Group recommended clinical
