HHS Public Access
KEYWORDS: polymyxin, colistin, author, manuscript, author manuscript, patients, therapy, combination, dose, manuscript author, cms, evidence, studies, combination therapy, data


and EUCAST15 established a Joint Working Group regarding susceptibility testing and breakpoints for colistin.11, 12 Polymyxin B was not addressed by this group. The CLSI/EUCAST Joint Working Group recommended clinical breakpoints that are harmonized for Acinetobacter sp and P. aeruginosa. These recommendations were approved by the CLSI Antimicrobial Susceptibility Testing Subcommittee in 2016.11,12 Breakpoints for Enterobacteriaceae were also considered. However, there were insufficient (ECV) was defined, based on the MIC distribution data for Klebsiella aerogenes, Enterobacter cloacae, Escherichia coli, K. pneumoniae, and Raoultella ornithinolytica. It is important to note that CLSI recommended that the ECV should be applied only to these species because wild-type MIC distributions may be different for other genera and species of Enterobacteriaceae. Thus the clinical breakpoints for colistin provided by the CLSI for P. aeruginosa and Acinetobacter sp were a susceptible breakpoint of 2 mg/L or lower and a resistant breakpoint of 4 mg/L or higher.12 EUCAST breakpoints for colistin for P. aeruginosa, Acinetobacter sp and Enterobacteriaceae are a susceptible breakpoint of 2 mg/L or lower and a resistant breakpoint of greater than 2 mg/L (Table 1).15 Future Research Needs.: Research should be directed toward defining reliable testing methods for colistin that are more convenient than microdilution techniques. Rapid diagnostics of polymyxin resistance16–18 and defining Enterobacteriaceae MIC breakpoints are necessary. Because polymyxin B breakpoints have not been established, future research is necessary to evaluate and define clinical breakpoints independently for all species. II. Is There a Recommended PK/PD Therapeutic Target for Maximization of Efficacy for Colistin and Polymyxin B? Recommendations. R2: We recommend that for colistin, an area under the plasma concentration-time curve across 24 hours at steady state (AUC ) of ~50 mg · hour/L is required that equates to a ss,24 hr target average steady-state plasma concentration (C ) of ~2 mg/L for total drug. ss,avg Although this target might be suboptimal for lower respiratory tract infections, it is noted that this should be considered as a maximum tolerable exposure. Concentrations higher than this were shown to increase both the incidence and severity of AKI. R3: We recommend similar targets for polymyxin B as those listed for colistin. However, we note that data are lacking for AUC targets for polymyxin B. Emerging evidence ss,24 hr suggest a different toxicodynamic (TD) profile for polymyxin B than colistin. Some evidence indicates that an AUC target of 50–100 mg · hour/L, corresponding to a ss,24 hr C
