HHS Public Access
KEYWORDS: polymyxin, colistin, author, manuscript, author manuscript, patients, therapy, combination, dose, manuscript author, cms, evidence, studies, combination therapy, data


hr suggest a different toxicodynamic (TD) profile for polymyxin B than colistin. Some evidence indicates that an AUC target of 50–100 mg · hour/L, corresponding to a ss,24 hr C of 2–4 mg/L, may be acceptable from a toxicity standpoint. ss,avg R4: We recommend that the exposures just described for polymyxin B and colistin should be considered the maximal tolerable exposures. Although these recommended exposures should achieve bacterial killing at the current MIC breakpoints based on the mouse thigh infection model, both colistin and polymyxin B when administered systemically (i.e., not directly into the lungs) were shown in the mouse lung infection model to be substantially less effective. Pharmacotherapy. Author manuscript; available in PMC 2020 August 19. Author Manuscript Author Manuscript Author Manuscript Author Manuscript Evidence Summary.: The in vitro PD activity of colistin and polymyxin B is virtually indistinguishable.19–21 Both polymyxins demonstrate rapid bactericidal killing against susceptible strains of P. aeruginosa,22, 23 A. baumannii,19, 20 and K. pneumoniae.24, 25 Concentrations above the MIC result in extremely rapid initial killing, with large decreases in colony-forming units per milliliter (cfu/mL) occurring as early as 5 minutes following exposure.22 A modest postantibiotic effect is evident for high concentrations of colistin and polymyxin B.22 The PK/PD linked parameter of the polymyxins was investigated in in vitro PK models and animal models. Clearly, for colistin, in vitro26, 27 and animal studies28, 29 point to the free-drug area under the concentration-time curve to MIC ratio (fAUC:MIC) as the PK/PD index that is best correlated with efficacy. Fewer preclinical data are available for polymyxin B.20, 21, 29, 30 However, they also suggest that fAUC:MIC is the PK/PD index that correlates best with antibacterial activity. Because colistin and polymyxin B have very similar molecular structures and in vitro activity,1, 31 it is reasonable to conclude that polymyxin B PK/PD indices and targets approach those of colistin. Studies have elucidated the fAUC:MIC target for colistin in both in vitro systems and in animals. The most recent studies29 of systemically administered colistin against A. baumannii and P. aeruginosa in murine thigh and lung infection models were used to determine fAUC:MIC targets for various magnitudes of bacterial kill and, as discussed earlier, to establish MIC breakpoints. For colistin, the fAUC:MIC values to obtain a 2 log reduction in bacterial count in the experimental thigh infection model ranged from 7.4–13.7 for P. aeruginosa and from 7.4–17.6 for A. baumannii. The fAUC:MIC
