HHS Public Access
KEYWORDS: polymyxin, colistin, author, manuscript, author manuscript, patients, therapy, combination, dose, manuscript author, cms, evidence, studies, combination therapy, data


values to obtain a 2 log reduction in bacterial count in the experimental thigh infection model ranged from 7.4–13.7 for P. aeruginosa and from 7.4–17.6 for A. baumannii. The fAUC:MIC values to obtain a 1 log reduction in bacterial count in experimental thigh infection ranged from 6.6–10.9 for P. aeruginosa and from 3.5–13.9 for A. baumannii. Target fAUC:MIC values for 1 and 2 log kill in the lung infection model were substantially higher. Indeed, for A. baumannii, it was not even possible to achieve bacteriostasis for two of the three tested strains with the highest tolerable systemic dosage regimen of colistin.29 Based on these data, a target plasma colistin C of 2 mg/L was recommended for ss,avg systemic administration of CMS.6, 32, 33 This target is based on the following considerations. First, it accounts for the difference in the extent of protein binding between the plasma of mice and critically ill patients.6, 32, 33 The protein binding in human plasma is ~50%. Second, based on the thigh infection model, this exposure would be expected to achieve bactericidal activity against an isolate with an MIC of 2 mg/L (the EUCAST and CLSI breakpoint). It is important to note that, unless the MIC of the infecting strain is well below the breakpoint, this target is very likely to be suboptimal for the systemic treatment of a lung infection.29, 30 Third, it is considered unwise to target a higher plasma colistin C ss,avg because pharmacokinetic/toxicodynamic (PK/TD) analyses in patients demonstrated that concentrations greater than 2 mg/L are associated with an increase in both the incidence and severity of AKI.34–36 Therefore, the proposed target concentrations of colistin should be considered the maximal tolerable target. Finally, even though a plasma colistin C less ss,avg than 2 mg/L may be adequate for an isolate with a low MIC, the susceptibility of the organism is often not known at the initiation of therapy, and therefore, a target of 2 mg/L is appropriate when starting CMS. Furthermore, given inaccuracies with antibiotic Pharmacotherapy. Author manuscript; available in PMC 2020 August 19. Author Manuscript Author Manuscript Author Manuscript Author Manuscript susceptibility testing with the polymyxins, relying on the reported MIC may lead to suboptimal exposures.37 One group30 recently reported the results of PK/PD studies for systemically administered polymyxin B against K. pneumoniae in murine thigh and lung infection models. The target values for 1 log reduction in bacterial count in
