HHS Public Access
KEYWORDS: polymyxin, colistin, author, manuscript, author manuscript, patients, therapy, combination, dose, manuscript author, cms, evidence, studies, combination therapy, data


results of PK/PD studies for systemically administered polymyxin B against K. pneumoniae in murine thigh and lung infection models. The target values for 1 log reduction in bacterial count in the thigh model (fAUC:MIC 3.72–28.0) were similar to those for colistin for the same magnitude of bacterial kill. Unlike colistin, 2 log kill in the thigh model was not achieved even at the highest tolerated dose of polymyxin B. Similar to findings with colistin, polymyxin B was substantially less effective against lung infections and was not able to achieve stasis against any strain, even at the highest tolerated systemic dose. to differ from CMS with regard to the risk of AKI with currently used doses. In the absence of direct quantitative data to establish an exposure–toxicity relationship, clinicians should consider data derived from a meta-analysis of 16 studies involving a total of 971 subjects who received intravenous (IV) polymyxin B.38 Pharmacokinetic exposures in patients in these studies were simulated based on patient characteristics and dosing information given in each study and published PK parameters for polymyxin B. The 25th, 50th and 75th percentiles of estimated polymyxin B AUC were 46.7, 58.6, and 78.1 mg · hour/L, SS respectively. Importantly, across all studies, 26.4% of patients displayed a 50% or higher decrease in creatinine clearance (Cl ). Based on these findings, some experts suggest a cr target AUC as high as 100 mg · hour/L for polymyxin B.39 However, based on the ss,24 hr recent lung infection model data for systemically administered polymyxin B against K. pneumoniae,30 these higher exposures may still be insufficient to achieve killing in respiratory tract infections. Thus the benefit (and true toxicity risk) of these higher exposures remains unclear. Therefore, the panel recommends the same target exposures as for colistin (AUC of ~50 mg · hour/L). SS It is important to note that the recommended PK/PD exposure targets have been derived from studies involving polymyxin monotherapy. Thus the PK/PD targets should apply to polymyxin monotherapy. Recent Hollow Fiber Infection Model studies conducted in vitro using a high bacterial density of organism and in the absence of an immune system demonstrated a paradoxical effect for the polymyxins whereby higher doses of polymyxin B and colistin further amplified high-level polymyxin resistance.20, 23, 40, 41 An inoculum effect was demonstrated for polymyxin monotherapy with bacterial killing activity significantly attenuated at inocula consistent with ventilator-associated pneumonia (VAP) or Future Research
