HHS Public Access
KEYWORDS: polymyxin, colistin, author, manuscript, author manuscript, patients, therapy, combination, dose, manuscript author, cms, evidence, studies, combination therapy, data


high-level polymyxin resistance.20, 23, 40, 41 An inoculum effect was demonstrated for polymyxin monotherapy with bacterial killing activity significantly attenuated at inocula consistent with ventilator-associated pneumonia (VAP) or Future Research Needs.: Future research should be directed toward defining optimal exposure targets in critically ill patients to establish the relationship between polymyxin exposure in relation to clinical success and failure in this patient population. The high proportion of patients who fail polymyxin therapy, and other patient-related factors, make the establishment of PK/PD relationships in critically ill patients extremely complex. PK/PD targets of polymyxins should also be considered in the context of combination therapy. The Pharmacotherapy. Author manuscript; available in PMC 2020 August 19. Author Manuscript Author Manuscript Author Manuscript Author Manuscript concentrations of polymyxins necessary to potentiate other agents would help determine whether safer exposures can be given in combination regimens. Polymyxin Pharmacokinetics III. Should I Preferentially Use One Polymyxin Over the Other? Recommendations. R5: We recommend that clinicians have access to parenteral products of both CMS and polymyxin B, so they can choose between the two in particular circumstances. R6: We recommend polymyxin B as the preferred agent for routine systemic use in invasive infections. The rationale for this recommendation is that polymyxin B has superior PK characteristics in humans as well as a decreased potential to cause nephrotoxicity. R7: We recommend colistin as the preferred polymyxin for the treatment of lower urinary tract infections given renal clearance of the prodrug CMS that then converts to the active moiety colistin in the urinary tract. Evidence Summary.: There are several clinical pharmacologic differences between CMS/ colistin and polymyxin B administered IV.42, 43 We point the reader to an excellent review that highlights the key differences between polymyxin B and colistin.42, 43 Polymyxin B appears to have superior clinical PK characteristics for infections where it is important to achieve rapidly and reliably and then maintain a desired concentration in plasma. In critically ill patients receiving IV CMS, plasma concentrations of formed colistin rise slowly. Even with a loading dose of CMS at the initiation of therapy, it may take several hours to achieve plasma colistin concentrations that may be effective. Polymyxin B is not administered as a prodrug, and therefore it is possible to use an IV dose to achieve plasma concentrations more rapidly that may be effective. In addition, dose selection is more difficult for CMS because the PK of CMS
