HHS Public Access
KEYWORDS: polymyxin, colistin, author, manuscript, author manuscript, patients, therapy, combination, dose, manuscript author, cms, evidence, studies, combination therapy, data


possible to use an IV dose to achieve plasma concentrations more rapidly that may be effective. In addition, dose selection is more difficult for CMS because the PK of CMS and formed colistin are subject to substantially greater interpatient variability than occurs with polymyxin B.42, 43 Moreover, in patients with good renal function (Cl greater than 80 mL/minute), it is not possible to attain reliably cr a plasma colistin C of 2 mg/L, a concentration regarded as a reasonable initial target ss,avg when MIC is unknown (see Section II),6, 32, 33 even with daily doses of CMS at the upper end of approved doses (see Section VI).6, 32 The pharmacokinetics of polymyxin B are not similarly affected by renal function, and therefore it is possible to attain a plasma polymyxin B C of 2 mg/L reliably with approved daily doses, even in patients with Cl greater ss,avg cr than 80 mL/minute (see Section XI).44–47 The risk of AKI appears to be less with polymyxin B,48–54 although some of the comparative studies are confounded by issues with different experimental designs.8, 42, 43 Therapeutic drug monitoring (TDM) is inherently more difficult for colistin because of the need to ensure that samples are collected in such a way as to minimize ongoing in vitro conversion of CMS to colistin. However, CMS may be the preferred agent for the IV treatment of urinary tract infections. Urinary concentrations of colistin after administration of CMS (mainly cleared by renal excretion) can be high because of conversion of CMS to Pharmacotherapy. Author manuscript; available in PMC 2020 August 19. Author Manuscript Author Manuscript Author Manuscript Author Manuscript colistin in the urinary tract.4, 43, 55, 56 In contrast, polymyxin B is predominantly cleared by nonrenal mechanisms with a median urinary recovery of 4.0% in patients.44 Future Research Needs.: Although prospective RCTs comparing parenteral polymyxin B and colistin in patients with various types of infections are unlikely to be conducted, any comparative observational data would further elucidate the efficacy and toxicity differences between both polymyxins. In particular, well-controlled safety and efficacy studies comparing dose-optimized colistin versus polymyxin B are of great interest. Colistin Intravenous Dosing IV. For CMS, What Is the Relationship Between Different Dosing Units in the Literature? Recommendation. R8: We recommend that hospital guidelines and prescription orders specify doses of CMS in either number of international units (IU) or milligrams of colistin base activity (CBA), corresponding to
