HHS Public Access
KEYWORDS: polymyxin, colistin, author, manuscript, author manuscript, patients, therapy, combination, dose, manuscript author, cms, evidence, studies, combination therapy, data


Recommendation. R8: We recommend that hospital guidelines and prescription orders specify doses of CMS in either number of international units (IU) or milligrams of colistin base activity (CBA), corresponding to the labeling convention used in the specific country. Because of the international scope of these guidelines, doses in the following sections are expressed in the approximate equivalents of both of these conventions. The conversion factor is 1 million IU is equivalent to ~33 mg CBA. Evidence Summary.: Colistin is administered parenterally in the form of the inactive prodrug, CMS. Unfortunately, two different conventions are used in different parts of the world to label vials of parenteral CMS and to express doses for patients. Both conventions are based on microbiological assessment. The parenteral products of CMS available in Europe and some other parts of the world are labeled in terms of IU. In contrast, parenteral CMS vials available in North and South America and many other parts of the world are labeled in terms of CBA, another way of expressing microbiological activity. As noted earlier, 1 million IU corresponds to ~33 mg CBA, and 1 million IU also corresponds to ~80 mg of the chemical CMS.57 Thus it is critical that doses must not be prescribed in terms of milligrams of the chemical CMS.4 When reading the scientific literature, clinicians must clearly understand whether doses reported in milligrams refer to CBA or the chemical CMS. Consistent global reporting of colistin doses is critically important to promote safe and effective use.58 Future Research Needs.: International harmonization is urgently needed to have a consistent approach to specify all doses in either numbers of IUs or milligrams of CBA. V. Do I Need to Administer an Intravenous Loading Dose When I Initiate Therapy with CMS? Recommendation. R9: We recommend initiating IV therapy with a CMS loading dose of 300 mg CBA (~9 million IU) infused over 0.5–1 hours and to administer the first maintenance dose 12–24 hours later. Pharmacotherapy. Author manuscript; available in PMC 2020 August 19. Author Manuscript Author Manuscript Author Manuscript Author Manuscript Evidence Summary.: After initiation of CMS therapy in critically ill patients, plasma concentrations of formed colistin were reported to increase slowly over many hours or even days,33, 59–61 although more rapid increases were also reported.62 Such variation in the rate of concentration attainment of colistin is probably related to brand-to-brand or batch-to- batch differences in the complex chemical composition
