HHS Public Access
KEYWORDS: polymyxin, colistin, author, manuscript, author manuscript, patients, therapy, combination, dose, manuscript author, cms, evidence, studies, combination therapy, data


more rapid increases were also reported.62 Such variation in the rate of concentration attainment of colistin is probably related to brand-to-brand or batch-to- batch differences in the complex chemical composition (degree of methanesulfonation) of the CMS administered to patients.63 The case for a loading dose would be more compelling for a brand or batch that undergoes slow conversion. Unfortunately, there is no way of knowing (a priori) the rate of in vivo conversion for a particular batch. The impact of a loading dose on the risk of developing AKI is unclear.52, 54, 64 Considering the need for timely antibiotic administration, the therapeutic benefits of a loading dose may justify the potential risk of AKI associated with loading dose.65–67 The timing of the commencement of the maintenance dose should be based on the interval of the maintenance dose (e.g., if the patient is placed on colistin every 12 hours, the maintenance dose should start 12 hours later). Future Research Needs.: More research is needed to define the brand-to-brand and batch- to-batch differences as they relate to degree of methanesulfonation and conversion to colistin. Additional data regarding the safety and efficacy of loading doses are needed. VI. What Should My Initial Daily Maintenance Dose of CMS Be in Patients with Normal Renal Function? Recommendation. R10: We recommend that for a patient with normal renal function, administer a daily dose of 300–360 mg CBA (~9–10.9 million IU), divided into two and infused over 0.5–1 hour at 12- hour intervals. Monitor renal function and adjust the daily dose accordingly using the recommendations in Table 2. Evidence Summary.: Determining initial daily maintenance dose requires consideration of the desired target average steady-state plasma concentration (C ) of colistin. Based on ss,avg translation of preclinical PK/PD data for P. aeruginosa and A. baumannii in murine thigh defining the relationship between plasma colistin exposure and risk of AKI in patients;34–36 and the fact that the MIC of an isolate is often not known at initiation of therapy, a target plasma colistin C of 2 mg/L was suggested.6, 32 This target may be appropriate for ss,avg treatment of relatively accessible infections with organisms having colistin MICs of 2 mg/L or lower. However, it is important to recognize that murine lung infections with P. aeruginosa and A. baumannii were substantially more resilient to systemic treatment than were murine thigh infections.29 Thus based on the preclinical data, a plasma colistin C
