HHS Public Access
KEYWORDS: polymyxin, colistin, author, manuscript, author manuscript, patients, therapy, combination, dose, manuscript author, cms, evidence, studies, combination therapy, data


lung infections with P. aeruginosa and A. baumannii were substantially more resilient to systemic treatment than were murine thigh infections.29 Thus based on the preclinical data, a plasma colistin C ss,avg of 2 mg/L achieved via IV administration may not be adequate for the treatment of lung infections in critically ill patients, especially those caused by organisms that have elevated MIC organisms.6, 29 The daily doses of CMS to achieve a target plasma colistin C of 2 mg/L (Table 2) were ss,avg proposed based on analysis of PK data from more than 200 critically ill patients with a wide range of renal function.6 For patients with a Cl greater than 90 mL/minute, a suggested cr Pharmacotherapy. Author manuscript; available in PMC 2020 August 19. Author Manuscript Author Manuscript Author Manuscript Author Manuscript maximum dose of 360 mg CBA (~10.9 million IU) per day was proposed because of limited clinical experience regarding the rate and impact of AKI with daily doses above this level. Even with the daily doses proposed for patients with Cl greater than 90 mL/minute (Table cr 2), only 30–40% of patients are expected to achieve a plasma colistin C of 2 mg/L or ss,avg more,6, 61 although almost 80% of such patients may achieve a C of 1 mg/L or greater.6 ss,avg Although weight-based dosing algorithms were proposed as alternatives in the U.S. package insert, such as those in a current RCT of colistin, NCT01597973?term=NCT01597973&rank=1.69 PK data do not support the need for weight-based dosing. Future Research Needs.: The dose suggestions in Table 2 require validation by independent studies. In particular, these recommended doses need to be compared with lower historical dosing regimens to ensure the appropriate balance between safety and efficacy is achieved. Research is needed to define optimal dosing strategies in patients with Cl greater than 80 mL/minute. cr VII. Do I Need to Adjust the Daily Maintenance Dose of CMS If the Patient Has Renal Impairment? Recommendation. R11: We recommend that CMS dose adjustments be made in patients with renal insufficiency as provided in Table 2. Evidence Summary.: The apparent clearance of colistin and hence the plasma colistin C achieved from a given daily dose of CMS is influenced by kidney function.6, 33, 62 ss,avg Therefore, the daily dose of CMS to target a plasma colistin C of 2 mg/L should be ss,avg adjusted for renal impairment. Daily doses for patients with various degrees
