HHS Public Access
KEYWORDS: polymyxin, colistin, author, manuscript, author manuscript, patients, therapy, combination, dose, manuscript author, cms, evidence, studies, combination therapy, data


ss,avg Therefore, the daily dose of CMS to target a plasma colistin C of 2 mg/L should be ss,avg adjusted for renal impairment. Daily doses for patients with various degrees of renal function are provided in Table 2. The daily dose is divided into two doses, administered 12 hours apart, and each dose is infused over 0.5–1 hour. If the daily dose is not reduced in patients with decreased renal function, there is an increased probability that the plasma colistin C will be higher than 2 mg/L. This would be expected to increase antibacterial ss,avg activity but is also expected to increase the likelihood of AKI. Future Research Needs.: Although it is critical to adjust colistin doses in patients with renal impairment, definitive knowledge of the subsequent concentrations obtained requires TDM. Research is required to investigate the optimal approach to implementing TDM including identification of the patient groups most likely to benefit. VIII. Does Renal Replacement Therapy Have Implications for Selection of Intravenous CMS Dosage Regimens? Recommendations. R12: We recommend that to target a plasma colistin C of 2 mg/L in a patient on ss,avg intermittent hemodialysis (IHD), the following dosing schedule be utilized: On a nondialysis day, administer a CMS dose of 130 mg CBA/day (~3.95 million IU/day). On a dialysis day, administer a supplemental dose of CMS 40 mg CBA (~1.2 million IU) or 50 mg CBA (~1.6 Pharmacotherapy. Author manuscript; available in PMC 2020 August 19. Author Manuscript Author Manuscript Author Manuscript Author Manuscript million IU) for a 3- or 4-hour IHD session, respectively. If possible, the supplement to the baseline (nondialysis) daily dose should be administered with the next regular dose, after the dialysis session has ended. Conduct IHD sessions as late as possible within a CMS dosage interval to minimize the amount of CMS and formed colistin lost to the extracorporeal system. R13: We recommend that to target a plasma colistin C of 2 mg/L in patients prescribed ss,avg sustained low-efficiency dialysis (SLED) that 10% of the CMS dose be added to the baseline daily dose per 1 hour of SLED. R14: We recommend that for patients prescribed continuous renal replacement therapy (CRRT), for a plasma colistin C of 2 mg/L, to administer CBA 440 mg/day (~13.3 ss,avg million IU/day). This equates to 220 mg CBA every 12 hours (~6.65 million IU every 12 hours). Evidence Summary.: Colistin methanesulfonate and formed colistin are efficiently cleared
