HHS Public Access
KEYWORDS: polymyxin, colistin, author, manuscript, author manuscript, patients, therapy, combination, dose, manuscript author, cms, evidence, studies, combination therapy, data


mg/day (~13.3 ss,avg million IU/day). This equates to 220 mg CBA every 12 hours (~6.65 million IU every 12 hours). Evidence Summary.: Colistin methanesulfonate and formed colistin are efficiently cleared by intermittent and continuous renal support modalities; less information is available for SLED than for shorter forms of IHD and CRRT.6, 33, 70–77 Supplementary doses of CMS are needed for patients receiving IHD or SLED. IHD, SLED, and CRRT, each removes ~10% of colistin an hour necessitating replacement of 10% of the daily dose per hour on these modalities. Because the duration of CRRT (24 hrs) is greater than the duration of SLED (often 8–10 hrs), which is greater than the duration of IHD (3–4 hrs), the supplementary doses needed differ significantly as a function of dialysis type. Apparent clearance of colistin and hence the dose requirements of CMS are greater in patients on CRRT than for patients with normal renal function.6, 33, 76 Detailed dose suggestions for patients receiving renal support have been proposed.6, 75, 76 To target a plasma colistin C of 2 mg/L in patients prescribed SLED, it is recommended ss,avg that 10% be added to the baseline daily dose per 1 hour of SLED. We provide the following practical example as an illustration.6 For a patient receiving a 10-hour nocturnal SLED session each day and receiving CMS every 12 hours: • For a patient with Cl of ~0 mL/minute, the CMS dose would be the sum of the cr baseline CMS dose (CBA dose of 130 mg/day [~3.95 million IU/day], Table 2) plus a supplementary dose comprising 10% of the baseline dose per hour × 10 hours. • That is, for this patient, the CBA dose would be 260 mg/day (~7.9 million IU/ day). In such a case, it may be most convenient and safe to administer 130 mg CBA every 12 hours (~3.95 million IU every 12 hours). Future Research Needs.: Research is needed on colistin dosing in SLED patients, particularly with regard to the impact of different dialysis membranes on colistin removal. The preceding recommendations for SLED were based on small sample sizes with the use of Pharmacotherapy. Author manuscript; available in PMC 2020 August 19. Author Manuscript Author Manuscript Author Manuscript Author Manuscript medium- to high-flux filters. Removal would be expected to be decreased with lower flux filters. Polymyxin B Intravenous Dosing IX. Do I Need to Administer an Intravenous Loading Dose When
