HHS Public Access
KEYWORDS: polymyxin, colistin, author, manuscript, author manuscript, patients, therapy, combination, dose, manuscript author, cms, evidence, studies, combination therapy, data


regimens. X. What Is the Recommended Initial Daily Maintenance Dose for Polymyxin B in Patients with Normal Renal Function? Recommendation. R16: We recommend that for patients with severe infections, a polymyxin B dose of 1.25– 1.5 mg/kg (equivalent to 12,500–15,000 IU/kg TBW) every 12 hours is infused over 1 hour. Pharmacotherapy. Author manuscript; available in PMC 2020 August 19. Author Manuscript Author Manuscript Author Manuscript Author Manuscript Evidence Summary.: As discussed earlier, considering that fAUC:MIC targets for 1 log kill for polymyxin B against K. pneumoniae30 showed generally good agreement with the corresponding values for colistin against P. aeruginosa and A. baumannii in the murine thigh infection model,29 and given the similar plasma unbound fractions (i.e., ~0.50) of polymyxin B44 and colistin6 in humans, a C of 2 mg/L seems to be an appropriate target for ss,avg polymyxin B dosing guidance. This target may be revised as more information becomes available from preclinical studies to inform PK/PD relationships against gram-negative pathogens and from clinical studies to inform the PK/TD relationship for nephrotoxicity. With doses of 2.5 and 3.0 mg/kg/day (equivalent to 25,000 and 30,000 IU/kg/day, respectively), 90% of patients, as determined by Monte Carlo simulations, would be expected to achieve an AUC of polymyxin B at steady state of at least 44.3 and 53.1 mg · hour/L, respectively,44 that corresponds to C of 1.8 and 2.2 mg/L, respectively. Thus ss,avg against isolates with polymyxin B MICs of 2 mg/L, the PK/PD target for 1 log kill of P. aeruginosa, A. baumannii, and K. pneumoniae in murine thigh infection29, 30 will have an estimated probability of target attainment of more than 90% with either dosing strategy. Given the concerns mentioned earlier with antibacterial activity of systemically administered polymyxins in lung infections,29, 30 higher plasma concentration targets might be necessary to achieve adequate antimicrobial activity in different infection sites. However, due to the 30,000 IU/kg/day) cannot be recommended at this time. A target of 2 mg/L is recommended even for isolates with an MIC lower than 2 mg/L in patients with severe infections.80 determined with enough accuracy at this stage, and a target of 2 mg/L therefore seems to be prudent in all cases. milligrams) in patients with high TBW. However, experience with infusions of more than 200 mg remains limited,78, 79 and infusion-related adverse effects may increase with such doses. No specific recommendation is available in the package insert concerning the
