HHS Public Access
KEYWORDS: polymyxin, colistin, author, manuscript, author manuscript, patients, therapy, combination, dose, manuscript author, cms, evidence, studies, combination therapy, data


with infusions of more than 200 mg remains limited,78, 79 and infusion-related adverse effects may increase with such doses. No specific recommendation is available in the package insert concerning the duration of infusion. However, in recent PK analyses reflecting real-world use of polymyxin B, doses were safely administered over 1–4 hours in most patients.44–46, 81 Because there might be a potential benefit on renal toxicity of higher peak-to-trough differences,82 infusions over 1 hour might be preferred over longer infusions if well tolerated by patients. Future Research Needs.: Additional research is needed to define the safety and efficacy associated with optimal maintenance dosing of polymyxin B. XI. Do I Need to Adjust the Daily Polymyxin B Maintenance Dose If the Patient Has Renal Impairment? Recommendation. R17: We recommend that daily maintenance doses of polymyxin B should not be adjusted if the patient has renal impairment. Pharmacotherapy. Author manuscript; available in PMC 2020 August 19. Author Manuscript Author Manuscript Author Manuscript Author Manuscript Evidence Summary.: Polymyxin B is not significantly eliminated by the kidneys, and clinical PK studies demonstrate that polymyxin B clearance does not depend on Cl .44–47 cr Therefore, no PK rationale exists for adjusting doses according to renal function. Lowering doses in patients with decreased Cl will lead to lower polymyxin B plasma concentrations. cr The package insert for polymyxin B recommends dose reducing “downward for individuals with kidney impairment”; however, it is unclear what data spurred this recommendation.83 More recent PK data as well as enhanced understanding of renal handling of polymyxin B refute this recommendation. If unnecessary renal dose adjustments are made in patients, there is potential for drug underexposure and clinical failure. Clinical literature supports this claim because doses of 1.2 mg/kg/day or less (equivalent to 12,000 IU/kg/day or less), which were commonly prescribed to patients with renal insufficiency, were associated with increased mortality in patients receiving polymyxin B.80 Future Research Needs.: Package insert dose adjustment for renal impairment should be revised because it is not supported by modern PK data. Furthermore, larger PK studies in patients with renal insufficiency are needed to validate the recommendations provided here. XII. Does Renal Replacement Therapy Have Implications for Selection of Intravenous Polymyxin B Dosage Regimens? Recommendation. R18: We recommend that neither the loading dose nor maintenance dose be adjusted in patients receiving renal replacement therapy. Evidence Summary.: There are only two reports of the PK of polymyxin B
