HHS Public Access
KEYWORDS: polymyxin, colistin, author, manuscript, author manuscript, patients, therapy, combination, dose, manuscript author, cms, evidence, studies, combination therapy, data


recommend that neither the loading dose nor maintenance dose be adjusted in patients receiving renal replacement therapy. Evidence Summary.: There are only two reports of the PK of polymyxin B in patients receiving renal replacement, and both involved CRRT. The first report involved two patients receiving continuous venovenous hemodialysis (CVVHD),79 and the second described one patient receiving continuous venovenous hemofiltration (CVVHF).84 In the former two patients, the CVVHD was responsible for 5.6% and 12.2% of polymyxin B total body clearance.79 In the latter patient, the polymyxin B extraction across the extracorporeal cartridge was only 5.0%.84 This degree of elimination is similar to the extent of renal elimination in critically ill patients not receiving extracorporeal modalities (median 4%, range 1.0–17.4%).44 Although data are limited to these three cases, they suggest that CVVHD and CVVHF are unlikely to remove more than ~12% of total body polymyxin B, similar to the percentage recovered in the urine in patients not requiring renal replacement therapy.44 Thus on the basis of these PK data, dose modifications are not warranted in patients receiving these forms of CRRT. Clinical data also suggest that dose reductions in patients on CVVHD can potentially lead to underexposure and increased risk of poor outcomes.85 Higher total daily doses were associated with lower 30-day mortality in bivariate analysis (p=0.04), and a total daily dose of 200 mg or more (equivalent to 2 million IU or more) was associated with a lower risk of 30-day mortality in multivariate analysis (p=0.02).85 Thus dose reductions for patients receiving renal replacement therapy are not only unwarranted based on the limited amount Pharmacotherapy. Author manuscript; available in PMC 2020 August 19. Author Manuscript Author Manuscript Author Manuscript Author Manuscript Currently no PK data are available on polymyxin B in patients receiving intermittent renal replacement therapy. Future Research Needs.: PK data are lacking for polymyxin B in patients receiving IHD and SLED, and only minimal data are available for CRRT. Larger PK analyses are urgently needed to further refine dosing recommendations. XIII. Is There a Role for Therapeutic Drug Monitoring of Colistin or Polymyxin B? Recommendation. R19: We recommend that TDM and adaptive feedback control (AFC) be used wherever possible for both colistin and polymyxin B. Evidence Summary.: The polymyxins display characteristics that suggest TDM and AFC would be beneficial. Drug dose cannot be safely optimized using clinical observation and dosing algorithms alone, especially in the early treatment period
