HHS Public Access
KEYWORDS: polymyxin, colistin, author, manuscript, author manuscript, patients, therapy, combination, dose, manuscript author, cms, evidence, studies, combination therapy, data


polymyxins display characteristics that suggest TDM and AFC would be beneficial. Drug dose cannot be safely optimized using clinical observation and dosing algorithms alone, especially in the early treatment period that is a critical determinant of prognosis. Moreover, if therapy is unsuccessful, potential dire consequences may ensue (clinical ones for the patient concerned in addition to emergence of polymyxin resistance). In addition, based on the more abundant data for colistin, there are established relationships between plasma exposure and both antibacterial effect29 and risk of AKI.34–36 The therapeutic window is extremely narrow because plasma exposures required for antibacterial effect overlap those associated with increased AKI risk.6 And the substantial interpatient variability in PK cannot be accounted for by known patient factors (such variability is substantially greater for IV colistin than polymyxin B).6, 44, 61 The use of TDM as an aid to dosing CMS was reported for a small number of patients,86, 87 but the benefit was not demonstrated in appropriately designed studies.4 For colistin, it is essential to ensure that sample collection, handling, and analysis are conducted appropriately to minimize ex vivo conversion of CMS to colistin.33, 59 For colistin, by collecting blood samples just before the next dose (when CMS concentrations are the lowest), the potential for measurement of artificially elevated plasma colistin concentrations is minimized but not eliminated. For polymyxin B sample collection, handling and analysis for TDM are substantially less complicated because this polymyxin is administered directly, not as an inactive prodrug. As stated earlier, using TDM, the target concentration is 2 mg/L for microbiology laboratory. Future Research Needs.: Real-time PK/PD/TD profiles obtained from patients during polymyxin therapy are needed so that maximally precise, patient-specific PK information can be obtained. Such data would inform evolving dose optimization at the individual patient level. Pharmacotherapy. Author manuscript; available in PMC 2020 August 19. Author Manuscript Author Manuscript Author Manuscript Author Manuscript XIV. What Strategies Can Be Used to Decrease the Incidence of Acute Kidney Injury in Patients Receiving Colistin or Polymyxin B Therapy? Recommendation. R20: We recommend, wherever possible, that concomitant nephrotoxic agents should be avoided in patients receiving colistin or polymyxin B (Strong recommendation, moderate quality evidence). Remark: This recommendation was initially graded with low confidence because data were observational. However, the evidence quality was upgraded due to the consistent large magnitude of the effect of administration of concomitant nephrotoxins on the incidence of AKI with no important
