HHS Public Access
KEYWORDS: polymyxin, colistin, author, manuscript, author manuscript, patients, therapy, combination, dose, manuscript author, cms, evidence, studies, combination therapy, data


were observational. However, the evidence quality was upgraded due to the consistent large magnitude of the effect of administration of concomitant nephrotoxins on the incidence of AKI with no important threats to the validity of the data. Evidence Summary.: Undoubtedly, nephrotoxicity is the most clinically relevant and dose- limiting adverse reaction of the polymyxins. The incidence of nephrotoxicity varies widely in the literature from 0% to more than 60% largely due to heterogeneous patient populations, differing definitions of nephrotoxicity, wide ranges of polymyxin doses administered, and differences in both severity of illness and the presence/absence of various other risk factors for the patients being studied.34, 36, 50, 54, 88–91 Contemporary studies, using commonly accepted polymyxin doses and AKI definitions, place the rate of associated nephrotoxicity in the 20–50% range for both polymyxins.34, 36, 50, 54, 88–91 Risk factors vary between studies, but a few common factors are identified throughout the literature. More advanced age was identified as a risk factor in multiple analyses, although the so-called cutoff age for increased risk is inconsistent. Weight, irrespective of dose given, was shown to be a risk factor for nephrotoxicity for both colistin88 and polymyxin B.92 Chronic comorbid conditions and the presence of hypoalbuminemia were reported as risk factors for nephrotoxicity.88, 92 Although these factors can help clinicians identify those patients at highest risk of AKI while receiving polymyxin therapy, they are not modifiable. Clinicians should work to address modifiable risk factors for AKI, and the recommendations represent the panel’s view regarding how best to accomplish this. Receipt of concomitant nephrotoxic agents is a consistent risk factor for AKI in patients receiving polymyxin therapy. Although many nephrotoxins have been identified as potential risk factors, only a few would be considered modifiable. For example, receipt of calcineurin inhibitors, acute administration of loop diuretics, and vasopressors have all been associated with polymyxin-associated nephrotoxicity; however, these exposures often cannot be avoided. Conversely, the use of IV contrast media for diagnostic testing, administering nonsteroidal antiinflammatory drug or angiotensin-converting enzyme inhibitor therapy, and/or receipt of other nephrotoxic antibiotics, most notably vancomycin, should be assessed by clinicians and avoided when possible.93, 94 Although combination therapy with colistin and vancomycin showed both in vitro synergy95 and select clinical data suggest a potential polymyxin B89 showed concomitant vancomycin to be an independent predictor of polymyxin-associated AKI; thus this combination should be avoided. In addition, analyses demonstrated rifampin90 coadministration to increase the
