HHS Public Access
KEYWORDS: polymyxin, colistin, author, manuscript, author manuscript, patients, therapy, combination, dose, manuscript author, cms, evidence, studies, combination therapy, data


a potential polymyxin B89 showed concomitant vancomycin to be an independent predictor of polymyxin-associated AKI; thus this combination should be avoided. In addition, analyses demonstrated rifampin90 coadministration to increase the risk of nephrotoxicity. Pharmacotherapy. Author manuscript; available in PMC 2020 August 19. Author Manuscript Author Manuscript Author Manuscript Author Manuscript Furthermore, concomitant aminoglycosides were also identified as independent predictors of colistin-associated AKI.91 Given the emergence and spread of XDR gram-negative bacteria, including carbapenem-resistant Enterobacteriaceae (CRE), we acknowledge that aminoglycosides frequently are often one of the few agents to which these organisms are susceptible, and combination therapy involving aminoglycosides and polymyxins might be an attractive alternative and in some cases might be unavoidable. Future Research Needs.: Data demonstrating the impact of purposeful avoidance of the nephrotoxic agents described earlier on prevention of AKI are lacking. Such data would enhance the quality of the evidence supporting this recommendation. Future research is needed to evaluate the safety and efficacy of polymyxin + aminoglycoside therapy. Timely monitoring of renal function is a critical aspect of detecting AKI for the polymyxins. As such, further research on biomarkers that respond rapidly to renal insult would be highly beneficial for toxicodynamic optimization. Recommendation. R21: We recommend that doses greater than those listed in this guideline for colistin or polymyxin B be avoided in the absence of TDM (Best practice recommendation). Remark: This recommendation was not assessed using GRADE. There is an absence of data testing this strategy. Higher doses have theoretical advantages, but the comparative safety and efficacy of those are unavailable based on the currently available literature. This recommendation prioritizes safety, due to the absence of efficacy data with higher dosing strategies. Furthermore, although dose increase or decrease based on serum concentrations is rational from a PK, PD, and TD standpoint, data are lacking to assess the safety and efficacy of such a strategy. Evidence Summary.: The most important risk factor for polymyxin-associated AKI is the magnitude of polymyxin exposure. Higher CMS doses are consistently identified as a risk factor, with CBA doses higher than 5 mg/kg/day (equivalent to ~152,000 IU/kg/day) consistently posing the highest risk. Similarly, associations were seen with absolute polymyxin B doses of 150, 200,97 and 25080 mg/day or higher. Not surprisingly, colistin serum steady-state concentrations were also associated with AKI. Average steady-state concentrations of 1.9–2.3 mg/L were associated with higher degrees of toxicity than lower concentrations,35 whereas day 3 trough concentrations of
