HHS Public Access
KEYWORDS: polymyxin, colistin, author, manuscript, author manuscript, patients, therapy, combination, dose, manuscript author, cms, evidence, studies, combination therapy, data


serum steady-state concentrations were also associated with AKI. Average steady-state concentrations of 1.9–2.3 mg/L were associated with higher degrees of toxicity than lower concentrations,35 whereas day 3 trough concentrations of 3.33 and 2.42 mg/L or higher were associated with AKI at days 7 and 14, respectively.34 Importantly, in the latter study, of the 26 patients who had colistin trough values higher than 2.2 mg/L on day 3, 17 (65%) and 22 (85%) had toxicity at days 7 and 14, respectively.34 These PK/TD studies serve as the basis of the maximal tolerable dose described in earlier recommendations in these guidelines, and we would recommend against giving higher exposures. Future Research Needs.: Studies are needed that weigh the risk-to-benefit ratio of clinical cure of infection with the development of nephrotoxicity. Furthermore, investigation regarding dosing regimens (i.e., once/day, multiple times/day, or continuous infusions) or other novel dosing strategies and their impact on nephrotoxicity should also be undertaken. Pharmacotherapy. Author manuscript; available in PMC 2020 August 19. Author Manuscript Author Manuscript Author Manuscript Author Manuscript Recommendation. R22: In countries where both agents are available, we recommend preferential use of polymyxin B to limit the rate of polymyxin-associated AKI (Weak recommendation, low- quality evidence). Remark: This recommendation started with low-quality evidence given the observational data used to make the recommendation. The confidence for the recommendation could not be significantly upgraded or downgraded based on the evidence. The relative consistency of the findings of the published literature and rate of AKI between the two polymyxins were considerations for upgrading the strength of the quality of the evidence. However, these were counter-balanced by some of the data that did not show a safety advantage with polymyxin B. In addition, comparative studies are also confounded by the different doses of colistin and polymyxin B used in comparing AKI. A strong recommendation cannot be made until adequately powered prospective dose-optimized studies are performed. Evidence Summary.: When polymyxins reemerged in the 1980s, one of the main drivers of preferential use of CMS over polymyxin B was the historical belief, driven by anecdotes rather than evidence, that colistin was the safer option with respect to nephrotoxicity. Modern-day data have debunked this belief, and interestingly there is a suggestion that polymyxin B might in fact be safer, with respect to the kidneys, than colistin. Data from kidney cell lines98 as well as animals99 suggest that polymyxin B and colistin, as would be
