HHS Public Access
KEYWORDS: polymyxin, colistin, author, manuscript, author manuscript, patients, therapy, combination, dose, manuscript author, cms, evidence, studies, combination therapy, data


might in fact be safer, with respect to the kidneys, than colistin. Data from kidney cell lines98 as well as animals99 suggest that polymyxin B and colistin, as would be expected from their similar chemical structures, have similar toxic effects on the kidney. rates between the polymyxins, five displayed at least some suggestion of increased and/or more severe nephrotoxicity with colistin.48, 49, 52, 54, 98, 100 The one outlier to this trend was limited by small numbers (only 30 and 39 patients receiving polymyxin B and CMS were evaluable for AKI, respectively).48, 49, 50, 51, 52, 54 A systemic review and meta-analysis53 summarizes the published studies. Taken together, these data suggest that polymyxin B is associated with less AKI in patients. Regardless of the mechanism, the current data, although limited in quality, suggest that polymyxin B is less likely to cause nephrotoxicity than CMS. Until further evidence becomes available, clinicians should consider polymyxin B as the preferred alternative to decrease the risk of polymyxin-associated AKI. An exception to this would be for the treatment of urinary tract infections, where CMS/colistin may be the preferred agent. Future Research Needs.: The main areas for prioritization of future research include prospective comparative trials assessing AKI rates with dose-optimized polymyxins, investigation into the mechanisms of potential discordant toxicity rates between the agents, and finally whether dose-optimized polymyxins differ in their rates of nonnephrotoxic adverse reactions, most notably neurotoxicity. In addition, studies comparing neurotoxicities and skin hyperpigmentation (e.g., skin darkness of face, ears, neck, and upper chest and head during therapy101) for polymyxin B versus colistin require future studies. Pharmacotherapy. Author manuscript; available in PMC 2020 August 19. Author Manuscript Author Manuscript Author Manuscript Author Manuscript Recommendation. antioxidants for the primary purpose of reducing polymyxin-associated nephrotoxicity (Weak recommendation, very low-quality evidence). Remark: The quality of the evidence was initially low given that both underpowered randomized controlled and observational data were used for the assessment. The data suffered from every potential reason for downgrading the data (risk of bias, inconsistency, indirectness, imprecision, and publication bias) and therefore were rated as very low-quality evidence. The recommendation was weak, given that animal data support a potential protective effect as well as the general lack of risk of patient harm with the administration of antioxidants. Evidence Summary.: Interest in using antioxidants, most notably ascorbic acid, has been increasing as a nephroprotective mechanism in patients receiving polymyxin therapy. This stems
