HHS Public Access
KEYWORDS: polymyxin, colistin, author, manuscript, author manuscript, patients, therapy, combination, dose, manuscript author, cms, evidence, studies, combination therapy, data


harm with the administration of antioxidants. Evidence Summary.: Interest in using antioxidants, most notably ascorbic acid, has been increasing as a nephroprotective mechanism in patients receiving polymyxin therapy. This stems from preclinical observations that in polymyxin-induced nephrotoxicity, oxidative stress from reactive oxygen species initiates renal cell apoptosis. Animal models supported this protective role of ascorbic acid by demonstrating that administration can decrease kidney tissue apoptosis and subsequent tubular damage.102 Clinical data exploring the impact of ascorbic acid on limiting nephrotoxicity are scarce and have displayed conflicting results. One group103 assessed nephrotoxicity rates with a novel dosing regimen based on recent PK advances. Interestingly, although not the primary intent of the analysis, both bivariate (30% vs 67%; p<0.05) and multivariate analyses (adjusted odds ratio [aOR] 0.27, 95% CI 0.13–0.57) suggested that concomitant administration of ascorbic acid was protective against nephrotoxicity. Conversely, a small RCT in 28 patients failed to show any benefit of 4 g/day of ascorbic acid on the rates of colistin-associated nephrotoxicity.104 Therefore, although a promising therapy, the current data are insufficient to warrant a recommendation in favor of routine administration of ascorbic acid or any other antioxidant for the prevention of polymyxin-associated AKI. Future Research Needs.: Adequately powered and sufficiently controlled prospective studies are warranted to assess the impact of ascorbic acid or other antioxidants on the incidence and/or severity of polymyxin-associated nephrotoxicity. XV. If My Patient Develops AKI While on Colistin or Polymyxin B, Should I Decrease the Dose? Recommendations. R24: We recommend that if a patient develops AKI while on colistin, the daily dose should be decreased to the appropriate renally adjusted dose for a plasma colistin C of 2 mg/L ss,avg (Table 2). R25: We recommend that doses should not be decreased, outside of the renal dosing recommendations for colistin, particularly in patients who develop AKI when colistin or polymyxin B is being administered for a life-threatening infection, a deep-seated infection, Pharmacotherapy. Author manuscript; available in PMC 2020 August 19. Author Manuscript Author Manuscript Author Manuscript Author Manuscript or when the infecting pathogen has an MIC higher than 1 mg/L (Strong recommendation, low-quality evidence). If the MIC of the infecting pathogen and/or the nature of the infection suggest that targeting a lower plasma concentration may be adequate, consideration should be given to decreasing the dose to target a different C of colistin (Best practice ss,avg recommendation). R26: We recommend that cessation of therapy may be
