HHS Public Access
KEYWORDS: polymyxin, colistin, author, manuscript, author manuscript, patients, therapy, combination, dose, manuscript author, cms, evidence, studies, combination therapy, data


modify the dose to target a steady-state concentration of 1.5 mg/L in certain clinical scenarios. A similar strategy can be used for polymyxin B. reasonable to decrease the dose to the lower end of the package insert range. The evidence to support this strategy for polymyxin B and colistin is currently lacking, but it is considered appropriate in these settings because the likelihood of achieving only subtherapeutic drug exposure is significantly diminished, and continued declines in renal function might Pharmacotherapy. Author manuscript; available in PMC 2020 August 19. Author Manuscript Author Manuscript Author Manuscript Author Manuscript whether or not to continue polymyxin therapy in patients who develop AKI and have an unconfirmed microbiological infectious etiology. The potential benefit of maintaining treatment should be weighed against the risk of worsening AKI on a case-by-case basis. Future Research Needs.: Although research is emerging regarding the association between exposure of colistin and polymyxin B and toxicity, the precise PK/TD profile has yet to be fully elucidated as it relates to the time frame and onset of nephrotoxicity. Therefore, future research needs to further elucidate these targets. Data pertaining to clear dose modifications in the setting of AKI and the impact it has on the progression and/or resolution of AKI and clinical efficacy are also urgently needed. Polymyxin Combinations Polymyxin combination therapy is a heavily debated and controversial topic. For multiple reasons, combination therapy might be advantageous. First, it is now very clear that plasma concentrations of colistin are suboptimal in a substantial proportion of patients, even when daily doses of CMS are at the upper limit of the approved product label.6, 33, 59–61 Similarly, plasma polymyxin B concentrations achieved among patients receiving the current upper limit daily dose are not likely to be reliably efficacious in many clinical scenarios including respiratory tract infections.44 Second, it is not possible to simply increase the daily doses of CMS or polymyxin B beyond doses recommended in this document due to the potential for nephrotoxicity that is the major dose-limiting adverse effect.8, 52, 90 Third, the emerging body of evidence in preclinical lung infection models suggests poor in vivo response to the polymyxins when administered parenterally.29, 30 Finally, polymyxin resistance is increasing worldwide with several recent reports of clinical failure and resistance emergence during monotherapy.106–109 With the recent report of mobile colistin resistance genes,16–18, 110, 111 the presence of heteroresistance,19 and the association between colistin resistance and
