HHS Public Access
KEYWORDS: polymyxin, colistin, author, manuscript, author manuscript, patients, therapy, combination, dose, manuscript author, cms, evidence, studies, combination therapy, data


of clinical failure and resistance emergence during monotherapy.106–109 With the recent report of mobile colistin resistance genes,16–18, 110, 111 the presence of heteroresistance,19 and the association between colistin resistance and polymyxins therapeutically including combination therapy.41, 111–113 There is a mechanism- based rationale for using polymyxins in combination with other antimicrobials that display synergy with a membrane permeabilizer (such as the polymyxins) allowing for increased concentrations of companion antibacterial agents that have intracellular targets.109, 114–116 to interpret due to limitations in many studies.117, 118 The first type of limitation relates to the characteristics of the critically ill patient population that develop infections due to carbapenem-resistant gram-negative bacilli. These are generally complex patients, with preexisting comorbidities who experience extremely high rates of treatment failure and death irrespective of infection-related outcome. Because the primary outcome in many analyses is all-cause mortality, defining the effectiveness of combination versus monotherapy based on this outcome is extremely challenging. In addition, patients requiring polymyxin therapy frequently have significant delays in time to appropriate therapy that may limit the clinical impact of treatment strategies. Furthermore, finding data comparing monotherapy and combination therapy where concomitant antibiotic exposure is minimized is unrealistic because critically ill patients frequently are treated empirically for concomitant infections Pharmacotherapy. Author manuscript; available in PMC 2020 August 19. Author Manuscript Author Manuscript Author Manuscript Author Manuscript with a plethora of various different antimicrobials. Some of these antibiotics, such as vancomycin, that lack individual activity against gram-negative bacteria have displayed synergy with the polymyxins in vitro due to cell wall and membrane perturbations.94 This leads to a potential scenario where patients in a so-called monotherapy group might not truly have received a monotherapeutic regimen. Another characteristic that makes these analyses difficult to interpret is that different types of carbapenem-resistant organisms are often grouped together. The assumption is that all carbapenem-resistant organisms classified dichotomously according to MIC breakpoints are identical and will respond identically to therapy, regardless of mechanism of resistance and specific MIC value, but it is unlikely that this is the case. Furthermore, although more recent analyses have begun to examine dose-optimized renal dosing adjustments or MIC values of the polymyxins and/or other antimicrobials used in combination regimens for the pathogens. This is further complicated by the fact that the vast majority of previous combination studies used colistin, rather than polymyxin B, the latter of which has a more favorable and predictable PK profile. Most analyses
