HHS Public Access
KEYWORDS: polymyxin, colistin, author, manuscript, author manuscript, patients, therapy, combination, dose, manuscript author, cms, evidence, studies, combination therapy, data


the fact that the vast majority of previous combination studies used colistin, rather than polymyxin B, the latter of which has a more favorable and predictable PK profile. Most analyses are retrospective observational studies that have inherent biases (such as confounding by indication), making it difficult to interpret the results clearly.117 Finally, it is very important to consider site of infection in studies. Whereas most of the carbapenem-resistant A. baumannii (CRAB) and carbapenem-resistant P. aeruginosa (CRPA) evaluated pneumonia. Polymyxins administered parenterally were shown to be far less effective in murine lung infection models than in thigh infection models.29, 30 the selection of polymyxin monotherapy versus polymyxin combination therapy, the inclusion of a variety of sites of infection within a given trial makes interpretation challenging because different pharmacologic considerations exist in the treatment of different infection sites. polymyxin monotherapy versus combination therapy for the three major target organisms: CRE, CRAB, and CRPA. We assess the evidence regarding combination therapy in two different types of scenarios. The first is when the polymyxin is combined with an agent to which the infecting pathogen is susceptible (R27, R29, and R31). The second is when the polymyxin is combined with an agent to which the pathogen lacks in vitro susceptibility (i.e., a “nonsusceptible” agent) (R28, R30, and R32). We acknowledge the rigorous debate by noting the controversies surrounding polymyxin combination versus monotherapy, often in the absence of RCTs. Given the controversies regarding monotherapy versus combination therapy for polymyxins, it is important to note the panel did not achieve unanimity on this topic, due to a variety of weighing the potential benefit-to-risk ratio of combination versus monotherapy. Therefore, a Pharmacotherapy. Author manuscript; available in PMC 2020 August 19. Author Manuscript Author Manuscript Author Manuscript Author Manuscript decision was made for authors to vote on the recommendations R27 to R32. Some authors abstained from the vote. Based on these voting results, these guidelines provide the panel’s consensus recommendations. In some cases, we labeled recommendations as “best practice recommendations,” particularly in scenarios where the recommendations are in contrast to the currently published data and/or lack sufficient RCT evidence and represent the views of most panel members as opposed to quality published studies. The recommendations voted on and thus serving as guideline recommendations R27 to R32 are not meant to serve as guideline recommendations for the optimal treatment of carbapenem-resistant organisms and are not recommending preferential use of polymyxin-
