HHS Public Access
KEYWORDS: polymyxin, colistin, author, manuscript, author manuscript, patients, therapy, combination, dose, manuscript author, cms, evidence, studies, combination therapy, data


serving as guideline recommendations R27 to R32 are not meant to serve as guideline recommendations for the optimal treatment of carbapenem-resistant organisms and are not recommending preferential use of polymyxin- based therapy for these organisms. Rather, the recommendations address scenarios where a clinician has already decided to use polymyxin-based therapy and is trying to decide between monotherapy and combination therapy. XVI. Should Monotherapy or Combination Therapy for Polymyxin B or Colistin Be Used to Treat Patients with CRE Infections? Recommendations. R27: We recommend that for invasive infections due to CRE, polymyxin B or colistin be used in combination with one or more additional agents to which the pathogen displays a susceptible MIC (Strong recommendation, very low-quality evidence; panel vote 14–1 in favor of combination therapy). Remark: The quality of the evidence was initially low given the observational data of the trials supporting combination therapy. The data were downgraded to very low for two major reasons. First, the results favoring combination therapy are inconsistent. Although several studies showed a mortality benefit of combination therapy, others failed to demonstrate this benefit, and more recent evidence suggests that such a benefit might be limited to severely ill patients. Second, although these combination studies included colistin as potential therapy, not all of the combination regimens in these studies were colistin based, making the exact role of polymyxin combination therapy difficult to tease out from other combination regimens. R28: If a second active agent to which the infecting CRE displays a susceptible MIC is unavailable, we recommend that polymyxin B or colistin be used in combination with a second and/or third nonsusceptible agent (e.g., a carbapenem). Preference should be given to a non-susceptible agent with the lowest MIC relative to the respective susceptibility breakpoint (Best practice recommendation; panel voted 11–4 in favor of combination therapy). Evidence Summary.: Perhaps the best evidence supporting polymyxin combination therapy comes from a series of retrospective observational studies evaluating outcomes of patients receiving combination or monotherapy for bloodstream infections (BSIs) due to carbapene- mase-producing Enterobacteriaceae (largely, although not exclusively, producing Klebsiella pneumoniae carbapenemase [KPC]).119–122 Two important features of these analyses warrant comment. First, combination therapy in each of the studies described in detail here Pharmacotherapy. Author manuscript; available in PMC 2020 August 19. Author Manuscript Author Manuscript Author Manuscript Author Manuscript is defined as agents to which the infecting pathogen is susceptible according to the MIC. Second, although most of
