HHS Public Access
KEYWORDS: polymyxin, colistin, author, manuscript, author manuscript, patients, therapy, combination, dose, manuscript author, cms, evidence, studies, combination therapy, data


for the management of invasive infections due to carbapenem-resistant gram-negative organisms (https:// clinicaltrials.gov/ct2/show/NCT01597973?term=NCT01597973&rank=1). Data from this study should further elucidate the role of combinations in the management of CRE. assessing the impact of polymyxin B–based combination regimens are needed. Future studies should also address the impact of infection site on the effectiveness of combination therapy. XVII. Should Monotherapy or Combination Therapy for Polymyxin B or Colistin Be Used to Treat Patients with CRAB? Recommendations. R29: We recommend that for invasive infections due to CRAB, polymyxin B or colistin should be used in combination with one or more additional agents to which the pathogen displays a susceptible MIC (Best practice recommendation; panel voted 10–5 in favor of combination). R30: If a second active agent to which the infecting CRAB displays a susceptible MIC is unavailable, we recommend that polymyxin B or colistin should be used alone as monotherapy (Weak recommendation, moderate quality evidence; panel voted 8–7 in favor of monotherapy). Remark: The quality of the evidence for this recommendation began as high based on the previously mentioned RCTs. However, the quality of the evidence was finally graded as moderate due to the open-label nature of the RCTs, the use of nonstudy anti–gram-negative therapies, and relatively low numbers of patients in the rifampin and fosfomycin studies. The strength of the recommendation is weak due to the dichotomy in our panel with regard to optimal management of these patients, potential bias in the studies, lack of AFC to optimize polymyxin concentrations, and dosing concerns in the rifampin trial. Pharmacotherapy. Author manuscript; available in PMC 2020 August 19. Author Manuscript Author Manuscript Author Manuscript Author Manuscript Evidence Summary.: Perhaps more than any other organism mentioned in these guidelines, the retrospective CRAB literature surrounding combination therapy versus monotherapy is nearly uninterpretable due to confounding by indication, poorly described dosing, and a lack of clarity regarding the timing of initial administration of therapy (and subsequently time to appropriate therapy) that are incompletely described. In addition, the published literature is often unclear as to whether or not patients had infection versus colonization because the infection site is often described as “respiratory” without a clear explanation of how infection was defined. Also, as previously discussed, given the complexity of study patients and the lack of a true definition of infection, the primary end point of mortality (all-cause, in- these studies, it is not always clear whether death was
