HHS Public Access
KEYWORDS: polymyxin, colistin, author, manuscript, author manuscript, patients, therapy, combination, dose, manuscript author, cms, evidence, studies, combination therapy, data


of study patients and the lack of a true definition of infection, the primary end point of mortality (all-cause, in- these studies, it is not always clear whether death was clearly associated with infection. Therefore, the studies reviewed in this section are limited to the three major randomized open-label trials that compared colistin with a second nonsusceptible agent including rifampin, fosfomycin, or meropenem.125–127 Some isolates in the rifampin and fosfomycin studies were defined as having in vitro susceptibility to these agents. However, for the purposes of these guidelines, the panel considered these isolates to be nonsusceptible due to a lack of uniform susceptibility in the isolates included in these studies (not all isolates were defined as susceptible) and a lack of dose optimization strategies used for these agents. resistance development and the routine avoidance by clinicians for fosfomycin and rifampin monotherapy provide a further rationale as to why both of these agents were considered nonsusceptible. There are currently no prospective randomized trials that study polymyxin combinations involving a second agent to which the infecting pathogen displays a polymyxin and a second in vitro active agent, and thus the best practice recommendation for using this strategy is an extrapolation from the CRE data. The three RCTs compared combination with a nonsusceptible agent versus monotherapy. The first of the three open-label RCTs comparing combinations with monotherapy was a prospective study126 that enrolled 210 patients to receive colistin or colistin + rifampin randomly for the treatment of life-threatening XDR A. baumannii infections. No colistin loading dose was administered, and the maximum daily maintenance dose was low by current standards. Patients were randomly allocated (1:1) to either colistin alone, 2 million IU every 8 hours IV, or colistin plus rifampin 600 mg every 12 hours IV. The colistin MIC was 0.5 mg/L or lower for all isolates at randomization. This analysis reported that the risk of death within 30 days was similar between combination therapy and monotherapy (OR = 0.88, 95% CI 0.46–1.69, p=0.71) despite a significantly improved microbiological cure rate in patients receiving colistin + rifampin (p=0.034). Furthermore, no patients developed colistin-resistant isolates in either arm. This improvement in microbiological cure was consistent with another small randomized trial (n=43) that compared colistin and colistin + rifampin, where time to microbiological clearance was reduced in the colistin + rifampin arm (3.1 vs 4.5 days; p=0.029).128 It is important to note that although rifampin displays
