HHS Public Access
KEYWORDS: polymyxin, colistin, author, manuscript, author manuscript, patients, therapy, combination, dose, manuscript author, cms, evidence, studies, combination therapy, data


subset of patients with A. baumannii infections A total of 94% of patients in this study had either bacteremia or pneumonia with nearly an even split between the two. Importantly, there was also no significant difference between groups in the identification of colistin resistance in clinical samples by day 28 (6% for monotherapy vs 5% for combination therapy; p=0.77) or microbiological failure (31% for monotherapy vs 35% for combination therapy; p=0.49.) addition of that second nonsusceptible agent. Therefore, the evidence-based recommendation is in support of monotherapy. There was significant debate and disagreement among the panel members surrounding this recommendation. Many members of the panel were concerned that even though the clinical evidence does not support combination therapy, the PK/PD limitations of the polymyxins and the development of resistance remain great concerns. The small numbers and large percentage of patients with pneumonia in the rifampin and fosfomycin studies as well as the limitations of the AIDA study (e.g., open label, the large number of patients treated for pneumonia, and low Pharmacotherapy. Author manuscript; available in PMC 2020 August 19. Author Manuscript Author Manuscript Author Manuscript Author Manuscript Sequential Organ Failure Assessment scores) are why many panel members voted for combination therapy. However, the final vote was in favor of monotherapy. Future Research Needs.: An ongoing double-blind RCT will help further shed light on the role of combinations in the management of gram-negative infections including those caused by CRAB. Clinical data assessing the impact of polymyxin B–based combination regimens are needed. Future studies should also address the impact of infection site on the relative effectiveness of combination therapy versus monotherapy. XVIII. Should Monotherapy or Combination Therapy for Polymyxin B or Colistin Be Used to Treat Patients with CRPA? Recommendations. R31: We recommend that for invasive infections due to CRPA, polymyxin B or colistin should be used in combination with one or more additional agents to which the pathogen displays a susceptible MIC (Best practice recommendation; panel voted 14–1 in favor of combination therapy). R32: If a second active agent to which the infecting CRPA displays a susceptible MIC is unavailable, we recommend polymyxin B and colistin be used in combination with a second and/or third nonsusceptible agent (e.g., a carbapenem). Preference should be given to a non- susceptible agent with the lowest MIC relative to the respective susceptibility breakpoint (Best practice recommendation; panel voted 11–4 in favor of combination therapy). Evidence Summary.:
