HHS Public Access
KEYWORDS: polymyxin, colistin, author, manuscript, author manuscript, patients, therapy, combination, dose, manuscript author, cms, evidence, studies, combination therapy, data


(p=0.005).132 The results of a single-center retrospective cohort of 34 patients with osteoarticular infections due to MDR P. aeruginosa were reported; 15 (44.1%) had prosthetic joint infections and 19 (55.9%) osteoarthritis. Patients were treated with IV antibiotics for 6 weeks.133 Combination therapy (mainly colistin plus a β-lactam) was associated with higher cure rates than monotherapy with colistin or a β-lactam (11/15 [73.3%] vs 6/19 [31.6%], respectively; p=0.016).133 Finally, a single-center prospective study134 was conducted on 91 patients with infections (most commonly pneumonia, followed by urinary tract infection) caused by colistin-susceptible P. aeruginosa who were treated with colistin. No association was detected between receipt of monotherapy or combination therapy and either clinical failure or mortality.134 The small numbers, discordant results, retrospective nature of most studies, and inconsistencies regarding other agents being included in combination regimens preclude any definitive conclusion with regard to polymyxin combination therapy versus monotherapy for P. aeruginosa. Until further evidence becomes available, the panel recommends that when polymyxins are used to treat invasive infections caused by P. aeruginosa that they be used in combination with one or more additional agents to which the pathogen displays a susceptible MIC. The rationale for this recommendation is based on extrapolation of the available evidence for CRE and the potential risk of clinical failure or emergence of resistance when monotherapy is used. If no active agents are available, additional nonsusceptible agents should be administered based on MIC value. Preference should be given to nonsusceptible agents to which the pathogen demonstrates the lowest MIC respective to the breakpoint. Future Research Needs.: Additional data, even observational in nature, assessing outcomes of polymyxin monotherapy versus combination therapy for MDR/XDR P. aeruginosa are needed. Care should be taken by investigators to clearly describe polymyxin dosing, other antimicrobials administered, and the degree of susceptibility of the pathogen to the agents included in the treatment regimens for a given isolate. Future studies should also address the impact of infection site on the relative effectiveness of combination therapy. XIX. Should Inhaled Polymyxins Be Administered to Patients with HAP/VAP, and If So, Which Agent Is Preferred? Recommendations. R33: We recommend that patients requiring IV polymyxin therapy for suspected or documented XDR gram-negative HAP or VAP should receive adjunctive polymyxin aerosol therapy (Weak recommendation, low-quality evidence). Pharmacotherapy. Author manuscript; available in PMC 2020 August 19. Author Manuscript Author Manuscript Author Manuscript Author Manuscript R34: We recommend that for polymyxin aerosol therapy,
