HHS Public Access
KEYWORDS: polymyxin, colistin, author, manuscript, author manuscript, patients, therapy, combination, dose, manuscript author, cms, evidence, studies, combination therapy, data


therapy (Weak recommendation, low-quality evidence). Pharmacotherapy. Author manuscript; available in PMC 2020 August 19. Author Manuscript Author Manuscript Author Manuscript Author Manuscript R34: We recommend that for polymyxin aerosol therapy, either colistin or polymyxin B is appropriate (Weak recommendation; very low-quality evidence). Evidence Summary.: An RCT was performed comparing empirical CMS aerosol with placebo aerosol.135 Patients were randomized to receive either 4 mL nebulized sterile normal saline or CMS equivalent to 75 mg colistin base activity reconstituted in 4 mL nebulized sterile normal saline that was delivered immediately via a jet or ultrasonic nebulizer for 10 minutes or until the nebulized solution container was empty.135 The regimen and duration of the systemic antibiotic (s) were chosen by the patient’s responsible physician. No benefit in clinical cure or mortality with adjunctive aerosol CMS was demonstrated in this trial.135 A second RCT has been performed in 149 critically ill adults who developed gram-negative VAP.136 Patients were randomized to receive 4 million IU of aerosolized CMS by nebulisation for 30 minutes three times/day in addition to IV imipenem 1 g three times/day compared to IV CMS given as a loading dose of 9 million IU followed by 4.5 million IU two times/24 hours in addition to IV imipenem 1 g three times/day. The clinical cure rate was 67.1 % in aerosol group and 72% in IV group (p=0.59). When administered in monotherapy or in combination, the aerosol CMS was as effective as IV regimen. Patients in aerosol group had significantly lower incidence of acute renal failure.136 In contrast, a 2015 meta-analysis lower (OR 0.89, 95% CI 0.51–1.01) with adjunctive aerosol CMS. All analyses were imprecise and demonstrated inconsistency except for microbiological eradication.137 Since this meta-analysis, only one retrospective cohort study in pediatric patients has been published that found essentially the same results for clinical response.138 Most of the studies included in the meta-analysis focused on MDR pathogens, mainly Pseudomonas, Acinetobacter, and CRE.137 Most had carbapenem-resistant or colistin-only susceptible isolates. In many cases, polymyxin aerosols were only added after culture results were known. As such, early effective empirical antibiotic therapy, critical for good outcomes in HAP/VAP, may have been inadequate even in those receiving polymyxin aerosols. The assumption is that IV colistin may be considered in the patients with pneumonia due to XDR pathogens. Poor results with lower dose IV therapy and higher nephrotoxicity with high-dose therapy,139 safety concerns when combination therapy includes other
