HHS Public Access
KEYWORDS: polymyxin, colistin, author, manuscript, author manuscript, patients, therapy, combination, dose, manuscript author, cms, evidence, studies, combination therapy, data


considered in the patients with pneumonia due to XDR pathogens. Poor results with lower dose IV therapy and higher nephrotoxicity with high-dose therapy,139 safety concerns when combination therapy includes other nephrotoxic agents, and poor response to polymyxins in preclinical lung infection murine models all warrant consideration of polymyxin aerosols as an adjunctive therapy to IV polymyxins. Use of aerosolized CMS, mainly monotherapy without any IV therapy, for all XDR Pseudomonas and Acinetobacter VAPs, had equivalent results to IV therapy of less resistant strains.140 An increase in nephrotoxicity is difficult to detect in the meta-analysis137 because all studies used IV colistin in addition to aerosol and used various doses of IV colistin, but overall nephrotoxicity rates were high in most studies. More recent studies including a recent meta-analysis of inhaled CMS and a retrospective review comparing 95 critically ill surgical patients who were diagnosed with A. baumannii VAP support the notion that to IV CMS.141 Interestingly, in a systemic review the combination of inhaled CMS + IV CMS was significantly superior to IV CMS for patient survival and clinical cure for the Pharmacotherapy. Author manuscript; available in PMC 2020 August 19. Author Manuscript Author Manuscript Author Manuscript Author Manuscript treatment of resistant A. baumannii pneumonia in critically ill patients.142, 143 These recommendations place high value on pharmacologic considerations. RCTs135, 136 have utilized CMS. No direct comparison of CMS and polymyxin B has been performed and appear to have equivalent adverse events, mainly bronchospasm. It is important to note that it has been suggested that aerosolized CMS therapy may have a substantial targeting advantage over IV therapy. Very high concentrations of formed colistin in ELF have been reported after aerosolized CMS delivery in critically ill patients. ELF colistin concentrations from CMS aerosol delivery (9.53 to 1137 mg/L) have been shown to be much higher than those in plasma (0.15 to 0.73 mg/L) after intravenous administration of CMS.146 Typically, 9% of the CMS dose reaches the alveolar level.146 Colistin levels achieved in alveolar fluid at the end of an 8-hour interval may be below the MIC of MDR pathogens, raising the possibility of failure.147 However, colistin was shown to bind to secretory mucin in sputum or epithelial mucin that lines airways that may reduce the antibacterial efficacy of inhaled or IV administered colistin.148 Furthermore, a major concern is the actual aerosol delivery.149 Experimental studies demonstrated significant variation in the amount of drug deposited
