HHS Public Access
KEYWORDS: polymyxin, colistin, author, manuscript, author manuscript, patients, therapy, combination, dose, manuscript author, cms, evidence, studies, combination therapy, data


reduce the antibacterial efficacy of inhaled or IV administered colistin.148 Furthermore, a major concern is the actual aerosol delivery.149 Experimental studies demonstrated significant variation in the amount of drug deposited at the alveolar level in mechanically ventilated patients.150 A survey found that 30% of intensivists in Europe and France have used aerosolized antibiotics at least every other month.151 However, most did not vary ventilator settings to optimize delivery of the antibiotic to the alveolar level. Therefore, optimizing ventilator settings and aerosol generator capabilities likely played a much greater role in clinical response in studies in which polymyxin was used. It is important to acknowledge that ESCMID has recently published a position paper on the use of nebulized antibiotics in invasively mechanically ventilated adults.152 Overall, ESCMID’s position paper recommends avoiding the use of nebulized antibiotics in clinical practice due to a weak level of evidence regarding their efficacy and the high potential for underestimated risks of adverse events (particularly, respiratory complications). Specifically, ESCMID’s position paper suggests avoiding the routine addition of nebulized antibiotics such as colistin, to conventional IV antibiotic therapy that already includes IV colistin for the treatment of VAP caused by resistant pathogens. However, the authors of the polymyxin guidelines elected to place higher value on the potential benefit of adjunctive polymyxin aerosol therapy that outweighed potential risks. These include placing higher value on data from randomized controlled trials in patients with lower respiratory tract infections due to XDR gramnegative bacilli who have been treated with intravenous polymyxin therapy and have experienced high rates of mortality and clinical failure. Preclinical evidence suggests negligible antimicrobial effect of systemic polymyxins (unlike aminoglycosides) in lung infection models although additional clinical studies are urgently needed to better evaluate this. Therefore, although there are safety concerns and poor quality of the evidence with regards to polymyxin aerosol therapy, the guidelines committee believes that the potential benefits outweighs the risks, which is the basis for the recommendation. Pharmacotherapy. Author manuscript; available in PMC 2020 August 19. Author Manuscript Author Manuscript Author Manuscript Author Manuscript Future Research Needs.: Prospective clinical trials evaluating adjunctive polymyxin aerosol therapy in addition to IV therapy are necessary. Pharmacokinetic and PK/PD studies in lung infection using aerosol therapy, adjunctive aerosol therapy in combination with IV polymyxin therapy, and adjunctive aerosol therapy in combination with IV polymyxin together with other IV active antibiotics therapy are necessary. Comparative studies between aerosol polymyxin B
