HHS Public Access
KEYWORDS: polymyxin, colistin, author, manuscript, author manuscript, patients, therapy, combination, dose, manuscript author, cms, evidence, studies, combination therapy, data


in combination with IV polymyxin therapy, and adjunctive aerosol therapy in combination with IV polymyxin together with other IV active antibiotics therapy are necessary. Comparative studies between aerosol polymyxin B and colistin are also needed. Intrathecal and Intraventricular Administration of Polymyxins XX. Should Intraventricular or Intrathecal Administration of Polymyxins Be Considered in Meningitis or Ventriculitis? Recommendations. R35: Intraventricular (IVT) or intrathecal (ITH) administration of polymyxins at a dosage of 125,000 IU CMS (~4.1 mg CBA) or 5 mg (50,000 IU) polymyxin B per day with concomitant IV polymyxin is recommended for ventriculitis or meningitis caused by MDR and XDR gram-negative pathogens. R36: Due to limited experience with polymyxin B, CMS is the preferred polymyxin for intraventricular or intrathecal administration. Evidence Summary.: Health care–associated ventriculitis and meningitis are an evolving occurrence due to the increasing rates of neurosurgery procedures. The most prevalent pathogens are staphylococci and MDR and XDR gram negatives (A. baumannii, P. aeruginosa, and K. pneumoniae) depending on local epidemiology data.153, 154 Therapeutic treatment has become increasingly challenging due to the increasing emergence of MDR, and in some cases, colistin or polymyxin B is the only available antimicrobial agent active against meningitis pathogens.155 Colistin exhibits limited penetration into the cerebrospinal fluid (CSF), with only 5% of serum colistin levels detected in the CSF after IV administration.156 In the presence of meningitis, an increase in CSF colistin concentrations (34–67% of serum colistin levels) was reported after IV administration, although CSF colistin levels of only 0.5 mg/L were reported in the setting of meningitis, suggesting potentially subtherapeutic colistin CSF concentrations following IV colistin administration. 157 However, IVT administration of colistin in nine neurosurgery patients with XDR gram- negative infections achieved an estimated average steady-state concentrations of colistin in the CSF ranging from 3.0–12.2 mg/L; in the eight patients who were administered CMS IVT at a dosage of 60,000–125,000 IU (this relates to 1.8–4.1 mg CBA) per day, trough CSF levels were between 2.0 and 9.7 mg/L.158 Thus the measured CSF concentrations in these patients were continuously above the colistin MIC breakpoint of 2 mg/L, and clearance of colistin in the CSF depended on the amount of CSF drained. It is clear that administration of CMS directly into the CSF achieves concentrations of colistin that could not be safely obtained with IV administration alone. Information is lacking on the CSF pharmacokinetics of polymyxin B. Superiority of combined treatment with IV and IVT
