NIH Public Access
KEYWORDS: dkt, rkt, gastric, manuscript, author, author manuscript, gastrointestinal, patients, studies, herbal, intestinal, effects, effect, nih-pa author, nih-pa


NIH Public Access Author Manuscript Neurogastroenterol Motil. Author manuscript; available in PMC 2010 September 21. Published in final edited form as: Neurogastroenterol Motil. 2009 July ; 21(7): 688–696. doi:. JAPANESE HERBAL MEDICINE IN FUNCTIONAL GASTROINTESTINAL DISORDERS Hidekazu Suzuki, John M. Inadomi, and Toshifumi Hibi Abstract Background—Management of functional gastrointestinal disorders is hindered by both poor efficacy and adverse effects of traditional pharmacological therapy. Herbal medicine may be an attractive alternative based on the perception of its “natural” approach and low risk of side effects; however, the lack of standardization of drug components has limited the ability to perform rigorous clinical studies in Western countries. Japanese herbal medicine (JHM) is a standardized form of herbal medicine with regards to the quality and quantities of ingredients. While extensively studied and widely used in Asia, there is a paucity of data upon which physicians in other parts of the world may draw conclusions regarding the effectiveness of herbal medicine for gastrointestinal disorders. Aim—To summarize the most recent developments in JHM for treatment of functional gastrointestinal disorders. Methods—Animal and human studies were systematically reviewed to identify published data of JHM used for treatment of gastrointestinal disorders. The herbal components of JHM were an emphasis on functional gastrointestinal disorders. Results—JHM are associated with a variety of beneficial physiological on the gastrointestinal system. Patient-based clinical outcomes are improved in several conditions. Rikkunnshi-to reduces symptoms and reverses physiological abnormalities associated with functional dyspepsia, while Dai-Kenchu-to improves symptoms of post-operative ileus and constipation in children. Conclusions—This updated summary of JHM in the field of gastrointestinal disorders illustrates the potential for herbal medication to serve a valuable role in the management of patients with functional disorders. INTRODUCTION Functional gastrointestinal disorders (FGIDs), including functional dyspepsia and irritable bowel syndrome, occurs in up to one quarter of people in Western countries . Since functional disorders are not lethal, the threshold for safety of medication to treat these disorders has been set higher than for therapy to treat non-functional disease. Recent data, the need for more effective therapy . Management of patients with functional disorders has become more difficult because several drugs that reduced symptoms were associated . NIH-PA Author Manuscript NIH-PA Author Manuscript NIH-PA Author Manuscript with significant adverse events leading to the withdrawal of medication such as cisapride and tegaserod . Herbal therapy, which has been used in Asia for thousands of years is currently manufactured in Japan in standardized
