NIH Public Access
KEYWORDS: dkt, rkt, gastric, manuscript, author, author manuscript, gastrointestinal, patients, studies, herbal, intestinal, effects, effect, nih-pa author, nih-pa


to the withdrawal of medication such as cisapride and tegaserod . Herbal therapy, which has been used in Asia for thousands of years is currently manufactured in Japan in standardized form with regards to the quality and quantities of ingredients, and has been termed “Japanese herbal medicine” (JHM) or “Kampo medicine.” An emerging therapeutic target for this class of medicine is functional disorders. Since conventional pharmacology has been either poorly effective or associated with adverse events the use of complementary and alternative medicine (CAM) including herbal medicines is gaining appeal for use in clinical practice. The present article reviews the underlying physiology and clinical benefits associated with Japanese herbal medicine in treating gastrointestinal diseases, with a special focus on gastrointestinal functional disorders. Methods A literature search was performed in Pubmed using the keywords [gastrointestinal] and [Japanese herbal medicine], or [gastrointestinal] and [kampo]. After identification of the JHM used for gastrointestinal disorders, additional searches were performed using each of the specific JHM as search terms to ensure inclusion of all relevant publications. After accumulating the combined list of included studies, publications not examining the use of JHM for gastrointestinal functional disorders were excluded. Data abstraction was performed to characterize the physiological and clinical effects of each JHM. A formal meta-analysis was not possible based on the variation in study populations, disorders and study protocols retrieved; therefore, the data are presented descriptively with regards to the physiological and clinical effects of individual JHM. Results The initial search terms yielded 30 original manuscript of JHM. The most frequently cited JHM were Rikkunnshi-to (RKT: 6 studies) and Daikenchu-to (DKT: 6 studies), followed by Hangeshasin-to (HST: 2 studies). By expanding the search algorithm to include keywords of these JHM, a total of 17 publications of RKT and 27 studies of DKT were retrieved. Expansion of other medicine-specific search terms did not yield additional results. I. Rikkunnshi-to (RKT, TJ-43)—Rikkunshi-to (RKT, TJ-43) is prepared from 8 crude herbs: Atractylodes, Lancea Rhizome, Ginseng, Pinellia Tuber, Poria Sclerotium, Jujube, Citrus Unshiu Peel, Glycyrrhiza and Ginger (Table 1). RKT is widely prescribed in Japan for patients with a variety of gastrointestinal symptoms including anorexia , nausea and vomiting . Among 17 manuscripts related to RKT, 8 articles were animal studies and 9 were human studies. Among 8 animal studies, 5 articles focused on upper gastrointestinal (GI) function . Of the 9 human studies, only one was randomized controlled study and
