NIH Public Access
KEYWORDS: dkt, rkt, gastric, manuscript, author, author manuscript, gastrointestinal, patients, studies, herbal, intestinal, effects, effect, nih-pa author, nih-pa


and 9 were human studies. Among 8 animal studies, 5 articles focused on upper gastrointestinal (GI) function . Of the 9 human studies, only one was randomized controlled study and 6 were related to upper GI function (Figure 1, Table 2). Effects on putative receptors or neurotransmitters: According to a recent report by Takeda et al. components of RKT, 3,3′,4′,5,6,8-heptamethoxyflavone, hesperidin, and iso-liquiritigenin showed a 5-HT -antagonistic effect in vitro. They also showed in vivo 2B that RKT suppressed the cisplatin- or 5-HT-induced decrease in plasma acylated ghrelin levels as well as in food intake . In another experiment, a single oral dose of RKT resulted in significant increases in plasma somatostatin and gastrin levels 60 to 240 minutes after administration compared with a Neurogastroenterol Motil. Author manuscript; available in PMC 2010 September 21. NIH-PA Author Manuscript NIH-PA Author Manuscript NIH-PA Author Manuscript placebo group . Conversely, RKT was observed to have no effect on motilin or VIP levels. Effects on motor patterns Gastric emptying: RKT has been shown to ameliorate the effects of nitric oxide (NO)- mediated gastric functions including delayed gastric emptying. Hesperidin and L-arginine have been identified as two of the active ingredients contributing to the ability of RKT to facilitate gastric emptying . Adaptive relaxation: Some patients with dysmotility-like functional dyspepsia (equivalent to postprandial distress syndrome by Rome III classification ) have been shown to exhibit impaired reservoir function including gastric adaptive relaxation. In a guinea pig model using luminal distension to invoke gastric adaptive relaxation, RKT (100 mg/ml) induced gastric adaptive relaxation at lower intragastric pressures and increased both the proportion and absolute volume of the gastric adaptive relaxation. These effects were inhibited by NG-nitro-L-arginine (0.1 mM). Conversely, metoclopramide, trimebutine and cisapride did not affect gastric adaptive relaxation. Thus, RKT (100 mg/ml), but not gastroprokinetic agents overcame the effect of NG-nitro-L-arginine. These results suggested that RKT promotes gastric adaptive relaxation. This effect might, at least in part, contribute to the symptom relief in patients with functional dyspepsia . In isolated guinea pig ileal longitudinal muscle, RKT inhibited the concentration-response curve for acetylcholine (Ach)-contraction in a non-competitive manner, similar to the effect seen with domperidone . Gastroesophageal reflux disease (GERD): The effects of RKT on clinical symptoms and esophageal acid exposure in children with symptomatic gastroesophageal reflux (GER) have been examined. In one study, 8 children, aged from 2 months to 15 years, 6 of who
