NIH Public Access
KEYWORDS: dkt, rkt, gastric, manuscript, author, author manuscript, gastrointestinal, patients, studies, herbal, intestinal, effects, effect, nih-pa author, nih-pa


symptoms and esophageal acid exposure in children with symptomatic gastroesophageal reflux (GER) have been examined. In one study, 8 children, aged from 2 months to 15 years, 6 of who had neurological impairment were studied. The clinical symptoms and esophageal pH were compared before and after RKT therapy for 1 week. The percentage time that distal esophageal pH < 4.0 and the mean duration of reflux decreased significantly (P < 0.05); however, the number of acid reflux events per hour did not change significantly, and none of the pH parameters measured at the proximal electrode differed significantly. In concert with supporting the hypothesis that short-term administration of RKT reduces the distal esophageal acid exposure through improved esophageal acid clearance . Functional dyspepsia (FD): In a randomized, placebo controlled trial of RKT, gastric emptying and gastrointestinal symptoms were evaluated in 42 patients with FD. Subjects were randomized to receive either oral treatment with 2.5 g RKT three times daily (22 subjects) or placebo (20 subjects). Gastric emptying was measured by the acetaminophen absorption method. After 7 days of treatment, gastric emptying was significantly accelerated and gastrointestinal symptoms were significantly reduced in patients treated with RKT, indicating that RKT has a prokinetic action on gastric emptying and may be useful in treating FD . The effect of RKT on symptoms and gastric myoelectric activity has been evaluated in dyspeptic patients whose symptoms persisted for over 1 year after gastrointestinal surgery. All patients exhibited symptomatic relief with the administration of RKT, with a significant decrease in mean symptom scores that were sustained over a 1-month period (p<0.0001). The variability index (VI) and the percentage of normal waves (PNW) were calculated as irregularity parameters of dominant peak frequency (DPF). There were no significant differences in the VI and PNW between the controls and patients during the postprandial Neurogastroenterol Motil. Author manuscript; available in PMC 2010 September 21. NIH-PA Author Manuscript NIH-PA Author Manuscript NIH-PA Author Manuscript state after therapy, even though significant differences in those parameters were present between the controls and patients before the therapy. Postprandial dip was observed in all control subjects and two patients after administration of RKT. The coordinating and stimulating effect of RKT on the gastric myoelectric activity therefore seems to play an important role in the reduction of dyspeptic symptoms . Other dyspeptic conditions: Diacylglycerol kinase (DGK) activity in diabetic gastric smooth muscle in the resting state is
