NIH Public Access
KEYWORDS: dkt, rkt, gastric, manuscript, author, author manuscript, gastrointestinal, patients, studies, herbal, intestinal, effects, effect, nih-pa author, nih-pa


seems to play an important role in the reduction of dyspeptic symptoms . Other dyspeptic conditions: Diacylglycerol kinase (DGK) activity in diabetic gastric smooth muscle in the resting state is approximately 3.5-fold greater than that in non-diabetic controls. Oral administration of RKT for 2 weeks in streptozotocin-induced diabetic rats (DM) normalizes DGK abnormalities by influencing the hyperreactivity of DGK and diacylglycerol formation via phospholipase C activity . Upper gastrointestinal (GI) symptoms such as nausea and vomiting are common adverse events associated with selective serotonin reuptake inhibitors (SSRIs), and may result in discontinuation of drug therapy in patients with depressive disorders. RKT was shown to reduce the fluvoxamine-associated adverse events, especially nausea, and improve QOL related to GI symptoms without affecting the antidepressant effect of fluvoxamine . One case report illustrated that oral administration of RKT stopped the vomiting of infantile hypertrophic pyloric stenosis (IHPS) refractory to atropine, possibly by improving gastric motility and restoring normal gastric myoelectric activity . Other effects: RKT significantly inhibits rat gastric mucosal damage caused by absolute ethanol dose-dependently. Pretreatment with indomethacin or with N-ethylmaleimide does not affect the gastroprotective effect of RKT; however, pretreatment with NG-nitro-L- arginine significantly reverses the protective effect of this drug, suggesting that the gastroprotective effect of RKT occurs partly through NO but not through prostaglandin or sulfhydryl pathways . Moreover, oral administration of RKT extract significantly prevented ethanol-induced rat gastric mucosal damage through the 140% increase in the surface mucin content . Gastric mucosal blood flow is significantly decreased in a model of gastric mucosal hemorrhagic injury produced by repeated electrical stimulation of the rat gastric artery, with an increase in platelet-activating factor (PAF) and myeloperoxidase (MPO) activity in the gastric mucosa and in oxygen radical formation in the local venous blood . In this model, oral RKT attenuates such increases in PAF, MPO and oxygen radicals, and reverses the mucosal blood flow reduction and mucosal injury . II. Dai-Kenchu-to (DKT, TJ-100)—Dai-Kenchu-to (DKT, TJ-100), prepared from 3 crude herbs: Ginseng, Zanthoxylum Fruit and Dried Ginger (Table 1), is often used in Japan in the treatment of gastrointestinal hypomotility such as ileus following abdominal surgery . Among 27 manuscripts related to DKT, 18 were animal studies and 9 were human studies. There was only one randomized controlled study has been performed to evaluate the clinical effects of DKT . Among 18 animal studies, 16 articles were related to intestinal function .
