NIH Public Access
KEYWORDS: dkt, rkt, gastric, manuscript, author, author manuscript, gastrointestinal, patients, studies, herbal, intestinal, effects, effect, nih-pa author, nih-pa


There was only one randomized controlled study has been performed to evaluate the clinical effects of DKT . Among 18 animal studies, 16 articles were related to intestinal function . All 9 human studies examined intestinal function (Figure 1, Table 2). Effects on putative receptors or neurotransmitters: A single oral administration of DKT caused significant increases in plasma levels of motilin , vasoactive intestinal peptide (VIP), 5-HT , CGRP and substance P , but not of gastrin and somatostatin . DKT induces the release of motilin and VIP into plasma mainly through the activation of M(1) muscarinic receptors . DKT and one of its active components, 6-shogaol, produced Neurogastroenterol Motil. Author manuscript; available in PMC 2010 September 21. NIH-PA Author Manuscript NIH-PA Author Manuscript NIH-PA Author Manuscript an increase in intestinal blood flow that was mainly mediated by CGRP , suggesting that DKT may be useful in the treatment of intestinal ischemia-related organic as well as functional GI diseases. DKT also prevented bacterial translocation by reducing inflammatory reaction for maintaining intestinal integrity . Effects on motor patterns GI Motility: Intragastric DKT and a variety of agents including zanthoxylum fruit, ginseng root, and dried ginger rhizome stimulate upper gastrointestinal motility in dogs through cholinergic and 5-HT receptors . The prokinetic effects of DKT differ with the site (stomach, duodenum, jejunum, ileum, colon) or timing (the fasting and the fed) of administration . DKT induced contractions accompanied by autonomous contraction at a concentration of more than 3 × 10(−4) g/ml in a dose-related manner in the isolated guinea pig ileum . DKT-induced ileal contraction was suppressed by atropine and tetrodotoxin, but not by hexamethonium, and was partially suppressed in the presence of 5-HT receptor antagonist. In addition, DKT was associated with an acetylcholine (ACh)-releasing action in the ileal smooth muscle, suggesting that contractile response induced by DKT is partially mediated by ACh released from the cholinergic nerve endings and that 5-HT receptors are involved in the effect of DKT . Tachykinins may be also involved in the atropine-resistant contraction by DKT . In an isolated rabbit jejunum, DKT acted on multiple points of the intestine to improve ileus . While DKT evoked both contraction and relaxation by releasing Ach, NO and other excitatory neurotransmitters in mouse small intestine, it had no effects on pacemaker mechanisms and electrical coupling between ICC-MY and smooth muscle cells , suggesting that DKT may contract smooth muscles
