NIH Public Access
KEYWORDS: dkt, rkt, gastric, manuscript, author, author manuscript, gastrointestinal, patients, studies, herbal, intestinal, effects, effect, nih-pa author, nih-pa


excitatory neurotransmitters in mouse small intestine, it had no effects on pacemaker mechanisms and electrical coupling between ICC-MY and smooth muscle cells , suggesting that DKT may contract smooth muscles directly. Abatement of morphine- induced transit disorders by DKT in the guinea pig ileum was reported to be caused by both moderate contraction of morphine-treated longitudinal muscle and relaxation of morphine- induced tonic contraction of circular muscle . In terms of colonic motility, DKT-extract powder caused a significant inhibition on carbachol-induced contraction of the rat distal colon in a concentration dependent manner. Small intestinal motility: DKT improves accelerated small intestinal movement with mechanisms mainly through the direct inhibition of smooth muscle and partially through neural inhibition. The components of DKT (Table 1) that provide this effect may be dried ginger root and ginseng, which also contribute to the action of DKT on small intestinal transit . DKT also induces phasic contractions in the duodenum and proximal jejunum, possibly mediated through cholinergic receptors . Such stimulatory effects on intestinal motility by DKT is selective on GI tract since DKT has no effect on the uterine motility . Chlorpromazine-induced hypoperistalsis: DKT also improves chlorpromazine-induced hypoperistalsis via cholinergic systems. One of ingredients in DKT, zanthoxylum fruit is likely the main contributor to this action. In addition, endogenous CCK release, which has been demonstrated to occur in response to maltose syrup may also contribute to the reversal of hypoperistalsis . Postoperative ileus (POI): POI is a transient bowel motor dysfunction that occurs after surgery. Delays in gastrointestinal transit may be prolonged after laparotomy plus intestinal manipulation. DKT accelerated the delayed GI transit induced by intestinal manipulation, with or without concomitant morphine administration . Neurogastroenterol Motil. Author manuscript; available in PMC 2010 September 21. NIH-PA Author Manuscript NIH-PA Author Manuscript NIH-PA Author Manuscript The improvement in motor function is inhibited by pretreatment with atropine or ruthenium red. In addition, DKT-induced contractions are inhibited by tetrodotoxin, and capsazepine. Since the effect of hydroxyl sanshool, one of the active compounds of DKT, is mediated by sensory nerves, the effect of DKT may be due to a combination of sensory and cholinergic nerves . Alternatively, the effect may be due to reversal of transient ischemia through the improvement of the intestinal mucosal blood flow . In postoperative intestinal adhesion, repeated administrations of DKT significantly inhibited the formation of intestinal obstruction . A single administration of DKT significantly reduce
