NIH Public Access
KEYWORDS: dkt, rkt, gastric, manuscript, author, author manuscript, gastrointestinal, patients, studies, herbal, intestinal, effects, effect, nih-pa author, nih-pa


of the intestinal mucosal blood flow . In postoperative intestinal adhesion, repeated administrations of DKT significantly inhibited the formation of intestinal obstruction . A single administration of DKT significantly reduce intestinal transit time in POI and chemically induced ileus . DKT ameliorated postoperative hypoperistalsis is via cholinergic nerves and 5-HT receptors . DKT treatment may be useful for the patients with POI, which is a common adverse consequence of abdominal surgical procedures. According to a double-blind, randomized study examining the effects of DKT was performed in 24 patients with POI, DKT was significantly more effective than placebo in reducing both the need for further surgery and the recurrence of POI . Among patients with total gastrectomy with jejunal pouch interposition, DKT increased intestinal motility and decreased postoperative symptoms . Furthermore, administration of DKT in conjunction with Keish-bukuryo-gan was highly effective in improving postoperative bowel motility and in reducing hospital stay . Also in children , DKT had incremental but significant effects for a variety of obstructive bowel diseases. Constipation: In a study of children with chronic constipation, DKT reduced symptoms of constipation and improved rectal reservoir function demonstrated through anorectal manometry. DKT was shown to stimulate peristalsis of the intestine, which was associated with resumption of regular bowel habits . III. Hangeshasin-to (HST, TJ-14)—Hangeshasin-to (HST, TJ-14) is prepared from 6 herbs: Pinellia Tuber, Scutellaria Root, Processed Ginger, Glycyrrhiza, Jujube, Ginseng and Some of the anti-diarrheal effects of Hange-shashin-to (TJ-14) may be through the attenuation of the increase in the amount of prostaglandin E (PGE ) as well as promotion of 2 2 the colonic water absorption . HST and Sairei-to (TJ-114)-treated animals have less damage to the intestinal epithelium induced by irinotecan hydrochloride (CPT-11), suggesting a possible prophylactic use of HST and Sairei-to against CPT-11-induced intestinal toxicity . Drug-associated diarrhea: HST contains baicalin, a beta-glucuronidase inhibitor that has been shown to alleviate diarrhea induced by CPT-11. Based on results of a randomized trial, HST treated subjects showed a significant improvement in diarrhea severity (p<0.05) as well as a reduced frequency of diarrhea among grades 3 and 4 (p = 0.018), suggesting the effectiveness of HST on preventing and controlling CPT-11-induced diarrhea . IV. Other herbal medications Oren-gedoku-to (OGT, TJ15): Oral administration of Oren-gedoku-to extract (OGT, TJ-15) dose-dependently prevented the progression of acute gastric mucosal lesions in rats with water immersion restraint (WIR) stress. The preventive effect of OGT on the
