NIH Public Access
KEYWORDS: dkt, rkt, gastric, manuscript, author, author manuscript, gastrointestinal, patients, studies, herbal, intestinal, effects, effect, nih-pa author, nih-pa


administration of Oren-gedoku-to extract (OGT, TJ-15) dose-dependently prevented the progression of acute gastric mucosal lesions in rats with water immersion restraint (WIR) stress. The preventive effect of OGT on the lesion progression was stronger than that of Saiko-keishi-to extract (TJ-10) or Shigyaku-san extract (TJ-35). OGT administration attenuated increases in gastric mucosal lipid peroxide Neurogastroenterol Motil. Author manuscript; available in PMC 2010 September 21. NIH-PA Author Manuscript NIH-PA Author Manuscript NIH-PA Author Manuscript concentration and xanthine oxidase and myeloperoxidase activity that were associated with gastric mucosal lesion progression, and repleted gastric mucosal non-protein SH that was otherwise diminished. These results indicate that OGT exerts a therapeutic effect on WIR stress-induced acute gastric lesions in rats more strongly than Saiko-keishi-to extract or Shigyaku-san extract. The therapeutic effect of OGT may be due to its protective effects against lipid peroxidation and sulphydryl oxidation caused by oxygen free radicals generated by neutrophils in the gastric mucosa . Hange-koboku-to (HKT, TJ-16): The gastric emptying rate in FD patients is significantly lower than in the healthy subjects. However, after 2 weeks of medication with HKT gastric emptying in FD patients and in healthy volunteers was significantly increased and gastrointestinal symptoms improved significantly in the FD patients . Gorei-san (TJ-17): Gorei-san has been used to treat a variety of symptoms including nausea, dry mouth, edema, headache, and dizziness. In a prospective cohort study of 20 patients who experienced nausea or dyspepsia associated with SSRIs, 9 patients were completely resolved, 4 were decreased, 2 were decreased slightly, and 5 were not changed . Summary: Japanese herbal medicines are associated with clinical benefit in the management of several functional gastrointestinal disorders. Physiological studies suggest that the effect of JHM is medicated by either direct or indirect alteration of gastrointestinal motility. RKT is associated with improved symptoms in gastroesophageal reflux disease, and functional and drug-associated dyspepsia. DKT is associated with improvement in post- operative ileus and reduced symptoms in children with constipation. Other herbal medicines are beneficial for diarrhea or dyspepsia associated with administration of other drugs. There is a paucity of randomized, placebo-controlled trials examining standardized herbal medicine for FGIDs. Studies illustrating the superiority of peppermint and caraway oils, or Iberogast (peppermint, caraway, biter candy tuft, licorice, lemon balm, angelica, celandine, milk thistle and chamomile) compared to placebo in patients with FD have been published . However, there remains a distinct gap between the evidence supporting CAM in the
