NIH Public Access
KEYWORDS: dkt, rkt, gastric, manuscript, author, author manuscript, gastrointestinal, patients, studies, herbal, intestinal, effects, effect, nih-pa author, nih-pa


angelica, celandine, milk thistle and chamomile) compared to placebo in patients with FD have been published . However, there remains a distinct gap between the evidence supporting CAM in the U.S. and the prevalence of its use. Up to 85% of cancer patients in a California registry reported use of CAM in a recent survey . However, the majority of published studies of CAM have methodological flaws that reduce the impact of results . The disconnect between evidence supporting the effectiveness of CAM and the prevalence of CAM use herbal medicine. A major limitation of our findings is the lack of availability of herbal medicines that are standardized in both the quantity and quality of ingredients outside of Japan. For this reason, the physiological and clinical effects of herbal medicine in other countries may not be consistent with these data. In addition, few studies have been designed to test the efficacy of JHM in a definitive manner. In order to confirm their efficacy, large-scale, randomized, placebo-controlled, and preferably international studies of JHM are warranted. In summary, our review reveals that several FGIDs have the potential to be successfully treated with herbal medicine. The evidence is not currently based on multiple, randomized, multiple physiological studies that support the rationale to examine these medicines in a rigorous manner. As these data are extrapolated to patients outside of Japan, it is important to ensure that herbal medicine is replicated in the quality and quantity of ingredients. It is recommended that future studies use standardized formulations of herbal medicine in Neurogastroenterol Motil. Author manuscript; available in PMC 2010 September 21. NIH-PA Author Manuscript NIH-PA Author Manuscript NIH-PA Author Manuscript research protocols that evaluate clinically relevant endpoints. Based on the prevalence of CAM use by patients, it appears that there is a mandate to provide accurate data regarding the effectiveness of non-traditional therapy not only to our patients but also to healthcare providers who face the dilemma of recommending or opposing management strategies that incorporate herbal medicine. Acknowledgments This study was supported by a Grant-in-Aid for Exploratory Research, Japan Society for the Promotion of Science (JSPS) (No. 19659057 to H.S.), Keio Gijuku Academic Development Funds (to H.S.), and the National Institutes of
