HHS Public Access
KEYWORDS: manuscript, liver, author, author manuscript, expression, manuscript author, hepatic, protein, icr, cells, regulation, diseases, cell, binding, liver diseases


HHS Public Access Author manuscript Transl Res. Author manuscript; available in PMC 2022 July 28. Published in final edited form as: Transl Res. 2021 April ; 230: 139–150. doi:. Long non-coding RNA H19 – a new player in the pathogenesis of liver diseases Zhihong Yang1,*, Ting Zhang1, Sen Han1, Praveen Kusumanchi1, Nazmul Huda1, Yanchao Jiang1, Suthat Liangpunsakul1,2,3 of Medicine, Indianapolis, IN Indianapolis, IN Abstract The liver is a vital organ that controls glucose and lipid metabolism, hormone regulation, and bile secretion. Liver injury can occur from various insults such as viruses, metabolic diseases, and alcohol, which lead to acute and chronic liver diseases. Recent studies have demonstrated the implications of long non-coding RNAs (lncRNAs) in the pathogenesis of liver diseases. These newly discovered lncRNAs have various functions attributing to many cellular biological processes via distinct and diverse mechanisms. LncRNA H19, one of the first lncRNAs being identified, is highly expressed in fetal liver but not in adult normal liver. Its expression, however, is increased in liver diseases with various etiologies. In this review, we focused on the roles of H19 in the pathogenesis of liver diseases. This comprehensive review is aimed to provide useful perspectives and translational applications of H19 as a potential therapeutic target of liver diseases. Keywords non-coding RNA; LncRNA-H19; liver diseases IN 46202, . Roles of authors ZY, SL: study concept and design, drafting of the manuscript; PK, TZ, SH, NH, YJ: critical revision of the manuscript and article queries. All authors have read and approved the manuscript for submission. Publisher's Disclaimer: This is a PDF file of an unedited manuscript that has been accepted for publication. As a service to our customers we are providing this early version of the manuscript. The manuscript will undergo copyediting, typesetting, and review of the resulting proof before it is published in its final form. Please note that during the production process errors may be discovered which could affect the content, and all legal disclaimers that apply to the journal pertain. All the authors have read the journal’s policy on disclosure of potential conflicts of interest and declare that there are no conflicts of interest to report. Conflict of interest: None of the authors have any conflicts of interest with this work Part of the work in this manuscript was presented as an oral presentation at the Annual Meeting of the Central Society for Clinical and Translational Research and Midwest
