HHS Public Access
KEYWORDS: manuscript, liver, author, author manuscript, expression, manuscript author, hepatic, protein, icr, cells, regulation, diseases, cell, binding, liver diseases


this work Part of the work in this manuscript was presented as an oral presentation at the Annual Meeting of the Central Society for Clinical and Translational Research and Midwest American Federation for Medical Research (CSCTR/AFMR) meeting, Chicago, IL in 2019. Author Manuscript Author Manuscript Author Manuscript Author Manuscript 1. Introduction The new landscape of human transcriptome along with the identification of non-coding RNAs (ncRNAs) has uncovered their importance in the pathophysiology of human have biological functions and regulate intracellular physiological processes. It is estimated that more than 80% of the human genome is generally transcribed of which less than 2% are protein-coding genes. Non-coding RNA transcripts (ncRNA) are broadly categorized based on the number of nucleotides. Short ncRNAs (<200 bp) consist of highly abundant and functionally important RNAs such as ribosomal RNAs (rRNAs), transfer RNAs (tRNAs), and small regulatory RNAs such as microRNAs (miRNAs), and small interfering RNAs (siRNAs). Long non- coding RNAs (lncRNAs) are newly discovered and defined as those with transcripts of more than 200 bp. Similar to mRNAs, lncRNAs have both exons and introns and are transcribed by RNA polymerase II; 5’ capped, 3’ poly-adenylated and spliced. They are tissue and cell-type specific and can also be epigenetically modified and transcriptionally regulated. Several lines of evidence indicated the importance of lncRNA in various biological functions and diseases [6–9]. Several lncRNAs have been identified in hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC) and are closely associated with disease prognosis, such as lncRNA-SNHG7, LINC01278, and MALAT1[10–12]. Differential expression of specific lncRNAs was noted during liver regeneration after partial hepatectomy in rodents[13–15]. LncRNAs also play an important role in cholestatic liver diseases, non-alcoholic steatohepatitis, and alcohol- associated liver disease[8, 16–21]. Among many lncRNAs, H19 was the first to be identified and studied in the liver. Significant progress has been made over the past decade to advance our knowledge of the mechanism of H19 associated liver pathobiology. In this current review, we summarized the most up-to-date literature regarding the regulation and function of H19 in the pathogenesis of liver diseases. 2. LncRNA H19 overview The H19 gene was originally isolated as a target for the control of embryonic transcriptional regulators regulation of α-fetoprotein (Raf) and regulation of induction of α-fetoprotein (Rif) . As a non-coding RNA, it expresses an mRNA that is incapable of being translated into a protein. The H19 locus belongs to a conserved gene cluster on chromosome 11p15.5 in human, and
