HHS Public Access
KEYWORDS: manuscript, liver, author, author manuscript, expression, manuscript author, hepatic, protein, icr, cells, regulation, diseases, cell, binding, liver diseases


non-coding RNA, it expresses an mRNA that is incapable of being translated into a protein. The H19 locus belongs to a conserved gene cluster on chromosome 11p15.5 in human, and on chromosome 7 in the mouse. It plays an essential role in growth control and embryonic development. This cluster also contains the insulin-like growth factor 2 (IGF2) gene, located in near 90 kb upstream of the H19 gene. Both H19 and IGF2 genes are coordinately controlled by an intergenic differentially methylated region (DMR), imprinting control region (ICR), and by enhancers located downstream of H19 as shown in Figure 1A. H19 and IGF2 are reciprocally imprinted genes, while IGF2 is expressed from the paternal allele; H19 is only expressed from the maternal allele . Transl Res. Author manuscript; available in PMC 2022 July 28. Author Manuscript Author Manuscript Author Manuscript Author Manuscript 2.1 Regulation of H19 expression 2.1.1 Regulation by an epigenetic mechanism—In normal conditions, the ICR is hypermethylated at the paternal allele and hypomethylated at the maternal allele. This differential methylation is essential in regulating the normal expression of IGF2 and H19. The ICR carries 67 CpGs that are each methylated in sperm but remain unmethylated in oocytes. Subsequently, the zygote carries one methylated (paternal) and one unmethylated (maternal) copy of the ICR. This parent-of-origin difference in ICR methylation is maintained throughout development in all cell types, except for the primordial germ cells. DNA methylation is not the primary genomic imprint and that the H19 ICR insertion is sufficient to transmit parent-of-origin-dependent DNA methylation patterns independent of its methylation status in sperm. This paternal chromosome-specific ICR methylation is critical for maintaining the parent-of-origin-specific epigenomes and expression patterns at this locus. The regulation of H19 and IGF2 imprinting involves the binding of either CCCTC-binding factor (CTCF) or CpG binding protein 2 (MeCP2) based on the methylation status of the ICR. Hypermethylation of ICR on the paternal chromosome leads to the repression of H19, activation of IGF2, and prohibition of its binding to CTCF. Histone deacetylases (HDACs) interact with MeCP2 binding to methylated CpG dinucleotides and suppress H19 expression . CTCF binds DMR located within IGF2, as a consequence of ICR methylation. This binding promotes the interaction of the proximal IGF2 promoter and the distal enhancers and drives IGF2 expression . On the other hand, hypomethylation of ICR on maternal chromosome results in the opposite effect leading to the expression of H19
