HHS Public Access
KEYWORDS: manuscript, liver, author, author manuscript, expression, manuscript author, hepatic, protein, icr, cells, regulation, diseases, cell, binding, liver diseases


and the distal enhancers and drives IGF2 expression . On the other hand, hypomethylation of ICR on maternal chromosome results in the opposite effect leading to the expression of H19 and the binding between ICR and CTCF preventing the expression of IGF2. Taken together, the expression of H19 and IGF2 is closely related and their expressions depend on the methylation of the ICR on the either paternal or maternal allele. On the paternal allele, the ICR is methylated, and the enhancer region can interact with IGF2 to allow expression. On the maternal allele, the ICR is not methylated, allowing same enhancer region to, instead, drive H19 expression (Fig. 1B) . 2.1.2. Regulation by transcriptional factors—H19 was reported to be regulated by transcriptional factors, including forkhead box A1 (FOXA1) , forkhead box F2 (FOXF2), hypoxia-inducible factor 1 subunit alpha (HIF1α) , Paxillin (PXN) , E2F transcription factor 1 (E2F1) , SRY-sex determining region Y-box 2 (SOX2) and paternally expressed gene 3 (PEG3) . FOXA1, a member in the forkhead class of DNA-binding proteins family, is a hepatocyte nuclear factor that transcriptionally activates liver-specific genes . Chromatin immunoprecipitation indicated that FOXA1 binds the H19 enhancer at its two FOXA binding sites . FOXF2, primarily expressed in the lung, can directly bind to the H19 promoter region and accelerate its transcriptional activity . HIF1α transcriptionally activates H19 by directly binding to the H19 promoter or indirectly through the induction of specific protein 1 (SP1), which in turn interacts with the H19 promoter and promotes its expression . Bioinformatics analysis of H19 upstream DNA fragment (−596 to −146bp) using the PROMO algorithm (a program to predict transcription factor binding sites in DNA sequences) identified four SOX2 binding sites which can control H19 expression. Except for those transcriptional activators, Transl Res. Author manuscript; available in PMC 2022 July 28. Author Manuscript Author Manuscript Author Manuscript Author Manuscript PEG3 which is a DNA-binding protein with 12 C2H2 zinc finger motifs can bind to CTCF binding sites in the H19-ICR and act as a transcriptional repressor for H19. 2.2 H19 cellular and tissue distribution H19 is highly expressed in the embryonic tissues and the placenta. Its expression is significantly diminished after birth in most tissues except for the skeletal muscle, cartilage, and cardiac muscle. Under pathological processes such as cancer, connective tissue disorders, and kidney disease, it can re-express[43–45]. In the liver, H19 is also abundantly expressed
