HHS Public Access
KEYWORDS: manuscript, liver, author, author manuscript, expression, manuscript author, hepatic, protein, icr, cells, regulation, diseases, cell, binding, liver diseases


the skeletal muscle, cartilage, and cardiac muscle. Under pathological processes such as cancer, connective tissue disorders, and kidney disease, it can re-express[43–45]. In the liver, H19 is also abundantly expressed during the fetal stage and significantly diminished in an adult healthy liver. However, H19 expression is reactivated in chronic liver diseases . To determine the cellular localization of H19 in the liver, we utilized the bile duct ligation model (BDL) in Pat−/− (as wild-type mice) and Mat−/− (as H19 knockout mice or negative controls) and visualized the H19 expression and distribution with RNAScope. No H19 was detected in Mat−/−-BDL and Mat−/−-sham liver. In contrast, H19RNA-positive cells were detected in Pat−/−-BDL liver in the fibrosis areas close to the portal vein adjacent to the bile duct. H19 was found predominantly expressed in the cytosol. Hepatocytes are the major functional cells and contributed roughly 80% of the liver mass. On double staining for H19 and hepatocyte nuclear factor 4-α (HNF4α, a well-established hepatocyte marker), H19 was identified to co-stained with HNF4α, which indicated that H19 could be expressed in hepatocytes. . Both Kupffer cells and infiltrating macrophages have positive F4/80 markers, H19 was found positively expressed in F4/80 positive cells in the liver suggesting the possibility of its expression in both cell populations. Hepatic stellate cells are collagen-producing cells which are responsible for fibrogenesis in responses to toxic stimuli in the liver. H19 was not positively stained in stellate cells. However, H19 was found in the cholangiocytes and could activate stellate cells through exosome delivery, especially in cholestatic liver injury . Of importance, H19 was also identified in SOX9 positive progenitor cells in the liver. Due to the ability of progenitor cells to differentiate into hepatocytes or cholangiocytes, it is also plausible that the presence of H19 in the cholangiocytes and hepatocytes is derived from these progenitor cells, although the hypothesis needs to be tested in future studies. A microarray analysis of sexually dimorphic gene expression in somatic mouse tissues indicated that H19 was the top female-biased gene in the mouse eye, but not in other tissues (lung, liver, kidney, etc.). However, the upregulation of H19 was still from the maternal allele instead of escaped from its silencing genomic imprint on the paternal allele. IGF2 was also upregulated in the female mouse eye which indicated that it was not due to loss of imprinting of ICR. An additional study found the upregulation
