HHS Public Access
KEYWORDS: manuscript, liver, author, author manuscript, expression, manuscript author, hepatic, protein, icr, cells, regulation, diseases, cell, binding, liver diseases


paternal allele. IGF2 was also upregulated in the female mouse eye which indicated that it was not due to loss of imprinting of ICR. An additional study found the upregulation of H19 and IGF2 in the female eye was caused by the DNA methylation status of IGF2 DMRs, instead of ICR. Mouse stain differentially expression of H19 was also observed among BALB/cJ and other mouse strains. BALB/cJ mice have higher adult liver H19 and alpha-fetoprotein levels due to the loss of zinc fingers and homeoboxes 2 (ZHX2) gene expression. Transl Res. Author manuscript; available in PMC 2022 July 28. Author Manuscript Author Manuscript Author Manuscript Author Manuscript 2.3. The regulatory functions of H19 The regulatory functions of lncRNAs are diverse due to their various binding abilities. They can bind to DNA or RNA through the base pair matching, as well as bind to proteins through their docking structures. Through those interactions, lncRNAs modulated various molecular and cellular processes, including chromatin modification, epigenetic regulation, transcription complex recruitment, translation, and post-translation regulation. LncRNA H19 regulates these processes through the interaction with miRNAs and proteins as illustrated in Figure 2. MiR-675 is embedded in H19’s first exon and had been shown to promote cancer cell growth and inhibit apoptosis[52–54]. H19 can bind to HuR, an RNA-binding protein, and suppress the processing of miR-675. In turn, the miR-675’s target genes were upregulated due to this suppression . H19 can also interact with other miRNAs, such as miR-148a, to serve as the “sponge” and block these microRNA’s ability to inhibit their targets . H19 is involved in multiple molecular processes through its ability to interact with different proteins. For example, H19 interacts with methyl-CpG-binding domain protein 1 (MBD1) and recruits histone lysine methyltransferases to methylate target DNA region and silence the target genes . H19 can interact with RNA-binding proteins, like polypyrimidine tract-binding protein 1 (PTBP1), to stabilize the target mRNA and prevent its degradation . 3. Roles of LncRNA H19 in the pathogenesis of liver diseases 3.1 Roles of H19 in non-alcoholic fatty liver disease (NAFLD) NAFLD, one of the most common causes of chronic liver disease, represents a spectrum of histopathological disorders ranging from simple steatosis to non-alcoholic steatohepatitis (NASH), which can progress to cirrhosis and liver cancer. The mechanism of NAFLD is complex and recent studies suggested the implications of H19 in its pathogenesis. In a mouse model of NAFLD using high-fat
