HHS Public Access
KEYWORDS: manuscript, liver, author, author manuscript, expression, manuscript author, hepatic, protein, icr, cells, regulation, diseases, cell, binding, liver diseases


to cirrhosis and liver cancer. The mechanism of NAFLD is complex and recent studies suggested the implications of H19 in its pathogenesis. In a mouse model of NAFLD using high-fat feeding, H19 as well as genes that are involved in hepatic lipogenesis are upregulated. In addition, free fatty acids (FFAs) promote H19 expression and facilitates lipogenesis in the hepatocytes, while knockdown of H19 inhibits FFA-induced lipid accumulation and triglyceride secretion[61, 62]. Mechanistically, H19 directly downregulates the expression of miR-130a which in turn inhibits the expression of peroxisome proliferator-activated receptor γ (PPARγ) level in the liver. H19 also promotes hepatic steatosis by upregulating transcription factor MLX- interacting protein-like (MLXIPL) or carbohydrate-responsive element-binding protein (ChREBP). H19-induced lipid accumulation is effectively inhibited by PF-04691502, an PI3K/mTOR inhibitor, in a dose-dependent manner suggesting that H19 regulates hepatic lipid metabolism through the activation of mTOR signaling. H19 also serves as a lipid sensor by synergizing with RNA-binding protein, PTBP1, to modulate hepatic metabolic homeostasis. PTBP1 regulates mRNA stability and pre-mRNA splicing and is implicated in directing cell reprogramming. H19 can interact with PTBP1 to increase SREBP1 protein cleavage, stability, and transcriptional activity to activate lipogenic genes . In summary, H19 is one of the key regulators in the pathogenesis of hepatic steatosis through its regulation of other non-coding RNAs (such as miR-130a) or transcription factors involved in lipogenesis. Transl Res. Author manuscript; available in PMC 2022 July 28. Author Manuscript Author Manuscript Author Manuscript Author Manuscript H19-induced hepatic steatosis may also result from the indirect effect secondary to its role in diabetes. RNA sequencing of db/db mice liver reveals H19 as a key regulator of gluconeogenesis and hepatic glucose output via regulation of forkhead box O1 (FOXO1) nuclear levels. Hepatic H19 expression is chronically increased in diabetic mice and liver-specific H19 overexpression promotes hepatic glucose production, hyperglycemia, and insulin resistance. Patients with type 2 diabetes also have a higher level of circulating plasma H19. 3.2. Roles of H19 in cholestasis Cholestasis is defined as a condition where bile flow is decreased, either due to impaired from cholesterol in the liver, play an essential role in eliminating cholesterol and facilitating metabolism is tightly regulated by nuclear receptor signaling to coordinate BA synthetic enzymes and transporters. BA also serves as important signaling molecules in the regulation of glucose and lipid metabolism. Excessive accumulation of cytotoxic BAs in the hepatocytes can cause cell damage leading to inflammation and
