HHS Public Access
KEYWORDS: manuscript, liver, author, author manuscript, expression, manuscript author, hepatic, protein, icr, cells, regulation, diseases, cell, binding, liver diseases


also serves as important signaling molecules in the regulation of glucose and lipid metabolism. Excessive accumulation of cytotoxic BAs in the hepatocytes can cause cell damage leading to inflammation and fibrosis. The nuclear receptor small heterodimer partner (SHP, NR0B2) is an essential component in the negative feedback regulation of bile acid synthesis. In response to the intrahepatic repress the expression of two regulatory enzymes sterol 12α -hydroxylase (CYP8B1) and of SHP also represses the transactivation of basolateral BA transporter of the hepatocytes such as sodium-taurocholate cotransporting polypeptide (NTCP) to block uptake of BA. Emerging evidence demonstrated the role of H19 in cholestasis through various mechanisms (Fig. 3). Apoptosis is important in regulating tissue homeostasis. B-cell lymphoma protein 2 (BCL2), an antiapoptotic family member containing four conserved α -helical motifs known as BCL-2 homology (BH1–4) domains and a transmembrane domain (TM), is known to inhibit apoptosis by binding to the pro-apoptotic proteins BCL2-associated X protein (BAX) and BCL2-antagonist/killer 1 (BAK). BCL2 expression is low in normal hepatocytes; however, its expression is highly induced in cholestasis. Overexpression of hepatic BCL2 disrupts BA homeostasis as manifested by the accumulation of serum BA and bilirubin levels and leads to the induction of hepatic H19 expression. Furthermore, knockdown H19 or re-expressed SHP largely rescued BCL2-induced cholestatic liver injury. Using the BDL-induced cholestasis model, we found that the hepatic let-7 family, a family of miRNAs required for development timing, tumor suppression, and metabolism regulation, is markedly induced by H19. H19 promotes the biogenesis and expression of a cluster of let-7 miRNAs, including let-7a-5p, let-7d-5p, and let-7f-5p, in hepatic cholestasis and functionally suppresses their bioavailability. H19 antagonizes the expression of its binding partner, PTBP1, which associates with pre-let-7d and pre-let-7a-1 and inhibits let-7 biogenesis but promotes their bioavailability. H19 also facilitates the Transl Res. Author manuscript; available in PMC 2022 July 28. Author Manuscript Author Manuscript Author Manuscript Author Manuscript development of BDL-induced hepatic cholestasis by preventing Zinc finger E-box binding homeobox 1 (ZEB-1) mediated inhibition of epithelial cell adhesion molecule (EpCAM). ZEB1 is a transcriptional repressor that plays a role in epithelial-to-mesenchymal transition (EMT) during fibrogenesis . Its expression is modulated by SHP; which in turn inhibits H19 gene transcription as described previously. EpCAM is a cell to cell adhesion molecule that is expressed in many human epithelial tissues and is associated with enhanced cellular proliferation. H19 induces EpCAM but inhibits ZEB1 expression in the BDL
