HHS Public Access
KEYWORDS: manuscript, liver, author, author manuscript, expression, manuscript author, hepatic, protein, icr, cells, regulation, diseases, cell, binding, liver diseases


cell to cell adhesion molecule that is expressed in many human epithelial tissues and is associated with enhanced cellular proliferation. H19 induces EpCAM but inhibits ZEB1 expression in the BDL model and overexpression of ZEB1 or knockdown of EpCAM ameliorates H19-induced cholestasis. H19 is also implicated in biliary atresia, a severe liver disease commonly seen in neonates. Biliary atresia is caused by the obliteration of the intra-and the extrahepatic biliary duct leading to cholestasis and fibrosis. Hepatic H19 expression and the level of serum H19 are associated with the severity of fibrosis in patients with biliary atresia. Additionally, its expression is correlated with the up-regulation of hepatic sphingosine 1-phosphate receptor 2 (S1PR2) and sphingosine kinase 2 (SPHK2) which are known to attribute to cholestatic liver injury by enhancing cholangiocyte proliferation and inflammatory responses[79–81]. H19 deficiency abrogates BDL-induced liver fibrosis and cholangiocyte hyperplasia and attenuates the S1PR2/SPHK2 signaling pathway in the cholestatic liver. Mdr2−/− mouse is another reproducible model to study chronic biliary liver disease. In this model, the expression of hepatic H19 in 100-days-old WT mice was very low with a slight but significant increase in male Mdr2−/− mice. However, there was a marked increase in its expression by 200-fold in female Mdr2−/− mice . Gender difference in the susceptibility for cholestatic liver disease in this mouse model has been observed and that female Mdr2−/− mice develop more severe cholestasis-induced liver injury especially with a more hydrophobic bile acid composition and taurocholate (TCA) when compared to their male counterparts. Further mechanistic experiments revealed that TCA and 17β- estradiol up-regulate H19 expression and that knocking down H19 ameliorates cholestatic liver injury in female Mdr2−/− mice. The mechanism of H19 regulation by 17β-estradiol is still elusive and deserved further studies. The induction of H19 in the cholestatic mouse model appears to be cell-type specific in the liver. H19 expression level in cholangiocytes is significantly up-regulated in both BDL and Mdr2−/− mice and closely related to fibrotic liver injury. Cholangiocyte-derived H19-enriched exosomes promote hepatic fibrosis through hepatic stellate cell (HSC) activation, proliferation, and inflammation through macrophage activation. In summary, aberrant expression of H19 not only contributes to the bile duct ligation (BDL) and Mdr2−/−-induced fibrotic liver injury but also is associated with disease progression in patients with cholestatic liver disease and biliary atresia patients . 3.3. Role of H19 in hepatic fibrosis Hepatic fibrosis is a consequence of the dysregulation of the extracellular
