HHS Public Access
KEYWORDS: manuscript, liver, author, author manuscript, expression, manuscript author, hepatic, protein, icr, cells, regulation, diseases, cell, binding, liver diseases


progression in patients with cholestatic liver disease and biliary atresia patients . 3.3. Role of H19 in hepatic fibrosis Hepatic fibrosis is a consequence of the dysregulation of the extracellular matrix (ECM) synthesis secondary to HSC activation. HSCs activated by various toxic stimuli undergo proliferation and myofibroblastic transformation, lose their retinols and produce a considerable amount of ECM, such as alpha-smooth muscle actin (α-SMA) and type I collagen. Hepatocyte damage can also drive HSCs to transform from the quiescent Transl Res. Author manuscript; available in PMC 2022 July 28. Author Manuscript Author Manuscript Author Manuscript Author Manuscript state to activated type by releasing transforming growth factor-β (TGF-β). As previously mentioned, the regulation of H19 imprinting involves the binding of CpG binding protein MeCP2 based on the methylation status of the ICR. MeCP2 has been shown to orchestrate liver fibrosis and HSC proliferation. In the carbon tetrachloride (CCl )- induced liver fibrosis model, H19 expression is markedly reduced while the expression of MeCP2 is increased in the activated HSCs; suggesting the negative regulation of H19 by MeCP2. In addition to MeCP2, DNA methyltransferases1 (DNMT1) silencing of H19 also occurs in activated HSCs via the ERK1/2 signaling pathway. More emerging evidence supported that H19 could promote the HSC activation. Recently, H19 was reported to promote the activation of HSC in vitro. The upregulation of H19 aggravates EMT in the liver of CCl -induced fibrosis through sponged miR-148a. Activation of H19 also enhances retinoic acid signals to induce HSC activation and is associated with retinol metabolism during HSC activation through alcohol dehydrogenase III (ADH3). 3.4 Role of H19 in acute liver failure Acute liver failure is a life-threatening medical condition manifested by the sudden loss of hepatic function especially in those with underlying liver diseases. The study on the role of H19 in acute liver failure is limited. One study demonstrated that human adipose- derived stem cells secreted extracellular vesicles (EVs) improve survival in the liver failure model (by injecting D-aminogalactose plus lipopolysaccharides intraperitoneally) in rats by releasing H19. H19 reduces hepatocytes’ apoptosis and the apoptotic rate of the H19-EVs group is lower than that of the EVs group without H19, indicating that H19 can enhance the protective effect of EVs on hepatocytes. 3.5 Role of H19 in hepatitis B viral (HBV) infection of the world’s population show serological evidence of chronic past infection. HBV is a double-stranded DNA virus with several serological
