HHS Public Access
KEYWORDS: manuscript, liver, author, author manuscript, expression, manuscript author, hepatic, protein, icr, cells, regulation, diseases, cell, binding, liver diseases


3.5 Role of H19 in hepatitis B viral (HBV) infection of the world’s population show serological evidence of chronic past infection. HBV is a double-stranded DNA virus with several serological markers: HBsAg and anti-HBs, HBeAg and anti-HBe, and anti-HBc IgM and IgG. It is by itself not cytopathic and liver damage results from the complex interaction between virus replication and host immune response. H19 is associated with HBV-associated liver injury through its interaction with miRNAs. H19 and miR-675 are up-regulated in chronic HBV patients. Inhibition of H19 or miR-675 in L02 cells increases cell viability, suppresses hepatitis B X protein (HBx)-induced cell apoptosis, oxidative stress, inflammatory cytokine production, and oxidative stress through miR-675’s target gene, peroxisome proliferator-activated receptor-α (PPARα) . The expression of PPARα is decreased in patients with chronic HBV, and there was a negative association between the expression of H19 and PPARα, or between miR-675 and PPARα. Knocking down PPARα leads to the reversal ofthe effects of H19 or miR-675 inhibition in HBx-induced L02 cells through Akt/mTOR signaling. H19 is also highly expressed in HBV-related hepatocellular carcinoma (see more detail on the roles of H19 and hepatocellular carcinoma below). Its expression is associated with lymph node invasion and distant metastasis and inversely correlated with the overall survival. H19 knockdown represses cellular proliferation and invasion but upregulates apoptosis of HBV-related HCC cells. The function of H19 is mediated through its target, miR-22 with the downstream effects on the expression of genes related to the EMT pathway. Transl Res. Author manuscript; available in PMC 2022 July 28. Author Manuscript Author Manuscript Author Manuscript Author Manuscript 3.6 Roles of H19 in hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC) HCC is one of the leading causes of cancer-related mortality worldwide. H19 expression is increased in several cancers including HCC and that its involvement in cancer initiation, progression, and development suggests the potential of H19 as a diagnostic and prognostic biomarker. . Hypomethylated and hypermethylated profiles of H19 DMR are associated with the aberrant imprinting of IGF2 and H19 in human HCC. H19 induces oxidative stress and MAPK/ERK signaling pathway. It also activates cell division control protein 42 homolog (CDC42)/serine/threonine-protein kinase PAK 1 (P21 Activated Kinase 1) pathway to promote cell proliferation, migration and invasion by targeting miR-15b. H19 can also serve as a molecular sponge for tumor suppressor miRNAs such as miR-326 for HCC pathogenesis. Cancer stem-cell-like (CSC) liver cancer cells displayed aggressive and metastatic phenotype
