HHS Public Access
KEYWORDS: manuscript, liver, author, author manuscript, expression, manuscript author, hepatic, protein, icr, cells, regulation, diseases, cell, binding, liver diseases


profound impact on the liver disease phenotypes. BC819 is a plasmid carrying H19 regulatory Transl Res. Author manuscript; available in PMC 2022 July 28. Author Manuscript Author Manuscript Author Manuscript Author Manuscript sequences which contain 814 bp 5’-flanking region. It was constructed and linked with a fragment of diphtheria toxin (DT-A). Intravesical administration of BC-819 resulted in a 50% reduction of the marker lesion in a phase I/II human study Since the presence of H19 transcription factors only found in tumor cells, the designed plasmid was tested in early with the DTA-H19 plasmid significantly delayed the tumor growth and resulted in tumor regression in animals with liver metastases of colon cancer. Furthermore, a double promoter contained both H19 and IGF2-P4 (IGF2-promoter-4) regulatory sequences were constructed to drive DT-A (H19-DTA-IGF2-P4-DTA). These double promoter constructs exhibited superior tumor growth inhibition activity compared to the single promoter vectors . These ongoing studies suggest clinical applicability in the use of H19 as the potential target for liver diseases. 6. Perspectives and conclusions Since its discovery, we now have a much better understanding of the roles of H19 in the pathogenesis of liver diseases. H19 is implicated in various types of liver diseases through different mechanisms such as epigenetic modification, its effect on target gene promoters and mRNA stability, its role as the sponge for other miRNAs, and its implication in the cross-talk between hepatic and non-hepatic parenchymal cells in the liver (Fig. 4). These regulations trigger downstream, signaling pathways to control lipid and bile acid metabolism, fibrogenesis, cellular proliferation, and tumorigenesis. An improved understanding from these studies will certainly provide us a useful perspective that will eventually lead to therapeutic intervention by targeting H19 in liver diseases. Acknowledgments supported in part by R01 DK107682, R01 AA025208, U01 AA026917, UH2/UH3 AA026903, VA Merit Award University School of Medicine and IUSM Dean’s Scholar in Medical Research; PK is supported by the grant from Indiana Institute for Medical Research (IIMR). All the authors have read the journal’s authorship agreement and declare that the manuscript has been reviewed and approved. Abbreviation α-SMA alpha smooth muscle actin ADH3 alcohol dehydrogenase 3 AFP alpha fetoprotein BA bile acids BAK BCL2-antagonist/killer 1 BAX BCL2-associated X protein BCL2 B-cell lymphoma protein 2 Transl Res. Author manuscript; available in PMC 2022 July 28. Author Manuscript Author Manuscript Author Manuscript Author Manuscript BDL bile duct ligation CCl carbon tetrachloride CDC42 cell division control protein
