Bayou et al. Italian Journal of Pediatrics (2025) 51:32 Italian Journal of Pediatrics
KEYWORDS: respiratory, infections, tract, study, respiratory tract, incidence, ethiopia, tract infections, infants, labor, risk, rtis, infection, infant, data


source, provide a link to the Creative Commons licence, and indicate if changes were made. The images or other third party material in this article are included in the article’s Creative Commons licence, unless indicated otherwise in a credit line to the material. If material is not included in the article’s Creative Commons licence and your intended use is not permitted by statutory regulation or exceeds the permitted use, you will Creative Commons Public Domain Dedication waiver ( h t t p : / / c e r a t i v e c o m m o n .s o r g / p u b l i c d o m a i n e/ z r o / 1 . 0 /) applies to the data made available in this article, unless otherwise stated in a credit line to the data. Introduction maternal risk factors of RTIs including pregnancy, deliv- Respiratory tract infections are infections in any area of ery and postnatal related complication, mode of delivery, the respiratory tract, including the nasal cavity, sinuses, and antenatal care services. Hence, we were aimed to pharynx, larynx, epiglottis, trachea, bronchi, and lungs, address this information gaps. with symptoms lasting for 30 days or less. Respiratory Methods tract infections range from mild infection to fatal disease, depending on the causative pathogen, as well as envi- Study setting ronmental and host factors. The mode of transmission The study was conducted in six regions of Ethiopia of most RTIs is through droplets, infectious respiratory including: Addis Ababa, Tigray, Afar, Amhara, Oromia aerosols, or contact with others with an infection . The and South Nation, Nationalities and People (SNNP) common manifestations include cough, runny nose, sore regions. throat, high fever, chills and other serious symptoms are difficulty breathing, dizziness, low blood oxygen level and Study design loss of consciousness . Retrospective follow up study was conducted. Respiratory tract infections (RTIs) can be classified in to two: upper and lower RTIs. The upper respiratory tract Population infections include croup, whooping cough, ear infec- All infants and their mothers residing in households, tion, throat infection, rhinitis and cold. Lower respira- located within the six regions were the source popula- tory tract infections include bronchitis, bronchiolitis, tion. Infants aged less than six months and their mothers pneumonia and chest infections. Respiratory tract infec- who met the eligibility criteria were the study population. tions are common
