Bayou et al. Italian Journal of Pediatrics (2025) 51:32 Italian Journal of Pediatrics
KEYWORDS: respiratory, infections, tract, study, respiratory tract, incidence, ethiopia, tract infections, infants, labor, risk, rtis, infection, infant, data


in collaboration with coverage had been observed primarily in preventive the Federal Ministry of Health. It measures key reproduc- plementation, insecticide-treated nets, and water and In this project, longitudinal data are collected between sanitation . Scientific evidences regarding the level 2021 and 2023 in six, predominantly agrarian regions are paramount to decide on future areas of interven- and South Nation, Nationalities and People (SNNP) tion. However, in Ethiopia, nationwide studies on the regions. incidence of RTIs and maternal risk factors are limited. Moreover, existing studies focused on socio-demo- graphic and environmental factors, and did not addressed Data management and analysis labor (more than 12 h), mal-presentation, and premature The data were exported from Microsoft excel to SPSS, rupture of membrane were assessed for their association cleaned, coded and analyzed using SPSS version 25. with the outcome variable using cox proportional hazards Descriptive statistics including frequency, percent, mean regression model. However, only three variables: region, and standard deviation were used to present the charac- having convulsion during labor and prolonged labor were teristics of study participants. A Cox proportional haz- significantely associated with the incidence of respiratory ards regression model was used to identify independent tract infection during the first few weeks of the infancy predictors of respiratory infection incidence. The global period. Infants from Amhara and SNNP regions had 1.48 test was checked for cox proportional hazards assump- (95%CI: 1.02, 2.12) and 1.69 (95%CI: 1.20, 2.38) times tion, the result revealed that the assumption was met higher risk of developing RTIs than those from Tigray with a p-value of 0.18. Hazard ratios and their 95% con- region respectively. Infants born from mother sustained fidence intervals was calculated for each predictor vari- convulsion during labor had nearly doubled [AHR = 1.65, able. A p value of < 0.05 was used to declare statistical 95%CI (1.20, 2.28)] hazard or risk of developing respira- significance. tory tract infections than their counterparts. Similarly, infants born from mothers having prolonged labor (more Results than 12 h) had one and half times [AHR = 1.48, 95%CI Characteristics of the study participants (1.13, 1.93)] increased risk of developing respiratory tract In this study a total of 2246 newborns were included, with infections as compared to their counterparts (Table 1). almost the same proportion between male and female, Discussion ratio m: f of 1:1. Their age ranges from 2 to 26 weeks with median age of 8 weeks
