Bayou et al. Italian Journal of Pediatrics (2025) 51:32 Italian Journal of Pediatrics
KEYWORDS: respiratory, infections, tract, study, respiratory tract, incidence, ethiopia, tract infections, infants, labor, risk, rtis, infection, infant, data


health services and health literacy. The above study found nium or amniotic fluid by the infant. This aspirated mate- the peak incidence of acute respiratory tract infections rial can irritate the airways and predispose the infant to (ARTI) during rainy and cold season among 2–6 months pneumonia . Moreover, convulsions during labor can aged children. be a sign of underlying maternal or fetal complications, The figure in our study revealed that respiratory tract such as preeclampsia, eclampsia, or placental abruption. infections are still the leading cause of morbidity and These conditions can also lead to neonatal encephalopa- mortality among infants in Ethiopia. Recurrent respi- thy, which can impair the infant’s ability to clear secre- ratory infections in early life can have negative conse- tions and fight infections. Beside this, as convulsing quences for infant development, potentially impacting mothers are more likely to take anticonvulsants, those lung function, growth, and cognitive development [3, medications administered to the mother during or after 10]. Understanding the incidence and prevalence of these convulsions can cross the placenta and enter the infant’s infections is crucial for designing interventions to miti- circulation. Some of these medications can suppress the gate the risks. This high incidence rate underscores the infant’s immune system and increase the risk of infec- importance of public health efforts aimed at preventing tions . and managing these infections. The present study found a concerning association In this study Infants born from mother sustained con- between prolonged labor (greater than 12 h) and an ele- vulsion during labor had nearly doubled the hazard or vated risk of respiratory tract infections (RTIs) in infants. risk of developing respiratory tract infections than their Infants born after such labors were one and a half times counterparts. One reason for this condition might be more likely to develop RTIs compared to those born because of maternal convulsions during labor can cause from shorter labors. Several mechanisms might explain significant physiological stress on both the mother and the observed association: (I) Prolonged labor can expose the fetus. This stress response can lead to hormonal the fetus to hypoxia, acidosis, and inflammation, poten- imbalances, impaired placental blood flow, and fetal tially compromising their immune system and making hypoxia, all of which can negatively impact the infant’s them more susceptible to respiratory pathogens . immune system and increase susceptibility to infections (II) Prolonged exposure to amniotic fluid, laden with . The
