Bayou et al. Italian Journal of Pediatrics (2025) 51:32 Italian Journal of Pediatrics
KEYWORDS: respiratory, infections, tract, study, respiratory tract, incidence, ethiopia, tract infections, infants, labor, risk, rtis, infection, infant, data


which can negatively impact the infant’s them more susceptible to respiratory pathogens . immune system and increase susceptibility to infections (II) Prolonged exposure to amniotic fluid, laden with . The second possible way might be; during convul- inflammatory mediators and potential pathogens, might sions, the mother may lose consciousness and control increase the risk of aspiration and subsequent RTIs . Declarations (III) Mothers experiencing prolonged labor might have a higher risk of underlying infections, which could be Ethical approval and consent to participate Permission was granted to use the PMA for research purposes. Since we transmitted to the infant during birth, increasing their utilized secondary data, obtaining consent from each study participant was susceptibility to RTIs . not required. This study might have the following limitations: since Consent for publication the current study uses secondary data sources, it missed Not applicable. important variables to see their association with the out- come variable. The other limitation was, as the study Competing interests Authors declare that they do not have any competing interesting in this work. included selected regions of Ethiopia, it might not repre- sent the national level incidence of respiratory infections. Author details lic health concern in Ethiopia. Our findings suggest that Ethiopia infants born to mothers with labor convulsions may ben- additional preventive measures, such as early initiation Ethiopia RTI is suspected. Further research is needed to elucidate RTIs in infants born to mothers with labor convulsions. Prospective studies with larger sample sizes are needed Ethiopia to confirm our findings and to explore the influence of specific maternal and fetal factors on the risk of RTIs. Received: 23 October 2024 / Accepted: 2 January 2025 Additionally, research is needed to investigate the long- term consequences of RTIs in this vulnerable population. Abbreviations
