Hwang et al. Orphanet J Rare Dis (2021) 16:37
KEYWORDS: pancreatitis, level, metabolic, normal, age, case, acid, patients, years, acute, diabetes, range, levels, showed, ppa


Hwang et al. Orphanet J Rare Dis (2021) 16:37 REVIEW Open Access Pancreatic involvement in patients with inborn errors of metabolism Woo Jin Hwang1, Han Hyuk Lim1, Yoo‑Mi Kim1, Mea Young Chang1, Hong Ryang Kil1, Jae Young Kim2, Wung Joo Song3, Harvey L. Levy4 and Sook‑Za Kim1,3* Abstract Background: Repeated inflammation of the pancreas can cause pancreatitis or diabetes. It is well recognized that the organic acidemias may be complicated by pancreatitis but less recognized are other metabolic disorders in which pancreatitis can occur. This study shows that long‑term follow‑up of patients with various metabolic disorders in Korea revealed several with episodes of isolated pancreatitis or diabetes concomitantly with pancreatitis. Results and discussion: In this study, two patients with methylmalonic aciduria (MMA), two with propionic aci‑ demia (PPA), one with fatty acid oxidation disorder (FAOD), and one with hyperornithinemia, gyrate atrophy, and juvenile onset diabetes mellitus (DM) were clinically followed for up to 10 – 21 years. Two Korean siblings with MMA showed recurrent pancreatitis from the age of 15 and 19, respectively. The frequency of admission due to pancreatitis was up to 11 times. One patient with MMA developed diabetes mellitus at the age of 20. The other patient with MMA developed recurrent pancreatitis at 4 years and diabetes at 8 years of age. One of the patients with PPA presented with diabetic ketoacidosis. The other PPA patient died of cardiac arrest at age 10. The patient with FAOD presented with pancreatitis at 10 years and died at the age of 15 years due to cardiac arrest. A 35‑year‑old woman with hyperor‑ nithinemia/gyrate atrophy was diagnosed with juvenile onset diabetes at the age of 7 years. No pancreatitis occurred during the follow‑up period. Conclusions: We conclude that various metabolic disorders can trigger acute or chronic pancreatitis. Proper and prompt multidisciplinary management of metabolic derangement is crucial for preventing pancreatic damage. Further clinical and investigational studies are required to elucidate the pathogenesis of pancreatitis and diabetes mellitus in patients with inborn errors in metabolism. Keywords: Pancreatitis, Diabetes mellitus, Inborn errors of metabolism, Methylmalonic aciduria, Propionic acidemia, Newborn screening, Hyperornithinemia, Fatty acid oxidation disorder Introduction abdominal pain, and diabetes mellitus (DM). The most Pancreatitis is the inflammation of the pancreas. Recur- common causes of acute pancreatitis (AP) in adults are rent inflammation can damage the pancreas and progress alcohol consumption and presence of gallstones; how- to chronic pancreatitis. Fibrosis may form
