Hwang et al. Orphanet J Rare Dis (2021) 16:37
KEYWORDS: pancreatitis, level, metabolic, normal, age, case, acid, patients, years, acute, diabetes, range, levels, showed, ppa


of metabolic pancreatitis, management of the The diagnostic criteria of DM symptoms included poly- underlying causes is more important than the standard uria/polydipsia/weight loss, fasting glucose > 126 mg/ routine management of pancreatitis. The lack of proper dL or random glucose > 200 mg/dL, and hemoglobin metabolic management can lead to recurrent bouts of AP A1c 6.5%. ≥ . Autoimmune diabetes was determined by the presence Herein, we report a Korean experience with AP and of autoimmunity against one or more of the following complications in different metabolic disorders. The com- antibodies: islet cell autoantibodies (ICA), autoantibod- plications include recurrent pancreatitis and DM. Our ies to glutamic acid decarboxylase (GAD), and insulin report emphasizes the occurrence of pancreatitis in dif- autoantibodies (IAA). ferent metabolic disorders among Korean patients and the need for careful metabolic therapy to lower the risk of Case reports pancreatitis and also to treat AP when it occurs. The pancreatic involvement of patients is summarized in Table 1. Their clinical manifestation and biochemical Patients and methods findings are shown in Table 2. Six patients (5 men and 1 woman) with inborn errors of metabolism who had experienced complications involv- MMA cases ing the pancreas were included in this study. Case 1 was a 20-year-old man with MMA. He was born Two patients with methylmalonic aciduria (MMA), two via cesarean section because of placenta previa at gesta- patients with propionic acidemia (PPA), one patient with tional age of 37 weeks with birth weight of 2.7 kg. Due to fatty acid oxidation disorder (FAOD), and one patient positive family history (his brother had MMA), he under- with hyperornithinemia, gyrate atrophy, and juvenile- went metabolic investigation. His metabolic evaluation onset DM were clinically followed up for 10–20 years at revealed blood ammonia level of 400–500 mg/dL and ele- The six patients were evaluated clinically. Laboratory elevation in plasma glycine (415 µmol/L) and alanine (978 evaluation included serum amylase and lipase tests, renal µmol/L) levels were noted. Cobalamin (Cbl) incorpora- clearance assay based on urine creatinine level, and pan- tion study of 14C-propionate showed lack of response to creatic auto antibody tests. Cbl (i.e. mut0) and slightly low response to adocobalamin Serum amylase and lipase levels were measured using (AdoCbl). Molecular investigations revealed a compound colorimetric assays, where a spectrophotometer was used heterozygous c.1105C > T(p.R369C), p.G94Q mutation. to measure the absorbance of the samples at 420 nm. A He was
