Hwang et al. Orphanet J Rare Dis (2021) 16:37
KEYWORDS: pancreatitis, level, metabolic, normal, age, case, acid, patients, years, acute, diabetes, range, levels, showed, ppa


the meta- Case 2 is the 21-year-old elder brother of Case 1. bolic crisis, he experienced seizures and hand tremors, He was born via cesarean section because of placenta although the results of brain magnetic resonance imag- previa at a gestational age of 37 weeks, with a birth ing (MRI) and electroencephalogram (EEG) were normal. weight of 2.47 kg, to a 21-year-old mother who had a history of spontaneous miscarriage. Within a few days been hospitalized for headache and decreasing visual after birth, he started vomiting, and showed poor feed- acuity. He was diagnosed with essential hypertension ing, seizures, and lethargy. He was transferred to a and treated with calcium channel blocker. ammonia level of over 1000 mg/dL and acute meta- PPA cases bolic acidosis. At 2 weeks of age, he was diagnosed Case 3 was a 14-year-old boy. He was born via normal with MMA by urine organic acid analysis. After peri- spontaneous vaginal delivery (NSVD) without complica- toneal dialysis, he was in the neonatal intensive care tion at the gestational age of 36 weeks, with birth weight unit (NICU) for 2 weeks for metabolic control. Until of 3.2 kg. C3 carnitine level elevation (37, reference: < 4.1) 4.5 years of age, multiple hospitalizations for metabolic was detected in the expanded newborn screening pro- crises followed, as a special metabolic formula was not gram. His urine organic acid analysis confirmed PPA. available in South Korea at that time. After obtaining His blood gas and blood ammonia levels were normal. a special formula (Propiomex) from overseas, regu- The fibroblast carboxylase assay revealed reduced prop- lar baby formula and low-protein food became a part ionyl-CoA carboxylase (PCC) activity [9 pmol/min/mg of the ongoing metabolic management and his meta- protein (reference: > 91 pmol/min/mg)], normal methyl- bolic status was stabilized. Cbl incorporation study crotonyl-CoA carboxylase (MCC) activity [55 pmol/min/ of 14C-propionate showed no response to cobalamin mg protein (reference: > 31 pmol/min/mg)], and normal (i.e. m ut0) and slightly low response to AdoCbl. Simi- pyruvate carboxylase (PC) activity [124 pmol/min/mg lar to Case 1, the molecular study revealed the pres- protein (reference: > 71)]. Propionyl carboxylase assay ence of the 1105C > T(p.R369C), p.G94Q mutation. using biotin-supplemented culture medium showed He began receiving growth hormone treatment at the that he was non-responsive to biotin. He was fed breast age of 11 years for metabolic induction to anabolism milk exclusively and an unrestricted
