Hwang et al. Orphanet J Rare Dis (2021) 16:37
KEYWORDS: pancreatitis, level, metabolic, normal, age, case, acid, patients, years, acute, diabetes, range, levels, showed, ppa


At the age of 7, she growth and development until 40 months of age, which was diagnosed with juvenile-onset diabetes. She had was when he had seizures followed by fever of unknown menarche when she was 16 years old. She was evaluated origin. He underwent a day-long fasting for sonogram, metabolically at the age of 34 and high ornithine levels which resulted in acute liver enlargement and elevated were detected in her blood and urine. Hyperornithine- liver enzyme levels. The sonogram showed fatty liver and mia/gyrate atrophy was confirmed. She was legally blind, hepatomegaly. Following the fasting, he had cerebral palsy but had been working with constricted visual field at a with spasticity. The acylcarnitine profile showed elevated daycare center. She had normal chromosomes (46, XX). free carnitine levels, no ketones in urine, and generalized The pancreatic autoimmune panel test was negative for aminoaciduria. Urine acylglycine analysis revealed a pro- the GAD protein and islet cell antibody; however, a high pionyl glycine level of 3.81 (reference: < 1.93), and urine titer of anti-insulin antibodies was observed, which might organic acid analysis revealed hypoketotic hypoglycemia be due to insulin therapy. Her vital signs, including blood and 3-methylglutaconic aciduria during a metabolic cri- pressure (110/70 mm Hg), were stable. Her weight was sis. He experienced periodic pseudo gut paralysis, requir- 57.1 kg (50th percentile), height was 156 cm (10th per- ing metronidazole treatment. Muscle biopsy showed centile), and HC was 54.5 cm (25–50th percentile). She normal mitochondria, although the number of mito- looked relatively healthy and had a round face. Physical chondria was low. At 10 years of age, he entered an examination showed short stature and sparse light and unresponsive semi-comatose state following poor oral dark hair. Her lower thoracic cage was prominent. Her food intake for over 6 days, which was accompanied by lungs were clear to auscultation and heart sounds were normal without murmurs. Regarding the extremities, she results in insulin deficiency; however, normal or elevated had short limbs, thick and short fingers, missing knuckles fasting plasma insulin levels in patients with chronic pan- ting edema, and mildly short Achilles tendons. She had In this report, Case 1 (MMA) had both diabetes and subcutaneous nodules on both legs, lipodystrophy on the pancreatitis, but Case 3 (PPA) and Case 6 (hyperorni- injection sites of the abdomen, and brisk DTR. In addi- thinemia with gyrate atrophy) had diabetes with nor- tion,
