Hwang et al. Orphanet J Rare Dis (2021) 16:37
KEYWORDS: pancreatitis, level, metabolic, normal, age, case, acid, patients, years, acute, diabetes, range, levels, showed, ppa


on the pancreatitis, but Case 3 (PPA) and Case 6 (hyperorni- injection sites of the abdomen, and brisk DTR. In addi- thinemia with gyrate atrophy) had diabetes with nor- tion, her visual field was extremely constricted and her mal pancreatic enzyme levels. All three patients showed fundi showed abnormal pigmentation, sparing a small negative results in the pancreatic autoantibody panel. proportion of the retina. Ophthalmologic examination These findings may suggest the presence of chronic revealed isocoric pupils, clear corneas, pale fundi, and adverse alterations in pancreatic cells due to metabolic thin retinal vessels; she also had limitations of extraocu- insults and toxic compounds associated with metabolic lar muscle movements in all directions, with nystagmus. disorders. Plasma amino acid analysis showed ornithine levels of Not only is acute and chronic accumulation of organic 756–900 µmol/L (reference: 106 µmol/L). After the diag- acids toxic to pancreatic cells, but lactic acid, uric acid, nosis of gyrate atrophy of the choroid and retina associ- and acidosis may also affect the injury to pancreatic tis- ated with hyperornithinemia, she was fed a low-protein sue. Reports show that glycogen storage disease type I diet (Table 2). During the follow-up, she did not have (von Gierke disease) is associated pancreatitis [15–18]. pancreatitis (Table 3). The mechanism underlying the development of pancre- atitis has been elucidated, although the most common Discussion biochemical changes in the disease include hypoglyce- In this report we described pancreatitis in 6 Korean mia, lactic acidosis, and high levels of uric acid and tri- patients with metabolic disorders, 4 with an organic acid glycerides—any of which may contribute to the onset disorder, one with a fatty acid oxidation disorder, and one of pancreatitis. Previous studies have reported the inci- with an aminoacidopathy. Thus, our experience over a dence of pancreatitis in organic acidurias; the first ever period of 10–20 years emphasizes the ubiquity of pancre- report discussed pancreatitis in 9 out of 108 patients atitis among the metabolic disorders as well as the need with branched-chain organic aciduria (BCOA) , for careful and complicated metabolic therapy when pan- while pancreatitis was observed in 10 patients with creatitis occurs. isovaleric acidemia , 2 with propionic academia A large number of patients with pancreatitis develop , 1 with MMA , 2 with maple syrup urine dis- glucose intolerance or DM; islet β-cell injury in pancrea- ease (MSUD) , 1 with glutaric academia , and 2 titis
