Hwang et al. Orphanet J Rare Dis (2021) 16:37
KEYWORDS: pancreatitis, level, metabolic, normal, age, case, acid, patients, years, acute, diabetes, range, levels, showed, ppa


and management of pancreatitis may hyperlipidemia appear to be one of the most common prevent long-term complications such as type 2 DM. inherited causes of recurrent pancreatitis. This includes Further studies are required to elucidate the pathogen- hereditary lipoprotein lipase deficiency [24–27], famil- esis of pancreatitis, as well as of DM associated with ial hypertriglyceridemia, chylomicronemia (type I & V), hereditary metabolic disorders. hyperlipoproteinemias , and apolipoprotein C-II defi- ciency. In particular, pancreatitis represents frequent and Abbreviations sometimes severe complications of apolipoprotein C-II MMA: Methylmalonic aciduria; PPA: Propionic acidemia; FAOD: Fatty acid oxi‑ deficiency; up to 60% patients with apolipoprotein C-II dation disorder; DM: Diabetes mellitus; AP: Acute pancreatitis; MS/MS: Tandem mass spectrometer; ICA: Islet cell autoantibodies; GAD: To glutamic acid decar‑ deficiency are affected by episodes of pancreatitis [29– boxylase; IAA: Insulin autoantibodies; AdoCbl: Adocobalamin; Cbl: Cobalamin; 31]. Hyperlipidemia interferes with amylase measure- BUN: Blood urea nitrogen; AST: Aspartate aminotransferase; ALT: Alanine ments, leading to false-negative results [20, 21, 26, 27, 32, aminotransferase; MRI: Magnetic resonance imaging; EEG: Electroencephalo‑ gram; CT: Computed tomography; NICU: Neonatal intensive care unit; NSVD: 33]. This may explain the normal or mildly elevated amyl- Normal spontaneous vaginal delivery; PCC: Propionyl‑CoA carboxylase; MCC: ase levels in patients with severe necrotizing pancreatitis. Methylcrotonyl‑CoA carboxylase; PC: Pyruvate carboxylase; NSVD: Normal The observations regarding other amino acid metabolic spontaneous vaginal delivery; SIADH: Syndrome of inappropriate antidiuretic hormone; ICU: Intesive care unit; LDH: Latic dehydrogenase; CPK: Creatine disorders varied. Postmortem histology of patents with phospokinase; GAD: Generalized Anxiety Disorder; HC: Head circumference; homocystinuria (cystathionine β-synthase deficiency) DTR: Deep tendon reflex; BCOA: Branched‑chain organic aciduria. and pancreatitis has revealed marked fibrous thicken- Acknowledgements ing of the intima, and frayed and split muscle and elas- This work uses data provided by patients and collected by the Chungnam tic fibers of the media without lipid deposition in most National University Hospital Medical Records Room as part of their care. Using potential to make better use of information from people’s patient records, to circulation to the pancreas may have been compro- understand more about disease, develop new treatments, monitor safety, and mised. Cystinuria is associated with familial pancreati- plan medical services. Patient data should be kept safe and secure, to protect tis . Duct calculi in patients with cystinuria, chronic everyone’s privacy, and it’s important that there are safeguards to make sure that it is stored and used responsibly. Everyone should be able
