Hwang et al. Orphanet J Rare Dis (2021) 16:37
KEYWORDS: pancreatitis, level, metabolic, normal, age, case, acid, patients, years, acute, diabetes, range, levels, showed, ppa


Duct calculi in patients with cystinuria, chronic everyone’s privacy, and it’s important that there are safeguards to make sure that it is stored and used responsibly. Everyone should be able to find out renal insufficiency or renal failure may adversely affect about how patient data is used. We gratefully acknowledge the cooperation the pancreas . Lysinuric protein intolerance leads and the patience of the patients, who made this work possible. to inflammatory changes, necrosis, intraductal protein Authors’ contributions plugs, atrophy, and fibrosis in the pancreas . Fur- Woo Jin Hwang collected information from medical records and was involved thermore, pancreatitis has been reported in patients with in the writing of the manuscript. Han Hyuk Lim supervised by IRB(Institutional pyruvate kinase deficiency and acute intermittent Review Board) guideline. Yoo‑Mi Kim corrected the manuscript and provided the molecular work for this study. Mea Young Chang provided patient’s care, porphyria [42–46]. follow‑up and corrected the manuscript. Hong Ryang Kil provided patient’s care, follow‑up information and laboratory interpretation. Jae Young Kim pro‑ Conclusion vided patient’s care, follow‑up and treated pancreatitis. Wung Joo Song wrote paper, made table and corrected English. Harvey L. Levy provided guidance Pancreatitis is not a common complication of the of the paper writing and review of manuscript. Sook‑Za Kim wrote paper and inborn errors of metabolism, and is often overlooked published the paper. All authors read and approved the final manuscript. during the treatment and management of patients with Funding metabolic disorder. Yet, acute pancreatitis can accom- The authors received no financial support for the research, authorship, and/or pany abdominal pain, exacerbate vomiting episodes, publication of this article. and cause subsequent rapid metabolic deterioration. Availability of data and materials Acute or chronic pancreatitis may complicate the All data generated or analysed during this study are included in this published condition of patients with inborn errors of metabo- article and its supplementary information. The datasets used and/or analysed during the current study are available from the corresponding author on lism. Pancreatitis must be considered in patients with reasonable request. these disorders who have acute clinical deterioration Ethics approval and consent to participate 16. Kikuchi M, Hasegawa K, Handa I, Watabe M, Narisawa K, Tada K. Chronic The study protocol and study methodology was approved by ethic commit‑ pancreatitis in a child with glycogen storage disease type I. Eur J Pediatr. tees in Korea (Chungnam National University Hospital Institutional Review 1991;150:852–3. Board;
