Acta Biomed 2018; Vol. 89, Supplement 9: 5-10 DOI: © Mattioli 1885
KEYWORDS: disease, bmi, celiac, overweight, growth, celiac disease, children, years, patients, gfd, age, weight, diet, obese, status


Acta Biomed 2018; Vol. 89, Supplement 9: 5-10 DOI: © Mattioli 1885 R e v i e w Growth changes after gluteen free diet in pediatric celiac patients: a literature-review Alessia Ghiselli1, Barbara Bizzarri1, Federica Gaiani1, Francesca Semeraro1, Silvia Iuliano1, Francesco Di Mario1, Antonio Nouvenne1, Stefano Kayali1, Gian Luigi de’ Angelis1 Summary. Background: Celiac disease is an auto-immune disorder characterized by clinical manifestations that appear in genetically predisposed subjects after gluten ingestion. In the last years, there has been a pro- gressive change in clinical manifestations. Our aim was to evaluate the nutritional status of children with celiac disease at diagnosis and how the gluten-free diet (GFD) influences their growth. Methods: A search on PubMed/Medline was performed using “celiac disease”, “body mass index” and “children” as key words. describing the nutritional status of patients before and after GFD using indicators like height, weight, BMI, skeletal age. We excluded papers referred to adult population or in which other diseases were related to celiac 1383 patients in pediatric age were evaluated for their nutritional status at diagnosis of celiac disease and after a variable period from 1 to 17 years of GFD. Indicators considered were height, weight, BMI and skeletal age. Conclusions: the nutritional status of celiac patients at diagnosis is variable including an increasing number of overweight and obese. GFD has a beneficial impact on growth changes determining a correction of BMI distribution towards a Gaussian shape. (www.actabiomedica.it) Key words: celiac disease, BMI, growth, gluten free diet Introduction tion. Vomiting, abdominal pain and constipation are atypical manifestations, more common in older chil- Celiac disease (CD), also known as gluten-sen- dren and teenagers (1). Celiac disease can also present sitive enteropathy, is a life-long condition that affects with extra-intestinal conditions such as arthritis, neu- the small intestine in genetically susceptible individu- rological diseases, and anemia (1). als (1). It is a multifactorial disease that arises from The presentation of CD has changed over time a complex interaction between genetic heritage, im- (1). The prevalence of the classical presentation of CD munological and environmental factors. The genes in- has decreased in the last decades, while the prevalence volved are the major histocompatibility complex type of non-classical presentations has increased. Growth II and, in particular, the HLA-DQ2 and HLA-DQ8 failure in terms of length (or height) or weight may haplotypes. It’s characterized by subtotal villous atro- be the earliest sign of the disease (2)
