Acta Biomed 2018; Vol. 89, Supplement 9: 5-10 DOI: © Mattioli 1885
KEYWORDS: disease, bmi, celiac, overweight, growth, celiac disease, children, years, patients, gfd, age, weight, diet, obese, status


particular, the HLA-DQ2 and HLA-DQ8 failure in terms of length (or height) or weight may haplotypes. It’s characterized by subtotal villous atro- be the earliest sign of the disease (2) but many reports phy of the small intestine, intra-epithelial lymphocy- show that CD can be associated with normal weight tosis and crypt hyperplasia, and is associated with a but also with overweight and obesity (3, 4). Variations variable gluten-related presentation. (2). Young chil- in the nutritional status may be seen at diagnosis (5), dren often present with “classic” symptoms including which in pediatric age can be evaluated using indica- diarrhea, abdominal distention, and growth retarda- tors such as height, weight, BMI, skeletal age. 6 A. Ghiselli, B. Bizzarri, F. Gaiani, et al. The quantification and the definition of BMI in • papers referred to children affected by CD with children vary widely overworld, therefore it is difficult other comorbidities such as arthritis, diabetes to compare papers from different countries. Anyway, and thyroiditis. the ideal definition, based on percentage of body fat, is • papers referred to adult population impracticable for epidemiological use (6). Body mass • studies in which nutritional status of CD at di- populations, with a cut-off point of 30 kg/m2 is rec- not with the same group after GFD ognized as a definition of adult obesity (6). BMI in • literature-review articles childhood changes substantially with age and sex es- Each article was tabulated in chronological order pecially during the pubertal growth spurt (Figure 1). from the oldest to the most recent as follows: author Therefore the BMI in pediatric age should be used not and year of the study, number of patients, demographic as an absolute value but as a relative value, with the data, period of follow up, growth indicators at diagno- support of centile curves. Clearly, a cut-off point re- sis (BMI, skeletal age), growth indicators after gluten- lated to age is needed to define pediatric obesity. In the free diet (BMI, skeletal age) (Table 1). Further param- United States, the 85th and 95th centiles of BMI for eters to evaluate nutritional status such as biochemical age and sex, have been recommended as cut off points tests were not considered. to identify overweight and obesity (6). The publications were manually screened and It is now well established that many patients with reviewed to identify reports, and data were extracted celiac disease have a high
