Acta Biomed 2018; Vol. 89, Supplement 9: 5-10 DOI: © Mattioli 1885
KEYWORDS: disease, bmi, celiac, overweight, growth, celiac disease, children, years, patients, gfd, age, weight, diet, obese, status


obesity (6). The publications were manually screened and It is now well established that many patients with reviewed to identify reports, and data were extracted celiac disease have a high or normal body mass index from the papers according to the predetermined cri- (BMI) at diagnosis. Some studies show that BMI in- teria. Two investigators independently reviewed and creases on a gluten-free diet (GFD), especially in those extracted data from the papers according to the prede- who adhere closely to the diet while other studies show termined criteria. contradictory results (7). Few studies examining BMI and other growth parameters have been performed in children, with inconclusive findings (8). Results The aim of this paper was to review the available literature on nutritional status of children with celi- After a first research, 147 abstracts were found. ac disease at diagnosis, focusing on the influence of Among them, 127 full text papers were analyzed. Fi- gluten-free diet (GFD) on growth, through the use of nally, applying the filters “humans” and “language” specific indicators. and including only English papers, 105 papers were obtained. After manual screening according to estab- lished criteria, we selected 10 retrospective articles, Methods published from 1999 to 2018. The numerosity of the cohorts among papers var- In order to evaluate the nutritional status of chil- ied widely, from a case reports study with 1 patient dren affected by CD at diagnosis, its evolution after (9) up to the paper including the highest number of gluten-free diet and the parameters that can be used patients, with 445 subjects (10). Overall 1383 patient to evaluate growth changes, we performed a literature in pediatric age (from 1 to 17 years old) were evaluated search of PubMed database using Mesh terms ‘’celiac for their nutritional status at diagnosis of celiac disease disease’’, ‘’body mass index’’ and ‘’children’’. Medline, and after a variable period from 1 to 17 years of GFD. Scopus, PubMed publisher and Google Scholar were Only in one study (11) skeletal age was used as searched as well. The entire databases were considered, growth indicator together with other parameters such without restrictions of time. We included only full text as height and weight. In five papers (2, 9, 12-14), cen- papers selected with two filters “humans” and “lan- tile curves of BMI were considered as principal indi- guage”. Only papers in English were included. cator for evaluation of growth changes after
