Acta Biomed 2018; Vol. 89, Supplement 9: 5-10 DOI: © Mattioli 1885
KEYWORDS: disease, bmi, celiac, overweight, growth, celiac disease, children, years, patients, gfd, age, weight, diet, obese, status


increasing number of Celiac disease is one of the most common chronic adults, adolescents and children who are overweight, diseases in childhood (7). Children may present with or even obese, at the time of initial diagnosis of CD the classical manifestations of disease characterized (3). This concept has been well described by Dickey et by chronic diarrhea, failure to thrive and abdominal al in 2006 (17) who reviewed a database of 371 celiac Growth changes after gluteen free diet in pediatric celiac patients 9 patients showing how only few patients were under- presented an increase of both overweight and obese weight while a large part was overweight/obese. patients after GFD. BMI was used for this evaluation In adult population affected by celiac disease it is as a measure of nutritional status according to Italian easier to examine the relationship between the disease growth charts of Cacciari. Instead Reilly et al in 2011 and nutritional status because BMI is a standardized (14) after 3 years of observation, showed substantially and recognized parameter for the evaluation of corpo- a decrease of BMI in overweight. Overall considering real mass. Cheng et al in 2010 (18) and Ukkola et al all growth indicators, with limits due to demographic in 2012 (19) investigated BMI before and after GFD data, it can be concluded that GFD improves nutri- in celiac patients. Both concluded that GFD has a tional status of CD with a reduction of underweight beneficial impact on BMI, underweight patients gain and obese but also with a minimal increase of over- weight and overweight/obese patients lose weight. weight. This determines a modification of BMI distri- In pediatric age, the relationship between nutri- bution towards a bell shape which better represents the tional status in CD before and after GFD is more dif- distribution of biological variables. ficult to evaluate because of the relative value of BMI and the necessity to use centile curves. Gemme et al in 1999 (11) was the only author to use skeletal age Conclusions in addition to height, weight and BMI, and he con- cluded that after a period of GFD patients didn’t catch Celiac disease is now considered a common up completely in height and skeletal age. Patwari et chronic disease in childhood and no more a rare con- al in 2005 (15) used as anthropometric parameters dition. Children more frequently present with atypical only weight and height expressed
