Acute coronary syndromes in adults
KEYWORDS: coronary, adults, unstable, pci, acute, risk, data, angiography, statement, coronary angiography, quality, hours, nstemi unstable, nstemi, angina


Quality statements Statement 1 Adults with a suspected acute coronary syndrome are assessed for acute myocardial infarction using the criteria in the universal definition of myocardial infarction. Statement 2 Adults with non-ST-segment-elevation myocardial infarction (NSTEMI) or unstable angina are assessed for their risk of future adverse cardiovascular events using an established risk scoring system that predicts 6-month mortality to guide clinical management. Statement 3 Adults with NSTEMI or unstable angina who have an intermediate or higher risk of future adverse cardiovascular events who are having coronary angiography (with follow-on percutaneous coronary intervention [PCI] if indicated), have it within 72 hours of first admission to hospital. Statement 4 Adults with NSTEMI or unstable angina who are clinically unstable have coronary angiography (with follow-on PCI if indicated) as soon as possible, but within 24 hours of becoming clinically unstable. Statement 5 Adults who are unconscious after cardiac arrest caused by suspected acute ST-segment-elevation myocardial infarction (STEMI) are not excluded from having coronary angiography (with follow-on primary PCI if indicated). Statement 6 Adults with acute STEMI who present within 12 hours of onset of symptoms have primary PCI, as the preferred coronary reperfusion strategy, as soon as possible but within 120 minutes of the time when fibrinolysis could have been given. Quality statement 1: Diagnosis of acute myocardial infarction Quality statement Adults with a suspected acute coronary syndrome are assessed for acute myocardial infarction using the criteria in the universal definition of myocardial infarction. Rationale Acute myocardial infarction can have a poor prognosis so prompt and accurate diagnosis is important to ensure that appropriate treatment and care is offered as soon as possible. Treatment for adults with suspected acute coronary syndrome is often started before a diagnosis is confirmed. Confirming the diagnosis using the criteria in the universal definition of myocardial infarction is important to ensure that any ongoing treatment is appropriate and any inappropriate treatment is stopped. Quality measures The following measures can be used to assess the quality of care or service provision specified in the statement. They are examples of how the statement can be measured, and can be adapted and used flexibly. Structure Evidence of local arrangements to ensure that adults with a suspected acute coronary syndrome are assessed for the presence of acute myocardial infarction using the criteria in the universal definition of myocardial infarction. Data source: Local data collection. Process Proportion of adults with a diagnosis of
