Acute coronary syndromes in adults
KEYWORDS: coronary, adults, unstable, pci, acute, risk, data, angiography, statement, coronary angiography, quality, hours, nstemi unstable, nstemi, angina


for the presence of acute myocardial infarction using the criteria in the universal definition of myocardial infarction. Data source: Local data collection. Process Proportion of adults with a diagnosis of acute myocardial infarction who had their diagnosis made using the criteria in the universal definition of myocardial infarction. Numerator – the number in the denominator who had their diagnosis made using the criteria in the universal definition of myocardial infarction. Denominator – the number of adults with a diagnosis of acute myocardial infarction. Data source: Local data collection. What the quality statement means for different audiences Service providers (cardiac service providers) ensure that adults with a suspected acute coronary syndrome are assessed for the presence of acute myocardial infarction using the criteria in the universal definition of myocardial infarction. Healthcare professionals ensure that they are aware of the universal definition of myocardial infarction and assess adults with a suspected acute coronary syndrome for the presence of acute myocardial infarction using the criteria in the universal definition. Commissioners ensure that they commission services with staff with expertise in using the criteria in the universal definition of myocardial infarction to diagnose acute myocardial infarction in adults with a suspected acute coronary syndrome. Adults with severe pain in the chest and/or in other areas (for example, the arms, back or jaw)that might be a heart attack (a suspected acute coronary syndrome) are only given a diagnosis of heart attack if their signs and symptoms meet an agreed definition. Source guidance Recent-onset chest pain of suspected cardiac origin: assessment and diagnosis. NICE guideline CG95 (2010, updated 2016), recommendation 1.2.6.1 Definitions of terms used in this quality statement Universal definition of myocardial infarction A rise in cardiac biomarkers (preferably cardiac troponin) with at least 1 value above the 99th percentile of the upper reference limit and/or a fall in cardiac biomarkers, together with at least 1 of the following: • symptoms of ischaemia • new or presumed new significant ST-segment-T wave changes or new left bundle branch block • pathological Q wave changes in the ECG • imaging evidence of new loss of viable myocardium or new regional wall motion abnormality • identification of an intracoronary thrombus by angiography. [NICE's guideline on recent-onset chest pain of suspected cardiac origin, recommendation 1.2.6.1] Equality and diversity considerations Symptoms of acute coronary syndromes should be assessed in the same way in men and women and among people from
