Acute coronary syndromes in adults
KEYWORDS: coronary, adults, unstable, pci, acute, risk, data, angiography, statement, coronary angiography, quality, hours, nstemi unstable, nstemi, angina


of suspected cardiac origin, recommendation 1.2.6.1] Equality and diversity considerations Symptoms of acute coronary syndromes should be assessed in the same way in men and women and among people from different ethnic groups. Quality statement 2: Risk assessment for adults with NSTEMI or unstable angina Quality statement Adults with non-ST-segment-elevation myocardial infarction (NSTEMI) or unstable angina are assessed for their risk of future adverse cardiovascular events using an established risk scoring system that predicts 6-month mortality to guide clinical management. Rationale Assessing and categorising risk of future adverse cardiovascular events by formal risk assessment (for example, using the GRACE scoring system) in people who have been diagnosed with NSTEMI or unstable angina is important for determining early management strategies. It also allows the benefits of treatment to be balanced against the risks of treatment-related adverse events. Failure to categorise future risk can lead to people being given inappropriate treatment. Quality measures The following measures can be used to assess the quality of care or service provision specified in the statement. They are examples of how the statement can be measured, and can be adapted and used flexibly. Structure Evidence of local arrangements to ensure that adults with NSTEMI or unstable angina are assessed for their risk of future adverse cardiovascular events using an established risk scoring system that predicts 6-month mortality to guide clinical management. Data source: Local data collection. Process Proportion of presentations for NSTEMI or unstable angina that had an assessment of the risk of future adverse cardiovascular events using an established risk scoring system that predicts 6-month mortality. Numerator – the number in the denominator that had an assessment of the risk of future adverse cardiovascular events using an established risk scoring system that predicts 6-month mortality. Denominator – the number of presentations because of NSTEMI or unstable angina. Data source: Local data collection. What the quality statement means for different audiences Service providers (cardiac service providers) ensure that local pathways are in place for adults with NSTEMI or unstable angina to be assessed for their risk of future adverse cardiovascular events using an established risk scoring system that predicts 6-month mortality. Providers should also raise awareness among healthcare professionals of the importance of risk assessment in guiding clinical management. Healthcare professionals ensure that they assess the risk of future adverse cardiovascular events in adults with NSTEMI or unstable angina using an established risk scoring system that
