Acute coronary syndromes in adults
KEYWORDS: coronary, adults, unstable, pci, acute, risk, data, angiography, statement, coronary angiography, quality, hours, nstemi unstable, nstemi, angina


of future adverse cardiovascular events, coronary angiography to define the extent and severity of coronary disease, done within 72 hours of admission to hospital, offers advantages over an initial conservative strategy, provided there are no contraindications to angiography (such as active bleeding or comorbidity). Services should provide coronary angiography (with follow-on PCI if indicated) as soon as it offers net clinical benefits; within 72 hours and sooner if possible. Quality measures The following measures can be used to assess the quality of care or service provision specified in the statement. They are examples of how the statement can be measured, and can be adapted and used flexibly. Structure Evidence of local arrangements to ensure that adults with NSTEMI or unstable angina who have an intermediate or higher risk of future adverse cardiovascular events who are having coronary angiography (with follow-on PCI if indicated), have it within 72 hours of first admission to hospital. Data source: Local data collection. Process a) Proportion of adults with NSTEMI or unstable angina who have an intermediate or higher risk of future adverse cardiovascular events who receive coronary angiography (with follow-on PCI if indicated) within 72 hours of first admission to hospital. Numerator – the number of people in the denominator receiving coronary angiography (with follow-on PCI if indicated) within 72 hours of admission to hospital. Denominator – the number of adults with NSTEMI or unstable angina with an intermediate or higher risk of future adverse cardiovascular events having coronary angiography (with follow-on PCI if indicated). Data source: Local data collection. Outcome Incidence of cardiovascular events. Data source: Local data collection. What the quality statement means for different audiences Service providers (cardiac service providers) ensure that local pathways are in place for adults with NSTEMI or unstable angina who have an intermediate or higher risk of future adverse cardiovascular events, who are having coronary angiography (with follow-on PCI if indicated) to have it within 72 hours of first admission to hospital. Healthcare professionals ensure that adults with NSTEMI or unstable angina who have an intermediate or higher risk of future adverse cardiovascular events, who are having coronary angiography (with follow-on PCI if indicated), have it within 72 hours of first admission to hospital. Commissioners ensure that they commission services with the capacity and expertise to ensure that adults with NSTEMI or unstable angina who have an intermediate or higher risk of future adverse cardiovascular events
