Acute coronary syndromes in adults
KEYWORDS: coronary, adults, unstable, pci, acute, risk, data, angiography, statement, coronary angiography, quality, hours, nstemi unstable, nstemi, angina


that they commission services with the capacity and expertise to ensure that adults with NSTEMI or unstable angina who have an intermediate or higher risk of future adverse cardiovascular events who are having coronary angiography (with follow-on PCI if indicated), have it within 72 hours of first admission to hospital. Adults with heart conditions called NSTEMI and unstable angina and a medium or higher risk of another heart attack who are having a test called coronary angiography (and treatment to improve blood flow to the heart if needed), have this within 72 hours of first being admitted to hospital. Source guidance Acute coronary syndromes. NICE guideline NG185 (2020), recommendation 1.2.13 Definitions of terms used in this quality statement Intermediate or higher risk of future adverse cardiovascular events A predicted 6-month mortality above 3.0%. [NICE's guideline on acute coronary syndromes, recommendation 1.2.13] Quality statement 4: Coronary angiography and PCI for adults with NSTEMI or unstable angina who are clinically unstable Quality statement Adults with non-ST-segment-elevation myocardial infarction (NSTEMI) or unstable angina who are clinically unstable have coronary angiography (with follow-on percutaneous coronary intervention [PCI] if indicated) as soon as possible, but within 24 hours of becoming clinically unstable. Rationale Coronary angiography is important to define the extent and severity of coronary disease. The benefits of an early invasive strategy appear to be greatest in people at higher risk of future adverse cardiovascular events. In people with NSTEMI or unstable angina who are clinically unstable, coronary angiography (with follow-on PCI if indicated) should be done as soon as possible so that appropriate treatment can be given. It may reduce lengthy hospital stays and prevent further cardiovascular events in both the short and long term. The timing of coronary angiography will be different for each person, but should be within 24 hours of becoming clinically unstable. Quality measures The following measures can be used to assess the quality of care or service provision specified in the statement. They are examples of how the statement can be measured, and can be adapted and used flexibly. Structure Evidence of local arrangements to ensure that adults with NSTEMI or unstable angina who are clinically unstable have coronary angiography (with follow-on PCI if indicated) as soon as possible, but within 24 hours of becoming clinically unstable. Data source: Local data collection. Process a) Length of time taken for adults with NSTEMI or unstable angina who are clinically
