Acute coronary syndromes in adults
KEYWORDS: coronary, adults, unstable, pci, acute, risk, data, angiography, statement, coronary angiography, quality, hours, nstemi unstable, nstemi, angina


possible, but within 24 hours of becoming clinically unstable. Data source: Local data collection. Process a) Length of time taken for adults with NSTEMI or unstable angina who are clinically unstable (on admission or during their hospital stay) to receive coronary angiography (with follow-on PCI if indicated). Local areas should collaborate with healthcare professionals to determine if the timeframe was appropriate for the patient. Data source: Local data collection. b) Proportion of adults with NSTEMI or unstable angina who are clinically unstable who receive coronary angiography (with follow-on PCI if indicated) within 24 hours of becoming clinically unstable. Numerator – the number in the denominator receiving coronary angiography (with follow- on PCI if indicated) within 24 hours of becoming clinically unstable. Denominator – the number of adults with NSTEMI or unstable angina who are clinically unstable. Outcome Incidence of cardiovascular events. Data source: Local data collection. What the quality statement means for different audiences Service providers (secondary care and cardiac service providers) ensure that local pathways are in place for adults with NSTEMI or unstable angina who are clinically unstable to be offered coronary angiography (with follow-on PCI if indicated) as soon as possible but within 24 hours of becoming clinically unstable. Healthcare professionals ensure that they offer adults with NSTEMI or unstable angina who are clinically unstable, coronary angiography (with follow-on PCI if indicated) as soon as possible but within 24 hours of becoming clinically unstable. Commissioners ensure that they commission services with the capacity and expertise for adults with NSTEMI or unstable angina who are clinically unstable to be offered coronary angiography (with follow-on PCI if indicated) as soon as possible but within 24 hours of becoming clinically unstable. Adults with heart conditions called NSTEMI and unstable angina and whose condition is unstable are offered a test called coronary angiography and treatment to improve blood flow to the heart if needed, as soon as possible but within 24 hours of their condition becoming unstable. Source guidance Acute coronary syndromes. NICE guideline NG185 (2020), recommendation 1.2.12 Definitions of terms used in this quality statement Clinically unstable People who are clinically unstable are defined as those with: • ongoing or recurring pain despite treatment • haemodynamic instability (low blood pressure, shock) • dynamic ECG changes • left ventricular failure. [Expert opinion] As soon as possible Local areas should collaborate with healthcare professionals to determine the appropriate timeframes for patients. [Expert
