Acute coronary syndromes in adults
KEYWORDS: coronary, adults, unstable, pci, acute, risk, data, angiography, statement, coronary angiography, quality, hours, nstemi unstable, nstemi, angina


shock) • dynamic ECG changes • left ventricular failure. [Expert opinion] As soon as possible Local areas should collaborate with healthcare professionals to determine the appropriate timeframes for patients. [Expert opinion] Quality statement 5: Level of consciousness and eligibility for coronary angiography and primary PCI Quality statement Adults who are unconscious after cardiac arrest caused by suspected acute ST-segment-elevation myocardial infarction (STEMI) are not excluded from having coronary angiography (with follow-on primary percutaneous coronary intervention [PCI] if indicated). Rationale People who remain unconscious after cardiac arrest should not be treated differently from people who are conscious. They should be able to have the same treatments within the same timescales and should be admitted to centres capable of undertaking primary PCI. Carrying out immediate primary PCI, if successful, could stabilise the person's heart and may reduce the risk of further complications. Quality measures The following measures can be used to assess the quality of care or service provision specified in the statement. They are examples of how the statement can be measured, and can be adapted and used flexibly. Structure Evidence of local arrangements to ensure that adults who are unconscious after cardiac arrest caused by suspected acute STEMI are not excluded from having coronary angiography (with follow-on primary PCI if indicated) because they are unconscious. Data source: Local data collection. Process Proportion of adults who were unconscious after cardiac arrest caused by suspected acute STEMI who receive coronary angiography (with follow-on primary PCI if indicated). Numerator – the number in the denominator receiving coronary angiography (with follow- on primary PCI if indicated). Denominator – the number of adults who were unconscious after cardiac arrest caused by suspected acute STEMI. Data source: Local data collection. What the quality statement means for different audiences Service providers (ambulance services and cardiac service providers) ensure that adults who are unconscious after cardiac arrest caused by suspected acute STEMI are not excluded from having coronary angiography (with follow-on primary PCI if indicated). Providers should also raise awareness among healthcare professionals of the importance of not using level of consciousness to exclude adults from having coronary angiography (with follow-on primary PCI if indicated). Healthcare professionals ensure that they do not use level of consciousness after cardiac arrest caused by suspected acute STEMI to exclude adults from having coronary angiography (with follow-on primary PCI if indicated). Commissioners ensure that they commission services that can carry out coronary
