Acute coronary syndromes in adults
KEYWORDS: coronary, adults, unstable, pci, acute, risk, data, angiography, statement, coronary angiography, quality, hours, nstemi unstable, nstemi, angina


arrest caused by suspected acute STEMI to exclude adults from having coronary angiography (with follow-on primary PCI if indicated). Commissioners ensure that they commission services that can carry out coronary angiography (with follow-on primary PCI if indicated) in adults who are unconscious after cardiac arrest caused by suspected acute STEMI. Adults who are unconscious after a type of heart attack called STEMI can have a test called coronary angiography, and treatment to improve blood flow to the heart if needed, even though they are unconscious. Source guidance Acute coronary syndromes. NICE guideline NG185 (2020), recommendation 1.1.2 Quality statement 6: Primary PCI for acute STEMI Quality statement Adults with acute ST-segment-elevation myocardial infarction (STEMI) who present within 12 hours of onset of symptoms have primary percutaneous coronary intervention (PCI), as the preferred coronary reperfusion strategy, as soon as possible but within 120 minutes of the time when fibrinolysis could have been given. Rationale Primary PCI is a form of reperfusion therapy which should be done as soon as possible. This is because heart muscle starts to be lost once a coronary artery is blocked and the sooner reperfusion therapy is delivered the better the outcome for the patient. If too much time elapses the benefits of primary PCI may be lost. Because of the difficulty in timely delivery, in some areas primary PCI is no longer the preferred coronary reperfusion strategy over fibrinolysis. However, when performed early, primary PCI is more effective. To ensure the best outcomes for adults with STEMI, the ambulance service and hospitals delivering primary PCI should work together to minimise delays in treatment. Quality measures The following measures can be used to assess the quality of care or service provision specified in the statement. They are examples of how the statement can be measured, and can be adapted and used flexibly. Structure a) Evidence of local arrangements to ensure that adults with acute STEMI who present within 12 hours of onset of symptoms have primary PCI, as the preferred coronary reperfusion strategy, within 120 minutes of the time when fibrinolysis could have been given. Data source: Local data collection. b) Evidence of local arrangements to ensure that adults with acute STEMI have access to primary PCI 24 hours a day. Data source: Local data collection. c) Evidence that commissioners with their services providers have developed a single care pathway for coronary reperfusion. Data source: Local data collection.
