Acute coronary syndromes in adults
KEYWORDS: coronary, adults, unstable, pci, acute, risk, data, angiography, statement, coronary angiography, quality, hours, nstemi unstable, nstemi, angina


hours a day. Data source: Local data collection. c) Evidence that commissioners with their services providers have developed a single care pathway for coronary reperfusion. Data source: Local data collection. Process a) Proportion of adults with acute STEMI who present within 12 hours of onset of symptoms who receive primary PCI within 120 minutes of when fibrinolysis could have been given. Numerator – the number in the denominator receiving primary PCI within 120 minutes of when fibrinolysis could have been given. Denominator – the number of adults with acute STEMI who present within 12 hours of onset of symptoms. Data source: Local data collection. Some fields on time to primary PCI collected in the Healthcare Quality Improvement Partnership's Myocardial Ischaemia National Audit Project (MINAP) and the British Cardiovascular Intervention Society's National audit of percutaneous coronary interventional procedures. b) Proportion of adults with acute STEMI who present within 12 hours of onset of symptoms who receive primary PCI within 150 minutes of the call for professional help. Numerator – the number of people in the denominator receiving primary PCI within 150 minutes of the call for professional help. Denominator – the number of adults with acute STEMI who present within 12 hours of onset of symptoms. Data source:Healthcare Quality Improvement Partnership's Myocardial Ischaemia National Audit Project (MINAP) and the British Cardiovascular Intervention Society's National audit of percutaneous coronary interventional procedures collect data on the time to primary PCI. Outcome Incidence of cardiovascular events. Data source: Local data collection. What the quality statement means for different audiences Service providers (ambulance services, accident and emergency service provider and cardiac service providers) ensure that local pathways and transfer protocols are in place for adults with acute STEMI who present within 12 hours of the onset of symptoms to be offered primary PCI, as the preferred coronary reperfusion strategy, as soon as possible but within 120 minutes of when fibrinolysis could have been given. Healthcare professionals ensure that they offer primary PCI, as the preferred coronary reperfusion strategy, as soon as possible but within 120 minutes of when fibrinolysis could have been given to adults with acute STEMI who present within 12 hours of the onset of symptoms. Commissioners ensure that they commission services that have the capacity and expertise to provide primary PCI, as the preferred coronary reperfusion strategy, as soon as possible but within 120 minutes of when fibrinolysis could have been given
