Environmental Endocrinology: An Expanding Horizon
KEYWORDS: endocrine, pubmed, environment, health, impact, free, disorders, exposure, endocrinology, diabetes, environmental, pmc free, pmc, article, free article


ABSTRACT Environment is an important determinant of endocrine health and certain endocrine disorders could also have a significant impact on the surroundings. Environmental endocrinology is an emerging field of medicine which encompasses the bidirectional impact of endocrine disorders and the physical, chemical, biological, and social environment of an individual. As we aim to improve endocrine health, it is also important to address the external environmental factors that may affect a given endocrine condition. As more data is emerging on this subject, it will help to formulate clinical practice guidelines and policies to optimize endocrine disorders in light of a given external environment. For complete coverage of all related areas of Endocrinology, please visit our on-line FREE web-text, WWW.ENDOTEXT.ORG . INTRODUCTION Environment with respect to health refers to all the physical, chemical and biological factors extrinsic to a person, even encompassing the related behavioral responses. The given surroundings can have a significant impact on an individual’s health and even health conditions can influence the environment over a period of time ( 1 ). Environmental health is an upcoming field and is referred to as the science and practice of preventing human illness while promoting wellbeing, by identifying and evaluating environmental changes. It further helps to identify and limit exposure to hazardous physical, chemical, and biological agents and thereby limiting their exposure to prevent adverse effects on human health ( 2 ). Multiple disciplines of medicine are involved in studying this field and research dealing with environmental health often has a direct impact on policy and practice. Amongst various organ systems that are impacted with environmental health, the endocrine system is maximally affected and very relevant in tropical countries ( 3 , 4 ). This has been shown across different species and in humans across their life span ( 5 - 7 ). The environmental changes can even result in epigenetic alterations that may then transcend across generations ( 3 , 8 ). In this chapter, we explore the bidirectional relationship of environment and the endocrine system and suggest a future road map for addressing the research gaps identified in this field ( Figure 1 ). Figure 1. Relationship of the environment and endocrine system IMPACT OF ENVIRONMENT ON ENDOCRINOLOGY The Influence of the Physical Environment on the Endocrine System In the last century several nuclear disasters have happened from time to time. The impact of these on the endocrine system has
