Environmental Endocrinology: An Expanding Horizon
KEYWORDS: endocrine, pubmed, environment, health, impact, free, disorders, exposure, endocrinology, diabetes, environmental, pmc free, pmc, article, free article


of the Physical Environment on the Endocrine System In the last century several nuclear disasters have happened from time to time. The impact of these on the endocrine system has widely been reported and is a classic example as to how the physical environment can affect the endocrine system ( 9 - 11 ). The unfortunate incidents in Fukushima and Chernobyl have led to a large amount of exposure of radioactive substances that have been released into the environment. In addition to their adverse effects on reproductive health and carcinogenesis, a considerable impact has been noted on many endocrine glands including the pituitary, thyroid and gonads ( 12 ). Following the Chernobyl accident in 1986, it was noted that individuals living in the surrounding areas had a 50% lower sympathetic activity and a 36% lower adrenal cortical activity including a significantly lower blood cortisol level. They also were noticed to have increased hypophyseal-thyroid system dysfunction, higher incidence of goiter, and autoimmune thyroiditis ( 13 ). An increased level of thyroxine-binding globulin, lower concentrations of free T3, and an increased risk of non-toxic single nodular and multinodular goiters have been reported ( 14 ). On the other extreme, an increased secretion of gonadotropic hormones and accelerated sexual development in women was documented. Higher rates of juvenile diabetes were also noticed in those exposed to the radioactive substances. Higher levels of prolactin and renin, with lower progesterone levels have been documented ( 14 ). A similar incidence was repeated in Fukushima in 2011, following a tsunami which caused extensive damage to the nuclear reactor situated there. Though the radiation amount released into the environment was relatively less, the exposure was to a significantly larger population ( 12 ). Multiple endocrine effects have also been described secondary to the radiation exposure followed by non-accidental deliberate nuclear weapon testing ( 15 ). These effects need to be proactively followed and documented as they have strong policy implications. Another important environmental health domain which has been of concern in recent times, is the health effects of forest fires. Apart from the multitude of environment related effects of vast forest fires, they also are known to affect the endocrine system ( 16 ). Polycyclic aromatic compounds (PACs), released during such forest fires are known endocrine disruptors with steroid like actions and their chronic exposure could affect the hypothalmo-pituitary-adrenal axis ( 17 ). In addition to these
