Environmental Endocrinology: An Expanding Horizon
KEYWORDS: endocrine, pubmed, environment, health, impact, free, disorders, exposure, endocrinology, diabetes, environmental, pmc free, pmc, article, free article


(PACs), released during such forest fires are known endocrine disruptors with steroid like actions and their chronic exposure could affect the hypothalmo-pituitary-adrenal axis ( 17 ). In addition to these the impact of built environment, limited areas for safe physical activity, and an increased number of fast-food outlets are responsible for an increasing prevalence of obesity in some developing countries ( 18 ). Apart from these examples at the macro-environment level, the micro-environment could also have an impact on the endocrine system. A classic example to support this is hypogonadism in men caused by excessive use of sauna, hot tubs, Jacuzzis, heated car seats, and laptop use. The increased testicular temperature caused by excessive exposure to these activities can impair spermatogenesis ( 19 , 20 ). Apart from direct effect of heat, excessive use of laptops and mobile phones also exposes the body to higher amount of radio frequency electromagnetic radiation, leading to multiple systemic effects including reduced spermatogenesis and increased blood pressure ( 21 ). The Effect of Changes in the Chemical Environment on Endocrinology Globally, the endocrine disruptor chemicals (EDCs) are the best-known examples of how the chemical environment can influence the endocrine system. EDCs are defined as exogenous chemicals that may alter any part of the endocrine system which may include interference in hormone synthesis, secretion, circulation, metabolism, receptor interaction, or elimination ( 22 ). Based on the site of their origin - EDC’s have been classified as industrial, residential, or agricultural. The common EDC’s used in industries include polychlorinated biphenyls (PCBs) and alkylphenols. Several pesticides, insecticide, herbicides, phytoestrogens, and fungicides that are used in farming are classified as agricultural and those used in household products like phthalates, polybrominated biphenyls, and bisphenol A are considered as residential ( 23 ). EDCs have gathered much interest in recent years and are known to affect several endocrine systems especially the gonadal axis ( 24 ). A brief summary has been provided in the table below. Table 1. Endocrine disruptors affecting different endocrine organs View in own window Endocrine system Endocrine disruptor chemical Impact Pituitary Phytoestrogens (i.e., isoflavonoids, cumestans, lignans, stilbens); pesticides (i.e., organophosphates, carbamates, organochlorines, synthetic pyrethroids); Polyvinyl chloride (PVC); phenols, dioxins, heavy metals, perfluorooctanoic acid. Precocious puberty, delayed puberty, disruption of the circadian rhythm Adrenal Xenoestrogens, Hexachlorobenzene Adrenal biosynthetic defects Thyroid Perchlorate, thiocyanates, nitrates Hypothyroidism Gonads Phthalates, vinclozolin, acetaminophen, and polybrominated diphenyl ethers (PBDE) Phthalates, diethylstilbestrol, bisphenol A
