Environmental Endocrinology: An Expanding Horizon
KEYWORDS: endocrine, pubmed, environment, health, impact, free, disorders, exposure, endocrinology, diabetes, environmental, pmc free, pmc, article, free article


puberty, disruption of the circadian rhythm Adrenal Xenoestrogens, Hexachlorobenzene Adrenal biosynthetic defects Thyroid Perchlorate, thiocyanates, nitrates Hypothyroidism Gonads Phthalates, vinclozolin, acetaminophen, and polybrominated diphenyl ethers (PBDE) Phthalates, diethylstilbestrol, bisphenol A (BPA) PCB, phtalates, atrazine, genistein, BPA, parabens, triclosan, dichlorodiphenyltrichloroethane (DDT), and metoxychloride (MXC) Phthalates, bisphenol A, biphenyls, and vinclozolin, Testicular dysgenesis syndrome Endometriosis Female infertility Male infertility Endocrine gland cancer PDBE, organochlorides, PCB, DDT, dichlorodiphenyldichloroethylene (DDE), arsenic, and cadmium Triclocarban, PCB PCB, dioxins, cadmium, phytoestrogens, DES, furans, ethylene oxide Testicular Cancer Thyroid Cancer Breast Cancer In addition to EDC’s several other occupational exposures can also cause endocrine disorders. Exposure to cadmium in silversmiths, without proper personal protective equipment could lead to renal tubular acidosis and subsequent hypophosphatemic osteomalacia ( 25 ). Chronic exposure to fluoride through drinking water is known to produce a sclerotic bone disease associated with osteomalacia ( 26 ). Exposure to other heavy metals like copper has also been associated with different endocrine disorders as seen in Wilson’s disease ( 27 , 28 ). Altered exposure to certain food items, may also lead to endocrine disorders. While exposure to cow milk and cassava has been associated with development of diabetes, deficiency of iodine containing sea foods in non-coastal areas is associated with the goiter ( 29 , 30 ). The Impact of Biological Changes in the Environment on the Endocrine Milieu The most recent and a very lucid example of how the biological environment can affect the endocrine system, is that of COVID -19. It has been shown that COVID-19 can have a myriad of effects on different endocrine systems. However, the most pertinent of all has been its association with diabetes ( 31 - 33 ). Interestingly not only COVID-19 can affect diabetes control but presence of diabetes can also have a direct impact on the outcome of COVID-19 ( Figure 2 ). Figure 2. The bidirectional relationship between COVID-19 and Diabetes Similar to COVID-19, there have been reports of other communicable diseases intersecting with non-communicable endocrine disorders. A few common examples that are cited in literature include presence of NAFLD (Nonalcoholic fatty liver disease) in individuals with HIV infection, the association of osteoporosis with Hepatitis B infection, cytomegalovirus associated with Paget’s disease of the bone etc. ( 34 , 35 ). Certain infections may also be responsible for hormonal deficiencies. An example is histoplasmosis that is predominantly spread by bat droppings can result in adrenal
