Environmental Endocrinology: An Expanding Horizon
KEYWORDS: endocrine, pubmed, environment, health, impact, free, disorders, exposure, endocrinology, diabetes, environmental, pmc free, pmc, article, free article


etc. ( 34 , 35 ). Certain infections may also be responsible for hormonal deficiencies. An example is histoplasmosis that is predominantly spread by bat droppings can result in adrenal insufficiency. This along with adrenal tuberculosis is still the most common cause of primary Addison’s disease in tropical countries unlike the West where autoimmune adrenalitis is the foremost cause. Similar infective etiologies have also been described to cause hypophysitis and resulting hypopituitarism. The after effects of a of vasculo-toxic snake bite on pituitary and other endocrine organs also comes under the domain of biological environment impacting the endocrine system. The Aftermath of Changing Social Environment on the Endocrine System The social environment can influence the endocrine system in several ways. One such impact that has been increasing in recent years, is an increase in road traffic accidents on highways with higher speed limits, leading to traumatic brain injury. This has been associated with both acute and chronic hypopituitarism. Though first described in 1918, it was initially thought to be a rare phenomenon, but over the years has been recognized with increasing frequency ( 36 ). It is currently reported in about one third of patients with a traumatic brain injury ( 37 ). However, in autopsy studies up to 86% have demonstrated pituitary injury following traumatic brain injury ( 38 ). Social norms and religious customs may further have an impact on the endocrine system. From the impact of prolonged periods of fasting on glycemic control to being customarily clad in veils leading to vitamin D deficiency, several such examples have been cited in literature. IMPACT OF ENDOCRINE DISORDERS ON ENVIROMENT The Influence of Endocrine Disorders on the Physical Environment Globally, a rapid increase in the prevalence of obesity has brought about changes in the physical environment ranging from furniture sizes in clinics to more weight friendly gymnasiums. Additionally, operation tables have now become more accommodative of higher weights ( 39 ). Another endocrine disorder that has brought about significant changes in the physical environment is osteoporosis. With an increasing life expectancy and consequent increase in the aged population, there has been a remarkable increase in the prevalence and awareness of osteoporosis. Subsequent fall protective arrangements are in place in several public places and transport facilities ( 40 ). Separate priority lines have been made available in different areas where prolonged waiting may be required ( 41 ). Moreover, battery
