Environmental Endocrinology: An Expanding Horizon
KEYWORDS: endocrine, pubmed, environment, health, impact, free, disorders, exposure, endocrinology, diabetes, environmental, pmc free, pmc, article, free article


several public places and transport facilities ( 40 ). Separate priority lines have been made available in different areas where prolonged waiting may be required ( 41 ). Moreover, battery operated cars are provided for them in airports and railway stations. The Sequel of Endocrine Related Policies on the Chemical Environment The changes in the chemical environment secondary to endocrine disorders are predominantly due to deficiency of chemical substances leading to hormone deficiencies. Nutritional vitamin D deficiency and iodine deficiency thyroid disorders have led to a massive fortification campaign in several countries. The impact of both these supplementations have seen phenomenal success across different countries especially in the tropical region ( 42 , 43 ). In a recently published study from Ireland, it was found that almost two-thirds of the mean daily vitamin D intake of adults came from fortified foods like milk and bread. Though individually milk and bread only helped to meet about 30 and 50% of recommended daily allowance, fortifying both simultaneously could help in meeting 70% of the RDA. This shows the impact of how widespread vitamin D deficiency could be managed by altering the chemical environment of commonly available foods ( 42 ). Along similar lines a high prevalence of iodine deficiency disorders a few decades ago, has driven the salt iodination movement in several countries. This is another example of how an endocrine disorder can lead to changes in the surrounding chemical environment. This has definitely resulted in a reduction in the prevalence of goiter in many countries ( 44 , 45 ). The Effect of Endocrine Disorders on the Biological Environment The classic example of how endocrine disorders could change the biological environment of an individual is how presence of diabetes and obesity could alter the clinical course of COVID 19. It is now clear that the presence of these comorbidities could increase the severity, prolong hospitalization and even increase the mortality of COVID-19 infected individuals ( 31 - 33 , 46 ). Other biological disorders that could depend on the endocrine milieu of a person include hormone dependent cancers. Elevations of specific hormones that can increase the risk of certain cancers provide a good opportunity to provide novel therapeutic options that may help in the management the hormone sensitive tumors ( 47 ). The commonly cited examples of these hormone dependent tumors where the alteration in the hormone levels could affect the
