The Postmenopausal Women
KEYWORDS: women, pubmed, risk, estrogen, menopause, breast, cancer, symptoms, breast cancer, bone, years, treatment, study, menopausal, postmenopausal


ABSTRACT The menopausal transition marks a time of great variability in reproductive hormones, and this variability can be responsible for specific symptoms, such as hot flashes and mood disturbances. Once a woman who is more than 45 years old has gone for 12 months without a menstrual period, she is considered to be menopausal with consistently low circulating estradiol and elevated gonadotropins. Estrogen is the most efficacious therapy for bothersome vasomotor symptoms and is the recommended first line treatment for women who do not have a contraindication to its use. Although estrogen exerts clear-cut protective effects on the cardiovascular system in premenopausal women, medical evidence does not support its use for the prevention of cardiovascular disease in post-menopausal women. Estrogen is not usually a first line agent for bone preservation in women unless there are concurrent menopausal symptoms, despite its antiresorptive effects. Non-hormonal alternatives to estrogen use are also available to treat common menopausal symptoms, including a new class of agents that are specific neurokinin receptor antagonists, which may have comparable efficacy to hormones though may have risks for some patients. For complete coverage of all related areas of Endocrinology, please visit our on-line FREE web-text, WWW.ENDOTEXT.ORG . Note: In this article, the word ‘woman’ is used to refer to individuals who are assigned female at birth (AFAB) and who have ovaries. The available medical literature is deficient in knowledge about the experience, risks, and benefits of hormone therapy in transmasculine individuals and how the menopausal process impacts those who are concurrently using cross-gender hormone therapy. INTRODUCTION Menopause is associated with a constellation of physical changes. Although many of these changes are viewed negatively by society, when surveyed, American women, especially African American women, have positive associations with menopause that include freedom from worry about unwanted pregnancy and absence of menstrual bleeding ( 1 ). Some of the changes associated with menopause are directly attributable to the loss of estrogen, including hot flashes, bone demineralization, and vaginal dryness. Though a matter of controversy, an increased incidence of cardiovascular disease and dementia seem to be associated with both menopause and aging. Furthermore, other conditions, such as breast, ovarian, and endometrial cancer, are associated primarily with aging but certainly are impacted by ovarian hormones. The menopause transition is associated with distinct changes in a number of risk factors for chronic disease, some of which ‘reset’ back to the premenopausal trajectory after the
