The Postmenopausal Women
KEYWORDS: women, pubmed, risk, estrogen, menopause, breast, cancer, symptoms, breast cancer, bone, years, treatment, study, menopausal, postmenopausal


ovarian hormones. The menopause transition is associated with distinct changes in a number of risk factors for chronic disease, some of which ‘reset’ back to the premenopausal trajectory after the transition is completed and others which remain elevated. This review will address the menopausal transition, its common symptoms and associations with future disease risk, and the risks and benefits of Hormone Therapy (HT), specifically, estrogen therapy with or without progestin, raloxifene, tamoxifen and bazedoxifene, and non-hormonal therapies. DEFINITIONS The Menopausal Transition In 2001 ( 2 ) and again in 2012 ( 3 ), a Stages of Reproductive Aging Workshop (STRAW) was held to describe and define the various stages of the menopausal transition ( Figure 1 ). On average, the menopausal transition lasts 4 years in duration and is divided into early and late phases. It begins when menstrual irregularity first appears, classically defined as either a “skipped” period or by an increase in variability of cycle length by more than 7 days. The menstrual cycle and hormone changes of the early transition are best explained by a critical reduction of the follicle cohort. This decrease in the available pool of growing follicles leads to a decrease in inhibin B production ( 4 ). Reduced inhibin B removes the physiologic restraint on follicle-stimulating hormone (FSH) that controls the process of folliculogenesis, and thus increased FSH secretion is observed, most notably in the early follicular phase of the menstrual cycle. FSH levels may vary considerably from month to month as the growing follicle cohort itself varies month to month. The follicular phase often shortens and estradiol (E2) production is variable and even elevated at times ( 5 ). There is evidence that follicles may grow relatively rapidly in the preceding luteal phase, causing very short follicular phases, a phenomenon that has been named ‘luteal out of phase events’ ( 6 ). A sharp drop-off in the proportion of ovulatory cycles begins at about 5 years before the final menstrual period (FMP) and luteal progesterone production declines. Gonadotropins rise sharply beginning at 3 years prior to the FMP ( 5 ). This early phase of the menopausal transition is associated with an increase in menopausal symptoms such as hot flashes, though initially, the increase may be relatively small as there may not necessarily be a reduction in the amount of circulating E2. By the late transition, prolonged amenorrhea (defined as > 60
