The Postmenopausal Women
KEYWORDS: women, pubmed, risk, estrogen, menopause, breast, cancer, symptoms, breast cancer, bone, years, treatment, study, menopausal, postmenopausal


the increase may be relatively small as there may not necessarily be a reduction in the amount of circulating E2. By the late transition, prolonged amenorrhea (defined as > 60 days) occurs, and is associated with a persistently reduced follicle pool and failure of folliculogenesis. At this point in the transition, estrogen deficiency begins to dominate, bone mineral density loss begins ( 7 ) and menopausal symptoms including hot flashes and vaginal dryness increase sharply in prevalence. Although the median duration of the transition is about 4 years, its duration is longer in women with onset at an earlier age and can persist as long as 10 years or more in some cases ( 8 ). Figure 1. The Stages of Reproductive Aging Workshop +10 staging system for reproductive aging in women ( 3 ). The menopause transition is also associated with a variety of non-reproductive changes, some of which are subtle and revert to their premenopausal rate of change and some of which remain on an accelerated trajectory. For this reason, the menopause transition is truly an ideal stage of life for an accounting of health status and for planning medical surveillance. Many of the diseases that will appear later in life and threaten a woman’s health, such as cardiometabolic disease, will present some early warning signals during the transition. The late transition, when menstrual cycles become more than 60 days’ apart, appears to be a particularly vulnerable time point ( Figure 2 ). Although weight change is small with the onset of menopause, an acute increase in fat mass is seen within a two year period of time surrounding the final menses. Fat accrual appears to stabilize thereafter ( 10 ), as does progression of carotid intima-medial thickness ( 11 ). Visceral adipose tissue accumulates rapidly in the two years surrounding the transition, after which the rate of accumulation goes down, but not back to premenopausal levels ( 12 ). Depressive symptoms follow a pattern similar to visceral adipose tissue accumulation ( 13 ). The trajectory for prevalent metabolic syndrome appears to be increased permanently by the late transition ( 14 ). Figure 2. Pattern of change in body weight and fat mass, visceral adipose tissue, metabolic syndrome, LDL-cholesterol, carotid intima-medial thickness, and depressive symptoms in relation to the final menstrual period. Note the different patterns of change in these key cardiometabolic risk factors. While some, such as
