The Postmenopausal Women
KEYWORDS: women, pubmed, risk, estrogen, menopause, breast, cancer, symptoms, breast cancer, bone, years, treatment, study, menopausal, postmenopausal


LDL-cholesterol, carotid intima-medial thickness, and depressive symptoms in relation to the final menstrual period. Note the different patterns of change in these key cardiometabolic risk factors. While some, such as fat mass, stabilize after acutely increasing in the years surrounding the menopause transition, others, such as metabolic syndrome, appear permanently altered in rate of change in association with the transition (adapted from references 9 - 14 ). Menopause Menopause is defined as the cessation of menstruation for 12 months in a woman over age 45 and occurs at a median age of 52 years ( 15 ). This event represents permanent failure of ovarian function secondary to depletion of the follicular pool. As such, supporting granulosa cells cease to produce estrogen and theca cells cease to produce androgens, and subsequently, ovarian estrogen and progesterone production stops. There is no established relationship between a woman’s age at menarche and her age at menopause. However, it is well established that a woman’s age at menopause is reflective of her mother’s age at menopause ( 16 ). The heritability of age at menopause suggest genetic linkages for genes are involved in ovarian aging ( 17 ). Interestingly, genes that are responsible for predicting the age at menopause regulate DNA damage response and are also predictive of premature menopause, or primary ovarian insufficiency (18; see below). Menopause is known to occur approximately 1-2 years earlier in tobacco users ( 16 ). Primary Ovarian Insufficiency Primary ovarian insufficiency (POI), or premature ovarian failure (POF) has been defined as 3-6 months of amenorrhea accompanied by FSH levels greater than 40 IU/L on two separate occasions, at least one month apart in a woman less than 40 years old. POI is diagnosed in 5-10% of women who are evaluated for amenorrhea and the overall prevalence in the general population is thought to be around 1.1% ( 19 ). The designation of “premature menopause” for such patients implies that menses will never happen again and this term should not be used. Rather, many recommend the use of the term “premature ovarian insufficiency (POI)” to describe the syndrome. POI and POF are more neutral terms, as young women with prolonged hypergonadotropic amenorrhea, unlike their older counterparts, are far more likely to have some intermittent ovarian function after the diagnosis has been made. The treatment for POI usually consists of combined estrogen and progestin replacement. It is important to recognize
