The Postmenopausal Women
KEYWORDS: women, pubmed, risk, estrogen, menopause, breast, cancer, symptoms, breast cancer, bone, years, treatment, study, menopausal, postmenopausal


likely to have some intermittent ovarian function after the diagnosis has been made. The treatment for POI usually consists of combined estrogen and progestin replacement. It is important to recognize that the risk to benefit equation of HT for women under age 40 who have ovarian failure differs from that for menopausal women aged 50-79. A preventive cardiovascular benefit for HT appears to be more likely in younger women. Women with early loss of ovarian function are likely to spend more years of their lives exposed to the risk of bone demineralization, and therefore this important protective benefit of hormones is more likely to be realized. There are no current, evidence-based criteria to determine how to best provide hormone therapy to women with POI/POF, but it is widely assumed that hormone treatment up to the mean age at natural menopause should be considered in most cases, with a re-evaluation of risk to benefit once a woman attains the age associated with natural menopause in the population ( 20 ). PHYSIOLOGIC CHANGES ASSOCIATED WITH AGING AND MENOPAUSE Cardiovascular System The largest health threat to women over age 50 is cardiovascular disease (CVD) ( 14 ). In women aged 45-49, the incidence of CVD is 3 times lower than men of matched age. However, data from the Framingham study have shown that by age 75-79, a woman’s risk of heart disease increases and equals a man’s risk for her age ( 21 ). Women are less likely to be diagnosed correctly, less likely to undergo the correct revascularization procedure, and less likely to survive a major cardiac event than are men. It is critical to develop new ways to identify preclinical disease amenable to intervention and prevention. Women appear to have risk factors that differ substantially from men and include more social/emotional and autoimmune/inflammatory risks, along with more microvascular disease ( 22 , 23 ). Further, vascular dysfunction and future cardiovascular events are associated with more bothersome menopausal vasomotor symptoms ( 24 , 25 ). The direction of any possible causation, however, is not known. Carotid intimal medial thickness (CIMT) has emerged as a strong predictor of subsequent disease and serves as a non-invasive marker of subclinical cardiovascular disease. El Khoudary et al, have found associations between low endogenous SHBG and estradiol and elevated FSH with increased CIMT in perimenopausal women ( 26 ). Endothelial function is also a predictor for CVD
