The Postmenopausal Women
KEYWORDS: women, pubmed, risk, estrogen, menopause, breast, cancer, symptoms, breast cancer, bone, years, treatment, study, menopausal, postmenopausal


al, have found associations between low endogenous SHBG and estradiol and elevated FSH with increased CIMT in perimenopausal women ( 26 ). Endothelial function is also a predictor for CVD and has been shown to decrease during the menopause transition in relation to changes in estradiol and increased oxidative stress ( 27 ). Due to the strong association of adverse cardiovascular changes with diminishing ovarian function, researchers have long studied the use of hormone therapy to prevent the rise in CVD risk associated with menopause. The Heart and Estrogen/Progestin Replacement study (HERS) evaluated the role of estrogen in secondary prevention ( 28 ). This trial included 2763 post-menopausal women with pre-existing coronary heart disease (CHD) followed over 4 years. The objective was to see if initiating HT would alter a woman’s risk of future events. All participants were post-menopausal, younger than age 80 with a uterus and had established CHD. Women were prescribed conjugated equine estrogen (CEE) 0.625 mg with medroxyprogesterone acetate (MPA) 2.5mg daily or placebo. The primary outcome was the occurrence of fatal or nonfatal myocardial infarction (MI). Secondary outcomes were other cardiovascular events: coronary revascularization, unstable angina, congestive heart failure, resuscitated cardiac arrest, stroke or transient ischemic attack and peripheral arterial disease. The results showed no significant differences in the occurrence of fatal or nonfatal myocardial infarctions by treatment. However, in the first year of the study, there were significantly more CHD events in the HT group, as well as a higher incidence of thromboembolic events (both deep venous thrombosis (DVT) and pulmonary embolus) and gallbladder disease when compared to placebo. Incidentally, the incidence of diabetes mellitus was noted to decrease by 3.5% over 4 years in the HT group. Similar to the results of the placebo-controlled, randomized Postmenopausal Estrogen/Progestin Interventions (or PEPI) Study, which evaluated intermediate cardiovascular markers ( 29 ), the HT group had a decrease in LDL cholesterol and an increase in HDL cholesterol when compared to placebo. These investigators concluded that HT did not reduce the risk of future cardiac events in post-menopausal women with established CHD. In addition, because of the increased incidence of adverse cardiac events in the first year of treatment, initiating HT in women with established CHD is not recommended. Based on the findings of the HERS Study, HT should not be initiated for secondary prevention of cardiovascular disease. Studies have also focused on the possibility that use of
