The Postmenopausal Women
KEYWORDS: women, pubmed, risk, estrogen, menopause, breast, cancer, symptoms, breast cancer, bone, years, treatment, study, menopausal, postmenopausal


recommended. Based on the findings of the HERS Study, HT should not be initiated for secondary prevention of cardiovascular disease. Studies have also focused on the possibility that use of HT during an optimal ‘window of opportunity’ in the early postmenopausal period could be effective for primary prevention of cardiovascular disease. The Women’s Health Initiative hormone therapy clinical trial did not find primary protection against CVD in women treated for a mean of 5-7 years with either conjugated equine estrogen alone (women with a hysterectomy) ( 30 ) or estrogen plus the progestin, medroxyprogesterone acetate ( 31 ), and these results were consistent in cumulative 18-year follow-up ( 32 ). When subgroup analyses were performed by age, women in the youngest age group (50-59 at enrollment), did not demonstrate significant benefit from HT. The Kronos Early Estrogen Prevention Study (KEEPS) tested the hypothesis that early intervention with estrogen delays the onset of atherosclerosis as measured by carotid intima medial thickness and coronary calcium accrual using a regimen of either conjugated equine estrogen or transdermal estradiol, both with cyclic administration of oral, micronized progesterone for 12 days each month. KEEPS did not demonstrate any between-group differences in CIMT or coronary calcium scores ( 33 ). The rationale that hormones are protective of the vascular system when initiated early in menopause was supported, however, by the Early versus Late Intervention Trial with Estradiol (ELITE). The ELITE study found that oral estradiol treatment initiated within 6 years of menopause reduced the rate of CIMT compared to placebo, and this effect was not seen in women who initiated estrogen 10 or more years after menopause ( 34 ). The long-term effect of time of HT initiation on CVD is therefore not established, and HT is not currently recommended for primary prevention of CVD, regardless of age at initiation. LIPOPROTEIN CHANGES, CARDIOVASCULAR RISK, AND HT The role of menopause in contributing to dyslipidemia has also long been hypothesized. In women, total and low-density lipoprotein (LDL) cholesterol increase with age, and this increase is accelerated by menopause, whereas cardioprotective, high density lipoprotein (HDL) decreases ( 35 ). Moreover, the protective effect of HDL cholesterol appears to be diminished as women progress through menopause—possibly related to denser sub-particle size ( 36 ). A rise in LDL has specifically been associated with the latter part of the menopausal transition and appears to be related to the loss of
