The Postmenopausal Women
KEYWORDS: women, pubmed, risk, estrogen, menopause, breast, cancer, symptoms, breast cancer, bone, years, treatment, study, menopausal, postmenopausal


sub-particle size ( 36 ). A rise in LDL has specifically been associated with the latter part of the menopausal transition and appears to be related to the loss of estrogen at this time of life ( 37 ). In agreement with this finding is the relatively sharp upturn in CIMT observed in association with the late menopausal transition ( 11 ). Through exercise, a low-fat diet, and cholesterol-lowering drugs, patients with high total and LDL cholesterol levels are able to significantly lower these lipoprotein levels and their subsequent risk for heart disease ( 38 ). The Womens’ Health Initiative (WHI) trials describe a group of randomized, placebo controlled, clinical primary prevention trials that were designed to test the effects of HT, diet modification, and calcium and vitamin D supplements on CVD, fracture risk, and breast and colorectal cancer. The WHI had three overlapping clinical trials. One was to test the effects of a low-fat diet on breast cancer and cardiovascular disease outcomes; one was to test the effect of calcium plus vitamin D on fracture outcomes, and one was to test the effects of hormone therapy in cardiovascular disease outcomes. The hormone therapy trial consisted of three study arms: The Estrogen + Progestin arm (conjugated equine estrogen (CEE) + medroxyprogesterone acetate (MPA) was administered to women with a uterus, the estrogen-alone arm (CEE) was administered to women without a uterus, and a placebo arm involved both women with or without a uterus. The WHI findings suggest that administration of HT does not protect the heart. While the initial analysis showed that CEE + MPA use was associated with a 24% overall increase in the risk of CHD (6 more heart attacks annually per 10,000 women using CEE + MPA) and an 81% increased risk of CHD in the first year alone after starting therapy, 18-year cumulative follow-up showed no difference in CHD and CVD-related mortality ( 31 , 32 ). Women who had higher baseline LDL cholesterol levels at the beginning of the study were at particularly high risk of CHD with HT use ( 39 ). Although the expected changes in lipoproteins were observed with hormone therapy (decreased LDL and increased HDL), there was no associated reduction in CHD risk. The estrogen alone arm (CEE) differed from the CEE + MPA study in that it enrolled women who did not have a uterus, and who therefore did not
