The Postmenopausal Women
KEYWORDS: women, pubmed, risk, estrogen, menopause, breast, cancer, symptoms, breast cancer, bone, years, treatment, study, menopausal, postmenopausal


CHD risk. The estrogen alone arm (CEE) differed from the CEE + MPA study in that it enrolled women who did not have a uterus, and who therefore did not need progestin. In this trial, 10,739 women with a prior hysterectomy, aged 50-79 years, were assigned to CEE 0.625 mg daily or to placebo. The study was stopped ahead of schedule in February 2004 for ‘futility’. During 7.1 years of follow up, estrogen provided no overall protection against heart attack or CAD in healthy post-menopausal women, most of whom were more than 10 years past menopause when they entered the study. In women 50-59 years of age at study entry, there was a suggestion of lower rates of heart attacks or procedures to revascularize thrombosed coronary arteries; however, these findings could be due to chance ( 30 ). Some data from the WHI estrogen-alone arm (CEE) supports the notion that coronary calcium accrual is prevented by early intervention with estrogen. The WHI evaluated the presence of coronary artery calcium (CAC) burden to determine whether or not it differed based on treatment assignment. The WHI Coronary-Artery Calcium Study (WHI-CACS) evaluated 1,064 women aged 50 to 59 years after a mean of 7.4 years. CAC was evaluated by cardiac CT scans, which were performed blindly on patients to measure the CAC in these estrogen-alone participants. CAC scores were lower in women in the (CEE) alone group compared to those in the placebo group. The mean CAC score was 83.1 for (CEE) and 123.1 for placebo. After taking into account other heart disease risk factors, the risk of having mild-to-moderate CAC was 20-30% lower and the risk of severe CAC was 40% lower in the (CEE) group compared to placebo. After the trial ended, the calcium plaque build-up in the coronary arteries was lower in women randomized to estrogen compared to placebo ( 40 ). In conclusion, studies show that most women have minimal CAC and minimal increases in carotid IMT prior to menopause. The findings imply strongly that ovarian hormones exert a protective effect on the cardiovascular system in premenopausal women, even though they do not appear to maintain a protective role after menopause. Despite these data, and secondary findings suggestive that early intervention with hormones may delay the onset of clinical heart disease, prescribing hormones for this purpose cannot be recommended based on the available data because they are not consistent
