The Postmenopausal Women
KEYWORDS: women, pubmed, risk, estrogen, menopause, breast, cancer, symptoms, breast cancer, bone, years, treatment, study, menopausal, postmenopausal


early intervention with hormones may delay the onset of clinical heart disease, prescribing hormones for this purpose cannot be recommended based on the available data because they are not consistent and randomized clinical trial data are lacking. These studies are unlikely to be the last word in this controversial field. COAGULATION After menopause, there are noted changes in clotting parameters. There is an increase in procoagulation factors including fibrinogen, plasminogen activator inhibitor-1 (PAI-1), and factor VII, all of which cause a relatively hypercoagulable state. These increases are thought to be another contributor to the increase in cardiovascular and cerebrovascular disease in older women. With the administration of oral estrogen therapy, many procoagulation parameters improve, as evidenced by a decrease in fibrinogen and plasminogen levels; however, there is a higher risk for venous thromboembolism (VTE) due to increased liver metabolism of estrogen given orally ( 41 ). HT in currently used doses is associated with an approximately 3-fold increase in VTE events. Transdermal estrogen preparations bypass liver metabolism and may be associated with the lowest VTE risk. Multiple observational studies have demonstrated fewer VTE and ischemic events with transdermal estrogen preparations compared to oral ( 42 - 45 ). There is some observational evidence that oral estradiol may also carry a lower risk of VTE than conjugated equine estrogen ( 46 ). SERM preparations also increase VTE risk. Tamoxifen increases VTE risk in a manner similar to oral estrogen, whereas raloxifene is associated with fewer VTE events than tamoxifen or estrogen ( 47 , 48 ). Bazedoxifene showed similar VTE risk compared to raloxifene in a randomized placebo-controlled trial ( 49 ) Skeletal System Osteoporosis is a major concern for postmenopausal women, leading to substantial morbidity and mortality. Fifty percent of women over age 65 have a compression fracture. Maintenance of bone mass is critical to prevent the development of osteoporosis. Height loss, up to several inches, and postural changes including kyphosis and lordosis are also caused by vertebral fractures. The mortality rate of women with hip fractures is 20% within the year following the fracture ( 50 ). After peak bone mass is attained in the 4 th decade of life, there is a slow, steady decline during the reproductive years, when approximately 0.7% of total bone is lost per year. At menopause, there is an accelerated rate of bone loss; 5% trabecular and 1.5% of total bone mass, on
