The Postmenopausal Women
KEYWORDS: women, pubmed, risk, estrogen, menopause, breast, cancer, symptoms, breast cancer, bone, years, treatment, study, menopausal, postmenopausal


years, when approximately 0.7% of total bone is lost per year. At menopause, there is an accelerated rate of bone loss; 5% trabecular and 1.5% of total bone mass, on average, is lost per year. Almost all of this loss occurs in a 5–7-year period of the ‘transmenopause’ ( 51 , 52 ). In the first 20 years after menopause, there is a 50% reduction in trabecular bone and 30% reduction in cortical bone, primarily due to the lack of estrogen ( 51 ). Estrogen is responsible for promoting osteoblast (bone-forming cell) activity. It also inhibits bone remodeling and balances osteoblast and osteoclast (bone-resorbing cell) activity. As levels of serum estrogen decline in menopause, there is an increase in the rate of bone loss. As such, increased bone turnover increases serum calcium. This increase in serum calcium, in turn, causes a decrease in parathyroid hormone (PTH) secretion, followed by calcinuria and decreased renal production of 1,25 dihydroxy-vitamin D. Vitamin D is responsible for intestinal calcium absorption and kidney tubular reabsorption. This domino effect causes a postmenopausal woman to lose 20 to 60 mg of calcium daily ( 53 ). OSTEOPOROSIS SCREENING It is a challenging public health problem to provide a cost-effective approach to identify women who are most likely to fracture, and to preferentially target them for screening and therapy. An important and sensitive test to identify bone loss is a Dual Energy X Ray Absorptiometry (DEXA) scan. Usually two sites are analyzed—the lumbar spine and the femoral neck (occasionally the radius is also checked). Scoring systems for evaluating Bone Mineral Density (BMD) are based on the T-score and Z-score. The T-score compares the patient’s BMD to young women at peak bone mass whereas the Z-score compares the patient to women her own age. It is the T-score that is used to make a diagnosis. The World Health Organization (WHO) has established the following definitions: 1. normal BMD as a T-score => -1 standard deviation (SD) of the mean 2. osteopenia as BMD between -1 and -2.5 SD 3. osteoporosis as a T-score =< -2.5 SD However, BMD via DEXA scan has a precision error of 2 to 6% depending on the site, which can amount to almost 1 t-score unit ( 54 ). It is therefore important to avoid errors in clinical decision making by overinterpreting DEXA scans that are performed too close together in time. When the
