The Postmenopausal Women
KEYWORDS: women, pubmed, risk, estrogen, menopause, breast, cancer, symptoms, breast cancer, bone, years, treatment, study, menopausal, postmenopausal


t-score unit ( 54 ). It is therefore important to avoid errors in clinical decision making by overinterpreting DEXA scans that are performed too close together in time. When the measurement error exceeds the likely change in bone density that might be expected to influence clinical decision making, repeat testing should be deferred in most cases. Bone density screening is useful but does not provide all of the desired information about true fracture risk. Low bone density alone will not cause a fracture, unless it is so low that activities of daily living cause bones to break. Rather, women must have a combination of low bone density and a predisposition to falling that increases their risk. Current clinical guidelines recommend BMD screening at age 65 years for women of ‘average risk’ ( 55 ). The rationale for waiting until age 65 to screen is that for most women, therapy will not need to be initiated before this time. However, most clinical guidelines also agree that BMD screening can and should be used selectively for women younger than 65 years if they are postmenopausal and/or have other risk factors for fracture ( Table 1 ). Other considerations for BMD screening include estrogen deficient women of any age, vertebral anomalies, and primary hyperparathyroidism. Table 1. Conditions and Medications to Consider When Deciding Whether to Screen For Bone Density Before Age 65 Years (from reference 56 ) View in own window Bone density should be screened in postmenopausal women younger than 65 years if any of the following risk factors are noted: Medical history of a fragility fracture Body weight less than 127lb Medical causes of bone loss: Medications (commonly used medications include SSRIs/SNRIs, proton pump inhibitors, SGLT2 inhibitors, glucocorticoids and other immunosuppressive agents, GnRH agonists or antagonists, excess thyroid hormone and aromatase inhibitors) Medical conditions (hyperthyroidism, hypercortisolism, nutritional deficiencies due to lack of intake or malabsorption, type 1 and type 2 diabetes mellitus, primary hyperparathyroidism, obesity, inflammatory bowel disease and chronic liver disease) Parental medical history of hip fracture Current smoker Alcoholism Primary ovarian insufficiency Rheumatoid arthritis, other rheumatological diseases Frailty In order to attempt to address the factors beyond bone density that can be used to predict fractures, the World Health Organization (WHO) developed the Fracture Risk Assessment Tool (FRAX) to identify those women who are at the greatest risk for fracture. FRAX was developed to calculate the 10-year probability of
