The Postmenopausal Women
KEYWORDS: women, pubmed, risk, estrogen, menopause, breast, cancer, symptoms, breast cancer, bone, years, treatment, study, menopausal, postmenopausal


Organization (WHO) developed the Fracture Risk Assessment Tool (FRAX) to identify those women who are at the greatest risk for fracture. FRAX was developed to calculate the 10-year probability of a hip fracture and the 10-year probability of a major osteoporotic fracture (defined as a clinical vertebral, hip, forearm or humerus fracture) taking into account femoral neck BMD and the risk factors listed below in Table 2 . Clinicians can use the FRAX tool to make clinical decisions regarding BMD testing ( http://www.shef.ac.uk/FRAX/index.aspx ). FRAX can be used in women younger than 65 years to determine which women should have a BMD scan ( 56 ). Those women with a FRAX 10-year risk of major osteoporotic fracture of 9.3% could justifiably be referred for DXA because that is the risk of fracture found in a 65-year-old Caucasian woman with no risk factors. It is important to note that FRAX does not provide data on fracture risk for women aged 40 or under. Ultimately, it is important for clinicians to take into account not only age, but also presence of risk factors and the expected rate of bone loss when using screening tools and deciding whom to screen for BMD testing. Table 2. WHO Technical Report: Fracture Risk Assessment Model View in own window Risk Factors Included in the Fracture Risk Assessment (FRAX) Model • Current age • Rheumatoid arthritis • Sex • Secondary osteoporosis • A prior osteoporotic fracture • Parental history of hip fracture • Femoral neck BMD • Current smoking • Low body mass index (kg/m2) • Alcohol intake (3 or more drinks/day) • Oral glucocorticoids ≥5 mg/d of prednisone for ≥ 3 month AVOIDING BONE LOSS Exercise, calcium, and vitamin D supplementation have long been recommended to help protect women from bone loss, but the evidence for this recommendation is poor and neither supplement is endorsed by the USPSTF for primary prevention of fracture ( 57 ). Supplementation with calcium and vitamin D if dietary levels cannot be achieved has been recommended. However, concerns have been raised about excess calcium supplementation including increased risk of renal stones and cardiovascular events. A recent meta-analysis of 13 RCTs supports an increased risk of cardiovascular disease (RR 1.15, 95% CI 1.06-1.25) and coronary heart disease (RR 1.16, 95% CI 1.05-1.28) in women with a dietary calcium intake above 700-1000mg per day or a supplementary intake of more than 1000mg per
