The Postmenopausal Women
KEYWORDS: women, pubmed, risk, estrogen, menopause, breast, cancer, symptoms, breast cancer, bone, years, treatment, study, menopausal, postmenopausal


worrisome prognosis for fracture ( 60 ). The approved medications for both treatment and prevention of osteoporosis include bisphosphonates and the SERM, raloxifene. Bisphosphonates have been a mainstay of therapy for many years, and act by inhibiting bone resorption. Although they have a long track record of efficacy and safety, prolonged and high-dose usage has been associated with the rare side effects of osteonecrosis of the jaw and atypical femoral fracture ( 61 ). Recent research indicates that bone density is maintained for several years after discontinuation of treatment, and ‘drug holidays’ may help reduce the risk of developing adynamic bone. Recent guidelines recommend risk assessment 3-5 years after initiation and those at low-moderate risk attempt a bisphosphonate holiday (discontinuation up to 5 years)( 62 , 63 ). Fracture risk assessment should be made every 2-4 years during a drug holiday. Worsening risk should trigger resumption of treatment ( 56 ). Bisphosphonates should be avoided in women of child-bearing potential as they deposit in the bone, have a very long half-life, and can accumulate in fetal bone if they have been given to the mother, even preconceptually. Denosumab is a human monoclonal antibody to the receptor activator of nuclear factor-κB ligand (RANKL) that blocks its binding to RANK, inhibiting the development and activity of osteoclasts, decreasing bone resorption, and increasing bone density. This drug is approved for treatment, but not prevention, of osteoporosis. Denosumab can be given subcutaneously twice yearly to reduce the risk of vertebral, nonvertebral, and hip fractures in women with osteoporosis ( 64 ). A drug holiday is not recommended for denosumab since reversal of its effects occur within 6 months if dosing is interrupted. Drug holidays for denosumab can be considered after 5-10 years, and consideration for switching to an antiresorptive agent should be made. Parathyroid hormone (PTH) acts as an anabolic metabolite to stimulate bone production from osteoblasts and is approved for treatment of osteoporosis. PTH decreases the incidence of new fractures and increases bone density and thus is recommended in patients at high fracture risk. However, adverse side effects include hypercalcemia and gastrointestinal symptoms. Early rodent studies were associated with possible osteosarcoma; however, post-marketing studies have not observed an increased risk in humans. It remains that its approved use in humans is only for 24 months ( 65 ). Romosozumab is a human monoclonal antibody that inhibits sclerostin, resulting in increased Wnt signaling with
