The Postmenopausal Women
KEYWORDS: women, pubmed, risk, estrogen, menopause, breast, cancer, symptoms, breast cancer, bone, years, treatment, study, menopausal, postmenopausal


remains that its approved use in humans is only for 24 months ( 65 ). Romosozumab is a human monoclonal antibody that inhibits sclerostin, resulting in increased Wnt signaling with both anabolic and resorptive effects on bone. This is the newest FDA-approved medication for treatment of osteoporosis and has shown significant reduction in fracture risk ( 66 ). The ARCH trial (Active-Controlled Fracture Study in Postmenopausal Women with Osteoporosis at High Risk) demonstrated significantly lower fracture risk in patients who took romosozumab for 12 months followed by alendronate, compared to alendronate alone ( 67 ). Increased incidence of cardiovascular events including myocardial infarction and stroke were observed, so initiation is recommended in those with low risk factors. A 5-year post-marketing observational study, required by the FDA, is underway to better assess cardiovascular events. Raloxifene acts like a pro-estrogen on bone, lipids, and liver, and acts as an anti-estrogen on both the uterus and the breast. This makes its effects more favorable than tamoxifen, which acts like a mixed estrogen agonist on the uterus. The landmark MORE (Multiple Outcomes of Raloxifene Evaluation) trial evaluated the ability of raloxifene to prevent fractures in women with established osteoporosis. 7705 post-menopausal women were randomized to either 60 or 120 mg of raloxifene versus placebo. The risk of both vertebral and non-vertebral fractures was reduced in the groups treated with raloxifene, and BMD increased in both the hip and the spine in raloxifene treated patients ( 68 ). Furthermore, a substantial decrease in the incidence of breast cancer was noted in raloxifene treated women, and the risk of having estrogen receptor positive invasive breast cancer was decreased when compared to placebo ( 69 ). There was no difference between treatment groups with respect to the development of endometrial cancer. Raloxifene may be considered for patients with osteoporosis at high risk of fracture and with increased risk of breast cancer. Raloxifene increases thrombotic events so is best reserved for those with low DVT risk. For prevention of osteoporosis in postmenopausal or hypoestrogenic women, menopausal hormone therapy or bazedoxifene/conjugated equine estrogens are appropriate agents ( 56 ). Bisphosphonates or denosumab are preferred, but HT can also be considered if menopausal symptoms are present and the timing is not more than 10 years from the last period ( 70 ). A disadvantage of HT compared to bisphosphonates is the abrupt decrease in bone density that occurs when HT
