The Postmenopausal Women
KEYWORDS: women, pubmed, risk, estrogen, menopause, breast, cancer, symptoms, breast cancer, bone, years, treatment, study, menopausal, postmenopausal


not more than 10 years from the last period ( 70 ). A disadvantage of HT compared to bisphosphonates is the abrupt decrease in bone density that occurs when HT is stopped. Bazedoxifene is a SERM that has a similar profile to raloxifene, and thus, when combined with estrogen, appears to exert a neutral effect on the endometrium and can therefore be given without a concomitant progestin. This confers a significant advantage over HT for women with a uterus. This combination of SERM with estrogen, such as bazedoxifene with estrogen, is termed a tissue selective estrogen complex (TSEC). Bazedoxifene has a similar profile to raloxifene but has not yet been tested in a large clinical trial for outcomes related to breast cancer. Thus far, clinical studies demonstrate no reports of breast concerns or benefits. Studies of bazedoxifene alone have demonstrated improvement in BMD and reduced vertebral fractures in a subset of high-risk women over placebo, though no reduced risk was demonstrated in the general postmenopausal population. Likewise, a reduction in fractures with the combination of bazedoxifene and conjugated estrogen has not yet been demonstrated. Calcitonin inhibits bone resorption, though not as effectively as other osteoporotic therapies. It is only available in intranasal or injectable forms as no effectiveness has been shown from oral formulations ( 71 ). This is not generally considered first-line therapy and is a useful alternative only when other medications are contraindicated. Once a patient has been started on therapy, markers of bone turnover can be used to assess a patient’s response. Serum C-terminal crosslinking telopeptide or procollagen type 1 N-telopeptides can be checked after 1-3 months of initiating treatment in selected cases using anti-resorptive or anabolic therapies, respectively ( 56 , 70 ). DEXA scans, although they are currently the best method for determining BMD, should not be repeated too frequently since errors in interpretation of trends can occur and lead to inappropriate therapy ( 72 ). It is recommended that DEXA scans be repeated no more frequently than every 2 years. Central Nervous System Vasomotor symptoms and “hot flashes” adversely affect the quality of life and functional status of most women during the menopausal transition. Hot flashes can occur in up to 85% of menopausal women. Col et al. estimated the duration of vasomotor symptoms in a longitudinal study on 438 women from the population-based Melbourne Women’s Midlife Health Project. The onset and cessation of
