The Postmenopausal Women
KEYWORDS: women, pubmed, risk, estrogen, menopause, breast, cancer, symptoms, breast cancer, bone, years, treatment, study, menopausal, postmenopausal


women. Col et al. estimated the duration of vasomotor symptoms in a longitudinal study on 438 women from the population-based Melbourne Women’s Midlife Health Project. The onset and cessation of vasomotor symptoms were reported and stratified according to whether or not HT was used. They found that the mean (SD) duration of bothersome menopausal symptoms for women who never used HT was 5.2 (3.8) years ( 73 ). A meta-analysis of 35,445 women taken from 10 different studies appeared to confirm a median 4-year duration of hot flashes, with the most bothersome symptoms beginning about 1 year before the final menstrual period and declining thereafter ( 74 ). However, more recent, longitudinal analyses over a longer time frame indicate that the duration of vasomotor symptoms is twice as long on average and may last for 10 years or more in up to one quarter of women who report them ( 75 , 76 ). The earlier in life that they appear, the longer they last, and among all racial/ethnic groups studied, African-American women appear particularly likely to experience longer duration and more bothersome vasomotor symptoms. In the past, hot flashes were thought to be related to the withdrawal of estrogen; however, there is no acute change in serum estradiol during a hot flash. Others have related hot flashes to variability in both estradiol and FSH. More recent work has focused on the kisspeptin-neurokinin B-dynorphin neurons of the hypothalamus, the so-called KNDy neurons. KNDy neurons innervate the hypothalamic regions involved in temperature regulation, and estradiol decreases signaling. Menopause results in a lowering of estrogen and subsequent rise in NKB overstimulation thought to result in vasomotor symptoms. Ablation of the tachykinin 3 receptor (NK3R) has been shown to abolish cutaneous vasodilatation in oophorectomized rats ( 77 ), and use of compounds that selectively block the NK3R have been shown to be effective in humans ( 78 ). Genetic variation in the NK3R gene has also been associated with vasomotor symptoms ( 79 ). These exciting findings bring us closer to an understanding of the etiology of hot flashes and indicate the potential for novel treatments (discussed below). Genetics studies have identified variants in CYP1B1, a gene involved in estrogen metabolism, that may be associated with vasomotor symptoms, which may be more pronounced in smokers compared to nonsmokers ( 79 ). MOOD Significantly higher odds of depressive symptoms are reported by women who
