The Postmenopausal Women
KEYWORDS: women, pubmed, risk, estrogen, menopause, breast, cancer, symptoms, breast cancer, bone, years, treatment, study, menopausal, postmenopausal


be associated with vasomotor symptoms, which may be more pronounced in smokers compared to nonsmokers ( 79 ). MOOD Significantly higher odds of depressive symptoms are reported by women who reach the late perimenopause. In the Study of Women’s Health Across the Nation (SWAN) ( 80 ), as well as 2 other longitudinal studies of the menopausal transition ( 81 , 82 ), risk for depression was most pronounced in women who began the study with a low Center for Epidemiologic Studies Depression Scale score ( 80 ), indicating that the depressive symptoms were of new onset and appeared to be directly related to the menopausal transition. Follow-up studies using a Structured Clinical Interview for DSM-IV Axis I Disorders (SCID) confirmed that the late perimenopause is a vulnerable window for new-onset major depression ( 83 ). The late perimenopause is also associated with a higher prevalence of sleep difficulty ( 84 ), which in turn is associated with depressive symptoms. A recent secondary analysis of SWAN demonstrated higher reporting of depressive symptoms during postmenopause than during premenopause, particularly in patients with depression prior to the final menstrual period ( 85 ). Recent examination of anxiety symptoms in perimenopausal women indicate that, similar to depression, those with lower anxiety scores prior to the onset of the menopause transition are most vulnerable to a sudden escalation of anxiety and experience the greatest negative impact from their symptoms ( 83 ). Not surprisingly, women with a lifetime history of anxiety and depressive symptoms during their menopausal transition report the lowest health related quality of life (HRQOL) ( 86 ), and poor sleep exacerbates these associations ( 87 ). The Women Living Better Survey included over 2,000 participants ages 35-55 and showed anxiety during the menopausal transition was associated with additional life stressors including health and job stress and worry about covering basic living costs ( 88 ). COGNITION Women routinely complain of cognitive deficits around the time of menopause. Certain aspects of cognition appear to be related to a decline in estrogen, but many are simply related to the aging process itself. While some studies have demonstrated improved short term and verbal memory in postmenopausal women taking estrogen ( 89 ), others have not found such beneficial effects ( 90 ). Greendale et. al. observed a sub-cohort of 2,362 SWAN participants longitudinally over 4 years to determine the effects of the menopausal transition
