The Postmenopausal Women
KEYWORDS: women, pubmed, risk, estrogen, menopause, breast, cancer, symptoms, breast cancer, bone, years, treatment, study, menopausal, postmenopausal


not found such beneficial effects ( 90 ). Greendale et. al. observed a sub-cohort of 2,362 SWAN participants longitudinally over 4 years to determine the effects of the menopausal transition and HT use on cognitive performance in midlife women. The outcomes analyzed were longitudinal performance in 3 separate areas: processing speed, verbal memory, and working memory. The results of the study showed that, consistent with transitioning women’s perceived memory difficulties, perimenopause was associated with a decline in cognitive performance, characterized by women not being able to learn as well as they had during premenopause. Improvement rebounded to near-premenopausal levels once the transition was completed, suggesting that menopause transition-related cognitive difficulties may be time-limited ( 91 ). More recently, the Cognitive Affective Study of the Kronos Early Estrogen Prevention Study (KEEPS-Cog) evaluated the impact of 4 years of HT on mood and cognition in early postmenopausal women. Various cognitive factors were not influenced by HT over 4 years, though a slightly positive effect on mood was observed in patients receiving oral conjugated equine estrogens. Mood and cognition did not differ between women receiving transdermal estrogen or placebo ( 92 ). DEMENTIA AND ALZHEIMER’S DISEASE The most common form of dementia is Alzheimer’s disease (AD), which is 3 times more common in women than in men. Women with preexisting dementia or AD have been noted to have lower serum estradiol levels than women without dementia ( 93 ). In observational studies, less AD has been observed in postmenopausal women who use estrogen and the effect was greater with increasing duration of use ( 94 , 95 ). In some trials, women with mild to moderate AD who were given estrogen had improvement in their dementia ( 96 , 97 ), but this was not observed in all clinical trials ( 98 , 99 ). Estrogen is believed to help prevent AD by regulating synapse formation in the hippocampus and by inducing acetycholinesterasel and choline acetyltransferase, both of which are important in memory ( 100 ). Estrogen may also improve cognitive function because of protection against neuronal toxicity caused by oxidation and increasing metabolism of serum amyloid P ( 101 ). However, these molecular findings do not appear to translate into clinical benefits, as the WHI’s Mental Status (WHIMS) Trial demonstrated that hormone treatment with either (CCE+MPA) or (CCE) alone doubled the risk of AD and mild cognitive impairment ( 90 ). These
