The Postmenopausal Women
KEYWORDS: women, pubmed, risk, estrogen, menopause, breast, cancer, symptoms, breast cancer, bone, years, treatment, study, menopausal, postmenopausal


as the WHI’s Mental Status (WHIMS) Trial demonstrated that hormone treatment with either (CCE+MPA) or (CCE) alone doubled the risk of AD and mild cognitive impairment ( 90 ). These clinical trial findings do not support a long-term role of estrogen in the prevention or treatment of AD. However, considerable controversy remains, as the sensitivity of the testing used in the WHI may not have been adequate to detect early disease. A recent publication from the European Prevention of Alzheimer Dementia (EPAD) Trial indicates that a benefit in memory and brain volume associated with hormone therapy was only seen in women with the APOE4 genotype, the apolipoprotein E genotype that confers the highest risk for development of Alzheimer’s Disease ( 102 ). As stated above, the KEEPS Trial did not note cognitive differences among women randomized to 2 types of estrogen plus progesterone or to placebo ( 92 ). This is noteworthy because KEEPS used a very detailed cognitive battery of tests. Ongoing studies of the KEEPS cohort are anticipated to yield more definitive data. LIBIDO Loss of libido is a prevalent complaint in women of all ages and is present in approximately 9% of postmenopausal women ( 103 ). Causes for a menopause-related decline in sexual interest may relate partly to a drop in both estrogen and testosterone with ovarian decline and aging. It is very important to consider the medication history and to screen for depression when clinically evaluating women with a complaint of diminished libido. In a survey of 35,381 women (the PRESIDE Study) ( 104 ), 10% reported decreased sexual desire; when women without concomitant depression or antidepressant medication were accounted for, the prevalence of desire disorder decreased to 6.3%. Testosterone has long been considered as an agent that might promote libido in women, but its use and efficacy remains debatable. Circulating testosterone does not correlate with sexual desire, and long-term safety is not established ( 105 ). Routine administration of androgen therapy for low testosterone levels is discouraged, though there may be some women within the menopause transition or beyond who could benefit. Several double-blind, randomized trials of testosterone in menopausal women with decreased libido have demonstrated a small effect but clinically and statistically improved symptoms ( 105 , 106 ). Testosterone has been used as a transdermal formulation in most of these studies and demonstrates efficacy with or without concurrent use of estrogen, in
