The Postmenopausal Women
KEYWORDS: women, pubmed, risk, estrogen, menopause, breast, cancer, symptoms, breast cancer, bone, years, treatment, study, menopausal, postmenopausal


symptoms ( 105 , 106 ). Testosterone has been used as a transdermal formulation in most of these studies and demonstrates efficacy with or without concurrent use of estrogen, in women with and without their ovaries. Testosterone can be converted to estrogen in women by aromatization just as estrogen can be metabolized from testosterone further complicating study interpretation. Androgenic side effects are greater in those receiving higher doses, and the relationship with breast cancer remains a biologic concern ( 105 , 107 , 108 ). Clearly, long-term data from large clinical trials using testosterone are lacking and are needed ( 105 ). If testosterone is administered, it should be for short duration and titrated to upper physiologic levels, and patients should be closely monitored for androgenic signs and symptoms. There are no FDA-approved testosterone preparations available for women. Compounded bioidentical hormones are not endorsed and raise safety concerns due to lack of oversight and monitoring and potential contamination ( 109 ). There are two FDA approved medications for treatment of hyposexual desire disorder: bremelanotide and flibanserin. Flibanserin, marketed as Addyi, is a centrally acting serotonin agonist/antagonist that increases female sexual desire and number of sexual acts ( 110 ). These effects have been observed in the postmenopausal population, although it is not FDA-approved for this group of women. Adverse effects are generally mild and short-lived, except for a risk for hypotension and sedation if it is taken concurrently with alcohol, a problem that resulted in a black box warning and a need for prescribing clinicians to complete a risk evaluation and management strategy (REMS) certification before prescribing the drug ( 111 ). Its effect size appears similar to that of testosterone (small, but statistically and probably clinically significant) ( 106 ). Bremelanotide, sold under the brand name Vyleesi, is a melanocortin receptor agonist that induces nitric oxide and dopamine release to modulate sexual desire pathways ( 112 ). Two randomized controlled trials (RECONNECT) found that 1.75mg subcutaneous administration vs placebo did not increase the number of satisfying sexual events over the 24-week study period, but post-hoc analysis showed improved desire and lowered sexual desire-related distress ( 113 ). The most common side effects included nausea, flushing, and headache. Bremelanotide was FDA-approved for treatment of hyposexual desire disorder in premenopausal women in 2019. Its safety and efficacy in postmenopausal women remains to be studied. Breast After menopause and with aging, breast
