The Postmenopausal Women
KEYWORDS: women, pubmed, risk, estrogen, menopause, breast, cancer, symptoms, breast cancer, bone, years, treatment, study, menopausal, postmenopausal


FDA-approved for treatment of hyposexual desire disorder in premenopausal women in 2019. Its safety and efficacy in postmenopausal women remains to be studied. Breast After menopause and with aging, breast tissue is gradually replaced with increasing amounts of adipose tissue. This causes an age-associated decrease in breast density, which makes mammography more effective in detecting breast disease. Breast cancer becomes more prevalent with advancing age, with a lifetime risk of breast cancer of 1 in 8 women in the USA ( 114 ). BREAST CANCER AND HORMONE THERAPY Combined estrogen and progesterone treatment increase a woman’s risk of developing breast cancer. The WHI trials demonstrated an increased risk of developing invasive breast cancer after 3 years of combined HT use, with an unadjusted hazard ratio of 1.26 over 5.2 years of average follow-up ( 115 ). As the 95% confidence interval included 1.00, the data could be considered ‘not significant’; however, this level of risk is biologically plausible given that it is similar to that seen in many observational studies, and similar to the small, incremental risk for breast cancer that is seen with later onset of menopause. The only risk factor identified in WHI patients for the development of invasive breast cancer was the duration of HT use. Patients taking hormones for 10 or more years were at greatest risk followed by patients using HT for 5 to 10 years. Women who took HT for less than 5 years had only a slight increase in risk. No correlation was noted between other risk factors—a patient’s age, ethnicity, the 5-year Gail model risk score, body mass index (BMI), or family history—and the development of breast cancer. In women who had undergone hysterectomy and were randomized to CEE alone, no increase in breast cancer risk was observed; in fact, a decreased risk continued to be observed in this group after 20-year follow-up ( 32 , 116 ). One of the ways by which HT might increase breast cancer incidence is by increasing breast density. It has been noted that estrogen with cyclic micronized progesterone resulted in 16.4% more women with increased breast density ( 117 ). A subset of 307 women in The Postmenopausal Estrogen/Progestin Interventions (PEPI) trial was studied to examine the effect of HT on mammograms. Of the group of women taking unopposed estrogen, 3.5% had an increase in breast density. Of the women taking both estrogen with progestin
