The Postmenopausal Women
KEYWORDS: women, pubmed, risk, estrogen, menopause, breast, cancer, symptoms, breast cancer, bone, years, treatment, study, menopausal, postmenopausal


examine the effect of HT on mammograms. Of the group of women taking unopposed estrogen, 3.5% had an increase in breast density. Of the women taking both estrogen with progestin therapy, a 19.4-23.5% increase in breast density on mammography was noted, depending upon whether they took cyclic versus continuous MPA. Increased mammographic breast density is a strong independent risk factor (6-fold) for the development of breast cancer ( 118 ). Case series and case-control studies have suggested that patients taking HT who are diagnosed with breast cancer have a better prognosis than women not taking hormones, even when matched for stage of disease ( 119 ). It has also been suggested that women who develop breast cancer while taking HT have their cancers detected at a more favorable stage and have less malignant disease ( 120 ). These notions were disproven by the WHI Clinical Trial. Women randomized to combination HT with (MPA + CEE) had a higher risk of invasive breast cancer and mortality from breast cancer. Tumors in the women taking combined HT were comparable in histology and grade to the placebo group but were at a more advanced stage ( 115 ). In contrast to combined E+P HT, E alone HT given to women without a uterus in the WHI, led to a decrease in breast cancer risk, which persisted after discontinuation of treatment and became statistically significant in the post-trial follow up study. After a median follow-up of over 20 years, E alone treated women still had a lower incidence of invasive breast cancer (151 cases, 0·27% per year) compared with placebo (0.30% vs 0.37% per year; HR 0.78, 95% CI 0 65—0.93; p=0.005 ( 116 ). SCREENING FOR BREAST CANCER The lifetime risk of developing breast cancer is 12%. Various organizations recommend breast cancer screening for average-risk women ( Table 4 ). These guidelines all suggest an individualized approach with patients that includes consideration of a patient’s risk factors, as well as shared decision making based on a discussion of risks and benefits of screening. For average-risk women, mammography is the recommended screening modality. Table 4. Breast Cancer Screening Guidelines* View in own window ACOG ( 121 ) Offer annual or biennial mammogram starting at age 40, start no later than age 50. Consider biennial mammogram starting age 55. Continue until age 75. ACS ( 122 ) Offer annual mammogram starting at 40, start no
