The Postmenopausal Women
KEYWORDS: women, pubmed, risk, estrogen, menopause, breast, cancer, symptoms, breast cancer, bone, years, treatment, study, menopausal, postmenopausal


age 40, start no later than age 50. Consider biennial mammogram starting age 55. Continue until age 75. ACS ( 122 ) Offer annual mammogram starting at 40, start no later than age 45. Can offer biennial mammogram at age 55. Continue until within 10-years of life expectancy. USPSTF ( 123 ) Biennial mammogram starting at age 50. Continue until age 75. *For average-risk females ACOG = American College of Obstetricians and Gynecologists; ACS = American Cancer Society; USPSTF = United States Preventative Services Task Force ASSESSING BREAST CANCER RISK The Gail Model was developed to help clinicians determine if a patient was at higher risk than the general female population for the development of breast cancer over the next 5 years and over a lifetime ( 124 ). The Tyrer-Cuzick model takes into account both personal and family history including BRCA mutations to help determine lifetime risk and is a more sensitive model for determining risk ( 125 ). Table 5. Tools for Assessing Breast Cancer Risk View in own window Gail Model Tyrer Cusick Age x x Age at menarche x x Age at first live birth x x Age at menopause x Number of first-degree relatives with breast cancer x x Number of previous breast biopsies x Number of breast biopsies that were hyperplastic x x Hormone replacement therapy x Race/ethnicity x x Detailed Family history x BRCA1/2 gene mutations x Other prospective scoring systems have been developed, but these remain the dominant ones in use as of now. By calculating a woman’s risk of breast cancer with these models one can use the information to determine if a woman should consider annual screening MRI and/or chemoprophylaxis to reduce her risk of breast cancer. Note that the Gail model does not factor into account breast density or HT use. It also does not account for mutations, such as BRCA1 or 2, which have a profound effect on a woman’s risk of contracting breast cancer. The Tyrer Cusick model takes into account a more extensive family history as well as BRCA1 or 2 status. CHEMOPREVENTION In women who are considered high risk for breast cancer, chemoprevention therapies are approved to reduce breast cancer incidence. These therapies include SERMs (Tamoxifen and Raloxifene) as well as aromatase inhibitors (Exemastane and Anastrazole) ( 126 ). Tamoxifen is indicated as adjuvant treatment for breast cancer. It is also prescribed for chemoprevention of
