The Postmenopausal Women
KEYWORDS: women, pubmed, risk, estrogen, menopause, breast, cancer, symptoms, breast cancer, bone, years, treatment, study, menopausal, postmenopausal


(Tamoxifen and Raloxifene) as well as aromatase inhibitors (Exemastane and Anastrazole) ( 126 ). Tamoxifen is indicated as adjuvant treatment for breast cancer. It is also prescribed for chemoprevention of breast cancer in high-risk women. Because tamoxifen is a SERM, it has both estrogenic and anti-estrogenic actions. In the breast, it acts as an anti-estrogen. In the bone, on lipids and in the uterus, it acts like estrogen. Raloxifene is also a SERM but has the advantage of acting as an anti-estrogen at the level of the uterus. Tamoxifen was found to be effective in breast cancer prevention in a trial that included 13,388 women who were at high risk for developing breast cancer because of 1) advancing age (>60 years old), 2) increased risk based on a Gail Model predicted risk of 1.66% over the next 5 years and age 35-59, or 3) a history of lobular carcinoma in situ. Women who were randomly assigned to tamoxifen experienced a 49% decrease in the incidence of invasive breast cancer compared to those who received a placebo. In addition, there was a decrease in the risk of estrogen receptor positive breast cancer and nodal involvement in those diagnosed with breast cancer. Women randomized to tamoxifen also had fewer diagnoses of non-invasive breast cancer, such as ductal carcinoma in situ (DCIS) ( 127 ). The STAR trial investigated the ability of tamoxifen compared to raloxifene in preventing breast cancer in women at high risk for disease. All participants received either tamoxifen or raloxifene and took the drug for 5 years. In 2006, the results of STAR showed that both raloxifene and tamoxifen were equally effective in reducing breast cancer risk in post-menopausal women at increased risk of the disease. Tamoxifen is known to be able to reduce breast cancer risk by 49%, and this study showed that raloxifene can also reduce breast cancer risk by half as well. As a result of this study, the FDA approved raloxifene as a second agent to help prevent invasive breast cancer in high-risk, post-menopausal women ( 128 ). On an update of STAR trial, the RRs widened for invasive and narrowed for noninvasive breast cancer compared with initial results ( 129 ). To become active, tamoxifen must be metabolized by the hepatic cytochrome P450 enzyme system, specifically cytochrome P450 2D6 (CYP2D6), to its active metabolite, endoxifen. Consequently, therapy with drugs that inhibit CYP2D6 may reduce
