The Postmenopausal Women
KEYWORDS: women, pubmed, risk, estrogen, menopause, breast, cancer, symptoms, breast cancer, bone, years, treatment, study, menopausal, postmenopausal


tamoxifen must be metabolized by the hepatic cytochrome P450 enzyme system, specifically cytochrome P450 2D6 (CYP2D6), to its active metabolite, endoxifen. Consequently, therapy with drugs that inhibit CYP2D6 may reduce the clinical benefit of tamoxifen by interfering with its bioactivation, particularly when these drugs are used for an extended period. This is clinically relevant in the context of tamoxifen therapy, because SSRIs inhibit CYP2D6 to varying degrees. Paroxetine is an irreversible inhibitor of CYP2D6 and therefore has the greatest potential to disrupt the biological activity of tamoxifen. A population-based cohort study showed absolute increases of 25%, 50%, and 75% in the proportion of time on tamoxifen with overlapping use of paroxetine were associated with 24%, 54%, and 91% increases in the risk of death from breast cancer, respectively (P<0.05 for each comparison). No such risk was seen with other anti-depressants ( 130 ). The effectiveness of aromatase inhibitors for reduction of breast cancer incidence has also been demonstrated. The MAP3 trial investigated the incidence of invasive breast cancer with exemestane versus placebo in 5,560 high-risk postmenopausal women for up to 5 years ( 131 ). Exemestane significantly reduced invasive breast cancer by 65% compared to placebo (95% CI, 0.18-0.70). There were no cardiovascular or thromboembolic side effects. However, follow-up study demonstrated that BMD worsened after 2 years in the treatment group regardless of calcium and vitamin D supplementation ( 132 ). Thus, for women receiving this therapy, close BMD screening is important. Anastrazole for prevention of breast cancer in high-risk postmenopausal women was studied in the IBIS-II trial ( 133 ). One thousand nine hundred twenty women were randomized to anastrozole vs placebo for 5 years. A 53% reduction in invasive cancer was seen in the anastrazole group (95% CI, 0.32-0.68). Women who were concurrently treated with a bisphosphonate did not have significant bone loss, but the anastrazole-only group demonstrated worsened BMD after 3 years ( 134 ). The American Society of Clinical Oncology recommends tamoxifen for chemoprevention in women for 5 years who are at least 35 years old and have completed childbearing who are at increased risk ( 126 ). This remains the only recommended chemoprevention in premenopausal women. In postmenopausal women at increased risk, either tamoxifen, raloxifene, exemastane or anastrazole can be considered. Due to effects on bone density, anastrazole use is advised with concurrent assessment of bone density and bisphosphonate or denosumab in moderate bone density
