The Postmenopausal Women
KEYWORDS: women, pubmed, risk, estrogen, menopause, breast, cancer, symptoms, breast cancer, bone, years, treatment, study, menopausal, postmenopausal


exemastane or anastrazole can be considered. Due to effects on bone density, anastrazole use is advised with concurrent assessment of bone density and bisphosphonate or denosumab in moderate bone density loss. Thyroid Gland As women age, the cumulative risk of hypothyroidism increases. Frequently, symptoms are ignored or misattributed to other causes, making the diagnosis difficult. It is recommended by ACOG that all women, even asymptomatic females, have a thyroid stimulating hormone (TSH) level measured beginning at age 60 or earlier in those who have family history, autoimmune disease, or younger women desiring pregnancy ( 135 ). USPSTF does not recommend routine thyroid screening for asymptomatic, non-pregnant adults ( 136 ), while the American Thyroid Association (ATA) recommends that screening begin at age 35 ( 137 ). Lower Reproductive Tract The entire gynecologic tract contains estrogen receptors. As women become menopausal, the pelvic organs may be affected by the loss of estrogen resulting in vaginal atrophy, narrowing and shortening of the vagina, and uterine prolapse, leading to high rates of dyspareunia. Furthermore, the urinary tract contains estrogen receptors in the urethra and bladder, and as the loss of estrogen becomes evident, patients may experience urinary incontinence (UI). Collectively, these symptoms, previously called vulvovaginal atrophy, have recently been renamed ‘genitourinary syndrome of menopause’ (GSM) ( 138 ). While HT is effective in reversing changes associated with GSM ( 139 , 140 ), it does not consistently help with symptoms of UI. The WHI Clinical Trial found that women who received HT and who were continent at baseline demonstrated an increase in the incidence of all types of UI at 1 year. The risk was highest for women in the CEE alone arm. Among women experiencing UI at baseline, the frequency of symptoms worsened in both arms and these women reported that UI limited their daily activities. This clinical trial evidence strongly suggests that systemic HT should not be prescribed as part of a regimen for UI alone ( 141 ). HT is highly effective in the treatment of vaginal dryness. Systemic or vaginal estrogen can be used for GSM, though locally applied estrogen is preferable if there are no systemic symptoms that need to be treated. Very low doses can be used for this purpose. Of note, a vaginal estradiol tablet was recently shown not to be superior to a hydroxyethylcellulose gel in a randomized controlled trial of 302 women ( 142
