The Postmenopausal Women
KEYWORDS: women, pubmed, risk, estrogen, menopause, breast, cancer, symptoms, breast cancer, bone, years, treatment, study, menopausal, postmenopausal


for this purpose. Of note, a vaginal estradiol tablet was recently shown not to be superior to a hydroxyethylcellulose gel in a randomized controlled trial of 302 women ( 142 ). Low estradiol doses are believed to be safe for the uterus, even without concomitant use of a progestin when administered vaginally. Long term data from the WHI Observational Study confirm safety of vaginal estrogen use ( 143 ), and a recent publication indicates minimal increases in circulating estradiol in women using a variety of currently available preparations ( 144 ). The data are currently insufficient to define the minimum effective dose, but vaginal rings, creams, and tablets have all been tested and demonstrated to reduce vaginal symptoms ( 140 , 145 ). Ospemifene is a SERM that is FDA approved for the treatment of GSM symptoms ( 146 ). It has a track record of endometrial safety ( 147 ). In 2016, prasterone, a formulation of dehydroepiandrosterone (DHEA), was FDA approved for the treatment of dyspareunia related to vulvar and vaginal atrophy. In a randomized controlled trial, 12-weeks of daily vaginal prasterone significantly alleviated dyspareunia compared to placebo ( 148 ). The trial also demonstrated a significant drop in the vaginal pH, as well as improvement in vaginal dryness. Carbon dioxide laser therapy has also been suggested as an alternative treatment for GSM, but a double-blind, randomized, sham-controlled trial of 85 patients with 12-month follow-up showed no benefit of the treatment when compared to sham laser ( 149 ). Adrenal Gland The adrenal gland is responsible for producing androstenedione, dehydroepiandrosterone sulfate (DHEA-S), and, indirectly, total testosterone. After the menopausal years, androstenedione levels decrease by 62%, DHEA-S levels decline by 74%, and testosterone, produced by the peripheral conversion of androstenedione, decreases by up to 25%. Circulating estrone, which is produced from the peripheral conversion of androstenedione, increases after menopause, whereas estradiol, which is produced from the peripheral conversion of estrone, declines. The menopause-associated drop in estrogen is related to a significant decline in sex hormone binding globulin (SHBG), resulting in a higher free testosterone level ( 150 ). This increase in free androgens may be responsible for the clinical problem of increased facial hair and androgenetic alopecia that accompanies the postmenopausal years for some women. Adrenal androgens known as 11-oxyandrogens with tissue-level effects similar to testosterone rise steadily as women age, and as opposed to men, levels do not seem
