The Postmenopausal Women
KEYWORDS: women, pubmed, risk, estrogen, menopause, breast, cancer, symptoms, breast cancer, bone, years, treatment, study, menopausal, postmenopausal


postmenopausal years for some women. Adrenal androgens known as 11-oxyandrogens with tissue-level effects similar to testosterone rise steadily as women age, and as opposed to men, levels do not seem to decline with aging and menopause. These may also contribute to androgenic changes in postmenopausal women ( 151 ). TREATMENT OF MENOPAUSAL SYMPTOMS Non-Pharmacologic Non-pharmacologic options for treatment of menopausal symptoms have yet to show proven benefit in large clinical trials. There are mixed results from trials evaluating the benefits of acupuncture for treatment of menopausal symptoms including vasomotor symptoms, insomnia, and mood. As acupuncture is a generally low-risk therapy, it is at the discretion of the patient to pursue this treatment modality, but effectiveness in large trials is lacking. Phytoestrogens, which are estrogen-like compounds found in products such as soy, have no proven benefit in treatment of menopausal symptoms. Chinese herbal remedies likewise have not been shown to significantly alleviate symptoms, with or without acupuncture. The MsFLASH trial is a randomized controlled trial that showed reduction of insomnia in peri- and post-menopausal women with hot flashes who were treated with cognitive behavioral therapy for insomnia (CBT-I) compared to menopause education control ( 152 ). Women who practiced CBT-I had significant reduction of insomnia after the 8-week intervention, and these results persisted at 24-week follow-up despite having no effect on daily hot flash frequency. Practical daily lifestyle habits including exercise, dressing in layers, consuming cold drinks, and avoiding caffeine and alcohol may help alleviate symptoms ( 153 , 154 ). Pharmacologic NON-HORMONAL TREATMENT Selective Serotonin Reuptake Inhibitors (SSRIs) When HT is contraindicated (i.e., personal history of breast cancer), women with hot flashes may be treated with non-hormonal prescription drugs; and one such class is the SSRIs ( 155 ). Once initiated, the relief of vasomotor symptoms usually occurs within a week, more rapidly than the relief of depressive symptoms, which usually takes 6 weeks or longer. The most common side effects of these drugs are nausea and sexual dysfunction, but use of the lowest dose may minimize these effects. Though not as drastic of a reduction when compared to HT, the SSRIs result in a modest improvement in symptoms. A long-acting mesylate salt of paroxetine, 7.5mg, has been FDA-approved to treat hot flashes ( 155 ). Non-approved SSRIs that have been tested and have clinical efficacy include paroxetine (non-mesylate), escitalopram, citalopram, fluoxetine, and sertraline ( 153 , 154 ). Serotonin
