The Postmenopausal Women
KEYWORDS: women, pubmed, risk, estrogen, menopause, breast, cancer, symptoms, breast cancer, bone, years, treatment, study, menopausal, postmenopausal


treat hot flashes ( 155 ). Non-approved SSRIs that have been tested and have clinical efficacy include paroxetine (non-mesylate), escitalopram, citalopram, fluoxetine, and sertraline ( 153 , 154 ). Serotonin Norepinephrine Reuptake Inhibitors (SNRIs) Venlafaxine is a combined serotonin and norepinephrine reuptake inhibitor that has shown promise in reducing the severity of hot flashes in symptomatic women. A randomized trial was conducted in 229 women for 4 weeks where women with breast cancer received either varying doses of venlafaxine (37.5, 75 or 150 mg/day) or placebo. There was a significant reduction in hot flashes in women receiving all doses of venlafaxine in comparison to placebo ( 156 ). Common side effects included nausea or vomiting, which are usually limited to the first 1 to 2 weeks of treatment. Other side effects include lethargy, dizziness, constipation, and sexual dysfunction ( 156 ). Gabapentin A randomized, double-blind, placebo-controlled trial of gabapentin to treat hot flashes was conducted on 197 women aged 45-65 years, who were menopausal and having at least 14 hot flashes per week. These women were randomized to receive either gabapentin 900 mg daily or placebo for 4 weeks. Of women assigned to receive gabapentin, hot flash scores decreased by 51% as compared with a 26% reduction in the placebo group, from baseline to week 4. The women taking gabapentin reported greater dizziness, unsteadiness, and drowsiness at week 1 compared with those taking placebo; however, these symptoms improved by week 2 and returned to baseline levels by week 4 ( 157 ). A 2009 meta-analysis confirmed consistency across several clinical studies ( 158 ). The dose range of gabapentin is broad, and although many clinical trials use doses of 900 mg, lower doses may work well for individual patients. The chief limiting side effects of gabapentin are drowsiness, dizziness (which can present a hazard for falls), and weight gain. Neurokinin B Receptor (NK3R) Inhibitors Neurokinin B acting on its receptor, NK3R, at the level of the hypothalamus induces vasomotor symptoms typical of menopause. It is hypothesized that variable expression of NK3-R and interaction with its ligand is responsible for the differences in reported hot flashes experienced by menopausal women. The TACR3 gene codes for NK3R. Genome-wide association studies performed on 17,695 women from the WHI trial and observational studies demonstrated significant genetic variation in TACR3 in women who reported vasomotor symptoms ( 159 ). An oral NK3R antagonist, pavinetant (MLE4901)
