The Postmenopausal Women
KEYWORDS: women, pubmed, risk, estrogen, menopause, breast, cancer, symptoms, breast cancer, bone, years, treatment, study, menopausal, postmenopausal


17,695 women from the WHI trial and observational studies demonstrated significant genetic variation in TACR3 in women who reported vasomotor symptoms ( 159 ). An oral NK3R antagonist, pavinetant (MLE4901) completed phase II clinical trials and demonstrated a 45% decrease in the number of hot flashes per week as compared with placebo ( 160 ). However, further development of this compound was halted due to concerns about liver toxicity. Another NK3R antagonist, fezolinetant (ESN364), has been evaluated in several clinical trials, with consistent evidence for a significant reduction in severity and frequency of vasomotor symptoms when compared to placebo ( 78 ). More recently, another phase II trial was performed to assess the efficacy and safety of elinzanetant (NT814), which is a dual antagonist targeting both NK-1 and NK-3 receptors ( 161 ). When compared to placebo, it showed significant reduction in vasomotor symptoms, as well as improvements in measures of sleep and quality of life. There were sporadic mild increases in transaminases during treatment, but these were of equal frequency and magnitude in placebo- and elinzanetant-treated participants and were not considered clinically relevant. These agents may represent a promising new approach in treating menopausal symptoms. Recently fezolinetant has been FDA approved for treatment of vasomotor symptoms in women though rare hepatotoxicity in post marketing reports has resulted in inclusion of a black box warning and recommendations for increased frequency of liver testing in patients on fezolinetant. Elinzanetant is in an extended review period by the FDA and awaiting initial approval. HORMONAL TREATMENT HT is utilized by many women for treatment of bothersome menopausal symptoms. As outlined above, there are specific risks and benefits associated with HT that may not make it suitable for some women. Moreover, many women have a tendency to shun HT because the level of discourse about its true benefits and risks are so fraught with drama ( 162 ). It is important for the menopause care provider to be knowledgeable about the benefits and potential risks of hormonal therapies and to have some facility with non-hormonal alternatives. This approach allows the clinician to engage the patient in truly shared decision making. It is important to maintain clear lines of communication with menopausal patients who are struggling with bothersome symptoms, because their subjective improvement is frequently the sole arbiter of success of treatment, and it is what all risks must be balanced against. HT is the
