The Postmenopausal Women
KEYWORDS: women, pubmed, risk, estrogen, menopause, breast, cancer, symptoms, breast cancer, bone, years, treatment, study, menopausal, postmenopausal


struggling with bothersome symptoms, because their subjective improvement is frequently the sole arbiter of success of treatment, and it is what all risks must be balanced against. HT is the most effective treatment for vasomotor symptoms and vaginal dryness caused by the loss of endogenous estrogen production. In addition, it acts as an anti-resorptive and is therefore osteoprotective and also has been shown to reduce the incidence of colon cancer by almost 40%. As mentioned earlier in this review, it is well established that HT changes the lipoprotein profile favorably, although these latter changes do not translate into reduced cardiovascular morbidity. However, unopposed estrogen use in women who have a uterus creates a risk for developing endometrial hyperplasia and cancer. Therefore, estrogen replacement must be accompanied by a progestin. In patients with a uterus who were given estrogen alone in the Postmenopausal Estrogen/Progestin Intervention (PEPI) Trial, 62% developed endometrial hyperplasia over 3 years. By identifying this pathology early, patients were medically treated with high doses of progestins so that no patients developed endometrial cancer ( 29 ). It is the standard of care to give women estrogen with a progestin when they have a uterus. The decision to prescribe HT must be based on each individual patient, taking into account the risk factors involved and creating a favorable benefit to risk ratio. To date, acceptable reasons to prescribe HT include relief of severe vasomotor symptoms and to address GSM. There is sufficient medical evidence to consider a trial of HT for women with adverse mood or sleep symptoms in association with their menopause ( 163 ). At present, there is no indication for using HT for the prevention of cardiovascular disease, dementia/AD, or osteoporosis, or for the prevention of colon cancer, as the risks outweigh any potential benefits, although as mentioned earlier in this review, there are suggestions that early menopausal HT may have protective effects in some cases. A key factor in the decision tree for the initiation of HT is the individual risk of breast cancer, which is a real and serious concern. It is contraindicated to prescribe HT to patients with a personal history of breast cancer, and it is not recommended to give HT to those with a high-risk profile. The adverse events demonstrated in patients taking combined estrogen-progestin HT included a 26% increase of invasive breast cancer, with the excess risk starting to be observed
