The Postmenopausal Women
KEYWORDS: women, pubmed, risk, estrogen, menopause, breast, cancer, symptoms, breast cancer, bone, years, treatment, study, menopausal, postmenopausal


with a high-risk profile. The adverse events demonstrated in patients taking combined estrogen-progestin HT included a 26% increase of invasive breast cancer, with the excess risk starting to be observed after 3-4 years of combined HT use. It is important to note that estrogen treatment alone in women without a uterus did not increase the risk of breast cancer. Recommendations for prescribing HT should be based upon the randomized, clinical trial results of the WHI, as highlighted throughout this review, as they currently constitute the best available medical evidence. Although the WHI studied the Prempro® formulation only, it is biologically plausible that other systemic formulations, including the transdermal patch, will carry similar risks and benefits, and it should not be assumed that switching HT formulations protects a patient from adverse events. However, the Estrogen and Thromboembolism Risk study, a multicenter case-control study of thromboembolism among postmenopausal women aged 45-70 years, demonstrated an odds ratio for venous thromboembolism in users of oral and transdermal estrogen to be 4.2 (95% CI, 1.5-11.6) and 0.9 (95% CI, 0.4-2.1), respectively, when compared with nonusers ( 42 ). This has led ACOG, NAMS, and the Endocrine Society to recommend that clinicians take into consideration the possible thrombosis-sparing properties of transdermal forms of estrogen therapy ( 153 , 154 , 164 ). Women with vasomotor symptoms may consider short-term HT use at the lowest effective dose. Women who are currently taking HT and are asymptomatic, should be encouraged to periodically discontinue HT use to see whether or not symptoms return. Finally, women who desire long-term HT use for quality-of-life reasons (after appropriate counseling) should be evaluated regularly and their decision to continue HT periodically reassessed. HT Regimens: Continuous Combined and Cyclic Regimens There are many ways to prescribe HT: oral tablets, patches, creams, sprays ( Table 6 ). Considering the importance of including a progestin, there are several different modalities of administering these medications as well. This includes continuous combined and cyclical administration. The continuous combined formulation administers both the estrogen and progestin hormones every day. Cyclical administration means that hormones are given in a cycle: 1) estrogen is given continuously 2) progestin is added. This regimen can be a cycle every 3 days (e.g. Ortho Prefest), every 14 days (e.g. Premphase), or at the discretion of the prescribing physician (e.g. every 3 months). If progestins are given less frequently than monthly, the potential for hyperplasia
