The Postmenopausal Women
KEYWORDS: women, pubmed, risk, estrogen, menopause, breast, cancer, symptoms, breast cancer, bone, years, treatment, study, menopausal, postmenopausal


Prefest), every 14 days (e.g. Premphase), or at the discretion of the prescribing physician (e.g. every 3 months). If progestins are given less frequently than monthly, the potential for hyperplasia exists and endometrial monitoring should be considered ( 165 ). In women just entering menopause or who have not yet experienced their final menstrual period, cyclical administration of estrogen and progestin is often the simplest choice. These patients can easily make the transition from taking a low dose oral contraceptive pill in the menopausal transition (frequently prescribed to control the irregular vaginal bleeding during that time) to the cyclical form of HT. At the onset of HT, most women will experience a withdrawal bleed at the end of the treatment month. Gradually, as the endometrium thins and becomes atrophic, some women will become amenorrheic on this regimen. Although irregular vaginal bleeding is uncommon, any abnormal uterine bleeding should be investigated. Another advantage of cyclical administration is that women know when to expect bleeding. Advantages of giving continuous combined therapy is that a lower dose of progestin can be used and patients should not expect a withdrawal flow. Eventually, most women become amenorrheic on this regimen. Some women also develop irregular and inconvenient vaginal spotting or bleeding. Besides oral preparations, HT can be administered in a variety of other ways. Estrogen can be delivered through a vaginal ring that delivers either 0.05 or 0.1 mg/day of estradiol acetate over a three-month period. It may also be given transdermally as 17β-estradiol with norethindrone acetate or levonorgestrel. Progestins can be administered through a levonorgestrel-releasing IUD which can be left in place for up to 8 years. Finally, vaginal preparations of progesterone are also available. More recently, transdermal estradiol sprays and gels have been FDA approved (Evamist, Divigel, and Elestrin). These preparations are relatively short acting and sometimes need to be used more than once a day. All are FDA approved for the treatment of hot flashes. Table 6. HORMONE THERAPY FORMULATIONS View in own window Trade Name Estrogen Progestin Dose Vasomotor Symptom Therapies Premarin Conjugated Estrogen - 0.3 to 1.25 mg PO daily Cenestin Synthetic Conjugated Estrogen - 0.3 to 1.25 mg PO daily Menest Esterified Estrogen - 0.3 to 1.25 mg PO daily Estrace 17 β-estradiol - 1-2 mg PO daily Estinyl Ethinyl estradiol - 0.02 to 0.05 mg PO 1-3 x daily Evamist 17 β-estradiol - 1-3 sprays daily Alora, Climara,
