The Postmenopausal Women
KEYWORDS: women, pubmed, risk, estrogen, menopause, breast, cancer, symptoms, breast cancer, bone, years, treatment, study, menopausal, postmenopausal


VTE with bazedoxifene appear similar to what is seen with other SERMs ( 166 ). Long term data on the potential of this compound to reduce the risk of clinical fractures and breast and endometrial cancer are pending. SUMMARY In conclusion, this review has highlighted the major health concerns faced by the post-menopausal woman. Cardiovascular disease becomes more prevalent with the loss of estrogen, the decrease in endothelial function, and the relative dyslipidemia that occurs concurrent with menopause. Osteoporosis is another serious potential problem that the aging woman faces and can be prevented by careful screening and early treatment. Cognitive decline and memory changes occur as aging ensues and AD becomes more prevalent, making it more difficult for aging women to maintain an independent lifestyle. Finally, breast cancer becomes more prevalent with advancing age. The increased risk of breast cancer needs to be considered when choosing a treatment plan for the post-menopausal woman. There are a variety of treatments available to protect women from developing serious health problems. First and foremost, a healthy lifestyle is the best preventive medicine. HT will control a patient’s vasomotor symptoms, prevent bone loss, maintain a favorable lipoprotein profile, and help prevent vaginal and urogenital atrophy. Other benefits of HT include the reduction in the incidence of colon cancer. However, risks of HT accrue over time and the benefits of HT need to be re-assessed periodically to ensure that they continue to outweigh risks. The SERM, raloxifene, also can be used to treat osteoporosis in menopausal women. The advantage of a SERM compared to HT is its lack of endometrial stimulation and reduction in the risk of breast cancer. The prevention of bone loss and the beneficial effects on lipoprotein levels with SERMs are similar to those seen with HT. The role of HT has changed over the years as its risks and benefits have been clarified through carefully designed randomized trials, most notably, the WHI. For a low-risk woman with moderate to severe vasomotor symptoms, the introduction of HT is an effective option and patients will improve. However, the clinician needs to evaluate each patient independently and take into account the individual risk profile, including family history, in order to determine which form of treatment is most appropriate. The ability to modulate estrogen action via the development of SERMs provides the hope that a ‘perfect’ SERM can be produced, which will relieve vasomotor symptoms,
