Lean Non-Autoimmune Diabetes in Adults in the Tropics
KEYWORDS: diabetes, insulin, pubmed, crossref, doi, pubmed crossref, lean, beta-cell, resistance, fat, bmi, insulin resistance, lean diabetes, free, muscle


triglyceride levels. A striking aspect is the absence of ketosis or ketonuria, with ketosis resistance being attributed to delayed mobilization of free fatty acids from adipose tissue and suppressed postprandial glucagon. Plasma carnitine levels are often reduced in undernourished individuals, and this deficiency impairs free fatty acid transport, a key requirement for beta-oxidation and ketogenesis. Clinical studies have shown ketosis resistance in over 90% of malnourished young individuals with diabetes, further supporting this ( 67 ). INSULIN SECRETION AND INSULIN SENSITIVITY IN MRDM Fasting insulin and C-peptide levels are usually low or low-normal with minimal response to a normal glucose load ( 61 ). Basal and peak insulin and C-peptide are substantially higher than in T1DM. Studies have documented a minimal rise in insulin levels in response to intravenous tolbutamide ( 64 ). High basal growth hormone levels and non-suppressibility following glucose administration are distinctive features reminiscent of protein-energy malnutrition. The basal level of glucagon is raised, but, unlike T1DM, it does not rise further on glucose administration (86). The relationship between chronic malnutrition and insulin resistance has been studied mainly through surrogate indices. In an euglycemic-hyperinsulinemic clamp study, low-birth-weight Asian Indian males showed subtle features of metabolic syndrome and altered body composition. Clinically, high insulin requirements (>2 U/kg/day) in MRDM suggest possible insulin resistance, though advanced dynamic tests remain limited ( 68 ). In an unpublished study on lean (BMI <18 kg/m 2 ) Asian Indian males conducted by one of the authors, the use of isotope-tagged pancreatic clamps, mixed-meal tests, and NMR spectroscopy revealed markedly reduced insulin secretion, heterogeneous hepatic and peripheral insulin resistance, and unexpectedly high visceral and pancreatic adiposity despite low hepatic and muscle fat. These results underscore the complex interplay between beta-cell function, adipose tissue inflammation, and insulin sensitivity and require further characterization. TREATMENT Insulin is the mainstay of glycemic control. MRDM may be managed as classic T1DM with additional consideration for nutritional needs. However, the optimal insulin regimens specifically for MRDM have not been studied. Medical nutrition therapy with the right balance of macro- and micronutrients is crucial. REVIVAL AS TYPE 5 DIABETES At the recent International Diabetes Federation (IDF) World Diabetes Congress 2025 in Bangkok, Thailand, lean diabetes related to malnutrition was formally classified as “type 5” diabetes, and a working group was established to establish a global research registry and develop education modules to train healthcare professionals in this aspect. However, controversies
