Cochrane
KEYWORDS: respiratory, fluid, infections, acute, acute respiratory, fluids, respiratory infections, hyponatraemia, studies, intake, fluid intake, increased, cochrane, pneumonia, data


and reducing the viscosity of mucus. In infections of the lower part of the respiratory tract, possible harmful effects of fluids might be a dilution of the blood sodium concentration, leading to headache, confusion and seizures. This review found no evidence for or against the use of increased fluids in acute respiratory infections. No randomised controlled trials have been conducted to determine the benefit or harm from extra fluids. It is important that further studies be done in order to determine the true effect of this very common medical advice. Advising patients to increase fluid intake for treating acute respiratory infections (Review) 2 Cochrane Trusted evidence. Library Informed decisions. Better health. Cochrane Database of Systematic Reviews B A C K G R O U N D 1. Does recommending increased fluid intake as a treatment for acute respiratory infections improve duration and severity of Description of the condition symptoms? 2. Are there adverse effects from recommending increased fluids in Acute respiratory infections form a large proportion of disease seen people with acute respiratory infections? in primary care settings. Some studies estimate this as the reason for presentation in up to 15% of primary care consultations (Fry 3. Are any benefits or harms related to site of infection (upper or 1993). lower respiratory tract) or a different severity of illness? Description of the intervention M E T H O D S Advice to increase fluid intake is a common treatment Criteria for considering studies for this review recommendation (Evans 1998; Murtagh 2007; Rosser 1998). This advice is given across the age ranges, from infants and children Types of studies through to adults and the elderly. This advice is often non-specific in All randomised controlled parallel-group trials that examined the terms of quantity of fluid recommended but the usual implication effect of treatment with, or recommendation for, increased oral is to drink more than normal. However, there is debate over fluid intake in people with acute respiratory infections. Comparison what is a normal healthy fluid intake . The type groups included one group receiving no treatment with, or no of fluid is not usually specified but is usually confined to oral recommendation for, increased oral fluid intake. fluids normally consumed by the patient. Sometimes specific fluids are recommended, such as fruit juice, soup, lemonade and tea Types of participants (Kirkpatrick 1998; Schmitt 1999). People of all ages with an acute respiratory infection
