Cochrane
KEYWORDS: respiratory, fluid, infections, acute, acute respiratory, fluids, respiratory infections, hyponatraemia, studies, intake, fluid intake, increased, cochrane, pneumonia, data


patient. Sometimes specific fluids are recommended, such as fruit juice, soup, lemonade and tea Types of participants (Kirkpatrick 1998; Schmitt 1999). People of all ages with an acute respiratory infection and How the intervention might work presenting for treatment in a primary care setting. Participant age groups include infants, children, adults and geriatrics. We Benefits from fluids are attributed to: replacing increased considered and analysed age groups separately. insensible fluid loss from fever and from respiratory tract evaporation with tachypnoea (Dhawan 1992; Shann 1985); We subdivided acute respiratory infection into upper and lower correcting dehydration from reduced intake ; reducing respiratory tract infection and included the following clinical nasal mucus and moistening the respiratory tract problems in primary care (ICHPPC) . to maintain comfort (Evans 1998; Middleton 1991). Upper respiratory tract infection (URTI) Why it is important to do this review This included the ICHPPC-defined conditions: acute upper The main benefit from extra fluids may be to prevent or respiratory tract infection (cold, nasopharyngitis, pharyngitis, treat dehydration. However, there are potential reasons for rhinitis), acute sinusitis, acute tonsillitis, acute laryngitis and increased fluid intake to cause harm. Anti-diuretic hormone (ADH) tracheitis. There had to be an absence of abnormal chest signs to secretion is increased in lower respiratory tract infections of define these conditions. various aetiologies. Excessive ADH secretion has been reported in bronchitis, bronchiolitis and pneumonia (Dreyfuss 1988; Gozal Lower respiratory tract infection (LRTI) 1990; Heim 1982). The mechanism of increased ADH secretion This included the ICHPPC-defined conditions: acute bronchitis, might be due to a resetting of the osmostat (Dreyfuss 1988; bronchiolitis (which includes tracheobronchitis) and pneumonia. Hill 1990) or a response to the perception of hypovolaemia by intrathoracic receptors (Gozal 1990; Van Steensel-Moll 1990). Giving We defined influenza according to two ICHPPC categories. We increased fluids (or even normal maintenance) might potentially included influenza without pneumonia as an URTI. We included lead to hyponatraemia and fluid overload . There influenzal pneumonia in the ICHPPC category of pneumonia and is ongoing debate about whether tonicity of replacement fluid considered it as a LRTI. is the more important consideration, with some advising that replacement of water and sodium is appropriate treatment for For the purposes of this systematic review we excluded otitis hyponatraemia in the context of hypovolaemia media. Given that this advice is usually generic, in that it is given to infants, We excluded people with underlying medical conditions
