Cochrane
KEYWORDS: respiratory, fluid, infections, acute, acute respiratory, fluids, respiratory infections, hyponatraemia, studies, intake, fluid intake, increased, cochrane, pneumonia, data


excluded otitis hyponatraemia in the context of hypovolaemia media. Given that this advice is usually generic, in that it is given to infants, We excluded people with underlying medical conditions as their children, adults and the elderly, it is likely that the physiology fluid requirements may differ from the normal population. We and fluid balance in these different groups differs markedly, excluded people with central nervous system (CNS) infection as particularly in different climatic environments. Therefore it is this alters their fluid management . We also excluded important to determine the effects of this advice across these people with diarrhoea as discussion of their fluid requirements has different demographics and age ranges. been covered in a previous systematic review . O B J E C T I V E S Types of interventions To answer the following questions. Treatment with, or recommendation for, increased oral fluid intake. Advising patients to increase fluid intake for treating acute respiratory infections (Review) 3 Cochrane Trusted evidence. Library Informed decisions. Better health. Cochrane Database of Systematic Reviews Types of outcome measures 14 Drinking Behavior/ 15 Thirst/ Symptoms 16 thirst*.tw. 1. Severity and duration, however measured in the studies. 17 Water Deprivation/ 2. Including but not restricted to fever, mucus production, nasal 18 Rehydration Solutions/ congestion, sore throat, cough, headache. 19 rehydrat*.tw. 20 Beverages/ Complications 21 ((water or fluid* or liquid* or beverage*) adj3 (increas* or intake* or take* or give* or drink* or consume*)).tw. 1. Symptoms of dehydration (nausea, vomiting, postural 22 exp Infusions, Parenteral/ dizziness). 23 parenteral infusion*.tw. 2. Symptoms of water overload and hyponatraemia (behavioural 24 or/7-23 disturbance, headache, confusion, convulsions, coma). 25 6 and 24 Health service utilisation Searching other resources 1. Including requirement for hospital admission. We searched reference lists of articles identified and contacted 2. Visits to primary care facility. experts in the relevant disciplines. Search methods for identification of studies Data collection and analysis Electronic searches Selection of studies We searched the Cochrane Central Register of Controlled Trials Two review authors (AR, MG) read abstracts found from the (CENTRAL) (The Cochrane Library 2010, issue 4), which contains the initial search to identify studies that met the inclusion criteria. Acute Respiratory Infections Group's Specialised Register, MEDLINE Three review authors (ST, AR, MG) retrieved full-text articles and (1966 to November Week 3, 2010), EMBASE (1974 to December reviewed them to determine eligibility. At least two authors (AR, 2010), Current Contents
