Cochrane
KEYWORDS: respiratory, fluid, infections, acute, acute respiratory, fluids, respiratory infections, hyponatraemia, studies, intake, fluid intake, increased, cochrane, pneumonia, data


or ratios with 95% confidence intervals. nasopharyngit* or pharyngit* or sore throat* or rhinit* or tracheit* If data of sufficient quality are obtained, we will perform subgroup or tracheobronchit* or cough*).tw. analysis on the basis of: 6 or/1-5 7 Fluid Therapy/ 1. upper and lower respiratory tract infection (as already defined); 8 fluid therapy.tw. 2. age groupings with infants younger than two years old; children, 9 exp Water-Electrolyte Balance/ as defined in the studies; adults, older than 18 years old; 10 water electrolyte balance.tw. 11 fluid balance.tw. 3. severity of illness, as measured in the studies and also Advising patients to increase fluid intake for treating acute respiratory infections (Review) 4 Cochrane Trusted evidence. Library Informed decisions. Better health. Cochrane Database of Systematic Reviews R E S U L T S subsequent hyponatraemia . These observational data need to be followed up with a randomised controlled trial. Description of studies In this review we were interested in the primary care situation, Results of the search because this is where the majority of people with acute respiratory In this 2010 update a total of 166 records were retrieved during the infections are treated. Given that these individuals are likely to be search. No studies met the inclusion criteria. We excluded three less sick than those hospitalised with an acute respiratory infection, new studies. do the same potential benefits and adverse effects of fluids apply? Are there similar implications for fluid management in the primary Excluded studies care setting? Of those studies that were excluded, one RCT looked at the effect of 1. Does recommending increased fluid intake as a treatment fluids in healthy volunteers . A second RCT looked for acute respiratory infections improve duration and severity at the effect of fluids in chronic bronchitis . The other of symptoms? excluded studies were observational rather than interventional (Dhawan 1992; Don 2008; Gozal 1990; Nair 2007; Shann 1985; Singhi No RCTs were found to answer this question definitively. Further 2005; Van Steensel-Moll 1990). research needs to be done to determine the true benefits from recommending increased fluids in acute respiratory infections. Risk of bias in included studies The main potential benefit from fluids would be to prevent or No studies met the inclusion criteria. treat dehydration . We found only observational data relating to this. Singhi 1992, in a study of hospitalised children with Effects of interventions pneumonia, found a 27% incidence
