Cochrane
KEYWORDS: respiratory, fluid, infections, acute, acute respiratory, fluids, respiratory infections, hyponatraemia, studies, intake, fluid intake, increased, cochrane, pneumonia, data


inclusion criteria. treat dehydration . We found only observational data relating to this. Singhi 1992, in a study of hospitalised children with Effects of interventions pneumonia, found a 27% incidence of hyponatraemia, with 7% of these children being hypovolaemic. Singhi 2005 suggests that fluid No studies met the inclusion criteria. retention in respiratory infections may be an appropriate response D I S C U S S I O N to hypoxaemia in order to improve circulating blood volume. Nair 2007, in a study of adults with pneumonia, found that nursing home Summary of main results residents who developed pneumonia were more likely to have hypernatraemia, possibly reflecting diminished thirst and water We came to this review expecting to find little research done on the intake. topic and only evidence that fluids would be beneficial. We were therefore somewhat surprised by the observational studies we Another potential benefit is reducing the volume and viscosity found. These raised the question of whether there may potentially of mucus. Saketkhoo 1978 reported that nasal mucus velocity be a problem with excess fluids, particularly in infections of was increased by drinking hot liquids in a small controlled trial the lower respiratory tract. Research has been done in the in healthy individuals. However, Shim 1987 reported no change intensive care setting with respect to treatment with intravenous in mucus production in a controlled trial of hydration versus administration of fluids in severely ill children. However, research dehydration in participants with chronic bronchitis. Neither of in the primary care setting is lacking. We concluded that further these studies were performed in people with acute respiratory research is worth undertaking, particularly in the ambulatory infections so we are unable to extrapolate the results to our study primary care setting, where advice to give extra fluids is common. question. Overall completeness and applicability of evidence 2. Are there adverse effects from recommending increased fluids in patients with acute respiratory infections? We found that there is much written about hyponatraemia in the inpatient hospital setting. The reported incidence of No RCTs were found to answer this question definitively. Further hyponatraemia in children admitted with pneumonia ranged from research needs to be done to determine any true adverse 27% to 45% (Don 2008; Shann 1985) and 48% effects from recommending increased fluids in acute respiratory . Debate is ongoing about appropriate fluid therapy infections. for sick, hospitalised children in order to
