Cochrane
KEYWORDS: respiratory, fluid, infections, acute, acute respiratory, fluids, respiratory infections, hyponatraemia, studies, intake, fluid intake, increased, cochrane, pneumonia, data


bronchiolitis (Van Steensel-Moll 1990). The infection that mean sodium levels were normal and did not differ symptoms of hyponatraemia were not reported. These studies with severity of illness, despite a difference in mean ADH levels. were in hospitalised children. In view of this potential for water overload, fluid restriction has been recommended for children Singhi 1992 reported prolonged hospitalisation and increased with pneumonia . However, one observational study mortality, and Singhi 2005 reported longer duration of illness in suggests only restricting fluids in children with pneumonia after children with pneumonia and hyponatraemia, but whether this correction of hypoxaemia . The incidence and clinical was due to the underlying disease process or the hyponatraemia significance of these observational data for the primary care setting is uncertain. In their study of hyponatraemia in hospitalised adults and implications for fluid management need to be determined with with pneumonia, Nair 2007 found that a greater proportion of further research. hyponatraemic participants had a greater severity of pneumonia, with hyponatraemia on admission being associated with an In their study of adults with community-acquired pneumonia, increased mortality, and increased length of hospitalisation. Nair 2007 found an incidence of hyponatraemia on admission of 27.9%. Fluid intake prior to hospitalisation was not documented. Don 2008 studied the incidence of hyponatraemia in both Subsequently, an additional 10.5% of participants developed hospitalised and ambulatory participants with pneumonia. They hyponatraemia during hospitalisation. Participants who developed found that the presence of hyponatraemia was significantly hyponatraemia were more likely to have renal disease and to associated with need for hospitalisation, fever and increased white have received hypotonic intravenous fluids, or no intravenous blood cell count, thereby reflecting the severity of pneumonia. This fluids. Treatment with isotonic intravenous fluids on admission study found an incidence of hyponatraemia of 42% in ambulatory appeared to be strongly protective against the development of outpatients with pneumonia. The hyponatraemia was generally hyponatraemia. This apparent protective effect of isotonic fluids mild, with only 5% of participants having a serum Na of < 130 mmol/ needs to be further delineated in a randomised controlled trial. l. 3. Are any benefits or harm related to site (upper or lower We did not find any studies relating to fluid management in primary respiratory tract), or different severity of illness? care. The significance of these data in relation to both children and adults in the primary care setting needs to be determined with
