Cochrane
KEYWORDS: respiratory, fluid, infections, acute, acute respiratory, fluids, respiratory infections, hyponatraemia, studies, intake, fluid intake, increased, cochrane, pneumonia, data


respiratory tract), or different severity of illness? care. The significance of these data in relation to both children and adults in the primary care setting needs to be determined with Site of infection further research. No RCTs were found to answer this question. Further research Quality of the evidence needs to be done to determine if any benefit or harm from fluids is related to site of illness. The evidence that we found was based on observational data, rather than data from randomised controlled clinical trials. Observational data suggest hyponatraemia may be more Additionally, the majority of the studies were of participants in commonly associated with infections of the lower respiratory tract. We have reported an association with pneumonia and bronchiolitis primary care setting is problematic. in children. Hyponatraemia has also been associated with lower respiratory tract infections in adults, including pneumonia (Breuer A U T H O R S ' C O N C L U S I O N S 1981; Nair 2007; Pollard 1975; Rosenow 1972) and bronchitis (Heim 1982). Implications for practice Two cases have been reported of symptomatic hyponatraemia The implications for fluid management in acute respiratory in infants with upper respiratory symptoms (Lipsitz 1984; Lubitz infections have not been studied in any RCTs to date. There 1982). In one of these cases, the infant had been given excessive is currently inadequate evidence for or against the advice to amounts of dilute oral fluids . However, the incidence increase fluids in acute respiratory infections. Observational data of hyponatraemia in upper respiratory infections appears to be based on hospitalised participants suggest that there may be a rare. In a study of children with RSV infection none of the infants risk of symptomatic hyponatraemia due to increased antidiuretic in the upper respiratory infection group had hyponatraemia (Van hormone secretion in lower respiratory tract infections. The of these observational data, and the implications for oral fluid Severity of infection management need to be determined with further research, conducted as randomised controlled trials (RCTs). No RCTs were found to answer this question definitively. Further research needs to be done to determine if any benefit or harm from Implications for research fluids is related to severity of illness. No RCTs have been performed to determine any benefit or harm Observational data suggest that hyponatraemia may occur more from extra fluids during acute respiratory infections. RCTs need to frequently with increasing
