Acute heart failure: diagnosis and management
KEYWORDS: heart, failure, heart failure, acute, people, acute heart, people acute, treatment, hospital, diuretic, care, therapy, guideline, use, person


antagonist should still be offered. Recommendations People have the right to be involved in discussions and make informed decisions about their care, as described in NICE's information on making decisions about your care. Making decisions using NICE guidelines explains how we use words to show the strength (or certainty) of our recommendations, and has information about prescribing medicines (including off-label use), professional guidelines, standards and laws (including on consent and mental capacity), and safeguarding. The following guidance is based on the best available evidence. The full guideline gives details of the methods and the evidence used to develop the guidance. 1.1 Organisation of care 1.1.1 All hospitals admitting people with suspected acute heart failure should provide a specialist heart failure team that is based on a cardiology ward and provides outreach services. 1.1.2 Ensure that all people being admitted to hospital with suspected acute heart failure have early and continuing input from a dedicated specialist heart failure team. 1.1.3 Plan the following with people with acute heart failure in line with the NICE guideline on chronic heart failure: • discharge from hospital after the acute phase and • subsequent management in primary care, including ongoing monitoring and care provided by the multidisciplinary team and • information and communication about their condition, its treatment and prognosis. 1.1.4 A follow-up clinical assessment should be undertaken by a member of the specialist heart failure team within 2 weeks of the person being discharged from hospital. 1.2 Diagnosis, assessment and monitoring 1.2.1 Take a history, perform a clinical examination and undertake standard investigations – for example, electrocardiography, chest X-ray and blood tests – in line with the NICE guideline on chronic heart failure. 1.2.2 In people presenting with new suspected acute heart failure, use a single measurement of serum natriuretic peptides (B-type natriuretic peptide [BNP] or N-terminal pro-B-type natriuretic peptide [NT-proBNP]) and the following thresholds to rule out the diagnosis of heart failure: • BNP less than 100 ng/litre • NT-proBNP less than 300 ng/litre. 1.2.3 In people presenting with new suspected acute heart failure with raised natriuretic peptide levels (see recommendation 1.2.2), perform transthoracic Doppler 2D echocardiography to establish the presence or absence of cardiac abnormalities. 1.2.4 In people presenting with new suspected acute heart failure, consider performing transthoracic Doppler 2D echocardiography within 48 hours of admission to guide early specialist management. 1.2.5 Do not routinely offer pulmonary artery catheterisation to people with
