Acute heart failure: diagnosis and management
KEYWORDS: heart, failure, heart failure, acute, people, acute heart, people acute, treatment, hospital, diuretic, care, therapy, guideline, use, person


• at acute presentation or • as an adjunct to medical therapy if the person's condition has failed to respond. 1.4.3 Consider invasive ventilation in people with acute heart failure that, despite treatment, is leading to or is complicated by: • respiratory failure or • reduced consciousness or physical exhaustion. 1.4.4 Do not routinely offer ultrafiltration to people with acute heart failure. 1.4.5 Consider ultrafiltration for people with confirmed diuretic resistance. Diuretic resistance is defined as dose escalation beyond a person's previously recognised dose ceiling or a dose approaching the maximum recommended daily dose without incremental improvement in diuresis. From diuretics and ultrafiltration in acute decompensated heart failure. 1.5 Treatment after stabilisation 1.5.1 In a person presenting with acute heart failure who is already taking beta-blockers, continue the beta-blocker treatment unless they have a heart rate less than 50 beats per minute, second or third degree atrioventricular block, or shock. 1.5.2 Start or restart beta-blocker treatment during hospital admission in people with acute heart failure due to left ventricular systolic dysfunction, once their condition has been stabilised – for example, when intravenous diuretics are no longer needed. 1.5.3 Ensure that the person's condition is stable for typically 48 hours after starting or restarting beta-blockers and before discharging from hospital. 1.5.4 Offer an angiotensin-converting enzyme inhibitor (or angiotensin receptor blocker if there are intolerable side effects) and an aldosterone antagonist during hospital admission to people with acute heart failure and reduced left ventricular ejection fraction. If the angiotensin-converting enzyme inhibitor (or angiotensin receptor blocker) is not tolerated an aldosterone antagonist should still be offered. In February 2016, the Medicines and Healthcare products Regulatory Agency (MHRA) published advice on the concomitant use of spironolactone and renin- angiotensin system drugs in heart failure concerning the risk of potentially fatal hyperkalaemia. See the MHRA advice for more information. 1.5.5 Closely monitor the person's renal function, electrolytes, heart rate, blood pressure and overall clinical status during treatment with beta-blockers, aldosterone antagonists or angiotensin-converting enzyme inhibitors. 1.6 Valvular surgery and percutaneous intervention The recommendations on valvular surgery and percutaneous intervention have been replaced by the NICE guideline on heart valve disease. 1.7 Mechanical assist devices 1.7.1 At an early stage, the specialist should have a discussion with a centre providing mechanical circulatory support about: • people with potentially reversible severe acute heart failure or • people who are potential candidates for transplantation. Recommendations for research The
