NLM Citation: LiverTox: Clinical and Research Information on Drug-
KEYWORDS: pubmed, pubmed pmid, pmid, malaria, alt, amodiaquine, liver, chloroquine, patients, bilirubin, developed, year, hepatitis, prophylaxis, treatment


some advantages, but which can cause severe hepatitis and agranulocytosis which led to its abandonment as prophylaxis. It is still used in combination with other agents for therapy of chloroquine-resistant P. falciparum. Mefloquine is an aminoquinoline similar to quinine which is used both for prophylaxis and treatment of malaria, it being effective against many chloroquine-resistant P. falciparum infections. Mefloquine resistance has become a growing problem with it use as monotherapy. Mefloquine has only rarely been linked to hepatic injury, but it has frequent neuro-psychiatric side effects which has led to limitations on its use. Mepacrine is an acridine dye that was developed in the 1920s and found to have activity against P. vivax and falciparum infection. It was extensively used by the U.S. military in the South Pacific during World War II when 2 LiverTox it was known as atabrine. It was largely replaced by chloroquine thereafter, but found new uses in the treatment of other parasitic diseases and as an antiinflammatory agent in the therapy of lupus erythematosus. Mepacrine is commonly referred to as quinacrine in the United States, but it currently is not approved for any use, although available in some countries abroad or via the internet. Primaquine is an aminoquinolone that has been used for many decades as prophylaxis and therapy of malaria. It shares cross resistance with chloroquine. Primaquine has not been linked to cases of clinically apparent liver injury. The combination of atovaquone with proguanil is used for prevention and therapy of chloroquine-resistant P. falciparum infection. This combination has been linked to transient serum enzyme elevations and to rare instances of clinically apparent liver injury. The combination of pyrimethamine and sulfadoxine (referred to as Fansidar) is also no longer used for prophylaxis against malaria because of hepatotoxicity and severe allergic reactions, but it is still used in combination with other agents in the treatment of P. falciparum malaria. Artemisinin is an ancient Chinese herbal medication used for malarial fevers and recently shown to have excellent potency with a distinctive mode of action and little cross-resistance with the aminoquinolones. Artemisinin derivatives have been developed for oral and parenteral use and introduced throughout the world in combination with other agents for therapy of malaria. These derivatives include artesumate, artemisinin, dihydroartemisinin, artemether and arteether, many of which have been linked to instances of idiosyncratic liver injury. The combination of artemether with lumefantrine is available as therapy of P.
