NLM Citation: LiverTox: Clinical and Research Information on Drug-
KEYWORDS: pubmed, pubmed pmid, pmid, malaria, alt, amodiaquine, liver, chloroquine, patients, bilirubin, developed, year, hepatitis, prophylaxis, treatment


artesumate, artemisinin, dihydroartemisinin, artemether and arteether, many of which have been linked to instances of idiosyncratic liver injury. The combination of artemether with lumefantrine is available as therapy of P. falciparum malaria in the United States. The description of the hepatotoxicity of the antimalarial agents includes some information on dose regimens, but these short descriptions should not be used to guide therapy. Specific recommendations on the therapy of malaria with details on diagnosis, management, drug dosage and safety are available at the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) website: The different antimalarial agents are discussed separately with appropriate references. All relevant references to hepatotoxicity of the antimalarials are also given below. The following links are to individual drug records. • Artemisinin • Amodiaquine • Atovaquone • Chloroquine • Mefloquine • Mepacrine • Primaquine • Proguanil • Quinine • Sulfadoxine-Pyrimethamine • Tafenoquine ANNOTATED BIBLIOGRAPHY References updated: 02 February 2017 Zimmerman HJ. Antiprotozoal agents. In, Zimmerman HJ. Hepatotoxicity: the adverse effects of drugs and other chemicals on the liver. 2nd ed. Philadelphia: Lippincott, 1999, pp. 623-5. Antimalarial Agents 3 (Expert review of hepatotoxicity published in 1999; amodiaquine has been associated with many cases of severe hepatitis, some fatal; chloroquine has little hepatotoxic effect; mefloquine can lead to elevated ALT levels; primaquine has not been linked to hepatic injury in humans; quinine is an ancient drug that causes granulomatous hepatitis rarely; pyrimethamine/sulfadoxine can cause acute hepatic injury which is usually attributed to the sulfonamide component; the book predated the availability of atovaquone/proguanil and the artemisinin derivatives). Knollman BC, eds. Goodman & Gilman’s the pharmacological basis of therapeutics. 12th ed. New York: McGraw-Hill, 2011, pp. 1383-418. (Textbook of pharmacology and therapeutics). Livingood CS, Dieuaide FR. Untoward reactions attributable to atabrine. JAMA 1945; 129: 1091. Not in PubMed (Describes several forms of eczematoid dermatitis in soldiers taking atabrine as prophylaxis against malaria in the Pacific theater; rare cases had accompanying severe hepatitis that can be fatal). Linden IH, Steffen CG, Newcomer VD, Chapman M. Development of porphyria during chloroquine therapy for chronic discoid lupus erythematosus. Calif Med 1954; 81: 235-7. PubMed PMID: 13190438. (48 year old man with discoid lupus developed acute porphyria 3 days after starting chloroquine with fever and uroporphyrins in urine). Glick L. Fatal agranulocytosis during treatment with amodiaquine. Br Med J 1957; 1: 932. PubMed PMID: 13413258. (53 year old woman with photosensitive rash given amodiaquine for 8 weeks developed
