Sight-Threatening Graves’ Ophthalmopathy
KEYWORDS: corneal, graves, orbital, optic, treatment, don, eye, ophthalmopathy, closure, patients, severe, table, vision, surgery, disease


CLINICAL RECOGNITION Ophthalmopathy may develop any time in the course of Graves’ disease, or infrequently in association with primary thyroid failure or apparent Hashimoto’s thyroiditis, and is infrequently accompanied by thyroid dermopathy. Graves’ ophthalmopathy (GO) is usually mild to moderately severe, and about 75% of Graves’ patients apparently have no ocular involvement. However, GO may be sight threatening in 1-2% of cases. The latter represent an emergency requiring immediate treatment. GO-related sight loss may be due to corneal breakdown or, more frequently to dysthyroid optic neuropathy (DON). Corneal involvement and/or DON require an urgent referral to specialists. As shown in Table 1 , these risky conditions should be suspected in patients with unexplained reduction in visual acuity (blurred vision which does not clear with blinking or closing one eye), changes in the intensity or quality of colors, history of popping out of the eyeballs (globe subluxation), presence of corneal opacity, incomplete closure of the eyelids (lagophthalmos), if associated with poor Bell’s phenomenon, spontaneous or gaze-evoked orbital pain, if associated with up-gaze restriction. DON may develop acutely (hours) or insidiously (weeks to months). Table 1. Symptoms and Signs of Sight-Threatening Graves’ Ophthalmopathy View in own window Symptoms Severe eye pain and scratchy sensation Acute or subacute blurred vision not clearing with blinking (abnormalities of tear film) or closing one eye (abnormality in eye movements) Deterioration in the quality or intensity of color vision Episode(s) of globe subluxation (popping out eyes) Signs Corneal opacity Lagophthalmos (incomplete eye closure) particularly if associated with visible cornea on attempted eye closure Pale or swollen disc, choroidal folds at fundoscopy PATHOPHYSIOLOGY Graves’ ophthalmopathy is an autoimmune disorder triggered by autoreactive T-lymphocytes recognizing antigen(s) shared by the thyroid and the orbit. Culprit antigens may be the TSH receptor and the IGF-1 receptor. After antigen recognition, a cascade of events is triggered leading to orbital fibroblast proliferation, preadipocyte fibroblast differentiation into adipocytes, secretion of a number of cytokines in turn stimulating fibroblast growth, infiltration of extraocular muscles, and increased secretion of the hydrophilic glycosaminoglycans. These reactions eventually cause an expansion of the fibroadipose tissue, swelling and dysfunction of extraocular muscles, edema of orbital and periorbital tissues. These changes mechanically explain the most relevant clinical manifestations of the disease, such as exophthalmos, diplopia (double vision), and sight loss due to compression of the optic nerve. DIAGNOSIS AND DIFFERENTIAL The diagnosis of GO is usually easy in patients with Graves’
