Sight-Threatening Graves’ Ophthalmopathy
KEYWORDS: corneal, graves, orbital, optic, treatment, don, eye, ophthalmopathy, closure, patients, severe, table, vision, surgery, disease


such as exophthalmos, diplopia (double vision), and sight loss due to compression of the optic nerve. DIAGNOSIS AND DIFFERENTIAL The diagnosis of GO is usually easy in patients with Graves’ disease and bilateral ocular involvement. It may be more difficult when it is not associated with thyroid dysfunction (euthyroid Graves’ disease) or ocular involvement is asymmetrical or apparently unilateral. In these cases, other causes of exophthalmos and dysmotility must be ruled out. The latter include orbital tumors, vascular causes (e.g., arteriovenous fistulas), idiopathic myositis, and other inflammatory disorders. Diagnostic Tests Minor corneal abnormalities can be detected by slit lamp examination of the cornea which reveals punctate fluorescein staining. Severe corneal damage, usually occurring in patients with marked exophthalmos, is evident simply using a strong light. This shows a marked redness of the lower conjunctiva, a grey corneal opacity, or even a corneal abscess. The eyelids do not close over the cornea and the cornea is visible on attempted eye closure. DON is due to optic nerve compression, most frequently occurring at the orbital apex (apical crowding), by the enlarged extraocular muscles, or to optic nerve stretching in the event of extreme exophthalmos. Although no single test is sufficient to establish or rule out DON, optic nerve involvement should be investigated by assessing best corrected visual acuity, color vision (e.g., using Ishihara charts), pupil responses by the swinging flashlight test for a relative afferent pupil defect, fundoscopy (optic disc pallor or swelling, choroidal folds), perimetry, or visual evoked potentials. Measurement of intraocular pressure (IOP), particularly in upward gaze, is useful to detect increases due to tightness of the inferior rectus muscle ( Table 2 ). Orbital imaging (CT or MRI) are fundamental to show apical crowding and other features, such as intraorbital fat prolapsed and bony orbital angles, correlated with DON. Table 2. Testing for Corneal Damage or Optic Neuropathy. View in own window Cornea Direct visual examination Slit lamp examination with corneal fluorescein staining Optic Nerve Best-corrected visual acuity Color vision (Ishihara charts or others) Pupil responses to swinging flashlight test (relative afferent papillary defect, RAPD) Fundoscopy Perimetry Visual evoked potentials Measurement of intraocular pressure (particularly in up-gaze) Orbital imaging (CT or MRI) THERAPY Corneal Breakdown Frequent (hourly) use of topical lubricants and antibiotics is warranted. If these and other measures, such as moisture chambers, are not sufficient to prevent corneal ulceration and perforation, temporary measures to improve eyelid closure
