Sight-Threatening Graves’ Ophthalmopathy
KEYWORDS: corneal, graves, orbital, optic, treatment, don, eye, ophthalmopathy, closure, patients, severe, table, vision, surgery, disease


topical lubricants and antibiotics is warranted. If these and other measures, such as moisture chambers, are not sufficient to prevent corneal ulceration and perforation, temporary measures to improve eyelid closure are necessary. These include blepharroraphy, tarsorraphy, emergency gluing, amnion membranes, and botulinum toxin. After controlling the acute situation, permanent improvement of eyelid closure is mandatory ( Table 3 ). Corneal grafting may be then necessary. Table 3. Managing Corneal Breakdown or Optic Neuropathy View in own window Corneal Breakdown Intensive (hourly) topical lubricants and antibiotics Moisture chambers Temporary measures to improve eye closure: blepharroraphy, tarsorraphy, amnion membranes, botulinum toxin, emergency gluing Optic neuropathy First-line treatment: intravenous methylprednisolone (0.5-1 gram in slow 2-3-hour infusion) for 3 consecutive days to be repeated on the next week Second-line treatment: orbital decompression, if response is absent or poor after two weeks Optic neuropathy DON must be treated aggressively. Intravenous glucocorticoids are the first-line treatment. Evidence of the best therapeutic regimen is missing. A commonly used protocol is based on the slow (2-3 hour) infusion of 0.5-1-gram methylprednisolone for three consecutive days. Gastric protection is required. Control of blood glucose and electrolytes is needed, as well as frequent measurement of blood pressure during and for a few hours after infusion. This treatment can be repeated during the next week. If, however, the response to treatment is poor or absent within two weeks or glucocorticoid treatment causes severe side effects, the patient should be promptly submitted for orbital decompression to prevent irreversible damage and sight loss ( Table 3 ). Treatment of ON (as well as of corneal breakdown) should be performed in specialized centers. New therapies using immune-suppression with agents such as rituximab or teprotumumab (antibody to IGF-1 receptor) are under investigation, but their role in the setting of sight-threatening Graves’ ophthalmopathy is unsettled. In particular, rituximab cannot prevent the occurrence of DON and, therefore, should not be used in patients with impending or overt DON. FOLLOW-UP After the emergency treatment (medical and/or surgical), residual manifestations of Graves’ ophthalmopathy should be treated, as appropriate. If the disease is still active, glucocorticoid treatment can be continued using either oral or intravenous glucocorticoids. It is recommended not to exceed a cumulative dose of 8 grams of intravenous methylprednisolone per cycle because of potential severe hepatotoxicity. If the ophthalmopathy is inactive, rehabilitative surgery (orbital decompression and/or squint surgery and/or eyelid surgery) is often necessary for cosmetic and/or functional
