Thromboangiitis Obliterans
KEYWORDS: obliterans, thromboangiitis obliterans, thromboangiitis, use, ischemia, tobacco, arteries, superficial, patients, distal, gangrene, cessation, superficial veins, veins, affected


(Buerger Disease) Thromboangiitis obliterans is inflammatory thrombosis of small and medium- sized arteries and some superficial veins, causing arterial ischemia in distal extremities and superficial thrombophlebitis. Tobacco use is the primary risk factor. Symptoms and signs include claudication, nonhealing foot ulcers, rest pain, and gangrene. Diagnosis is by clinical findings, noninvasive vascular testing, angiography, and exclusion of other causes. Treatment is primarily centered on tobacco cessation. Prognosis is excellent when tobacco use is stopped, but when it is not, the disorder inevitably progresses, often requiring amputation. Thromboangiitis obliterans occurs almost exclusively in patients who use tobacco (nearly all of them are people who smoke) and predominantly affects men aged 30 to 45 years; it rarely occurs in women (1). Prevalence is highest in Asia and the Middle East where there is heavy tobacco use. Thromboangiitis obliterans produces segmental inflammation in small and medium-sized arteries and, frequently, in superficial veins of the extremities. In acute thromboangiitis obliterans, occlusive thrombi accompany neutrophilic and lymphocytic infiltration of the intima; endothelial cells proliferate, but the internal elastic lamina remains intact. In an intermediate phase, thrombi organize and recanalize incompletely; the media is preserved but may be infiltrated with fibroblasts. In older lesions, periarterial fibrosis may occur, sometimes affecting the adjacent vein and nerve. The cause is unknown, although cigarette smoking is a primary risk factor. The mechanism involves oxidative stress, and may involve delayed hypersensitivity or toxic angiitis. According to another theory, thromboangiitis obliterans may be an autoimmune disorder caused by cell-mediated sensitivity to types I and III human collagen, which are constituents of blood vessels. Symptoms and Signs of Thromboangiitis Obliterans Symptoms and signs are those of arterial ischemia and superficial venous thrombosis. Some patients have a history of migratory phlebitis, usually in the superficial veins of a foot or leg. Onset is gradual, starting in the most distal vessels of the upper and lower extremities with coldness, numbness, tingling, or burning. These symptoms may develop before objective evidence of disease. Raynaud phenomenon is common. Intermittent claudication occurs in the affected extremity (usually in the arch of the foot or in the leg; rarely in the hand, arm, or thigh) and may progress to rest pain. Frequently, if pain is severe and persistent, the affected leg feels cold, sweats excessively, and becomes cyanotic, probably because of sympathetic nerve overactivity. Later, most patients develop ischemic ulcers, which may progress to gangrene. Pulses are impaired
