Thromboangiitis Obliterans
KEYWORDS: obliterans, thromboangiitis obliterans, thromboangiitis, use, ischemia, tobacco, arteries, superficial, patients, distal, gangrene, cessation, superficial veins, veins, affected


the affected leg feels cold, sweats excessively, and becomes cyanotic, probably because of sympathetic nerve overactivity. Later, most patients develop ischemic ulcers, which may progress to gangrene. Pulses are impaired or absent in one or more pedal arteries and often at the wrist. In young men who smoke and have extremity ulcers, a positive Allen test (the hand remains pale after the examiner simultaneously compresses the radial and ulnar arteries, then alternately releases them) suggests the disorder. Pallor with elevation and rubor with dependency frequently occur in affected hands, feet, or digits. Ischemic ulceration and gangrene, usually of one or more digits, may occur early in the disorder but not acutely. Noninvasive tests show greatly decreased blood flow and pressure in the affected toes, feet, and fingers. Diagnosis of Thromboangiitis Obliterans Other causes of ischemia excluded by testing Angiography History and physical examination suggest the diagnosis. It is confirmed when: The ankle-brachial index (ratio of ankle to arm systolic blood pressure) for legs or segmental pressures for arms indicates distal ischemia Echocardiography excludes cardiac emboli Blood tests (eg, measurement of antinuclear antibody, rheumatoid factor, complement, anticentromere antibody, anti-scleroderma [SCL] 70 antibody) exclude vasculitis Tests for antiphospholipid antibodies exclude antiphospholipid syndrome (although these levels may be slightly elevated in thromboangiitis obliterans) Angiography shows characteristic findings (segmental occlusions of the distal arteries in the hands and feet, tortuous, corkscrew collateral vessels around occlusions, and no atherosclerosis) Treatment of Thromboangiitis Obliterans Smoking cessation Local measures Sometimes medication therapy Endovascular or surgical revascularization, in cases of chronic limb-threatening ischemia Treatment is centered on cessation of tobacco use. Continuing to use tobacco inevitably leads to disease progression and severe ischemia, often requiring amputation. Other measures include: Avoiding cold Avoiding medications that can cause vasoconstriction Avoiding thermal, chemical, and mechanical injury, especially injury due to poorly fitting footwear For patients in the first phase of smoking cessation, IV prostacyclin therapy may help prevent amputation (1). Phosphodiesterase inhibitors, calcium channel blockers, and thromboxane inhibitors, and endothelin inhibitors may be tried empirically, but data to support their use are limited (2). Use of antiendothelial cell antibody measurements to follow the course of disease is being studied. Endovascular or surgical revascularization appear to have a reasonable safety profile and outcomes in the setting of chronic limb-threatening ischemia (2, 3). Key Points Thromboangiitis obliterans is inflammatory thrombosis of small and medium-sized arteries and sometimes superficial veins in distal upper and
