Chapter
KEYWORDS: value, research, life, health, countries, expectancy, gains, growth, health research, cid, income, life expectancy, economic, year, years


Economic Approaches to Valuing Global Health Research David Meltzer Health research has contributed tremendously to advancing recent advances in understanding about the value ofimprove- health and welfare throughout the world.Gains in health have ments in health and in approaches to the value and priorities of great potential to contribute to the well-being of persons in these issues. both low-income and high-income countries. The “10/90” Although the application of these principles is still in its ble to morbidity and mortality is greatest in developing coun- tries and for maximizing the value ofresearch that aims to pro- oped countries and relatively little on the needs oflower-income innovations in determining the value of health research at an countries . Despite the relative dearth of health aggregate level are reviewed.The conclusion is that the value of research focused specifically on their most important health health research has been immense and is likely to increase dra- problems, lower-income countries have also benefited from matically in coming years,especially in lower-income countries. cally designed to address the needs oflow-income countries. life years (DALYs),or quality-adjusted life years (QALYs),were the needs ofaffluent countries is likely to continue to produce value ofsuch improvements.In a later section,recent methods benefits for lower-income countries, even in the absence of that can be used to estimate the value ofspecific research proj- efforts to manage scientific research in the interest of lower- ects are reviewed.The application ofsuch methods promises to income nations.Indeed,as lower-income countries increase in better identify the value ofhealth research in specific instances, more closely the health problems of higher-income countries. health in developing countries and can increase the efficiency However,“trickle-down”approaches are not an efficient way of with which available research funds are spent. producing knowledge to advance the health and well-being of the populations of lower-income nations. Instead, a rational approach is needed that appreciates both the value ofhealth in THE VALUE OF HEALTH RESEARCH lower-income nations and the potential for rational scientific management to efficiently allocate resources for scientific Health research can be valuable for a variety of reasons. The research. The work of the GFHR and other organizations in most obvious reason is simply the value that people place on reflected in increased length oflife or quality oflife.Other rea- Although both the connection ofhealth research to health and sons that health research can be valuable include the improve- the valuation ofhealth differ in important ways between lower- ments in productivity,
