Chapter
KEYWORDS: value, research, life, health, countries, expectancy, gains, growth, health research, cid, income, life expectancy, economic, year, years


treatments than from research matrixapproach.The2004reportcomparestheseapproaches on high-technology treatments. alongseveraldimensionsthatincludethefollowing: Such patterns may not be maintained across other health health research initiated by high-income countries in their own 2. Focus at global or national level interest may sometimes be directed toward work of greater 3. Strategies or principles (especially relating to the process for value ifissues ofcost and generalizability to lower-income set- participation by stakeholders) tings are reflected more greatly in decisions about research pri- 4. Criteria for priority setting: orities. When research directed toward the needs of lower- • Burden ofdisease income countries is considered, cost and feasibility must, of • Analysis ofdeterminants ofdisease burden course, receive great attention. However, the immense reduc- • Cost-effectiveness of interventions (resulting from tions in mortality that have come from advances in knowledge proposed research) about public health efforts—such as efficient and effective san- • Effect on equity and social justice itation, immunization, and oral rehydration programs, all of • Ethical,political,social,and cultural acceptability which were developed primarily with the needs oflow-income • Probability offinding a solution countries in mind—suggest the value of research targeted • Scientific quality ofresearch proposed toward the needs of lower-income countries.Rigorous studies • Feasibility (availability ofhuman resources,funding, ofthe value ofthese innovations akin to those studies done to facilities) assess the value of health research for the United States are 5. Contribution to capacity strengthening. sorely needed to inform potential funders of the potential returns to such research. In addition to describing the dimensions considered in these approaches to priority setting,the 2004 report also sum- marizes several efforts to apply these approaches in individual RESEARCH PROJECTS example, Remme and others 2002). The priorities identified include many ofthose identified in chapter 4 in this volume. ciently valuable to justify their costs. Some of these latter analysis also sometimes plays an important role.For example, projectsareinevitablebecausetheoutcomeofresearchisintrin- several approaches, including the GFHR’s combined matrix sicallyunpredictable.However,evenifoneabstractsfromsuch approach,use DALYs to quantify the number of healthy years uncertaintybyconsideringtheexpectedreturnsfromaproject oflife lost to the disease toward which the research is directed. beforeoneembarksonit,researchprojectsclearlyvaryintheir Looking forward, one may find additional quantitative likelyvaluerelativetotheircost.Suchassessmentsareobvious- approaches helpful in assessing the value ofresearch.For exam- ly difficult to make, yet they are routinely done as part of ple,new methods based on value-of-information (VOI) tech- theprocessofdecidingtheallocationofresearchfunds.These niques have begun to be proposed to better inform such assess- assessments have traditionally been done rather informally, ments.In essence,VOI techniques model the uncertainty in the eveninthemostcloselystructuredsettingsinwhichresearch outcomes of research and the
