Chapter
KEYWORDS: value, research, life, health, countries, expectancy, gains, growth, health research, cid, income, life expectancy, economic, year, years


world and discount an infinite stream ofthose annual returns.At income countries that remains unrealized and thereby, a value ofUS$20 million/R(cid:2)US$200 million.This result benefit the people ofthese countries. 162 | Disease Control Priorities in Developing Countries | David Meltzer useful application to research in developing countries are the Alzheimer’s Disease.”International Journal ofTechnology Assessment in lackofawarenessandacceptanceofthesemethodsonthepart Health Care 17 (1):38–55. of researchers and funders focused on these settings. Cutler,D.M.,and S.Kadiyala.2003.“The Return to Biomedical Research: Treatment and Behavioral Effects.” In Measuring the Gains from Organizationsconcernedwithinternationalhealthcanexercise Medical Research: An Economic Approach, ed. K. M. Murphy and andfunderstothesemethodsandencouragingtheiruse. Cutler,D.M.,E.Richardson,T.E.Keeler,and D.Staiger.1997.“Measuring the Health of the U.S. Population.”Brookings Papers on Economic Activity:Microeconomics 21782,Brookings Institution,Washington, DC. CONCLUSIONS GFHR (Global Forum for Health Research).2003.The 10/90 Report on Health Research 2003–2004.Geneva:GFHR. the value of health increases with continuing growth in Department ofEconomics. income. Health research has played a major role in the ———. 2001. “Addressing Uncertainty in Medical Cost-Effectiveness Analysis:Implications ofExpected Utility Maximization for Methods value of future gains in health suggests that health research to Perform Sensitivity Analysis and the Use of Cost-Effectiveness continues to merit increasing investment. New tools to Analysis to Set Priorities for Medical Research.” Journal of Health Economics20:109–29. prospectively assess the value of research offer the promise of Murphy,K.M.,and R.H.Topel.2003.“The Economic Value ofMedical Research.”In Measuring the Gains from Medical Research: An Economic more applied research that can be closely connected to meas- Approach, ed. K. M. Murphy and R. H. Topel, 41–73. Chicago: urable benefits at the population level. Because low-income University ofChicago Press. Improved Health to Living Standards.”In Measuring the Gains from these techniques to assess the value of research may be espe- Medical Research: An Economic Approach, ed. K. M. Murphy and makers in low- and high-income countries with the analytic Productivity.”Economic Development and Cultural Change27 (April): 399–421. tools needed to better identify and advocate for valuable Remme,J.H.,E.Blas,L.Chitsulo,P.M.Desjeux,H.D.Engers,T.P.Kanyok, opportunities for health research may be an important avenue and others.2002.“Strategic Emphases for Tropical Diseases Research: to increasing the level and effectiveness of spending for health A TDR Perspective.”Trends in Parasitology18 (10):421–26. research. Rice,D.1994.“Cost-of-Illness Studies:Fact or Fiction?”Lancet344 (8936): 1519–20. Thaler,R.,and S.Rosen.1975.“The Value ofSaving a Life:Evidence from REFERENCES the Labor Market.” In Household Production and Consumption, ed. Becker,G.S.,T.J.Philipson,and R.R.Soares.2003.“The Quantity and Viscusi,W. K., and J. E.Aldy. 2003.“The Value of a Statistical Life: A Quality of the Life and the Evolution of World Inequality.” NBER Critical Review ofMarket Estimates throughout the World.”Journal of Working Paper 9765, National
