Risk of Fasting and Non-Fasting Hypertriglyceridemia in Coronary Vascular Disease and Pancreatitis
KEYWORDS: levels, risk, pubmed, hypertriglyceridemia, patients, cvd, study, cardiovascular, fasting, triglycerides, cholesterol, triglyceride, postprandial, disease, therapy


of lipid lowering agents, especially statins, there remains substantial residual and absolute risk of CVD in high-risk populations such as T2DM ( 2 ). Elevated low-density lipoprotein (LDL-c) is a well-established CVD risk factor and has been the primary target for lipid lowering treatment. However, growing evidence suggests that an elevated triglyceride (TG) level is also an independent risk factor ( 3 , 4 ). Borderline high TGs or high TGs defined by National Cholesterol Education Program (NCEP) Adult Treatment Panel III (ATP III) as TG concentration (150 – 199 mg/dL) and (200 – 499 mg/dL) respectively are present in 30% of the US adult population ( 5 ) and these levels have been associated with increased risk of CVD. The dyslipidemia of metabolic syndrome and T2DM is characterized by raised TG concentrations, low high-density lipoprotein cholesterol (HDL-c) concentrations and marked elevations in triglyceride rich lipoproteins (TRL). This triad is termed mixed or atherogenic dyslipidemia ( 6 ). Impaired metabolism of TRLs in the postprandial state have been observed in insulin resistant states such as visceral obesity, metabolic syndrome, and T2DM and this has been linked to the development of atherosclerosis ( 7 ). Severe hypertriglyceridemia and very severe hyperlipidemia defined by Endocrine Society Clinical Practice Guideline on Evaluation and Treatment of Hypertriglyceridemia as TG concentration (1000 – 1999 mg/dL) and (>2000 mg/dL) carries an increased risk for pancreatitis ( 8 ). Case series and uncontrolled studies have shown that severely elevated TG levels are associated with the chylomicronemia syndrome and an increased risk of pancreatitis. Serum TG levels of 1000 mg/dL and higher have been observed in 12% to 38% of patients with acute pancreatitis ( 9 ). Hence, understanding the role of hypertriglyceridemia in CVD, chylomicronemia syndrome and risk of pancreatitis is important. METABOLISM OF TRIGLYCERIDE RICH LIPOPROTEINS AND TRIGLYCERIDEMIA Triglyceride Rich Lipoprotein Metabolism Triglyceride rich lipoproteins (TRL) consist of chylomicrons carrying triglycerides from the diet, VLDLs synthesized in the liver, and their respective remnant particles. After a fatty meal, dietary triglycerides are hydrolyzed in the intestine to free fatty acids and monoglycerides. Fatty acids and monoglycerides are then absorbed by enterocytes and resynthesized to form triglycerides. Triglycerides within the intestinal enterocytes are assembled with apolipoprotein (apo) B-48 into large chylomicrons which are released from the cells into the lymphatic system. They access the plasma via the thoracic duct and are rapidly metabolized by lipoprotein lipase (LPL) to
