Risk of Fasting and Non-Fasting Hypertriglyceridemia in Coronary Vascular Disease and Pancreatitis
KEYWORDS: levels, risk, pubmed, hypertriglyceridemia, patients, cvd, study, cardiovascular, fasting, triglycerides, cholesterol, triglyceride, postprandial, disease, therapy


into large chylomicrons which are released from the cells into the lymphatic system. They access the plasma via the thoracic duct and are rapidly metabolized by lipoprotein lipase (LPL) to yield chylomicron remnants. These are taken up by remnant receptors and by LDL receptors in the liver. Free fatty acids liberated by the action of LPL are available to adipose tissue for storage and to other tissues (e.g., skeletal muscle, heart) for use as energy substrates. Lipids derived from chylomicron remnants, from de novo lipid synthesis, and from lipolysis of adipose tissue are reassembled in the liver as very-low-density lipoprotein (VLDL) particles, which are secreted into the plasma. VLDL particles are metabolized by LPL to yield intermediate density lipoprotein (IDL) particles, which are metabolized by LPL and hepatic lipase to yield low density lipoprotein (LDL) particles. IDL can be taken up by the liver through an apo E-dependent process, and LDL is taken up by the liver through the binding of apoB100 to LDL receptors. Small VLDL particles, IDL particles, and LDL particles may be taken up by peripheral tissues to deliver nutrients, cholesterol, and fat-soluble vitamins ( 10 - 12 ). Hypertriglyceridemia Hypertriglyceridemia is a normal physiological state that occurs post ingestion of a meal where lipids undergo the above-mentioned metabolism. In insulin- resistant states there is an exaggerated lipid response leading to pathological hypertriglyceridemia which is thought to be atherogenic. In insulin-resistant states there is an increase in the production of VLDL by the liver and decreased hepatic uptake of VLDL, IDL and LDL. There is a reduction in LPL activity resulting in high triglyceride concentrations, especially in the postprandial state. The over secretion of VLDL, which competes with chylomicron remnants for clearance through the common pathway, can exacerbate the post prandial response. The large amount of TRLs and their prolonged residence time in the circulation leads to increased exchange of cholesteryl ester for triglycerides between TRL and LDL or HDL particles mediated by cholesteryl ester transfer protein (CETP). This process enriches LDL and HDL with triglyceride, and these particles are subsequently more readily hydrolyzed by hepatic lipase resulting in smaller, denser LDL particles and lower concentrations of HDL ( 13 ). These abnormalities result in a characteristic dyslipidemia in insulin resistant states, which is now recognized to be atherogenic. Apo C-III Apolipoprotein C-III (APOC3) has a key role in lipoprotein metabolism and regulation of triglyceride levels. APOC3
