Risk of Fasting and Non-Fasting Hypertriglyceridemia in Coronary Vascular Disease and Pancreatitis
KEYWORDS: levels, risk, pubmed, hypertriglyceridemia, patients, cvd, study, cardiovascular, fasting, triglycerides, cholesterol, triglyceride, postprandial, disease, therapy


dyslipidemia in insulin resistant states, which is now recognized to be atherogenic. Apo C-III Apolipoprotein C-III (APOC3) has a key role in lipoprotein metabolism and regulation of triglyceride levels. APOC3 is synthesized in the liver and transported on triglyceride-rich lipoproteins. It inhibits LPL mediated hydrolysis of triglycerides, and at high concentrations can also inhibit hepatic lipase activity. In addition, APOC3 impairs the hepatic uptake of triglyceride rich lipoproteins by remnant receptors. Thus, increased APOC3 levels are an independent risk factor for CVD ( 14 - 16 ); genetic variants of APOC3 leading to lower levels are associated with a reduced risk for CVD ( 17 - 19 ). ANGPTL Angiopoietin-like proteins (ANGPTL) are regulators of lipoprotein metabolism. ANGPT3 and ANGPTL4 are natural inhibitors of LPL. Loss of function variants in these proteins have been associated with decreased triglyceride levels and decreased CVD. Murine studies have found that the suppression of ANGPTL3 decreases atherosclerosis ( 20 ). Severe Hypertriglyceridemia In severe or very severe TG levels (> 1000 mg/dL), which occur as a result of defective lipolysis or excessive production of endogenous triglyceride, the LPL removal system is saturated. There is decreased degradation of dietary TGs incorporated into chylomicrons and a rapid increase of TG levels post fat-rich meals (worsened by dietary simple sugars, fructose, and alcohol) in susceptible individuals causing pancreatitis. The mechanism by which hypertriglyceridemia causes pancreatitis is not understood, but could include local accumulation of free fatty acids and serum hyperviscosity ( 8 ). HYPERTRIGLYCERIDEMIA AND RISK OF PANCREATITIS AND CHYLOMICRONEMIA SYNDROME Severe hypertriglyceridemia (> 1000 mg/dL) is an infrequent laboratory finding and is generally associated with genetic disorders of lipid metabolism or TG levels exacerbated by secondary causes. Familial chylomicronemia is a rare monogenic disorder that can cause severe hypertriglyceridemia. It is defined as the presence of chylomicronemia (TG > 1000 mg/dL) along with one or more of the following: eruptive xanthomas, lipemia retinalis, or abdominal findings of pain, acute pancreatitis and/or hepatosplenomegaly ( 21 ). Multifactorial chylomicronemia syndrome (MFCS) which is a much more common cause of severe hypertriglyceridemia is caused by the accumulation of genetic, non-genetic, and environmental factors. Individuals with severe hypertriglyceridemia may present with these classic findings and pancreatitis or may be asymptomatic. The mechanisms by which hypertriglyceridemia may lead to acute pancreatitis are not known. Possible mechanisms include intra-pancreatic hydrolysis of high triglycerides by pancreatic lipase leading to accumulation of fatty acids
