Risk of Fasting and Non-Fasting Hypertriglyceridemia in Coronary Vascular Disease and Pancreatitis
KEYWORDS: levels, risk, pubmed, hypertriglyceridemia, patients, cvd, study, cardiovascular, fasting, triglycerides, cholesterol, triglyceride, postprandial, disease, therapy


Another study evaluated the association between lower follow-up TG levels and the incidence of recurrent clinical events for patients with severe hypertriglyceridemia (>500 mg/dL). This study included 41,210 individuals with < 1% having a history of pancreatitis. Individuals with severe hypertriglyceridemia with follow up TG levels <200 mg/dL experienced a lower rate of recurrent pancreatitis episodes, with an adjusted rate ratio of 0.45 (95% CI, 0.34 – 0.60) compared to those with TG levels >500 mg/dL ( 25 ). There is an increased risk of pancreatitis with severe hypertriglyceridemia and in individuals with elevated dietary TG levels and in some cases pharmacological intervention is necessary to prevent severe complications such as pancreatitis. HYPERTRIGLYCERIDEMIA AS A CARDIOVASCULAR RISK FACTOR Epidemiological Data Supporting TG as a CVD Risk Factor The association of elevated TG values with CVD remains controversial. Establishing TG level as an independent risk factor for CVD is confounded by its inverse metabolic relationship with HDL-c and the heterogeneity of TG risk lipoproteins. Growing evidence suggests that an elevated TG level is an independent risk factor for CVD and represents an important biomarker of CVD risk because of their association with atherogenic remnant particles. A meta-analysis by Hokanson and Austin ( 4 ), showed increased plasma TG levels are associated with a significant increase in the risk of CVD independent of HDL-c level. An overall relative risk (RR) for CVD of 1.32 for men and 1.76 for women per 1 mmol/L (~88.5 mg/dL) increase in TGs was noted. However, this analysis was limited to Caucasian study subjects. A non-overlapping meta-analysis involving data from 26 prospective studies in Asian and Pacific populations reported a RR for CVD of 1.8 (95% CI, 1.49 – 2.19), comparing subjects in the top fifth with the bottom fifth of TG levels ( 26 ). Sarwar et al. ( 27 ) reported data from two prospective cohort studies: the Reykjavik study and the European Prospective Investigational of Cancer (EPIC) - Norfolk study, which together comprised 44,237 Western middle-aged men and women and a total of 3582 incident cases of CVD. Comparing individuals with TGs in the top tertile with the bottom tertile, the adjusted odds ratio for CVD was 1.76 (95% CI, 1.39 – 2.21) in the Reykjavik study and 1.57 (95% CI, 1.10 – 2.24) in the EPIC-Norfolk study. However, adjustment for HDL-c substantially attenuated the magnitude of association of TG level with CVD. They
