Risk of Fasting and Non-Fasting Hypertriglyceridemia in Coronary Vascular Disease and Pancreatitis
KEYWORDS: levels, risk, pubmed, hypertriglyceridemia, patients, cvd, study, cardiovascular, fasting, triglycerides, cholesterol, triglyceride, postprandial, disease, therapy


individuals from the Copenhagen City Heart Study with genetic variants in lipoprotein lipase (LPL), tested whether low concentrations of non-fasting TG were associated with reduced all-cause mortality in observational analyses (n = 13,957). The results showed that each genetically-derived 1 mmol/l (~88.5 mg/dL) reduction in TG levels was associated with a halved risk of all-cause mortality ( 32 ). Two large studies examining the relationship between the gene encoding apolipoprotein C3 (APOC3) found that loss of function mutations in APOC3 were associated with low levels of TG and reduced risk of CVD ( 17 , 19 ). ANGPTLs have also been linked to CVD. A large human study found that individuals with loss of function variants in ANGPTL3 had lower TG levels, as well as lower levels of HDL-c and LDL-c compared to control subjects, and decreased odds of CVD ( 20 ). Similarly, individuals with loss of function variants of ANGPTL4 also had lower TG levels and decreased risk for CVD (33). A study by Ference et al did a randomization analysis of a total of 654,783 participants to determine if there was any association with risk of CVD per unit of change in ApoB from either LDL-C lowering variants in the LDL receptor gene (LDLR) or TG-lowering variants in the lipoprotein lipase gene. It showed that there was a similar decrease in risk of CVD per unit difference in ApoB from either TG-lowering LPL variants or LDL-C lowering LDLR variants. Due to differences in the composition of LDL and VLDL, TG levels must be decreased to a much greater extent than LDL-c to achieve a comparable decrease in ApoB levels. This has important implications in the interpretation of TG lowering trials, as studies may not sufficiently lower TG to effectively decrease ASCVD risk. To be noted, the results from this study are from genetic variants and not lipid lowering therapies ( 34 ). A genetic cause of lower LDL-c confers a lifetime reduction with associated decline of ASCVD risk up to three to four times greater than with statin therapy, which has a shorter period of lower LDL-c. This finding is likely similar for TG. Collectively, these studies strongly point to a causal effect of elevated TG and TRLs with CVD. Clinical Trial Evidence Supporting Lowering TG Reduces CVD Results with clinical outcomes trials of fibrate therapy have been variable but primarily indicate a reduction in CV events.
