Risk of Fasting and Non-Fasting Hypertriglyceridemia in Coronary Vascular Disease and Pancreatitis
KEYWORDS: levels, risk, pubmed, hypertriglyceridemia, patients, cvd, study, cardiovascular, fasting, triglycerides, cholesterol, triglyceride, postprandial, disease, therapy


with gemfibrozil or placebo and monitored for 5.1 years. Gemfibrozil safely reduced the risk of death from CVD or nonfatal myocardial infarction by 22 percent ( 41 ). For every 100 mg/dL increment in baseline TG there was a 14% increase in coronary risk (p=0.045). Further, those with highest tertile of TG values (>180 mg/dL) exhibited a more marked decrease in coronary risk with gemfibrozil compared with those in lower tertiles ( 42 ). In the Action to Control Cardiovascular Risk in Diabetes (ACCORD) lipid study using statin + fibrate combination therapy, fenofibrate + simvastatin had no effect on the primary outcome vs. simvastatin alone for all patients. However, in the fenofibrate + simvastatin group, there was a 31% reduction in CV risk in the subgroup with baseline TG levels in the upper tertile vs. simvastatin monotherapy ( 43 ). Pemafibrate, a new selective PPAR-α activator, approved in Japan in 2017 for hyperlipidemia, is metabolized by cytochromes CYP2C8, CYP2C9, and CYP3A4, indicating potential drug interactions ( 44 ). The Pemafibrate to Reduce Cardiovascular Outcomes by Reducing Triglycerides in Patients with Diabetes (PROMINENT) trial evaluated its cardiovascular benefits in patients with high TGs, including those with diabetes. While pemafibrate significantly reduced TGs, remnant cholesterol, and apo C-III after 4 months, it also raised LDL cholesterol and apo B and did not improve HDL cholesterol. Adverse effects included renal issues and a risk of venous thromboembolism ( 45 ). This trial found no significant difference in major cardiovascular events among patients treated with pemafibrate compared to placebo. Despite initial promise, the trial’s findings diminished support for combining fibrates like pemafibrate with statins for cardiovascular risk reduction. PPAR alpha activators may decrease atherosclerosis by various pathways, not limited to affecting circulating lipid levels. Plutzky and Zandbergen discuss the reduction of acute phase reactants produced in the liver, including C-reactive protein, serum amyloid A, and fibrinogen, by PPAR alpha agonists. These agents may also limit endothelial dysfunction through inhibition of the vasoconstrictor endothelin-1 and by promoting vasodilation by enhanced expression of endothelial nitric oxide synthase. PPARα agonists may also limit early atherogenesis by inhibiting cytokine-induced expression of a key molecule, vascular adhesion molecule-1, required for adhesion of leukocytes to injured vasculature ( 46 ). Additionally, PPAR alpha activators may activate PPARs differently, resulting in variable effects. The Reduction of Cardiovascular Events with Icosapent Ethyl–Intervention (REDUCE-IT) and Statin Residual Risk with Epanova in High Cardiovascular
