Risk of Fasting and Non-Fasting Hypertriglyceridemia in Coronary Vascular Disease and Pancreatitis
KEYWORDS: levels, risk, pubmed, hypertriglyceridemia, patients, cvd, study, cardiovascular, fasting, triglycerides, cholesterol, triglyceride, postprandial, disease, therapy


Additionally, PPAR alpha activators may activate PPARs differently, resulting in variable effects. The Reduction of Cardiovascular Events with Icosapent Ethyl–Intervention (REDUCE-IT) and Statin Residual Risk with Epanova in High Cardiovascular Risk Patients with Hypertriglyceridemia (STRENGTH) trials present examples of conflicting cardiovascular outcomes in patients receiving omega-3 fatty acid therapy. The REDUCE-IT trail with 8,179 patients showed a decrease in major cardiac events with high dose icosapent ethyl (4g/d EPA), while the STRENGTH trial with 13,086 patients showed no effects on cardiac events with high dose EPA/DHA carboxylic acid (4g/d) ( 47 , 48 ). A difference in the two studies could be due to the EPA levels achieved in each study. REDUCE-IT achieved an EPA level of 144 (mg/mL) while the STRENGTH trial achieved an EPA level of 89.6 (mg/mL) ( 49 ). Another issue is that in the REDUCE-IT trial, mineral oil was used as the placebo in the control group which resulted in higher atherogenic lipoproteins in that arm. This raised concerns that both the negative effects from the mineral oil in the control group and the positive effects of EPA in the treatment group underlies the observed reduction in major cardiac events seen in the trial. However, Olshansky et al reviewed eight studies that used mineral oil as a placebo which showed no evidence that mineral oil in the dosage used in the REDUCE-IT trial had any effect on clinical outcomes ( 50 ). Given the opposite results of the two trials, further investigation is needed in regards to EPA levels and drug formulations. A secondary analysis of the STRENGTH trial showed no cardiovascular benefits at the highest levels of DHA or EPA ( 51 ). A meta-analysis which includes the REDUCE-IT and STRENGTH trails show that there was a higher risk of atrial fibrillation in groups treated with omega-3 fatty acids than placebo ( 52 ). These studies cast doubt on the benefits of lowering TG levels to reduce ASCVD and necessitate further evaluation in the potential adverse effects of omega 3 fatty acids. Collectively, studies suggest that fibrate monotherapy leading to a reduction in TG levels prevents coronary events. Many of these studies also show improvements in HDL-c levels which may contribute to the improvements in CVD seen; however, recent HDL-c raising studies (using CETP inhibitors) have not found improved cardiovascular benefits suggesting that the decrease in TG levels contributed to the reduction of CVD
