Risk of Fasting and Non-Fasting Hypertriglyceridemia in Coronary Vascular Disease and Pancreatitis
KEYWORDS: levels, risk, pubmed, hypertriglyceridemia, patients, cvd, study, cardiovascular, fasting, triglycerides, cholesterol, triglyceride, postprandial, disease, therapy


in CVD seen; however, recent HDL-c raising studies (using CETP inhibitors) have not found improved cardiovascular benefits suggesting that the decrease in TG levels contributed to the reduction of CVD seen in the fibrate studies. It has been difficult to demonstrate an ASCVD benefit with TG lowering in patients taking statins. At present, guidelines have not been recommending TG lowering in patients with elevated TG levels to reduce CVD. The lack of evidence to support an ASCVD benefit for TG lowering in patients already using statins may be due to insufficient lowering of TG levels, effects that counter the beneficial effects of lowering TG levels (e.g. in the PROMINENT trial non-HDL-c increased), or perhaps inclusion of inappropriate study populations. Post-Prandial TG as a CVD Risk Factor There is also growing evidence that postprandial hypertriglyceridemia may be a better indicator of the presence or development of CVD than fasting hypertriglyceridemia. In the Women’s Health Study, a prospective cohort of 26,330 initially healthy women with over 11 years of follow up, it was observed that higher non-fasting TG levels were strongly associated with an increased risk of future cardiovascular events independent of baseline cardiac risk factors, levels of other lipids, and markers of insulin resistance. The concentrations of lipids and apolipoproteins differed minimally when measurements were performed on non-fasting compared to fasting blood samples, except for TG, which were higher when non-fasting. There was a > 4-fold increased risk of a cardiovascular event among individuals with postprandial TG concentrations peaking at 2-4 hours following a meal. This study showed that HDL-c, TG, total cholesterol/HDL-c ratio, and apolipoprotein B predict CVD when measured in non-fasting samples. By contrast, total cholesterol, LDL, and non-HDL cholesterol, in addition to apolipoprotein B-100 and B-100/A-I ratio, may provide less useful CVD risk information when measured non-fasting ( 53 , 54 ). In a Norwegian study which included 42,600 women and 43,641 men ages 20 – 50 years at inclusion, with a mean follow-up of 27 years, non-fasting TG were positively associated with CVD death in both genders, with hazard ratios being higher in women than in men. However, after adjustment for cholesterol, systolic blood pressure, and smoking, and in a sub-sample also HDL-c, the associations were distinctly attenuated ( 55 ). In another study, the Copenhagen City Heart Study, a prospective cardiovascular study of the Danish general population initiated in 1976, 7581 women and 6391 men who
