Risk of Fasting and Non-Fasting Hypertriglyceridemia in Coronary Vascular Disease and Pancreatitis
KEYWORDS: levels, risk, pubmed, hypertriglyceridemia, patients, cvd, study, cardiovascular, fasting, triglycerides, cholesterol, triglyceride, postprandial, disease, therapy


attenuated ( 55 ). In another study, the Copenhagen City Heart Study, a prospective cardiovascular study of the Danish general population initiated in 1976, 7581 women and 6391 men who had lipids measured at baseline in 1976-1978, were followed for up to 31 years without losses to follow-up, and most were not taking lipid-lowering therapy. The study found that the cumulative incidence of myocardial infarction, ischemic heart disease, and death increased with increasing levels of non-fasting TG levels. Non-fasting TG level were a better predictor of coronary heart disease in women whereas non-fasting cholesterol level was a better predictor in men. However, non-fasting cholesterol levels were not found to be associated with total mortality ( 56 , 57 ). A Japanese study which included 4,988 participants with diabetes already on statin therapy, evaluated the relationship between fasting and non-fasting TGs and cardiovascular events. It showed that cardiac events were associated with elevated fasting and non-fasting TG. However, the study found that non-fasting TG was more helpful for risk assessment for future CVD instead of fasting TG ( 58 ). Data from these studies provide evidence for a link between non-fasting TG and cardiovascular disease and support the concept that non-fasting TG levels may strongly predict the risk of cardiovascular events. Mechanisms by Which TG are a CVD Risk Factor The exact mechanism by which TG may promote vascular disease remains to be elucidated. A possible explanation for TG being associated with increased CVD is that elevated levels of postprandial TG may indicate a high content of TRLs derived from chylomicrons and VLDL. Given their relatively small size, these TRLs can enter the arterial wall, and contribute to the formation of foam cells and thus cause atherosclerosis. The remnant particles under normal conditions are rapidly taken up by the liver. However, in people with the metabolic syndrome or T2DM, hepatic clearance of remnant particles can be delayed and thus there is a predisposition towards increased production of remnant particles and small dense LDL and HDL particles. Thus, increased production along with prolonged exposure of circulating remnant particles enhances the possibility for the particles to be trapped in the arterial wall. Accordingly, remnant lipoproteins have been shown to increase the risk of atherosclerotic heart disease. This suggests a need to direct attention towards diagnosis and treatment of high TG levels in conjunction with treating high cholesterol levels ( 59 ). These studies
