Risk of Fasting and Non-Fasting Hypertriglyceridemia in Coronary Vascular Disease and Pancreatitis
KEYWORDS: levels, risk, pubmed, hypertriglyceridemia, patients, cvd, study, cardiovascular, fasting, triglycerides, cholesterol, triglyceride, postprandial, disease, therapy


reference ranges, and the variability of postprandial lipid measurements have hampered their routine clinical use ( 62 ). A Fat Tolerance Test (FTT) has been used to assess post prandial lipoproteins. An expert panel suggests that individuals with fasting TG concentrations between 1-2 mmol/l (89-180 mg/dL) would have better risk assessment by being tested with a FTT than with just fasting TG. Individuals with fasting TG concentration of less than 1 mmol/l (88.5 mg/dL) commonly do not have exaggerated and delayed response of TGs to a FTT, whereas individuals with elevated fasting TG values above 2 mmol/l (180 mg/dL) are expected to have an exaggerated and delayed response of TG to a FTT. These two patient populations would not benefit from a FTT for better risk assessment( 63 ). Fat Tolerance Testing Given that humans spend most of their awake time in a post prandial state, various factors including fasting concentrations of serum TGs, time of the day when test is undertaken, the fat content and quality of FTT need to be considered. An expert panel statement recommends measuring total TGs to evaluate the post prandial lipemia response 4 hours after a standardized FTT performed after an 8 hour fast. There has been significant variability in the fat- rich meals used for FTT ranging from dairy products, eggs, oils, to liquid formulations. An expert panel suggests a FTT meal consisting of 75 g fat including both saturated and unsaturated fatty acids ( 63 ). ApoB-48 is an alternative marker for the assessment of post prandial hypertriglyceridemia as it measures the number of circulating chylomicrons and their remnants after a meal (there is one ApoB-48 per chylomicron particle). The level of ApoB-48 is very low compared to ApoB-100 in the fasting state but it increases after a FTT. However, the lack of internationally recognized standardized assays and reference ranges, limited availability of the ApoB-48 assay, and high costs limit the utilization of ApoB-48 in clinical settings ( 62 , 64 ). Secondary Causes of Hypertriglyceridemia Individuals found to have any elevation of fasting TG should be evaluated for secondary causes including endocrine conditions and medications ( Table 1 ) ( 65 , 66 ). Patients with untreated diabetes, obesity, and insulin resistant states commonly have elevated TG levels ( 67 , 68 ). Other endocrine disorders such as hypothyroidism, Cushing’s disease, and growth hormone deficiency can also be associated with elevated
