Risk of Fasting and Non-Fasting Hypertriglyceridemia in Coronary Vascular Disease and Pancreatitis
KEYWORDS: levels, risk, pubmed, hypertriglyceridemia, patients, cvd, study, cardiovascular, fasting, triglycerides, cholesterol, triglyceride, postprandial, disease, therapy


resistant states commonly have elevated TG levels ( 67 , 68 ). Other endocrine disorders such as hypothyroidism, Cushing’s disease, and growth hormone deficiency can also be associated with elevated TG levels ( 8 ). TG levels can also significantly increase during pregnancy owing to estrogen-induced stimulation of the secretion of hepatic TRLs ( 69 ). In women with underlying disorders of TG metabolism, this increase in TG levels during pregnancy can be associated with pancreatitis and fetal loss. Alcohol intake increases hepatic fatty acid synthesis and decreases breakdown resulting in increased hepatic VLDL secretion and hypertriglyceridemia. Lipodystrophies, either primary or as seen in HIV treated patients or with other diseases is also associated with hypertriglyceridemia ( 8 ). There are several monogenic autosomal recessive disorders that lead to hypertriglyceridemia ( table 1 ). LPL deficiency, apo CII deficiency, and GPIHBP1 loss of function mutations (or antibodies to LPL or GPIHBP1) are associated with impaired LPL activity and present in young patients with an increased risk of chylomicronemia and pancreatitis. Additional genetic syndromes in the differential diagnosis of hypertriglyceridemia include mixed or familial combined hyperlipidemia (FCHL), type III dysbetalipoproteinemia, and familial hypertriglyceridemia (FHTG) ( 70 ). Many patients have multiple genetic variants and combined with environmental factors, can cause hypertriglyceridemia. However, a study with 563 patients with severe hypertriglyceridemia showed that 14.4% had heterozygous rare variants known to cause hypertriglyceridemia while 3.8% of the control group had these variants as well indicating that these variants are incompletely or partly penetrant. Polygenic risk can now be assessed by a polygenic score. An elevated score increases the probability of developing hypertriglyceridemia, but it is not an absolute predictor of developing hypertriglyceridemia ( 71 ). Many drugs also raise triglyceride levels ( table 1 ). Oral estrogens increase the hepatic secretion of VLDL causing an increase in serum TG levels ( 72 ). Other medications include Tamoxifen/Raloxifene, retinoids, beta blockers, thiazide inhibitors, corticosteroids, immunosuppressants, antipsychotics, and antiretroviral protease inhibitors ( 8 ). Clomiphene which has been successfully used to aid fertility in women with certain anovulatory disorders, is a synthetic estrogen analog whose biochemical structure is similar to that of tamoxifen. It has been noted to induce severe hypertriglyceridemia and pancreatitis in patients with baseline hypertriglyceridemia ( 73 ). If possible, individuals with secondary hypertriglyceridemia should have the secondary cause addressed, and such individuals may then not need primary, TG-lowering therapy. However, secondary
