Risk of Fasting and Non-Fasting Hypertriglyceridemia in Coronary Vascular Disease and Pancreatitis
KEYWORDS: levels, risk, pubmed, hypertriglyceridemia, patients, cvd, study, cardiovascular, fasting, triglycerides, cholesterol, triglyceride, postprandial, disease, therapy


with baseline hypertriglyceridemia ( 73 ). If possible, individuals with secondary hypertriglyceridemia should have the secondary cause addressed, and such individuals may then not need primary, TG-lowering therapy. However, secondary causes of hypertriglyceridemia cannot always be addressed, in which case providers should consider TG-lowering therapy. Table 1. Causes of Hypertriglyceridemia View in own window Disorders Drugs Monogenic* Hypothyroidism Uncontrolled Diabetes Obesity Chronic renal failure Nephrotic syndrome Pregnancy HIV Cushing’s syndrome Lipodystrophy Inflammatory disease – rheumatoid arthritis, lupus, psoriasis, etc. Alcohol Estrogens Beta blockers Tamoxifen/Raloxifene Glucocorticoids Atypical anti-psychotics Cyclosporine Protease inhibitors Clomiphene Lipoprotein lipase deficiency Apolipoprotein CII deficiency Apolipoprotein AV deficiency GPIHBP1 deficiency Lipase Maturation factor 1 (LMF1) * autosomal recessive disorders. GUIDELINES FOR TRIGLYCERIDE EVALUTION AND MANAGEMENT The Endocrine Society Clinical Guidelines The Endocrine Society Guidelines recommend that the diagnosis of hypertriglyceridemia be based on fasting serum triglyceride levels and defines TG levels of 150 to 199 mg/dL as mild hypertriglyceridemia; 200 to 999 mg/dL as moderate; 1,000 to 1,999 mg/dL as severe; and 2,000 mg/dL or greater as very severe hypertriglyceridemia. The screening for elevated TG levels for all adults is recommended as part of a lipid panel at least every five years. These guidelines recommend against the routine measurement of lipoprotein particle heterogeneity. The guidelines also recommend screening patients with hypertriglyceridemia for secondary causes (medications, alcohol use, endocrine diseases, renal disease, liver disease) and that patients with primary hyperlipidemia be evaluated for family history of dyslipidemia and CVD. The guidelines recommend the use of non-HDL-c (goal 30 mg/dL higher than the LDL-c goal) for both risk stratification and as a target for therapy in patients with moderate hypertriglyceridemia. Initial treatment of patients with mild to moderate hypertriglyceridemia should include lifestyle therapy. For patients with severe to very severe hypertriglyceridemia, dietary modifications in combination with drug treatment should be considered. A fibrate is recommended as a first-line agent in patients with severe or very severe hyperlipidemia ( 8 ). American Association Of Clinical Endocrinologists (AACE) Guidelines Similar to other guidelines, the AACE clinical practice guidelines recommend evaluating all adults >20 years of age for dyslipidemia every 5 years for risk assessment with a fasting (9 to 12-hour fast) lipid profile. In addition, it recommends more frequent assessments for patients with a family history of premature CVD. However, unlike other guidelines, AACE also recommends Apo B measurements to assess for residual risk in patients with increased TG levels (>150 mg/dL)
