Risk of Fasting and Non-Fasting Hypertriglyceridemia in Coronary Vascular Disease and Pancreatitis
KEYWORDS: levels, risk, pubmed, hypertriglyceridemia, patients, cvd, study, cardiovascular, fasting, triglycerides, cholesterol, triglyceride, postprandial, disease, therapy


with a family history of premature CVD. However, unlike other guidelines, AACE also recommends Apo B measurements to assess for residual risk in patients with increased TG levels (>150 mg/dL) or low HDL-c levels (< 40 mg/dL). TG levels less than 150 mg/dL are defined as normal, 150 – 199 mg/dL as borderline high, 200 – 499 mg/dL as high, and levels >500 mg/dL or greater as very high, and AACE recommends maintaining TG levels less than 150 mg/dL. Fibrates are recommended for the treatment of severe hypertriglyceridemia (>500 mg/dL) and lifestyle changes including physical activity, weight loss, and smoking cessation are recommended as first line therapy in moderate hypertriglyceridemia ( 74 ). For adults with hypertriglyceridemia and ASCVD or at increased risk of ASCVD, the use of eicosapentaenoic acid (EPA) is recommended in addition to statins, but not combinations of EPA and docosahexaenoic acid (DHA), and niacin use is strongly discouraged. There is insufficient evidence to support pharmacologic treatment recommendations for adults with severe hypertriglyceridemia (≥500 mg/dL) ( 75 ). American College of Cardiology (ACC) Statement on Triglycerides and Cardiovascular Disease In 2021 the ACC published an Expert Consensus Decision Pathway on the management of ASCVD risk reduction in patients with persistent hypertriglyceridemia. In this statement, persistent hypertriglyceridemia is defined as fasting triglycerides ≥150 mg/dL despite 4–12 weeks of lifestyle changes, stable use of maximally tolerated statins (if indicated), and management of secondary causes. Before starting non-statin therapies, at least two fasting lipid panels taken at least two weeks apart should guide clinical decisions. Both fasting and non-fasting lipid profiles are acceptable for ASCVD risk assessment in adults not on lipid-lowering therapy. However, fasting lipid testing is preferred when: a) Diagnosing metabolic syndrome (requires fasting triglycerides ≥150 mg/dL); b) Evaluating lipid disorders in those with a family history of premature ASCVD or genetic lipid disorders; c) Monitoring response to lifestyle or medication therapy in patients on lipid-lowering treatment; and d) Identifying and managing triglycerides ≥500 mg/dL to assess pancreatitis risk. In most people, postprandial triglyceride increases are modest. For non-fasting triglycerides ≥400 mg/dL, a repeat fasting test is advised. The expert panel supported the 2018 AHA/ACC guidelines on lifestyle changes, statins, and LDL-C–lowering therapies, and assessed the added benefit of triglyceride-lowering non-statin treatments across four patient groups: a) Secondary prevention in patients with ASCVD and triglycerides ≥150 mg/dL (fasting) or ≥175 mg/dL (non-fasting), but <500 mg/dL. b) Diabetes (≥40
