Risk of Fasting and Non-Fasting Hypertriglyceridemia in Coronary Vascular Disease and Pancreatitis
KEYWORDS: levels, risk, pubmed, hypertriglyceridemia, patients, cvd, study, cardiovascular, fasting, triglycerides, cholesterol, triglyceride, postprandial, disease, therapy


lifestyle interventions to lower TG may be the appropriate first line of therapy. The use of non-HDL cholesterol levels can help guide decisions. MANANGEMENT OF HYPERTRIGLYCERIDEMIA We recommend different therapeutic interventions for hypertriglyceridemia dependent on the underlying etiology and triglyceride level(s). In patients with mild-to-moderate hypertriglyceridemia (150-499 mg/dL), statin therapy should be incorporated based on ASCVD risk. Eicosapentaenoic acid (EPA) ethyl ester can be added in adults on statins who have moderately elevated TG levels >150 mg/dL with ASCVD or diabetes plus 2 additional risk factors to reduce risk of cardiovascular disease. For patients with multifactorial chylomicronemia syndrome, the primary goal of treatment focuses on achieving TG level below 500 mg/dL to prevent pancreatitis. This is achieved through fibrate therapy, with addition of omega-3 fatty acid. Niacin therapy can be added for further TG lowering, although this can worsen diabetes control. Individuals with familial chylomicronemia syndrome are typically nonresponsive to fibrate and omega-3 fatty acid therapy due to complete absence of lipolytic activity. Historically these individuals were treated with a low-fat diet, restricted to 10-30 g/day of fat or 10-15% of calories as fat, with further limitation of long-chain fatty acids; however, we now suggest consideration of new drugs to suppress apoCIII to reduce TG levels in patients living with familial chylomicronemia syndrome. A more detailed discussion of the above-mentioned therapeutic agents follows below. Lifestyle Intervention Studies have shown that the consumption of a Western diet which includes highly processed, calorie-dense and nutrient poor foods leads to an exaggerated lipemia. In addition, factors such as physical inactivity, cigarette smoking, excessive alcohol intake, and obesity worsen lipemia ( 63 ). Hence, the control of secondary factors and lifestyle changes are considered to be the first line approach of the clinical management of both fasting hypertriglyceridemia and post prandial hyperlipidemia. Appropriate dietary changes include limiting fat and simple sugar content, caloric restriction resulting in weight loss, restriction of alcohol intake, and increased exercise are fundamental for management of hypertriglyceridemia ( 62 , 63 ). The type of carbohydrate consumed may affect serum triglycerides and a diet rich in simple carbohydrates and sugar-sweetened beverages is associated with hypertriglyceridemia. As compared with starches, sugars, particularly sucrose and fructose, tend to increase serum triacylglycerol concentrations by about 60%. Because fructose bypasses a major rate-determining step in glycolysis, a high influx of fructose to the liver promotes triacylglycerol synthesis and VLDL production ( 80 ). The
