Risk of Fasting and Non-Fasting Hypertriglyceridemia in Coronary Vascular Disease and Pancreatitis
KEYWORDS: levels, risk, pubmed, hypertriglyceridemia, patients, cvd, study, cardiovascular, fasting, triglycerides, cholesterol, triglyceride, postprandial, disease, therapy


by about 60%. Because fructose bypasses a major rate-determining step in glycolysis, a high influx of fructose to the liver promotes triacylglycerol synthesis and VLDL production ( 80 ). The effects of sucrose or fructose on fasting TG may be more pronounced in men, sedentary overweight individuals, or those with the metabolic syndrome. Sucrose and fructose also increase postprandial TG levels and may augment the lipemia associated with fat-containing meals ( 81 ). There is mounting evidence that physical activity lowers risk for CVD ( 82 ). Mestek et al. ( 83 ) reported that aerobic exercise lowered the postprandial TG response to a high fat meal in subjects with the metabolic syndrome. The effects of exercise in reducing postprandial lipemia are seen both acutely right after exercise as well as delayed effects through the next day. Additionally, exercise does not need to be a single continuous bout but instead could be spread out throughout the day. Accumulated physical activity appears to be as effective in lowering postprandial TGs concentrations as a single bout ( 84 ). The mechanisms leading to decreased TG levels post meals are not completely understood and need further investigation. Statins Statins are the most widely used lipid lowering agents and have beneficial effects on cardiovascular morbidity and mortality. Statins are effective in lowering non-HDL-c, mainly because of their LDL lowering action and to a certain extent lowering TG levels. The higher the baseline TG levels, the greater the TG lowering effect. Available data also indicate that statins can reduce postprandial TG values ( 66 ). Statins inhibit HMG-CoA reductase, hence up-regulate the LDL receptor due to the intracellular depletion of cholesterol in the liver. Increased numbers of LDL receptors may improve the removal of TRL remnants in postprandial state. It is also postulated that statins inhibit VLDL synthesis ( 85 ). Parhofer et al showed that 10 mg of atorvastatin per day for 4 weeks improves, but does not normalize, post prandial lipoprotein metabolism in hypertriglyceridemic patients ( 86 ). Other studies have also shown that atorvastatin improved fasting as well as postprandial lipemia ( 87 , 88 ). Fibrates Fibrates have the most pronounced effect on lowering plasma TG levels of the currently available lipid lowering therapies. Through activation of peroxisomal proliferator activated receptor (PPAR) alpha, fibrates decrease TGs by increasing LPL activity and decreasing apolipoprotein CIII production leading to increased lipolysis. Fibrates also
