Risk of Fasting and Non-Fasting Hypertriglyceridemia in Coronary Vascular Disease and Pancreatitis
KEYWORDS: levels, risk, pubmed, hypertriglyceridemia, patients, cvd, study, cardiovascular, fasting, triglycerides, cholesterol, triglyceride, postprandial, disease, therapy


lipid lowering therapies. Through activation of peroxisomal proliferator activated receptor (PPAR) alpha, fibrates decrease TGs by increasing LPL activity and decreasing apolipoprotein CIII production leading to increased lipolysis. Fibrates also increase fatty acid oxidation in the liver leading to a decrease in VLDL secretion ( 63 ). The Endocrine Society Clinical Practice Guidelines on Evaluation and Treatment of Hypertriglyceridemia recommend that a fibrate be used as a first line agent for reduction of TGs in patients at risk for triglyceride- induced pancreatitis ( 8 ). The ACCORD trial evaluated the benefit of adding fenofibrate to simvastatin therapy concluded that the addition of fenofibrate in patients with diabetes did not reduce the rate of CVD events. However, in the fenofibrate + simvastatin group there was a significant reduction in cardiovascular risk in the subgroup with clinically significant dyslipidemia marked by elevated TG levels and low HDL levels ( 43 ). Rosenson et al. reported that fenofibrate treatment for 6 weeks significantly decreased both postprandial hypertriglyceridemia and the inflammatory response after the ingestion of a test meal consisting of a milkshake including standardized fat content (68% of energy) that was adjusted to body surface area (50 g/m 2 ) in patients with hypertriglyceridemia and the metabolic syndrome ( 89 ). In a small study (n = 10), bezafibrate was shown to significantly decrease postprandial endothelial dysfunction and elevations of both exogenous and endogenous triglycerides in patients with metabolic syndrome ( 90 ). The effects of fibrates in decreasing postprandial TRLs may play a role in their vascular protective effects. Niacin Niacin decreases TG levels and has pronounced effects on increasing HDL concentration. The mechanism of action of niacin remains unclear, but it is proposed that niacin decreases TG synthesis and hepatic secretion of VLDL. The Coronary Drug Project was a randomized controlled trial that looked at the role of immediate-release niacin as a solo agent for coronary prevention. The Coronary Drug Project showed that niacin was associated with a significant reduction in cardiovascular events ( 91 , 92 ). Studies have shown that both immediate-release and extended-release niacin suppress postprandial hypertriglyceridemia ( 93 , 94 ). The Atherothrombosis Intervention in Metabolic Syndrome with Low HDL/High Triglycerides: Impact on Global Health Outcomes (AIM-HIGH) trial showed that the addition of niacin to statin therapy in patients with CVD and LDL cholesterol levels of less than 70 mg per deciliter had no incremental clinical benefit
