Risk of Fasting and Non-Fasting Hypertriglyceridemia in Coronary Vascular Disease and Pancreatitis
KEYWORDS: levels, risk, pubmed, hypertriglyceridemia, patients, cvd, study, cardiovascular, fasting, triglycerides, cholesterol, triglyceride, postprandial, disease, therapy


trial showed that the addition of niacin to statin therapy in patients with CVD and LDL cholesterol levels of less than 70 mg per deciliter had no incremental clinical benefit during a 36-month follow-up period, despite significant improvements in HDL cholesterol and TG levels ( 2 ). However, a trend towards benefit (hazard ratio 0.74; p=0.073) was found for the subset of patients with both the highest TG levels and lowest HDL levels (>198 and <33mg/dL respectively) ( 95 ). Lipids in this study were measured in fasting state. Similarly, the Heart Protection Study 2-Treatment of HDL to Reduce the Incidence of Vascular Events (HPS2 –THRIVE) study, which compared niacin + laropiprant (a prostaglandin D2 receptor antagonist used as an anti-flushing agent) + statin vs statin alone did not find added benefit of niacin. However, this lack of additional benefit may be related to the patient population studied which did not have elevated TG levels ( 96 ) and a possible benefit may be seen for subjects with both elevated TG and low HDL. Further studies are needed to access the effects of niacin on hypertriglyceridemia in metabolic syndrome and patients with T2DM. Ezetimibe Ezetimibe is a cholesterol lowering agent that inhibits the intestinal absorption of cholesterol ( 97 ). Recent studies show that ezetimibe alone or in conjunction with statins also reduces postprandial hypertriglyceridemia. Masuda, et al. showed that ezetimibe significantly decreased TGs in the fasting state along with a decrease in postprandial elevations of cholesterol and TG levels in the chylomicrons (CM) size range, suggesting that the postprandial production of CM particles was suppressed by ezetimibe ( 98 ). In a study by Olijhoek et al, combination therapy with low dose simvastatin and ezetimibe was shown to preserve post-fat load endothelial function when compared to treatment with high-dose simvastatin monotherapy in male metabolic syndrome patients ( 99 ). The Improved Reduction of Outcomes: Vytorin Efficacy International trial (IMPROVE-IT), a multicenter, randomized, double-blind trial of 18,144 moderate-high risk patients stabilized following ACS, was conducted to investigate if the addition of ezetimibe to a statin improves cardiovascular outcomes relative to statin monotherapy in these patients. The results from this study suggest that the addition of ezetimibe to statin therapy improves cardiovascular outcomes, but likely via further LDL-c lowering ( 100 ). Fish Oil Omega 3 polyunsaturated fatty acids (PUFAs) have dose dependent TG lowering effects resulting from variety of mechanisms
