Risk of Fasting and Non-Fasting Hypertriglyceridemia in Coronary Vascular Disease and Pancreatitis
KEYWORDS: levels, risk, pubmed, hypertriglyceridemia, patients, cvd, study, cardiovascular, fasting, triglycerides, cholesterol, triglyceride, postprandial, disease, therapy


cardiovascular outcomes, but likely via further LDL-c lowering ( 100 ). Fish Oil Omega 3 polyunsaturated fatty acids (PUFAs) have dose dependent TG lowering effects resulting from variety of mechanisms including decreased VLDL secretion and improved VLDL TG clearance ( 101 ). In the Japan EPA Lipid Intervention Study (JELIS) trial, 18,645 patients in Japan were recruited between 1996 and 1999 and assigned to receive either 1800 mg of eicosapentaenoic acid (EPA) daily with statin or statin only. A 19% relative reduction in major coronary events (p = 0.011) was seen in patients in the EPA group. Unstable angina and non-fatal coronary events were significantly reduced; however, sudden cardiac death and coronary death did not differ between the groups ( 102 ). As discussed above, REDUCE-IT and STRENGTH studied the effects of high dose omega-3 fatty acids and had differing results. The REDUCE-IT trail with 8,179 patients showed a decrease in major cardiac events with high dose icosapent ethyl (4g/d EPA), while the STRENGTH trial with 13,086 patients showed no effects on cardiac events with high dose EPA/DHA carboxylic acid (4g/d) ( 47 , 48 ). A few studies have examined the effects of fish oil supplementation on postprandial lipemia and found that fish oil use decreases fasting and postprandial triglyceride levels ( 103 , 104 ). A study looking at the effect of fish oil, exercise and the combined treatments on fasting and postprandial chylomicron metabolism showed that combining fish oil with chronic exercise, reduced the plasma concentration of pro-atherogenic chylomicron remnants; in addition it reduced the fasting and postprandial TG response in viscerally obese insulin resistant subjects ( 105 ). For additional information on drugs to treat hyperlipidemia see the chapters on triglyceride lowering drugs and cholesterol lowering drugs in Endotext ( 106 , 107 ). Therapies Targeting APOC3 APOC3 is a CVD risk factor due to its association with increased triglyceride levels. Antisense oligonucleotides (ASOs) are novel therapeutic agents that bind mRNA leading to its degradation. An ASO to APOC3 was found to lower APOC3 and triglyceride levels. A RCT evaluating this ASO in patients with hypertriglyceridemia (fasting triglyceride levels between 350-2000 mg/dL if not on triglyceride-lowering therapy, or 225-2000 mg/dL if on a fibrate) found that it led to reductions in triglyceride levels of 30-71% over the 13-week trial period. After the ASO was discontinued triglyceride levels returned towards baseline levels over the next 13 weeks.
