Risk of Fasting and Non-Fasting Hypertriglyceridemia in Coronary Vascular Disease and Pancreatitis
KEYWORDS: levels, risk, pubmed, hypertriglyceridemia, patients, cvd, study, cardiovascular, fasting, triglycerides, cholesterol, triglyceride, postprandial, disease, therapy


receive varying doses and routes of evinacumab or placebo. In the evinacumab cohorts, reduced TGs were rapidly seen in a dose-dependent manner. The study showed no serious or severe treatment emergent adverse events ( 116 ). Further clinical trials using either monoclonal antibody or antisense technology are ongoing. Zodasiran, a GalNAc-conjugated siRNA targeting ANGPTL3 mRNA, was evaluated in the phase 2 ARCHES-2 trial involving 204 patients with mixed hyperlipidemia. It produced dose-dependent triglyceride reductions of up to 63%, with 88% of patients on the highest dose (200 mg) achieving target TG levels. The treatment also lowered LDL-C, non-HDL-C, HDL-C, remnant cholesterol, lipoprotein(a), and apoB, though LDL-C reductions were less in patients with higher baseline TG levels. Zodasiran was generally well tolerated, with no major safety concerns. A transient HbA1c rise and increased urinary tract infections were observed in diabetic patients at the highest dose ( 117 ). New Agents on the Horizon FGF21 is a key metabolic regulator that enhances insulin sensitivity, promotes fatty acid oxidation, and facilitates triglyceride-rich lipoprotein (TRL) clearance, ultimately lowering non-HDL cholesterol and improving atherosclerosis in animal models ( 118 - 120 ). Its analog, pegozafermin , developed to extend FGF21’s half-life and reduce off-target effects, significantly reduced triglycerides (up to 54%) and increased HDL-C in clinical trials involving patients with elevated triglycerides ( 121 ) . In the phase 2 ENTRIGUE trial, nearly 80% of treated patients achieved TG levels below 500 mg/dL, with additional improvements in apoB, apoC-III, and HDL-C ( 122 ). Pegozafermin was well tolerated, with only mild-to-moderate GI side effects. A phase 3 trial (ENTRUST) is ongoing to further evaluate its long-term efficacy and safety. Weight Management Therapies and Hypertriglyceridemia Please see other chapters for further discussion of the role of weight management ( 68 ). CONCLUSION Recent data strongly indicate that fasting as well as non-fasting hypertriglyceridemia is a risk factor for atherosclerosis and CVD. Current treatment goals aimed at lowering LDL-c still do not eliminate residual risk of CVD. Current guidelines focus mainly on LDL-c levels and correction of hypertriglyceridemia is not the focus of current treatment. However, focus on elevated hypertriglyceridemia deserves renewed attention, particularly as one-third of all adults in the United States suffer from elevated TG and growing number of people are diagnosed with metabolic syndrome or T2DM. There is a need for more studies specifically testing the benefits of lowering hypertriglyceridemia. Additionally, the usefulness of
