Pharmacological Causes of Hyperprolactinemia
KEYWORDS: prolactin, pubmed, levels, hyperprolactinemia, prolactin levels, dopamine, patients, receptors, treatment, fold, effect, secretion, release, study, effects


ABSTRACT Hyperprolactinemia represents a multifaceted endocrine disorder with both physiological and pathological causes. The increased use of anti-psychotic and anti-depressant medications has increased the role pharmaceutical agents play in inducing hyperprolactinemia, being the most frequent cause of hyperprolactinemia in clinical practice. This has particularly impacted females, who demonstrate a higher susceptibility to drug-induced hyperprolactinemia. Of these medications, anti-psychotics, neuroleptic-like medications, anti-depressants, and histamine receptor type 2 antagonists, emerge as the most prominent culprits. Furthermore, opioids, some anti-hypertensive agents, proton pump inhibitors, estrogens, and other less potent hyperprolactinemia-inducing medications are recognized as potential contributors to drug-induced hyperprolactinemia. Many herbal medicines are reported as lactogenic, but their ability to cause hyperprolactinemia remains unclear. This review endeavors to elucidate the intricate mechanisms underlying the induction of hyperprolactinemia by pharmacological agents. We have included available data on the prevalence and extent of drug-induced changes in prolactin levels. We have also included data on herbal agents. We have highlighted where controversial data are identified. Although a detailed exploration of how these medications impact prolactin regulation is beyond the scope of this chapter, this review aims to deepen our understanding of the interplay between pharmacological agents and their effects on prolactin levels, contributing to valuable insights, refined therapeutic approaches, and better patient care. For complete coverage of all related areas of Endocrinology, please visit our on-line FREE web-text, WWW.ENDOTEXT.ORG . INTRODUCTION The most common cause of consistently high prolactin levels is drug-induced hyperprolactinemia. The overall incidence is higher in women compared to men. Drug-induced causes tripled during the 20-year follow-up period, reflecting the increased prevalence of psychoactive drug use ( 1 ). Several drugs have been reported to induce hyperprolactinemia, either by inhibiting dopamine receptors or their actions or by directly stimulating prolactin secretion ( 2 ). High levels of prolactin can be attributed to various physiological factors, such as pregnancy and breast-feeding, while minor increases in prolactin levels may also occur during ovulation, after sexual intercourse, during periods of stress, exercise, after food intake, or in association with irritation of the chest wall and breast stimulation. Pathological causes can be related to hypothalamo-pituitary disorders or non-hypothalamo-pituitary disorders. Hypothalamo-pituitary disorders include prolactin-secreting pituitary tumors (including lactotroph tumors, mammo-somatotroph tumors, mature pluri-hormonal PIT1-lineage tumors, immature PIT1-lineage tumors, acidophil stem cell tumors, multi-hormonal pituitary tumors, mixed somatotroph, and lactotroph tumors, and pluri-hormonal tumors) ( 3 ); hypothalamic and pituitary stalk compression or damage (non-prolactin-secreting pituitary adenomas, craniopharyngiomas, meningiomas,
