Pharmacological Causes of Hyperprolactinemia
KEYWORDS: prolactin, pubmed, levels, hyperprolactinemia, prolactin levels, dopamine, patients, receptors, treatment, fold, effect, secretion, release, study, effects


acidophil stem cell tumors, multi-hormonal pituitary tumors, mixed somatotroph, and lactotroph tumors, and pluri-hormonal tumors) ( 3 ); hypothalamic and pituitary stalk compression or damage (non-prolactin-secreting pituitary adenomas, craniopharyngiomas, meningiomas, germinomas, granulomas, metastasis, Rathke cleft cysts, hypophysitis, radiation, surgery, and trauma); infiltrative pituitary disorders; pituitary hyperplasia (McCune-Albright, Carney complex, X-LAG). Other causes include primary hypothyroidism; adrenal insufficiency; systemic diseases such as chronic renal failure and liver cirrhosis; polycystic ovary syndrome; neurogenic causes (chest wall trauma or surgery, herpes zoster); seizures; untreated severe phenylketonuria; pseudocyesis (false pregnancy); autoimmune diseases (lupus, rheumatoid arthritis, multiple sclerosis, systemic sclerosis, Behcet’s disease, polymyositis); cancers (breast, ovarian, colon, hepatocellular) ( 4 ). During the diagnostic process of hyperprolactinemia, it is crucial to consider the possibility of macroprolactinoma and the ‘hook’ effect, although the latter is usually not relevant in drug-induced cases ( 5 ). Drug-induced hyperprolactinemia is often characterized by prolactin levels ranging from 25 to 100 ng/mL (530-2130 mIU/L). However, certain medications including metoclopramide, risperidone, amisulpride, and phenothiazines can lead to prolactin levels surpassing 200 ng/mL (4255 mIU/L) ( 6 ). On similar doses of prolactin-raising anti-psychotics, women with chronic use are more likely to develop hyperprolactinemia than men, reaching significantly higher prolactin levels, with mean levels of 50 ng/mL (1065 mIU/L) ( 7 , 8 ). Younger age was associated with higher prolactin levels in women, but not in men ( 8 , 9 ). Route of drug administration is important, with prolactin levels returning to normal after cessation of the drug: within 2-3 weeks after stopping oral treatment, but no sooner than 6 months after discontinuation of intramuscular depot administration ( 10 ). This chapter will encompass a comprehensive discussion of all pharmacological causes as well as some alternative factors contributing to changes in prolactin levels especially hyperprolactinemia. EPIDEMIOLOGY Drug-induced hyperprolactinemia is the most common cause of consistently high prolactin levels. A retrospective follow-up study conducted in Scotland, involving 32,289 hyperprolactinemic individuals from 1993 to 2013, concluded that within the non-pregnancy-related group, the most prominent cause was drug-induced hyperprolactinemia (45.9%), followed by pituitary disorders (25.6%), macroprolactinoma (7.5%), and hypothyroidism (6.1%). Nevertheless, 15% of cases were deemed idiopathic. The overall incidence was higher in women aged 25-44 years old compared to men ( 1 ). Female predominance is reported in other studies with a female: male ratio of 5.9:1 and the mean age at diagnosis of hyperprolactinemia is 40 (range 14–85) years ( 2
