Pharmacological Causes of Hyperprolactinemia
KEYWORDS: prolactin, pubmed, levels, hyperprolactinemia, prolactin levels, dopamine, patients, receptors, treatment, fold, effect, secretion, release, study, effects


). Female predominance is reported in other studies with a female: male ratio of 5.9:1 and the mean age at diagnosis of hyperprolactinemia is 40 (range 14–85) years ( 2 , 11 ).The position of hyperprolactinemia as a side effect of medications has been assessed in a French Pharmacovigilance Database from 1985 to 2000, which reported 159 cases of hyperprolactinemia out of 182,836 adverse drug reactions ( 11 ). The rates of hyperprolactinemia related to therapeutic drug classes were recorded as 31% associated with anti-psychotics, 28% with neuroleptic-like drugs (medications with a similar mechanism of actions as neuroleptics, but used for different purposes, for example movement disorders or anti-emetics), 26% with anti-depressants, 5% with histamine receptor type 2 (H2-receptor) antagonists, and 10% with other drugs. PROLACTIN CONTROL MECHANISMS Prolactin is a polypeptide primarily produced in the anterior pituitary gland, with secondary production occurring in other tissues such as the gonads, mammary gland, endometrium, prostate, lymphocytes, hematopoietic cells, skin, brain, retina, inner ear cochlea, decidua, pancreas, liver, endothelium, and adipose tissue ( 12 – 14 ). In breast and prostate cancer, prolactin has even been proposed as a tumor marker ( 15 , 16 ). Prolactin acts through prolactin receptors (PRLR), which belong to the family of cytokine receptors associated with the non-receptor tyrosine Janus kinase 2. PRLR can activate the JAK-STAT (Janus kinase-signal transducer and activator of transcription) pathway, MAPK (mitogen-activated protein kinase), PI3 (phosphoinositide 3-kinase), Src kinase, as well as the Nek3 / Vav2 / Rac1 serine / threonine kinase pathway ( 17 ). There are different isoforms of this receptor: a long isoform, intermediate isoform, 2 short isoforms S1a and S1b which are formed by alternative splicing and partial deletion of exons 10 and 11, and soluble PRLR ( 18 ). These different isoforms are expressed in different tissues, mostly studied in rats. The long isoform is mainly expressed in the adrenal glands, kidneys, mammary glands, small intestine, bile ducts, choroid plexus, and pancreas whereas the short isoform is in the liver and ovaries ( 19 ). Prolactin possesses nearly 300 functions apart from lactation including neuroprotection and neurogenesis, offspring recognition by both parents, adipose and weight homeostasis, islet functions, immune regulation, angiogenesis, osmoregulation, and mitogenesis ( 20 ). The secretion of prolactin produced by lactotroph cells in the anterior pituitary gland has a circadian rhythm with higher levels during sleep and lower levels during wakefulness ( 21
