Pharmacological Causes of Hyperprolactinemia
KEYWORDS: prolactin, pubmed, levels, hyperprolactinemia, prolactin levels, dopamine, patients, receptors, treatment, fold, effect, secretion, release, study, effects


). The secretion of prolactin produced by lactotroph cells in the anterior pituitary gland has a circadian rhythm with higher levels during sleep and lower levels during wakefulness ( 21 ). Even though pulsatility frequency does not significantly change over 24 hours, the amplitude of pulses is higher during night and day sleep, while wakefulness is associated with an immediate offset of active secretion. Prolactin is lower during the rapid eye movement stage of sleep ( 22 ). The synthesis and secretion of prolactin is under the complex control of peptides, steroid hormones, and neurotransmitters, which can act as inhibitory or stimulatory factors, either by a direct effect on lactotroph cells or by indirect pathways through inhibition of dopaminergic tracts, and are widely studied in mammals ( 2 ). Dopamine plays a crucial role in inhibiting prolactin secretion. Dopamine can bind the five types of dopamine receptors (G-protein coupled receptors): DRD1, DRD2, DRD3, DRD4 and DRD5, while lactotroph cells express mainly D2 receptors. Dopamine can reach the pituitary via three pathways ( Figure 1 ): through the tuberoinfundibular dopaminergic (TIDA) system, the tuberohypophysial tract (THDA), and the periventricular hypophyseal (PHDA) dopaminergic neurons ( 23 ). TIDA neurons originate from the rostral arcuate nucleus of the hypothalamus and release dopamine into the perivascular spaces of the medial eminence and through long portal vessels dopamine reaches the anterior pituitary gland. The THDA neurons originate in the rostral arcuate nucleus and project into the medial and posterior pituitary lobes and release dopamine at these sites. From THDA tract dopamine then reaches lactotroph cells through the short portal vessels ( 24 ). PHDA neurons originate in the periventricular nucleus and axons terminate in the intermediate lobe and dopamine release follows the same direction as from the THDA neurons. Prolactin-inhibiting neurons are considered to be a functional unit working synchronously ( 23 ). The binding of dopamine to D2 receptors on the plasma membrane of lactotroph cells inhibits prolactin protein, PRL gene transcription, as well as lactotroph proliferation ( 24 ). The release of prolactin through exocytosis of prolactin secretory granules is influenced by dopamine through various pathways. Specifically, D2 receptors are coupled with pertussis toxin-sensitive G proteins, which subsequently inhibit adenylate cyclase activity, resulting in decreased levels of cyclic adenosine monophosphate (cAMP) ( 25 ). Additionally, the activation of potassium (K+) channels occurs, leading to a reduction in voltage-gated calcium (Ca 2+ ) currents
