Pharmacological Causes of Hyperprolactinemia
KEYWORDS: prolactin, pubmed, levels, hyperprolactinemia, prolactin levels, dopamine, patients, receptors, treatment, fold, effect, secretion, release, study, effects


prolactin release within pituitary gland as shown in Figure 1 . Other prolactin inhibitory factors include somatostatin, acetylcholine, endothelins, gastrin, and growth hormone, while stimulatory factors include thyrotropin-releasing hormone (TRH) (as seen in primary hypothyroidism), angiotensin II, vasopressin, oxytocin, VIP, galanin, and estrogen. Experiments conducted on rats to elucidate the relationship between the adrenergic system and the regulation of prolactin secretion have focused on stimulating or inhibiting α and β adrenergic receptors. Functional hyperprolactinemia is a complex hormonal interplay of stress-induced neuroendocrine changes involving the dopamine, serotonin and adrenergic systems ( 36 , 37 ). Evidence suggests that the mediobasal hypothalamus and preoptic-anterior hypothalamus harbor the primary adrenoreceptors ( 38 , 39 ). Injecting the α2 agonist clonidine into the mediobasal hypothalamus resulted in a dose-dependent increase in prolactin secretion. This effect was counteracted by the blockade of idazoxan (α2 antagonist). Similarly, the stimulation of prolactin release was induced by isoprenaline (β agonist) and notably attenuated by the β antagonist propranolol. The β2 agonist salbutamol also exhibited efficacy in stimulating prolactin secretion. Conversely, adrenergic agonists such as noradrenaline (mixed α and β), phenylephrine (α1), and tyramine (sympathomimetic) in the mediobasal hypothalamus, failed to elicit an effect on prolactin secretion. Within the preoptic anterior hypothalamus, noradrenaline and adrenaline were found to stimulate prolactin secretion ( 40 ). However, the administration of the α1 agonist phenylephrine failed to stimulate prolactin, indirectly suggesting that the stimulatory effect of noradrenaline in the preoptic anterior hypothalamus is likely due to its action at α2 sites. α2 agonism has been shown to reduce the function of tuberoinfundibular dopaminergic neurons leading to increase prolactin production and secretion ( 41 ). Consequently, it was inferred that the activation of α2 and β adrenoceptors in the mediobasal hypothalamus and α2 adrenoceptors in the preoptic-anterior hypothalamus, proximal to prolactin-regulating neurons, leads to heightened prolactin secretion, while the action of α1 in the mediobasal hypothalamus may be inhibitory ( 42 ). Cholinergic activation may have opposite roles in rodents and humans. Cholinergic agonists suppress prolactin release induced by morphine in rats, suggesting that the central cholinergic system has an inhibitory effect on the prolactin release triggered by morphine or β-endorphine, but this cholinergic inhibition does not occur through catecholaminergic neurons ( 43 ). Conversely, in humans, cholinomimetic drugs can increase prolactin levels associated with raised plasma β-endorphin, suggesting a stimulatory interplay of cholinergic factors and endogenous opioids on prolactin levels (
