Pharmacological Causes of Hyperprolactinemia
KEYWORDS: prolactin, pubmed, levels, hyperprolactinemia, prolactin levels, dopamine, patients, receptors, treatment, fold, effect, secretion, release, study, effects


43 ). Conversely, in humans, cholinomimetic drugs can increase prolactin levels associated with raised plasma β-endorphin, suggesting a stimulatory interplay of cholinergic factors and endogenous opioids on prolactin levels ( 44 ), although circulating opioids may not directly relate to central levels. TIDA neurons express estradiol and progesterone receptors. Estradiol action leads to reduced secretion of dopamine into the portal blood system and mediates a prolactin surge. Progesterone, in addition, suppresses dopamine release being responsible for the plateau phase of the surge ( 23 ). Estrogen specifically affects prolactin synthesis by influencing lactotroph cell sensitivity, expression of pituitary dopamine receptor downregulation, and the expression of the prolactin receptor gene ( 2 , 34 ). Ghrelin, a hormone involved in metabolic balance, directly stimulates prolactin secretion at the pituitary level ( 45 ). Tachykinins (substance P, neurokinins A, and B, neuropeptide K, neuropeptide ϒ) can act directly on the lactotroph cell and indirectly within the hypothalamus or posterior pituitary. They have a multifaceted impact on prolactin secretion, with both stimulatory and inhibitory effects. They can stimulate prolactin secretion by stimulating and potentiating the release of oxytocin, vasopressin, TRH, VIP, serotonin and glutamate, and by inhibiting GABA. Tachykinins through paracrine actions can directly increase prolactin within the anterior pituitary. They can also increase dopamine but the overall effect is prolactin elevation. Under specific circumstances, the stimulation of dopamine release can be prominent leading to a decrease in prolactin ( 46 ). Endogenous opioids are involved in regulating prolactin secretion, particularly during stressful situations, by reducing the activity of tuberoinfundibular dopaminergic neurons mediated by μ-, κ‑, and δ- opioid receptors, resulting in increased prolactin release ( 47 ). Prolonged nicotine exposure has been associated with desensitization of dopamine receptors, diminished dopamine turnover, and a decrease in their abundance within the nigrostriatal pathways ( 48 ). These alterations have been suggested to contribute to a diminished prolactin response to opiate blockade observed in individuals who smoke. Similar to opioids, histamine has been shown to induce prolactin production predominantly through inhibiting dopaminergic and stimulating serotoninergic and vasopressinergic neurons ( 49 ). Serotoninergic pathways originating from the dorsal raphe nucleus play a physiological role in mediating nocturnal surges and suckling-induced prolactin rises through a serotonin interaction via serotonin type 1 and 2 receptors (5-hydroxytryptamine receptors, 5HT1, and 5HT2). 5-HT could either release a PRL-releasing factor or inhibit dopamine release. The paraventricular nucleus, where serotoninergic pathways terminate,
