Pharmacological Causes of Hyperprolactinemia
KEYWORDS: prolactin, pubmed, levels, hyperprolactinemia, prolactin levels, dopamine, patients, receptors, treatment, fold, effect, secretion, release, study, effects


via serotonin type 1 and 2 receptors (5-hydroxytryptamine receptors, 5HT1, and 5HT2). 5-HT could either release a PRL-releasing factor or inhibit dopamine release. The paraventricular nucleus, where serotoninergic pathways terminate, contains postsynaptic serotonin 5-HT1A, 5-HT2, and 5-HT2C receptor subtypes, and possibly 5-HT3 receptors ( 50 ). It was shown that the prolactin-releasing effect of serotonin probably occurs mostly via 5-HT1C / 2 receptors because ritanserin (an elective 5-HT1C / 2 receptor antagonist) opposed this effect ( 51 ). Serotonin stimulation of prolactin–releasing factor (PRF) neurons in the paraventricular nucleus leads to PRF release (like VIP and oxytocin) mediating hyperprolactinemia. Moreover, serotoninergic stimulation of GABAergic neurons in the tuberoinfundibular-GABA system has been shown to inhibit TIDA cells which contain 5-HT1A receptors, therefore inhibiting dopamine synthesis/release resulting in increased prolactin secretion ( 52 ). Oxytocin, through the posterior pituitary and vasoactive intestinal peptide (VIP) in the anterior pituitary, play significant roles in enhancing PRL gene transcription and modulating dopamine inhibition. Animal studies suggest a potential mediation of VIP by oxytocin to stimulate prolactin secretion ( 53 ). The extensive hormonal regulation of prolactin renders it susceptible to various disturbances caused by different classes of medications. CLINICAL CHARACTERISTICS Persistent hyperprolactinemia is associated with disturbances of the gonadal axis leading to interruptions of gonadotrophin-releasing hormone pulsatility and inhibition of luteinizing hormone and follicle-stimulating hormone release ( 54 ). Clinical manifestations attributed to hyperprolactinemia predominantly stem from the suppression of the gonadal axis. In premenopausal women, a spectrum of menstrual cycle dysfunctions is observed, spanning from luteal phase shortening to complete amenorrhea, often correlating with elevated prolactin levels. Secondary amenorrhea can be due to hyperprolactinemia in up 30% of patients, and up to 75% of patients with amenorrhea and galactorrhea ( 55 ). Beyond these effects, an array of hypoestrogenic indicators may manifest, including symptoms like vaginal dryness, diminished libido, and decreased energy levels. Galactorrhea can be present in up to 80% of females ( 55 , 56 ). In men, the impact of hyperprolactinemia is manifested through a decrease in libido, ranging from diminished sexual desire to oligospermia or even azoospermia attributed to hypogonadotropic hypogonadism. Notably, erectile dysfunction may arise, primarily attributed to the direct inhibitory influence of dopamine, and can be potentially reversed through the administration of dopamine agonists ( 57 ). Gynecomastia, on the contrary, is a manifestation of secondary hypogonadism rather than elevated prolactin levels, whereas galactorrhea is rare in men
