Pharmacological Causes of Hyperprolactinemia
KEYWORDS: prolactin, pubmed, levels, hyperprolactinemia, prolactin levels, dopamine, patients, receptors, treatment, fold, effect, secretion, release, study, effects


through the administration of dopamine agonists ( 57 ). Gynecomastia, on the contrary, is a manifestation of secondary hypogonadism rather than elevated prolactin levels, whereas galactorrhea is rare in men ( 21 ). In both genders infertility can be observed, with diminished bone mineral density. In females, bone mineral density is significantly decreased in women with amenorrhea and increases during treatment and menstrual cycle restoration ( 58 ). Additionally, in cases where hyperprolactinemia is attributed to a mass, accompanying clinical indications may encompass headaches, visual field disturbances, cranial nerve palsies, and hypopituitarism. Notably, these manifestations may be the only clinical features in post-menopausal women ( 21 , 59 ). PSYCHOTROPIC MEDICATIONS Anti-psychotics and neuroleptic-like drugs are psychotropic medications which primarily exert their anti-psychotic effects through the blockade of DRD2 and D4 receptors in the mesolimbic area. Newer classes of anti-psychotics block 5HT2 and sometimes noradrenergic α1 or α2 receptors ( 4 , 35 , 60 ). Blockade of D2 receptors in the hypothalamic tuberoinfundibular system and lactotroph cells results in disinhibition of prolactin secretion leading to hyperprolactinemia, being the most common drugs known to induce hyperprolactinemia ( 61 ) ( Figure 2 ). On the contrary, strong binding to D2 receptors can extend the half-life of dopamine by approximately 50%. This effect is achieved through two primary mechanisms: direct blockade of the dopamine transporter (DAT) and antagonism of D2 autoreceptors. These processes collectively result in reduced reuptake of dopamine, prolonging its presence in the synaptic area and further stimulating an upregulation of receptors. However, it is important to note that chronic use of anti-psychotics can lead to the reversal of upregulation of DAT (mRNA and protein), potentially contributing to treatment resistance and potentially lower prolactin elevations in the long term. Nonetheless, it is worth mentioning that anti-psychotics typically exhibit a lower affinity for dopamine transporter blockade compared to selective DAT blockers such as nomifensine ( 62 ). The potency of anti-psychotics and neuroleptic-like medications to induce a rise in prolactin levels varies ( Table 1 ). The level of prolactin increase depends on the anti-psychotic drug (different affinity and selectivity for dopamine receptors; blood-brain barrier penetrating capability, degree of serotoninergic inhibition), the dose administered, and the patient's age and sex ( 34 , 35 ). Lastly, polymorphisms in genes related to dopamine receptors (such as DRD1, DRD2, DRD3) ( 63 ), dopamine transporters (SLC6A3), and dopamine-metabolizing enzymes (such as monoamine
