Pharmacological Causes of Hyperprolactinemia
KEYWORDS: prolactin, pubmed, levels, hyperprolactinemia, prolactin levels, dopamine, patients, receptors, treatment, fold, effect, secretion, release, study, effects


( 34 , 35 ). Lastly, polymorphisms in genes related to dopamine receptors (such as DRD1, DRD2, DRD3) ( 63 ), dopamine transporters (SLC6A3), and dopamine-metabolizing enzymes (such as monoamine oxidase and catechol-O-methyltransferase) have been associated with individual variations in response to anti-psychotic treatment and the development of side effects, including hyperprolactinemia ( 64 ). Although direct evidence establishing the involvement of adrenergic receptors in hyperprolactinemia caused by antipsychotic and antidepressant medications remains unproven, indirect indications, as elucidated in Figure 1 , suggest the potential implication of these receptors. It is plausible that adrenergic receptors might play a partial role in the hyperprolactinemia induced by these medications. Table 1. Medications and Their Ability to Cause Hyperprolactinemia View in own window Cluster Name Subclass mechanism of action Medications Prolactin increment Frequency of prolactin increment ( 61 , 65 ) Anti-Psychotics First generation anti-psychotics Antagonize/block dopamine receptors, especially D2 receptors. Can block α1 adrenergic receptors. Butaperazine UP to 2-3-fold normal range with dozes 60 mg/daily. Higher in women ( 66 ) High Chlorpromazine Up to 3-fold with initiation of treatment, up to 2-fold in long-term treatment) ( 67 ) Moderate/ High Flupenthixol Up to 2-3-fold during the first month, and normalization in the next few months ( 68 ) High Fluphenazine Up to 3-fold with initiation of treatment, up to 2-fold in long-term treatment ( 67 ). Up to 40-foldof the upper end of the normal range ( 69 ) High Haloperidol Up to 9-fold at the beginning of treatment (3-fold in long-term treatment) ( 70 ) High Loxapine Up to 3-foldof the upper end of the normal range in women ( 66 ) Moderate Perphenazine Up to 40-fold of the upper end of the normal range ( 69 ) Moderate Pimozide ? Moderate Prochlorperazine ? ? Promazine Up to 4-fold of the upper end of the normal range ( 69 ) Thiordiazine Up to 3-fold with initiation of treatment, up to 2-fold in long-term treatment) ( 67 ) High Thiothixene Up to 3-fold with initiation of treatment, up to 2-fold in long-term treatment ( 71 ) Moderate/ High Trifluoperazine ? Moderate Veralipride Up to 10 time increment, transient ( 72 ) High Zuclopenthixole ? ? Second generation anti-psychotics Dopamine receptors blockade especially D2 receptors, serotonin (5-HT) receptor blockade, glutamate modulation, can antagonize α1 or α2 adrenergic receptors and histamine receptors. Amisulpiride Up to 10-fold at the beginning of treatment and remained
