Pharmacological Causes of Hyperprolactinemia
KEYWORDS: prolactin, pubmed, levels, hyperprolactinemia, prolactin levels, dopamine, patients, receptors, treatment, fold, effect, secretion, release, study, effects


but in co-administration of other drug inducing hyperprolactinemia ( 128 ) Case reports Antihistaminic with sedative and antiemetic properties Block histamine receptors. Promethazine ? ? Central Nervous System Stimulants Increase the release and reduce the reuptake of noradrenaline and dopamine in the brain. Amphetamine Mild, only during withdrawal ( 129 ) ? Methylphenidate No effect ( 130 ) Case reports/ No effect ADHD medication α -2 adrenergic agonist. Guanfascine Controversial, it can also lower prolactin ( 131 ) Case reports Decongestant Sympathomimetic amine, predominantly α-1 agonist Pseudoephedrine Lower prolactin levels ( 132 ) Case reports Rheumatoid arthritis medications Reduce inflammation, modify immune response. Bucillamine Mild increment within normal range ( 133 ) Case report Penicillamine ? Case reports Osteoporosis medication Monoclonal antibody that inhibit the receptor activator of nuclear factor kappa-B ligand (RANKL). Denosumab ? Case reports Substance of abuse Blocks the reuptake of noradrenaline, dopamine, and serotonin in the brain. Cocaine Decrease prolactin levels ( 134 ) Mild increment only during withdrawal ( 129 ) Case reports Increases the release and inhibits the reuptake of serotonin and to some extent, dopamine and noradrenaline. Ecstasy Mild or no effect ( 135 ) ? Stimulates nicotinic acetylcholine receptors, leading to the release of neurotransmitters like dopamine and noradrenaline. Smoking Mild increment, transient ( 136 ) Moderate Anti-HIV medications Protease inhibitors that prevent the cleavage of viral proteins and thereby inhibiting viral replication. Ritonavir / Saquinavir Mild ( 137 ) Case reports Radiotherapy Use of high-energy radiation to damage the DNA within the targeted cells. Intracranial radiotherapy ? Moderate ( 138 ) Frequency of increase to abnormal prolactin levels with chronic use: high: >50%; moderate: 25 to 50%; low: <25%; none or low: case reports. The effect may be dose-dependent. Drugs marked with blue have controversial data or decrease prolactin levels as explained in the table. Where we could not identify reliable data for the parameters in the table we added a question mark. *First-generation anti-psychotics, non-selective dopamine receptors antagonists. **Second-generation anti-psychotics. Anti-Psychotics Anti-psychotics are traditionally classified as first- and second-generation, but more recently a new classification taxonomy has been developed by McCutcheon et al. to express different receptor affinity of different anti-psychotics. Due to the impossibility to include in this new classification all drugs that cause hyperprolactinemia, we have used the old classification ( Table 1 ) ( 139 , 140 ). The first-generation anti-psychotics are typically associated with more severe
