Pharmacological Causes of Hyperprolactinemia
KEYWORDS: prolactin, pubmed, levels, hyperprolactinemia, prolactin levels, dopamine, patients, receptors, treatment, fold, effect, secretion, release, study, effects


classification all drugs that cause hyperprolactinemia, we have used the old classification ( Table 1 ) ( 139 , 140 ). The first-generation anti-psychotics are typically associated with more severe hyperprolactinemia (2-3-fold increment), whereas second-generation drugs have lower D2 affinity and stronger blockade of 5HT2A receptors leading to milder prolactin elevations (1-2-fold), except risperidone, paliperidone, and amisulpiride. Amisulpiride has the greatest potential to cause hyperprolactinemia of all anti-psychotics ( 4 ). The first-generation anti-psychotics, such as fluphenazine and haloperidol, act as non-selective dopamine receptors antagonists ( 2 , 10 ). The therapeutic effects on psychotic symptoms occur through D2 and D4 receptor binding in the mesolimbic area, while side effects are mediated by D2 blockade in the striatal area (linked to extrapyramidal effects) and in the hypothalamic infundibular system (linked to hyperprolactinemia) in more than 50% of patients. A clinical trial involving 69 patients examined the effects of various anti-psychotic medications on prolactin levels, including chlorpromazine, depot haloperidol, fluphenazine, zuclopenthixol, sulpiride, pimozide, droperidol, and flupenthixol. The study found a significant elevation in prolactin levels only in females, with a mean level of 1106 mIU/L (52 ng/mL) compared to the normal range of <480 mIU/L (22.6 ng/mL). In males, the mean prolactin levels were within the normal range, which may be attributed to the significantly lower total daily dose of chlorpromazine used in males (199.0-220.1 mg/day) compared to females (384.4-302.48 mg/day, P<0.05) ( 7 ). Second-generation anti-psychotics with lower D2 affinity led to milder prolactin elevations (1-2-fold), except for paliperidone, risperidone, and amisulpiride whose effect on prolactin is similar to the first-generation neuroleptics. Chlorpromazine, loxapine, olanzapine and quetiapine have variable effects on prolactin secretion, while aripiprazole, clozapine, iloperidone, lurasidone have little or no effect on prolactin secretion ( 35 ). An important factor contributing to variations in the induction of hyperprolactinemia by different anti-psychotic medications is the blood-brain barrier. Permeability glycoprotein transporter (P-gp), coded by the ABCB1 gene, is expressed in various tissues including in the cells of the blood-brain barrier. P-gp plays a role in actively transporting hydrophobic drugs with a molecular weight greater than 400 Da out of the brain, thus protecting the brain from these medications; therefore, this protein can change drug bioavailability ( 141 , 142 ). The affinity of risperidone, paliperidone, and amisulpiride (prolactin rises up to 10-fold with these drugs) for P-gp is approximately twice that of olanzapine and chlorpromazine (prolactin rise is up to
