Pharmacological Causes of Hyperprolactinemia
KEYWORDS: prolactin, pubmed, levels, hyperprolactinemia, prolactin levels, dopamine, patients, receptors, treatment, fold, effect, secretion, release, study, effects


The affinity of risperidone, paliperidone, and amisulpiride (prolactin rises up to 10-fold with these drugs) for P-gp is approximately twice that of olanzapine and chlorpromazine (prolactin rise is up to 3-fold with these drugs), and four times greater than haloperidol and clozapine (prolactin rise can be high initially but usually reduces with time) ( 143 ). The higher affinity of risperidone, paliperidone, and amisulpiride to P-gp could, among other mechanisms, partly explain the greater induction of hyperprolactinemia by these drugs, as P-gp does not allow them to enter the brain via the blood-brain barrier. Therefore, the portal circulation of the anterior pituitary delivers a somewhat higher concentration of these drugs to the lactotrophs, which are located outside the blood-brain barrier, to inhibit the D2 receptors ( 144 ). Aripiprazole can act as a partial agonist at D2 receptors and display partial agonist activity at 5HT1A receptors, while also acting as an antagonist at 5HT2A receptors. Antagonism at these receptors can help to normalize prolactin levels since 5HT2A receptor activation has been associated with increased prolactin release. That is why it is considered a prolactin secretion modulator ( 145 ). Its role in prolactin levels has been investigated in a study involving both retrospective and prospective components ( 146 ). The retrospective part of the study included 30 patients undergoing risperidone treatment, when it was observed that after 6 months of treatment, prolactin levels remained high although somewhat lower than at the start of observation. In the prospective part of the study, 30 other patients were divided into two groups: one group receiving risperidone alone at a daily dosage of 2-4 mg and the other group receiving a combination of risperidone and aripiprazole at a daily dosage of 5-10 mg. The group receiving adjunctive aripiprazole exhibited significantly lower serum prolactin levels compared to the risperidone-only group at weeks1 (914±743 vs 1567±1009 mU/L), 2 (750±705 vs 1317±836 mUI/L) and 6 (658±590 vs 1557±882 mUI/L). Notably, during aripiprazole treatment, prolactin levels at weeks 1, 2, and 6 were significantly lower than at baseline (P< 0.05) (at baseline patients were treated with risperidone as monotherapy), suggesting that aripiprazole may effectively alleviate risperidone-induced hyperprolactinemia. Similar findings supporting the role of aripiprazole in reducing prolactin levels have been reported in other studies ( 147 ). Combination therapy presents a promising therapeutic approach for adjunctive treatment or for transitioning from risperidone to mitigate hyperprolactinemia ( 146 ).
