Pharmacological Causes of Hyperprolactinemia
KEYWORDS: prolactin, pubmed, levels, hyperprolactinemia, prolactin levels, dopamine, patients, receptors, treatment, fold, effect, secretion, release, study, effects


have been reported in other studies ( 147 ). Combination therapy presents a promising therapeutic approach for adjunctive treatment or for transitioning from risperidone to mitigate hyperprolactinemia ( 146 ). More recently, a new medication SEP-363856, a trace amine-associated receptor 1 (TAAR1) and 5HT1A agonist, has been developed to treat schizophrenia. Its mechanism of action is not based on D2 antagonism, and has a favorable effectiveness and tolerability profile, without causing hyperprolactinemia ( 148 ). This category of medication serves as compelling evidence for the significant involvement of dopamine receptors in drug-induced hyperprolactinemia, and it is a future viable therapeutic choice for patients experiencing adverse effects associated with hyperprolactinemia. DRUG-INDUCED HYPERPROLACTINEMIA IN PEDIATRIC PATIENTS Anti-psychotic medications have been found to induce hyperprolactinemia in the pediatric population as well as in adults. In a trial involving 35 children and adolescents with early-onset psychosis, primarily diagnosed with childhood-onset schizophrenia or psychotic disorder not otherwise specified, prolactin levels were measured after a 3-week washout period, as well as after 6 weeks of treatment with haloperidol, olanzapine, and clozapine ( 149 ). Following the 6-week treatment period, haloperidol (9 of 10 patients – mean age 13.4 years) and olanzapine (7 of 10 patients– mean age 15.9 years) resulted in prolactin levels above the upper limit of normal. The mean increase was 5.2-fold for haloperidol and 2.4-fold for olanzapine. The prolactin response did not show statistically significant differences between females and males treated with haloperidol and olanzapine. Clozapine (22 patients, mean age 14.7) caused a small but significant rise in females (1.2-fold) but levels remained in the normal range for all patients. There was no rise in males. Why this difference between females and males is only on clozapine remains unclear and difficult to explain. However, in a study involving 36 girls aged 8-17 years, mean prolactin levels were higher in girls compared to boys, with the most significant increase occurring around the age of 13y, correlating with menarche. A highly significant correlation was found between increases in plasma prolactin and estradiol levels between the ages of 11 and 13 years. Girls with long menstrual cycles (>28 days) between the ages of 14 and 16 years had higher prolactin levels (p<0.05) ( 150 ). Even though the mean age of patients on clozapine was above 13 years, we do not possess information on the duration of the menstrual cycle of those girls, as if it
