Pharmacological Causes of Hyperprolactinemia
KEYWORDS: prolactin, pubmed, levels, hyperprolactinemia, prolactin levels, dopamine, patients, receptors, treatment, fold, effect, secretion, release, study, effects


though the mean age of patients on clozapine was above 13 years, we do not possess information on the duration of the menstrual cycle of those girls, as if it is longer, the physiologic estrogenization because of the longer menstrual cycle can impact the range of prolactin elevation. In any case, the population sample size was relatively small to draw definitive conclusions and to provide answers why this happens only in clozapine patients ( 149 ).The authors concluded that the prolactin response in male children and adolescents treated with haloperidol or olanzapine was significantly higher than that observed in adult males. However, the prolactin response in female children and adolescents after haloperidol treatment did not differ significantly from that of adult females in similar studies, possibly due to the adult similarity of estrogen status seen in female adolescents ( 149 ). Aripiprazole in another study showed a lesser prolactin increase than olanzapine, quetiapine, and risperidone, similar to the adult population ( 151 ). In another clinical trial involving 396 children and adolescents (aged 14.0 ± 3.1 years), the impact of anti-psychotic medications on prolactin levels was studied. The medications involved risperidone, olanzapine, quetiapine, and aripiprazole. Risperidone caused the highest incidence of hyperprolactinemia (93.5%) and had the highest peak prolactin levels (median = 56.1 ng/mL) followed in order by olanzapine, quetiapine, and aripiprazole. Menstrual disturbances were the most prevalent side effect (28.0%), particularly with risperidone (35.4%). Notably, severe hyperprolactinemia was associated with decreased libido, erectile dysfunction, and galactorrhea ( 152 ). In conclusion, a comprehensive meta-analysis comprising 32 randomized controlled trials with a total of 4643 participants, with an average age of 13 years, has demonstrated that risperidone, paliperidone, and olanzapine are associated with a significant increase in prolactin levels among children and adolescents. Conversely, aripiprazole is linked to a notable decrease in prolactin levels in this age group. It is worth noting that haloperidol was not included in these studies, resulting in an absence of evidence regarding its prolactin-related effects in this population ( 153 ). These findings underscore that haloperidol, risperidone, paliperidone and olanzapine are potent inducers of hyperprolactinemia in children and adolescents, mirroring observations in the adult population. A comprehensive listing of medications associated with hyperprolactinemia in children can be found in Table2 . Table 2. Drugs Reported to Induce Hyperprolactinemia in Children and Adolescents View in own window Medication class High >50 percent of patients Moderate 25-50
