Pharmacological Causes of Hyperprolactinemia
KEYWORDS: prolactin, pubmed, levels, hyperprolactinemia, prolactin levels, dopamine, patients, receptors, treatment, fold, effect, secretion, release, study, effects


the first test to diagnose drug-induced hyperprolactinemia is the discontinuation of the medication for 3 days or switch to an alternative drug (e.g. a prolactin-sparing anti-psychotic (e.g. aripiprazole), or an anti-psychotic with lower dopamine antagonist potency ( Table 1 ) followed by retesting of serum prolactin levels. However, any discontinuation or substitution of anti-psychotic agents should be done in consultation with the patient's psychiatric physician. If discontinuation is not possible or if the onset of hyperprolactinemia does not coincide with therapy initiation, obtaining a pituitary MRI is recommended (despite prolactin levels) to differentiate between medication-induced hyperprolactinemia and hyperprolactinemia caused by a pituitary or hypothalamic mass ( 194 ). Before initiating treatment with an anti-psychotic medication, it is advised that clinicians inquire about the patient's previous treatment experience, sexual dysfunction, menstrual history (including irregularities and menopausal status), as well as any history of galactorrhea. Additionally, obtaining a baseline prolactin level is recommended before starting treatment ( 195 ). This pre-treatment screening for hyperprolactinemia can help determine whether subsequently elevated prolactin levels are due to medication-induced factors ( 196 ) and make the diagnosis easier without the need to perform further imaging. While treatment of hyperprolactinemia in patients receiving anti-psychotics may not always be necessary, in cases where clinical hypogonadism is evident, several options are available ( 193 ). The initial step is to discontinue the drug if clinically feasible. If discontinuation is not possible, switching to a similar anti-psychotic that does not cause hyperprolactinemia is suggested. If neither of these options is feasible, cautious administration of a dopamine agonist may be considered in consultation with the patient's physician ( 194 ). It is worth noting that these interventions only result in the normalization of prolactin levels in approximately half of the patients receiving anti-psychotics, and careful psychiatric monitoring is required due to the possibility of psychosis exacerbation with dopamine agonists ( 193 ). For patients with long-term hypogonadism demonstrated by hypogonadal symptoms or low bone mass, the use of estrogen or testosterone replacement is recommended. In rare instances where patients receiving anti-psychotics also present with a pituitary tumor, treatment options primarily revolve around tumor-specific interventions, considering especially optic chiasm compression. When a non-functioning tumor is suspected, the above options to eliminate the drug-induced component of hyperprolactinemia should be considered, with supervised short-term cessation of the medication to clarify drug-induced or tumor-derived hyperprolactinemia ( 193 ). In addition to the interventions mentioned
