Pharmacological Causes of Hyperprolactinemia
KEYWORDS: prolactin, pubmed, levels, hyperprolactinemia, prolactin levels, dopamine, patients, receptors, treatment, fold, effect, secretion, release, study, effects


the drug-induced component of hyperprolactinemia should be considered, with supervised short-term cessation of the medication to clarify drug-induced or tumor-derived hyperprolactinemia ( 193 ). In addition to the interventions mentioned earlier, addressing fertility concerns in patients with drug-induced hyperprolactinemia may require further measures. Normalization of prolactin levels through medication adjustment or dopamine agonist therapy can often lead to the restoration of fertility. In situations where fertility is not spontaneously regained, fertility treatment with gonadotrophins or assisted reproductive procedures may be necessary. NEUROLEPTIC-LIKE MEDICATIONS Metoclopramide and domperidone are anti-emetic and gastrointestinal motility agents known also as neuroleptic-like medications which can increase pituitary prolactin secretion and breast milk production by a dopamine antagonistic action ( Figure 1 ). Metoclopramide is a central and peripheral D2 receptor antagonist ( 197 ). Its administration is followed by an acute increase in prolactin levels up to 15-fold above the baseline that persists in chronic administration of the drug ( 2 ). Even though the majority of patients treated with metoclopramide develop hyperprolactinemia ( Table 1 ), related symptoms such as amenorrhea, galactorrhea, gynecomastia, and impotence remain unclear ( 2 ). Domperidone is a peripheral D2 antagonist (it does not cross the blood-brain barrier) used for treating intestinal motility disorders, especially for the prevention of gastrointestinal discomfort with dopaminergic treatment in Parkinson's disease ( 198 ), as it antagonizes the D2 receptors in the upper gastrointestinal tract. It also reaches the D2 receptors on lactotroph cells inducing hyperprolactinemia, and can be used for stimulating lactation, for example in women with preterm infants, or an adoptive parent ( 199 , 200 ), and even in transgender women who wish to breastfeed ( 201 , 202 ). It can cause a 10-fold elevation in prolactin levels with normalization of prolactin levels after three days ( 85 , 86 ). Neuroleptic-like medications are summarized in Tables 1 and 3 . Table 3. H2 Receptor Antagonists, Opioids, Anti-Hypertensives, PPIs, Estrogens, and Other Drugs and Their Ability to Cause Hyperprolactinemia. View in own window Medication class High >50% of patients Moderate 25-50% of patients Low <25% of patients Case reports Anti-emetic and gastrointestinal Domperidone Metoclopramide Prochlorperazine Esomeprazole Omeprazole Lansoprazole Cisapride H2-receptor antagonists Cimetidine Ranitidine Anti-hypertensives Methyldopa Verapamil Others Fenfluramine Opioids Estrogens Protease inhibitors Cocaine Bucillamine Clonidine Methylphenidate Guanfascine Valproic Acid Penicillamine ANTI-DEPRESSANTS Anti-depressants can be classified based on their structure and mechanism of action into tricyclic anti-depressants (TCAs), selective serotonin reuptake
