Pharmacological Causes of Hyperprolactinemia
KEYWORDS: prolactin, pubmed, levels, hyperprolactinemia, prolactin levels, dopamine, patients, receptors, treatment, fold, effect, secretion, release, study, effects


Protease inhibitors Cocaine Bucillamine Clonidine Methylphenidate Guanfascine Valproic Acid Penicillamine ANTI-DEPRESSANTS Anti-depressants can be classified based on their structure and mechanism of action into tricyclic anti-depressants (TCAs), selective serotonin reuptake inhibitors (SSRIs), serotonin-noradrenaline reuptake inhibitors (SNRIs), monoamine oxidase (MAO) inhibitors, atypical anti-depressants, serotonin modulators, selective noradrenaline reuptake inhibitor, and NMDA (N-Methyl-D-Aspartate) receptor antagonists ( 203 ). Data on their ability to cause hyperprolactinemia are controversial, as described below. The two main mechanisms, both related to elevated serotoninergic tonus, explain how anti-depressants can induce hyperprolactinemia by indirect modulation of prolactin release by serotonin and serotonin stimulation of GABAergic neurons ( 50 ) Adrenergic receptors involvement in their ability to cause hyperprolactinemia remains unclear. ( Figure 1 ). Data on the incidence of hyperprolactinemia with anti-depressant medications, especially SSRIs, MAO inhibitors, and some TCAs, suggest that they can cause modest and generally asymptomatic hyperprolactinemia ( 4 , 193 ). Their ability to cause hyperprolactinemia is summarized in Table 1 . TCAs TCAs, such as amitriptyline, desipramine, clomipramine, and amoxapine, can induce sustained mild hyperprolactinemia ( 2 ) ( Table 1 ). They manifest their mechanism of action by blocking the reuptake of noradrenaline and serotonin, through increasing serotoninergic tonus, leading to hyperprolactinemia. Amitriptyline's ability to cause hyperprolactinemia seems to be dose-dependent. A dosage of 150-250 mg/day to 5 patients showed no effect on prolactin levels after 3-7 weeks ( 204 ), whereas a dosage of 200-300 mg/day caused a 2-fold increment of prolactin levels in two of nine chronic treated patients ( 88 ). In 13 patients with depression taking amitriptyline or desipramine, prolactin levels were studied after intravenous injection of tryptophan (serotonin precursor). It was observed that tryptophan-induced prolactin elevation was significantly increased compared with a preceding placebo period ( 205 ). A similar tryptophan test was performed with clomipramine 20 mg vs placebo in 6 normal subjects. Levels of prolactin increased after tryptophan infusion in pretreated patients with clomipramine ( 206 ),suggesting serotonin involvement in this hyperprolactinemia. The effect of the traditional TCA imipramine on serum prolactin levels is controversial. A five-week double-blind study on patients with depression taking imipramine did not show any significant change in serum prolactin ( 207 ). However, another study in young healthy men showed that imipramine’s effect on prolactin is dose-dependent (usually therapeutic dose is 50-150 mg): oral administration of 100 mg, but not of 40 mg, led to a consistent rise in prolactin
