Pharmacological Causes of Hyperprolactinemia
KEYWORDS: prolactin, pubmed, levels, hyperprolactinemia, prolactin levels, dopamine, patients, receptors, treatment, fold, effect, secretion, release, study, effects


reuptake inhibitor that was shown to increase prolactin in healthy men after acute administration, but this effect can be reversed if reboxetine is simultaneously administered with α2-blocker mirtazapine, suggesting a role of α2-receptors in the enhancement of prolactin release after reboxetine ( 214 ). In any case, conflicting data are present even with this drug, with one other study showing no difference between pre-treatment and after-treatment prolactin levels in patients taking up to 8 mg reboxetine for 4 weeks in 17 patients ( 215 ). This discrepancy can be due to the limited number of patients or other neuroendocrine mechanisms still less explored. SNRI medications are described to cause only mild and rare elevations on prolactin levels, whereas ( 94 ), esketamine (NMDA receptor antagonist)is not described to cause hyperprolactinemia. Summary In summary, controversial data are available on anti-depressant-induced hyperprolactinemia. Routine monitoring of prolactin levels in patients taking anti-depressants is not recommended unless symptoms related to prolactin increase (in premenopausal women: menstrual cycle dysfunction leading to amenorrhea, oligomenorrhoea, anovulatory cycles, low libido, and energy; in men: erectile dysfunction, decreased energy and libido, decreased muscle mass, decreased body hair; and for both of them osteopenia, galactorrhea and infertility) occur ( 50 , 193 ). If the prolactin serum level is elevated (> 25 µg/L (531 mUI/L), in these patients a differential diagnosis is needed. The proposed approach is to withdraw the anti-depressant drug slowly over 2 weeks and replace it with another anti-depressant less likely to cause hyperprolactinemia, then reassess symptoms and prolactin levels after 2-4 weeks ( 193 ). If the serum prolactin remains elevated, other causes of hyperprolactinemia should be addressed by an endocrinologist. Another approach is to perform a pituitary MRI if the replacement of the anti-depressant is difficult to manage. GASTRIC ACID REDUCERS Histamine-Receptor Inhibitors Histamine, a CNS neurotransmitter, binds to both H1 and H2 receptors. It can stimulate prolactin secretion via H1 receptors by inhibiting the dopaminergic system. On the contrary, histamine can also inhibit prolactin secretion via H2 receptors using a non-dopaminergic mechanism involving β-endorphin, vasoactive intestinal peptide, vasopressin, or TRH ( 216 ), all of which act as prolactin-releasing factors ( 49 ) ( Figure 1 ). In the French Pharmacovigilance Study, H2 receptor antagonists were found to contribute to 5% of drug-induced hyperprolactinemia, primarily with ranitidine (odds ratio = 4.43; 95% CI: 1.82–10.8) ( 11 ). Other studies have shown that H2-receptor antagonists
