Pharmacological Causes of Hyperprolactinemia
KEYWORDS: prolactin, pubmed, levels, hyperprolactinemia, prolactin levels, dopamine, patients, receptors, treatment, fold, effect, secretion, release, study, effects


antagonists were found to contribute to 5% of drug-induced hyperprolactinemia, primarily with ranitidine (odds ratio = 4.43; 95% CI: 1.82–10.8) ( 11 ). Other studies have shown that H2-receptor antagonists such as cimetidine and ranitidine can elevate prolactin levels ( 217 , 218 ). Specifically, cimetidine caused a three-fold increase in prolactin levels after a 400 mg IV infusion, although this effect was not observed with oral administration of 800 mg cimetidine in healthy individuals ( 102 ) ( Table 1 , 3 ). Interestingly, it has been observed that systemic administration of the H2 agonist impromidine does not prevent cimetidine-induced hyperprolactinemia. In contrast, pre-administration of benzodiazepines or GABA lowered the prolactin response. This suggests that cimetidine-induced hyperprolactinemia may be mediated through neurotransmitters in the GABA-ergic system ( 219 ). Proton-Pump Inhibitors Proton-pump inhibitors (PPIs) have been recently reviewed regarding the risk of hyperprolactinemia and related sexual disorders observed with long-term use ( 220 ). The exact mechanism by which PPIs increase prolactin levels is not fully understood; possible explanations include inhibition of dopamine receptors, interference with other dopamine receptors, involvement of the serotoninergic pathway, modulation of the opioid pathway, and a potential role in decreasing prolactin clearance ( 220 ) ( Figure 2 ). In addition, PPIs can increase gastrin levels in chronic use especially in females using high doses ( 221 ). As gastrin can act as prolactin-inhibitory factor ( 108 ), this antagonistic effect may explain the relatively mild hyperprolactinemia occurring with this class of drugs. Esomeprazole has a mild inhibitory effect on CYP3A4, which leads to decreased metabolism of estrogen, thereby increasing serum estrogen levels which can stimulate the production of prolactin ( 222 ). Gynecomastia, impotence, irregular menses, and galactorrhea have been described with PPI use. Hyperprolactinemia occurred less often than sexual disorders, and most cases of hyperprolactinemia were reported with omeprazole, esomeprazole, and lansoprazole use (e.g. 4-fold increment with lansoprazole) ( 104 ) ( Table 1 , 3 ). Pantoprazole and rabeprazole were only sporadically associated with hyperprolactinemia. The authors assert that the occurrence of sexual dysfunction in individuals using PPIs, despite having normal prolactin levels, may be attributed to the development of low vitamin B12 levels, hypomagnesaemia and iron deficiency resulting from PPI usage. These nutritional deficiencies have been implicated in the manifestation of sexual disorders in other studies ( 220 , 223 , 224 ). OPIOIDS Endogenous opioids, morphine, and related drugs,
