Pharmacological Causes of Hyperprolactinemia
KEYWORDS: prolactin, pubmed, levels, hyperprolactinemia, prolactin levels, dopamine, patients, receptors, treatment, fold, effect, secretion, release, study, effects


usage. These nutritional deficiencies have been implicated in the manifestation of sexual disorders in other studies ( 220 , 223 , 224 ). OPIOIDS Endogenous opioids, morphine, and related drugs, activate ε-, μ-, κ- and δ- opioid receptors in the hypothalamus, modulating pituitary hormone secretion. They do not possess direct effects on pituitary cells ( 225 , 226 ). They inhibit the gonadal axis via ε receptors (GnRH suppression) and stimulate prolactin production by reducing the activity of tuberoinfundibular dopaminergic neurons via μ, κ and δ opioid receptors – mostly μ receptors as the μ receptor opioid antagonist naloxone prior to morphine and methadone use prevents opioid-induced hyperprolactinemia ( 227 ). Indirect stimulation of prolactin release can be mediated by stimulating prolactin-releasing factors production (the serotoninergic pathways discussed above) ( 228 ) ( Figure 2 ). Hyperprolactinemia can then lead to additional gonadal axis suppression. In addition, opioids can modulate the corticotroph axis via κ and δ opioid receptors and the somatotroph axis via μ, κ and δ opioid receptors ( 226 ). Additionally, opioids manifest negative effects on bone health through direct inhibition of osteoblasts by opioids, gonadal axis suppression, altered mental status, and other comorbidities (chronic conditions, smoking, alcohol use) ( 229 ). Acute intravenous or intra-ventricular administration of endogenous opioids leads to a rapid plasma prolactin increase in a dose-dependent manner ( 44 , 225 ). Chronic use of opioids effects on prolactin can vary: oral opioids for chronic pain increase prolactin, but morphine administered intrathecally for chronic non-cancer pain had no effect on prolactin ( 226 ). Hyperprolactinemia induced by opioids can be symptomatic: painful gynecomastia, galactorrhea, and hypogonadism have been reported in chronic opioid users. These can be alleviated with discontinuation or reduction of opioid dose, and sometimes dopamine agonists such as bromocriptine ( 226 ). Methadone induces a transient increase in prolactin levels, whereas chronic methadone users have normal basal prolactin levels ( 110 ), ( Table 1 , 3 ). On the contrary, in a study involving six patients with hyperprolactinemia and amenorrhea, the use of naltrexone, an opioid antagonist, was investigated to determine if blocking endogenous opioids could improve the sexual axis. On the first day of naltrexone administration, significant increases were observed in the mean concentration of luteinizing hormone (LH), LH pulse amplitude, and estradiol levels compared to the control day. This indicated a prompt partial reactivation of the hypothalamic-pituitary-gonadal axis
