Pharmacological Causes of Hyperprolactinemia
KEYWORDS: prolactin, pubmed, levels, hyperprolactinemia, prolactin levels, dopamine, patients, receptors, treatment, fold, effect, secretion, release, study, effects


observed in the mean concentration of luteinizing hormone (LH), LH pulse amplitude, and estradiol levels compared to the control day. This indicated a prompt partial reactivation of the hypothalamic-pituitary-gonadal axis as a result of naltrexone, leading to heightened gonadotrophin levels and subsequent release of estradiol. However, it was found that the effect of opioid antagonism did not result in a sustained increase in estradiol secretion with chronic treatment. Additionally, prolactin levels continued to increase over time (mean prolactin level 255 ± 121 microgram/L), despite the initial improvement in the gonadal axis. This study demonstrated that although prolactin-induced suppression of the gonadal axis can be reversed to some extent by acute opioid antagonism, it is not an effective treatment for revitalizing the gonadal axis in the long term. Possible explanations for this lack of sustained effect include desensitization of the hypothalamic-pituitary unit for the effects of opioid receptor blockade and other disruptors of the axis, which may counteract the positive effects of opioid antagonism ( 230 , 231 ). For endocrinopathies caused by opioids, including hyperprolactinemia, potential management choices include reducing or discontinuing opioid usage whenever feasible and exploring alternative pain relief therapies for chronic pain situations. Hormonal replacement therapy can be considered for hypogonadism and hypoadrenalism ( 226 ). ANTIHYPERTENSIVES Some antihypertensive medications including α-methyldopa, verapamil, labetalol, and reserpine, have been associated with hyperprolactinemia. This phenomenon is attributed mainly to the potential inhibition of dopaminergic pathways, highlighting the complex interplay between anti-hypertensive therapy and endocrine function. Other mechanisms are drug-specific and will be explained below. α -methyldopa is an α-adrenergic inhibitor that leads to the suppression of monoamine synthesis, including noradrenaline, dopamine, and serotonin, which likely contributes to its anti-hypertensive effect. It causes hyperprolactinemia through the inhibition of dopamine synthesis by competitive inhibition of DOPA decarboxylase which transforms L-dopa into dopamine ( 61 ) ( Figure 2 ). Long-term treatment resulted in elevated basal prolactin levels (3-4-fold), while a single dose of 750-1000mg reaches a peak of high prolactin level after 4-6 hours of administration ( 232 ). Gynecomastia is the most common endocrine side effect. Calcium channel blockers are other drugs studied for their potential to cause hyperprolactinemia. The dihydropyridine class was found to have no effects on prolactin levels. Whereas, from the non-dihydropyridine class, which mainly blocks L-type of calcium channel receptors in the heart, only verapamil was found to cause 2-fold persistent hyperprolactinemia (and galactorrhea),while drug discontinuation
