Pharmacological Causes of Hyperprolactinemia
KEYWORDS: prolactin, pubmed, levels, hyperprolactinemia, prolactin levels, dopamine, patients, receptors, treatment, fold, effect, secretion, release, study, effects


levels. Whereas, from the non-dihydropyridine class, which mainly blocks L-type of calcium channel receptors in the heart, only verapamil was found to cause 2-fold persistent hyperprolactinemia (and galactorrhea),while drug discontinuation reversed hyperprolactinemia in all patients ( 113 ). A clinical trial suggested that verapamil acts by reducing dopamine release in the tuberoinfundibular pathway through calcium influx inhibition ( Figure 2 ), possibly by N-calcium channels which are known to be involved in the regulation of dopamine release and other neurotransmitters ( 233 ). Labetalol is an α- and β-adrenoceptor blocker anti-hypertensive that has been reported to increase prolactin levels when administered intravenously, but not when administered orally (100 or 200 mg) as labetalol cross the blood-brain-barrier only in negligible amounts. The increase in prolactin release caused by intravenous labetalol is not readily explained by its interference with adrenergic receptors. The exact mechanism underlying this effect of the drug is currently unclear, but it is possible that labetalol's ability to block dopamine activity (anti-dopaminergic activity) might be involved in this response ( 234 ) ( Figure 2 ). Pre-treatment with levodopa and carbidopa can prevent prolactin response after labetalol ( 235 ), suggesting dopamine pathway involvement suppression inside the blood-brain-barrier. Reserpine is a rauwolfia alkaloid previously used for the treatment of hypertension as well as psychosis, schizophrenia, and tardive dyskinesia; it reduces dopamine by inhibiting their hypothalamic storage in secretory granules ( 236 ), and by blockade of vesicular monoamine transporter type 2 in monoamine neurons ( 237 ), leading to hyperprolactinemia. Prolactin levels are higher during treatment with reserpine than 6 weeks after discontinuation of the drug. Increased incidence of gynecomastia and breast cancer has also been reported among patients on anti-hypertensive therapy with reserpine ( 236 ). The ability of anti-hypertensives to cause hyperprolactinemia is summarized in Tables 1 and 3 . ESTROGENS Estrogens stimulate prolactin secretion by several mechanisms: They bind to specific intracellular lactotroph cells receptors, though enhancing prolactin gene transcription and synthesis ( 238 ). They also inhibit tuberoinfundibular dopamine synthesis, stimulate lactotroph cell hyperplasia, downregulate dopamine receptor expression, and modify lactotroph responsiveness to other regulators ( 23 , 239 ) ( Figure 2 ). Estrogen-induced hyperprolactinemia is dependent on the degree of estrogenization. Higher levels of estrogens in pregnancy and during ovulation increase prolactin levels with the last, contributing to a higher normal range of prolactin in pre-menopausal women. Studies documenting the incidence of hyperprolactinemia
