Pharmacological Causes of Hyperprolactinemia
KEYWORDS: prolactin, pubmed, levels, hyperprolactinemia, prolactin levels, dopamine, patients, receptors, treatment, fold, effect, secretion, release, study, effects


of estrogens in pregnancy and during ovulation increase prolactin levels with the last, contributing to a higher normal range of prolactin in pre-menopausal women. Studies documenting the incidence of hyperprolactinemia showed that women on oral contraceptives were reported to have higher prolactin levels by 12% to 30% ( 240 , 241 ). Some, but not all, studies suggest that there is a dose-dependent effect ( 4 ). No increase in basal prolactin levels is reported during therapy with modern contraceptives with lower amounts of estrogen ( 242 )or estrogen plus cyproterone acetate alone ( 243 ). In transgender patients, estradiol or ethinyl estradiol treatment, the prolactin level rise was dependent on the dose of estrogen, duration of exposure, and alteration of SHBG levels. Estradiol infusion at levels above 10,000 pg/mL for as short as 6-7 hours significantly elevated prolactin levels by 3- to 4-fold, whereas ethinyl estradiol 2 mg/day for 1 month did not consistently elevate prolactin in all patients, which can be due to its ability to increase SHBG binding and maintaining free portion in the normal range ( 114 ) ( Table 1 , 3 ). For women on post-menopausal hormone replacement therapies over 2.5 years, serum prolactin measured were within the normal range ( 244 ). In another study on 75 women, who were randomly assigned to three groups: control (receiving placebo), transdermal hormonal replacement (biphasic 17β-estradiol and progesterone, natural hormones), and oral ethinyl-estradiol and desogestrel, prolactin levels significantly increased in the oral group, but not in the transdermal group. There was a significant difference in hormone levels: in the oral group, estradiol levels increased five times and estrone levels eleven times. In the transdermal group, estrone and estradiol levels were increased three times ( 245 ). GONADOTROPHINS AND GNRH AGONISTS In addition to the known prolactin function in lactation, several studies have suggested other benefits of prolactin in oocyte development, formation of corpus luteum and its survival, steroidogenesis and implantation ( 246 ). In natural cycles there is a transient increase in late follicular phase of prolactin, but this increment is higher in stimulated cycles ( 246 ). In a cohort study were included 79 patients; 60 individuals underwent in vitro fertilization, 14 received clomiphene citrate treatment, and five patients with premature ovarian failure were administered estradiol. During the course of human menopausal gonadotrophin (hMG) treatment, a notable increase in both serum estradiol and prolactin concentrations
