Pharmacological Causes of Hyperprolactinemia
KEYWORDS: prolactin, pubmed, levels, hyperprolactinemia, prolactin levels, dopamine, patients, receptors, treatment, fold, effect, secretion, release, study, effects


stimulation test was performed both prior to and 35-50 days post the administration of 200 mg carbamazepine three times daily. Blood samples were obtained 10, 30, and 60 minutes following intravenous injection of 200µg TRH. Furthermore, 4 normal volunteer subjects were included in the study. On the first day, a placebo was administered, followed by the administration of 400 mg carbamazepine at 8 AM on the second day. Blood samples were collected at baseline on both days and subsequently at hourly intervals until 4 PM. After a span of two weeks, a nocturnal study was conducted, spanning from 6 PM to 6 AM. The investigation revealed that there were no discernible alterations in spontaneous prolactin release or TRH-stimulated prolactin levels. However, a slight increase in sleep-entrained prolactin values was observed, while retaining the secretory circadian rhythm. Given that the release of prolactin during sleep is largely attributed to serotoninergic activity, it is plausible that the modest increment (less than 2-fold) may implicate serotoninergic modulation (working as a serotonin-releasing factor and reuptake inhibitor) facilitated by carbamazepine ( 120 , 121 ). Sympathomimetic amines fenfluramine and sibutramine, formerly used for appetite suppression due to their stimulatory effect on the synaptic concentration of serotonin, have been shown to induce hyperprolactinemia as a result of increased serotoninergic activity and postsynaptic stimulation of 5HT2Areceptors. In a case report, after starting sibutramine, a 38-year-old female patient developed hyperprolactinemia (prolactin levels 46 and 89.6 ng/mL (978 and 1906 mUI/L) with amenorrhea and galactorrhea. Discontinuation of sibutramine, confirmed by a sella MRI, led to rapid normalization of prolactin levels within 15 days, and symptoms resolved during a 90-day follow-up ( 2 , 127 ). Cholinomimetic drugs have been reported controversially in the literature regarding their ability to cause hyperprolactinemia. However, in collaborative studies from the National Institute of Mental Health and the University of California, San Diego, three separate experiments were conducted involving volunteers of different genders and ages. In the first experiment, nine volunteers received physostigmine salicylate at 33 µg/kg, while in the second experiment, eleven male volunteers were given 22 µg/kg of physostigmine salicylate. The third experiment involved six volunteers receiving 3 mg of arecoline hydrobromide. Placebo saline was administered in all experiments as well. It was shown that intravenous injection of physostigmine or arecoline can elevate prolactin correlating with raised β-endorphin levels in the blood. Prolactin elevation was less than 100 ng/mL (2127 mUI/L). Cholinergic
