Pharmacological Causes of Hyperprolactinemia
KEYWORDS: prolactin, pubmed, levels, hyperprolactinemia, prolactin levels, dopamine, patients, receptors, treatment, fold, effect, secretion, release, study, effects


was shown that intravenous injection of physostigmine or arecoline can elevate prolactin correlating with raised β-endorphin levels in the blood. Prolactin elevation was less than 100 ng/mL (2127 mUI/L). Cholinergic activation in the hypothalamus, particularly focusing on β-endorphin, might help in explaining how peptides modify primary neurochemical effects on hormone regulation in the hypothalamus and pituitary ( 44 ). Bucillamine, an analogue of D-penicillamine used as an antirheumatic drug in Japan, has been reported to induce hyperprolactinemia (109 ng/mL (2319 mUI/L)) after 30 months of treatment start, associated with gynecomastia and galactorrhea in one case report. The mechanism remains unclear ( 133 ). ‘Ecstasy’ (MDMA) was shown to increase prolactin secretion in rhesus monkeys by stimulating serotonin release and by direct-acting as a 5HT2A agonist ( 250 ); In nine studies, five of them observed an increase in prolactin levels due to the intervention. However, in the remaining studies, there was no significant change in prolactin levels, and these unresponsive results tended to occur when a lower dose of the intervention was used on average. This suggests a potential relationship between the dosage of the intervention and its effect on prolactin levels ( 135 ). Smoking, particularly the consumption of high-nicotine cigarettes, has been associated with a significant acute elevation in prolactin levels, ranging from 50% to 78% above the baseline, within 6 minutes after smoking. These elevated levels persist for approximately 42 minutes and return to baseline within 120 minutes of initiating smoking ( 136 ). The underlying mechanism probably involves the stimulation of rapid prolactin release through the augmentation of endogenous opioids, which subsequently inhibits dopamine release ( 251 ). However, prolonged nicotine exposure leads to desensitization of dopamine receptors, and lowers dopamine turnover ( 48 ) probably contributing to hyperprolactinemia. It has been hypothesized that the increased incidence of osteopenia and osteoporosis could be at least partly related to this effect ( 252 ). Recently, an association has been reported between HIV-1 protease inhibitors and the adverse effect of galactorrhea and hyperprolactinemia in four HIV-1 infected women treated with indinavir, nelfinavir, ritonavir, or saquinavir. The cause of this unexpected toxicity could be attributed to several possible mechanisms: 1) Protease inhibitors may enhance the stimulatory effects of prolactin due to their inhibition of the cytochrome P450 system, leading to longer half-life of prolactin; 2) opportunistic infections in AIDS patients may induce cytokine-driven prolactin production by pituitary or immune
