Pharmacological Causes of Hyperprolactinemia
KEYWORDS: prolactin, pubmed, levels, hyperprolactinemia, prolactin levels, dopamine, patients, receptors, treatment, fold, effect, secretion, release, study, effects


due to their inhibition of the cytochrome P450 system, leading to longer half-life of prolactin; 2) opportunistic infections in AIDS patients may induce cytokine-driven prolactin production by pituitary or immune cells; 3) protease inhibitors might exert direct endocrine effects on the pituitary or hypothalamus ( 253 , 254 ). To explore mechanisms of hyperprolactinemia induced by protease inhibitors, experiments were conducted using rat pituitary cells and hypothalamic neuronal endings. The results showed that both ritonavir and saquinavir could directly stimulate prolactin secretion, while not affecting dopamine release. This suggests that these protease inhibitors might interact with specific mammalian proteins in the anterior pituitary involved in prolactin secretion, leading to the observed galactorrhea and hyperprolactinemic effect ( 137 ). Regarding chemotherapy and immunosuppression, there are some controversial data on the effect of chemotherapy and immunosuppression on prolactin levels, as significant prolactin increases are not frequent and usually mild ( 2 ). Prolactin and growth hormone have been involved as part of a cytokine system in the recovery of the immune response after chemotherapy and bone marrow transplantation ( 255 ). In a study of 20 breast cancer patients undergoing high-dose chemotherapy and autologous stem-cell transplantation, plasma prolactin levels increased within and 30 days after transplant, yet still remaining within the normal range. The use of antiemetic drugs further raised prolactin levels. Patients in continuous complete remission after transplantation exhibited higher prolactin levels, while elevated prolactin did not impact disease-free survival, suggesting potential for further research into post-transplant immune response ( 256 ). Radiotherapy for intracranial germ cell tumors was shown to induce hyperprolactinemia with a prevalence of 35.3% ( 138 ). Other drug inducing hyperprolactinemia are described in Table 1 . DRUGS REPORTED TO DECREASE PROLACTIN LEVELS OR HAVE AN EQUIVOCAL EFFECT Several medications, beyond the established treatments like cabergoline, bromocriptine, carbidopa and levodopa, have reported effects on reducing prolactin levels. For instance, pseudoephedrine, an α-adrenergic stimulant primarily affecting α1 receptors, shares structural similarities with amphetamine and moderately stimulating dopamine release in the brain by acting on D2 receptors in the pituitary, consequently lowering prolactin levels. Studies have indicated pseudoephedrine's potential to decrease milk production, at least partly attributed to its effect on prolactin levels through dopaminergic actions in the pituitary ( 132 ). Moreover, indirect evidence suggests that α-1 receptors stimulation leads to decreased prolactin levels ( 41 ). Amphetamine was seen to produce a poor prolactin suppressant effect in
