Pharmacological Causes of Hyperprolactinemia
KEYWORDS: prolactin, pubmed, levels, hyperprolactinemia, prolactin levels, dopamine, patients, receptors, treatment, fold, effect, secretion, release, study, effects


( 132 ). Moreover, indirect evidence suggests that α-1 receptors stimulation leads to decreased prolactin levels ( 41 ). Amphetamine was seen to produce a poor prolactin suppressant effect in either normal- or hyperprolactinemic subjects. The proposed mechanism of prolactin lowering potential is due to their ability to stimulate the release of dopamine ( 257 ). However, during the withdrawal period of cocaine use, hyperprolactinemia has been observed, probably due to a decrease in dopamine levels, leading to dysregulation in the dopamine system and increased prolactin. Moreover, during withdrawal, prolactin can be secreted as a stress hormone ( 129 ). Guanafascine, an α2 adrenergic agonist, used to treat ADHD, has been shown to decrease prolactin levels. In a longitudinal study spanning three years involving 15 patients diagnosed with hyperprolactinemia, the noteworthy suppressive impact of guanfacine on prolactin levels suggests potential involvement of hypothalamic or extrahypothalamic adrenergic pathways in the intricate regulation of prolactin secretion ( 131 ). Even though α2 stimulation has been shown to increase prolactin levels in rats, this is not fully understood in humans making the explanation in this case confusing ( 42 ). The impact of benzodiazepines (BDZ) on prolactin secretion is a subject of debate. Research findings have yielded conflicting results. Some studies conducted on both non-epileptic patients and healthy volunteers have not detected significant modifications in prolactin levels following BDZ treatment ( 258 ). A study on 30 adolescent patients with schizophrenia with gradually increasing doses of diazepam to a maximum of 100-400 mg/day, with 4 weeks of treatment, showed that only doses higher than 250 mg/day give a significant but mild increase in prolactin levels. Proposed mechanisms are inhibition of TIDA neurons by activation of the GABA system, or activation of the endorphin-ergic system leading to hyperprolactinemia ( 118 ). On the contrary, diazepam was found to suppress the secretion of prolactin in vitro through one of two mechanisms: it either strengthens the direct inhibitory action of GABA on prolactin release, or it hinders a benzodiazepine-sensitive Ca 2+ -calmodulin dependent protein kinase at micromolar concentrations leading to a reduction of prolactin secretion ( 259 ). Moreover, phenytoin, an anticonvulsant impeding sodium channels in nerve cells, have generated conflicting data regarding their impact on prolactin levels. In animal studies, phenytoin showcased a rapid decline in both prolactin release and mRNA concentrations, functioning as a partial T3 agonist by binding to T3 nuclear receptors (
