Pharmacological Causes of Hyperprolactinemia
KEYWORDS: prolactin, pubmed, levels, hyperprolactinemia, prolactin levels, dopamine, patients, receptors, treatment, fold, effect, secretion, release, study, effects


or Red Sorrel Gossypium herbaceum Cotton Plant Moraceae Milicia excelsa African Teak or Iroko Ficus species Ficus or Fig trees Musaceae Musa paradisiaca Plantain Ranunculaceae Nigella sativa Black Cumin or Black Seed Actaea (Cimiciguga) racemose Black Cohosh Solanaceae Solanum torvum Turkey Berry or Devil's Fig Verbanaceae Lippia multiflora Bush Tea or False Green Tea Zingiberaceae Aframomummelegueta Grains of Paradise or Alligator Pepper Fabaceae Trifolium pratense Red Clover Trigonella foenum-graecum Fenugreek Apiaceae Foeniculum vulgare Fennel Some herbs are known to decrease prolactin levels. For example, chaste tree (Vitex agnus-castus) decrease prolactin levels by activating to D2-receptors and suppressing prolactin release, as shown in in vitro experiments on lactotroph cell cultures and in in vivo animal experiments ( 269 ). Another herb, Mucuna pruriens, which is a natural source of l-dihydroxyphenylalanine (a dopamine precursor) is found to decrease prolactin levels in humans ( 270 ). Vitamin B6 (pyridoxine), by acting as a coenzyme in dopamine synthesis and aspartame, a sweetener metabolized in phenylalanine (dopamine precursor), have been shown to interfere with milk production by reducing prolactin levels ( 271 ). Ashgawanda (Withania somnifera) is found to decrease prolactin levels up to 12% ( 272 ). Moreover, oral zinc is found to decrease prolactin levels below the normal range in all 17 subjects with normal prolactin levels, in scenario of increased zinc levels in the blood ( 273 ). While none of the mentioned herbs are currently established within clinical guidelines for specifically lactogenic or prolactin-reducing purposes, ongoing research and anecdotal evidence suggest potential roles for these botanicals as adjunctive therapies. CONCLUSION In summary, this review underscores the significant role of drug-induced hyperprolactinemia in causing higher prolactin levels and provides detailed insights into how pharmaceutical agents contribute to this effect. However, understanding the complex mechanisms behind drug-induced hyperprolactinemia is still a work in progress. More research is needed to delve deeper into these mechanisms and gain better insights. These efforts will contribute to refining treatment strategies and improving patient care. REFERENCES 1. Soto-Pedre E, Newey PJ, Bevan JS, Greig N, Leese GP. The epidemiology of hyperprolactinaemia over 20 years in the Tayside region of Scotland: the Prolactin Epidemiology, Audit and Research Study (PROLEARS). Clin Endocrinol (Oxf). 2017 Jan;86 (1):60–7. [ PubMed : 27434534 ] 2. Torre DL, Falorni A. Pharmacological causes of hyperprolactinemia. Ther Clin Risk Manag. 2007 Oct;3 (5):929–51. [ PMC free article : PMC2376090 ] [ PubMed : 18473017 ] 3.
