□ CASE REPORT □
KEYWORDS: abscess, drainage, koseri, right, recovered, iliopsoas, case, citrobacter, level, showed, blood, normal, community, revealed, community recovered


Abscess Caused by Citrobacter koseri Infection: Three Case Reports and a Literature Review Shih-Yi Lin1, Mao-Wang Ho2, Ya-FeiYang1, Jiung-Hsiun Liu1, I-Kuan Wang1, Shin-Huang Lin1 and Chiu-Ching Huang1 Abstract In this report, we present 3 cases of abscess caused by Citrobacter koseri. All infected patients recovered after initial empirical antibiotic treatment and percutaneous drainage of the abscess. We reviewed the litera- ture and found 9 adult cases of C. koseri abscess. Most of these patients recovered after timely antibiotic treatment and drainage. Key words: Citrobacter koseri, sepsis, renal abscess, iliopsoas abscess (Intern Med 50: 1333-1337, 2011) (DOI: ) presented with fever and right thigh swelling for 5 days. On Introduction arrival, his body temperature was 37℃, blood pressure was 111/68 mmHg, pulse was 108 beats per minute, and respira- Citrobacter species, belonging to the family Enterobacte- tion rate was 20 breaths per minute. Physical examination riaceae, are environmental organisms commonly found in revealed local heat and tenderness over the right thigh area. soil, water, and the intestinal tracts of animals and humans. Laboratory studies showed a C-reactive protein concentra- patients with multiple co-morbidities and seldom cause dis- ratory results were unremarkable. Computed tomography ease in the general population (1). Neonates and immuno- (CT) revealed diffuse subcutaneous edema of the right thigh. compromised hosts are highly susceptible to Citrobacter in- The initial choice of empirical antibiotic was intravenous (i. fections, which are mainly caused by Citrobacter freundii v.) cefmetazole administered at a dose of 1 g every 8 hours. and Citrobacter koseri. C. freundii is usually associated with Blood and urine cultures yielded mucoid colonies on sheep hepatobiliary tract infections, while C. koseri causes neona- blood agar after 24 hours of incubation in 5% CO at 35℃. tal meningitis and brain abscess with high mortality The biochemical profile identified the organism as C. koseri. rates (2). Few cases of C. koseri causing severe infections or The minimal inhibitory concentrations determined by antibi- abscess in adults have been reported. In this report, we pre- otic susceptibility tests were as follows: gentamicin, <2 μg/ sent 3 cases of Citrobacter abscess at different sites in mL (susceptible); cefazolin, <4 μg/mL (susceptible); adults. Unsatisfactory outcomes were obtained with initial ciprofloxacin, <0.5 μg/mL (susceptible); and imipenem, <1 conservative treatment, but complete recovery was achieved μg/mL (susceptible). Despite treatment with i.v. ciproflox- after invasive intervention combined with medication. acin at a dose of 400 mg every 12 hours,
