□ CASE REPORT □
KEYWORDS: abscess, drainage, koseri, right, recovered, iliopsoas, case, citrobacter, level, showed, blood, normal, community, revealed, community recovered


and anion gap of 36 mmol/ dL (normal range, 10 to 12 mmol/dL). Urinalysis revealed numerous leukocytes. Abdominal ultrasound showed one 1.7×2-cm hypoechoic lesion over the right kidney without liver involvement. CT of the abdomen revealed a focal area of low density in the right renal parenchyma, with swelling Figure 2. CT of abdomen showed abscess of right iliopsoas in the involved portion and perirenal fat stripping. As treat- muscle of Case 2 (black arrow). ment, i.v. flomoxef (1 g once daily) was administrated em- pirically. The blood culture yielded C. koseri, and the sensi- normal. Treatment with i.v. ciprofloxacin (400 mg every 12 tivity test results were the same as those in case 1. Based on hours for 4 weeks) was administered, and the drainage tube the test results, we changed the antibiotic to i.v. cefazolin was removed after complete resolution. (500 mg every 12 hours for 14 days). The patient was dis- charged thereafter, with oral cefradine (500 mg twice daily). Case 2 However, she discontinued the use of oral cefradine and re- A 40-year-old, previously healthy woman, was transferred fused further outpatient follow-up. Septic shock developed to our hospital with a 10-day history of fever with chills. weeks later. Non-enhanced CT showed a gas-forming ab- She had taken amoxicillin/clavulanic acid (1 g twice daily scess in segment 5-6 of the liver and a right renal abscess of for 7 days), but the fever persisted. On arrival, she had a 4.7×7.3 cm (Fig. 3A, 3B). CT-guided percutaneous drainage blood pressure of 103/74 mmHg, pulse rate of 76 beats per was performed for the abscesses of the kidney and liver. minute, body temperature of 38.4℃, and respiratory rate of Cultures of urine, blood, and the aspirated pus showed C. 18 breaths per minute. On physical examination, tenderness koseri growth, and antimicrobial susceptibility test results over the right lower quadrant of the abdomen was noted. In- matched those from the patient’s previous admission. An- itial laboratory tests were all normal except for a high C- aerobic culture of the pus revealed no growth. She was reactive protein level of 7.4 mg/dL (normal level, <0.8 mg/ treated with i.v. ciprofloxacin (400 mg once daily for 4 dL) and high erythrocyte sedimentary rate (ESR) of 85 mm/ weeks), and the drainage tube was removed after complete h. Blood culture revealed no growth. CT of the abdomen resolution. Oral ciprofloxacin (500 mg every
