□ CASE REPORT □
KEYWORDS: abscess, drainage, koseri, right, recovered, iliopsoas, case, citrobacter, level, showed, blood, normal, community, revealed, community recovered


rate (ESR) of 85 mm/ weeks), and the drainage tube was removed after complete h. Blood culture revealed no growth. CT of the abdomen resolution. Oral ciprofloxacin (500 mg every 12 hours) was showed one 1.5×2.1-cm abnormal fluid accumulation in the prescribed for another month until the ESR decreased from right iliopsoas muscle with rim enhancement (Fig. 2). The >140 mm/h to a steady state of 60 mm/h.After 4 months of patient received ultrasound-guided drainage and cefmetazole follow-up, the patient was asymptomatic and without detect- Intern Med 50: 1333-1337, 2011 DOI: Figure 3. Gas-forming hepatic abscess of Case 3 at second admission (a and b). Table 1. Summary of 12 Cases of Citrobacter koseri Abscess Age (y)/ Comorbidity Site Operation/ Antimicrobial therapy Source Outcome Ref. gender drainage 40, M Diabetes Transplant Nephrectomy Gentamicin Community Recovered 4 Kidney transplant kidney 77, M Diabetes Retroperitoneal Drainage Levofloxacin + amikacin Community Died 5 CAD PV 52, M None Renal cyst Unknown Unknown Community Recovered 6 67, M None Prostate TURP Cefazolin + gentamicin Community Recovered 7 66, M Old ICH Brain Drainage Netilmicin + cefotaxime Community Recovered 8 staghorn stone 45, M DCM Peri-tonsillar Retropharyngeal Ampicillin/sulbactam Nosocomial Recovered 9 Alcohol/cocaine Neck muscles Drainage + ceftizoxime abuse 64, M Pulmonary TB Subphrenic Drainage Cefazolin Community Recovered 10 42, M Pulmonary TB Spine operation Paraspinal Drainage Levofloxacin Orthopedic Recovered 11 implant 78, F Paroxysmal AF Brain Drainage Ceftriaxone Community Recovered 12 72, M Cirrhosis Iliopsoas Drainage Ceftriaxone Community Recovered Case1 40, F Healthy Iliopsoas Drainage Cefmetazole Community Recovered Case2 51, F Diabetes Kidney Drainage Flomoxef Community Recovered Case3 CAD M: male; F:female; AF: atrial fibrillation; CAD: coronary artery disease; ICH: intracerebral hemorrhage; TB: tuberculsos DCM: dilated cardiomyopathy; TURP: transurethral resection of prostate able abscesses. result from diseases of the genitourinary, gastrointestinal, or musculoskeletal systems, of which Streptococcus species and Discussion Escherichia coli are the 2 main causative pathogens (13). Iliopsoas abscess caused by C. koseri is, however, unusual. C. koseri (previously classified as Citrobacter diversus) Vichib et al described a retroperitoneal abscess caused by C. has long been recognized to be a cause of abscess in neo- koseri that was lethal despite surgical drainage. Mortality in nates. The literature on Citrobacter abscess in adults, how- that case was attributed to an acute pulmonary event during ever, is scant (3). We performed a PubMed search with the sepsis (5). In treating iliopsoas abscesses less than 3
