Testicular Cancer: Pathogenesis, Diagnosis and Management with Focus on Endocrine Aspects
KEYWORDS: testicular, pubmed, cell, tumors, cancer, germ, germ cell, cell tumors, testicular cancer, patients, cells, tumor, gcnis, article, free


ABSTRACT Testicular cancer comprises different neoplasms, depending on the cell of origin and the typical age at presentation, but germ cell-derived tumors constitute the vast majority of cases. Testicular germ cell tumors (TGCT) can be diagnosed in every age group, but more than 90% of cases occur in young men. These tumors, comprising seminoma and nonseminoma, are derived from germ cell neoplasia in situ (GCNIS). Pathogenesis of TGCT associated with GCNIS partly overlaps with that of other developmental disorders of the male reproductive system within the testicular dysgenesis syndrome (TDS). Testicular somatic cell neoplasms, known as sex cord-stromal tumors, are relatively rare, but can have endocrine manifestations, such as precocious puberty or gynecomastia. In addition to its malignant features, cancer of the testis represents a developmental, endocrine, and reproductive problem. These issues are the focus of this chapter, and emphasis is given to aspects that are of interest to endocrinologists, including pediatric endocrinologists and andrologists. Management of invasive testicular tumors is largely handled by urologists and oncologists, thus only general information on surgical treatment, radiotherapy, and chemotherapy is presented. Impact of cancer treatment on the endocrine system, co-morbidities, fertility issues, and quality of life issues are also briefly reviewed. For complete coverage of all related areas of Endocrinology, please visit our on-line FREE web-text, WWW.ENDOTEXT.ORG . INTRODUCTION Testicular cancer comprises a number of different neoplasms, depending on the cell of origin and the typical age at presentation ( 1 , 2 ). Although several cell types in the testis can undergo neoplastic transformation, germ cell-derived tumors constitute the vast majority of cases of testicular neoplasms. The relative distribution depends on age: in young adult men nearly all tumors are germ cell tumors, whereas in patients aged 70 years or older, a large proportion of lymphomas and secondary carcinomas can be expected ( 2 ). In other words, as explained in detail further in the text, germ cell cancer can be diagnosed in every age group, but more than 90% of cases occur in young men, and this subgroup is the main focus of this chapter. Pathogenesis of testicular germ cell tumors (TGCT) of young adults partly overlaps with that of other developmental disorders of the male reproductive system, within the testicular dysgenesis syndrome (TDS) ( 3 , 4 , 5 ). Somatic cell tumors in the testis, known as sex cord-stromal neoplasms are relatively rare, but are also discussed in
