Testicular Cancer: Pathogenesis, Diagnosis and Management with Focus on Endocrine Aspects
KEYWORDS: testicular, pubmed, cell, tumors, cancer, germ, germ cell, cell tumors, testicular cancer, patients, cells, tumor, gcnis, article, free


testicular dysgenesis syndrome (TDS) ( 3 , 4 , 5 ). Somatic cell tumors in the testis, known as sex cord-stromal neoplasms are relatively rare, but are also discussed in this chapter. These neoplasms can have endocrine manifestations due to their origin from endocrine cells. In addition to its malignant features, cancer of the testis represents a developmental, endocrine, and reproductive problem. These issues are the focus of this chapter, and emphasis is given to aspects that are of interest to endocrinologists, including pediatric endocrinologists and andrologists. The contribution of andrologists and endocrinologists to the overall management of patients with testicular cancer is very important, especially concerning early diagnosis, fertility issues, testosterone deficiency, and the impact of treatment on the quality of life of the patients, the majority of whom are young adults. We have to emphasize that only very general information on surgical and oncological treatment options (e.g., chemotherapy) is presented here. However, urologists and oncologists, who are responsible for the clinical management of testicular tumors, would also benefit from learning about the pathogenesis and andrological aspects of testicular cancer summarized in this chapter. GERM CELL TUMORS (GCT) Germ cell tumors (GCT) are characterized by extreme phenotypic heterogeneity ( 2 ). They display features of pluripotency and about half of them (nonseminomas) can differentiate into virtually any somatic tissue type within the so-called teratomas that recapitulate early embryonic differentiation ( 6 , 7 , 8 ). Although in comparison to other solid tissue cancers, GCTs are relatively rare, they constitute the most common form of solid tissue cancer of young age. The typical localization of GCT is the testis in males and ovary in females, but GCTs may also be found outside the gonads, thus these tumors are named extragonadal GCTs ( 8 , 9 ). Extragonadal GCTs occur most often in children of both genders, preferentially along the body midline (intracranial, pineal, mediastinal) but can occur also in adults ( 8 , 9 ). An increased frequency of extragonadal GCTs, especially in mediastinum, has been associated with Klinefelter syndrome ( 10 ). It is important to remember that a large proportion of cases of extragonadal GCT in retroperitoneal locations are associated with pre-malignant changes in testicles, and can be assumed early metastases of testicular neoplasms, although a multi-site development of GCT cannot be completely excluded ( 8 , 9 , 11 , 12 ). This chapter focuses on
