Testicular Cancer: Pathogenesis, Diagnosis and Management with Focus on Endocrine Aspects
KEYWORDS: testicular, pubmed, cell, tumors, cancer, germ, germ cell, cell tumors, testicular cancer, patients, cells, tumor, gcnis, article, free


type tumors (9085/3) * Footnote: The codes in parentheses are from the International Classification of Diseases for Oncology (ICD-O-3). Precursor Lesions The TGCT of young adults originate from a common precursor, germ cell neoplasia in situ (GCNIS), initially termed carcinoma in situ (CIS) testis ( 13 , 15 ). GCNIS is considered to originate from developmentally arrested immature germ cells (gonocytes) that fail to differentiate to spermatogonia ( 4 , 16 , 17 ). Accordingly, morphology of GCNIS cells resembles closely that of fetal gonocytes, but with more irregular chromatin in the nuclei. GCNIS cells are located inside seminiferous tubules, most frequently in a single row along the basement membrane ( Figure 1 ). Gonadoblastoma is a preinvasive lesion which occurs almost exclusively in individuals with disorders of sexual development (DSD). This lesion is most often found in female patients with mixed gonadal dysgenesis (45,X/46,XY) or Turner Syndrome but can also occur in males ( 2 , 18 , 19 ). Gonadoblastoma cells and GCNIS cells have a very similar gonocyte/oogonium-like phenotype, but the surrounding somatic cells are different; GCNIS cells are present inside seminiferous tubules, which are usually well developed but may be hypoplastic and contain immature Sertoli cells, while gonadoblastoma consists of groups of germ cells, which are nested in small stromal cells similar to granulosa cells ( 19 , 20 , 21 , 22 ). GCNIS and gonadoblastoma can be present in the same gonad and there are also lesions with morphology in between the two entities ( 18 , 19 ). The clinical course of pure gonadoblastoma may be benign, but it has a potential to transform into a malignant germ cell tumor, especially if accompanied by GCNIS and greater virilization of the patient ( 19 , 22 , 23 , 24 ). Figure 1. Histology of germ cell neoplasia in situ (GCNIS). The upper panel (hematoxyllin-eosin, HE staining shows a low magnification view of GCNIS in a typical pattern with only GCNIS cells and Sertoli cells present inside tubules. The tubules with neoplasia have a smaller diameter than normal seminiferous tubules. On the right side of this image a few tubules with decreased spermatogenesis are visible. The lower left image shows a fragment of a tubule with GCNIS side-by-side with a tubule with preserved spermatogenesis; note the large GCNIS nuclei. The lower right image displays GCNIS cells visualized by immunohistochemical staining for placental-like alkaline phosphatase
