Testicular Cancer: Pathogenesis, Diagnosis and Management with Focus on Endocrine Aspects
KEYWORDS: testicular, pubmed, cell, tumors, cancer, germ, germ cell, cell tumors, testicular cancer, patients, cells, tumor, gcnis, article, free


tubule with GCNIS side-by-side with a tubule with preserved spermatogenesis; note the large GCNIS nuclei. The lower right image displays GCNIS cells visualized by immunohistochemical staining for placental-like alkaline phosphatase (PLAP). The immunohistochemical profiles of GCNIS and gonadoblastoma cells are virtually identical and resemble very closely those of primordial germ cells and fetal gonocytes ( 21 , 25 , 26 ). This was subsequently confirmed by comparative studies at the transcriptional level using microarrays ( 17 , 27 , 28 ). Among many genes highly expressed in GCNIS cells (as well as gonadoblastoma, normal fetal germ cells and several TGCTs) the following should be mentioned because of their interesting biological function (germ cell survival or maintenance of embryonic stem cell pluripotency) and usefulness in histopathological diagnosis ( 24 ): OCT4 ( 29 ), AP2-gamma/TFAP2C ( 27 , 30 ), NANOG ( 27 , 31 , 32 ), KIT ( 25 , 33 ), TP53 ( 34 ), and LIN28 ( 35 , 36 ). In addition to protein-coding genes, GCNIS cells display a specific profile of embryonic-type micro-RNAs (miRNA); miR-371-3 cluster, miR-302 and miR-367 ( 37 , 38 ). This miRNA profile is also detectable in overt TGCT, except teratoma ( 38 ), see the description in the section on serum markers. Testicular Germ Cell Tumors (TGCT) Derived From GCNIS As mentioned in the introduction, TGCT of young adult men display very variable histology (some examples are shown in Figure 2 ) and are divided into seminomas (under the main GCT category of germinomas which occur in men and women) and nonseminomas (non-germinomas) ( 2 , 14 , 39 ). Figure 2. Histology of main types of testicular germ cell tumors. The large images show a general histology pattern of a seminoma (upper panel) and two most often seen types of nonseminoma: undifferentiated embryonal carcinoma (middle panel) and teratoma, a tumor displaying differentiation into various somatic tissues (bottom panel). Small square pictures on the right show cellular characteristics in a greater magnification. All sections are stained with hematoxylin-eosin (HE). Seminomas are most often diagnosed in the 25- to 40-year-old age group, whereas nonseminomatous tumors occur in even younger men (adolescence to 30 years). Both types originate from GCNIS ( 2 , 16 ). Seminoma resembles a mass of immature germ cells; the tumor cells are morphologically very close to GCNIS cells and proliferate as a homogeneous tumor, which retains features
