Testicular Cancer: Pathogenesis, Diagnosis and Management with Focus on Endocrine Aspects
KEYWORDS: testicular, pubmed, cell, tumors, cancer, germ, germ cell, cell tumors, testicular cancer, patients, cells, tumor, gcnis, article, free


, 16 ). Seminoma resembles a mass of immature germ cells; the tumor cells are morphologically very close to GCNIS cells and proliferate as a homogeneous tumor, which retains features of germinal lineage. The gene expression profile of seminoma is similar to that of GCNIS and fetal gonocytes, and virtually identical to the female equivalent of germinoma, called dysgerminoma ( 26 , 39 ). Nonseminomatous tumors display a variety of histological forms and contain undifferentiated embryonal carcinoma and somatic components partly differentiated along embryonic lineage of any tissue type ( 1 , 2 , 8 ). Nonseminomas also contain extra-embryonic tissue components (yolk sac tumor and choriocarcinoma). The combined or mixed tumors contain elements of seminoma and nonseminoma but are classified and clinically treated as nonseminoma, which usually has more severe clinical course than seminoma ( 1 , 2 ). Testicular Germ Cell Tumors Not Associated with GCNIS PREPUBERTAL (PEDIATRIC) TGCTs These tumors occur in early childhood (between birth and approximately 5 years of age) and comprise two main histological types: yolk sac tumor of the prepubertal type and mature teratoma (including dermoid cyst) ( Table 1 ). Prepubertal teratomas can contain secondary neuroendocrine elements, which can overgrow the tumor, hence, the latest WHO classification added this entity as the third subtype ( 14 ). The histology of the prepubertal tumors does not differ from the adult equivalents, which are components of nonseminoma ( 2 ). Likewise, these tumors display similar characteristic transcriptome and micro-RNA profiles ( 40 , 41 ). In contrast to the TGCT derived from GCNIS, the tumor genome does not display isochromosome 12p. The etiology and pathogenesis of infantile TGCT remain unknown. These tumors are assumed to originate from primordial germ cells (PGC) but there is no known precursor lesion of GCNIS/gonadoblastoma type, neither are there signs of testicular dysgenesis ( 2 , 42 , 43 ). SPERMATOCYTIC TUMOR This rare tumor occurs primarily in older men (median age at diagnosis around 50-55 years, range 25-94) but occasionally can be diagnosed in men in in the third decade of life ( 44 ). Spermatocytic tumor has no extragonadal or ovarian counterpart, and occurs exclusively in post-pubertal testis ( 1 , 2 , 8 ). This tumor is not derived from GCNIS ( 45 ) and has the expression profile similar to spermatogonia B or early primary spermatocytes ( 26 , 46 , 47 , 48 ).
