Testicular Cancer: Pathogenesis, Diagnosis and Management with Focus on Endocrine Aspects
KEYWORDS: testicular, pubmed, cell, tumors, cancer, germ, germ cell, cell tumors, testicular cancer, patients, cells, tumor, gcnis, article, free


is not derived from GCNIS ( 45 ) and has the expression profile similar to spermatogonia B or early primary spermatocytes ( 26 , 46 , 47 , 48 ). Spermatocytic tumors appear to grow from clonally expanding germ cells, which are committed to but have not yet entered meiosis. The following de novo genetic aberrations causing increased spermatogonial proliferation have been identified; amplifications in chromosome 9p encompassing DMRT1 locus ( 46 ), rare gain-of-function mutations in genes encoding FGFR2, FGFR3, HRAS, NRAS, PTPN11, and simultaneous whole chromosome gains of chromosome 9 and chromosome 20 combined with a loss of chromosome 7 ( 49 , 50 ). Some of these mutations that occur spontaneously in germ cells of aging men have been depicted as “selfish mutations” because - if transmitted to next generation - can cause severe inborn skeletal abnormalities in the offspring, such as achondroplasia, hypochondroplasia, thanatophoric dysplasia or Costello syndrome ( 51 ). Etiology and Pathogenesis of Testicular Germ Cell Cancer of Young Adults (Derived From GCNIS) INCIDENCE TRENDS AND RISK FACTORS Epidemiology of testicular germ cell tumors (TGCT) has attracted the growing attention of researchers, because of the steadily rising incidence ( 51 ). The incidence is remarkably variable geographically and dependent on the ethnic background ( Figure 3 ) ( 52 ). TGCT is currently the most common malignancy of young men of white European ancestry, while it is relatively rare among Asians and Africans ( 52 , 53 , 54 ). Interestingly, indigenous Maoris of New Zealand have a higher incidence of testicular cancer than the white population ( 55 ). Figure 3. Global incidence rates of testicular cancer. Age-standardized incidence rates for testicular cancer for men of all ages in selected countries of all regions of the world, extracted from national registries. National reporting systems varied by country, and data quality may have fluctuated between regions. Reprinted from Znaor et al., Eur Urol 2014 ( 52 ). However, the incidence rates are not stable and have been changing over time. Within populations rapid changes have been observed in recent decades. For example, the highest rates of testicular cancer have historically been observed in Norway and Denmark but much lower in the Eastern and Southern Europe. While the incidence in Denmark has been attenuating since the 1970s, an alarming rise has been noted in Finland and in Slavic Balkan countries, especially Slovenia and Croatia (
