Testicular Cancer: Pathogenesis, Diagnosis and Management with Focus on Endocrine Aspects
KEYWORDS: testicular, pubmed, cell, tumors, cancer, germ, germ cell, cell tumors, testicular cancer, patients, cells, tumor, gcnis, article, free


Europe. While the incidence in Denmark has been attenuating since the 1970s, an alarming rise has been noted in Finland and in Slavic Balkan countries, especially Slovenia and Croatia ( 52 , 53 , 54 , 56 ). Similarly, a rapid increase has been noted among the Hispanic/Latin population in the United States ( 57 ). Another interesting feature of epidemiology of testicular cancer is the so-called birth cohort effect; the rise in the incidence correlated with the calendar year of birth rather than with the age at diagnosis ( 58 ). For unexplained reasons, cohorts born at wartime had lower incidence than men born just before or after the war ( 58 ). As mentioned before, testicular cancer has an unusual age-specific incidence rate with a small peak in the postnatal period and a major peak in young adult age, starting at puberty. These periods coincide with an activation of gonadal hormones, indicating there may be a possible connection between the hormonal factors and invasive transformation of germ cells. In certain risk groups, the incidence of testicular cancer is much increased. Individuals with developmental abnormalities of the gonads and sex differentiation (DSD) are at high risk of developing germ cell neoplasia. Among these, individuals with the so-called mixed gonadal dysgenesis and the 45,X/46,XY karyotype are at particular risk of harboring GCNIS or gonadoblastoma and developing TGCT in adolescence ( 18 , 19 , 20 , 23 , 59 , 60 ). An association with testicular cancer has been noted in a number of developmental abnormalities, such as cryptorchidism ( 61 , 62 ), Down syndrome ( 63 ) but also low birth weight and unspecific perinatal factors, e.g., premature birth, birth order, high levels of maternal estrogens or bleeding during pregnancy, high maternal age and neonatal jaundice ( 62 , 64 ). A late age at puberty and tall stature were also associated with lower and higher risk of testicular cancer, respectively ( 65 , 66 ). For endocrinologists and andrologists it is essential to know that male infertility (the type linked to TDS) is one of the commonest risk factors for testicular cancer ( 67 ). Men with TGCT have poorer semen quality and significantly fewer children than controls prior to development of their tumor ( 68 , 69 ), see also the section on TDS below. Patients with a unilateral TGCT are also at an increased risk
