Testicular Cancer: Pathogenesis, Diagnosis and Management with Focus on Endocrine Aspects
KEYWORDS: testicular, pubmed, cell, tumors, cancer, germ, germ cell, cell tumors, testicular cancer, patients, cells, tumor, gcnis, article, free


controls prior to development of their tumor ( 68 , 69 ), see also the section on TDS below. Patients with a unilateral TGCT are also at an increased risk to develop a new primary testicular tumor of the contralateral testis. Depending on the studied population and the interval from the primary diagnosis, approximately 2 - 5% patients will be diagnosed with a second TGCT during their lifetime ( 70 , 71 , 72 , 73 ). The majority of bilateral TGCT occur metachronously (> 6 months after the primary TGCT), some as late as 20-40 years after the primary TGCT ( 74 ). The histology of the primary tumor influences the risk only marginally, with the predominance of seminomas among the synchronous TGCTs but primary nonseminomas observed most often in younger patients with metachronous tumors developing after shorter intervals ( 70 , 72 ). The presence of testicular atrophy increases the risk of bilateral neoplasia considerably ( 75 , 76 ). Testicular Dysgenesis Syndrome (TDS) The association of testicular cancer with poor testicular function, cryptorchidism, hypospadias, and abnormal testicular development led to a hypothesis that poor gonadal development and testicular neoplasia are etiologically linked. A concept of TDS was proposed, in which testicular cancer is one of the symptoms, in addition to other phenotypes, including cryptorchidism, hypospadias, shortened anogenital distance (AGD), reduced Leydig cell function, and decreased spermatogenesis ( 3 , 5 ). This hypothesis is supported by histological studies showing that dysgenetic features, such as undifferentiated tubules with visibly immature Sertoli cells, clusters of poorly differentiated tubules, or hyaline bodies, often seen in association with testicular cancer, are not uncommon among men referred to andrology clinics because of fertility problems ( 3 , 5 , 18 , 71 ). It is important to underline that not all cases of genital malformations and infertility are a part of TDS. Milder phenotypes linked to impaired development of the testis in fetal life due to diverse environmental or lifestyle-related factors can be considered part of TDS ( 5 , 77 ). Severe genital malformations caused by genetic disorders are clearly a part of DSD but there is a partial overlap between the two syndromes ( 18 ). However, TDS severity and prevalence are undoubtedly modulated by the genetic variability (polymorphisms) and epigenetics ( 5 ). A schematic representation of the pathogenesis and manifestations of TDS is depicted in Figure 4 .
