Testicular Cancer: Pathogenesis, Diagnosis and Management with Focus on Endocrine Aspects
KEYWORDS: testicular, pubmed, cell, tumors, cancer, germ, germ cell, cell tumors, testicular cancer, patients, cells, tumor, gcnis, article, free


prevalence are undoubtedly modulated by the genetic variability (polymorphisms) and epigenetics ( 5 ). A schematic representation of the pathogenesis and manifestations of TDS is depicted in Figure 4 . Figure 4. Schematic illustration of aetiology and pathogenesis of disorders grouped within Testicular Dysgenesis Syndrome (TDS). The TDS concept implicates disturbed function of testicular somatic cells (Leydig- and Sertoli cells) caused by inherited genetic variation (gene polymorphisms) in combination with environmental /lifestyle factors acting during early development. Dysfunction of the somatic cells results in disturbed hormonal homeostasis and causes impaired germ cell differentiation. Depending on the severity of the impairment, multiple outcomes or phenotypes may occur, ranging from reduced anogenital distance (AGD), genital malformations to testicular cancer. Note that the most severe forms of TDS (disorders of sex development with gonadoblastoma (GDB) or GCNIS are the least frequently seen, whereas the mildest forms, such as impaired spermatogenesis are quite common. Modified from Skakkebæk et al., Hum Reprod 2001 ( 3 ) and Physiol Rev 2016 ( 5 ). Genomics of TGCT and Predisposing Polymorphisms Tumors derived from germ cells via GCNIS stage are characterized by the presence of a nearly universal aneuploidy (polyploidization) and amplification of chromosome 12p, often in the form of an isochromosome ( 8 , 78 ). Additional secondary genomic aberrations in invasive TGCT include rare recurring chromosomal gains or losses (in particular loss of chromosome Y), and fusion transcripts ( 79 , 80 ). Strikingly few oncogenic mutations have been reported in TGCTs, and the short list of affected genes includes only KIT (predominantly in seminomas) and KRAS ( mainly in nonseminomas) ( 79 , 81 , 83 ). Although testicular cancer in most cases is a sporadic disease, the familial risk of testicular GCT is among the highest when compared to other cancers; brothers and sons of TGCT cases have an 8-10-fold and 4-6-fold increased risk, respectively ( 84 ). A twin study from Nordic countries estimated the heritability of testicular cancer as 37%, with 24% attributed to shared environment ( 85 ). Recent studies using next generation sequencing technology confirmed the absence of specific oncogenic driver mutations that would explain a high heritable risk of testicular cancer ( 86 ). The bulk of inherited risk is instead caused by a constellation of unfavorable gene variants, which jointly account for estimated 44% of testicular cancer heritability ( 87 ). Men with a polygenic risk score
