Testicular Cancer: Pathogenesis, Diagnosis and Management with Focus on Endocrine Aspects
KEYWORDS: testicular, pubmed, cell, tumors, cancer, germ, germ cell, cell tumors, testicular cancer, patients, cells, tumor, gcnis, article, free


risk is instead caused by a constellation of unfavorable gene variants, which jointly account for estimated 44% of testicular cancer heritability ( 87 ). Men with a polygenic risk score in the 95 th percentile have a 6.8-fold increased risk of TGCT compared to men with median scores ( 87 ). This estimation is based on numerous genome-wide association studies (GWAS) performed in recent decades, which revealed a large number of significant gene variants (markers) associated with TGCT risk ( 87 , 88 , 89 , 90 , 91 , 92 , 93 ). The strongest association, which was identified in all GWAS, and most interesting from the biological point of view, is with a cluster of single nucleotide polymorphisms (SNPs) within or near KIT ligand gene ( KITLG) and in genes downstream of the KIT/KITLG/MAPK signaling pathway, e.g., SPRY4 . This pathway is essential for germ cell migration and survival, is highly active in GCNIS, with the frequent secondary gain-of-function mutations identified in seminomas ( 33 , 81 , 82 , 83 , 89 , 94 , 95 ). Among other significant SNPs associated with TGCT risk, the most interesting are DMRT1 , a transcription factor involved in sex differentiation and regulation of meiosis ( 96 , 97 ), PRDM14 and DAZL, factors involved in primordial germ cell specification and differentiation, AMHR2 , the receptor for anti-Mullerian hormone (AMH), AR, the androgen receptor, and several genes in the telomerase and DNA repair pathway ( 87 , 90 , 91 , 92 , 93 ). It is biologically important that several predisposing variants are potentially associated with germ cell differentiation and testis development, including hormone regulation, and there is an overlap with some pathways involved in TDS. Current Views on the Environmental Etiology of TGCT In spite of significant recent inroads into the understanding of the pathogenesis of TGCT, etiology of these tumors, and especially the reason for the rise in incidence, remains obscure. The high incidence of testicular cancer in subjects with congenital errors of gonadal development strongly implicates the involvement of intrauterine factors and perinatal factors. We believe that the neoplastic transformation of male germ cells occurs during their pre-meiotic development, and this happens preferentially in individuals with genetic susceptibility. GCNIS cells and primordial germ cells share some distinct features, such as expression of embryonic pluripotency factors, low DNA methylation and constellation of miRNAs and histone modifications (
