Testicular Cancer: Pathogenesis, Diagnosis and Management with Focus on Endocrine Aspects
KEYWORDS: testicular, pubmed, cell, tumors, cancer, germ, germ cell, cell tumors, testicular cancer, patients, cells, tumor, gcnis, article, free


genetic susceptibility. GCNIS cells and primordial germ cells share some distinct features, such as expression of embryonic pluripotency factors, low DNA methylation and constellation of miRNAs and histone modifications ( 4 , 5 , 17 , 27 , 28 , 37 , 39 , 99 , 100 ). The mechanisms of neoplastic transformation of early germ cell are not known. There is a growing consensus that there may be multiple mechanisms and testicular cancer is a multifactorial and polygenic disorder. A disturbance in the fetal programming of gonadal development may be a result of an intrauterine hormonal imbalance, which in turn may be caused by a genetic disorder or by an impact of an exogenous factor targeting a key pathway, e.g., androgen signaling, KIT-KITLG signaling, DMRT1 signaling and regulation of meiosis, the TGF-beta superfamily regulation (including Nodal pathway) or the WNT pathway, leading to a delay in the testis development and maturation of fetal gonocytes ( 3 , 4 , 91 , 98 , 94 , 101 , 102 , 103 ). As mentioned above, the rising and quickly changing incidence of testicular cancer in well-developed countries suggests a possible adverse influence of environmental or lifestyle-related causative factors. In recent decades a great number of potent natural and synthetic hormones and hormone antagonists have been identified in environment. Observations in wildlife and experiments in laboratory animals exposed to synthetic hormones and a broad range of endocrine disrupters suggest that these substances can cause a disturbance of hormonal milieu of the developing gonad and disturb differentiation of early germ cells ( 3 , 4 , 5 , 104 , 105 , 106 ). Whether or not the endocrine disrupters have contributed to the rise in testicular cancer remains to be demonstrated. Human exposure studies are difficult, mainly because of the long interval between the vulnerable period of early development and manifestation of cancer development in adulthood. There is also the problem of the plethora of confounding factors, including mixtures of possible contaminating factors present in food, packaging, cosmetics, and other products of daily life. Therefore, the evidence for the role of endocrine disrupters in the etiology of TGCT remains scarce. Among few existing data one can mention a higher serum level of some persistent organic pollutants found in mothers of men with testicular cancer ( 107 ), and a greater burden of p,p′-DDE (a DDT metabolite) in serum of testicular cancer
