Testicular Cancer: Pathogenesis, Diagnosis and Management with Focus on Endocrine Aspects
KEYWORDS: testicular, pubmed, cell, tumors, cancer, germ, germ cell, cell tumors, testicular cancer, patients, cells, tumor, gcnis, article, free


of some persistent organic pollutants found in mothers of men with testicular cancer ( 107 ), and a greater burden of p,p′-DDE (a DDT metabolite) in serum of testicular cancer patients ( 108 ). For more information on the existing evidence and possible mechanisms the reader is referred to recent review articles on the subject ( 109 , 110 ). It is clear that further studies in large cohorts of patients and controls are needed to identify the causative factors behind the observed testicular cancer epidemics. Few data exist concerning postnatal exposures and risk of TGCT. A heavy use of marijuana (cannabis) has been consistently reported as a risk factor for nonseminoma but the mechanism remains to be elucidated ( 111 , 112 ). Diagnosis and Staging of Testicular Germ Cell Neoplasms PREINVASIVE LESIONS AND TESTICULAR BIOPSY All attending physicians should consider a possibility of incipient germ cell neoplasia in men with infertility, especially those with small testes, a history of cryptorchidism, or previous testicular tumors, or in individuals from the high-risk group of DSD ( 5 , 68 , 69 ). The preinvasive stage of GCNIS is asymptomatic, so diagnosis at this early stage is sporadic. Ultrasonographic examination can be helpful in some cases. GCNIS or incipient TGCT are frequently associated with an irregular echo pattern or microcalcifications /microlithiasis ( 113 , 114 , 115 , 116 ). However, ultrasonic microlithiasis is very common and can be present in normal men or patients with mild disorders, so it alone is not an indication for a testis biopsy. A biopsy is indicated if microlithiasis is accompanied by additional risk factors, e.g., history of cryptorchidism, a family history of testicular cancer, atrophic testis (<12 mL), or poor semen quality, especially azoospermia ( 117 , 118 ). Surgical testicular biopsy is currently the only sure diagnostic procedure for GCNIS diagnosis ( 119 ). Experience in the use of needle biopsies for GCNIS diagnosis is limited and this method is not commonly used in the clinic. Regardless of the method of obtaining the testis tissue, examination for GCNIS by immunohistochemistry in a diagnostic biopsy or any leftover material after testicular sperm extraction in fertility clinics is now considered mandatory ( 119 , 120 , 121 ). GCNIS is present in the testis contralateral to a testicular tumor in approximately 5% of cases, with a range of 4% to 8%, depending on the studied
