Testicular Cancer: Pathogenesis, Diagnosis and Management with Focus on Endocrine Aspects
KEYWORDS: testicular, pubmed, cell, tumors, cancer, germ, germ cell, cell tumors, testicular cancer, patients, cells, tumor, gcnis, article, free


, 121 ). GCNIS is present in the testis contralateral to a testicular tumor in approximately 5% of cases, with a range of 4% to 8%, depending on the studied cohort ( 71 , 75 , 121 , 122 ). Screening for the contralateral GCNIS to prevent the appearance of metachronous bilateral TGCT has been practiced in several countries, including nationwide in Denmark and in some centers in other European countries (Germany, Austria, the Netherlands). Most of other centers adopted a recommendation of the European Association of Urology ( 123 ) to take contralateral biopsies only in patients at risk for GCNIS presence, such as by a history of cryptorchidism, a small testis volume (<12 ml), or testicular microlithiasis ( 75 , 76 ). In the USA and Canada, the contralateral biopsy is rarely practiced, and American guidelines recommend this procedure only if the contralateral testis is cryptorchid, shows marked atrophy, or suspicious ultrasonic changes, but not microlithiasis alone ( 124 , 125 ). Our recommendation is to offer a contralateral biopsy to all patients at the time of surgery for the primary TGCT, perhaps with the exception of men older than 50, because of a minimal risk of GCNIS. Added benefits of a biopsy are a good assessment of the fertility potential of the other testicle, and the peace of mind for the patient concerning the possibility of bilateral cancer ( 126 ). Mild post-biopsy complications (3%) are rare and the procedure is well accepted by the patients ( 127 ). In young men with normal size testicles, two-site biopsies may be considered to decrease a chance of a false-negative biopsy ( 126 ). False-negative cases are relatively rare ( 128 ) but the procedure does not completely eliminate the risk of the second TGCT. In the Danish nationwide study, the cumulative incidence of the metachronous TGCT was 1.9% (after median 20-year follow-up) compared to 3.1% in a non-biopsied earlier cohort of patients ( 121 ). However, in a sub-cohort of Danish patients, in whom the contralateral biopsy was performed with a quality control and obligatory immunohistochemistry with GCNIS markers, the cumulative rate of the second cancer (after similar follow-up period rate) decreased to 0.95% ( 121 ). Technical aspects of surgical biopsy are important. The tissue fragment has to be sufficiently large (approx. 3x3x3 mm) and care has to be taken to avoid damage to the specimen, which
