Testicular Cancer: Pathogenesis, Diagnosis and Management with Focus on Endocrine Aspects
KEYWORDS: testicular, pubmed, cell, tumors, cancer, germ, germ cell, cell tumors, testicular cancer, patients, cells, tumor, gcnis, article, free


aspects of surgical biopsy are important. The tissue fragment has to be sufficiently large (approx. 3x3x3 mm) and care has to be taken to avoid damage to the specimen, which should be dropped directly to a container with a fixative solution. For morphology evaluation Bouin's or similar solutions are preferred because formalin causes shrinkage artefacts, while for immunohistochemistry buffered formalin is preferred. As for any diagnostic testis biopsy, the contralateral biopsy evaluation must include immunohistochemical staining for at least one (better two) of the known markers for GCNIS, e.g., placental-like alkaline phosphatase (PLAP), OCT-3/4 (POU5F1) , PDPN/M2A/D2-40, or AP2γ- TFP2AC ( 120 , 122 , 129 ). An example of immunohistochemical PLAP staining for GCNIS detection is shown in Figure 1 . SEMEN ANALYSIS Poor spermatogenesis is a good indication that the patient may be at risk of harboring GCNIS ( 5 , 68 , 69 , 75 , 76 , 130 , 131 ). Semen analysis cannot as yet be used alone for detection of early stages of testicular cancer. However, it has been known for a long time that GCNIS cells may be occasionally found in semen ( 132 ). Over the years, progress has been made towards establishing better quality immunocytochemical detection of GCNIS or early invasive intratubular tumor cells in semen, and an improved automated double-staining assay has been developed ( 133 , 134 , 135 ). Unfortunately, the sensitivity of the cytological method is not high enough for screening, but it can be used as an additional part of semen analysis in experienced andrological centers performing immunohistochemistry ( 135 ). It is also not possible to use a micro-RNA (miRNA)-based assay, especially miRNA-371a-3p, a very promising serum marker for invasive TGCT, for detection of GCNIS in seminal fluid, despite that this embryonic-type miRNA is secreted by GCNIS cells ( 37 ). Even though some patients with GCNIS can have measurable miR-371a-3p in serum ( 136 ), the presence of the same miRNAs in normal germ cells in control patients with non-malignant conditions precludes using this assay in seminal fluid ( 137 , 138 , 139 ). SERUM TUMOR MARKERS, DIAGNOSIS AND MONITORING OF OVERT TGCT In the vast majority of cases a scrotal mass is usually the first presentation of testicular cancer, with tenderness reported by very few patients. In a few percent of testicular cancer cases, the presenting symptoms are the result of metastatic
