Testicular Cancer: Pathogenesis, Diagnosis and Management with Focus on Endocrine Aspects
KEYWORDS: testicular, pubmed, cell, tumors, cancer, germ, germ cell, cell tumors, testicular cancer, patients, cells, tumor, gcnis, article, free


usually the first presentation of testicular cancer, with tenderness reported by very few patients. In a few percent of testicular cancer cases, the presenting symptoms are the result of metastatic disease. They are usually uncharacteristic and may include lumbar pain, palpable abdominal mass, supra-clavicular lymph node enlargement, and in rare cases pulmonary symptoms ( 1 ). The majority of primary and metastatic germ cell tumors secrete proteins and other biochemical products that can be detected in circulating blood. These biochemical serum tumor markers are very helpful in diagnosis and monitoring of testicular cancer ( 38 , 124 , 140 ). The most important serum markers established in clinical practice are human chorionic gonadotropin (HCG), alpha-fetoprotein (AFP), and lactate dehydrogenase (LDH), the first two mainly useful to detect nonseminomas ( 1 , 140 ). Among nonseminomatous tumors, choriocarcinoma, which resembles a gestational trophoblast, produces large quantities of HCG, while yolk sac tumor, which is similar in morphology to the embryonic yolk sac, secretes AFP ( 38 , 140 , 141 ). In addition, LDH may be secreted by both seminomas and nonseminomas. LDH levels in serum tend to be higher in patients harboring tumors with an increased copy number of chromosome 12p, consistent with the genomic location of the LDHB gene ( 142 ). Increased concentrations of LDH in the absence of AFP and HCG suggests the presence of seminoma. It is important to keep in mind that TGCT rarely occur in pure histological forms, and a subtype of seminoma with syncytiotrophoblastic cells can secrete HCG, which can be measurable in patients’ blood ( 14 , 143 ). In preinvasive GCNIS and in most cases of pure seminoma, none of the above-mentioned markers are detectable in serum. The most promising currently emerging serum markers are micro-RNAs (miRNA), among which miRNA 371a-3p is the best studied and most robust marker, and has already been proven valuable for detection of seminomas and nonseminomas, except for differentiated pure teratomas, in children and adults ( 38 , 144 , 145 ). Several large clinical studies clearly demonstrated that miRNA 371a-3p test has a much better specificity than the classical serum markers, and is especially useful for detection and monitoring of HCG- and AFP-negative seminomas ( 146 , 147 ). After diagnosis, careful clinical staging is necessary in each patient to decide for the most appropriate treatment strategy, and the measurements of circulating tumor markers are
