Testicular Cancer: Pathogenesis, Diagnosis and Management with Focus on Endocrine Aspects
KEYWORDS: testicular, pubmed, cell, tumors, cancer, germ, germ cell, cell tumors, testicular cancer, patients, cells, tumor, gcnis, article, free


146 , 147 ). After diagnosis, careful clinical staging is necessary in each patient to decide for the most appropriate treatment strategy, and the measurements of circulating tumor markers are an important part of this process ( 1 , 123 , 124 ). There is a tendency for higher levels of tumor markers to be associated with a poorer prognosis. For example, the presence of syncytiotrophoblastic cells in the subtype of seminoma can lead to a mild increase of serum HCG, but the tumor responds well to treatment regardless of the presence of these cells, so more aggressive management should be avoided. In addition to serum markers, scrotal ultrasonography is the first line diagnostic procedure. In general, seminoma is a homogenous tumor, whereas nonseminomas usually display heterogeneous patterns, with frequent hyperechoic calcified areas ( 148 , 149 ). Additional imaging procedures help to evaluate the spread of disease, including CT scan of the chest and abdomen, or MRI ( 148 , 149 , 150 ). Histopathological evaluation of the orchiectomy specimen is an essential part of the clinical staging. The important risk factors are tumor size, vascular/lymphatic invasion or the presence of tumor cells in rete testis, and the presence of pure embryonal carcinoma ( 152 , 153 ). The most commonly used staging and prognostic classification system is the TNM (tumor, node, metastases) System of the International Germ Cell Cancer Collaborative Group (GCCCG) and the American Joint Committee on Cancer (AJCC) ( 154 ). The stage grouping updated by the WHO Consensus ( 2 ), is shown in Table 2 . Table 2. Stage Grouping According to TNM Classification View in own window Stage 0 (pTis): Germ cell neoplasia in situ Stage IA (pT1, N0, M0, S0): Tumor limited to testis and epididymis Stage IB (pT2-4): as IA but with vascular/lymphatic, tunica or scrotal invasion Stage II (any pT, N1-3, M0, S0-1): Metastasis in lymph nodes, serum markers normal or moderately increased IIA (N1): lymph nodes <2 cm IIB (N2, S1): lymph nodes ≥2 cm but <5 cm IIC (N3, S1): lymph nodes ≥5 cm Stage III (any pT, any N, M1, S0-3): Distant metastasis (spread beyond regional nodes) IIIA (M1a, S0-1): Spread to non-regional nodes or lung IIIB (M1a, S2): as IIIA but high serum markers IIIC (M1a-b, S3): distant metastasis to sites other than IIIA, or very high serum markers Footnote : pT=primary tumor, N=regional lymph nodes,
