Testicular Cancer: Pathogenesis, Diagnosis and Management with Focus on Endocrine Aspects
KEYWORDS: testicular, pubmed, cell, tumors, cancer, germ, germ cell, cell tumors, testicular cancer, patients, cells, tumor, gcnis, article, free


(M1a, S2): as IIIA but high serum markers IIIC (M1a-b, S3): distant metastasis to sites other than IIIA, or very high serum markers Footnote : pT=primary tumor, N=regional lymph nodes, M=distant metastasis, S=serum tumor markers (X=unknown, not available) Management of GCNIS and Testicular Germ Cell Cancer Early diagnosis of testicular neoplasia at the stage of GCNIS, followed by adequate treatment of GCNIS is capable of preventing progression to invasive tumors. Unfortunately, the vast majority of cases progress unnoticed to overt tumors. However, germ cell tumors are extremely radio- and chemo-sensitive and have apparently very high propensity to apoptosis, likely mediated by p53 ( 155 , 156 ). Because of this sensitivity, and thanks to cisplatin-based chemotherapy regimens, TGCT is a highly curable malignancy, with more than 90% of patients reaching a sustained complete remission ( 157 ). We give here only very general information concerning management of testicular cancer. The reader should consult specialized oncologic and urologic literature for management options pertinent to treatment-resistant tumors and metastatic disease. TREATMENT OF GCNIS Spontaneous regression of GCNIS has never been described and it is anticipated that all cases of GCNIS will eventually develop into TCGT. The following management options for GCNIS are available depending on a specific situation ( 158 ): Orchiectomy - is the curative treatment with the highest assured success rate. It should always be performed on a testis with GCNIS or localized tumor when the second testis is not affected by malignancy (including GCNIS). Radiotherapy - low dose radiotherapy is a good alternative to orchiectomy when GCNIS is present bilaterally or in the contralateral testis, so the patient can be spared a bilateral castration and lifelong androgen replacement therapy. The efficacy of radiotherapy with doses as low as 16 Gy was demonstrated in the early studies ( 159 ). Even though the lower dose better preserves the function of Leydig cells ( 160 ), more recent studies and current EAU guidelines recommend a dose of 18 Gy, given in fractions of 2Gy ( 123 , 161 ). This dose of radiation will almost always destroy normal germ cells, so radiotherapy may be delayed in patients who wish to secure natural conception of a child. Chemotherapy - is not an option to treat GCNIS, because a persistence or relapse has been reported in a high proportion of patients ( 121 , 161 ). Furthermore, in some cases of extragonadal germ
