Testicular Cancer: Pathogenesis, Diagnosis and Management with Focus on Endocrine Aspects
KEYWORDS: testicular, pubmed, cell, tumors, cancer, germ, germ cell, cell tumors, testicular cancer, patients, cells, tumor, gcnis, article, free


option to treat GCNIS, because a persistence or relapse has been reported in a high proportion of patients ( 121 , 161 ). Furthermore, in some cases of extragonadal germ cell tumors treated with chemotherapy, testicular GCNIS progressed to metachronous overt testicular tumors ( 162 ). However, in patients with disseminated disease receiving chemotherapy, the risk of metachronous bilateral TGCT is lower ( 73 , 163 , 164 ). Surveillance - is potentially hazardous since it increases the risk of metachronous bilateral TGCT ( 164 ) and GCNIS may progress to invasive cancer at any time. However, watchful surveillance may be an option after careful informed discussion of risks and monitoring with ultrasound examinations, especially if the patient wishes to defer treatment temporarily for the purpose of paternity. In men who desire fatherhood, and in all very young men, cryopreservation of semen samples should be offered, if viable spermatozoa are detected. TREATMENT OF OVERT SEMINOMAS AND NONSEMINOMAS As far as the treatment of invasive germ cell tumors is concerned, the reader should consult the specialized urology and oncology guidelines. Prior to surgery, all patients with TGCT should be offered full andrological evaluation and cryopreservation of semen. Endocrinologic evaluation of the patient should also preferably be done before surgery, with the reproductive hormone profile, including serum testosterone, gonadotropins, and inhibin B, if possible. This can be done together with the above-mentioned measurements of serum tumor markers. Pre-operative semen analysis and cryopreservation is especially important in patients with bilateral tumors or only one testicle. In the patients who have azoospermia or cryptozoospermia, and in whom it was impossible to retrieve sperm pre-operatively, testicular sperm extraction (TESE) at the time of orchiectomy (‘onco-TESE’) may be attempted in specialized centers ( 165 ). The best predicting factor of sperm retrieval is a small size of the tumor, because a chance of finding tubules with ongoing spermatogenesis increases with the distance from the tumor ( 166 ). Radical orchiectomy remains the primary surgical treatment method of choice. Primary dissection of retroperitoneal lymph nodes (RPLND) was previously commonly practiced, especially in North America. The current consensus is to perform RPLND in experienced high-volume centers, and in selected cases, mainly in patients with nonseminoma and intermediate prognosis ( 1 , 167 , 168 , 169 ). Nerve-sparing technique is preferred in order to avoid the loss of antegrade ejaculation, which is the commonest long-term complication of RPLND
