Testicular Cancer: Pathogenesis, Diagnosis and Management with Focus on Endocrine Aspects
KEYWORDS: testicular, pubmed, cell, tumors, cancer, germ, germ cell, cell tumors, testicular cancer, patients, cells, tumor, gcnis, article, free


( 1 , 167 , 168 , 169 ). Nerve-sparing technique is preferred in order to avoid the loss of antegrade ejaculation, which is the commonest long-term complication of RPLND ( 169 ). Methods of post-surgical management of overt TGCT are variable, depending upon the histological type of tumor (seminoma vs nonseminoma), levels of serum markers and stage of disease and the presence of residual retroperitoneal masses ( 1 , 115 , 151 , 167 ). Adjuvant radiotherapy, e.g., of the retroperitoneal/para-aortic field, which was previously routinely used, is no longer recommended, because of the long-term risk of secondary malignancies ( 1 , 167 , 168 ). Pure seminomas have a good prognosis and around 80% of patients with stage I seminoma (tumor confined to the testis) do not require any treatment after the surgery, thus most of the centers practice a surveillance strategy ( 151 , 168 , 170 ). Nonseminomas have a somewhat poorer prognosis (relapse rate is around 30%) and in some centers, patients with nonseminoma and high risk of relapse are treated with one course of adjuvant chemotherapy with cisplatin and etoposide ( 171 , 172 ), but most centers currently recommend a surveillance strategy ( 1 , 151 , 152 , 168 , 172 ). The most common post-surgical management of disseminated disease is systemic chemotherapy with a combination of cytotoxic drugs. The standard first line chemotherapy regimen is BEP (bleomycin, etoposide and cisplatin), administered in 3 or 4 cycles, depending on the patient’s prognosis ( 173 , 174 ). It is very important to make a dynamic assessment of the progress of treatment through the early stages of chemotherapy, thus monitoring of serum markers is obligatory. Post-chemotherapy retroperitoneal surgery should be performed in patients with a residual tumor after BEP ( 151 ). In patients with relapse after first line treatment, salvage regimens and complex surgery for residual tumors need to be performed. Overall, the management is difficult, thus it should be carried out in specialized tertiary centers ( 1 , 167 ). The majority of relapses occur within 2 years of the initial treatment but late relapses are observed in some cases, therefore individual management of each patient and lifetime follow-up is advocated in some patients ( 1 , 151 , 167 ). Andrological follow-up should be coordinated with the post-surgery oncological management and controls (see the section on ‘Endocrine problems and late
