Testicular Cancer: Pathogenesis, Diagnosis and Management with Focus on Endocrine Aspects
KEYWORDS: testicular, pubmed, cell, tumors, cancer, germ, germ cell, cell tumors, testicular cancer, patients, cells, tumor, gcnis, article, free


spermatogenesis by secretion of testosterone. Although Leydig cells in adult men are considered to be a terminally differentiated and mitotically quiescent cell type, in various disorders of testicular function, focal or diffuse Leydig cell hyperplasia is very common. Micronodules of Leydig cells are frequently seen in certain conditions associated with severe decrease of spermatogenesis or germinal aplasia, such as the Sertoli-cell-only syndrome (Del Castillo syndrome), cryptorchidism, or Klinefelter syndrome, when the nodules can be particularly florid ( 186 , 187 ). A term 'Leydig cell adenoma' is used when the size of a nodule exceeds several- fold the diameter of a seminiferous tubule. It is unknown whether Leydig cell adenomas can progress further to form overt Leydig cell tumors, but even if it were the case, it is exceedingly rare. Morphological heterogeneity of hyperplastic Leydig cells is noticeable in some cases, and it has been shown that the micronodules contain a large proportion of immature Leydig cells ( 186 , 187 ). The mechanism of Leydig cell hyperplasia and larger nodules in the human male is still poorly understood. Leydig cell nodules of variable-size are common in patients with TDS and infertility, and the functional insufficiency of Leydig cells is often reflected by decreased testosterone/LH ratio whereas patients with overt Leydig cell tumors usually have an increased testosterone/LH ratio and high estradiol ( 186 , 188 ). The disruption of hypothalamo-pituitary-testicular axis leading to an excessive stimulation of Leydig cells by LH can play a central role ( 186 ). This in turn leads to an increased renewal of immature, adult-type Leydig cells from their precursors. The immature cells are characterized by low numbers of Reinke crystals, a relatively high expression of a mesenchymal factor DLK1 and low amounts of INSL3 ( 187 , 189 , 190 ). However, Leydig cell hyperplasia is distinct from tumors that are usually solitary. Leydig cell hyperplasia and adenomas can be easily induced in rodents by administration of estrogens, gonadotropins, and a wide range of chemical compounds. Whether or not humans would be similarly susceptible to environmental effects remains to be elucidated. Leydig cell tumors account for up to 5% of testicular neoplasms and occur in all age groups ( 2 , 178 , 191 ). Approximately 20% are found in boys, most often between five and ten years of age. There is perception that the prevalence of benign Leydig cell tumors among the
