Testicular Cancer: Pathogenesis, Diagnosis and Management with Focus on Endocrine Aspects
KEYWORDS: testicular, pubmed, cell, tumors, cancer, germ, germ cell, cell tumors, testicular cancer, patients, cells, tumor, gcnis, article, free


191 ). Approximately 20% are found in boys, most often between five and ten years of age. There is perception that the prevalence of benign Leydig cell tumors among the adults is greater than previously thought, possibly thanks to improved detection of small nonpalpable nodules by modern imaging methods. Higher incidence numbers have also been reported in fertility centers that actively scan the testes of infertile patients ( 192 ). In a subset of cases of Leydig cell tumors, activating mutations of the LH receptor ( 193 , 194 , 195 ) or G proteins ( 196 , 197 ) can be detected. Constitutively activating mutations of LH receptor cause early Leydig cell hyperplasia and precocious puberty ( 193 , 195 , 197 ). Similarly, constitutively activating mutations of Gs-protein in Leydig cells or inactivation of PKAR1A (protein kinase cyclic adenosine monophosphate-dependent regulatory type 1 alpha) lead to hyperplasia and endocrine hyperactivity ( 178 , 197 ). In adult Leydig cell tumors, germline fumarate hydratase mutations have been identified in a few cases which also had hereditary leiomyomatosis and renal cell cancer ( 199 ). Precocious puberty (so-called testotoxicosis) is the presenting symptom in most of cases of Leydig cell adenomas or tumors in children, due to the excessive androgen production, mainly testosterone that causes growth of penis, pubic hair, accelerated skeletal and muscle growth, advancement of bone age, skin changes (acne, comedos, hair greasing), and adult-type odor of sweat. Androgen secretion in the pediatric cases is gonadotropin independent, and therefore LH and FSH remain low in spite of external signs of puberty ( 195 ). Approximately 10% of the boys also have gynecomastia that is caused by estrogens produced in excess due to aromatase activity in some of the tumors or peripheral aromatization of testosterone. It is important to keep in mind that transient gynecomastia or pseudo-gynecomastia can occur in newborns, in obese boys, and at puberty as a non-pathological condition ( 200 ). In adults, gynecomastia is a frequent condition with a reported prevalence of 32–65%, depending on the age and the criteria used for definition (summarized in 201). Gynecomastia is sometimes associated with loss of libido, impotence, and infertility ( 201 ). However, Leydig cell tumor is the cause in only 1-2% of cases, and the excessive androgen secretion by these tumors rarely causes notable effects in adults ( 202 ). Malignant tumors are hormonally active only
