Testicular Cancer: Pathogenesis, Diagnosis and Management with Focus on Endocrine Aspects
KEYWORDS: testicular, pubmed, cell, tumors, cancer, germ, germ cell, cell tumors, testicular cancer, patients, cells, tumor, gcnis, article, free


the cause in only 1-2% of cases, and the excessive androgen secretion by these tumors rarely causes notable effects in adults ( 202 ). Malignant tumors are hormonally active only in exceptional cases ( 2 , 178 ). In children, Leydig cell tumors are always benign and can be treated with surgical enucleation when the tumor is encapsulated ( 203 ). In adults malignant Leydig cell tumors have been found in 10-15% of patients, and inguinal orchiectomy is often used ( 204 ), while testis-sparing enucleation remains an option, if there are no signs of malignancy in the frozen preparation ( 205 ). The presence of cytologic atypia, necrosis, angiolymphatic invasion, increased mitotic activity, atypical mitotic figures, infiltrative margins, extension beyond testicular parenchyma, and DNA aneuploidy are associated with metastatic behavior in Leydig cell tumors ( 178 , 202 , 206 ) (see Figure 5 ). Figure 5. Histology of a Leydig cell tumor. The appearance of tumor cells resembles normal Leydig cells. A section stained with hematoxylin-eosin (HE). Malignant Leydig cell tumors do not respond favorably to conventional chemotherapy and irradiation ( 204 ). Survival time has ranged from 2 months to 17 years (median, 2 years), and metastases have been detected as late as nine years after the diagnosis ( 178 , 202 ). Metastatic Leydig cell tumors require salvage surgery, radiotherapy and intensive chemotherapy regimens but in most cases the outcome is poor ( 188 , 207 ). Therefore, follow-up of patients with malignant Leydig cell tumors has to be life-long. The remaining testis may be irreversibly damaged by longstanding high estrogen levels, resulting in both permanent infertility and hypoandrogenism ( 202 , 206 ). Testicular Adrenal Rest Tumors (TART) Excessive secretion of adrenocorticotropin (ACTH) in 21-hydroxylase deficiency (congenital adrenal hyperplasia, CAH) or Nelson syndrome (post adrenalectomy status) may lead to development of hyperplastic interstitial nodules called testicular adrenal rests tumors (TART) resembling Leydig cell tumor or hyperplasia ( 191 , 208 , 209 ). These cells are hormonally active in secreting androgens. It is important to remember that the adrenal rests are almost invariably bilateral, whereas the Leydig cell tumors are usually unilateral. Adrenal rests can be treated by appropriate glucocorticoid substitution of the patient, which leads to gradual regression of the 'tumor' in 75 percent of cases ( 208 , 209 ). TART have to be distinguished from benign hyperplasia, adenomas and malignant Leydig cell
