Testicular Cancer: Pathogenesis, Diagnosis and Management with Focus on Endocrine Aspects
KEYWORDS: testicular, pubmed, cell, tumors, cancer, germ, germ cell, cell tumors, testicular cancer, patients, cells, tumor, gcnis, article, free


leads to gradual regression of the 'tumor' in 75 percent of cases ( 208 , 209 ). TART have to be distinguished from benign hyperplasia, adenomas and malignant Leydig cell tumors ( 185 ). Histopathological and endocrine evaluation covering both testicular and adrenal steroids and pituitary gonadotropins and ACTH are important in the differential diagnosis ( 185 , 208 ). It would be an error to orchidectomize the CAH patients with TART, since the tumors are always benign and only some of them continue to be active after appropriate glucocorticoid substitution. In the patients who do not respond well to glucocorticoid replacement, or develop fibrosis, testis sparing surgery with enucleation of the larger nodules can be considered, if the testicles have become so large that they cause discomfort for the patient ( 209 ). Sertoli Cell Tumors Sertoli cells are the somatic cells in the seminiferous epithelium giving structural, metabolic, and hormonal support to spermatogenic cells. Sertoli cells cease their proliferation at puberty. In rare infantile cases, multiple foci of proliferating Sertoli cells have been described and proposed to be early intratubular forms of Sertoli cell tumors ( 210 ). The classification of these tumors according to the WHO ( 2 , 178 ), is shown in Table 3 . Sertoli cell tumors often occur as a part of multiple neoplasia syndromes (see below). Rare Sertoli cell tumors which do not belong to a syndrome are called ‘not otherwise specified’ (NOS). About 5% of these tumors are malignant and can metastasize. The age of patients ranges from 18 to 80 years, but most of them are young adults (median age 30). Out of 60 patients, only four were younger than 20 years old in the series reviewed by Young et al. ( 211 ). The tumors typically are composed of sex cord cells with tubular differentiation, with a subset of tumors hyalinized, previously classified as sclerosing variant ( 2 ). Some tumors often contain lipid droplets but do not show any endocrine activity. The molecular origin is known only in a small proportion of tumors with sclerosing appearance, in which CTNNB1 mutations causing nuclear accumulation of β-catenin were identified ( 212 ). The tumors occurred in descended testes and were always unilateral. An infiltrative margin was found in four cases, but most of the tumors were well demarcated. The tumors were hormonally inactive, and only two patients with alcoholic cirrhosis
