Testicular Cancer: Pathogenesis, Diagnosis and Management with Focus on Endocrine Aspects
KEYWORDS: testicular, pubmed, cell, tumors, cancer, germ, germ cell, cell tumors, testicular cancer, patients, cells, tumor, gcnis, article, free


always unilateral. An infiltrative margin was found in four cases, but most of the tumors were well demarcated. The tumors were hormonally inactive, and only two patients with alcoholic cirrhosis also had gynecomastia. Eighteen pediatric cases were reported from the Kiel Pediatric Tumor Registry ( 176 ), but perhaps the histopathologic pattern was somewhat different, because the age of the children was very young, ranging from 0 to 14 months (median 4 months). Juvenile Sertoli cell tumors often showed infiltrative growth into adjacent tissue, dense cellularity and considerable proliferative activity. However, after surgical excision no local recurrences and no metastases occurred. Thus, these patients have a good prognosis. These Sertoli cell tumors can be treated by orchiectomy, and retroperitoneal lymphadenectomy is indicated only when there is radiographically detected retroperitoneal involvement ( 213 ). Calcifying Sertoli cell tumors, are frequently found in association with two distinct multiple neoplasm syndromes, Carney complex and Peutz-Jeghers syndrome, however in the latter syndrome, the tumors belong to a distinct ‘intratubular’ morphological group ( 2 , 178 , 214 ). Association of large-cell calcifying Sertoli cell tumors with other neoplasms, particularly heart myxomas in Carney complex and gastrointestinal tumors in Peutz-Jeghers syndrome, should be kept in mind to reach an early diagnosis of these potentially fatal diseases. The Carney complex is characterized by skin myxomas, heart myxomas, skin pigmentations, adrenal and testicular tumors, but other tumors can also occur ( 215 ). The testicular tumors are large-cell calcifying Sertoli cell tumors that are multifocal and bilateral, and should be distinguished from teratomas ( Figure 6 ) ( 178 , 216 , 217 ). The tumors appear usually during the second decade of life ( 218 ). Only one malignant case has been reported in association with Carney complex (in an adult patient), whereas seven malignant tumors were reported in other patients with large-cell calcifying Sertoli cell tumors ( 218 ). These patients were older than 25 years. The malignant cases were unilateral and solitary in contrast to bilateral and multifocal occurrence of testicular tumors in Carney complex. Large-cell calcifying Sertoli cell tumors are usually not hormonally active, although elevated levels of serum inhibin B or testosterone have been reported, but other tumors of Carney complex, including Leydig cell tumors, can cause endocrine manifestations ( 181 , 213 , 214 ). Figure 6. Large cell calcifying Sertoli cell tumor isolated from a 12-year-old boy. The neoplastic tubules
