Testicular Cancer: Pathogenesis, Diagnosis and Management with Focus on Endocrine Aspects
KEYWORDS: testicular, pubmed, cell, tumors, cancer, germ, germ cell, cell tumors, testicular cancer, patients, cells, tumor, gcnis, article, free


Leydig cell tumors, can cause endocrine manifestations ( 181 , 213 , 214 ). Figure 6. Large cell calcifying Sertoli cell tumor isolated from a 12-year-old boy. The neoplastic tubules contain only large pale Sertoli cells and visible calcifications in the lumen (stained with PAS). Adjacent normal tubules show advanced spermatogenesis. Two genetic loci for Carney complex have been identified on chromosome 2p16 ( 196 ) and 17q23-24 ( 219 , 220 ). Germline mutations identified in Carney complex most often occur in type I-alpha regulatory subunit of protein kinase A, PRKAR1A ( 221 , 222 ). Inactivating mutations of phosphodiesterase 11A212 and phosphodiesterase 8B213 are associated with bilateral adrenocortical hyperplasia in Carney complex patients. Genetic variation of the phosphodiesterase 11A gene can modify the development of the testicular tumors ( 223 ). Molecular genetic diagnosis is available to many of these patients. However, only a part of the mutations occur in the germ line, and therefore genetic analysis should be performed on affected tissues, such as the tumors, in cases of somatic cell line mutations. In Peutz-Jeghers syndrome Sertoli cell tumors are similar in appearance to those found in Carney complex patients, but can be distinguished by typical intratubular proliferation of lightly eosinophilic cells with prominent basement membrane deposits, and occasionally, features of ovarian sex-cord tumors with annular tubules ( 178 ). Thus, the tumors are described as intratubular large-cell hyalinizing Sertoli cell neoplasia . These tumors may have strong aromatase activity and therefore be associated with gynecomastia and advanced bone age ( 224 ). No malignant testicular tumors have been reported in Peutz-Jeghers patients, but they have a highly increased risk of other neoplasms, especially colorectal, breast, pancreatic and ovarian cancers ( 214 ). Germline loss-of-function mutations in the STK11 /LKB1 gene that encodes for a serine-threonine kinase causes Peutz-Jeghers syndrome in the majority of patients, allowing molecular genetic diagnostics ( 214 , 224 , 225 ). Patients with the Sertoli cell tumors should be treated conservatively during childhood to give them a possibility for sperm banking before orchiectomy comes necessary ( 226 ). Autosomal dominant inheritance should be considered in genetic counselling. The patients should be frequently controlled with ultrasound examinations to follow changes in the tumors size, and reproductive hormone measurements. If precocious puberty and/or gynecomastia appear, aromatase inhibitors and antiandrogens can be used to prevent estrogen formation and androgen action ( 219 , 226 ).
