Testicular Cancer: Pathogenesis, Diagnosis and Management with Focus on Endocrine Aspects
KEYWORDS: testicular, pubmed, cell, tumors, cancer, germ, germ cell, cell tumors, testicular cancer, patients, cells, tumor, gcnis, article, free


size, and reproductive hormone measurements. If precocious puberty and/or gynecomastia appear, aromatase inhibitors and antiandrogens can be used to prevent estrogen formation and androgen action ( 219 , 226 ). There are currently no clear guidelines for the treatment of metastatic Sertoli cell cancers, but orchiectomy and retroperitoneal lymph node dissection are usually performed combined with individualized chemotherapy and radiotherapy ( 227 ). Without surgery, the metastatic disease progresses and 20-month median survival time of patients was reported (IQR: 6–30 months) ( 227 ). Granulosa Cell Tumors Juvenile-type granulosa cell tumors are rare but are the most common somatic testicular tumors in infants and occur during the first 6 months after birth ( 2 , 176 , 178 , 228 ). These tumors were described in patients with undescended testes with abnormal sex chromosomes and ambiguous genitalia ( 176 ). Prominent differentiation into follicles and immature nuclei distinguishes juvenile granulosa cell tumors from other Sertoli cell tumors that express tubular differentiation ( 178 , 229 ). Most of the immunohistochemical markers in these tumor types are similar, e.g., inhibin, calretinin, but also distinct, e.g., expression of FOXL2 ( 229 ). Juvenile granulosa cell tumors always have a good prognosis ( 230 ). Testicular tumors do not show endocrine hyperactivity, in contrast to ovarian juvenile granulosa cell tumors. Aberrant WNT signaling ( 231 ) and stimulatory G-protein mediated signaling ( 232 ) have been linked with juvenile granulosa cell tumors. The patients should be managed comprehensively by a multidisciplinary DSD team, and the treatment of tumors may require orchiectomy. Adult-type granulosa cell tumors are comparable to the ovarian tumors, but are extremely rare ( 2 , 178 , 233 ). These tumors occur in adults at an average age of 42 years. Twenty percent of the patients have shown gynecomastia due to the hormonal activity of the tumor. Most of the tumors are benign, but some malignant cases have also been reported ( 230 ). Mutations in FOXL2 have been reported in adult ovarian granulosa cell tumors but only few secondary mutations have been found in testicular granulosa cell tumors ( 234 , 235 ). The treatment is primarily surgical. Fibroma-Thecoma Tumors These exceedingly rare neoplasms are composed of fibroblastic cells of testicular stroma or tunica albuginea ( 2 ). These tumors are reported to be benign. Mixed and Unclassified Sex Cord-Stromal Tumors Tumors consisting of more than one stromal or
