Testicular Cancer: Pathogenesis, Diagnosis and Management with Focus on Endocrine Aspects
KEYWORDS: testicular, pubmed, cell, tumors, cancer, germ, germ cell, cell tumors, testicular cancer, patients, cells, tumor, gcnis, article, free


of testicular stroma or tunica albuginea ( 2 ). These tumors are reported to be benign. Mixed and Unclassified Sex Cord-Stromal Tumors Tumors consisting of more than one stromal or tubular component or have indeterminate morphology are classified as mixed and unclassified sex cord-stromal tumors ( 2 ). Sex cord-stromal tumors can contain combinations of Leydig, Sertoli, granulosa, and theca cells, and are therefore called mixed tumors ( 178 ). Leydig cells can be difficult to recognize in these tumors. These tumors are rare and can occur at any age. Depending on the predominant cell type the tumors may behave differently. Gynecomastia, as a sign of endocrine activity, can be found in 10% of patients ( 2 ). These tumors are always benign in children, but in adults, malignancy can be found ( 232 ). Thus, most of the patients can be treated by orchiectomy, and lymph node dissection is indicated only in cases with overt malignant features on microscopic examination. OTHER TESTICULAR TUMORS Other tumors occurring in the testis are divided into miscellaneous and hematolymphoid tumors ( 2 , 178 ). The first group includes ovarian epithelial-type tumors, serous or mucinous cystadenomas, adenocarcinomas, Brenner tumor, xantogranuloma, and hemangioma. The hematolymphoid tumors comprise malignant lymphomas (B-cell, NK/T-cell or follicular), plasmacytoma, myeloid sarcoma and Rosai-Dorfman disease ( 2 , 178 ). In addition, testicular spread of malignant acute leukemia is common in young boys, and metastases from other solid tumors including the prostate gland, colon, kidney, stomach, pancreas, and malignant melanoma can be found in the testis of adults. ENDOCRINE PROBLEMS AND LATE EFFECTS IN TESTICULAR CANCER PATIENTS Testis Dysfunction and Fertility Issues Relative imbalance of androgen signaling (excess or deficiency) causes the most pronounced secondary endocrine symptoms associated with testicular tumors. Testosterone is produced by tumors, such as Leydig cell tumors, or by normal Leydig cells stimulated by large amounts of hCG from some germ cell tumors. Excess of androgens would lead to precocious puberty in children ( 193 , 194 , 195 ). In addition, aromatization of androgens leads to a relative excess of estrogens, which causes impairment of spermatogenesis in adults and gynecomastia at any age ( 224 , 236 ). Testicular dysfunction in young adult patients with testicular cancer, who usually are in their best reproductive age, is a serious clinical problem. Patients with TGCT have poor spermatogenesis and decreased fertility even before the overt tumor has
