Testicular Cancer: Pathogenesis, Diagnosis and Management with Focus on Endocrine Aspects
KEYWORDS: testicular, pubmed, cell, tumors, cancer, germ, germ cell, cell tumors, testicular cancer, patients, cells, tumor, gcnis, article, free


testicular cancer, who usually are in their best reproductive age, is a serious clinical problem. Patients with TGCT have poor spermatogenesis and decreased fertility even before the overt tumor has developed ( 67 , 68 , 69 , 130 ) and before cytotoxic treatment ( 237 , 238 ). Pathological features can include oligozoospermia or azoospermia, moderately decreased testosterone and elevated LH levels. If testicular biopsies are taken, a variable degree of testicular dysgenesis or atrophy is often seen, and in some cases further complicated by the presence of GCNIS. Examination of a contralateral biopsy in a patient with a unilateral tumor may show a similar picture; with at least 5-7% risk of the presence of GCNIS cells ( 71 , 126 ). Testicular function is further disturbed by treatment of malignancy. In recent years there is growing concern about adverse late effects of irradiation and chemotherapy, which induce severe impairment of spermatogenesis and DNA damage ( 1 , 167 , 168 , 239 , 240 ). Refinement of the dosage must be considered in each patient individually, to eradicate the neoplasm with least possible damage to the endocrine function. The eradication of GCNIS or a tumor by irradiation in bilateral cancer cases leads also invariably to the disappearance of all germ cells and sterility. This underlines the importance of semen cryopreservation before treatment, which will allow assisted reproduction treatment, if needed ( 238 , 241 ). All patients treated for testicular cancer require assessment of their reproductive hormones and spermatogenic capacity by semen analysis with respect to their future fertility. If semen banking or pre-operative sperm retrieval is not possible or if the patient has azoospermia or cryptozoospermia, testicular sperm extraction (TESE) at the time of orchiectomy (‘onco-TESE’) may be the only chance of fertility, and can be attempted in specialized centers ( 165 , 166 ). TESE and subsequent intracytoplasmic sperm injection (ICSI) may be also an option for fertility treatment in some cases of post-chemotherapy azoospermia ( 242 ). Fertility preservation is a serious challenge in children and young adolescents. In the adolescent boys who are unable to ejaculate, penile vibratory stimulation or electroejaculation can be considered ( 243 ). However, there is currently no treatment for prepubertal boys. There are ongoing studies attempting to optimize protocols of cryopreservation of immature testis tissue before cytotoxic treatment or orchiectomy ( 244 ). This approach would require in vitro
