Testicular Cancer: Pathogenesis, Diagnosis and Management with Focus on Endocrine Aspects
KEYWORDS: testicular, pubmed, cell, tumors, cancer, germ, germ cell, cell tumors, testicular cancer, patients, cells, tumor, gcnis, article, free


prepubertal boys. There are ongoing studies attempting to optimize protocols of cryopreservation of immature testis tissue before cytotoxic treatment or orchiectomy ( 244 ). This approach would require in vitro or in vivo induction of spermatogenesis and gametogenesis, which has not yet been achieved satisfactorily in humans, but studies in experimental animals, including nonhuman primates are promising ( 245 ). Long-Term Sequelae and Quality of Life All patients treated for testicular cancer require monitoring of their reproductive hormone profiles not only with respect to their fertility, if paternity is desired, but also risk of testosterone deficiency and ensuing symptoms ( 246 , 247 , 248 ). An increased risk of cardiovascular disease is present in TGCT survivors who have been treated with radio- or chemotherapy ( 249 , 250 ) but a recent Danish study found that the risk decreases during long-term follow-up, although it remains elevated ( 251 ). Additional problems in survivors of TGCT treated with radiotherapy or chemotherapy are increased risk of peripheral neuropathy or ototoxicity (after chemotherapy) and sexual dysfunction (after chemotherapy and radiotherapy) ( 239 , 240 , 250 , 251 , 252 ). Survivors of metastatic TGCT have increased mortality rates when compared to the general male population. A study from Norway reported that most of the excess deaths occurred within a decade from diagnosis due to the testicular cancer, but during a longer follow-up, additional excess deaths appeared in patients treated with radiotherapy or cisplatin-based chemotherapy, mainly due to non-TGCT second cancers; primarily gastric, pancreatic or bladder tumors ( 253 , 254 ). A population-based large study from the US found an increased risk of leukemia after chemotherapy and a marked excess of solid tumors in patients treated with radiotherapy, which can appear after long follow-up ( 255 ). This study confirmed previously published worrying reports from several centers, which called for reducing the use of radiotherapy and radiologic imaging procedures during the follow-up ( 256 ). Of importance for the testicular cancer survivors are also quality of life issues related to prolonged anxiety, depression and psychological stress, and loss in socioeconomic status or unemployment, leading to excess of suicide among the patients ( 167 , 252 , 254 , 257 , 258 , 255 , 259 , 260 ). Hence, a psychologist/social advisor should be added to the multidisciplinary team of experts caring for survivors of TGCT. Clearly, the focus of the
