HHS Public Access
KEYWORDS: patients, manuscript, author, author manuscript, eac, surveillance, manuscript author, risk, studies, hgd, lgd, evidence, endoscopy, recommendation, endoscopic


HHS Public Access Author manuscript Am J Gastroenterol. Author manuscript; available in PMC 2023 June 12. Published in final edited form as: Am J Gastroenterol. 2022 April 01; 117(4): 559–587. doi:. Diagnosis and Management of Barrett’s Esophagus: An Updated ACG Guideline MSc6 [GRADE Methodologist], Sachin Wani, MD7 ChapelHill, North Carolina, USA Philadelphia, Pennsylvania, USA USA Center, Dallas, Texas, USA California, USA Abstract Barrett’s esophagus (BE) is a common condition associated with chronic gastroesophageal reflux disease. BE is the only known precursor to esophageal adenocarcinoma, a highly lethal cancer with an increasing incidence over the last 5 decades. These revised guidelines implement Grading of Recommendations, Assessment, Development, and Evaluation methodology to propose recommendations for the definition and diagnosis of BE, screening for BE and esophageal adenocarcinoma, surveillance of patients with known BE, and the medical and endoscopic Specific author contributions: All authors contributed in the analysis and interpretation of evidence, drafting of the manuscript, and critical revision of the manuscript for important intellectual content. Potential competing interests: N.J.S. receives research funding from Medtronic, Steris, Pentax, CDx Diagnostics, Interpace Diagnostics, and Lucid Medical; he is a consultant for Cernostics, Phathom Pharmaceuticals, Exact Sciences, Aqua Medical, and Cook Medical. G.W.F. receives research funding from Lucid and Interpace Diagnostics; he is a consultant for Lucid, CDx, Cernostics, Interpace, Exact Sciences, and Phathom Pharmaceuticals. P.G.I. receives research funding from Exact Sciences, Pentax Medical, and Cernostics; he is a consultant to Medtronic, Ambu, Pentax, and Symple Surgical. R.F.S. receives research funding from Sanofi and Phathom Pharmaceuticals; she is a consultant for Cernostics, Phathom Pharmaceuticals, Interpace Diagnostics, Ironwood Pharmaceuticals, ISOThrive, CDx Diagnostics, and AstraZeneca. R.H.Y. receives research funding from Ironwood Pharmaceuticals; she is a consultant for Medtronic, Phathom Pharmaceuticals, Eli Lilly, Ironwood Pharmaceuticals, Diversatek, StatLinkMD, and RJS Mediagnostix. B.G.S. is a consultant for Takeda Pharmaceuticals and Watermark Research Partners. S.W. receives research funding from Lucid Medical, Ambu, and CDx Medical; he is a consultant for Medtronic, Boston Scientific, Interpace Diagnostics, Exact Sciences, and Cernostics. Author Manuscript Author Manuscript Author Manuscript Author Manuscript treatment of BE and its associated early neoplasia. Important changes since the previous iteration of this guideline include a broadening of acceptable screening modalities for BE to include nonendoscopic methods, liberalized intervals for surveillance of short-segment BE, and volume criteria for endoscopic therapy centers for BE. Were commend endoscopic eradication therapy for patients with BE and high-grade dysplasia and those with BE and low-grade dysplasia.
