HHS Public Access
KEYWORDS: patients, manuscript, author, author manuscript, eac, surveillance, manuscript author, risk, studies, hgd, lgd, evidence, endoscopy, recommendation, endoscopic


short-segment BE, and volume criteria for endoscopic therapy centers for BE. Were commend endoscopic eradication therapy for patients with BE and high-grade dysplasia and those with BE and low-grade dysplasia. We propose structured surveillance intervals for patients with dysplastic BE after successful ablation based on the baseline degree of dysplasia. We could not make recommendations regarding chemoprevention or use of biomarkers in routine practice due to insufficient data. INTRODUCTION Barrett’s esophagus (BE) is a metaplastic change of the distal esophagus, whereby the normal squamous epithelium is replaced by specialized columnar epithelium with goblet cells (1). This metaplastic change is associated with chronic gastroesophageal reflux disease (GERD), such that 5%–12% of patients with chronic GERD symptoms will harbor BE (2,3). BE is the only known precursor lesion of esophageal adenocarcinoma (EAC), a cancer with a rapidly increasing incidence over the last 40 years in the United States and other Western countries (4). recommendations for the diagnosis, screening, surveillance, and endoscopic and medical therapy of BE. Although BE may be considered as a severe manifestation of GERD, this guideline makes no recommendations as to care of GERD, and we call to the reader’s attention a recent ACG guideline for care of patients with GERD (5). Below we briefly review the methodology for the creation of these guidelines. Following that, the guidelines are broken into 5 sections, titled diagnosis, screening, surveillance, medical therapy of BE, and endoscopic therapy of BE. These guidelines are established to support clinical practice and suggest preferable approaches to a typical patient with a particular medical problem based on the currently at a patient-centered care approach. METHODS The guideline is structured in the format of statements that were considered to be clinically important by the authors. Twenty-one clinically relevant questions were developed and refined by 5 content experts who focus their clinical and research efforts on the care of patients with BE, who composed the authoring panel (panel) for this statement. Questions were formatted in the PICO structure (Population, Intervention, Comparator, and Outcome). The Grading of Recommendations, Assessment, Development, and Evaluation (GRADE) process (Table 1) was used to assess the quality of evidence for each question by 2 formally trained GRADE methodologists (B.G.S. and R.H.Y.) (6). The quality of evidence is expressed as high (we are confident in the effect estimate to support a particular Am J Gastroenterol. Author manuscript; available in PMC 2023 June 12. Author Manuscript Author
