HHS Public Access
KEYWORDS: patients, manuscript, author, author manuscript, eac, surveillance, manuscript author, risk, studies, hgd, lgd, evidence, endoscopy, recommendation, endoscopic


evidence is expressed as high (we are confident in the effect estimate to support a particular Am J Gastroenterol. Author manuscript; available in PMC 2023 June 12. Author Manuscript Author Manuscript Author Manuscript Author Manuscript recommendation), moderate, low, or very low (we have very little confidence in the effect estimate to support a particular recommendation) based on the risk of bias of the studies, evidence of publication bias, heterogeneity among studies, directness of the evidence, and precision of the estimate of effect (7). A strength of recommendation is given as either strong (noted as recommendations, and meaning that most patients should receive the recommended course of action) or conditional (noted as suggestions, and meaning that many patients should have this recommended course of action, but different choices may be appropriate for some patients) based on the quality of evidence, risks vs benefits, feasibility, and costs, taking into account perceived patient and population-based factors (8). Furthermore, a narrative evidence summary for each section provides important details for the data supporting the statements. It should be noted that the strengths of recommendation are meant to apply to the average or typical patient with BE. Individual patients with BE may benefit from diagnostic or therapeutic strategies not endorsed for the average patient. The panel used literature searches of MEDLINE and PubMed since inception to provide pertinent literature on each of the 21 PICO questions to the GRADE methodologists. The strongest evidence pertaining to each question was selected, with an emphasis on well-executed meta-analyses and randomized controlled trials, when available. Abstracts and case reports were not included. These PICO questions formed the basis of the 21 recommendations accompanying this statement (Table). The panel has additionally highlighted key concepts that were not included in the GRADE assessment (Table 3). Key concepts are statements to which the GRADE process has not been applied and often include definitions and epidemiological statements rather than diagnostic or management recommendations. DIAGNOSIS OF BE Recommendation. 1. We suggest that a diagnosis of BE require the finding of intestinal metaplasia (IM) in the tubular esophagus (conditional recommendation, very-low-quality evidence). Summary of evidence.—BE develops when metaplastic columnar mucosa replaces the normal esophageal squamous epithelium of the esophagus in response to damage caused by gastroesophageal reflux (9). The columnar-lined esophagus contains a mosaic of 3 different cell types: gastric fundic type epithelium, junctional cardiac epithelium, and specialized columnar epithelium with intestinal type goblet cells
