HHS Public Access
KEYWORDS: patients, manuscript, author, author manuscript, eac, surveillance, manuscript author, risk, studies, hgd, lgd, evidence, endoscopy, recommendation, endoscopic


gastroesophageal reflux (9). The columnar-lined esophagus contains a mosaic of 3 different cell types: gastric fundic type epithelium, junctional cardiac epithelium, and specialized columnar epithelium with intestinal type goblet cells (10). Most professional guidelines from around the world agree that a diagnosis of BE requires the presence of IM because of an increased risk of EAC associated with IM, although guidelines from the British Society of Gastroenterology and the Asia Pacific region do not require this (11). Support for the increased risk of EAC with metaplastic IM emerges from several lines of evidence. The strongest evidence comes from a large population-based study of 8,522 patients with BE from the Northern Ireland Cancer Registry (12). The risk for EAC was elevated in patients with IM at index endoscopy compared with those without IM Am J Gastroenterol. Author manuscript; available in PMC 2023 June 12. Author Manuscript Author Manuscript Author Manuscript Author Manuscript (0.38% vs 0.07%/year; hazard ratio [HR] 3.54; 95% confidence interval [CI] 2.09–6.00). In addition, in a case series of 45 patients with BE or EAC, frequent copy number alterations targeting cancer-associated genes were found in tissue with IM, but no such changes were encountered in columnar metaplasia without goblet cells (13). On the other hand, other studies suggest no difference in cancer risk of columnar epithelium with or without IM. A single-center UK study of 688 patients with a median follow-up of 12 years found no difference in cancer risk for those with a columnar-lined esophagus with or without IM: 0.37% vs 0.30%/year (14). Similarly, a multicenter UK study of 1,751 patients found a similar cancer risk in patients with and without IM (HR 1.36; 95% CI 0.63–2.96) (15). Other data also support these observations. DNA content abnormalities have been observed in equal frequency from metaplastic columnar epithelium with and without goblet cells (16). Any effort to delete goblet cells from the diagnostic criteria for BE is problematic, as it would dramatically increase the pool of patients undergoing surveillance with concomitant Chicago suggested that eliminating the requirement of IM would increase the frequency of diagnosis of BE in that center by 147% (19). The inability to find IM in a given patient may reflect biopsies obtained from the proximal stomach or inadequate sampling of the Barrett’s segment. Studies have shown that the yield of IM increases with both the number of biopsies obtained and the length of the Barrett’s
