HHS Public Access
KEYWORDS: patients, manuscript, author, author manuscript, eac, surveillance, manuscript author, risk, studies, hgd, lgd, evidence, endoscopy, recommendation, endoscopic


stomach or inadequate sampling of the Barrett’s segment. Studies have shown that the yield of IM increases with both the number of biopsies obtained and the length of the Barrett’s segment (20). The implications of a potential non-IM EAC phenotype remain to be determined (21,22). In summary, the largest retrospective study supports an increased risk for EAC in those with specialized IM with goblet cells compared with those with nongoblet columnar epithelium in the esophagus; however, other retrospective studies have not uniformly supported this finding, leading to inconsistency of the data. Based on the divided nature of the literature, and the retrospective nature of the studies, the quality of the evidence was considered very low. Recommendation. 2. We suggest that columnar mucosa of at least 1 cm in length be necessary for a diagnosis of BE, and that: a. Patients with a normal-appearing Z line should not undergo routine endoscopic biopsies. b. In the absence of any visible lesions, patients with a Z line demonstrating <1 cm of proximal displacement from the top of the gastric folds should not undergo routine endoscopic biopsies (quality of evidence: low; strength of recommendation: conditional). Summary of evidence.—BE is best described by using the validated Prague criteria that includes both the circumferential and maximal extent of the columnar epithelium in the esophagus and the location of the proximal margin of the gastric folds and the diaphragmatic hiatus (Figure 1) (23). The Prague classification has been further validated in both gastroenterology trainees and in community practice (24,25). The Prague classification offers a standardized terminology, which demonstrates excellent reliability coefficients Am J Gastroenterol. Author manuscript; available in PMC 2023 June 12. Author Manuscript Author Manuscript Author Manuscript Author Manuscript for both the circumferential (0.95) and maximal (0.94) extent of the Barrett’s mucosa, representing an almost perfect level of reliability for both measures. However, the reliability coefficient of the Prague criteria for segments <1 cm is only fair at 0.22. It is this finding that has led to the recommendation, among most professional societies, to require a threshold of 1 cm for the diagnosis of BE (11). Despite this recommendation, biopsies of an irregular or normal Z line remain common in clinical practice in North America. Also supporting a 1-cm threshold for a diagnosis of BE is evidence suggesting that the risk of progression to high-grade dysplasia (HGD) or EAC is extremely low for individuals with a
