HHS Public Access
KEYWORDS: patients, manuscript, author, author manuscript, eac, surveillance, manuscript author, risk, studies, hgd, lgd, evidence, endoscopy, recommendation, endoscopic


supporting a 1-cm threshold for a diagnosis of BE is evidence suggesting that the risk of progression to high-grade dysplasia (HGD) or EAC is extremely low for individuals with a normal or irregular Z line (<1 cm). A population-based cohort study from Olmsted County, MN, examined the natural history of 401 patients with BE (>1 cm) and 86 patients with IM of the gastroesophageal junction (GEJ) followed for a median of 7 and 8 years, respectively (26). None of the patients with IM of the GEJ progressed to HGD or EAC in comparison to a progression rate of 7.9/1,000 person-years in the BE group. A multicenter cohort study of 1,791 patients undergoing surveillance of BE defined as a columnar-lined esophagus with IM on biopsies and followed for a median of 5.9 years found that none of the 167 patients with an irregular Z line (<1 cm) developed HGD or cancer compared with 71 of 1,624 patients with BE ≥1 cm. Furthermore, IM was not found on follow-up biopsies in 53% of individuals with an irregular Z line (27). Neither of these studies demonstrated progression of an irregular Z line to HGD or EAC. That being said, routine biopsy of the normal or irregular Z line in the absence of mucosal abnormalities has real-life consequences for patients. For example, approximately 80% of patients with IM found on such biopsies are recommended to undergo further surveillance endoscopy with the costs and risks encumbered with such an approach (28). Furthermore, mislabeling an individual with BE has other consequences including higher life insurance premiums and impaired quality of life (17,18). For all these reasons, we continue to recommend that individuals with a normal- or irregular- appearing Z line should not undergo biopsies in the absence of a clear mucosal abnormality. However, we acknowledge indirectness in the studies, with the most supportive study (27) considered to be low-quality evidence. Recommendation. 3. We suggest at least 8 endoscopic biopsies be obtained in screening examinations with endoscopic findings consistent with possible BE, with the Seattle protocol followed for segments of longer than 4 cm (quality of evidence: low; strength of recommendation: conditional). Summary of evidence.—The distribution of goblet cells within a segment of BE may be patchy, and sometimes, the mucosa is only sparsely populated with these cells. For these reasons, sampling error may lead to a false-negative examination for IM, especially in those with short segments
