HHS Public Access
KEYWORDS: patients, manuscript, author, author manuscript, eac, surveillance, manuscript author, risk, studies, hgd, lgd, evidence, endoscopy, recommendation, endoscopic


and sometimes, the mucosa is only sparsely populated with these cells. For these reasons, sampling error may lead to a false-negative examination for IM, especially in those with short segments of columnar-lined esophagus in whom few samples are taken. The likelihood that IM is present increases as the segment length of the columnar epithelium in the esophagus increases (19). Am J Gastroenterol. Author manuscript; available in PMC 2023 June 12. Author Manuscript Author Manuscript Author Manuscript Author Manuscript When evaluating the GEJ for the presence of columnar epithelium, it is important to partially de insufflate the esophagus, as over insufflation may flatten gastric folds, making a hiatal hernia resemble a segment of columnar-lined esophagus. When, after careful inspection, a segment of columnar epithelium is identified in the tubular esophagus, enough biopsies must be taken to confidently exclude the presence of IM. Few data exist to document the appropriate number of biopsies to ascertain a diagnosis of BE. Harrison and colleagues analyzed 1,646 biopsies taken from 296 endoscopies in 125 patients with endoscopic evidence of columnar-lined esophagus. These investigators found that any given biopsy in these patients demonstrated IM only 34% of the time. However, if 8 biopsies were analyzed from any given endoscopy, the yield for IM in this group increased to 94% (20). There was no significant increase in this yield if additional biopsies were analyzed. Therefore, these investigators suggested that at least 8 biopsies be taken to rule out the presence of IM when encountering columnar-lined esophagus. Although this approach is backed by evidence, it does present operational problems. For instance, the endoscopist may encounter a single tongue of a centimeter or 2, which will not support 8 biopsies. In patients with short (1–2 cm) segments of suspected BE in whom 8 biopsies may be unobtainable, at least 4 biopsies per centimeter of circumferential BE and 1 biopsy per centimeter in tongues of BE should be obtained. If any of these biopsies demonstrates IM, the patient is a candidate for inclusion in endoscopic surveillance. A second commonly faced issue is how to manage the patient with a previous endoscopy demonstrating columnar-lined epithelium, but biopsies negative for IM (29).Because endoscopists rarely document the exact number of biopsies taken in this situation, it may be reasonable to repeat the examination a single time because the yield of such an examination for IM may be 25% or more (30). Additional endoscopic
