HHS Public Access
KEYWORDS: patients, manuscript, author, author manuscript, eac, surveillance, manuscript author, risk, studies, hgd, lgd, evidence, endoscopy, recommendation, endoscopic


this situation, it may be reasonable to repeat the examination a single time because the yield of such an examination for IM may be 25% or more (30). Additional endoscopic examinations beyond this second endoscopy are unlikely to be of utility and are not recommended. Figure 2 demonstrates the recommended care pathway for patients with a columnar-lined esophagus. Recommendation. 4. We recommend that dysplasia of any grade detected on biopsies of BE be confirmed by a second pathologist with expertise in gastrointestinal (GI) pathology (quality of evidence: low; strength of recommendation: strong). Summary of evidence.—It has long been recognized that inter observer agreement among pathologists across the spectrum of BE from no dysplasia to HGD/EAC is problematic, especially for the diagnoses of indefinite for dysplasia (IND) and low- grade dysplasia (LGD) (31). This was recently confirmed in an international study of 51 pathologists who reviewed 55 digitized biopsies, where excellent concordance among pathologists was seen for nondysplastic BE (NDBE) (79%) and HGD (71%), but considerably less for LGD (42%) and IND (23%) (32). Furthermore, major underinterpretation or overinterpretation was found in 9% of the cases. Given the implications of a diagnosis of dysplasia regarding potential endoscopic eradication therapy (EET) or more intensive surveillance, it is clear that an accurate diagnosis of dysplasia is critical for clinical decision making. Am J Gastroenterol. Author manuscript; available in PMC 2023 June 12. Author Manuscript Author Manuscript Author Manuscript Author Manuscript A Dutch cohort study of 293 patients with BE with LGD diagnosed in a community setting, who had the slides reviewed by an expert panel of 6 pathologists, at least 2 of whom reviewed each case, led to downstaging of 73% and confirmation of LGD in 27% (33). In patients with confirmed LGD, risk of progression to HGD or cancer was 9.1%/patient-year of follow-up. In contrast, risk of progression was 0.9%/patient-year of follow-up for patients downstaged to IND and 0.6%/patient-year of follow-up for those downstaged to nondysplastic BE. A subsequent analysis by 3 pathologists of 255 patients with a community diagnosis of LGD found that there was a strong association between the number of pathologists agreeing on the diagnosis of LGD and progression (34). The annual rate of progression increased from 2.4% to 6.3%–20% when 1, 2, or 3 pathologists agreed on the diagnosis, respectively. Furthermore, pathologic confirmation was also associated with prevalent HGD or carcinoma. Increased risk of progression of LGD confirmed
