HHS Public Access
KEYWORDS: patients, manuscript, author, author manuscript, eac, surveillance, manuscript author, risk, studies, hgd, lgd, evidence, endoscopy, recommendation, endoscopic


6.3%–20% when 1, 2, or 3 pathologists agreed on the diagnosis, respectively. Furthermore, pathologic confirmation was also associated with prevalent HGD or carcinoma. Increased risk of progression of LGD confirmed by 2 confirmation led to an 8-fold increased risk of progression compared with those downstaged from LGD to NDBE (35). Overall, there is very little risk in having a second pathologist review a diagnosis of dysplasia. This is accompanied by a reasonable cost and the potential for considerable benefit for risk stratification. The quality of the evidence supporting this recommendation is low, due in part to the lack of a consensus definition of expert in the literature. The authors acknowledge that a standardized definition for an expert pathologist does not exist. It has been suggested that an expert pathologist may be defined as a pathologist with a special interest in BE-related neoplasia who is recognized as an expert in this field by his/her peers (36). A recent study addressed this knowledge gap by assessing BE concordance rates among 51 pathologists across 20 countries and pathologist features predictive of diagnostic discordance. At least 5 years of professional experience was protective against major diagnostic errors (odds ratio [OR] 0.48, 95% CI 0.31–0.74), whereas working in a nonteaching hospital was associated with increased odds of major diagnostic errors (OR 1.76, 95% CI 1.15–2.69). Interestingly, neither case volume nor self-identifying as an expert predicted diagnostic proficiency (32). SCREENING FOR BE Recommendation. 5. We suggest a single screening endoscopy for patients with chronic GERD symptoms and 3 or more additional risk factors for BE, including male sex, age >50 years, White race, tobacco smoking, obesity, and family history of BE or EAC in a first-degree relative (strength of recommendation: conditional; quality of evidence: very low). Summary of evidence.—Survival of patients diagnosed with EAC after the onset of symptoms remains dismal, at less than 20% at 5 years (37). The metaplasia-dysplasia- carcinoma progression paradigm in BE has led to the hypothesis that screening to detect BE, followed by endoscopic surveillance to detect prevalent or incident dysplasia or EAC, and subsequent EET to treat dysplasia or EAC, can lead to a decreased incidence of Am J Gastroenterol. Author manuscript; available in PMC 2023 June 12. Author Manuscript Author Manuscript Author Manuscript Author Manuscript EAC (38,39). Unfortunately, there is no randomized controlled trial evidence demonstrating reduced EAC mortality with BE screening. Although the efficacy of endoscopic screening and
