HHS Public Access
KEYWORDS: patients, manuscript, author, author manuscript, eac, surveillance, manuscript author, risk, studies, hgd, lgd, evidence, endoscopy, recommendation, endoscopic


Author Manuscript Author Manuscript Author Manuscript EAC (38,39). Unfortunately, there is no randomized controlled trial evidence demonstrating reduced EAC mortality with BE screening. Although the efficacy of endoscopic screening and surveillance in reducing EAC mortality is unknown, such programs seem to detect EAC at earlier stages (40). A recent systematic review and meta-analysis reported visible or histological evidence of concurrent BE in almost 60% of all EACs (and in 91% of early-stage EAC) (41). In contrast, a prior diagnosis of BE was reported in only 12% of patients with EAC; hence, most EACs continue to be diagnosed outside of BE surveillance programs, despite arising in a background of BE, perhaps reflecting a substantial missed opportunity for cancer prevention, which might be afforded by BE screening followed by surveillance. Indeed, population- based studies have reported that more than 50% of prevalent BE in the community is undiagnosed, reducing the proportion of BE under surveillance and precluding the detection of incident dysplasia or early-stage EAC in these unscreened patients (26). BE is associated with several risk factors. These include chronic reflux symptoms (defined as weekly symptoms for 5 or more years), male sex, age greater than 50 years, smoking, White race, central obesity, and family history. The prevalence of BE in those with these risk factors was recently assessed in a systematic review and meta-analysis (3). Although the prevalence of BE in those without GERD symptoms was low (0.8%), a higher prevalence was reported in those with known risk factors: age >50 years (6.1%), male sex (6.8%), obesity (1.9%), family history of BE/EAC (23%), and GERD (2.3%). The prevalence in those with GERD and 1 additional risk factor was, however, substantially higher than GERD alone (12.2%). In addition, a positive linear relationship was also shown between the number of risk factors and BE prevalence, with each additional risk factor increasing the prevalence of BE by 1.2%. These data support the concept of BE screening in those with multiple risk factors. The authoring panel acknowledges that the use of race to stratify risk is problematic, as it is a social construct not a biological variable and, in this situation, may reflect genomic variants associated with European descendancy (42). However, until such time as further research allows for more precise identification of important genetic variants, the strength and consistency of self-reported race as a risk factor for BE make it a logical variable with
