HHS Public Access
KEYWORDS: patients, manuscript, author, author manuscript, eac, surveillance, manuscript author, risk, studies, hgd, lgd, evidence, endoscopy, recommendation, endoscopic


further research allows for more precise identification of important genetic variants, the strength and consistency of self-reported race as a risk factor for BE make it a logical variable with which to stratify risk. There is substantial male predominance in patients with BE (67% male vs 33% female), which is further accentuated in EAC (89% male vs 11% female). Indeed, the risk of progression to EAC in patients with BE is markedly higher in men than in women (adjusted OR 2.2, 95% CI 1.8–2.5) (43), which likely accentuates this male predilection. In a modeling study (44), the incidence of EAC in women with weekly symptoms of GERD at age 60 years was markedly lower (3.9/100,000 person-years) compared with men (61/100,000 person-years). Hence, BE screening in women is likely low yield in terms of reducing EAC incidence. However, screening women with multiple risk factors for BE and EAC may be appropriate following discussion with the patient on the pros and cons of such an approach. Conventional sedated per-oral endoscopy remains the gold standard for BE screening and is perhaps the most widely used method. However, it is invasive, expensive (45), and not ideal Am J Gastroenterol. Author manuscript; available in PMC 2023 June 12. Author Manuscript Author Manuscript Author Manuscript Author Manuscript for wide scale application in the general population. This is likely one of the reasons why the utilization of sedated endoscopy for BE screening remains low despite the increasing volume of endoscopic procedures. Studies have shown that most patients with chronic population study, predictors of undergoing endoscopy in patients with uncomplicated GERD included female sex and younger age, which are not consistent with risk factors for BE (47). Given the large number of patients with chronic weekly reflux in the United States who could be targeted for screening, a widely embraced screening effort would lead to substantial economic costs, from screening endoscopy and the need for subsequent surveillance, as well as costs associated with subsequent care of neoplasia and any complications of the screening program. Economic modeling studies have found BE screening followed by surveillance in hypothetical populations (50-year-old male subjects with GERD symptoms) to be cost-effective, with acceptable incremental cost-effectiveness ratios ranging from $10 to 50,000/quality-adjusted life year (QALY) gained (48–50). However, all these studies assumed participation rates of 100% and endoscopy accuracy rates of 100%. This clearly overestimates the potential of such programs, given that lower participation
