HHS Public Access
KEYWORDS: patients, manuscript, author, author manuscript, eac, surveillance, manuscript author, risk, studies, hgd, lgd, evidence, endoscopy, recommendation, endoscopic


(QALY) gained (48–50). However, all these studies assumed participation rates of 100% and endoscopy accuracy rates of 100%. This clearly overestimates the potential of such programs, given that lower participation rates have been described in prospective studies of BE screening (51) and lower accuracy rates for endoscopy are reported in previous studies (52). Recent reports have described the creation of risk prediction scores for BE and EAC using factors (GERD, age, obesity measures, and smoking) into a single numerical score and may make BE screening more efficient by targeting a higher yield population. However, accuracy for BE prediction with these expanded models incorporating non-GERD risk factors, though improved when compared with using only GERD symptoms to stratify risk, remains modest (area under the receiver operating curve 0.66–69 for all risk factors vs area under the receiver operating curve 0.58 for GERD alone) (54). Previously, it was reported that the addition of circulating cytokines and adipokines in combination with clinical factors improved the accuracy for Barrett’s prediction (54); however, improvement in discrimination by such biomarkers was not validated in a recent comparative study (55). Further clinical implementation of these scores will require determination of thresholds at which screening should be triggered, which are not yet determined. These thresholds will depend on the invasiveness, cost, and performance characteristics of the tool used for screening and will likely require additional prospective and modeling studies before clinical implementation. Unsedated transnasal endoscopy (uTNE) as a minimally invasive alternate modality for BE screening has been found to have comparable performance characteristics to endoscopy for the diagnosis of BE, with a sensitivity of 91% and specificity of 96% (56). The comparative effectiveness of uTNE to sedated endoscopy in BE screening in the community has also been demonstrated in randomized trials (51,57). Esophagoscopes with disposable sheaths, eliminating the need for standard disinfection, can be alternatives for BE screening, but are not currently commercially available (58). BE screening with uTNE seems to be cost-effective (59). Non-physician providers have been trained to perform this procedure reducing costs further. Hence, BE screening with uTNE is an alternative acceptable option, associated with excellent tolerance and good accuracy of diagnosis compared with sedated Am J Gastroenterol. Author manuscript; available in PMC 2023 June 12. Author Manuscript Author Manuscript Author Manuscript Author Manuscript Finally, the panel discussed the issue of restricting recommendation for BE screening to only those with chronic symptoms of gastroesophageal reflux.
