HHS Public Access
KEYWORDS: patients, manuscript, author, author manuscript, eac, surveillance, manuscript author, risk, studies, hgd, lgd, evidence, endoscopy, recommendation, endoscopic


12. Author Manuscript Author Manuscript Author Manuscript Author Manuscript Finally, the panel discussed the issue of restricting recommendation for BE screening to only those with chronic symptoms of gastroesophageal reflux. A substantial proportion of EACs (34% in a SEER-based modeling study (44)) are diagnosed in those without chronic reflux symptoms. Other estimates place this proportion at 40% (61). Population- based studies have reported that as many as 40%–50% of patients with EAC do not endorse chronic reflux. Multiple studies have reported substantial rates of BE in those without chronic reflux (62–64). Hence, limiting screening to those only with chronic reflux symptoms reduces the targeting of those at risk for BE and EAC by 50% and likely substantially reduces the effectiveness of a reflux symptom based strategy. A recent Veterans Affairs–based prospective study demonstrated the inadequate sensitivity (39%– 43%) and modest specificity (67%–76%) of current guidelines requiring the presence of reflux symptoms for screening (65). In addition, as noted above, there are other independent risk factors for BE and EAC, which can be used to stratify risk. However, a challenge of screening those without chronic reflux symptoms is the larger population (120 million adults aged >40 years in the United States vs 30 million adults aged >40 years in the United States with chronic reflux), which will have to be targeted, if reflux symptoms as an essential criterion were to be removed. Hence, a population with a lower incidence of EAC compared with those with chronic reflux symptoms would require screening in this expanded approach. The cost-effectiveness and practical implications (such as costs, personnel issues) of expanding screening to this larger population with an invasive technique such as esophagogastroduodenoscopy are largely unknown. It is, however, conceivable that the availability of a safe, less expensive, minimally invasive screening option may alter this equation. Given the lack of relevant data at this time, the panel did not make specific recommendations on expanding BE screening to those without chronic reflux symptoms. Recommendation. 6. We suggest that a swallowable, nonendoscopic capsule sponge device combined with a biomarker is an acceptable alternative to endoscopy for screening for BE in those with chronic reflux symptoms and other risk factors (strength of recommendation: conditional; quality of evidence: very low). Summary of evidence.—Over the last decade, substantial progress has been made in developing a minimally invasive, nonphysician and office administered BE detection test. Most data are available on tests
