HHS Public Access
KEYWORDS: patients, manuscript, author, author manuscript, eac, surveillance, manuscript author, risk, studies, hgd, lgd, evidence, endoscopy, recommendation, endoscopic


low). Summary of evidence.—Over the last decade, substantial progress has been made in developing a minimally invasive, nonphysician and office administered BE detection test. Most data are available on tests which use swallowable esophageal cell collection devices, consisting of dissolvable gelatin or vegetable capsules containing a compressible spherical polyurethane sponge attached to a string/suture which expands to a sphere when the capsule is dissolved [Cytosponge, EsophaCap], or an inflatable silicone balloon [EsoCheck]. These devices are swallowed, then withdrawn orally, obtaining esophageal cytology samples (Figure 3). These samples are then used for the assessment of biomarkers associated with BE: either a protein marker expressed in IM (trefoil factor 3 [TFF3]) or methylated DNA markers (MDMs) associated with BE mucosa to predict the presence of BE. TFF3 staining is Am J Gastroenterol. Author manuscript; available in PMC 2023 June 12. Author Manuscript Author Manuscript Author Manuscript Author Manuscript performed by immunohistochemistry (IHC) with subsequent interpretation by a pathologist, whereas MDMs are quantitatively analyzed by a polymerase chain reaction–based test. providers and do not require the use of sedation. A local anesthetic spray to the oropharynx may be used to reduce discomfort during administration and withdrawal. The safety of this minimally invasive approach has been reported in multiple studies. More than 90% of enrolled participants were able to swallow these esophageal cell collection devices. Adverse events reported with these devices have included mild gagging and throat discomfort. Detachment of the string from the sponge has been reported in an extremely small proportion of patients. If detachment occurs, endoscopic removal of the detached sponge Cytosponge, detachment requiring endoscopy was reported in 1 case (66). Several prospective studies performed in the United States and United Kingdom (summarized in Table 4) have demonstrated the feasibility and accuracy of this approach, with variable performance characteristics. The greatest experience to date and largest available evidence base has been with the Cytosponge device. Of note, all the studies reporting the operating characteristics of these devices are case-control studies performed in populations that have been enriched for BE. In a landmark pragmatic trial set in primary care clinics and performed in the United Kingdom (67), patients with chronic reflux (defined as those using antireflux medications for at least 6 months), who were randomized to the Cytosponge-TFF3 test, had a 10- fold higher likelihood of being diagnosed with BE by confirmatory endoscopy (2% BE prevalence) compared with those randomized to a
