HHS Public Access
KEYWORDS: patients, manuscript, author, author manuscript, eac, surveillance, manuscript author, risk, studies, hgd, lgd, evidence, endoscopy, recommendation, endoscopic


who were randomized to the Cytosponge-TFF3 test, had a 10- fold higher likelihood of being diagnosed with BE by confirmatory endoscopy (2% BE prevalence) compared with those randomized to a usual care arm, where endoscopy was performed only if the provider thought it was indicated (<1% BE prevalence). Of those invited to participate, 39% of patients expressed interest in undergoing the Cytosponge test. The positive predictive value of this test in this screening population was 59%. In addition, more patients in the Cytosponge-TFF3 arm were also diagnosed with dysplastic BE and early-stage EAC (9) compared with the usual care arm (0), suggesting the potential utility of this strategy in identifying those who could benefit from therapeutic intervention. Importantly, this technique was also safe and well tolerated. A previous study has shown this test to be cost-effective (when compared with no screening) (68) when used in a hypothetical sample of 50-year-old White men with chronic reflux. Trials to assess the performance of MDM-based minimally invasive BE detection tests in screening populations are ongoing to determine their performance characteristics in this setting. Another noninvasive BE screening technology that is being developed is the analysis of exhaled volatile organic compounds by a handheld device (Aeonose; eNose Company, Zutphen, the Netherlands) containing a metal oxide sensor array. Sensor measurements generate a digital signal, which can be analyzed by artificial neural networks for BE detection. In a preliminary study reported from the Netherlands, a sensitivity and specificity of 91% and 74% for BE detection using endoscopy as a gold standard were reported (69). Am J Gastroenterol. Author manuscript; available in PMC 2023 June 12. Author Manuscript Author Manuscript Author Manuscript Author Manuscript Recommendation. 7. We suggest against repeat endoscopic screening in patients who have undergone an initial negative screening examination by endoscopy (strength of recommendation: conditional; quality of evidence: low). Summary of evidence.—The yield of a repeat endoscopy for diagnosing BE following an initial negative BE screening endoscopy is low. In a study of the Clinical Outcomes Research Initiative database, which included over 24,000 patients undergoing repeat endoscopy, only 561 (2.3%) patients had suspected BE on repeat endoscopy after an initial negative examination. Esophagitis on the index endoscopy, reflux as an indication for endoscopy (compared with other indications), and male sex were predictors of BE being diagnosed at subsequent endoscopy (70). In patients with esophagitis described at initial endoscopy, 9.9% were found to have suspected
