HHS Public Access
KEYWORDS: patients, manuscript, author, author manuscript, eac, surveillance, manuscript author, risk, studies, hgd, lgd, evidence, endoscopy, recommendation, endoscopic


with other indications), and male sex were predictors of BE being diagnosed at subsequent endoscopy (70). In patients with esophagitis described at initial endoscopy, 9.9% were found to have suspected BE on repeat examination. However, of note, more than 85% of the repeat examinations were performed within 2 years of the initial examination. Hence, additional data on the detection of BE at endoscopic evaluation performed at longer intervals after an initial negative screening endoscopy would better clarify long-term risks. In another smaller retrospective study from Turkey, only 0.66% of 2,701 patients undergoing repeat endoscopy within 6 years of an initial negative examination had BE on the second endoscopy (71). In addition, the ProGERD study was a prospective cohort study of reflux patients under treatment with proton pump inhibitor (PPI) who underwent endoscopy at enrollment and again 5 years later. Of the 1,224 patients with nonerosive reflux disease at baseline undergoing a year 5 endoscopy, only 51 (4.2%) demonstrated BE, 79% of which was 2 cm or less in length (72). One important caveat to the issue about repeating endoscopy is that erosive esophagitis, if Los Angeles grade B or worse, may mask the presence of BE. Studies have also assessed the rate of detection of BE after endoscopic confirmation of healing of esophagitis and found that a significant minority of patients with severe erosive esophagitis will show BE after healing. Ina prospective study of 172 patients with erosive esophagitis undergoing repeat endoscopy at a mean of 11 weeks after treatment with PPIs, BE was confirmed in 21 (12%) of patients (73). Nineteen of these patients had short-segment BE. Patients with more severe degrees of esophagitis (Los Angeles Grades C and D) were numerically more likely to have BE diagnosed at repeat endoscopy (17.4% vs 9.4% with Los Angeles Grades A or B). Similar results were also reported in a retrospective study, which evaluated 102 patients undergoing repeat endoscopy after finding esophagitis. BE was detected in 9% of patients, all of whom had severe (grade 4) esophagitis (74). Hence, patients with esophagitis on initial endoscopic evaluation should undergo repeat endoscopy 8–12 weeks after treatment with PPIs to ensure healing of esophagitis and to determine the presence of BE. SURVEILLANCE OF BE Recommendation. 8. We recommend both white light endoscopy and chromoendoscopy in patients undergoing endoscopic surveillance of BE (quality of evidence: moderate; strength of recommendation: strong). Am J Gastroenterol. Author manuscript;
