HHS Public Access
KEYWORDS: patients, manuscript, author, author manuscript, eac, surveillance, manuscript author, risk, studies, hgd, lgd, evidence, endoscopy, recommendation, endoscopic


Recommendation. 8. We recommend both white light endoscopy and chromoendoscopy in patients undergoing endoscopic surveillance of BE (quality of evidence: moderate; strength of recommendation: strong). Am J Gastroenterol. Author manuscript; available in PMC 2023 June 12. Author Manuscript Author Manuscript Author Manuscript Author Manuscript Summary of evidence.—The goal of endoscopic surveillance of BE is the detection of dysplasia or carcinoma at an early and treatable stage. Initial evaluation of the Barrett’s segment should commence with high-definition white light endoscopy including a retroflexed view of the cardia. Adequate inspection of the columnar-lined segment is necessary, as longer inspection times are associated with increased ability to detect HGD or EAC (75). However, even with careful white light inspection, subtle lesions may be missed. Routine use of chromoendoscopy may enhance the detection of dysplasia and carcinoma. This may be accomplished by either vital dyes such as acetic acid or by electronic chromoendoscopy. Furthermore, the simple use of chromoendoscopy after careful white light inspection increases the time spent examining the Barrett’s mucosa. Acetic acid chromoendoscopy involves applying dilute acetic acid to the Barrett’s mucosa, which leads to an initial whitening of the Barrett’s segment. However, areas of neoplasia lose this whitening more rapidly than nondysplastic Barrett’s epithelium. A meta-analysis of 9 acetic acid chromoendoscopy studies including 1,379 patients found a pooled sensitivity and specificity of 0.92 (95% CI 0.83–0.97) and 0.96 (95% CI 0.85–0.99) for the detection of HGD and EAC with no significant heterogeneity (76). Electronic chromoendoscopy systems, now a part of all endoscope platforms, allow for a better view of the mucosal surface and vascular patterns. A randomized crossover trial has compared high-definition white light endoscopy using the Seattle protocol to narrow band imaging with targeted biopsies of abnormal areas for the detection of neoplasia in 123 patients with BE (77). Detection of dysplasia was higher in the narrow band imaging examination than in the high-definition white light examination (30% vs 21%, P = 0.01). Furthermore, all areas of dysplasia or carcinoma were characterized by an irregular mucosal or vascular pattern with narrow band imaging. An international working group has developed and validated a simple classification system of mucosal and vascular pattern of the Barrett’s mucosa, characterizing both as either regular or irregular, to identify HGD and EAC (78). Using this simple system, they found the sensitivity to be 80%, with a specificity of 88%. A meta-analysis of 9 electronic chromoendoscopy studies
