HHS Public Access
KEYWORDS: patients, manuscript, author, author manuscript, eac, surveillance, manuscript author, risk, studies, hgd, lgd, evidence, endoscopy, recommendation, endoscopic


irregular, to identify HGD and EAC (78). Using this simple system, they found the sensitivity to be 80%, with a specificity of 88%. A meta-analysis of 9 electronic chromoendoscopy studies examining 625 patients found that narrow band imaging targeted biopsies compared with standard biopsy protocols had a pooled sensitivity of 94.2% (95% CI 83%–98%) and specificity of 94.4% (95% CI 81%–99%) for the detection of dysplasia or EAC, both with high heterogeneity (79). In addition, 2 recent studies have demonstrated that electronic chromoendoscopy enhances the visualization and delineation of early Barrett’s-associated neoplasia in expert endoscopists, nonexpert endoscopists, and trainees when compared with high-definition white light endoscopy alone (80,81). However, chromoendoscopy-directed biopsies should not yet be used as a substitute for the standardized biopsy protocol. Taken together, the evidence supports routine use of either acetic acid or electronic chromoendoscopy in all BE surveillance examinations. Advanced imaging.—A variety of additional advanced imaging techniques have been developed in an effort to improve the detection of dysplasia and EAC and thereby improve on the Seattle protocol in combination with high-definition white light endoscopy. Confocal laser endomicroscopy uses blue laser light to illuminate the esophageal tissue Am J Gastroenterol. Author manuscript; available in PMC 2023 June 12. Author Manuscript Author Manuscript Author Manuscript Author Manuscript after intravenous injection of fluorescein. This then allows for real-time in vivo imaging at high magnification to obtain optical biopsies in a targeted fashion. To date, 2 systems have been developed; endoscope and probe based, with only the latter still being commercially available. The most recent systematic review and meta-analysis of 7 studies of 473 patients who combined both probe-based and endoscope-based systems found a pooled sensitivity for per patient analysis when compared with histopathology of 89% (95% CI 0.82–0.94; I2 = 31.6%) and specificity of 83% (95% CI 0.78–0.86; I2 = 90.1%) (82). Although these numbers are encouraging, there are multiple caveats, including the considerable capital cost, the need for intravenous fluorescein, training in image interpretation, and time to complete the examination. Given that many of these studies were performed in centers with a high prevalence of dysplasia/neoplasia, the applicability of these data to a general surveillance population is unknown. That being said, in centers with a high prevalence of neoplasia or dysplasia, confocal endomicroscopy may be helpful in targeting biopsies and guiding therapy, although the value above that of high-definition white light and electronic chromoendoscopy is unclear (83).
