HHS Public Access
KEYWORDS: patients, manuscript, author, author manuscript, eac, surveillance, manuscript author, risk, studies, hgd, lgd, evidence, endoscopy, recommendation, endoscopic


of neoplasia or dysplasia, confocal endomicroscopy may be helpful in targeting biopsies and guiding therapy, although the value above that of high-definition white light and electronic chromoendoscopy is unclear (83). Volumetric laser endomicroscopy is a probe-based technique using optical coherence tomography technology to obtain a 6-cm circumferential scan of the esophagus that allows 2-dimensional visualization of the mucosa and submucosa of the esophagus to a depth of 3 mm (84). The technology has evolved over time to include laser markings to delineate areas of interest and recently, a computer-assisted detection algorithm to facilitate interpretation of the large data sets generated by the probe. As such, summary estimates of the utility of this technology to detect dysplasia and early carcinoma using the entire 1,200 image scan are not available. One recent study of 29 such full scan videos from 15 patients with neoplasia and 14 patients with NDBE found that experts correctly labeled 73% of neoplastic cases and 52% of nondysplastic cases with fair interobserver agreement (85). Currently, volumetric laser endomicroscopy is not commercially available. Considerable efforts are now underway to harness the power of artificial intelligence for enhanced dysplasia and early carcinoma detection in BE. Work in the Netherlands and the United States has already validated a deep learning computer-aided detection system that has the ability to delineate areas within the Barrett’s mucosa that contain early neoplasia while simultaneously demarcating the most abnormal aspect of the region (86). Furthermore, the computer-aided detection algorithm had superior performance characteristics when compared with 53 nonexpert endoscopists. This system has subsequently been assessed in a pilot study during live endoscopy with promising results (87). This field is rapidly advancing and has considerable potential to impact our approach to BE in the coming years. Recommendation. 9. We recommend a structured biopsy protocol be applied to minimize detection bias in patients undergoing endoscopic surveillance of BE (quality of evidence: low; strength of recommendation: strong). Summary of evidence.—The Seattle protocol, first described in 1993, consists of careful visual inspection of the Barrett’s segment with biopsies of any endoscopically visible Am J Gastroenterol. Author manuscript; available in PMC 2023 June 12. Author Manuscript Author Manuscript Author Manuscript Author Manuscript lesions, followed by 4 quadrant biopsies at intervals ≤2 cm from the level of the lower esophageal sphincter to the squamocolumnar junction (88). This protocol was initially developed to distinguish HGD from early EAC in an era before high-definition
