HHS Public Access
KEYWORDS: patients, manuscript, author, author manuscript, eac, surveillance, manuscript author, risk, studies, hgd, lgd, evidence, endoscopy, recommendation, endoscopic


cm from the level of the lower esophageal sphincter to the squamocolumnar junction (88). This protocol was initially developed to distinguish HGD from early EAC in an era before high-definition endoscopy and EET. The rationale for this structured biopsy protocol is that more dysplasia may be detected by reducing sampling error, given that areas of dysplasia may not be visible, lesions are often focal, and the distribution is highly variable in the Barrett’s segment. Support for a structured biopsy protocol comes from several lines of evidence. In a cohort study from the United Kingdom, the institution of a structured biopsy protocol led to an increase in the detection of HGD and early EAC when compared with the time period before the start of the rigorous protocol (89). Another UK cohort study compared a systematic 4 quadrant biopsy protocol performed by a surgical service to a nonsystematic biopsy protocol performed by the medical service and found a 13-fold increase in both prevalent low-grade and HGD in the systematic biopsy group (90). Finally, a single-center case series from Nottingham examined the yield of dysplasia with high-definition white light endoscopy comparing a systematic 4 quadrant biopsy technique to only targeted biopsies of mucosal abnormalities and found the yield of dysplasia or EAC to be higher in the former (73%) than the latter (27%) (91). However, although we continue to advocate for the Seattle protocol, its limitations must be acknowledged. Even with a systematic biopsy protocol, only a small subset of the Barrett’s segment is sampled, considerable time and expense are involved, and adherence is highly variable. A community-based database study of 2,245 surveillance cases found adherence to the Seattle protocol in only 51.2% of the cases (92). Furthermore, adherence was inversely associated with increasing length of the Barrett’s segment. When stratified by length, nonadherence was associated with significantly decreased dysplasia detection (OR 0.53; 95% CI 0.35–0.82). As outlined below, this is especially problematic given that segment length is a risk factor for progression to HGD and EAC. Others have confirmed that increasing BE length is a predictor of nonadherence (93). A systematic review and meta-analysis of 45 studies found that worldwide, adherence to the Seattle protocol is low at 49% (95% CI 36%–62%) albeit with considerable heterogeneity (I2 = 98.8%) (94). Taken together, the body of evidence continues to support the use of a systematic biopsy protocol with the Seattle protocol. Recommendation. 10.
