HHS Public Access
KEYWORDS: patients, manuscript, author, author manuscript, eac, surveillance, manuscript author, risk, studies, hgd, lgd, evidence, endoscopy, recommendation, endoscopic


albeit with considerable heterogeneity (I2 = 98.8%) (94). Taken together, the body of evidence continues to support the use of a systematic biopsy protocol with the Seattle protocol. Recommendation. 10. We suggest endoscopic surveillance be performed in patients with BE at intervals dictated by the degree of dysplasia noted on previous biopsies (quality of evidence: very low; strength of recommendation: conditional). Summary of evidence.—There are no randomized controlled trials to support endoscopic surveillance in BE. However, 1 such study underway in the United Kingdom is examining surveillance at 2-year intervals compared with no surveillance (95). A community-based case-control study of BE in the Kaiser Permanente system compared the surveillance histories of 38 patients who died of esophageal EAC with 101 matched patients with BE who were alive (96). They found that surveillance within 3 years was not associated Am J Gastroenterol. Author manuscript; available in PMC 2023 June 12. Author Manuscript Author Manuscript Author Manuscript Author Manuscript with a decreased risk of death from EAC (OR 0.99; 95% CI 0.36–2.75). Cases were found to have had surveillance comparably to controls in the preceding 3 years (55.3% vs 60.4%). A subsequent systematic review and meta-analysis examined cohort study evidence for the effect of endoscopic surveillance (40). This identified 4 cohort studies that found lower EAC mortality in the surveillance groups compared with the no or incomplete surveillance groups (relative risk [RR] 0.60; 95% CI 0.50–0.71) with no heterogeneity (I2 = 0%). Similarly, 3 studies compared surveillance with either incomplete or no surveillance and found a reduction in all-cause mortality (HR 0.75; 95% CI 0.50–0.94) with low heterogeneity (I2 = 22%). Finally, when looking at early-stage EAC, patients undergoing surveillance were more likely to be diagnosed with early-stage disease than those with either absent or inadequate surveillance (RR 2.11; 95% CI 1.08–4.11) albeit with considerable heterogeneity. However, when these results were adjusted for lead and length time biases, the above outcomes were either eliminated or attenuated. Taken as a whole, studies suggesting a mortality benefit for surveillance are all retrospective studies (low quality of evidence at best), with the better designed case-control demonstrating no difference. Thus, the quality of evidence supporting endoscopic surveillance is very low. Lead and/or length bias likely further attenuate any reported survival benefits, meaning that the evidence supporting a survival benefit in endoscopically surveyed patients is weak. Management of BE with IND IND is a common finding encountered
