HHS Public Access
KEYWORDS: patients, manuscript, author, author manuscript, eac, surveillance, manuscript author, risk, studies, hgd, lgd, evidence, endoscopy, recommendation, endoscopic


attenuate any reported survival benefits, meaning that the evidence supporting a survival benefit in endoscopically surveyed patients is weak. Management of BE with IND IND is a common finding encountered in an estimated 4.3%–8.4% of BE biopsies (97). This diagnosis is made when the pathologist is unable to determine whether the histology truly represents dysplasia or may be due to inflammatory changes (98). A recent systematic review and meta-analysis of 8 studies reporting outcomes in patients with BE IND found a pooled annual incidence of HGD and/or EAC to be 1.5/100 person-years (95% CI 1.0–2.0) with modest heterogeneity (I2 = 56.5%). This rate is comparable to the progression rate seen in LGD as outlined below. In that same analysis, the pooled annual incidence rate of progression to EAC alone from 5 studies was 0.6/100 person-years (95% CI 0.1–1.1) with considerable heterogeneity (I2 = 89%). The pooled annual incidence of LGD in patients IND was 11.4/100 patient-years (95% CI 0.06–0.2), derived from 4 studies with considerable heterogeneity (I2 = 83.6%). Subsequently, a single-center cohort study identified persistent IND as a risk factor for progression to LGD (OR 3.23; 95% CI 1.04–9.98) (99). There is uniform agreement across international guidelines that a diagnosis of IND should first be confirmed by an expert GI pathologist (100–102). For confirmed cases, antireflux therapy should be intensified, followed by a repeat endoscopy within 6 months. For those downgraded to NDBE, surveillance should then follow the intervals for NDBE. However, for patients with confirmed and persistent indefinite dysplasia, some international guidelines suggest following the approach used for NDBE, whereas others suggest surveillance at 6- month intervals (100–102). The work cited above suggests that surveillance should continue annually until the findings normalize similar to recommendations for LGD as outlined below. Figure 2 demonstrates the recommended endoscopic surveillance for such patients. Am J Gastroenterol. Author manuscript; available in PMC 2023 June 12. Author Manuscript Author Manuscript Author Manuscript Author Manuscript MANAGEMENT OF BE WITH LGD OR HGD Management of BE with LGD involves either endoscopic surveillance or EET. Management of BE with HGD generally is by EET. A full discussion of the management of BE with LGD or HGD is presented in the section on endoscopic management of BE. Recommendation. 11. We recommend that length of the NDBE segment be considered when assigning surveillance intervals such that longer segments of BE (≥3 cm) are surveyed on a 3-year interval
