HHS Public Access
KEYWORDS: patients, manuscript, author, author manuscript, eac, surveillance, manuscript author, risk, studies, hgd, lgd, evidence, endoscopy, recommendation, endoscopic


= 8%). Finally, a model developed from a multicenter cohort study incorporating segment length, male sex, cigarette smoking, and LGD was found to predict progression to HGD or EAC by categorizing patients as low, intermediate, and high risk for progression to HGD or EAC (105). This model has subsequently been validated in a population-based cohort from Northern Ireland (106). Taken together, there is a large amount of evidence that BE length can risk stratify patients for development of HGD and EAC. As such, it is our recommendation that surveillance for patients with <3 cm be extended to 5 years. Patients with a segment length of ≥3 cm undergo surveillance at 3-year intervals. The above recommendations assume a high-quality baseline endoscopic examination with adequate tissue sampling per the Seattle protocol. Table 5 Am J Gastroenterol. Author manuscript; available in PMC 2023 June 12. Author Manuscript Author Manuscript Author Manuscript Author Manuscript outlines endoscopic surveillance recommendations for patients with short-segment NDBE, long-segment NDBE, BE IND, and BE with LGD opting for endoscopic surveillance. Recommendation. 12. We could not make a recommendation on the use of wide-area transepithelial sampling with computer-assisted 3-dimensional (WATS-3D) analysis in patients undergoing endoscopic surveillance of BE. Summary of evidence.—When using WATS-3D, an abrasive cytology brush is passed through the channel of the endoscope to sample deeper layers of the glandular Barrett’s epithelium across an extensive area. The brush sample is smeared on a slide, yielding a tissue specimen that is up to 150 μm in thickness, unlike a typical forceps biopsy slide in which tissue sectioning produces samples that are only 3 to 5 μm thick. A neural network computer system that captures up to 50 optical slices (each 3 μm in thickness) of the specimen reconstructs it into 3-dimensional images of the sampled Barrett’s glands. The computer then scans these images and flags areas with high-risk features to bring to the attention of the pathologist for final interpretation. We identified 2 meta-analyses of studies in which WATS-3D was used as an adjunct to forceps biopsies to detect dysplasia in patients undergoing screening or surveillance for BE using white light endoscopy (107,108). In those studies, the yield of dysplasia detection by WATS-3D was compared with that of forceps biopsies alone. One meta-analysis (107) included 6 studies, and the more recent second meta-analysis (108) included 9 (including 6 of the same studies from the earlier meta-analysis). In the latter
