HHS Public Access
KEYWORDS: patients, manuscript, author, author manuscript, eac, surveillance, manuscript author, risk, studies, hgd, lgd, evidence, endoscopy, recommendation, endoscopic


biopsies alone. One meta-analysis (107) included 6 studies, and the more recent second meta-analysis (108) included 9 (including 6 of the same studies from the earlier meta-analysis). In the latter meta-analysis of 19,950 screening and surveillance endoscopies performed in dysplasia-naive patients with BE, the addition of WATS-3D to forceps biopsies led to an absolute increase in the detection of dysplasia of 2% (95% CI 0.01–0.03) and a relative increase of 2.05-fold (95% CI 1.42–2.98) (108). There was considerable heterogeneity in both meta-analyses, but no evidence of publication bias. A major issue in most studies of this technology is that the incremental benefit in dysplasia detection is not confirmed in subsequent forceps biopsy sampling. Thus, it is difficult to know how much of the incremental benefit is truly due to more complete sampling of the mucosa by WATS-3D or better detection of dysplasia by the analysis algorithm and how much might be due to over diagnosis of dysplasia and false-positive examinations by WATS-3D. Also, no study yet has evaluated the addition of WATS-3D to forceps biopsies for detection of dysplasia during Barrett’s surveillance when forceps biopsies are guided both by white light and chromoendoscopy. In addition, no studies have been performed reproducing these results using pathologists not employed by CDx. Finally, most of the studies do not separate dysplasia diagnosed by WATS-3D into LGD and HGD. Those studies that do stratify by degree of dysplasia demonstrate that most of the additional dysplasia diagnosed by WATS-3D is LGD. All these factors complicate the interpretation of data supporting this technology in surveillance of BE. Although we found no studies assessing cost-effectiveness of WATS-3D as an adjunct to forceps biopsies for surveillance of BE, there was 1 recent cost-effectiveness analysis using a decision-analytic model comparing forceps biopsies with WATS-3D vs forceps biopsies Am J Gastroenterol. Author manuscript; available in PMC 2023 June 12. Author Manuscript Author Manuscript Author Manuscript Author Manuscript alone in screening for BE (109). In this model, a cohort of 60-year-old White men with GERD were screened for BE, and those with BE detected by either forceps biopsy or WATS-3D were entered into surveillance protocols with radiofrequency ablation (RFA) performed for those found to have LGD. Two-way sensitivity analysis of the additional yield of WATS-3D to forceps biopsies for a diagnosis of BE over a range (5%, 15%, and 25%) that cost-effectiveness at $100,000/QALY was 98.7% of the stimulated trials; at
