HHS Public Access
KEYWORDS: patients, manuscript, author, author manuscript, eac, surveillance, manuscript author, risk, studies, hgd, lgd, evidence, endoscopy, recommendation, endoscopic


Sensitivity and specificity for this 2-tiered classification system (high and low risk) for patients with low-grade dysplasia were 67.7% and 78.6%, respectively (119). Finally, 1 study evaluated the performance of TissueCypher for detection of prevalent HGD/EAC that was missed by random biopsies following the Seattle protocol and found an OR of 46 (95% CI 14.86–169) for patients BE and no, indefinite, and LGD that scored high risk vs those that scored low risk (116). A cost-effectiveness analysis using a hybrid decision tree/Markov model comparing TissueCypher with standard of care surveillance and treatment protocols based on those used at Geisinger Health System over a 5-year time period demonstrated that the required sensitivity of the assay for cost-effectiveness at $100,000/quality-adjusted life years was 51% over a range of specificities (80%–100%) in patients with no, indefinite, or LGD (120). The aforementioned studies suggest that biomarkers may be better than routine histology alone in predicting cancer progression, but their grading as a diagnostic test is hindered by their low sensitivity and specificity. To enhance performance characteristics of the biomarkers for predicting disease progression, a Barrett’s progression score that incorporates and biomarker variables. It is also important to recognize that not even a perfect biomarker (1 that is 100% sensitive and 100% specific) will completely eliminate cancer development and cancer deaths as demonstrated in a Markov modeling study (122). One of the reasons for this is that the characteristics of the test used to detect the biomarker are not perfect. For example, IHC results for p53 are affected by the antibodies used, the staining method, Am J Gastroenterol. Author manuscript; available in PMC 2023 June 12. Author Manuscript Author Manuscript Author Manuscript Author Manuscript and the subjectivity in the definition and interpretation of aberrant staining (123). Although TissueCypher uses automated image analysis to eliminate subjectivity in interpretation, various external factors such as cell stress, DNA damage, and ongoing GERD might alter some, if not all, of the 15 features detected on the panel producing erroneous estimates; the same holds true for these factors in altering expression levels of p53. Given the low sensitivity and specificity of the above biomarkers, the panel could not make a recommendation for routine use of p53 IHC or TissueCypher for risk stratification in patients with BE undergoing surveillance. Nevertheless, the panel does not recommend against the use of these biomarkers given that their predictive performance has been shown to be
