HHS Public Access
KEYWORDS: patients, manuscript, author, author manuscript, eac, surveillance, manuscript author, risk, studies, hgd, lgd, evidence, endoscopy, recommendation, endoscopic


risk stratification in patients with BE undergoing surveillance. Nevertheless, the panel does not recommend against the use of these biomarkers given that their predictive performance has been shown to be better in some cases than the histologic diagnosis, raising the possibility that these biomarkers may provide some benefit in a subset of patients with BE, particularly in those without dysplasia. The challenge for future research is to better define this subset and to demonstrate that the use of biomarkers in Barrett’s populations improves on risk stratification available by clinical prediction models. The use of biomarkers ultimately should impact harder end points such as cancer incidence or death. We include recommendation 13 to document that this recommendation went through the formal GRADE review process with consideration by the authoring panel and to provide the data underpinning this decision. Key concept. 1. Consider cessation of endoscopic surveillance when a patient is no longer a candidate for EET. Any discussion of cessation of endoscopic surveillance is by nature arbitrary given the lack of data to guide decision making. This is highlighted by a recent study of surveillance endoscopy for BE in Medicare enrollees that found that 79% of men aged 80–84 years, with a life expectancy less than 5 years, still underwent repeat endoscopy within 5 years (124). Only the ESGE makes an explicit recommendation to stop endoscopic surveillance in individuals at age 75 years in the absence of a prior history of dysplasia, whereas the British Society of Gastroenterology recommends considering fitness for repeated endoscopy should EET be merited and the patient’s ability to tolerate chemotherapy and/or radiation therapy should EAC be found. From a pragmatic perspective, it is reasonable to cease endoscopic surveillance in patients with an estimated survival of less than 5 years and those who are no longer fit for repeated endoscopy or cannot tolerate endoscopic, surgical, or oncological intervention for esophageal neoplasia. A recent modeling study suggested that the optimal age of last surveillance of a patient with NDBE was between 69 and 81 years and was dependent on the sex and comorbidities of the patient (125). Although it is difficult to be dogmatic given the wide variability in life-limiting comorbidities, given the current average American life expectancy, discussion of cessation of further endoscopic surveillance is merited when most patients reach 75 years of age, if it has not occurred prior. Key concept. 2. Consider utilization of published
