HHS Public Access
KEYWORDS: patients, manuscript, author, author manuscript, eac, surveillance, manuscript author, risk, studies, hgd, lgd, evidence, endoscopy, recommendation, endoscopic


discussion of cessation of further endoscopic surveillance is merited when most patients reach 75 years of age, if it has not occurred prior. Key concept. 2. Consider utilization of published quality indicators to benchmark your unit’s performance against published standards. Am J Gastroenterol. Author manuscript; available in PMC 2023 June 12. Author Manuscript Author Manuscript Author Manuscript Author Manuscript performance and ensure the delivery of high-quality care in patients with BE have been proposed (126,127). The quality of care can be measured by comparing the performance of an individual or a group of individuals with an ideal or benchmark and nonadherence to a quality indicator reflects suboptimal care. Quality indicators for screening and surveillance focus on documentation of landmarks and extent of BE, not obtaining biopsies in the setting of a normal-appearing squamocolumnar junction, sampling using the Seattle biopsy protocol, and performing surveillance endoscopy in patients with NDBE no sooner than 3–5 years (126,127). Other quality indicators proposed, but not endorsed by societal statements, include Barrett’s inspection time and neoplasia detection rate (analogous to adenoma detection rate) (128). Available data using a national benchmarking quality registry (GI Quality Improvement Consortium Registry) suggest suboptimal adherence rates to these proposed quality indicators in BE (28,93,129,130). Implementation of specific quality indicators in BE will require an infrastructure for continuous monitoring of upper endoscopy quality by endoscopy practices performing BE screening and surveillance. One likely future quality metric is the postendoscopy esophageal cancer rate or PEEC. Similar to the phenomenon of postcolonoscopy colorectal cancer, there is growing literature describing the diagnosis of BE-related HGD and EAC before the next recommended endoscopic evaluation after an upper endoscopy that was negative for HGD or EAC (131). Missed lesions during endoscopy may comprise most of these cases, with others being secondary to rapidly progressive cancer or incompletely resected or ablated lesions after EET. Two studies provide contemporary estimates of missed HGD and EAC. A recent retrospective cohort study using data from large commercial and Medicare Advantage health plans identified 50,817 individuals with incident BE, 366 of whom developed EAC. Of these EACs, 67.2%, 13.7%, and 19.1% were classified as prevalent EAC, postendoscopy EAC, and incident EAC, respectively (132). In an updated systematic review and meta- analysis that included 52 studies and 145,726 patients, the proportion of postendoscopy EAC was 21% (95% CI 13–31) and that of postendoscopy HGD/EAC was 26% (95% CI 19–34), outcomes defined by the
