HHS Public Access
KEYWORDS: patients, manuscript, author, author manuscript, eac, surveillance, manuscript author, risk, studies, hgd, lgd, evidence, endoscopy, recommendation, endoscopic


included 52 studies and 145,726 patients, the proportion of postendoscopy EAC was 21% (95% CI 13–31) and that of postendoscopy HGD/EAC was 26% (95% CI 19–34), outcomes defined by the diagnosis of HGD/EAC within the first year after an index endoscopy that demonstrated NDBE, LGD, or IND (133). Restricting this analysis to patients with NDBE only, postendoscopy EAC proportion was 17% (95% CI 11–23), and postendoscopy HGD/EAC proportion was 14% (95% CI 8–19). Interestingly, meta- regression analysis demonstrated a strong inverse association between postendoscopy EAC and incident EAC. These findings clearly question the effectiveness of current screening and surveillance practices and highlight the importance of a high-quality endoscopy to the success of BE screening and surveillance programs designed to reduce the incidence and mortality associated with EAC. Table 6 provides a simple 10 step approach to a high-quality endoscopic examination of Barrett’s esophagus. NONENDOSCOPIC TREATMENT OF BE This section addresses the role of chemoprevention (pharmacologic interventions) and antireflux interventions in reducing the risk of neoplastic progression in patients with BE (BE). Am J Gastroenterol. Author manuscript; available in PMC 2023 June 12. Author Manuscript Author Manuscript Author Manuscript Author Manuscript Recommendation. 14. We suggest at least once-a-day PPI therapy in patients with BE without allergy or other contraindication to PPI use (strength of recommendation: conditional; quality of evidence: very low). Summary of evidence.—Several observational studies have demonstrated that GERD symptoms are a strong risk factor for EAC and the risk of EAC increases with increasing duration and severity of GERD symptoms (134,135). Similarly, GERD symptoms are also strongly associated with BE. PPIs are commonly prescribed in patients with BE, given the high proportion of patients with BE with symptomatic GERD and its impact on their quality of life (136). In addition, preclinical (biomarker based) and some observational studies have shown that PPIs may prevent neoplastic progression in patients with BE supporting its role as a chemopreventive agent (137–139). Epidemiologic evidence supports a significant decrease in the risk of progression to HGD A systematic review and meta-analysis of observational studies showed that PPI therapy was associated with a 71% reduction in the risk of HGD or EAC (adjusted OR 0.29; 95% CI 0.12–0.79) (139). In 4 cohort studies that reported the time to progression to HGD or EAC, PPI users were also significantly less likely to progress to HGD or EAC (aHR 0.32; 95% CI 0.15–0.67). There was insufficient information in
