HHS Public Access
KEYWORDS: patients, manuscript, author, author manuscript, eac, surveillance, manuscript author, risk, studies, hgd, lgd, evidence, endoscopy, recommendation, endoscopic


time to reach the combined end point of death from any cause, EAC, or HGD (time ratio [TR] 1.27; 95% CI 1.01–1.58, P = 0.038). Outcomes in the ASA group were not significantly better than no ASA group (TR 1.24; 95% CI 0.98–1.57). However, when censoring those with the use of concurrent NSAIDs, ASA was better than no ASA (TR 1.29; 95% CI 1.01–1.66; P = 0.04). Finally, combining high-dose PPI with ASA had the strongest effect compared with low-dose PPI without ASA (TR 1.59; 95% CI 1.14–2.23; P = 0.006). The safety data were reassuring, with only 1% of study participants reported serious adverse events; 69 reported bleeding, 38 of which occurred among individuals receiving ASA. Despite these data, the panel was unable to make any recommendation with regard to the use of ASA along with PPI therapy due to several study limitations and caveats. This Am J Gastroenterol. Author manuscript; available in PMC 2023 June 12. Author Manuscript Author Manuscript Author Manuscript Author Manuscript study did not demonstrate any significant differences for cancer-related outcomes. This trial was not double blinded, the event rate was low with wide 95% CIs, and a small effect size was noted, with the benefit largely driven from reductions in all-cause mortality, as opposed to the cancer-related outcomes most concerning in a BE population. Although it is still uncertain whether all patients with BE should be prescribed PPI and ASA for chemoprevention, the panel acknowledges that substantial proportion of patients with BE will be candidates for ASA for cardioprotection. Given that we recommend at least daily PPI for all patients with BE without contraindications, it therefore stands to reason that a large proportion of patients with BE will be prescribed combination therapy with PPI and ASA. We include recommendation 15 to document that this recommendation went through the formal GRADE review process with consideration by the authoring panel and to provide the data underpinning this decision. Recommendation. 16. We suggest against the use of antireflux surgery as an antineoplastic measure in patients with BE (strength of recommendation: conditional; quality of evidence: low). Summary of evidence.—Surgical antireflux procedures are highly effective at reducing gastroesophageal reflux episodes, healing esophagitis, and decreasing the symptoms associated with reflux. It is logical, therefore, to consider their application in the setting of BE to reduce the risk of progression to cancer. Several issues argue against the routine application of surgical
