HHS Public Access
KEYWORDS: patients, manuscript, author, author manuscript, eac, surveillance, manuscript author, risk, studies, hgd, lgd, evidence, endoscopy, recommendation, endoscopic


It is logical, therefore, to consider their application in the setting of BE to reduce the risk of progression to cancer. Several issues argue against the routine application of surgical antireflux procedures as an antineoplastic measure in the setting of BE. First, the risk of progression to cancer in the setting of NDBE is so low that incurring the risks inherent in surgery, even a surgery with a low rate of life-threatening complications such as laparoscopic fundoplication, may not be merited in patients who do not require fundoplication for symptoms not controllable by medical therapy. Second, fundoplication comes with its own set of short- and long-term complications, which can occasionally be severe in nature and duration. Finally, and most antireflux procedures have a lower risk of progression to neoplasia than those treated medically. Studies comparing the risk of progression to neoplasia in patients with BE treated medically and surgically have several shortcomings. Compliance with medical therapy is not routinely documented and is unclear among medically treated patients. Among surgically treated patients, the effectiveness of the wrap in averting reflux is not generally reported, and the use of concurrent medical therapy after surgical antireflux therapy, which is known to occur commonly, is not well described. Several attempts have been made to perform meta-analysis of studies documenting progression outcomes in patients with BE treated with medical and surgical management (154–156). These studies do not document consistent superiority of surgical management over medical management. The single randomized controlled trial of medical vs surgical management of BE for progression to neoplasia showed no statistically significant difference in outcomes between the groups but was inadequately powered (157). Am J Gastroenterol. Author manuscript; available in PMC 2023 June 12. Author Manuscript Author Manuscript Author Manuscript Author Manuscript ENDOSCOPIC TREATMENT OF BE EET has revolutionized the management of patients with BE-related neoplasia and offers an effective, minimally invasive treatment approach, avoiding the morbidity and mortality associated with esophagectomy (158). The basic premise of EET is that patients with BE with HGD and intramucosal cancer (IMC) have a very low risk of lymph node metastasis (0% in HGD, up to 2% in IMC) (159). Contemporary practice includes endoscopic resection (ER) of any visible lesion within the BE segment, followed by ablative techniques such as RFA and cryotherapy to achieve complete eradication of dysplasia (CED) and IM (CEIM). Among the available ablative modalities, RFA has the widest breadth of
