HHS Public Access
KEYWORDS: patients, manuscript, author, author manuscript, eac, surveillance, manuscript author, risk, studies, hgd, lgd, evidence, endoscopy, recommendation, endoscopic


population-based studies using the Surveillance, Epidemiology Am J Gastroenterol. Author manuscript; available in PMC 2023 June 12. Author Manuscript Author Manuscript Author Manuscript Author Manuscript and End Results database).A randomized controlled trial comparing these 2 management strategies is highly unlikely. The panel primarily considered the comparative effectiveness and safety of EET to esophagectomy, in drafting this recommendation in favor of EET for superficial neoplasia. Esophagectomy has traditionally been recommended in patients with EAC with submucosal invasion (T1b EAC) given the high risk of lymph node metastases (175). The panel noted the expanding role of EET in patients with superficial submucosal invasion. Observational data suggest that EET may be a viable alternative to esophagectomy for patients with T1b EAC with superficial submucosal invasion (sm1—invasion into the upper third of the submucosa to a depth <500 μm) and low-risk features such as deep margin negative, well- moderate differentiation and no lymphovascular invasion (176–178). The risk of lymph node metastases after EET in T1b sm1 EAC patients seems to be lower than the mortality rates associated with esophagectomy (176,179). Patients with high-risk histology are best treated with esophagectomy, unless the patient is a poor surgical candidate, for whom discussion at a multidisciplinary conference may be appropriate to consider alternative options such as adjuvant chemoradiation. Recommendation. 18. We suggest endoscopic therapy in patients with BE with confirmed LGD to reduce the risk of progression to HGD/EAC, with endoscopic surveillance of confirmed LGD as an acceptable alternative (strength of recommendation: conditional; quality of evidence: moderate). Summary of evidence.—LGD has long presented a management conundrum. This is due in part to considerable interobserver variability among pathologists in making the diagnosis as well as a variable natural history of progression to HGD/EAC. There is clear evidence that LGD increases the risk for neoplastic progression, but the magnitude of that risk is highly variable (43). Although a meta-analysis of 24 studies found the annual incidence of HGD/EAC to be 1.73%/patient-year, the Surveillance vs Radiofrequency Ablation study, a randomized controlled trial of RFAvs surveillance, found the risk of progression to be dramatically higher, at 11.8%/patient-year of follow-up (39,180). Thus, for patients diagnosed with LGD, several initial concerns must be addressed, including whether the LGD diagnosis is correct, whether undetected prevalent HGD or EAC is present, and what the most appropriate follow-up or additional therapy should be. Any diagnosis of LGD merits a review by expert GI pathologists. Multiple studies
