HHS Public Access
KEYWORDS: patients, manuscript, author, author manuscript, eac, surveillance, manuscript author, risk, studies, hgd, lgd, evidence, endoscopy, recommendation, endoscopic


prevalent HGD or EAC is present, and what the most appropriate follow-up or additional therapy should be. Any diagnosis of LGD merits a review by expert GI pathologists. Multiple studies demonstrate that a substantial proportion of patients thought to have LGD do not have the diagnosis confirmed on expert pathology review, reaffirming the importance of this step (33,34). Furthermore, several studies suggest that the risk of progression of LGD to HGD/EAC is highest in the first year after diagnosis, raising the specter of undetected HGD or EAC in patients with LGD. A systematic review and meta-analysis of 8 studies found that while the summary overall weighted annual incidence for progression to HGD/EAC was 4.6/100 patient-years (95% CI 2.0–7.2), the rate was higher,at 8.8/100 patients, in the first year after diagnosis (181). Others have found a similar increase in risk in the first year Am J Gastroenterol. Author manuscript; available in PMC 2023 June 12. Author Manuscript Author Manuscript Author Manuscript Author Manuscript after diagnosis, thereby emphasizing the importance of a careful repeat examination (182). Finally, there is considerable evidence that a diagnosis of confirmed LGD that persists on a second examination increases the risk for progression still further (34,183). Thus, for a patient with a diagnosis of LGD, the first step is to have expert pathologic review. If the diagnosis is downgraded to no dysplasia, surveillance should revert to the nondysplastic pathway. If the diagnosis of LGD is confirmed, the patient may choose to either consider endoscopic eradication therapy or to repeat an endoscopy within 6 months (181). Discussion based on shared decision making with the patient should review the pros and cons of proceeding to EET or continued surveillance. If surveillance is continued, there is no consensus among international guidelines on the frequency of surveillance intervals. Given the increase in progression risk in the first year, it makes sense to repeat surveillance every 6 months for 1 year followed by annual surveillance as long as LGD is present. If no dysplasia is then seen, the surveillance interval should revert to the nondysplastic pathway. The panel considered several outcomes for this clinical question: progression rates to HGD and EAC, cancer-specific mortality, and adverse events between EET and surveillance. Two randomized controlled trials have compared RFA with surveillance in patients with BE with LGD. In a multicenter, randomized, sham-controlled trial, subjects with dysplastic BE were assigned 2:1 to either RFA or
