HHS Public Access
KEYWORDS: patients, manuscript, author, author manuscript, eac, surveillance, manuscript author, risk, studies, hgd, lgd, evidence, endoscopy, recommendation, endoscopic


of LGD cannot be confirmed on subsequent endoscopy, (ii) the limited generalizability of available data, as most effectiveness data Am J Gastroenterol. Author manuscript; available in PMC 2023 June 12. Author Manuscript Author Manuscript Author Manuscript Author Manuscript are reported from expert centers, (iii) significant interobserver variability in the diagnosis of LGD among pathologists, (iv) the likelihood that surveillance of LGD (at least at expert centers) would detect progression to HGD/EAC at a stage amenable to EET and rarely requiring esophagectomy, and (v) EET is associated with adverse events (160). In addition, none of the published studies comparing EET with surveillance have incorporated patient-centered outcomes, and data on risk stratification in LGD remain limited. The panel considered requiring persistence of LGD before ablation, as some data suggest that ablation of persistent LGD is more cost-effective than ablation after a single confirmed reading. In contrast, other studies suggest that progression rates to HGD/EAC after a single confirmed reading of LGD may be in excess of those necessary for cost-effectiveness (185,186). Therefore, although persistence of LGD is a risk factor for progression, it is not mandatory to demonstrate persistence before considering EET in this setting. Of note, mucosal inflammation may lead to an errant diagnosis of LGD (187). Therefore, a repeat endoscopy after the institution of vigorous (twice daily) acid suppression may be advisable after an initial reading of LGD if accompanied by endoscopic and/or histological evidence of inflammation. Consistent with previous documents (36,158,188), the panel suggests the concept of shared decision making in determining the optimal management strategy for patients with LGD. Among patients undergoing EET, RFA is the preferred ablative technique. In patients with LGD undergoing surveillance, we suggest that surveillance should be performed at 6-month intervals for 1 year and then annually unless there is reversion to NDBE in which case surveillance intervals can be extended to every 3 years. Sampling should be performed using the Seattle biopsy protocol (4 quadrants every 1 cm) (36). Recommendation. 19. We suggest initial ER of any visible lesions before the application of ablative therapy in patients with BE undergoing EET (strength of recommendation: conditional; quality of evidence: very low). Summary of evidence.—ER of visible lesions detected on careful screening or surveillance examination of the BE mucosa serves both a diagnostic and therapeutic purpose. Histologic interpretation of dysplasia grade (LGD, HGD, and IMC) on forceps biopsy specimens even by expert GI pathologists is
