HHS Public Access
KEYWORDS: patients, manuscript, author, author manuscript, eac, surveillance, manuscript author, risk, studies, hgd, lgd, evidence, endoscopy, recommendation, endoscopic


of the BE mucosa serves both a diagnostic and therapeutic purpose. Histologic interpretation of dysplasia grade (LGD, HGD, and IMC) on forceps biopsy specimens even by expert GI pathologists is limited by significant interobserver variation (189–191). However, larger histology specimens provided by EMR or endoscopic submucosal dissection (ESD) have been shown to reduce the interobserver variability associated with BE neoplasia assessment by pathologists (192–194). In addition, likely due to the larger specimen size and deeper extent of the sample (inclusion of the muscularis mucosa and submucosa in most ER specimens), ER has also been shown to upstage/downstage the histologic grade of dysplasia and lead to a change in the management of 30%–40% of patients with BE undergoing endoscopic evaluation (195,196). In a retrospective study of 150 ERs performed for focal lesions, ER histology led to a change in diagnosis in 49% and a relevant change in treatment approach in 30% of patients (196). In another multicenter study of 138 patients with LGD, HGD, and EAC, 83% had visible Am J Gastroenterol. Author manuscript; available in PMC 2023 June 12. Author Manuscript Author Manuscript Author Manuscript Author Manuscript lesions endoscopically resected. ER led to a change in histological diagnosis of 31% of patients with early neoplasia (195). This is especially relevant in the staging of early-stage EAC because conventional endoscopic ultrasound (EUS) has only modest accuracy in the staging of early-stage EAC (197,198). Thus, EUS is not routinely recommended in the evaluation of patients with BE with dysplasia (HGD or LGD) or early EAC referred for EET for the purpose of differentiating between mucosal vs submucosally invasive disease. However, EUS plays a role in appropriate staging of patients with T1b and more advanced EAC and in select cases with T1a EAC based on prognostic features described below (107). Unlike EUS, ER of early-stage EAC also provides accurate tumor (T) staging and prognostic information. Tumor invasion into layers of the mucosa (lamina propria and muscularis mucosa) and submucosa can be precisely determined, in addition to lateral and deep margins of resection (199). In addition, prognostic features such as grade of differentiation and lymphovascular and perineural invasion can be accurately assessed and help in predicting prognosis and selecting appropriate management (200). Precise ascertainment of the depth of invasion is important, given the low prevalence of metastatic lymphadenopathy in T1a disease, compared with the substantial prevalence of metastatic lymphadenopathy in T1b disease invading the
