HHS Public Access
KEYWORDS: patients, manuscript, author, author manuscript, eac, surveillance, manuscript author, risk, studies, hgd, lgd, evidence, endoscopy, recommendation, endoscopic


of the depth of invasion is important, given the low prevalence of metastatic lymphadenopathy in T1a disease, compared with the substantial prevalence of metastatic lymphadenopathy in T1b disease invading the mid- to deep submucosa (20%–30%). Indeed, EET of early-stage EAC is associated with excellent long-term outcomes when compared with surgery (201,202). Hence, ER allows the selection of the most appropriate management strategy as dictated by histopathology of the resected lesion. Although some studies have attempted to correlate endoscopic appearance (based on the Paris classification of superficial neoplastic lesions) (203,204) and the likelihood of submucosal invasion, these correlations, while prognostic, tissue sampling. Paris 0-I and 0-IIc lesions were found more likely to invade the submucosa in 1 study. The presence of deep ulceration (Paris III lesion) likely reflects deep submucosal invasion, making these lesions less optimal for ER (196). Techniques of ER include cap-assisted EMR, multiband EMR, and ESD. Both techniques for EMR (cap-assisted EMR and multiband EMR) have equal efficacy and safety (Figure 5). Although cap-assisted EMR may allow for slightly larger samples of tissue because of ease of use, multiband EMR is the preferred resection technique in most cases. The safety of EMR is well described, whereas ESD (which allows en bloc resection of larger specimens with interpretation of lateral margins) has a steeper learning curve, requires more time to complete, and is associated with a higher rate of complications. Additional challenges include the lack of formal training pathways for ESD training in the West and the lack of dedicated billing codes, making reimbursement challenging. Despite these limitations, ESD may have a role in the resection of larger lesions (which are unsuitable for en bloc resection by EMR), lesions with potential submucosal invasion or lesions arising postablation, rendering EMR challenging due to scarring. Comparative data on the effectiveness of these 2 resection techniques followed by ablation are relatively limited (205). Available data suggest that these 2 techniques are likely comparable in terms of rates of CEIM when combined with ablation and complications when performed by expert endoscopists (206). Long-term recurrence data need to be assessed. Am J Gastroenterol. Author manuscript; available in PMC 2023 June 12. Author Manuscript Author Manuscript Author Manuscript Author Manuscript Following successful ER of all visible abnormalities, ablation of the residual BE segment regardless of histology is recommended to reduce the risk of recurrent dysplasia/EAC. This recommendation is based on studies showing that residual BE
