HHS Public Access
KEYWORDS: patients, manuscript, author, author manuscript, eac, surveillance, manuscript author, risk, studies, hgd, lgd, evidence, endoscopy, recommendation, endoscopic


visible abnormalities, ablation of the residual BE segment regardless of histology is recommended to reduce the risk of recurrent dysplasia/EAC. This recommendation is based on studies showing that residual BE predicts metachronous neoplasia following resection of HGD/EAC, as well as a randomized trial comparing ablation (with APC) of residual BE mucosa to continued surveillance, conclusively showing substantially higher rates of metachronous dysplasia in the surveillance arm (207). Ablation with RFA vs stepwise radical EMR of the residual BE mucosa were compared in a randomized trial and conclusively showed that the RFA arm reached CEIM faster, with fewer procedures and fewer complications than the EMR group (208). Cryotherapy (spray or balloon) has also been used to ablate dysplastic BE mucosa. Unlike RFA, which is a thermal modality causing direct contact tissue necrosis, cryotherapy acts via multiple mechanisms initiated by rapid freezing and slow thawing including direct cell injury, apoptosis, and tissue ischemia. Two cryotherapy modalities are currently commercially available. Liquid nitrogen (LN) spray cryotherapy (truFreeze; STERIS, Mentor, OH) delivers LN at −1,960 °C using a flexible spray catheter via the working channel of the endoscope. A decompression tube is placed adjacent to the catheter given expansion of LN to gas while spraying. A newer cryotherapy technology is the C2CryoBalloon Ablation system (Pentax Medical, Redwood City, CA), which uses a rotatable diffuser within a compliant balloon to spray liquid nitrous oxide on the mucosa. There are currently no randomized trials assessing the efficacy of cryotherapy for the treatment of dysplastic BE. Retrospective and prospective cohort studies have reported CED and CEIM rates of 81%–88% and 57%–61%, respectively, with spray cryotherapy (209,210). A systematic review reported CED and CEIM rates of 76% and 46% in patients with dysplastic BE refractory to initial RFA who were treated with spray cryotherapy (211). Data on cryoballoon ablation are more limited, with a recent multicenter prospective cohort study reporting 76% and 72% of patients reaching CED and CEIM in an intention to treat analysis (212). Cryotherapy is associated with a 9%–12% stricture rate. There are currently no randomized trial data comparing cryotherapy and RFA, but a recent nonrandomized multicenter study reported comparable rates of CED and CEIM in patients with dysplastic BE treated with RFA and cryoballoon ablation with higher stricture rates in the cryoballoon cohort (213). Recommendation. 20. We suggest that patients with BE undergoing EET be treated at high-volume centers (strength of recommendation: conditional; quality
