HHS Public Access
KEYWORDS: patients, manuscript, author, author manuscript, eac, surveillance, manuscript author, risk, studies, hgd, lgd, evidence, endoscopy, recommendation, endoscopic


ablation with higher stricture rates in the cryoballoon cohort (213). Recommendation. 20. We suggest that patients with BE undergoing EET be treated at high-volume centers (strength of recommendation: conditional; quality of evidence: very low). Summary of evidence.—Several core competencies are necessary before embarking on EET. Acquisition of technical, cognitive, and integrative competencies is critical for quality of care and patient safety. These include but are not limited to (i) adequate training and expertise in the detection of mucosal lesions that harbor neoplasia with the use of high-definition white light endoscopy and virtual chromoendoscopy, (ii) appropriate selection of patients who merit EET, (iii) technical skills in performance of EMR and RFA, and (iv) recognition and management of potential adverse events related to EET Am J Gastroenterol. Author manuscript; available in PMC 2023 June 12. Author Manuscript Author Manuscript Author Manuscript Author Manuscript (bleeding, perforation, stricture, and recurrence). There are limited data to determine the exact thresholds for training and education for the performance of EET. volume-outcome effect in the management of patients with BE-related dysplasia and EAC undergoing endoscopic intervention. The outcomes considered for this clinical question included number of sessions required to achieve CEIM and CED rates, adverse events, recurrence rates, and mortality rates. Data from the US RFA Patient Registry that included patients who underwent RFA for BE at 148 centers demonstrated that with increasing number of cases performed by endoscopists and centers, the number of treatment sessions required to achieve CEIM decreased, a relationship that persisted after adjusting for patient variables such as age, sex, race, BE length, and pretreatment dysplasia status. This relationship between volume and treatment session necessary to achieve CEIM seemed to attenuate after treatment of at least 30 patients by the center or individual endoscopist (214). Center experience was not associated with overall rates of CEIM or CED, only the number of sessions necessary to achieve success. A retrospective study that predominantly included patients with HGD or IMC demonstrated a significant correlation between endoscopist RFA volume and CEIM rates (215). A recent retrospective cohort study that used the national Veterans Affairs health care system showed that treatment at high-volume RFA facilities was associated with a reduced risk of recurrence (comparing quartile 4 with quartile 1, HR 0.19, 95% CI 0.05–0.68) (216). Another observational study showed that endoscopist procedure volume was an independent predictor of adverse outcomes (30- and 90-day mortality and requirement for emergency
