HHS Public Access
KEYWORDS: patients, manuscript, author, author manuscript, eac, surveillance, manuscript author, risk, studies, hgd, lgd, evidence, endoscopy, recommendation, endoscopic


1, HR 0.19, 95% CI 0.05–0.68) (216). Another observational study showed that endoscopist procedure volume was an independent predictor of adverse outcomes (30- and 90-day mortality and requirement for emergency intervention) among patients undergoing upper GI EMR (including patients with BE and esophageal cancer) (217). The results of these studies support a robust volume-outcome effect and suggest that outcomes might be improved by centralization of care for BE-related neoplasia at high annual case volume facilities. Centralized care for patients with BE-related neoplasia can include the following (101,218): 1. Treatment at centers with a high volume of patients with BE-related neoplasia by trained endoscopists. Although the annual case volume of new patients needs to be defined in future studies, the European Society of Gastrointestinal Endoscopy recommends an annual case volume of at least 10 new patients with HGD or early EAC per endoscopist. 2. Treatment by endoscopists trained in advanced imaging, EMR, and ablation who adhere to a standardized protocol and monitor outcomes with a commitment toward quality improvement. 3. Access to expert GI pathologists and to a multidisciplinary team that includes surgeons and medical and radiation oncologists. Recommendation. 21. We recommend an endoscopic surveillance program in patients with BE who have completed successful EET (strength of recommendation: strong; quality of evidence: moderate). Am J Gastroenterol. Author manuscript; available in PMC 2023 June 12. Author Manuscript Author Manuscript Author Manuscript Author Manuscript Summary of evidence.—Recurrence of IM is well documented after successful EET, which is defined by the end point of CEIM. CEIM is variably described in the literature as 1 or 2 surveillance endoscopies negative for visible BE and IM in biopsies taken from the GEJ and the tubular esophagus. Recurrence is currently defined as the detection of IM (with or without dysplasia) from the tubular esophagus or the GEJ after achieving CEIM (219). The annual incidence of recurrent IM after CEIM as described in a systematic review and meta-analysis including over 3,000 patients ranges from 8.6% to 10.5%, whereas the incidence of dysplastic IM recurrence and HGD/EAC recurrence was lower at 2.0% and 1.2%, respectively (172). The timing of detection of recurrences is variably reported in the literature as being mostly in the first year after CEIM (220) (in studies using 1 negative biopsy defining CEIM, but not in those with 2 negative biopsies defining CEIM), peaking at 18 months (173,174) after CEIM or continuing to increase with duration
