HHS Public Access
KEYWORDS: patients, manuscript, author, author manuscript, eac, surveillance, manuscript author, risk, studies, hgd, lgd, evidence, endoscopy, recommendation, endoscopic


studies using 1 negative biopsy defining CEIM, but not in those with 2 negative biopsies defining CEIM), peaking at 18 months (173,174) after CEIM or continuing to increase with duration of follow-up (up to 5 years), both for nondysplastic and dysplastic BE recurrences (174). Hence, discontinuation of surveillance after EET is not recommended at this time, given the continued risk of recurrence after CEIM. The location of recurrence after EET has been studied by multiple investigators. Recurrences may be detected either in the tubular esophagus or in the GEJ, and most recurrences appear distally (in the esophagus and at the GEJ). In a large cohort study (174), 75% of recurrences were diagnosed at the GEJ and the remainder in the tubular esophagus. In addition, most (60%) recurrences at the GEJ were described as not visible (to the treating endoscopist), whereas most recurrences in the tubular esophagus (80%) were visible. Most (87%) tubular esophagus recurrences were detected within 5 cm of the distal esophagus. This is consistent with other reports that also describe most recurrences in the distal 2 to 4 cm of the esophagus (221,222). In addition, the yield of random biopsies from a normal-appearing neosquamous epithelium was low (1% for any recurrence and 0.2% for any dysplastic recurrence) in these studies. This is in keeping with the low rate of subsquamous BE after successful EET with RFA. Hence, the utility of random biopsies from normal neosquamous epithelium is likely limited and may have the most utility if confined to the distal 2–4 cm of the tubular esophagus. Predictors of recurrence after CEIM have been described in multiple studies and include HGD/EAC before ablation (vs LGD or NDBE), long-segment BE, and older age (172). Currently, surveillance recommendations are based on the preablation histology, with less frequent intervals for surveillance after EET for LGD, given the consistently lower rates of recurrence after EET for LGD. In a modeling study (223), which used recurrence data from the US RFA Registry and validated in the UK HALO Registry, using a 0.1% risk of recurrence of invasive EAC as a threshold (equivalent to the complication rate of sedated endoscopy in the elderly), surveillance at 1 year after CEIM and every 2 years thereafter in those with LGD preablation and at 3 months, 6 months, 12 months and annually thereafter was recommended for those with HGD preablation. These intervals are less frequent than those recommended
