HHS Public Access
KEYWORDS: patients, manuscript, author, author manuscript, eac, surveillance, manuscript author, risk, studies, hgd, lgd, evidence, endoscopy, recommendation, endoscopic


those with LGD preablation and at 3 months, 6 months, 12 months and annually thereafter was recommended for those with HGD preablation. These intervals are less frequent than those recommended previously. It is likely that intervals less frequent than those recommended for BE in the absence of ablation will be adequate to minimize the risk of missing recurrent dysplasia/EAC. Table 7 demonstrates the suggested surveillance intervals after successful EET of dysplastic BE. Am J Gastroenterol. Author manuscript; available in PMC 2023 June 12. Author Manuscript Author Manuscript Author Manuscript Author Manuscript Treatment of recurrent BE should follow similar principles of preablation EET, including ER for visible lesions and ablation for flat residual BE. Fortunately, results reported by multiple investigators indicate that the most (>90%) of all recurrences can be successfully treated endoscopically. Invasive EAC needing surgery or leading to death from metastatic disease is rare. The significance of nondysplastic IM recurrence at the GEJ/cardia is unclear, with with IM of the cardia in those without BE. A recent observational study described a lower rate of subsequent development of dysplasia in patients with nondysplastic GEJ recurrence who were followed without treatment compared with those who were treated, supporting this hypothesis (224). However, additional studies are needed to confirm this observation. Given the data above, patients who achieve CEIM with EET should be placed into an endoscopic surveillance program, which includes careful inspection of the GEJ and neosquamous epithelium for any visible lesions with high-resolution white light endoscopy and virtual chromoendoscopy, followed by surveillance biopsies from the GEJ (in a separate bottle) and from the distal 2–5 cm of the esophagus (in a separate bottle). Figure 6 demonstrates an appropriate biopsy protocol for patients achieving CEIM. Post-CEIM surveillance intervals should be tailored to the preablation histology: those with LGD undergoing surveillance at 1 year after CEIM, 3 years after CEIM, and then every 2 years thereafter, and those with HGD undergoing surveillance at 3 months, 6 months, 12 months, and annually thereafter. Cessation of surveillance after CEIM is not recommended at this time, unless dictated by the overall medical status of the patient. Key concepts 3. Endoscopic cryotherapy may be considered as an alternative modality in patients unresponsive to RFA. 4. Patients with BE-related neoplasia embarking on EET should have a clear understanding of the risks and benefits associated with these therapies before initiation of therapy. 5. Endoscopists and centers performing EET
