HHS Public Access
KEYWORDS: patients, manuscript, author, author manuscript, eac, surveillance, manuscript author, risk, studies, hgd, lgd, evidence, endoscopy, recommendation, endoscopic


with BE-related neoplasia embarking on EET should have a clear understanding of the risks and benefits associated with these therapies before initiation of therapy. 5. Endoscopists and centers performing EET should monitor their rates of CEIM, CED, and adverse events. Given the increasing use of EET in patients with BE-related neoplasia, quality indicators for EET have recently been established and endorsed by the ACG and the American Society for Gastrointestinal Endoscopy (163,225). Appropriate quality indicators established as a part of this physician-led initiative using a formal methodologically rigorous process are highlighted in Table 8. Priority quality indicators established include monitoring (i) the rate at which CEIM is achieved by 18 months in patients with BE-related dysplasia and IMC referred for EET (outcome measure, threshold 70%), (ii) the rate at which CED is achieved by 18 months in patients with BE-related dysplasia and IMC referred for EET (outcome measure, threshold 80%), and (iii) the rate at which adverse events are being tracked and documented in individuals after EET (163,225). Compliance with this group of quality indicators has the potential to improve quality of care, identify performance gaps, indicators and benchmark targets may also be incorporated into the training curriculum of Am J Gastroenterol. Author manuscript; available in PMC 2023 June 12. Author Manuscript Author Manuscript Author Manuscript Author Manuscript new endoscopists. Monitoring performance against these established quality indicators is critical in this era of value-based and quality-based health care. CONCLUSION lesion of EAC, a cancer that continues to increase in incidence in the Western world. This revised guideline synthesizes current best practices in the management of BE, with several key changes since the last iteration that reflect our evolving knowledge base. These include the broadening of acceptable screening modalities for BE to include new nonendoscopic methods, increasing surveillance intervals for segments <3 cm to 5 years, providing clear criteria and rationale for a quality endoscopic evaluation, volume thresholds for endoscopic therapy centers, and updated guidance on intervals and techniques for surveillance of patients after successful EET. Multiple areas of uncertainty remain in the field of BE and are highlighted throughout this document. The reliance of GERD symptoms as a prerequisite for screening with either endoscopic or nonendoscopic techniques remains problematic, and further refinement of risk prediction algorithms can be anticipated. In the coming years, we expect to see increased use of nonendoscopic screening tools, which may have implications for general population
