Atrial Flutter
KEYWORDS: atrial, flutter, atrial flutter, atrial fibrillation, fibrillation, patients, rate, rhythm, ablation, control, typical, regular, block, ecg, cardioversion


Atrial flutter is a rapid regular atrial rhythm due to an atrial macroreentrant circuit. Symptoms include palpitations and sometimes weakness, effort intolerance, dyspnea, and presyncope. Atrial thrombi may form and embolize. Diagnosis is by electrocardiography. Treatment involves rate control with medication, prevention of thromboembolism with anticoagulants, and often conversion to sinus rhythm with medication, cardioversion, or atrial flutter substrate ablation. Atrial flutter is much less common than atrial fibrillation, but its causes and hemodynamic consequences are similar. Many patients with atrial flutter also have periods of atrial fibrillation. In a population-based study of patients with a first diagnosis of atrial flutter, 69% were already known to have atrial fibrillation and, of those not known to have had atrial fibrillation, 40% were found to have atrial fibrillation over the next 3 years (1). Typical atrial flutter is due to a large reentrant circuit involving most of the right atrium and requires conduction between the orifice of the inferior vena cava and the annulus of the tricuspid valve (the cavotricuspid isthmus). The atria depolarize at a rate of 250 to 350 beats/minute (typically 300 beats/minute). Because the atrioventricular (AV) node cannot usually conduct at this rate, typically half of the impulses get through (2:1 block), resulting in a regular ventricular rate of 150 beats/minute. Sometimes, the block varies from moment to moment, causing an irregular ventricular rhythm. Less commonly, a fixed 3:1, 4:1, or 5:1 block may be present. The probability of a thromboembolic event in isolated atrial flutter is thought to be about half of that in atrial fibrillation (2). However, many patients with atrial flutter also have (or will develop) atrial fibrillation. Accordingly, guidelines for anticoagulation make no distinction between patients with atrial flutter and those with atrial fibrillation (3). Symptoms and Signs of Atrial Flutter Symptoms of atrial flutter depend primarily on ventricular rate and the nature of any underlying heart disorder. If ventricular rate is < 120 beats/minute and regular, there are likely to be few or no symptoms. Faster rates and variable AV conduction usually cause palpitations. Decreased cardiac output may cause symptoms of hemodynamic compromise (eg, chest discomfort, dyspnea, weakness, syncope). Close inspection of the jugular venous pulse reveals flutter a waves. Diagnosis of Atrial Flutter ECG The diagnosis of atrial flutter is by electrocardiography (ECG). In typical flutter, ECG shows continuous and regular atrial activation with a sawtooth pattern, most obvious in leads II, III,
