Atrial Flutter
KEYWORDS: atrial, flutter, atrial flutter, atrial fibrillation, fibrillation, patients, rate, rhythm, ablation, control, typical, regular, block, ecg, cardioversion


ECG The diagnosis of atrial flutter is by electrocardiography (ECG). In typical flutter, ECG shows continuous and regular atrial activation with a sawtooth pattern, most obvious in leads II, III, and aVF (see figure Atrial Flutter). Atrial Flutter (Note: Conducted with right bundle branch block.) 2/5 Carotid sinus massage can increase AV block and better expose the typical flutter waves. A similar response may follow pharmacologic AV nodal blockade (eg, with adenosine), but such therapy does not usually terminate atrial flutter. Treatment of Atrial Flutter Rate control with medication Rhythm control with cardioversion, medication, or ablation Prevention of thromboembolism Treatment of atrial flutter focuses on ventricular rate control, rhythm control, and prevention of thromboembolism. Pharmacologic rate control is more difficult to achieve in atrial flutter than in atrial fibrillation. Thus, for most patients, electrical conversion (using synchronized cardioversion or overdrive pacing) is the treatment of choice for an initial episode and is mandatory with 1:1 AV conduction or hemodynamic compromise. Typically, low-energy (50 joules) conversion is effective. Anticoagulation, as in atrial fibrillation, is necessary before cardioversion (1). If medication is used to restore sinus rhythm, rate must first be controlled with beta-blockers or nondihydropyridine calcium channel blockers (eg, verapamil, diltiazem). Many of the antiarrhythmic medications that can restore sinus rhythm (especially class Ia and Ic) can slow atrial flutter, shorten AV nodal refractoriness (by their vagolytic effects), or do both enough to allow 1:1 conduction with paradoxical increase in ventricular rate and hemodynamic compromise. These medications may be used for long-term maintenance as required to prevent recurrence in association with medication to prolong AV nodal refractoriness (class II, III, IV, or digoxin) (1). Overview of Atrial Flutter VIDEO 3/5 An antitachycardia pacing system is an alternative to long-term use of antiarrhythmics and is a rare therapy used in patients with atrial flutter and an independent indication for pacing, such as a bradycardia, who are ineligible or in whom other approaches to rhythm control have failed. Ablation procedures designed to interrupt the atrial reentrant circuit may effectively prevent atrial flutter, particularly typical atrial flutter. Because typical atrial flutter is dependent on conduction through the relatively narrow cavotricuspid isthmus, placement of an ablation line of block across the isthmus will cure typical atrial flutter in > 95% of patients. However, atrial fibrillation may recur in up to 60% of patients in the 10 years that follow successful atrial flutter ablation (2). To
