JOURNALOFCLINICALMICROBIOLOGY,May1996,p.1333–1336 Vol.34,No.5
KEYWORDS: acremonium, day, strictum, infection, species, patient, cultures, fusarium, amphotericinb, med, cid, infections, paecilomyces, fig, cured


0095-1137/96/$04.00(cid:49)0 Fatal, Disseminated Acremonium strictum Infection in a Neutropenic Host WILEYA.SCHELL*ANDJOHNR.PERFECT DepartmentofMedicine,DukeUniversityMedicalCenterandVeteransAffairsMedicalCenter, Durham,NorthCarolina27710 Received20October1995/Returnedformodification25November1995/Accepted17February1996 Disseminated Acremonium strictum infection in a neutropenic patient is reported. Positive fecal cultures precededpositivecutaneousandbloodculturesby18and21days,respectively,whichsuggestsgastrointestinal colonization and invasion as initiating events. Microscopic examination of cutaneous biopsy and pulmonary specimensrevealedhyphae,phialides,andphialoconidiainvivo.Theseadventitiousformsalsocanoccurin infectionsduetootherphialidicfungisuchasFusariumandPaecilomycesspeciesandcanbemisdiagnosedas Candida species. Budding cells also can occur in vivo for species of Fusarium, Paecilomyces, and apparently Acremonium, further adding to the potential for misdiagnosis. The occurrence of adventitious forms in infections caused by species of Acremonium, Fusarium, Paecilomyces, Scedosporium, and Blastoschizomyces is suggested as a mechanism for dissemination of infection and as an explanation of the relatively higher frequencyofpositivebloodculturesinthesecases. Species of Acremonium are environmentally widespread as over the next 18 days, including cotrimoxazole, aztreonam, saprobes in soil and as pathogens of plants and insects and ceftazidine, tobramycin, amikacin, and ciprofloxacin. On day rarelyareopportunisticpathogensofhumansandothermam- 78,thepatienthadapositivebloodcultureforA.strictum.By mals. Infections in humans typically develop following inocu- day79,thepatientdevelopedmultiplecutaneouslesions,one lationwiththefungusduringpenetratinginjury;asaresult,the of which was biopsied. The biopsy specimen yielded a pure majority involve extremities or the cornea. Manifestations of growth of A. strictum and histologically exhibited infarction these infections include keratitis, mycetoma, and deep and andinvasivegrowthoftruefungalhyphae.Potassiumhydrox- widelydisseminatedinfectionofvariousorgans,includingthe ide-calcofluor white examination of the biopsy specimen not brain.Italsohasbeensuggestedthathypersensitivitypneumo- only showed true hyphae but also revealed the presence of nitis, onychomycosis, and white piedra can be caused by spe- phialidesandphialoconidiathatweremorphologicallyconsis- cies of Acremonium (8, 16). The tissue form of Acremonium tentwiththeA.strictumisolatedfromfecalspecimens.Blood canconsistofgranules,asseeninmycetoma,orcanbesimple cultures taken on day 81 were again positive for A. strictum. hyphae which may or may not be accompanied by unicellular Remission of the leukemia was not achieved, and the patient yeast-likeforms.Neutropenicpatientsarenowknowntobeat died on day 81. Amphotericin B did not prevent or resolve risk from Acremonium species, and this paper describes the infectioninthispatient.Autopsywasrefused. third such case known to us. In addition, we describe in this A.strictum(Fig.1AtoC)wasisolatedfromfecalspecimens patientthesporulationinsituoftheAcremoniumanamorph. obtainedondays60and61,fromacutaneousbiopsyspecimen A45-year-oldmalewithknownchronicgranulocyticleuke- taken on day 79, and from blood taken on days 78 and 81. mia in blast crisis was admitted for chemotherapy. On day 1, BloodwasculturedbytheBACTEC660methodology.Cuta- thepatientreceivedmethotrexateandceftazidine,andvanco- neousandfecalspecimenswereinoculatedontoacombination mycin was added by day 5. Ketoconazole at 200 mg/day was ofselectiveandnonselectiveagarslantsandincubatedat30(cid:56)C begunonday14forapparentoralcandidosisandstoppedon (24). The isolate has been submitted to the American Type day 23. On day 23, the patient was found to have persistent esophagitis (attributed to a Candida sp. on the basis of cyto- tionoftheisolatewasbasedupondescriptionsanddiagnoses logic examination of brushings), and amphotericin B was byDomschetal.(6)andWilliams(27).Morphologicallysim- startedat20mg/day,lastingthroughouttherestofthehospital ilar fungi in other genera that are most likely to be encoun- course (total dose of 1,140 mg). On day 52, the
