HHS Public Access
KEYWORDS: gerd, manuscript, author, author manuscript, infants, children, symptoms, studies, use, manuscript author, reflux, treatment, infants children, patients, based


HHS Public Access Author manuscript J Pediatr Gastroenterol Nutr. Author manuscript; available in PMC 2019 March 01. Published in final edited form as: J Pediatr Gastroenterol Nutr. 2018 March ; 66(3): 516–554. doi:. Pediatric Gastroesophageal Reflux Clinical Practice Guidelines: Joint Recommendations of the North American Society for Pediatric Gastroenterology, Hepatology, and Nutrition (NASPGHAN) and the European Society for Pediatric Gastroenterology, Hepatology, and Nutrition (ESPGHAN) #Center for Motility and Functional Gastrointestinal Disorders, Division of Gastroenterology, of California, San Francisco, CA, USA ‡Division of Pediatric Gastroenterology, Nationwide Pediatric Gastroenterology, Hepatology and Nutrition, Lille, France ¶Division of Pediatric Academic Medical Centre, H7-250, PO Box 22700, 1100 DD Amsterdam, The Netherlands (). 1Shared first authorship Potential conflict of interest statement: board member, and/or consultant, and/or speaker for Abbott Nutrition, Aspen, Biogaia, Biocodex, Danone, Hero, Hypocrata, Mead Pharmaceuticals, Wyeth and Yakult. M.C. is a consultant for Abbott Nutrition, Biogaia, Nestec, Mead Johnson Nutrition, Merck Wyeth and Yakult. S.G. is a consultant for Recepots and QOL. F.G. is a consultant for Nestlé, Nutricia and Halyard. A.S. has D.M.G. Italy, Menarini, Miltè, Nestlé, Sucampo, Valeas. N.Th. is a consultant for Danone, Nutricia, Shire Movetis and Sucampo. N.Ti. is a consultant for Rock West Medical and Sucampo. The other authors report no conflicts of interest. Maartje Singendonk MD: MS is an expert in esophageal physiology. Michael Cabana MD: MC is a pediatrician with expertise in consensus guideline Carlo Di Lorenzo MD: CD is an expert in pediatric motility disorders and gastroesophageal reflux disease Frederic Gottrand MD: FG is an expert in esophagitis and gastroesophageal reflux disease Sandeep Gupta MD: SG is an expert in esophageal diseases. Miranda Langendam PhD: ML is aguideline methodologist Annamaria Staiano MD: AS is an expert in pediatric motility disorders and gastroesophageal reflux disease. Nikhil Thapar MD: NT is an expert in pediatric motility disorders. Neelesh Tipnis MD: NT is an expert in pediatric motility disorders. Author Manuscript Author Manuscript Author Manuscript Author Manuscript Abstract This document serves as an update of the North American Society for Pediatric Gastroenterology, Hepatology, and Nutrition (NASPGHAN) and the European Society for Pediatric diagnosis and management of gastroesophageal reflux disease (GERD) in infants and children and is intended to be applied in daily practice and as a basis for clinical trials. Eight clinical questions addressing diagnostic, therapeutic and prognostic topics were formulated. A systematic literature search was performed from October 1, 2008 (if the question was addressed by
