HHS Public Access
KEYWORDS: gerd, manuscript, author, author manuscript, infants, children, symptoms, studies, use, manuscript author, reflux, treatment, infants children, patients, based


for clinical trials. Eight clinical questions addressing diagnostic, therapeutic and prognostic topics were formulated. A systematic literature search was performed from October 1, 2008 (if the question was addressed by 2009 guidelines) or from inception to June 1, 2015 using Embase, MEDLINE, the Cochrane Database of Systematic Reviews and the Cochrane Central Register of Controlled Clinical Trials. The approach of the Grading of Recommendations Assessment, Development and Evaluation (GRADE) was applied to define and prioritize outcomes. For therapeutic questions, the quality of evidence was also assessed using GRADE. Grading the quality of evidence for other questions was performed according to the Quality Assessment of Studies of Diagnostic Accuracy (QUADAS) and Quality in Prognostic Studies (QUIPS) tools. During a three-day consensus meeting, all recommendations were discussed and finalized. In cases where no randomized controlled trials (RCT; therapeutic questions) or diagnostic accuracy studies were available to support the recommendations, expert opinion was used. The group members voted on each recommendation, using the nominal voting technique. With this approach, recommendations regarding evaluation and management of infants and children with GERD to standardize and improve quality of care were formulated. Additionally, two algorithms were developed, one for infants < 12 months of age and the other for older infants and children. Introduction In 2009, the joint committee of the North American Society for Pediatric Gastroenterology, Hepatology, and Nutrition (NASPGHAN) and the European Society for Pediatric Gastroenterology, Hepatology, and Nutrition (ESPGHAN) published a medical position paper on gastro-esophageal reflux (GER) and GER disease (GERD) in infants and children (search until 2008), using the 2001 NASPGHAN guidelines as an outline.(1) Recommendations were based on an integration of comprehensive and systematic review of the medical literature combined with expert opinion. Since 2009, additional publications on the existing benefits and harms of interventions in the outcomes considered important and resources available for health care justify the development of new a guideline.(2) This current guideline aimed to identify studies that address the diagnostic and therapeutic approach to infants and children with GERD, where GERD is defined as bothersome symptoms related to GER. This definition is not based on the amount of measured reflux or on symptoms not clearly attributable to reflux, and therefore the literature review and discussion is focused on studies fulfilling this definition. The aim of these guidelines is to offer guidance to both pediatric gastroenterologists and primary care physicians with and without easy access to pediatric
