HHS Public Access
KEYWORDS: gerd, manuscript, author, author manuscript, infants, children, symptoms, studies, use, manuscript author, reflux, treatment, infants children, patients, based


focused on studies fulfilling this definition. The aim of these guidelines is to offer guidance to both pediatric gastroenterologists and primary care physicians with and without easy access to pediatric gastroenterologists. Referral to a pediatric gastroenterologist for the diagnosis and management of complicated J Pediatr Gastroenterol Nutr. Author manuscript; available in PMC 2019 March 01. Author Manuscript Author Manuscript Author Manuscript Author Manuscript not easily available, this guideline considers potential alternative options. The present document provides recommendations for the diagnosis and management of GER and GERD in infants and children. The intent is to serve as a general guideline and should not be considered a substitute for clinical judgement or as a protocol applicable to all patients. This set of guidelines differs from the 2009 guidelines in several ways: (1) it focuses on reducing acid suppression whenever possible with short empiric trials of 4–8 weeks recommended for GERD symptoms; (2) it shifts away from attributing respiratory and laryngeal symptoms to GER; (3) it adds an algorithm for typical symptoms to incorporate reflux testing to further characterize patients to differentiate patients with reflux based diagnoses versus functional diagnoses; and (4) it adds a recommendation for change of formula to a protein hydrolysate or amino acid based formula before acid suppression in infants. Methods This project started in March 2015 with a literature search for international guidelines concerning pediatric GERD. This search identified two guidelines; i.e. the 2009 guidelines of the NASPGHAN/ESPGHAN and the more recent 2015 National Institute for Health and Care Excellence (NICE) guideline.(1, 3) Two reviewers (M.T. and M.S.) independently appraised guideline quality using the 23-item AGREE-II instrument, which rates reporting of the guidance development across six domains: scope and purpose, stakeholder involvement, rigour of development, clarity of presentation, applicability and editorial independence (available online through: 2013/10/AGREE-II-Users-Manual-and-23-item-Instrument_2009_UPDATE_2013.pdf. (4)Total scores were calculated as standardized averages by domain. In conclusion, the NASPGHAN/ESPGHAN 2009 guidelines were considered of poor overall quality, lacking of appropriate guideline development methodology (i.e. due to no clear description of aims and purpose of guideline, target population(s) and outcome measures; lack of reproducibility and complexity of data representation). The 2015 NICE guidelines were considered to overall be of high quality. The working group agreed that many statements and recommendations of the 2009 guidelines are largely still applicable, despite its limitations in methodology. It was therefore decided to use relevant and applicable information from the 2009 guidelines in the
