HHS Public Access
KEYWORDS: gerd, manuscript, author, author manuscript, infants, children, symptoms, studies, use, manuscript author, reflux, treatment, infants children, patients, based


recommendations of the 2009 guidelines are largely still applicable, despite its limitations in methodology. It was therefore decided to use relevant and applicable information from the 2009 guidelines in the development of this present document. The updating process was then performed by using the approach of the Grading of Recommendations, Assessment, Development, and Evaluation (GRADE) from October 1, 2008 onwards (the end of the 2009 guideline’s literature search).(5) were chosen first to update the topics already addressed by the 2009 ESPGHAN/ NASPGHAN GERD guidelines. Second, additional (sub) questions were determined by consensus agreement on current gaps in knowledge on diagnosis and management of pediatric GERD. After the questions were formulated, the guidelines committee was J Pediatr Gastroenterol Nutr. Author manuscript; available in PMC 2019 March 01. Author Manuscript Author Manuscript Author Manuscript Author Manuscript subdivided into groups that dealt with each question separately. Questions 1, 2 and 8 were answered based on expert opinions and earlier published guidelines and literature relevant to the research question.(1, 3) Questions 3, 4, 5, 6 and 7 were answered using the results of systematic literature searches. Two algorithms, one for infants and one for children, for the diagnostic and therapeutic work-up for GERD were developed (Algorithm 1 and 2 respectively). Overview of the Clinical Research Questions Question 1: What is the definition of GER/GERD in infants and children 0–18 years? Question 2: What are the “red flag” findings and diagnostic clues to distinguish infants and children with GERD (or conditions other than GERD), from GER? Question 3: What diagnostic interventions have additional value to history taking and physical examination in infants and children with suspected GERD? Question 4: What non-pharmacologic treatment options are effective and safe for the reduction of signs and symptoms of GERD? Question 5: What are effective and safe pharmacologic treatment options for the reduction of signs and symptoms of GERD Question 6: Which infants and children would benefit from surgical treatment such as fundoplication and what are the efficacies of other surgical therapies for GERD? Question 7: What is the prognosis of GERD in infants and children and what are prognostic factors? Question 8: What is the appropriate evaluation of infants and children 0–18 years with GERD refractory to non- pharmacological and pharmacological treatment? PPI = proton pump inhibitor; pH-MII = pH multichannel intraluminal impedance; H2 = histamine receptor H2 Literature search MEDLINE, PubMed and the Cochrane Database of Systematic
