HHS Public Access
KEYWORDS: gerd, manuscript, author, author manuscript, infants, children, symptoms, studies, use, manuscript author, reflux, treatment, infants children, patients, based


pharmacological and pharmacological treatment? PPI = proton pump inhibitor; pH-MII = pH multichannel intraluminal impedance; H2 = histamine receptor H2 Literature search MEDLINE, PubMed and the Cochrane Database of Systematic Reviews and the Cochrane Central Register of Controlled Clinical Trials databases were searched from October 1st 2008 or from inception for those aspects not addressed in the 2009 guideline, to June 1st 2015. Searches were also conducted from inception in case of large inconsistency in findings in comparison to findings of the 2009 guidelines. Inclusion criteria were as follows (all inclusion criteria relevant to the research question to be met): 1. Study population consisting of children aged 0–18 years with GER(D). The key words to describe GERD were “Gastroesophageal Reflux” and its abbreviations, “gastric acid reflux” and “esophagitis”, taking into account differences in British and American spelling. Additionally, a clear definition of GER(D) had to be provided by the authors. 2. To evaluate the value of tests in diagnosing GERD (question 2), the following inclusion criteria were used: systematic reviews and original studies related to the diagnostic accuracy of the specific tests. The reference standard for GERD had to be defined by the authors in terms of findings at history and physical exam. J Pediatr Gastroenterol Nutr. Author manuscript; available in PMC 2019 March 01. Author Manuscript Author Manuscript Author Manuscript Author Manuscript 3. In studies evaluating the effect of treatments or interventions for GERD (questions 4, 5, 6) the following inclusion criteria were used: systematic reviews of randomized controlled trials (RCT) and/or RCTs containing at least 10 individuals per arm. 4. In studies evaluating the outcome of GERD (question 7), the following inclusion criteria were used: systematic reviews of prospective or retrospective controlled course of GERD expressed as duration or recurrence of GERD and determinants that influence prognosis, baseline measurement of at least one of the outcomes of the research population should be provided and a follow-up of at least eight weeks was required. Additional strategies to identify studies involved searching the reference lists of review articles. No language restriction was applied. In addition, all guideline members were asked to search the literature with respect to their assigned topics in order to possibly uncover further studies that may have been missed by the former search. Special considerations and limitations Because GERD was defined as the presence of bothersome symptoms related to the passage of gastric contents from the stomach
