HHS Public Access
KEYWORDS: gerd, manuscript, author, author manuscript, infants, children, symptoms, studies, use, manuscript author, reflux, treatment, infants children, patients, based


been missed by the former search. Special considerations and limitations Because GERD was defined as the presence of bothersome symptoms related to the passage of gastric contents from the stomach into the esophagus and the included studies needed to use symptom resolution as an outcome as part of one of the predefined outcome measures, no extraesophageal studies met the inclusion criteria using the GRADE methodology. However, because extraesophageal symptoms are a primary reason for referral to pediatric gastroenterologists, whenever possible a narrative review of the literature was included on this topic to provide clinical guidance for the diagnosis and management of these patients. Selection of outcome measures The GRADE approach was used to identify outcome measures for the research questions.(5) A draft version was circulated by M.T. and M.S., and every workgroup member was allowed to add outcomes. Group members were asked to rate relative importance of the outcomes on a 9-point scale: limited (1–3), important but not critical (4–6), or critical (7–9) for decision making. The workgroup members were also asked to discuss personal experience and to discuss outcome measures of interest with their patients in daily practice. Finally eight outcome measures were selected: esophagitis (endoscopic/histologic), complications of GERD (Barrett’s metaplasia, esophageal stenosis, and others as specified by authors), GERD related signs and symptoms (assessed by the I-GERQ-R instrument (6)), quality of life (both parent and patient reported when applicable), crying and distress (parent reported), visible vomiting and/or regurgitation (both parent and patient reported when applicable), heartburn (both parent and patient reported when applicable) and side-effects of treatment. All outcome measures were considered of critical importance based on the mean scores of the guidelines group members. Levels and quality of evidence, grade of recommendations Levels of evidence and quality of evidence were assessed using the Quality Assessment of Studies of Diagnostic Accuracy (QUADAS; diagnostic questions) and the GRADE system J Pediatr Gastroenterol Nutr. Author manuscript; available in PMC 2019 March 01. Author Manuscript Author Manuscript Author Manuscript Author Manuscript (Cochrane Risk of Bias Tool; therapeutic questions) and are summarized in the appendices. (7) The items in the QUADAS tool include patient spectrum, reference standard, disease execution, study withdrawals, and indeterminate results. The QUADAS tool is presented together with recommendations for scoring each of the items included. To assess risk of bias of studies evaluating the outcome of GERD the Quality in Prognostic Studies (QUIPS) tool was used by two
