HHS Public Access
KEYWORDS: gerd, manuscript, author, author manuscript, infants, children, symptoms, studies, use, manuscript author, reflux, treatment, infants children, patients, based


for scoring each of the items included. To assess risk of bias of studies evaluating the outcome of GERD the Quality in Prognostic Studies (QUIPS) tool was used by two reviewers (MT and ML).(7–9) The QUIPS tool assesses risk of bias in six domains: study participation, study attrition, prognostic factor measurement, outcome measurement, study confounding and statistical analysis and presentation. Ratings of the quality of evidence for each statement are based on the grading of the literature. For the diagnostic and prognostic questions, for which the GRADE approach is still in development, conclusions were formulated taking into account overall risk of bias. The results of the risk of bias and quality of the evidence assessment are summarized in Appendices C and D. Therapeutic questions (Question 4 and 5) Using the GRADE system, the quality of evidence for therapeutic interventions was graded as follows: • High: Further research is unlikely to change our confidence in the estimate of effect. • Moderate: Further research is likely to have an important impact on our confidence in the estimate of effect and may change the estimate. • Low: Further research is very likely to have an important impact on our confidence in the estimate of effect and may change the estimate. • Very low: Any estimate of effect is uncertain. Strength of recommendations was defined as follows: Strong: when the desirable effects of an intervention clearly outweigh the ‘the working group recommends (…)’. Weak: when the tradeoffs are less certain (either because of the low quality of evidence or because the evidence suggests that desirable and undesirable effects are closely balanced). Weak recommendations are formulated as ‘the working group suggests (…).’ A summary of the definitions and recommendations is provided at the end of this document. Non-therapeutic questions (Question 3) Because of a lack of a validated method for determining the strength of the recommendation for questions other than therapy, we elected to classify recommendations based on the quality of available evidence including the methodology and outcomes assessed. We categorized the evidence as: Strong: if there were adequately powered, prospective studies supporting the conclusions. J Pediatr Gastroenterol Nutr. Author manuscript; available in PMC 2019 March 01. Author Manuscript Author Manuscript Author Manuscript Author Manuscript Moderate: if there were large retrospective studies or small prospective studies supporting the evidence. Weak: if there were only retrospective studies or expert opinion supporting the results. Consensus meeting and
