HHS Public Access
KEYWORDS: gerd, manuscript, author, author manuscript, infants, children, symptoms, studies, use, manuscript author, reflux, treatment, infants children, patients, based


Moderate: if there were large retrospective studies or small prospective studies supporting the evidence. Weak: if there were only retrospective studies or expert opinion supporting the results. Consensus meeting and voting A three-day consensus meeting was held in April 2016 (Keflavik, Iceland) in order to achieve consensus on and formulate all recommendations. Each subgroup presented the recommendations during these consensus meetings, wherein these were discussed and modified according to the comments of the attendees. Committee members with conflict of interest with a specific topic excused themselves from the discussion of that topic. Consensus was formally achieved through nominal group technique, a structured quantitative method. The group anonymously voted on each recommendation. A nine-point scale was used (1 = strongly disagree to 9 = fully agree), and votes are reported for each recommendation. Consensus was reached if > 75% of the working group members voted > 6. The consensus was reached for all of the questions. The final draft of the guidelines was sent to all of the committee members for approval in November 2016. Question 1: What is the definition of pediatric gastroesophageal reflux disease? A definition of gastroesophageal reflux (GER) and gastroesophageal reflux disease (GERD) specific to the pediatric population was developed in 2009 as an international consensus document, based on evidence reviewed from pediatric studies.(10) This document was developed in recognition of the special clinical and scientific needs of the pediatric population, not fully addressed by the Montreal consensus document on the adult definition and classification of GERD).(11) Both documents define GER as the passage of gastri contents into the esophagus with or without regurgitation and/or vomiting. GER is considered to be pathologic and referred to as GERD when the reflux leads to troublesome symptoms and/or complications, such as esophagitis or stricturing. This definition of GERD was adopted in the 2009 published guidelines of NASPGHAN and ESPGHAN and in the 2015 published NICE guideline.(1, 3) However, as a direct consequence of its patient-centered and symptom based nature, this definition is subject to it may be difficult to differentiate GER from GERD in children, and the terms are used interchangeably by health professionals and parents alike. Symptoms of GERD are known to vary widely by age and are non-specific. As a consequence proving that reflux events cause one or multiple symptoms is often difficult.(1, 12) This is particularly true in nonverbal infants in whom defining troublesome is problematic. Reported
