HHS Public Access
KEYWORDS: gerd, manuscript, author, author manuscript, infants, children, symptoms, studies, use, manuscript author, reflux, treatment, infants children, patients, based


As a consequence proving that reflux events cause one or multiple symptoms is often difficult.(1, 12) This is particularly true in nonverbal infants in whom defining troublesome is problematic. Reported symptoms of infant GERD vary widely and may include excessive crying, back arching, regurgitation and irritability. Many of these symptoms, however, occur in all babies with or without GERD, making a definitive diagnosis challenging. Therefore, the degree of concern of parents is often the factor driving the need for a diagnosis. For older children (particularly those older than the J Pediatr Gastroenterol Nutr. Author manuscript; available in PMC 2019 March 01. Author Manuscript Author Manuscript Author Manuscript Author Manuscript age of 8) and adolescents who can communicate more effectively, typical symptoms such as heartburn and regurgitation mimic those seen in adults with GERD.(11, 13–16) Definitions of GER and GERD are therefore blurred for the pediatric population, making it difficult to identify infants and children who genuinely suffer from GERD and to estimate the true prevalence and burden of the problem. Moreover, to date no gold standard diagnostic tool exists for the diagnosis of GERD in infants and children. Despite these limitations, and given the need for definitions, the working group decided to adapt the definition of pediatric GERD as formulated in the 2009 consensus statements for all age groups. To date, no other definitions for pediatric GERD have been proposed, and validation studies on this definition have not been performed. In the present guideline, every effort was made to use the terms GER and GERD strictly as defined. GERD is also known to be a prominent phenomenon in children who have other underlying medical conditions such as prematurity, neurologic impairment and pulmonary problems, including cystic fibrosis. The present guideline was not intended to specifically focus on patients with congenital anomalies, including esophageal atresia (EA) among others, since these are addressed in specific guidelines concerning these entities.(3, 17–19) Definitions GER: the passage of gastric contents into the esophagus with or without regurgitation and vomiting. GERD: when GER leads to troublesome symptoms that affect daily functioning and/or complications. Refractory GERD: GERD, not responding to optimal treatment after eight weeks. Optimal Therapy: Maximum pharmacologic and/or non-pharmacologic therapy based on the available health-care facilities in the region of practice of the subspecialist (See under “Summary of the Definitions” for an overview of other definitions used in this guideline). Recommendation Based on expert opinion, the
