HHS Public Access
KEYWORDS: gerd, manuscript, author, author manuscript, infants, children, symptoms, studies, use, manuscript author, reflux, treatment, infants children, patients, based


in the region of practice of the subspecialist (See under “Summary of the Definitions” for an overview of other definitions used in this guideline). Recommendation Based on expert opinion, the working group recommends to use the definitions of GER/ GERD as described in this section for all infants and children. VOTING: 7, 7, 7, 7, 8, 8, 8, 8, 8, 9. (Moderate strength) Question 2: What are the “red flag” findings and diagnostic clues to distinguish infants and children with GERD (or conditions other than GERD), from GER? Clinical history of disease and physical examination in the evaluation of GERD is important to distinguish GER from GERD, to identify possible complications of GERD and also to exclude more worrisome disorders requiring further investigation and management. Infants and children present with a wide range of non-specific symptoms that may be interpreted as J Pediatr Gastroenterol Nutr. Author manuscript; available in PMC 2019 March 01. Author Manuscript Author Manuscript Author Manuscript Author Manuscript GER is not always clear. As this may lead to both over- and under-diagnoses and –treatment, the working group considered it important to provide an overview of common symptoms and signs to identify GERD. Clarifying ‘red flags’ (alarm features) red flags should warrant further investigation by health-care professionals to rule out complications of GERD and to uncover underlying disorders presenting with signs or symptoms of GER, particularly regurgitation and/or vomiting (Algorithms 1 (infants) and 2 (children), Tables 1, 2 and 3). For this purpose, the working group critically reviewed evidence from existing guidelines, systematic reviews and consensus documents to establish a comprehensive list of symptoms and signs indicative of GERD (Question 2, Table 1).(1, 3, 20, 21) Additionally, the working gastrointestinal and systemic manifestations, which they considered to be recognized as ‘red flags’ suggesting possible other disorders apart from GERD in the infant or child presenting with regurgitation and/or vomiting (Question 2, Table 2). It should be noted that a general concern is that the reported definitions of GERD and outcome measures used to assess treatment efficacy vary widely among studies with outcomes ranging from symptom resolution to reduction in the number of reflux events or healing of esophagitis. This heterogeneity makes comparisons among studies difficult. Diagnostic approach of infants (age 0–12 months) with frequent regurgitation and/or vomiting In the infant with recurrent regurgitation or ‘spitting’, a thorough history (Table 1) and physical examination with attention to warning signals
