HHS Public Access
KEYWORDS: gerd, manuscript, author, author manuscript, infants, children, symptoms, studies, use, manuscript author, reflux, treatment, infants children, patients, based


infants (age 0–12 months) with frequent regurgitation and/or vomiting In the infant with recurrent regurgitation or ‘spitting’, a thorough history (Table 1) and physical examination with attention to warning signals suggesting other diagnoses (Table 1, 3) is generally sufficient to establish a clinical diagnosis of uncomplicated infant GER (Algorithm 1). The history should include the age of onset of symptoms, a thorough feeding and dietary history (e.g. length of feeding period, volume of each feed, type of formula, quality of milk supply when breast feeding, methods of mixing the formula, size of the feeds, additives to the feeds, restriction of allergens, time interval between feeding), the pattern of regurgitation/spitting/vomiting (e.g. nocturnal, immediately post prandial, long after meals, digested versus undigested), a family medical history, possible environmental triggers (including family psychosocial history and factors such as tobacco use and second- hand tobacco smoke-exposure), the patient’s growth trajectory, prior pharmacologic and dietary interventions and the presence of warning signs (Table 2).(22, 23) Physiologic GER seldom starts before the age of one week or after the age of six months.(24) While most reflux in infants is benign, some infants merit additional testing. While the presence of warning signs obviously merits additional testing, the more difficult subgroup of patients is the group of infants presenting with fussiness, crying and arching with or without spitting but who otherwise are thriving. In this population, there is often intense pressure by families to start anti-reflux therapies or pursue diagnostic testing because of the perceived severity of symptoms. In the absence of warning signs, diagnostic testing and/or therapies including acid suppression are NOT needed if there is no impact of the symptoms on feeding, growth or acquisition of developmental milestones. In the presence of ‘red flags’ (Table 2), conditions other than GERD may be more likely (differential diagnosis of GERD, J Pediatr Gastroenterol Nutr. Author manuscript; available in PMC 2019 March 01. Author Manuscript Author Manuscript Author Manuscript Author Manuscript Table 3). The diagnostic approach of infants with frequent regurgitation or vomiting is presented in Algorithm 2. Diagnostic approach of children (age 12 months – 18 years) with frequent regurgitation and/or vomiting Physiologic regurgitation and episodic vomiting are frequent in infants. Onset of GERD symptoms after the age of 6 months or persistence of symptoms beyond 12 months raises the possibility of alternative diagnoses to infant GER. Because these symptoms are not unique to GERD, referral to a
