HHS Public Access
KEYWORDS: gerd, manuscript, author, author manuscript, infants, children, symptoms, studies, use, manuscript author, reflux, treatment, infants children, patients, based


of 6 months or persistence of symptoms beyond 12 months raises the possibility of alternative diagnoses to infant GER. Because these symptoms are not unique to GERD, referral to a pediatric gastroenterologist for evaluation to diagnose possible GERD and to rule out other diagnoses is recommended based on expert opinion. The goal of additional testing is to rule out mimickers or complications of GERD. Testing may include laboratory tests, contrast imaging, upper GI endoscopy and/or esophageal pH/MII, depending on presenting symptoms (Table 2 and 3). The diagnostic approach of children with frequent regurgitation or vomiting is presented in Algorithm 2. Diagnostic and therapeutic approach to infants and children with possible extraesophageal reflux disease Because the outcome evaluated for these guidelines is based on the evaluation and treatment of bothersome GERD symptoms, extraesophageal symptoms were not included due to the heterogeneous nature of the symptoms and the lack of a clear way to prove that symptoms are actually related to movement of gastric contents from the stomach into the esophagus. However, because these symptoms are a frequent cause for referral and parental concern, the literature is reviewed and presented narratively, whenever possible. Recommendation Based on expert opinion, the working group recommends to use Tables 1–3 for symptoms and signs that may be associated with gastroesophageal reflux disease (GERD), for alarm symptoms and diagnostic clues to identify an alternative underlying disease which are responsible for the symptoms. Voting: 7, 7, 8, 8, 8, 8, 8, 8, 9, 9. (Weak Recommendation) Question 3: What diagnostic interventions have additional value to history taking and physical examination in infants and children with suspected GERD? by additional diagnostic investigations that are aimed to quantify and qualify GERD). Other diagnostic interventions may be utilized to rule out conditions other than GERD in the presence of specific diagnostic clues. In the absence of a single ‘gold standard’ investigation to diagnose GERD in infants or children, the diagnostic tests discussed in this section should be seen in this light. J Pediatr Gastroenterol Nutr. Author manuscript; available in PMC 2019 March 01. Author Manuscript Author Manuscript Author Manuscript Author Manuscript Our search resulted in two original studies and one systematic review that were eligible for inclusion.(25–27) After checking reference lists of this systematic review and the ESPGHAN/NASPGHAN 2009 and NICE 2015 guidelines (See Appendix A for summary of search strategy, results and study selection), seven other original studies could be
