HHS Public Access
KEYWORDS: gerd, manuscript, author, author manuscript, infants, children, symptoms, studies, use, manuscript author, reflux, treatment, infants children, patients, based


important roles, including evaluation for tracheoesophageal fistulae or of esophageal stasis putting patients at risk for aspiration. Videofluroscopic swallow studies (VFSS), while not assessing for symptoms of which are mimickers of GERD.(37, 38) Pediatric studies have shown that neither the clinical history nor observed feeding sessions can accurately predict which patients have oropharyngeal dysphagia versus gastroesophageal reflux disease.(37, 39) J Pediatr Gastroenterol Nutr. Author manuscript; available in PMC 2019 March 01. Author Manuscript Author Manuscript Author Manuscript Author Manuscript In conclusion, there is insufficient evidence to support the use of a barium contrast study for the primary diagnosis of GERD in infants and children. Recommendations 3.1 Based on expert opinion, the working group suggests not to use barium contrast studies for the diagnosis of GERD in infants and children. VOTING: 8, 8, 9, 9, 9, 9, 9, 9, 9, 9. (Weak Recommendation) 3.2 Based on expert opinion, the working group suggests to use barium contrast studies to exclude anatomical abnormalities. VOTING: 8, 8, 9, 9, 9, 9, 9, 9, 9, 9. (Weak Recommendation) Ultrasonography The search did not identify any studies fulfilling our inclusion criteria. Other considerations related to ultrasonography in the diagnosis of GERD— Compared with the results of 24-hour esophageal pH testing as a diagnostic test for GERD, the sensitivity of color Doppler ultrasound performed for 15 minutes post-prandially is about 95% with a specificity of only 11%, and reflux frequency detected by ultrasound does not correlate with reflux index (RI) detected by pH monitoring.(40, 41) At present, ultrasound has no role as a routine diagnostic tool for GERD in children, but this test may be of use to evaluate for other conditions that might mimic GERD including, most importantly in the infant population, pyloric stenosis. Abdominal ultrasound may also pick up other diagnoses which may trigger symptoms of discomfort and vomiting including diagnoses such as hydronephrosis, uretero-pelvic obstruction, gallstones and ovarian torsion. Similar to barium study, ultrasound can detect hiatal hernia, length and position of the LES relative to the diaphragm and magnitude of the gastro-esophageal angle of His. It has also been proposed as a diagnostic test for gastric dysmotility, which may have implications from a reflux perspective. In conclusion, there is no evidence to support ultrasonography for the diagnosis of GERD in infants and children. Recommendations 3.3 Based on expert opinion, the working group suggests not to use ultrasonography for the diagnosis of GERD in
