HHS Public Access
KEYWORDS: gerd, manuscript, author, author manuscript, infants, children, symptoms, studies, use, manuscript author, reflux, treatment, infants children, patients, based


ultrasonography for the diagnosis of GERD in infants and children. Recommendations 3.3 Based on expert opinion, the working group suggests not to use ultrasonography for the diagnosis of GERD in infants and children. VOTING: 8, 8, 8, 9, 9, 9, 9, 9, 9, 9. (Weak Recommendation) 3.4 Based on expert opinion, the working group suggests to use ultrasonography to exclude anatomical abnormalities. VOTING: 8, 8, 8, 9, 9, 9, 9, 9, 9, 9. (Weak Recommendation) J Pediatr Gastroenterol Nutr. Author manuscript; available in PMC 2019 March 01. Author Manuscript Author Manuscript Author Manuscript Author Manuscript Esophago-gastro-duodenoscopy (EGD) with/without biopsy—The search identified three studies meeting our inclusion criteria.(28, 33, 42) EGD has three roles in the evaluation of symptomatic children: to diagnose erosive esophagitis, to diagnose microscopic esophagitis, and to diagnose other conditions mimicking GERD. Erosive esophagitis is defined as visible breaks in esophageal mucosa. Microscopic esophagitis is defined as the presence of eosinophils, papillary lengthening, and/or basal cell hyperplasia. All three studies included in this analysis reported on the visual presence of erosions, and two studies also reported on histologic esophagitis. In patients with GERD defined as the presence of troublesome symptoms, the likelihood of having erosive esophagitis endoscopically ranges from 15–71% among studies. Similarly, in patients with troublesome symptoms, the likelihood of finding (i.e. sensitivity) microscopic esophagitis was 83–88%. In these studies, the negative predictive value (NPV) of a macroscopically and histologically normal endoscopy was relatively low ranging from 62–73%, which suggests that a normal endoscopy does not necessarily rule out the possibility of GERD.(33, 42) In the studies by Ravelli et al. and Cucchiara et al., no data on the endoscopic appearance of the mucosa were provided for the control group.(33, 42) Arasu et al., reporting on the endoscopic mucosal appearance in control patients, found that the NPV was only 33% in diagnosing GERD.(28) These findings indicate that biopsy without hallmarks of esophagitis or the absence of macroscopic lesions does not rule out the presence of GERD. In all three studies, if mentioned, histology and macroscopic appearance were normal in the control group, which automatically leads to a reported specificity and NPV of 100%. Visible, endoscopic erosions GERD may be present despite normal endoscopic appearance of the esophageal mucosa as well as in the absence of histological abnormalities. In conclusion, there is insufficient evidence to support the use of EGD with/without biopsy for the diagnosis of GERD in
