HHS Public Access
KEYWORDS: gerd, manuscript, author, author manuscript, infants, children, symptoms, studies, use, manuscript author, reflux, treatment, infants children, patients, based


esophagitis in children presenting with solely extraesophageal symptoms is not known and is complicated by the widespread use of PPIs. Up to 32% of children presenting solely with extraesophageal symptoms have microscopic esophagitis, and up to 8% of children with these symptoms have eosinophilic esophagitis, only presenting with cough or other respiratory symptoms.(47–49) Therefore, the main reason for endoscopy in this population with extraesophageal symptoms is to uncover reflux masqueraders such as eosinophilic esophagitis. Endoscopy can also be used (1) to relieve esophageal outlet obstruction (from fundoplication, and untreated or partially treated achalasia) causing stasis with resultant cough and aspiration, or (2) to diagnose candida esophagitis in children treated with inhaled steroids. Performance of endoscopy on or off therapy—One of the most controversial issues currently around the performance of endoscopy is whether it should be performed while the patient is on or off acid suppression. The field has evolved over time with a greater understanding of eosinophilic esophagitis and, more recently, proton-pump-inhibitor- responsive EoE. While originally the diagnosis of EoE was made upon the presence of esophageal eosinophils in patients with either a normal pH-metry study or unresponsiveness to an 8 week course of PPI-therapy, recently a subgroup of EoE has emerged that is responsive to PPIs. Therefore, if patients are treated initially with a course of PPIs, esophageal biopsies may not show inflammation and the patient will thereby be misdiagnosed as having non-erosive reflux disease (NERD), hypersensitive esophagus, or may undergo additional unnecessary testing because the initial diagnosis was missed. In light of these concerns, recent guidelines for adults have suggested that patients undergo endoscopy off of acid suppression therapy.(50, 51) The benefit to this approach is that patients will receive a definitive diagnosis at the time of the first endoscopy but the negative side is that patients will need to undergo a second endoscopy to assess for healing after instituting therapy. Prospective studies are clearly needed to determine an algorithm that maximizes diagnostic yield, reduces unnecessary medication and procedure costs, and results in more rapid improvement in outcomes. At this time, there is insufficient prospective data to recommend a single approach, and the pros and cons to both approaches should thus be discussed with patients and their families. J Pediatr Gastroenterol Nutr. Author manuscript; available in PMC 2019 March 01. Author Manuscript Author Manuscript Author Manuscript Author Manuscript Recommendations 3.5 The working group suggests not to use esophago-gastro-duodenoscopy
