HHS Public Access
KEYWORDS: gerd, manuscript, author, author manuscript, infants, children, symptoms, studies, use, manuscript author, reflux, treatment, infants children, patients, based


J Pediatr Gastroenterol Nutr. Author manuscript; available in PMC 2019 March 01. Author Manuscript Author Manuscript Author Manuscript Author Manuscript Recommendations 3.5 The working group suggests not to use esophago-gastro-duodenoscopy to diagnose GERD in infants and children. VOTING: 7, 8, 8, 8, 9, 9, 9, 9, 9, 9. (Weak Recommendation) 3.6 Based on expert opinion, the working group suggests to use esophago-gastro- duodenoscopy with biopsies to assess complications of GERD, in case an underlying mucosal disease is suspected, or prior to escalation of therapy. VOTING: 6, 8, 8, 9, 9, 9, 9, 9, 9, 9. (Strong Recommendation) Extraesophageal Biomarkers—Using the GRADE criteria, the only study eligible for inclusion in this section was one on salivary pepsin in which the authors compared the rate of salivary pepsin positivity in preterm infants with clinical signs and symptoms of GERD. (26) Salivary pepsin was detected in 45/101 (44.5%) infants. Mouth swabs were positive in 26/36 (72%) infants with GERD and in only 19/65 (29%) infants without GERD (p < 0.001). Overall, the sensitivity, specificity, positive predictive value and negative predictive value of pepsin to diagnose GERD were of 72%, 71%, 58% and 82%, respectively. Because almost one third of control patients was pepsin positive, the utility of salivary pepsin is still debated, and the technology is limited by a lack of normative values for salivary pepsin in the pediatric population. Other considerations for the use of extraesophageal biomarkers - Pepsin: Other studies, not fulfilling the conclusion criteria of the present guideline, measured the diagnostic value of salivary pepsin by comparing it to results from pH-MII testing and found this technique to be of limited sensitivity with results depending on concentration cut-off used.(52, 53) Apart from saliva, pepsin has also been measured in bronchoalveolar lavage (BAL) and middle ear fluid. Findings of these studies also most importantly suggest a lack of sensitivity (ranging from 57–84%) of the biomarker.(54–60) - Lipid-laden macrophage index: Studies comparing the lipid-laden macrophage index in BAL fluid to impedance and endoscopy fail to show any relationship. This suggests that the lipid laden macrophage index is not a biomarker of gastroesophageal reflux and should therefore not be used for diagnosis.(52, 54, 61) - Bilirubin: Continuous monitoring of bilirubin using fiberoptic measurements in the esophagus is limited by the required dietary restriction during testing, thereby limiting its reliability and sensitivity. This test is therefore not recommended for use in clinical practice. (62,
