HHS Public Access
KEYWORDS: gerd, manuscript, author, author manuscript, infants, children, symptoms, studies, use, manuscript author, reflux, treatment, infants children, patients, based


in the esophagus is limited by the required dietary restriction during testing, thereby limiting its reliability and sensitivity. This test is therefore not recommended for use in clinical practice. (62, 63) In conclusion, evidence to support routine use of biomarkers such as salivary pepsin is insufficient to establish a diagnosis of extraesophageal reflux disease. J Pediatr Gastroenterol Nutr. Author manuscript; available in PMC 2019 March 01. Author Manuscript Author Manuscript Author Manuscript Author Manuscript Recommendations 3.7 The working group suggests that salivary pepsin should not be used for the diagnosis of GERD in infants and children. VOTING: 7, 7, 8, 8, 8, 8, 8, 9, 9, 9. (Strong Recommendation) 3.8 Based on expert opinion, the working group suggests not to use currently available extraesophageal biomarkers for the diagnosis of GERD in infants and children. VOTING: 7, 7, 8, 8, 8, 8, 8, 9, 9, 9. (Strong Recommendation) 3.5 Manometry/motility studies: The search did not identify any studies fulfilling our inclusion criteria. Other considerations related to esophageal manometry in the diagnosis of GERD—Manometry and other motility studies are designed to discriminate between normal GI physiology and neuromuscular diseases and can be used to identify the lower esophageal sphincter in order to accurately place pH- or pH-impedance probes. The current gold standard for the evaluation of esophageal motility is high-resolution manometry, which utilizes a catheter with closely placed pressure sensors (1 – 2cm apart) to allow a more detailed view of intraluminal pressure activity than conventional manometry. High resolution manometry was the key technique used to identify transient lower esophageal sphincter relaxations (TLESRs) as the predominant mechanism of GER in patients and it is also helpful in identifying other mechanisms of reflux such as hypotensive LES pressure or other risk factors for reflux such as the presence of a hiatal hernia. When combined with impedance, high resolution esophageal manometry (HRM) can also quantify the proportion of TLESRs associated with bolus movement into the esophagus, but is not predictive of GERD. Another possible application for HRM is in the pre- and post-operative evaluation of children undergoing fundoplication for the treatment of GERD. Although previous studies suggested that there was little role for manometry in predicting the outcome of fundoplication (64), newer modalities may confer some practical benefit. Loots et al, for example, used a novel pressure-flow analysis technique to identify esophageal motility parameters that are associated with post-operative complications such as dysphagia. They
