HHS Public Access
KEYWORDS: gerd, manuscript, author, author manuscript, infants, children, symptoms, studies, use, manuscript author, reflux, treatment, infants children, patients, based


confer some practical benefit. Loots et al, for example, used a novel pressure-flow analysis technique to identify esophageal motility parameters that are associated with post-operative complications such as dysphagia. They created a Dysphagia Risk Index that seemed better able to predict post-operative dysphagia in both adults supported by an uncontrolled pilot study of 10 children.(65, 66) Additionally, based upon pediatric studies, HRM with or without impedance may be of value to assess for “R waves” and retrograde bolus flow to diagnose rumination, a mimicker of intractable reflux symptoms.(67–71) HRM in the evaluation of extraesophageal symptoms HRM with impedance can rule out esophageal motility disorders whose presenting symptoms are often similar to GERD. HRM with impedance can not only detect abnormalities of peristalsis and esophageal outlet obstruction but also associated abnormalities in bolus transit. Esophageal stasis puts patients at high risk for aspiration, not from reflux but due to the retained fluid secondary to the dysmotility or obstruction, with J Pediatr Gastroenterol Nutr. Author manuscript; available in PMC 2019 March 01. Author Manuscript Author Manuscript Author Manuscript Author Manuscript signs and symptoms often being similar to GERD. Manometry can also be paired with pH- MII in 24-hour reflux studies to improve the cough-reflux correlation; manometrically coughs appear as high pressure, simultaneous pressure spikes on the pH-MII tracing. The accuracy of the device is increased by the fact that every cough-reflux pair can be detected. (72) In conclusion, there is no evidence to support the use manometry for the diagnosis of GERD in infants and children. Recommendations 3.9 Based on expert opinion, the working group suggests not to use manometry for the diagnosis of GERD in infants and children. VOTING: 8, 8, 8, 8, 8, 8, 8, 9, 9, 9. (Strong Recommendation) 3.10 Based on expert opinion, the working group suggests to consider the use of manometry when a motility disorder is suspected. VOTING: 6, 8, 8, 8, 8, 8, 9, 9, 9, 9. (Strong Recommendation) Scintigraphy The search identified two studies on scintigraphy.(27, 28) Of these, one was carried out in children aged up to 17 years (28) and the other in infants/children up to two years with wheezing symptoms.(27) In one study, there was no clear definition of GERD provided by authors making interpretation of the results difficult.(27, 28) In the study by Arasu et al., where positive scintigraphy (defined as ‘any esophageal activity’) was identified, sensitivity and specificity were
