HHS Public Access
KEYWORDS: gerd, manuscript, author, author manuscript, infants, children, symptoms, studies, use, manuscript author, reflux, treatment, infants children, patients, based


by authors making interpretation of the results difficult.(27, 28) In the study by Arasu et al., where positive scintigraphy (defined as ‘any esophageal activity’) was identified, sensitivity and specificity were only moderate (69 and 78% respectively).(28) The other study did not provide cut-off values for test positivity, and no calculations on sensitivity or specificity could be performed.(27, 28) Other considerations for the use of scintigraphy in the evaluation of GERD— Gastric scintigraphy is the standard technique for the assessment of gastric emptying, but protocols also exist for the evaluation of GER in children.(73–75) Although guidelines now of standardization of the technique.(76) Apart from showing refluxed tracer into the esophagus, gastric scintigraphy may reveal impaired gastric emptying which may be a risk factor for GERD or may reveal tracer in the bronchi suggesting pulmonary aspiration either from direct aspiration of the tracer or from aspiration of refluxed gastric contents.(77) Performance of gastric scintigraphy may be indicated when GERD symptoms are not responding to standard therapies and other diagnoses or triggers such as delays in gastric emptying are being considered. In conclusion, there is insufficient evidence to support the use of scintigraphy for the diagnosis of GERD in infants and children. J Pediatr Gastroenterol Nutr. Author manuscript; available in PMC 2019 March 01. Author Manuscript Author Manuscript Author Manuscript Author Manuscript Recommendation 3.11 Based on expert opinion, the working group suggests scintigraphy should not be used for the diagnosis of GERD in infants and children. VOTING: 8, 8, 8, 9, 9, 9, 9, 9, 9, 9. (Strong Recommendation) Trial of transpyloric or jejunal feeding The search did not identify any studies fulfilling our inclusion criteria. Other considerations for the use of transpyloric feeding to diagnose GERD— While transpyloric feeding is often used to treat intractable GERD (Question 6), the use of transpyloric feeding as a diagnostic test for GERD has not been studied. However, because transpyloric feeding reduces the reflux burden to a similar extent as fundoplication, additional studies using transpyloric feeding as a diagnostic test are needed.(78, 79) In conclusion, there is no evidence to support the use of transpyloric feeding trials for the diagnosis of GERD in infants and children. Recommendation 3.12 Based on expert opinion, the working group suggests that transpyloric/jejunal feeding trials should not be used for the diagnosis of GERD in infants and children. VOTING: 6, 7, 8, 8, 8, 9, 9, 9, 9, 9. (Moderate Recommendation)
