HHS Public Access
KEYWORDS: gerd, manuscript, author, author manuscript, infants, children, symptoms, studies, use, manuscript author, reflux, treatment, infants children, patients, based


that transpyloric/jejunal feeding trials should not be used for the diagnosis of GERD in infants and children. VOTING: 6, 7, 8, 8, 8, 9, 9, 9, 9, 9. (Moderate Recommendation) Proton pump inhibitor (PPI) trials The search did not identify any studies fulfilling our inclusion criteria. Other considerations for the use of PPIs as a diagnostic test for GERD—Short 1–2-week trials of proton pump inhibitor trials (PPIs) have been used diagnostically in adults with typical reflux symptoms (“PPI test”). This test is based on the hypothesis that if symptoms respond to PPIs, they are therefore GERD-related and a diagnosis is made. While no pediatric studies have been designed to validate this test, we did evaluate therapeutic trials in infants and children during which early time points for symptom resolution were assessed. The discussion below relates to acid suppression for diagnosis, and not for treatment of GERD. Because no studies meet inclusion criteria, the recommendations are based on assessment of intermediate endpoints of treatment trials. - Results from studies in infants: Five RCTs of PPIs in preterm and full term infants with treatment periods ranging from 2 – 4 weeks have been published. None of the trials show symptom reduction over placebo regardless of the trial length. Based on these results, a short trial of a PPI is not recommended as a diagnostic test for infants.(80) - Results from studies in children: Several studies, both open-label and therapeutic RCTs, assessing the effect of PPIs on GERD symptom reduction in children with and without J Pediatr Gastroenterol Nutr. Author manuscript; available in PMC 2019 March 01. Author Manuscript Author Manuscript Author Manuscript Author Manuscript esophagitis, showed that the greatest symptomatic improvement occurs in the first 2–4 weeks of PPI administration, suggesting that this duration may be sufficient as a diagnostic test for GERD in this population(81–84) Other treatment trials have used longer courses of PPIs for treatment without assessment of symptom resolution at earlier endpoints so the assessment of a shorter “PPI test” for symptom resolution could not be evaluated.(85) Because these studies were not powered to assess symptom resolution at interim time points and because of concern that some patients have persistent symptoms related to inflammation after only 2–4 weeks of therapy, a diagnostic trial window of 4–8 weeks was chosen by the working group. However, shorter courses may be applicable and preferred, particularly when the clinical suspicion for reflux is
