HHS Public Access
KEYWORDS: gerd, manuscript, author, author manuscript, infants, children, symptoms, studies, use, manuscript author, reflux, treatment, infants children, patients, based


therapy, a diagnostic trial window of 4–8 weeks was chosen by the working group. However, shorter courses may be applicable and preferred, particularly when the clinical suspicion for reflux is low or the concern for side effects is high. - Results from studies in adults: There are data supporting the use of a PPI trial in the diagnosis of GERD in adult patients presenting with typical symptoms. Initial studies suggest that a 1–2 week trial is adequate for the diagnosis with a sensitivity ranging from 78% – 83% compared with the reference test used (erosive esophagitis or pH-detected pathologic reflux).(86–88) In another adult study, PPI responsiveness after a seven day trial in adults with non-erosive disease predicted an 85% probability of complete resolution of heartburn after four weeks; this study is of particular importance as it is the only one that applies symptom resolution as the “gold standard” for diagnosis of GERD, the definition used in these guidelines.(89) Despite the possible value of a PPI trial as a diagnostic test for GERD, in adults with typical symptoms, more than 50% of patients with typical symptoms may not respond to acid suppression and require additional testing.(90, 91) - PPI use as a diagnostic test for extraesophageal symptoms: No data conclusively support the use of PPIs in the diagnosis of extraesophageal symptoms in the pediatric literature.(92, 93) Because of the heterogeneous nature of extraesophageal symptoms, have a multitude of causes, are difficult. In pediatrics, only one randomized, blinded placebo controlled study by Holbrook et al. addresses the use of PPIs in the treatment of asthma.(93) While this was powered as a 24 week treatment trial, interval analyses at earlier time points (1 or 2 months) after starting therapy show no symptomatic improvement suggesting that even short trials (i.e. diagnostic trials) are not beneficial. In the infant population, one 2 week RCT of lansoprazole was powered to assess improvement in GERD symptoms but as secondary outcomes, Orenstein et al assessed changes in the extraesophageal symptoms of coughing, wheezing and hoarseness. The authors found no benefit of lansoprazole compared with placebo for extraesophageal symptoms, but again this study was not powered for these outcomes. Based on these two RCTS, insufficient evidence exists to support a short trial of PPIs as a diagnostic test for extraesophageal reflux symptoms. Finally, a recent Cochrane review failed to show a benefit of PPIs for cough in children.(94) In
