HHS Public Access
KEYWORDS: gerd, manuscript, author, author manuscript, infants, children, symptoms, studies, use, manuscript author, reflux, treatment, infants children, patients, based


a short trial of PPIs as a diagnostic test for extraesophageal reflux symptoms. Finally, a recent Cochrane review failed to show a benefit of PPIs for cough in children.(94) In conclusion, there is no evidence to support empirical PPI therapy for the diagnosis of GERD in infants. Expert opinion suggests that in an older child or adolescent with typical symptoms suggesting GERD, a diagnostic trial of PPIs can be justified for 4–8 weeks. J Pediatr Gastroenterol Nutr. Author manuscript; available in PMC 2019 March 01. Author Manuscript Author Manuscript Author Manuscript Author Manuscript Recommendations 3.13 Based on expert opinion, the working group suggests that a trial of PPIs should not be used as a diagnostic test for GERD in infants. VOTING: 5, 6, 7, 7, 7, 8, 8, 9, 9, 9. (Weak Recommendation) 3.14 Based on expert opinion, the working group suggests a 4–8 week trial of PPIs for typical symptoms (heartburn, retrosternal or epigastric pain) in children as a diagnostic test for GERD. VOTING: 3, 7, 7, 7, 8, 8, 8, 9, 9, 9. (Weak Recommendation) 3.15 Based on expert opinion, the working group suggests that trial of PPIs should not be used as a diagnostic test for GERD in patients presenting with extraesophageal symptoms. VOTING: 7, 8, 8, 8, 8, 8, 8, 9, 9, 9. (Weak Recommendation) pH-metry/wireless pH recording The search identified seven studies assessing the value of pH-metry for the diagnosis of GERD in children.(27–34) In three studies, no p-values or cut-off values for test-positivity were provided, so neither sensitivity nor specificity data could be extracted for these studies. (29, 34, 42) In the study by Ravelli et al., none of the controls underwent pH-metry, also hampering sensitivity and specificity analysis.(33) Two studies used values of controls as normal values and inherently show a pH-metry specificity of 100%.(31, 32) The last and most recent study used the Reflux Index (RI, defined as the percentage of time that pH < 4) to determine pathological GERD (where abnormal was defined as pH < 4 for >10% for infants <1 year and 5% infants >1 year).(27) It should however be noted that for this population, although attempts have been made, no ‘true’ normative values have been established because of the ethics of performing invasive studies in healthy infants and children.(75, 95) The authors found the RI measured by pH-metry had a sensitivity and specificity 50% and 82%, respectively, using
