HHS Public Access
KEYWORDS: gerd, manuscript, author, author manuscript, infants, children, symptoms, studies, use, manuscript author, reflux, treatment, infants children, patients, based


the ethics of performing invasive studies in healthy infants and children.(75, 95) The authors found the RI measured by pH-metry had a sensitivity and specificity 50% and 82%, respectively, using history and physical examination as the gold standard method for diagnosing GERD. Other considerations for the use of pH-metry as a diagnostic test for GERD— Limitations to pH-metry technology include: 1. Determination of the value pH-metry as a diagnostic tool for GERD and to differentiate it from GER is difficult because of lack of a gold standard for comparison. Early pH-metry studies used esophageal manometry, endoscopy, scintigraphy, symptom presence and barium imaging as the gold standard methods to diagnose reflux events.(28, 29, 31) All of these “gold standards” have significant limitations, with high rates of false positivity. 2. Obtaining data in healthy controls is not ethically feasible because of the invasive nature of pH-metry, hindering determination of true “normal” values. J Pediatr Gastroenterol Nutr. Author manuscript; available in PMC 2019 March 01. Author Manuscript Author Manuscript Author Manuscript Author Manuscript 3. Non-acid reflux particularly in young infants and children is common, and pH- metry is blind to reflux episodes with pH>4, which comprises 45–89% of pediatric reflux episodes.(96) 4. pH-metry poorly identifies full column reflux (97, 98) and fails to correlate symptoms with esophageal acid events,(97) making it an inadequate tool for the diagnosis of extraesophageal symptoms. 5. While correlation of symptoms with reflux events is one of the main indications for pH-metry, patients/parents often fail to report symptoms, a factor which compromises symptom correlation.(72) In addition, the appropriate time frame in which to consider a symptom correlated with reflux is debated.(99, 100) Indications for pH-metry: Despite these limitations, the working group considers several indications for performance of pH-metry in the evaluation of GERD when pH-MII is not available (See also under pH-MII): 1. Diagnosis of acid related disorders: pH-metry can be helpful in correlating symptoms with acid reflux episodes. This is of particular importance in differentiating non-erosive reflux disease (NERD) from other acid disorders, such as functional heartburn and hypersensitive esophagus or in conditions that are clearly acid related such as dental erosions. (101, 102) In addition, pH-metry can be helpful in clarifying the role of acid in patients with esophageal eosinophilia.(103–105) 2. Correlate persistent symptoms with acid GER events (See also under pH-MII) 3. Efficacy of acid suppression In patients with persistent symptoms or esophagitis in high risk
