HHS Public Access
KEYWORDS: gerd, manuscript, author, author manuscript, infants, children, symptoms, studies, use, manuscript author, reflux, treatment, infants children, patients, based


with esophageal eosinophilia.(103–105) 2. Correlate persistent symptoms with acid GER events (See also under pH-MII) 3. Efficacy of acid suppression In patients with persistent symptoms or esophagitis in high risk patients (e.g. esophageal atresia, cystic fibrosis, or neurologically compromised patients) despite acid suppression, performance of pH-metry may be helpful in determining the degree of breakthrough acid in patients on therapy as these patients may be inadequately acid suppressed on standard medication doses.(106, 107) (Limitations – see also under pH-MII) In conclusion, there is insufficient evidence to support the routine use of pH-metry for the diagnosis of GERD in infants and children. Other pH-based diagnostic testing options—Wireless pH recording has been proposed as an alternative to pH probe monitoring. During endoscopy, the wireless recording device is clipped to the esophagus. The advantage of the device is that the patient does not have a catheter in the nose, so for some children (for example, those with developmental delay or autism or in patients with cystic fibrosis and chronic cough) the wireless device is preferable. In addition, for patients with exercise induced GERD symptoms, the wireless recording device is often more comfortable when exercising (including swimming). Finally, the wireless device records pH changes for a minimum of 48 hours but some studies have reported up to 5 days of recording. Pediatric studies have shown that the wireless pH recording results are comparable to the pH probe in patients that J Pediatr Gastroenterol Nutr. Author manuscript; available in PMC 2019 March 01. Author Manuscript Author Manuscript Author Manuscript Author Manuscript underwent both simultaneously.(108) Pediatric studies have also shown that 2 days of recording may allow for improved reflux detection due to the additional recording time. (109) Complications of the device occurred in 0 – 15% of patients, including esophageal tears, chest pain, and device failure (failure to record or early detachment).(108–110) While concerns have been raised about performing the studies after sedation, pediatric studies have failed to show a significant anesthesia effect beyond 2 – 6 hours after placement.(111, 112) Oropharyngeal pH monitoring has also been proposed as a less invasive test to measure changes in pharyngeal pH as an indicator of extraesophageal reflux. A catheter is placed in the nose with the sensor lying immediately above the uvula. In a single pediatric study by Chiou et al, 15 patients underwent simultaneous oropharyngeal pH monitoring and pH-MII testing.(97) The authors failed to show any
