HHS Public Access
KEYWORDS: gerd, manuscript, author, author manuscript, infants, children, symptoms, studies, use, manuscript author, reflux, treatment, infants children, patients, based


lying immediately above the uvula. In a single pediatric study by Chiou et al, 15 patients underwent simultaneous oropharyngeal pH monitoring and pH-MII testing.(97) The authors failed to show any relationship between changes in the oropharyngeal pH and esophageal reflux events detected by pH-MII suggesting that oropharyngeal monitoring does not represent GER events. Adult studies have since shown similar results.(113, 114) Therefore, because of this inadequate sensitivity, oropharyngeal monitoring is not recommended. pH of exhaled breath condensate has been proposed as a method for diagnosing extraesophageal reflux, but preliminary data indicate that it lacks the sensitivity needed to discriminate between patients with and without pathologic reflux.(115) Other testing for extraesophageal symptoms—Airway appearance: While earlier studies in adults and children suggested that there may be a relationship between the appearance of the larynx and evidence of GER, these studies were limited because they were neither prospective nor blinded and the diagnosis of reflux was made using insensitive tools such as oropharyngeal pH monitoring or barium imaging. In a single prospective pediatric study, in which airway exams were blindly scored by three otolaryngologists in children undergoing pH-MII testing for respiratory symptoms, no relationship was found between laryngeal appearance scored by using a validated scoring system, the reflux finding score, and any reflux parameter by pH-MII. These findings suggest that the appearance of the airway does not correlate with pathologic reflux.(116) Recommendations 3.16 Based on expert opinion, when pH-MII is not available, the working group suggests to consider to use pH-metry only to 1. Correlate persistent troublesome symptoms with acid gastroesophageal reflux events (See also under pH-MII) VOTING: 6, 7, 7, 7, 7, 8, 8, 9, 9. (Strong Recommendation) 2. Clarify the role of acid reflux in the etiology of esophagitis and other signs and symptoms suggestive for GERD. VOTING: 6, 7, 7, 7, 7, 8, 8, 9, 9. (Strong Recommendation) 3. Determine the efficacy of acid suppression therapy. J Pediatr Gastroenterol Nutr. Author manuscript; available in PMC 2019 March 01. Author Manuscript Author Manuscript Author Manuscript Author Manuscript VOTING: 6, 7, 7, 7, 7, 9, 8, 8, 9. (Strong Recommendation) pH-impedance monitoring (pH-MII) The search did not identify any studies fulfilling our inclusion criteria. Other considerations when using pH-MII for the diagnosis of GERD - pH based testing versus pH-MII: The advantage of pH-MII above the sole monitoring of the esophageal pH lays its ability to accurately detect (1) refluxate with pH
