HHS Public Access
KEYWORDS: gerd, manuscript, author, author manuscript, infants, children, symptoms, studies, use, manuscript author, reflux, treatment, infants children, patients, based


of GERD - pH based testing versus pH-MII: The advantage of pH-MII above the sole monitoring of the esophageal pH lays its ability to accurately detect (1) refluxate with pH <4 and greater than 4, (2) full column refluxate, (3) liquid and gas reflux, and (4) drops in esophageal pH due to reflux versus swallow-related drops in pH. Because of these advantages, in validation studies, pH-MII had a high sensitivity compared to pH-metry for the detection of reflux episodes, particularly when non-acid reflux was prevalent (e.g. patients taking acid suppression, infants who are fed frequently).(117–125) With the advent of pH-MII, the importance of refluxate with pH>4 was realized. In the literature, two terms are used interchangeably to describe reflux with pH>4: non-acid reflux and weakly acidic reflux. For the purposes of this discussion, we will use the term non-acid reflux, which may also include (weakly) acidic reflux. Despite the advantages of pH-MII over pH-metry, there are still some limitations to the technology: 1. pH-MII technology is not available in all medical centers. 2. As with pH-metry, defining reference ranges is limited by the lack of true control patients. Nevertheless, some attempts to establish normal values in pediatrics have been made, albeit all in symptomatic children.(126, 127) 3. In patients with motility disorders or significant esophagitis, pH-MII (both software and manually analyzed) may underestimate the amount of reflux episodes as a result of low baseline impedance values, compromising the ability for baselines to drop by more than 50%, the accepted definition of reflux by impedance. While a low impedance baseline may alert the clinician to the presence of esophagitis, it does not avert the need for endoscopy.(128, 129) 4. Despite availability of guidelines (130), considerable diversity exists in performance and interpretation of pH-MII recordings among users, with diverging results of inter- and intra-observer reproducibility of studies.(130–133) Additionally, analysis is time-consuming and is best performed by those with considerable expertise. 5. No studies have yet been performed in pediatrics that convincingly show that the 6. While correlation of symptoms with reflux events is one of the main indications for pH-MII, patients/parents fail to report more than 50% of symptoms (as with all reflux testing) compromising symptom correlation.(72) In addition, the J Pediatr Gastroenterol Nutr. Author manuscript; available in PMC 2019 March 01. Author Manuscript Author Manuscript Author Manuscript Author Manuscript appropriate time window by which it can be established that a symptom
