HHS Public Access
KEYWORDS: gerd, manuscript, author, author manuscript, infants, children, symptoms, studies, use, manuscript author, reflux, treatment, infants children, patients, based


Gastroenterol Nutr. Author manuscript; available in PMC 2019 March 01. Author Manuscript Author Manuscript Author Manuscript Author Manuscript appropriate time window by which it can be established that a symptom is correlated with reflux is debated.(99, 100) group endorses several indications for the performance of pH-MII in the evaluation of GERD. 1. Differentiate patients with non-erosive reflux disease (NERD), hypersensitive esophagus and functional heartburn in patients with normal endoscopy: The recently published Rome IV criteria for esophageal disorders included new classifications for adults with typical GERD symptoms including chest pain and heart burn. In patients with persistent typical symptoms despite acid suppression, pH-MII can clarify the diagnosis of non-erosive reflux disease (NERD; pathologic reflux regardless of symptom correlation), hypersensitive esophagus (positive symptom correlation with either acid or nonacid reflux events but no pathologic reflux), and functional heartburn (negative symptom correlation and no pathologic reflux; see “Summary of the Definitions for full definitions).(136) A single pediatric study examines the incidence of the Rome IV subgroups in pediatrics. Mahoney et al. used these new Rome IV criteria to classify 45 children with typical reflux symptoms with no evidence of endoscopic erosions. Of these 45 patients, 27% of were categorized with NERD, 29%, with reflux hypersensitivity and 44% with functional heartburn.(137) Distinguishing these disease entities may have therapeutic impact. Based upon adult literature, reflux hypersensitivity may be treated with traditional reflux therapies (medications, fundoplication), whereas functional heartburn may be treated with neuromodulators.(138–140) 2. Determine the efficacy of acid suppression therapy: While pH-metry can be used to determine if there is persistent esophageal acid exposure despite therapy, pH-MII catheters can determine this as well as how much non-acid reflux is present in children taking acid suppression. Rosen et al. found that the mean-sensitivity of MII-pH was 76±13% compared to pH-metry whose mean-sensitivity was 80 ± 18%. When patients taking acid suppression were studied, the mean-sensitivity of the pH-metry dropped to 47±36%, whereas the mean- sensitivity of MII-pH in treated patients was 80 ± 21%.(123) Therefore, pH-MII should be considered as a diagnostic test in symptomatic patients taking acid suppression. 3. Correlate persistent troublesome symptoms with acid and non-acid gastroesophageal reflux events: Several studies in infants and children using pH-MII in the postprandial period highlight the importance of non-acid reflux events in this period, making pH-MII the preferred choice for measurement of reflux events in children with predominant postprandial symptoms that would be missed by
