HHS Public Access
KEYWORDS: gerd, manuscript, author, author manuscript, infants, children, symptoms, studies, use, manuscript author, reflux, treatment, infants children, patients, based


the importance of non-acid reflux events in this period, making pH-MII the preferred choice for measurement of reflux events in children with predominant postprandial symptoms that would be missed by standard pH-metry alone.(119, 124, 141–143) The 7 impedance sensors distributed throughout the esophagus on the pH-MII catheter allow accurate detection of full column reflux events which may be important in patients with extraesophageal symptoms.(97, 118) 4. Clarify the role of acid and non-acid reflux in the etiology of esophagitis and other signs and symptoms suggestive for GERD: pH-MII monitoring plays an important role in the correlation of symptoms with both acid and non-acid reflux events with improved J Pediatr Gastroenterol Nutr. Author manuscript; available in PMC 2019 March 01. Author Manuscript Author Manuscript Author Manuscript Author Manuscript symptom correlation compared to pH-metry alone. The combination of pH-MII has proven useful for the evaluation of symptom correlations between reflux episodes and symptoms such as pain/irritability, apnea, cough, other respiratory symptoms, and behavioral symptoms.(118, 144–147) pH-MII, as with pH-metry, may also clarify the role of acid and non-acid reflux in the generation of esophagitis, though data are conflicting on the relationship between esophagitis and acid and non-acid reflux events measured by pH-MII. (148, 149) - Study to be done on or off acid suppression?: No pediatric studies have examined if pH- MII testing should be performed on or off acid suppression. If the goal of testing is to determine the efficacy of therapy in persistently symptomatic patients, testing should be performed on acid suppression. If the goal is symptom correlation, several adult studies support the performance of pH-MII testing off acid suppression because of an increased yield of acid-related symptoms.(150, 151) - Symptom Association: Three main symptom indices are used to correlate reflux episodes with symptoms: the symptom index (SI), symptom sensitivity index (SSI), and symptom association probability (SAP).(152–154) While some conflicting data exist depending on the symptom index chosen, pH-MII results in a higher degree of symptom association compared with pH-metry alone. However the theoretical benefits of individual symptom indices is still being debated. Although pediatric studies suggest the SI and the SAP are most frequently positive, no studies prove that one index is superior to another in predicting response to therapies in children. Due to a lack of evidence showing benefit in predicting outcomes, no index is recommended over another at this time.(130) In conclusion, there is insufficient evidence to
