HHS Public Access
KEYWORDS: gerd, manuscript, author, author manuscript, infants, children, symptoms, studies, use, manuscript author, reflux, treatment, infants children, patients, based


therapies in children. Due to a lack of evidence showing benefit in predicting outcomes, no index is recommended over another at this time.(130) In conclusion, there is insufficient evidence to support the use of pH-MII as a single technique for the diagnosis of GERD in infants and children. 3.17 Recommendations Based on expert opinion, the working group suggests to consider to use pH-MII testing only to: 1. Correlate persistent troublesome symptoms with acid and non-acid gastroesophageal reflux events VOTING: 6, 7, 7, 7, 8, 8, 8, 9, 9. (Strong Recommendation) 2. Clarify the role of acid and non-acid reflux in the etiology of esophagitis and other signs and symptoms suggestive for GERD. VOTING: 6, 7, 7, 7, 8, 8, 8, 9, 9. (Weak Recommendation) 3. Determine the efficacy of acid suppression therapy. VOTING: 6, 6, 7, 7, 7, 9, 8, 8, 9. (Weak Recommendation) 4. Differentiate NERD, hypersensitive esophagus and functional heartburn in patients with normal endoscopy. J Pediatr Gastroenterol Nutr. Author manuscript; available in PMC 2019 March 01. Author Manuscript Author Manuscript Author Manuscript Author Manuscript VOTING: 6, 6, 6, 7, 7, 7, 8, 9, 9, 9, 9. (Weak Recommendation) Question 4: What non-pharmacologic treatment options are effective and safe for the reduction of signs and symptoms of GERD? Three original studies and two systematic reviews were eligible for inclusion. After checking reference lists of these systematic reviews and the ESPGHAN/NASPGHAN 2009 and NICE 2015 guidelines (See Appendix A for summary of search strategy, results and study selection), 16 original studies could be included: one trial on positional therapy, one on massage therapy and 14 on feeding modifications.(1, 3, 155–170) Characteristics of included studies can be found in Appendix B2. GRADE profiles can be found in Appendix D1. Feeding modifications including formula or food thickeners, reduced feeding volumes or more frequent feedings and extensively hydrolyzed or amino-acid based formula, the latter of which should be reserved for patients with severe symptoms not responsive to a protein hydrolysate formula. Thickened feeding The search identified 14 studies on the use of thickened feedings. No studies on the use of reduced feeding volumes, more frequent feedings, or extensively hydrolyzed or amino-acid based formula met our inclusion criteria. All studies were conducted in infants with signs and symptoms of GER as defined by the authors.(1, 156–169) Although no studies meet the inclusion criteria specifically assessing the use of thickened feedings in infants or
