HHS Public Access
KEYWORDS: gerd, manuscript, author, author manuscript, infants, children, symptoms, studies, use, manuscript author, reflux, treatment, infants children, patients, based


regurgitation, vomiting, and other symptoms such as irritability were significantly reduced in the corn starch-thickened formula group compared with enriched formula-fed patients four and eight weeks after initiating the formula changes. (159) Ostrom et al. found, in their four week trial, no significant differences in GERD symptoms in infants receiving soy formula with fiber compared with cow’s milk formula without added fiber (p>0.05).(161) In summary, across all studies, thickening of feedings improves visible regurgitation but the impact on non-regurgitation symptoms is less clear (i.e. as determined by predefined outcome measures and/or occurrence of side-effects and adverse events),.(158, 159, 162– 165, 167, 168) Other considerations with thickeners - The efficacy of thickeners as assessed by pH-MII: The search yielded one systematic review published after 2008 on the use of thickened feedings for the treatment of GER in healthy infants.(171) As this study applied different inclusion and exclusion criteria, fourteen studies were included for meta-analysis and the conclusion of the analysis was that the thickening: 1) reduced vomiting and visible regurgitations per day, 2) increased the number of days without regurgitation, and 3) reduced symptoms such as crying and irritability. Horvath et al. also highlighted that thickening does not improve the acid reflux parameters measured by pH-metry including the RI, number of acid gastroesophageal reflux episodes per hour, or number of reflux episodes lasting >5 minutes. In this systematic review, there was a reduction in the duration of the longest reflux episode of pH < 4 based on the pooled results of two RCTs (n = 116).(171) One argument for a lack of improvement in pH-metry parameters is that thickening would be expected to reduce post-prandial reflux which is typically non-acid and therefore may be missed by pH-metry. However, in two trials of thickening performed using pH-MII parameters as outcomes, thickening still did not result in reducing the total reflux burden when comparing feeding periods with and without thickening within individual patients.(172, 173) Safety of thickeners - Cereal based: Recent reports have raised concerns about the safety of rice cereal as a thickening agent for infants and children. Safety concerns were raised because of elevated levels of inorganic arsenic in all forms of rice including infant cereals. Arsenic exposure has been linked to neurotoxicity and long term cancer risk in areas with environmental arsenic contamination. In April 2016, the United States Food and Drug Administration (FDA) proposed an action level, or limit,
