HHS Public Access
KEYWORDS: gerd, manuscript, author, author manuscript, infants, children, symptoms, studies, use, manuscript author, reflux, treatment, infants children, patients, based


to neurotoxicity and long term cancer risk in areas with environmental arsenic contamination. In April 2016, the United States Food and Drug Administration (FDA) proposed an action level, or limit, of 100 parts per billion for inorganic arsenic in infant rice cereal, which corresponds to a level proposed by the European Commission for rice destined for the production of food for infants and young children. Despite this FDA warning, rice cereal still enjoys advantages as a thickener, including its ability to dissolve more thoroughly than other cereals without clogging nipples, its affordability, and its long track record of use in infants. Whenever possible, using rice cereal with low or no arsenic is recommended. J Pediatr Gastroenterol Nutr. Author manuscript; available in PMC 2019 March 01. Author Manuscript Author Manuscript Author Manuscript Author Manuscript - Commercial thickeners: The search did not identify any studies on the efficacy of thickening of breastmilk. In a cross-over study, Corvaglia et al. evaluated the effect of thickening of human milk by precooked starch in reducing GER in five preterm infants and found no significant reduction in the number of pH-MII detected reflux episodes with thickened feeds when compared to unthickened feeds.(173) In the vast majority of infants presenting with physiological GER, breastfeeding should be further encouraged. However, for babies with significant reflux such that thickening is being considered, breastmilk can be thickened with xanthum gum or carob bean based thickeners but not with cereal, the latter of which is digested by the amylases in breast milk. While these commercial thickeners are available for use in breast milk, some cautions exist. Carob bean thickeners are approved for use in infants after 42 weeks gestation. Xanthum gum thickeners are approved for infants greater than 1 year old because of concerns of necrotizing enterocolitis.(174, 175) - Reduction of ingested volume: A reduction of the ingested volume per feeding is a common recommendation that can be found in many reviews, guidelines and recommendations for GERD treatment.(1, 3, 176) No RCTs have studied reduced feeding volumes. Omari et al. showed that in preterm and term infants with GERD, using more frequent feedings led to a reduced RI in this specific group.(119) Although no data relate ingested volume to frequency and volume of regurgitation, avoiding overfeeding by adjusting feeding frequency and volume for age and weight while maintaining an appropriate total daily amount of formula or breastmilk is recommended (Algorithm 1).
