HHS Public Access
KEYWORDS: gerd, manuscript, author, author manuscript, infants, children, symptoms, studies, use, manuscript author, reflux, treatment, infants children, patients, based


volume of regurgitation, avoiding overfeeding by adjusting feeding frequency and volume for age and weight while maintaining an appropriate total daily amount of formula or breastmilk is recommended (Algorithm 1). - Elimination of cow ’s milk protein: No RCTs evaluate extensively hydrolyzed or amino acid based formulas for the treatment of GERD. However, a subset of infants with allergy to cow’s milk protein (CMPA) experience regurgitation and vomiting indistinguishable from that associated with physiologic GER or GERD and it is for this reason that, even in acid suppression trials, cow’s milk elimination trials are often performed prior to randomization for reflux medications.(177) In these infants, vomiting frequency decreases significantly (usually within 2 weeks) after the elimination of cow’s milk protein from the diet, and reintroduction causes recurrence of symptoms. Because regurgitation is sometimes the sole manifestation of CMPA in healthy-appearing infants, non-breast-fed infants with suspected CMPA should receive a formula with an extensively hydrolyzed protein. In breast-fed infants, the mother can achieve similar results by restricting all dairy including casein and whey from her diet. According to the recently published ESPGHAN guidelines on CMPA, amino acids-based formulae should be reserved for the patients with intractable or severe symptoms.(178) While no trials compare the use of protein hydrolysate formulas to milk based formulas in the treatment of symptoms of GERD, children with suspected CMPA who are given an amino acid based formula for 24 hours followed by a cow’s milk containing formula for 24 hours have significantly more reflux events measured by pH-MII during the cow’s milk feeding compared to the amino acid based feeds.(179) Corvaglia et al. studied 18 infants with symptoms of feeding intolerance, constipation or distension that were treated for one week with a hydrolyzed protein formula.(180) After this one week trial, if the infants had GERD symptoms, they underwent pH-MII testing while receiving cow’s milk formula alternating with protein hydrolysate formula as part of a randomized cross over design trial. The authors found that RI improves during hydrolysate feeds compared with the cow’s milk J Pediatr Gastroenterol Nutr. Author manuscript; available in PMC 2019 March 01. Author Manuscript Author Manuscript Author Manuscript Author Manuscript feedings, but they found no other differences in any of the reflux parameters as measured by pH-MII. ESPGHAN guidelines recommend against the use of soy-based infant formula, and in Europe soy based formulas are no longer commercially available.(181, 182) Among 10 – 15%
