HHS Public Access
KEYWORDS: gerd, manuscript, author, author manuscript, infants, children, symptoms, studies, use, manuscript author, reflux, treatment, infants children, patients, based


as measured by pH-MII. ESPGHAN guidelines recommend against the use of soy-based infant formula, and in Europe soy based formulas are no longer commercially available.(181, 182) Among 10 – 15% of the infants with CMPA will also become allergic to soy.(183) Rice hydrolysates are commercially available, but the data are too limited to be considered in these guidelines. Any patient placed on a protein hydrolysate formula or an amino acid based formula needs close follow up to determine how and when dairy can be safely introduced. Studies have shown that infants and children on CMP restriction may have increased disordered eating patterns and may even develop anaphylaxis to milk protein.(184, 185) In conclusion, the use of thickeners may improve slightly the occurrence of overt regurgitation/vomiting as symptoms of GER in infants. It is uncertain whether the use of food thickeners improves other signs and symptoms of GER and whether their use leads to side-effects in infants. While evidence supporting modification of feeding volumes or intervals is lacking, these modifications are without risk or cost, so feeding modification should be considered before more costly or risky interventions. While there is no evidence to support the use of extensively hydrolyzed formula or amino acid–based formula for the treatment of GERD in infants and children who do not have CMPA, symptoms of GERD and CMPA are identical. Therefore, a trial of extensively hydrolyzed formula or amino acid–based formula is indicated in patients who have not responded to conventional GERD therapies. For each of these non- pharmacologic therapies, a minimum 2 week trial is recommended to assess for symptom improvement before considering other therapeutic alternatives. Recommendations 4.1 The working group suggests to use thickened feed for treating visible regurgitation/ vomiting in infants with GERD (Algorithm 1). VOTING: 6, 7, 7, 8, 8, 8, 9, 9, 9, 9. (weak recommendation) 4.2 Based on expert opinion, the working group suggests to modify feeding volumes and frequency according to age and weight to avoid overfeeding in infants with GERD (Algorithm 1). VOTING: 7, 7, 8, 8, 8, 8, 8, 9, 9, 9. (weak recommendation) 4.3 Based on expert opinion, the working group suggests a 2 – 4 week trial of formula with extensively hydrolyzed protein (or amino-acid based formula) in formula fed infants suspected of GERD after optimal non-pharmacological treatment has failed (Algorithm 1, or see ESPGHAN 2012 CMPA guidelines). VOTING: 4, 6, 7, 8, 8, 8,
