HHS Public Access
KEYWORDS: gerd, manuscript, author, author manuscript, infants, children, symptoms, studies, use, manuscript author, reflux, treatment, infants children, patients, based


based formula) in formula fed infants suspected of GERD after optimal non-pharmacological treatment has failed (Algorithm 1, or see ESPGHAN 2012 CMPA guidelines). VOTING: 4, 6, 7, 8, 8, 8, 8, 9, 9, 9. (weak recommendation) Positioning therapy—One study was identified that met the inclusion criteria.(156) Loots et al. conducted a study of infants with a positive symptom correlation on pH-MII testing who were randomized to left side or head elevation positioning in addition to medications (PPI or Mylanta). The primary outcome of the study, measured 14 days after initiation of J Pediatr Gastroenterol Nutr. Author manuscript; available in PMC 2019 March 01. Author Manuscript Author Manuscript Author Manuscript Author Manuscript treatment, was change in reflux measured by pH-MII testing, but symptom improvement was also assessed. Regardless of the medication given, left lateral positioning (LLP) resulted in reduction in the total number of reflux episodes. Vomiting also declined in infants given Mylanta and placed in LLP.(156) Other considerations on the effect of positioning on reflux parameters - pH-MII and motility parameters—As mentioned above, LLP reduced the total number of reflux episodes measured by pH-MII. In a study by Omari et al., the authors measured by impedance and LES pressures in 10 preterm infants placed in the right and left lateral decubitus positions.(186) In this study, both the number of reflux episodes and the TLESRs significantly decreased in infants in LLP compared to right lateral positioning (RLP). A subsequent study by van Wijk et al. found identical effects of positioning on reflux by impedance, and the effect of positioning was immediate; when babies were switched from RLP to LLP and vice versa, the impact on reflux and TLESRs was immediate.(187) No studies met our inclusion criteria on the impact of positioning on symptom reduction as the primary outcome. An uncontrolled trial by Vandenplas et al showed that a 40° specially constructed antireflux bed resulted in a significant decrease of objective reflux parameters, reflux symptoms and anti-acid medications in infants that tolerated this position.(188) Corvaglia et al. showed that prone and left side position were associated with a decreased number of reflux episodes measured by impedance in premature infants.(189) - Safety—Despite possible benefits to positioning in the treatment of reflux, no position other than supine position is recommended for infants because of the risk of sudden infant death syndrome (SIDS). Supine sleeping is universally recommended by the National Health Service and the
