HHS Public Access
KEYWORDS: gerd, manuscript, author, author manuscript, infants, children, symptoms, studies, use, manuscript author, reflux, treatment, infants children, patients, based


other than supine position is recommended for infants because of the risk of sudden infant death syndrome (SIDS). Supine sleeping is universally recommended by the National Health Service and the American Academy of Pediatrics as the safest position to prevent the risk of SIDS. Because elevating the head of an infant’s crib while the infant is supine may result in the infant rolling to the foot of the crib into a position that may comprise respiration, elevating the head of the crib is not recommended by the American Academy of Pediatrics. (189) No studies are published on positioning therapy in older children. However, in adults, head- of-the-bed elevation modestly decreases time with supine acid exposure compared with a flat position (from 21% to 15%, p <0.05).(190) In another small study by Loots et al. in 10 adult GERD patients, TLESRs, reflux events, distension of proximal stomach, and gastric emptying were increased in the right lateral position compared to left lateral position, whilst this effect was not found in 10 healthy controls.(191) In conclusion, it is uncertain whether the use of positioning therapy (left side or head elevation positioning) improves the occurrence of crying/distress as signs and symptoms of GERD in infants. Recommendations 4.4 The working group recommends not to use positional therapy (i.e. head elevation, lateral and prone positioning) to treat symptoms of GERD in sleeping infants. VOTING: 6, 6, 7, 8, 8, 8, 9, 9, 9, 9. (strong recommendation) J Pediatr Gastroenterol Nutr. Author manuscript; available in PMC 2019 March 01. Author Manuscript Author Manuscript Author Manuscript Author Manuscript 4.5 Based on expert opinion, the working group suggests to consider the use of head elevation or left lateral positioning to treat symptoms of GERD in children. VOTING: 7, 8, 8, 8, 9, 9, 9, 9, 9, 9. (weak recommendation) Other non-pharmacological interventions including life-style modifications (alcohol and tobacco use/exposure), massage therapy, complementary therapy (hypnotherapy, homeopathy, acupuncture, herbal medicine), pre- and probiotics. The search yielded one study on the use of massage therapy in infants with a diagnosis of GERD according to their treating pediatrician, but no studies met our inclusion criteria on any of the other interventions.(155) In this single study by Neu et al., 36 infants with GERD diagnosed by I-GERQ-R were randomized to massage therapy or sham therapy including rocking and holding. Both groups experienced improvement in GERD symptoms, measured by I-GERQ-R scores, and no difference was
