HHS Public Access
KEYWORDS: gerd, manuscript, author, author manuscript, infants, children, symptoms, studies, use, manuscript author, reflux, treatment, infants children, patients, based


diagnosed by I-GERQ-R were randomized to massage therapy or sham therapy including rocking and holding. Both groups experienced improvement in GERD symptoms, measured by I-GERQ-R scores, and no difference was found between groups after the six week intervention. This study was limited by its small size and short length of intervention. Other considerations for non-pharmacologic therapies - Probiotics—No studies met the criteria for inclusion. However, one placebo-controlled RCT investigated the efficacy of Lactobacillus reuteri DSM 17938 given as drops daily for 90 days in 589 term newborns (age < 1 week) in the prevention of colic, regurgitation, and functional constipation. Since this study was a prevention study conducted in infants < 3 months of age, regardless of the presence of GERD, this study did not meet inclusion criteria. Nevertheless, regurgitation frequency was addressed as a primary outcome in the study. At the conclusion of the three month trial, the mean number of regurgitations per day in the L. reuteri DSM 17938 and placebo groups were significantly different: 2.9 vs 4.6; p < 0.01.(192) Significant improvement was also noted in crying time per day (p < 0.01), but this is a symptom not unique to GERD. No studies have been published on the effect of infant formula with probiotics on GERD symptoms. - Weight loss in obesity—In children, obesity has been associated with a small increase in risk of GERD symptoms compared to non-obese children.(193, 194) However the impact of obesity on GERD complications such as erosive esophagitis is less clear.(3, 195, 196) No pediatric intervention studies determine if weight reduction changes GERD symptoms. No pediatric studies show a relationship between obesity and reflux events by pH-metry or pH- MII. A review of lifestyle changes in adults with GERD concluded that only weight loss improved pH-metry profiles and symptoms.(197) In conclusion, it is uncertain whether the use of massage therapy reduces crying/ distress or other signs and symptoms of GERD in infants based on the I-GERQ-R questionnaire. While there is a lack of evidence supporting non-pharmacologic interventions, some interventions (such as tobacco avoidance) are low to no cost and risk and may merit a trial before considering more costly or risky therapies. Other interventions massage therapy, complementary therapy (hypnotherapy, homeopathy, acupuncture, and herbal medicine), dietary supplementation, pre-and probiotics have J Pediatr Gastroenterol Nutr. Author manuscript; available in PMC 2019 March 01. Author Manuscript Author Manuscript Author Manuscript Author Manuscript not been
