HHS Public Access
KEYWORDS: gerd, manuscript, author, author manuscript, infants, children, symptoms, studies, use, manuscript author, reflux, treatment, infants children, patients, based


and herbal medicine), dietary supplementation, pre-and probiotics have J Pediatr Gastroenterol Nutr. Author manuscript; available in PMC 2019 March 01. Author Manuscript Author Manuscript Author Manuscript Author Manuscript not been adequately studied and may pose more risk and cost so therefore cannot be recommended for the reduction of symptoms of GERD in infants and children. Recommendations 4.6 The working group suggests not to use massage therapy to treat infant GERD. VOTING: 7, 7, 7, 8, 8, 8, 9, 9, 9, 9. (weak recommendation) 4.7 Based on expert opinion, the working group suggests not to use currently available lifestyle interventions or complementary treatments such as prebiotics, probiotics, or herbal medications to treat GERD. VOTING: 5, 6, 7, 7, 8, 9, 9, 9, 9, 9. (weak recommendation) 4.8 Based on expert opinion, the working group suggests informing caregivers and children that excessive body weight is associated with an increased prevalence of GERD. VOTING: 6, 7, 7, 7, 7, 8, 8, 9, 9, 9. (weak recommendation) Parental guidance, education and support The search did not identify any studies fulfilling our inclusion criteria. - Other considerations on education—Patient and parental education, guidance, and support are always considered to be required as part of the treatment of GERD. It is important to inform caregivers about diagnostic and treatment options, side-effects, complications and prognosis (also see section Prognosis). These measures are usually sufficient to manage healthy, thriving infants with symptoms likely to result from physiologic GER.(1) A RCT on physician counseling of families of patients with chronic conditions, such as asthma, has shown that patient education on specific pathophysiology of the disorder, specific methods to prevent or treat symptoms, and patient empowerment, can help improve parent understanding of the disorder, decrease patient symptoms of the chronic pediatric GERD patients have been performed. In conclusion, there is no evidence to support parental guidance, education and support for the reduction of signs and symptoms of GERD in infants and children. Recommendation 4.9 Based on expert opinion, the working group recommends providing patient/parental education and support as part of the treatment of GERD (Algorithm 1). VOTING: 8, 8, 9, 9, 9, 9, 9, 9, 9, 9. (strong recommendation) J Pediatr Gastroenterol Nutr. Author manuscript; available in PMC 2019 March 01. Author Manuscript Author Manuscript Author Manuscript Author Manuscript Question 5: What are effective and safe pharmacologic treatment options for the reduction of signs and symptoms of GERD? Ten original
