HHS Public Access
KEYWORDS: gerd, manuscript, author, author manuscript, infants, children, symptoms, studies, use, manuscript author, reflux, treatment, infants children, patients, based


01. Author Manuscript Author Manuscript Author Manuscript Author Manuscript Question 5: What are effective and safe pharmacologic treatment options for the reduction of signs and symptoms of GERD? Ten original studies and 25 systematic reviews were eligible for inclusion. After checking reference lists of these systematic reviews and the ESPGHAN/NASPGHAN 2009 and NICE 2015 guidelines (See Appendix A for summary of search strategy, results and study selection), 12 additional original studies could be included, resulting in a total of 22 original studies. Characteristics of included studies can be found in Appendix B3. GRADE profiles can be found in Appendix D. Algorithm 1 and 2 display the therapeutic approach to respectively the infant and child with GERD. For recommended dosages for the different drugs we refer to Table 4. Anti-acids and alginates Alginates and antacids are designed to neutralize acid and contain either sodium/potassium bicarbonate, or aluminium, magnesium or calcium salts and are typically used to treat acid related disorders such as heartburn or dyspepsia. The search yielded two studies assessing the use of alginates (one containing 225mg sodium alginate and 87.5mg magnesium alginate (170) and one containing magnesium alginate and simethicone (200) versus placebo one study also assessed the use of alginates versus rice-starch thickened formula.(170) Two additional studies assessed the use of alginates vs H2RAs (see section 5).(201, 202) A recent Cochrane review on the currently available pharmacological interventions used to treat children with GER was also reviewed.(203) No studies meeting our inclusion criteria on the use of anti-acids were identified. Ummarino, et al., assessed GER symptoms using I-GERQ-R questionnaire scores. While they reported that median I-GERQ-R scores were more significantly reduced in the intervention group compared with no intervention (p < 0.0001) or thickened feedings (p < 0.002), no comparison between groups at end of study period was made.(170) Ummarino, et al., reported on the number of infants with persisting symptoms at week 4 and 8, showing a significant decrease in the number of infants regurgitating at week 8 when treated with alginates compared with no intervention (RR = 0.04, 95% CI 0.01 – 0.25) and compared with thickened feedings (RR = 0.26, 95% CI 0.26 – 0.88).(170) The other study, by Miller et al., found the number of vomiting/regurgitation episodes in 24 hours at two weeks was significantly lower compared with baseline (p=0.009), however the mean frequency of episodes did not differ statistically.(200) In both studies, no
