HHS Public Access
KEYWORDS: gerd, manuscript, author, author manuscript, infants, children, symptoms, studies, use, manuscript author, reflux, treatment, infants children, patients, based


of vomiting/regurgitation episodes in 24 hours at two weeks was significantly lower compared with baseline (p=0.009), however the mean frequency of episodes did not differ statistically.(200) In both studies, no significant differences were found in the number of infants with more than one adverse (AE; RR=1.30, 95%CI = 0.87 – 1.93) or serious adverse event (SAE; RR=1.10, 95%CI 0.16 – 7.43) or in the number of infants withdrawing from the study due to the occurrence of a(n) (S)AE (RR=0.63, 95%CI 0.20 – 1.99).(170, 200) The evidence for these findings ranged from low to very low quality. In conclusion, it is uncertain whether the use of alginates improves signs and symptoms of GER based on the I-GERQ-R questionnaire. The use of alginates may slightly improve visible regurgitation/vomiting as signs and symptoms of GER. It is uncertain J Pediatr Gastroenterol Nutr. Author manuscript; available in PMC 2019 March 01. Author Manuscript Author Manuscript Author Manuscript Author Manuscript whether the use of alginates for the reduction of signs and symptoms of GER in infants leads to side-effects. Other considerations for alginates - pH-MII parameters—Del Buono et al. studied sodium and magnesium alginate and mannitol (but not bicarbonate) in infants up to six months of age using pH-MII impedance. The 24 hour-reflux burden or the number of reflux events per hour did not differ in patients receiving alginate compared with those receiving placebo.(204) However, the dosage described in the study was lower than that recommended by the manufacturer which may have influenced results. Furthermore, no data on visible regurgitation/vomiting events were reported, so no conclusions about improvement in GERD symptoms can be determined. - Safety—Over the last five years, very few studies have assessed the efficacy and safety of alginates in childhood. Nevertheless, alginates on-demand and short-term treatment seem to have no significant side effects. The prolonged use of aluminium-containing antacids may lead to increased aluminium plasma concentrations in infants.(205, 206) Chronic high exposure or high-dose ingestion of calcium carbonate can cause milk-alkali syndrome; a triad of hypercalcemia, alkalosis and renal failure. Therefore, aluminium-containing antacids should not be used in children with renal impairment or in infants. - Other guidelines—In the recently published NICE guidelines, alginates are recommended as an alternative treatment to feed thickening agents in breastfed infants or as a trial in infants in whom symptoms persist despite conservative measures.(3) Additionally, the NICE working group recommends the use of antacids and antacid/alginates
