HHS Public Access
KEYWORDS: gerd, manuscript, author, author manuscript, infants, children, symptoms, studies, use, manuscript author, reflux, treatment, infants children, patients, based


thickening agents in breastfed infants or as a trial in infants in whom symptoms persist despite conservative measures.(3) Additionally, the NICE working group recommends the use of antacids and antacid/alginates for symptom relief in young people suffering from heartburn who have gone through puberty. This recommendation is extrapolated from another NICE guideline on dyspepsia and GERD in adults. As there is no evidence comparing alginates to any recommended feed thickening agent or on the use of antacids to treat GERD in children or adolescents, the current working group decided to suggest that antacids/alginates should not be used for chronic treatment of infants and children with GERD. Recommendation 5.1 The working group suggests not to use antacids/alginates for chronic treatment of infants and children with GERD. VOTING: 6, 7, 8, 8, 8, 8, 9, 9, 9, 9. (weak recommendation) Acid suppressive therapy including proton pump inhibitors (PPIs) and histamine receptor antagonists (H2RAs) Results of acid suppression trials are discussed below. When assessing PPI efficacy in treating symptoms, esophagitis, or other GERD complications, the dose, method and timing of administration, variations in drug metabolism, and patient compliance must be considered. J Pediatr Gastroenterol Nutr. Author manuscript; available in PMC 2019 March 01. Author Manuscript Author Manuscript Author Manuscript Author Manuscript PPIs vs placebo The search yielded seven studies that compared the use of proton-pump inhibitors (PPIs) versus placebo in the treatment of GERD. Definitions of GERD varied widely among symptoms and/or an I-GERQ-R score > 16.(177) Efficacy of different PPIs were assessed, including lansoprazole (207), esomeprazole (156, 208, 209), rabeprazole (210), pantoprazole (177) and omeprazole.(211) No study comparing different types of PPIs was found. In one study, GERD symptoms were assessed by using the I-GERQ-R score. Although no data were reported, the authors stated that there were no significant differences in I-GERQ-R score in the infants treated with rabeprazole. Quality of evidence was very low.(210) Six studies (all in infants < 12 months) reported on the efficacy of PPIs in the treatment of crying and/or irritability. None of the six studies identified significant differences in symptom improvement (including symptoms such as crying, cough, arching) between infants who received PPI and those receiving placebo. The evidence was of low to very low quality.(177, 207–211) Four studies of infants with GERD (confirmed by pH-metry) used regurgitation as a primary outcome, and all four found that PPIs did not reduce the frequency of overt regurgitation
