HHS Public Access
KEYWORDS: gerd, manuscript, author, author manuscript, infants, children, symptoms, studies, use, manuscript author, reflux, treatment, infants children, patients, based


did not differ between infants and children treated with ranitidine or placebo.(214) In conclusion, it is uncertain whether the use of H2RAs reduces crying/distress, visible regurgitation/vomiting or heartburn in children with GERD compared with placebo. It is uncertain whether the use of H2RAs improves histology/erosive esophagitis in children with GERD compared with placebo. It is uncertain whether the use of H2RAs leads to side-effects in infants and children with GERD compared with placebo. PPIs vs H2RAs The search yielded two studies that compared omeprazole versus ranitidine in infants and children with GERD based on clinical symptoms and results of pH-metry and/or endoscopy. (30, 216) The quality of evidence of both studies was very low. Ummarino, et al, found no significant difference in symptom severity scores of crying/distress or chest pain between the groups treated with omeprazole versus ranitidine based on the mean differences in symptom scores after eight weeks of treatment compared with baseline.(216) In the other eight-week study, Cucchiara, et al, found no statistically significant difference in esophagitis healing between infants and children with refractory GERD who received high dose ranitidine compared with omeprazole. The evidence for this finding was of very low quality.(30) In conclusion, it is uncertain whether the use of omeprazole reduces crying/distress or chest pain as signs and symptoms of GERD in infants and children with GERD compared with ranitidine. It is uncertain whether the use of omeprazole improves histology/macroscopy in infants and children with GERD compared with ranitidine. It is uncertain whether the use of omeprazole leads to more side-effects in infants and children with GERD compared with ranitidine. PPIs vs antacid The search yielded one study that compared esomeprazole vs. an antacid (aluminum hydroxide, magnesium hydroxide and simethicone) in infants with GERD as defined by authors. All infants also received positioning therapy (left-lateral position) during the study period.(156) Based on results of this study, no significant differences were found between esomeprazole-versus antacid-treated infants regarding the number of crying episodes or total minutes of crying. The quality of evidence was very low.(156) In conclusion, it is uncertain whether the use of esomeprazole reduces crying/distress as signs and symptoms of GERD in infants with GERD compared with antacids. H2RAs vs antacid/alginate The search identified two studies that compared the use of an H2RA with an antacid/ alginate. Oderda, et al, compared famotidine versus an alginate-antacid mixture (0.5 gr algenic acid, 0.1 gr aluminum hydroxide, 0.025
