HHS Public Access
KEYWORDS: gerd, manuscript, author, author manuscript, infants, children, symptoms, studies, use, manuscript author, reflux, treatment, infants children, patients, based


studies that compared the use of an H2RA with an antacid/ alginate. Oderda, et al, compared famotidine versus an alginate-antacid mixture (0.5 gr algenic acid, 0.1 gr aluminum hydroxide, 0.025 gr magnesium trisilicate and 0.17 gr sodium bicarbonate) in children with endoscopy-confirmed esophagitis.(201) Cucchiara, et al, investigated infants and children with a diagnosis of GERD based upon radiology, pH-metry and/or endoscopy results, comparing cimetidine with a liquid magnesium hydroxide and J Pediatr Gastroenterol Nutr. Author manuscript; available in PMC 2019 March 01. Author Manuscript Author Manuscript Author Manuscript Author Manuscript aluminum hydroxide mixture to determine the primary outcome of symptom resolution. (202) No statistically significant differences were found in erosive esophagitis or histology between infants and children receiving a H2RA and those receiving an antacid/alginate. The quality of evidence was very low. In conclusion, it is uncertain whether the use of an H2RA improves histology/ macroscopy in infants and children with GERD compared with antacids/alginates. PPIs vs feeding intervention The search yielded one study on the use of lansoprazole (comparing two doses, 15mg once a day vs 7.5mg twice a day) vs hydrolyzed formula in infants with GERD defined by an I- GERQ-R score > 16.(217) Both of the lansoprazole groups experienced significantly greater improvement in symptoms, defined as an improvement in I-GERQ-R scores, over the course of the 2 week trial compared with the hydrolysate formula, but no differences were found in the degree of symptom response between the two lansoprazole doses. The quality of evidence was very low. Although not predefined as an outcome measure, no adverse events of treatment were reported during the study period. In conclusion, it is uncertain whether the use of lansoprazole improves signs and symptoms based on the I-GERQ-R questionnaire in infants with GERD compared with hydrolyzed formula. It is uncertain whether the use of lansoprazole leads to more side- effects in infants with GERD compared with hydrolyzed formula. H2RAs vs sucralfate The search identified one study comparing cimetidine with sucralfate in children with endoscopy-based diagnosis of erosive esophagitis in an eight-week trial.(218) The study reported no significant differences in endoscopic healing between the groups treated with cimetidine versus sucralfate. Quality of the evidence was very low. Although not included as predefined outcome measure, no adverse events were reported by any of the study subjects. In conclusion, it is uncertain whether the use of cimetidine improves histology/ macroscopy in infants and children with
