HHS Public Access
KEYWORDS: gerd, manuscript, author, author manuscript, infants, children, symptoms, studies, use, manuscript author, reflux, treatment, infants children, patients, based


measure, no adverse events were reported by any of the study subjects. In conclusion, it is uncertain whether the use of cimetidine improves histology/ macroscopy in infants and children with GERD when compared to sucralfate. It is uncertain whether the use of cimetidine leads to more side-effects in infants and children with GERD compared with sucralfate. Other considerations for treatment - PPIs vs H2RAs—Although their pharmacological mechanisms differ, both PPIs and H2RAs are acid-suppressing agents and thus similar outcomes can be expected. Although the studies are imperfect, symptom control between H2RA and PPIs is comparable. Rates of healing of erosive or histologic esophagitis are higher after 12 weeks of therapy with a PPI in contrast to H2RA.(1) Although evidence in children is very low, evidence in adults with erosive esophagitis shows that PPIs are superior to any other pharmacological treatments. (51, 219–221) Limited data are available on rates of esophagitis relapse seen after discontinuation of therapy. A single pediatric study by Boccia et al. showed a low microscopic esophagitis recurrence rate and GERD symptom recurrence long term after J Pediatr Gastroenterol Nutr. Author manuscript; available in PMC 2019 March 01. Author Manuscript Author Manuscript Author Manuscript Author Manuscript healing with omeprazole, irrespective of the maintenance therapy.(222) Therefore, based upon evidence from adult literature and expert opinion, the working group recommends PPIs as first-line treatment.(223) However, the working group also concluded that the decision of which to use should be based on practical considerations, such as ease of administration and medication cost and suggests H2RAs as a second line therapy in the treatment of esophagitis caused by acid reflux when PPIs are not available. Choice of PPIs or H2RA depends entirely on availability and cost, as no evidence supports superiority of any one PPI or H2RA over another. From a dosing perspective, the pediatric trials for the healing of erosive and microscopic esophagitis have shown consistently high rates of healing at PPI doses of 1–1.7 mg/kg/day (see Table 4)(83, 224, 225) - Safety—Despite the fact that none of the GRADE approved studies reported any serious adverse events in children taking H2RA or PPIs, case control studies show increased risk of infection in infants and children taking these medications compared to non-users. These infections include necrotizing enterocolitis, pneumonia, upper respiratory tract infections, sepsis, urinary tract infections, and Clostridium difficile infections.(51, 226, 227) Acid has a protective effect against bacterial gastrointestinal infections, and
