HHS Public Access
KEYWORDS: gerd, manuscript, author, author manuscript, infants, children, symptoms, studies, use, manuscript author, reflux, treatment, infants children, patients, based


These infections include necrotizing enterocolitis, pneumonia, upper respiratory tract infections, sepsis, urinary tract infections, and Clostridium difficile infections.(51, 226, 227) Acid has a protective effect against bacterial gastrointestinal infections, and it is therefore important that widespread unnecessary usage of acid suppressive medications be avoided, and that when these drugs are used, unnecessarily long-term usage be avoided whenever possible. Thus, it is important to be able to identify those children and young people with reflux esophagitis and symptoms responsive to acid suppression therapy so that treatment is used appropriately. Additionally, the working group also recommends the importance of regular assessment of the ongoing need for long-term acid suppression therapy in infants and children with GERD. While increased risk of fractures, dementia, myocardial infarction, and renal disease have been reported in PPI users, no pediatric evidence convincingly documents these risks, and these studies are often confounded by comorbidities found in patients taking PPIs. However, given the mounting data in adults questioning the safety of these medications in multiple organ systems, these medications should be prescribed only when there is a clear diagnosis of GERD and, whenever possible, the lowest doses should be prescribed for the shortest length of time possible. There is a critical need for PPI safety studies in pediatrics, particularly because of the high rates of prescribing in this vulnerable population. Recommendations 5.2 Based on expert opinion, the working group recommends the use of PPIs as first-line treatment of reflux-related erosive esophagitis in infants and children with GERD (Algorithm 2). VOTING: 7, 7, 8, 9, 9, 9, 9, 9, 9, 9. (strong recommendation) 5.3 Based on expert opinion, the working group suggests to use H2RAs in the treatment of reflux related erosive esophagitis in infants and children if PPIs are not available or contra-indicated (Algorithm 2). J Pediatr Gastroenterol Nutr. Author manuscript; available in PMC 2019 March 01. Author Manuscript Author Manuscript Author Manuscript Author Manuscript VOTING: 7, 8, 8, 8, 9, 9, 9, 9, 9, 9. (weak recommendation) Recommendations 5.4 The working group recommends not to use H2RA or PPI for the treatment of crying/ distress in otherwise healthy infants. VOTING: 5, 7, 7, 8, 9, 9, 9, 9, 9, 9. (strong recommendation) 5.5 The working group recommends that H2RA or PPI should not be used for the treatment of visible regurgitation in otherwise healthy infants. VOTING: 7, 8, 8, 8, 9, 9, 9, 9, 9, 9. (strong recommendation)
