HHS Public Access
KEYWORDS: gerd, manuscript, author, author manuscript, infants, children, symptoms, studies, use, manuscript author, reflux, treatment, infants children, patients, based


H2RA or PPI should not be used for the treatment of visible regurgitation in otherwise healthy infants. VOTING: 7, 8, 8, 8, 9, 9, 9, 9, 9, 9. (strong recommendation) 5.6 Based on expert opinion, the working group recommends a 4–8 week course of H2RAs or PPIs for treatment of typical symptoms (i.e. heartburn, retrosternal or epigastric pain) in children with GERD (Algorithm 2). VOTING: 7, 7, 8, 8, 8, 8, 9, 9, 9, 9. (strong recommendation) 5.7 Based on expert opinion, the working group suggests not to use H2RAs or PPIs in patients with extraesophageal symptoms (i.e. cough, wheezing, asthma), except in the presence of typical GERD symptoms and/or diagnostic testing suggestive of GERD. VOTING: 6, 6, 6, 6, 8, 8, 8, 8, 8, 9. (weak recommendation) 5.8 Based on expert opinion, the working group recommends evaluation of treatment efficacy and exclusion of alternative causes of symptoms in infants and children not responding to 4 – 8 weeks of optimal medical therapy for GERD (Algorithm 2). VOTING: 6, 7, 7, 8, 8, 8, 8, 9, 9, 9. (strong recommendation) 5.9 Based on expert opinion, the working group recommends the regular assessment of the ongoing need of long-term acid suppression therapy in infants and children with GERD (Algorithm 2). VOTING: 6, 7, 7, 9, 9, 9, 9, 9, 9, 9. (strong recommendation) Prokinetics Baclofen vs placebo—The search identified one double-blinded placebo RCT of baclofen versus placebo in 30 children with intractable GERD symptoms, applying manometry, pH-metry and gastric emptying results as outcome measures. Each patient was blinded to receive drug or placebo, and manometry and pH recording were performed for 2 hours after each drug was administered. Baclofen significantly reduced the rates of acid reflux and TLESRs and improved gastric emptying measured by breath testing. Although this study did not assess symptom response, it did report on the total number of adverse events and was therefore included for review. Based upon this study, no significant difference in the number of adverse events was found between study groups. The quality of evidence was very low.(228) J Pediatr Gastroenterol Nutr. Author manuscript; available in PMC 2019 March 01. Author Manuscript Author Manuscript Author Manuscript Author Manuscript Other considerations for baclofen use: Baclofen reduces the frequency of TLESRs, reduces acid reflux and accelerates gastric emptying, but it has not been evaluated in controlled trials for treatment of GERD in children.(225) Based on adult
