HHS Public Access
KEYWORDS: gerd, manuscript, author, author manuscript, infants, children, symptoms, studies, use, manuscript author, reflux, treatment, infants children, patients, based


reduces the frequency of TLESRs, reduces acid reflux and accelerates gastric emptying, but it has not been evaluated in controlled trials for treatment of GERD in children.(225) Based on adult literature review, baclofen may be useful for treatment of GERD patients, but should not be regarded as first- choice therapy largely because of the potential side effects seen in adult studies.(229) - Safety of baclofen: Side effects such as dyspeptic symptoms, drowsiness, dizziness, fatigue, and lowered threshold for seizures have been reported in adults, but not in children possibly due to the limited number of treated children. Such side-effects preclude its routine use. In conclusion, it is uncertain if the use of baclofen for the reduction of signs and symptoms in infants and children with GERD leads to side-effects compared with placebo. Recommendation 5.10 Based on expert opinion, the working group suggests that baclofen can be considered prior to surgery in children in whom other pharmacological treatments have failed. VOTING: 6, 6, 6, 6, 7, 7, 7, 8, 8, 8. (weak recommendation) Domperidone and metoclopramide Domperidone vs placebo: The search identified two studies comparing domperidone and of GER, defined by the presence of vomiting after a meal (230), while Carroccio et al. evaluated symptomatic infants and children with GERD confirmed by pH-metry.(231) Based upon the results of De Loore et al. in which 47 infants and children were randomized to a two-week double-blind trial comparing domperidone, metoclopramide or placebo, domperidone led to significant improvement in the percentage of patients vomiting at the end of the treatment period compared with placebo (p<0.001). Carroccio et al., randomized patients to domperidone alone, domperidone with 2 different antacids or placebo and found that domperidone, when paired with antacids, reduced GERD symptoms (though not assessed as required to be included for analysis as an outcome measure in the current guideline) as well as pH-metry variables compared with placebo.(230) Both studies reported no side-effects. Quality of evidence was very low.(230, 231) In conclusion, it is uncertain whether the use of domperidone reduces visible regurgitation/vomiting as signs and symptoms in infants and children with GER compared with placebo. It is uncertain whether the use of domperidone for the reduction of signs and symptoms in infants and children with GER(D) leads to more side-effects compared with placebo. Metoclopramide vs placebo—The search identified three studies on the use of metoclopramide versus placebo. Two were conducted in infants with pH-metry-confirmed
