HHS Public Access
KEYWORDS: gerd, manuscript, author, author manuscript, infants, children, symptoms, studies, use, manuscript author, reflux, treatment, infants children, patients, based


with GER(D) leads to more side-effects compared with placebo. Metoclopramide vs placebo—The search identified three studies on the use of metoclopramide versus placebo. Two were conducted in infants with pH-metry-confirmed J Pediatr Gastroenterol Nutr. Author manuscript; available in PMC 2019 March 01. Author Manuscript Author Manuscript Author Manuscript Author Manuscript GERD.(230) One of these studies was conducted in a cross-over design, and two were randomized controlled trials.(230, 232, 233) De Loore et al., reported a two-week double- blind trial comparing domperidone, metoclopramide and placebo, and found significant improvement in the percentage of patients vomiting in those receiving metoclopramide compared with placebo (p<0.001), however no raw data were provided. The quality of evidence was very low.(230) Though not included as a predefined outcome measure in the present guideline, neither the study by Tolia et al. nor the study by De Loore et al. found significant improvement based on pH-metry parameters(230, 232) No significant adverse events were reported during the study period.(230, 232) In conclusion, it is uncertain whether the use of metoclopramide improves visible regurgitation/vomiting as signs and symptoms in infants and children with GER. It is uncertain whether the use of metoclopramide for the reduction of signs and symptoms in infants and children with GER(D) leads to more side-effects compared with placebo. Domperidone vs metoclopramide—The search yielded one study comparing domperidone and metoclopramide in infants and children with a clinical diagnosis of GER defined by pronounced vomiting after meals.(230) De Loore, et al, found significant improvement in the percentage of patients vomiting at the end of treatment in the group treated with domperidone compared with metoclopramide (p<0.05), however no raw data were provided. Quality of evidence was very low. No side effects were reported during the study period.(230) In conclusion, it is uncertain whether the use of domperidone reduces visible regurgitation/vomiting as signs and symptoms in infants and children with GER compared with metoclopramide. It is uncertain whether the use of domperidone for the reduction of signs and symptoms in infants and children with GER leads to more side- effects compared with metoclopramide. - Safety of domperidone and metoclopramide: Domperidone and metoclopramide are antidopaminergic agents that facilitate gastric emptying. Over the last 5 years, one meta- analysis has been completed on the safety of metoclopramide that reviewed 108 (57 prospective) studies.(234) The most common adverse effects were extrapyramidal symptoms (9%; 95%CI 5–17%), diarrhea (6%; 95%CI 4–9%), and sedation (multiple-dose studies:
