HHS Public Access
KEYWORDS: gerd, manuscript, author, author manuscript, infants, children, symptoms, studies, use, manuscript author, reflux, treatment, infants children, patients, based


on the safety of metoclopramide that reviewed 108 (57 prospective) studies.(234) The most common adverse effects were extrapyramidal symptoms (9%; 95%CI 5–17%), diarrhea (6%; 95%CI 4–9%), and sedation (multiple-dose studies: 6%; 95%CI 3–12). Dysrhythmia, respiratory distress/arrest, neuroleptic malignant syndrome, and tardive dyskinesia were rarely associated with metoclopramide use. Its therapeutic dosage is very close to the toxic dosage resulting in a very narrow safe dosing range. In some countries, regulatory agencies have removed it from the market because of its side effects and in 2013, the European Medicines Agency released a statement that the risk of neurological adverse for metoclopramide outweighed the benefit when taken for a prolonged amount of time at a high dose. A similar warning was made by the Food and Drug metoclopramide is contraindicated in infants <1 year of age due to its side-effects. As with metoclopramide, the side effect concerns relative to medication efficacy with domperidone are significant. The most concerning and significant adverse event related to its use is J Pediatr Gastroenterol Nutr. Author manuscript; available in PMC 2019 March 01. Author Manuscript Author Manuscript Author Manuscript Author Manuscript prolongation of the QTc interval, an event that has been reported in 1 out of 5 pediatric studies although there are conflicting results among studies and heterogeneity among study populations.(235) Domperidone also has been associated with extrapyramidal central nervous system side effects, which preclude its routine use.(212, 236–239) In 2014, the Medicine and Healthcare products Regulatory Authority (MHRA) released a statement that there was a small risk of adverse cardiac events (specifically serious ventricular arrhythmia and sudden cardiac death) with the use of domperidone. Domperidone is not available in the United States and Health Canada has issued a warning related to its use in 2012 because of the risk of sudden death. The working group was therefore concerned that these agents should only be considered for use following specialist advice and as a last-line therapy. Insufficient evidence of clinical efficacy exists to justify routine use of either metoclopramide or domperidone for GERD, and these agents should thus not be regarded as an initial treatment for GERD in infants and children. Recommendation 5.11 The working group suggests not to use domperidone in the treatment of GERD in infants and children. VOTING: 6, 7, 8, 8, 8, 9, 9, 9, 9, 9. (weak recommendation) 5.12 The working group suggests not to use metoclopramide in the treatment of
