HHS Public Access
KEYWORDS: gerd, manuscript, author, author manuscript, infants, children, symptoms, studies, use, manuscript author, reflux, treatment, infants children, patients, based


in infants and children. VOTING: 6, 7, 8, 8, 8, 9, 9, 9, 9, 9. (weak recommendation) 5.12 The working group suggests not to use metoclopramide in the treatment of GERD in infants and children. VOTING: 8, 8, 9, 9, 9, 9, 9, 9, 9, 9. (weak recommendation) Other prokinetics (i.e. erythromycin, cisapride and bethanechol) Cisapride—Cisapride is a mixed serotonergic agent that facilitates the release of acetylcholine at synapses in the myenteric plexus, thereby increasing gastric emptying and improving esophageal and intestinal peristalsis. It was withdrawn from the market of most countries more than 10 years ago, after it was found to produce prolongation of the QTc interval, increasing the risk of sudden death.(1) Thereafter, its use has been restricted to heavily regulated, limited-access programs supervised by a pediatric gastroenterologist and GERD are not different, and it was for these reasons that the working group decided (though several RCTs on the efficacy of cisapride in pediatrics exist to remove cisapride from the available treatment options for GERD.(240–245) Erythromycin or bethanechol—The search did not identify any studies fulfilling our inclusion criteria. However, one randomized controlled trial of erythromycin (5 mg/kg every 8 hours) versus placebo met inclusion criteria for the treatment of feeding intolerance, using improvement in reflux burden measured by pH-metry and improvement of GERD symptoms as secondary outcomes. In this study, erythromycin and placebo both improved pH-metry parameters, time to full enteral feeds and GERD symptoms equally.(246) Subsequent placebo controlled randomized trials in infants using higher dose erythromycin (4–12.5 mg/kg/dose TID-QID) showed improvement in time to full enteral feedings and/or weight J Pediatr Gastroenterol Nutr. Author manuscript; available in PMC 2019 March 01. Author Manuscript Author Manuscript Author Manuscript Author Manuscript gain, although reflux endpoints were not assessed.(247–249) While good evidence shows that erythromycin may improve feeding tolerance in infants, no evidence supports the benefit of erythromycin for treatment of GERD. - Other considerations: Bethanechol, a direct cholinergic agonist, is not approved by the FDA for use in children, has been studied in a few trials in pediatric GERD, has uncertain efficacy, and carries a high potential of side effects.(250, 251) Erythromycin and azithromycin, motilin agonists not approved by the FDA for treatment of GERD, are sometimes used in patients with gastroparesis to accelerate gastric emptying. Patients with aerodigestive disorders may derive some benefit due to its anti-inflammatory properties for the lung, although bethanechol is not approved by the
