HHS Public Access
KEYWORDS: gerd, manuscript, author, author manuscript, infants, children, symptoms, studies, use, manuscript author, reflux, treatment, infants children, patients, based


patients with gastroparesis to accelerate gastric emptying. Patients with aerodigestive disorders may derive some benefit due to its anti-inflammatory properties for the lung, although bethanechol is not approved by the FDA for use in children.(1) In a single randomized controlled crossover study of azithromycin in adults undergoing pH-MII testing, no reduction was reported in the total number of reflux events measured by pH-MII, but reduction was observed in the percentage of time pH was <4.(252) Although its role in the therapy of GER and GERD has not been investigated, erythromycin is in widespread use in the NHS and in the United States as a prokinetic.(3) In conclusion, there is no evidence to support the use of bethanechol or erythromycin for the treatment of GERD in infants and children. Recommendation 5.13 Based on expert opinion, the working group suggests not to use any other prokinetics (i.e. erythromycin, betanechol) as first line treatment in infants and children with GERD. VOTING: 8, 8, 8, 8, 9, 9, 9, 9, 9, 9 (weak recommendation) Question 6: Which infants and children would benefit from surgical treatment (i.e. fundoplication) after (non)-pharmacological treatment and what are the efficacies of these surgical therapies? Fundoplication The search did not identify any RCTs meeting our inclusion criteria concerning surgical treatment of infants and children with GERD refractory to non-pharmacological and pharmacological treatment. (See Appendix A for summary of search strategy, results and study selection). Only comparative studies (2 RCTs (253, 254) and one observational study(255)) were identified. This question is thus answered based on expert opinion and earlier published guidelines and literature relevant to the research question with a recognition of the publication bias often found in the surgical literature.(1, 3) - Other considerations when considering fundoplication—Antireflux surgery is usually undertaken after other options have failed or as an option to manage GERD-related complications.(1) Fundoplication decreases reflux by increasing the LES baseline pressure, decreasing the number of TLESRs and the nadir pressure during swallow induced J Pediatr Gastroenterol Nutr. Author manuscript; available in PMC 2019 March 01. Author Manuscript Author Manuscript Author Manuscript Author Manuscript relaxation, increasing the length of the intra-abdominal esophagus, accentuating the angle of His and reducing a hiatal hernia if present. Different antireflux surgical approaches exist. Laparoscopic Nissen fundoplication is considered the gold standard for surgical treatment of severe GERD and has largely replaced open Nissen fundoplication as the preferred perioperative problems.(256) Robot-assisted Nissen fundoplication represents
