HHS Public Access
KEYWORDS: gerd, manuscript, author, author manuscript, infants, children, symptoms, studies, use, manuscript author, reflux, treatment, infants children, patients, based


were reported in 3/25 patients and new-onset dysphagia also developed in 3 patients.(269) Outcome of surgery does not seem to be influenced by surgical technique, although postoperative dysphagia seems to occur less frequently after partial fundoplication.(267) In a retrospective review of 823 children (age < 18 years) who underwent Nissen fundoplication, the incidence of redo fundoplication was 12.2%. This risk increased with hiatal dissection, retching, and younger age at initial surgery.(270) Another series of 2008 fundoplications in children (age range 5 – 19 years) reported wrap failure rates of 4.6% after initial surgery and 6.8% after redo surgery.(256) Antireflux surgery has the poorest success rate in the treatment of extraesophageal symptoms including aspiration pneumonia. In the population of children with J Pediatr Gastroenterol Nutr. Author manuscript; available in PMC 2019 March 01. Author Manuscript Author Manuscript Author Manuscript Author Manuscript extraesophageal symptoms, multiple studies have failed to show consistent benefit, including no reduction of mechanical ventilation, pneumonias or asthma.(271–274) Furthermore, pediatric data report no significant reduction in the use of acid suppression medication after fundoplication, with more than 75% of patients taking medication 1 year after surgery.(274) Antireflux surgery may be of benefit in children with confirmed GERD who have failed or are significantly non-adherent to optimal medical therapy or who have life-threatening complications of proven GERD. Before surgery, it is essential to rule out non-GERD causes of symptoms and ensure that the diagnosis of chronic-relapsing GERD is firmly established. It is important to provide families with appropriate education and a realistic understanding of the potential complications of surgery, including symptom recurrence (Question 4).(1) In all cases, the risks of surgery need to be weighed against the potential benefit and patient selection is critical; only patients with clearly proven GERD should be considered for surgery. Risks from fundoplication including gas-bloat, early satiety/pain, dysphagia, retching, dumping syndrome, worsening aspiration risk from esophageal stasis, and wrap slipping/unwrapping resulting in the need for reoperation. In all cases, the risks and benefits of surgical intervention should be weighed against those of medications and/or post-pyloric feeds. Recommendations 6.1 Based on expert opinion, the working group suggests antireflux surgery, including fundoplication, can be considered in infants and children with GERD and: - life threatening complications (e.g. cardiorespiratory failure) of GERD after failure of optimal medical treatment - symptoms refractory to optimal therapy (question 4, 5, 6), after appropriate evaluation to exclude other underlying diseases - chronic
