HHS Public Access
KEYWORDS: gerd, manuscript, author, author manuscript, infants, children, symptoms, studies, use, manuscript author, reflux, treatment, infants children, patients, based


cardiorespiratory failure) of GERD after failure of optimal medical treatment - symptoms refractory to optimal therapy (question 4, 5, 6), after appropriate evaluation to exclude other underlying diseases - chronic conditions (i.e. neurologically impaired, cystic fibrosis) with a significant risk of GERD-related complications - the need for chronic pharmacotherapy for control of signs and/or symptoms of GERD. VOTING: 5, 7, 7, 7, 8, 9, 9, 9, 9, 9. (weak recommendation) Other surgical interventions for the treatment of refractory GERD The search did not identify any RCTs meeting our inclusion criteria concerning infants and children with GERD, refractory to non-pharmacological and pharmacological treatment, investigating the efficacy of new treatment options not already discussed elsewhere in the guidelines compared with no treatment or any other pharmacological treatment (See Appendix A for summary of search strategy, results and study selection). This question is thus answered based on expert opinions and earlier published guidelines and literature relevant to the research question.(1, 3) J Pediatr Gastroenterol Nutr. Author manuscript; available in PMC 2019 March 01. Author Manuscript Author Manuscript Author Manuscript Author Manuscript Total esophagogastric disconnection—Total esophagogastric disconnection (TED, Bianchi procedure) is an alternative surgical procedure in resistant GERD. It was first described in 1997 by Bianchi as a new surgical procedure to treat severe GERD in children with neurological impairment, but has also been proposed in other conditions, such as esophageal atresia, tracheoesophageal fistula, or caustic esophageal lesions. This procedure permanently eliminates GERD by transecting the esophagus from the stomach and creating an esophagojejunal anastomosis. The biliopancreatic limb is then anastomosed to the jejunal loop approximately 30 cm distal to the esophagojejunal anastomosis to drain the gastric contents. Gastric feedings may still be utilized via a gastrostomy tube in the remnant stomach without the risk of reflux. In a non-randomized prospective comparative study, Gatti, et al, reported on 12 neurologically impaired children who underwent fundoplication with gastrostomy and 14 who underwent TED. The latter group showed a significant benefit for growth, respiratory of 20 neurologically impaired children, TED was as beneficial as Nissen fundoplication for controlling GERD, but with a lower failure rate.(276) As esophagogastric disconnection was considered a safe definitive solution for GERD, because it eliminates the risk of recurrent reflux, some authors have recommended its use as a primary treatment of choice for severely neurologically impaired patients who are experiencing GERD and are completely dependent on tube feeds.(277) A recent systematic review
