HHS Public Access
KEYWORDS: gerd, manuscript, author, author manuscript, infants, children, symptoms, studies, use, manuscript author, reflux, treatment, infants children, patients, based


have recommended its use as a primary treatment of choice for severely neurologically impaired patients who are experiencing GERD and are completely dependent on tube feeds.(277) A recent systematic review of 181 cases of TED (117 primary operations and 64 rescue procedures) reported 16.0% early complications and 15.5% late complications including 3.3% deaths related to the procedure and 11.6% requiring re-operation.(278) In a recent retrospective long term study comparing TED and fundoplication in neurologically impaired children, Lansdale, et al, showed that TED was effective in controlling GERD. However, TED was more likely to require intensive care, and operative time, length of stay and time to full feeds were all longer.(279) In addition, long term complications have been recently reported, including stenosis of the esophagojejunal anastomosis up to 9 years after TED, requiring repeated dilations, and Barrett esophagus 8 to 9 years after TED.(280) Nutritional and metabolic complications including dumping syndrome and chronic digestive malabsorption (i.e. Vitamin B12) are frequent after TED, requiring prolonged enteral nutrition.(281) In conclusion, no evidence supports total esophagogastric disconnection in infants and children with GERD refractory to pharmacological treatment. Recommendations 6.2 Based on expert opinion, the working group recommends not to use total esophagogastric disconnection as a first line surgical treatment in infants and children with GERD refractory to optimal treatment. VOTING: 8, 8, 9, 9, 9, 9, 9, 9, 9, 9. (strong recommendation) 6.3 Based on expert opinion, the working group suggests the use of total esophagogastric disconnection can be considered as a rescue procedure for neurologically impaired children with a failed fundoplication. J Pediatr Gastroenterol Nutr. Author manuscript; available in PMC 2019 March 01. Author Manuscript Author Manuscript Author Manuscript Author Manuscript VOTING: 7, 7, 7, 8, 8, 8, 9, 9, 9, 9. (weak recommendation) Transpyloric/jejunal feeding—Transpyloric/jejunal feeding outcomes have been studied in two groups: patients with extraesophageal reflux complications (aspiration pneumonia, apnea and bradycardia) and infants with growth concerns. For treatment of extraesophageal reflux, large database studies in children suggest that rates of GERD complications (aspiration pneumonia) in children with neurologic disability are comparable between patients who received fundoplication and those receiving transpyloric feedings.(271, 282) Interestingly, in these studies, the patients with transpyloric feeding actually had higher rates of comorbidities despite similar outcomes suggesting that transpyloric feeding has equivalent efficacy to fundoplication even in children with significant comorbidities. The strength of these studies lies in their large numbers and their well-defined outcomes. One
