HHS Public Access
KEYWORDS: gerd, manuscript, author, author manuscript, infants, children, symptoms, studies, use, manuscript author, reflux, treatment, infants children, patients, based


suggesting that transpyloric feeding has equivalent efficacy to fundoplication even in children with significant comorbidities. The strength of these studies lies in their large numbers and their well-defined outcomes. One of the limitations to these studies (and studies of fundoplication as well) is patient comorbidities that may bias the outcomes. For example, children with neurologic compromise frequently have oropharyngeal dysphagia with resultant aspiration. Because transpyloric feeding (or fundoplication) has no impact on swallowing function, aspiration pneumonias may persist because of the contribution of swallowing dysfunction independently of reflux burden. Therefore, the impact of transpyloric feeding alone is impossible to assess and any beneficial effects may be negated by the severity of swallowing dysfunction. Transpyloric feedings are also used in the neonatal population. Studies of neonates with apnea and bradycardia suggest that transpyloric feeding may have some benefit in the reduction of the rates of both apnea and bradycardia in the post-transpyloric feeding compared with pre-transpyloric feeding period within a given infant.(283, 284) Several older RCTs of gastric versus transpyloric feeds in infants failed to show any benefit in growth or pneumonia.(285, 286) No studies compare reflux burden within patients when they are fed into the stomach compared with when they are then fed into the small intestine to determine the reflux benefit of transpyloric feeds within individual patients. However, in studies using pH-MII in children receiving transpyloric feeding, rates of reflux (mean 22.6±21.5 per 24 hours) are comparable or lower than previously reported numbers of reflux in children who underwent fundoplication (median 66 (18–87) per 24 hours).(78, 287) The enthusiasm with transpyloric feeding is tempered by the high complication rates related to tube placement and malfunction. Studies report high rates of complication including clogging (29%), dislodgement (66%), intussusception (20%), and perforation (2–3%).(288, 289) In conclusion, no evidence supports transpyloric/jejunal feeding in infants and children with GERD refractory to pharmacological treatment. J Pediatr Gastroenterol Nutr. Author manuscript; available in PMC 2019 March 01. Author Manuscript Author Manuscript Author Manuscript Author Manuscript Recommendation 6.4 Based on expert opinion, the working group suggests that the use of transpyloric/ jejunal feedings can be considered in the treatment of infants and children with GERD refractory to optimal treatment as an alternative of fundoplication. VOTING: 5, 6, 7, 8, 8, 8, 8, 9, 9, 9. (weak recommendation) Radiofrequency ablation—Despite the efficacy of fundoplication for the treatment of GERD refractory to medical treatment, there has been an
