HHS Public Access
KEYWORDS: gerd, manuscript, author, author manuscript, infants, children, symptoms, studies, use, manuscript author, reflux, treatment, infants children, patients, based


6, 7, 8, 8, 8, 8, 9, 9, 9. (weak recommendation) Radiofrequency ablation—Despite the efficacy of fundoplication for the treatment of GERD refractory to medical treatment, there has been an interest in trying to develop less invasive and equally effective, endoscopic treatments for GERD. Stretta, a form of radiofrequency ablation of the lower esophageal sphincter (LES) represents one of the options available for this purpose. Stretta has returned to the market in 2010 after a four-year hiatus when its original company filed for bankruptcy. The Stretta procedure was initially considered by the Society of American Gastrointestinal and Endoscopic Surgeons (SAGES) an effective procedure for the management of GERD and an acceptable modality in patients who had declined a fundoplication.(290) A more recent meta-analysis concluded that compared with sham therapy the use of Stretta in adults with GERD does not produce significant changes in physiologic parameters, including reflux events, quality of life and reflux medication discontinuation.(51) Much like a previous current endoscopy therapy or transoral incisionless fundoplication cannot be recommended as an alternative to medical or traditional surgical therapy.(291) No RCTs have been reported in children on the use of Stretta for GERD. Two published case series from the same group of investigators were completed in children.(291, 292) A small group of children (6 and 8 respectively) received the procedure, and most children seemed to benefit symptomatically from the Stretta after a follow-up ranging between 6 and 15 months. The group of patients was very heterogeneous, with several of them having already having undergone fundoplication; some post-operative complications (aspiration, gastric dilation) were reported. No pH-metric or endoscopic follow-up was performed. In conclusion, no evidence supports radiofrequency ablation in infants and children with GERD refractory to pharmacological treatment. Recommendation 6.5 Based on expert opinion, the working group recommends not to use radiofrequency ablation in infants and children with GERD refractory to optimal treatment. VOTING: 8, 8, 8, 8, 8, 9, 9, 9, 9, 9. (strong recommendation) Endoscopic full thickness plication Endoluminal endoscopic gastroplication has been described in children as an alternative to surgical fundoplication. Currently, use of this treatment is precluded in infants and toddlers by size of the equipment. A recent review of the adult literature shows an overall patient J Pediatr Gastroenterol Nutr. Author manuscript; available in PMC 2019 March 01. Author Manuscript Author Manuscript Author Manuscript Author Manuscript satisfaction of 72% with an overall PPI discontinuation rate of 67%
