HHS Public Access
KEYWORDS: gerd, manuscript, author, author manuscript, infants, children, symptoms, studies, use, manuscript author, reflux, treatment, infants children, patients, based


Pediatr Gastroenterol Nutr. Author manuscript; available in PMC 2019 March 01. Author Manuscript Author Manuscript Author Manuscript Author Manuscript satisfaction of 72% with an overall PPI discontinuation rate of 67% across all studies, with a mean follow-up of 8.3 months. pH-metry parameters were not consistently normalized. The major complication rate was 3.2%, and the failure rate was 7.2% across all studies.(293) No RCTs using this technique were found in the pediatric literature. Two published case series describe the use of this technique in children with GERD. Both reports were from the same group of investigators and described the same group of 17 patients (age range 6 to 15 years) with GERD refractory to or dependent on medical therapy. After endoluminal gastroplication, all patients except one had been able to discontinue medications for reflux but three had recurrent symptoms requiring a repeat procedure 2 to 24 months postoperatively.(294)Three years after surgery, 9 patients (56%) were still off antireflux medication.(295) In conclusion, no evidence supports endoscopic full thickness plication in infants and children with GERD refractory to pharmacological treatment Recommendation 6.6 Based on expert opinion, the working group suggests not to use endoscopic full thickness plication in children with GERD refractory to optimal treatment. VOTING: 8, 8, 8, 8, 8, 9, 9, 9, 9, 9. (weak recommendation) Question 7: What is the prognosis of GERD in infants and children and what are prognostic factors? Four original studies were eligible for inclusion.(296–299) No additional studies were identified through bibliographic review of included studies or after checking reference lists of the ESPGHAN/NASPGHAN 2009 and NICE 2015 guidelines (See Appendix A for summary of search strategy, results and study selection). Characteristics of included studies can be found in Appendix B4. Two studies were conducted in a general pediatric department primary care setting (298). Appendix C2 summarizes the risk of bias assessment (QUIPS tool) for the included studies. All studies scored high or moderate risk of bias in at least two of the six domains. The prognosis of GERD in infants and children Results of reported outcome measures of GERD related symptoms and complications are summarized in Appendix E. Three studies used a definition of esophagitis as an outcome measure.(296–298) In these three studies, none of the evaluated patients developed Barrett’s esophagus at follow-up (12 months to > 5 years). In one UK database study by Ruigomez et al., 1242 children with newly diagnosed GERD based
