HHS Public Access
KEYWORDS: gerd, manuscript, author, author manuscript, infants, children, symptoms, studies, use, manuscript author, reflux, treatment, infants children, patients, based


the evaluated patients developed Barrett’s esophagus at follow-up (12 months to > 5 years). In one UK database study by Ruigomez et al., 1242 children with newly diagnosed GERD based on the presence of symptoms were followed (mean follow up: 4 ± 1.9 years) and only 40 ultimately underwent endoscopy and had evidence of esophagitis.(298) Orenstein et al. prospectively followed 19 children who had histologic evidence of esophagitis to determine the natural history of untreated esophagitis. While 9 patients withdrew from the study or required medication intervention, J Pediatr Gastroenterol Nutr. Author manuscript; available in PMC 2019 March 01. Author Manuscript Author Manuscript Author Manuscript Author Manuscript 10 infants followed for one year had persistent microscopic esophagitis despite complete symptom resolution (I-GERQ-R score < 7).(296) El-Serag el al. performed a study of adults (median age 20 years, SD: 4) who had GERD symptoms for over 15 years and found that, of the patients who underwent endoscopy, 21% (3/14) had erosive esophagitis.(297) Of the studies reporting on long-term medication use in patients with esophagitis, 46–69% of patients were taking long term acid suppression.(296, 297) Prognostic factors in infants and children with GERD Two studies analyzed a total of seven prognostic determinants in 18 associations with the occurrence of GERD symptoms and/or complications at follow-up.(297, 298) Results on prognostic factors are summarized in Appendix E. Age of onset of GERD symptoms < 5 years and the use of acid-suppression at time of initial diagnosis may result in less favorable outcome. Firm conclusions, however, are limited by the poor quality of the studies. No evidence exists showing an association between gender, ethnicity, and/or family history of GERD or number of visits to the primary care physician. Question 8: What is the appropriate evaluation of infants and children 0–18 years with GERD refractory to non-pharmacological and pharmacological treatment? As mentioned previously in questions 3 and 5, the working group recommends a 4–8 week empiric course of H2RAs or PPIs for the treatment of typical symptoms (i.e. heartburn, retrosternal or epigastric pain) in children with GERD (Algorithm 2). Treatment efficacy should be evaluated after 4 – 8 weeks of therapy. When symptoms persist despite adequate medical treatment, providers should (re-)evaluate treatment compliance and differential diagnoses. Most frequently, failure of treatment will be due to one of these two causes. If compliance with optimal medical therapy for GERD (See Questions 4 and 5) is confirmed, careful
