HHS Public Access
KEYWORDS: gerd, manuscript, author, author manuscript, infants, children, symptoms, studies, use, manuscript author, reflux, treatment, infants children, patients, based


Most frequently, failure of treatment will be due to one of these two causes. If compliance with optimal medical therapy for GERD (See Questions 4 and 5) is confirmed, careful attention should be given to the presence of alarm signs or symptoms that may suggest unrecognized differential diagnoses that mimic GERD. Regardless of response, after 4 – 8 weeks of optimal GERD therapy, it is recommended to should be considered to determine etiology of symptoms. In certain situations, such as lack of access to pediatric gastroenterologist, PPI may be restarted and the patient referred for additional evaluation. In this context, the evaluation may include investigations to confirm the persistence of GERD and/or evaluate its nature (e.g. NERD) and/or assess for the presence of differential diagnoses to explain the persisting symptom profile. An esophagogastroduodenoscopy with biopsies (if not performed within 6 months prior) and upper GI series (if not performed within 12 months before) should be performed to (re-)confirm anatomy and exclude other causes by histology of the biopsies. Other investigations such as esophageal manometry or gastric emptying, should be performed based on individual patient history (See Question 3 and Algorithms 1 (infants) and 2 (children)). J Pediatr Gastroenterol Nutr. Author manuscript; available in PMC 2019 March 01. Author Manuscript Author Manuscript Author Manuscript Author Manuscript Recommendations 8.1 Based on expert opinion, the working group recommends evaluation of treatment efficacy and exclusion of alternative causes of symptoms in infants and children not responding to 4 – 8 weeks of optimal therapy for GERD. VOTING: 6, 7, 7, 8, 8, 8, 8, 9, 9, 9. (strong recommendation) 8.2 Based on expert opinion, the working group recommends to refer infants and children with GERD to the pediatric gastroenterologist if: - There are alarm signs or symptoms suggesting an underlying gastrointestinal disease (Table 3) - Patients are refractory to optimal treatment (Question 1) - Patients cannot be permanently weaned from pharmacological treatment within 6–12 months (additional evaluation should be considered after 4 – 8 weeks of optimal GERD therapy if clinically indicated) VOTING: 7, 8, 8, 8, 8, 8, 8, 8, 8, 9, 9. (strong recommendation) SUMMARY OF THE DEFINITIONS GER: the passage of gastric contents into the esophagus with or without regurgitation and vomiting. GERD: when GER leads to troublesome symptoms and/or complications. Refractory GERD: GERD not responding to optimal treatment after eight weeks. Optimal Therapy: Maximum pharmacologic and/or non-pharmacologic therapy based on
