HHS Public Access
KEYWORDS: gerd, manuscript, author, author manuscript, infants, children, symptoms, studies, use, manuscript author, reflux, treatment, infants children, patients, based


vomiting. GERD: when GER leads to troublesome symptoms and/or complications. Refractory GERD: GERD not responding to optimal treatment after eight weeks. Optimal Therapy: Maximum pharmacologic and/or non-pharmacologic therapy based on the region of practice of the subspecialist Infants: under 12 months Children: 12 months to 18 years Regurgitation: the passage of refluxed contents into the pharynx, mouth or from The mouth. Other terms such as ‘spitting-up’, ‘posseting’, and ‘spilling’ are considered equivalent to regurgitation. Vomiting: a coordinated autonomic and voluntary motor response, causing forceful expulsion of gastric contents through the mouth. Rumination: effortless regurgitation of recently ingested food into the mouth With subsequent mastication and re-swallowing. Rumination syndrome: distinct clinical entity in which rumination follows in minutes after ingestion of a meal, does not occur during sleep and does not respond to standard treatment for gastro-esophageal reflux. In infant rumination syndrome, this involves repetitive contractions of the abdominal wall muscles, diaphragm and tongue.(301, 302) Reflux hypersensitivity: patients with esophageal symptoms (heartburn or chest pain) who lack evidence of evidence that reflux events trigger symptoms. Functional Heartburn: patients with esophageal symptoms (heartburn or chest pain) who lack evidence of evidence that symptoms are triggered by reflux events. Non-erosive reflux disease patients with esophageal symptoms who lack evidence of reflux on endoscopy but do (NERD): have and abnormal acid burden that may or may not trigger symptoms. J Pediatr Gastroenterol Nutr. Author manuscript; available in PMC 2019 March 01. Author Manuscript Author Manuscript Author Manuscript Author Manuscript SUMMARY OF THE RECOMMENDATIONS 1. Definitions 1.1 We recommend using the following definitions for GER/GERD for all infants and children. GER: the passage of gastric contents into the esophagus with or without regurgitation and vomiting. GERD: when GER leads to troublesome symptoms and/or complications. Refractory GERD: GERD not responding to optimal treatment after eight weeks. 2. Red flags 2.1 We recommend to use Tables 1–3 for symptoms and signs that may be associated with gastroesophageal reflux disease (GERD), for alarm symptoms and diagnostic clues to identify an alternative underlying disease which are responsible for the symptoms. 3. Diagnostic interventions for GERD 3.1 We suggest not to use barium contrast studies for the diagnosis of GERD in infants and children. 3.2 We suggest to use barium contrast studies to exclude anatomical abnormalities. 3.3 We suggest not to use ultrasonography for the diagnosis of GERD in infants and children. 3.4 We suggest to use ultrasonography to exclude
