HHS Public Access
KEYWORDS: gerd, manuscript, author, author manuscript, infants, children, symptoms, studies, use, manuscript author, reflux, treatment, infants children, patients, based


contrast studies to exclude anatomical abnormalities. 3.3 We suggest not to use ultrasonography for the diagnosis of GERD in infants and children. 3.4 We suggest to use ultrasonography to exclude anatomical abnormalities. 3.5 We suggest not to use esophago-gastro-duodenoscopy to diagnose GERD in infants and children. 3.6 We suggest to use esophago-gastro-duodenoscopy with biopsies to assess complications of GERD, in case an underlying mucosal disease is suspected and prior to escalation of therapy. 3.7 We suggest that salivary pepsin should not be used for the diagnosis of GERD in infants and children. 3.8 We suggest not to use currently available extraesophageal biomarkers for the diagnosis of GERD in infants and children. 3.9 We suggest not to use manometry for the diagnosis of GERD in infants and children. 3.10 We suggest to consider to use manometry when a motility disorder is suspected. 3.11 We suggest scintigraphy should not be used for the diagnosis of GERD in infants and children. 3.12 We suggest not to use transpyloric/jejunal feeding trials for the diagnosis of GERD in infants and children. J Pediatr Gastroenterol Nutr. Author manuscript; available in PMC 2019 March 01. Author Manuscript Author Manuscript Author Manuscript Author Manuscript 3.13 We suggest not to use a trial of PPIs as a diagnostic test for GERD in infants. 3.14 We suggest a 4 – 8 week trial of PPIs for typical symptoms (heartburn, retrosternal or epigastric pain) in children as a diagnostic test for GERD (See Questions 5 and 8 for further therapeutic recommendations). 3.15 We suggest not to use a trial of PPIs as a diagnostic test for GERD in patients presenting with extraesophageal symptoms. 3.16 We suggest, when pH-MII is not available, to consider to use pH-metry only to 1. Correlate persistent troublesome symptoms with acid gastroesophageal reflux events (See also under pH-MII) 2. Clarify the role of acid reflux in the etiology of esophagitis and other signs and symptoms suggestive for GERD. 3. Determine the efficacy of acid suppression therapy. 3.17 We suggest to consider to use pH-MII testing only to 1. Correlate persistent troublesome symptoms with acid and non-acid gastroesophageal reflux events 2. Clarify the role of acid and non-acid reflux in the etiology of esophagitis and other signs and symptoms suggestive for GERD. 3. Determine the efficacy of acid suppression therapy. 4. Differentiate NERD, hypersensitive esophagus and functional heartburn in patients with normal endoscopy. 4. Non-pharmacological treatment 4.1 We
