HHS Public Access
KEYWORDS: gerd, manuscript, author, author manuscript, infants, children, symptoms, studies, use, manuscript author, reflux, treatment, infants children, patients, based


symptoms suggestive for GERD. 3. Determine the efficacy of acid suppression therapy. 4. Differentiate NERD, hypersensitive esophagus and functional heartburn in patients with normal endoscopy. 4. Non-pharmacological treatment 4.1 We suggest use thickened feedings for treating visible regurgitation/vomiting in infants with GERD (Algorithm 1). 4.2 We suggest to modify feeding volumes and frequency according to age and weight to avoid overfeeding in infants with GERD (Algorithm 1). 4.3 We suggest a 2 – 4 week trial of extensively hydrolyzed protein-based (or amino-acid based) formula in infants suspected of GERD after optimal non- pharmacological treatment has failed (Algorithm 1, or see ESPGHAN 2012 CMPA guidelines).(178) 4.4 We recommend not to use positional therapy (i.e. head elevation, lateral and prone positioning) to treat symptoms of GERD in sleeping infants. 4.5 We suggest to consider to use of head elevation or left lateral positioning to treat symptoms of GERD in children. 4.6 We suggest not to use massage therapy to treat infant GERD. 4.7 We suggest not to use currently available lifestyle interventions or complementary treatments such as prebiotics, probiotics, or herbal medications to treat GERD. J Pediatr Gastroenterol Nutr. Author manuscript; available in PMC 2019 March 01. Author Manuscript Author Manuscript Author Manuscript Author Manuscript 4.8 We suggest to inform caregivers and children that excessive body weight is associated with an increased prevalence of GERD. 4.9 We recommend to provide patient/parental education and support as part of the treatment of GERD (Algorithm 1). 5. Pharmacological treatment 5.1 We suggest not to use antacids/alginates for chronic treatment of infants and children with GERD. 5.2 We recommend the use of PPIs as first-line treatment of reflux-related erosive esophagitis in infants and children with GERD (Algorithm 2). 5.3 We suggest to use H2RAs in the treatment of reflux related erosive esophagitis in infants and children if PPIs are not available or contra-indicated. 5.4 We recommend not to use H2RA or PPI for the treatment of crying/distress in otherwise healthy infants. 5.5 We recommend not to use H2RA or PPI for the treatment of visible regurgitation in otherwise healthy infants. 5.6 We recommend a 4 – 8 week course of H2RAs or PPIs for treatment of typical symptoms (i.e. heartburn, retrosternal or epigastric pain) in children with GERD (Algorithm 2). 5.7 We suggest not to use H2RAs or PPIs in patients with extraesophageal symptoms (i.e. cough, wheezing, asthma), except in the presence of typical GERD symptoms
