HHS Public Access
KEYWORDS: gerd, manuscript, author, author manuscript, infants, children, symptoms, studies, use, manuscript author, reflux, treatment, infants children, patients, based


with GERD (Algorithm 2). 5.7 We suggest not to use H2RAs or PPIs in patients with extraesophageal symptoms (i.e. cough, wheezing, asthma), except in the presence of typical GERD symptoms and/or diagnostic testing suggestive of GERD. 5.8 We recommend evaluation of treatment efficacy and exclusion of alternative causes of symptoms in infants and children not responding to 4 – 8 weeks of optimal medical therapy for GERD (Algorithm 2). 5.9 We recommend the regular assessment of the ongoing need of long-term acid suppression therapy in infants and children with GERD (Algorithm 2) 5.10 We suggest to consider the use of baclofen prior to surgery in children in whom other pharmacological treatments have failed. 5.11 We suggest not to use domperidone in the treatment of GERD in infants and children. 5.12 We suggest not to use metoclopramide in the treatment of GERD in infants and children. 5.13 We suggest not to use any other prokinetics (i.e. erythromycin, bethanechol) as a first line treatment in infants and children with GERD. 6. Surgical treatment and new treatment options 6.1 We suggest to consider antireflux surgery, including fundoplication, in infants and children with GERD and: J Pediatr Gastroenterol Nutr. Author manuscript; available in PMC 2019 March 01. Author Manuscript Author Manuscript Author Manuscript Author Manuscript - life threatening complications such as apneas or BRUE after failure of optimal medical treatment - symptoms refractory to optimal therapy (Question 4, 5, 6), after appropriate evaluation to exclude other underlying diseases - chronic conditions (i.e. neurologically impaired, cystic fibrosis) with a significant risk of GERD related complications - the need for chronic pharmacotherapy for control of signs and/or symptoms of GERD. 6.2 We recommend not to use total esophagogastric disconnection as a first line surgical treatment in infants and children with GERD refractory to optimal treatment. 6.3 We suggest to consider to use total esophagogastric disconnection as a rescue procedure for neurologically impaired children with a failed fundoplication. 6.4 We suggest to consider the use of transpyloric/jejunal feedings in the treatment of infants and children with GERD refractory to optimal treatment as an alternative of fundoplication. 6.5 We recommend not to use radiofrequency ablation in infants and children with GERD refractory to optimal treatment. 6.6 We suggest not to use endoscopic full thickness plication in children with GERD refractory to optimal treatment. 8. Evaluation of refractory GERD 8.1 We recommend evaluation of treatment efficacy and exclusion of
