Gut, 1979, 20, 811-814
KEYWORDS: oesophageal, achalasia, distal, dilatation, spasm, body, oesophageal spasm, normal, contractions, diffuse, diffuse oesophageal, lower, oesophageal body, case, symptoms


Gut, 1979, 20, 811-814 Case report Achalasia and diffuse oesophageal spasm in siblings M. D. KAYE' AND J. E. DEMEULES Vermont, USA SUMMARY We report the occurrence of achalasia and diffuse oesophageal spasm in brother and sister. The familial occurrence ofthese unusual disorders is consistent with the possibility that they share a common aetiology and indicates the potential importance ofgenetic predisposition. Achalasia is uncommon, and florid diffuse oesophageal spasm rare. The relationship between thesetwodisordersiscontroversial.Theiroccurrence insiblingshasnot,toourknowledge, beendescribed before. Case reports CASE 1 A. G., a white woman born in 1933, first developed high epigastric pain in 1965 during a pregnancy which wascomplicated byhyperemesis andfrequent heartburn. Afterdelivery,herheartburndisappeared but episodic high epigastric pain, sharp in nature, usually precipitated by eating and with radiation to lower substernum and back, persisted. Pain was especially troublesome after cold or carbonated beverages, and was associated with lower substernal dysphagia, described as a sensation of 'blockage' which forced her to stop eating. She also noted posturally-related sour regurgitation. Her symptoms were first evaluated in 1972 when physical examina- tion was negative. Barium swallow (Fig. 1) showed an axial hiatal hernia and disordered motility below the aortic arch with prominent tertiary waves and early diverticulum formation. Oesophagoscopy confirmed the presence of tertiary waves and axial hernia and revealed normal oesophageal mucosa with a sharply defined gastro-oesophageal junction. A biopsy taken from the distal oesophagus was normal. At subsequent oesophagoscopy with Rubin tube biopsy of the distal oesophagus in January 1978, the findings were similar. Oesophageal 'Address for correspondence and reprint requests: Dr. Received for publication 29 March 1979 formation. 812 M. D. Kaye andJ. E. DeMeules manometry (Fig. 2) was performed in January 1978 underwentanoesophagealmyotomywhichextended using a triple-lumen tube perfused by a pneumo- from 2 cm above the aortic arch to the anterior hydraulic capillary infusion system (Arndorfer gastric wall. Myotomy was combined with a Collis Medical Specialties Co., Greenfield, Wisc., USA) gastroplasty and Nissen fundoplication. At surgery, and connected by Bell and Howell transducers to a the oesophageal muscle was thickened to approxi- Gilson Macropolygraph Multi-channel Recorder mately 8 mm. Meanmaximumend-expiratorypressureinthelower Postoperatively, her dysphagia and pain were oesophageal sphincter was 1.73 kPa (13 mm Hg). markedly improved, though intermittent sour Relaxationofthesphincterinresponsetoswallowing regurgitation persisted. Barium swallow showed was frequently incomplete or abnormally brief. In some dilatation of the distal two-thirds of the the distal oesophageal body, spontaneous simul- oesophageal body with poor emptying in the taneous contractions occurred frequently,
