Gut, 1979, 20, 811-814
KEYWORDS: oesophageal, achalasia, distal, dilatation, spasm, body, oesophageal spasm, normal, contractions, diffuse, diffuse oesophageal, lower, oesophageal body, case, symptoms


incomplete or abnormally brief. In some dilatation of the distal two-thirds of the the distal oesophageal body, spontaneous simul- oesophageal body with poor emptying in the taneous contractions occurred frequently, and recumbent position. Oesophageal manometry contractions in response to swallowing were showed a very marked reduction of contraction prolonged and repetitive. The majority of post- amplitudesintheaffectedportionoftheoesophageal deglutitive contractions in the distal half of the body. oesophageal body were simultaneous and abnor- mallypowerful, withamplitudes generallyexceeding CASE 2 20kPa(150mmHg)andsometimesexceeding47kPa B. M., a white malehospital technician and brother (350mm Hg). Normal peristaltic progression of of A. G., presented at the age of 35 years in Sep- contractions occurred regularly in the proximal tember 1972 with a one-year history of gradually oesophagus. worsening dysphagia for both solids and liquids, The patient's symptoms did not respond to associated with frequent regurgitation ofundigested trials of antacids, sublingual nitroglycerin, anti- material. He denied heartburn, chest pain, sour cholingergic agents, and diazepam. They became regurgitation, or weight loss. Physical examination increasingly incapacitating, and in March 1978 she was unremarkable apart from mild obesity and ^Illq Fig. 2 Case 1. (A. G.) Oesophageal manometry, January 1978. Upper tracing isa pneumograph [200mm HU E 20s ( w i a n r s d p s i ) r . at M i i on dd d le own- three tracings are from asophageal body, with numbers indicatingdistance 27 in centimetresof each openingfrom _. _ _ _~~~~~~~~~~~~-- the incisors. Lower tracingisan electro-myograph ('s'represents 32 swallow). Note that contractionsare powerful, somewhat prolonged, and simultaneous at lower two recording points. Thepressure < 37 , 93 scale (200mmHg) isequivalent to 26.6kPa. -s.. . 4 A1.A . L Achalasia anddiffuse oesophagealspasm in siblings 813 widespread psoriatic lesions affecting skin and nails. Discussion Barium swallow then and subsequently (Fig. 3) showed early oesophageal dilatation, feeble In patient A. G., the symptom complex, radio- incoordinate contractions, poor emptying, and a graphic appearances, and manometric findings were distal oesophageal tapering ('bird beak') with a typical of diffuse oesophageal spasm. Despite her small axial hiatal hernia. Oesophagogastroduo- symptom of sour regurgitation, it is very unlikely denoscopy confirmed the radiographic findings of that her spasm was secondary to oesophageal dilatation and tertiary waves. The gastro-oesopha- inflammation in response to gastro-oesophageal geal junction appeared normal but presented some reflux, as her oesophageal mucosa was normal, both resistance to passage of the endoscope (Olympus visuallyandhistologically, ontwoseparateoccasions GIFD).Stomachandduodenumwereunremarkable. six years apart. Pneumatic dilatation
