Gut, 1979, 20, 811-814
KEYWORDS: oesophageal, achalasia, distal, dilatation, spasm, body, oesophageal spasm, normal, contractions, diffuse, diffuse oesophageal, lower, oesophageal body, case, symptoms


geal junction appeared normal but presented some reflux, as her oesophageal mucosa was normal, both resistance to passage of the endoscope (Olympus visuallyandhistologically, ontwoseparateoccasions GIFD).Stomachandduodenumwereunremarkable. six years apart. Pneumatic dilatation (Mosher bag) under fluoro- The diagnosis of achalasia was established in scopic control produced amelioration of symptoms patient B. M. on the basis of consistent symptoms, for some months. His symptoms then recurred and characteristic radiographic findings, an absence of did not improve aftera second pneumatic dilatation othercauses ofoesophageal dilatation, and excellent in November 1973. He underwent a Heller's response to a Heller's myotomy. At oesophageal myotomy with Nissen fundoplication in December manometry performed 31 years after surgery, the 1973. Since surgery he has had minimal dysphagia contraction pattern in the lower oesophagus was and has not developed symptoms of gastro- typical of that seen in achalasia. The peristaltic oesophageal reflux. Oesophageal manometry in contractions observed in the upper oesophagus are April 1978, approximately 31 years after surgery, not characteristic of untreated achalasia, but return showed a poorly defined lower oesophageal of peristalsis after myotomy for achalasia has been sphincter, feeble non-propulsive contractions in the described (Mellow, 1976). lower half of the oesophageal body, and normal peristalsis in the upper oesophagus. (Fig. 4). metric features of classical forms of achalasia and diffuse oesophageal spasm are different, there is FAMILY HISTORY someevidencetosuggestthatthesedisorders maybe The paternal grandfather of A. G. and B. M. was aetiologically related. Thus, transition from diffuse frequently observed, while eating, to have 'choking oesophageal spasm to achalasia has been described spells' during which he thumped his chest with his ; an intermediate syndrome, fists and appeared very uncomfortable. He never 'vigorous achalasia' , with sought medical attention for this problem. features common to both disorders is seen not Fig. 3 Case 2. (B. M.) Bariumswallow, May 1972, with views of proximal (right)and ..-.... distal(left) aesophagus. ._ Note asophageal * ~~~dilatation, with distal tapering 'bird-beak' appearance. 814 M. D. Kaye andJ. E. DeMeules infrequently; sensitivity to cholinergic agents such as methacholine occurs in both disorders (Kramer and Ingelfinger, 1951; Kramer et al., 1967a); and vagotomy in the monkey may induce a syndrome resembling either achalasia or diffuse oesophageal ~~5OmHw spasm . The occurrence of achalasia and diffuse oesophageal spasm in siblings provides additional indirect evidence that the two disorders may share a common aetiology. In addi- tion, it underlines thepossible importance ofgenetic 207 2625 predisposition.
