Cancer Reports
KEYWORDS: recurrence, biomarkers, tumor, treatment, dna, risk, expression, cancer, associated, molecular, hpv, opscc, cell, survival, response


DNA repair rence and metastasis. Thus, DNA methylation not only rep- genes including ATM correlate with genomic instability and un- resents a fundamental molecular mechanism in cancer biology favorable outcomes. These patterns provide additional layers of but has also been widely investigated as a potential biomarker biological and prognostic information. Notably, integrative ge- for diagnosis, prognosis, and recurrence prediction. In oropha- nomic approaches appear to outperform single- marker analyses. ryngeal cancer (OPC), aberrant DNA methylation has demon- Resteghini et al. showed that combined assessment of TP53 and strated notable clinical value. In a study of HPV- associated PIK3CA alterations improved prognostic discrimination for re- OPC, Misawa et al. analyzed promoter methylation of 24 genes currence and survival in head and neck cancers, a strategy likely within the GPCR family across 85 primary tumor specimens applicable to OPSCC . Together, mutation profiles and CNV and 8 matched ctDNA samples. They reported that hyper- signatures define distinct molecular subgroups with heteroge- methylation of genes such as PTGDR1, PTGDR2, and PTGIR neous recurrence risks and offer a foundation for precision sur- was significantly associated with recurrence risk, and these veillance and individualized therapeutic planning. findings were validated in both tissue and liquid biopsy sam- ples . These results underscore the potential of GPCR gene methylation status as a predictive biomarker for recurrence in 3.1.3 | Non- Coding RNA Biomarkers HPV- positive OPC. In a subsequent genome- wide methylation CALML5, DNAJC5G, and LY6D, whose methylation profiles proteins but regulate gene expression and cellular processes were strongly associated with recurrence. Collectively, these through diverse molecular mechanisms, have emerged as crit- findings highlight the promise of DNA methylation markers in ical regulators of tumor biology. Mounting evidence indicates refining risk stratification and enabling dynamic monitoring of that ncRNAs are intimately involved in oncogenesis, pro- tive biomarkers in oropharyngeal squamous cell carcinoma (OPSCC). 3.1.2 | Gene Mutations and Copy Number Variation Biomarkers Among them, microRNAs (miRNAs) have been extensively studied in head and neck squamous cell carcinoma (HNSCC). Genetic alterations, including point mutations and copy number Aberrant overexpression of miR- 21, miR- 9, and miR- 155 has variations (CNVs), represent pivotal molecular events driving been consistently reported, where these miRNAs modulate the initiation, progression, and recurrence of oropharyngeal pathways governing cell cycle progression, apoptosis, and in- squamous cell carcinoma (OPSCC). Unlike epigenetic changes, vasion, thereby conferring aggressive tumor phenotypes and which modulate gene expression without altering the
