Cancer Reports
KEYWORDS: recurrence, biomarkers, tumor, treatment, dna, risk, expression, cancer, associated, molecular, hpv, opscc, cell, survival, response


expression exhibited significantly particularly in cases with concomitant lymph node metasta- shorter median overall survival compared to those with low sis . Collectively, these findings highlight that aberrant expression, suggesting that XRCC1 could serve as a vital prog- expression patterns of Caspase- 3, whether downregulated or nostic marker for chemoradiotherapy efficacy and recurrence excessively activated, reflect apoptotic dysregulation in dis- risk . More recent studies have further reinforced the role serve as a potential serological tool for recurrence prediction Ahirwar et al. found in a cohort of over 100 HNSCC patient in OPSCC. In summary, the abnormal expression of prolifer- samples that high XRCC1 expression was not only signifi- ation- and apoptosis- related proteins including Ki- 67, Bcl- 2, cantly associated with poor tumor differentiation, advanced- Bax, and Caspase- 3, illuminates the molecular mechanisms stage disease, and lymph node metastasis, but also served underlying recurrence in oropharyngeal carcinoma through as an independent risk factor for decreased overall survival. enhanced proliferation and impaired apoptosis. These bio- The researchers further proposed that XRCC1, as a key DNA markers not only provide a rationale for risk stratification but repair molecule, may become a potential target for synthetic also suggest potential therapeutic targets for individualized lethality- based therapies in the future . Finally, MLH1, intervention. an important member of the MMR pathway, plays a crucial role in maintaining genomic integrity. Its loss of expression or promoter methylation silencing leads to microsatellite insta- 3.2.5 | DNA Repair- Related Proteins bility (MSI) and impaired DNA repair efficiency, promoting mutation accumulation and recurrence. Some studies have in- The DNA repair system plays a pivotal role in maintaining dicated that MLH1 promoter methylation is closely associated genomic stability, and abnormalities in its associated proteins with tumor progression in HNSCC . Studies examining often lead to the ineffective repair of DNA damage, thus foster- MMR gene- related SNPs, including MLH1, MSH3, and EXO1, ing the accumulation of mutations, enhanced drug resistance, suggest that genetic variation in the MMR pathway influences and tumor recurrence. In head and neck squamous cell carci- response to platinum- based chemoradiotherapy and recur- noma (HNSCC), key members of the nucleotide excision repair rence risk in HNSCC patients . Current systematic reviews (NER), base excision repair (BER), and mismatch repair (MMR) of DNA damage response (DDR) mechanisms also underscore pathways have been firmly implicated in recurrence and treat- the potential role of the MMR pathway in
