Cancer Reports
KEYWORDS: recurrence, biomarkers, tumor, treatment, dna, risk, expression, cancer, associated, molecular, hpv, opscc, cell, survival, response


(BER), and mismatch repair (MMR) of DNA damage response (DDR) mechanisms also underscore pathways have been firmly implicated in recurrence and treat- the potential role of the MMR pathway in recurrence predic- ment responses. tion and treatment sensitivity . In summary, DNA repair- related proteins such as ERCC1, XRCC1, and MLH1 play a First, ERCC1, a core protein in the NER pathway, is primarily crucial role in recurrence by influencing tumor sensitivity responsible for repairing DNA interstrand cross- links induced to chemoradiotherapy. These proteins not only hold promise by chemotherapy agents such as cisplatin. Clinical studies have as molecular indicators for recurrence risk stratification and shown that elevated ERCC1 expression is significantly associ- therapeutic efficacy prediction, but they may also provide a ated with diminished efficacy of platinum- based chemoradio- theoretical basis for optimizing individualized chemoradio- therapy, serving as an independent predictor of recurrence and therapy regimens. Future large- scale prospective studies and high ERCC1 expression is similarly correlated with poor prog- translation of these molecular biomarkers. nosis . Furthermore, Ciaparrone et al. reported that high ERCC1 expression was associated with shorter disease- free and overall survival in HNSCC patients treated with surgery 3.3 | The Application of Circulating Biomarkers in followed by cisplatin- based chemoradiotherapy . Second, Recurrence Prediction XRCC1 is a crucial member of the BER pathway, and its aber- rant expression or genetic polymorphisms can impair the re- Circulating biomarkers, which include tumor- related com- pair of single- strand DNA breaks, thereby increasing genomic ponents such as circulating tumor DNA (ctDNA), circulating Cancer Reports, 2026 9 of 18 tumor cells (CTCs), exosomes, and non- coding RNAs, are pres- studies supports the widespread application of ctDNA as a non- ent in bodily fluids like blood, saliva, and urine. Compared to invasive tool for recurrence prediction. traditional tissue biopsy, the detection of circulating biomarkers offers advantages such as being non- invasive, repeatable, and capable of dynamic monitoring. These biomarkers reflect the 3.3.2 | Circulating Tumor Cells (CTCs) overall molecular characteristics and evolutionary processes of tumors, thus demonstrating unique value in predicting the re- Circulating tumor cells (CTCs) are tumor cells that have shed currence of oropharyngeal cancer. from primary or metastatic sites and entered the peripheral blood circulation. They are considered “seeds” of tumor metas- tasis and recurrence. The quantity and molecular characteris- 3.3.1 | Circulating Tumor DNA (ctDNA) tics of CTCs are closely linked to tumor biological behavior
