Cancer Reports
KEYWORDS: recurrence, biomarkers, tumor, treatment, dna, risk, expression, cancer, associated, molecular, hpv, opscc, cell, survival, response


are considered “seeds” of tumor metas- tasis and recurrence. The quantity and molecular characteris- 3.3.1 | Circulating Tumor DNA (ctDNA) tics of CTCs are closely linked to tumor biological behavior and clinical outcomes. ctDNA is one of the most extensively studied circulating bio- markers. It harbors genetic information such as mutations, Numerous studies have highlighted the prognostic value of methylation patterns, and viral DNA, thereby offering a prom- CTCs in head and neck squamous cell carcinoma (HNSCC). ising approach to detecting minimal residual disease (MRD). Zhang et al. (2024) conducted a study involving 154 HNSCC pa- A secondary analysis of the DART randomized controlled trial tients, where the detection of CTCs in baseline blood samples revealed that the persistence of HPV ctDNA (MRD- positive) in significantly increased the risks of recurrence and mortality. plasma after surgery was significantly associated with a higher CTC positivity was identified as an independent predictor of recurrence rate within 24 months, with a hazard ratio greater progression- free survival (PFS) and overall survival (OS) . than five, underscoring ctDNA's high sensitivity for recurrence Similarly, Liu et al. (2020) reported that in patients with locally prediction . advanced HNSCC, a decrease in CTC levels following treatment was closely associated with improved PFS and OS, underscoring Fakhry et al. demonstrated that ctDNA detection can identify the potential of CTCs as a dynamic tool for monitoring treat- recurrence earlier than traditional imaging methods in HPV- ment efficacy and predicting recurrence . Furthermore, positive oropharyngeal cancer patients, with significantly Zhang et al. (2022) found that baseline CTC counts were asso- greater sensitivity and specificity. In their prospective study of ciated with treatment response and enabled personalized ther- 40 HPV- positive patients, ctDNA was detected several months apy and early prediction of recurrence risk . In summary, prior to tumor recurrence, thus offering the possibility for early CTCs, as biomarkers reflecting tumor metastatic potential and intervention . This study provides initial evidence support- recurrence risk, can be used for early identification of high- risk ing ctDNA's role in predicting recurrence in oropharyngeal can- recurrence patients. They also demonstrate broad potential in cer, confirming its utility as an early monitoring tool following dynamic efficacy monitoring and individualized treatment treatment. Rettig et al. further validated ctDNA as a predictor decision- making. of recurrence, showing that post- treatment ctDNA detected in plasma was strongly correlated with relapse. Their study also demonstrated that ctDNA
