Cancer Reports
KEYWORDS: recurrence, biomarkers, tumor, treatment, dna, risk, expression, cancer, associated, molecular, hpv, opscc, cell, survival, response


al. further validated ctDNA as a predictor decision- making. of recurrence, showing that post- treatment ctDNA detected in plasma was strongly correlated with relapse. Their study also demonstrated that ctDNA reflects tumor genetics and dynami- 3.3.3 | Exosomes and Non- Coding RNAs cally tracks disease progression in real time . These findings solidified ctDNA's role in recurrence prediction, particularly in Exosomes are nanoscale vesicles (30–150 nm) secreted by cells overcoming the limitations of traditional imaging methods. In into bodily fluids, capable of stably carrying various biomol- addition, Lafata et al. expanded the role of ctDNA by exploring its ecules such as miRNAs and lncRNAs. They play a role in in- use in monitoring recurrence post- radiotherapy. Their research tercellular communication and signal regulation. Due to the demonstrated that elevated ctDNA levels were closely associated protection provided by their vesicle membrane, the nucleic acid with tumor metastasis and radioresistance, particularly in pa- components within exosomes are highly stable, making exo- tients with local recurrence, further strengthening the associa- somes particularly advantageous in liquid biopsies and recur- tion between ctDNA dynamics and recurrence . Moreover, a rence prediction. multicenter study by Mielcarek- Kuchta et al. affirmed the broad applicability and feasibility of ctDNA as a recurrence prediction In head and neck squamous cell carcinoma (HNSCC) re- tool . The study showed that ctDNA could provide dynamic search, circulating miRNAs have been confirmed to have feedback at multiple post- treatment time points, enabling real- significant prognostic value. Summerer et al. (2015) reported time monitoring of genetic changes in tumors and providing im- in the British Journal of Cancer that a group of plasma cir- mediate insights into treatment responses. This reinforces the culating miRNAs, such as miR- 142- 3p, miR- 186- 5p, and miR- different treatment regimens and underscoring its universal survival (PFS), local control rate (LRC), and overall survival applicability. In conclusion, these studies collectively highlight (OS) in patients. These findings suggest that miRNAs could ctDNA's substantial role in predicting recurrence in oropharyn- serve as potential biomarkers reflecting treatment response geal cancer. ctDNA not only provides earlier recurrence signals and recurrence risk . Additionally, a systematic review than imaging techniques but also offers a reliable means of and meta- analysis by Qiu et al. further confirmed that several evaluating treatment response across various therapeutic ap- miRNAs, including miR- 21 and miR- 155, were significantly proaches, thereby assisting clinicians in tailoring more person-
