Cancer Reports
KEYWORDS: recurrence, biomarkers, tumor, treatment, dna, risk, expression, cancer, associated, molecular, hpv, opscc, cell, survival, response


et al. further confirmed that several evaluating treatment response across various therapeutic ap- miRNAs, including miR- 21 and miR- 155, were significantly proaches, thereby assisting clinicians in tailoring more person- overexpressed in HNSCC. This abnormal expression pattern alized treatment plans. The scientific foundation laid by these was closely associated with decreased survival rates and 10 of 18 Cancer Reports, 2026 miRNAs in recurrence prediction and prognosis evaluation Treatment Response . In addition to miRNAs, exosomal lncRNAs are also at- tracting increasing attention. Certain lncRNAs can regulate 4.1 | Prediction of Radiotherapy Response the tumor immune microenvironment, promote immune eva- sion, and enhance angiogenesis, thereby indirectly increasing Radiotherapy is a critical treatment modality for oropharyn- the risk of recurrence. While related studies in oropharyngeal geal cancer, especially in HPV- positive patients, where its ef- cancer are still limited, existing evidence in head and neck ficacy is notably significant. However, there is considerable cancers suggests that exosomal lncRNA abnormalities may be individual variation in patient sensitivity to radiotherapy, with associated with poor prognosis. In conclusion, exosomes and some patients still experiencing local recurrence or treatment their associated non- coding RNAs, as circulating molecular resistance. Therefore, identifying reliable biomarkers to pre- and capable of dynamic monitoring, making them promising optimizing treatment strategies and implementing personal- tools for predicting recurrence risk in oropharyngeal cancer. ized radiotherapy. tial for validating these exosomal biomarkers, and they may First, p16 protein serves as a classic surrogate marker for HPV- ultimately be integrated into individualized follow- up and related oropharyngeal cancer, with its overexpression reflecting treatment response evaluation systems. Rb pathway inactivation caused by HPV integration. Numerous studies have shown that p16-p ositive patients are generally more sensitive to radiotherapy and exhibit better prognosis. A pro- 3.3.4 | The Application of Multi- Biomarker Combined spective study by Lassen et al. (2014) found that p16 positivity Detection in Recurrence Prediction was significantly associated with improved local control and overall survival rates . Additionally, a systematic review and Single biomarkers often have limitations in terms of sensitivity meta- analysis by O'Rorke et al. (2012) indicated that HPV/p16- and specificity when used for recurrence prediction. In contrast, positive patients had a nearly 50% reduction in overall survival multi- biomarker combined detection can integrate molecular risk, with significantly better progression-f ree survival (PFS) and information from various layers, offering a more comprehensive recurrence- free survival rates compared to negative patients, fur- reflection
