Cancer Reports
KEYWORDS: recurrence, biomarkers, tumor, treatment, dna, risk, expression, cancer, associated, molecular, hpv, opscc, cell, survival, response


can integrate molecular risk, with significantly better progression-f ree survival (PFS) and information from various layers, offering a more comprehensive recurrence- free survival rates compared to negative patients, fur- reflection of the tumor's biological characteristics. ther reinforcing the clinical value of p16 in predicting radiother- apy response . In contrast, p53 protein aberrant expression In recent years, increasing efforts have been made to combine is more common in HPV-n egative oropharyngeal cancers. TP53 molecular biomarkers, protein markers, and circulating bio- mutations impair DNA damage repair and apoptosis pathways, markers to enhance the accuracy of recurrence prediction. For leading to increased tumor cell survival post- radiotherapy. Hong positive oropharyngeal cancer patients were monitored. The shorter disease-f ree and overall survival in over 200 oropha- rapid clearance of plasma ctHPV16 DNA (a reduction of more ryngeal cancer patients, indicating a role for p53 alterations in than 95% within 28 days of chemoradiotherapy) was found to radiotherapy resistance and recurrence . Among signal trans- be strongly correlated with local disease control, while incom- duction proteins, EGFR overexpression is considered one of the plete clearance was associated with a higher likelihood of recur- key mechanisms of radiotherapy resistance. Persistent EGFR rence . This result suggests that dynamic detection of ctDNA activation promotes DNA damage repair and cell survival, thus with other circulating biomarkers such as CTCs, the sensitiv- ies have shown that patients with high EGFR expression have a ity and specificity of predictions would be further enhanced. higher rate of local recurrence and poorer survival rates, mak- Furthermore, a study by Rettig et al. (2019) demonstrated that ing EGFR not only a predictor of recurrence but also a potential combining HPV ctDNA with serum inflammatory protein target for radiosensitization . Furthermore, DNA repair- markers (such as IL- 6 and CRP) could more accurately identify related proteins have a direct impact on radiotherapy sensitivity. high-r isk patients post- treatment, highlighting the complemen- Polymorphisms or high expression of XRCC1 are associated with tary role of multidimensional molecular markers in recurrence enhanced base excision repair capability, which may diminish prediction . Additionally, integrative multi- omics research the DNA damage effects induced by radiotherapy and increase provides a more solid foundation for the combined application of the risk of recurrence. Early molecular epidemiological studies multiple biomarkers. Leemans et al. (2018) noted that integrat- have pointed out that DNA repair gene polymorphisms play a ing genomic, transcriptomic, and
