Cancer Reports
KEYWORDS: recurrence, biomarkers, tumor, treatment, dna, risk, expression, cancer, associated, molecular, hpv, opscc, cell, survival, response


risk of recurrence. Early molecular epidemiological studies multiple biomarkers. Leemans et al. (2018) noted that integrat- have pointed out that DNA repair gene polymorphisms play a ing genomic, transcriptomic, and proteomic data enables the crucial role in head and neck cancer susceptibility and treatment construction of multi- layered models for predicting recurrence response . A recent study by Coelho et al. (2024) found that risk and guiding individualized follow-u p and treatment . In the imbalance in MLH1/PMS2 expression was significantly as- summary, multi- biomarker combined detection can address the sociated with recurrence rates in non- surgical OPSCC patients, limitations of single indicators, improving prediction accuracy particularly in p16- positive tumors . Although radiotherapy while also providing new possibilities for precise follow- up and response and local recurrence were not directly evaluated, the individualized intervention. With the advancement of multi- study suggests a potential role for MLH1 in recurrence predic- omics technologies and artificial intelligence methods, multi- tion. In addition, a meta- analysis reported higher MLH1 pro- biomarker- based predictive strategies are expected to become moter methylation in HNSCC patients than in healthy controls, an important direction for managing oropharyngeal cancer re- although its association with radiotherapy sensitivity or recur- currence in the future. rence remains unclear . Cancer Reports, 2026 11 of 18 4.2 | Prediction of Chemotherapy Response PD- L1 expression remains the most extensively applied bio- marker for predicting the efficacy of ICIs. The KEYNOTE- 048 Platinum- based chemotherapy (e.g., cisplatin) remains a cor- trial demonstrated that pembrolizumab, either as monother- nerstone in the treatment of locally advanced oropharyngeal apy or in combination with chemotherapy, significantly im- cancer. However, therapeutic responses vary widely among proved overall survival among patients with recurrent or patients, and a subset exhibits poor responsiveness or develops metastatic head and neck squamous cell carcinoma (HNSCC), recurrence. Thus, identifying biomarkers predictive of chemo- particularly those with a PD- L1 combined positive score (CPS) therapy sensitivity is crucial for optimizing treatment regimens ≥ 1, with the most pronounced benefit observed in patients and advancing personalized therapy. with CPS ≥ 20 . These findings further support that pem- brolizumab monotherapy substantially prolongs survival in DNA repair–related genes play a central role in mediating cispla- patients with PD- L1 CPS ≥ 20 . However, the predictive va- tin sensitivity. Cisplatin kills tumor cells primarily by inducing lidity of PD- L1 expression is not absolute. Variations in assay
