Cancer Reports
KEYWORDS: recurrence, biomarkers, tumor, treatment, dna, risk, expression, cancer, associated, molecular, hpv, opscc, cell, survival, response


PD- L1 CPS ≥ 20 . However, the predictive va- tin sensitivity. Cisplatin kills tumor cells primarily by inducing lidity of PD- L1 expression is not absolute. Variations in assay DNA interstrand crosslinks; enhanced DNA repair capacity often methodologies and scoring criteria can yield inconsistent re- leads to chemoresistance. Studies have associated genetic poly- sults. A recent systematic review and meta- analysis reported morphisms or elevated expression of XRCC1 and ERCC1 with that high PD- L1 expression on immune cells was significantly resistance to platinum-b ased regimens. For example, a meta- associated with improved overall and disease- specific sur- analysis in head and neck squamous cell carcinoma (HNSCC) vival, whereas PD- L1 expression confined to tumor cells did confirmed that the XRCC1 Arg399Gln polymorphism and high not demonstrate the same correlation . This finding sug- XRCC1 protein expression are significantly correlated with gests that PD- L1 expression within immune infiltrates may poorer survival outcomes, implying their potential in predict- possess greater predictive value than tumor- cell expression ing chemotherapy response . Detoxification and transport alone. A meta- analysis of oropharyngeal squamous cell car- mechanisms are also pivotal in modulating chemotherapy ef- cinoma (OPSCC) found that elevated PD- L1 expression was ficacy. Polymorphisms in glutathione S- transferase genes (e.g., associated with improved disease- free survival but not overall GSTP1) may influence the detoxification of platinum com- survival, suggesting that its prognostic value may depend on pounds, thereby altering intracellular drug levels. Similarly, assay methods and tumor subtype . The immune microen- variants in transmembrane transporter genes such as ABCB1 or vironment also exerts a profound influence on immunothera- ABCG2 may promote drug efflux, reduce intracellular cisplatin peutic outcomes. HPV- associated OPSCC is characteristically accumulation, and contribute to resistance. Molecular path- enriched with “inflamed” immune signatures, typified by ways of resistance have also been elucidated. Recent studies in abundant CD8+ and CD103+ T- cell infiltration, which has multiple cancer types highlight that exosomes and their miRNA been strongly linked to superior immunotherapy response cargo play significant roles in chemoresistance. For instance, and extended survival . Furthermore, multicenter analy- exosomal miR- 21 has been implicated broadly in chemother- ses have demonstrated that the T- cell–inflamed gene expres- apy resistance across cancer types . The mechanistic link is sion profile (GEP) provides a more robust and independent further supported by reviews showing how exosomal miRNAs predictor of ICI benefit and long- term survival than
