Cancer Reports
KEYWORDS: recurrence, biomarkers, tumor, treatment, dna, risk, expression, cancer, associated, molecular, hpv, opscc, cell, survival, response


The mechanistic link is sion profile (GEP) provides a more robust and independent further supported by reviews showing how exosomal miRNAs predictor of ICI benefit and long- term survival than PD- L1 modulate signaling networks (e.g., PTEN/PI3K, apoptosis path- expression alone, underscoring the potential of transcrip- ways) to enable drug resistance . In head and neck cancers, tomic immune- activation signatures as more stable predictive exosomal miRNAs are being actively investigated as non- invasive biomarkers . Another emerging biomarker, tumor mu- biomarkers for prognosis and potentially treatment respons . tational burden (TMB), has shown predictive potential in mul- Circulating and exosomal biomarkers allow real- time monitor- tiple studies. Comprehensive analyses indicate that HNSCC ing. In HPV-a ssociated oropharyngeal cancer, rapid clearance patients with higher TMB benefit more from PD- 1 blockade of plasma ctHPV16 DNA during chemoradiotherapy correlates and demonstrate superior survival outcomes. Nonetheless, the with improved disease control and progression- free survival, correlation between TMB and PD- L1 expression remains in- while persistent ctDNA indicates higher recurrence risk . In consistent, suggesting that a multidimensional biomarker ap- summary, biomarkers predicting chemotherapy response in oro- proach may be required to enhance predictive accuracy . pharyngeal cancer include DNA repair gene variants (XRCC1, In summary, while PD- L1 expression remains the most widely ABCG2), and circulating/exosomal markers (ctDNA, exosomal apy response, its limitations necessitate a more integrative miRNAs). Unlike signaling proteins associated with radiother- framework. The incorporation of PD- L1 expression (particu- apy response (e.g., p16, p53, EGFR), these molecular signatures larly within immune cells), immune- cell infiltration patterns, offer insights into chemoresistance mechanisms and support T- cell–inflamed GEP, TMB, and soluble PD- L1 may enable the real- time monitoring and precision chemotherapy. development of comprehensive predictive models, thereby fa- cilitating more accurate response assessment and individual- ized optimization of immunotherapeutic regimens. 4.3 | Prediction of Immunotherapy Response With the advent of immune checkpoint inhibitors (ICIs), immu- 4.4 | Evaluation of Combined Treatment Response notherapy has emerged as a key strategy for recurrent or met- astatic oropharyngeal cancer. However, therapeutic efficacy Combined therapies, such as chemoradiotherapy, immunoche- varies markedly across patients, and only a subset derive sus- motherapy, and immunotherapy combined with targeted tained benefit. Hence, identifying robust predictive biomarkers therapies, represent critical treatment modalities for locally ad- is of critical clinical value. vanced and recurrent/metastatic oropharyngeal cancer. These 12 of 18 Cancer Reports, 2026 approaches have shown significant improvements in
