Cancer Reports
KEYWORDS: recurrence, biomarkers, tumor, treatment, dna, risk, expression, cancer, associated, molecular, hpv, opscc, cell, survival, response


represent critical treatment modalities for locally ad- is of critical clinical value. vanced and recurrent/metastatic oropharyngeal cancer. These 12 of 18 Cancer Reports, 2026 approaches have shown significant improvements in overall 5 | Clinical Applications and Challenges of indicate that even with identical treatment regimens, substan- tial variability in patient responses remains, underscoring the Biomarkers have demonstrated tremendous potential in pre- need for reliable biomarkers to predict treatment efficacy and dicting recurrence and evaluating treatment responses in oro- hindered by several challenges. In recent years, with the ad- ctDNA clearance kinetics have emerged as an early predictive vancement of liquid biopsy technologies, biomarkers such as biomarker for assessing responses to chemoradiotherapy and ctDNA, circulating tumor cells (CTCs), and exosomes have associated oropharyngeal cancer patients undergoing concur- non- invasive, dynamically traceable methods for early mon- rent chemoradiotherapy, rapid clearance of ctHPV DNA in the itoring of recurrence and assessing treatment efficacy . early phase of treatment was associated with a significantly Simultaneously, certain histological biomarkers have achieved indicated treatment resistance and poor prognosis . These apy stratification and p16 status as a routine prognostic tool in findings suggest that dynamic ctDNA monitoring provides real- oropharyngeal cancer . These advancements suggest that time molecular insights that can be crucial for evaluating the certain biomarkers are progressing from laboratory research and molecular biomarkers is also gaining increasing attention. First, significant discrepancies in detection platforms and an- Economopoulou et al. (2019) reviewed that HPV DNA/E6/E7 alytical methods across different research centers have led to a antibodies, p16 expression, and PD- L1 are evaluated as diagnos- lack of comparability and reproducibility of results . For in- tic and prognostic biomarker in head and neck squamous cell stance, PD- L1 testing often exhibits inconsistencies due to vari- carcinoma (HNSCC). However, many of these biomarkers have ations in antibody types, scoring methods, and expression sites, key strategies for enhancing predictive accuracy in the future. prediction, false- negative and false- positive rates remain high Moreover, the T cell–inflamed gene expression profile (GEP) . Moreover, the dynamic changes in biomarker levels and has been shown to significantly correlate with benefits from im- their relationship with tumor heterogeneity are complex, and munotherapy. In an exploratory analysis of the KEYNOTE- 012 there is currently no unified standard for monitoring time points trial, this gene signature independently predicted treatment re- and threshold values . sponse, irrespective of PD- L1 levels . Genomic
