Cancer Reports
KEYWORDS: recurrence, biomarkers, tumor, treatment, dna, risk, expression, cancer, associated, molecular, hpv, opscc, cell, survival, response


there is currently no unified standard for monitoring time points trial, this gene signature independently predicted treatment re- and threshold values . sponse, irrespective of PD- L1 levels . Genomic signatures of immune activity may serve as more reliable predictive tools. Future research must rely on large- scale, multi- center pro- evated baseline VEGF, are associated with poorer outcomes in generalizability of biomarkers. Additionally, the integration of HNSCC, such as reduced event- free survival and local/regional multi- omics approaches (genomics, proteomics, immunom- control . Similarly, IL- 6 has been demonstrated to promote ics, etc.) with artificial intelligence (AI) analysis holds the tumor cell proliferation and resistance to apoptosis through the potential to overcome the limitations of single biomarker pre- JAK/STAT3 pathway, with high IL- 6 expression significantly dictive capabilities, facilitating the development of composite correlating with increased recurrence risk and reduced overall predictive models and enabling more precise assessments of survival . Additionally, in HNSCC patients undergoing in- recurrence risk and treatment response . In conclusion, have been closely linked with treatment response and long- term cations for oropharyngeal cancer, their broader adoption is prognosis. These findings suggest that VEGF not only holds limited by factors such as inconsistent detection methods, prognostic value prior to treatment but that its changes during variable sensitivity and specificity, and a lack of large- scale therapy could serve as an important monitoring tool for as- validation. Future efforts should focus on multi- biomarker sessing combined treatment efficacy and recurrence risk . panels and multicenter clinical trials to enable their full inte- Proteins such as IL- 6 and VEGF reflect both the inflamma- gration into clinical practice and to support precision diagno- tory and angiogenic status of the tumor microenvironment and sis and treatment. could serve as supplementary tools for predicting the response to multimodal therapy, providing crucial insights for personal- ized combined treatment strategies. In summary, predicting the 6 | Future Directions and Research Prospects response to combined therapies should rely on a multidimen- sional biomarker approach, incorporating ctDNA dynamics, As molecular medicine and precision oncology continue to ad- immune- related markers (e.g., PD- L1, TMB, GEP), and inflam- vance, the potential applications of biomarkers in predicting re- mation/angiogenesis factors. Future large- scale, multi- center currence and evaluating treatment responses in oropharyngeal prospective studies are needed to validate the clinical value of cancer are expanding rapidly. Future research will likely focus these biomarkers and
