Cancer Reports
KEYWORDS: recurrence, biomarkers, tumor, treatment, dna, risk, expression, cancer, associated, molecular, hpv, opscc, cell, survival, response


of recurrence rithms into established clinical workflows. These challenges risk and treatment response assessments. Recent reviews have are further intensified by intratumoral heterogeneity and by highlighted that AI applications in head and neck cancer research dynamic shifts in biomarker profiles over the course of disease now extend beyond radiomics and pathology to include multi- progression and treatment. modal integration of liquid biopsy data, with the potential to drive In parallel, big data- driven research frameworks are accelerating grating multi- omics profiling with computational approaches to be dynamically updated and applied in real-t ime. Looking lying on single biomarkers, composite panels that incorporate ahead, personalized management will emerge as the core direc- molecular, immune, and circulating features may provide more tion for clinical translation. Risk stratification based on biomark- robust and clinically actionable prediction models. With multi- ers not only aids in identifying high-r isk patients but also provides center prospective validation and harmonized protocols for bio- a foundation for tailoring individualized treatment plans. For ex- marker measurement and interpretation, these approaches are more intensive follow-u p or receive additional adjuvant therapy enabling more precise surveillance and more personalized treat- post-t reatment, while those with high PD-L 1 expression may ben- ment strategies for patients with oropharyngeal cancer. efit more from immune checkpoint inhibitors . However, Author Contributions side the establishment of standardized testing and interpretation guidelines to ensure the robustness and applicability of results. Yunxia Chen and Wenyu Zhang should be considered joint first In summary, future research should focus on identifying novel authors. Zhihao Xie and Ping Zhou contributed equally as corre- sponding authors. Yunxia Chen: Conceptualization, Methodology, biomarkers, integrating multi- omics with AI, and refining per- Resources, Writing – original draft. Wenyu Zhang: Conceptualization, sonalized treatment strategies. Supported by interdisciplinary Investigation, Methodology, Validation, Supervision. Xiang Gao: increasingly central role in predicting recurrence and evaluating Data curation. Kongling Xing: Methodology, Validation. Yijing Ren: treatment responses in oropharyngeal cancer. Methodology, Validation. Jinyu Hu: Methodology, Validation. Zhihao Xie: Investigation, Supervision, Writing – review and editing. Ping Zhou: Methodology, Supervision, Writing – review and editing, Funding acquisition. All authors read and approved the final manuscript. 7 | Conclusion Over the past decade, biomarker research in oropharyngeal can- Funding cer has advanced considerably, improving the ability to estimate This work was supported by Hainan Province Science and Technology recurrence risk and evaluate treatment response. Investigations Special Fund (ZDYF2022SHFZ132, ZDYF2024SHFZ045), National have covered diverse
