Dyslipidemia in Chronic Kidney Disease
KEYWORDS: ckd, patients, pubmed, renal, statin, disease, use, kidney, cvd, cardiovascular, statins, levels, lipid, risk, subjects


ABSTRACT Chronic kidney disease (CKD) is associated with a dyslipidemia comprising high triglycerides, low HDL-C, and altered lipoprotein composition. Cardiovascular diseases are the leading cause of mortality in CKD, especially in end stage renal disease patients. Thus, therapies to reduce cardiovascular risk are urgently needed in CKD. Robust clinical trial evidence has found that the use of statins in pre-end stage CKD patients, as well as in renal transplant recipients, can decrease cardiovascular events; however, providers need to be aware of dose restrictions for statin therapy in CKD subjects. Furthermore, statin therapy does not reduce cardiovascular events in dialysis patients, nor does statin therapy confer any protection against the progression of renal disease. Niacin and fibrates are effective in lipid lowering in CKD and appear to have some cardiovascular benefit, but further study is needed to clearly define their role. Novel therapies with PCSK 9 inhibitors, bempedoic acid, and inclisiran have all been shown to improve LDL-C levels but there is currently limited data for reduction of cardiovascular events or mortality in patients with CKD/ESRD. This article reviews the epidemiology of CKD, association of CKD with cardiovascular events, and the effects of CKD on lipid levels and metabolism. The chapter discusses clinical trial evidence for and against statin and non-statin lipid lowering therapy in CKD patients. For complete coverage of all related areas of Endocrinology, please visit our on-line FREE web-text, WWW.ENDOTEXT.ORG . CKD EPIDEMIOLOGY Chronic kidney disease (CKD) is defined as renal impairment for greater than 3 months duration that results in an estimated glomerular filtration rate (eGFR) < 60ml/min/1.73m 2 . CKD is classified into 5 stages based on the eGFR ( Table 1 ) and albuminuria category (Table 2). CKD is a worldwide health problem with a rising incidence and prevalence. CKD, especially in the early stages, is often asymptomatic; thus, the actual prevalence may be even higher than estimated. End stage renal disease (ESRD) is defined as needing dialysis or transplant, and the prevalence and incidence of ESRD have doubled over the past 10 years ( 1 ). The annual mortality rate of dialysis patients is greater than 20%. The burden of co-morbidities and the cost of caring for CKD patients is high, and thus a major focus is increased screening and early detection of CKD when interventions to delay or prevent progression to ESRD may be effective. There are multiple causes of CKD with the
