Dyslipidemia in Chronic Kidney Disease
KEYWORDS: ckd, patients, pubmed, renal, statin, disease, use, kidney, cvd, cardiovascular, statins, levels, lipid, risk, subjects


major focus is increased screening and early detection of CKD when interventions to delay or prevent progression to ESRD may be effective. There are multiple causes of CKD with the most common causes in Westernized nations being hypertension and diabetes; however, a wide range of etiologies including infectious, auto-immune, genetic, obstructive, and ischemic injury are all prevalent. Table 1. Stages of CKD Based on eGFR View in own window GFR category GFR (ml/min/1.73 m 2 ) Terms G1 ≥ 90 Normal or High G2 60-89 Mildly decreased G3a 45-59 Mildly to moderately decreased G3b 30-44 Moderately to severely decreased G4 15-29 Severely decreased G5 <15 Kidney failure In the absence of evidence of kidney damage, neither G1 nor G2 fulfills the criteria for CKD. Table 2. Stages of CKD based on Albuminuria View in own window CKD stage AER (mg/24h) ACR (mg/mmol) ACR (mg/g) A1 <30 <3 <30 A2 30-300 3-30 30-300 A3 >300 >30 >300 AER: albumin excretion rate; ACR: albumin to creatinine ratio. While the burden of CKD itself is significant, the leading causes of morbidity and mortality in CKD are cardiovascular diseases (CVD), primarily atherosclerotic coronary artery disease. Risk factors for CVD in CKD include the traditional risk factors – dyslipidemia, hypertension, sex, age, smoking, and family history and CKD patients appear to benefit similar to non-CKD patients from therapies targeting these risk factors. Regardless of the cause of CKD, patients with CKD are at increased risk for CVD, which has led to the National Kidney Foundation classifying all patients with CKD as “highest risk” for CVD regardless of their levels of traditional CVD risk factors. Per the 2022 ACC consensus for non-statin therapies, CKD is considered an ASCVD risk enhancer ( 2 ). The focus of this chapter is on the dyslipidemia of CKD and the risk of CVD in CKD. Nephrotic Syndrome Nephrotic syndrome differs from other types of CKD in its presentation and risks. Nephrotic syndrome is comprised of significant proteinuria (typically > 3g/24h), hypoalbuminemia, peripheral (+/- central) edema, and significant hyperlipidemia and lipiduria may also be seen. It is frequently seen in children, and the etiology includes minimal change disease (up to 85%), focal segmental glomerulosclerosis (up to 15%) and secondary causes (rare) including systemic lupus erythrematosis, Henoch Schonlein Purpura, or membrano-proliferative glomerulopathy. In adults, the etiology is more likely to involve a systemic disease such as diabetes, amyloidosis, or lupus. Nephrotic syndrome
