Dyslipidemia in Chronic Kidney Disease
KEYWORDS: ckd, patients, pubmed, renal, statin, disease, use, kidney, cvd, cardiovascular, statins, levels, lipid, risk, subjects


including systemic lupus erythrematosis, Henoch Schonlein Purpura, or membrano-proliferative glomerulopathy. In adults, the etiology is more likely to involve a systemic disease such as diabetes, amyloidosis, or lupus. Nephrotic syndrome may be transient or persistent. Most (approximately 80% of children) cases of nephrotic syndrome are successfully treated with glucocorticoids with resolution of all features including hyperlipidemia; however, steroid-resistant nephrotic syndrome patients often have persistent dyslipidemia, which may place them at increased risk for CVD. For example, a small study found increased CVD markers including pulse wave velocity, carotid artery intima-media thickness, and left ventricular mass in patients with steroid-resistant nephrotic syndrome compared to controls ( 3 ), implying increased risk for CVD events. Treatment of nephrotic syndrome dyslipidemia includes therapies specifically targeting the renal disease (primarily glucocorticoids, but also renin-angiotensin system antagonists which can help decrease proteinuria) and lipid lowering agents. CVD IN CKD CVD accounts for 40-50% of all deaths in ESRD patients, with CVD mortality rates approximately 15 times that seen in the general population ( 4 ). However, CVD is highly prevalent in patients who progress to ESRD implying that earlier stages of CKD increase the development of CVD. A number of factors have been proposed as risk factors for CVD in CKD including proteinuria, inflammation, anemia, malnutrition, oxidative stress, and uremic toxins ( 5 ). Ongoing research is investigating whether these (and other) markers may be therapeutic targets. Interestingly, proteinuria correlates with blood pressure, total cholesterol, TGs, and inversely correlates with HDL-C ( 6 ). Thus, it remains unclear if proteinuria itself is a risk factor (e.g. a cause of CVD) or a biomarker. Meta-analyses of the general population and high risk population cohorts found that both lower eGFR (<60 ml/min/1.73 m 2 ) and higher albuminuria (>10 mg/g creatinine) are predictors of total mortality and CVD mortality; furthermore, eGFR and albuminuria are independent of each other and of traditional CVD risk factors ( 7 , 8 ). A meta-analysis that assessed individual participant data of over 22 million individuals from 64 global cohorts estimated the risk of myocardial infarction up to 6-fold higher for those with urine albumin/creatinine ratio over 300 mg/g and eGFR < 15 mL/min/1.73m 2 ; similar estimates were conducted for other CVD outcomes such as stroke, CVD mortality, heart failure and others ( 9 ). Estimated GFR > 60 ml/min/1.73 m 2 alone is not a risk factor for CVD or
