Dyslipidemia in Chronic Kidney Disease
KEYWORDS: ckd, patients, pubmed, renal, statin, disease, use, kidney, cvd, cardiovascular, statins, levels, lipid, risk, subjects


and adolescents with CKD using a standard fasting lipid profile (total cholesterol, LDL-C, HDL-C and TGs), and follows the classification of the National Cholesterol Education Panel for levels (desirable, borderline or high). Although some studies have found associations between Lp(a) and dialysis patients, this is not well defined and there is no current indication for routine screening of Lp(a). EFFECT CKD ON LIPOPROTEIN COMPOSITION Beyond simply measuring lipid levels, emerging evidence implies that lipoprotein particle size and composition is altered in CKD, with increased small dense LDL and decreased larger LDL particles in CKD subjects compared to controls ( 17 ). Small dense LDL is thought to be more atherogenic than larger LDL particles. An emerging theory is that beyond lipid levels or lipoprotein size, lipoprotein particle “cargo” can affect atherosclerosis development and progression. Lipoprotein particles transport numerous bioactive lipids, microRNAs, other small RNAs, proteins, hormones, etc. For example, a recent study compared LDL particle composition between subjects with stage 4/5 CKD and non-CKD controls, and found similar total lipid and cholesterol content, but altered content of various lipid subclasses, for example decreased phosphatidylcholines, sulfatides, and ceramides and increased N-acyltaurines ( 18 ). Many of these lipid species are known to have either pro- or anti-atherogenic properties and thus could directly affect atherogenesis. EFFECT OF RENAL TRANSPLANTATION ON LIPID LEVELS Dyslipidemia is frequently seen in renal transplant recipients, including increased total cholesterol, LDL-C, and TGs, and decreased HDL-C. The dyslipidemia may have existed pre-transplant or be related to transplantation associated factors. Cyclosporine increases LDL-C via both increased production and decreased clearance. Corticosteroids increase both cholesterol and TG levels in a dose-dependent manner. The adverse effects of cyclosporine and corticosteroids on lipid levels appear to be additive ( 19 ). Tacrolimus and azathioprine appear to have less induction of dyslipidemia than cyclosporine ( 20 ). Sirolimus increases both cholesterol and TGs, in part due to decreased LDL clearance ( 21 ). EFFECT OF NEPHROTIC SYNDROME ON LIPID LEVELS The dyslipidemia in nephrotic syndrome can be striking with significant elevations of cholesterol, LDL-C, TGs and lipoprotein(a); HDL-C is often low, especially HDL2. The cause of elevated lipid levels is multi-factorial, including reduction in oncotic pressure which stimulates hepatic apoB synthesis (although the exact mechanism by which this occurs is not known), decreased metabolism of lipoproteins, and decreased clearance. Patients with nephrotic syndrome have decreased LDL receptor activity and increased acyl-CoA cholesterol acytransferase
