Dyslipidemia in Chronic Kidney Disease
KEYWORDS: ckd, patients, pubmed, renal, statin, disease, use, kidney, cvd, cardiovascular, statins, levels, lipid, risk, subjects


exact mechanism by which this occurs is not known), decreased metabolism of lipoproteins, and decreased clearance. Patients with nephrotic syndrome have decreased LDL receptor activity and increased acyl-CoA cholesterol acytransferase (ACAT) and HMG-CoA reductase activity leading to increased LDL-C levels ( 22 , 23 ). Low HDL-C is thought to be due at least in part to LCAT deficiency secondary to accelerated renal loss of LCAT ( 24 ). TGs are elevated due to impaired clearance of chylomicrons and TG-rich lipoproteins, as well as increased TG production ( 25 ). EVIDENCE FOR/AGAINST LIPID LOWERING THERAPY IN CKD FOR CVD OUTCOMES Given the high prevalence of CVD in CKD, and the robust clinical evidence in non-CKD subjects that lipid lowering reduces CVD outcomes, there is great interest in using lipid lowering therapy in CKD subjects. Statins are the most commonly used lipid-lowering medications and thus far have been shown to reduce CVD events and/or mortality in virtually every population studied. However, CKD patients seem to be a unique population in that at present there is no evidence of benefit for CVD outcomes in dialysis patients with statin therapy. The Canadian Journal of Cardiology lists CKD as a statin indicated condition in its newest guidelines published in 2021( 26 ) while AHA/ACC lists CKD as a risk enhancer but not a high-risk condition based on 2018 guidelines ( 27 ). Despite growing evidence to support CKD as a CVD risk equivalent, the use of statin therapy in CKD does not appear to be rising more than in the non-CKD population based on data from Mefford et al looking at trends in statin use amongst US adults with CKD from 1999-2014 ( 28 ). As discussed below it appears that statins can reduce CVD events in pre-end stage CKD subjects, and in post-renal transplant subjects, but not in dialysis patients ( Table 3 ). The Kidney Disease: Improving Global Outcomes (KDIGO) 2024 clinical practice guideline recommends using statin or statin/ezetimibe combination therapy for adults ≥ 50 years old with eGFR < 60 ml/min/1.73 m 2 ( 29 ). Additionally, they recommend that in adults aged18–49 years with CKD but not treated with chronic dialysis or kidney transplantation, that statin treatment be used if the following risk factors are present; known coronary disease, diabetes, prior ischemic stroke, or estimated 10-year incidence of coronary death or nonfatal myocardial infarction >10%. Use of Statins in Pre-ESRD
