Dyslipidemia in Chronic Kidney Disease
KEYWORDS: ckd, patients, pubmed, renal, statin, disease, use, kidney, cvd, cardiovascular, statins, levels, lipid, risk, subjects


the following risk factors are present; known coronary disease, diabetes, prior ischemic stroke, or estimated 10-year incidence of coronary death or nonfatal myocardial infarction >10%. Use of Statins in Pre-ESRD CKD Patients Although many of the initial statin CVD studies did not include many CKD patients, evidence from sub-group analyses of large statin studies suggested that CKD subjects had similar benefits to non-CKD individuals. For example, the Heart Protection Study (HPS) which assessed >20,000 subjects at high risk of CVD included a subgroup of 1,329 subjects with impaired kidney function. In this subgroup those that received simvastatin had a 28% proportional risk reduction and an 11% absolute risk reduction of a major cardiovascular event compared to those randomized to placebo, which was similar to the effect on the overall cohort ( 30 ). Further, in the Pravastatin Pooling Project, 4,991 subjects with CKD3 were examined and a 23% reduction in cardiovascular events was seen in the pravastatin group ( 31 ). In a retrospective study with 47,200 subjects followed through the Department of Veterans Affairs, starting statin therapy 12 months prior to transitioning to ESRD conferred a reduction in 12 month all-cause mortality (HR 0.79), cardiovascular events (HR 0.83) and hospitalization rate (HR 0.89) ( 32 ). Several other studies or meta-analyses similarly predicted that CKD subjects would have reduction in CVD with statin therapy. For example, a meta-analysis of 38 studies with >37,000 participants with CKD but not yet on dialysis found a consistent reduction in major cardiovascular events, all-cause mortality, cardiovascular death and myocardial infarction in statin users compared to placebo groups. There was no clear effect of statin on stroke, nor was there any effect of statin use on progression of the renal disease ( 33 ). Another meta-analysis similarly reported efficacy of statin therapy, but that the relative reductions in CVD evens with statin therapy declined with lower eGFR, to the point of no benefit in dialysis patients ( 34 ). Thus, CKD patients with pre-end stage renal disease statins effectively lower total cholesterol and LDL-C levels and decrease CVD risk. The different statins have different degrees of renal involvement in their metabolism, and providers should be aware of dose restrictions in CKD ( Table 4 ). Unclear Whether to Use Statins in Subjects with Nephrotic Syndrome Several small clinical studies have investigated the use of lipid lowering therapies in nephrotic syndrome, but data is only
