Dyslipidemia in Chronic Kidney Disease
KEYWORDS: ckd, patients, pubmed, renal, statin, disease, use, kidney, cvd, cardiovascular, statins, levels, lipid, risk, subjects


). Unclear Whether to Use Statins in Subjects with Nephrotic Syndrome Several small clinical studies have investigated the use of lipid lowering therapies in nephrotic syndrome, but data is only available for statins and fibrates, and no CVD outcome data is available. Several small studies using statins have found efficacy in lowering LDL-C and that statins were safe and well tolerated ( 35 , 36 ). Two recent small studies suggest that statin therapy in nephrotic syndrome may reduce CVD risk ( 37 , 38 ). Thus, the use of statins in nephrotic syndrome appears to be safe and efficacious in terms of lipid lowering; however, it remains unclear if statins should be recommended for benefit on either CVD or renal outcomes. Use of Statins in Subjects with only Microalbuminuria The Prevention of Renal and Vascular Endstage Disease Intervention Trial (PREVEND IT) randomized 864 subjects with persistent microalbuminuria (urinary albumin of 15-300mg/24h x 2 samples) to fosinopril (an angiotensin converting enzyme inhibitor) or placebo and to pravastatin 20 mg or placebo. Inclusion criteria for the study included blood pressure <160/100 mm Hg and no use of antihypertensive medications and total cholesterol < 300 mg/dl (8 mmol/L) or < 192 mg/dl (5 mmol/L) if patient had known CVD and no use of lipid lowering medications. Although diabetes was not an exclusion criteria, <3% of the subjects had diabetes ( 39 ). The use of statin did not affect either urinary albumin excretion or cardiovascular events; however, the use of fosinopril significantly decreased albuminuria and had a trend to reduce cardiovascular events. Thus, in the absence of other indications for statin therapy, this study suggests no benefit in subjects that solely have microalbuminuria; however the study was limited by small size and few CVD events. A subsequent analysis found that the subjects with isolated microalbuminuria had an increased risk for CVD events and mortality compared to those without risk factors ( 40 ); thus isolated microalbuminuria appears to indicate high risk and further study is needed to determine effective therapies to reduce risk. No Benefit of Statins in Dialysis Patients Studies specifically examining the role of statins in ESRD subjects have not found a benefit. The Deutsche Diabetes Dialyse Studie (4D) randomized 1255 type 2 diabetic subjects on maintenance hemodialysis to either 20 mg atorvastatin or placebo daily. The cholesterol and LDL-C reduction was similar to that seen in non-dialysis patients; however,
