Dyslipidemia in Chronic Kidney Disease
KEYWORDS: ckd, patients, pubmed, renal, statin, disease, use, kidney, cvd, cardiovascular, statins, levels, lipid, risk, subjects


1255 type 2 diabetic subjects on maintenance hemodialysis to either 20 mg atorvastatin or placebo daily. The cholesterol and LDL-C reduction was similar to that seen in non-dialysis patients; however, unlike non-CKD subjects there was no significant reduction in cardiovascular death, nonfatal myocardial infarction, or stroke with atorvastatin compared to placebo ( 41 ). A long-term follow-up of the 4D study population found similar effects after 11.5 years as were found at the end of the original study: no CVD benefit, but also no evidence of harm ( 42 ). Similarly, A Study to Evaluate the Use of Rosuvastatin in Subjects on Regular Hemodialysis (AURORA) randomized 2776 subjects on maintenance hemodialysis to rosuvastatin 10 mg or placebo. Again, the LDL-C lowering in dialysis patients was similar to that seen in other studies in non-dialysis patients, but there was no significant effect on the primary endpoint of cardiovascular death, nonfatal myocardial infarction, or stroke ( 43 ). The Study of Heart and Renal Protection (SHARP) randomized 9270 CKD patients (3023 on dialysis) to simvastatin plus ezetimibe versus placebo. The SHARP study did report a significant reduction in major atherosclerotic events in the simvastatin plus ezetimibe group but was not powered to compare non-dialysis and dialysis patients ( 44 ). However, a meta-analysis of 25 studies involving 8289 dialysis patients found no benefit of statin therapy on major cardiovascular events, cardiovascular mortality, all-cause mortality, or myocardial infarction, despite efficacious lipid lowering ( 45 ). Nevertheless, a post-hoc analysis of the 4D study did demonstrate a benefit of statin therapy in the subgroup that had LDL-C > 145 mg/dl (3.76mmol/l) ( 46 ). Although the use of statins in dialysis patients does not clearly cause harm, at present there is no indication for use in dialysis patients, with the exception of a possible benefit in those with a significant elevation in LDL-C. WHY IS STATIN THERAPY INEFFECTIVE IN DIALYSIS PATIENTS? Given the robust data demonstrating statin efficacy in CVD risk reduction in virtually all other populations studied, the lack of efficacy in ESRD subjects is perplexing. However, it may be due to different mechanisms of disease progression in ESRD populations compared to other populations. In ESRD subjects there is increased inflammation and oxidative stress as well as increased non-lipid-associated pro-atherogenic factors, which may be the major cause of atherosclerosis development or progression in CKD subjects [for review see ( 47 )]. Therefore, the
