Dyslipidemia in Chronic Kidney Disease
KEYWORDS: ckd, patients, pubmed, renal, statin, disease, use, kidney, cvd, cardiovascular, statins, levels, lipid, risk, subjects


stress as well as increased non-lipid-associated pro-atherogenic factors, which may be the major cause of atherosclerosis development or progression in CKD subjects [for review see ( 47 )]. Therefore, the relative impact of dyslipidemia on CVD development and progression in ESRD subjects may be less than in other CKD and non-CKD subjects, and thus the potential benefit of lipid lowering therapy is reduced. In ESRD subjects with significant hyperlipidemia (such as genetic hyperlipidemias) there may still be a role for statins or other lipid lowering therapies. Furthermore, while no benefit has been found for statins in dialysis subjects, there is no evidence of increased harm, and thus consideration of lipid lowering medications in particular individuals with ESRD is warranted. Use of Statins in Renal Transplant Recipients The Assessment of Lescol in Renal Transplant (ALERT) study randomized 2102 renal transplant recipients to fluvastatin or placebo. There was a non-significant 17% reduction in the combined primary endpoint (cardiac mortality, nonfatal myocardial infarction, or coronary intervention procedures) but a significant reduction in cardiac death or myocardial infarction ( 48 , 49 ). Furthermore, a post hoc analysis suggested that earlier initiation of statins post-transplant was associated with greater benefit ( 50 ). A small study found no benefit of statin therapy on coronary calcification in renal transplant patients ( 51 ) albeit coronary calcium scores are not a good index of the benefits of statins ( 52 ). Furthermore, as with pre-end stage CKD patients there did not appear to be any benefit from statin therapy on progression of renal disease or graft loss in statin treated transplant recipients ( 53 ). Thus, renal transplant patients should be considered for statin therapy for CVD risk reduction, but not for graft preservation. Several of the statins have drug interactions, particularly with cyclosporine, thus providers must be aware of dose and drug restrictions ( Table 4 ). Table 3. Use of Statins in Various CKD Subgroups View in own window Patient population Statin indicated? Yes/no Microalbuminuria* Unclear CKD 1-4 Yes Nephrotic syndrome Unclear Dialysis patients No Renal transplant recipients Yes * in the absence of any other indication EVIDENCE FOR/AGAINST LIPID LOWERING THERAPY in CKD FOR RENAL OUTCOMES Given the evidence that renal lipid deposition is associated with progression of renal disease itself, there has been an ongoing interest in whether targeting dyslipidemia in CKD can help delay the progression of the renal disease. The
