Dyslipidemia in Chronic Kidney Disease
KEYWORDS: ckd, patients, pubmed, renal, statin, disease, use, kidney, cvd, cardiovascular, statins, levels, lipid, risk, subjects


is associated with progression of renal disease itself, there has been an ongoing interest in whether targeting dyslipidemia in CKD can help delay the progression of the renal disease. The dyslipidemia in CKD is associated not only with increased CVD but also with adverse renal prognosis ( 54 , 55 ). Biopsy studies have found that the amount of renal apoB/apoE is correlated with increased progression of the renal disease itself ( 56 ). Animal studies have supported this concept. A meta-analysis of several small, older studies suggested that the rate of decline in GFR was decreased in subjects receiving a lipid-lowering agent (the included studies mainly used statins but the meta-analysis also included a study using gemfibrozil and another using probucol) ( 57 ). However, the relationship between lipid levels and renal disease is unclear, as prospective cohort studies have not found any relationship of lipid levels to progression of kidney disease ( 58 ). Furthermore, the SHARP study, which included subjects with earlier stages of CKD (stages 3-5 were included) found no benefit of lipid lowering therapy on the progression of renal disease. A meta-analysis of statins in pre-end stage CKD patients found no overall effect of statins on renal disease progression ( 33 ) and the ALERT study found no benefit of statin use on renal graft or renal disease parameters ( 53 ). Thus, there does not appear to be any use for statins to improve renal function or CKD itself. SAFETY OF STATINS IN CKD Statin Safety– Renal Outcomes An observational study using administrative databases containing information on > 2 million patients suggested that the use of high potency statins was associated with acute kidney injury, especially within the first 120 days of statin use ( 59 ). However, a subsequent analysis of 24 placebo-controlled statin studies and 2 high versus low-dose statin studies found no evidence of renal injury from statin use ( 60 ). These discrepant results can be explained by the quality of the data: in randomized controlled trials, albeit not designed or powered to look at renal injury, data quality tends to be higher than that in administrative data sets, which often contain bias for selection, ascertainment, and classification. Furthermore, statins appear to have a nephron-protective role in the prevention of contrast induced acute kidney injury. A meta-analysis of 15 trials examining the effect of statin pre-treatment before coronary angiography found
