Dyslipidemia in Chronic Kidney Disease
KEYWORDS: ckd, patients, pubmed, renal, statin, disease, use, kidney, cvd, cardiovascular, statins, levels, lipid, risk, subjects


appear to have a nephron-protective role in the prevention of contrast induced acute kidney injury. A meta-analysis of 15 trials examining the effect of statin pre-treatment before coronary angiography found a significant reduction in acute kidney injury in those treated with high dose statin compared to controls treated with either placebo or low dose statin ( 61 ). One study specifically examined the use of statins in subjects with diabetes and existing CKD undergoing angiography and found a benefit to statin pre-treatment in reducing the risk of contrast induced acute renal injury ( 62 ). As discussed above, the use of statins in pre-end stage CKD or post-renal transplant patients demonstrates neither benefit nor harm on renal outcomes. Thus, based on available evidence there does not seem to be any renal harm from statin use, and the presence of CKD should not be a contra-indication to statin use, although some statins require dose restrictions in CKD ( Table 4 ). Statin Safety – Diabetes Outcomes As a class, emerging evidence demonstrates that statins increase new diagnoses of diabetes ( 63 ). As diabetes can lead to or exacerbate renal injury, this is another potential harm of statins. However, there is no evidence that statin therapy acutely raises normal fasting glucose into the diabetic range and rather the evidence from clinical trials suggests that statin therapy instead leads individuals at high risk of diabetes to progress to diabetes diagnosis sooner than may have happened without statin therapy. A subsequent meta-analysis of 5 statin trials with >32,000 patients without diabetes at baseline found that high dose statin was associated with increased risk for new diabetes diagnosis compared to low or moderate dose statin therapy ( 64 ). However, the number needed to harm (induce diabetes) is 498 whereas the number needed to treat (prevent cardiovascular events) is 155 for intensive statin therapy; implying that despite the increased risk of new onset diabetes, statin therapy’s benefits outweigh the risks. Which Statins to use in CKD? The various statins have different degrees of renal clearance; thus, with CKD patients it is important to be aware of the metabolism of the agent of interest and understand if/when dose adjustments are needed. Most statins are primarily metabolized through hepatic pathways, and dose adjustment in early CKD is typically not needed (eGFR> 30 ml/min). However, with more advanced CKD, eGFR< 30 ml/min (or ESRD, although statins are
