Dyslipidemia in Chronic Kidney Disease
KEYWORDS: ckd, patients, pubmed, renal, statin, disease, use, kidney, cvd, cardiovascular, statins, levels, lipid, risk, subjects


metabolized through hepatic pathways, and dose adjustment in early CKD is typically not needed (eGFR> 30 ml/min). However, with more advanced CKD, eGFR< 30 ml/min (or ESRD, although statins are not indicated in this population) most agents have maximum dose restrictions ( Table 4 ). Table 4. Statin Dosing in CKD View in own window Statin Usual dose range (mg/d) Clearance route Dose range for CKD stages1-3 Dose range for CKD stages4-5 Use with cyclosporine Atorvastatin 10-80 Liver 10-80 10-80 Avoid use with cyclosporine Fluvastatin 20-80 Liver 20-80 20-40 Max dose 20 mg/d with cyclosporine Lovastatin 10-80 Liver 10-80 10-20 Avoid use with cyclosporine Pitavastatin 1-4 Liver/Kidney 1-2 1-2 Avoid use with cyclosporine Pravastatin 10-80 Liver/Kidney 10-80 10-20 Max dose 20 mg/d when used with cyclosporine Rosuvastatin 10-40 Liver/Kidney 5-40 5-10 Max dose 5 mg/d with cyclosporine Simvastatin 5-40 Liver 5-40 5-40 Avoid use with cyclosporine BEYOND STATINS There has been relatively little research into the use of non-statin lipid lowering agents in CKD. There is an emerging interest in niacin in CKD patients for its phosphorus-lowering effects, and niacin has similar lipid-altering efficacy in CKD as compared to non-CKD subjects. Fibrates are metabolized via the kidney and thus are generally contraindicated in CKD. Ezetimibe has been shown to be safe and effective in reducing LDL-C in patients with CKD; however, studies have typically compared treatment with ezetimibe added to statin therapy vs. control and few studies compare ezetimibe monotherapy vs. control. PCSK9-inhibitors have been shown to be safe in CKD and efficacious in lowering LDL-C but there remains limited data regarding morbidity and mortality outcomes with this therapy. Newer therapies include bempedoic acid and inclisiran both remain relatively unstudied in CKD/ESRD. The following sections summarize the available data on the use of other lipid lowering agents in CKD ( Table 5 ). Niacin As niacin is not cleared via the kidney it is theoretically safe in CKD; however, its use is limited due to side effects (predominantly flushing) and a lack of data. Several short-term studies have evaluated niacin in CKD patients, and it is efficacious in lipid lowering. There is an emerging interest in the use of niacin or its analog niacinamide in CKD and ESRD patients for their effects to decrease phosphate levels. A meta-analysis of randomized controlled trials of niacin and niacinamide in dialysis patients found that niacin reduced serum phosphorus but did not change serum
