Dyslipidemia in Chronic Kidney Disease
KEYWORDS: ckd, patients, pubmed, renal, statin, disease, use, kidney, cvd, cardiovascular, statins, levels, lipid, risk, subjects


their effects to decrease phosphate levels. A meta-analysis of randomized controlled trials of niacin and niacinamide in dialysis patients found that niacin reduced serum phosphorus but did not change serum calcium levels; furthermore niacin increased HDL-C levels but had no significant effect on LDL-C, TGs, or total cholesterol levels; no CVD outcomes data were provided ( 65 ). Animal studies have suggested a beneficial effect of niacin on renal outcomes ( 66 ), and clinical literature is suggestive that this may occur in humans ( 67 ). Kang et al treated patients with CKD stages 2-4 with niacin 500mg/d x 6 months; niacin led to increased HDL-C and decreased TG levels, and improved GFR compared to baseline levels ( 68 ). Laropiprant has been developed as an inhibitor of prostaglandin-medicated niacin-induced flushing. In a sub-study examining the use of niacin with laropiprant in dyslipidemic subjects with impaired renal function, the use of niacin resulted in a mean decrease in serum phosphorus of 11% with similar effects between those with eGFR above or below 60 ml/min/1.73 m 2( 69 ) ; the parent study reported a significant reduction in lipid parameters including a decrease in LDL-C of 18%, decrease in TGs of 25%, and an increase in HDL-C of 20% ( 70 ). Thus, there may be an indication for the use of niacin in CKD subjects beyond lipid lowering considerations. However, cardiovascular outcome studies evaluating the combination of statin plus niacin in patient without kidney disease have not found any additional benefit compared to statin alone ( 71 , 72 ); thus, at this time further research is needed in CKD subjects to determine if niacin may be more beneficial than statins, or if the addition of niacin to statin may confer non-CVD benefit, for example, phosphorus lowering. Fibrates Fibric acid derivatives are used primarily to raise HDL-C and lower TGs; thus, they target two major components of CKD associated dyslipidemia. However, fibrates are known to decrease renal blood flow and glomerular filtration and they are cleared renally ( 73 ); therefore, there is significant concern regarding their use in CKD. Furthermore, fibric acid derivatives raise serum creatinine levels and thus trigger medical investigations into renal disease progression. Thus, there is concern regarding their use in CKD. However, there is a potential for fibric acid derivatives to improve both CVD and CKD outcomes. The acute changes in serum creatinine do
