Dyslipidemia in Chronic Kidney Disease
KEYWORDS: ckd, patients, pubmed, renal, statin, disease, use, kidney, cvd, cardiovascular, statins, levels, lipid, risk, subjects


is concern regarding their use in CKD. However, there is a potential for fibric acid derivatives to improve both CVD and CKD outcomes. The acute changes in serum creatinine do not necessarily indicate adverse renal effects. A meta-analysis ( 74 ) examined the use of fibrates in CKD subjects and reported beneficial effects to reduce total cholesterol and TG levels and raise HDL-C levels with no effect on LDL-C levels. In addition, 3 trials reporting on > 14,000 patients reported that fibrates reduced risk of albuminuria progression in diabetic subjects, with 2 trials (>2,000 patients) reporting albuminuria regression ( 75 - 77 ). This was associated with a reduction in major cardiovascular events, CVD death, stroke and all-cause mortality in subjects with moderate renal dysfunction, but not in those with eGFR > 60 ml/min/1.73m 2 . Thus, despite the elevations in serum creatinine seen with fibrates, there is the potential for both cardiac and renal benefit, and further studies specifically designed to evaluate these outcomes in CKD subjects are needed. At this point, providers are encouraged to consider fibrate therapy for appropriate subjects, especially if statins are not tolerated or are contra-indicated. Ezetimibe Ezetimibe is presently the only member of the class of cholesterol absorption inhibitors. As monotherapy it can lower LDL-C approximately 15-20%; however, the majority of research has examined ezetimibe in combination with a statin (primarily simvastatin) where the addition of ezetimibe can induce a further 20-25% lowering of LDL-C. Ezetimibe is metabolized through intestinal and hepatic metabolism and does not require any dose adjustment in CKD or ESRD, making it a potentially attractive therapy in CKD. The Improved Reduction of Outcomes: Vytorin Efficacy International Trial (IMPROVE IT) study demonstrated that the combination of a statin + ezetimibe led to further LDL-C lowering and improved CVD outcomes compared to statin alone in high-risk patients ( 78 ). A secondary analysis of this study evaluating outcomes based on eGFR showed that compared to statin alone, the combination of statin + ezetimibe was more effective in reducing risk of CVD outcomes in those with eGFR < 60/ml/min/1.73m 2 ( 79 ). The Study of Heart and Renal Protection (SHARP) compared CVD and renal effects in CKD patients treated with statin + ezetimibe versus placebo. There was a reduction in CVD events ( 44 ); however, there was no effect on renal disease progression ( 80 ). Note, neither of these
