Dyslipidemia in Chronic Kidney Disease
KEYWORDS: ckd, patients, pubmed, renal, statin, disease, use, kidney, cvd, cardiovascular, statins, levels, lipid, risk, subjects


+ ezetimibe versus placebo. There was a reduction in CVD events ( 44 ); however, there was no effect on renal disease progression ( 80 ). Note, neither of these studies included an ezetimibe only arm; thus, the effects of ezetimibe monotherapy on outcomes are unknown, although it can be expected to reduce CVD events in proportion to its degree of LDL-C lowering. A small study evaluating ezetimibe monotherapy in CKD patients found it safe and effective ( 81 ). Thus, the use of ezetimibe with or without statin is likely to benefit pre-end stage CKD patients in terms of CVD outcomes. Given that the impact of ezetimibe is on lowering LDL-C we can anticipate lack of CVD benefit in ESRD subjects based on the statin studies and SHARP. Fish Oil Omega-3 polyunsaturated fatty acids can lower TG levels, making them a potential therapy in CKD. The role of fish oil/ omega-3 supplements in the general population for prevention of CVD events remains unclear, with some studies suggesting benefit but others finding no CVD protection. A recent meta-analysis found no evidence for CVD protection ( 82 ) while a meta-analysis of thirteen randomized control trials involving 127,477 patients demonstrated marine omega-3 supplementation was associated with small but significantly lower risk of MI, CHD death, total CHD, CVD death, and total CVD with linear relationship to dose ( 83 ). In CKD patients there is little data to support the use of fish oil and much of the data is conflicting. A small, randomized study evaluated omega-3 fish oil supplements, coenzyme Q10, or both in subjects with CKD stage 3 for 8 weeks. The group that received the omega-3 supplements had decreased heart rate and blood pressure and TGs, but there was no effect on renal function (eGFR, or albuminuria) ( 84 ). Conversely, a study evaluating dietary omega-3 intake found that higher consumption was associated with reduced likelihood of CKD ( 85 ). A randomized controlled trial in patients with CKD and microalbuminuria showed that omega-3 fatty acid supplementation had no effect on urine albumin excretion; however, there was a beneficial effect on serum TG levels and pulse wave velocity ( 86 ). Fish oil supplementation has not been found to have any clear benefit on hemodialysis arteriovenous graft function ( 87 , 88 ) or on cardiovascular events or mortality in hemodialysis patients ( 89 ). Thus, there is
