Dyslipidemia in Chronic Kidney Disease
KEYWORDS: ckd, patients, pubmed, renal, statin, disease, use, kidney, cvd, cardiovascular, statins, levels, lipid, risk, subjects


to have any clear benefit on hemodialysis arteriovenous graft function ( 87 , 88 ) or on cardiovascular events or mortality in hemodialysis patients ( 89 ). Thus, there is no clear benefit for the use of fish oil supplements in CKD, but further research is needed. Bile Acid Resins The bile acid resins tend to be used less commonly than other classes of lipid lowering agents overall, and their use in CKD is limited by a lack of data. Bile acid resins as a class can lower LDL-C by 10-20% so they are less effective than statins; furthermore, they can raise TG levels and their use is contraindicated with elevated TG levels, for example > 400-500 mg/dl (>4.5 – 5.6 mmol/L). Thus, overall bile acid resins are rarely used in CKD patients. However, their metabolism is intestinal and thus there are no required modifications for their use in mild-moderate CKD. Although there are no theoretical concerns regarding their use in ESRD there is no data to address safety or efficacy. PCSK9 Inhibitors Monoclonal antibodies against proprotein convertase subtilisin/kexin type 9 (PCSK9) have been developed and approved for patients with clinical atherosclerotic CVD not meeting lipid goals despite maximally tolerated statin therapy. Statins can cause higher PCSK9 levels through activation of sterol regulatory element-binding protein-2 with co-expression of LDL receptors & PCSK9 ( 90 ). PCSK9 inhibitors lower LDL-C in addition to statin-mediated lowering and have been shown to decrease CVD events in outcome studies in secondary prevention populations ( 91 ). Two PCSK9 monoclonal antibodies are presently available in the US – evolucumab and alirocumab. PCSK9 plasma levels are not influenced by eGFR in CKD patients ( 92 ) but are increased in nephrotic syndrome ( 93 ). The German Chronic Kidney Disease study (GCKD) investigated the association between PCSK9 and cardiovascular disease in patients with moderate CKD (eGFR >30 ml/min/1.73 m 2 or eGFR >60 ml/min/1.73 m 2 with UACR >300 mg/g). GCKD showed no association of PCSK9 concentrations with eGFR or UACR (except for those with nephrotic-range albuminuria) but did show that higher baseline PCSK9 concentrations increased the odds of baseline cardiovascular disease ( 90 ). As monoclonal antibodies are not cleared by the kidney and thus are approved for use in CKD and ESRD with no dose adjustment. The ODYSSEY OUTCOME trial randomized post-acute coronary syndrome patients with LDL-C > 70mg/dL on maximally tolerated statin to
