Dyslipidemia in Chronic Kidney Disease
KEYWORDS: ckd, patients, pubmed, renal, statin, disease, use, kidney, cvd, cardiovascular, statins, levels, lipid, risk, subjects


are approved for use in CKD and ESRD with no dose adjustment. The ODYSSEY OUTCOME trial randomized post-acute coronary syndrome patients with LDL-C > 70mg/dL on maximally tolerated statin to placebo vs alirocumab; the intervention arm with alirocumab had nearly twice the absolute reduction in cardiovascular events ( 94 ). Of note patients with eGFR < 30 ml/min/m 2 were excluded from the ODYSSEY OUTCOME trial. However, a later sub analysis looked at the effect of alirocumab on major adverse cardiovascular events based on renal function. The sub analysis showed that irrespective of eGFR alirocumab was efficacious in reducing LDL-C. Further, annualized incidence rates of major adverse cardiovascular events and death increased with decreasing eGFR but rates were lower in the alirocumab group compared to placebo and there were no significant difference in incidence of major adverse events between treatment groups with eGFR < 60 ml/min/m 2 ( 95 ) . Further, data from a pooled analysis of nine trials comparing alirocumab vs control showed that among patients with ASCVD and LDL-C > 100 mg/dL those with additional risk factors including CKD had the greatest absolute cardiovascular benefit from alirocumab therapy in addition to maximally tolerated statin compared to placebo ( 96 ). A recent systematic review of 7 studies including 5 RCTs and 2 review studies showed safety of PCSK-9 inhibitors in mild-moderate CKD. However, this conclusion is somewhat limited as patients with an eGFR <20 ml/min/m 2 were not included in the trials ( 97 ). Furthermore, the relationship between PCSK-9 inhibitors’ lipid lowering and lower cardiovascular risks resulting in improved morbidity and mortality is altered with severe CKD due to non-thrombotic causes of morbidity and mortality. Studies remain ongoing to further look at mortality and morbidity outcome in PCSK-9 inhibitors specifically in patients with CKD 3 or higher. The ALIDIAL study examined the safety and efficacy of alirocumab in patients receiving dialysis and the dialysis patients had a similar response at the same alirocumab dose with reduced cholesterol levels and no unexpected adverse events when compared to the patients not receiving dialysis ( 98 ). There remains very limited data in patients with ESRD and PCSK-9 inhibitor use as monotherapy for dyslipidemia. Bempedoic Acid Currently approved for use in combination with maximally tolerated statin, bempedoic acid facilitates further LDL-C reduction by inhibiting cholesterol synthesis in the liver through blocking adenosine triphosphate-citrate lyase (ACL). Currently, use in CKD
