Dyslipidemia in Chronic Kidney Disease
KEYWORDS: ckd, patients, pubmed, renal, statin, disease, use, kidney, cvd, cardiovascular, statins, levels, lipid, risk, subjects


use in combination with maximally tolerated statin, bempedoic acid facilitates further LDL-C reduction by inhibiting cholesterol synthesis in the liver through blocking adenosine triphosphate-citrate lyase (ACL). Currently, use in CKD is approved without dosage adjustment for eGFR > 30ml/minute/1.73m 2; however, below this eGFR threshold there is insufficient data to guide its use. As bempedoic acid has hepatic metabolism it is presumably safe in CKD. Bempedoic acid increases serum creatinine and uric acid levels through interference with tubular secretion ( 99 ). A 52-week study in very high-risk CVD patients demonstrated that bempedoic acid added to maximally tolerated statin therapy was safe and led to a significant reduction in LDL-C levels ( 100 ). Further, combination with ezetimibe is safe and can increase the cholesterol-lowering effect more than either agent alone when added to standard therapy ( 101 ). The Cholesterol Lowering via bempedoic acid, an ACL-Inhibiting Regimen (CLEAR) Outcomes trial, a cardiovascular outcome study that was published March 2023, demonstrated a decrease in cardiovascular events but excluded patients with eGFR <30 ml/minute/1.73 m2 as well as nephritic or nephrotic syndrome ( 102 ). At this time, the data remains limited regarding the benefit and use of bempedoic acid in ESRD. Inclisiran Newest to the market, inclisiran is a small interfering RNA (siRNA) that acts in hepatocytes to break down mRNA for PCSK-9 which increases LDL receptor recycling thus increasing LDL cholesterol uptake. It is FDA approved for use in heterozygous familial hypercholesterolemia and in secondary prevention of cardiovascular events as an adjunct to lifestyle and maximally tolerated statin. It is administered by subcutaneous injections at 3 and then 6-month intervals. There are no cardiovascular outcomes studies yet available. There is no recommended dosage adjustment in CKD, but there have been no studies done in patients with ESRD. An analysis of the ORION-1 and ORION-7 studies compared inclisiran in patients with renal impairment and those with normal renal function found similar safety and efficacy, suggesting no dose adjustment is needed in CKD ( 103 ). However, no patients on dialysis were studied in these trials. ORION-8 is a 3-year extension of the preceding ORION-3, ORION-9, ORION-10 and ORION-11 studies that examined long-term efficacy and safety in regard to treatment-emergent adverse events (TEAEs) and treatment-emergent severe adverse events (TESAEs). More than 70% of patients at each visit in ORION-8 achieved the preset LDL-C goals. Almost 78% of patients had TEAEs and
