INFECTION AND IMMUNITY, Feb.1979,p.403411 Vol.23,No.2
KEYWORDS: mice, coli, bacteria, mesenteric, lymph, spf, nodes, lymph nodes, mesenteric lymph, spf mice, gnotobiotic, translocation, indigenous, bacterial, gastrointestinal


INFECTION AND IMMUNITY, Feb.1979,p.403411 Vol.23,No.2 0019-9567/[DATE]/09$02.00/0 Translocation of Certain Indigenous Bacteria from the Gastrointestinal Tract to the Mesenteric Lymph Nodes and Other Organs in a Gnotobiotic Mouse Model RODNEY D. BERG* AND ALVA W. GARLINGTONt DepartmentofMicrobiologyandImmunology, LouisianaState UniversityMedicalCenter, Schoolof MedicineinShreveport, Shreveport, Louisiana 71130 Receivedforpublication22November 1978 Viablebacteriawerenotculturedfromthemesentericlymphnodes,spleens,or livers of specific-pathogen-free (SPF) mice. Viable enteric bacteria, primarily indigenous Escherichia coli and lactobacilli, were present in the mesenteric lymphnodesofgnotobiotic mice inoculatedintragastrically withthewhole cecal microflora from SPF mice but not in the nodes of control SPF mice similarly inoculated. These indigenous E. coli also were cultured from the mesenteric lymph nodes of96% of gnotobiotic mice monoassociated with E. coli but from none of the mesenteric lymph nodes of SPF mice inoculated with the E. coli. Furthermore,viableE. coliweredetectedinthemesentericlymphnodesofthese monoassociated gnotobiotes foraslongas 112 daysafterinoculation. Indigenous Lactobacillus acidophilus also translocated to the mesenteric lymph nodes of gnotobiotic mice monoassociated with L. acidophilus. Apparently, there are mechanisms active in SPF mice inhibiting translocation of indigenous bacteria fromthegastrointestinaltracttothemesentericlymphnodes,spleens,andlivers, whereas these mechanisms are either absent or reduced in gnotobiotic mice. Indigenous E. coli maintained higher population levels in the gastrointestinal tracts of the gnotobiotes compared with their population levels in SPF mice, suggesting that high bacterial population levels might promote translocation of certain bacteriafrom the gastrointestinal lumento the mesenteric lymphnodes. Gnotobiotic andSPFmice,therefore, provideexperimentalmodelsfordetermin- ingthenature ofthemechanisms operatingtoconfineindigenousbacteriatothe gastrointestinal tractinnormal, healthy animals. Theintestinalabsorptionofimmunoglobulins trointestinaltractthroughtheepithelialmucosa and other proteins occurs in mammals for a into the lamina propria and thento the mesen- short period after birth (3). Immunoglobulins teric lymph nodes and possibly other organs. andothermacromolecules passthroughthe ep- Pathogenicbacteria,suchascertainSalmonella ithelialbarrierofthenewbornintestinalmucosa species, readily penetrate the gastrointestinal with relative ease. After a short period oftime, epitheliumofmiceandappearinthemesenteric however, this absorption suddenly ceases. In lymph nodes (13, 35, 36). Nonindigenous Esch- mice and rats this cessation occurs at approxi- erichia coli (18, 26, 38), Klebsiellapneumoniae mately 17 to 21 days after birth (30). Thus, the (38), Pseudomonas (38), and Clostridium per- intestinal epithelium ofthe adult mammal, un- fringens(12) alsodisseminatefromthegastroin- like that ofthe newborn, has been regarded as testinal tract to other organs in antibiotic- an impenetrable barrier to the passage ofmac- treatedmice.Verylittleisknown,however,con- romolecules.Recentevidence,however,suggests cerning translocation from the gastrointestinal thattheintestinalepitheliumofadultmammals tract by bacteria comprising the indigenous is permeable to very small amounts of macro- flora.Schaedleretal. (32)couldnotdetectviable molecular substances (2, 16, 41-43). indigenous lactobacilli, anaerobic streptococci, Certain bacteria alsohavebeenfoundtopass or bacteroides in the spleens, livers, or lungs of through the intact intestinal epithelium of the gnotobiotic miceallowed toingestthesenormal adultmammal.Bacterialtranslocationisdefined flora
