INFECTION AND IMMUNITY, Feb.1979,p.403411 Vol.23,No.2
KEYWORDS: mice, coli, bacteria, mesenteric, lymph, spf, nodes, lymph nodes, mesenteric lymph, spf mice, gnotobiotic, translocation, indigenous, bacterial, gastrointestinal


16, 41-43). indigenous lactobacilli, anaerobic streptococci, Certain bacteria alsohavebeenfoundtopass or bacteroides in the spleens, livers, or lungs of through the intact intestinal epithelium of the gnotobiotic miceallowed toingestthesenormal adultmammal.Bacterialtranslocationisdefined flora bacteria. Berg and Savage (8), however, as the passage ofviable bacteria from the gas- detectedaviableindigenousBacteroidesspecies in the mesenteric lymph nodes of gnotobiotic Shreveport,LA71103. mice monoassociated with this organism. Mae- 404 BERG AND GARLINGTON INFECT. IMMUN. jimaandTajima (27) detectedviablebacteriaof cycleinanAMSCOautomaticsterilizeradaptedwith several types in the mesenteric lymph nodes, avacuumpump. livers, lungs, and kidneys of gnotobiotic mice Bacteria.Themousececalmicrofloraforinoculat- monoassociated with these various organisms. ing CD-1 germfree and SPFmice was obtainedfrom SPF CD-1 mice. Three SPF micewere killedbycer- Hale andHill (22) culturedlactobacillifromthe vicaldislocationandplacedinananaerobicglovebox livers of both conventional and specific-patho- (CoyManufacturingCo.,AnnArbor,Mich.) (3)main- gen-free (SPF) mice, and Gordon et al. (21) tainedatlessthan10partsofoxygenpermillionparts detected enteric bacteria in the mesenteric ofanatmosphereconsistingof5%carbondioxide,10% lymphnodesofconventionalmice.Neilsenetal. hydrogen, and 85% nitrogen. The oxygenlevel inside (28) inamorerecentstudydidnotdetectviable the anaerobic glove box was monitored daily with a bacteriaintheliversofconventionalmice.Thus, TraceOxygenAnalyzer(LockwoodandMcLorie,Inc., it has not been determined conclusively that Horsham, Pa.). The mouse ceca were removed asep- viable bacteria of the normal flora translocate tically, cut into small pieces, and placed in 50 ml of sterile prereduced Trypticase soybroth (Difco Labo- from the gastrointestinal lumento other organs ratories, Detroit, Mich.) prepared with 0.3 M phos- in healthy conventional mice or even in gnoto- phate buffer (pH 7.5) containing 0.05% dithiothreitol biotic mice colonized with particular microbes. (Sigma Chemical Co., St. Louis, Mo.). The cecal sus- We examined the mesenteric lymph nodes, pensionwasmixedvigorouslyonaVortexGenieMixer spleens, and livers ofhealthy SPF mice for the (ScientificProducts)andallowedtosettle.Thesuper- presenceofviableindigenousbacteria.Germfree natantcontainingthececalmicroflorawastransferred and SPF mice also were inoculated intragastri- inside the anaerobic glove box to sterile glass tubes callywith awhole cecalflorafrom SPF miceor and stoppered with sterile soft-rubber stoppers. The with specific bacterial isolates andtheirmesen- stopperedtubescontainingthececalsuspensionsthen were removed from the anaerobic glove box, and the teric lymph nodes tested for the presence of outsidesweresterilizedwithperaceticacidandplaced viablebacteria.Theresultsoftheseexperiments into the vinyl isolators containing germfree or SPF arediscussedintermsofthehypotheticalmech- mice. Groupsofmicewereinoculatedintragastrically anisms or barriers present in healthy conven- withthececalsuspensionusing2.5-inch, (6.35cm) 22- tional mice preventing bacterial translocation gaugestainless-steelfeedingneedleswith2-mmstain- from the gastrointestinal tract. These mecha- less-steel bulbs on their tips (Popper and Sons, Inc., nisms appear to be absent or reduced in gnoto- NewHydePark,N.Y.) aspreviouslydescribed (6). bioticmiceallowingbacterialtranslocationfrom Indigenous E. coli and Lactobacillus acidophilus the gastrointestinal tract. wereisolatedfromthemesentericlymphnodesofthe gnotobiotic mice inoculated intragastrically with the MATERIALS AND METHODS cecalsuspensionfromSPFmice.E. coliwereisolated on selective Tergitol-7 agar (Difco Laboratories) (31) Animals. SPF (CD-1) mice were purchased from incubated aerobically
