INFECTION AND IMMUNITY, Feb.1979,p.403411 Vol.23,No.2
KEYWORDS: mice, coli, bacteria, mesenteric, lymph, spf, nodes, lymph nodes, mesenteric lymph, spf mice, gnotobiotic, translocation, indigenous, bacterial, gastrointestinal


CecalflorainoculumpreparedfromthececaofSPFmiceinananaerobicglovebox. 00 MLNindicatesmesenterictymphnodes.TheMLNweretestedIweekafterintragastric tracttotheseorgansinhealthy,adultSPFmice. inoculationwiththenormalcecalflora.OneMLNdrainingthececumandSeumwas Bacterial translocation in gnotobiotic testedpermouse. mice inoculated with a whole cecal micro- and colonized the ilea and ceca at high popula- flora. Mechanisms appearto be active inadult tion levels (Table 2). Viable bacteria were not SPF mice which prevent extralumenal translo- detected in the mesenteric lymph nodes ofthe cation of the bacteria comprising their indige- unchallenged SPF mice nor in the mesenteric nous intestinal microflora. These inhibitory lymph nodes of the SPF mice intragastrically mechanismsmaybeabsentorreducedingerm- inoculatedwiththe cecalflora. freemiceforreasonsdescribedbelow.Therefore, Bacterial translocation in gnotobiotic germfree mice were inoculated intragastrically mice monoassociated with certain indige- with bacterial suspensions prepared from the nous bacteria. Germfree mice provide an ani- entire ceca of adult SPF mice to determine mal model for demonstrating translocation of whether or not extralumenal bacterial translo- indigenous bacteria from the gastrointestinal cation would occur in this animal model. The tract to the mesenteric lymph nodes. Viable genrfree mice were inoculated with the entire bacteria, however, were not detected in all the cecal flora since itwasnot known which bacte- mesenteric lymph nodes ofgnotobiotic mice in- rial species might be able to translocate from oculated with the cecal suspension. Further- the gastrointestinal lumen. Elaborate precau- more,primarilyE. coliandLactobacillustrans- tions were taken to eliminate oxygen contami- located to the mesenteric lymph nodes even nation ofthe cecal suspensions and thereby al- though a broad spectrum of bacterial species lowcolonization ofthemicewithqstrictlyanaer- was present in the cecal suspension inoculum obic bacteria as well as other members of the and many ofthese bacteriareachedhigh popu- indigenous flora. A control group of SPF mice lationlevelsinthe gastrointestinal tractsofthe also was inoculated with this cecal suspension, gnotobiotes. Perhaps indigenous bacteria will whereasanothercontrolgroupofSPFmicewas translocate to the mesenteric lymph nodes of not inoculated. The groups of SPF mice were germfree mice more readily ifthe mice are in- housed throughout the experiment in germfree oculatedwithonlyoneofthesebacterialstrains isolatorssimilartothosehousingthegnotobiotic rather than the whole cecal flora. E. coli, for mice.Mesentericlymphnodesfrommiceofeach example, might reach higher population levels group were cultured aerobically and anaerobi- ingnotobioticmicemonoassociatedwithE. coli cally 7 days after the intragastric inoculations. without an antagonistic normal flora than in Thececaandportionsofthedistalileafromthe these gnotobiotes given the entire cecal flora. gnotobiotic mice also were cultured on both Consequently, viable indigenous E. coli and L. enriched andselective mediato confirm coloni- acidophilus were isolated from the mesenteric zation by the various bacterial types and to lymphnodesofthe gnotobiotic mice inoculated determinetheirpopulationlevels.Translocation with the whole cecal microflora. Cultures of ofindigenousbacteriafromthe gastrointestinal eitherE. coliorL.
