INFECTION AND IMMUNITY, Feb.1979,p.403411 Vol.23,No.2
KEYWORDS: mice, coli, bacteria, mesenteric, lymph, spf, nodes, lymph nodes, mesenteric lymph, spf mice, gnotobiotic, translocation, indigenous, bacterial, gastrointestinal


it. Immuniza- SPF mouse which inhibit translocation of cer- tion also inhibits the translocation of certain tain indigenous bacteria from the gastrointes- pathogenic bacteria such as Salmonella typhi- tinal tract to the spleens, livers, and especially murium (39) and S. enteritidis (15). Itisuncer- the mesenteric lymph nodes, whereas these tainhowlocal immunemechanismsprotectthe mechanismsareabsentorreducedingnotobiotic intestinal mucosa from invasion by pathogenic mice colonizedwiththese organisms. bacteria. Secretory immunoglobulin A specifi- The anatomical, physiological, and immuno- cally inhibits adherence of certain bacteria to logical development of SPF mice is influenced epithelial cells, thereby preventing colonization profoundly by the presence oftheir indigenous of epithelial surfaces (20, 45). Local immune gastrointestinalmicroflora.Germfreemicewith- mechanisms, however, have not been shown to outindigenousgastrointestinalbacteriahavenot reducegastrointestinalcolonizationbytheindig- developed anatomically, physiologically, or im- enous bacteria. Nonetheless, the local immune munologically to the degree of SPF mice. The response onmucosalsurfacesandcell-mediated intestinallaminapropriaofSPFmiceisdensely immunity in lymph nodes may be factors in- infiltrated with lymphocytes and plasma cells hibitingtranslocationofcertainindigenousbac- (31). Thisinfiltration hasbeen termed "physio- teriafromthe gastrointestinal tract. logical inflammation." In fact, the morphology Thepopulationlevelobtainedinthegastroin- of the intestinal villi may be determined to a testinal tract by a particular bacterial species great extent by the presence ofthese lymphoid alsomaybeacriticalfactordeterminingwhether cellsinthelaminapropria.Theintestinallamina or not this bacterial species will translocate to propria of germfree mice, on the other hand, otherorgans.Abrams (1)foundthatthenumber contains very little lymphoid tissue (17). The of viable S. typhimurium translocating to the lamina propria ofgermfree mice, orgnotobiotic mesenteric lymph nodes afterintragastric inoc- miceassociatedforonlyashorttimewithcertain ulation of pathogenic S. typhimurium was ap- bacteria, isnotasthickasthelaminapropria of proximately 400 times greater in gnotobiotic SPF mice. Consequently, the lamina propria of mice thaninthe conventional mice. The gnoto- thesegnotobioticmicemaynotbeaseffectivea biotic mice contained approximately 109 S. ty- barrier to bacterial translocation as the lamina phimurium per g of small intestine, whereas propria ofSPFmice. conventional mice harbored only 104 S. typhi- The indigenous bacteria present in the gas- muriumpergofsmallintestine.S. typhimurium trointestinal tracts of SPF mice also have a reached population levels of 1011 bacteria/g of direct impact on the host's immunological tis- tissue intheligatedilea ofeithergnotobiotic or sues. Crabbe et al. (17) demonstrated that the conventional mice,however,andequalnumbers lamina propria of germfree mice contain only of viable S. typhimurium translocated to the one-tenth as many plasma cells producing im- mesentericlymphnodesofboththegnotobiotic munoglobulin A (IgA) as the lamina propria of and conventional mice. Thus, when S. typhi- conventional mice. Abrams (1) reported that murium reached high population levels in the germfree mice have fewer circulating polymor- ilea of conventional mice, translocation to
