INFECTION AND IMMUNITY, Feb.1979,p.403411 Vol.23,No.2
KEYWORDS: mice, coli, bacteria, mesenteric, lymph, spf, nodes, lymph nodes, mesenteric lymph, spf mice, gnotobiotic, translocation, indigenous, bacterial, gastrointestinal


mice. Thus, when S. typhi- conventional mice. Abrams (1) reported that murium reached high population levels in the germfree mice have fewer circulating polymor- ilea of conventional mice, translocation to the phonuclear leukocytes compared with conven- mesenteric lymph nodes occurred as readily in tionalmice. Consequently, theundevelopedim- these mice as in the gnotobiotic mice. In our mune system of the germfree mouse may not study, populationlevelsofindigenousE. coliin respond to antigenic stimuli as quickly as the thececaofthegnotobioticmicemonoassociated immune system ofthe conventional mouse and with E. coli were 10,000 times greaterthan the may not exert an inhibitory effect on bacterial E. colipopulationlevelsinthececaofSPFmice translocation from the gastrointestinal tract to inoculated with thisE. coli. Therefore, translo- the mesenteric lymphnodes. cation of indigenous E. coli to the mesenteric Oral immunization with certain macromole- lymph nodesalsomightnot occurunlesstheE. cules decreases their absorption by gastrointes- coli reach a critical high population level in tinal tissue. Walker etal. (41, 42) demonstrated mouse gastrointestinal tracts. that the in vitro absorption ofhorseradish per- No strictly anaerobic bacteria were cultured oxidase or bovine serum albumin is inhibited fromthe mesenteric lymph nodes ofthe gnoto- 410 BERG AND GARLINGTON INFECT. IMMUN. bioticmiceassociatedwiththewholececalflora cating S. enteritidis, since more S. enteritidis from SPF mice even though these bacteria were detected in Peyer's patches than in the reached high population levels in the gastroin- surroundinggutwall. Consequently, wealsoare testinaltractsofthese animals. However, possi- examining Peyer's patches of gnotobiotic mice blysomeofthestrictlyanaerobicbacteriapres- monoassociated with indigenous E. coli or L. ent in the cecal suspension inoculum did not acidophilustodeterminewhetherornotPeyer's colonize the gnotobiotic mice. Also, the ileum patches are collection points during transloca- may be the site at which bacteria translocate tionofthese bacteria. fromthe gastrointestinal tract, and the popula- CertainindigenousbacteriasuchasE. colior tionlevels ofstrict anaerobes were lowerinthe L. acidophilusreadilytranslocatefromthegas- ileathaninthececaoftheseanimals.Indigenous trointestinal lumen to the mesenteric lymph B. fragilis also was not detected in the mesen- nodes andotherorgansofgnotobiotic mice col- teric lymph nodes of gnotobiotes diassociated onized withthese bacteria. These organisms do with B. fragilis and E. coli. Phagocytosis and notreadilytranslocate tothemesentericlymph killing by polymorphonuclear leukocytes and nodes, spleens, or livers of SPF mice. Gnoto- macrophages are ofprimary importance in the biotic and SPF mice colonized with various in- hostdefenseagainstfacultativelyanaerobicbac- digenous bacteria, therefore, provide animal teriasuchasE. coli (44). Casciatoetal. (14) and modelsfordeterminingthemechanismsinhibit- Bjornson et al. (9) also have demonstrated the ingbacterialtranslocationfromthegastrointes- invitrokillingofB.fragilisbyhumanandrabbit tinal tract to other organs in SPF mice but leukocytes.Thereisverylittleinformationavail- allowing bacterial translocation in gnotobiotic able, nonetheless, concerning in vivo humoral mice. and cellular
