Electrical conduction system of the heart
KEYWORDS: node, heart, electrical, bundle, atria, ventricular, ventricles, contraction, cells, left, delay, muscle, wave, myocardium, calcium


t-tubules. This influx of calcium causes calcium- induced calcium release from the sarcoplasmic reticulum, and free Ca2+ causes muscle contraction. After a delay (the absolute refractory period), Potassium channels reopen and the resulting flow of K+ out of the cell causes repolarization to the resting state. Note that there are important physiological differences between nodal cells and ventricular cells; the specific differences in ion The EKG complex. P=P wave, channels and mechanisms of polarization give rise to unique PR=PR interval, QRS=QRS properties of SA node cells, most importantly the spontaneous complex, QT=QT interval, depolarizations necessary for the SA node's pacemaker activity . ST=ST segment, T=T wave Conduction pathway Signals arising in the SA node stimulate the atria to contract and travel to the AV node. After a delay, the stimulus is conducted through the bundle of His to the Purkinje fibers and the endocardium at the apex of the heart, then finally to the ventricular epicardium. Microscopically, the wave of depolarization propagates to adjacent cells via gap junctions located on the intercalated disk. The heart is a syncytium: electrical impulses propagate freely between cells in every direction, so that the myocardiam functions as a single contractile unit. This property 2/4 allows rapid, synchronous depolarization of the myocardium. While normally advantageous, this property can be detrimental as it potentially allows the propagation of incorrect electrical signals. These gap junctions can close to isolate damaged or dying tissue, as in a myocardial infarction. Depolarization and the ECG See also: Electrocardiogram SA node: P wave Under normal conditions, electrical activity is spontaneously generated by the SA node, the physiological pacemaker. This electrical impulse is propagated throughout the right and left atria, stimulating the myocardium of the atria to contract. The conduction of the electrical impulse throughout the atria is seen on the ECG as the P wave. As the electrical activity is spreading throughout the atria, it travels via specialized pathways, known as internodal tracts, from the SA node to the AV node. AV node/Bundles: PR interval The AV node functions as a critical delay in the conduction system. Without this delay, the atria and ventricles would contract at the same time, and blood wouldn't flow effectively from the atria to the ventricles. The delay in the AV node forms much of the PR segment on the ECG. And part of atrial repolarization can be represented by PR segment. The distal portion of
