Electrical conduction system of the heart
KEYWORDS: node, heart, electrical, bundle, atria, ventricular, ventricles, contraction, cells, left, delay, muscle, wave, myocardium, calcium


The delay in the AV node forms much of the PR segment on the ECG. And part of atrial repolarization can be represented by PR segment. The distal portion of the AV node is known as the Bundle of His. The Bundle of His splits into two branches in the interventricular septum, the left bundle branch and the right bundle branch. The left bundle branch activates the left ventricle, while the right bundle branch activates the right ventricle. The left bundle branch is short, splitting into the left anterior fascicle and the left posterior fascicle. The left posterior fascicle is relatively short and broad, with dual blood supply, making it particularly resistant to ischemic damage. Purkinje fibers/ventricular myocardium: QRS complex The two bundle branches taper out to produce numerous Purkinje fibers, which stimulate individual groups of myocardial cells to contract. The spread of electrical activity through the ventricular myocardium produces the QRS complex on the ECG. Ventricular repolarization: T wave The last event of the cycle is the repolarization of the ventricles. Normal Sinus Rhythm and Junctional Rhythms An impulse (action potential) that originates from the SA node at a rate of 60 - 100 beats/minute (bpm) is known as normal sinus rhythm. If SA nodal impulses occur at a rate less than 60 bpm, the heart rhythm is known as sinus bradycardia. If SA nodal impulse occur at a rate exceeding 100 bpm, the consequent rapid heart rate is sinus tachycardia. Sinus bradycardia may not always be indicative of Cdoioskeiaess hee.l pT urs adienliveedr oaurt hselrevticeess,. Bfyo urs inegx oaumr sperlveic, eso, fytoeun a grheae vtoe o uhre uaser to f rcoaotkeises .< 60 bpm when not 3/4 exercising. If the SA node fails to initialize the AV Junction can take over as the main pacemaker of the heart. The AV Junction "surrounds" the AV node (the AV node is not able to initialize its own impulses) and has a regular rate of 40 to 60 bpm. These "Junctional" rhythms are characterized by a missing or inverted P Wave. If both the SA node and the AV Junction fail to initialize the electrical impulse, the ventricles can fire the electrical impulses themselves at a rate of 20 to 40 bpm and will have a QRS complex of greater than 0.12 seconds.
