Diagnosis and Management of Adrenal Insufficiency
KEYWORDS: adrenal, cortisol, replacement, dose, acth, patients, primary, deficiency, insufficiency, patient, normal, gcs, secondary, autoimmune, table


CLINICAL RECOGNITION Adrenal insufficiency (AI) is a disorder characterized by the failure of adrenocortical function resulting mainly in impaired secretion of glucocorticoids (GCs) only or of GCs and mineralocorticoids (MCs), hormones crucial for energy, salt and fluid homeostasis. The disorder may be caused by an adrenocortical disease (primary AI, known as Addison’s disease), which is a rare disease with a prevalence 100-140 cases/10 6 inhabitants and an incidence of 4 cases/10 6 /year. In addition, AI may be secondary in the setting of conditions affecting the pituitary gland and the secretion of adrenocorticotropin hormone (ACTH) (secondary AI) and/or the hypothalamus and the secretion of corticotropin-releasing hormone (CRH) and/or other ACTH secretagogues such as vasopressin (tertiary AI). The prevalence of secondary AI is estimated to be 150–280/10 6 inhabitants. The prevalence of AI after pituitary surgery varies (higher rates up to 90% after craniopharyngioma surgery), while hypopituitarism has high prevalence after cranial radiation for non-pituitary tumors, but may take several years to develop. The clinical manifestations of AI depend upon the extent of loss of adrenal function and whether MCs (and androgen) production is preserved (in cases of secondary and tertiary AI where the renin-angiotensin-aldosterone (RAA) axis is intact). The presentation can be acute or insidious, depending on the underlying cause of the adrenal failure; the diagnosis may be delayed until an intercurrent illness (serious infection, acute stress, bilateral adrenal infarction, or hemorrhage) precipitates a life-threatening adrenal crisis (AC). Consequently, except for salt craving, the symptoms of primary AI are pleiotropic and non-specific ( Table 1 ). Adrenal crisis is less common in secondary AI (pituitary apoplexy) or tertiary AI, but it is commonly present in primary AI. Retrospective and prospective analysis revealed a prevalence of 6.6-8.3 AC/100 patient-years, with mortality 0.5/100 patient-years, mainly due to gastrointestinal and other infectious diseases. A significant feature to clinically differentiate primary AI from secondary AI is skin pigmentation, which is nearly always present in long-standing primary AI. The most probable cause of the pigmentation seems to be the increased stimulation of the melanocortin receptor by elevated levels of ACTH. The rest of the clinical features of secondary and tertiary AI are similar to those of primary AI form ( Table 1 , 2 ). Rarely, the presentation may be more acute in patients with pituitary apoplexy. Hyponatremia and increased intravascular volume may be the result of an “inappropriate” increase in vasopressin secretion. The clinical
