Diagnosis and Management of Adrenal Insufficiency
KEYWORDS: adrenal, cortisol, replacement, dose, acth, patients, primary, deficiency, insufficiency, patient, normal, gcs, secondary, autoimmune, table


results in increased release of renin by the juxtaglomerular apparatus of the kidneys. In a non-acute setting, the diagnosis should be suspected by the patient’s history and physical examination along with a low morning cortisol concentration, and is confirmed by a cortisol stimulation test. The classic short Synacthen test (SST; 250ug of ACTH [1-24], im or iv), considered as the ‘gold standard’ diagnostic method to detect primary AI, has a sensitivity of 92% (95% confidence interval, 81–97%) for the diagnosis of primary AI ( Table 3 ). On the other hand, no statistically significant difference was found between low-dose and high-dose ACTH stimulation tests. Low levels for age and sex of dehydroepiandrosterone sulphate (DHEAS) concentration (or less frequently, dehydroepiandrosterone, DHEA) represents an additional marker to increase the level of suspicion of primary AI, but it is not per se diagnostic. A CRH test may also be used but is not in frequent use or availability, while a prolonged ACTH stimulation test is not usually needed other than to confirm secondary or tertiary deficiency ( Table 3 ). The gold standard’ is insulin-induced hypoglycemia, where short-acting insulin 0.1 or 0.15u/Kg, is injected and the peak cortisol measured over 2-3h. However, this must only be performed where there is adequate supervision and experience in its use. It must be emphasized that all normative values quoted are assay-dependent, and with the increasing use of GCMS to measure cortisol they may change again. Further investigations such as imaging studies, auto-antibodies or microbiological screening should be arranged accordingly to identify the underlying cause of AI. Table 3. Diagnostic Tests Used to Diagnose and Differentiate AI View in own window Test/ procedure Interpretation of the result/ comments Cortisol physiologic response Short Synacthen test (SST or cosyntropin test or ACTH test)- sampling at 9am for cortisol and ACTH level following by 250 mcg Synacthen for adults, children ≥ 2 y of age (15mcg/ kg for infants, 125 mcg for children <2 y of age) ACTH i.v. or i.m.; collect samples at 30’/ 60’ for cortisol level Indication when morning cortisol levels 3-15mcg/dl; recent onset secondary AI may produce a normal response; testing at least 18–24 h after the last HC dose or longer for GCs; SST can be done at any time of the day >430-500nmol/L (18µg/dL) (assay dependent) at 30 or 60 minutes Pregnancy: higher diagnostic cortisol cutoffs of 700 nmol/L (25 mcg/ dL), 800 nmol/L
