Diagnosis and Management of Adrenal Insufficiency
KEYWORDS: adrenal, cortisol, replacement, dose, acth, patients, primary, deficiency, insufficiency, patient, normal, gcs, secondary, autoimmune, table


in women AI: adrenal insufficiency; APS: autoimmune polyglandular syndrome; CAH: congenital adrenal hyperplasia; CT: computerized tomography; DHEAS: dehydroepiandrosterone sulfate; MRI: magnetic resonance imaging; VLCFA: very long-chain fatty acids As noted above, caution should be given in the interpretation of laboratory tests in specific situation such as the conditions that affect CBG concentration (↓: inflammation, nephrotic syndrome, liver disease, immediate postoperative period or requiring intensive care, rare genetic disorders; ↑: estrogen, pregnancy, mitotane). Systemic estrogens should be discontinued at least for 4 weeks prior to testing (estrogen patches will not affect CBG). Different criteria may apply according to the cortisol assay. If on GC replacement, omit the steroid dose before the test (hold off evening and morning dose: for HC or prednisolone, longer for the other synthetic GCs). In pregnancy, higher diagnostic cortisol cutoffs of 700 nmol/L (25 mcg/dL), 800 nmol/L (29 mcg/dL), and 900 nmol/L (32 mcg/dL) should be considered for the first, second, and third trimesters, respectively. In pituitary diseases, testing of GC sufficiency is suggested before and after initiation of GH replacement or upon documentation of an improvement in pre-existing diabetes insipidus (DI). THERAPY Acute Adrenal Insufficiency (Adrenal Crisis) Adrenal insufficiency is a potentially life-threatening medical emergency when presenting as adrenal crisis, which requires prompt treatment with hydrocortisone (HC) and fluid replacement. Once clinically suspected, treatment should be initiated and not be delayed while waiting for definitive proof of diagnosis. Blood samples should be obtained for measurement of cortisol concentrations later, and the management approach should be similar to the resuscitation of any critically ill patient ( Table 6 ). Table 6. Treatment of Acute Adrenal Insufficiency (Adrenal Crisis) During Patient’s Admission- Management of Resuscitation of Critically Ill Patient View in own window Maintain airway and breathing Treat hypotension: correct hypovolemia, reverse electrolyte abnormalities + cortisol deficiency; measurement central/ peripheral venous pressure + chest auscultation avoid fluid overload (↓infusion rate); clinical improvement (blood pressure), within 4-6h; caution should be taken in correcting chronic hyponatremia (not more than 12mmol in 24 h, preferably < 8) to prevent central pontine myelinolysis Τhe half- life of HC is 90-120 min after i.v. injection, and more prolonged after i.m. administration; switch to oral HC with a tapering dose (usually 20mg-10mg-10mg) after 48 hours if oral intake is resumed and there is no other major illness; some recommend dexamethasone while dynamic tests are awaited, as dexamethasone does not interfere with the assay, but
