Diagnosis and Management of Adrenal Insufficiency
KEYWORDS: adrenal, cortisol, replacement, dose, acth, patients, primary, deficiency, insufficiency, patient, normal, gcs, secondary, autoimmune, table


needed Taper parenteral glucocorticoids over 3-4 days→ oral maintenance dosage→ after 24hrs, ↓HC-50mg im every 6hr→ oral HC 40mg morning+ 20mg afternoon→ rapidly ↓maintenance dose 20mg on awaking/10mg at 18.00hrs Begin MC replacement with fludrocortisone (0.1mg by mouth daily) when saline infusion ceased to prevent sodium loss, intravascular volume depletion and hyperkalemia AC: adrenal crisis; ACTH: adrenocorticophin hormone; HC: hydrocortisone; i.m.: intramuscular; i.v.: intravenous; MC: mineralocorticoid; SST: short Synacthen test Management of Chronic or Insidious Onset of Adrenal Insufficiency The aim of replacement treatment in AI is to mimic the normal cortisol secretion rate. Initially this was thought to be approximately 25-30 mg/day, but normal cortisol production rates seem to be of the order of 8 to 15 mg/day. Most patients can cope with <30 mg/day (usually 15-25 mg/day in divided doses). Doses are usually given on waking with a smaller dose in afternoon; most patients feel better on three-a-day dosing. There is some evidence that three or four daily doses mimic better physiological cortisol secretion and that weight-adjusted dosing may be associated with a better safety profile. Despite the various types of cortisol replacement regimens, no head–to-head comparison data are available to advocate one over the other. Decisions regarding the form of GCs and the doses of replacement therapy are based on crude end-points such as weight, well-being, and blood pressure, as well as on local availability, cost and clinical need ( Table 8 ). Bone mineral density may be reduced on conventional doses of 30mg/day HC, highlighting the need to target for effective but safe doses. Long-duration GCs can be administered once daily but may be associated with higher risk of side effects. Patients should be monitored for clinical symptoms. Table 8. Glucocorticoid Replacement Schemes View in own window Commonly used doses HC Short acting, given in 2-3 divided doses; this approximately mimics the endogenous diurnal rhythm; obese individuals may require more GC replacement than lean individuals; higher frequency regimes and size-based dosing may be beneficial in individual cases; high doses in the evening may disturb sleep and alter metabolism 15-25 mg or 5-8 mg/m 2 /day; the highest dose in the morning on wakening, the next in the early afternoon (2 h after lunch) (2-dose regime) or at lunch and afternoon-not later than 4-6hours before bedtime) (3-dose regime); usually 10mg waking, 5mg at lunchtime and 5mg in the late afternoon Slow-release HC Available in some countries usually
