Diagnosis and Management of Adrenal Insufficiency
KEYWORDS: adrenal, cortisol, replacement, dose, acth, patients, primary, deficiency, insufficiency, patient, normal, gcs, secondary, autoimmune, table


event of intercurrent febrile illness, accident, or severe mental stress such as an important examination. If the patient is vomiting and cannot take medication by mouth, parenteral HC must be given urgently. Ideally, patients should wear a ‘medical-alert’ bracelet or necklace and carry the Emergency Medical Information Card, which should provide information on the diagnosis, the medications and daily doses, and the physician involved in the patient’s management. Patients should also have supplies of dexamethasone sodium phosphate, HC or methylprednisolone for emergencies, and should be educated about how and when to administer them by the i.m. route. However, it has been shown that subcutaneous self-injection was their preferred route of administration; the delay in time to reach peak cortisol concentrations with this later formulation was off-set by the time to find another person to administrate the GC by i.m. route. Rectal suppositories (prednisolone 100 mg suppository) or enemas (prednisolone 20 mg/100mL or HC acetate enema 10%) have been also used, but they are clearly not useful when diarrhea co-exists. Table 9. Glucocorticoid Replacement Schemes During Illness View in own window Examples of commonly used schemes During minor illness ↑up to 3 times usual dosage for 3 days; do not change MC dose HC 25-75 mg /24h in 2 doses orally or i.v.; taper rapidly as patient recovers (usually 1-2 d); children, i.m. HC 50 mg/m 2 or HC replacement doses doubled or tripled During minor surgery 50-100mg HC with premedication During major illness or major surgery ↑up to 10 times usual dosage; continuous infusion of 10mg HC/ h (or equivalent dexamethasone/ prednisolone. Half dose 2 nd postoperative day, maintenance dose 3 rd postoperative day. HC 100mg i.v. /8hr for 24hr; taper rapidly ↓by half/ day Major surgery HC 100mg i.v. just before induction of anesthesia followed by continuous i.v. infusion of 200 mg HC/24h (alternatively 50 mg every 6 h i.v. or i.m.); taper rapidly, ↓ by half/day and switch to oral regime depending on clinical state; children: HC 50 mg/m 2 i.v. followed by HC 50–100 mg/m 2 /d divided every 6 h. Weight-appropriate continuous i.v. fluids with 5% dextrose and 0.2 or 0.45% NaCl. Uncomplicated, outpatient dental procedures under local anesthesia and most radiologic studies No extra supplementation Severe stress or trauma Inject prefilled dexamethasone (4-mg) syringe Moderately stressful procedures (barium enema, endoscopy, or arteriography) 100mg i.v. dose of HC just before Pregnancy ↑5-10mg/day of HC usually in
