Diagnosis and Management of Adrenal Insufficiency
KEYWORDS: adrenal, cortisol, replacement, dose, acth, patients, primary, deficiency, insufficiency, patient, normal, gcs, secondary, autoimmune, table


Severe stress or trauma Inject prefilled dexamethasone (4-mg) syringe Moderately stressful procedures (barium enema, endoscopy, or arteriography) 100mg i.v. dose of HC just before Pregnancy ↑5-10mg/day of HC usually in the last trimester (20–40% from the 24 th week onward); ↑dose of fludrocortisone; HC is preferred over the other GCs but dexamethasone is not suggested since it is not inactivated in the placenta Labor - HC stress dosing (bolus injection of 100 mg HC iv followed by continuous infusion of 200 mg HC/24 h (well hydrated +saline drip +HC 50mg im/6h until delivery) similar to major surgical stress; thereafter, rapidly taper to pre-pregnancy levels HC: hydrocortisone; i.m.: intramuscularly; i.v.: intravenously; GCs: glucocorticoids Regarding MC replacement therapy, the dose of fludrocortisone is titrated individually based on clinical examination (mainly body weight and blood pressure) and the levels of plasma renin activity (PRA). Patients receiving prednisone (less MC activity) or dexamethasone (no MC activity) may require higher doses of fludrocortisone, as opposed to those receiving HC (125 time less), which has some MC activity. After the acute phase has passed, the adequacy of MC replacement should be assessed by measuring electrolytes, supine and erect blood pressure, and PRA; too little fludrocortisone may cause postural hypotension with elevated PRA, whereas too much causes the converse. Mineralocorticoid replacement therapy is all too frequently neglected in patients with adrenal failure. The dose may have to be increased in the summer along with an increase in salt intake, particularly if patients are exposed to temperatures above 30ºC (85ºF) or other conditions causing increased sweating. Newborns and children may also require higher fludrocortisone because MC sensitivity is lower. In chronic secondary and tertiary AI GCs replacement is similar to that in primary AI; however, measurement of plasma ACTH concentrations cannot be used to titrate the optimal GC dose. Replacement of other anterior pituitary deficits may be also necessary, and changing doses of growth hormone and thyroxine may change requirements. For patients with either primary AI or secondary AI the beneficial effects of adrenal androgen replacement therapy with 25 to 50 mg/day of DHEA have been reported. To date, the reported benefit is principally confined to female patients and includes improvement in sexual function and well-being. In children with primary AI, HC in three or four divided doses (total starting daily dose of 8 mg/m 2 body surface area) over synthetic, long-acting GCs (prednisolone, dexamethasone) is preferred. In
