Diagnosis and Management of Adrenal Insufficiency
KEYWORDS: adrenal, cortisol, replacement, dose, acth, patients, primary, deficiency, insufficiency, patient, normal, gcs, secondary, autoimmune, table


with primary AI, HC in three or four divided doses (total starting daily dose of 8 mg/m 2 body surface area) over synthetic, long-acting GCs (prednisolone, dexamethasone) is preferred. In case of documented aldosterone deficiency, treatment with fludrocortisone is suggested by a starting dosage, 100 mcg/d, while sodium chloride supplements are needed in the newborn period until the age of 12 months. Most experience has been gained from the treatment of children with CAH; however, since in this case under treatment is confirmed by hyperandrogenism higher GC therapy is usually given. Novel therapies have been tried such as rituximab in newly diagnosed autoimmune primary AI patients and with depot teracacidin in established primary AI patients. The regenerative potential of adrenocortical stem cells combined with immunomodulatory treatment to stop the autoimmune destruction or adrenal transplantation or gene therapy in forms of monogenic PAI may be a useful option in the future. For CIRCI with septic shock, it has been suggested to use i.v. HC < 400 mg/day for ≥ 3 days at full dose (rather than high-dose and short-course regimes) when they are not responsive to fluid and moderate-to high-dose vasopressor therapy (> 0.1 mcg/kg/min of norepinephrine or equivalent) as opposed to CSs in adult patients with sepsis without shock. In patients with early moderate to severe acute respiratory distress syndrome (ARDS) (PaO2/ FiO2 < 200 and within 14 days of onset) the use of i.v. methylprednisolone 1 mg/kg/day is suggested since GC treatment was associated with a significant reduction in markers of systemic inflammation (inflammatory cytokines and/or C-reactive protein levels), a reduction in the duration of mechanical ventilation by approximately 7 days, and probable reduction in hospital mortality by approximately 7% and 11%, respectively. In the case of late (> 6 days of onset) persistent ARDS the dose is increased to 2 mg/kg/day followed by slow tapering over 13 days. In hospitalized adults with community-acquired pneumonia a daily dose <400mg i.v. HC or equivalent has been suggested. GCs are also suggested in patients suffering from meningitis, cardiac arrest (methylprednisolone given during resuscitation or HC given for post-resuscitation shock), and cardiopulmonary bypass surgery (CPB) (250 mg i.v. of methylprednisolone at anesthesia induction and at onset of CPB) or dexamethasone (1 mg/kg perioperatively). Corticosteroids are not suggested for patients after major trauma or suffering from influenza. Nevertheless, it should be emphasized that this is a rapidly changing situation, and the use of
