Diagnosis and Management of Adrenal Insufficiency
KEYWORDS: adrenal, cortisol, replacement, dose, acth, patients, primary, deficiency, insufficiency, patient, normal, gcs, secondary, autoimmune, table


perioperatively). Corticosteroids are not suggested for patients after major trauma or suffering from influenza. Nevertheless, it should be emphasized that this is a rapidly changing situation, and the use of corticosteroids in the ICU with severely ill patients remains controversial. FOLLOW-UP Patients with chronic AI should be followed-up closely by an endocrinologist or a healthcare provider with endocrine expertise at least annually (for infants every 3 to 4 months) to ensure the adequacy of their GC and MC (in primary AI) replacement dose ( Table 10 ), to reduce the risk of AC crisis, providing necessary education to the patients, and to confirm that they have a prompt updated emergency pack with HC to treat an emergency. Clinical symptoms including body weight, postural blood pressure and energy levels should be used to monitor GC replacement in order to avoid signs of frank GC excess and adjust accordingly the dose of steroids. The ‘mapping’ of the dose has been suggested to assess the compliance, but also in cases with reduced quality of life where the detailed questioning for daily habits, working patterns, general feelings of energy, mental concentration, daytime somnolence, and dips in energy can help decide when tablets should be taken. Hormonal monitoring (serum or salivary cortisol ‘day-curves’) of GC replacement is not routinely recommended, but can be useful in specific situations where the clinical response cannot be reliably be used to adjust treatment or when malabsorption is suspected. In addition, the use of ACTH levels to assess GC replacement is not suggested since it leads to over-replacement. Similarly, MC replacement should be monitored based on clinical assessment (postural hypotension by lying and standing blood pressure and pulse, salt craving, edema, blood electrolyte measurements) ( Table 11 ). Reported well-being, electrolytes within the normal range and normal blood pressure without postural hypotension indicate adequate replacement, and the PRA should be targeted to the upper reference range. Licorice and grapefruit juice potentiate the MC effect of HC and should be avoided. Phenytoin increase fludrocortisone metabolism and higher doses are needed when it is co-administered. In pregnancy, only sodium and potassium can be reliably monitored in blood and urine for the adequacy of the replacement. It is of note that in patients who develop hypertension while receiving fludrocortisone, the dose of fludrocortisones should be reduced and HC replacement should be adjusted; if blood pressure remains uncontrolled, anti-hypertensive treatment should be initiated without
