Diagnosis and Management of Adrenal Insufficiency
KEYWORDS: adrenal, cortisol, replacement, dose, acth, patients, primary, deficiency, insufficiency, patient, normal, gcs, secondary, autoimmune, table


who develop hypertension while receiving fludrocortisone, the dose of fludrocortisones should be reduced and HC replacement should be adjusted; if blood pressure remains uncontrolled, anti-hypertensive treatment should be initiated without fludrocortisones discontinuation. First-line anti-hypertensive drugs to be selected are the angiotensin II receptor blockers or angiotensin-converting enzyme blockers to counterbalance the vasoconstrictive effects of elevated angiotensin II, second-line a dihydropyridine calcium blocker, while diuretics should be avoided and aldosterone receptor blockers are contraindicated. Since AI might mask the presence of partial diabetes insipidus (DI), DI should be monitored after starting GC replacement or conversely, when DI has improved, patients have to be tested for AI. With DHEA replacement, morning serum DHEA sulfate (DHEAS) levels should be measured before the intake of the daily dose aiming at the mid-normal range. An annual screening for autoimmune diseases (autoimmune thyroid disease, type 1 diabetes, premature ovarian failure, celiac disease, and autoimmune gastritis) should be included in patients with primary AI and no other obvious cause of adrenal failure. Special populations, like pregnant females, should be followed-up for clinical symptoms and signs of GC over- and under-replacement (weight gain, fatigue, postural hypotension or hypertension, hyperglycemia), with at least one visit per trimester. In children, the monitoring of GC replacement includes clinical assessment such as growth velocity, body weight, blood pressure, and energy levels. Genetic counselling may be useful in particular situations due to monogenic disorders. Table 10. Assessment of Glucocorticoid Replacement View in own window Under replacement Lethargy, tiredness, nausea, poor appetite, weight loss, hyperpigmentation. Low serum cortisol level on cortisol day curve (useful for HC or cortisone replacement only) (specific cases only) Over replacement Cushingoid appearance, weight gain, insomnia, peripheral edema High 24-hour UFC, high serum cortisol on hydrocortisone day curve (useful for HC or cortisone replacement only) (specific cases only) Low bone mineral density UFC: Urinary Free Cortisol Table 11. Assessment of Mineralocorticoid Replacement View in own window Inadequate replacement Postural hypotension, light-headedness High PRA (should be at the upper level of normal) Over replacement Hypertension, peripheral edema, hypokalemia PRA: Plasma Renin Activity Patient Education This is very crucial in the management of AI and for the prevention of adrenal crisis (AC). All patients and their relatives should be educated about their condition and the emergency measures they should take at home to prevent AC, particularly concerning GC adjustments in stressful events and AC prevention strategies including parenteral self- or lay-administration of
