Diagnosis and Management of Adrenal Insufficiency
KEYWORDS: adrenal, cortisol, replacement, dose, acth, patients, primary, deficiency, insufficiency, patient, normal, gcs, secondary, autoimmune, table


The pack contains a vial of 100mg HC or dexamethasone 4mg, a syringe and a needle The patient and/ or any responsible family member should be educated to administer this medication i.m. or sc during an emergency situation, i.e. severe accident, significant hemorrhage, fracture, unconsciousness, diarrhea and vomiting, and they should call the emergency medical personal immediately (adults, i.m. or sc HC 100 mg; children, i.m. HC 50mg/m 2 ; infants, 25mg; school-age children, 50 mg; adolescents, 100 mg). The expiry date on the pack should be checked regularly and replaced with a new pack if expired The patient should be advised to take the pack when travelling. Medical-Alert bracelet or pendant and emergency steroid card Every patient should wear or carry these in which the diagnosis and daily medication should be clearly documented Follow up Reinforce education and confirm understanding during each follow-up visit (at least annually in a patient without specific problems or recent crises; otherwise, more frequently) GCs: glucocorticoids; HC: hydrocortisone; i.m.: intramuscularly; i.v.: intravenously; HC: hydrocortisone; MCs: mineralocorticoids; sc: subcutaneously PROGNOSIS The mortality of patients with primary AI was increased in some studies and adrenal crisis (AC) was a significant cause of death, emphasizing the need to educate the patients with AI to prevent AC. Recent evidence suggests that the quality of life of patients with primary AI remains impaired despite the adequate replacement dose but seems to be related to the delay in diagnosis. GUIDELINES Bornstein SR, Allolio B, Arlt W, Barthel A, Don-Wauchope A, Hammer GD, Husebye ES, Merke DP, Murad MH, Stratakis CA, Torpy DJ. Diagnosis and Treatment of Primary Adrenal Insufficiency: An Endocrine Society Clinical Practice Guideline. J Clin Endocrinol Metab. 2016 Feb; 101 (2):364–89. [ PMC free article : PMC4880116 ] [ PubMed : 26760044 ] Fleseriu M, Hashim IA, Karavitaki N, Melmed S, Murad MH, Salvatori R, Samuels MH. Hormonal Replacement in Hypopituitarism in Adults: An Endocrine Society Clinical Practice Guideline. J Clin Endocrinol Metab. 2016 Nov; 101 (11):3888–3921. [ PubMed : 27736313 ] Annane D, Pastores SM, Rochwerg B, Arlt W, Balk RA, Beishuizen A, Briegel J, Carcillo J, Christ-Crain M, Cooper MS, Marik PE, Umberto Meduri G, Olsen KM, Rodgers SC, Russell JA, Van den Berghe G. Guidelines for the Diagnosis and Management of Critical Illness-Related Corticosteroid Insufficiency (CIRCI) in Critically Ill Patients (Part I): Society of Critical Care Medicine (SCCM) and European Society of Intensive Care Medicine
