Hypopituitarism
KEYWORDS: pituitary, pubmed, patients, deficiency, hormone, endocrinol, replacement, hypopituitarism, clin, clin endocrinol, testosterone, clinical, cortisol, hydrocortisone, metab


ABSTRACT Hypopituitarism is described as partial or complete loss of isolated or combined deficits of pituitary hormones. The clinical presentation of this condition varies depending on the age of onset, underlying cause of the disease, severity of deficiency, and number of affected hormones. Investigation to confirm the diagnosis is based on basal hormone status and dynamic stimulatory tests. In this review, we will provide a concise background knowledge regarding the underlying etiology, clinical manifestations, hormonal investigations, and related treatments which necessitate close lifelong monitoring. For complete coverage of all related areas of Endocrinology, please visit our on-line FREE web-text, WWW.ENDOTEXT.ORG . INTRODUCTION Hypopituitarism refers to complete or partial failure of secretion of anterior and/or posterior pituitary hormones. It may arise as a result of congenital defects in the development of individual anterior pituitary cell types or hypothalamic function, acquired disease of the pituitary or hypothalamus, or from infundibular lesions which interfere with the hypothalamic control of the pituitary. The multiple aspects of normal pituitary function serve to predict the wide range of clinical manifestations of hypopituitarism which are determined by the severity, extent, and duration of the condition. Onset may occur during childhood or adult life and is generally permanent, requiring one or more specific hormone replacements. ETIOLOGY OF HYPOPITUITARISM The major causes of hypopituitarism are shown in Table 1 . Table 1. Causes of Hypopituitarism View in own window Congenital* Isolated pituitary hormone deficiency Receptor mutation: GHRH, CRH, GnRH, TRH receptor mutations Transcription factor defect: PITX2, TBX19, DAX1, NR5A1, NR0B1 Hormone mutation: GH1, bio-inactive GH, FSHβ, LHβ, TSHβ, POMC, POMC processing defect Prader-Willi syndrome Bardet-Biedl syndrome Kallmann syndrome Multiple pituitary hormone deficiency Transcription factor defect: HESX1, SOX 2/3, LHX3/4, PROP1, POU1F1, IGSF1 mutations Prohormone convertase enzyme mutation: PC1 Neoplastic Pituitary adenoma Functioning and Non-functioning Peri-pituitary tumors Parasellar lesion: craniopharyngioma, Rathke’s cleft cyst Non-adenomatous neoplasm: meningioma, glioma, germ cell tumor Metastases, especially breast, renal, bronchus Vascular Infarction/ hemorrhage Sheehan’s syndrome Pituitary apoplexy Aneurysms Inflammatory / Infiltrative / Immunological Hypophysitis: lymphocytic, granulomatous, xanthomatous, necrotizing, IgG4-related, immunotherapy-induced (CTLA-4 inhibitors), other immune-associated Hemochromatosis Sarcoidosis Wegener’s granulomatosis Giant cell granuloma Langerhans cell histiocytosis Infectious Bacterial: tuberculosis, syphilis, leptospirosis Fungal: candidiasis, aspergillosis Viral: Herpes/Varicella infection, SARS-CoV-2 virus Post-irradiation Pituitary Nasopharyngeal Cranial Miscellaneous Empty sella Traumatic brain injury Medications * Please note the Endotext chapter on Genetic Etiology of Congenital Hypopituitarism ( 1 ). Congenital Formation of the normal pituitary during embryonic development depends on the
