Hypopituitarism
KEYWORDS: pituitary, pubmed, patients, deficiency, hormone, endocrinol, replacement, hypopituitarism, clin, clin endocrinol, testosterone, clinical, cortisol, hydrocortisone, metab


brain injury Medications * Please note the Endotext chapter on Genetic Etiology of Congenital Hypopituitarism ( 1 ). Congenital Formation of the normal pituitary during embryonic development depends on the juxtaposition of cells of neuroectodermal origin, which form the posterior pituitary, and endodermal cells derived from the primitive stomodeum, which form the anterior pituitary. Congenital forms of hypopituitarism are best considered as being derived either from hypothalamic or pituitary origin. Defects of RPX/HESX1, PROP1, and PIT1 are associated with varying degrees of inherited hypopituitarism in humans ( 2 ). Autosomal dominant mutations of the arginine vasopressin-neurophysin II gene give rise to familial antidiuretic hormone (ADH) deficiency (AVP-D, previously called central diabetes insipidus, CDI). Congenital combined pituitary hormone deficiency (CPHD) (or multiple pituitary hormone deficiency (MPHD)) may be associated with hypoplasia of the anterior pituitary and ectopic siting of the posterior pituitary in a superior position. The underlying mechanism for this condition, once thought to be a consequence of birth trauma, remains undetermined but a congenital molecular defect is likely. Furthermore, since some genetic mutations affect early development, they may include extra-pituitary features or midline anomalies as a part of a syndrome. For instance, the transcription factors, including HESX1, SOX2, SOX3, and OTX2, are the most common genes involved in the etiology of septo-optic dysplasia. Hypogonadotropic hypogonadism is a recognized feature of both Prader-Willi and Bardet-Biedl syndromes. The salient features of the currently described transcription factor defects are indicated below. HESX1 MUTATIONS HESX1 is a member of the homeobox gene family. It is one of the earliest markers of the pituitary primodium expressed as a prelude to the development of Rathke’s pouch. Mutations of the HESX1 gene in humans are associated with septo-optic dysplasia and evolving hypopituitarism. Septo-optic dysplasia is characterized by the classical triad of optic nerve hypoplasia, midline neuroradiological abnormalities such as agenesis of the corpus callosum, and pituitary hypoplasia with consequent panhypopituitarism ( 3 ). Expression of the HESX1 gene precedes expression of PROP1 and PIT1, and its consequences are more extensive. PROP1 DEFECT The PROP1 gene encodes a transcription factor with a single paired-like DNA-binding domain. Individuals with a single inactivating mutation in PROP1 have deficiencies of luteinizing hormone (LH), follicle stimulating hormone (FSH), GH, prolactin, and TSH ( 4 ). Their pituitary glands may be small, normally sized, or large with extrasellar extension. Pituitary degeneration may produce acquired deficiency of adrenocorticotropic hormone (ACTH). Growth restriction and
