Hypopituitarism
KEYWORDS: pituitary, pubmed, patients, deficiency, hormone, endocrinol, replacement, hypopituitarism, clin, clin endocrinol, testosterone, clinical, cortisol, hydrocortisone, metab


TSH ( 4 ). Their pituitary glands may be small, normally sized, or large with extrasellar extension. Pituitary degeneration may produce acquired deficiency of adrenocorticotropic hormone (ACTH). Growth restriction and GH responses to GHRH stimulation are more variable in children with PROP1 mutation. This variability does not seem to be dependent on the type of PROP1 mutation because variability exists within sibships. Recessive mutation in PROP1 is the most frequent genetic cause of CPHD and appears to be much more common than POU1F1 mutation ( 5 , 6 ). Clinical suspicion of these mutations should be high in any individual with early onset CPHD, even in those with an intrasellar or suprasellar mass lesion. However, the clinical manifestations of each hormone may vary in onset and severity. GHD is usually present in the first years of life, whereas TSH and gonadotropin deficiency might manifest at birth or later in life. Most patients do not experience adrenal insufficiency during the first years of life although this can evolve later. PIT1 DEFECT PIT1, also known as POU1F1, is a pituitary specific transcription factor found in somatotrophs, lactotrophs, and thyrotrophs in the anterior pituitary gland from early fetal development and throughout life. Autosomal recessive defects of PIT1 are associated with combined deficiencies of growth hormone (GH), prolactin, and thyrotropin stimulating hormone (TSH) ( 7 , 8 ). Patients with PIT1 mutations (coded by POU1F1 gene) tend to firstly manifest with GHD and prolactin deficiency in the first year of life and generally do not release detectable amounts of GH after GHRH stimulation. TSH deficiency typically develops later in life ( 9 ). SOX2 MUTATIONS SOX2 belongs to the SRY-related HMG box (SOX) family of transcription factors which are expressed in various stages of embryonic development and cell differentiation and play critical roles from the earliest stages of development, in particular expression of anterior neuroectoderm. De novo truncating mutations of SOX2 are found in individuals with bilateral anophthalmia/microphthalmia, small corpus callosum, hippocampal abnormalities, variable mental retardation, anterior pituitary hypoplasia and often hypopituitarism ( 10 - 12 ) SOX3 MUTATIONS SOX3 also belongs to the SRY-related HMG box (SOX) family of transcription factors. This dosage sensitive gene is essential for normal hypothalamic-pituitary development ( 13 ). Patients manifest with variable hypopituitarism, infundibular hypoplasia, abnormal corpus callosum, hypoplasia of anterior pituitary, absent stalk, ectopic/undescended posterior pituitary, and intellectual disability ( 14 ). OTX2 MUTATION OTX2 belongs
