Hypopituitarism
KEYWORDS: pituitary, pubmed, patients, deficiency, hormone, endocrinol, replacement, hypopituitarism, clin, clin endocrinol, testosterone, clinical, cortisol, hydrocortisone, metab


). Patients manifest with variable hypopituitarism, infundibular hypoplasia, abnormal corpus callosum, hypoplasia of anterior pituitary, absent stalk, ectopic/undescended posterior pituitary, and intellectual disability ( 14 ). OTX2 MUTATION OTX2 belongs to the orthodenticle homeobox (OTX) and plays an essential role in brain, eyes, and pituitary development. Patients with OTX2 mutations manifest with variable degrees of pituitary dysfunction, intellectual disability, ocular abnormalities including microphthalmia, anophthalmia, and abnormal peripapillary pigmentation ( 15 ). DAX1 MUTATIONS Mutations in DAX1 (coded by NR0B1 ), which is another X chromosome gene, cause hypogonadotropic hypogonadism in association with congenital adrenal hypoplasia in males. DAX1 encodes an orphan nuclear hormone receptor with a novel DNA-binding domain, that has a critical role in the development of the hypothalamus, pituitary, adrenal, and gonads ( 16 ). DAX1 appears to influence the maintenance of testicular epithelial integrity and spermatogenesis. KAL1 MUTATION Isolated gonadotropin deficiency with hyposmia (Kallmann syndrome) may be inherited as an autosomal X-linked disorder or occur sporadically. The X-linked disorder occurs in approximately 1/10,000 to 60,000 live births ( 17 ) and a mutation in the KAL1 gene is the basis for this disease. Gonadotropin-releasing hormone (GnRH) neurons develop in the medial olfactory placode and migrate to the hypothalamus during embryonic development; the KAL protein is essential for the initiation and maintenance of this process. Patients with the disorder usually present in late adolescence with delayed pubertal initiation or progression and characteristically exhibit hyposmia. They may develop eunuchoid proportions and usually demonstrate small testes and a short penis; other features which are specific to X-linked Kallmann syndrome include unilateral renal agenesis and synkinesis (mirror movements), whereas midline facial defects, choanal atresia, short metacarpals, malrotation of the gut, and ocular coloboma are more common in autosomal and sporadic forms of the condition. GH1 MUTATIONS Mutations in the major GH gene, GH1 , can occur as deletions of different size, resulting in severe isolated GH deficiency and may be familial with either a dominant or recessive pattern of inheritance. TBX19 MUTATION TBX19, also known as TPIT, is essential for both pro-opiomelanocortin (POMC) transcription and terminal differentiation of POMC-expressing cells. A mutation of TBX19 results in congenital isolated ACTH deficiency and this mutation is discovered in 65% of patients with neonatal-onset congenital isolated ACTH deficiency ( 18 ). Other single gene mutations affecting individual anterior pituitary hormones or pituitary receptors for hypothalamic peptides are indicated in Table 1 . Tumors Pituitary
