Hypopituitarism
KEYWORDS: pituitary, pubmed, patients, deficiency, hormone, endocrinol, replacement, hypopituitarism, clin, clin endocrinol, testosterone, clinical, cortisol, hydrocortisone, metab


congenital isolated ACTH deficiency ( 18 ). Other single gene mutations affecting individual anterior pituitary hormones or pituitary receptors for hypothalamic peptides are indicated in Table 1 . Tumors Pituitary adenomas are the most common cause of adult-onset hypopituitarism ( 19 , 20 ). Craniopharyngiomas are numerically the next most prevalent and may present as sellar and/or suprasellar masses. Please see detailed Endotext chapters on pituitary neuroendocrine tumors ( 21 - 28 ) and on craniopharyngiomas ( 29 ). PITUITARY ADENOMA Pituitary tumors can be either non-functioning or secrete one or more anterior pituitary hormones. They are classified according to size and the presence of extrasellar extension; magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) permits accurate measurement of maximum diameter and tumors are conventionally classified as microadenomas (less than 10mm), and macroadenomas (more than 20mm in diameter) ( 30 ). The reported prevalence of pituitary tumors is approximately 10 per million with an average annual incidence of approximately 30 per million depending on tumor type, age, and gender with the highest incidence occurring in pre-menopausal women. Pituitary adenomas may cause typical clinical syndromes resulting from hypersecretion of one or more anterior pituitary hormones. Approximately 25-30% will not present with these symptoms, so they will only be detected when tumor expansion and local compression of the surrounding structures emerges. Post-mortem studies reveal a prevalence of incidental intrasellar adenomas of 10-20%. Clinically non-functioning pituitary adenomas (NFPA) are non- or low grade-secreting tumors which frequently synthesize and secrete free alpha or beta glycoprotein subunits but do not cause clinically recognized symptomatology. Hence, the treatment of choice is surgical debulking, and sometimes followed by external radiation therapy. In contrast to patients with secreting pituitary tumor who present with clinical syndromes of acromegaly, hyperprolactinemia, Cushing’s disease, and secondary hyperthyroidism non-functioning tumors present as an incidental finding, hypopituitarism, or due to mass effects of the tumor. The mainstream treatment in these diseases must be surgical therapy, except prolactinoma which is typically responsive to dopamine agonists. CRANIOPHARYNGIOMAS Craniopharyngiomas are benign neoplastic lesions which are presumed to originate from the embryological remnants of Rathke’s pouch. They may be located in the suprasellar region, within the sella, or both. Due to the infiltration of surrounding structures, they may have extensive adverse consequences. This tumor accounts for 1% of all intracranial tumors in adults and 6-13% of intracranial tumors in children ( 31 ). The peak incidence is in the first decade with
