Hypopituitarism
KEYWORDS: pituitary, pubmed, patients, deficiency, hormone, endocrinol, replacement, hypopituitarism, clin, clin endocrinol, testosterone, clinical, cortisol, hydrocortisone, metab


This tumor accounts for 1% of all intracranial tumors in adults and 6-13% of intracranial tumors in children ( 31 ). The peak incidence is in the first decade with a subsequent increase in incidence between 50-60 years of age. Adamantinomatous craniopharyngiomas commonly occur in children and typically contain both solid and cystic components containing a lipid rich secretion. By contrast, squamous papillary craniopharyngiomas develop in adults and are rare in younger patients. This type of tumor is predominantly solid tumor with small well-defined cavities containing less lipid rich fluid. Craniopharyngiomas in adults have a generally better prognosis in respect to endocrine, visual, and other neurological deficits than those in children ( 32 ). RATHKE’S CYSTS Epithelial cysts known as Rathke’s cysts are thought to originate from the remnants of Rathke’s pouch. Their location can be intrasellar, with or without suprasellar extension and, rarely purely suprasellar. Compared to craniopharyngioma, they are more common in adults ( 33 ). Possible symptoms of Rathke’s cleft cysts include pituitary hypofunction, hyperprolactinemia brought on by stalk disruption, visual disturbance, and headache. Due to the difficulty in differentiation between craniopharyngiomas and Rathke’s cysts from both a clinical and radiologic standpoint, the diagnosis of an intrasellar Rathke’s cyst cannot always be made with absolute certainty. Definitive diagnosis is often only made histologically. Only 6.4% of asymptomatic patients in a recent retrospective cohort showed cystic enlargement over 41 months follow-up and no pituitary deficiency, confirming the safety of conservative management in these patients ( 34 ). PERI-PITUITARY TUMORS Peri-sellar meningiomas are well-circumscribed masses, originating from the sphenoid ridge and are associated with varying degrees of hyperostosis. Meningiomas are typically single, but they can occasionally be multiple. However, females are more likely to develop multiple meningiomas. Primary intracranial germ cell tumors are neoplasms that arise from aberrantly migrated primordial germ cells. According to histology, the tumor types are similar to those occurring in the gonads and are classified into two categories: germinomas, which are comparable to seminomas and dysgerminomas, and non-germinomatous germ cell tumors, which can include teratomas, yolk sac tumor, embryonal carcinomas, and choriocarcinomas. Geographically, their incidence varies; it accounts for 2-3% of all childhood primary CNS tumors in Western countries, whereas the incidence is higher at 4-15% in Japan ( 35 - 37 ). Patients commonly present in the first two decades of life with AVP-D, visual failure, and hypopituitarism. A recent report highlighted the favorable
