Hypopituitarism
KEYWORDS: pituitary, pubmed, patients, deficiency, hormone, endocrinol, replacement, hypopituitarism, clin, clin endocrinol, testosterone, clinical, cortisol, hydrocortisone, metab


4-15% in Japan ( 35 - 37 ). Patients commonly present in the first two decades of life with AVP-D, visual failure, and hypopituitarism. A recent report highlighted the favorable response to a combined chemotherapy-radiotherapy protocol ( 37 ). Metastasis to the pituitary gland may present as an intrasellar mass resulting in hypopituitarism, AVP-D, or pressure effects. In a published series of 500 consecutive autopsy examinations of cancer patients in whom the pituitary fossa and gland were examined, pituitary metastases were found in 3.6% ( 38 ). Pituitary metastases have been described in patients with primary malignant tumors of breast, lung, kidney, thyroid, bladder, uterus, pancreas, and colon. VASCULAR CAUSES The term pituitary apoplexy denotes the clinical consequences of hemorrhage or infarction in a pre-existing adenoma. The expansion of pituitary mass to neighboring cranial nerves, cavernous sinus, optic pathways, or diencephalon results in localizing signs or altered conscious state. It frequently manifests as a sudden onset of severe headache, a visual disturbance, or ophthalmoplegia as a result of cranial nerve III IV or VI palsies ( 39 ). The clinical syndrome of pituitary apoplexy usually evolves fully within only hours to two days. The incidence of surgically treated pituitary adenomas ranges from 0.6 to 9.1%, ( 40 ) with a broad age range of occurrence from the first to the ninth decade. Although apoplexy usually occurs spontaneously, systolic and/or diastolic hypertension was seen in 26% of patient in a retrospective analysis, making it an important predisposing factor ( 41 ). Other reported predisposing factors include diabetes mellitus, radiation therapy, anticoagulant therapy, bleeding disorders, head trauma, sudden changes in arterial or intracranial pressure, such as during carotid angiography, the use of bromocriptine, and postpartum hemorrhage (Sheehan’s syndrome). Sheehan’s syndrome, which denotes pituitary necrosis after postpartum hemorrhage and hypovolemia, may result in hypopituitarism, that is either immediate or delayed over several years depending on the extent of tissue destruction. However, this condition is rare with modern obstetric care ( 42 ). Suprasellar or intrasellar aneurysms of the carotid arteries, as well as suprasellar aneurysms of the anterior or posterior communicating arteries can manifest as an expanding mass inside the fossa. Hypopituitarism may result directly from intrasellar aneurysms. Histologically, typical degenerative sclerotic changes of the arterial wall are found along with chronic inflammatory changes. An arteriovenous fistula may occasionally develop in the cavernous sinus as a result of an aneurysm. Immunological/Inflammatory Diseases Inflammatory
