Hypopituitarism
KEYWORDS: pituitary, pubmed, patients, deficiency, hormone, endocrinol, replacement, hypopituitarism, clin, clin endocrinol, testosterone, clinical, cortisol, hydrocortisone, metab


of the arterial wall are found along with chronic inflammatory changes. An arteriovenous fistula may occasionally develop in the cavernous sinus as a result of an aneurysm. Immunological/Inflammatory Diseases Inflammatory lesions of the pituitary gland can clinically and radiologically mimic pituitary tumors, with varying degrees of hypopituitarism and mass effects like headaches and visual field impairment. Lymphocytic hypophysitis classically presents as partial hypopituitarism associated with a pituitary mass lesion, particularly in relation to pregnancy ( 43 ). It has been speculated that many cases of postpartum pituitary failure, previously attributed to Sheehan’s syndrome, may in fact have been caused by lymphocytic hypophysitis ( 44 , 45 ). In this condition, the interstitial tissue of the adenohypophysis is more or less densely infiltrated by lymphocytes and plasma cells. As a result, the anterior pituitary exhibits necrosis and subsequent fibrosis of hormone-producing cells. Since the histological findings are similar to those of other organ-specific autoimmune diseases, the primary etiology is considered to be autoimmune ( 46 , 47 ). Partial hypopituitarism, commonly with isolated ACTH deficiency, or with TSH deficiency, is seen in approximately 80% of patients, with LH and FSH generally remaining unaffected. Sarcoidosis is a multisystem disorder, which is characterized by the presence of non-caseating granulomas. It most often affects lungs and reticuloendothelial system but can involve any organ. Central nervous system sarcoidosis occurs with an incidence of 5-15% ( 48 , 49 ) and less than 1% of patients have symptoms of a hypothalamic-pituitary disease ( 50 ). Neurosarcoidosis affects primarily the leptomeninges of the brain base and posterior fossa; the hypothalamus and/or pituitary subsequently experience local granulomatous infiltration. Coexisting optic nerve infiltration occurs in many patients causing central and peripheral visual defects. In terms of anterior pituitary function, LH, FSH and GH deficiency are frequent, but TSH and ACTH are relatively preserved. Langerhans cell histiocytosis is a rare disease characterized by aberrant proliferation of a specific dendritic (Langerhans) cell belonging to the monocyte-macrophage system ( 51 ). Deposits occur at multiple sites within the body and frequently involve the hypothalamo-pituitary axis ( 52 ). AVP-D is a well-recognized and common feature of this condition but anterior pituitary dysfunction also occurs frequently. Currently, the immune checkpoints most commonly targeted are cytotoxic T-lymphocyte-associated antigen 4 (CTLA-4) and programmed cell death protein 1 (PD-1). Ipilimumab, a cytotoxic T-lymphocyte antigen-4 (CTLA-4) inhibitor, an IgG1 monoclonal antibody against CTLA-4 is used for metastatic
