Hypopituitarism
KEYWORDS: pituitary, pubmed, patients, deficiency, hormone, endocrinol, replacement, hypopituitarism, clin, clin endocrinol, testosterone, clinical, cortisol, hydrocortisone, metab


are cytotoxic T-lymphocyte-associated antigen 4 (CTLA-4) and programmed cell death protein 1 (PD-1). Ipilimumab, a cytotoxic T-lymphocyte antigen-4 (CTLA-4) inhibitor, an IgG1 monoclonal antibody against CTLA-4 is used for metastatic melanoma and other neoplasms. As a consequence of immune activation, secondary hypophysitis has been reported in 10-15% of ipilimumab treated patients ( 36 ). Hypophysitis typically develops within weeks of starting treatment ( 53 ). In severe hypophysitis, immune reactions induced extensive necrosis of the adenohypophyseal architecture. Pituitary autoantibodies against thyrotrophs, corticotrophs, and gonadotrophs were identified in patients with ipilimumab induced hypophysitis ( 37 ). Patients usually present headaches and fatigue, the diagnosis of hypopituitarism with multiple deficiencies is made 2-3 months or later after initiation of ipilimumab. Central hypothyroidism is the most frequent deficit, followed by central hypocortisolism and hypogonadism. Anti-PD-1-induced hypophysitis often presents with isolated ACTH deficiency (97%) and could present several months to one year from initiation of treatment ( 54 , 53 ). We refer to the detailed Endotext chapter on hypophysitis ( 55 ) for further information. Infections Bacterial pituitary sepsis is a rare phenomenon which may arise as a consequence of hematogenous spread or by extension from sinus or meningeal sepsis with subsequent pituitary abscess formation. Small pituitary abscesses have been described at postmortem in patients dying from septicemia. Chronic infection predisposes to necrosis of pituitary tissue with subsequent hypopituitarism. Pituitary tuberculomas may present as space occupying lesions ( 56 ) but this appears to be a very rare phenomenon; isolated manifestation of the disease is rare and it is more likely to occur in the context of generalized tuberculous infection with meningitis. Gumma formation, as a manifestation of tertiary syphilis, may occur in the sella region but is extremely rare. Fungal pituitary infection may occur as a complication of AIDS ( 57 ) and pituitary necrosis with hypopituitarism has been described in toxoplasmosis ( 58 ). We refer to the detailed Endotext chapter on infections of the hypothalamic-pituitary region ( 59 ) for further information. Radiation Therapy Hypopituitarism is a common complication of irradiation administered for pituitary adenomas, head and neck tumors, intracranial malignancy, or as adjunctive cranial irradiation for acute lymphoblastic leukemia. Although fractionated radiotherapy with daily doses of <200cGy is well tolerated and safe in terms of neurological sequelae, the majority of patients who have undergone external irradiation will manifest some degree of pituitary failure during long term follow up. In
