Hypopituitarism
KEYWORDS: pituitary, pubmed, patients, deficiency, hormone, endocrinol, replacement, hypopituitarism, clin, clin endocrinol, testosterone, clinical, cortisol, hydrocortisone, metab


tolerated and safe in terms of neurological sequelae, the majority of patients who have undergone external irradiation will manifest some degree of pituitary failure during long term follow up. In general, this is a relatively late complication and is rarely evident in less than 3 years in patients with completely normal baseline pituitary function. Growth hormone reserve is particularly susceptible and is progressively more likely with time so that periodic assessment of residual pituitary function is mandatory; a five year follow up study after external pituitary irradiation therapy reported, 100% GH deficiency, 91% LH-FSH deficiency, 77% ACTH deficiency and 42% TSH deficiency ( 60 ). We refer to the detailed Endotext chapter on hypopituitarism following cranial radiotherapy ( 61 ) for further information. Traumatic Brain Injury Traumatic brain injury (TBI) is common, the prevalence of endocrine dysfunction in these patients ranges from 15-68% ( 62 ), with estimated annual incidence 30 patients per 100,000 population per year. Abnormal axes during the acute phase of injury may recover over time, but other pituitary hormone deficits may evolve later even at 6 months after the initial insult. A prospective longitudinal study looking at patients with severe TBI, found that 6% of their patients had proven severe GHD when evaluated after 12 months ( 63 ). Multiple pituitary deficiencies or isolated pituitary deficiencies (TSH or ACTH) were very rare. Mechanical or vascular injury to the sellar region due to head trauma from contact sports—such as boxing, kickboxing, or American football—should be taken into consideration. Empty Sella Syndrome An enlarged empty sella may be primary (due to a congenital diaphragmatic defect) or secondary to surgery, radiation, or pituitary infarction. The majority of patients with congenital empty sella have normal pituitary function. Hypopituitarism (and/or hyperprolactinemia) may be found in instances due to previous pituitary disease. Occasionally, a cystic pituitary mass may simulate an empty sella on CT or MRI, necessitating a cistern gram for precise delineation. We refer to the detailed Endotext chapter on empty sella ( 64 ) for further information. CLINICAL MANIFESTATION OF HYPOPITUITARISM The clinical impact of pituitary insufficiency is dependent on the extent and severity of hormone deficiencies ( Table 2 ), the duration of the disease, and the age of onset; childhood onset hypopituitarism has consequences for all aspects of somatic development in addition to the pathophysiological effects of specific hormonal deficiencies. In addition, there may be clinical features relating
