Hypopituitarism
KEYWORDS: pituitary, pubmed, patients, deficiency, hormone, endocrinol, replacement, hypopituitarism, clin, clin endocrinol, testosterone, clinical, cortisol, hydrocortisone, metab


onset; childhood onset hypopituitarism has consequences for all aspects of somatic development in addition to the pathophysiological effects of specific hormonal deficiencies. In addition, there may be clinical features relating to the mass effect of causative lesion or specific consequences attributable to hypersecretion of prolactin, GH, ACTH or TSH from individual tumor types. Hypopituitarism classically develops in sequential order with the secretion of growth hormone, then gonadotrophins being affected first, subsequently followed by TSH and ACTH. Prolactin deficiency is rarely seen, except in Sheehan’s syndrome which is associated with failure of lactation. ADH deficiency is almost never seen as a primary feature of pituitary adenomas but is a usual presenting manifestation of germ cell tumors, pituitary metastases, and granulomatous disorders. Table 2. Summary of Clinical Features of Hypopituitarism View in own window Hormone deficiency Presentation Symptoms and signs Adrenocorticotrophic hormone Acute Fatigue, weakness, dizziness, nausea, vomiting, circulatory failure. As in Addison’s disease, except lack of hyperpigmentation, absence of hyperkalemia Chronic Tiredness, pallor, anorexia, nausea, weight loss, myalgia, hypoglycemia Gonadotropins Children Delayed puberty Men Impaired fertility, impotence, reduced libido, decreased muscle mass and strength, decreased bone mass, decreased erythropoiesis and hair growth, fine wrinkles, testicular hypotrophy Women Amenorrhea, oligomenorrhea, infertility, loss of libido, dyspareunia, fine wrinkles, breast atrophy, osteoporosis, premature atherosclerosis Thyroid-stimulating hormone Children Growth retardation Adult Fatigue, cold intolerance, constipation, weight gain, dry skin, slow relaxing reflexes Growth hormone Children Growth retardation, short stature, increased adiposity Adult Reduced exercise capacity, impaired psychological wellbeing, increased cardiovascular risk, increased central obesity, reduced lean body mass Prolactin Decreased Failure of lactation Increased Galactorrhea, oligo/amenorrhea, loss of libido Antidiuretic hormone Polyuria, polydipsia including nocturnal The clinical features of anterior pituitary hypofunction described in this chapter will concentrate on adult-onset hypopituitarism. Many of the symptoms and signs of a specific pituitary hormone deficiency are similar to those that occur in patients with a primary deficiency of the target gland, but there are exceptions. Growth Hormone Deficiency GH deficiency (GHD) in adults is characterized by decreased exercise tolerance, decreased mood and general well-being, decreased quality of life, central adiposity, hyperlipidemia, increased predisposition to atherogenesis, and reduced bone remodeling activity. Fine facial wrinkles may result from a deficiency of growth hormone in addition to hypogonadism. The patient will usually have dry thin skin which contrasts with the thickened skin and increased sweating found in acromegaly. Adults with long-standing GHD are often overweight, have reduced lean body mass,
