Hypopituitarism
KEYWORDS: pituitary, pubmed, patients, deficiency, hormone, endocrinol, replacement, hypopituitarism, clin, clin endocrinol, testosterone, clinical, cortisol, hydrocortisone, metab


will usually have dry thin skin which contrasts with the thickened skin and increased sweating found in acromegaly. Adults with long-standing GHD are often overweight, have reduced lean body mass, increased fat mass, especially visceral fat, relative insulin resistance, and reduced total bone mass. There is a reduction in cardiac and physical performance. GHD is associated with increases in total cholesterol, LDL-cholesterol, and apolipoprotein B ( 65 - 67 ). Studies in Sweden and the UK in patients with hypopituitarism receiving controlled thyroid and steroid hormone replacement but without growth hormone replacement, have demonstrated an approximately two fold increase in cardiovascular mortality compared to the general population. ( 67 ) and the increase in standardized mortality ratio is more striking in females ( 68 ). The accumulating evidence suggests that the cardiovascular morbidity cannot be explained solely by suboptimal glucocorticoid, gonadal steroid, or thyroid hormone replacement and unsubstituted growth hormone deficiency is probably an important contributing factor. The decreased bone mineral density found in GHD is associated with increased fracture risk ( 69 ). We refer to the detailed Endotext chapter on management of adult GH deficiency ( 70 ) for further details. Adrenocorticotrophic Hormone Deficiency Cortisol and adrenal androgen secretion are ACTH-dependent and are variably decreased in hypopituitarism. Patients with combined ACTH and LH deficiency are completely androgen deficient, a phenomenon that may be particularly important when considering optimum regimens for gonadal steroid replacement in females. Since aldosterone secretion is largely determined by activation of the renin-angiotensin-aldosterone system, it is relatively preserved in the hypopituitary patients. Major symptoms of ACTH deficiency are non-specific, including fatigue, weakness, headache, anorexia, weight loss, nausea, vomiting, abdominal pain, myalgia, and decreased concentration. Hypoglycemia may be present at diagnosis. Hyponatremia is common and is attributable to reduced renal free water clearance as a result of cortisol deficiency with an additional contribution from TSH deficiency if present. Hyperkalemia, which is a frequent finding in primary adrenal failure, does not occur in patients with hypopituitarism due to the relative preservation of aldosterone secretion. Over and above the effects of secondary hypogonadism, reduced adrenal androgen production further exacerbates loss of body hair, particularly in women. Gonadotrophin Deficiency Gonadotrophins are responsible for gonadal sex-steroid production, secondary sexual development, maintenance of secondary sexual characteristics, and fertility. Gonadotrophin deficiency in males’ results in secondary hypogonadism with consequent testosterone deficiency. Clinical features include loss of libido, erectile impotence, oligospermia, reduced erythropoiesis,
