Hypopituitarism
KEYWORDS: pituitary, pubmed, patients, deficiency, hormone, endocrinol, replacement, hypopituitarism, clin, clin endocrinol, testosterone, clinical, cortisol, hydrocortisone, metab


maintenance of secondary sexual characteristics, and fertility. Gonadotrophin deficiency in males’ results in secondary hypogonadism with consequent testosterone deficiency. Clinical features include loss of libido, erectile impotence, oligospermia, reduced erythropoiesis, and decreased lean body mass. Testosterone, via estradiol derived by aromatization, plays an important role in the regulation of bone mineralization, therefore, hypogonadism results in decreased bone mineral density. Clinical features of secondary hypogonadism in females include oligo/amenorrhea, breast atrophy, diminished secondary sexual hair especially when combined with ACTH deficiency, and a predisposition to osteoporosis. Thyroid Stimulating Hormone Deficiency The clinical features of secondary thyroid failure are similar to those of primary thyroid failure with the exception that weight gain is less likely to be a feature if ACTH deficiency is also present. Classical features include cold intolerance, fatigue, and myalgia. Physical examination may demonstrate periorbital oedema and delayed reflex relaxation. Additionally, hyponatremia and normochromic normocytic anemia are observed, with the former being exacerbated by cortisol deficit while the latter is aggravated by secondary hypogonadism and GH deficiency. Prolactin Deficiency Prolactin deficiency in females result in puerperal alactogenesis, However, isolated prolactin deficiency is uncommon because the great majority of prolactin deficiency states develop as a result of general anterior pituitary problems or as a result of treatment intervention. On the other hand, hyperprolactinemia, which is caused by stalk disruption and results in a lack of dopaminergic regulation from the hypothalamus, is more frequent and can manifest as galactorrhea, abnormal menstruation, loss of libido, and decreased bone density. Arginine-Vasopressin Deficiency AVP deficiency (AVP-D) or Antidiuretic Hormone Deficiency (AHD) previously called central diabetes insipidus is characterized by polyuria and polydipsia due to decreased secretion of antidiuretic hormone by the neurosecretory cells terminating in the posterior pituitary. If excessive water excretion exceeds intake, patients will progressively become water-depleted and eventually have a reduction in circulating volume. It occurs more frequently associated with tumors of the hypothalamus, pituitary metastases, lymphocytic hypophysitis, sarcoidosis, Langerhans cell histiocytosis, craniopharyngiomas, and Rathke’s cleft cysts. ( 71 ). Additionally, it is commonly observed following neurosurgery and head injury. As cortisol is an essential prerequisite for normal glomerular filtration and free water clearance, it should be highlighted that AHD is masked by co-existing ACTH deficiency and only becomes clinically evident after commencement of glucocorticoid replacement. However, it is extremely unusual for AHD to be a primary manifestation of pituitary adenoma. INVESTIGATION OF SUSPECTED HYPOPITUITARISM In hypopituitarism, basal serum hormone measurements
