Hypopituitarism
KEYWORDS: pituitary, pubmed, patients, deficiency, hormone, endocrinol, replacement, hypopituitarism, clin, clin endocrinol, testosterone, clinical, cortisol, hydrocortisone, metab


after commencement of glucocorticoid replacement. However, it is extremely unusual for AHD to be a primary manifestation of pituitary adenoma. INVESTIGATION OF SUSPECTED HYPOPITUITARISM In hypopituitarism, basal serum hormone measurements are required to confirm the insufficiency; however, dynamic testing is mandatory for the diagnosis of some deficiencies. Pituitary function testing is required for all patients presenting with pituitary disease or in whom an evolving endocrine deficiency is anticipated, e.g., those who have undergone pituitary or cranial radiotherapy. Baseline Investigations Basal concentrations of the anterior pituitary hormones and hormones produced by their respective target glands should be measured. Serum samples should be taken unstressed, with no physiological or pharmacological manipulation, between 7 and 9 AM when serum cortisol and testosterone levels are highest. This is important given that the decision to proceed to dynamic testing is based on these levels. The pituitary hormones may remain within the normal range despite low levels of the target hormones indicating that target gland failure is a consequence of inadequate pituitary stimulation. Baseline investigations ( Table 3 ) are sufficient for the diagnosis of secondary hypothyroidism and hypogonadism and will also confirm virtually complete ACTH deficiency ( 72 ). Salivary cortisol has strong evidential support for diagnosing cortisol excess; however, its effectiveness in detecting adrenal insufficiency remains limited. In a recent publication, it was suggested that it may still have a role in patients taking oral contraceptive pills, where cortisol-binding globulin levels are elevated ( 73 ). Table 3. Baseline Investigation of Pituitary Function View in own window 1. Adrenocortical axis: serum cortisol (09.00 AM), ACTH 2. Thyroid axis: free T4, TSH 3. Gonadal axis: Men - testosterone (09.00 AM), SHBG, LH, FSH. Women - estradiol, LH, FSH, progesterone (Day 21 if menstruating) 4. Prolactin 5. Insulin-like growth factor-1, growth hormone 6. Paired plasma and urine osmolality ACTH, adrenocorticotropic hormone, FSH, follicle stimulating hormone; LH, luteinizing hormone; SHBG, sex hormone binding globulin. It should be mentioned that the serum total testosterone measurement should be performed in the morning by a reliable assay and the test should be repeated before verifying the diagnosis of testosterone deficiency. Measuring the level of free or bioavailable testosterone level should be performed in those whose total testosterone levels are close to the lower limit of the normal range or whose SHBG is suspected to be altered ( 74 ). Dynamic Testing Stimulation tests are used when hypofunction is suspected and
