Hypopituitarism
KEYWORDS: pituitary, pubmed, patients, deficiency, hormone, endocrinol, replacement, hypopituitarism, clin, clin endocrinol, testosterone, clinical, cortisol, hydrocortisone, metab


to the lower limit of the normal range or whose SHBG is suspected to be altered ( 74 ). Dynamic Testing Stimulation tests are used when hypofunction is suspected and are designed to assess the reserve capacity to form and secrete hormones. In contrast, suppression tests are used when endocrine hyperfunction is suspected and are designed to determine whether negative-feedback control is intact, as in the administration of glucocorticoids to inhibit corticotrophin secretion in patients with suspected Cushing’s syndrome or in the administration of glucose in patients with suspected acromegaly. Dynamic pituitary function tests may assess the hypothalamic-pituitary unit (e.g., short synacthen, insulin tolerance test, glucagon, and arginine tests) or directly stimulate the anterior pituitary with pharmacological doses of synthetic hypothalamic peptides and the pituitary hormone response measured (e.g., TRH, GnRH, GHRH tests). HYPOTHALAMIC-PITUITARY ADRENAL AXIS Baseline and dynamic tests are valuable in the diagnosis of ACTH deficiency. With virtually complete ACTH deficiency, the 0900h serum cortisol is less than 100 nmol/L (3.625 µg/dL). In contrast, if the serum cortisol is 400-500 nmol/L (14.5 – 18.1 µg/dL) or more, ACTH deficiency is unlikely ( 75 - 77 ). Therefore, dynamic testing of ACTH reserve is required if the basal serum cortisol measured lies between 100 and 400-500 nmol/L. In the UK, the NICE guideline on adrenal insufficiency (NG243) defines that 9 am cortisol level above 300 nmol/L (10.9 µg/dL) as indicative of adequate HPA axis function, with no further dynamic testing required in the absence of clinical concern ( 78 ). Note that the cut-offs are only for use with modern immunoassays. Local guidelines may need to be followed if alternative assays are used. The insulin tolerance test (ITT) or glucagon test may be used to assess the adequacy of the hypothalamic-pituitary-adrenal axis. If the patient is taking hydrocortisone this should be discontinued for 18-24 hours; while prednisolone cross reacts in the cortisol assay and therefore should not be administered within 24 hours of investigation of adrenocortical reserve. The rationale of the ITT is to produce physiological stress in a controlled environment by inducing hypoglycemia with intravenous insulin. Hypoglycemia is a powerful stimulus which stimulates GH and ACTH release and a rise in serum cortisol levels in the presence of an intact hypothalamic-pituitary axis. Although the safety of ITT has been questioned, the only absolute contraindications are ischemic heart disease, epilepsy or unexplained loss of consciousness, untreated hypothyroidism or hypoadrenalism,
