Hypopituitarism
KEYWORDS: pituitary, pubmed, patients, deficiency, hormone, endocrinol, replacement, hypopituitarism, clin, clin endocrinol, testosterone, clinical, cortisol, hydrocortisone, metab


an intact hypothalamic-pituitary axis. Although the safety of ITT has been questioned, the only absolute contraindications are ischemic heart disease, epilepsy or unexplained loss of consciousness, untreated hypothyroidism or hypoadrenalism, and glycogen storage disease ( 76 ). A decrement in plasma glucose to less than 2.2 mmol/L (40 mg/dL) is required for the test to be valid. With normal ACTH reserve the serum cortisol should rise to at least 550 nmol/L (20 µg/dL). Patients who show a normal cortisol response can withstand major surgery without corticosteroid replacement; while patients with subnormal responses but satisfactory basal values (> 250 nmol/L (9 µg/dL) may not require regular replacement therapy but should be fully informed and carry a steroid card. The ITT should only be performed by fully trained staff in designated units. Hypoglycemia may occasionally require reversal with intravenous glucose to avoid the risk of cerebral edema, which affects 50% of adults but limited to 10% of children. The glucagon stimulation test (GST) may be used for the assessment of ACTH/cortisol and GH reserve simultaneously when the ITT is contraindicated ( 79 ). The subcutaneous injection of glucagon causes a transient rise in plasma glucose. During the subsequent fall in plasma glucose, ACTH and GH are released and measured. Serum cortisol cut-off values are similar to those described for the ITT. Glucagon is less reliable than the ITT as a test of ACTH/ cortisol reserve; it is a less powerful stress stimulus, and hence false positive results are a recognized problem. The short synacthen (Cortrosyn in the USA) test (SST) was originally introduced as a test for primary adrenal failure. It involves the intramuscular or intravenous injection of a pharmacological dose (250 μg) of synthetic ACTH, with measurement of the serum cortisol response at 30 and 60 minutes later. The test does not distinguish primary from secondary adrenal insufficiency, and it cannot directly assess pituitary ACTH reserve. The 30-minute serum cortisol response is advocated as a surrogate test of ACTH reserve and has been widely used because of its simplicity. However, there is no study showing that a normal SST indicates that the hypothalamic-pituitary-adrenal axis is capable of responding normally to major illness or stress. Demonstrations of good correlations between peak serum cortisol responses on ITT and 30-minute responses on SST have been published and are intuitively predictable. However, false negatives with the SST are well recognized although this may be partially
