Hypopituitarism
KEYWORDS: pituitary, pubmed, patients, deficiency, hormone, endocrinol, replacement, hypopituitarism, clin, clin endocrinol, testosterone, clinical, cortisol, hydrocortisone, metab


cortisol responses on ITT and 30-minute responses on SST have been published and are intuitively predictable. However, false negatives with the SST are well recognized although this may be partially obviated by the use of lower synacthen doses (1μg). Nonetheless, the concern about false negative results and the fact that assessment of GH reserve is also frequently required serve to limit the use of the SST in the investigation of pituitary function. A recent study comparing the ITT, low dose ACTH, and glucagon stimulation test in the evaluation of the HPA axis and GH-IGF-1 axis in patients with pituitary disorders concluded that all three tests were well correlated in terms of peak cortisol and GH response ( 80 ). However, low dose ACTH stimulation gave a higher peak cortisol response. Therefore, the cut-off level for the diagnosis of insufficiency of the HPA axis needs to be individualized for each test. See Endotext Chapter on Adrenal Insufficiency. The overnight metyrapone test for diagnosing secondary cortisol deficiency was described many years ago ( 81 ), some advocate their usefulness ( 82 - 84 ) but it is not included in the guidelines ( 85 , 86 ). GROWTH HORMONE Normal GH secretion is pulsatile, with four or six pulses per 24 hours, mostly at night in association with REM sleep. A single measurement of serum GH is rarely useful although the fortuitous coincidence of blood sampling at the time of a GH secretory peak may exclude GHD. A stimulatory test is therefore usually required to assess somatotroph reserve. Most actions of GH are mediated through hepatically or locally-derived insulin-like growth factor-1 (IGF-1). Measurement of baseline serum IGF-1 is a specific but insensitive test of GHD in patients with pituitary disease. Importantly, IGF-1 declines with normal aging. In adult onset GHD, 30% of patients may have serum IGF-1 levels in the lower half of the age-related reference range, with the percentage increasing with age ( 87 ). Therefore, a low serum IGF-1, in an adequately nourished patient without liver dysfunction, strongly supports a diagnosis of GHD, but a normal serum IGF-1 cannot exclude it. A rigid and precise biochemical diagnosis of GHD is required in the context of justification of growth hormone replacement. The ITT is one of the most reliable provocative tests of GH secretion and currently remains the test of choice for this purpose since it has the advantage of assessing
