Hypopituitarism
KEYWORDS: pituitary, pubmed, patients, deficiency, hormone, endocrinol, replacement, hypopituitarism, clin, clin endocrinol, testosterone, clinical, cortisol, hydrocortisone, metab


The ITT is one of the most reliable provocative tests of GH secretion and currently remains the test of choice for this purpose since it has the advantage of assessing ACTH reserve simultaneously. Severe GHD is defined as a peak GH response to insulin induced hypoglycemia of less than 3 ng/mL (9 mU/L) ( 88 ). Obesity may blunt the GH response to dynamic testing so that the diagnosis of GHD should only be made in the context of structural pituitary disease or previous cranial irradiation and/or additional pituitary hormone deficits. If the ITT is contraindicated, an alternative test for assessment of GH reserve is required. Glucagon, arginine, a combination of arginine and GHRH or growth hormone-releasing peptides may all be used for this purpose. The combination of GHRH plus arginine is the most powerful provocative test of GH secretion but appropriate normative data are required ( 89 - 91 ). The FDA approved macimorelin, which is a non-peptidyl agonist of GH secretagogue receptor 1a as a diagnostic agent for diagnosing GH deficiency, and macimorelin stimulation test was known to have good sensitivity and specificity in comparison with ITT ( 92 ). However, this oral agent is not widely used due to its cost and limited availability. PITUITARY-THYROID AXIS In the appropriate clinical context, secondary hypothyroidism can be diagnosed on the basis of a low serum thyroxine (T4, total or free) in the presence of low or low normal TSH (TSH is rarely undetectable in hypopituitarism). However, it should be borne in mind that any systemic illness may produce a reversible reduction in serum T4 (sick euthyroid state). Medications such as carbamazepine and phenytoin can artifactually lower FT4 concentrations. Therefore, a thorough medication history is necessary, especially if test results and clinical presentation are inconsistent. Dynamic testing using thyrotrophin releasing hormone (TRH) has no diagnostic value for secondary hypothyroidism or predicting a risk of developing TSH deficiency. Although patients with hypothalamic disease may show a delayed response to TRH, this test is seldom used in pituitary reserve assessment. Furthermore, intravenous TRH may precipitate hemorrhagic infarction of pituitary adenomas. PITUITARY-GONADAL AXIS Symptoms of sex steroid deficiency, menstrual disturbance, low serum estradiol or low serum testosterone levels in the presence of normal or low concentrations of FSH/LH are the mainstay of diagnosis of hypogonadotropic hypogonadism. The gonadotrophin releasing hormone (GnRH) test has virtually no diagnostic value but is used to confirm gonadotroph
