Hypopituitarism
KEYWORDS: pituitary, pubmed, patients, deficiency, hormone, endocrinol, replacement, hypopituitarism, clin, clin endocrinol, testosterone, clinical, cortisol, hydrocortisone, metab


or low concentrations of FSH/LH are the mainstay of diagnosis of hypogonadotropic hypogonadism. The gonadotrophin releasing hormone (GnRH) test has virtually no diagnostic value but is used to confirm gonadotroph reserve in the setting of pulsatile GnRH therapy for infertility. POSTERIOR PITUITARY FUNCTION Basal investigations include plasma and urine osmolalities obtained simultaneously. In overt AVP deficiency (AVP-D), plasma osmolality is usually raised in the presence of inappropriately diluted urine. The diagnosis of partial AVP-D is confirmed by means of a water deprivation test followed by demonstration of a response to desmopressin. The diagnostic accuracy is limited for differentiation between partial AVP deficiency and primary polydipsia. Copeptin is the most recent clinical diagnostic marker for AVP-D due to its strong correlation with plasma arginine vasopressin ( 93 ). Copeptin, the C-terminal segment of the AVP pro-hormone, is secreted in equimolar ratio to AVP, mirroring AVP concentrations in the circulation. A copeptin level of 4.9 pmol/L stimulated with hypertonic saline infusion differentiates between AVP-D and primary polydipsia with a high diagnostic accuracy and is superior to the water deprivation test ( 94 ). Arginine-stimulated copeptin measurement has emerged as a practical diagnostic alternative for arginine vasopressin deficiency (AVP-D), offering a simplified testing protocol with lower risk and greater tolerability. However, when directly compared, hypertonic saline–stimulated copeptin testing demonstrates superior diagnostic accuracy and remains the reference standard for differentiating AVP-D from other polyuric states ( 95 ). See chapters on posterior pituitary in Endotext ( 96 , 97 ). Imaging the Pituitary Magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) is the optimum method of imaging, with computerized tomography (CT) as an acceptable alternative. The only disadvantage to MRI is its insensitivity in defining pathological calcification and lack of signal from corticated bone. CT may be required to demonstrate calcification in craniopharyngiomas and hyperostosis; it is also used by many surgeons to define skeletal anatomy prior to surgery. MANAGEMENT OF HYPOPITUITARISM Hypopituitarism, once established, is usually permanent. However, resection of pituitary tumors may, on occasion, result in resumption of normal pituitary function. Although a seemingly straightforward clinical exercise, hormone replacement therapy cannot simulate normal physiology precisely. With the exception of GH replacement and treatment of infertility, replacement therapy is achieved by administering target hormones. The aim of hormone replacement is to safely eliminate or minimize the symptoms and clinical signs of specific hormone deficiencies. The Endocrine Society Clinical Practice Guidelines committee have issued recommended treatment option of
