Hypopituitarism
KEYWORDS: pituitary, pubmed, patients, deficiency, hormone, endocrinol, replacement, hypopituitarism, clin, clin endocrinol, testosterone, clinical, cortisol, hydrocortisone, metab


hormone replacement is to safely eliminate or minimize the symptoms and clinical signs of specific hormone deficiencies. The Endocrine Society Clinical Practice Guidelines committee have issued recommended treatment option of each target hormone deficiency either primary or secondary for the management of hypopituitarism ( 98 ). Hypocortisolism Hydrocortisone is now the most widely used form of glucocorticoid replacement in patients with primary and secondary adrenal insufficiency. There is no universal agreement regarding the appropriate dose, timing, and monitoring of hydrocortisone replacement. Normal individuals demonstrate undetectable serum cortisol and ACTH when asleep at midnight, with a rise during the early hours of the morning to reach a peak at 0800-0900h, followed by a steady decline throughout the rest of the waking day. There are variable peaks of cortisol secretion due to other factors such as stress, meals, and exercise. Since cortisone acetate requires conversion into hydrocortisone under the influence of 11ß-hydroxysteroid dehydrogenase type 1 (11β-HSD1), and the fact that the enzyme activity is altered in patients with GHD; therefore, cortisone renders intuitively less satisfactory than hydrocortisone for replacement purposes in this condition. Prednisolone has been advocated by some on account of its longer duration of action than hydrocortisone. A recent UK study ( 99 ) has provided valuable insights into the pharmacokinetics of oral prednisolone in humans. The findings support the use of low-dose prednisolone (2–4mg daily) as a safe and effective replacement therapy for the majority of patients with adrenal insufficiency. Dexamethasone, the alternative synthetic glucocorticoid replacement, is even less satisfactory because of wide interindividual variations in metabolic clearance rates. Traditional hydrocortisone replacement utilized twice daily dosing but many patients report fatigue or headache in the afternoon on this regimen. There is evidence that many patients ‘feel better’ on thrice daily regimes ( 100 ). Recent cross-sectional studies did not demonstrate any superiority between three times a day versus twice daily replacement in terms of quality of life ( 101 ). The average daily requirement is approximately 20mg of hydrocortisone. This should be given as 10mg on waking, 5mg at lunchtime and 5mg in the early evening. Enzyme-inducing drugs, especially, phenytoin, carbamazepine, and rifampicin can increase the metabolism of corticosteroids and should prompt an increment in replacement doses. Doses are therefore fine-tuned according to patient’s well-being and multiple serum cortisol levels (hydrocortisone day curve, HCDC) taken during the day in many centers. ( 72 , 102 ). Some centers have
