Hypopituitarism
KEYWORDS: pituitary, pubmed, patients, deficiency, hormone, endocrinol, replacement, hypopituitarism, clin, clin endocrinol, testosterone, clinical, cortisol, hydrocortisone, metab


therefore fine-tuned according to patient’s well-being and multiple serum cortisol levels (hydrocortisone day curve, HCDC) taken during the day in many centers. ( 72 , 102 ). Some centers have attempted to utilize urine free cortisol measurements to adjust the hydrocortisone dose; however, this is unreliable because saturation of cortisol binding globulin following oral hydrocortisone results in supraphysiological urine free cortisol excretion ( 103 ). The HCDC should demonstrate adequate levels of cortisol throughout the day, without excess peak (cortisol e.g., >1000 nmol/L (36.25 µg/dL)) or trough (e.g., <100 nmol/L (3.625 µg/dL)) levels before or after doses. In clinical practice, there is no reliable measure to be certain if patients are receiving optimal glucocorticoid replacement therapy. As a result, patients may be over- or under- treated with resultant morbidity ( 65 ). There is a significant increase in 11β-HSD1 activity resulting in abnormalities in corticosteroid metabolism in patients with ACTH deficiency treated with conventional doses of hydrocortisone ( 66 ). In ACTH-deficient patients daily hydrocortisone dose exceeding 20mg/day is associated with an increase in waist to hip ratio. The induction of 11β-HSD1 is associated with central adiposity and has an important role in the development of the metabolically adverse hypopituitary phenotype. Conventional hydrocortisone cannot mimic the circadian rhythms of cortisol release; in particular the early morning rise in cortisol which slowly declines throughout the day. This has led to the development of a modified release formulation of hydrocortisone (MR-HC, Chronocort®) which can be taken late at night thus allowing a delayed and sustained release ( 104 ). A study in healthy men demonstrated that MR-HC 20mg and 10mg, given at 2300 and 0700 hours respectively, could achieve a near normal cortisol circadian rhythm ( 105 ). A subsequent phase II study demonstrated that the MR-HC mimics the normal circadian pattern closer to physiological baseline ( 106 ); however, the studied preparation is no longer available. An alternative modified formulation (Plenadren®) incorporates an immediate release and delayed release components, which displays diurnal plasma cortisol levels similar to physiological profile. Once daily Plenadren® has been shown to reduce weight, blood pressure, and improve glucose metabolism when compared with thrice daily dosing ( 107 ). Another newer oral immediate-release granule formulation of HC (Alkindi®) was approved in EU in 2018. This is an immediate-release hydrocortisone preparation specifically designed for pediatric dosing, which is available in four doses: 0.5mg, 1mg, 2mg and 5mg (
