Hypopituitarism
KEYWORDS: pituitary, pubmed, patients, deficiency, hormone, endocrinol, replacement, hypopituitarism, clin, clin endocrinol, testosterone, clinical, cortisol, hydrocortisone, metab


(Alkindi®) was approved in EU in 2018. This is an immediate-release hydrocortisone preparation specifically designed for pediatric dosing, which is available in four doses: 0.5mg, 1mg, 2mg and 5mg ( 108 ). Table 4 summarizes the glucocorticoid compounds currently available for adrenal insufficiency. Table 4. Compounds Available for Adrenal Insufficiency View in own window Glucocorticoid Timing Dose Hydrocortisone 2-3 times/day; waking, early PM, and at least 6 hours from bedtime 10-20mg Prednisolone Once in morning 3-5mg Modified release hydrocortisone (Chronocort®) 2 times/day; waking and before bed 10mg in AM and 20mg at bedtime Modified release hydrocortisone (Plenadren®) Once daily in early morning Equal to standard HC dose or a 20% increase Oral immediate release granules (Alkindi®) Once daily in early morning Equal to appropriate pediatric hydrocortisone dosing The effects of continuous subcutaneous hydrocortisone infusion (CSHI) have been compared with conventional oral hydrocortisone in patients with Addison’s disease ( 109 ). CSHI produced a more physiological circadian rhythm, normalization of morning ACTH, and restoration of nocturnal serum cortisol levels. These infusions are cumbersome and impractical outside of expert centers. Despite a more circadian pattern of cortisol exposure, subcutaneous hydrocortisone infusion was not associated with improved quality of life scores, casting doubt on the potential quality of life effects of circadian cortisol delivery ( 110 ). There is a push to design orally active delayed or sustained release formulations of hydrocortisone to aid the physiological replacement of hydrocortisone and ultimately improve quality of life and side effect profiles in patients requiring lifelong glucocorticoid replacement. Patients with ACTH deficiency receiving hydrocortisone therapy are unable to respond to surgery, trauma, infections, and severe illnesses by increasing their cortisol concentrations. They therefore require supplemental hydrocortisone therapy with increased oral doses during minor illness, or administration of intramuscular hydrocortisone 100mg four times per day with more severe disease or if oral intake is compromised. When intramuscular injections are contraindicated, a continuous intravenous infusion of hydrocortisone at a rate of 1-3mg per hour provides satisfactory replacement for the severely ill patient. Maintenance mineralocorticoid is not required since aldosterone secretion is usually preserved. Patients should carry a ‘steroid card’ and wear a ‘medic-alert’ bracelet to indicate their requirement for supplemental hydrocortisone in the event of severe illness or trauma. They and their families should understand the importance of life-long compliance, be taught to double the hydrocortisone dose in the event of pyrexial illness and understand the need for
