Hypopituitarism
KEYWORDS: pituitary, pubmed, patients, deficiency, hormone, endocrinol, replacement, hypopituitarism, clin, clin endocrinol, testosterone, clinical, cortisol, hydrocortisone, metab


trauma. They and their families should understand the importance of life-long compliance, be taught to double the hydrocortisone dose in the event of pyrexial illness and understand the need for parenteral glucocorticoid replacement if vomiting or diarrhea occurs. An ‘emergency’ ampoule of hydrocortisone should be provided for domiciliary emergency intramuscular injection and the patient instructed on its use. Please also refer to Endotext chapter on adrenal insufficiency in the Emergency section ( 111 ). Dehydroepiandrosterone (DHEA) is an androgen produced by the adrenal cortex and is also under the regulation of corticotrophin and is thus deficient in hypopituitarism. In hypopituitarism, DHEA supplementation (25-50mg per day) has shown benefit with respect to well-being and sexual function ( 112 , 113 ). Furthermore, in patients who are replaced with GH, DHEA can augment the IGF-1 response hence leading to a reduction of GH dose in females ( 114 ). Currently, there is no licensed preparation of DHEA available, and it is considered to be a food supplement rather than a bioactive drug. However, not all patients respond. Moreover, the androgenic side effects such as greasy skin, acne, and increased body hair may be a limiting factor although generally responsive to dose reduction. Secondary Hypothyroidism Synthetic levothyroxine sodium (for example, Synthroid) is the preferred form of replacement. It has a long half-life, allowing a once daily dose. Liothyronine (T3) displays superior gastrointestinal absorption, but its short half-life requires two to three daily doses. Use of T3 is largely restricted to thyroid cancer patients undergoing frequent isotopic imaging or treatment, and occasionally the initiation of thyroid hormone replacement when a gradual increase is desired. Although some experts consider using a T4/T3 combination as an experimental treatment for patients with persistent hypothyroid symptoms on LT4 since patients with normal thyrotropin levels may have lower T3 levels, the evidence is primarily limited to athyreotic patients.( 115 , 116 ) Commencing thyroid hormone replacement in patients with severe, untreated ACTH deficiency may result in hypoadrenal crisis. In the situation of combined deficiency, hydrocortisone should always be commenced before thyroxine. The duration of hypopituitarism and presence of co-morbidities, especially ischemic heart disease, should be considered. Young patients with a short history of hypopituitarism and TSH deficiency may commence an initial thyroxine dose of 100µg daily. On the other hand, in patients with a long history of hypopituitarism or elderly patients, a low dose of 25-50µg daily should be
