Hypopituitarism
KEYWORDS: pituitary, pubmed, patients, deficiency, hormone, endocrinol, replacement, hypopituitarism, clin, clin endocrinol, testosterone, clinical, cortisol, hydrocortisone, metab


an initial thyroxine dose of 100µg daily. On the other hand, in patients with a long history of hypopituitarism or elderly patients, a low dose of 25-50µg daily should be commenced, in order to minimize the risk of precipitation of cardiac events. Alteration of the hypothalamic-pituitary-thyroid axis following growth hormone replacement is well documented ( 117 - 119 ). GHD will mask central hypothyroidism in a significant proportion of hypopituitary patients both in children and adults. It has been observed that apparently euthyroid hypopituitary patients will require commencement or an increase in thyroxine replacement following initiation of GH replacement. A higher target serum free T4 in the upper half of reference range is appropriate in the GH deficient patient who is not on GH replacement. Unlike primary hypothyroidism, in which serum TSH is a sensitive marker of under-or over-replacement, there is no biochemical marker to indicate the optimum level of replacement in TSH deficiency. The serum free T4 is the best marker for assessing replacement adequacy in hypopituitarism. By analogy with serum T4 levels in adequately replaced primary hypothyroidism, a conventional recommendation is to maintain serum free T4 in the upper part of the reference range for normal individuals ( 120 ). Serum total T4 levels are elevated artefactually by conditions which increase serum thyronine binding globulin, especially estrogen administration. Gonadotrophin Deficiency The choice of replacement ranges from oral, transdermal, intramuscular, or subcutaneous administration of gonadal steroids to gonadotropin or gonadotropin-releasing hormone therapy if and when fertility is desired. WOMEN Estrogen replacement should be offered to all women with secondary hypogonadism under the age of 50 years in order to avoid immediate symptoms of estrogen deficiency and prevent premature reduction in bone mineral density. The addition of progesterone is mandatory if the uterus is intact in order to avoid unopposed estrogen stimulation of the endometrium with the attendant risk of hyperplasia and neoplasia. The standard regimen for replacement involves the daily administration of estrogen with progesterone co-administrated for 12-14 consecutive days during a 4-week cycle; menses occur cyclically after progesterone withdrawal. Alternatively, a continuous regimen may be employed in which estrogen and progesterone are combined. The latter may be preferred by older patients and there are no adverse effects described apart from unpredictable menstrual bleeding during the initial few months of therapy in a minority of patients. However, since the risk-benefit profile of estrogen therapy is influenced by numerous factors,
