Hypopituitarism
KEYWORDS: pituitary, pubmed, patients, deficiency, hormone, endocrinol, replacement, hypopituitarism, clin, clin endocrinol, testosterone, clinical, cortisol, hydrocortisone, metab


apart from unpredictable menstrual bleeding during the initial few months of therapy in a minority of patients. However, since the risk-benefit profile of estrogen therapy is influenced by numerous factors, such as age, treatment-onset since menopause, and existing comorbidities, shared decision making is essential when determining what and route to administer as well as when to stop this treatment. Estrogen replacement can be administrated via the oral, transdermal, and subcutaneous routes. Oral estrogens undergo extensive hepatic first-pass metabolism necessitating average doses of 1-2mg estradiol per day, or equivalent. Transdermal estrogen is the treatment of choice in patients with pituitary disease. It is usually applied twice weekly and provide 50-100µg of estradiol per 24 hours in a cyclical combination with a progestogen. Skin irritation may occur, but transdermal therapy is the first choice in patients with complex pituitary disease since it avoids the effects of oral estrogen on other hormone binding proteins. Furthermore, in women on concomitant GH replacement, IGF-1 generation is greater when transdermal rather than oral estrogen is used, therefore decreasing the dose of GH required. Subcutaneous implants are inserted every six months, but tachyphylaxis is a frequent problem and limits the value of this regimen. In addition to relieving vasomotor symptoms and reducing the risk of bone loss, hormone therapy may be prescribed for cardioprotection. According to recent research from the combined Women’s Health Initiative studies, women who start hormone therapy closer to the period of natural menopause have a decreased risk of coronary heart disease than women who wait longer after menopause. However, this replacement is not advised for either primary or secondary cardiovascular disease prevention ( 121 ). Concerning the negative effects of estrogen replacement, it has been well established that estrogen, particularly oral estrogen, increases the risk of venous thromboembolism; although transdermal hormone therapy does not seem to enhance this risk ( 122 ). With regards to breast cancer, risk varies depending on hormonal formulation and length of treatment. In light of this, selective estrogen receptor modulators (SERMs) have an important role and have obtained licensing for this purpose. Raloxifene has very little effect on the vasomotor symptoms of estrogen deficiency but is beneficial in prevention and treatment of osteoporosis as well as chemoprevention of breast cancer. Tibolone, an agent with estrogenic, progestogenic, and weak androgenic activity, can provide an alternative treatment for postmenopausal symptoms and also exerts favorable effects on bone. In some patients
