Hypopituitarism
KEYWORDS: pituitary, pubmed, patients, deficiency, hormone, endocrinol, replacement, hypopituitarism, clin, clin endocrinol, testosterone, clinical, cortisol, hydrocortisone, metab


breast cancer. Tibolone, an agent with estrogenic, progestogenic, and weak androgenic activity, can provide an alternative treatment for postmenopausal symptoms and also exerts favorable effects on bone. In some patients with combined LH/FSH and ACTH deficiency, low libido may persist despite conventional estrogen and progesterone replacement. This could be a consequence of complete androgen deficiency, and some studies have shown that low dose testosterone replacement, e.g., 50-100mg subcutaneous implants every 6 months, is effective for treating hypoactive sexual desire disorder. The guideline also recommends considering a 6-month therapeutic trial of transdermal testosterone for women who fit this diagnosis ( 123 ). The use of androgen and its role in hypopituitarism is still debated ( 124 ). Oral combinations of estradiol and testosterone are also available. FSH and LH injections are necessary for fertility; recombinant forms of both are now available and this treatment is usually supervised by fertility clinics. MEN Apart from relief of the symptoms of hypogonadism, androgen replacement is also important in maintaining bone integrity, muscle mass, and normal erythropoiesis ( 125 ). The most common method of androgen replacement is as an intramuscular depot injection of testosterone ester (e.g., testosterone enanthate, 250mg intramuscularly three weekly). The ensuing supraphysiological peaks and troughs of serum testosterone may lead to fluctuations in mood, libido, and energy levels but treatment is generally very well tolerated. Depot testosterone injection has become available; testosterone undecanoate (Nebido), can be administrated intramuscularly every three months ( 126 ), and maintains physiological testosterone levels without major fluctuation. Oral testosterone undecanoate is administered two or three times a day. It is extensively metabolized to dihydrotestosterone in the intestine and is absorbed via the lymphatic system. It is generally well tolerated and is most useful in patients with partial hypogonadism or in those who are unable to tolerate depot injections. Testosterone pellets, implanted subcutaneously at a dose between 400-600mg, will provide normal testosterone levels as well as physiological levels of estradiol and dihydrotestosterone for up to six months ( 127 ). Peak serum testosterone levels are seen 2-4 weeks after placement with a gradual decline thereafter. The main disadvantage is the need for a skin incision and the occasional complication of local infection and extrusion of the pellets. Several other systems for testosterone delivery are available and include patches ( 128 ) and gels ( 129 ) applied to the skin and buccal bioadhesive tablets ( 130 ).
