Hypopituitarism
KEYWORDS: pituitary, pubmed, patients, deficiency, hormone, endocrinol, replacement, hypopituitarism, clin, clin endocrinol, testosterone, clinical, cortisol, hydrocortisone, metab


Several other systems for testosterone delivery are available and include patches ( 128 ) and gels ( 129 ) applied to the skin and buccal bioadhesive tablets ( 130 ). Transdermal gel (Testogel, Testim) has become very popular; it must be applied daily to maintain desirable serum testosterone levels. Patches can cause skin irritation in approximately 50% of patients. Buccal testosterone (Striant) is placed on the buccal mucosa above the incisor tooth; testosterone is slowly released over 12 hours. However, gum irritation and inconvenience have been reported. Induction of spermatogenesis requires injections of FSH and LH; our own practice is to administer FSH 300 units three times weekly and LH 1500 units twice weekly; increases in sperm density are not evident for at least 4 months. Monitoring Testosterone Replacement Testosterone levels can be measured in blood as a guide of the adequacy of replacement. With intramuscular depot injections, serum testosterone usually peaks at approximately one week after injection with a nadir prior to the next injection. The nadir serum testosterone concentration should approximate the lower end of the normal reference range, and this may require adjustment of the frequency of injections. Random serum testosterone is often low or low normal on oral testosterone undecanoate, but the additional measurement of serum dihydrotestosterone is useful. Published guidelines ( 131 , 132 ) addressed the concerns of the risk for either benign or malignant prostate disease. There is no evidence that the incidence of prostate carcinoma in patients on testosterone replacement is greater than background population risk. Referral to a urologist is recommended if the patient has prostatic symptoms or an abnormal digital rectal examination or elevated serum prostate specific antigen (PSA) increasing by more than 1.4 ng/mL over 12 months. With the increasing use of long-acting testosterone, it is important to monitor the hematocrit to detect polycythemia. The hematocrit should return to normal before testosterone may be reinstituted at a lower dose. The available evidence suggests that testosterone replacement should be offered cautiously in patients with a low risk of recurrence for prostatic neoplasm who have been treated with radical prostatectomy and in whom the PSA has normalized ( 133 ). Similarly, a retrospective study of patients treated with prostatectomy as primary management with a low PSA at baseline of testosterone therapy and concurrent use of 5α reductase reported that there was no increase in PSA at 15 months ( 74 ).
