Hypopituitarism
KEYWORDS: pituitary, pubmed, patients, deficiency, hormone, endocrinol, replacement, hypopituitarism, clin, clin endocrinol, testosterone, clinical, cortisol, hydrocortisone, metab


management with a low PSA at baseline of testosterone therapy and concurrent use of 5α reductase reported that there was no increase in PSA at 15 months ( 74 ). However, patients with no definitive surgery treated with brachytherapy or external beam radiation and a raised PSA at baseline should not be offered this treatment. Growth Hormone Deficiency The rationale and protocol for growth hormone replacement in adults is discussed in detail in the “Adult Growth Hormone Deficiency” chapter. AVP Deficiency (previously named Diabetes Insipidus) 1-desamino-8-D-arginine-vasopressin (DDAVP) is a synthetic analogue of arginine vasopressin which produces prolonged antidiuresis after intravenous, intranasal, or oral administration in patients with AHD. A therapeutic trial of DDAVP, 10-20μg intranasally should control polyuria for up to 16 hours. Patients with AHD must have instant improvement in symptoms. In the acute clinical setting, for example where AVP deficiency (AVP-D) follows pituitary surgery, DDAVP is best administrated via the subcutaneous route at a dose of 0.5-1μg. Doses of DDAVP that are too high can lead to hyponatremia if patients continue to drink inappropriately despite antidiuresis. Patient education is required to achieve optimum symptom control particularly at night and to maintain a normal serum osmolality and sodium concentration ( 134 ). Slight undertreatment, with normal water homeostasis being maintained by thirst mechanisms, is the preferred approach. Many patients demonstrate adequate control of the condition with a single bedtime dose of intranasal DDAVP but an additional morning dose may be required. Mild degrees of AHD may be treated with oral DDAVP up to 600µg daily in divided doses. If ADH deficiency is accompanied by a reduced thirst threshold, it is most important to monitor body weight and urine output on a fixed dose of DDAVP and adjust fluid intake accordingly. A recent guideline has been developed for inpatient treatment of AVP-D highlighting that this can develop into a life-threatening situation if inappropriately managed ( 135 ). This again highlights that there is an increased risk of mortality and adverse outcomes in patients with hypopituitarism admitted for acute medical conditions especially ones with AVP-D ( 136 ). GUIDELINES Wierman ME, Arlt W, Basson R, Davis SR, Miller KK, Murad MH, Rosner W, Santoro N. Androgen therapy in women: a reappraisal: an Endocrine Society clinical practice guideline. J Clin Endocrinol Metab 2014 Oct;99(10):3489-510 (123). [ PubMed : 25279570 ] Bancos, I., Hahner, S., Tomlinson, J. & Arlt, W. (2015) Diagnosis and
