Venous thromboembolism in over 16s: reducing the risk of hospital-acquired deep vein
KEYWORDS: people, vte, risk, prophylaxis, surgery, vte prophylaxis, lmwh, risk vte, use, pharmacological, bleeding, consider, people undergoing, undergoing, person


thrombosis or pulmonary embolism Overview This guideline covers assessing and reducing the risk of venous thromboembolism (VTE or blood clots, including deep vein thrombosis and pulmonary embolism) in people aged 16 and over in hospital. It aims to help healthcare professionals identify people most at risk and describes interventions that can be used to reduce the risk of VTE. For guidance on pharmacological VTE prophylaxis for people with COVID-19 pneumonia who are being treated in a hospital or community setting, see our COVID-19 rapid guideline on managing COVID-19. Who is it for? • Healthcare professionals • People going into hospital who are at risk of VTE. This includes people discharged from hospital, (including from A&E) with lower limb devices such as plaster casts and braces, people attending hospital for day procedures including cancer treatment and surgery, and pregnant women admitted to hospital or a midwife-led unit including up to 6 weeks after giving birth, and their carers Recommendations People have the right to be involved in discussions and make informed decisions about their care, as described in NICE's information on making decisions about your care. Making decisions using NICE guidelines explains how we use words to show the strength (or certainty) of our recommendations, and has information about prescribing medicines (including off-label use), professional guidelines, standards and laws (including on consent and mental capacity), and safeguarding. 1.1 Risk assessment All patients 1.1.1 Assess all patients to identify the risk of venous thromboembolism (VTE) and bleeding (see the recommendation for all medical patients, for all surgical patients, for all pregnant women and all women who gave birth or had a miscarriage or termination of pregnancy in the past 6 weeks, for all people admitted to the critical care unit and for all acute psychiatric patients). [2018] People admitted, or are due to be admitted, to hospital Medical patients 1.1.2 Assess all medical patients to identify the risk of VTE and bleeding: • as soon as possible after admission to hospital or by the time of the first consultant review, or • in accident and emergency, if they have not been admitted within 12 hours of their arrival • using a tool published by a national UK body, professional network or peer- reviewed journal. A tool commonly used to develop a treatment plan for medical patients is the Department of Health VTE risk assessment tool. (Reproduced with the permission of the Department
