Venous thromboembolism in over 16s: reducing the risk of hospital-acquired deep vein
KEYWORDS: people, vte, risk, prophylaxis, surgery, vte prophylaxis, lmwh, risk vte, use, pharmacological, bleeding, consider, people undergoing, undergoing, person


reviewed journal. A tool commonly used to develop a treatment plan for medical patients is the Department of Health VTE risk assessment tool. (Reproduced with the permission of the Department of Health and Social Care under the Open Government Licence.) [2018, amended 2021] 1.1.3 Balance the person's individual risk of VTE against their risk of bleeding when deciding whether to offer pharmacological thromboprophylaxis to medical patients. [2018] 1.1.4 If using pharmacological VTE prophylaxis for medical patients, start it as soon as possible and within 14 hours of a decision to admit, unless otherwise stated in the population-specific recommendations (see the sections on interventions for people with acute coronary syndromes or acute stroke or for acutely ill patients, interventions for people with renal impairment, interventions for people with cancer, interventions for people having palliative care, interventions for people admitted to critical care, and interventions for people with psychiatric illness). [2018] Surgical and trauma patients 1.1.5 Assess all surgical and trauma patients to identify the risk of VTE and bleeding: • as soon as possible after admission to hospital or by the time of the first consultant review, or • in accident and emergency, if they have not been admitted within 12 hours of their arrival • using a tool published by a national UK body, professional network or peer- reviewed journal. A tool commonly used to develop a treatment plan for surgical patients is the Department of Health VTE risk assessment tool. (Reproduced with the permission of the Department of Health and Social Care under the Open Government Licence.) [2018, amended 2021] 1.1.6 Balance the person's individual risk of VTE against their risk of bleeding when deciding whether to offer pharmacological thromboprophylaxis to surgical and trauma patients. [2018] 1.1.7 If using pharmacological VTE prophylaxis for surgical and trauma patients, start it as soon as possible and within 14 hours of a decision to admit, unless otherwise stated in the population-specific recommendations (see the sections on interventions when using anaesthesia, interventions for people having orthopaedic surgery, interventions for people having elective spinal surgery or cranial surgery people with spinal injury, interventions for people with major trauma, interventions for people having abdominal, thoracic or head and neck surgery, and interventions for people having cardiac or vascular surgery). [2018] Reassessment of risk of VTE and bleeding 1.1.8 Reassess all medical, surgical and trauma patients for risk of VTE and bleeding at the point of
