Venous thromboembolism in over 16s: reducing the risk of hospital-acquired deep vein
KEYWORDS: people, vte, risk, prophylaxis, surgery, vte prophylaxis, lmwh, risk vte, use, pharmacological, bleeding, consider, people undergoing, undergoing, person


cardiac or vascular surgery). [2018] Reassessment of risk of VTE and bleeding 1.1.8 Reassess all medical, surgical and trauma patients for risk of VTE and bleeding at the point of consultant review or if their clinical condition changes. [2018] Pregnant women and women who gave birth or had a miscarriage or termination of pregnancy in the past 6 weeks 1.1.9 Assess all women on admission to hospital or a midwife-led unit if they are pregnant or gave birth, had a miscarriage or had a termination of pregnancy in the past 6 weeks, to identify their risk of VTE and bleeding. Use a tool published by a national UK body, professional network or peer-reviewed journal. The most commonly used tool is the Royal College of Obstetricians and Gynaecologists risk assessment tool. (Reproduced from: Royal College of Obstetricians and Gynaecologists. Reducing the risk of venous thromboembolism during pregnancy and the puerperium. Green-top Guideline No. 37a. London: RCOG, 2015, with the permission of the Royal College of Obstetricians and Gynaecologists.) [2018] 1.1.10 Reassess risk of VTE and bleeding, and assess the need for thromboprophylaxis for all women: • within 6 hours of giving birth, having a miscarriage or having a termination of pregnancy or • if their clinical condition changes and they: － are pregnant or － gave birth, had a miscarriage or had a termination of pregnancy within the past 6 weeks. [2018] 1.2 Giving information and planning for discharge 1.2.1 On admission ensure that people understand the reason for having a risk assessment for VTE and bleeding. [2018] 1.2.2 For people admitted to hospital who are at increased risk of VTE, give them and their family members or carers (as appropriate) verbal and written information on the following before offering VTE prophylaxis: • the person's risks and possible consequences of VTE • the importance of VTE prophylaxis and its possible side effects – for example, pharmacological prophylaxis can increase bleeding risk • the correct use of VTE prophylaxis – for example, anti-embolism stockings, intermittent pneumatic compression • how people can reduce their risk of VTE (such as keeping well hydrated and, if possible, exercising and becoming more mobile). [2018] 1.2.3 Be aware that heparins are of animal origin and this may be of concern to some people (See Religion or belief: a practical guide for the NHS). Discuss the alternatives with people who have concerns about using animal products, after discussing
