Venous thromboembolism in over 16s: reducing the risk of hospital-acquired deep vein
KEYWORDS: people, vte, risk, prophylaxis, surgery, vte prophylaxis, lmwh, risk vte, use, pharmacological, bleeding, consider, people undergoing, undergoing, person


people admitted to the critical care unit if the person's condition is changing rapidly. [2018] 1.9 Interventions for people with psychiatric illness In March 2018: • the use of LMWH in young people under 18 in recommendations 1.9.3 and 1.9.4 was off label • the use of fondaparinux sodium in young people under 18 in recommendation 1.9.4 was off label. See NICE's information on prescribing medicines. 1.9.1 Assess all acute psychiatric patients to identify their risk of VTE and bleeding: • as soon as possible after admission to hospital or by the time of the first consultant review • using a tool published by a national UK body, professional network or peer- reviewed journal. A tool commonly used to develop a treatment plan for surgical patients is the Department of Health VTE risk assessment tool. (Reproduced with the permission of the Department of Health and Social Care under the Open Government Licence.) [2018, amended 2021] 1.9.2 Reassess all people admitted to an acute psychiatric ward for risk of VTE and bleeding at the point of consultant review or if their clinical condition changes. [2018] 1.9.3 Consider pharmacological VTE prophylaxis with LMWH for people admitted to an acute psychiatric ward whose risk of VTE outweighs their risk of bleeding. [2018] 1.9.4 Consider pharmacological VTE prophylaxis with fondaparinux sodium if LMWH is contraindicated for people admitted to an acute psychiatric ward whose risk of VTE outweighs their risk of bleeding. [2018] 1.9.5 Continue pharmacological VTE prophylaxis for people admitted to an acute psychiatric ward until the person is no longer at increased risk of VTE. [2018] 1.10 Interventions when using anaesthesia 1.10.1 Consider regional anaesthesia for individual patients, in addition to other methods of VTE prophylaxis, as it carries a lower risk of VTE than general anaesthesia. Take into account the person's preferences, their suitability for regional anaesthesia and any other planned method of VTE prophylaxis. [2010] 1.10.2 If regional anaesthesia is used, plan the timing of pharmacological VTE prophylaxis to minimise the risk of epidural haematoma. If antiplatelet or anticoagulant agents are being used, or their use is planned, refer to the summary of product characteristics for guidance about the safety and timing of these in relation to the use of regional anaesthesia. [2010] 1.10.3 Do not routinely offer pharmacological or mechanical VTE prophylaxis to people undergoing a surgical procedure with local anaesthesia by local infiltration with no limitation of mobility.
