Venous thromboembolism in over 16s: reducing the risk of hospital-acquired deep vein
KEYWORDS: people, vte, risk, prophylaxis, surgery, vte prophylaxis, lmwh, risk vte, use, pharmacological, bleeding, consider, people undergoing, undergoing, person


midwife-led unit if they are pregnant or gave birth, had a miscarriage or had a termination of pregnancy in the past 6 weeks, and whose risk of VTE outweighs their risk of bleeding. [2018] 1.16.2 Do not offer VTE prophylaxis to women admitted to hospital or a midwife-led unit who are in active labour. [2018] 1.16.3 Stop pharmacological VTE prophylaxis when women are in labour. [2018] 1.16.4 If using LMWH in pregnant women, start it as soon as possible and within 14 hours of the risk assessment being completed and continue until the woman is no longer at increased risk of VTE or until discharge from hospital or the midwife- led unit. [2018] 1.16.5 If using LMWH in women who gave birth or had a miscarriage or termination of pregnancy, start 4 to 8 hours after the event unless contraindicated and continue for a minimum of 7 days. [2018] 1.16.6 Consider combined prophylaxis with LMWH plus mechanical prophylaxis for pregnant women or women who gave birth or had a miscarriage or termination of pregnancy in the past 6 weeks and who are likely to be immobilised, or have significantly reduced mobility relative to their normal or anticipated mobility for 3 or more days after surgery, including caesarean section: • Use intermittent pneumatic compression as first-line treatment. • If intermittent pneumatic compression is contraindicated, use anti-embolism stockings. Continue until the woman no longer has significantly reduced mobility relative to her normal or anticipated mobility or until discharge from hospital. [2018] Terms used in this guideline Admission Admission in the context of this guideline refers to admission as an inpatient, where a bed is provided for 1 or more nights, or admission as a day patient, where a bed is provided for a procedure including surgery or chemotherapy but not for an overnight stay. Discharge Discharge in the context of this guideline refers to discharge from hospital as an inpatient or after a day procedure. Intermittent pneumatic compression A method of prophylaxis that includes an air pump and inflatable garments in a system designed to improve venous circulation in the lower limbs of people at risk of DVT or pulmonary embolism. The inflation–deflation cycle of intermittent pneumatic compression therapy simulates the thigh, calf and foot's normal ambulatory pump action increasing both the volume and rate of blood flow, eliminating venous stasis and replicating the effects of the natural muscle pump. Intermittent pneumatic
