Venous thromboembolism in over 16s: reducing the risk of hospital-acquired deep vein
KEYWORDS: people, vte, risk, prophylaxis, surgery, vte prophylaxis, lmwh, risk vte, use, pharmacological, bleeding, consider, people undergoing, undergoing, person


calf and foot's normal ambulatory pump action increasing both the volume and rate of blood flow, eliminating venous stasis and replicating the effects of the natural muscle pump. Intermittent pneumatic compression devices can be thigh- or knee-length sleeves that are wrapped around the leg, or a garment that can be wrapped around or worn on the foot that is designed to mimic the actions of walking. Lower limb immobilisation Any clinical decision taken to manage the affected limb in a way that would prevent normal weight-bearing status or use of that limb, or both. Renal impairment People with an estimated glomerular filtration rate (eGFR) of less than 30 ml/min/1.73 m2. For more detailed information on renal impairment, see the NICE guideline on chronic kidney disease in adults. Significantly reduced mobility People who are bed bound, unable to walk unaided or likely to spend a substantial proportion of their day in bed or in a chair. Recommendations for research The guideline committee has made the following recommendations for research. The committee's full set of research recommendations is detailed in the full guideline. 1 Risk assessment What is the accuracy of individual risk assessment tools in predicting the risk of venous thromboembolism (VTE) and risk of bleeding in people admitted to hospital? Why this is important Risk assessment is a mandatory for all people admitted or having day procedures in hospital. Since 2010, the National VTE Risk Assessment Tool has been widely used in the NHS to assess a person's risk of VTE. This tool has not been validated or tested against other tools to evaluate its diagnostic accuracy or effectiveness at correctly identifying people at risk of VTE. There is concern that the tool may not accurately identify those who are most likely to get VTE. According to national figures, over 70% of medical patients in the UK have prophylaxis when the national tool has been used, with some trusts offering prophylaxis to over 90% of medical patients. Around 40% of medical patients have prophylaxis in largely US-based populations when other tools are used (although this may partially relate to different indications for hospital admission). It is not known if this means that the national tool identifies too many people or the other tools do not identify enough. The potential impact of giving unnecessary prophylaxis is that people may be at increased risk of bleeding and discomfort through repeated injections. There
