Venous thromboembolism in over 16s: reducing the risk of hospital-acquired deep vein
KEYWORDS: people, vte, risk, prophylaxis, surgery, vte prophylaxis, lmwh, risk vte, use, pharmacological, bleeding, consider, people undergoing, undergoing, person


the other tools do not identify enough. The potential impact of giving unnecessary prophylaxis is that people may be at increased risk of bleeding and discomfort through repeated injections. There is also the potential for reducing the cost of thromboprophylaxis by better defining 'at risk' populations, so that the number of those given thromboprophylaxis is reduced. 2 Dose strategies for people who are obese What is the clinical and cost effectiveness of weight-based dose-adjustment strategies of low-molecular-weight heparin (LMWH) compared with fixed-dose strategies of LMWH for preventing VTE in people who are very obese (BMI over 35) who are admitted to hospital or having day procedures (including surgery and chemotherapy)? Why this is important Obesity is on the rise in England. The prevalence of obesity increased by 11% between 1993 and 2014 (15% in 1993 and 26% in 2014), which has resulted in more obese people being admitted to hospital. Obesity may as much as double a person's risk of developing hospital-acquired VTE, therefore most obese people will need prophylaxis. There is much uncertainty about what dose to use and the clinical and cost effectiveness of using weight-based dose-adjustment versus fixed-dose strategies. In current practice, a higher than usual dose is given but this may not be necessary, especially if the person has obesity-related liver disease. Several studies have reported effectiveness in terms of biological measures rather than clinical outcomes such as deep vein thrombosis (DVT) and bleeding events. It is important that there is a clearer understanding of the effects that different dose strategies can have in terms of clinical outcomes. This is because they can directly influence the quality of life of obese people admitted to hospital and help inform clinical decisions on patient care. 3 Direct oral anticoagulants for people with lower limb immobilisation What is the clinical and cost effectiveness of direct oral anticoagulants for preventing VTE in people with lower limb immobilisation? Why this is important The Computerized registry of patients with venous thromboembolism (RIETE) study, a multicentre prospective cohort study of 30,886 patients with acute VTE, estimated that 5.7% of VTE events were associated with lower limb immobilisation for non-major orthopaedic surgery. Estimates of DVT risk in people with lower limb immobilisation, based on meta-analyses of trials comparing chemothromboprophylaxis with placebo, range between approximately 4% and 40%. Given that lower limb immobilisation following trauma or non-major orthopaedic surgery is so common, the consequent burden
