Venous thromboembolism in over 16s: reducing the risk of hospital-acquired deep vein
KEYWORDS: people, vte, risk, prophylaxis, surgery, vte prophylaxis, lmwh, risk vte, use, pharmacological, bleeding, consider, people undergoing, undergoing, person


meta-analyses of trials comparing chemothromboprophylaxis with placebo, range between approximately 4% and 40%. Given that lower limb immobilisation following trauma or non-major orthopaedic surgery is so common, the consequent burden of disease from VTE from this cause in the whole population is very considerable. For example, the annual incidence of ankle fracture is 187 per 100,000, translating to over 120,000 incident fractures per year in the UK. If 10% of these fractures are complicated by VTE, then we might expect approximately 12,000 events per year only related to immobilisation following ankle trauma. Despite this burden of ill-health, no randomised studies comparing modern anticoagulants that are available in oral preparations (perhaps more suitable for outpatient treatments) with established treatments such as LMWH or fondaparinux were identified in the evidence review. The committee were unable to make a recommendation to consider oral anticoagulants for this patient group given this lack of evidence. 4 Aspirin prophylaxis for people with fragility fractures of the pelvis, hip or proximal femur What is the clinical and cost effectiveness of aspirin alone versus other pharmacological and/or mechanical prophylaxis strategies (alone or in combination) for people with fragility fractures of the pelvis, hip or proximal femur? Why this is important Fragility fractures are the greatest burden of musculoskeletal disease in hospitals in the UK. There are approximately 70,000 fragility hip fractures per year in England alone leading to 1.5 million bed days being used each year, which equates with the continuous occupation of over 4,000 NHS beds. Current evidence supports a recommendation for prophylaxis with LMWH or fondaparinux. Both involve a subcutaneous injection for 28 days requiring either self-injection at home or a community nurse attending to deliver the injection. Patient adherence to treatment may be improved with an oral rather than injectable treatment. A large but controversially reported trial suggests that aspirin may be at least as effective as currently recommended treatments. However, because of methodological and reporting limitations, the evidence for the effectiveness of aspirin alone is not clear. There is potentially a large cost saving if aspirin is clinically effective because it is very inexpensive. 5 Duration of prophylaxis for elective total hip replacement surgery What is the clinical and cost effectiveness of standard versus extended duration pharmacological prophylaxis for preventing VTE in people undergoing elective total hip replacement surgery? Why this is important In 2015, there were 84,462 hip replacements in England, Wales and
