Venous thromboembolism in over 16s: reducing the risk of hospital-acquired deep vein
KEYWORDS: people, vte, risk, prophylaxis, surgery, vte prophylaxis, lmwh, risk vte, use, pharmacological, bleeding, consider, people undergoing, undergoing, person


extended duration pharmacological prophylaxis for preventing VTE in people undergoing elective total hip replacement surgery? Why this is important In 2015, there were 84,462 hip replacements in England, Wales and Northern Ireland. The current recommended duration of prophylaxis is 28 days in the elective total hip replacement population. This extended duration of prophylaxis is based on few, small and older trials. The quality of the evidence supporting extended duration prophylaxis is very low. Modern pharmaceutical trials of newer interventions use extended duration prophylaxis based on these historical data, with the added incentive of more expensive prophylaxis strategies. There is a large potential cost saving if a shorter duration of prophylaxis is as clinically effective, given the considerable cost of prophylaxis and the number of people for whom it is prescribed. Context Hospital-acquired venous thromboembolism (VTE), also known as hospital-acquired or hospital-associated thrombosis (HAT), covers all VTE that occurs in hospital and within 90 days after a hospital admission. It is a common and potentially preventable problem. VTE most frequently occurs in the deep veins of the legs or pelvis (a deep vein thrombosis [DVT]). If it dislodges and travels to the lungs, it is called a pulmonary embolism, which in some cases can be fatal. Hospital-acquired VTE accounts for thousands of deaths annually in the NHS, and fatal pulmonary embolism remains a common cause of in-hospital mortality. HAT accounts for 50% to 60% of all VTE seen. In 2013 to 2014, there were around 24,700 admissions for pulmonary embolism and 19,400 for DVT in England. In 2013 in England and Wales, there were 2,191 deaths recorded as due to pulmonary embolism and 2,816 due to DVT. Treatment of non-fatal symptomatic VTE and related long-term morbidities is associated with a considerable cost to the health service. People admitted to hospital or mental health units have varying risk factors for VTE. The spectrum of VTE risk is broad, and understanding the scale of the problem has led to a paradigm shift in preventing and managing VTE in the NHS. In particular, patients now undergo VTE risk assessment as a routine event in all NHS care pathways. By July 2013, 96% of adult admissions to NHS-funded acute care hospitals were risk assessed for VTE compared with less than 50% of patients in July 2010. VTE prophylaxis has been shown to reduce the incidence of DVT. It includes mechanical methods (such as anti-embolism stockings
