Cellular and Molecular Neurobiology (2022) 42:439–453
KEYWORDS: gut, epilepsy, intestinal, microbiota, flora, gut microbiota, immune, intestinal flora, patients, treatment, group, brain, barrier, cells, epileptic


Cellular and Molecular Neurobiology (2022) 42:439–453 REVIEW PAPER The Microbiota–Gut–Brain Axis and Epilepsy Qiang Yue2 · Mingfei Cai1 · Bo Xiao2 · Qiong Zhan1 · Chang Zeng3 Received: 17 June 2021 / Accepted: 14 July 2021 / Published online: 19 July 2021 © The Author(s), under exclusive licence to Springer Science+Business Media, LLC, part of Springer Nature 2021 Abstract Honoured as the second genome in humans, the gut microbiota is involved in a constellation of physiological and pathologi- cal processes, including those related to the central nervous system. The communication between the gut microbiota and the brain is realized by a complex bidirectional connection, known as the "microbiota-gut-brain axis", via neuroendocrine, immunological, and direct neural mechanisms. Recent studies indicate that gut dysfunction/dysbiosis is presumably involved in the pathogenesis of and susceptibility to epilepsy. In addition, the reconstruction of the intestinal microbiome through, for example, faecal microbiota transplantation, probiotic intervention, and a ketogenic diet, has exhibited beneficial effects on drug-resistant epilepsy. The purposes of this review are to provide a brief overview of the microbiota–gut–brain axis and to synthesize what is known about the involvement of the gut microbiota in the pathogenesis and treatment of epilepsy, to bring new insight into the pathophysiology of epilepsy and to present a preliminary discussion of novel therapeutic options for epilepsy based on the gut microbiota. Keywords Microbiota-gut-brain axis · Gut microbiota · Epilepsy · Pathogenesis · Therapy The Pathways of Microbiota–Gut–Brain et al. 2012; Nicholson et al. 2012; Collins et al. 2012; Mon- Interaction tiel-Castro et al. 2013). The complex connection between the intestinal flora and the brain is gradually realized through The gut microbiota consists of the vast number of bacteria the work of various signalling pathways and connection net- located in the gastrointestinal tract, and the importance of works, namely, the "microbiota-gut-brain axis". This axis the intestinal flora to individual health has been recognized behaves like a dynamic bidirectional neuroendocrine system because of its two-way communication with other parts of and contains direct nerve connections, immune factors, and the body, especially the brain . In recent endocrine signals (Burokas et al. 2015; Forsythe et al. 2014; days, much evidence has indicated that there are multiple Bauer et al. 2016). communication mediums between the intestinal flora and the Neurotransmitters and Neural Regulators central nervous system (CNS), such as vagal afferent nerves, Synthesized by the Gut Microbiota the hypothalamic–pituitary–adrenal cortical axis (HPA-A), the immune
