Cellular and Molecular Neurobiology (2022) 42:439–453
KEYWORDS: gut, epilepsy, intestinal, microbiota, flora, gut microbiota, immune, intestinal flora, patients, treatment, group, brain, barrier, cells, epileptic


the intestinal flora and the Neurotransmitters and Neural Regulators central nervous system (CNS), such as vagal afferent nerves, Synthesized by the Gut Microbiota the hypothalamic–pituitary–adrenal cortical axis (HPA-A), the immune system, and some active metabolites (Holmes The gut microbiota can produce a series of important neuro- transmitters during the process of digestion and metabolism. * Qiong Zhan For example, members of the Bacillus family can produce dopamine and noradrenalin (NA), the Bifidobacteria fam- * Chang Zeng ily can produce γ-aminobutyric acid (GABA), the Entero- coccus and Streptococcus families can produce serotonin Changsha 410011, China duce GABA and acetylcholine (Barrett et al. 2012; Dinan Vol.:(0112 33456789) 4 40 Cellular and Molecular Neurobiology (2022) 42:439–453 Fig. 1 Neurotransmitters. Gut bacteria produce a range of neurotrans- neurotransmission at proximal synapses in the ENS. DA dopamine, mitters through digestion and metabolism, including DA, 5-HT, NA, 5-HT 5-hydroxytryptamine, NA noradrenalin, GABA γ-aminobutyric and GABA. Gut bacteria may play important roles in regulating the acid, ENS enteric nervous system mice. The plasma tryptophan concentrations in GF mice The VN plays a wide-ranging role in information exchange were 40% higher than those in normal mice, while plasma and the coordination of parasympathetic activities, such as serotonin in normal mice was 280% higher than that in GF regulating heart rate and the motility of the gut (Thayer and mice, which revealed that the gut microbiota is responsible Sternberg 2009). It has been reported that the activity of the for the crucial effects of turning peripheral tryptophan into vagus nerve is sensitive to an individual’s nutrition, stress, serotonin . The intestinal flora has also and exercise (de Haan et al. 2013; Mezzacappa et al. 2001; been shown to play a key role in generating metabolites that Spalding et al. 2000). Ample evidence has shown that cer- enter the circulation and to exert a wide range of biological tain antidepressants and anxiolytics possess vagal effects effects outside the gut . Other tryptophan (Abdel Salam 2004; Smith et al. 2014), VN stimulation was metabolites, such as the antioxidants indole-3-propionic acid demonstrated to exert anti-inflammatory effects (Borovikova and indolyl sulphate, were not detected in GF mice, from et al. 2000) and has been utilized as an alternative treatment which we can deduce that the production of indole-contain- option for patients with epilepsy (Mogul and van Drongelen ing metabolites was entirely performed by the intestinal flora 2014). The intestinal flora has been confirmed
