Cellular and Molecular Neurobiology (2022) 42:439–453
KEYWORDS: gut, epilepsy, intestinal, microbiota, flora, gut microbiota, immune, intestinal flora, patients, treatment, group, brain, barrier, cells, epileptic


that the production of indole-contain- option for patients with epilepsy (Mogul and van Drongelen ing metabolites was entirely performed by the intestinal flora 2014). The intestinal flora has been confirmed to be involved . in regulating central GABA receptor expression and animal depression or anxiety via the VN (Bravo et al. 2011; Bercik Neuroanatomical Pathways et al. 2011b). However, these observed behavioural benefits could not be eliminated by vagotomy , The bidirectional interaction between the gut and the brain suggesting that this bacterial effect may also arise from the primarily occurs through two neuroanatomical pathways. upper system of vagal signalling. One pathway is the autonomic nervous system (ANS) and Metabolites and Gut Hormones vagus nerve (VN) within the spinal cord, while the other is bicommunication between the gut and the CNS through the neural pathway connections of the gut enteric nervous Many nutrients from an individual’s daily diet, such as plant system (ENS), ANS and VN in the spinal cord (Wang and polysaccharides, cannot be digested and absorbed directly Wang 2016) (Fig. 2). Briefly, the VN possesses abundant in the alimentary tract but are digested and decomposed by sensory fibres and conveys rich information to the brain. intestinal microorganisms . Short-chain fatty 1 3 Cellular and Molecular Neurobiology (2022) 42:439–453 441 Fig. 2 Neuroanatomical pathways. The gut can interact with the brain through two neuroanatomical pathways: (1) direct information exchange between the gut and the brain by the ANS and the VN in the spinal cord and (2) bidirectional communication between the gut and the brain through bidirec- tional communication between the ENS in the gut and the ANS and VN within the spinal cord. VN vagus nerve, ANS automatic nervous system, ENS enteric nervous system acids (SCFAs), which are produced from plant polysaccha- indispensable role in the establishment of host innate immu- rides via the intestinal flora, consist of propionate, lactate, nity and acquired immunity . butyrate, and acetate. The production of intestinal SCFAs The development and maturation of the intestinal immune may be related to the Clostridiales order of anaerobic bacte- system depend on the gut microbiota. Multiple studies have ria . SCFAs are critical for maintain- demonstrated that the gut microbiota plays a substancial role ing an intact gut barrier, mucosal cytoprotection, and nor- in the development of specific lymphocyte subsets. Bacterial mal intestinal biology (Horn and Klein 2013; Moretti et al. colonization of host gut epithelial
