Cellular and Molecular Neurobiology (2022) 42:439–453
KEYWORDS: gut, epilepsy, intestinal, microbiota, flora, gut microbiota, immune, intestinal flora, patients, treatment, group, brain, barrier, cells, epileptic


intact gut barrier, mucosal cytoprotection, and nor- in the development of specific lymphocyte subsets. Bacterial mal intestinal biology (Horn and Klein 2013; Moretti et al. colonization of host gut epithelial cells has been documented 2011). SCFAs enter the circulatory system mostly through to induce the expression of serum amyloid A, which stimu- the large intestine and are distributed mostly into muscle and lates the secretion of interleukin-6 (IL-6) and interleukin-23 the liver, with a small fraction entering the CNS through the by intestinal lamellar dendritic cells and promotes the dif- blood–brain barrier (BBB) . Although ferentiation of T helper 17 (Th17) cells . the specific role of CNS SCFAs in neurotransmission is not In addition, regulatory T (Treg) cells exert an anti-inflamma- yet clear, they were noticed to possess the capability of tory effect within the intestinal tract and maintain immune modulating pathopsychological processes at a certain con- tolerance. Scientists found that the number of Treg cells in centration , indirectly affecting CNS trans- the intestinal lamina propria is reduced in GF mice, which mission through the mucosal immune system (Alenghat and could be reversed when specific flora are applied (Atarashi Artis 2014) and even stimulating the HPA-A (Gagliano et al. et al. 2013). In addition, there are important interactions 2014). SCFAs can also modulate the expression of mucosal between the intestinal flora and humoural immunity. On the enteroendocrine cell (MEC)-secreted satiety peptides such one hand, the body secretes IgA to resist external infection, as cholecystokinin (CCK), peptide tyrosine–tyrosine (PYY), to protect intestinal epithelial cells from infection by symbi- and glucagon-like peptide-1 (GLP-1) through the free fatty otic bacteria, to influence the composition of the gut micro- acid receptors of MECs . In addition, cir- biota through immune selection and to maintain intestinal culating PYY and GLP-1 can also pass through the BBB and immune homeostasis (Sonnenberg et al. 2012; Fagarasan act crucially to regulate the neurotransmitters and feeding et al. 2010). On the other hand, the presence of microbes and behaviours of rodents (Dockray 2014; Anderberg et al. 2014; microbial products can stimulate intestinal dendritic cells Stadlbauer et al. 2015) (Fig. 3). and naive B cells to induce the secretion of protective IgA and regulate the development and function of immune cells in the host (Macpherson and Uhr 2004; Sato et al. 2003; Yu Gut Bacteria and the Immune System et al. 2018). Furthermore, microbial-derived substances can induce intestinal
