Cellular and Molecular Neurobiology (2022) 42:439–453
KEYWORDS: gut, epilepsy, intestinal, microbiota, flora, gut microbiota, immune, intestinal flora, patients, treatment, group, brain, barrier, cells, epileptic


of immune cells in the host (Macpherson and Uhr 2004; Sato et al. 2003; Yu Gut Bacteria and the Immune System et al. 2018). Furthermore, microbial-derived substances can induce intestinal innate immune cells to enhance the defence The importance of the correlation between gut bacteria and effect of intestinal epithelial cells by secreting interleukin-22 the immune system has been extensively reviewed. Compar- . ative studies between GF and conventionally raised animals The gut microbiota communicates with hosts through a revealed that interaction between the host and microorgan- variety of immune mechanisms. Emerging evidence indi- isms is necessary for the maturation and tolerance of the cates that the gut microbiota communicates with the innate host immune system, and the gut microbiota also exerts an immune system and intestinal nervous system through the 1 3 4 42 Cellular and Molecular Neurobiology (2022) 42:439–453 Fig. 3 SCFAs and gut hor- mones. Both probiotics and prebiotics increase the produc- tion of SCFAs, which interact with intestinal endocrine cells on the intestinal mucosa to promote the release of intes- tinal hormones such as CCK, PYY, and GLP-1. SCFAs and intestinal hormones can enter the circulation and migrate to the CNS (more SCFAs enter the liver and muscle through blood circulation, while a few enter the CNS). SCFAs and intestinal hormones in the CNS can regu- late neurotransmitter delivery and social behaviour. SCFAs short-chain fatty acids, CCK cholecystokinin, PYY peptide tyrosine, GLP-1 glucagon-like peptide-1, CNS central nervous system interaction between intraintestinal pattern recognition Glucocorticoids and the Gut Barrier receptors (PRRs) and microbe-associated molecular pat- terns (MAMPs). The PRR family includes Toll-like recep- Glucocorticoids (GCs) are closely related to the develop- tors (TLRs), c-type lectins and inflammatory corpuscles, ment and maturation of the intestinal tract and the integrity and immune responses are primarily initiated by these of the gut barrier. Initially, the infant gut barrier is not well PRRs, which can detect and recognize various microor- developed; then, as intestinal epithelial cells continue to ganisms through MAMPs and then transmit information grow and renew, gut barrier function improves over time to the host . TLRs play an important under the regulation of agents such as the gut microbiota and role in the communication between bacteria and hosts, endocrine and nutritional factors (Neu 2007; Wagner et al. and these receptors are the first step in the production of 2008). GCs are hormones that accelerate the maturation of cytokine
