Cellular and Molecular Neurobiology (2022) 42:439–453
KEYWORDS: gut, epilepsy, intestinal, microbiota, flora, gut microbiota, immune, intestinal flora, patients, treatment, group, brain, barrier, cells, epileptic


endocrine and nutritional factors (Neu 2007; Wagner et al. and these receptors are the first step in the production of 2008). GCs are hormones that accelerate the maturation of cytokine responses. TLRs not only are a part of the innate the digestive system, promote the morphological develop- immune system but also are widely distributed in the neu- ment of the small intestine and colon, and improve the func- rons of the CNS . Intestinal epithe- tion of the intestinal barrier during childhood (Quaroni et al. lial cells transport microbial components or metabolites to 1999; Pacha et al. 2003; Chen et al. 2011). the host’s internal environment, and the nervous system The gut barrier not only can protect the body from intra- also interacts with and responds to these bacterial com- cavitary pathogens but also can promote tolerance to food ponents. The balance of the intestinal flora may regulate antigens and symbiotic microorganisms . the body’s mood and behaviour by changing inflamma- Chronic stress often leads to gut barrier disturbance attrib- tory immune responses . Interestingly, utable to HPA-A disturbances. The imbalance of central and the MAMPs of probiotics may precipitate the secretion peripheral GC receptors could be conducive to the promo- of anti-inflammatory cytokines such as interleukin-10 by tion of stress-related disorders, and the dysregulation of GCs triggering PRRs (O’Mahony et al. 2005; Chu and Mazma- contributes to gut barrier dysfunction, bacterial migration, nian 2013). Although the exact mechanism is not yet clear, and inflammatory responses . Some schol- a well-founded hypothesis suggests that these beneficial ars have suggested that the translocation of the gut micro- bacteria may act as a physical barrier between pathogenic biota, or leaky gut, is associated with mental disorders such MAMPs (e.g. lipopolysaccharides) and host PRRs (e.g. as depression (Maes et al. 2008, 2012), suggesting that the TLR2, TLR4), which consequently inhibit inflammatory integrity of the gut barrier is of great importance for human immune responses (Fig. 4). health. Convincing evidence now exists for a contribution 1 3 Cellular and Molecular Neurobiology (2022) 42:439–453 443 Fig. 4 Glucocorticoids, barrier dysfunction, inflammatory responses of probiotics and prebiotics include increasing the concentration of and protective effects of probiotics and prebiotics. Stress can over- anti-inflammatory cytokines, promoting BBB and intestinal barrier activate the HPA-A and cause the massive production and release function recovery, and reducing glucocorticoid and proinflammatory of glucocorticoids, which were reported to reduce the integrity of
