Cellular and Molecular Neurobiology (2022) 42:439–453
KEYWORDS: gut, epilepsy, intestinal, microbiota, flora, gut microbiota, immune, intestinal flora, patients, treatment, group, brain, barrier, cells, epileptic


and intestinal barrier activate the HPA-A and cause the massive production and release function recovery, and reducing glucocorticoid and proinflammatory of glucocorticoids, which were reported to reduce the integrity of cytokine cycle concentrations to lower the overall level of inflamma- intestinal epithelial cells, leading to the destruction of intestinal bar- tion. (Blue and green dots: SCFAs produced by probiotics and prebi- rier function, allowing bacteria to migrate out of the intestine and otics; black coarse arrows: the dysfunction of the barrier system and triggering an inflammatory immune response. Bacteria that migrate inflammatory response; circle with a cross: the corresponding dam- outside the intestinal cavity can also directly aggravate the inflamma- age effect; white coarse arrows and grey circles: protection processes tory response by increasing the concentration of proinflammatory cel- and effects of probiotics and prebiotics). HPA-A hypothalamic–pitui- lular substances such as LPS. In addition, the bacterial inflammatory tary–adrenal axis, CRF corticotropin releasing factor, ACTH adreno- immune response leads to an increase in proinflammatory cytokines, corticotropic hormone, CORT cortisol, LPS lipopolysaccharides, which also compromise the integrity of the BBB. Probiotic MAMPs TLRs Toll-like receptors, MAMPs microbe-associated molecular pat- trigger pattern recognition receptors to promote the secretion of anti- terns, IL-10 interleukin-10, BBB blood–brain barrier inflammatory cytokines such as interleukin-10 (IL-10). The roles of intestinal flora composition to the regulation of the stress In the past few years, compelling evidence for a link hormone corticosterone, and the beneficial consequences between the microbiota–gut–brain axis and various neu- on body’s mood and psychological distress produced by rological diseases, such as schizophrenia, Alzheimer’s probiotics have been shown to be associated with GC and disease, Parkinson’s disease, and multiple sclerosis, has cytokine mechanisms, especially under conditions of stress, been reported (Dinan and Cryan 2017). Not surprisingly, inflammation, or poor gut barrier function (Messaoudi et al. the study of the gut microbiota and epilepsy has become a 2011; Tillisch et al. 2013; Schmidt et al. 2015). In addition, hotspot in this field. However, the exact relevancies and pos- some studies have reported that increased proinflammatory sible mechanisms underpinning such relationships are still factors have been detected among cohorts of patients or unclear and worthy of further exploration. rats with stress, inflammation, or poor gut barrier function (Soderholm and Perdue 2001; Santos et al. 2001; Maes et al. 2008), and probiotics supplementation with the Bifidobac- Gut Dysfunction/Dysbiosis and Epilepsy terium or Lactobacillus family could recover the integrity of
