Cellular and Molecular Neurobiology (2022) 42:439–453
KEYWORDS: gut, epilepsy, intestinal, microbiota, flora, gut microbiota, immune, intestinal flora, patients, treatment, group, brain, barrier, cells, epileptic


and Perdue 2001; Santos et al. 2001; Maes et al. 2008), and probiotics supplementation with the Bifidobac- Gut Dysfunction/Dysbiosis and Epilepsy terium or Lactobacillus family could recover the integrity of the gut barrier, reduce inflammation and diminish stress- Gut dysfunction/dysbiosis is associated with inflammation, induced gut leakiness in rodents (Ait-Belgnaoui et al. 2012; altered neuromodulators, and the disruption of the BBB Zareie et al. 2006) (Fig. 4). . Information on food components 1 3 4 44 Cellular and Molecular Neurobiology (2022) 42:439–453 (vitamins, carbohydrates, fats, minerals, etc.) is processed et al. 2009; Zobel et al. 2004). In addition, a bidirectional and transmitted to the CNS in the above ways by the intesti- connection between chronic stress and inflammation could nal flora, inducing a systematic response that reflects nutri- activate neuroinflammatory responses, in turn further induc- tional and energy status. When a microbial population is out ing HPA-A dysregulation . To verify whether of balance, unhealthy signals will be conveyed to the brain dysbiosis can lead to a predisposition to epilepsy, male and and accordingly result in inferior situations, such as more female Sprague–Dawley rats were subjected to an interven- cellular degeneration, unbalanced energy homeostasis, and tion of chronic restraint stress (two 2-h sessions per day over increased oxidative stress . 2 weeks) to induce dysbiosis. All of these animals received Although many studies have shown that gut dysfunction/ basolateral amygdala kindling after microbial transplanta- dysbiosis has a hand in a variety of neurological diseases, tion. Both the chronic stress group and the group in which such as anxiety, depression, and neurodegenerative diseases the microbiome was transplanted from the stressed group (Mulak and Bonaz 2015; Friedland 2015), and there are dis- to the sham-stressed group exhibited progression and a orders of certain bioactive peptides (Lach et al. 2018; Dock- longer duration of kindled epilepsy. However, chronically ray 2014), vagal afferents (Dinan and Cryan 2012), the stress stressed rats receiving a microbiome transplant from sham- hormone axis , and inflammation (Kelly stressed animals showed no proepileptic effects. This work et al. 2015) identified in patients with epilepsy, whether per- directly related intestinal flora disturbances to susceptibility turbations of the gut microbiome directly collide with the to epilepsy, especially under the condition of chronic stress epileptic process is still unproven. . Another study found that dextran To date, the proepileptic properties of inflammation have sulphate sodium-induced intestinal inflammation increased been mostly well established.
