Cellular and Molecular Neurobiology (2022) 42:439–453
KEYWORDS: gut, epilepsy, intestinal, microbiota, flora, gut microbiota, immune, intestinal flora, patients, treatment, group, brain, barrier, cells, epileptic


chronic stress epileptic process is still unproven. . Another study found that dextran To date, the proepileptic properties of inflammation have sulphate sodium-induced intestinal inflammation increased been mostly well established. Pre-existing inflammatory vulnerability to pentylenetetrazole (PTZ)-induced epileptic responses promote the onset of epilepsy, which conversely seizures and reduced the antiepileptic effects of valproic triggers an inflammatory cascade, producing a downstream acid (VPA). Anti-inflammatory treatments such as alpha- effect and accelerating the progression of the disease (Vez- lactoalbumin (a whey protein that is also effective in some zani et al. 2015, 2013). Propionic acid (PPA), an SCFA animal model of epilepsy) and sodium butyrate showed sig- widely used as a food preservative that is produced by intes- nificant antiepileptic properties in colitis-induced mice but tinal flora metabolism, can easily pass through the gut–blood not in control group mice. This work provided evidence that barrier and BBB and then trigger a series of pathological intestinal inflammation was a contributing factor to epileptic and biochemical processes, such as inducing intracellular events for susceptible patients and a possible reason for the acidification, activating specific G-protein-coupled recep- reduced efficacy of antiepileptic drugs, which made intesti- tors, altering neurotransmitter release, and promoting neu- nal inflammation a promising antiepileptic drug target (De roinflammation (Macfabe 2012; MacFabe et al. 2007). Two Caro et al. 2019). new strains of epilepsy-prone (FAST) and epilepsy-resistant Drug-resistant epilepsy (DRE) accounts for approxi- (SLOW) rats were originally designed to study their suscep- mately 30% of the development and persistence of epilepsy tibility to the development of epilepsy. Scientists found that . To further determine whether gut micro- just one injection of PPA could damage social behaviour and biota dysfunction or differences in microbiota biodiversity induce astrocyte proliferation in the brains of both FAST and are involved in the mechanism of DRE, faecal samples were SLOW rats, and rapid astrocyte proliferation in the rat cortex collected from patients with DRE or drug-sensitive epilepsy was postulated to play important roles in behavioural pheno- and healthy controls at West China Hospital of Sichuan Uni- type changes and other rapidly related abnormalities (such versity (from March to May 2017). The results showed that as epilepsy susceptibility) . Some stud- the gut microbiota community changed obviously with an ies showed that stress could lead to complex changes in the increase in certain rare bacteria in DRE patients, but no large composition of the gut microbiota (e.g. increased Clostridi-
