Cellular and Molecular Neurobiology (2022) 42:439–453
KEYWORDS: gut, epilepsy, intestinal, microbiota, flora, gut microbiota, immune, intestinal flora, patients, treatment, group, brain, barrier, cells, epileptic


ies showed that stress could lead to complex changes in the increase in certain rare bacteria in DRE patients, but no large composition of the gut microbiota (e.g. increased Clostridi- differences between drug-sensitive epilepsy patients and ales, decreased Lactobacillales and Bifidobacterium, and their controls were observed. Notably, Bifidobacterium and increased or decreased Bacteroides) (Murakami et al. 2017; Lactobacillus were increased in patients with four or fewer Bailey et al. 2011; Dunphy-Doherty et al. 2018). Stress can seizure episodes per year compared with those with more increase intestinal permeability, promote microbial-driven seizure episodes, predicting that these two strains may have proinflammatory processes, and cause neuroinflamma- a protective effect on sensitivities to drugs against epilepsy tion. These effects include enhancing the permeability of . In addition, Gong et al. found that the the BBB, increasing central and peripheral inflammatory indicators of intestinal flora biodiversity and the structure cytokines, and activating microglia . and composition of the faecal microbiota in epilepsy patients Chronic stress can also lead to the dysfunction of the HPA- were significantly different from those in the control group. A, which is associated with the morbidity and progression of The microbiota changes in patients with epilepsy included epilepsy (Galtrey et al. 2016; Kotwas et al. 2017; Mazarati an increase in Actinobacteria and Verrucomicrobia and 1 3 Cellular and Molecular Neurobiology (2022) 42:439–453 445 a decrease in Proteobacteria, and the patients with DRE for their function in idiopathic seizure disorder (Gram- mainly showed an increase in Actinobacteria, Verrucomi- matikos and Tsokos 2012; Palace and Lang 2000; Pollak crobia and Nitrospirae . A recent study et al. 2014; Vulliemoz and Seeck 2006). The intestinal flora with eight children with DRE and 32 age-matched healthy has been revealed to be not only vital in maintaining the participants showed that the intestinal flora richness index dynamic balance of organisms and promoting food digestion of the epilepsy group was significantly lower than that of the but also of great importance in the development of autoim- control group. In this study, Bacteroidetes content decreased mune diseases by regulating immune responses (Ong et al. significantly and Actinobacteria number increased signifi- 2014). Although the effects of the gut microbiota on autoim- cantly in the epilepsy group. In addition, the Bifidobacterium munity may vary in different pathological processes and the longum group, Enterococcus faecium group, and Eggerthella mechanisms of the induction of local or systemic immuno- lenta were proven
