Cellular and Molecular Neurobiology (2022) 42:439–453
KEYWORDS: gut, epilepsy, intestinal, microbiota, flora, gut microbiota, immune, intestinal flora, patients, treatment, group, brain, barrier, cells, epileptic


the Bifidobacterium munity may vary in different pathological processes and the longum group, Enterococcus faecium group, and Eggerthella mechanisms of the induction of local or systemic immuno- lenta were proven to be biomarkers for DRE, and the ATP reactions by the microbiome remain to be elucidated, recent binding cassette transporter was taken as the strongest func- studies have reported on the key role of the gut microbiota tional biomarker . Another comparative in the development of autoimmune diseases. Taking into study involving faecal samples from 25 patients with cer- account the close relationship between epilepsy genesis and ebral palsy complicated by epilepsy (CPE) and 21 healthy autoimmune diseases, Wu et al. proposed that the commu- children showed that the biodiversity of the intestinal flora nity composition or function of the gut microbiota could in the CPE group was significantly increased compared with affect host susceptibility and further disease progression that in the healthy group. Furthermore, the abundance of . Akkermansia, Bifidobacterium, Clostridium IV, Enterococ- Increasing evidence has brought to light the fact that a cus, Prevotella, Rosia, Streptococcus, and Veillonella was large number of epilepsy cases have an autoimmune-related significantly increased in the CPE group, with Anaerostipes, disease basis and that adjuvant immunotherapy may be a Bacteroides, Blautia, Faecalibacterium, Parasutterella, way to control the development of epilepsy in some rare Ruminococcus, and Roseburia being significantly decreased. cases (Palace and Lang 2000). A few observational stud- In addition, Akkermansia enrichment was associated with an ies also displayed intervention benefits of specific immu- increased risk of immune system diseases in CPE patients notherapies in seizure control (Quek et al. 2012; Irani et al. . 2008; Peltola et al. 2000; McKnight et al. 2005). Several The above evidence showed that the disorder or dysfunc- serum autoantibodies have been shown to have epileptogenic tion of the gut microbiota was closely related to the onset characteristics, and immunomodulation treatment may be of and susceptibility to epilepsy. When unhealthy signals effective in some epilepsy syndromes (Peltola et al. 2000; from gut dysfunction/dysbiosis are sent to the brain along McKnight et al. 2005; Bergey 2012). These autoantibodies the microbiota–gut–brain axis, the body will respond with recognized in the setting of epilepsy include glutamic acid a series of reactions, causing energy imbalance, an immune decarboxylase , GABA-B receptor (Lan- response, neuroinflammation, increased oxidative stress caster et al. 2010; Pollak et al. 2014), N-methyl-D-aspartate and cell degeneration, excessive activation
