Cellular and Molecular Neurobiology (2022) 42:439–453
KEYWORDS: gut, epilepsy, intestinal, microbiota, flora, gut microbiota, immune, intestinal flora, patients, treatment, group, brain, barrier, cells, epileptic


reactions, causing energy imbalance, an immune decarboxylase , GABA-B receptor (Lan- response, neuroinflammation, increased oxidative stress caster et al. 2010; Pollak et al. 2014), N-methyl-D-aspartate and cell degeneration, excessive activation of the HPA-A, receptor, the voltage-gated potassium channel complex damage to the BBB and gut barrier, and elevated bioactive , etc. In addition, many autoimmune peptides associated with diseases such as epilepsy. In other diseases have been confirmed to have a tight correlation with words, intestinal inflammation or dysfunction may be closely high susceptibility to epilepsy through a recent retrospec- related to seizures and the effect of antiepileptic drugs. tive population-based epidemiological study. Among these Restoring gut function may be a new therapeutic strategy diseases, anti-phospholipid syndrome, systemic lupus ery- in DRE. Since the composition of the gut microbiota varies thematosus, and type 1 diabetes were listed as most likely to greatly in epilepsy patients with different clinical pheno- be epileptogenic . types, it can be used as a potential biomarker for the diag- Neuroinflammatory response may contribute to the patho- nosis of the disease. physiological lesions of epileptic diseases (Vezzani et al. 2011). The expression of interferon-γ and IL-6, two pro- inflammatory cytokines in peripheral blood, was elevated The Gut Microbiota and Autoimmune in most epileptic patients compared with control subjects, Epilepsy implicating immune factors to be involved in the epilepsy process . Interleukin-17A (IL-17A), a In recent decades, accumulated data have shown that the canonical cytokine produced by Th17 cells, has been shown pathophysiological mechanisms of autoimmunity might have to be involved in inflammatory responses of many CNS auto- a large role in epilepsy , and autoimmune immune diseases . IL-17A was found to activities of the body together with the related pathogenic be increased in the peripheral blood and cerebrospinal fluid autoantibodies have recently received increasing attention of epileptic patients, with its level linearly proportional to 1 3 4 46 Cellular and Molecular Neurobiology (2022) 42:439–453 seizure frequency and severity (Mao et al. 2013; Lee et al. Although the mechanisms involved were not specifically 2011). The above evidence highlighted the key role of the explored in this case, focusing on the microbiota–gut–brain Th17/IL-17A signalling pathway in the pathogenesis of axis and remodelling of the intestinal flora may open a new epileptic. window for the treatment of epilepsy. Normally, commensal bacteria in the human gastroin- Antibiotics and Epilepsy testinal tract activate proinflammatory T helper cells in a controlled
