Cellular and Molecular Neurobiology (2022) 42:439–453
KEYWORDS: gut, epilepsy, intestinal, microbiota, flora, gut microbiota, immune, intestinal flora, patients, treatment, group, brain, barrier, cells, epileptic


open a new epileptic. window for the treatment of epilepsy. Normally, commensal bacteria in the human gastroin- Antibiotics and Epilepsy testinal tract activate proinflammatory T helper cells in a controlled manner without causing extensive pathological inflammation or tissue damage, but sometimes they can There have been few studies on the relationship between affect neurological inflammation and disturb the balance epilepsy and antibiotic treatment. A retrospective study between pro- and anti-inflammatory immune responses to documented 6 patients who suffered from DRE but did trigger autoimmune disorders (Lee et al. 2011; Farkas et al. not exhibit recurrent seizures temporarily during antibiotic 2015). Th17 cells, one of the proinflammatory CD4 + T cell treatment (using one among clindamycin, azithromycin, subtypes and pivotal components of the adaptive immune piperacillin/tazobactam, and amoxicillin/clavulanic acid). system, have recently been demonstrated to be modulated This impact was weakened after the retrieval of antibiotic by the symbiotic intestinal flora (Chow and Mazmanian medicine, suggesting that the use of antibiotics may affect 2009). Gut colonization with a single type of microbiome, seizure frequency, but the mechanism by which this occurred segmented filamentous bacteria, specifically induced the was unclear. Among these patients, two children used mac- differentiation of Th17 cells and promoted IL-17 produc- rolide antibiotics, which are inhibitors of P450 enzymes, tion either in the gut or in other organs (Ivanov et al. 2009; which may result in increased serum concentrations of Gaboriau-Routhiau et al. 2009; Farkas et al. 2015). Evidence antiepileptic drugs, especially topiramate . also showed that Th17 cells might play an important role in This increase in serum antiepileptic drug concentration was the development of epilepsy following exposure to certain perhaps responsible for the diminishment of seizure onset, symbiotic bacteria (Lee et al. 2011; Wu et al. 2010; Vital but some scholars also presumed that it may be because et al. 2015). In summary, the gut microbiota has been shown antibiotic treatment had a short-term influence on gut-brain to influence the immune system, neuroinflammatory reaction interactions by affecting the intestinal flora and then low- and gut–brain immune responses during the progression of ering seizure frequency (Braakman and van Ingen 2018). a variety of autoimmune diseases, such as autoimmune epi- Therefore, these scholars proposed that antibiotics could be lepsy, and the modulation of the gut microbiota may provide used as a treatment for epilepsy. Or, more broadly, could potential therapeutic targets for these extraintestinal inflam- antibiotic-induced changes in
