Cellular and Molecular Neurobiology (2022) 42:439–453
KEYWORDS: gut, epilepsy, intestinal, microbiota, flora, gut microbiota, immune, intestinal flora, patients, treatment, group, brain, barrier, cells, epileptic


lepsy, and the modulation of the gut microbiota may provide used as a treatment for epilepsy. Or, more broadly, could potential therapeutic targets for these extraintestinal inflam- antibiotic-induced changes in the gut microbiota serve as matory diseases. a model for epilepsy treatment? The above studies provide interesting explorations for the treatment of epilepsy, and indeed, further studies towards this will be needed in the The Gut Microbiota and Epilepsy Treatment near future. Faecal Microbiota Transplantation and Epilepsy Probiotics and Epilepsy Faecal microbiota transplantation (FMT), an effective treat- Probiotics are a group of live microorganisms that symbi- ment for Clostridium difficile infection (Surawicz et al. otically inhabit the human gut tract and can confer a health 2013), has been gradually recognized as an important strat- benefit to the host when administered in adequate amounts egy to reconstruct the intestinal flora in inflammatory bowel (Sanders 2008; Islam 2016). In recent years, probiotics have disease (Reinisch 2017; Newman et al. 2017; Chin et al. been proven to be beneficial for not only acute gastrointesti- 2017), constipation and other kinds of disorders (Borody and nal diseases but also diseases of remote systems, including Khoruts 2011). Nevertheless, few studies have reported the the CNS. Some researchers observed that probiotics sup- clinical application of FMT in the area of neurological dis- plementation may help to prevent somatic symptoms associ- orders. Recently, it was reported for the first time that FMT ated with schizophrenia and improve relieved the intestinal and neurological symptoms of a girl symptoms of autism spectrum disorder (ASD) (Grossi et al. who suffered from Crohn’s disease and epilepsy for 17 years. 2016), and these observations help to provide a solid founda- During the 20-month observation in this case, FMT demon- tion for the concept of the microbiota–gut–brain axis. Can strated its effectiveness in preventing the recurrence of epi- probiotics be an effective adjuvant therapy for the control of lepsy after stopping antiepileptic drugs, and fortunately, no epilepsy? An animal study found that supplementation with obvious gastrointestinal or other side effects were reported in a probiotic mixture (Bifidobacterium infantis, Lactobacillus this case . This study shows that healthy gut reuteri, and Lactobacillus rhamnosus) significantly reduced microbiota transfer is of importance for seizure prevention. the severity of PTZ-induced epilepsy. Spatial learning and 1 3 Cellular and Molecular Neurobiology (2022) 42:439–453 447 memory were significantly improved and GABA concentra- the number of seizures was decreased by more
