Cellular and Molecular Neurobiology (2022) 42:439–453
KEYWORDS: gut, epilepsy, intestinal, microbiota, flora, gut microbiota, immune, intestinal flora, patients, treatment, group, brain, barrier, cells, epileptic


of PTZ-induced epilepsy. Spatial learning and 1 3 Cellular and Molecular Neurobiology (2022) 42:439–453 447 memory were significantly improved and GABA concentra- the number of seizures was decreased by more than 90% in 5 tions were increased in the group administered probiotics children . These results support the clinical during kindling. Moreover, probiotic intervention increased application of a KD in children who suffer from DRE. the antioxidant capacity of the brain by significantly reducing Although a KD is important in treating epilepsy and other nitric oxide and malondialdehyde concentrations (Bagheri diseases, such as metabolic syndrome, ASD, Alzheimer’s et al. 2019). In addition, a pilot study was designed to recruit disease, and cancer (Stafstrom and Rho 2012), the rate of a group of patients with DRE who were then administered KD application is still low because of the difficulties of its a probiotic mixture for 4 months. The number of seizures; implementation, side effects, and poor dietary compliance patient quality of life (Quality of Life in Epilepsy Inventory (Freeman and Kossoff 2010). As a result, clarifying the 10); and blood concentrations of CD-14, IL-6, and GABA mechanism by which KDs affect epilepsy is of great signifi- were monitored before and after the probiotic intervention. cance to increase their operability and compliance, reduce Finally, the number of epileptic seizures decreased by over side effects, and improve the prognosis and quality of life of 50%, and the quality of life of patients greatly improved DRE patients. Although scientists have put much effort into after probiotic application . determining the mechanism by which KDs affect epilepsy Tahmasebi et al. and Bagheri et al. also reported that probi- patients, little progress has been made on exactly how KDs otic supplementation significantly reduced seizure severity affect brain activity. In recent years, some scientists have and seizure-related spatial learning and memory dysfunc- focused on the intestinal flora and its possible relationship tion in PTZ-kindled rats (Buffington et al. 2021; Tahmasebi with KDs and their epileptic protective role. et al. 2020). Probiotics can also affect drug-metabolizing As mentioned above, the gut microbiota plays an impor- enzymes. For example, Clostridium sporogenes was reported tant role in host physiology. The composition and function to be important in the reductive metabolism of zonisamide to of the intestinal flora could be severely affected by an indi- 2-sulfamoylacetylphenol in vivo . The vidual’s diet, and this kind of change is normally repeat- VPA
