Cellular and Molecular Neurobiology (2022) 42:439–453
KEYWORDS: gut, epilepsy, intestinal, microbiota, flora, gut microbiota, immune, intestinal flora, patients, treatment, group, brain, barrier, cells, epileptic


of zonisamide to of the intestinal flora could be severely affected by an indi- 2-sulfamoylacetylphenol in vivo . The vidual’s diet, and this kind of change is normally repeat- VPA level in blood was found to be lowered after the admin- able and persistent, which would have a lasting influence istration of probiotics and normalized after the completion on the host . The microbial community of the treatment, with carbamazepine showing the opposite has increasingly been reported to be involved in the expres- trend . Although the exact mecha- sion of neurotransmitter-related factors and neurotransmitter nism between probiotic treatment and epilepsy is unclear, signal transduction . The gut microbiota taking into account its safety and outcomes of clinical utili- can also help regulate different metabolic and neurological zation, probiotics might be an alternative adjuvant therapy pathways, which was reported to be potentially responsible for patients who suffer from DRE and ultimately improve for KD-mediated epileptic protection. Olson et al. showed their quality of life . that a KD protected animals from spontaneous tonic–clonic seizures, and a change in the constitution of the intestinal Ketogenic Diets and Epilepsy flora was discovered in their gut. When treated with aseptic technology or antibiotics, animals were noticed to be resist- Ketogenic diets (KDs) are known diets with low carbohy- ant to KD-mediated epileptic protection. However, when drate and high fat contents. KDs are reported to benefit over the symbiosis of KD-related Akkermansia and Parabacte- one third of epileptic patients (Kwan and Brodie 2000) and roides was enriched or when intestinal flora transplantation are confirmed to be an efficient treatment strategy for chil- was performed in controlled diet mice, the epileptic pro- dren suffering from DRE (Freeman et al. 2007; Lefevre and tective effect of a KD could be restored. The research also Aronson 2000). However, the specific mechanism by which found that changes in metabolic profiles, such as decreased KDs influence epileptic seizures is not fully understood. γ-glutamatyl amino acids and increased GABA/glutamate A four-month randomized controlled trial was conducted levels, were generally found in the colon cavity, blood serum, among patients aged 1–18 years old, and the results showed and brain hippocampus, which were considered to be mostly that a KD was an effective treatment for intractable epilepsy related to epileptic protection. Moreover, bacterial cross- in both children and adolescents . feeding can reduce the activity of γ-glutamyltransferase Another study enrolled 145 children
