Cellular and Molecular Neurobiology (2022) 42:439–453
KEYWORDS: gut, epilepsy, intestinal, microbiota, flora, gut microbiota, immune, intestinal flora, patients, treatment, group, brain, barrier, cells, epileptic


effective treatment for intractable epilepsy related to epileptic protection. Moreover, bacterial cross- in both children and adolescents . feeding can reduce the activity of γ-glutamyltransferase Another study enrolled 145 children aged 2 to 16 who 1) had and, thus, inhibit γ-glutamylated precursors from protect- suffered seven or more epileptic seizures per week, 2) did ing against epilepsy in vivo . Overall, not respond to at least two antiepileptic drugs, and 3) had the mechanism of KD-mediated epilepsy protection may be not previously received KD treatment. The study showed related to the intestinal flora, which regulates host metabo- that the average incidence of seizures in the KD group was lism and affects susceptibility to epilepsy. significantly lower than that in the control group 3 months It is widely believed that diet can significantly alter the later. Among the study participants, the number of epileptic composition of the host’s gut microbiome (Zmora et al. 1 3 4 48 Cellular and Molecular Neurobiology (2022) 42:439–453 significantly improve the symptoms of epilepsy and reshape pathways and mechanisms of the microbiota–gut–brain the intestinal flora of epilepsy patients, and scientists have axis in epilepsy, we need larger, well-designed studies with proposed this as another explanation for KD-mediated adequate power. However, although platforms or techniques epileptic protection. To further explore the features of the used to analyse the gut microbiota are developing over time, intestinal flora in children who suffer from DRE, intestinal it is important to foreground that scientists still need to be flora composition was analysed in 20 children with DRE cautious about the interpretation of the results of existing or (14 males and 6 females) before and after they received future studies due to the heterogeneity among experimental KD treatment so that the microbial communities related to and control participants, the representativeness of sample the efficacy of a KD could be screened out. After 6 months types (mostly faecal samples and sometimes submucosal of treatment, 10 participants reported an improvement in biopsies), the factors that can alter the gut microbiota (such Bacteroides level of faeces from the KD treatment group and medical comorbidities), the rationality of the study were much lower than their values at baseline. In addition, design, and the downstream data analysis strategies. high levels of Alistipes, Clostridium fusiform, Richtellaceae, Taken together, these studies and future discoveries in Rumen coccidae, and Lacaceraceae were observed in non- this field will shed more light
