Cellular and Molecular Neurobiology (2022) 42:439–453
KEYWORDS: gut, epilepsy, intestinal, microbiota, flora, gut microbiota, immune, intestinal flora, patients, treatment, group, brain, barrier, cells, epileptic


strategies. high levels of Alistipes, Clostridium fusiform, Richtellaceae, Taken together, these studies and future discoveries in Rumen coccidae, and Lacaceraceae were observed in non- this field will shed more light on the challenging intricate reactive groups, from which we can deduce that changes relationship between the intestinal flora and CNS disorders, in the intestinal flora community spectrum may be asso- including epilepsy. It is believed that in the near future, the ciated with different therapeutic effects of a KD (Zhang study of the gut microbiota will be a new promising research et al. 2018; Spinelli and Blackford 2018). Tagliabue et al. direction in epilepsy, which hopefully will open another new treated 6 patients aged 8–34 years with DRE caused by Glu- door for the treatment and prevention of epilepsy. cose transport albumen 1 deficiency with a KD interven- tion and found that after 3 months of a KD, Firmicutes and Acknowledgements This work was supported by The National Natural Bacteroidetes showed no statistically significant difference Science Foundation of China, China (81601140 and 81501130) and Natural Science Foundation of Hunan Province, China (2020JJ5843). compared to baseline, while the species of Desulfovibrio increased significantly after dietary intervention (Tagliabue Author Contributions All authors contributed to the study conception et al. 2017). In addition, a study from Sweden reported and design. QY, QZ and CZ had the idea for the article. QY and MC that 12 children with DRE with an average age of 7.7 years performed the literature search and manuscript outline. The first draft of the manuscript was written by QY. BX, QZ, and CZ revised this were given KD treatment for 3 months, while their parents work and all authors commented on previous versions of the manu- were given a normal diet as a control. The analysis of faecal script. All authors have read and approved the final manuscript. samples collected before and after the dietary intervention revealed no significant change in the alpha diversity of the Funding This work was supported by The National Natural Science intestinal flora between the two groups, while a significant Foundation of China, China (81601140 and 81501130) and Natural decrease in the relative abundance of Bifidobacteria, Dialis- Science Foundation of Hunan Province, China (2020JJ5843). ter, and Eubacterium rectale and an increase in Escherichia Declarations coli were observed in the KD group . These studies demonstrate that a KD is a potential microbial- Conflict of interest
