Infective Endocarditis
KEYWORDS: endocarditis, patients, infective, weeks, valve, infective endocarditis, infection, heart, prosthetic, hours, criteria, therapy, surgery, blood, antimicrobial


Infective endocarditis is infection of the endocardium, usually with bacteria (commonly, streptococci or staphylococci) or fungi. It may cause fever, heart murmurs, petechiae, anemia, embolic phenomena, and endocardial vegetations. Vegetations may result in valvular incompetence or obstruction, myocardial abscess, or mycotic aneurysm. Diagnosis requires demonstration of microorganisms in blood and usually echocardiography. Treatment consists of prolonged antimicrobial treatment and sometimes surgery. Endocarditis usually refers to infection of the endocardium (ie, infective endocarditis). The term can also include noninfective endocarditis, in which sterile platelet and fibrin thrombi form on cardiac valves and adjacent endocardium. Noninfective endocarditis sometimes leads to infective endocarditis. Both can result in embolization and impaired cardiac function. The diagnosis of infective endocarditis is usually based on a constellation of clinical findings rather than a single definitive test result. Infective endocarditis can occur at any age. Male individuals are affected about twice as often as female individuals (1). Incidence of infection and mortality increase with increasing age. Patients who use illicit intravenous drugs, patients who are immunocompromised, and patients with prosthetic heart valves and other intracardiac devices are at highest risk. There is also an increased risk in patients with indwelling intravascular catheters. The normal heart is relatively resistant to infection. Bacteria and fungi do not easily adhere to the endocardial surface, and constant blood flow helps prevent them from settling on endocardial structures. Thus, 2 factors are typically required for endocarditis: A predisposing abnormality of the endocardium Microorganisms in the bloodstream (eg, bacteremia) Massive bacteremia or particularly virulent microorganisms (eg, Staphylococcus aureus) cause endocarditis on normal valves. Endocardial factors Endocarditis usually involves the heart valves. Major predisposing factors are congenital heart defects, rheumatic valvular disease, bicuspid aortic valves, calcific aortic valves, mitral valve prolapse, hypertrophic cardiomyopathy, and prior endocarditis. Prosthetic valves and other intracardiac devices are a particular risk. Occasionally, mural thrombi, ventricular septal defects, and patent ductus arteriosus sites become infected. The nidus for infection is usually a sterile fibrin-platelet vegetation formed when damaged endothelial cells release tissue factor. Infective endocarditis occurs most often on the left side (eg, mitral or aortic valve). Approximately 5 to 10% of cases are right-sided (tricuspid or pulmonic valve) (1). Patients who use intravenous drugs have a much higher incidence of right-sided endocarditis. Microorganisms Microorganisms that infect the endocardium may originate from distant infected sites (eg, cutaneous abscess, inflamed or infected gums, urinary tract infection) or have obvious portals of entry
