Infective Endocarditis
KEYWORDS: endocarditis, patients, infective, weeks, valve, infective endocarditis, infection, heart, prosthetic, hours, criteria, therapy, surgery, blood, antimicrobial


right-sided endocarditis. Microorganisms Microorganisms that infect the endocardium may originate from distant infected sites (eg, cutaneous abscess, inflamed or infected gums, urinary tract infection) or have obvious portals of entry such as a central venous catheter or a drug injection site. Almost any implanted foreign material (eg, ventricular or peritoneal shunt, prosthetic device) is at risk of bacterial colonization, thus becoming a source of 2/26 bacteremia and hence endocarditis. Endocarditis also may result from asymptomatic bacteremia, such as typically occurs during invasive dental, medical, or surgical procedures. Even toothbrushing and chewing can cause bacteremia (usually due to viridans streptococci) in patients with gingivitis. Causative microorganisms vary by site of infection, source of bacteremia, and host risk factors (eg, intravenous drug use), but overall, 80 to 90% of cases are caused by Streptococci, or Staphylococcus aureus Most of the rest of endocarditis cases are caused by Enterococci Gram-negative bacilli HACEK organisms (Haemophilus species, Actinobacillus actinomycetemcomitans, Cardiobacterium hominis, Eikenella corrodens, and Kingella kingae) Fungi However, the incidence of staphylococcal and enterococcal endocarditis has been increasing, and streptococcal endocarditis has been decreasing. The disease develops in 3 stages: Bacteremia: Microorganisms are present in the blood Adhesion: The microorganism adheres to abnormal or damaged endothelium via surface adhesions Colonization: Proliferation of the organism together with inflammation, leading to a mature vegetation Many of the causative microorganisms produce polysaccharide biofilms that shield them from host immune defences and impede antibiotic penetration. Etiology reference 1. Delgado V, Ajmone Marsan N, de Waha S, et al: 2023 ESC Guidelines for the management of endocarditis [published correction appears in Eur Heart J 2023 Sep 20] [published correction appears in Eur Heart J 2024 Jan 1;45(1):56]. Eur Heart J 44(39):3948–4042, 2023. doi:10.1093/eurheartj/ehad193 Pathophysiology of Infective Endocarditis Endocarditis has local and systemic consequences. Local consequences Local consequences of infective endocarditis include 3/26 Myocardial abscesses with tissue destruction and sometimes conduction system abnormalities (usually with low septal abscesses) Sudden, severe valvular regurgitation, causing heart failure and death (usually due to lesions of the mitral valve or the aortic valve) Aortitis due to contiguous spread of infection Prosthetic valve infections are particularly likely to involve valve ring abscesses, obstructing vegetations, myocardial abscesses, and mycotic aneurysms manifested by valve obstruction, dehiscence, and conduction disturbances. Systemic consequences Systemic consequences of endocarditis are primarily due to Embolization of infected material from the heart valve Immune-mediated phenomena (primarily in chronic infection) Right-sided lesions typically produce septic
