Infective Endocarditis
KEYWORDS: endocarditis, patients, infective, weeks, valve, infective endocarditis, infection, heart, prosthetic, hours, criteria, therapy, surgery, blood, antimicrobial


disturbances. Systemic consequences Systemic consequences of endocarditis are primarily due to Embolization of infected material from the heart valve Immune-mediated phenomena (primarily in chronic infection) Right-sided lesions typically produce septic pulmonary emboli, which may result in pulmonary infarction, pneumonia, or empyema. Left-sided lesions may embolize to any tissue, particularly the kidneys, spleen, and central nervous system. Mycotic aneurysms can form in any major artery. Cutaneous and retinal emboli are common. Diffuse glomerulonephritis may result from immune complex deposition. Classification of Infective Endocarditis Infective endocarditis may have an indolent, subacute course or a more acute, fulminant course with greater potential for rapid decompensation. Subacute bacterial endocarditis (SBE), although aggressive, usually develops insidiously and progresses slowly (ie, over weeks to months). Often, no source of infection or portal of entry is evident. SBE is caused most commonly by streptococci (especially viridans, microaerophilic, anaerobic, and nonenterococcal group D streptococci and enterococci) and less commonly by S. aureus, Staphylococcus epidermidis, Gemella morbillorum, Abiotrophia defectiva (formerly, Streptococcus defectivus), Granulicatella species, and fastidious Haemophilus species. SBE often develops on abnormal valves after asymptomatic bacteremia due to periodontal, gastrointestinal, or genitourinary infections. Acute bacterial endocarditis (ABE) usually develops abruptly and progresses rapidly (ie, over days). A source of infection or portal of entry is often evident. When bacteria are virulent or bacterial exposure is massive, ABE can affect normal valves. It is usually caused by S. aureus, group A hemolytic streptococci, pneumococci, or gonococci. Prosthetic valvular endocarditis (PVE) develops in 1 to 2% of patients within 1 year after valve replacement and in 0.5%/year thereafter (1). It is more common after aortic than after mitral valve replacement and affects mechanical and bioprosthetic valves equally. Early-onset infections (< 2 months after surgery) are caused mainly by contamination during surgery with antimicrobial-resistant bacteria (eg, S. epidermidis, diphtheroids, coliform bacilli) or by fungi (eg, Candida species, Aspergillus species). 4/26 Late-onset infections are caused mainly by contamination with low-virulence organisms during surgery or by transient asymptomatic bacteremias, most often with streptococci; S. epidermidis; diphtheroids; and the fastidious gram-negative bacilli, Haemophilus species, Actinobacillus actinomycetemcomitans, and Cardiobacterium hominis. Symptoms and Signs of Infective Endocarditis Symptoms and signs vary based on the classification but are nonspecific. Subacute bacterial endocarditis Initially, symptoms of subacute bacterial endocarditis are vague: low-grade fever (< 39° C), night sweats, fatigability, malaise, and weight loss. Chills and arthralgias may occur. Symptoms and signs of valvular insufficiency may be a first
