Infective Endocarditis
KEYWORDS: endocarditis, patients, infective, weeks, valve, infective endocarditis, infection, heart, prosthetic, hours, criteria, therapy, surgery, blood, antimicrobial


endocarditis are vague: low-grade fever (< 39° C), night sweats, fatigability, malaise, and weight loss. Chills and arthralgias may occur. Symptoms and signs of valvular insufficiency may be a first clue. Initially, ≤ 15% of patients have fever or a murmur, but eventually almost all develop both. Physical examination may be normal or include pallor, fever, change in a preexisting murmur or development of a new regurgitant murmur, and tachycardia. Retinal emboli can cause round or oval hemorrhagic retinal lesions with small white centers (Roth spots). Cutaneous manifestations include petechiae (on the upper trunk, conjunctivae, mucous membranes, and distal extremities), painful erythematous subcutaneous nodules on or near the tips of digits (Osler nodes), nontender hemorrhagic macules or papules on the palms or soles (Janeway lesions), and splinter hemorrhages under the nails. About 35% of patients have central nervous system (CNS) effects, including transient ischemic attacks, stroke, toxic encephalopathy (due to infective microemboli), and, if a mycotic CNS aneurysm ruptures, brain abscess and subarachnoid hemorrhage. Renal emboli may cause flank pain and, rarely, gross hematuria. Splenic emboli may cause left upper quadrant pain. Prolonged infection may cause splenomegaly or clubbing of fingers and toes. Cutaneous Manifestations of Infective Endocarditis 5/26 Infective Endocarditis (Osler Nodes) This patient with infective endocarditis has multiple Osler nodes (tender, erythematous nodules on the toes). Infective Endocarditis (Janeway Lesions) This patient with infective endocarditis has multiple Janeway lesions (nontender, erythematous papules) on the palms. The patient also has some Osler nodes (tender, erythematous nodules on the fingers). Infective Endocarditis (Osler Node and Janeway Lesions) The image on the left shows an Osler node (tender and erythematous nodule) on the thumb. The image on the right shows Janeway lesions (nontender and erythematous macules on the palm). Splinter Hemorrhage Splinter hemorrhages are small linear hemorrhages under the fingernails. Image courtesy of CDC/Dr. Thomas F. Sellers via the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention Public Health Image Library. Conjunctival Hemorrhage in Infective Endocarditis Infective Endocarditis (Conjunctival Petechiae) This photo shows conjunctival petechiae in a patient with infective endocarditis. Infective Endocarditis (Conjunctival Hemorrhages) This photo shows conjunctival hemorrhages in a patient with infective endocarditis. 7/26 Infective Endocarditis (Roth Spot) The image on the left shows multiple Roth spots or retinal hemorrhages. The image on the right shows a close up of a Roth spot with central clearing. Acute bacterial endocarditis and prosthetic valvular endocarditis Symptoms and signs of acute bacterial endocarditis
