Infective Endocarditis
KEYWORDS: endocarditis, patients, infective, weeks, valve, infective endocarditis, infection, heart, prosthetic, hours, criteria, therapy, surgery, blood, antimicrobial


The image on the right shows a close up of a Roth spot with central clearing. Acute bacterial endocarditis and prosthetic valvular endocarditis Symptoms and signs of acute bacterial endocarditis and prosthetic valvular endocarditis are similar to those of subacute bacterial endocarditis, but the course is more rapid. Fever (78%), cardiac murmur (65%), and congestive heart failure (27%) are the most frequent symptoms at presentation (1). Rarely, purulent meningitis occurs. Right-sided endocarditis Septic pulmonary emboli may cause cough, pleuritic chest pain, and sometimes hemoptysis. A murmur of tricuspid regurgitation is typical. Diagnosis of Infective Endocarditis Blood cultures or serologic testing Echocardiography and sometimes other imaging modalities Clinical criteria Because symptoms and signs are nonspecific, vary greatly, and may develop insidiously, diagnosis requires a high index of suspicion. Endocarditis should be suspected in patients with fever and no obvious source of infection, particularly if a heart murmur is present. Suspicion of endocarditis should be very high if blood cultures are positive in patients who have a history of a heart valve disorder, who 8/26 have had certain recent invasive procedures, or who inject drugs. Patients with documented bacteremia should be examined thoroughly and repeatedly for new valvular murmurs and signs of emboli. Other than positive blood cultures, there are no specific laboratory findings. Established infections often cause a normocytic-normochromic anemia, elevated white blood cell count, increased erythrocyte sedimentation rate, increased immunoglobulin levels, and the presence of circulating immune complexes and rheumatoid factor, but these findings are not diagnostically helpful. Urinalysis often shows microscopic hematuria and, occasionally, red blood cell casts, pyuria, or bacteriuria. Identification of organisms Identification of the organism and its antimicrobial susceptibility is vital to guide treatment. If endocarditis is suspected, at least 2 (ideally 3) sets of blood cultures should be obtained under strict aseptic technique, with one aerobic and one anaerobic culture in each set. Samples should contain 8 to10 mL of blood per bottle and, ideally, are obtained > 6 hours apart (if presentation suggests acute bacterial endocarditis, 2 culture samples are obtained within the first 1 to 2 hours). Each set of cultures should be obtained from a separate, fresh venipuncture site (ie, not from preexisting vascular catheters). Blood cultures do not need to be restricted to times during chills or fever because most patients have continuous bacteremia. When endocarditis is present and no prior antibiotic therapy was given, at least one culture is positive
