Infective Endocarditis
KEYWORDS: endocarditis, patients, infective, weeks, valve, infective endocarditis, infection, heart, prosthetic, hours, criteria, therapy, surgery, blood, antimicrobial


restricted to times during chills or fever because most patients have continuous bacteremia. When endocarditis is present and no prior antibiotic therapy was given, at least one culture is positive in 90% of patients if more than 2 peripheral blood samples were taken at different times, ideally more than 6 hours apart (1). Premature use of empiric antibiotic therapy should be avoided in patients with acquired or congenital valvular or shunt lesions to avoid inability to isolate causative organisms (culture-negative) endocarditis (2). If prior antimicrobial therapy was given, blood cultures should still be obtained, but results may be negative. Blood cultures may require 3 to 4 weeks of incubation for certain organisms; however, automated culture monitoring systems available in most clinical laboratories can identify positive cultures within a week. Other organisms (eg, Aspergillus) may not produce positive cultures. Some organisms (eg, Coxiella burnetii, Bartonella species, Chlamydia psittaci, Brucella species) require serodiagnosis; others (eg, Legionella pneumophila) require special culture media or polymerase chain reaction (eg, Tropheryma whippelii). Metagenomic sequencing testing (cell-free DNA testing) may be helpful in selected cases when no pathogen is detected by culture or PCR testing (2). Negative blood culture results may indicate suppression due to Prior antimicrobial therapy Infection with organisms that do not grow in standard culture media Another diagnosis (eg, noninfective endocarditis, atrial myxoma with embolic phenomena, vasculitis) Imaging studies Transthoracic echocardiography (TTE) should be done initially. It has sensitivity of 50 to 90% and specificity > 90% (3). Transesophageal echocardiography (TEE) can reveal vegetations too small to be seen on TTE. It has sensitivity of 90 to 100% (4). Transesophageal echocardiography (TEE) should be done when 9/26 Patients have a prosthetic valve (where TTE sensitivity is limited) Transthoracic echocardiography is nondiagnostic Diagnosis of infective endocarditis has been established clinically (done to detect perforations, abscesses, and fistulas) Serial TEE enables diagnosis of complications that evolve during treatment, such as increasing vegetation size or abscess formation. CT is used as needed to fully define paravalvular abscesses and for detection of mycotic aneurysms. Positron emission tomography (PET) scanning improves the sensitivity of the modified Duke criteria (see table Clinical Criteria for Infective Endocarditis According to the 2023 Duke-International Society for Cardiovascular Infectious Disease) without compromising specificity. It is especially useful for infection associated with implanted devices, where imaging is hampered by metallic shadowing and postoperative changes (5, 6). PET scanning also detects extracardiac infection, such as septic
