Infective Endocarditis
KEYWORDS: endocarditis, patients, infective, weeks, valve, infective endocarditis, infection, heart, prosthetic, hours, criteria, therapy, surgery, blood, antimicrobial


is especially useful for infection associated with implanted devices, where imaging is hampered by metallic shadowing and postoperative changes (5, 6). PET scanning also detects extracardiac infection, such as septic emboli, and is an emerging tool for the diagnosis of endocarditis originating in prosthetic and intracardiac devices. CT and PET abnormalities are included as major criteria in the Duke criteria and European guidelines (5). Routine brain imaging has been proposed because up to approximately 70% of patients have clinically silent lesions (7). Its utility for prognosis and management is yet to be defined. Diagnostic criteria Infective endocarditis is definitively diagnosed when microorganisms are seen histologically in (or cultured from) endocardial vegetations obtained during cardiac surgery, embolectomy, or autopsy. Because vegetations are not usually available for examination, there are various clinical criteria for establishing a diagnosis. These include the latest iteration of the Duke criteria (2023 Duke-International Society for Cardiovascular Infectious Disease Criteria) (8), which has a sensitivity of 84% and a specificity of 94% (9) (see tables Definitions of Infective Endocarditis and Clinical Criteria for Infective Endocarditis) and the European Society of Cardiology (ESC) 2023 modified criteria (5). TABLE Definitions of Infective Endocarditis According to the 2023 Duke- International Society for Cardiovascular Infectious Disease Criteria Clinical Diagnosis Status Criteria Definite endocarditis Pathologic criteria: 1. Histopathologic findings of endocarditis OR 2. Microorganisms identified in patients with clinical signs of active endocarditis or Clinical Diagnosis Status Criteria Clinical criteria (one of the following): 2 major criteria 1 major and 3 minor criteria 5 minor criteria One of the following: Possible endocarditis 1 major and 1 minor criterion 3 minor criteria One of the following: Firm alternative diagnosis explaining the evidence that suggests infective endocarditis Lack of recurrence despite < 4 days of antimicrobial therapy Rejected endocarditis No pathologic evidence of infective endocarditis found during surgery or autopsy after < 4 days of antibiotic therapy Failure to meet the clinical criteria for possible endocarditis (as listed above) International Society for Cardiovascular Infectious Diseases Criteria for Infective Endocarditis: Updating the Modified Duke Criteria [published correction appears in Clin Clinical Criteria for Infective Endocarditis According to the 2023 Duke-International Society for Cardiovascular Infectious Disease Major criteria Microbiology: 1. Two or more positive separate sets of blood cultures for organisms typical of endocarditis OR Three or more positive separate sets of blood cultures for organisms that rarely or occasionally cause endocarditis 2. PCR or other nucleic
