Infective Endocarditis
KEYWORDS: endocarditis, patients, infective, weeks, valve, infective endocarditis, infection, heart, prosthetic, hours, criteria, therapy, surgery, blood, antimicrobial


examination criteria: If echocardiography is not available, auscultatory evidence of new valvular regurgitation. Worsening or changing of preexisting regurgitation is not sufficient. International Society for Cardiovascular Infectious Diseases Criteria for Infective Endocarditis: Updating the Modified Duke Criteria [published correction appears in Clin Infect Dis 2023 Oct 13;77(8):1222]. Clin Infect Dis 77(4):518–526, 2023. Treatment of Infective Endocarditis IV antibiotics (based on the organism and its susceptibility) Sometimes valve debridement, repair, or replacement Dental evaluation and treatment (to minimize oral sources of bacteremia) Removal of potential source of bacteremia (eg, internal catheters, devices) Withholding anticoagulation in patients with cerebral embolism Treatment consists of a prolonged course of antimicrobial therapy (1). Surgery may be needed for mechanical complications or resistant organisms. Typically, antimicrobials are given IV. Because they 14/26 must be given for 2 to 8 weeks, home IV therapy is often used. Any apparent source of bacteremia must be managed: necrotic tissue debrided, abscesses drained, and foreign material and infected devices removed. Patients with infective endocarditis should be evaluated by a dentist and treated for oral diseases that could cause bacteremia and subsequent endocarditis. Existing IV catheters (particularly central venous ones) should be changed. If endocarditis persists in a patient with a newly inserted central venous catheter, that catheter should also be removed. If continuous infusions are used instead of intermittent boluses, infusions should not be interrupted for long periods. Organisms within biofilms adherent to catheters and other devices may not respond to antimicrobial therapy, leading to treatment failure or relapse. Antibiotic regimens Medications and dosages depend on the microorganism and its antimicrobial susceptibility. Although most patients are stable enough to wait for culture results, empiric antibiotic therapy before organism identification may be necessary in seriously ill patients. Antibiotics should not be given until adequate blood cultures (minimally 2, but ideally 3, samples from different sites over 1 hour) have been obtained. An empiric regimen should cover typical pathogens (ie, Staphylococci and Streptococci species), take into account local resistance pattern, such as MRSA prevalence, and include an agent highly effective at killing (eg, a beta-lactam antibiotic). A typical regimen in the United States may be vancomycin and ceftriaxone. Certain risk factors for having endocarditis with a less common pathogen or having a more difficult to eradicate infection include a recently placed prosthetic valve, prolonged healthcare exposure, and critical illness. Combination therapy is commonly started in these scenarios and often includes broader spectrum
