Infective Endocarditis
KEYWORDS: endocarditis, patients, infective, weeks, valve, infective endocarditis, infection, heart, prosthetic, hours, criteria, therapy, surgery, blood, antimicrobial


or Noncoliform bacilli ceftazidime 2 g IV every 8 — hours) plus an aminoglycoside (eg, gentamicin 2 mg/kg† IV every 8 hours) for 6 weeks 18/26 * Antimicrobial sensitivity changes over time, and there are site-specific differences in antimicrobial susceptibility. Advice from a consultant familiar with these patterns is imperative. † Based on ideal rather than actual weight in patients with obesity. ‡ With vancomycin, serum levels must be monitored if doses > 2 g/24 hours are administered. § HACEK microorganisms: Haemophilus parainfluenzae, H. aphrophilus, Actinobacillus actinomycetemcomitans, Cardiobacterium hominis, Eikenella corrodens, and Kingella kingae. MIC = minimum inhibitory concentration; NVE = native valve endocarditis; PVE = prosthetic valve endocarditis. Adapted from Baddour LM, Wilson WR, Bayer AS, et al: Infective endocarditis in adults: Diagnosis, antimicrobial therapy, and management of complications; A scientific statement for healthcare professionals from the American Heart Association. Circulation 132 (15):1435– 1486, 2015. doi: 10.1161/CIR.0000000000000296 Pearls & Pitfalls If endocarditis is suspected, withhold antibiotics until adequate blood cultures (minimally 2, or ideally 3, samples from different sites over 1 hour) are obtained. Native valve right-sided endocarditis can often be treated with 4 weeks of therapy or even as short as 2 weeks for certain typical pathogens (eg,methicillin-sensitive S. aureus) if combination therapy with gentamicin is used. For left-sided endocarditis, guidelines recommend 6 weeks of parenteral antibiotic therapy. However, a multicenter, randomized, non-blinded study of uncomplicated left-sided endocarditis found switching to oral antibiotics (after a minimum of 10 days of parenteral therapy) to be non-inferior to continued parenteral therapy. In addition, length of hospital stay was shortened in the patients switched to oral therapy. This approach has the potential to reduce the psychologic stress and some of the risks inherent to prolonged inpatient parenteral therapy (2). Long-acting lipoglycopeptide antibiotics, such as dalbavancin, have also been used successfully as part of sequential therapy for Gram positive endocarditis (3). These options may be particularly useful for patients in whom home parenteral therapy is not feasible. Cardiac valve surgery 19/26 Surgery (debridement, valve repair, or valve replacement) is sometimes required for treatment of infectious endocarditis (4). Surgery is typically indicated in Patients with heart failure (particularly those with prosthetic, aortic, or native mitral valve endocarditis and those with pulmonary edema or cardiogenic shock) Patients with uncontrolled infection (those with persistent infection, infection with fungal or resistant organisms, recurrent prosthetic valve endocarditis, or endocarditis complicated by heart block, abscess, aneurysm, fistula, or
