Infective Endocarditis
KEYWORDS: endocarditis, patients, infective, weeks, valve, infective endocarditis, infection, heart, prosthetic, hours, criteria, therapy, surgery, blood, antimicrobial


cardiogenic shock) Patients with uncontrolled infection (those with persistent infection, infection with fungal or resistant organisms, recurrent prosthetic valve endocarditis, or endocarditis complicated by heart block, abscess, aneurysm, fistula, or enlarging vegetation) Patients at risk for embolism (particularly those with prosthetic, aortic, or native mitral valve endocarditis, and large vegetations [defined as > 10 mm] or those with recurrent emboli). Early surgery in these patients decreases the risk of embolic events. Timing of surgery requires experienced clinical judgment. If heart failure caused by a correctable lesion is worsening (particularly when the organism is S. aureus, a gram-negative bacillus, or a fungus), surgery may be required after only 24 to 72 hours of antimicrobial therapy. Endocarditis involving an implanted cardiac electronic device requires complete removal of the pacemaker or defibrillator, including all leads and the generator. Right-sided endocarditis is usually managed medically. If surgery is necessary (due to heart failure or lack of therapeutic response), then valve repair is preferred over replacement to avoid future prosthetic valve infection due to any continued IV drug use. Prophylactic placement of an epicardial pacing lead is recommended at time of tricuspid valve surgery (5). Prophylactic placement avoids any future need for an endovascular pacing lead to traverse the (native or prosthetic) tricuspid valve and potentially cause tricuspid regurgitation. Surgery is usually delayed for a month after intracranial hemorrhage or major ischemic stroke. Anticoagulation Patients taking anticoagulants are at increased risk for hemorrhagic stroke and for bleeding resulting from urgent invasive procedures. Anticoagulation should be withheld in patients with cerebral emboli, because it increases the risk of hemorrhagic transformation. The decision to withhold anticoagulation in other patients should be based on the relative risks of hemorrhagic stroke and thromboembolism (6). Response to treatment After starting therapy, patients with penicillin-susceptible streptococcal endocarditis usually feel better, and fever is reduced within 3 to 7 days. Fever may continue for reasons other than persistent infection (eg, medication allergy, phlebitis, infarction due to emboli). Patients with staphylococcal endocarditis tend to respond more slowly. Diminution of vegetation size can be followed by serial echocardiography. Echocardiography should be done at the completion of therapy to establish a new baseline for valvular appearance (including sterile vegetations) and insufficiency. Relapse usually occurs within 4 weeks. Antibiotic retreatment may be effective, but surgery may also be required. In patients without prosthetic valves, recrudescence of endocarditis after 6 weeks usually results from a new infection
