Infective Endocarditis
KEYWORDS: endocarditis, patients, infective, weeks, valve, infective endocarditis, infection, heart, prosthetic, hours, criteria, therapy, surgery, blood, antimicrobial


4 weeks. Antibiotic retreatment may be effective, but surgery may also be required. In patients without prosthetic valves, recrudescence of endocarditis after 6 weeks usually results from a new infection rather than a relapse. Even after successful antimicrobial therapy, sterile 20/26 emboli and valve rupture may occur up to 1 year later. Risk of recurrence is significant, so ongoing life- long dental and cutaneous hygiene is advised. Patients who require antibiotic therapy for any reason should have at least 3 sets of blood cultures drawn before antibiotics are started. Prognosis for Infective Endocarditis Overall, the in-hospital mortality rate for endocarditis is 15 to 20%, with a 1-year mortality rate approaching 40% (1). Untreated, infective endocarditis is always fatal. Even with treatment, death is more likely and the prognosis is generally poorer for older patients and patients who have Infection with resistant organisms An underlying disorder A long delay in treatment Aortic valve or multiple valve involvement Large vegetations Polymicrobial bacteremia Prosthetic valve infections Mycotic aneurysms Valve ring abscess Major embolic events 21/26 Septic shock is more likely in patients with diabetes, acute kidney injury, S. aureus infection, vegetation size > 15 mm, or signs of persistent infection. The mortality rate for viridans streptococcal endocarditis without major complications is < 10% (2) but is greater than 90% for Aspergillus endocarditis after prosthetic valve surgery (3). The prognosis is better with right-sided than left-sided endocarditis because tricuspid valve dysfunction is tolerated better, systemic emboli are absent, and right-sided S. aureus endocarditis responds better to antimicrobial therapy. Prevention of Infective Endocarditis Preventive dental examination and therapy before surgery to repair heart valves or congenital heart lesions is recommended. Measures to reduce health care–acquired bacteremia aim to curb the rising incidence of iatrogenic bacteremia and subsequent endocarditis are also recommended (1). Endocarditis prophylaxis during implantation of prosthetic devices has changed to accommodate the rise in endocarditis due to enterococci. Prophylaxis often involves the addition of vancomycin or use of amoxicillin/clavulanic acid instead of a cephalosporin (2). Dental and cutaneous hygiene is recommended for the general population but particularly for patients at intermediate risk (those with native valve disease) and high risk. Patients at high risk The American Heart Association (AHA) recommends antimicrobial prophylaxis for patients at high risk of an adverse outcome as a result of infective endocarditis (3). Such patients include those with Prosthetic heart valves, including transcatheter implanted prostheses Prosthetic material used
