Infective Endocarditis
KEYWORDS: endocarditis, patients, infective, weeks, valve, infective endocarditis, infection, heart, prosthetic, hours, criteria, therapy, surgery, blood, antimicrobial


Taubert KS, Gewitz M, et al: Prevention of infective endocarditis. Circulation 116 (15):1736–1754, 2007 and Warnes CA, Williams RG, Bashore TM, et al: ACC/AHA 2008 Guidelines for the Management of Adults with Congenital Heart Disease: a report of the American College of Cardiology/American Heart Association Task Force on Practice Guidelines. Circulation 118(23):e714, 2008. Prophylactic antibiotic regimens For most patients and procedures, a single dose shortly before the procedure is effective. For oral- dental and respiratory procedures, a medication effective against viridans group streptococci is used (see table Recommended Endocarditis Prophylaxis During Oral-Dental or Respiratory Tract Procedures). For vaginal delivery, give ampicillin 2 g IV or IM plus gentamicin 1.5 mg/kg (maximum 120 mg) IV administered within 30 minutes before delivery, followed by ampicillin 1 g IV or IM (or amoxicillin 1 g [as the trihydrate] orally) 6 hours later. For gastrointestinal, genitourinary, and musculoskeletal procedures on areas involving infected tissue, antibiotics should be selected based on the known organism and its sensitivities. If infection is present but the infecting organism has not been identified, antibiotics for gastrointestinal and genitourinary prophylaxis should be effective against enterococci (eg, amoxicillin or ampicillin, or vancomycin for patients who are allergic to penicillin). Antibiotics for skin and musculoskeletal prophylaxis should be effective against staphylococci and beta- hemolytic streptococci (eg, a cephalosporin or vancomycin or clindamycin if infection with methicillin- resistant staphylococci is possible). Guidelines for endocarditis prophylaxis vary geographically. 24/26 Additional information regarding prophylactic regimens is provided by guidelines from the American Heart Association and the European Society of Cardiology (3, 4). Key Points Because the normal heart is relatively resistant to infection, endocarditis occurs mainly when there is a predisposing abnormality of the endocardium. Predisposing cardiac abnormalities include congenital heart defects, rheumatic valvular disease, bicuspid or calcific aortic valves, mitral valve prolapse, hypertrophic cardiomyopathy, prior endocarditis, and intracardiac devices. Local cardiac consequences include myocardial abscess, conduction system abnormalities, and sudden, severe valvular regurgitation. Systemic consequences include immune phenomena (eg, glomerulonephritis) and septic emboli, which may affect any organ put particularly the lungs (with right sided endocarditis), kidneys, spleen, central nervous system, skin, and retina (with left-sided endocarditis). Obtain blood cultures and diagnose using modified Duke or European Society of Cardiology clinical criteria. Treat with a prolonged course of antimicrobial therapy; surgery may be needed for mechanical complications or resistant organisms. Give antimicrobial prophylaxis for patients at high risk of an adverse outcome from infective
