World Journal of
KEYWORDS: cmv, transplantation, gastroenteritis, cmv gastroenteritis, patient, infection, liver, perforation, gastrointestinal, case, colon, test, cmv infection, negative, performed


T and gastroenteritis. On day 28 after surgery, an abdominal computed tomography Hori S helped to draft the revealed transverse colon perforation, and simple lavage and drainage were manuscript. Mori T helped to performed along with an urgent ileostomy. Although the repeated remission and WJG 1899 April 21, 2019 Volume 25 Issue 15 Yokose T et al. AG-negative CMV gastroenteritis after liver transplantation treatment especially aggravation of CMV gastroenteritis and acute cellular rejection made the control cytomegalovirus infection and of immunosuppression difficult, the upper GE eventually revealed an thrombotic microangiopathy. improvement in the gastric ulcers, and the biopsy samples were negative for Kameyama K and Kawaida M CMV. The CMV-AG test remained negative, therefore, we had to evaluate the performed pathological analysis. All authors read and approved the status of the CMV infection on the basis of the clinical symptoms and GE. final manuscript. CONCLUSION Informed consent statement: This case report suggests a monitoring method that could be useful for AG- Consent was obtained from the negative CMV gastroenteritis after a solid-organ transplantation. patient for publication of this report and any accompanying images. Key words: Cytomegalovirus gastrointestinal disease; Colon perforation; Antigenemia negative; Liver transplantation; Case report Conflict-of-interest statement: The authors declare that they have no ©The Author(s) 2019. Published by Baishideng Publishing Group Inc. All rights reserved. conflicts of interest. CARE Checklist (2016) statement: Core tip: The cytomegalovirus (CMV) antigenemia (AG) test is useful for monitoring The authors have read the CARE recipients for posttransplantation CMV infection. Although the AG-positivity rate in Checklist (2016), and the CMV gastroenteritis is known to be low at onset, most cases become positive during the manuscript was prepared and disease course. We managed a patient with a complicated condition with a transverse revised according to the CARE Checklist (2016). colon perforation caused by AG-negative CMV gastroenteritis, after a living donor liver transplantation. This case report presents a method that could be important monitoring Open-Access: This article is an for AG-negative CMV gastroenteritis after solid-organ transplantation. open-access article which was selected by an in-house editor and fully peer-reviewed by external reviewers. It is distributed in Citation: Yokose T, Obara H, Shinoda M, Nakano Y, Kitago M, Yagi H, Abe Y, Yamada Y, accordance with the Creative Matsubara K, Oshima G, Hori S, Ibuki S, Higashi H, Masuda Y, Hayashi M, Mori T, Commons Attribution Non Kawaida M, Fujimura T, Hoshino K, Kameyama K, Kuroda T,
