World Journal of
KEYWORDS: cmv, transplantation, gastroenteritis, cmv gastroenteritis, patient, infection, liver, perforation, gastrointestinal, case, colon, test, cmv infection, negative, performed


Creative Matsubara K, Oshima G, Hori S, Ibuki S, Higashi H, Masuda Y, Hayashi M, Mori T, Commons Attribution Non Kawaida M, Fujimura T, Hoshino K, Kameyama K, Kuroda T, Kitagawa Y. Colon Commercial (CC BY-NC 4.0) perforation due to antigenemia-negative cytomegalovirus gastroenteritis after liver license, which permits others to distribute, remix, adapt, build transplantation: A case report and review of literature. World J Gastroenterol 2019; 25(15): upon this work non-commercially, 1899-1906 and license their derivative works URL: on different terms, provided the DOI: original work is properly cited and the use is non-commercial. See: ses/by-nc/4.0/ Manuscript source: Unsolicited manuscript INTRODUCTION Peer-review started: January 11, be reactivated due to immunosuppression. While CMV gastroenteritis presents with First decision: February 13, 2019 diagnosis is made based on endoscopic findings and the histopathological Revised: March 3, 2019 examination of biopsy tissues. The CMV-antigenemia (AG) positivity rate at the onset Article in press: March 16, 2019 gastrointestinal perforation due to CMV gastroenteritis is not uncommon, such an hepatitis is an autoimmune disease that commonly develops in middle-aged or older P-Reviewer: Aykan NF, Boin IFSF, woman and usually causes chronic and progressive liver damage. In regard to Huerta-Franco MR, Jeong KY S-Editor: Ma RY treatment, immunosuppressants, especially prednisolone, are commonly used. Liver L-Editor: A transplantation is the final therapeutic option for patients, such as in a recently E-Editor: Ma YJ reported case on a patient with autoimmune hepatitis who developed decompensated cirrhosis due to an insufficient response to medical treatment. We managed a patient with a complicated condition, with transverse colon perforation that was caused by AG-negative CMV gastroenteritis, after a living donor liver transplantation (LDLT). Here, we report on this case, which was difficult to diagnose and treat. CASE PRESENTATION Chief complaints Abdominal pain and fullness. History of present illness The patient was a 52-year-old Asian woman, who was diagnosed with liver WJG 1900 April 21, 2019 Volume 25 Issue 15 Yokose T et al. AG-negative CMV gastroenteritis after liver transplantation dysfunction during a medical examination in her twenties. A diagnosis of autoimmune hepatitis was made at 40 years of age. When the patient was 46 years old, the patient developed ascites, which improved with oral steroids. However, with disease progression, she developed decompensated cirrhosis at 51 years old that was resistant to medical management. She was then referred to our department. History of past illness There was no other significant medical history. Personal
