World Journal of
KEYWORDS: cmv, transplantation, gastroenteritis, cmv gastroenteritis, patient, infection, liver, perforation, gastrointestinal, case, colon, test, cmv infection, negative, performed


cirrhosis at 51 years old that was resistant to medical management. She was then referred to our department. History of past illness There was no other significant medical history. Personal and family history The patient was a nonsmoker and had stopped drinking socially 5 years prior. Her occupation was a housewife. There was no relevant family history. Physical examination upon admission According to the Eastern Cooperative Oncology Group Performance Status, her performance status was 2. At the physical examination, the patient’s height was 155 cm, her weight was 47 kg, and her vitals were stable; yellowish bulbar conjunctivae, ascites, and bilateral pedal edema were observed. Laboratory examinations The Child-Pugh score was 11 points in class C, and the Model for end stage liver disease score was 11 points. The serologic tests for CMV showed that the patient was IgG positive (+), IgM negative (-), and AG negative, which is indicative of past CMV infection. A PCR test for CMV was not performed routinely before transplantation at our facility and was not performed in this case. Imaging examinations Abdominal computed tomography (CT) revealed liver cirrhosis with ascites before LDLT. Liver transplantation and follow-up A blood-type compatible LDLT was performed using a left lobe graft, with the patient’s second son as the donor (20 years old, CMV IgG+/IgM-, which is indicative of past CMV infection). The graft-to-recipient weight ratio was 0.73, the operation duration was 849 min, and the bleeding volume was 822 mL. At our facility, in accordance with the protocol of CMV monitoring and treatment after a liver transplantation, CMV-AG is tested twice a week, but a CMV-PCR test is not performed routinely. In addition, prophylactic ganciclovir (GCV) is not administered, but GCV is initiated when the patient becomes CMV-AG positive or in the case of a seropositive donor. Initially, cyclophosphamide (CyA), prednisolone (PSL) and mizoribine (MIZ) were used as the postoperative immunosuppressants, in accordance with the protocol of our facility, however, for this patient, MIZ was replaced by mycophenolate mofetil (MMF) due to pancytopenia, and CyA was replaced by tacrolimus (FK) due to renal failure. As the patient had jaundice and persistently elevated aspartate transaminase and alanine transaminase levels, a liver biopsy was performed on the 10th day after transplantation. The histopathological examination was negative for both acute cellular rejection (ACR) and CMV hepatitis, so her condition was suspected to be drug-induced or caused by cholestasis. Starting on the
