World Journal of
KEYWORDS: cmv, transplantation, gastroenteritis, cmv gastroenteritis, patient, infection, liver, perforation, gastrointestinal, case, colon, test, cmv infection, negative, performed


transplantation. The histopathological examination was negative for both acute cellular rejection (ACR) and CMV hepatitis, so her condition was suspected to be drug-induced or caused by cholestasis. Starting on the 12th day after transplantation, the patient’s anemia worsened, and she required frequent packed red blood cell transfusions. Further investigations confirmed thrombocytopenia, jaundice, and renal failure. We suspected thrombotic microangiopathy (TMA), even though the peripheral smear was negative for fragmented red blood cells, and a fresh frozen plasma transfusion and FK dose reduction were carried out. The CMV-AG remained negative, and there were no administration was initiated. Thereafter, the thrombocytopenia gradually improved. On the 20th day after transplantation, the patient reported abdominal pain and black- colored stools, so upper gastrointestinal endoscopy was performed, which showed multiple gastric ulcers (Figure 1A). A biopsy tissue sample, taken from an ulcer, showed large cells with intranuclear inclusions with hematoxylin and eosin (HE) staining (Figure 1B), and CMV-positive cells were observed through immunostaining (Figure 1C). Once the diagnosis of CMV gastroenteritis was confirmed, GCV, which had already been initiated, was continued, and the dosage of all 3 immunosuppressants, FK, PSL, and MMF, was reduced. On the 26th day after transplantation, the patient had frequent, watery diarrhea, for which a lower gastrointestinal endoscopy was performed, and a deep ulcer was observed in the transverse colon (Figure 2A). The biopsy tissue diagnosis of the WJG 1901 April 21, 2019 Volume 25 Issue 15 Yokose T et al. AG-negative CMV gastroenteritis after liver transplantation Figure 1 Figure 1 Upper gastrointestinal endoscopy and tissue biopsy diagnosis. A: Upper gastrointestinal endoscopy showed multiple gastric ulcers in the vestibular area. B: Biopsy tissue diagnosis showed large cells with intranuclear inclusions on hematoxylin and eosin staining (arrows) (× 200). C: Cytomegalovirus positive cells were observed through immunostaining (× 200). ulcerative lesion revealed large cells with intranuclear inclusions with HE-staining (Figure 2B) and CMV-positive cells with immunostaining (Figure 2C). On the 28th day after transplantation, we noted the findings of abdominal pain, fever and an increased inflammatory response. A plain abdominal CT scan revealed intraperitoneal free air adjacent to the transverse colon (Figure 3A) and hemorrhagic ascites in the pelvis (Figure 3B). The patient was diagnosed with gastrointestinal perforation, and an emergency surgery was performed. When the abdomen was incised, contaminated ascites were not observed. In the transverse colon, an impending perforation with a thinned serous membrane was confirmed. The rejection activity index
