World Journal of
KEYWORDS: cmv, transplantation, gastroenteritis, cmv gastroenteritis, patient, infection, liver, perforation, gastrointestinal, case, colon, test, cmv infection, negative, performed


was performed. When the abdomen was incised, contaminated ascites were not observed. In the transverse colon, an impending perforation with a thinned serous membrane was confirmed. The rejection activity index score of the liver tissues collected during the surgery was found to be P2, B1, and V1 during the histopathologic examination, indicating ACR. FINAL DIAGNOSIS The final diagnosis of the presented case was transverse colon perforation due to CMV gastroenteritis. TREATMENT GCV was administered for CMV gastroenteritis. During the emergency surgery, as it was difficult to remove the adhesions with the surrounding areas, thus, the site of perforation was left as it was. Simple lavage with drainage was performed, and ileostomy was performed for acute pan-peritonitis due to transverse colon perforation. OUTCOME AND FOLLOW-UP The repeated remission and aggravation of CMV gastroenteritis, ACR and TMA made the control of immunosuppression extremely difficult. CMV-AG remained negative throughout the disease course, but the CMV-PCR test result was 220 copies/mL. On the 46th day after transplantation, a follow-up upper gastrointestinal endoscopy showed that the gastric ulcer was finally resolving, and the biopsies were also negative for CMV. The patient was ambulatory at discharge on the 86th day after transplantation. DISCUSSION Although CMV infection is often contracted in childhood, it usually remains latent. It is often reactivated due to immunosuppression after an organ transplantation. Most Japanese individuals are infected with CMV in early childhoods, and it usually remains latent. Therefore, even if a donor candidate had a past CMV infection, he or she is not excluded as a donor. When the recipient is seronegative while the donor is WJG 1902 April 21, 2019 Volume 25 Issue 15 Yokose T et al. AG-negative CMV gastroenteritis after liver transplantation Figure 2 Figure 2 Lower gastrointestinal endoscopy and tissue biopsy diagnosis. A: Lower gastrointestinal showed a deep ulcer in the transverse colon. B: Biopsy tissue diagnosis showed large cells with intranuclear inclusions on hematoxylin and eosin staining (arrow) (× 400). C: Cytomegalovirus positive cells were observed through immunostaining (× 400). seropositive for the CMV antibody, the risk of onset of CMV infection after organ transplantation is high, and appropriate monitoring and prophylactic measures are necessary. However, when the recipient is seropositive, whether the recipient is at risk of infection when the donor is seropositive or seronegative is controversial. The diagnostic methods for CMV include (1) the isolation and identification of CMV from blood, urine and pharyngeal secretions;
