World Journal of
KEYWORDS: cmv, transplantation, gastroenteritis, cmv gastroenteritis, patient, infection, liver, perforation, gastrointestinal, case, colon, test, cmv infection, negative, performed


of infection when the donor is seropositive or seronegative is controversial. The diagnostic methods for CMV include (1) the isolation and identification of CMV from blood, urine and pharyngeal secretions; (2) the CMV-AG test, which involves the detection of CMV-antigen-positive polymorphonuclear leukocytes in peripheral blood using a monoclonal antibody; (3) the CMV-PCR method, which involves amplifying CMV-DNA from blood and the bronchoalveolar lavage fluid for the identification; and (4) cytopathological and histopathological examinations, which involve the evaluation of the target organs of CMV infection with endoscopy and biopsy to detect the intranuclear inclusion bodies of giant cells through HE staining and CMV antigens through immunostaining using an anti-CMV monoclonal antibody. Because both the sensitivity and specificity of the CMV-AG test are reported to be 70%-90% and the levels are indicative of disease severity and treatment response, the test is said to be effective for infection monitoring. The CMV- AG test is therefore used as an indicator for the initiation and completion of treatment. The sensitivity and specificity of the CMV-PCR method are reported to be superior to the CMV-AG test[10-14], and while a quantitative estimation of the number of copies is possible with the former, the positive cut-off value varies among different Japan. abdominal pain and melena, and it is characteristic to find multiple gastrointestinal ulcers during endoscopy. The diagnosis is based on endoscopic findings and biopsy tissue examination and analysis. The diagnosis is confirmed when the intranuclear inclusion bodies of giant cells are observed using HE stains and CMV antigens are identified through immunostaining. When an ulcerative lesion is observed in the gastrointestinal tract of an immunosuppressed patient, the site should be biopsied and investigated, keeping CMV infection in mind. Although it has been reported that in CMV gastroenteritis, the CMV-AG positive rate is approximately 20% at onset and that false-negatives results occur frequently, the CMV-AG status becomes positive in most cases during the disease course, thus making this test a useful parameter for monitoring the response to treatment. While there have been reports on rare cases in which patients who had CMV gastroenteritis had CMV- AG results that remained negative throughout the disease course after bone marrow transplantation, there have been no such reports associated with solid-organ transplantation; however, there have been some reports in which the CMV-AG test was positive when an intestinal perforation was caused by CMV gastroenteritis, including a report in which intestinal perforation were
