World Journal of
KEYWORDS: cmv, transplantation, gastroenteritis, cmv gastroenteritis, patient, infection, liver, perforation, gastrointestinal, case, colon, test, cmv infection, negative, performed


however, there have been some reports in which the CMV-AG test was positive when an intestinal perforation was caused by CMV gastroenteritis, including a report in which intestinal perforation were caused by CMV gastroenteritis in patients taking immunosuppressants to treat rheumatoid arthritis. Although it has been reported that routine upper gastrointestinal endoscopy during the follow-up for CMV gastroenteritis does not lead to differences in recurrence rates and treatment effects, there are also cases such as ours, where the patient suffers from localized CMV infection but does not achieve viremia and remains CMV-AG negative throughout the disease course. An examination of symptomatic patients through regular upper gastrointestinal endoscopy and biopsy may be an important monitoring method, and it is necessary to tailor the medical management on a case-to- case basis. WJG 1903 April 21, 2019 Volume 25 Issue 15 Yokose T et al. AG-negative CMV gastroenteritis after liver transplantation Figure 3 Figure 3 Abdominal computed tomography images. A: Abdominal computed tomography (CT) revealed intraperitoneal free air near the transverse colon (arrow). B: Abdominal CT revealed hemorrhagic ascites in the pelvis (arrow). Although there have been reports on cases with gastrointestinal perforation due to CMV gastroenteritis, this complication is extremely rare after a solid organ transplantation. Recently, there was a report showing that CMV infects vascular endothelial cells and causes ulcers and perforation locally in the intestinal mucosa after solid-organ transplantation. In our case, in addition to the long-term history of oral PSL therapy for autoimmune hepatitis before transplantation, posttransplantation immunosuppression was essential. This may have caused CMV gastroenteritis with strong, localized inflammation that led to intestinal perforation without viremia. Although CMV infection tends to occur at least three week after transplantation, patients taking immunosuppressive drugs before transplantation may be affected earlier. Atsumi et al and Kemeny et al have reported on patients presenting with a combination of polyoma virus infection and acute graft rejection after kidney transplantation. However, the coexistence of an infection and rejection represents a combination of contradictory illnesses and constitutes a rare presentation. In our case, the patient was first diagnosed with ACR through an intraoperative liver biopsy sample taken during the emergency procedure for gastrointestinal perforation in an advanced stage of CMV infection. It was a combination of an infection and a rejection, which again is an extremely rare presentation, which made the management difficult. TMA is a condition in which polymers of von Willebrand factor are
