World Journal of
KEYWORDS: cmv, transplantation, gastroenteritis, cmv gastroenteritis, patient, infection, liver, perforation, gastrointestinal, case, colon, test, cmv infection, negative, performed


of an infection and a rejection, which again is an extremely rare presentation, which made the management difficult. TMA is a condition in which polymers of von Willebrand factor are secreted due to vascular endothelial cell dysfunction that is caused by various factors, for e.g., graft- versus-host disease (GVHD), ABO-incompatible transplantation, calcineurin inhibitor (CNI) administration, and fungal and viral (e.g., human immunodeficiency virus, CMV and adenovirus) infections. This secretion promotes platelet thrombus formation, leading to multiorgan failure due to microangiopathy. Although the recommended criteria for diagnosing TMA have been previously reported, there are of a diagnosis based on clinical examination findings and the appearance of fragmented red blood cells in the peripheral smear, combined with tests showing hemolytic anemia, thrombocytopenia and increased bilirubin and lactate dehydrogenase levels. CMV has been reported to exhibit a TMA-like disease state by infecting vascular endothelial cells and making them dysfunctional. Java et al, Waiser et al reported a patient with newly developed TMA due to CMV infection in a kidney transplant recipient. In our case, treatment with GCV was initiated as the patient presented with symptoms of TMA prior to the detection of CMV infection. Therefore, a CMV infection could be suspected in a TMA-like disease presentation. In patients who are chronically treated with immunosuppressants before organ transplantation, endoscopy should be performed according to symptoms at an earlier stage after transplantation. As a reliable test, the CMV-PCR test is reported to be Japan. CONCLUSION After solid-organ transplantation, it is necessary to monitor symptomatic patients for WJG 1904 April 21, 2019 Volume 25 Issue 15 Yokose T et al. AG-negative CMV gastroenteritis after liver transplantation CMV gastroenteritis, even when the CMV-AG assay remains negative throughout the course of the illness. Additionally, a CMV infection should be suspected when a TMA-like disease presentation is observed, and the patient should be investigated accordingly, to rule out this diagnosis. ACKNOWLEDGEMENTS advice on the antigenemia assay evaluation.
