Multiple Endocrine Neoplasia Type 2
KEYWORDS: patients, pubmed, crossref, pubmed crossref, ret, mtc, thyroid, calcitonin, pheo, disease, medullary, age, medullary thyroid, mutation, mutations


the RET tyrosine kinase receptor ( 1 – 4 ). As a result, cell growth, proliferation, and differentiation is promoted, leading to multiple tumor formation in all tissues were RET predominantly is expressed (C-cells of the thyroid gland, adrenal medulla, and neurons) ( 5 , 6 ). Major clinical manifestations in MEN2 are medullary thyroid carcinoma (MTC), pheochromocytoma (PHEO) and, in case of MEN2A, primary hyperparathyroidism (pHPT). MTC is a neuroendocrine tumor arising from the calcitonin secreting parafollicular C-cells of the thyroid gland. MTC in persons with MEN2 typically presents at a younger age than sporadic MTC (sMTC) and is more often associated with C-cell hyperplasia as well as multifocality or bilaterality. There is a genotype-phenotype correlation with the age of onset of MTC being associated with the underlying RET mutation. PHEOs are catecholamine-secreting tumors that arise from chromaffin cells of the adrenal medulla. The frequency of PHEO depends upon the underlying RET mutation. As with MTC, it manifests earlier in MEN2, compared to sporadic forms. PHEO usually present after MTC or concomitantly; however PHEO can be diagnosed before the (not clinically detected) MTC in 13-27% of individuals with MEN2A ( 7 , 8 ). pHPT is suspected in patients with elevated serum calcium concentrations, in combination with a parathyroid hormone (PTH) concentration that is elevated or within the normal range but inappropriately given the patients hypercalcemia. In MEN2A, pHPT is typically mild and may range from a single parathyroid adenoma to marked parathyroid hyperplasia ( 9 ). pHPT usually presents many years after the diagnosis of MTC; the average age at onset is 38 years of age ( 10 ). Nearly all patients with MEN2A have either C-cell hyperplasia (CCH) or MTC, approximately 50% have a PHEO and 20-30% have pHPT, but the incidence of these manifestations depends on the underlying RET mutation ( 11 , 12 ). Patients with MEN2B have a 100% incidence of CCH and MTC, frequently have PHEO (30-50%), and typically have physical characteristics including mucosal neuromas, intestinal ganglioneuromatosis (IGN), alacrima (the lack of tears), and hyperflexible joints. They rarely have pHPT. Both MEN2A and MEN2B have autosomal dominant transmission patterns and therefore children of affected individuals have a 50% chance of inheriting the genetic abnormality. However, MEN2B most frequently occurs as a de novo mutation. Offspring of MEN2B patients have not frequently been reported. Early diagnosis of affected patients and families is critical to
