Multiple Endocrine Neoplasia Type 2
KEYWORDS: patients, pubmed, crossref, pubmed crossref, ret, mtc, thyroid, calcitonin, pheo, disease, medullary, age, medullary thyroid, mutation, mutations


abnormality. However, MEN2B most frequently occurs as a de novo mutation. Offspring of MEN2B patients have not frequently been reported. Early diagnosis of affected patients and families is critical to obtain the best outcomes. For MEN2A, genetic screening in individuals at risk enable early screening. For MEN2B awareness for and early recognition of presenting syndromes (IGN, alacrima, mucosal neurinomas) is of utmost importance. Management of MEN2 patients is challenging, and the decision making is often not straightforward, as impact of screening and early surgery have to be balanced with possible benefits, particularly in younger patients. Patients and families suspected of harboring or diagnosed with MEN2 should be evaluated by an experienced multidisciplinary team. Classification Close to 200 RET germline variants have been identified with a clear genotype-phenotype correlation ( 13 , 14 ). Two distinct clinical syndromes are recognized within MEN2 syndrome: MEN2A (95%) and MEN2B (5%). MEN2A is categorized in four subtypes. 1. Classic MEN2A 2. MEN2A with cutaneous lichen amyloidosis (CLA) 3. MEN2A with Hirschsprung’s disease (HD) 4. Familial medullary thyroid cancer (FMTC) Incidence and prevalence rates vary with the population studied. Based on an analysis of Surveillance, Epidemiology, and End Results (SEER) data, MEN2A is most common, with an incidence of about 1 patient in 2 million, compared to MEN2B with an incidence of about 1 patient in 39 million ( 12 ). A nationwide study in Denmark described higher rates with MEN2A incidence of 28 per million live births per year and a point prevalence of 24 per million ( 15 ). MEN2B had an incidence in Denmark of 2.6 per million per year and a point prevalence of 1.06 per million. The patient distribution among the subtypes varies with the series and the population studied as well. A large series from China showed that of 65 families (214 patients) with MEN2, 30 (46%) families had classical MEN2A, 5 (8%) had MEN2A with CLA, 1 (2%) MEN2A with HD, 24 (37%) had FTMC, and 5 (8%) had MEN2B ( 16 ). Previously, patients with FMTC were classified as a separate entity, because affected families appeared to have MTC alone, lacking other associated endocrine or neural-tissue involvement of MEN2. With extended follow-up, some members in many of these families developed PHEO or pHPT. Data such as these suggested FMTC patients might be more appropriately classified as a variant of MEN2A ( 12 ). Furthermore, distinguishing classical MEN2A
