Multiple Endocrine Neoplasia Type 2
KEYWORDS: patients, pubmed, crossref, pubmed crossref, ret, mtc, thyroid, calcitonin, pheo, disease, medullary, age, medullary thyroid, mutation, mutations


these families developed PHEO or pHPT. Data such as these suggested FMTC patients might be more appropriately classified as a variant of MEN2A ( 12 ). Furthermore, distinguishing classical MEN2A from FMTC is difficult, making the clinical relevance of this phenotype limited. In some families, MEN2A was associated with CLA ( 17 ). This might be limited to families with specific mutations in the RET gene, with C634 as most frequently described ( table 1 ). Not all family members with the same mutation develop CLA and there is a variation in clinical appearance, although the scapular region of the upper back is typically affected in MEN2A (see clinical features). CLA can precede the other MEN2A manifestations ( 17 ). The same goes for the association of MEN2A and HD. This association is especially challenging, since the type of mutation leading to the different phenotypes result in different effects in the RET gene (a gain of function in the MEN2A phenotype and a loss of function in the HD phenotype). Pathogenic RET variants are mainly associated with both these conditions when located at the 620 position. Mutations that impair RET signaling cause HD owing to failure of enteric neural crest-derived cells to migrate, proliferate and/or differentiate properly within the intestine. This seemingly paradoxical occurrence has led to speculation of a ‘Janus mutation’ in RET that causes overactivation or impairment of RET activity depending on the cellular context. In animal studies an alternative explanation was suggested that the coexistence of these two seemingly opposite phenotypes can be explained by excessive RET signaling alone and without invoking a Janus mutation. In this study it was also demonstrated that the cells comprising the ganglioneuroma-like masses induced by RET activation maintain their embryonic potential to generate an enteric nervous system, suggesting that these ganglioneuromas, and possibly other MEN-associated neoplasms, may be amenable to reprogramming along normal developmental trajectories ( 18 ). GENETICS The RET proto-oncogene (OMIM 164761) encodes one of the receptor tyrosine kinases, cell-surface molecules that transduce signals for cell growth and differentiation ( 6 ). The RET gene was defined as an oncogene by a classical transfection assay. RET can undergo oncogenic activation in vivo and in vitro by cytogenetic rearrangement ( 19 ). The RET protein comprises an extracellular domain, a transmembrane segment that traverse the plasma membrane, and the intracellular domain that consist of the intracellular juxtamembrane segment and the
