Multiple Endocrine Neoplasia Type 2
KEYWORDS: patients, pubmed, crossref, pubmed crossref, ret, mtc, thyroid, calcitonin, pheo, disease, medullary, age, medullary thyroid, mutation, mutations


mutations have been found in up to 60% of patients with sMTC. The prevalence is higher in patients with large tumors, and up to 85% of patients with distant metastases have somatic RET mutations ( 21 ). The most common somatic mutation is M918T, which is present in up to 40% of patients with sMTC and is associated with disease aggressiveness. Other single amino acid changes might occur at residues C611, C618, C620, C630, C634, E768, A883 and S891; small RET deletions and/or insertions have also been detected. Genotype-Phenotype Correlation Genotype-phenotype correlations in MEN2 are well-established and have long been used to guide clinicians in making medical management recommendations. Currently, patients are classified based on their phenotype into three groups, according to the American Thyroid Association (ATA) guideline ( table 1 ) ( 12 ): Highest risk: classic MEN2B - M918T carriers High Risk: patients with the RET codon C634 mutations and the RET codon A883F mutation Moderate risk includes patients with hereditary MTC (hMTC) and RET codon mutations other than M918T, C634, and A883F These risk categories are based on the aggressiveness of MTC and used as a guidance for timing of prophylactic thyroid surgery (see therapy). Furthermore, there is evidence that certain mutations are more commonly associated with PHEO. Besides M918T and A883F, both leading to MEN2B, all C634 mutations and D631Y mutations have a high risk of PHEO (~50%). Some mutations, like RET variant R912P and E768D are not associated with PHEO. For pHPT, C634 mutations have the highest risk as well. A clear overview of all manifestation per RET variant is illustrated in table 1 . Despite a higher incidence of the various manifestations in some mutations, current data remain insufficient to determine the risk of PHEO or pHPT in a given patient or family, since there is also clear, yet unexplained intrafamilial variability. This suggests a role for genetic modifiers, such as polymorphisms/haplotypes. This leads to the suggestion that multi-step carcinogenesis may be applicable to patients with MEN2, with other non-RET genetic changes or modifiers responsible for the phenotypic differences. Limited evidence demonstrated that copy number variations (CNVs) play an important role in phenotypic expression, but other possible contributing factors have been evaluated as well ( 13 , 26 ). Since the observed intra- and interfamilial variability is still poorly understood, a possible divergent course of disease cannot be predicted in an individual patient. Thus,
