Multiple Endocrine Neoplasia Type 2
KEYWORDS: patients, pubmed, crossref, pubmed crossref, ret, mtc, thyroid, calcitonin, pheo, disease, medullary, age, medullary thyroid, mutation, mutations


). Biochemically, the tumors that arise in patients with MEN2 are similar to those with the sporadic forms and discrimination cannot be made based on biomarkers. MEN2A Virtually all patients with MEN2A will develop CCH or MTC, but there is much inter- and intra-familial variability in the other manifestations. Approximately 50% will develop a PHEO and 20-30% will develop pHPT, but the incidence depends on the underlying mutation ( table1 ). No clear clinical phenotype is present to recognize MEN2A patients. Most index patients present with MTC as the first manifestation ( 27 ). Some patients will develop HD which then will reveal the diagnosis of MEN2 ( table 1 ). CLA is dermatologic disease, typically located in the interscapular region of the back and is characterized by secondary skin changes (papular, pigmented) and intense pruritus ( figure 1 ). It becomes apparent during late adolescence or young adulthood and can be the first presenting manifestation as well. For mutations associated with CLA, see table 1 . Figure 1. Cutaneous lichen amyloidosis. MEN2B All MEN2B patients will develop CCH or MTC, and 30-50% of them will have a PHEO ( table 1 ). In the MEN2 literature, there is often reference to a characteristic Marfanoid physical appearance with hyperflexible joints but without the Marfanoid lens or aortic abnormalities. However, no studies have been published describing body proportions in MEN2B. A recent case series from the Netherlands described 8 MEN2B patients: all children and adults had normal body proportion( 28 ). The typical marfanoid appearance in MEN2B is therefore questionable. MEN-2B patients can have mucosal neuromas of the eyelids, lips, and tongue, and wide-spread ganglioneuromatosis of the gastrointestinal tract resulting in an abnormal gastrointestinal motility with complaints of diarrhea, constipation, colonic dilatation, or even megacolon at a young age ( 29 ). As most MEN2B patients present with de novo mutations, the diagnosis is almost always delayed, even in the presence of clinical features ( 29 , 30 ). Recognition of nonendocrine symptoms like ocular symptoms (tearless crying) or the highly penetrant oral manifestations is important. Recent studies re-emphasize neonatal gastro-intestinal manifestations due to ganglioneuromatosis as the most important early feature for MEN2B diagnosis while body proportions and stature were non-specific in children with MEN2B ( 28 , 31 ). Those diagnosed based on nonendocrine symptoms instead of symptomatic MTC or PHEO were significantly younger (mean of 5.3 vs. 17.6 years),
