Multiple Endocrine Neoplasia Type 2
KEYWORDS: patients, pubmed, crossref, pubmed crossref, ret, mtc, thyroid, calcitonin, pheo, disease, medullary, age, medullary thyroid, mutation, mutations


in children with MEN2B ( 28 , 31 ). Those diagnosed based on nonendocrine symptoms instead of symptomatic MTC or PHEO were significantly younger (mean of 5.3 vs. 17.6 years), emphasizing the importance of early recognition. Medullary Thyroid Carcinoma (MTC) MTC is a tumor originating from the parafollicular cells (C-cells) of the thyroid. The production of calcitonin is a characteristic feature of this tumor. Most patients present with a solitary nodule or cervical lymphadenopathy. Compared to sMTC, hMTC occur at a younger age and has typically multifocal and a bilateral pattern. It is often localized in the middle to upper regions of the thyroid lobe ( 32 ). In sMTC, up to 60% of cases appear to harbor a (driver) RET mutation, amongst other mutations, which has therapeutic implications ( 21 ). hMTC is preceded by CCH ( 33 ). The age-related penetrance of CCH and hMTC is mutation dependent. Most MEN2A patients (85%) are asymptomatic at MTC diagnosis, while 15% have presenting complaints ( 34 ). Especially in advanced disease diarrhea can be present. Peak incidence in index patients is in the third decade of life in MEN2A. In MEN2B, MTC occurs very early, over 80% have MTC in their first year of life ( 30 ), underscoring the necessity of thyroidectomy before the age of 1. Unfortunately, the substantial diagnostic delay due to the high proportions of de novo mutations, median age of thyroidectomy in MEN2B patients is 14 years ( 30 ). The outcome of MTC in MEN2B is correlated to the way the diagnosis is made. If the diagnosis is made after recognition of nonendocrine symptoms, patients are significantly younger at diagnosis and therefore have often less lymph node metastases (43% vs 100%) or distant metastases (8% vs 79%) and were more often biochemically cured after treatment (58% vs 0%) ( 35 ). If the diagnosis is made before the age of 1 year, when there is only a preliminary stage of MTC, patients can be cured. Pheochromocytoma (PHEO) PHEOs are catecholamine-secreting tumors that arise from chromaffin cells of the adrenal medulla. Prevalence of PHEO in MEN2A is 17-42% compared to 50% in MEN2B with median age at diagnosis 42 and 24 years respectively ( 13 ). Extra-adrenal PHEO is very rare in MEN2. Tumoral hypersecretion of epinephrine and norepinephrine causes episodic headache, sweating, and tachycardia with 50% of MEN2 patients being symptomatic. PHEO was the
