Multiple Endocrine Neoplasia Type 2
KEYWORDS: patients, pubmed, crossref, pubmed crossref, ret, mtc, thyroid, calcitonin, pheo, disease, medullary, age, medullary thyroid, mutation, mutations


offered genetic counseling and be informed on the benefits and the potential risks of reproductive options, such as prenatal diagnosis and preimplantation diagnostic testing ( 12 ). Furthermore, the option of genetic testing in offspring should be discussed with future parents, where testing either directly after birth or at an older age could be discussed, based on the specific mutation in the family as well as individual preferences of the parents. Patients at risk or with MTC, where genetic testing is not possible, should be under surveillance for MTC, PHEO and pHPT. There are very rare families who meet the clinical criteria for MEN2A (one or more first-degree relatives have characteristic clinical features for MEN2A), where no causative pathogenic variant in RET can be found. In these families, the periodically screening for MTC, PHEO and pHPT should be considered in the first degree relatives at risk ( 12 ). Once a mutation is identified, the carrier should be screened for related manifestations, e.g., MTC, PHEO and pHPT. Prophylactic thyroidectomy is the mainstay of the treatment with the risk classification of the mutation defining the optimal age (see section on surgical treatment for MTC). Annual biochemical screening for all three manifestations is recommended, combined with neck ultrasound and physical examination, starting at an age based on the ATA risk category ( 12 ). Patients with M918T mutation should have a thyroidectomy within the first year of life. Patients with an ATA high risk often develop MTC in the first years of life as well, so annual screening from the age of 3 with physical examination, serum calcitonin, and cervical ultrasound is recommended by the current ATA guideline ( 12 ). The phenotypes in the ATA moderate risk category varies significantly and the development of MTC is at a later age in most patients, but clinical MTC can occur before the age of 10 in this group as well. Therefore, annual screening for MTC is advised from the age of 5 ( 12 ). Family members, who have no pathological RET variant, do not need to undergo biochemical testing. Medullary Thyroid Cancer For MTC, biochemical testing is similar to patients with sporadic disease. Patients with clinical MTC have elevated serum calcitonin. Calcitonin is a neuropeptide derived from the parafollicular cells (C-cells) of the thyroid and calcitonin levels are directly related with C-cell (tumor) volume ( 43 , 44 ). Patients with CCH
