Multiple Endocrine Neoplasia Type 2
KEYWORDS: patients, pubmed, crossref, pubmed crossref, ret, mtc, thyroid, calcitonin, pheo, disease, medullary, age, medullary thyroid, mutation, mutations


is a neuropeptide derived from the parafollicular cells (C-cells) of the thyroid and calcitonin levels are directly related with C-cell (tumor) volume ( 43 , 44 ). Patients with CCH or subclinical MTC usually do not have elevated basal serum levels of calcitonin. Physicians screening patients for CCH or subclinical MTC must be thoroughly familiar with the particular calcitonin assay being used, as normal ranges vary. Reference ranges for calcitonin differ among laboratories, and are also gender and age dependent ( 45 , 46 ). Calcitonin is higher in boys and in both sexes, a significant decrease in calcitonin levels is observed after the second year of life. Several studies defined age-, and gender specific calcitonin levels in a pediatric population, but since the normal range of calcitonin varies between the different assays and laboratories, basal calcitonin is of limited help in the initial management of very young children and infants ( 45 , 46 ). Since, there are no globally accepted calcitonin cutoff levels to predict MTC, each institution has to define its own reference ranges and clinicians should use the same laboratory and essay for serial measurements. Elevated calcitonin levels are an indication for thyroidectomy. Provocative tests like pengastrin- or calcium stimulated calcitonin tests have no added value anymore since identification of mutation carriers is replaced by genetic testing and the newest immunochemiluminometric calcitonin assays are highly sensitive and specific for monomeric calcitonin. A recent study by Niederle, et al. illustrated no added value of calcium-stimulated calcitonin compared to basal calcitonin in the diagnosis of (sporadic) MTC or to differentiate between patients with CCH and micro-MTC in those with only mildly elevated calcitonin levels ( 47 ). Pheochromocytoma Screening for PHEO should be performed in all MEN2 patients prior to therapeutic thyroidectomy, as well as in female MEN2 patients who are considering pregnancy, to avoid a potential hypertensive crisis. Furthermore, annual screening for PHEO should be performed in all children in ATA highest and high risk categories from age 11 onwards, and in moderate risk children by age 16 ( table 1 ) ( 12 ). PHEO is likely when elevated plasma concentrations of free metanephrines or elevated 24-hour urinary fractionated metanephrines and normetanephrines are detected. Practitioners should be aware of the pitfalls, conditions of sampling and possible influencing factors when analyzing the (nor)metanephrines to minimize the risk of false-positive results ( 42 ). MEN2-related PHEO produce epinephrine
