Multiple Endocrine Neoplasia Type 2
KEYWORDS: patients, pubmed, crossref, pubmed crossref, ret, mtc, thyroid, calcitonin, pheo, disease, medullary, age, medullary thyroid, mutation, mutations


be aware of the pitfalls, conditions of sampling and possible influencing factors when analyzing the (nor)metanephrines to minimize the risk of false-positive results ( 42 ). MEN2-related PHEO produce epinephrine or both epinephrine and norepinephrine, but not exclusively norepinephrine ( 36 ). When there is biochemical evidence for PHEO, imaging studies need to be initiated to locate the PHEO. Computed tomography (CT) or magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) of the adrenal glands is the first choice of imaging. CT has a high sensitivity (93-100%) in detecting intraadrenal tumors > 5 mm( 36 ). Primary Hyperparathyroidism Screening for pHPT is similar to those with sporadic disease and includes measurement of (ionized) calcium or serum calcium with albumin and intact PTH. Additional evaluation and follow up of bone density and kidney function in patients with pHPT is advised. ATA guidelines recommend that annual screening start at the same time as screening for PHEO: at age 11 for those in the high risk category and at age 16 for those in the moderate risk category ( table 1 ) ( 12 ). Once pHPT is diagnosed, imaging studies are advised to visualize enlarged parathyroid glands. Neck ultrasound should be part of the diagnostic strategy. Combined radiology techniques increase localization accuracy, so the combination of neck ultrasound with parathyroid scintigraphy with Technetium (Tc) 99m sestamibi, 18 F-fluorocholine PET/CT, or 4-dimensional CT is recommended. The type of imaging to use must be based on knowledge of the clinician regional imaging capabilities and experience ( 48 ). Given the intra- and interfamilial variability in PHEO and pHPT incidence, a static surveillance was advised by the ATA guideline. Some authors have suggested to tailor the frequency of biochemical screening for PHEO and pHPT, based on age and ATA risk category ( 49 ). However, large prospective studies are needed to validate their findings on age-related penetrance before a more tailored surveillance by age can be applied. SURGICAL MANAGEMENT PHEO may cause a dangerous hypertensive crisis during surgery ( 12 , 50 ). Therefore, PHEO should be excluded preoperatively in all patients. Very young patients who undergo prophylactic thyroidectomy may be excluded from this advice, since PHEO is not described in patients <8 years old ( 51 ). If present, the PHEO should be resected prior to surgery for either MTC or pHPT ( 12 ). Adrenalectomy Surgical resection is the cornerstone of treatment for PHEO ( 52 ).
