Multiple Endocrine Neoplasia Type 2
KEYWORDS: patients, pubmed, crossref, pubmed crossref, ret, mtc, thyroid, calcitonin, pheo, disease, medullary, age, medullary thyroid, mutation, mutations


present, the PHEO should be resected prior to surgery for either MTC or pHPT ( 12 ). Adrenalectomy Surgical resection is the cornerstone of treatment for PHEO ( 52 ). To prevent hypertensive crisis during surgery, caused by vasoconstriction due to catecholamine release, adult as well as pediatric patients should be prepared preoperatively during 1-2 weeks using α-adrenergic blockade ( 52 – 54 ). In case of tachycardia, additional treatment with β-adrenergic blockade should be started ( 52 , 54 ). A minimally invasive technique such as the laparoscopic or retroperitoneoscopic approach is recommended ( 12 , 52 ). The transabdominal and retroperitoneal approach take place in the lateral and prone position, respectively. There is increasing evidence in favor of the retroperitoneoscopic approach due to less blood loss, shorter operation time and length of stay, and less postoperative pain ( 55 , 56 ). Sixty-five percent of MEN2 associated PHEO are initially bilateral ( 54 ). The majority of patients with unilateral PHEO develop contralateral disease within 10 years ( 12 , 54 ). To prevent lifelong steroid dependency, adrenal cortical function should be preserved for as long as possible. Therefore, for patients with unilateral PHEO, unilateral resection is the treatment of choice, despite the high chance of developing a contralateral PHEO ( 12 ). Moreover, cortical function can be preserved by performing a subtotal adrenalectomy. This is appropriate for patients with bilateral, as well as unilateral PHEO ( 12 , 57 ). An international retrospective study showed excellent results in 563 MEN2 patients of who 114 (21%) underwent adrenal-sparing surgery. Steroid dependency was avoided in 57% of patients after adrenal-sparing surgery for bilateral PHEO. Recurrence of PHEO after adrenal-sparing surgery occurred in 3% of the 153 operated glands ( 57 ). Parathyroidectomy The amount of affected parathyroids in MEN2A patients varies from a single to all glands ( 5 ). Only the enlarged glands should be resected ( 12 , 48 ). Due to the short half-life (3 minutes) of PTH, intraoperative PTH monitoring can help determine whether parathyroidectomy has been successful. If PTH values remain elevated, it is necessary to look for other enlarged parathyroids ( 48 ). The surgical approach is tailored to the amount and location of the enlarged glands. In case of one affected parathyroid, minimally invasive adenomectomy is the treatment of choice. In case of more enlarged glands a conventional exploration is performed. If
