Multiple Endocrine Neoplasia Type 2
KEYWORDS: patients, pubmed, crossref, pubmed crossref, ret, mtc, thyroid, calcitonin, pheo, disease, medullary, age, medullary thyroid, mutation, mutations


of the enlarged glands. In case of one affected parathyroid, minimally invasive adenomectomy is the treatment of choice. In case of more enlarged glands a conventional exploration is performed. If all (four) glands are enlarged, a part of one parathyroid should be left in situ on a vascular pedicle or transplanted heterotopically to preserve parathyroid function ( 12 , 48 ). In some cases, pHPT is diagnosed at the same time as MTC. For these patients, thyroidectomy and parathyroidectomy can be performed during one surgery. Preoperative imaging and marking of the location of the parathyroid adenoma is essential to perform minimally invasive adenomectomy. The incision is made right above the parathyroid, to reduce incision length and limit dissection. Conventional neck exploration is a more extensive procedure. After incision of the skin and passage of the platysma, the linea alba colli is dissected and the strap muscles are lateralized. Hereafter, mindful of the recurrent laryngeal nerve, the parathyroids can be identified and removed beyond the thyroid ( 58 ). Thyroidectomy Surgery is the only curative option for patients with MTC and remains the cornerstone of MTC treatment. Since virtually all MEN2 patients develop MTC, the question is not whether MEN2 patients should undergo thyroidectomy, but at what age? To prevent recurrence, it is essential that the thyroid is entirely removed, given the multifocal and bilateral growth in inherited MTC. If possible, thyroidectomy should be performed prophylactically, before developing (clinically relevant) MTC ( 12 ). Central neck dissection is not indicated in MEN2A patients with normal calcitonin and neck ultrasound undergoing prophylactic thyroidectomy. Genetic screening in family members of RET mutation carriers have led to the early diagnosis of MEN2 in a significant proportion of patients. Early prophylactic thyroidectomy in these patients is associated with excellent results and minimal operative morbidity: biochemical cure rates approximating 100% over 7-16 years of follow up ( 59 , 60 ). However, timing of thyroidectomy in known mutation carriers is challenging as risk of surgery in younger infants should be balanced with the probability of curing the patient. Surgery in (young) pediatric patients should be performed in specialized centers by experienced surgeons. Current decision making is mostly based on specific RET mutation (ATA risk category), age, and calcitonin levels ( 12 , 61 ). Patients in the highest ATA risk category ( table 1 ) should undergo total thyroidectomy within the first year of life. Timing
