Multiple Endocrine Neoplasia Type 2
KEYWORDS: patients, pubmed, crossref, pubmed crossref, ret, mtc, thyroid, calcitonin, pheo, disease, medullary, age, medullary thyroid, mutation, mutations


and calcitonin levels ( 12 , 61 ). Patients in the highest ATA risk category ( table 1 ) should undergo total thyroidectomy within the first year of life. Timing of surgery in this group cannot be based on calcitonin levels since calcitonin levels are naturally high in the first months after birth. Risk of complications, especially the risk of hypoparathyroidism due to the inability to identify the parathyroids, is increased in children and infants ( 62 ). Therefore, if there are no suspicious lymph nodes and the parathyroids cannot be identified, central neck dissection might not be necessary. The ATA high risk category consists of patients with RET codon C634 and A883F mutation. Children in this category should undergo screening for possible MTC from the age of three. These patients should undergo total thyroidectomy before the age of five, or earlier based on their calcitonin values ( 12 ). Considering the risk of complications, surgery before the age of three is not advised in this group ( 63 ). If lymph node metastases are suspected or calcitonin levels are >40 pg/ml, central neck dissection is needed. Patients in the ATA moderate risk category generally develop a less aggressive type of MTC at an older age. These patients should be screened every 6-12 months from the age of five and should undergo thyroidectomy in childhood or early adulthood primarily based on calcitonin levels. Alternatively, thyroidectomy can be timed before calcitonin is elevated as yearly screening and calcitonin elevation might impose a psychological burden. Timing of thyroidectomy should be in consultation with child’s parents and involved pediatricians and surgeons. ‘Prophylactic’ thyroidectomy is advised from the age of five in this moderate risk group ( 12 ). The best calcitonin cut off point to prevent loco regional disease varies between studies. A large French multicenter study showed that no lymph node metastases were detected when calcitonin was <31 pg/mL while a Norwegian study found that all patients were cured when calcitonin was <40 pg/mL before total thyroidectomy ( 64 , 65 ). These studies on calcitonin levels illustrate that progression from CCH to MTC is imminent once calcitonin levels exceeds the upper limit of normal and the ‘window of opportunity’ to perform surgery without addition of extended node dissection is closing. Therefore, thyroidectomy should be performed once calcitonin levels exceed the upper limit of normal ( 12 ). For patients with de
