Multiple Endocrine Neoplasia Type 2
KEYWORDS: patients, pubmed, crossref, pubmed crossref, ret, mtc, thyroid, calcitonin, pheo, disease, medullary, age, medullary thyroid, mutation, mutations


surgery without addition of extended node dissection is closing. Therefore, thyroidectomy should be performed once calcitonin levels exceed the upper limit of normal ( 12 ). For patients with de novo mutations or unknown MEN2, MTC is often already present at first presentation. In adults with normal calcitonin values, the ATA guideline advises yearly screening and surgery when calcitonin becomes elevated ( 12 ). Two studies show that calcitonin values <20 and <60 pg/ml are associated with intrathyroidal MTC, and that calcitonin can be safely used to determine timing of surgery ( 61 , 66 ). Unfortunately, these patients usually present with higher calcitonin values and advanced disease. Ultrasound of the neck is performed prior to therapeutic surgery as it may give important information as to the extent of macroscopic thyroid and lymph node disease, not apparent on clinical exam. Patients with clinically apparent MTC on either clinical exam or neck ultrasound should undergo screening for metastatic disease, with attention to the most common sites such as the lungs, mediastinal lymph nodes, liver, and bones. Patients with markedly elevated serum calcitonin levels (>500 pg/ml) or extensive neck disease should also be screened for distant metastatic disease. The standard treatment for MTC consists of total thyroidectomy and central neck dissection. There is no controversy regarding the need for central neck (level 6) lymph node dissection for MEN2 patients with clinically apparent MTC. Metastases to central neck lymph nodes are noted in up to 81% of patients with palpable tumors ( 67 , 68 ). In case of cervical lymph node metastases in the lateral compartment of the neck, patients should undergo additional dissection of the lateral neck compartments (levels II–V) ( 12 ). Unfortunately, patients with cervical lymph node metastases can only be cured by total thyroidectomy and extensive lymph node dissection in 10% of cases ( 54 , 69 , 70 ). Lateral neck dissection in the absence of clinical or radiologic pathological lymph nodes (prophylactic lateral dissection) has no prognostic value ( 71 ). Patients with distant metastases cannot be treated with curative intent. In case of poor prognosis and locally advanced disease invading the surrounding structures, a less aggressive palliative resection should be considered for the purpose of local control and preservation of quality of life ( 12 ). Standard procedure for thyroidectomy is the open approach. The patient’s neck is positioned in hyperextension. After Kocher incision 1
