Multiple Endocrine Neoplasia Type 2
KEYWORDS: patients, pubmed, crossref, pubmed crossref, ret, mtc, thyroid, calcitonin, pheo, disease, medullary, age, medullary thyroid, mutation, mutations


local control and preservation of quality of life ( 12 ). Standard procedure for thyroidectomy is the open approach. The patient’s neck is positioned in hyperextension. After Kocher incision 1 cm above jugulum, the thyroid is visualized by dissection of the platysma, opening of the linea alba colli and lateralization of the strap muscles. The thyroid is dissected and mobilized starting at the superior or inferior pole, depending on the surgeon’s preference. The thyroid vasculature should be ligated, clipped or sealed. Identification and preservation of the recurrent laryngeal nerve (located in the tracheoesophageal groove) and parathyroids (located posterior to the thyroid) is essential to prevent complications. After mobilization of one lobe, the same procedure is performed on the contralateral lobe. Thereafter, dissection of the central neck is performed ( 72 , 73 ). RECURRENT OR METASTATIC DISEASE Surveillance After Surgery Patients who underwent surgery for one of the manifestations should be screened for disease recurrence. For PHEO and pHPT, screening is the same as initial screening, i.e. annual biochemical evaluation with plasma fractionated metanephrines and calcium (see diagnosis and screening), with the first evaluation 2-4 weeks after surgery, followed by imaging in case of biochemical evidence for disease ( 42 ). After thyroidectomy, the risk of recurrence is based on the American Joint Committee on Cancer (AJCC) Tumor, Node, Metastases (TNM) classification, the total number of metastatic lymph nodes resected and pre- and postoperative calcitonin ( 12 , 64 , 65 , 69 , 74 ). Since calcitonin is a marker for tumor volume, pre- and post-operative calcitonin correlate with the extend of disease. A fairly standard post-operative follow up regimen to detect recurrent MTC includes physical examination, neck ultrasound, and measurement of serum calcitonin and carcinoembryonic antigen (CEA) levels every 6-12 months, depending on the initial postoperative findings ( 12 ). Post-operative calcitonin should be measured 3 months after surgery and undetectable following complete removal of thyroid tissue ( 75 ). In patients with undetectable post-operative calcitonin, surveillance should be repeated after 6 months and then every 12 months if it remains undetectable. These patients are considered biochemically cured with 10-year disease specific survival rate of 100% ( 61 ). In patients with detectable calcitonin <150 pg/ml, persistent disease is mostly confined to cervical lymph nodes. Calcitonin should be repeated every 6 months in these cases together with ultrasound of the neck to detect persistent disease ( 12 ,
