Multiple Endocrine Neoplasia Type 2
KEYWORDS: patients, pubmed, crossref, pubmed crossref, ret, mtc, thyroid, calcitonin, pheo, disease, medullary, age, medullary thyroid, mutation, mutations


is mostly confined to cervical lymph nodes. Calcitonin should be repeated every 6 months in these cases together with ultrasound of the neck to detect persistent disease ( 12 , 76 ). Fine-needle aspiration for cytology can be used to confirm recurrence or residual disease. Post-operative calcitonin >150 pg/ml is an indication for evaluation of distant metastasis by imaging procedures (CT or MRI) with focus on the lungs, liver and axial skeleton. The clinical utility of PET/CT with various radiopharmaceutical tracers in MTC is limited ( 77 ). Currently, only 18 F-FDOPA PET/CT have an acceptable sensitivity for the detection of distant metastatic disease in MEN2 with a patient detection rate of 66% in patients suspected of recurrent MTC ( 77 , 78 ). CEA is a non-specific marker which may be elevated in patients with MTC. It is not useful for early diagnosis, but has a role for monitoring disease progression and for detecting recurrence after thyroidectomy. CEA levels should be obtained concurrently with calcitonin measurements. In rare cases, serum CEA increases progressively while calcitonin remains stable or decreases. This suggests cellular dedifferentiation and a more aggressive course of disease, or secondary non-MEN2 related malignancy like colon carcinoma. In case of biochemical or radiological evidence for residual disease, recurrence, or metastatic disease, the tumor growth rate can be estimated from sequential imaging studies using response evaluation criteria in solid tumors (RECIST) or by CEA and calcitonin serial measurements over time ( 12 ). Calcitonin and CEA doubling times are efficient biomarkers for assessing tumor progression. In one study, 94% of patients with doubling times within two years showed RECIST defined disease progression ( 79 ). Consequently, the doubling time of each biomarker has an important prognostic value, especially when values double within a year, survival rates are much lower compared to longer doubling times ( 80 , 81 ). Disease progression should be confirmed on imaging before initiating systemic treatment. Treatment of Recurrent or Metastatic Disease in MTC LOCAL RECURRENCE The treatment of recurrent MTC in patients with genetic syndromes is similar to their sporadic counterparts and remains challenging. In patients with disease confined to the neck, an aggressive surgical approach may be considered since surgery is the only curative treatment in MTC. There is generally little role for external beam radiation therapy (EBRT) to the neck. The intent of EBRT is to achieve local control since there is
