Multiple Endocrine Neoplasia Type 2
KEYWORDS: patients, pubmed, crossref, pubmed crossref, ret, mtc, thyroid, calcitonin, pheo, disease, medullary, age, medullary thyroid, mutation, mutations


curative treatment in MTC. There is generally little role for external beam radiation therapy (EBRT) to the neck. The intent of EBRT is to achieve local control since there is no survival benefit demonstrated ( 82 , 83 ). The recent ATA guidelines suggest that EBRT may be helpful in selected circumstances where the risk of local recurrence is felt to be high ( 12 ). These circumstances are very limited since the benefits must outweigh toxicity and the potential for making subsequent neck re-exploration, if required, more difficult. Post-operative radiation therapy is reasonable in those patients in whom there is gross residual disease, particularly if there is a concern for potential airway compromise. METASTATIC DISEASE Patients with metastatic disease should be carefully evaluated and the course of disease must be determined to optimize and tailor treatment. The timing of treatment initiation and the choice of treatment depends on the rate of disease progression and symptoms versus the quality of life, treatment efficacy and toxicity. In patients with an indolent course of disease or low tumor burden without symptoms, a watch-and-wait strategy can be followed. Imaging should be repeated every 6 months in these patients. If calcitonin doubling time is less than 6 months, imaging should be more frequent ( 84 ). In patients presenting with local symptoms or complications such as airway- or spinal cord compression, neurological symptoms, or pathological bone fractures, local treatment modalities such as surgery, glucocorticoid therapy, and/or ERBT must be used before initiating systemic therapy. Treatment of symptomatic bone or brain metastases from MTC is similar to metastases due to other histologic types. Those with painful bone metastases may have a good symptomatic response to EBRT, and bisphosphonate therapy may also be helpful ( 12 , 85 ). In patients with symptomatic or RECIST defined progressive disease and a significant tumor burden, systemic therapy should be considered. A significant tumor burden is defined as multiple lesions >1-2 centimeters in diameter ( 84 ). The choice of first line systemic treatment is not clear, since the armamentarium of therapeutic options is still expanding, direct head-to-head comparison is missing, and availability and approval is varying between countries. There is no role for radioactive iodine (RAI). C-cells do not take up RAI and no benefit was observed in a multicenter study ( 86 ). Current options in metastatic MTC are chemotherapy, multikinase inhibitors (vandetanib, cabozantinib) and selective RET
