Multiple Endocrine Neoplasia Type 2
KEYWORDS: patients, pubmed, crossref, pubmed crossref, ret, mtc, thyroid, calcitonin, pheo, disease, medullary, age, medullary thyroid, mutation, mutations


not take up RAI and no benefit was observed in a multicenter study ( 86 ). Current options in metastatic MTC are chemotherapy, multikinase inhibitors (vandetanib, cabozantinib) and selective RET inhibitors (pralsetinib, selpercatinib). Data on cytotoxic chemotherapy is heterogeneous and the study population is small in most papers. The response rate is around 20% in most studies and 5FU/dacarbazine regimen or doxorubicin, alone or in combination with cisplatin seems to be the best choice ( 84 ). Because of the poor response rates and adverse events, chemotherapy is no longer first line treatment. Two multikinase inhibitors (MKI) have been approved by both the US Food and Drug Administration (FDA) and the European Medicines Agency (EMA) for the treatment of MTC patients: vandetanib and cabozantinib. Other multikinase inhibitors are under investigation ( 23 ). The kinases of RET and of vascular endothelial growth factor receptor-2 (VEGFR-2) are the main targets in MTC. Vandetanib and cabozantinib target both these kinases among others. Significant increases in progression free survival (PFS) were observed (vandetanib +11 months; cabozantinib +7 months), compared with placebo but toxicity was also significant (toxicity (>grade 2) for vandetanib and cabozantinib: 55% (24%) and 69% (33%)) respectively, leading to discontinuation of treatment or dose reduction in a significant proportion of study participants ( 87 , 88 ). Studies in hMTC showed better response rates. Vandetanib had an overall disease control rate of 73% in 30 patients with hMTC with an estimated PFS of >27 months ( 89 ). In 17 adolescents and children with MEN2B-associated MTC, 10 had partial response and 6 stable disease with vandetanib ( 90 ). PFS was prolonged with cabozantinib versus placebo (60 vs 20 weeks) in a subgroup of patients with RET mutations ( 91 ). Selpercatinib and pralsetinib are selective RET kinase inhibitors with more specific RET-targeting. This have led to an improved side effect profile and higher response rates in phase I/II studies ( 92 , 93 ). Selpercatinib (former LOXO-292) showed a 69% response rate and 82% 1-year PFS in 55 patients with progressive RET -mutant MTC who had previously received vandetanib or cabozantinib. Response rate in MKI treatment naïve patients (n=88) was 73% and 1-years PFS 92%. Hypertension (21%) and diarrhea (6%) were the most important grade 3 side effects and 2% discontinued medication because of adverse events ( 92 ). Pralsetinib (former BLU-667) is being evaluated in the ARROW trial (ongoing).
