Multiple Endocrine Neoplasia Type 2
KEYWORDS: patients, pubmed, crossref, pubmed crossref, ret, mtc, thyroid, calcitonin, pheo, disease, medullary, age, medullary thyroid, mutation, mutations


were the most important grade 3 side effects and 2% discontinued medication because of adverse events ( 92 ). Pralsetinib (former BLU-667) is being evaluated in the ARROW trial (ongoing). Response rate in previously MKI treated patients was 60% and 71% in TKI-naïve patients. Serious treatment related adverse events were reported in 15% and 4% discontinued medication. Several other potential therapies are under investigation, including immunotherapy and peptide receptor radionuclide therapy (PRRT) ( 23 ). Despite the advances of MKI over conventional chemotherapy, the clinical utility is still limited. The absence of overall survival benefit and severe toxicity profiles leading to a reduction in quality of life are thresholds for treatment initiation. Drug resistance is another major issue in MKI treatment and still poorly understood. A selective RET kinase inhibitor seems to be a better treatment choice in patients harboring RET germline mutations, regarding the high objective response rates and better toxicity profiles in phase I/II studies. However, trials are still ongoing and large, phase 3 trials are needed before we can determine its true value in the clinical armamentarium. Treatment of Metastatic Disease in PHEO Malignant PHEO is rare in MEN2 (0-4%). Surgery is the only potential curative option in malignant PHEO. In recurrent or low volume metastatic disease, local inventions such as surgical resection, ablation, or ERBT must be discussed in an experienced multidisciplinary team. For the time being, systemic treatment is similar to sporadic malignant PHEO. With ongoing advances in MKI and selective RET inhibitors, tailored management for MEN2-related PHEO could be possible in the future. Current systemic options in metastatic disease are Iodine-131 metaiodobenzylguanidine (131I-MIBG), PRRT with radiolabeled somatostatin analogues (PRRT), MKI (i.e. sunitinib), or conventional chemotherapy with cyclophosphamide, vincristine, and dacarbazine ( 13 , 94 ). PROGNOSIS MTC is the major cause of death in MEN2. PHEO does not seem to have an association with shorter survival: median survival is 499 months in patients with PHEO vs. 444 months without ( 95 ). Prognosis of patients with sMTC and those with inherited disease is similar after adjustment of age and disease stage at diagnosis in multivariate analysis ( 34 ). Together with the presence of certain RET mutations, serum calcitonin, and number of lymph node metastases, these parameters are important factors influencing prognosis. The 10-year overall survival for patients with MTC was 64% in population based study from Denmark ( 34 ) Disease stage is
