Multiple Endocrine Neoplasia Type 2
KEYWORDS: patients, pubmed, crossref, pubmed crossref, ret, mtc, thyroid, calcitonin, pheo, disease, medullary, age, medullary thyroid, mutation, mutations


metastases, these parameters are important factors influencing prognosis. The 10-year overall survival for patients with MTC was 64% in population based study from Denmark ( 34 ) Disease stage is one of the most important prognostic factors: 10-year disease specific survival for patients with MTC is 98%, 93%, 87%, and 53% for disease stage I-IV, respectively ( 34 ). In children with MTC, higher disease stage also portends a worse prognosis ( 90 ). Age as an independent prognostic factor is preserved in some studies but not all studies ( 23 ). A poorer prognosis in older patients may be related to a more advanced tumor stage at diagnosis. The 5-year and 15-year survival rates in children with MTC is 95% and 86%, respectively. Mean survival after diagnosis in children is 28 years ( 96 ). 10-year survival rate in MEN2A patients (97%) is better than in patients with MEN2B (76%) which might be influenced by an earlier onset of disease and delay in diagnosis of MTC in (de novo) MEN2B patients ( 97 ). Furthermore, as mentioned above, a rapid CEA and/or calcitonin doubling time and high number of lymph node metastases at presentation are all harbingers of an aggressive disease course. To conclude, the amount of data which has accumulated over the last decade has truly been staggering, and has resulted in significant changes in MEN2A and MEN2B patient management. Further refinements in risk stratification will undoubtedly occur as additional long-term data become available on genotype-phenotype, effects of prophylactic thyroid surgery, and effects of surveillance. Molecular based therapies now offer hope to those with advanced or metastatic MTC. The increasing molecular knowledge and selective RET inhibitors will hopefully lead to new treatment strategies or therapies useful not only for metastatic MTC, but as adjuvant treatment in high-risk patients, or perhaps even in prevention. REFERENCES 1. Donis-keller H, Dou S, Chi D, Carlson KM, Toshima K, Lairmore TC, et al. Mutations in the RET proto-oncogene are associated with MEN 2a and FMTC. Hum Mol Genet. 1993 [ PubMed : 8103403 ] [ CrossRef ] 2. Mulligan LM, Kwok JBJ, Healey CS, Elsdon MJ, Eng C, Gardner E, et al. Germ-line mutations of the RET proto-oncogene in multiple endocrine neoplasia type 2A. Nature. 1993 [ PubMed : 8099202 ] [ CrossRef ] 3. Carlson KM, Dou S, Chi D, Scavarda N, Toshima K, Jackson CE, et al. Single missense mutation
