Hypopituitarism: Emergencies
KEYWORDS: pituitary, hormone, hypopituitarism, acth, cortisol, replacement, tsh, clinical, hormones, adrenal, usually, deficiency, levels, table, acute


CLINICAL RECOGNITION Hypopituitarism usually has an insidious presentation over weeks to months and often remains clinically silent until a particular stressful event such as a concurrent infection or trauma at which time marked symptoms are evident. The reason for a protracted course until deficiency is clinically evident is due to the slow depletion of pituitary hormones. The end endocrine organs also have other, albeit less effective, ways of dealing with lack of pituitary input (for example non ACTH stimulation of cortisol from the adrenal or constitutive activation of the TSH receptor at a low level in the thyroid). The presentation of hypopituitarism is different from the catastrophic clinical situation such as a hemorrhagic infarct into the pituitary that results in acute pituitary insufficiency and cardiovascular collapse. The latter is referred to as pituitary apoplexy and is discussed in another chapter. The more common presentation is in a patient who slowly develops fatigue and rather nonspecific symptoms. Each cell in the pituitary is responsible for one or more pituitary hormones and hyposecretion of the hormone can result in a variety of symptoms as summarized in Table 1. Although the symptoms are rarely pathognomonic for hypopituitarism or a particular hormone insufficiency, collectively the presence of symptoms such as body fatigue and failure to thrive with or without cardiovascular compromise in the right clinical scenario, should alert the physician to a pituitary etiology. Table 1. Signs of Symptoms of Hypopituitarism in Adults View in own window Cell Type Pituitary Hormone Affected Hormone Symptoms/Signs Corticotrophs ACTH Cortisol Hypoglycemia Hyponatremia Hypotension -> Shock Thyrotrophs TSH T4, T3 Confusion -> Coma Hypothermia Bradycardia Hyponatremia Lethargy Edema Gonadotrophs LH/FSH Testosterone/Estrogen Deceased muscle mass Deceased libido Deceased muscle strength Hair loss Amenorrhea Infertility Somatotrophs GH GH/IGF-1 Decreased muscle mass Lethargy Lactotrophs Prolactin Failure of lactation Often times, patients with panhypopituitarism can present with slight elevation, as opposed to deficiency, in prolactin levels causing amenorrhea and/or galactorrhea. This is because damage to the pituitary stalk (usually from mass effect) can cause interruption of the continuous dopaminergic inhibition of the lactotrophs resulting in elevated prolactin levels (usually less than 200 ng/mL). It is important to be able to differentiate this entity from a prolactinoma, which usually presents with levels above 200ng/mL. Hypopituitarism can also manifest with deficiency of antidiuretic hormone if there is damage to the posterior pituitary. This will cause the clinical syndrome known as diabetes insipidus, which classically
