Hypopituitarism: Emergencies
KEYWORDS: pituitary, hormone, hypopituitarism, acth, cortisol, replacement, tsh, clinical, hormones, adrenal, usually, deficiency, levels, table, acute


200ng/mL. Hypopituitarism can also manifest with deficiency of antidiuretic hormone if there is damage to the posterior pituitary. This will cause the clinical syndrome known as diabetes insipidus, which classically manifests with polyuria, polydipsia, hypernatremia and low urine osmolarity. Often it will be difficult for the physician at the bedside to determine whether the suspected hormone deficiency is in fact due to a pituitary insufficiency or primary failure of one of the major endocrine glands such as the adrenal, thyroid or gonads. While some clues may come from the history, the suggestion that one or more endocrine glands are dysfunctional should alert the physician to a pituitary etiology. The presenting signs and symptoms are similar in both children and adults although the presentation in children is usually much more dramatic. The signs are more often associated with cardiovascular instability, failure to gain weight or grow depending on the degree of pituitary hormone deficiency and can be present at birth or later. PATHOPHYSIOLOGY The etiologies of hypopituitarism are either congenital or acquired. While congenital hypopituitarism is usually associated with early onset hemodynamic instability, growth disturbances and failure to thrive the symptoms may not manifest until puberty when a surge in pituitary hormones is required for normal physiology, and puberty is halted. Although isolated pituitary hormone deficiencies are found (usually due to genetic defects in specific pituitary cell transcription factors), when two pituitary cell lines are impaired it is generally an indication that all five cell lines are malfunctioning. There is however, a predictive order of loss of hormonal function, with a tendency to preserve the most crucial hormones for survival. (Usually manifesting first with loss of somatotrophs and gonadotrophs and last with loss of corticotroph function). The acquired causes of hypopituitarism are listed in Table 2 . One should also consider the possibility of hypothalamic disease as a cause of pituitary insufficiency. Table 2 Causes of Hypopituitarism View in own window Congenital Gland Malformation Transcription Factor Defects Acquired Destruction due to tumors (e.g. Craniopharyngioma, non-secreting pituitary adenomas, hamartomas) Infection (e.g. Tuberculosis) Destruction due to inflammation (e.g. Sarcoid, Hemochromatosis) Postsurgical Post-radiation Hemorrhage Abrupt Hormone Therapy Withdrawal DIAGNOSIS AND DIFFERENTIAL Diagnostic Tests ACTH There is a general lack of enthusiasm in measurement of static hormones for the diagnosis of hypopituitarism This is in part due to the variable nature of hormone secretion in normal physiological states. Cortisol is released from the adrenal gland
