Hypopituitarism: Emergencies
KEYWORDS: pituitary, hormone, hypopituitarism, acth, cortisol, replacement, tsh, clinical, hormones, adrenal, usually, deficiency, levels, table, acute


static hormones for the diagnosis of hypopituitarism This is in part due to the variable nature of hormone secretion in normal physiological states. Cortisol is released from the adrenal gland in a pulsatile fashion under the direction of ACTH. Furthermore ACTH secretion is responsive to the hypothalamic factor, corticotropin releasing hormone (CRH), which is also released in an episodic manner. Therefore, depending on the instance that blood is sampled; there can be significant variation in the absolute values of ACTH and cortisol. The hypothalamic factor, CRH is not readily measured in the blood and the normal reference values have not been established in the literature. It is important to bare in mind that measurement of total cortisol in serum is also influenced by the presence of cortisol binding globulin (CBG) which can be affected by clinical scenarios like liver failure and high estrogen states, such as pregnancy and use of OCP. Provocative tests are more useful in the assessment of the hypothalamic-pituitary-adrenal axis than are static and unstimulated values of hormones. The screening test of choice to rule out adrenal insufficiency (both primary and secondary) is the 8:00 serum cortisol level (ruled out if >20 µg/dl). The ACTH stimulation test can be used for confirmation (cf. Table 3 for summary of tests). This test however, might not be able to diagnose acute secondary adrenal insufficiency in which case, it might be necessary to perform the insulin tolerance or metyrapone stimulation test. TSH Unlike cortisol levels, static thyroid hormone levels can provide valuable diagnostic information. While there is also pulsatile fluctuation in serum concentrations of TSH, the excursions are much less than with cortisol due to the longer half-life of T4 (7 days versus minutes for cortisol). It is important to point out however, that the clinician should never rely on the measurement of an isolated TSH level (without free T4 measurement) when suspecting secondary hypothyroidism, as this entity can often present itself with an inappropriately normal TSH level in the presence of a low T4. GONADOTROPINS Similarly, to the thyroid, gonadal hormones (testosterone and estrogen) are readily measured in the blood and are more stable and less disturbed by pulsatile secretion. Baseline AM measurement of the gonadal hormone LH and FSH can be useful to distinguish primary (gonadal) versus secondary (pituitary) disease. It is worth mentioning that although unlikely to cause changes in clinical management, a low FSH level in
