Hypopituitarism: Emergencies
KEYWORDS: pituitary, hormone, hypopituitarism, acth, cortisol, replacement, tsh, clinical, hormones, adrenal, usually, deficiency, levels, table, acute


FSH can be useful to distinguish primary (gonadal) versus secondary (pituitary) disease. It is worth mentioning that although unlikely to cause changes in clinical management, a low FSH level in a postmenopausal woman can be a very sensitive test to screen for hypopituitarism when clinically suspected. Table 3 Tests Used in the Diagnosis of Hypopituitarism View in own window Test for Hormonal Deficiency Expected Result if Deficient ACTH 8:00 AM Cortisol <20 µg/dl Insulin Tolerance (0.1U/Kg) Cortisol <20µg/dl ACTH Stimulation (250 µg) Cortisol <20 µg/dl* Metyrapone stimulation test ACTH <75pg/mL TSH T4/T3/TSH Dec./Dec./Dec or not elevated Gonadotropins Testosterone or Estradiol Lower than reference range LH/FSH Normal or lower than reference range Growth Hormone IGF-1 Lower than reference range Insulin Tolerance (0.1U/Kg) Growth Hormone <5.1 ng/ml Glucagon Stimulation (1mg) <3 ng/ml * may not be abnormal in acute hypopituitarism as adrenal response to ACTH may remain intact . Imaging studies, namely a dedicated MRI of the pituitary, are important in determining the presence of a structural lesion, however the presence (or absence) of a tumor or mass does not always correlate with pituitary function. TREATMENT The objective of treatment of hypopituitarism is to replace deficient hormones. It is usually not practical to directly replace the pituitary hormone, but rather treatment is with the end-organ hormone (e.g. thyroid hormone is used for TSH deficiency rather than TSH and corticosteroids for ACTH deficiency rather than ACTH). In general, it is recommended to begin by replacing the hormones with more critical metabolic functions first. Glucocorticoids should be instituted first to avoid an adrenal crisis, followed by thyroid replacement therapy and after this if appropriate, gonadal and growth hormone replacement. Titration of glucocorticoid replacement is quite challenging, as one cannot rely on cortisol or ACTH levels to assess for under or over replacement. The corticosteroid replacement dose is usually estimated based on body mass weight and delivered at different doses throughout the day trying to mimic as much as possible its physiologic circadian rhythm. The recommended doses in table 4 are guidelines only and need to be titrated by the bedside physician based on the specific clinical situation. It is extremely important to emphasize to other clinicians and patients with adrenal insufficiency, that during acute sickness and high stress situations, higher doses of glucocorticoid replacement are needed. Thyroid replacement therapy is somewhat easier to titrate, as free T4 levels can be quite useful. The clinician
