Hypopituitarism: Emergencies
KEYWORDS: pituitary, hormone, hypopituitarism, acth, cortisol, replacement, tsh, clinical, hormones, adrenal, usually, deficiency, levels, table, acute


sickness and high stress situations, higher doses of glucocorticoid replacement are needed. Thyroid replacement therapy is somewhat easier to titrate, as free T4 levels can be quite useful. The clinician however, should avoid the mistake of following TSH levels, as they will not be useful in secondary hypothyroidism. Table 4 Treatment of Hypopituitarism View in own window Pituitary Hormone/ Treatment Acute Chronic Deficiency ACTH Hydrocortisone 50-100 mg IV Q8H Cortisone Acetate 25 mg q AM, 12.5 mg q3PM TSH Levothyroxine 1.6 mg/kg daily 1.6 mg/kg daily LH/FSH Testosterone (men) Transdermal-5 gm qD IM – Test. Cypionate 200 mg q 2 weeks Estrogen (women) Varies Growth Hormone Growth Hormone No acute indication 0.05 mg/kg/d FOLLOW-UP After the diagnosis is made and acute treatment is started ( Table 4 , Acute) a decision needs to be made whether continued chronic therapy with hormone replacement is needed. A month after discharge from the hospital and recovery from the acute event, if necessary, patients are retested to determine if the endocrine defect persists. This will depend on the etiology, removal of tumor or reversal of an infiltrative process sometimes allows recovery of function. Repeat testing will confirm whether the patient needs to remain on life-long hormone replacement therapy. REFERENCES J. Yeo KT, Babic N, Hannoush Z, Weiss RE. Endocrine Testing Protocols: Hypothalamic Pituitary Adrenal Axis. Endotext 2017. PMID: 25905177 http://www.endotext.org/chapter/endocrine-testing-protocols-hypothalamic-pituitary-adrenal-axis/ 2. Maria Fleseriu, Ibrahim A. Hashim, Niki Karavitaki, Shlomo Melmed, M. Hassan Murad, Roberto Salvatori, Mary H. Samuels; Hormonal Replacement in Hypopituitarism in Adults: An Endocrine Society Clinical Practice Guideline, The Journal of Clinical Endocrinology & Metabolism , Volume 101, Issue 11, 1 November 2016, Pages 3888–3921, https://doi ​.org/10.1210/jc.2016-2118
