The role of the local microbial ecosystem
KEYWORDS: bacterial, respiratory, spp, influenzae, microbiome, pneumoniae, urt, species, cavity, microbial, infections, oral, pathogens, members, human


frontal sinus middle ear sphenoidal sinus nasal cavity (c) anterior nares F Sv Hi nasopharynx V oral cavity P Spn Spy Mc oropharynx pH ? L B Sag Sd – hypoharynx + elderly LB trachea oesophagus Figure 1. Niche-specific bacterial community structure of the anterior nares, the nasopharynx and the oropharynx (which resembles the oral cavity). Microbial interactionnetworksassociatedwiththeseanatomicallocationsaredepicted,withpotentialdrivingenvironmentalforces(acidity,oxygenavailabilityandpresence ofantimicrobialcompounds). Colouredcirclesrepresentindividual bacterialcommunitymembers,which areinterconnected bydottedblue and redlines, respect- ively,representingpositiveandnegativeassociations.Microbialcommunitymembersarecolour-codedbasedonphylumlevel;Firmicutes:red/brown,Actinobacteria: yellow, Bacteroidetes: green, Proteobacteria: blue and Fusobacteria: purple. S: Streptococcus spp.; Spn: S. pneumoniae; Sv: S. salivarius; Spy: S. pyogenes; Sd: S.dysgalactiae;Sag:S.agalactiae;Sa:S.aureus;V:Veillonellaspp.;D:Dolosigranulumspp.;LB:Lactobacillusspp.; CB:Corynebacteriumspp.;PB:Propionibacterium spp.; B: Bacteroidetes; P: Prevotella spp.; M: Moraxella spp.; Mc: M. catarrhalis; Hi: H. influenzae; N: Neisseria spp.; L: Leptotrichia spp. and F: Fusobacterium spp. TheURTexhibitsmanyimportantphysiologicalfunctions bacterial community composition in relation to local and such as filtering, humidifying and warming of inhaled air disseminated infectious diseases (§§7,8). and consists of a communicating system comprising theanteriornares,nasalcavity,nasopharynx,sinuses,Eusta- 2. The human upper respiratory tract niches chian tube, middle ear cavity, oral cavity, oropharynx and larynx, forming the interface between the external environ- from an ecological perspective ment and the lower respiratory and gastrointestinal tract (figure 1) . The mucosal surfaces of these niches are The human URT is a unified system of skin and mucosal colonized with a wide array of bacteria, mostly members of surfaces that stands in direct and continuous contact with thephylaFirmicutes,Actinobacteria,Bacteroidetes,Proteobac- the outer world. The nostrils or anterior nares are closest teriaandFusobacteria.However,largedifferencesin to the outside environment and skin surface, and are lined microbial profiles can be observed between niches at lower with skin-like keratinized squamous epithelium, containing taxonomiclevels.Wehypothesizethatthesedifferencesarise sebaceous and serous glands . This niche acts as the from specific niche characteristics, resulting from variations vestibule to the nasal cavity, which is characterized by inhumidity,acidityandepithelialcelltype.Interestingly,the pseudostratified ciliated columnar epithelium containing interplay between these abiotic components and microbiota mucin-secreting goblet cells (respiratory epithelium) . seemstoadheretoknownprinciplesingeneralecology,such The nasal cavity servesasthecollectionsiteforsecretionsof as environmental selection, dispersal, speciation and drift thefrontal,maxillary,ethmoidalandsphenoidalsinusesand ,whichenablesustodescribeandpotentiallyevenpredict constitutes a continuum with the more posteriorly located ecosystemdynamicsinhealthanddisease. nasopharynx, which reaches from the choanae anteriorly to Inthisreview,wewillfocusontheecologicalinteractions theposteriorwallofthenasopharynxandiscoveredwithade- within the bacterial URT microbiome in health and in acute noidglandtissue.Thelateralwallofthenasopharynxcontains respiratorydiseases.First,wedescribetherelevantecological the pharyngeal ostium of the Eustachian tube, connecting processes that direct bacterial community assembly in the thenasopharynxtothemiddleear.Likethenasalcavity,the human URT (§2). Then, in §§3–6 we discuss niche-specific lateral nasopharyngeal cavity is carpeted with respiratory variationsinmicrobialcompositionandelaborateonpossible epithelium, but patches of stratified squamous epithelium mechanisticexplanationsfortheobservedco-occurrenceand appear with increasing age . The nasopharynx is separ-
