The role of the local microbial ecosystem
KEYWORDS: bacterial, respiratory, spp, influenzae, microbiome, pneumoniae, urt, species, cavity, microbial, infections, oral, pathogens, members, human


in §§3–6 we discuss niche-specific lateral nasopharyngeal cavity is carpeted with respiratory variationsinmicrobialcompositionandelaborateonpossible epithelium, but patches of stratified squamous epithelium mechanisticexplanationsfortheobservedco-occurrenceand appear with increasing age . The nasopharynx is separ- co-exclusion patterns. Finally, we will describe changes in ated from the oropharynx by the soft palate, which enables rstb.royalsocietypublishing.org Phil.Trans.R.Soc.B370:20140294 us to breathe through our nose and prevents nasal regur- and ecological niche-specialization, though little evidence is gitation of food . Both the oropharynx and the oral availabletosupportthishypothesis. cavity are lined with non-keratinized stratified squamous Inconcert,thesefourecologicalprocessesstructureinter- epithelium and are part of both the respiratory and action networks of bacterial species, resulting in ecosystems gastrointestinal tracts. that can be characterized by their biodiversity. In ecosystem TheURTisaninterestingareafromanecologicalperspec- theory, biodiversity is a term used to quantify both species tive: theconstantexposuretotheexternalenvironmentandits richness (i.e. number of species) and evenness (i.e. distri- accompanying conditions, and influences of respiration and bution of species) and is thought to give rise to ecosystem gastrointestinal processes shape different habitats for a wide stability and enhance ecosystem functioning . palette of microorganisms. Community ecology provides a IntheURT,bacterialrichnessandevennessvarydramatically large number of theoretical frameworks to explain bacterial between niches, with the highest richness and evenness communityassemblage,composition,diversityanditsunder- observed in the oropharynx and oral cavity . Contrast- lying processes. Historically, it was believed that microbes ingly, the anterior nares harbour a bacterial microbiome were cosmopolitan and arranged in ecosystems that were exhibitinglowbiodiversityandaretherebymorecomparable shaped purely by the force of environmental selection . to otherareas coveredbyskin-likeepithelium . However,morerecently,theideathatmicrobiologicalecosys- tems are structured by a combination of both selective and 3. The human upper respiratory tract niches: the chance-drivenprocesses—selection,ecologicaldrift,speciation anddispersal—hasbeenincreasinglyembraced. anterior nares Of the processes involved, dispersal (i.e. movement of organismsacrossspace)seemsresponsibleforinitialbacterial The microbial ecosystem of the anterior nares is typically colonization of the URT. Directly after birth, the skin, gut, enrichedformembersofthephylaActinobacteria(i.e.Coryne- nasopharynxandmouthmicrobialcommunitiesareundiffer- bacterium and Propionibacterium spp.) and Firmicutes (i.e. entiated and colonized by bacterial species reflective of Streptococcus in children and Staphylococcus spp. in adults) delivery mode: in vaginally delivered children Lactobacillus, withalowabundanceofanaerobesbelongingtotheBacteroi- Prevotella, Atopobium and Sneathia are predominant genera, detes phylum . The number of Proteobacteria whereas in infants born by caesarean section typical skin strongly varies, with studies reporting high abundance of inhabitants such as staphylococci are initially observed . Moraxellaceae in children , enrichment for Proteobac- Immaturity of the host’s immune system enables tolerance teria in adult ICU-patients (i.e. members of the orders oftheseinitialcolonistsintheabsenceofamanifestinflamma- Enterobacteriales and Pseudomonadales) and lowabun- toryresponse;instead,earlymicrobialexposureisbelievedto dance of members of the class
