The role of the local microbial ecosystem
KEYWORDS: bacterial, respiratory, spp, influenzae, microbiome, pneumoniae, urt, species, cavity, microbial, infections, oral, pathogens, members, human


Immaturity of the host’s immune system enables tolerance teria in adult ICU-patients (i.e. members of the orders oftheseinitialcolonistsintheabsenceofamanifestinflamma- Enterobacteriales and Pseudomonadales) and lowabun- toryresponse;instead,earlymicrobialexposureisbelievedto dance of members of the class Gammaproteobacteria in be vital to consecutive development of the immune system healthyadults. , which in turn contributesto local bacterial containment Corynebacterium, Propionibacterium and Staphylococcus are in a later stage through selection. Selection results from themostfrequentlycarriedgeneraintheanteriornares,which between-species differences in functionality or microbial fit- is independent of ethnical backgrounds and geographical ness and drives variation in growth or replication rates, location . The microbiome of the adult anterior nares furthershapingthebacterialcommunitystructure,bothwith cangenerallybesub-classifiedinoneoffourdistinctmicrobial regard to composition and relative abundance of species. profiles or ‘types’, which are characterized by predomin- Environmental pressure formed by constant exposure of the ance of either Corynebacterium, Propionibacterium, Moraxella or URT totheexternalenvironmentanditsaccompanyingcon- Staphylococcus spp., suggesting that complex synergistic and ditions, as well as differentials in oxygen, pH, humidity, antagonistic relationships between these bacteria are driving immunologicalfactors,nutrientsandepithelialcelltype,ulti- within-nichevariation.Interestingly,Corynebacterium-and matelyshapedifferent(micro)habitatswithintheURT. Propionibacterium-enriched profiles seem to be more ‘tolerant’ Withinthesehabitats,additionalselectionismediatedby to members of other genera, like staphylococci, incontrast to interspecies interactions that can vary in both strength and Moraxella-dominatedbacterialcommunities. directionality,i.e.caneitherbemutual,commensalorantag- Thekeratinizedsquamousepitheliumoftheanteriornares onistic . Existing microbial assemblages are constantly includessebum-producingglandsthatseemresponsibleforthe challenged bynewcolonizers originating fromboth exogen- selectiveenrichmentoflipophilicbacteria,likePropionibacterium ous (i.e. inhalation of airborne microorganisms and contact spp..Propionibacteriumspp.arecapableofhydrolysing with food-associated microbes) and endogenous (i.e. lipid-rich sebum, hence releasing short-chain free fatty acids drainingmiddleearsandsinuses,regurgitationfromstomach .Asaconsequence,thepHislowered,inducingoutgrowth content and sputum from the lungs) sources. Apart from ofespecially corynebacteria and coagulase-negative staphylo- dispersalandselection,athirdecologicalprocess,speciation, cocci,whereastherelativelymoistandoxygen-richconditions might be involved in the development of a given microbial intheanteriornareswillmorespecificallyselectforoutgrowth community. Speciation is the result of genetic isolation and ofStaphylococcusaureusandcorynebacteria.Thus,thesim- localdiversification,thelatterofwhichiscausedbyadaptation ultaneouspresenceofPropionibacteriumandStaphylococcusspp. ofabacterialspeciestoitsnewenvironmentbymutationand mightbeatleastpartlydrivenbydifferentfeaturesofthelocal recombination (i.e. horizontal gene transfer). The fourth eco- environment, although true synergism between both genera logical process affecting bacterial community assembly is might also occur by the production of coproporphyrin III by ecologicaldrift,achance-drivenprocessthatoccursinacom- Propionibacterium spp., promoting S. aureus biofilm formation munity of functionally equivalent species. Speciation and .Theobservationthatco-presencebetweenCorynebacterium ecologicaldriftmightplayaroleindevelopmentofrespiratory and S. aureus is species-specific (it holds for Corynebacterium bacterial communities after initial community assemblage accolens but not for Corynebacterium pseudodiphteriticum) , rstb.royalsocietypublishing.org Phil.Trans.R.Soc.B370:20140294 mightexplainpreviousambiguousreportsoneitherthesyner- Species observed in the nasopharynx show high overlap gisticorantagonisticinteractionbetweenthesespeciesinboth with the inhabitants of topographically proximate niches like mechanisticandepidemiologicalstudies. the anterior nares (mainly Gram-positive aerobes, includ- Although the niche characteristics seem similar be- ing Staphylococcus, Dolosigranulum, Corynebacterium and tween adults and children, a relatively higher abundance of Propionibacteriumspp.)andtheoropharynx(Streptococcusspp.). Streptococcaceae, Moraxellaceae and Neisseriaceae was Gram-negativeanaerobesthatareencounteredprimarilyinthe reported in the anterior nares of
