The role of the local microbial ecosystem
KEYWORDS: bacterial, respiratory, spp, influenzae, microbiome, pneumoniae, urt, species, cavity, microbial, infections, oral, pathogens, members, human


extensively researched for the URT, vari- acquisitionofanewstrain,astateofbacterialsymbio- ations in microbial community structure have also been sis, even including potential pathogens, may be protective demonstratedtoarisefromdifferencesinlocalavailabilityof against short-term infection and inflammation. Nevertheless, resources;forexample,theoralcavityisenrichedinbacterial carriagecandeveloptowardsrespiratorydiseaseinafraction carbohydrate-active enzymes responsible for degradation of of cases, a process that can be triggered by various exo- or simple sugars, such as dextran, whereas intestinal flora is endogenous stimuli [106–108]. Especially, this fact supports capableofmetabolisingmorecomplexcarbohydrates. thehypothesisthatovergrowthofapotentialpathogenisnot Acuteinfection inthe oral cavity isa rare event, presum- arandomevent,butinsteadaco-occurrenceofmultiplefactors ably owing to the tolerogenic local circumstances mediated leadingtolackofcontainmentofthepotentialpathogenbythe by dendritic cells (DCs) and various T-cell subtypes. Similar resident commensals and local immunity. Both seem more to the nasopharynx, the oropharynx and oral cavity are sus- likelytofailfollowingarecentacquisitionofanewbacterium tained by specialized mucosa-associated lymphoid tissue, or viral co-infection, inducing acombined state of temporary which is imperative for antigen recognition and initiation of dysbiosisintheabsenceofadaptiveimmunity. anadequateimmuneresponse.Theequilibriumbetween Next-generation sequencing of the nasopharyngeal micro- oralmucosaltoleranceandinflammationisstronglyguarded biome of healthy children and children suffering from mild byDCs.DC-inducedupregulationofToll-likereceptor(TLR)4 URTinfections,revealedthatcolonizationwithanddensityof pressiveinterleukinsincludingIL-10,subsequentlyactivating H.influenzae)isrelatedtoalessevenlydistributedmicrobiome, regulatory T-cells, thereby dampening inflammation and suggesting reduced containment by the commensal flora contributing to the tolerable local conditions . Mucosal . This is supported by the observations that increased inflammation is further reduced by saliva-derived secretory abundance of the three AOM pathogens is accompanied by IgAthatcoversthemucosalsurfacesoftheoralcavity,hinder- decreasedpresenceofthecommensalsLactococcus,Anoxybacillus, ing contact between microbiota and host mucosa, thus CorynebacteriumandDolosigranulumspp.Also,incontrasttothe preventing microbial attachment and immune activation, a increasedabundanceofHaemophilusandStreptococcusspp.and mechanismreferredtoas‘immuneexclusion’. membersofthePasteurellaceaeduringAOM,anincreasedabun- host can also have a potentially unfavourable outcome as with absence of AOM . In addition, both biodiversityand was illustrated in a murine model, showing that normal bacterial densityofthe nasopharyngeal microbiome arelower oral commensals can activate inflammasome inducing local inchildrendiagnosedwithAOMcomparedwithhealthychil- release of thehighly proinflammatory cytokineIL-1b. dren, altogether suggesting ecological dysbiosis to be key to developmentoftheseinfections.Thisisfurtherunderlined by a study on the tonsillar crypt microbiome of children and 7. Pathogenesis of respiratory infections: the adults suffering from recurrent tonsillitis, Proteobacteria pathogen perspective (mainlyHaemophilusspp.)wereassociatedwithdisease,whereas Bacteroidetes(especiallyPrevotellaspp.)abundancewasassoci- Traditionally,microbiomealterationshavebeenrelatedtodis- ated with absence of disease . Particularly, this latter eases with a chronic inflammatory character, such as obesity findingwasinconjunctionwithastudyontheoropharyngeal , COPD and asthma . However, the microbiome’s microbiome in (elderly) pneumonia patients, which showed influenceon(susceptibilityto)acuteupperandlowerrespiratory that lack of members of the Bacteroidetes phylum including infectionsisincreasinglygainingrecognition. Prevotella spp. as well as other Gram-negative anaerobic Uncomplicated URT infections are highly prevalent and species like Leptotrichia and Veillonella spp. is associated with cause substantial morbidity worldwide; approximately 75% pneumonia. of children have suffered from AOM by the age of 3 years The hypothesis that
