The role of the local microbial ecosystem
KEYWORDS: bacterial, respiratory, spp, influenzae, microbiome, pneumoniae, urt, species, cavity, microbial, infections, oral, pathogens, members, human


anginosus were resources are used which would otherwise be readily avail- isolated more frequently compared with healthy controls able for pathogens . The maintenance of biodiversity .However,thepossible(protective)roleofcommensals in ecological communities has been related to the presence inthesepathogenicprocesseshassofarbeenlargelyignored. of so-called keystone species, loss of which would result in Imbalance of the oral microbiome has been investigated, extinctionofmanyother(micro-)organisms,hencedecreasing especially in relation to the development of periodontal dis- the community’s biodiversity (figure 2a) . A clear central role for keystone pathogens Porphyromonas gingivalis, identifiedasapotentialkeystonetaxonofthegutmicrobiome TreponemadenticolaandTannerellaforsythia.Wepos- becauseitspresenceorabsencedirectlymodulatedthehost’s tulate that an imbalanced oral microbiome might also have phenotype . Although keystone species involved in aneffectonrespiratoryhealththroughphysiologicalepisodes maintenance of the community structure of the URT micro- ofmicro-aspiration.Compellingevidencefortheimport- biome have not been identified yet, stability of bacterial ance of oral health and micro-aspiration is generated by a communitiesovertimehasbeenlinkedtothepresenceofcer- study in residents of nursing homes, showing that neglect tain putative commensals, such as Moraxella, Dolosigranulum incidence of and mortalitybypneumonia . phenotype.Contrarily,earlycolonizationwithpathogens WethereforespeculatethatthehealthyURTmicrobiome such as S. pneumoniae, H. influenzae and M. catarrhalis ingeneral provides uswith colonization resistance,which is has been shown to result in a long-term increased risk of definedas(i)resistanceagainstacquisitionandestablishment pneumonia and bronchiolitis inhealthy neonates . of a new pathogen or (ii) containment of potentially patho- Colonization resistance might be diminished by bacterial genic bacteria residing amidst harmless commensals in a community structures that induce a low-grade, asympto- balancedmicrobiome. maticinflammation, whichfacilitatesinvasionbypathogenic bacteria. Studies have shown that colonization with Proteo- bacteriasuchasnon-typeableH.influenzaeisaccompaniedby 8. Pathogenesis of respiratory infections: the mucosal inflammation, characterized by increased epithelial ecosystem perspective thickness of the large airways and production of early pro- inflammatory cytokines . Contrariwise, colonization Colonizationresistanceagainstforeignpathogenscanbepro- with commensal Prevotella spp. wasassociatedwith low cyt- vided by occupation of otherwise vacant URT niches by okine production, reduced recruitment of neutrophils and indigenous flora. As a result, an invading pathogen has to leucocytes, and no detectable lung tissue pathology. The competewith the commensal flora foradhesion receptors on moresevereinflammationcausedbynon-typeableH.influenzae themucosalsurfaceaswellasnutrients, limitingthechances colonization is presumably mediated in a TLR4-dependent that the intruding species is indeed able to adhere, replicate, manner . The ligand for TLR4 is lipopolysaccharide disseminateandcausedisease.Directevidencethatthismech- (LPS), a major proinflammatory constituent of the outer cell anism also takes place in the URT is sparse, although it has membraneofGram-negativebacteria.Theimmunostimu- beendemonstrated that followingantibiotictreatment, which latorycapacityofLPShasbeenrelatedtoitsstructure:hepta-or leadstoareductionofbacterialcommunitydensityanddiver- hexa-acylatedLPSobservedinGammaproteobacteriasuchas sity,theriskof(anew)AOMistemporarilyincreased. H. influenzae induces a strong TLR4-mediated inflammatory ApartfromenvironmentaldifferencesintheURTlinkedto responseincontrasttotetra-andpenta-acylatedLPS,whichis humanphysiology,bacteriaarealsoabletomodifytheirenviron- typically found in Bacteroidetes members such as Prevotella ment themselves. Short-chain fatty acid (SCFA) produced by spp. and has very little TLR4-stimulatory activity
