Asian Journal of Andrology (2014) 16, 735–739
KEYWORDS: patients, treatment, prostatitis, ibs, months, group, cbp, vsl, rifaximin, chronic, groups, study, frequency, pve, cfu


a positive sperm culture due to modified commensal gut flora related to antibiotic therapy for (with CFU > 105 ml−1). This CBP was a localized prostatic infection treatment of CBP, which in turn may lead to mucosal inflammation. since it was characterized by the absence of ultrasound signs The comprehension of the interaction between the dysbiotic microbiota considered indicative of progression, in terms of extension into and the host will probably lead to the development of a more integrated more sexual accessory glands (seminal vesicles and epididymites). multidisciplinary treatment.10 Accordingly, probiotics are among the Therefore, this condition was considered clinically as prostatitis pharmacological agents approved for the treatment of IBS, although stable compared with pretreatment phase with antibiotics. 42 trials examining lactic acid bacteria (LAB) effectiveness in patients identify all organisms, in one aliquot from each sample (derived with IBS showed beneficial effects in at least one of the endpoints from EPS or semen) cultured aerobically and anaerobically or symptoms examined12 or an association with the stabilization of after diluting the samples (1:2) in saline solution, according to intestinal microbiota.13 In contrast, two other studies with LAB did not previously published methods.19,20 report any benefit.14,15 Controversies on effectiveness of probiotics in b. Instead, progression into PV or PVE was located and verified patients with IBS may be in part explained by an imbalance between when they showed clinical signs (palpation of tender prostate at commensal and pathogen bacteria inhabiting the human gut. This may the physical examination) and ultrasound findings considered cause a small intestine overgrowth of the intestinal commensal microflora indicative of PV or PVE, as previously described.21 and/or a relative overgrowth of pathogen enterobacteria. In a recent pilot c. This combination of multiple ultrasound findings at the level of study, treatment with rifaximin (550 mg 3 times daily for 10 days), a the seminal vesicle or epididymis had not been observed before, gut-directed antibiotic, was found efficacious in reducing both GI score at the time of first diagnosis. and symptoms in patients with chronic prostatitis type III and IBS.16 d. Sperm cultures with significant bacteriospermia (>105 CFU ml−1). Therefore, we thought to contribute to this topic with this study The cutoff value of > 105 CFU ml−1, much higher than the value conducted on infertile patients with clinical history of CBP and IBS mentioned in the WHO semen manual22 was selected due to its bacteriologically cured after 1–3
