Asian Journal of Andrology (2014) 16, 735–739
KEYWORDS: patients, treatment, prostatitis, ibs, months, group, cbp, vsl, rifaximin, chronic, groups, study, frequency, pve, cfu


higher than the value conducted on infertile patients with clinical history of CBP and IBS mentioned in the WHO semen manual22 was selected due to its bacteriologically cured after 1–3 intermittent courses of antibiotics and/ recently reported strong association with ultrasound abnormalities.21 or nonsteroidal antiinflammatory (NSAI) compounds, to evaluate the e. They had a diarrhea-predominant IBS, since they had loose, influence of treatment with rifaximin and the probiotic combination mushy, or water stools in the last 3 months with no hard or lumpy VSL#3 on the progression of chronic prostatitis into PV or PVE. stools ([question 9 = 0] and [question 10 > 0]).17,18 f. The patients declared a regular compliance with the treatment MATERIALS AND METHODS assigned to them. Patient selection Exclusion criteria were constipation-predominant IBS (according During the period of year between January 2011 and January to the definition in the Rome II criteria),23 a history of inflammatory 2013, 106 selected infertile male outpatients (median age: 31 years, bowel disease, diabetes mellitus, unstable thyroid disease, or renal or range: 19–46 years), consecutively recruited from the Andrology hepatic disease. (Catania, Italy), with a confirmed diagnosis of CBP and IBS Study design and treatments (Rome III criteria) were enrolled in this study. A simple “10-point” Patients were prescribed treatment with rifaximin, a nonabsorbable objective questionnaire based on the Rome III IBS module was used. antibiotic (200 mg, 2 tablets bid) (Normix®, Alpha Wassermann, 17,18 Primary infertility was defined as lack of conception after at least Alanno, PE, Italy) for 7 days a month for 6 or 12 months followed by 12 months of unprotected intercourse: the mean infertility duration probiotic combination VSL#3 (450 × 109 CFU per day, 1 small envelope) was 17 months (range: 12–42 months). Eleven patients did not comply (VSL#3®, Ferring SpA, Milan, Italy) (Table 1). with the treatment and therefore, were excluded from the study. The probiotic VSL#3 is a mixture of eight different species of The diagnosis of CBP and IBS was made 6–26 months before the Gram-positive bacteria, namely Streptococcus salivarius subsp. patients were included in this study. At the moment when the diagnoses of CBP and IBS were made, all patients had an increased number of Table 1: Study design leukocytes (>10 HPF) in the expressed prostatic secretion (EPS) and Groups Previous Bacteriological Treatment assigned at the moment of the a positive sperm culture (with CFU > 105 ml−1). All of them were
