Asian Journal of Andrology (2014) 16, 735–739
KEYWORDS: patients, treatment, prostatitis, ibs, months, group, cbp, vsl, rifaximin, chronic, groups, study, frequency, pve, cfu


meaning that the risk of progression increased significantly the potential benefit of VSL#3 on symptoms in IBS) both in vitro and with less treatment (Figure 2). in vivo that may account for its clinical efficacy.11 Microbial findings at the follow‑up All patients were randomly divided into four groups that were Microbial infection was considered to be significant when the assigned to four different therapeutic schemes. Group A = “6Tx/6-”: bacteriospermia was > 105 CFU ml−1. Overall, the treatment with these patients received the above indicated treatment for the initial rifaximin and VSL#3 was beneficial in terms of lowering the frequency 6 months (n = 26); group B = “12Tx”: these patients were treated of bacteriospermia when it was started immediately after the initial consecutively for all 12 months (n = 22); group C = “6-/6Tx”: germ eradication rather than 6 months later. Indeed, patients of group these patients were treated for the second 6 months (n = 23); and “6Tx/6-” had the lowest frequency of positive sperm culture compared group D “12-”: these patients did not receive any treatment (n = 24). with patients of group “6-/6Tx” who received the treatment during Randomization was achieved by a computer-generated list. The first the last 6 months of observation. The highest frequency was found random set of numbers was assigned to group “6Tx/6-; the second in patients who were not prescribed any treatment and conversely, random set of numbers was assigned to group “12Tx”, the third random set of numbers was assigned to group “6-/6Tx”; and finally the fourth the lowest frequency was found among patients of group “12Tx” who random set of numbers was assigned to group “12-”. received the treatment for all 12 months (Table 2). This study subjects were informed of the risks and requirements DISCUSSION for the study. The protocol was approved by the internal Institutional A growing number of studies have focused on the concomitant Review Board and an informed written consent was taken from each man. conditions occur, prostatitis syndromes are present with an increased Statistical analysis prevalence of CBP and noninflammatory prostatitis.8 Furthermore, Results are shown as percentages throughout the study. At 6 months, we found that patients with CBP and IBS had a significantly higher comparison between groups “6Tx/6-” and “6-/6Tx” was computed frequency (82%) of MAGI compared to patients with CBP alone.9 by Fisher’s exact test. At 12 months, the four groups were
