Asian Journal of Andrology (2014) 16, 735–739
KEYWORDS: patients, treatment, prostatitis, ibs, months, group, cbp, vsl, rifaximin, chronic, groups, study, frequency, pve, cfu


higher comparison between groups “6Tx/6-” and “6-/6Tx” was computed frequency (82%) of MAGI compared to patients with CBP alone.9 by Fisher’s exact test. At 12 months, the four groups were compared These findings suggest that treatments aimed at reducing the evolution through an ordinal logistic model (proportional-odds) because of the of prostatitis into more complicated forms of MAGI are needed. ordinal nature of the independent variable. P < 0.05 was considered Some studies have highlighted that the treatment of one of the two to be statistically different. syndromes also improves the other. In particular, after effective treatment of chronic prostatitis, IBS improves in 78.8% of the cases;7 RESULTS as well, treatment with rifaximin (550 mg 3 times daily for 10 days) The patients of groups “6Tx/6-” and “12Tx” had the highest frequency was found efficacious in reducing CPSI score and GI symptoms in of chronic prostatitis (88.5% and 86.4%, respectively). In contrast, 16 patients with chronic prostatitis type III plus IBS.16 group “12-” patients had the lowest frequency of prostatitis (33.4%). Probiotics are among the pharmacological agents approved for Furthermore, the progression of prostatitis into PV in groups the treatment of IBS and there is a general agreement that probiotics “6Tx/6-” (15.5%) and “6-/6Tx” (13.6%) was lower than that found decrease global IBS symptoms.24–26 The mechanisms, the rationale, in the patients of group “12-” (45.8%). Finally, no patient of groups and the current evidence for the efficacy of probiotics, including “6Tx/6-” and “6-/6Tx” had PVE, considered the most complicated Lactobacilli, Bifidobacteria, and VSL#3, for the treatment of IBS have forms of MAGI, whereas it was diagnosed in 20.8% of group “12-” been addressed.11 The mechanisms influenced by probiotics include patients. In particular, at 6 months, patients of groups “6Tx/6-” and immune function, motility, and the intraluminal milieu. Probiotics “6-/6Tx” showed a significant difference of progression into PV and may suppress the low-grade inflammation associated with IBS or PVE (P = 0.03) (Figure 1). At 12 months, the ordinal logistic model showed that the odds of progressing into PVE, as opposed to progressing Figure 2: Frequency of prostatitis, prostate‑vesiculitis, and prostate‑vesiculo‑ Figure 1: Frequency of prostatitis, prostate‑vesiculitis, and epididymitis in bacteriologically cured infertile patients with chronic bacterial prostate‑vesiculo‑epididymitis in bacteriologically cured infertile patients prostatitis and irritable bowel syndrome who were prescribed rifaximin and with chronic bacterial prostatitis and irritable bowel syndrome who were VSL#3. Treatment groups at 12 months, following scheme:
