Asian Journal of Andrology (2014) 16, 735–739
KEYWORDS: patients, treatment, prostatitis, ibs, months, group, cbp, vsl, rifaximin, chronic, groups, study, frequency, pve, cfu


by MAGI, was present in the five patients who did not receive any therapy, ascending the genito-urinary tract, by descending from the upper whereas it was zero in the groups of patients who were prescribed urinary or reproductive tract, by hematogenous spread, or by direct rifaximin and VSL#3 for the initial 6 or for 12 months. The early invasion of the glands from local sources. We believe that the clinical initiation of this therapeutic strategy was more effective, resulting in model of CBP and IBS, and particularly the condition of chronic a nonsignificant progression of prostatitis into PV or PVE in the last prostatitis with recent microbial eradication is useful for future research 6 months when the patients were not treated. Conversely, a delay of aimed at defining the role of probiotics in other diagnostic categories Asian Journal of Andrology CBP plus IBS: treatment efficacy E Vicari et al such as evolution or progression of CBP into chronic inflammatory 19 Vicari E, Mongioì A, Speciale A, Caccamo F, Calogero A, et al. Enhancing detection of gonococcus in ejaculates of adult males using sperm dilution. Arch Androl prostatitis. 1986; 16: 19–23. 20 Vicari E. Effectiveness and limits of antimicrobial treatment on seminal leukocyte AUTHOR CONTRIBUTIONS concentration and related reactive oxygen species production in patients with male EV and SLV are the principal investigators. AEC and RAC have accessory gland infection. Hum Reprod 2000; 15: 2536–44. performed the statistical analysis and the final revision of the 21 Vicari E. Seminal leukocyte concentration and related specific reactive oxygen species production in patients with male accessory gland infections. Hum Reprod manuscript; LV and RC have performed the statistical analysis and 1999; 14: 2025–30. data collection. 22 World Health Organization. WHO Laboratory Manual for the Examination of the Human Semen and Sperm‑Cervical Mucus Interaction. 4th ed. Cambridge: Cambridge COMPETING INTERESTS University Press; 1999. 23 Thompson WG, Longstreth GF, Drossman DA, Heaton KW, Irvine EJ, et al. Functional All authors declare no competing interests. bowel disorders and functional abdominal pain. Gut 1999; 5 Suppl 2: II43–7. 24 Hoveyda N, Heneghan C, Mahtani KR, Perera R, Roberts N, et al. A systematic
