The Role of Lipids and Lipoproteins in Atherosclerosis
KEYWORDS: hdl, cholesterol, levels, cells, risk, ldl, atherosclerosis, cell, figure, ldl-c, increased, lipoproteins, macrophages, cardiovascular, studies


of hypertriglyceridemia. Measures of apoB and LDL-P are superior at predicting risk for ASCVE, when levels of LDL-C and LDL-P are discordant. Here, we also describe the current landscape of HDL metabolism. Epidemiological studies have consistently shown that HDL-C levels are inversely related to ASCVE. We highlight recent clinical trials aimed at raising HDL-C that failed to reduce CVE and the shifting clinical targets of HDL-C, HDL particle numbers, and HDL function (e.g. cholesterol efflux capacity). Furthermore, we describe many beneficial properties of HDL that antagonize atherosclerosis and how HDL dysfunction may promote cardiometabolic disease. PATHOPHYSIOLOGY OF ATHEROSCLEROSIS Atherosclerosis in Cardiovascular Disease As the underlying cause of heart attack, stroke, and peripheral vascular disease, atherosclerosis is the major cause of death and morbidity in the United States and the industrial world ( 1 ). The discovery by Virchow more than 100 years ago that atheroma contained a yellow fatty substance, later identified as cholesterol by Windaus, suggested a role for lipids in the pathogenesis of atherosclerosis ( 2 ). Indeed, the goal of this chapter is to focus on the role of lipids and lipoproteins in the pathogenesis of atherosclerosis as well as their critical roles in risk assessment and as targets of therapy. The recognition that atherosclerosis is an inflammatory disease has led to tremendous progress in our understanding of the pathogenesis of atherosclerosis ( 3 ). First, we provide brief description of the cellular and molecular events in the key stages of atherosclerosis. Initiation and Fatty Streak Phase of Atherosclerotic Lesions The endothelial lining of arteries responds to mechanical and molecular stimuli to regulate tone, ( 4 ) hemostasis, ( 5 ) and inflammation ( 6 ) throughout the circulation. Endothelial cell dysfunction is an initial step in atherosclerotic lesion formation and is more likely to occur at arterial curves and branches that are subjected to low shear stress and disturbed blood flow (atherosclerosis prone areas) ( 7 , 8 ). These mechanical stimuli activate signaling pathways leading to a dysfunctional endothelium lining that is barrier compromised, prothrombotic, and proinflammatory ( 9 ). In atherosclerosis susceptible regions, the endothelial cells have cuboidal morphology, a thin glycocalyx layer, and a disordered alignment ( 8 , 10 , 11 ). In addition, these regions have increased endothelial cell senescence and apoptosis as evidenced by ER stress markers ( 12 - 14 ). In contrast, less atherosclerosis prone endothelium is exposed
