The Role of Lipids and Lipoproteins in Atherosclerosis
KEYWORDS: hdl, cholesterol, levels, cells, risk, ldl, atherosclerosis, cell, figure, ldl-c, increased, lipoproteins, macrophages, cardiovascular, studies


In addition, these regions have increased endothelial cell senescence and apoptosis as evidenced by ER stress markers ( 12 - 14 ). In contrast, less atherosclerosis prone endothelium is exposed to laminar shear stress causing activation of signaling pathways that maintain endothelial cell coaxial alignment, proliferation, ( 13 , 14 ) glycocalyx layer, ( 15 ) and survival ( 12 , 16 ). In atherosclerosis resistant regions, the transcription factors, Kruppel-like factors (KLF) 2 and 4, are activated via MEK5/ERK5/MEF2 signaling which enhances expression of endothelial nitric oxide synthase (eNOS) ( 17 - 19 ). The increased nitric oxide (NO) production promotes endothelial cell migration and survival thereby maintaining an effective barrier ( 20 ). In addition, the expression of superoxide dismutase (SOD) is increased to reduce cellular oxidative stress ( 18 ). In atherosclerosis susceptible regions, reduced expression of eNOS and SOD leads to compromised endothelial barrier integrity ( Figure 1 ), leading to increased accumulation and retention of subendothelial atherogenic apolipoprotein B (apoB)-containing lipoproteins (low-density lipoproteins (LDL)) and remnants of very low-density lipoproteins (VLDL) and chylomicrons) ( 21 , 22 ). KLF2, KLF4, and NO production inhibit activation of the nuclear factor kappa B (NF‐κB) pathway. Increased NF‐κB activation in atherosclerosis susceptible areas leads to endothelial cell activation ( Figure 1 ), as evidenced by increased expression of monocyte adherence proteins (VCAM-1, ICAM-1, and P-selectin) and proinflammatory receptors (toll-like receptor 2, TLR2) and cytokines (MCP-1 and IL-8) ( 19 , 23 , 24 ). In addition, endothelial cell activation leads to increased production of reactive oxygen species ( 25 ) that can cause oxidative modification of apoB-containing lipoproteins ( 26 ). Besides mechanical stimuli, endothelial cell activation is increased by various molecular stimuli, including oxidized LDL, cytokines, advanced glycosylation end products, and pathogen-associated molecules ( 27 - 30 ). In contrast, an atheroprotective function of HDL is to prevent endothelial activation and enhance NO production to maintain barrier integrity (see details below) ( 31 ). Figure 1. Initiation of the atherosclerotic lesion. The fatty streak phase of atherosclerosis begins with dysfunctional endothelial cells and the retention of apoB-containing lipoproteins (LDL, VLDL, and apoE remnants) in the subendothelial space. Retained lipoproteins are modified (oxidation, glycation, enzymatic), which, along with other atherogenic factors, promotes activation of endothelial cells. Activated endothelial cells have increased expression of monocyte interaction/adhesion molecules (selectins, VCAM-1) and chemoattractants (MCP-1) leading to attachment and transmigration of monocytes
