The Role of Lipids and Lipoproteins in Atherosclerosis
KEYWORDS: hdl, cholesterol, levels, cells, risk, ldl, atherosclerosis, cell, figure, ldl-c, increased, lipoproteins, macrophages, cardiovascular, studies


other atherogenic factors, promotes activation of endothelial cells. Activated endothelial cells have increased expression of monocyte interaction/adhesion molecules (selectins, VCAM-1) and chemoattractants (MCP-1) leading to attachment and transmigration of monocytes into the intimal space. Activated endothelial cells also promote the recruitment of other immune cells including dendritic cells, mast cells, regulatory T (T-reg) cells, and T helper 1 (Th-1) cells. The monocytes differentiate into macrophages and express receptors that mediate the internalization of VLDL, apoE remnants, and modified LDL to become foam cells. In addition, inflammatory signaling pathways are activated in macrophage foam cells leading to more cell recruitment and LDL modification. Immune Cell Recruitment and Foam Cell Formation Activation of endothelial cells causes a monocyte recruitment cascade involving rolling, adhesion, activation and transendothelial migration ( Figure 1 ). Selectins, especially P-selectin, mediate the initial rolling interaction of monocytes with the endothelium ( 32 ). Monocyte adherence is then promoted by endothelial cell immunoglobulin-G proteins including VCAM-1 and ICAM-1 ( 32 ). Potent chemoattractant factors such as MCP-1 and IL-8 then induce migration of monocytes into the subendothelial space ( 33 - 35 ). Ly6 hi monocytes, versus Ly6 lo , preferentially migrate into the subendothelial space to convert to proinflammatory macrophages in mice ( 36 - 38 ). The enhanced migration of Ly6 hi versus Ly6 lo monocytes likely results from increased expression of functional P-selectin glycoprotein ligand-1 ( 39 ). In addition, the number of blood monocytes originating from the bone marrow and spleen, especially Ly6 hi cells, increases in response to hypercholesterolemia ( 36 ). Furthermore, hypercholesterolemia and atherosclerosis increase monocytosis in humans ( 40 , 41 ). Importantly, increased numbers of inflammatory CD14 ++ CD16 + monocytes independently predicted cardiovascular death, myocardial infarction, and stroke in patients undergoing elective coronary angiography ( 42 ). Intimal macrophages also result from proliferation of monocyte/macrophages, especially in more advanced lesions ( 43 ). During the initial fatty streak phase of atherosclerosis ( Figure 1 ), the monocyte-derived macrophages internalize the retained apoB-containing lipoproteins, which are degraded in lysosomes, where excess free cholesterol is trafficked to the endoplasmic reticulum (ER) to be esterified by acyl CoA:cholesterol acyltransferase (ACAT), and the resulting cholesteryl ester (CE) is packaged into cytoplasmic lipid droplets, which are characteristic of foam cells ( 42 ) ( Figure 2 ) ( 44 , 45 ). Modification of apoB lipoproteins via oxidation and glycation enhances their uptake through
