The Role of Lipids and Lipoproteins in Atherosclerosis
KEYWORDS: hdl, cholesterol, levels, cells, risk, ldl, atherosclerosis, cell, figure, ldl-c, increased, lipoproteins, macrophages, cardiovascular, studies


FC that has been generated by neutral cholesterol esterase away from ACAT to the plasma membrane. Alternatively, cytoplasmic CE is packaged into autophagosomes, which are transported to fuse with lysosomes, where the CE is hydrolyzed by acid lipase and the resulting FC is then transported to the plasma membrane. The efflux of FC to lipid-poor apolipoproteins or HDL occurs by a number of mechanisms to reduce foam cell formation. Exogenous lipid-free apoA-I or endogenous apoE that is produced by the macrophages interacts with ABCA1 to stimulate the efflux of phospholipid and FC to form nascent HDL particles (e.g. apoA-I or apoE containing phospholipid discs). ApoE produces the most buoyant, FC-enriched particles. ABCA1 plays a major role in the clearance of cytoplasmic CE via autophagy. The apoA-I/apoE discs as well as mature HDL containing apoA-I and/or ApoE stimulate FC efflux via three major mechanisms including ABCG1, SR-BI, and aqueous diffusion. ABCG1 may also play a role in the intracellular trafficking of cholesterol. The triggering of macrophage inflammatory pathways is also a critical event in lesion development. Inflammatory M1 phenotype macrophages exhibit increased oxidative stress, impaired cholesterol efflux and enhanced cytokine/chemokine secretion, leading to more LDL/remnant oxidation, endothelial cell activation, monocyte recruitment, and foam cell formation ( 54 - 59 ). Oxidative stress, modified lipoproteins, and other lesion factors (bioactive lipids, pattern recognition molecules, cytokines) are capable of inducing inflammation via receptors ( 54 , 55 , 60 ). In addition, plasma membrane cholesterol in macrophage foam cells enhances signaling via inflammatory receptors ( 61 , 62 ). Recently, inflammasome activation of IL-1β and IL-18 has been implicated in atherogenesis ( 63 , 64 ). Indeed, a recent clinical trial showed that subjects treated with the IL-1β monoclonal antibody, canakinumab, had a significantly lower rate of recurrent cardiovascular events which were independent of cholesterol lowering ( 65 ). Macrophage foam cell formation and cholesterol dependent inflammatory receptor signaling can be reduced by the removal of cholesterol by atheroprotective HDL and apoA-I via a number of mechanisms including ABCA1, ABCG1, SR-BI, and aqueous diffusion ( Figure 2 ) ( 61 , 66 - 68 ) (see details below). Lipid-poor apoA-I stimulates efflux via ABCA1, whereas lipidated apoA-I or mature HDL are the main drivers of efflux via ABCA1, ABCG1, SR-BI, and aqueous diffusion ( Figure 2 ) ( 61 , 69 - 71 ). Cytoplasmic CE is cleared by two major pathways. One
