The Role of Lipids and Lipoproteins in Atherosclerosis
KEYWORDS: hdl, cholesterol, levels, cells, risk, ldl, atherosclerosis, cell, figure, ldl-c, increased, lipoproteins, macrophages, cardiovascular, studies


drivers of efflux via ABCA1, ABCG1, SR-BI, and aqueous diffusion ( Figure 2 ) ( 61 , 69 - 71 ). Cytoplasmic CE is cleared by two major pathways. One route involves the hydrolysis of cytoplasmic CE by neutral cholesterol esterase and the resulting free cholesterol is mobilized away from the ACAT pool ( 72 , 73 ) and made available for efflux via ABCA1, ABCG1, SR-BI, and aqueous diffusion ( Figure 2 ). Alternatively, cytoplasmic CE is packaged into autophagosomes, which are trafficked to lysosomes, where the CE is hydrolyzed by acid lipase( 73 , 74 ), generating free cholesterol that is made available for efflux mainly via ABCA1( Figure 2 ) ( 73 , 74 ). Furthermore, HDL and apoA-I protect against atherosclerosis by reducing inflammation via mechanisms independent of cholesterol efflux ( 31 , 75 ) (see details below). In addition, small non-coding RNAs have been found to impact atherosclerosis development by regulating inflammation and/or cholesterol homeostasis in different cell types in lesions ( 76 , 77 ). MiR-33a and MiR-33b promote atherosclerosis by impairing cholesterol efflux and promoting inflammatory M1 macrophage conversion ( 78 - 80 ).Other microRNAs including MiR-223 and MiR-93 exhibit atheroprotective effects by increasing cholesterol efflux and conversion to the anti-inflammatory M2 macrophage phenotype ( 76 , 81 - 83 ). HDL carry small non-coding RNAs ( 77 ), which can also reduce or promote atherosclerosis development depending upon composition of individual non-coding RNAs (see details below). Although macrophages are the main infiltrating cells, other cells contribute to the development of lesions including dendritic cells ( 84 , 85 ), mast cells, T cells, and B cells ( Figure 1 ) ( 86 , 87 ). Dendritic cells promote the priming of reactive T cell clones and secrete cytokines, functioning in a largely pro-inflammatory capacity( 88 ). They also take up lipid, which leads to inflammasome activation and increased pro-inflammatory cytokine secretion ( 89 ). Mast cells produce interferon-γ (IFNγ) and IL-6 and appear to promote lesion development ( 90 ). Atherosclerotic plaques also contain a significant number of adaptive immune cells, including T and B lymphocytes. The role of T cells is subset-dependent and atherosclerotic plaques have been shown to contain CD4 + and CD8 + effector T cells as well as T helper 1 (Th-1), Th-2, Th-17, and regulatory T (T-reg) cells. Antigen-specific Th-1 cells produce IFNγ that converts macrophages to
