The Role of Lipids and Lipoproteins in Atherosclerosis
KEYWORDS: hdl, cholesterol, levels, cells, risk, ldl, atherosclerosis, cell, figure, ldl-c, increased, lipoproteins, macrophages, cardiovascular, studies


+ and CD8 + effector T cells as well as T helper 1 (Th-1), Th-2, Th-17, and regulatory T (T-reg) cells. Antigen-specific Th-1 cells produce IFNγ that converts macrophages to a proinflammatory M1 phenotype. Th-17 cells have also been identified in atherosclerotic plaques and have been shown to produce IFNγ. However, their specific role in atherosclerosis has not yet been elucidated ( 91 ). Classical T-reg cells produce anti-inflammatory cytokines (TGF-β and IL-10) and inhibit activation of Th-1 cells, leading to more anti-inflammatory M2 macrophages. As atherosclerosis progresses, T effector cell numbers increase or remain constant, while T-reg numbers decline. This reduction in T-regs is due in part to their heightened susceptibility to cell death as well as their impaired trafficking into lesions ( 91 ). Further, T-regs may appear fewer in number because they undergo phenotypic switching into other T-reg subtypes. Several subclasses of these ‘former’ T-regs have been identified in the atherosclerotic lesions of mice, including Th1-Tregs (CD4 + CCR5 + IFN-γ + FoxP3 + T-bet + ) and T follicular helper cells (CXCR5 + PD1 + Bcl6 + CD62L lo CD44 hi CD4 + Foxp3 - ), and these have been shown to have both impaired regulatory and enhanced inflammatory function, therefore contributing to atheroprogression ( 91 , 92 ). B cells preferentially reside in the adventitial layer of arteries neighboring sites of plaque, in regions known as tertiary lymphoid organs (TLOs). The function of B lymphocytes is also subset dependent, with B-1 cells being atheroprotective and B-2 cells being atherogenic. B-1 cells undergo limited or no affinity maturation and produce natural antibodies (NAbs) that have broad specificity and low binding affinity. Among these are NAbs, found within atherosclerotic plaques, that can bind to oxidation motifs in LDL and block the uptake of oxLDL by macrophages ( 93 ). Mice engineered to overexpress a single-chain variable fragment of E06, an IgM NAb directed against oxidized phospholipids (oxPL), were found to have reduced atherosclerosis and features consistent with greater overall plaque stability, confirming the atheroprotective nature of these B-1 cell-derived antibodies ( 94 ). B-2 cells produce high-affinity IgA, IgE and IgG antibodies. While the role of IgA in atherosclerosis remains controversial, IgG and IgE are atherogenic. IgG forms immune complexes with oxLDL and promotes an inflammatory macrophage phenotype while IgE also stimulates macrophages and mast cells to produce proatherogenic cytokines ( 95 ). ApoE in Atherosclerosis In
