The Role of Lipids and Lipoproteins in Atherosclerosis
KEYWORDS: hdl, cholesterol, levels, cells, risk, ldl, atherosclerosis, cell, figure, ldl-c, increased, lipoproteins, macrophages, cardiovascular, studies


forms immune complexes with oxLDL and promotes an inflammatory macrophage phenotype while IgE also stimulates macrophages and mast cells to produce proatherogenic cytokines ( 95 ). ApoE in Atherosclerosis In addition to apoA-I and HDL, the endogenous production of apoE by macrophages is critical in preventing atherosclerotic lesion formation. The majority of apoE in plasma is produced by the liver, but macrophages are responsible for producing 5 -10% of apoE in plasma ( 96 ). ApoE serves as the ligand for clearance of all of the apoB containing lipoproteins from the blood by the liver except for LDL. Gene knockout of apoE in mice results in hypercholesterolemia and spontaneous atherosclerotic lesion development ( 97 , 98 ). Hence, ApoE deficient mice have been used widely to study mechanisms of atherosclerotic lesion development. Bone marrow transplantation studies were used to examine the role of macrophage apoE in lipoprotein metabolism. Transplantation of Apoe -/- mice with wildtype bone marrow, resulted in normalization of plasma cholesterol levels and protection from atherosclerosis ( 99 ), demonstrating the ability of macrophage apoE to exchange between lipoproteins and to serve as a vehicle for cellular gene therapy of atherosclerosis. Furthermore, reconstitution of wildtype ( 100 ) or LDL receptor deficient mice( Ldlr -/- ) ( 101 ) with Apoe -/- bone marrow accelerates atherosclerotic lesion development without affecting plasma cholesterol levels, demonstrating an atheroprotective role for macrophage apoE. Interestingly, ApoE protects against atherosclerosis via several mechanisms. Expression of apoE by hematopoietic stem cells reduces monocyte proliferation and infiltration into the intima ( 102 ). In addition, apoE on apoB lipoproteins reduces the lysosomal accumulation of cholesterol by enhancing the expression of acid lipase ( 103 ). Importantly, secretion of apoE by macrophages stimulates efflux in the absence and presence of exogenous acceptors, including HDL and lipid-free apoA-I ( Figure 2 ) ( 104 - 107 ). Recent studies demonstrated that macrophage apoE facilitates reverse cholesterol transport in vivo ( 108 ). Macrophage apoE stimulates phospholipid and cholesterol efflux via ABCA1, and the apoE particles formed then promote cholesterol efflux through ABCG1, SR-BI, and aqueous diffusion ( 104 , 109 - 111 ). Endogenous apoE is required for efficient formation of the most buoyant, cholesterol-enriched particles by macrophages ( Figure 2 ) ( 104 , 112 - 116 ). In addition to cholesterol efflux, macrophage apoE prevents inflammation ( 117 - 120 ) and oxidative stress (
