The Role of Lipids and Lipoproteins in Atherosclerosis
KEYWORDS: hdl, cholesterol, levels, cells, risk, ldl, atherosclerosis, cell, figure, ldl-c, increased, lipoproteins, macrophages, cardiovascular, studies


( 143 ). A subset of VSMCs accumulates CE and resides in the lesion core ( Figures 3 and 4 ). This smooth muscle cell phenotype produces less α-actin and expresses macrophage markers, including CD68, F4/80 and Mac2 ( 144 - 146 ). While studies have shown that VSMCs express the VLDL receptor and various scavenger receptors, ( 145 , 147 , 148 ) data showing that these cells robustly load with CE, ( 147 ) similar to macrophages via these mechanisms is lacking. As lesions advance, substantial extracellular lipid accumulates in the core, in part due to large CE-rich particles arising from dead macrophage foam cells ( 149 , 150 ). Earlier in vitro studies showed that these CE-rich particles effectively cholesterol load VSMCs ( 151 , 152 ). Regardless of the mechanisms of cholesterol enrichment, VSMCs compared to macrophages are inefficient at lysosomal processing and trafficking of cholesterol ( 152 , 153 ) and express much less ABCA1( 154 ), which all contribute to impaired cholesterol efflux ( 155 ). However, macrophages in more advanced plaques also have reduced lysosome function and trapping of free and esterified cholesterol within their lysosomes contributes to the overall sterol accumulation in the lesion ( 156 - 158 ). The reduced lysosome function appears multifactorial but includes direct and indirect inhibition of lysosomal acid lipase, the enzyme responsible for hydrolysis of cholesteryl esters in lysosomes, and a reduced capacity for transferring cholesterol from lysosomes ( 159 - 162 ). In cell culture models of human macrophage foam cells, the inability to clear cholesterol from macrophages with compromised lysosome function continues even in the presence of compounds that stimulate efflux ( 161 , 163 ). Proteomic analysis of foam cells shows that changes in a number of lysosome proteases are related to macrophage sterol accumulation ( 164 ). Thus, at least in the advanced stages of atherosclerosis, lysosome dysfunction contributes to the overall lesion severity. As the intimal volume enlarges due to accumulating cells, there is vascular remodeling to lessen protrusion of the lesion into the lumen ( Figure 4 ), thereby decreasing occlusion and the appearance of clinical symptoms for much of the life of the lesion ( 165 - 167 ). Figure 3. Progression of the atherosclerotic plaque. Macrophage foam cell and endothelial cell inflammatory signaling continues to promote the recruitment of more monocytes and immune cells into the subendothelial space.
