The Role of Lipids and Lipoproteins in Atherosclerosis
KEYWORDS: hdl, cholesterol, levels, cells, risk, ldl, atherosclerosis, cell, figure, ldl-c, increased, lipoproteins, macrophages, cardiovascular, studies


Figure 3. Progression of the atherosclerotic plaque. Macrophage foam cell and endothelial cell inflammatory signaling continues to promote the recruitment of more monocytes and immune cells into the subendothelial space. Transition from a fatty streak to a fibrous fatty lesion occurs with the infiltration and proliferation of tunica media smooth muscle cells. Macrophage foam cells and other inflammatory cells produce a number of chemoattractant and proliferation factors, including transforming growth factor-β (TGF-β), platelet-derived growth factor (PDGF) isoforms, matrix metalloproteinases, fibroblast growth factors (FGF), and heparin-binding epidermal growth factor (HB-EGF). Smooth muscle cells are recruited to the luminal side of the lesion to proliferate and generate an extracellular matrix network to form a barrier between lesional prothrombotic factors and blood platelets and procoagulant factors. A subset of smooth muscle cells express macrophage receptors and internalize lipoproteins to become foam cells. Fibrous fatty lesions are less likely to regress than fatty streaks. Figure 4. Features of the stable fibrous plaque. As the cell volume of the intima increases, there is vascular remodeling so that the lumen is only partially occluded, substantially lessening clinical events resulting from occlusion. The stable plaque contains a generous fibrous cap composed of layers of smooth muscle cells ensconced in a substantial extracellular matrix network of collagen, proteoglycans, and elastin. The thick fibrous cap of the stable plaque provides an effective barrier preventing plaque rupture and exposure of lesion prothrombotic factors to blood, thereby limiting thrombus formation and clinical events. Maintenance of a thick fibrous cap is enabled by regulation of the inflammatory status of the foam cell core of the lesion. Regulatory T (T-reg) cells produce transforming growth factor-β (TGF-β) and IL-10. In addition, T-reg cells inhibit antigen-specific activation of T helper 1 (Th-1) cell to produce interferon gamma (IFNg). Increased TGF-β and IL-10 and decreased IFNg reduce the proinflammatory macrophage phenotype leading to reduced cell death, effective efferocytosis (phagocytosis of dead cells), and anti-inflammatory cytokine production (i.e. TGF-β, IL-10). Thus, stable plaques have small necrotic cores containing macrophage debris and extracellular lipid resulting from secondary necrosis of noninternalized apoptotic macrophage foam cells. The production of TGF-β by T-reg cells and macrophages maintains fibrous cap quality by being a potent stimulator of collagen production in smooth muscle cells. Vulnerable Plaque Formation and Rupture The advanced atherosclerotic lesion is essentially a nonresolving inflammatory condition leading to formation of the vulnerable plaque, increasing the risk of plaque rupture. The
