The Role of Lipids and Lipoproteins in Atherosclerosis
KEYWORDS: hdl, cholesterol, levels, cells, risk, ldl, atherosclerosis, cell, figure, ldl-c, increased, lipoproteins, macrophages, cardiovascular, studies


cells. Vulnerable Plaque Formation and Rupture The advanced atherosclerotic lesion is essentially a nonresolving inflammatory condition leading to formation of the vulnerable plaque, increasing the risk of plaque rupture. The vulnerable plaque is characterized by two fundamental morphological changes: 1) Formation of a necrotic core and 2) Thinning of the fibrous cap. Sections of the atheroma with a deteriorated fibrous cap are subject to rupture ( Figures 4 and 5 ) ( 168 , 169 ). A recent lipidomics study showed that stable versus unstable plaques have different lipid subspecies profiles ( 170 ). Compared to plasma and control arteries, stable plaques have increased CE containing polyunsaturated fatty acids ( 170 ), which have increased susceptibility to oxidation. The CE containing polyunsaturated fatty acids are decreased in unstable plaques compared to stable plaques of the same subjects ( 170 ). In addition, 18:0 containing lysophosphatidylcholine is increased in unstable plaques indicating enhanced oxidation ( 170 ). Plaque rupture leads to acute exposure of procoagulant and prothrombotic factors from the necrotic core of the lesion to platelets and procoagulant factors in the lumen, thereby causing thrombus formation ( Figure 5 ) ( 168 , 169 ). Thrombus formation at sites of plaque rupture accounts for the majority of clinical events with acute occlusive luminal thrombosis causing myocardial infarction, unstable angina, sudden cardiac death, and stroke ( 168 , 169 ). Figure 5. Formation of the vulnerable plaque. The vulnerable plaque results from a heightened, unresolved inflammatory status of the lesion foam cell core. Antigen-specific activation of T helper 1 (Th-1) cells produces interferon gamma (IFNg) resulting in a proinflammatory macrophage phenotype. The proinflammatory macrophage foam cells exhibit enhanced inflammatory cytokine secretion and apoptosis susceptibility. There is less secretion of the anti-inflammatory cytokines, TGF-β and IL-10. In addition, proinflammatory macrophages have impaired atheroprotective functions including cholesterol efflux and efferocytosis. The defective efferocytosis of inflammatory apoptotic macrophages results in secondary necrosis leading to an enlarged necrotic core composed of leaked oxidative and inflammatory components. This unresolved inflammation causes thinning of the fibrous cap resulting from increased smooth muscle cell death, enhanced extracellular matrix degradation and decreased extracellular matrix production. Areas of thin fibrous cap are prone to rupture exposing prothrombotic components to platelets and procoagulation factors leading to thrombus formation and clinical events. Macrophage Cell Death and Efferocytosis Influence Plaque Stability The necrotic core results from a combination of accelerated macrophage death and
