The Role of Lipids and Lipoproteins in Atherosclerosis
KEYWORDS: hdl, cholesterol, levels, cells, risk, ldl, atherosclerosis, cell, figure, ldl-c, increased, lipoproteins, macrophages, cardiovascular, studies


and procoagulation factors leading to thrombus formation and clinical events. Macrophage Cell Death and Efferocytosis Influence Plaque Stability The necrotic core results from a combination of accelerated macrophage death and impaired efferocytosis (receptor-mediated phagocytosis of apoptotic cells) ( Figure 5 ) ( 171 , 172 ). As apoptotic cells accumulate and fail to be internalized by phagocytes, they undergo secondary necrotic death leading to the leakage of intracellular oxidative and inflammatory components, which then propagate more inflammation, oxidative stress, and death in neighboring cells ( Figure 5 ) ( 173 ). Multiple triggers likely occur in lesions to accelerate macrophage death, including oxidative stress, death receptor activation, and nutrient deprivation ( 174 ). Prolonged ER stress and activation of the unfolded protein response (UPR) contribute to macrophage apoptosis as substantiated by studies showing that apoptosis and the UPR effector, CHOP, increase with each stage of atherosclerosis in humans, but the largest increase is observed in the vulnerable plaque ( 175 ). In diabetes and obesity, accelerated formation of an enlarged necrotic core is likely instigated by defective macrophage insulin signaling ( 176 ) and saturated fatty acids ( 177 , 178 ), which are potent inducers of ER stress. In addition, other triggers act in tandem with ER stress to accelerate apoptosis. In particular, activation of toll-like receptors (TLR) (TLR2 and TLR4) and scavenger receptors (CD36 and SR-A) by oxidized phospholipids induces apoptotic signaling ( 178 - 181 ). Death is also accelerated by simultaneous suppression of survival pathways such as pAkt and NF‐κB via these same receptors. Accelerated apoptotic macrophage death is not sufficient to promote necrosis. Apoptotic cells undergo secondary necrotic death if they are not internalized by phagocyte efferocytosis receptors. Necrotic death leads to the leakage of intracellular oxidative and inflammatory components, which then propagate more inflammation, oxidative stress, and death in neighboring cells ( Figure 5 ) ( 173 ). The presence of necrotic tissue together with apoptosis is consistent with defective efferocytosis in human plaques. Studies have shown that the majority of apoptotic cells are free in advanced human lesions, whereas in tonsils apoptotic cells are macrophage-associated ( 182 ). Efferocytosis also becomes defective in advanced atherosclerosis through several different mechanisms. First, accumulating evidence has shown that the expression and function of key efferocytosis receptors, MerTK ( 183 ), LRP1 ( 184 ), and SR-BI ( 185 ) are impaired in advanced atherosclerosis. These receptors
