The Role of Lipids and Lipoproteins in Atherosclerosis
KEYWORDS: hdl, cholesterol, levels, cells, risk, ldl, atherosclerosis, cell, figure, ldl-c, increased, lipoproteins, macrophages, cardiovascular, studies


shown that the expression and function of key efferocytosis receptors, MerTK ( 183 ), LRP1 ( 184 ), and SR-BI ( 185 ) are impaired in advanced atherosclerosis. These receptors recognize apoptotic cell ligands such as phosphatidylserine ( 185 , 186 ). and efferocytosis efficiency is enhanced by bridging molecules such as apoE and MFG-E8 that interact with efferocytosis receptors to enhance their efficiency and also have reduced expression in advanced lesions ( 186 - 190 ). Compared to apoE3, apoE4 is defective at facilitating efferocytosis of apoptotic cells ( 191 ). Efferocytosis via LRP1 ( 187 ) and SR-BI ( 185 ) also stimulates signaling pathways leading to pAkt production to promote phagocyte survival. In addition, anti-inflammatory signaling ( 185 , 192 ) is activated so that phagocytes secrete TGF-β and IL-10 ( Figures 4 and 5 ). In addition, efferocytosis may be limited by competition for apoptotic cell binding. For example, oxPLs bind efferocytosis receptors and effectively compete for apoptotic cell recognition. In addition, lesional autoantibodies to oxPL and oxLDL are able to bind to ligands on the apoptotic cell themselves in order to prevent their binding and ingestion. Finally, apoptotic cells in advanced lesions appear to become poor substrates for efferocytosis. CD47, which typically acts as a “don’t eat me” signal expressed by live cells, is upregulated by apoptotic cells within human and murine atherosclerotic plaques, allowing them to evade uptake by phagocytes. When given to atheroprone Apoe -/- mice, a CD47-blocking antibody enhanced lesional efferocytosis and resulted in smaller necrotic cores ( 193 ). Similarly, mice that express low levels of the “eat me” signal, calreticulin, have increased necrotic cores compared to control mice and apoptotic cells from these mice demonstrate resistance to uptake by phagocytes ( 194 ). Components of the necrotic core promote thinning of the fibrous cap. Loss of extracellular matrix is in part due to death of fibrous cap smooth muscle cells, resulting from macrophage-derived Fas receptor ligand ( 195 ), inflammatory cytokines ( 196 ), and oxidation products ( Figure 5 ) ( 197 , 198 ). Smooth muscle cells are inefficient at efferocytosis ( 199 ) relying on macrophages to internalize apoptotic smooth muscle cells. As such, the impaired efferocytosis by lesional macrophages likely leads to uncontrolled VSMC death ( Figure 5 ). In addition, impaired production of TGF-β by phagocytes ( 185 , 200 ) reduces collagen production by
