The Role of Lipids and Lipoproteins in Atherosclerosis
KEYWORDS: hdl, cholesterol, levels, cells, risk, ldl, atherosclerosis, cell, figure, ldl-c, increased, lipoproteins, macrophages, cardiovascular, studies


by lesional macrophages likely leads to uncontrolled VSMC death ( Figure 5 ). In addition, impaired production of TGF-β by phagocytes ( 185 , 200 ) reduces collagen production by healthy smooth muscle cells ( Figures 4 and 5 ). The extracellular matrix components are degraded by macrophage-derived matrix metalloproteinases, ( 201 - 203 ) elastases, and cathepsins ( Figure 5 ) ( 204 ). HDL can reduce VSMC apoptosis and elastin degradation induced by elastases ( 143 , 205 ). Importantly, HDL can prevent efferocyte apoptosis via ER stress by its cholesterol efflux and anti-oxidant functions ( 179 , 206 , 207 ). Furthermore, HDL drives conversion to the anti-inflammatory M2 macrophages which have enhanced efferocytosis ability compared to inflammatory M1 macrophages ( 56 , 208 ) leading to increased plaque stability. Once plaque rupture occurs, critical HDL functions may also include prevention of platelet activation and thrombus formation. In addition to the role of HDL in stabilizing plaques, recent studies have focused on the lesional loss of specialized proresolving mediators (SPM) versus proinflammatory factors (i.e. leukotriene B 4 ) in promoting uncontrolled inflammation and formation of vulnerable plaques ( 209 ). Studies on human atherosclerotic lesions have shown that unstable versus stable plaques have decreased lipid-derived SPM including resolvin D1 and lipoxin A 4 ( 210 ). In addition, resolving D1 treatment of Ldlr -/- mice with established atherosclerosis increased lesional efferocytosis and collagen content and reduced the necrotic area and reactive oxygen species content ( 210 ). Similar results were observed in Apoe -/- mice treated with the phospholipase D derived proresolving lipid, palmitoylethanolamide ( 211 ). Other lipid derived resolving mediators which impact atherosclerotic plaques include maresin 1 and resolvin D2 ( 212 ). Protein SPM have also been identified including annexin 1 and IL-10 ( 209 ). Administration of lesion targeting nanoparticles containing the bioactive annexin 1 peptide, Ac2-26, to Ldlr -/- mice with atherosclerosis reduced both lesional oxidative stress and necrosis while increasing collagen content and fibrous cap thickness ( 213 ). Enhancing the lesional IL-10 content also improved atherosclerotic lesion stability ( 214 ). In addition, Treg cells likely control atherosclerotic lesion inflammation resolution as recent studies demonstrated that Treg cells regulate efferocytosis in atherosclerotic lesions by secreting IL-13 to stimulate macrophage production of IL-10 to induce Vav-1 activation of Rac1 and increased efferocytosis ( 215 ). Summary Atherosclerotic lesions initiate with endothelial
