The Role of Lipids and Lipoproteins in Atherosclerosis
KEYWORDS: hdl, cholesterol, levels, cells, risk, ldl, atherosclerosis, cell, figure, ldl-c, increased, lipoproteins, macrophages, cardiovascular, studies


in atherosclerotic lesions by secreting IL-13 to stimulate macrophage production of IL-10 to induce Vav-1 activation of Rac1 and increased efferocytosis ( 215 ). Summary Atherosclerotic lesions initiate with endothelial cell dysfunction causing modification of apoB containing lipoproteins (LDL, VLDL, remnants) and infiltration of immune cells, particularly monocytes, into the subendothelial space ( Figure 1 ). The macrophages internalize the retained apoB containing lipoproteins to become foam cells forming the fatty streak ( Figure 1 ). Macrophage inflammatory pathways are also activated leading to increased oxidative stress and enhanced cytokine/chemokine secretion, causing more LDL/remnant oxidation, endothelial cell activation, monocyte recruitment, and foam cell formation ( Figure 1 ). HDL, apoA-I, and endogenous apoE reduce lesion formation by preventing endothelial cell activation, inflammation, and oxidative stress and also by promoting cholesterol efflux from foam cells. As the lesion progresses to fibrotic plaques as a result of continued inflammation, macrophage chemoattractants stimulate infiltration and proliferation of smooth muscle cells ( Figure 3 ). Smooth muscle cells produce the extracellular matrix providing a stable fibrous barrier between plaque prothrombotic factors and platelets ( Figure 4 ). Unresolved inflammation results in formation of vulnerable plaques, which have large necrotic cores and a thinning fibrous cap ( Figure 5 ). Enhanced macrophage apoptosis and defective efferocytosis of apoptotic cells results in necrotic cell death causing heightened inflammation leading to increased smooth cell death, decreased extracellular matrix production, and collagen degradation by macrophage proteases. An imbalance between inflammatory factors and SPMs is prominent in facilitating formation of the vulnerable plaque. Rupture of the thinning fibrous cap promotes thrombus formation resulting in clinical ischemic cardiovascular events ( Figure 5 ). THE ROLE OF CHOLESTEROL AND LIPOPROTEINS IN ATHEROGENESIS Metabolism of ApoB Containing Lipoproteins Apolipoprotein B (apoB) occurs in two isoforms, apoB100 and apoB48. ApoB100 is the main structural apolipoprotein of low-density lipoproteins (LDL), and there is only one molecule of apoB100 per LDL particle ( 216 ). ApoB100 is produced mainly by the liver, where it is required for the synthesis and secretion of triglyceride-rich very low-density lipoprotein (VLDL) particles ( Figure 6 ). In the circulation, VLDL is metabolized to the cholesteryl ester-enriched intermediate low-density lipoprotein (IDL) and LDL particles through the progressive hydrolysis of triglycerides by lipoprotein lipase (LPL) and hepatic lipase ( Figure 6 ). In humans, apoB48 is produced exclusively in the intestine through an unique RNA editing mechanism by the apobec-1 enzyme
