The Role of Lipids and Lipoproteins in Atherosclerosis
KEYWORDS: hdl, cholesterol, levels, cells, risk, ldl, atherosclerosis, cell, figure, ldl-c, increased, lipoproteins, macrophages, cardiovascular, studies


by lipoprotein lipase (LPL) and hepatic lipase ( Figure 6 ). In humans, apoB48 is produced exclusively in the intestine through an unique RNA editing mechanism by the apobec-1 enzyme complex ( 217 ). ApoB100 is the full-length protein, which contains 4536 amino acids, whereas apoB48 contains the first 48% of the amino terminal amino acids. ApoB48 is required for the synthesis and secretion of triglyceride-rich chylomicrons, which play a critical role in the intestinal absorption of dietary fats and fat-soluble vitamins. Similar to the metabolism of VLDL, chylomicrons are metabolized in the circulation through the hydrolysis of triglycerides by LPL and hepatic lipase to form cholesteryl ester-enriched chylomicron remnants, which release free fatty acids that can be used for energy by the tissues. Figure 6. Metabolism of ApoB100 containing lipoproteins. ApoB100 is critical for the production and secretion of very low-density lipoprotein (VLDL) by the liver. Plasma VLDL is metabolized to cholesteryl ester-enriched intermediate low-density lipoprotein (IDL) and LDL particles via hydrolysis of triglycerides by lipoprotein lipase (LPL) and hepatic lipase (HL). In addition, cholesteryl ester transfer protein (CETP) transfers CE from HDL to VLDL in exchange for triglyceride (TG) to HDL. ApoCII and apoCIII are transferred from HDL to VLDL and act as an activator or inhibitor of LPL activity, respectively. ApoB100 is the ligand for hepatic LDL receptor-mediated clearance of LDL. VLDL acquires apoE from HDL, and apoE mediates the clearance of triglyceride-enriched remnants and IDL. In addition, HDL can directly transfer cholesterol to liver via interaction with SR-BI. VLDL and IDL remnants can induce foam cell formation by internalization via apoE receptors on macrophages. LDL, IDL, and VLDL can be modified (oxidation, glycation) and internalized by a number of macrophage receptors including scavenger receptors and lectin-like receptors. HDL and lipid-poor apoA-I reduce foam cell formation by stimulating cholesterol efflux. Static measurements of cholesterol in the LDL pool (LDL-C) represent the steady state of production of VLDL, its metabolism to LDL, and the receptor-mediated clearance of LDL by the LDL receptor (LDLR). Mutations in the Ldlr gene are the most common cause of familial hypercholesterolemia (FH), an autosomal dominant disorder associated with elevated levels of LDL-C and increased risk for premature cardiovascular disease ( 218 ). ApoB100 serves as the ligand for receptor-mediated clearance of LDL by the liver ( Figure 6 ). In contrast, apoE mediates the clearance of triglyceride-rich remnants (IDL and chylomicron remnants) either
