The Role of Lipids and Lipoproteins in Atherosclerosis
KEYWORDS: hdl, cholesterol, levels, cells, risk, ldl, atherosclerosis, cell, figure, ldl-c, increased, lipoproteins, macrophages, cardiovascular, studies


serves as the ligand for receptor-mediated clearance of LDL by the liver ( Figure 6 ). In contrast, apoE mediates the clearance of triglyceride-rich remnants (IDL and chylomicron remnants) either through the LDLR or the remnant receptor pathway ( Figure 6 ). The existence of the remnant receptor pathway was suggested by the fact that patients with homozygous FH, who completely lack LDLR function, have severely elevated levels of LDL-C but normal blood levels of triglycerides. The clearance of these remnant lipoproteins involves binding to heparin sulfate proteoglycans and the LDLR like protein -1 (LRP1) in the hepatic space of Disse, in a process called secretion capture that requires local enrichment by hepatic expression of apoE ( 96 , 219 ). The Cholesterol Hypothesis Studies by Anitschkow showing that feeding cholesterol in oil to rabbits caused the formation of atheroma, similar to those seen in humans, demonstrated a causal role of cholesterol in the pathogenesis of atherosclerosis in 1913 ( 220 ). In 1939, Muller described families with inherited high cholesterol and increased risk for cardiovascular disease ( 221 ). Yet it would take several decades before compelling evidence from epidemiological studies, such as Framingham ( 221 ) and MRFIT ( 222 ), demonstrated that elevated blood cholesterol levels were associated with increased risk of cardiovascular events (CVE). Subsequently, LDL-C levels were found to be directly associated with CVE ( 223 ); whereas HDL-C levels were shown to be inversely related to risk of CVE ( 224 ). The Seven Countries Studies by Ancel Keys showed that coronary heart disease (CHD) mortality rates were higher in countries with higher blood levels of cholesterol (e.g. Finland, Norway, and the USA) than in countries of southern Europe and Japan with lower blood levels of cholesterol ( 225 ). The high levels of cholesterol were proposed to be associated with the amount of saturated fat in the diet. As such, the cholesterol hypothesis was born, proposing that lowering LDL-C would reduce CVE ( 226 ). Response to Retention Hypothesis for the Initiation of Atherosclerosis The response to retention hypothesis holds that retention of atherogenic lipoproteins in the artery wall is a critical initiating event that sparks an inflammatory response and promotes the development of atherosclerosis ( Figure 1 ). First articulated in 1995 by Williams and Tabas ( 227 ), the hypothesis was based on more than two decades of work demonstrating that
