The Role of Lipids and Lipoproteins in Atherosclerosis
KEYWORDS: hdl, cholesterol, levels, cells, risk, ldl, atherosclerosis, cell, figure, ldl-c, increased, lipoproteins, macrophages, cardiovascular, studies


of atherosclerosis ( Figure 1 ). First articulated in 1995 by Williams and Tabas ( 227 ), the hypothesis was based on more than two decades of work demonstrating that apoB-containing lipoproteins are retained in the artery wall by interaction with proteoglycans ( 228 , 229 ). Proteoglycans consist of a protein core bound covalently to one or more glycosaminoglycans (GAGs). The most common proteoglycans in the artery wall are decorin, biglycan, perlecan, versican, and syndecan-4 ( 230 ). There is ionic binding between the positively charged GAGs and negatively charged amino acids of apoB100 ( 229 ). Boren et al. identified the principal proteoglycan-binding site in LDL and showed that a single point mutation in apoB100 impaired binding to proteoglycans ( 231 ). The major proteoglycan binding site consists of residues 3359-3369 in apoB100 (site B), which is in the C-terminal half of apoB100. Furthermore, mutation of “site B” in mice resulted in reduced retention of apoB100 in the artery wall and reduced atherosclerosis, providing in vivo support for the response to retention hypothesis ( 232 ). Subsequently, proteoglycan binding sites were identified for apoB48 ( 233 ) and a second site (site A) on apoB100, which is exposed when LDL is modified by secreted phospholipase A2 (sPLA2), forming a small dense LDL particle ( 234 ). Surprisingly, native LDL, despite the strong evidence for its critical role in promoting atherosclerosis, does not induce macrophage foam cell formation or much in the way of inflammation in vitro . These observations led to the hypothesis that LDL has to be modified to promote foam cell formation and induce inflammation. Binding of proteoglycans induces structural changes in LDL impacting both the configuration of apoB100 and the lipid composition ( 234 ). Hence, the binding of LDL to proteoglycans makes the LDL more susceptible to oxidation and aggregation, which promotes foam cell formation and a proinflammatory response, and the process is self-perpetuating. Oxidized LDL (oxLDL) can induce further production of proteoglycans by vascular smooth muscle cells, retaining more LDL in the arterial wall. Furthermore, macrophages express LPL, which can serve as bridging molecules, binding both lipoproteins and proteoglycans ( 235 , 236 ). Consistent with an important role for LPL in atherogenesis, the loss of macrophage LPL expression protects mice from atherosclerosis ( 237 , 238 ). In addition, macrophages secrete sphingomyelinase, which has been reported to act synergistically with LPL to
