The Role of Lipids and Lipoproteins in Atherosclerosis
KEYWORDS: hdl, cholesterol, levels, cells, risk, ldl, atherosclerosis, cell, figure, ldl-c, increased, lipoproteins, macrophages, cardiovascular, studies


the loss of macrophage LPL expression protects mice from atherosclerosis ( 237 , 238 ). In addition, macrophages secrete sphingomyelinase, which has been reported to act synergistically with LPL to promote binding of LDL and lipoprotein (a) (Lp(a)) to vascular smooth muscle cells (VSMC) and the extracellular matrix promoting their retention in the artery ( 239 , 240 ). Furthermore, sphingomyelinase induces aggregation and fusion of LDL particles, promoting increased binding to proteoglycans and induces foam cell formation ( 241 ). Thus, interfering with the retention of apoB-containing lipoproteins in the artery wall is a potential strategy for preventing atherosclerosis. Oxidation of phospholipids and proteins in lipoproteins and their role in atherosclerosis Overview The response to retention hypothesis for the initiation of atherosclerosis posits that retention of LDL in the artery wall leads to its modification into highly atherogenic particles that initiate inflammatory responses. A key overall point is that retention of LDL leads to oxidative modification of LDL, allowing this oxidized LDL (oxLDL) to be recognized by scavenger receptors on macrophages and other cells. Uptake of oxLDL by macrophages leads to marked accumulation of cholesterol, converting them to foam cells and initiating development of atherosclerotic lesions. In addition to serving as a substrate for cholesterol accumulation, oxLDL exerts a wide range of bioactivities that are consistent with it being critical for driving atherogenesis ( Table 1 ). In mouse models, loss of enzymes that modulate LDL oxidation increases atherosclerosis, and dietary antioxidants that reduce levels of oxLDL also inhibit atherosclerosis. Although human trials with dietary antioxidants have failed to reduce disease outcomes, it is important to recognize that these interventions are less efficacious in reducing oxLDL levels in humans than in rodent models. Additional studies are needed to determine optimal interventions for lowering oxLDL levels and whether such interventions will be effective for preventing or treating atherosclerosis. Table 1 -Potential Atherogenic Activities of Oxidized LDL (oxLDL) View in own window Macrophages Smooth muscle cells Serves as ligand for recognition by scavenger receptors 256, 257, 258 Induces proliferation, migration, and transition to inflammatory phenotype 276, 277, 278, 279 Serves as substrate for unregulated cholesterol uptake 262 Induces expression and secretion of inflammatory cytokines 280, 281, 282, 283 Lymphocytes Induces polarization to M1 (minimally oxidized LDL) or M2-phenotype (highly oxidized LDL) 284 Serves as a neo-antigen 274 Inhibits egress from atherosclerotic lesions 289 Induces chemotaxis 275 Induces macrophage apoptosis and rupture
