The Role of Lipids and Lipoproteins in Atherosclerosis
KEYWORDS: hdl, cholesterol, levels, cells, risk, ldl, atherosclerosis, cell, figure, ldl-c, increased, lipoproteins, macrophages, cardiovascular, studies


of a variety of reactive lipid aldehydes and oxidized phospholipids that convert these lipoproteins to atherogenic particles. Reactive lipid species include malondialdehyde (MDA), isolevuglandins (IsoLG), methyglyoxal (MGO), 4-oxononenal (ONE), and 4-hydroxynonenal (HNE). Oxidized phospholipids include 1-palmitoyl-2-oxovaleroyl-sn-glycero-3-phosphorylcholine (POVPC), 1-O-alkyl-2-azelaoyl-sn-glycero-3-phophorylcholine (azPAF), 1-(Palmitoyl)-2-(5-keto-6-octene-dioyl) phosphatidylcholine (KOdiA-PC), 1-palmitoyl-2-F2-isoprostane-sn-glycero-3-phosphocholine (F2IsoP-PC), and 1-palmitoyl-2-( 5 , 6 )-epoxyisoprostane E2-sn-glycero-3-phosphocholine (PEIPC). It is critical to keep in mind that oxidatively modified LDLs (oxLDLs) are in fact highly heterogeneous and complex particles, even though oxLDL is usually referred to as a discrete entity. Oxidation of LDL in vitro has been used extensively to study the biological activities of oxLDL, but, even here, the actual species present varies significantly based on the oxidation method (exposure to air, to copper, or to oxidases) and length of oxidation. Many of the methods commonly used to measure the concentration of oxLDL in vivo only measure general characteristics of oxLDL. For instance, because the reaction of reactive lipid species with lysine residues of ApoB100 converts LDL from a positively charged particle to a negatively charged particle, oxLDL is often detected by increased mobility during agarose gel electrophoresis. Alternatively, oxLDL in plasma and other tissues can be quantified by the immunoreactivity of the natural IgM autoantibody E06. However, while E06 recognizes a variety of oxidized phosphatidylcholines, it does not necessarily recognize all oxPL equally. Therefore, equivalent E06 immunoreactivity does not necessarily mean exposure to identical oxLDL particles. While modification of LDL with malondialdehyde (MDA-LDL) ( 248 ) is often used as a model of oxLDL for bioactivity assays, modification of LDL by other reactive lipid species can exert unique effects from MDA-LDL, and MDA-LDL does not include any of the various oxPL species. Therefore, it is important to keep in mind that in vivo oxLDL is a mixture of many different compounds and that the atherogenic activities of oxLDL represent the net cellular responses to the full range of compounds present. While oxLDL has been studied in greatest detail, all lipoproteins are vulnerable to oxidation at least in vitro, and this oxidative modification alters their biological activities in ways that may be atherogenic. The species of plasma lipoprotein that has the highest content of oxidized phospholipids (oxPL) depends on the species of oxPL under consideration. This suggests that not all oxPL are formed in situ on the lipoprotein where they are found and might instead be transferred from other lipoproteins or tissues. Lp(a) is the major
