The Role of Lipids and Lipoproteins in Atherosclerosis
KEYWORDS: hdl, cholesterol, levels, cells, risk, ldl, atherosclerosis, cell, figure, ldl-c, increased, lipoproteins, macrophages, cardiovascular, studies


suggests that not all oxPL are formed in situ on the lipoprotein where they are found and might instead be transferred from other lipoproteins or tissues. Lp(a) is the major carrier in plasma of oxPLs that are detected by E06 immunoreactivity ( 249 ) and these oxPLs associate with Lp(a) in preference to native LDL particles in human plasma ( 250 ). E06 immunoreactive oxPL generated in chemically oxidized LDL can rapidly transfer to Lp(a) ( 249 ), so the high content of these lipids in Lp(a) isolated from human plasma may be due either to direct oxidation of Lp(a) or by transfer of the oxPL from oxLDL to Lp(a). In LDL and Lp(a) isolated from human plasma, levels of MDA-modified lysine (based on E014 immunoreactivity) are higher in LDL than Lp(a), while E06 immunoreactivity is much greater for Lp(a) than for LDL ( 249 ). Because MDA-modified proteins do not readily transfer between particles, these findings suggest that oxidation initially occurs in LDL with subsequent transfer of oxPL to Lp(a). Thus, a physiological role has been proposed for Lp(a) in binding and transporting oxPL in the plasma ( 251 ). Unlike oxPL detected by E06 immunoreactivity that are highest in Lp(a), the F 2 -IsoP-phospholipids forms of oxPL are highest in HDL ( 252 ). As with Lp(a), the high levels of these oxPLs in HDL may well be the result of transfer from other oxidized lipoproteins and tissues. Because oxidation is unlikely to occur in the circulation, the rate that oxPL are transferred from tissue to various plasma lipoproteins could potentially be an important determinant of the risk for atherosclerosis. Significant correlations have been found between levels of oxLDL and extent of atherosclerosis in human patients. Measurement of oxLDL using E06 antibody showed that: 1) significant elevation of oxLDL in acute coronary syndromes ( 250 ), 2) treatment with a statin markedly reduced these levels ( 253 ), 3) oxLDL levels are higher in children with familial hypercholesterolemia compared to their siblings ( 254 ), and 4) oxLDL levels predict the presence and progression of atherosclerosis and symptomatic cardiovascular disease ( 255 ). Measurement of oxLDL using antibodies against MDA-LDL found that oxLDL were elevated in patients with coronary artery disease (CAD) ( 256 ), that elevated levels of oxLDL predicted future cardiac events in diabetic patients with CAD, that oxLDL were particularly elevated in patients with rheumatoid
