The Role of Lipids and Lipoproteins in Atherosclerosis
KEYWORDS: hdl, cholesterol, levels, cells, risk, ldl, atherosclerosis, cell, figure, ldl-c, increased, lipoproteins, macrophages, cardiovascular, studies


coronary artery disease (CAD) ( 256 ), that elevated levels of oxLDL predicted future cardiac events in diabetic patients with CAD, that oxLDL were particularly elevated in patients with rheumatoid arthritis and CAD compared to either alone ( 257 ), and that treatment with fibrates decreased levels of oxLDL ( 258 ). Thus, there is a clear correlation between the presence of oxLDL and cardiovascular disease. Mechanisms of Lipoprotein Oxidation In Vitro And In Vivo The precise mechanisms that generate oxidized lipoproteins in vivo are still only partially understood. LDL circulating in the plasma appears to be protected from oxidation, both by dietary antioxidants such as vitamin E and C ( 259 ) and by protective enzymes including glutathione peroxidases ( 260 , 261 ), peroxiredoxins, PAF-acetylhydrolase (also known as lipoprotein-PLA2) ( 262 , 263 ), and paraoxonases (PON) ( 264 , 265 ). Penetration of LDL into the artery wall occurs at branch points in the aorta and other places with turbulent flow and shear stress. Retention of LDL in the intima, due to interactions with extracellular matrix such as chondroitin sulfate-rich proteoglycans, sequesters LDL away from the antioxidant environment of the plasma and exposes LDL to oxidation. A variety of oxidases and peroxidases generate strong oxidants that can readily oxidize LDL. These include myeloperoxidase (MPO) ( 266 ), xanthine oxidase (XO) ( 267 ), NADPH oxidases (NOXs) ( 268 ), and inducible nitric oxide synthase (iNOS) ( 269 ). Oxygenases such as lipoxygenases (LOX) have also been shown to oxidize LDL in vitro ( 270 , 271 ). The extent that each of these enzymes contributes to lipoprotein oxidation in vivo and thus to atherosclerosis remains to be fully elucidated, and there is much we do not understand about these individual processes. This is illustrated by studies on MPO and the 12/15-Lipoxygenase, the two enzymes most closely linked to lipoprotein oxidation. MYELOPEROXIDASE (MPO) MPO released from activated neutrophils (and to a lesser extent from monocytes/macrophages) can accumulate in the subintimal space of the artery wall( 272 ), so neutrophil activation indirectly increases the chance for lipoprotein oxidation. Increased plasma levels of MPO correlate with increased levels of oxLDL in hypercholesterolemic children ( 273 ). Increased MPO blood levels also associate with increased risk for atherosclerosis ( 274 - 277 ) and polymorphisms in the MPO gene that lower MPO activity reduce the risk for atherosclerosis ( 278 ,
