The Role of Lipids and Lipoproteins in Atherosclerosis
KEYWORDS: hdl, cholesterol, levels, cells, risk, ldl, atherosclerosis, cell, figure, ldl-c, increased, lipoproteins, macrophages, cardiovascular, studies


also associate with increased risk for atherosclerosis ( 274 - 277 ) and polymorphisms in the MPO gene that lower MPO activity reduce the risk for atherosclerosis ( 278 , 279 ). Incubation of lipoproteins with MPO generates oxidized phospholipids that serve as ligands for CD36( 280 ). A putative binding site for MPO with the apoB of LDL has been identified ( 281 ), although further verification is needed. Of interest, MPO also associates with HDL via binding to ApoAI and PON1 in a ternary complex ( 282 ), so that the binding of MPO to HDL and subsequent generation of reactive oxygen species may account for the high levels of oxidized lipids carried by HDL. Association of MPO with HDL leads to modification of tyrosine 71 of paraoxonase, reducing PON1 activity ( 282 ). It also generates reactive lipid dicarbonyls such as isolevuglandins that modify ApoAI ( 283 ) and phosphatidylethanolamine ( 284 ). In the presence of small molecules that scavenge lipid dicarbonyls, the ability of MPO to crosslink ApoAI is markedly reduced ( 283 ). Modification of HDL by lipid dicarbonyls such as isolevuglandins and MDA reduce its ability to drive cholesterol efflux from macrophages and protect against inflammatory stimuli such as LPS ( 283 , 285 ). Mouse models have been used to directly examine the contribution of MPO to atherosclerosis, although these studies carry the caveat that mouse MPO levels are only 10-20% that of humans ( 286 , 287 ). Transplantation of bone marrow from genetically altered mice into atherosclerosis susceptible strains (e.g. Ldlr -/- and Apoe -/- mice) after lethal irradiation to ablate host hematopoietic cells is commonly used to study the effect of specific genes expressed by macrophages and other hematopoietic cells on atherogenesis ( 99 ). Reconstitution of Ldlr -/- mice with macrophages overexpressing MPO markedly increased their susceptibility to atherosclerosis ( 288 ). However, transplantation of MPO -/- macrophages into Ldlr -/- mice, also markedly increased atherosclerosis, and this was confirmed in MPO -/- / Ldlr -/- double knockout mice compared to MPO +/+ / Ldlr -/- controls ( 289 ). The reasons for these paradoxical findings with both MPO overexpression and deletion remain unclear. Perhaps the complete lack of MPO activity is harmful because it allows overgrowth of specific microbes that incite atherosclerosis via alternative mechanisms. In contrast to effects of complete ablation, a recently developed selective MPO
