The Role of Lipids and Lipoproteins in Atherosclerosis
KEYWORDS: hdl, cholesterol, levels, cells, risk, ldl, atherosclerosis, cell, figure, ldl-c, increased, lipoproteins, macrophages, cardiovascular, studies


of MPO activity is harmful because it allows overgrowth of specific microbes that incite atherosclerosis via alternative mechanisms. In contrast to effects of complete ablation, a recently developed selective MPO inhibitor (e.g. INV315) that only partially reduces MPO activity markedly reduced atherosclerosis in Apoe -/- mice ( 290 ). Thus, clinical studies with selective MPO inhibitors are needed to determine if this will be a meaningful therapeutic approach to the treatment of atherosclerosis in humans. 12/15-LIPOXYGENASES Although the primary substrates for lipoxygenases are non-esterified fatty acids, exposure of LDL to 15-LOX also leads to oxidation of phospholipids and cholesterol esters ( 270 , 271 ). In mice, the gene analogous to the human 15-LOX encodes a lipoxygenase that converts arachidonyl chains to both 12-HPETE and 15-HPETE and is thus a 12/15-LOX. 12/15-LOX -/- mice on Apoe -/- background have reduced atherosclerosis compared to Apoe -/- mice ( 291 ). Importantly, they also have lower levels of autoantibodies against oxLDL and MDA-LDL ( 291 ). These results support the notion that 12/15-LOX can directly contribute to atherosclerosis via LDL oxidation. Nevertheless, the role of 15-LOX in human atherogenesis is less clear-cut. While homozygotes of an Alox15 variant that almost completely ablates 15-LOX activity tended to have a reduced risk for coronary artery disease, heterozygotes paradoxically have increased risk of disease ( 292 ). Other polymorphisms in the Alox15 gene encoding 15-LOX increase risk for coronary artery calcification ( 293 ), yet others have no effect ( 294 ). Direct correlations between Alox15 polymorphisms and biochemical measurements of oxidized lipoproteins or oxPL and oxidized cholesterol esters have not been reported to date in humans, but are clearly needed. Biological Activities of OxLDL And Receptors That Mediate These Activities Perhaps the most important atherogenic effect of LDL oxidation is that this modification of LDL shifts recognition and internalization of the lipoprotein from the LDL receptor (LDLR) to scavenger receptors ( 295 - 297 ). While internalization of LDL by the LDLR in hepatocytes downregulates cholesterol synthesis to maintain cholesterol homeostasis, internalization of oxLDL by scavenger receptors fails to trigger this inhibition ( 298 , 299 , 300 ). Thus, cholesterol synthesis continues unabated despite the fact that peripheral cells are accumulating large amounts of cholesterol. In particular, macrophages express scavenger receptors and gluttonously take up large quantities oxLDL to form foam cells in the initial atherosclerotic lesion ( 301 ). OxLDL also activates
