The Role of Lipids and Lipoproteins in Atherosclerosis
KEYWORDS: hdl, cholesterol, levels, cells, risk, ldl, atherosclerosis, cell, figure, ldl-c, increased, lipoproteins, macrophages, cardiovascular, studies


of cholesterol. In particular, macrophages express scavenger receptors and gluttonously take up large quantities oxLDL to form foam cells in the initial atherosclerotic lesion ( 301 ). OxLDL also activates a number of cellular responses in macrophages, dendritic cells, endothelial cells, T cells, and smooth muscle cells that in aggregate promote inflammation, lesion formation, atherogenesis, and unstable atherosclerotic plaques ( 302 - 304 ). OxLDL induces surface expression of adhesion molecules and the release of chemokines from endothelial cells ( 305 - 311 ), all of which are important steps in recruitment of leukocytes to sites of lesions. Exposure to oxLDL activates dendritic cells so that they induce T-cell proliferation and production of IL-17 ( 312 ). OxLDL itself also serves as a neo-antigen ( 313 ). OxLDL also induces increased antibody generation by lymphocytes ( 314 ). OxLDL also promotes smooth muscle cell proliferation, migration, and transition to a proinflammatory phenotype ( 315 - 318 ). OxLDL induces secretion by macrophages of inflammatory cytokines (e.g. TNFα, IL-1, MCP-1, and IL-8) that activate other inflammatory cell types ( 319 - 322 ). OxLDL polarizes macrophages towards the M1-like phenotype or M2-like phenotype depending on its extent of oxidation ( 323 ). OxLDL promotes the chemotaxis of monocytes, neutrophils, eosinophils, and T cells ( 314 , 324 - 327 ), bringing them into the arterial wall. In contrast, oxLDL inhibits macrophage emigration out of atherosclerotic lesions, because it induces netrin-1 ( 328 ). OxLDL induces apoptosis of macrophages and development of unstable plaques prone to rupture ( 329 - 331 ). Thrombotic arterial occlusion in the aftermath of plaque rupture is a critical cause of mortality, therefore the fact that oxLDL increases platelet aggregation ( 332 - 335 ) suggests an additional mechanism whereby elevated circulating oxLDL may increase risk of mortality during acute coronary events ( 336 ). As discussed in detail below, identification of cognate receptors for various components of oxLDL and other oxidized lipoproteins has provided important insight into the mechanisms by which these oxidized lipoproteins exert their pathophysiological effects. MACROPHAGE SCAVENGER RECEPTOR (SR-AI) In 1979, Brown and Goldstein demonstrated that macrophages had specific binding sites for acetylated LDL (AcLDL) that allowed uptake of this modified LDL even in the presence of high cellular cholesterol levels ( 298 ). This was in contrast to LDL uptake by the LDLR, which is markedly downregulated when cellular cholesterol levels rise
