The Role of Lipids and Lipoproteins in Atherosclerosis
KEYWORDS: hdl, cholesterol, levels, cells, risk, ldl, atherosclerosis, cell, figure, ldl-c, increased, lipoproteins, macrophages, cardiovascular, studies


in the presence of high cellular cholesterol levels ( 298 ). This was in contrast to LDL uptake by the LDLR, which is markedly downregulated when cellular cholesterol levels rise ( Figure 2 ). Cholesterol synthesis is also downregulated by LDL uptake by LDLR ( 337 ). The lack of feedback inhibition during uptake of modified LDL by this unidentified receptor suggested a plausible mechanism for the massive accumulation of cholesterol in macrophages that generates foam cells. The putative receptor mediating this binding was named the macrophage scavenger receptor (MSR). Later, oxLDL ( 338 ) and MDA-LDL ( 248 ) were shown to compete with AcLDL for binding and uptake by macrophages, suggesting they were native ligands for MSR. In 1990, Kodama et al. purified and sequenced this scavenger receptor, allowing identification of the MSR gene ( 339 ). Through alternative gene splicing, this gene gives rise to Scavenger Receptor A–I (SR-AI), SRA-II, and SRA-III. Deletion of the MSR gene in C57BL6 mice fed butterfat diet substantially reduced atherosclerotic lesions and deletion of MSR in Ldlr -/- mice also reduced lesion formation ( 340 ). CD36 AND OTHER SCAVENGER RECEPTORS Subsequent work has shown that in addition to SR-AI, macrophages express a wide range of scavenger receptors that recognize oxidized lipoproteins including MARCO, scavenger receptor-B1, -B2, -B3 (CD36), and Lectin-like oxLDL Receptor-1 (LOX-1) ( 341 ). These scavenger receptors belong to a larger family of pattern recognition receptors, all of which are individually capable of binding to a wide spectrum of ligands. Quantitatively, SR-A1 and CD36 account for the vast majority of all oxLDL uptake by macrophages ( 342 ). The specific ligands of the two receptors on oxLDL appear to diverge ( 342 ). SR-AI appears to preferentially recognize more rigorously oxidized LDL and seems to primarily recognize modified lysine residues like MDA-lysines. In contrast, the primary ligands of CD36 on oxLDL appear to be oxidized phospholipids, in particular fragmented phosphatidylcholine including azPAF ( 243 ), POVPC ( 343 ) and KOdiA-PC ( 280 ). Apoe -/- mice lacking CD36 are more vulnerable to some bacterial infections ( 344 ) but also have less atherosclerosis when fed a high cholesterol diet ( 345 ). Recent findings suggest that SR-AI and other scavenger receptors have both pro- and anti-atherosclerotic effects, depending on the context. For instance, deletion of the MSR gene actually increased lesion size in male Apoe -/- mice
