The Role of Lipids and Lipoproteins in Atherosclerosis
KEYWORDS: hdl, cholesterol, levels, cells, risk, ldl, atherosclerosis, cell, figure, ldl-c, increased, lipoproteins, macrophages, cardiovascular, studies


and other scavenger receptors have both pro- and anti-atherosclerotic effects, depending on the context. For instance, deletion of the MSR gene actually increased lesion size in male Apoe -/- mice ( 346 ); however, deletion of both MSR and CD36 greatly reduces lesion complexity and vulnerable plaques, the most critical aspect of lesion development ( 347 ). The complex results of scavenger receptor deletion should not be surprising given that scavenger receptors have multiple ligands and that an important role of scavenger receptors expressed by macrophages is to allow these macrophages to remove bacteria and damaged cells from surrounding tissues. Under normal physiological conditions, uptake of oxLDL by macrophages is probably generally protective, because subsequent efflux of the cholesterol from the macrophages to HDL via reverse cholesterol transport as well as emigration of these macrophages from the arterial wall to lymph nodes serves to minimize the accumulation of cholesterol-laden macrophages in the arterial wall. However, under conditions where reverse cholesterol transport capacity is reduced or where emigration of macrophages is inhibited, uptake of oxLDL by macrophages leads to its accumulation and initiation of pathophysiological processes. TOLL-LIKE RECEPTORS AND OTHER TARGETS OF OXLDL In addition to scavenger receptors, other pattern recognition receptors also recognize components of oxLDL. Perhaps most important among these are the Toll-like Receptors (TLR) including TLR-2 ( 348 , 349 ), TLR-4 ( 350 ), TLR-6 ( 351 ), TLR-7 ( 352 ), and TLR-9 ( 352 ). TLRs can interact with scavenger receptors, for instance, CD36 forms complexes with TLR4 and TLR6 that recognize oxLDL and activate NFkappaB ( 351 ). While bacterial components such as bacterial lipopolysaccharide (LPS) are full agonists for TLRs, oxLDL components like POVPC often appear to act functionally as partial agonists of TLRs, so that activation of macrophages and dendritic cells by full agonists like LPS is reduced in the presence of oxLDL ( 353 , 354 ). In addition to TLRs, another important pattern recognition receptor for oxLDL is the receptor for advanced glycation end-products (RAGE) ( 355 ). Other factors of the innate immune response that bind oxidized phospholipids including C-reactive protein(CRP) ( 356 , 357 ) and natural IgM antibodies like E06 ( 358 , 359 ). While scavenger and pattern recognition receptors tend to recognize broad classes of compounds, a number of G-protein coupled receptors (GPCRs) recognize specific oxidized phospholipids. These include the receptor for platelet-activating factor (PAFR)
