The Role of Lipids and Lipoproteins in Atherosclerosis
KEYWORDS: hdl, cholesterol, levels, cells, risk, ldl, atherosclerosis, cell, figure, ldl-c, increased, lipoproteins, macrophages, cardiovascular, studies


and pattern recognition receptors tend to recognize broad classes of compounds, a number of G-protein coupled receptors (GPCRs) recognize specific oxidized phospholipids. These include the receptor for platelet-activating factor (PAFR) ( 360 - 362 ), prostaglandin receptor EP2 ( 363 , 364 ), and sphingosine-1-phosphate receptor 1 (S1P1) ( 365 ). Intracellular receptors for oxidized phospholipids include nuclear hormone receptors PPAR alpha ( 366 ) and PPAR gamma ( 243 ). Non-receptor, intracellular targets for oxLDL include c-SRC ( 367 ) and NRF-2 ( 368 , 369 ). Mechanisms Protecting Against LDL Oxidation In Vivo Given the susceptibility of LDL to oxidation, it is perhaps not surprising that a number of mechanisms appear to exist in order to protect LDL from oxidation. These include small molecule antioxidants circulating in plasma and enzymes that catabolize oxidized lipids. How essential each of these mechanisms are to the control of oxLDL levels and preventing the development of atherosclerosis remains an area of active investigation. Obviously, a better understanding of the relationship between changes in protective mechanism and atherogenesis might allow identification of particularly vulnerable individuals and the development of novel therapeutic approaches. SMALL MOLECUE ANTIOXIDANTS Circulating small molecule antioxidants such as ascorbate (vitamin C), alpha-tocopherol (vitamin E), urate, and bilirubin serve as sacrificial targets reacting with free radicals and reactive oxygen species to prevent lipid and protein oxidation. Thus, even when strong oxidants are added to plasma ex vivo, there is relatively little generation of oxLDL until the oxidants have depleted these small molecule antioxidants, most specifically ascorbate ( 370 ). Depletion of vitamin C and vitamin E increase atherosclerosis in Apoe -/- mice ( 371 ). Importantly, plasma ascorbate levels inversely correlate with prevalence of cardiovascular disease in humans ( 372 ). Supplementation with vitamin C appears to play a role in preventing endothelial dysfunction in humans ( 373 ). However, it is not clear that supplementing dietary antioxidants beyond those typically obtained in a well-balanced diet endows any additional atheroprotective effects. Supplementation with dietary antioxidants inhibits development of atherosclerosis in susceptible mice ( 374 - 378 ). While a few human trials with dietary antioxidants have demonstrated reduced atherosclerosis and cardiovascular disease ( 379 - 382 ), most large-scale trials have failed to demonstrate any disease reduction ( 383 - 387 ). The reasons underlying these failures continue to be investigated and debated ( 388 , 389 ). Because it had
