The Role of Lipids and Lipoproteins in Atherosclerosis
KEYWORDS: hdl, cholesterol, levels, cells, risk, ldl, atherosclerosis, cell, figure, ldl-c, increased, lipoproteins, macrophages, cardiovascular, studies


Apoe -/- mice ( 409 ). Sod2 +/- mice crossed with Apoe -/- mice have increased atherosclerosis compared to control Apoe -/- mice ( 410 ), but there is little effect on atherosclerosis of crossing Sod3 -/- mice with Apoe -/- mice ( 411 ). Several studies have demonstrated an association between SOD2 and hypertriglyceridemia ( 412 , 413 ). ENZYMES THAT CATABOLIZE LIPIDS In addition to anti-oxidant enzymes, several enzymes specifically catabolize oxidized phospholipids including secreted Platelet-Activating Factor Hydrolases (sPAF-AH) and Paraoxonases (PON). sPAF-AH, also known as lipoprotein associated PLA2 (LP-PLA2) is a calcium independent PLA 2 secreted by macrophages that primarily circulates on LDL and to a lesser extent on HDL ( 414 , 415 ). sPAF-AH does not hydrolyze phospholipids with the typical long-chain fatty acids, but efficiently cleaves phospholipids with oxidatively fragmented (e.g. azPAF and POVPC) ( 362 , 416 , 417 ) or oxidatively cyclized (e.g. F2-isoprostane-PC) sn-2 chains ( 418 ). Whether this effect results in a net gain of pro- or anti-inflammatory lipids is controversial, because only some of these oxPL are highly potent inflammatory mediators, while others are partial agonists that might therefore antagonize inflammatory responses to other mediators like LPS. Furthermore, this hydrolysis generates lysoPC and lysoPAF, which are proinflammatory at high concentrations. This ambivalent effect is also seen in vivo. While a large number of clinical studies have found that increased sPAF-AH predicts increased risk for atherosclerosis ( 419 , 420 ), whether increased sPAF-AH actually contributes to atherogenesis or simply reflects a compensatory increase in response to elevated oxLDL is unclear ( 421 , 422 ). Some gene polymorphisms in sPAF-AH that reduce its activity (i.e. Val279Phe) appear to increase the risk of myocardial infarction ( 423 ), yet another polymorphism (i.e. Ala379Val) appears to have little effect ( 424 ). The interpretation that increased sPAF-AH activity caused an increased risk of atherosclerotic cardiovascular disease (ASCVD) led to the development of selective sPAF-AH inhibitors and their clinical trials ( 425 ). However, two recently completed phase III trials with one such inhibitor, darapladib, found that while this drug significantly reduced circulating PAF-AH activity, it had no effect on ASCVD events ( 426 , 427 ). Paraoxonases (PONs) were originally named for their ability to hydrolyze the neurotoxin paraoxon and this activity is still routinely used to assay paraoxonase activity in plasma. However, in terms of atherosclerosis, the most important
