The Role of Lipids and Lipoproteins in Atherosclerosis
KEYWORDS: hdl, cholesterol, levels, cells, risk, ldl, atherosclerosis, cell, figure, ldl-c, increased, lipoproteins, macrophages, cardiovascular, studies


named for their ability to hydrolyze the neurotoxin paraoxon and this activity is still routinely used to assay paraoxonase activity in plasma. However, in terms of atherosclerosis, the most important physiological function of PONs appears to be their ability to protect against LDL oxidation ( 428 ). PON-1 and PON-3 circulate bound to HDL. HDL treated with specific inhibitors of PON fails to protect LDL from oxidation ( 429 ). Treatment of oxLDL with purified PON1 markedly decreases its ability to induce endothelial cell activation and monocyte binding ( 264 ). Genetic deletion of PON1 markedly increases atherosclerosis in C57BL6 mice( 430 ) , and this is further exacerbated in Apoe -/- mice ( 431 ). Conversely, overexpression of PON-1 reduces atherosclerotic lesions in both wild-type mice fed high cholesterol diets and Apoe -/- mice ( 432 ). Adenovirus expression of PON-2 and PON-3 also inhibits atherosclerosis in Apoe -/- mice ( 433 , 434 ), indicating that all three PON enzymes have protective effects. However, transgenic Apoe -/- mice overexpressing the entire gene cluster of PON genes (PON-1, -2, -3) were not further protected compared to Apoe -/- mice with transgenic expression of PON-1 or PON-3 alone ( 435 ), suggesting these effects are redundant rather than additive. These mouse studies appear relevant to human disease, as a large number of studies have shown that polymorphisms in PON1 are associated with increased risk for atherosclerosis ( 265 ). It should be noted that PON activity varies greatly even in persons with the same polymorphism, suggesting that environmental factors leading to PON inactivation may also be important in determining disease risk. Summary for Oxidized Lipoproteins In summary, substantial evidence has accumulated over the past several decades for a causative role for oxidized lipoproteins in the initiation and progression of atherosclerosis and the need to reduce lipoprotein oxidation in order to reduce disease burden. Nevertheless, significant questions remain including which mechanisms are most important for driving lipoprotein oxidation, what treatment strategies can effectively reduce lipoprotein oxidation, and what are the key components of oxidized lipoproteins that drive atherogenesis? ELEVATED LDL-C AND RISK FOR ASCVD Genetic Causes of Elevated LDL-C As described above, FH is an autosomal dominant inherited disorder associated with elevated levels of LDL-C and premature ASCVD, and provides some of the most compelling evidence for a causal role for LDL-C in atherosclerosis. Brown and Goldstein discovered the LDLR pathway
