The Role of Lipids and Lipoproteins in Atherosclerosis
KEYWORDS: hdl, cholesterol, levels, cells, risk, ldl, atherosclerosis, cell, figure, ldl-c, increased, lipoproteins, macrophages, cardiovascular, studies


elevated levels of LDL-C and premature ASCVD, and provides some of the most compelling evidence for a causal role for LDL-C in atherosclerosis. Brown and Goldstein discovered the LDLR pathway and found that mutations in the Ldlr gene cause FH ( 300 ). Heterozygotes for loss-of-function mutations have cholesterol levels that are about twice normal, and these subjects are at increased risk of premature CVE. In contrast, individuals with homozygous FH have extremely high levels of LDL-C (> 500 mg/dL) and often develop severe coronary atherosclerosis and supravalvular aortic stenosis in early childhood. The prevalence of heterozygous FH is around 1/200-250 in the USA, whereas homozygous FH is extremely rare affecting only about 1/160,000 to 1/250,000 individuals ( 436 ). Nonetheless, about 20% of people having myocardial infarctions (MI) before 40 years of age have heterozygous FH. Thus, FH offers an important opportunity to target therapies to prevent atherosclerosis ( 437 ), but FH remains under recognized with recent evidence suggesting that only 1-10% of subjects with FH have been identified ( 438 ). Most individuals with significant hypercholesterolemia do not have classic monogenic autosomal dominant inherited dyslipidemias, but polygenic factors contributing to susceptibility to environmental factors underlie the observed increase in LDL-C levels. A recent study suggests that among individuals with LDL cholesterol ≥190 mg/dl, gene sequencing identified a monogenic FH mutation in only <2%of subjects ( 439 ). However, for any observed LDL cholesterol, FH mutation carriers are at substantially increased risk for CAD ( 439 ). Pathogenic variants in three genes (LDLR, APOB, and PCSK9) account for the majority of monogenic FH cases. Recent genome-wide association studies (GWAS) have identified more than 50 discrete genetic loci that are associated with an increased risk of CVE( 440 , 441 ). Many of these genetic loci are associated with genes previously known to impact LDL-C levels and cardiovascular risk (e.g. Ldlr , APOB , PCSK9 ), but novel loci that impact both LDL-C levels and risk for MI have also been identified, e.g. sortilin-1 ( SORT1 ) ( 442 , 443 ). Most importantly, inherited low levels of LDL-C due to loss-of-function mutations in the PCSK9 gene have been shown to be associated with dramatic reductions in risk for ASCVD events in the Atherosclerosis Risk in Communities study ( 444 ). Hence, genetic disorders of lipoprotein metabolism provide strong evidence that the impact of LDL-C on the development of
