The Role of Lipids and Lipoproteins in Atherosclerosis
KEYWORDS: hdl, cholesterol, levels, cells, risk, ldl, atherosclerosis, cell, figure, ldl-c, increased, lipoproteins, macrophages, cardiovascular, studies


ASCVD events in the Atherosclerosis Risk in Communities study ( 444 ). Hence, genetic disorders of lipoprotein metabolism provide strong evidence that the impact of LDL-C on the development of atherosclerosis is dose- and time-dependent ( 445 ), supporting a causal role for LDL-C in atherosclerosis. Lowering LDL-C Reduces ASCVD Large randomized outcomes trials of cholesterol lowering drugs have provided critical proof of the cholesterol hypothesis ( 446 ). The Coronary Drug Project, conducted between 1966 and 1975, found niacin treatment showed modest benefit in decreasing definite nonfatal recurrent myocardial infarction by 26% (10.2% for niacin group vs 13.8% for placebo group) ( 447 ). However, there was no benefit in primary endpoint, total mortality. Impressively, with a mean follow-up of 15 years, nearly 9 years after termination of the trial, all-cause mortality was 11% lower in niacin group than in the placebo group ( 448 ). The Lipid Clinics Research trial was another early major outcomes trial to show that lowering cholesterol reduced cardiovascular events. Treatment with cholestyramine, a bile acid binding inhibitor, resulted in a 12% reduction in LDL-C levels and a 19% reduction in CHD events ( 449 ). The early lipid lowering cardiovascular outcomes trials were limited by a lack of highly effective approaches for lowering LDL-C levels, and several trials raised concerns that cholesterol lowering did not reduce total mortality and might increase the risk of cancer, accidental death and suicide ( 446 ). The advent of the statin drug class (HMG-CoA reductase inhibitors) provided a much more effective approach to lowering LDL-C and laid to rest the concerns raised by the earlier trials. The 4S trial was a landmark clinical trial of cholesterol lowering with simvastatin in patients with coronary artery disease (CAD) and severely elevated levels of LDL-C that was designed to look at total mortality as the primary endpoint ( 450 ). The 4S showed for the first time that lowering LDL-C levels by 35% with simvastatin resulted in a 30% reduction in total mortality with a 42% reduction in CHD deaths and a 34% reduction in the risk of Major Coronary Events ( 450 ). A large number of subsequent trials extended these results to populations with CHD with low levels of LDL-C and to subjects without known CAD (primary prevention) with high or low levels of LDL-C ( 451 ). It is important to note that the relationship between on-treatment
