The Role of Lipids and Lipoproteins in Atherosclerosis
KEYWORDS: hdl, cholesterol, levels, cells, risk, ldl, atherosclerosis, cell, figure, ldl-c, increased, lipoproteins, macrophages, cardiovascular, studies


of LDL-C and to subjects without known CAD (primary prevention) with high or low levels of LDL-C ( 451 ). It is important to note that the relationship between on-treatment LDL-C lowering and reduction in cardiovascular events in secondary prevention trials was similar for both statin and non-statin approaches to lowering LDL-C levels. A large meta-analysis of 26 statin trials involving over 170,000 subjects demonstrated that statin treatment for 5–years reduced the combined incidence of major coronary events, coronary revascularization, and stroke by 20% per every 1 mmol/l (38.7 mg/dL) reduction in LDL-C ( 452 ). These results have been extended by a recent large meta-analysis of 49 trials involving 9 different interventions to lower LDL that included more than 300,000 patients and approximately 40,000 major vascular events, each 1mmol/l (38.7mg/dl) reduction in LDL-C was associated with 23% relative reduction in the risk of major vascular events ( 453 ). This raised the question of whether further lipid lowering would be of additional benefit. With the recent development of proprotein convertase subtilisin/kexin type 9 (PCSK9) inhibitors, dramatic additional LDL lowering up to 50 -70% is now possible. In the FOURIER trial, patients with prior stable CAD who received the PCSK9 inhibitor, evolocumab, in combination with statin therapy achieved median LDL-C levels of 30 mg/dl. This was associated with a 15% reduction in the composite endpoint of cardiovascular death, MI, stroke, hospitalization for unstable angina or coronary revascularization ( 454 ). Similarly, ODYSSEY demonstrated that administration of alirocumab to acute coronary syndrome patients already on maximally tolerated statin therapy led to LDL-C values <50 mg/dl and was associated with a 15% reduction in the composite endpoint of death from coronary heart disease, nonfatal MI, ischemic stroke or unstable angina requiring hospitalization, and this benefit approached 24% in the subgroup of patients with initial LDL-C values >100 mg/dL ( 455 ). Together, the results of these PCSK9 trials reinforce the “lower is better” hypothesis. Although statins are very effective in preventing CVE, many patients on statins do still have CVE, a phenomenon referred to as residual risk ( 456 ). This residual risk is likely attributable at least in part to inflammation. Indeed, definitive support for this hypothesis recently came from the Canakinumab Anti-inflammatory Thrombosis Outcome Study (CANTOS), where administration of an anti-IL1β antibody to patients with prior MI and elevated serum hsCRP successfully reduced recurrent CVE independent of lipid lowering (>90%
