The Role of Lipids and Lipoproteins in Atherosclerosis
KEYWORDS: hdl, cholesterol, levels, cells, risk, ldl, atherosclerosis, cell, figure, ldl-c, increased, lipoproteins, macrophages, cardiovascular, studies


Canakinumab Anti-inflammatory Thrombosis Outcome Study (CANTOS), where administration of an anti-IL1β antibody to patients with prior MI and elevated serum hsCRP successfully reduced recurrent CVE independent of lipid lowering (>90% of patients were receiving concurrent statin therapy) ( 457 ). A secondary analysis of the FOURIER trial also demonstrated that, while relative risk for the primary cardiovascular endpoint was consistent across groups, the absolute risk reduction with evolocumab was greatest in patients with elevated hsCRP ( 458 ). These results suggest that targeting both LDL and inflammation will provide the most robust strategy for lowering ASCVD risk. Levels of LDL-C, ApoB-100, Non-HDL Cholesterol and LDL-P as Markers for ASCVD Risk. Based on the strength of the direct association of LDL-C levels and risk for ASCVD, the guidelines for treatment of hypercholesterolemia have focused on LDL-C levels for risk assessment, stratification and treatment recommendations. Indeed, the terms LDL-C and LDL are often, though incorrectly, used interchangeably in practice. It is important to understand that LDL is a collection of particles defined by density (d = 1.019 – 1.063 g/ml) that are heterogeneous, consisting of a large variety of lipids and proteins ( 459 ). In addition, LDL particles vary in size and cholesterol content. The relationship between LDL-C levels and risk for ASCVD is “J-shaped”, and the predictive value of LDL-C levels is better at higher levels of LDL-C. Surprisingly, the majority of subjects presenting to the hospital with acute coronary artery syndrome do not have elevated levels of LDL-C, but tend to have low levels of HDL-C and elevated triglycerides ( 460 ). There has been tremendous interest in whether other measures of LDL, including subpopulations, apoB100, or particle number, might serve as a better predictors of CVE than quantifying LDL cholesterol content. Groundbreaking studies by Krauss and co-workers ( 461 ) described two major patterns for LDL subpopulations based on size and density of the LDL particles. Pattern A is characterized by large buoyant LDL (lbLDL) particles, whereas Pattern B is associated with small dense LDL (sdLDL). Importantly, sdLDL is associated with increased triglyceride levels and low HDL-C, which is referred to as the lipid triad, a phenotype common in insulin resistance. Hence, Pattern B is commonly seen in subjects with obesity, metabolic syndrome and type 2 diabetes mellitus. A number of studies have reported that Pattern B is associated with an increased risk of CVE ( 462 ).
