The Role of Lipids and Lipoproteins in Atherosclerosis
KEYWORDS: hdl, cholesterol, levels, cells, risk, ldl, atherosclerosis, cell, figure, ldl-c, increased, lipoproteins, macrophages, cardiovascular, studies


subjects with obesity, metabolic syndrome and type 2 diabetes mellitus. A number of studies have reported that Pattern B is associated with an increased risk of CVE ( 462 ). Several different approaches have been used to characterize LDL phenotypes, including gradient gel electrophoresis, ultracentrifugation (sequential and vertical), ion mobility and nuclear magnetic resonance (NMR) ( 462 , 463 ). A number of mechanisms have been proposed to underlie the proatherogenic properties of sdLDL, including increased susceptibility of oxidation ( 464 ) and glycation ( 465 ), promoting arterial retention and increased macrophage foam cell formation. Cholesteryl ester transfer protein (CETP), which transfers CE from HDL to VLDL/LDL and triglycerides in the opposite direction, and hepatic lipase, which hydrolyses triglycerides, impacts the lipid composition and size of sdLDL. As such, increased levels of sdLDL have the potential to provide additional information regarding risk of CVE in individuals with normal LDL-C levels but elevated triglycerides and low HDL. Alternatively, it has been proposed that the real impact of sdLDL is due to increased LDL particle number. Each LDL particle contains one molecule of apoB100, and the majority of apoB100 in plasma is on LDL particles ( 466 ). Hence, levels of apoB100 correlate directly with LDL particle (LDL-P) number. A large number of studies have shown that levels of apoB100 are superior markers of ASCVD risk compared to LDL-C ( 467 ). Because the mass of cholesterol in LDL particles varies, LDL-C levels will result in overestimation apoB levels and the number of LDL particles, when LDL particles are cholesterol-enriched ( Figure 8 ) and underestimate apoB and LDL particle number when the particles are cholesterol depleted ( Figure 8 ) ( 468 ). Figure 8. Schematic of the Relationship Between Measurements of LDL-C Versus ApoB100 Particle Number in Concordant and Discordant Human Populations. Subjects with hypertriglyceridemia have enhanced numbers of small dense LDL where each particle is enriched in triglyceride (TG) and relatively poor in cholesteryl ester (CE) content compared to normal subjects, and measurement of LDL-C underestimates particle numbers and apoB100 levels. Other subjects have enlarged CE-enriched LDL particles and measurement of LDL-C overestimates the number of LDL particles and apoB100 molecules. Thus, LDL particle number or apoB100 levels are a more accurate predictor of cardiovascular risk in the setting of discordance between the percentiles for measures of cholesterol carried by LDL (LDL-C or Non-HDL-C) and particle number (apoB100
