The Role of Lipids and Lipoproteins in Atherosclerosis
KEYWORDS: hdl, cholesterol, levels, cells, risk, ldl, atherosclerosis, cell, figure, ldl-c, increased, lipoproteins, macrophages, cardiovascular, studies


are a more accurate predictor of cardiovascular risk in the setting of discordance between the percentiles for measures of cholesterol carried by LDL (LDL-C or Non-HDL-C) and particle number (apoB100 or LDL-P). Adapted from Sniderman, A.D. et al. Curr Opin Lipidol 2014, 25:461–467. Furthermore, all of the major atherogenic lipoproteins contain apoB (LDL, triglyceride rich remnants of VLDL, IDL, chylomicron remnants, and Lp(a)). LDL-C is routinely calculated using the Friedewald formula (LDL-C = TC – HDL-C – TG/5), but this formula is not accurate when serum TG levels are > 400 mg/dl. It has long been recognized that LDL-C underestimates risk of ASCVD in the setting of hypertriglyceridemia ( 467 ). Non-HDL cholesterol is the mass of cholesterol in all of the apoB-containing particles: Non-HDL-C = TC – HDL-C. The ATPIII guidelines recommended using Non-HDL-C to estimate risk of ASCVD, when TG > 200 mg/dL ( 469 , 470 ). A meta-analysis by Sniderman et al. found that Non-HDL-C was a slightly better marker of ASCVD risk than LDL-C, but apoB was far superior to Non-HDL-C ( 471 ). NMR spectroscopy is another way to measure LDL-P concentrations. Table 2 includes selected percentiles for mean levels for the various LDL-related markers from the Framingham Offspring Study ( 472 ). In an analysis of the Framingham Offspring Study, LDL-P determined by NMR was more strongly related to incident CVD events than LDL-C levels, and the ability of Non-HDL-C to predict risk was less than LDL-P, but better than LDL-C ( 473 ). In addition, they found that low LDL-P numbers were a better index of low CVD risk than low LDL-C ( 473 ). In contrast, an earlier meta-analysis from the Emerging Risk Factors Collaboration found LDL-C, Non-HDL and apoB to be equivalent markers of CVE ( 474 ). The lack of difference may relate to the population studied. When the LDL particles have normal cholesterol content, then LDL-C, Non-HDL and apoB are equivalent markers ( Figure 8 ) of risk ( 471 , 473 ). Interestingly, data from the Multi-Ethnic Study of Atherosclerosis (MESA) demonstrated that when LDL-C and LDL-P are discordant ( Figure 8 ), then LDL-P proves to be a better predictor of risk for incident CVD events than LDL-C ( 475 ). Table 2. Equivalent Percentiles in the Framingham Offspring Study View in own window Percentile % LDL-C mg/dL Non-HDL-C mg/dL ApoB mg/dL LDL-P nmol/L 2 70
