The Role of Lipids and Lipoproteins in Atherosclerosis
KEYWORDS: hdl, cholesterol, levels, cells, risk, ldl, atherosclerosis, cell, figure, ldl-c, increased, lipoproteins, macrophages, cardiovascular, studies


patients with recent acute coronary syndromes ( 482 ). The new guidelines re-introduced LDL-C treatment goals in some high-risk patient groups, such as those with high risk of ASCVD and those with very high baseline LDL-C. The new AHA/ACC guidelines also stated that elevated apoB particle number, elevated Lp(a) and hypertriglyceridemia are all additional risk factors for ASCVD. Lp(a) Lp(a) has been shown to be an independent risk factor for atherothrombotic events, including heart attack, stroke and peripheral vascular disease, in multiple prospective studies ( 451 , 483 ). The new AHA/ACC guidelines list elevated Lp(a) a one of the risk-enhancing factors for developing ASCVD ( 481 ). Lp(a) consists of an LDL particle in which apoB100 is covalently linked via a disulfide bridge to apo(a), a glycoprotein with repeating Kringle units that share homology with plasminogen. Although apo(a) is synthesized by the liver, the Lp(a) particles are not formed in the liver but in the plasma. Despite being a modified LDL particle, Lp(a) levels are independent of LDL-C levels. The catabolism of Lp(a) is poorly understood, but Lp(a) is not cleared by the LDLR ( 484 ). The number of repeating Kringle units is highly variable but largely genetically determined, and this contributes to tremendous heterogeneity in size of Lp(a). The plasma levels of Lp(a) vary tremendously in humans, and plasma Lp(a) levels are generally inversely related to the size of the apo(a) isoform ( 485 ). Thus, smaller Lp(a) particles with fewer Kringle repeats are present at higher levels in the plasma. In American Caucasians, the increased levels of smaller Lp(a) particles is largely explained by the size of the LPA gene, based on the size of the repeated KIV 2 domain ( 486 ), which is believed to be due to difficulty of hepatic secretion of larger apo(a) isoforms. Nevertheless, this relationship varies in different ethnic populations. Early studies suggested that even though Lp(a) levels are higher in African Americans that Lp(a) levels did not appear to be an independent risk factor for cardiovascular events in this group ( 487 ). However, by determining allele specific Lp(a) concentrations, a larger more recent analysis demonstrated that elevated Lp(a) levels associated with small apo(a) isoform sizes serve as an independent risk factor for CHD in both African Americans and Caucasians ( 488 ). Similarly, a 20 year follow up study of the ARIC cohort found that elevated levels of
