The Role of Lipids and Lipoproteins in Atherosclerosis
KEYWORDS: hdl, cholesterol, levels, cells, risk, ldl, atherosclerosis, cell, figure, ldl-c, increased, lipoproteins, macrophages, cardiovascular, studies


independent risk factor for CHD in both African Americans and Caucasians ( 488 ). Similarly, a 20 year follow up study of the ARIC cohort found that elevated levels of Lp(a) are associated with a similar degree of risk in in both African Americans and Caucasians ( 489 ). A recent meta-analysis by the Emerging Risk Factors Collaboration evaluated 36 prospective studies with 126,634 subjects found that Lp(a) is an independent risk factor for CHD ( 490 ). In contrast to previous studies that suggested Lp(a) was only relevant as a risk factor when levels were extremely elevated, the meta-analysis demonstrated that risk and that Lp(a) levels are continuously associated with CHD risk ( 490 ). The Ile4399Met polymorphism (rs3798220) in the protease-like domain of apo(a) is particularly associated with increased risk for severe CAD ( 491 ). Subsequently, Clarke et al. found that the rs3798220 and rs10455872 variants were associated with small apo(a) isoform size, increased Lp(a) levels and substantially increased risk of CAD ( 492 ). Furthermore, a Mendelian randomization study by Kamstrup et al. demonstrated that a genetically determined doubling of Lp(a) plasma levels leads to a 22% increase in the risk of MI, strongly supporting a causal role for elevated levels of Lp(a) and risk for MI ( 493 ). The proatherogenic mechanisms for Lp(a) remain incompletely understood, but recent studies suggest an important role for oxidative modification of Lp(a) by oxidized phospholipids (OxPL) ( 251 ). Mounting evidence supports an important role for OxPLs in the development of atherosclerosis ( 251 ). Interestingly, OxPLs associate with Lp(a) in preference to native LDL particles in human plasma ( 250 ). Hence a physiological role has been proposed for Lp(a) for binding and transporting OxPL in the plasma ( 251 ). Although, Lp(a) is found only in humans and Old-World monkeys, mice expressing human Lp(a) have been developed to examine the role of Lp(a) in atherogenesis and lipoprotein metabolism. The first transgenic mice expressing high levels of human apoB100 were created using a 79.5-kb human genomic DNA fragment containing the entire human APOB gene that was isolated from a P1 bacteriophage library, and crossing these mice with apo(a) transgenic mice produced high levels of human Lp(a) in plasma ( 494 ). In a study of transgenic mice expressing high and low concentrations of Lp(a), high levels of OxPLs were found in transgenic mice with very high levels
