The Role of Lipids and Lipoproteins in Atherosclerosis
KEYWORDS: hdl, cholesterol, levels, cells, risk, ldl, atherosclerosis, cell, figure, ldl-c, increased, lipoproteins, macrophages, cardiovascular, studies


plasma ( 494 ). In a study of transgenic mice expressing high and low concentrations of Lp(a), high levels of OxPLs were found in transgenic mice with very high levels of Lp(a), but not in LDL of apoB transgenic control mice ( 495 ). These studies support the concept of preferential transfer of OxPL to Lp(a). In the Dallas Heart Study, levels of OxPL on apoB were strongly correlated with Lp(a) levels, and inversely related to the size of the apo(a) isoforms ( 496 ). In the European Prospective Investigation of Cancer (EPIC)–Norfolk prospective study the impact of OxPL and Lp(a) levels on CHD risk was additive ( 497 ). Further studies are needed to define the extent to which the preferential binding of OxPL by Lp(a) is responsible for mediating the increased risk of atherothrombotic events attributable to Lp(a). Lp(a) is considered an emerging risk factor, but the approach to managing patients with elevated levels of Lp(a) has not been well established. Elevated levels of Lp(a) do not respond well to changes in diet or statin therapy. Analysis of data from the Familial Atherosclerosis Treatment Study (FATS) showed that substantial lowering of LDL-C (with lovastatin plus colestipol or niacin plus colestipol) in subjects with CAD and high apoB100 eliminated the increased risk attributable to having very high Lp(a) ( 498 ). The JUPITER trial showed that treatment of subjects with low levels of LDL-C, but increased hsCRP, with rosuvastatin (20 mg) reduced CVE. In JUPITER, elevated Lp(a) was a significant determinant of residual risk, but the reduction in relative risk with rosuvastatin was similar among participants with high or low Lp(a) ( 499 , 500 ). Treatment with niacin reduces Lp(a) by 20-30%, and the European guidelines recommend treating patients with elevated Lp(a) who are at intermediate to high risk of CVD with extended release niacin to obtain levels of Lp(a) < 50 mg/dL ( 501 ). Nonetheless, the recent failure of the AIM-HIGH and HPS-2 THRIVE studies have cast doubt on the use of extended release niacin in subjects fitting the profile of those studies (CAD with LDL well treated on a statin). LDL apheresis is approved and effective for lowering Lp(a) in individuals with recurring CVE in the setting of very high levels of Lp(a). There are a number of new therapies that may prove useful in treating patients with elevated levels of Lp(a). The recently approved
