The Role of Lipids and Lipoproteins in Atherosclerosis
KEYWORDS: hdl, cholesterol, levels, cells, risk, ldl, atherosclerosis, cell, figure, ldl-c, increased, lipoproteins, macrophages, cardiovascular, studies


the setting of very high levels of Lp(a). There are a number of new therapies that may prove useful in treating patients with elevated levels of Lp(a). The recently approved monoclonal antibodies to PCSK9 significantly lower Lp(a) by around 30% in addition to lowering LDL-C by 30-50%. Furthermore, a Phase 1 clinical trial of a second-generation antisense to apo(a) has recently reported potent, dose-dependent, selective reductions of plasma Lp(a) ( 502 ). This approach has the appeal of specifically targeting apo(a) to reduce Lp(a) levels. Hopefully, these new approaches will ultimately yield an effective approach to lower levels of Lp(a) that translates into reduced cardiovascular events. INTESTINAL Lipid Metabolism and Chylomicron Assembly Intestinal Lipid Absorption Through absorption of dietary lipids, the intestine is a key regulator of stored and circulating lipids. Primarily it is enterocytes in the small intestine that actively regulate the release of dietary lipids into circulation ( 503 - 505 ). The predominant lipids derived from diet are triglycerides, phospholipids and cholesteryl esters. In the intestinal lumen, ingested lipids are emulsified by bile salts to enhance their hydrolysis by lipases ( Figure 9 ) ( 506 - 509 ). Triglycerides make up the largest percentage of the intestinal lipids. Lipolysis of triglycerides releases free fatty acids (non-esterified fatty acids) and monoacylglycerides ( Figure 9 ). These are absorbed on the luminal surface of the enterocytes both by free diffusion and actively by protein-mediated transport into the enterocyte cytosol ( Figure 9 ) ( 508 - 510 ). The principal transporters identified to date are CD36 (now known as SR-B2 ( 511 )) and several fatty acid binding and transport proteins ( 512 - 514 ). Figure 9. Intestinal Triglyceride and Cholesterol Metabolism. In the intestinal lumen, dietary triglyceride (TG) and cholesterol are emulsified by bile salts which enhance their uptake. Lipases in the intestinal lumen digest triglycerides to free fatty acids (FFA) and monoacylglycerides (MAG). These are absorbed into the enterocyte where they are used in the synthesis of TG, phospholipid and cholesteryl ester (CE). Much of the synthesized TG in enterocytes is packaged, along with phospholipids, cholesterol and proteins into chylomicrons, which are secreted at the basolateral surface of the enterocyte and enter the lymphatic system. The assembly of chylomicrons begins in the endoplasmic reticulum. During the synthesis of apolipoprotein B48 (apoB48), the protein acquires phospholipid from the endoplasmic reticulum membrane and also cholesterol and TG
