The Role of Lipids and Lipoproteins in Atherosclerosis
KEYWORDS: hdl, cholesterol, levels, cells, risk, ldl, atherosclerosis, cell, figure, ldl-c, increased, lipoproteins, macrophages, cardiovascular, studies


The assembly of chylomicrons begins in the endoplasmic reticulum. During the synthesis of apolipoprotein B48 (apoB48), the protein acquires phospholipid from the endoplasmic reticulum membrane and also cholesterol and TG to form a primordial chylomicron. Continued acquisition of TG and CE and smaller, exchangeable proteins (e.g. apolipoprotein A-IV and apolipoprotein C-III) in the endoplasmic reticulum enlarges the particle to form a prechylomicron. Prechylomcirons are transported to the Golgi apparatus in specialized COPII vesicles. In the Golgi apparatus, the prechylomicron matures into a chylomicron. The maturation process includes the glycosylation of apoB48, the acquisition of additional proteins (e.g. apolipoprotein A-I) and lipid. Secretory vesicles formed from the Golgi carry the mature chylomicrons to the basolateral surface of the enterocyte. Fusion of the secretory vesicle membrane with the plasma membrane releases the chylomicron into the extracellular space where it is taken up into lacteals near the enterocyte and, thus, enters the lymphatic circulation. Dietary cholesterol in the intestinal lumen is taken into the enterocyte by a process involving Niemann-Pick C1-like protein 1 (NPC1L1). Enterocyte cholesterol and CE can be incorporated into chylomicrons and secreted with TG. In addition, enterocyte cholesterol can be directly excreted into the intestinal lumen using the heterodimer ATP-binding cassette transporter G5 and G8 (ABCG5/G8). Enterocyte cholesterol can also be transported to and incorporated into the basolateral membrane for efflux into the circulation. Chylomicron Assembly and Secretion In the enterocyte, the free fatty acids and monoacylglycerides are used to synthesize triglycerides, phospholipids, and cholesteryl esters ( Figure 9 ) ( 508 , 509 , 513 , 515 - 517 ). The majority of the triglycerides formed in the enterocytes are repackaged into large, buoyant lipoproteins, called chylomicrons, and secreted from the basolateral surface of the cell ( Figure 9 ). These particles play a central role in the transport of triglycerides and fat-soluble vitamins to the rest of the body ( 518 ). The assembly of the chylomicron particle from precursors is a complex process. Each particle contains a single copy of apolipoprotein B48 and assembly begins with the synthesis of this protein in the rough endoplasmic reticulum. Apolipoprotein B48 is a truncated form of apolipoprotein B100 that is formed by posttranscriptional editing ( 519 , 520 ). As apolipoprotein B48 is synthesized and translocated across the endoplasmic reticulum membrane, it becomes lipidated to form a phospholipid-rich, dense primordial chylomicron in the lumen of the endoplasmic reticulum ( Figure
