The Role of Lipids and Lipoproteins in Atherosclerosis
KEYWORDS: hdl, cholesterol, levels, cells, risk, ldl, atherosclerosis, cell, figure, ldl-c, increased, lipoproteins, macrophages, cardiovascular, studies


apolipoprotein B48 is synthesized and translocated across the endoplasmic reticulum membrane, it becomes lipidated to form a phospholipid-rich, dense primordial chylomicron in the lumen of the endoplasmic reticulum ( Figure 9 ). The primordial chylomicron contains apolipoprotein B48, phospholipid, cholesterol and minor amounts of cholesteryl ester and triglyceride ( 513 , 521 , 522 ). The assembly process requires microsomal triglyceride transfer protein ( 523 ). In the absence of sufficient lipid, or if microsomal triglyceride transfer protein function is impaired, apolipoprotein B48 is ubiquitinated and targeted for proteasome degradation ( 524 ). The importance of this initiating assembly step is seen in patients with a defect in the MTP gene leading to the rare recessive disorder abetalipoproteinemia. Individuals with abetalipoproteinemia have almost undetectable levels of apoB or and very low total cholesterol levels in their plasma because of the inability to assemble apoB-containing lipoproteins in their enterocytes or hepatocytes. Among the sequelae experienced by these patients are accumulation of triglycerides in their intestines and livers and a deficiency of lipid-soluble vitamins in their plasma ( 525 , 526 ). If untreated, these patients develop severe neurological problems; mostly related to vitamin E and A deficiency. After formation, the initial primordial particle expands by the acquisition of additional triglyceride and cholesteryl ester ( Figure 9 ). The additional lipid is acquired by fusion with non-apolipoprotein B48 containing particles that are rich in triglyceride and cholesteryl ester. The exact origin of these lipid particles and their precise composition is currently actively debated ( 504 , 505 , 513 , 527 , 528 ), but the fusion of the primordial chylomicron with the apolipoprotein B48-free particles occurs in the endoplasmic reticulum ( 513 ). The resulting particle is a prechylomicron ( Figure 9 ). In addition to apolipoprotein B48, the prechylomicron surface can contain multiple copies of other small, exchangeable apoproteins including apolipoprotein A-IV and apolipoprotein C-III. Exchangeable apoproteins are soluble proteins that are not as tightly adherent to the particle surface and so can be exchanged between lipid particles. Prechylomicrons are transported out of the endoplasmic reticulum and delivered to the Golgi apparatus for further processing ( Figure 9 ). Transport occurs in specialized vesicles that can accommodate their large size. The unique vesicles contain a number of specific proteins necessary for the transport and docking process. Vesicle-associated membrane protein-7, coatomer protein II and Sar1b, a small GTPase component of the
