The Role of Lipids and Lipoproteins in Atherosclerosis
KEYWORDS: hdl, cholesterol, levels, cells, risk, ldl, atherosclerosis, cell, figure, ldl-c, increased, lipoproteins, macrophages, cardiovascular, studies


The unique vesicles contain a number of specific proteins necessary for the transport and docking process. Vesicle-associated membrane protein-7, coatomer protein II and Sar1b, a small GTPase component of the coatomer protein II vesicle assembly machinery ( Figure 9 ) are among the specialized proteins on the lipid transport vesicles ( 505 , 529 - 531 ). The maturation of the particle in the Golgi apparatus includes further glycosylation of apolipoprotein B48 and the addition of apolipoprotein A-I to the surface ( 505 , 532 , 533 ). After processing, the mature chylomicron is packaged into Golgi-derived secretory vesicles and transported to the basolateral surface and exocytosed into the lymph ( Figure 9 ) ( 527 , 534 , 535 ). The assembly of chylomicrons in enterocytes is a complex process requiring a number of coordinated steps and specific factors to work in unison. A failure in any of these can lead to lipid-related disease states. For instance, mutations in the SAR1B gene lead to retention of prechylomicrons within membrane-bound structures in the enterocytes ( 529 ). The condition is marked in childhood by decreased blood cholesterol levels, lipid accumulation in the enterocytes, chronic fat malabsorption with steatorrhea, and deficiencies in fat-soluble vitamin and essential fatty acids. Chylomicron Cholesterol Although chylomicrons are triglyceride-rich, they also carry substantial amounts of cholesterol ( 536 , 537 ). The cholesterol in chylomicrons comes from the general pool of enterocyte cholesterol. Enterocytes acquire cholesterol by uptake at the luminal surface, acquisition from lipoproteins at the basal lateral surface, and by de novo synthesis within the enterocyte. Niemann-Pick C1-Like 1 protein is a key component of the luminal acquisition machinery ( Figure 9 ) ( 538 ), while the low density lipoprotein receptor appears to be a major mediator of cholesterol acquisition at the basolateral surface ( 539 , 540 ). The incorporation of cholesterol into chylomicrons contributes to the circulating levels of cholesterol, and increases in intestinal synthesis of chylomicrons due to increased dietary lipids contributes to cardiovascular risk and atherosclerosis, albeit by complex mechanisms ( 516 , 541 , 542 ). Non-Chylomicron Intestinal Lipid Metabolism Enterocytes can also regulate circulating lipids by means other than chylomicron secretion. In the presence of excess fatty acids or cholesterol, the enterocyte can store excess lipid in their esterified forms (triglycerides and cholesteryl esters, respectively) within cytoplasmic lipid droplets ( 543 - 545 ). The neutral lipids
