The Role of Lipids and Lipoproteins in Atherosclerosis
KEYWORDS: hdl, cholesterol, levels, cells, risk, ldl, atherosclerosis, cell, figure, ldl-c, increased, lipoproteins, macrophages, cardiovascular, studies


acids or cholesterol, the enterocyte can store excess lipid in their esterified forms (triglycerides and cholesteryl esters, respectively) within cytoplasmic lipid droplets ( 543 - 545 ). The neutral lipids in the droplets can subsequently be mobilized by hydrolysis as needed by the cell. The free fatty acids liberated from storage droplets can be incorporated into the chylomicron production pathway to become part of secreted chylomicrons. Finally, the intestine also regulates circulating cholesterol levels by taking up excess circulating cholesterol and excreting it into the intestinal lumen for clearance in the feces. This process is known as trans-intestinal cholesterol excretion. It acts as an adjunct to liver biliary secretion and can account for as much as 30% of neutral sterol excretion ( 546 ). Trans-intestinal cholesterol excretion occurs at the luminal surface of the enterocytes by a process that primarily utilizes the ATP-binding cassette transporter pair ABCG5/G8 ( Figure 9 ) but can use other pathways as well ( 547 ). Summary It is clear that intestinal lipid processing is a key contributor to the circulating levels of both triglyceride and cholesterol. Dietary, genetic and metabolic factors that disrupt the process of enterocyte lipid metabolism potentially can alter lipid homeostasis and produce disease states. Triglycerides, Cardiovascular Disease and Atherosclerosis Causes of Hypertriglyceridemia The prevalence of high circulating triglyceride levels is increasing worldwide, particularly in developed countries. In the United States there has been a greater than 7 fold increase in average plasma triglyceride concentration over the last 30 years ( 548 ). This increase coincides, in part, with increased instances of obesity and type 2 diabetes (T2DM) although the relationship of these conditions to hypertriglyceridemia is complex ( 549 - 553 ). Most classifications of hypertriglyceridemia are based, at least in part, on the Third Report of the National Cholesterol Education Program (NCEP) Expert Panel on Detection, Evaluation, and Treatment of High Blood Cholesterol in Adults (Adult Treatment Panel III) ( 469 ). These guidelines classified circulating triglyceride levels <150 mg/dL as normal. Values between 150 mg/dL and 199 mg/dL are considered borderline high and anything above 200 mg/dL are classified as high, with those above 500 mg/dL deemed to be very high ( 469 , 470 ). Hypertriglyceridemia is generally the result of increases in one or more of the triglyceride-rich lipoproteins; chylomicrons, VLDL, or their remnants. The increase occurs because of increased synthesis, decreased catabolism or both, with
