The Role of Lipids and Lipoproteins in Atherosclerosis
KEYWORDS: hdl, cholesterol, levels, cells, risk, ldl, atherosclerosis, cell, figure, ldl-c, increased, lipoproteins, macrophages, cardiovascular, studies


generally the result of increases in one or more of the triglyceride-rich lipoproteins; chylomicrons, VLDL, or their remnants. The increase occurs because of increased synthesis, decreased catabolism or both, with the underlying cause generally being the result of alterations in metabolic factors such as apolipoprotein C-II, apolipoprotein C-III, CETP and lipoprotein lipase. However, hypertriglyceridemia can also be secondary to other disease states (e.g. diabetes mellitus, hypothyroidism, renal disease, and nephrotic syndrome) ( 548 , 554 ). Not surprisingly, environmental conditions, particularly a diet with high fat or high glycemic index content and in which energy intake is out of balance with energy utilization, are associated with hypertriglyceridemia as is excess alcohol consumption ( 548 , 554 ). In fact, dietary choices and lack of exercise are widely held to be a major contributor to the recent rise in circulating triglyceride levels in developed countries. Hypertriglyceridemia as an Independent Risk Factor for Cardiovascular Disease Individuals with elevated triglyceride levels are at increased risk for cardiovascular complications, particularly atherosclerosis ( 555 , 556 ). The Framingham Study was one of the first large studies to associate hypertriglyceridemia with cardiovascular disease, particularly in women ( 557 ). However, many other studies before and since have also shown a univariate association of high triglycerides and increased risk of cardiovascular disease. In many of these studies, however, the affect went away after accounting for other major risk factors ( 558 - 561 ),calling into question whether triglycerides represent an independent risk factor. For instance, a meta-analysis of the Emerging Risk Factors Collaboration data revealed triglycerides as a strong risk factor for cardiovascular disease and stroke, but, after adjusting for standard risk factors (primarily lipoprotein-associated cholesterol), the researchers concluded that triglyceride levels provided no additional predictive value ( 474 ). The authors did note, as have other studies ( 562 - 565 ), that patients with triglyceride levels above 500 mg/dL are at increased risk of pancreatitis; providing impetus for measuring triglyceride levels in patients and treating those with high levels irrespective of cardiovascular risk. The lack of strong association of triglyceride concentration with cardiovascular disease (after accounting for other risk factors such as elevated LDL-C and low HDL-C) has led some to question whether measuring triglyceride levels has any utility for cardiovascular patient management. In contrast, we argue below that there are a number of important reasons for evaluating triglyceride levels in patients, particularly those
