The Role of Lipids and Lipoproteins in Atherosclerosis
KEYWORDS: hdl, cholesterol, levels, cells, risk, ldl, atherosclerosis, cell, figure, ldl-c, increased, lipoproteins, macrophages, cardiovascular, studies


triglyceride levels has any utility for cardiovascular patient management. In contrast, we argue below that there are a number of important reasons for evaluating triglyceride levels in patients, particularly those with cardiovascular disease, metabolic syndrome or diabetes. First, we would point out that the difficulty in substantiating an independent association of triglycerides with cardiovascular disease may simply reflect the fact that a number of interrelated risk factors make it difficult to determine to what extent triglycerides independently contribute to cardiovascular events. One key issue is that, even in studies suggesting independence, the effect size has been small compared to traditional risk factors like LDL-C ( 548 ). Therefore, independence is very hard to detect in small studies. There are also issues regarding the way triglyceride levels are determined, the high variability of triglyceride concentrations in a single individual, and the association of triglyceride levels with other atherogenic conditions such as low HDL-C, obesity and T2DM ( 548 , 566 - 571 ). These confounding issues are not always considered by authors when drawing conclusions. Moreover, endpoints have differed widely among studies. Despite the confounding issues, an increasing number of case control studies do indicate triglycerides as an independent risk factor for cardiovascular disease even when adjusting for total cholesterol, LDL-C and HDL-C ( 572 - 578 ). The PROCAM study, for instance, found increases in risk for cardiovascular events as triglyceride levels increased and residual risk remained after accounting for other major risk factors ( 579 ), and the PROVE IT-TIMI 22 study revealed that triglyceride levels had a substantial impact on cardiovascular outcomes in patients with acute coronary syndrome that was independent of LDL-C ( 580 ). Moreover, Mendelian randomization studies strongly suggest a causal relationship between factors involved in regulating triglyceride rich lipoprotein levels and cardiovascular disease ( 581 - 583 ). For instance, analysis of data from the Copenhagen City Heart Study showed that genetic variants of lipoprotein lipase that resulted in reduced circulating triglyceride levels also reduced all-cause mortality ( 583 ). Meta-analyses of randomized, prospective trials probably provide the strongest evidence for triglyceride levels as an independent risk factor. One such analysis assessing the effects of lowering circulating cholesterol levels with statins, indicated that in patients with preexisting coronary heart disease, there was a reduction in residual risk not associated with lowering LDL-C that could be related to other lipoproteins, such as triglyceride-rich lipoproteins (
