The Role of Lipids and Lipoproteins in Atherosclerosis
KEYWORDS: hdl, cholesterol, levels, cells, risk, ldl, atherosclerosis, cell, figure, ldl-c, increased, lipoproteins, macrophages, cardiovascular, studies


patients with preexisting coronary heart disease, there was a reduction in residual risk not associated with lowering LDL-C that could be related to other lipoproteins, such as triglyceride-rich lipoproteins ( 584 ). Most convincingly, a recent meta-analysis of 29 prospective studies showed that considering triglyceride concentrations yielded an adjusted odds ratio of 1.72 (95% Confidence interval=1.56-1.90) for those in the top tertile of triglyceride levels even after adjusting for other common risk factors ( 556 ). A similar odds ratio was reported in a meta-analysis that included data from 26 prospective studies in Asian and Pacific populations ( 585 ). Given the increasing evidence that hypertriglyceridemia is indicative of increased cardiovascular disease risk, a key question is whether reducing triglyceride levels are protective. The results of several studies do suggest that reducing TG levels can reduce risk of cardiovascular events. An analysis of two secondary prevention trials of pravastatin suggests that high HDL-C and low triglycerides were significant predictors of reduced risk for CHD events ( 586 ). A recent meta-analysis of 18 trials evaluating the effects of fibrates on cardiovascular outcomes reported a 10% relative risk reduction for major cardiovascular events in individuals with hypertriglyceridemia alone or in combination with low HDL-C ( 587 ). Other meta-analyses have generally shown small but significant associations of low triglycerides and protection from cardiovascular events independent of other major risk factors ( 588 ). Thus, the evidence is mounting for an independent role of circulating triglyceride levels in mediating cardiovascular risk and certainly has established the utility of determining triglyceride levels in at-risk patients. However, the studies also suggest that the association between high triglycerides and cardiovascular disease is complicated, multidimensional, and possibly indirect. Is There a Direct Role for Triglycerides in Promoting Cardiovascular Disease? If hypertriglyceridemia does directly affect cardiovascular disease, the mechanism(s) remain to be fully elucidated. Nonetheless, several hypotheses have been put forward. As the most prevalent form of cardiovascular disease, atherosclerosis has been the target for most explorations of a direct role for triglycerides in cardiovascular disease, and there is growing evidence, albeit circumstantial, that triglycerides can directly influence specific aspects of atherosclerotic lesion development. Many of the hypotheses are based on the fact that triglyceride rich lipoproteins (VLDL, chylomicron) also contain significant amounts of cholesterol ( 536 ) and could promote foam cell formation by contributing cholesterol to the lesion. Remnants of VLDL and chylomicrons are created
