The Role of Lipids and Lipoproteins in Atherosclerosis
KEYWORDS: hdl, cholesterol, levels, cells, risk, ldl, atherosclerosis, cell, figure, ldl-c, increased, lipoproteins, macrophages, cardiovascular, studies


(VLDL, chylomicron) also contain significant amounts of cholesterol ( 536 ) and could promote foam cell formation by contributing cholesterol to the lesion. Remnants of VLDL and chylomicrons are created by partial hydrolysis of their triglycerides through the action of lipoprotein lipase. These particles have an increased percentage of cholesterol ( 537 , 589 ) and can acquire additional cholesterol by transfer from HDL through the action of cholesterol ester transfer protein(CETP) ( 590 ). In hypertriglyceridemia, there is increased VLDL synthesis, delayed clearance and often increases in remnant particles ( 591 , 592 ). In fact, it has been argued that nonfasting triglyceride levels primarily reflect remnant lipoproteins, particularly in hypertriglyceridemia, and these particles may be the atherogenic moiety ( 593 ). Although chylomicrons and, to some extent, very low density lipoproteins are generally too large to cross the endothelial layer and invade the arterial intima, conversion to remnants allows these particles to accumulate within atherosclerotic lesions and to deposit their cholesterol ( 594 - 596 ). This would imply that levels of lipoprotein lipase, by increasing remnants, could influence atherosclerotic lesion development and there are animal studies showing just such a correlation ( 237 , 238 , 597 ). Evidence for the importance of remnants in atherogenesis also comes from individuals with type III hyperlipoproteinemia. Patients with type III hyperlipoproteinemia have decreased clearance of remnant lipoproteins and develop premature atherosclerosis ( 598 ). ApoE is crucial for the normal clearance of chylomicrons and VLDL remnants, but the ApoE-2 isoform has reduced ability to bind to lipoprotein receptors and mediate clearance ( 599 ). Type III hyperlipoproteinemia occurs most often in subjects who are homozygous for APOE2, but the majority of E2/E2 individuals do not have the Type III phenotype, suggesting that a second hit is required to express the phenotype ( 600 ). Interestingly, rare genetic variants of APOE have been described that cause an autosomal dominant form of Type III hyperlipoproteinemia ( 601 , 602 ) and ApoE deficiency in humans is extremely rare but is associated with the Type III phenotype ( 600 , 603 ). One mitigating factor in evaluating how much delivery of cholesterol in triglyceride-rich particles contributes to atherosclerosis is the fact that, although triglyceride-rich particles and their remnants contain large amounts of cholesterol, they also contain significant amounts of triglyceride. At least with respect to cellular cholesterol accumulation in macrophage foam cells
