The Role of Lipids and Lipoproteins in Atherosclerosis
KEYWORDS: hdl, cholesterol, levels, cells, risk, ldl, atherosclerosis, cell, figure, ldl-c, increased, lipoproteins, macrophages, cardiovascular, studies


although triglyceride-rich particles and their remnants contain large amounts of cholesterol, they also contain significant amounts of triglyceride. At least with respect to cellular cholesterol accumulation in macrophage foam cells (a hallmark of atherosclerosis), the presence of triglyceride in cells actually promotes the hydrolysis of cholesteryl esters to cholesterol ( 604 , 605 ). Cholesterol stored in foam cells is primarily in the form of cholesteryl esters. In order to be removed from the cell and eventually from the plaque, esterified cholesterol must first be converted to unesterified cholesterol ( 606 ). The presence of triglyceride intermixed with cholesteryl esters in foam cells facilitates the hydrolysis and removal of cholesterol ( 604 , 605 , 607 ). The differing effects of circulating triglyceride levels on cardiovascular disease risk and their cellular effects on cholesterol metabolism have yet to be reconciled. There are mechanisms other than cholesterol delivery by which triglycerides could influence atherosclerosis. Lipolysis of triglyceride rich particles not only concentrates cholesterol in the particles it also produces free fatty acids and monoglycerides. Cell culture studies have demonstrated that long-chain fatty acids, particularly saturated fatty acids like palmitate and stearate, are cytotoxic ( 608 - 610 ). Thus, the presence of triglyceride lipolysis within atherosclerotic lesions could raise toxic free fatty acid levels in cells of the arterial wall, which would promote cell death and resulting inflammation. Both increased cell death and increased inflammatory signaling are key attributes of atherogenesis ( 611 - 614 ). In support of triglyceride lipolysis as an atherogenic driver, macrophages make and secrete lipoprotein lipase (lipoprotein lipase) and it is estimated that macrophages are the primary source of lipoprotein lipase in atherosclerotic plaques ( 615 ). Localized lipolysis of triglyceride-rich lipoproteins and their remnants can also liberate other oxidized fatty acids, which can promote cytotoxicity and inflammation ( 616 - 619 ); key players in atherosclerotic lesion development. Increases in macrophage lipoprotein lipase do stimulate macrophage cytotoxicity ( 620 ), while diminution of macrophage lipoprotein lipase in mice reduces atherosclerotic plaque size ( 237 , 621 , 622 ). Thus, localized hydrolysis of triglyceride-rich particles by macrophages have the potential to produce cytotoxic and inflammatory effects. It is also becoming clear that the dietary fatty acid composition of lipoproteins, including triglyceride-rich lipoproteins, affects their metabolism in complex and not completely understood ways. The fatty acid composition of lipoproteins (as well as phospholipids and cholesteryl esters)
