The Role of Lipids and Lipoproteins in Atherosclerosis
KEYWORDS: hdl, cholesterol, levels, cells, risk, ldl, atherosclerosis, cell, figure, ldl-c, increased, lipoproteins, macrophages, cardiovascular, studies


acid composition of lipoproteins, including triglyceride-rich lipoproteins, affects their metabolism in complex and not completely understood ways. The fatty acid composition of lipoproteins (as well as phospholipids and cholesteryl esters) is strongly influenced by dietary intake of fatty acids. Although dietary intake of saturated fatty acids is popularly believed to be bad, whether consuming saturated fat, per se, increases cardiovascular risk is somewhat controversial based on available evidence ( 623 , 624 ). However, in subjects with FH, increased saturated fat in the diet clearly increases LDL-C levels. What also appears clear is that replacing saturated fatty acids in the diet with polyunsaturated fatty acids (PUFA) reduces cardiovascular events ( 623 - 627 ). Omega-6 PUFA are the primary PUFA found in western diets. There is evidence these lower triglyceride levels, in part, by increasing lipolysis of triglyceride-rich lipoproteins ( 628 ). Omega-3 PUFA are the other major source of dietary PUFA. Fish are a rich source of long-chain omega-3 PUFA, and there is compelling evidence that omega-3 PUFA (at least from marine sources) reduce both triglyceride levels and cardiovascular risk ( 629 - 631 ). A recent large scale randomized controlled trial (REDUCE-IT) using an EPA only fish oil product reduced major cardiovascular event by 25% in patients who have hypertriglyceridemia ( 632 ). Replacing saturated fat with monounsaturated fatty acids may provide some reduction in cardiovascular events, but PUFA appear to have a stronger correlation with improved cardiovascular risk compared to monounsaturated fatty acids ( 633 - 635 ). In contrast to cis fatty acids, trans unsaturated fatty acids, which are common in processed foods, have been convincingly associated with increased cardiovascular risk ( 623 , 636 , 637 ). Given this and other evidence, a recent report from the National Lipid Association’s Expert Panel recommends, for patients with low or moderate risk for cardiovascular disease, that intake of saturated fatty acids be reduced to <7% of total energy and trans fatty acids should be avoided ( 638 ). The reduction in saturated and trans fats should be replaced with PUFA, protein and carbohydrate ( 638 ). The guidelines also suggest eating fish twice weekly. For individuals with high triglyceride levels, the Expert Panel also recommends supplementation with omega-3 polyunsaturated fatty acids from marine sources ( 638 ). The 2018 AHA/ACC listed persistent hypertriglyceridemia as a risk enhancer for developing ASCVD and recommend using omega-3 fish oil for
