The Role of Lipids and Lipoproteins in Atherosclerosis
KEYWORDS: hdl, cholesterol, levels, cells, risk, ldl, atherosclerosis, cell, figure, ldl-c, increased, lipoproteins, macrophages, cardiovascular, studies


omega-3 polyunsaturated fatty acids from marine sources ( 638 ). The 2018 AHA/ACC listed persistent hypertriglyceridemia as a risk enhancer for developing ASCVD and recommend using omega-3 fish oil for individuals with high triglyceride levels to prevent pancreatitis. However, the AHA/ACC guidelines did not include the evidence of the REDUCE-IT trial. Therefore, in these individuals with hypertriglyceridemia and other risk factors for ASCVD, one should consider initiating omega-3 fish oil or intensifying statin therapy( 481 ). Lipoprotein lipase-mediated hydrolysis of triglyceride is not the only mechanism in the artery wall for the metabolism of triglyceride rich particles to produce potentially atherogenic compounds. The foam cell macrophages are also capable of the endocytic uptake of VLDL and remnant particles, which can then be catabolized in the lysosome ( Figure 2 ) ( 639 - 642 ). Interestingly, there is evidence that under atherogenic influences, including macrophage sterol engorgement, the route of triglyceride metabolism in macrophages can shift to favor endocytic delivery of triglyceride-rich lipoproteins rather than surface hydrolysis ( 641 , 643 ). Whereas surface hydrolysis of triglycerides by surface lipases primarily delivers only free fatty acids to cells, endocytic uptake of particles would include the delivery of the particle’s full content, including its sterol, which would exacerbate foam cell sterol accumulation. Another potential way that triglyceride-rich lipoproteins could influence atherosclerosis focuses on the apolipoprotein CIII content of VLDL and remnants. ApoCIII inhibits lipoprotein lipase, inhibits remnant uptake by the liver, and its levels are associated with hypertriglyceridemia ( 644 - 648 ). Thus, high apolipoprotein CIII concentrations could promote arterial retention of VLDL and remnants making them more atherogenic, suggesting apolipoprotein CIII as a therapeutic target. In fact, individuals with certain mutations in APOC3 have low triglycerides and LDL-C ( 649 , 650 ). Two recent studies show that loss-of-function mutations in apoCIII lowered serum triglycerides by >39%, significantly reduced LDL-C and raised HDL-C, and lowered the incidence of cardiovascular events by >36% ( 651 , 652 ). An antisense oligonucleotide selective inhibitor of apoCIII has been developed that lowers serum apoCIII and triglycerides in mice, non-human primates, and humans and is currently in a phase 2 clinical trial ( 653 ). These studies indicate that reduction of apoCIII by antisense oligonucleotide inhibition significantly reduces circulating triglyceride levels ( 654 , 655 ). Besides their effects on circulating lipids, Apo CIII-containing lipoproteins also stimulate a range of processes including activation
