The Role of Lipids and Lipoproteins in Atherosclerosis
KEYWORDS: hdl, cholesterol, levels, cells, risk, ldl, atherosclerosis, cell, figure, ldl-c, increased, lipoproteins, macrophages, cardiovascular, studies


antisense oligonucleotide inhibition significantly reduces circulating triglyceride levels ( 654 , 655 ). Besides their effects on circulating lipids, Apo CIII-containing lipoproteins also stimulate a range of processes including activation of monocytes, inflammation, endothelial cell NO production resulting in vascular dysfunction and increased lipid oxidation and binding of lipoproteins to PG which can stimulate macrophage foam cell formation ( 227 , 239 , 656 - 658 ). A final way in which triglyceride levels could influence atherogenesis is related to the finding that patients with hypertriglyceridemia also tend to have increased circulating levels of thrombotic factors such as fibrinogen and plasminogen activator inhibitor and inflammatory mediators (TNF-alpha, IL-6, VCAM-1 and MCP-1) ( 659 - 661 ). Thrombosis and inflammation are key factors in atherosclerosis and its progression to heart attack and stroke. Reducing Circulating Triglyceride Levels It is clear, therefore, that there are a variety of ways in which the triglyceride-containing particles in hypertriglyceridemic plasma could contribute either directly or indirectly to multiple aspects of atherosclerotic lesion development. Regardless of whether triglycerides are directly causative of cardiovascular disease, the evidence is mounting that assessment of triglyceride levels has an important role in evaluating and managing cardiovascular risk, and treating elevated triglyceride levels may reduce risk for cardiovascular events ( 548 , 662 ). This is particularly true for patients with coronary heart disease or diabetes ( 548 , 662 - 664 ). Several agents have shown efficacy in reducing triglyceride levels and also in reducing cardiovascular disease risk. The reduced risk is thought to occur to a large extent by reducing atherosclerosis. Currently, therapeutic agents recommended for treating hypertriglyceridemia are fibrates, statins, niacin and omega-3 PUFA but others are being developed. Unfortunately, clinical trials of the impact of triglyceride lowering medications on cardiovascular events in subjects with severe hypertriglyceridemia have not been undertaken. Fibrates are the most effective approach for directly lowering triglyceride levels. Fibrates have been shown to lower triglyceride levels by 30%-50% depending on the baseline levels ( 548 ). More importantly, fibrate therapy with gemfibrozil has been shown to reduce cardiovascular risk in patients with elevated triglycerides ( 665 - 667 ). Unfortunately, the trials of combination therapy of statins with fenofibrate have failed to meet their primary endpoints in terms of reducing cardiovascular events ( 668 , 669 ). However, posthoc analysis of all of the fibrate trials show significant benefits in terms of reducing CVD
