The Role of Lipids and Lipoproteins in Atherosclerosis
KEYWORDS: hdl, cholesterol, levels, cells, risk, ldl, atherosclerosis, cell, figure, ldl-c, increased, lipoproteins, macrophages, cardiovascular, studies


primary endpoints in terms of reducing cardiovascular events ( 668 , 669 ). However, posthoc analysis of all of the fibrate trials show significant benefits in terms of reducing CVD events, when looking at the subgroup of patients with elevated triglycerides and low HDL-C and features of the metabolic syndrome or diabetes ( 670 , 671 ). Statins inhibit HMG-CoA reductase, the rate-limiting enzyme in cholesterol biosynthesis, and produce dramatic reductions in LDL-C levels; typically from 20%-60% depending upon the particular statin used and dosage ( 672 ). However, they also reduce circulating levels of triglycerides ( 673 ) and Non-HDL-C ( 477 ). Levels of LDL-C are often low in the setting of hypertriglyceridemia, so Non-HDL-C levels are a more useful measure of the burden of atherogenic apoB-containing lipoproteins than LDL-C in patients with hypertriglyceridemia. Indeed, the National Lipid Association recommends using goals for Non-HDL-C levels of < 130 mg/dl or < 100 mg/dl, in subjects at high- and very-high risk of cardiovascular events, respectively ( 477 ). Niacin is a B vitamin that can lower overall circulating lipid levels when given in high doses. The mechanism of action is not entirely clear but niacin reduces VLDL production by the liver. Unfortunately, clinical trial data regarding the use of niacin on cardiovascular outcomes in severe hypertriglyceridemia is lacking. Although in a subgroup analysis of the AIM-HIGH trial, niacin showed a trend toward benefit in the tertile of subjects with the highest triglycerides (>198mg/dl) and lowest HDL-C (<33mg/dl), which is consistent with the post hoc analysis of fibrate trials ( 674 ). Finally, evidence indicates that daily intake of omega-3 PUFA from marine sources (which primarily containing eicosapentaenoic and docosahexaenoic acids) can significantly reduce circulating triglyceride levels ( 675 - 678 ). Treatment with 3 – 4 grams a day of omega-3 PUFA (EPA+DHA) is effective in lowering triglycerides. A large meta-analysis of omega-3 FA in 20 studies including 63,000 participants did not see an impact on a combined cardiovascular endpoint or coronary events, but there was a reduction in vascular death ( 679 ). However, most omega-3 outcome trials used less than one gram of omega-3 PUFA, which was probably too low of a dose to have meaningful triglyceride lowering effects that could yield clinical efficacy. The JELIS trial, compared the effect of 1.8 g EPA vs. placebo on top of statin in a hypercholesteremic but relatively normal triglycerides
