The Role of Lipids and Lipoproteins in Atherosclerosis
KEYWORDS: hdl, cholesterol, levels, cells, risk, ldl, atherosclerosis, cell, figure, ldl-c, increased, lipoproteins, macrophages, cardiovascular, studies


lowering effects that could yield clinical efficacy. The JELIS trial, compared the effect of 1.8 g EPA vs. placebo on top of statin in a hypercholesteremic but relatively normal triglycerides patient population (mean LDL-C 182 mg/dl and triglycerides 151 mg/dl) ( 95 ). JELIS found a 19% relative risk reduction in CV events but a more pronounced 53% reduction in the subgroup with mixed dyslipidemia, specifically the subgroup with triglycerides >150mg/dl and HDL<40 mg/dl( 680 ). Most recently, a large randomized controlled trial (REDUCE-IT) of an EPA only fish oil product reduced major cardiovascular event by 25% in patients who have hypertriglyceridemia ( 632 ). Whether the clinical benefit was confined to EPA only or it can be generalized to all omega-3 PUFA is still yet to be determined. In contrast to marine-derived omega-3 PUFA, plant-derived omega-3 PUFA have generally not shown efficacy for lowering triglycerides( 681 , 682 ). A number of new approaches for treating hypertriglyceridemia are in development including antisense oligonucleotides to ApoC3( 654 , 655 ). Summary The association of elevated triglyceride levels and cardiovascular disease has been well established ( 555 , 556 , 579 , 588 ). What remains a subject of ongoing debate is the extent to which triglycerides directly promote atherogenesis or, alternatively, simply represent a biomarker for other processes that influence cardiovascular risk. ( 542 , 548 , 554 , 561 , 570 , 592 , 683 , 684 ). Nonetheless, the evidence supports measuring triglycerides and including triglyceride and Non-HDL-C reduction in treatment regimens is strengthening especially in patients with metabolic syndrome, diabetes, or cardiovascular disease. HDL METABOLISM AND ATHEROSCLEROSIS HDL and Reverse Cholesterol Transport Apolipoprotein A-I (apoA-I) is the major protein on HDL and provides both structure and function. Lipid-poor apoA-I and mature HDL both contribute to removing cholesterol from macrophages and prevent foam cell formation ( Figure 2 ). Although cholesterol flux from macrophages to HDL (or apoA-I) alleviates cholesterol-accumulation in lesions, the net flux of cholesterol from the lesion has little to no effect on systemic cholesterol levels. Nevertheless, macrophage cholesterol efflux to HDL reduces inflammation and the atherosclerotic burden, and is the first step in reverse cholesterol transport (RCT) ( Figure 10 ) ( 685 - 687 ). This pathway was first described in 1966 ( 688 ). The rate at which cholesterol flows through the RCT pathway is of greater importance than steady state levels
