The Role of Lipids and Lipoproteins in Atherosclerosis
KEYWORDS: hdl, cholesterol, levels, cells, risk, ldl, atherosclerosis, cell, figure, ldl-c, increased, lipoproteins, macrophages, cardiovascular, studies


687 ). This pathway was first described in 1966 ( 688 ). The rate at which cholesterol flows through the RCT pathway is of greater importance than steady state levels of HDL-cholesterol (HDL-C). Interestingly, cholesterol movement from macrophages to HDL occurs through at least 4 routes ( 70 ). First, lipid-poor apoA-I stimulates the efflux of phospholipid and free cholesterol through interaction with ATP-binding cassette transporter A1 (ABCA1) ( Figure 2 ), which generates pre-beta HDL and nascent discoidal particles ( 689 ). The more lipidated the apoA-1 becomes, the discoidal HDL particles transition into a spherical structure and lose their ability to interact with ABCA1 and stimulate cholesterol efflux through ABCA1. Both discoidal HDL particles and mature spherical HDL particles can also promote free cholesterol efflux from another transporter, ATP-binding cassette transport G1 (ABCG1), which is thought to reside on sub-cellular organelles as opposed to the plasma membrane ( Figure 2 ) ( 690 , 691 ). This transporter is a critical regulator of intracellular cholesterol trafficking cellular cholesterol availability, and cholesterol export ( 690 , 692 ). HDL’s primary receptor for cholesteryl ester (CE) uptake, scavenger receptor BI (SR-BI), is also a bidirectional free cholesterol transporter in that it facilitates the efflux and influx of free cholesterol between cells and mature HDL ( 693 - 695 ) ( Figure 2 ). The net direction of cholesterol flux is determined by the cholesterol concentration gradient (plasma membrane and HDL ratio of free cholesterol to phospholipid) ( 696 ) as well as by the phospholipid subspecies ( 697 , 698 ). Finally, cholesterol can simply move from the plasma membrane to HDL through passive aqueous diffusion, which is a major route of cholesterol efflux from macrophages ( Figure 2 ) ( 70 , 687 , 695 ). On HDL free cholesterol is solubilized in the phospholipid surface layer and is rapidly esterified by lecithin:cholesterol acyltransferase (LCAT) ( Figure 6 ), and the hydrophobic CE is then mobilized to HDL’s core ( 699 , 700 ). Figure 10. Beneficial Functions of HDL. HDL mediates a number of atheroprotective processes. HDL is critical in reverse cholesterol transport where it mediates the first step of removing cholesterol from the periphery and macrophage foam cells for clearance by the liver. HDL can directly mediate the last step in reverse cholesterol transport by delivering cholesterol to the liver via interaction with SR-BI. HDL reduces LDL
