The Role of Lipids and Lipoproteins in Atherosclerosis
KEYWORDS: hdl, cholesterol, levels, cells, risk, ldl, atherosclerosis, cell, figure, ldl-c, increased, lipoproteins, macrophages, cardiovascular, studies


LDL receptor pathway ( 702 ). Besides these major routes holoparticle uptake of HDL may also contribute to delivery of HDL-CE to the liver. Hepatocytes, and many other cell types in other tissues, likely participate in HDL retro-endocytosis where apoA-I or HDL particles are taken up by endocytosis and resecreted without degradation in late endosomes and lysosomes ( 703 , 704 ). SR-BI and CD36 may participate in this process as well as other potential HDL receptors ( 705 - 707 ) . For example, the F 0 F 1 ATPase and P2Y 13 receptor have been reported to facilitate the uptake of the entire HDL particle ( 703 , 704 , 708 , 709 ). The liver then excretes both cholesterol and bile acids-derived from cholesterol into the bile which are removed from the body in feces, thus completing RCT from peripheral macrophages to bile through HDL and the liver ( 710 ). Recent evidence suggests there is also likely an HDL-independent pathway for systemic cholesterol removal through transintestinal cholesterol excretion (TICE) ( 711 ). Historically, HDL’s anti-atherogenic properties were largely attributed to HDL’s role in RCT and removing excess cholesterol from macrophages and peripheral tissues; however, continually emerging alternative HDL functions likely significantly contribute to HDL’s protection against CVD. HDL Levels and Risk of CVD Historically, HDL-C was synonymous with the term HDL; however, the amount of cholesterol in the HDL pool (HDL-C) and the number and quality of HDL particles (HDL-P) are independent concepts that are important to consider in the context of HDL function. Several decades of high-quality epidemiological studies have clearly shown that HDL-C levels are inversely correlated to CVD risk and events, independent of race, gender, and ethnicity ( 712 ). In well-controlled studies assessing CVD risk using multivariate approaches to adjust for covariates, both apoA-I and HDL-C are strong independent predictors of CVD risk ( 474 ). Nonetheless, HDL-C levels are also inversely correlated to insulin resistance, obesity, and triglycerides. As such, HDL-C’s causality in protection from CVD is difficult to define and is somewhat controversial, mainly due to epidemiological discrepancies between the dose-response of HDL-C levels to CVD outcomes. It is possible that HDL-C levels may simply be a biomarker for CVD and not play a causal role in atherosclerosis; however, an increasing number of functional studies clearly support HDL’s functional relevance in biochemical mechanisms of atherosclerosis. In any case, epidemiological studies
