The Role of Lipids and Lipoproteins in Atherosclerosis
KEYWORDS: hdl, cholesterol, levels, cells, risk, ldl, atherosclerosis, cell, figure, ldl-c, increased, lipoproteins, macrophages, cardiovascular, studies


and not play a causal role in atherosclerosis; however, an increasing number of functional studies clearly support HDL’s functional relevance in biochemical mechanisms of atherosclerosis. In any case, epidemiological studies over the past 50 years have provided many insights into HDL-C and CVD risk. The first evidence came from the Framingham Heart Study in 1966 demonstrating a link between HDL-C and ASCVD ( 713 ). In 1975, HDL-C levels were found to be inversely associated with CVD in a Norwegian trial (Tromso Heart Study) ( 714 ). In subsequent years, the Honolulu Heart Study (1976) ( 715 ) and Framingham Heart Study (1977) ( 559 ) both reported that many CVD patients had low HDL-C levels. Over the years, low HDL-C levels have consistently been reported to be associated with increased risk of ASCVD and events ( 716 - 718 ). By the late 1980s and early 1990s, the relationship between HDL-C and CVD was generally accepted, as studies during this period established that low HDL-C levels were associated with CVD risk independent of other risk factors even in patients with normal total cholesterol levels ( 719 - 721 ). Clinical Outcomes Trials Prior to the statin-era, results from randomized controlled clinical trials suggested that increasing HDL-C levels 1 mg/dL or 1% reduces mortality from CVD by 3-4% ( 722 , 723 ). In the Air Force/Texas Coronary Atherosclerosis Prevention Study (AFCAPS/TexCAPS), treatment of men and women with average TC and LDL-C levels and below-average HDL-C levels with lovastatin (20-40 mg) reduced LDL-C by 25% and raised HDL-C 6%, resulting in a 37% reduction in the risk for the first major acute coronary event ( 724 ). These results showed that statin therapy was effective in reducing risk for CVE in subjects with low-HDL-C. The extent to which the benefit came from HDL-C raising is unclear. Studies completed in subjects on statins have yielded inconsistent results with regard to the importance of raising HDL-C partly due to evidence suggesting that statin (fluvastatin) use in low HDL-C subjects decreased coronary artery disease (CAD) with little to no increase in HDL-C levels ( 725 - 727 ). In the fluvastatin regression study, low HDL-C subjects on placebo showed increased disease (angiographic) progression compared to subjects with high HDL-C levels ( 727 ). Collectively, evidence from these and a large number of epidemiological studies overwhelmingly support a clear inverse association between HDL-C levels
