The Role of Lipids and Lipoproteins in Atherosclerosis
KEYWORDS: hdl, cholesterol, levels, cells, risk, ldl, atherosclerosis, cell, figure, ldl-c, increased, lipoproteins, macrophages, cardiovascular, studies


compared to subjects with high HDL-C levels ( 727 ). Collectively, evidence from these and a large number of epidemiological studies overwhelmingly support a clear inverse association between HDL-C levels and CVD risk. This is demonstrated clinically as raising HDL levels through injections of reconstituted HDL (rHDL) resulted in atherosclerotic plaque regression, as determined by intravascular ultrasound ( 728 ). A number of animal studies clearly support the HDL-C hypothesis. For example, raising HDL in mice and rabbits consistently blocks atherogenesis( 729 - 731 ). However, raising HDL-C levels by mono- or combined therapy to reduce risk and events has proven challenging. Two major clinical outcomes trials of raising HDL with niacin failed to show a benefit. In subjects with CAD with LDL-C levels well controlled with a statin, the addition of extended release niacin in AIM-HIGH ( 732 ) and extended release niacin plus laropiprant (prostaglandin D2 receptor blocker to inhibit flushing) in HPS-2THRIVE ( 733 ) failed to reduce cardiovascular outcomes. However, structural limitations of the two Niacin trials design complicated their interpretation ( 734 ). In addition, major cardiovascular outcomes trials of 3 CETP inhibitors torcetrapib ( 735 ), dalcetrapib ( 736 ), evacetrapib have now failed to show a benefit in reducing cardiovascular events. More recently, the CETP inhibitor (anacetrapib) was tested in the REVEAL trial, which was a positive outcomes trial ( 737 ). However, the benefit of anacetrapib in reducing CVE seems to be largely explained by lowering of non-HDL, rather than increases in HDL-C ( 738 ). More recently, two recombinant apoA-I products MDCO-216 and CER001 showed no benefit in imaging studies ( 739 , 740 ). Collectively, the failure of these clinical studies has raised doubts about the HDL hypothesis. Indeed, raising HDL-C is presently not a primary target for therapeutic intervention. Nevertheless, HDL infusion in humans has been reported to improve endothelial function, which should contribute to inhibiting atherogenesis ( 741 ). At this time, HDL particle infusion therapies have not been proven to be an effective approach to reduce cardiovascular events ( 742 ); however, clinical trials with reconstituted HDL are still ongoing. Furthermore, recent studies indicate that HDL particle number and cholesterol efflux capacity are better indicators of CHD risk than HDL-C levels ( 743 , 744 ). The therapeutic targeting of HDL non-cholesterol cargo, quality, and function are emerging and gaining support, as HDL have many other biological
