The Role of Lipids and Lipoproteins in Atherosclerosis
KEYWORDS: hdl, cholesterol, levels, cells, risk, ldl, atherosclerosis, cell, figure, ldl-c, increased, lipoproteins, macrophages, cardiovascular, studies


risk than HDL-C levels ( 743 , 744 ). The therapeutic targeting of HDL non-cholesterol cargo, quality, and function are emerging and gaining support, as HDL have many other biological properties that likely contribute to prevention of atherosclerosis and CVD ( 745 ). In addition, quantifying HDL function, including cholesterol efflux capacity, will provide a better risk index than steady-state HDL-C levels ( 746 ). Particle Number and Cholesterol Efflux A major blow to HDL causality in atherosclerosis comes from genetic studies. Mendelian disorders resulting in very low HDL-C levels have yielded conflicting data, as mutations to critical lipoprotein genes (e.g. apoA-I) were found to be associated with protection from atherosclerosis in one study ( 747 ) and increased risk in another study ( 748 ). The ApoA-I Milano mutation is associated with low levels of HDL-C and reduced risk of CVD ( 747 ). Infusion of recombinant apoA-I Milano was reported to induce regression of atherosclerosis ( 749 ), but there has not been clear progress in developing it as an approach to therapy since the initial regression study was published. The evidence that some genetic causes of low HDL-C are associated with increased risk for premature atherosclerosis, whereas others are not, supports the notion that HDL function may be more important than HDL-C levels. Nonetheless, Mendelian disorders of low HDL-C levels are rare, and thus the sample sizes in these studies are limited and it is difficult to draw accurate conclusions. To address this issue, genome-wide association studies were completed to attempt to resolve if HDL-C is a risk index or causal factor. These studies are limited in that many variants that raise or lower HDL-C levels also affect other lipoproteins, namely LDL-C levels. For example, variants in CETP raise HDL-C levels and reduce LDL-C levels, which complicates risk prediction based on HDL-C levels ( 750 ). Nevertheless, studies have found that variance solely associated with HDL-C levels is not linked to cardiovascular events. For example, single nucleotide polymorphisms (SNPs) in endothelial lipase ( LIPG ), which raises HDL-C levels, are not associated with decreased CVD( 751 ). As failed clinical trials aimed at raising HDL-C levels and genetic studies do not uniformly support causality for HDL-C in CVD, HDL functional tests in future prospective studies will likely provide more resolution to HDL’s causal role in CVD. Cholesterol efflux capacity, a marker of HDL function, has been reported
