The Role of Lipids and Lipoproteins in Atherosclerosis
KEYWORDS: hdl, cholesterol, levels, cells, risk, ldl, atherosclerosis, cell, figure, ldl-c, increased, lipoproteins, macrophages, cardiovascular, studies


CVD, HDL functional tests in future prospective studies will likely provide more resolution to HDL’s causal role in CVD. Cholesterol efflux capacity, a marker of HDL function, has been reported to be inversely associated with CVD risk independent of HDL-C levels ( 744 , 746 ). This was first demonstrated in a cross-sectional study using radio-tracing of cholesterol efflux ( 746 ). A subsequent study also found an inverse association between HDL efflux capacity and atherosclerosis, but reported a positive link to cardiovascular events ( 752 ). In a third study assessing HDL cholesterol efflux in a US cohort using a fluorescence method, efflux was again linked to decreased risk of CVD ( 743 ). Recently, HDL cholesterol efflux capacity was found to be inversely associated with CVD risk and events in a large nested case-control prospective study (n=3,494 subjects) from the EPIC-Norfolk Study ( 744 , 753 ). These associations were independent of many other co-founding factors, including HDL-C, T2DM, obesity, LDL-C, and age amongst others ( 744 ). In addition to HDL cholesterol efflux and functional indices as risk predictors, HDL particle number (HDL-P) has also been reported to provide biomarker potential. HDL-P numbers can be quantified using nuclear magnetic resonance ( 754 ) or calibrated ion mobility assays ( 755 ). HDL-P was found to be inversely associated with carotid intima medial thickness (cIMT) and coronary heart disease (CHD) independent of LDL particle numbers and HDL-C levels in the large multi-ethnic study of atherosclerosis (MESA) ( 756 ). Importantly, HDL-P remains inversely associated to CHD after adjusting for triglycerides and apolipoprotein B (apoB), thus suggesting that HDL-P is far superior to HDL-C levels as a biomarker of ASCVD and events ( 757 , 758 ). Furthermore, neither HDL-C levels nor HDL-P levels correlate to cholesterol efflux from macrophages; therefore, the rate of cholesterol efflux is still critical to understanding RCT and HDL function. Likewise, HDL quality is more important than apoA-I levels, which also do not correlate with HDL function, e.g. RCT ( 759 ). Serum samples with identical apoA-I and HDL-C levels were found to have differing cholesterol acceptance capacities, mostly due to pre-beta HDL levels, which contributed to altered ABCA1-mediated cholesterol efflux ( 759 ). These studies strongly suggest that HDL function (cholesterol efflux capacity), as opposed to HDL-C, HDL-P, and apoA-I levels, provide a more important risk assessment and better predictor of future events
