The Role of Lipids and Lipoproteins in Atherosclerosis
KEYWORDS: hdl, cholesterol, levels, cells, risk, ldl, atherosclerosis, cell, figure, ldl-c, increased, lipoproteins, macrophages, cardiovascular, studies


These studies strongly suggest that HDL function (cholesterol efflux capacity), as opposed to HDL-C, HDL-P, and apoA-I levels, provide a more important risk assessment and better predictor of future events as well as a more reasoned therapeutic target for reducing CVD risk and events. However, clinical assays for apoA-I and HDL-P are widely available and well-established, whereas assays for cholesterol efflux capacity have not been standardized and remain a research tool at present. HDL Composition and Analysis Historically, HDL have been isolated by density-gradient ultracentrifugation (DGUC) based on isopycnic equilibrium, and HDL have been defined by their density 1.063-1.21 g/mL since the 1950s ( 760 , 761 ). Based on mass, HDL can also be separated from other lipoproteins by size-exclusion chromatography (fast protein liquid chromatography, FPLC), and HDL’s molecular weight ranges from 175,000 - 360,000 Da ( 762 ). In addition to DGUC and FPLC, affinity chromatography can also be used to purify HDL from plasma using antibodies against apoA-I ( 763 ) or apoA-II, as HDL heterogeneity includes particles containing apoA-I:apoA-II (75%) or apoA-I only (25%) ( 763 , 764 ). Furthermore, asymmetric flow field-flow fractionation is now being used to isolate and characterize HDL ( 765 ). HDL can also be separated by non-denaturing gradient gel electrophoresis, e.g. polyacrylamide gel electrophoresis. Large HDL (HDL 2 , 8.8-12.9 nm in diameter) and small HDL (HDL 3 , 7.2-8.8 nm) are both α migrating particles (high negative charge), whereas pre-β HDL (5.4-7 nm) are β migrating particles for which they are defined. To quantify pre-β HDL particles, 2-D gel electrophoresis is often used to separate pre-β from mature HDL ( 766 ). HDL-P numbers can be quantified by either nuclear magnetic resonance spectroscopy or calibrated ion mobility assays. HDL can also be quantified and qualified by other methods, including vertical rotor ultracentrifugation, and transmission electron microscopy. HDL are very dynamic and should be acknowledged as a heterogeneous pool of sub-classes with differing sizes, shapes, densities, protein compositions, and lipid diversity. Lipid-free apoA-I is secreted from the liver and small intestine as an amphipathic helix, and it quickly becomes lipidated by ABCA1 to form pre-β HDL, which then becomes discoidal after accepting phospholipid and free cholesterol from hepatocytes and peripheral cells. Upon further lipidation and cholesterol accumulation and esterification, nascent spherical HDL forms that range 7-12 nm in diameter. Mature HDL contains 3-4 apoA-I molecules of which 1 remains on
