The Role of Lipids and Lipoproteins in Atherosclerosis
KEYWORDS: hdl, cholesterol, levels, cells, risk, ldl, atherosclerosis, cell, figure, ldl-c, increased, lipoproteins, macrophages, cardiovascular, studies


cells. Upon further lipidation and cholesterol accumulation and esterification, nascent spherical HDL forms that range 7-12 nm in diameter. Mature HDL contains 3-4 apoA-I molecules of which 1 remains on the particle and the other apoA-I are free to (dis)associate (exchange) on and off the particle with other HDL. This is predominantly associated with rearrangement of HDL’s aqueous phase and surface area ( 767 ). As such, HDL are in a constant state of remodeling and interconversion. Each spherical HDL particle has approximately 50-130 phospholipids, 10-50 free cholesterol molecules, 30-90 CE molecules, and 10-20 triglyceride (TG) molecules ( 536 ). Phosphatidylcholine makes up the largest amount of lipid on HDL (approximately 90%); however, over 200 species of lipids have been reported, including sphingolipids, acylglycerols, isoprenoids, glycerophospholipids, and vitamins ( 768 , 769 ). The HDL proteome has been extensively studied and there is a general consensus of approximately 80 proteins ( 770 , 771 ). In addition to apoA-I and apoA-II, HDL transports over a dozen other apolipoproteins, as well as many enzymes and other factors. HDL have also been found to transport small RNAs, namely microRNAs (miRNA), which were found to be altered in hypercholesterolemia and atherosclerosis ( 772 , 773 ). Most interestingly, HDL have been demonstrated to transport a wide-variety of exogenous non-host small RNAs, including rRNA and tRNA fragments derived from bacterial and fungal species present in the microbiome and environment ( 774 ).The size of HDL is determined by the amount of CE and triglyceride (TG) in the hydrophobic core, and HDL is generally separated into 5 sub-classes based on size. Distinct HDL sub-species have been associated with CVD risk, and the sub-species have differential biological functions, e.g. large HDL are less anti-inflammatory ( 775 - 777 ). Many of the cargo or components of HDL are enriched in the small HDL sub-class which provides many of the alternative functions to the total HDL pool ( 778 , 779 ). The concentration of all HDL particles in plasma is approximately 20 umol/L; however, small HDL particles are the most abundant sub-class at approximately 10 umol/L. HDL are heterogeneous particles that transport a wide-variety of proteins, lipids, and nucleic acids, which confer many of HDL’s biological properties and beneficial functions in health and dysfunction in specific diseases. HDL Cell Signaling Many of HDL’s cellular functions – cell survival, proliferation, vasodilation -- are mediated by HDL-induced cell
