The Role of Lipids and Lipoproteins in Atherosclerosis
KEYWORDS: hdl, cholesterol, levels, cells, risk, ldl, atherosclerosis, cell, figure, ldl-c, increased, lipoproteins, macrophages, cardiovascular, studies


properties and beneficial functions in health and dysfunction in specific diseases. HDL Cell Signaling Many of HDL’s cellular functions – cell survival, proliferation, vasodilation -- are mediated by HDL-induced cell signaling cascades ( 780 ). As such, HDL can be characterized as hormone-like agonists. Although substantial work still remains in identifying HDL binding proteins and receptors on the cell surface, HDL have been found to activate many signaling cascades through various receptors. The most studied example of this is HDL’s ability to bind to the plasma membrane and through cell signaling mobilize cholesterol from intracellular stores in organelles to the plasma membrane for efflux. This has been attributed to HDL-induced activation of protein kinase C (PKC) ( 781 ). Specifically, apoA-I binds to ABCA1 and activates phosphatidylcholine lipases, which activate PKC leading to the movement of cellular cholesterol from intracellular stores to the plasma membrane for efflux, as well as PKC-mediated phosphorylation of ABCA1, which increases the transporter’s stability and efflux activity ( 782 - 784 ). This is a prime example of HDL-induced cell signaling that contributes to HDL cholesterol efflux capacity, which reduces the cholesterol burden for macrophages in the lesion, prevents foam cell formation, and antagonizes atherogenesis. Other HDL-induced signaling pathways that result in increased cholesterol and lipid efflux include protein kinase A (PKA) ( 785 , 786 ), cell division control protein 42 (Cdc42) ( 787 ), and Janus kinases-2 (JAK2) ( 788 , 789 ) cascades. HDL (i.e. apoA-I)-induced cell signaling through ABCA1 also suppresses macrophage M1 phenotype activation and pro-inflammatory cytokine production ( Figure 10 ), and promotes M2 phenotype anti-inflammatory cytokine secretion (e.g. interleukin 10 (IL-10)) through JAK2 signaling and activation of signal transducer and activator of transcription 3 (STAT3) ( 75 ). In addition, the apoA-I:ABCA1:JAK2 axis was reported to suppress inflammation in endothelial cells through cyclooxygenase-2 (COX-2) activation leading to increased prostaglandins (PGI 2 ), which also suppresses atherogenesis ( 790 ). HDL have also been reported to induce cell signaling through SR-BI. HDL binding to SR-BI’s extracellular loop was reported to trigger activation of SR-BI’s cytoplasmic C terminal domain leading to the phosphorylation of protein kinase Src and activation of both liver kinase B1 (LKB1) and calmodulin-dependent protein kinase (CAMK) ( 791 , 792 ). This results in cell signaling through downstream kinases – AMP-activated protein kinases (AMPK) ( 792 ), protein kinase Akt ( 791 ), and mitogen-activated protein
