The Role of Lipids and Lipoproteins in Atherosclerosis
KEYWORDS: hdl, cholesterol, levels, cells, risk, ldl, atherosclerosis, cell, figure, ldl-c, increased, lipoproteins, macrophages, cardiovascular, studies


cells underlies HDL’s anti-atherogenic properties in health, and deficits in HDL signaling likely link HDL dysfunction in metabolic diseases to increased risk of atherosclerosis. Anti-Inflammatory HDL Outside reverse cholesterol transport, HDL’s anti-inflammatory properties have been the most extensively studied HDL function and likely play a large role in HDL’s anti-atherogenicity ( Figure 10 ). HDL’s anti-inflammatory properties are conferred by numerous mechanisms in many types of cells. In addition to providing the vascular barrier, endothelial cells control vascular inflammation through expressing adhesion molecules that aid in monocyte adhesion and ultimate migration into the atherosclerotic lesion. Moreover, activated endothelial cells secrete cytokines and recruit monocytes through chemokine release. The induction of adhesion molecules, cytokines, and chemokines in activated endothelial cells is largely due to NF-κB transcriptional activation. In humans, injection of apoA-I resulted in decreased adhesion molecule expression in atherosclerotic plaques ( 810 ). One mechanism by which HDL suppresses endothelial cell and monocyte activation is through inhibiting NF-kB activity by attenuating IkB kinase activity ( 811 ). Nonetheless, HDL decreases adhesion molecule expression through multiple mechanisms. Cells pre-treated with HDL or apoA-I are protected from TNFα or oxidized LDL (oxLDL)-induced adhesion molecule expression. In addition, HDL binding to SR-BI may also contribute to inhibition of adhesion molecule expression, as SR-BI-mediated Akt activation promoted heme oxygenase-1 expression. In addition, up-regulation of 3-beta-hydroxysteroid-delta 24 (DHCR24) by HDL binding to SR-BI was reported to underlie HDL’s ability to suppress adhesion molecules ( 812 ). Furthermore, HDL suppression of intracellular adhesion molecule-1 (ICAM-1) in endothelial cells was found to be mediated, in part, through the transfer of miR-223 to recipient cells ( 773 ). Recent studies also suggest that TGFβ and AMPK also contribute to HDL’s suppression of adhesion molecule expression ( 813 ). In addition to HDL’s profound effects on vascular endothelium, HDL suppresses myelopoiesis, monocyte recruitment, macrophage activation, proliferation, and emigration from atherosclerotic lesions. Similar to its impact on endothelial cells, HDL also suppresses adhesion molecule expression in monocytes, which inhibits monocyte adhesion and migration to atherosclerotic lesions ( 814 ). HDL and apoA-I were demonstrated to suppress CD11b expression on human monocytes through both ABCA1-dependent and independent mechanisms ( 814 ). HDL inhibition of monocyte activation, which includes suppression of cytokines and adhesion molecules, is mediated through both peroxisome proliferator-activated receptor gamma (PPARγ) and NF-kB transcription factors ( 815 ). Suppression of chemokine and cytokines in myeloid cells inhibits infiltration and
