The Role of Lipids and Lipoproteins in Atherosclerosis
KEYWORDS: hdl, cholesterol, levels, cells, risk, ldl, atherosclerosis, cell, figure, ldl-c, increased, lipoproteins, macrophages, cardiovascular, studies


and adhesion molecules, is mediated through both peroxisome proliferator-activated receptor gamma (PPARγ) and NF-kB transcription factors ( 815 ). Suppression of chemokine and cytokines in myeloid cells inhibits infiltration and migration of circulating monocytes, and thus antagonizes atherosclerosis. HDL have also been reported to mediate macrophage reprogramming through the transcription factor ATF3 that reduces Toll-like receptor signaling ( 816 ). Importantly, much of HDL’s (and apoA-I’s) inhibition of macrophage activation is mediated through altering cholesterol levels in plasma membrane lipid rafts through cholesterol efflux mediated by ABCG1/SR-BI and ABCA1; however, apoA-I induced signaling through ABCA1 and the JAK/STAT pathway independent of cholesterol efflux may also contribute to HDL’s effect, as described above ( 75 , 817 ) ( 814 , 818 ). HDL have also been demonstrated to promote macrophage emigration through removing excess cholesterol and induction of signaling pathways ( 208 ). In addition to HDL’s impact on monocytes and macrophages, HDL also strongly suppresses neutrophil activation and vascular smooth muscle cell secretion of monocyte chemoattractant protein-1 (MCP1) ( 819 ). In addition to HDL’s roles in innate immunity, recent evidence suggests that HDL play multiple roles in adaptive immunity ( 820 ). Mice lacking apoA-I develop autoimmunity when challenged with a high cholesterol (diet and background, Ldlr -/- ), which includes T cell activation and production of autoantibodies ( 821 , 822 ). This phenotype was rescued by apoA-I injections. HDL have also been reported to repress both antigen-presenting cell (APC) activation of T cells and T cell activation of monocytes, thus preventing the secretion of proinflammatory cytokines and chemokines ( Figure 10 ) ( 823 , 824 ). ApoA-I also prevents the phenotypic switching of T-regs into pro-inflammatory follicular helper T cells during atheroprogression ( 92 ). Moreover, cholesterol efflux to HDL and apoA-I have been reported to suppress myelopoiesis and proliferation of myelopoietic stem and progenitor cells, as loss of function for both Abca1 and Abcg1 in mice resulted in increased myelopoiesis ( 820 ). Injection of apoA-I was also found to rescue this phenotype ( 825 ). In addition, HDL and cholesterol efflux were reported to suppress megakaryocyte progenitor proliferation, platelet levels, and thrombocytosis ( 826 ). Collectively, HDL and apoA-I inhibit circulating levels of hematopoietic progenitor cells, monocytes, neutrophils, and platelets all of which contribute to HDL’s capacity to limit inflammation and atherosclerosis. Antithrombotic HDL Another anti-atherogenic function of HDL is the capacity to
