The Role of Lipids and Lipoproteins in Atherosclerosis
KEYWORDS: hdl, cholesterol, levels, cells, risk, ldl, atherosclerosis, cell, figure, ldl-c, increased, lipoproteins, macrophages, cardiovascular, studies


hematopoietic progenitor cells, monocytes, neutrophils, and platelets all of which contribute to HDL’s capacity to limit inflammation and atherosclerosis. Antithrombotic HDL Another anti-atherogenic function of HDL is the capacity to directly and indirectly inhibit platelet activation, aggregation, and thrombus formation ( Figure 10 ). HDL-C levels were found to be inversely associated with thrombus formation in humans ( 827 ). HDL is required to remove excess cholesterol from the plasma membrane of platelets for proper function, and platelets isolated from mice lacking SR-BI to mediate cholesterol efflux to HDL were found to be more susceptible to activation ( 828 , 829 ). Both HDL and cyclodextrin-mediated cholesterol efflux were found to inhibit platelet aggregation ( 828 ). However, HDL-induced cell signaling through binding to glycoprotein IIb/IIIa on the surface of platelets was reported to activate phospholipase C (PLC) and PKC, thus leading to flux through the Na+/H+ antiport system ( 717 ). This pathway can result in alkalization of the cytoplasm and calcium release, which can reduce platelet activation ( 830 ). Furthermore, HDL dose-dependently inhibits stimulated platelet activation, which leads to reduced platelet aggregation, granule secretion and fibrinogen binding. In rats, apoA-I injections inhibited thrombus formation and reduced thrombus mass ( 831 ). HDL’s anti-thrombotic effects are also mediated, in part, through HDL’s ability to inhibit tissue factor and factors X, Va, and VIIIa ( Figure 10 ) ( 832 ). HDL also prevents thrombus formation through cell signaling and nitric oxide (NO) production in endothelial cells ( 828 ), and suppression of tissue factor and platelet-activating factor expression in endothelial cells ( 833 , 834 ). HDL also reduces erythrocyte influence on thrombus formation ( 835 ). Collectively, HDL has multiple biological mechanisms that inhibit thrombus formation, and thus, contribute to HDL’s anti-atherogenic properties. Pro-Vasodilatory HDL The endothelium significantly contributes to vascular tone, and HDL confer protection against endothelial cell activation, apoptosis, and loss of barrier function, which is critical to atherogenesis. HDL have been reported to induce endothelium-dependent vasodilation in aortic rings ( 806 ), and individuals with low HDL have reduced endothelium-dependent vasorelaxation ( Figure 10 ) ( 741 ). HDL’s benefit to endothelial cells is largely mediated by cell signaling through phosphatidylinositol 3-kinase (PI3K) and Akt and is induced by bioactive lipids and associated proteins on HDL, including lysosulfatide, S1P, and sphingosylphosphorylcholine (SPC) ( 791 , 798 , 806 ). A key outcome of HDL-induced
