The Role of Lipids and Lipoproteins in Atherosclerosis
KEYWORDS: hdl, cholesterol, levels, cells, risk, ldl, atherosclerosis, cell, figure, ldl-c, increased, lipoproteins, macrophages, cardiovascular, studies


Akt and is induced by bioactive lipids and associated proteins on HDL, including lysosulfatide, S1P, and sphingosylphosphorylcholine (SPC) ( 791 , 798 , 806 ). A key outcome of HDL-induced cell signaling is the production of NO ( Figure 10 ) through both signaling induced phosphorylation of eNOS and increased eNOS expression ( 791 , 836 ). HDL can trigger eNOS-phosphorylation through SR-BI, S1P receptor (S1P 1-5 ), and ABCG1-mediated cholesterol efflux ( 806 , 837 ). HDL-induced NO underlies many of HDL’s beneficial properties to endothelial cells, including HDL-induced vasodilation, tightening of cell-to-cell junctions and increased barrier function, differentiation of endothelial progenitor cells, cell survival and proliferation, cell migration, inhibition of apoptosis, and suppression of adhesion molecule expression. In addition, HDL also has NO-independent properties on endothelial cells, including induced proliferation, increased barrier function, suppressed inflammation and decreased apoptosis ( 838 ). These studies clearly define a beneficial role for HDL in vascular integrity, which underlies HDL protection against atherosclerosis. Anti-Apoptotic HDL HDL have multiple anti-apoptotic properties that enhance cell survival ( Figure 10 ). By various metrics, HDL support mitochondrial function and prevent the release of apoptotic signals, including cytochrome C ( 205 , 839 ). Moreover, HDL drives the expression of Bcl-xl, which is a strong anti-apoptotic factor and suppresses Bid, which is a pro-apoptic protein ( 839 , 840 ). HDL mediates these gene expression changes through cell signaling and NO production through activation of surface receptors by HDL-associated proteins and bioactive lipids, including apolipoprotein J (apoJ) and S1P ( 803 , 840 ). In addition, there are likely alternative anti-apoptotic mechanisms resulting from HDL-induced signaling. Nonetheless, HDL has been demonstrated to suppress apoptosis in endothelial cells ( Figure 10 ) activated with tumor necrosis factor (TNFα) and oxLDL ( 839 , 841 , 842 ). HDL proteins (apolipoprotein M, apoM) and apoM-binding lipids (S1P) contribute to HDL’s ability to increase tight junctions and endothelial cell survival ( 843 ). Mice deficient in apoM have reduced S1P levels and loss of endothelium barrier function ( 843 ). HDL’s ability to support the endothelium barrier function is a key feature of its anti-atherosclerosis properties and represents a classic example of HDL’s control of cellular gene expression and phenotype that are beneficial to vascular health. However, HDL also have many capacities in the extracellular space (e.g. plasma) that protect against atherosclerosis. Anti-Oxidative HDL A key factor in monocyte
