The Role of Lipids and Lipoproteins in Atherosclerosis
KEYWORDS: hdl, cholesterol, levels, cells, risk, ldl, atherosclerosis, cell, figure, ldl-c, increased, lipoproteins, macrophages, cardiovascular, studies


phenotype that are beneficial to vascular health. However, HDL also have many capacities in the extracellular space (e.g. plasma) that protect against atherosclerosis. Anti-Oxidative HDL A key factor in monocyte activation and chemotaxis in the vascular wall is the accumulation of oxLDL, which is more pro-inflammatory and pro-atherogenic than unmodified LDL. LDL can become oxidized by a variety of endogenous mechanisms ( 844 ). In the vascular wall, LDL can be modified (oxidized) by many cell types, including vascular smooth muscle cells, endothelial cells, and macrophages ( 776 ). Remarkably, HDL prevents the oxidation of LDL ( Figure 10 ) and recent evidence suggests that this may occur through 4 distinct proteins circulating on HDL – apoA-I ( 845 , 846 ), LCAT ( 847 ), lipoprotein-associated phospholipase A2 (Lp-PLA2)( 848 , 849 ), and paraoxonase 1 (PON1) ( 430 , 846 ). First, HDL can simply soak up oxidized lipids or oxidizing factors from cells preventing their association with LDL and their modification of LDL lipids and proteins. In addition, HDL removes lipid hydroperoxides from LDL particles ( 846 ). Specifically, small apoAI containing HDL particles are the most efficient at accepting lipid hydroperoxides, which are reduced to their inactive lipid hydroxides via oxidation of the methionine residues in apoA-I ( 850 ). Compared to apoA-II the methionine residues in apoA-I are more conformationally conducive to reducing lipid hydroperoxides ( 851 , 852 ). In addition, HDL with low surface free cholesterol and sphingomyelin are more efficient at accepting lipid hydroperoxides ( 745 , 853 ). The capacity of HDL to prevent oxidation via this mechanism is also maintained by the selective removal of HDL lipid hydroperoxides and hydroxides by hepatocyte SR-BI ( 854 ). In addition, ApoA-I methionine sulfoxide is reduced to methionine by methionine sulfoxide reductases.( 850 ). LCAT circulates on HDL and has also been reported to block LDL oxidation, as LCAT over-expression in mice reduced LDL oxidation as determined by reduced LDL autoantibodies ( 855 ). Lp-PLA 2 appears to be pro-atherogenic on LDL and anti-atherogenic on HDL ( 856 ). Its activity on HDL likely contributes to HDL’s anti-oxidative capacity, as inhibition of HDL-associated Lp-PLA 2 attenuated HDL’s ability to block LDL oxidation ( 848 ). The strongest anti-oxidative HDL protein is likely PON1. Over-expression of PON1 in mice confers enhanced HDL anti-oxidative capacity, and PON1 itself prevents LDL oxidation in vitro ( 432
