The Role of Lipids and Lipoproteins in Atherosclerosis
KEYWORDS: hdl, cholesterol, levels, cells, risk, ldl, atherosclerosis, cell, figure, ldl-c, increased, lipoproteins, macrophages, cardiovascular, studies


848 ). The strongest anti-oxidative HDL protein is likely PON1. Over-expression of PON1 in mice confers enhanced HDL anti-oxidative capacity, and PON1 itself prevents LDL oxidation in vitro ( 432 ). Most importantly, HDL isolated from mice lacking PON1 have reduced ability to prevent LDL oxidation. HDL’s anti-oxidative capacity likely plays a large role in preventing inflammation and atherogenesis, and like many of the other alternative functions, confer HDL’s beneficial role in health. HDL Intercellular Communication HDL also likely participate in intercellular communication through the transfer of nucleic acids between tissues. Recently, HDL have been reported to transport miRNA ( Figure 10 ), which are small non-coding RNAs that suppress gene expression through binding to complimentary target sites in the 3’ untranslated region of mRNAs, and thus inhibit translation and induce mRNA degradation ( 772 ). Most interestingly, the HDL-miRNA profile is significantly altered in hypercholesterolemia and atherosclerosis ( 772 ). miRNAs have been reported to be exported from macrophages to HDL, and HDL has been demonstrated to transfer specific miRNAs to recipient hepatoma cells (Huh7) and endothelial cells, likely through HDL’s receptor SR-BI ( 773 ). In endothelial cells, HDL was found to deliver miR-223 to recipient cells, where it directly targeted intracellular adhesion molecule-1 (ICAM-1) expression ( Figure 10 ), and thus inhibited neutrophil adhesion to the cells ( 773 ). miR-223 is not transcribed or processed in endothelial cells and HDL delivery of mature miR-223 to endothelium likely confers, in part, HDL’s anti-inflammatory capacity associated with adhesion molecule suppression. Future studies are needed to determine the physiological relevance and functional impact of HDL-miRNAs in humans and animal models in the context of atherosclerosis and other inflammatory diseases. Anti-Infectious HDL HDL also contributes to innate immunity by modulating immune cell function. However, this hypothesis has not been extensively studied in the context of atherosclerosis. HDL are anti-infectious, anti-parasitic, and anti-viral. HDL have the unique capacity to prevent endotoxic shock and readily binds to lipopolysaccharides (LPS) and contributes to removing LPS through biliary excretion thus aiding innate immunity ( 857 - 859 ). Amongst the many proteins that circulate on HDL, apolipoprotein L1 (apo-L1) (also known as trypanosome lytic factor) is present in specific sub-classes of HDL ( 860 , 861 ). This factor kills Trypanosome brucei and Trypanosome brucei rhdesiense , parasites that cause sleeping sickness, through creating ionic pores in endosomes ( 860 - 862 ). Although
