The Role of Lipids and Lipoproteins in Atherosclerosis
KEYWORDS: hdl, cholesterol, levels, cells, risk, ldl, atherosclerosis, cell, figure, ldl-c, increased, lipoproteins, macrophages, cardiovascular, studies


, 861 ). This factor kills Trypanosome brucei and Trypanosome brucei rhdesiense , parasites that cause sleeping sickness, through creating ionic pores in endosomes ( 860 - 862 ). Although promising, future studies are required to define how HDL regulation of innate immunity contributes to the inhibition of atherogenesis. HDL Dysfunction HDL confer many anti-atherogenic properties that are lost in atherosclerosis and other inflammatory and metabolic diseases. These include 9 key processes – Loss of cholesterol efflux capacity from macrophages Reduced ability to inhibit LDL oxidation Decreased vasodilation through reduced NO production in endothelial cells Reduced ability to inhibit monocyte chemotactic activity Loss of the ability to metabolize hydroperoxides on erythrocyte membranes Reduced ability to suppress TNFα-induced NF-κB activation and adhesion molecule expression Loss of anti-apoptotic capacity in endothelial cells Decreased capacity to block TNFα-induced NADPH oxidase activity and superoxide production Suppression of cytokine inhibition in activated inflammatory cells. Many of these defects are due to changes in HDL cargo, e.g. decreased PON1 levels or increased serum amyloid A (SAA) levels. Moreover, changes in the content of bioactive lipids or increased oxidative modifications to HDL’s lipids and protein cargo likely confer dysfunction. HDL-miRNAs have been shown to be significantly altered in hypercholesterolemia and atherosclerosis ( 772 ). It is unknown how these changes contribute to HDL’s loss of anti-atherogenic properties, but they hold great potential for future studies. In CHD, acute coronary syndrome (ACS), and ischemic cardiomyopathy, HDL have reduced ability to inhibit oxidation of LDL, likely through reduced PON1 levels as reported in CHD ( 845 , 863 , 864 ). Loss of PON1 also reduces HDL’s ability to prevent oxidation of its own lipids and proteins, which has been reported in metabolic syndrome as oxidation of apoA-I impairs HDL’s RCT and anti-inflammatory functions ( 865 ). Reduced HDL-PON1 levels are also found in other cardiometabolic diseases, including type 2 diabetic mellitus (T2DM) ( 866 , 867 ), type 1 diabetes mellitus (T1DM) ( 868 ), rheumatoid arthritis (RA) ( 869 , 870 ), dyslipidemia (e.g. hyperalphalipoproteinemia (HALP) ( 871 )), and patients after cardiac surgery ( 872 ). In subjects with ACS and CAD, HDL have been reported to have decreased ability to prevent endothelial cell apoptosis likely through decreased activation (phosphorylation) of Bcl-xl and increased activation of Bcl-2, which are anti-apoptotic and pro-apoptotic proteins, respectively ( 840 ). Loss of HDL’s anti-apoptotic capacity has been proposed to
