The Role of Lipids and Lipoproteins in Atherosclerosis
KEYWORDS: hdl, cholesterol, levels, cells, risk, ldl, atherosclerosis, cell, figure, ldl-c, increased, lipoproteins, macrophages, cardiovascular, studies


pro-atherogenic cargo and properties in cardiometabolic diseases. Due to loss of PON1, HDL accumulate malonaldehydes, which inhibits NO production through increased phosphorylation of eNOS through LOX-1 receptor signaling ( 901 ). HDL Summary Years of sound epidemiological studies have clearly established an inverse relationship between HDL-C levels and risk of CVD. Nevertheless, recent GWAS studies suggest that individuals with high HDL-C levels are not protected from CVD. Furthermore, clinical studies aimed at raising HDL-C levels through niacin and CETP inhibitors have failed to reduce risk of cardiovascular events and have been stopped prematurely due to lack of efficacy or increased number of events. Although they’re often lumped together, HDL-C levels do not represent HDL particle numbers or HDL function (e.g. cholesterol efflux capacity); both of which have been reported to be better indicators of CVD risk than HDL-C. In addition to HDL’s transport of cholesterol and lipids in the RCT pathway, HDL transports a wide-variety of cargo, including a diverse group of proteins, small RNAs, bioactive lipids, and many other small molecules. These alternative cargos may confer many of HDL’s alternative functions outside of RCT. In fact, HDL have many beneficial properties, including anti-inflammatory, anti-oxidative, anti-thrombotic, anti-infectious, anti-apoptotic, intercellular communication, and pro-vasodilatory capacities. Recently, HDL dysfunction has been reported in many cardiometabolic diseases, including CAD, T2D, and CKD. Current and future challenges include the need to better define HDL anti-atherogenic properties in health and pro-atherogenic influences in disease to better control HDL function to potentially prevent and treat CVD. ACKNOWLEGEMENTS This work was supported in part by National Institutes of Health grants HL116263 and HL127173 . REFERENCES 1. Mozaffarian D, Benjamin EJ, Go AS, Arnett DK, Blaha MJ, Cushman M, de Ferranti S, Despres JP, Fullerton HJ, Howard VJ, Huffman MD, Judd SE, Kissela BM, Lackland DT, Lichtman JH, Lisabeth LD, Liu S, Mackey RH, Matchar DB, McGuire DK, Mohler ER 3rd, Moy CS, Muntner P, Mussolino ME, Nasir K, Neumar RW, Nichol G, Palaniappan L, Pandey DK, Reeves MJ, Rodriguez CJ, Sorlie PD, Stein J, Towfighi A, Turan TN, Virani SS, Willey JZ, Woo D, Yeh RW, Turner MB. Heart disease and stroke statistics--2015 update: a report from the American Heart Association. Circulation. 2015; 131 :e29–322. [ PubMed : 25520374 ] 2. Mayerl C, Lukasser M, Sedivy R, Niederegger H, Seiler R, Wick G. Atherosclerosis research from past to present--on the track of two pathologists with opposing views, Carl
