NIH Public Access
KEYWORDS: diabetes, type, pancreatitis, manuscript, chronic, author, chronic pancreatitis, author manuscript, glucose, type diabetes, pancreatic, patients, nih-pa author, nih-pa, mellitus


NIH Public Access Author Manuscript Pancreatology. Author manuscript; available in PMC 2014 July 01. Published in final edited form as: Pancreatology. 2013 ; 13(4): . doi:. Detection, Evaluation and Treatment of Diabetes Mellitus in Chronic Pancreatitis: Recommendations from PancreasFest Toledo, MD3, R. Paul Robertson, MD4, Dana K. Andersen, MD5, Suresh T. Chari, MD6, Abstract Description—Diabetes and glucose intolerance are common complications of chronic Methods—A working group reviewed the medical problems, diagnostic methods, and treatment options for chronic pancreatitis-associated diabetes for a consensus meeting at PancreasFest 2012. Guidance Statement 1.1: Diabetes mellitus is common in chronic pancreatitis. While any patient with chronic pancreatitis should be monitored for development of diabetes, those with long- © 2013 International Association of Pancreatology and European Pancreatic Club. Published by Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved. Pittsburgh & UPMC, 3708 Fifth Ave, Room 401.4, Pittsburgh PA 15213, Tel 412 578 9515, Fax 412 578 9537, . *Authors are the working group members; a complete list of participants who discussed the statements, voted, reviewed and approved the document are given in the Appendix. Disclosure Statement: The authors have no relevant conflicts of interest related to this material. Author Contributions: Developed the concept and the consensus process: M.A.A., R.E.B, L.F. and D.C.W. Diabetes Working Group: M.R.R. (chair), D.K.A., M.B., S.C., F.G.S.T. and R.P.R. Wrote the Manuscript: M.R.R. and D.C.W. Participated in discussion of statements, reviewed and approved manuscript: All authors and participants. Publisher's Disclaimer: This is a PDF file of an unedited manuscript that has been accepted for publication. As a service to our customers we are providing this early version of the manuscript. The manuscript will undergo copyediting, typesetting, and review of the resulting proof before it is published in its final citable form. Please note that during the production process errors may be discovered which could affect the content, and all legal disclaimers that apply to the journal pertain. NIH-PA Author Manuscript NIH-PA Author Manuscript NIH-PA Author Manuscript standing duration of disease, prior partial pancreatectomy, and early onset of calcific disease may be at higher risk. Those patients developing diabetes mellitus are likely to have co-existing pancreatic exocrine insufficiency. Guidance Statement 1.2: Diabetes occurring secondary to chronic pancreatitis should be recognized as pancreatogenic diabetes (type 3c diabetes). Guidance Statement 2.1: The initial evaluation should include fasting glucose and HbA1c. These tests should be repeated annually. Impairment in either fasting glucose or HbA1c requires further evaluation. Guidance Statement
