NIH Public Access
KEYWORDS: diabetes, type, pancreatitis, manuscript, chronic, author, chronic pancreatitis, author manuscript, glucose, type diabetes, pancreatic, patients, nih-pa author, nih-pa, mellitus


Guidance Statement 2.1: The initial evaluation should include fasting glucose and HbA1c. These tests should be repeated annually. Impairment in either fasting glucose or HbA1c requires further evaluation. Guidance Statement 2.2: Impairment in either fasting glucose or HbA1c should be further evaluated by a standard 75 gram oral glucose tolerance test. Guidance Statement 2.3: An absent pancreatic polypeptide response to mixed-nutrient ingestion is a specific indicator of type 3c diabetes. Guidance Statement 2.4: Assessment of pancreatic endocrine reserve, and importantly that of functional beta-cell mass, should be performed as part of the evaluation and follow-up for total pancreatectomy with islet autotransplantation (TPIAT). Guidance Statement 3: Patients with pancreatic diabetes shall be treated with specifically tailored medical nutrition and pharmacologic therapies. Conclusions—Physicians should evaluate and treat glucose intolerance in patients with pancreatitis. Rationale Chronic pancreatitis is a syndrome of pancreatic inflammation with irreversible parenchymal damage and functional changes that is complicated by progressive nutrient maldigestion, glucose intolerance, diabetes mellitus, and metabolic derangements. The complex timing and interactions between nutrient digestion, absorption, and utilization that are normally regulated by the pancreas are variably disrupted with inflammatory and fibrotic injury. Failure to digest nutrients in the proximal gut may result in impaired incretin secretion and thereby diminished insulin release; loss of islet cell mass further contributes to pancreatic endocrine insufficiency. Destruction of islet cells by pancreatic inflammation differs from that in type 1 diabetes by the loss not only of insulin from islet beta cells but also of glucagon and pancreatic polypeptide from islet alpha and PP cells, which can lead to the development of “brittle” disease with large swings in blood sugar that are difficult to control. In addition, patients may have pre-existing risk factors for type 2 diabetes (e.g. insulin resistance, obesity, or dietary habits) that further complicate the optimal regulation of glucose metabolism. As the islet cell loss distinguishes such pancreatogenic diabetes from type 2 diabetes, the diabetes mellitus resulting from recurrent acute or chronic pancreatitis is classified as pancreatogenic diabetes, also known as type 3c diabetes (1-3). Type 3c diabetes may be present in 5-10% of cases of diabetes mellitus, with over 85% of cases related to to type 3c diabetes, this condition is not commonly recognized by physicians (3). Chronic pancreatitis was considered a disease of alcoholism until the discovery that smoking, complex genetic genotypes, and other factors accounted for the underlying etiology in over half of all
