NIH Public Access
KEYWORDS: diabetes, type, pancreatitis, manuscript, chronic, author, chronic pancreatitis, author manuscript, glucose, type diabetes, pancreatic, patients, nih-pa author, nih-pa, mellitus


(3). Chronic pancreatitis was considered a disease of alcoholism until the discovery that smoking, complex genetic genotypes, and other factors accounted for the underlying etiology in over half of all cases of this disease. Severe nutritional and metabolic features often seen in patients with recurrent acute and chronic pancreatitis were not always the consequence of alcoholism, as had been previously thought (5, 6). Furthermore, clinicians caring for these patients may not have been trained in screening for glucose intolerance, optimization of incretin release, or the diagnosis and treatment of type 3c diabetes. Finally, Pancreatology. Author manuscript; available in PMC 2014 July 01. NIH-PA Author Manuscript NIH-PA Author Manuscript NIH-PA Author Manuscript monitoring islet cell mass is important in the event that total pancreatectomy and islet autotransplantation (TPIAP) is considered as a therapeutic option. Limited guidelines are available for the detection, evaluation, and treatment of diabetes mellitus in patients with chronic pancreatitis. The Italian consensus guidelines for chronic pancreatitis (7) recommend assessing endocrine function via fasting glucose levels and propose that the treatment of pancreatogenic diabetes does not differ from that of type 1 and type 2 diabetes, although a statement was made against a role for oral hypoglycemic agents. Guideline Focus The PancreasFest working group framed the development of their discussion questions and guidance statements around three areas of concern: 1) the pathophysiology of diabetes mellitus occurring in the setting of chronic pancreatitis; 2) the distinction of pancreatogenic (type 3c) from type 1 and type 2 diabetes; and 3) the evaluation and management of pancreatogenic diabetes in the context of current endocrine practice. Target Population The clinical recommendations guide the evaluation and management of diabetes mellitus and glucose intolerance in adult patients with recurrent acute and chronic pancreatitis. Guideline Development Process PancreasFest is an annual meeting that brings together physicians and scientists with interests in the pancreas: pancreatologists, endoscopists, surgeons, radiologists, molecular biologists, geneticists, endocrinologists, epidemiologists, statisticians, systems biologists, and experts in biomarkers (typically 150+ attendees). At PancreasFest 2009, an expert working group convened to identify the most important clinical questions related to diabetes mellitus in chronic pancreatitis and prepared state-of- the-art lectures and case studies for presentation at PancreasFest 2010. At PancreasFest 2011, the group evaluated the current evidence on diagnosis, classification, and treatment options and developed specific discussion questions and guidance statements. At PancreasFest 2012, the final process was guided by Dr. Frulloni based on the Italian Consensus
