NIH Public Access
KEYWORDS: diabetes, type, pancreatitis, manuscript, chronic, author, chronic pancreatitis, author manuscript, glucose, type diabetes, pancreatic, patients, nih-pa author, nih-pa, mellitus


on diagnosis, classification, and treatment options and developed specific discussion questions and guidance statements. At PancreasFest 2012, the final process was guided by Dr. Frulloni based on the Italian Consensus Guidelines for Chronic Pancreatitis (7). Conference attendees (Appendix) responded to the updated discussion questions and guidance statements and indicated their level of agreement based on a 5-point scale (Table 1) using digital voting devices. Evidence Review and Grading Methods of developing consensus were based on the Grading of Recommendations practice guidelines (8) and the Surviving Sepsis Campaign report (9). Evidence and Modification The discussion questions presented to attendees of PancreasFest 2012 were followed by one or more guidance statements intended to provide a concise summary and, if indicated, a clinical recommendation. Conference attendees discussed the initial questions and guidance statements of the working group, which were projected for the entire conference to see and revise in real-time. The conference participants then voted on the level of agreement with the statements, with the results tabulated and likewise projected for all to see in real-time. If there less than 80% strong agreement the statement was further discussed and modified in Pancreatology. Author manuscript; available in PMC 2014 July 01. NIH-PA Author Manuscript NIH-PA Author Manuscript NIH-PA Author Manuscript real time. Following the discussion a second (final) vote was taken and the results were again projected. The working group and audience were also invited to identify areas in which there are insufficient data and where further research is recommended. Clinical Recommendations Discussion Question 1.1: In chronic pancreatitis, are there specific risk factors for developing diabetes mellitus? Guidance Statement 1.1—Diabetes mellitus is common in chronic pancreatitis. While any patient with chronic pancreatitis should be monitored for development of diabetes, those with long-standing duration of disease, prior partial pancreatectomy, and early onset of calcific disease may be at higher risk. Those patients developing diabetes mellitus are likely to have co-existing pancreatic exocrine insufficiency. Level of Agreement: A 58%; B 42%; C 0%; D 0%; E 0% Evidence—Diabetes mellitus has been observed in 26-80% of patients with chronic pancreatitis, depending on the cohort and duration of follow up (10-12). There is a clear increase in diabetes prevalence with longer duration of disease. Median age of diabetes onset in hereditary pancreatitis ranges from 38-53 years and does not vary by mutation status (11, 12). Risk factors for progression to diabetes mellitus identified in one large cohort of
