NIH Public Access
KEYWORDS: diabetes, type, pancreatitis, manuscript, chronic, author, chronic pancreatitis, author manuscript, glucose, type diabetes, pancreatic, patients, nih-pa author, nih-pa, mellitus


onset in hereditary pancreatitis ranges from 38-53 years and does not vary by mutation status (11, 12). Risk factors for progression to diabetes mellitus identified in one large cohort of patients with primarily alcohol-related chronic pancreatitis included early onset of pancreatic calcifications and prior distal pancreatectomy (2-3 fold elevated risk) (13). Since type 2 diabetes can co-exist with pancreatic diabetes, canonical risk factors for type 2 diabetes (e.g., family history, overweight/obesity, increasing age and high risk ethnicity) may also play a role in earlier development of diabetes mellitus in chronic pancreatitis. Diabetes mellitus in chronic pancreatitis occurs due to islet/beta cell loss mediated by fibro- inflammatory destruction of the pancreatic parenchyma. Thus, it is not surprising that pancreatic exocrine and endocrine deficiencies are correlated, with a linear relationship among stimulated protease (chymotrypsin), amylase, and bicarbonate production with basal and stimulated insulin and C-peptide (14, 15). In contrast to other forms of diabetes mellitus, subjects with diabetes due to chronic pancreatitis are highly likely to have abnormal exocrine function on pancreazymin/secretin testing. In one study, nearly all patients with chronic pancreatitis-related diabetes had an abnormal response to exocrine pancreatic function tests (16). Cystic fibrosis-related diabetes is a condition analogous to diabetes due to chronic pancreatitis, in that both disorders result from progressive fibrosis of the pancreas. C-peptide and glucagon secretory responses are impaired in exocrine-insufficient cystic fibrosis patients, compared with those who are exocrine sufficient (17). Discussion Question 1.2: How should diabetes mellitus in the setting of chronic pancreatitis be classified? Guidance Statement 1.2—Diabetes occurring secondary to chronic pancreatitis should be recognized as pancreatogenic diabetes (type 3c diabetes). Level of Agreement: A 44%; B 36%; C 11%; D 3%; E 6% Evidence—The most common forms of diabetes mellitus in the U.S. are type 2 diabetes (accounting for 90% of diabetic cases) and type 1 diabetes (accounting for 〜10% of diabetic cases). Pancreatogenic diabetes, or type 3c diabetes, has traditionally been recognized as a cause in only 0.5% of patients with diabetes, although it has been proposed that up to 8% of diabetes in some centers may be due to pancreatic disease (18). Type 3 diabetes refers to specific types of diabetes other than type 1 or type 2 (19) and is further categorized by the Pancreatology. Author manuscript; available in PMC 2014 July 01. NIH-PA Author Manuscript NIH-PA Author Manuscript NIH-PA Author Manuscript American Diabetes Association to include diseases of the
