NIH Public Access
KEYWORDS: diabetes, type, pancreatitis, manuscript, chronic, author, chronic pancreatitis, author manuscript, glucose, type diabetes, pancreatic, patients, nih-pa author, nih-pa, mellitus


further categorized by the Pancreatology. Author manuscript; available in PMC 2014 July 01. NIH-PA Author Manuscript NIH-PA Author Manuscript NIH-PA Author Manuscript American Diabetes Association to include diseases of the exocrine pancreas (i.e., type 3c) (2). Because low fecal elastase has been observed in type 1 and type 2 diabetes, the presence of exocrine insufficiency alone may not justify a diagnose pancreatogenic diabetes (18, 20). However, when diabetes mellitus occurs in patients with an existing diagnosis of chronic pancreatitis, the proper classification in most cases is pancreatogenic diabetes. Positive islet antibodies in a patient with chronic pancreatitis suggest type 1 diabetes, particularly if diabetes onset is in childhood or is associated with severe hyperglycemia and ketosis. Because type 2 diabetes occurs in 8% of the general population, it is possible to have type 2 not distinguish pancreatogenic diabetes from other forms of diabetes mellitus — particularly type 2 — which may cause confusion among care providers. Common diabetes mellitus ICD-9 codes include: 250.00 type 2 diabetes; 250.00 diabetes mellitus associated with pancreatic disease; 250.01 type 1 diabetes mellitus; 249.00 secondary diabetes; and 251.3 diabetes mellitus secondary to pancreatectomy. Discussion Question 2.1: How should patients with chronic pancreatitis be evaluated for increased risk or the presence of diabetes? Guidance Statement 2.1—The initial evaluation should include fasting glucose and HbA1c. These tests should be repeated annually. Impairment in either fasting glucose or HbA1c requires further evaluation. Level of Agreement: A 83%; B 14%; C 3%; D 0%; E 0% Evidence—As defined by the American Diabetes Association (2), impairment in fasting glucose (100-125 mg/dl) or HbA1c (5.7-6.4%) constitutes categories of increased risk for diabetes (pre-diabetes). A fasting glucose ≥ 126 mg/dl or HbA1c ≥ 6.5% may already indicate the presence of diabetes. In the absence of unequivocal hyperglycemia (random glucose ≥ 200 mg/dl), results should be confirmed by repeat testing unless both tests support the diagnosis (Table 2). Discussion Question 2.2: What further evaluation is recommended when the initial screening tests suggest glucose intolerance? Guidance Statement 2.2—Impairment in either fasting glucose or HbA1c should be further evaluated by a standard 75 gram oral glucose tolerance test. Level of Agreement: A 69%; B 19%; C 6%; D 3%; E 3% Evidence—Serum glucose should be measured after fasting at both one and two hours following glucose ingestion. Per the American Diabetes Association (2), a diagnosis of diabetes mellitus should be made by a two-hour glucose
