NIH Public Access
KEYWORDS: diabetes, type, pancreatitis, manuscript, chronic, author, chronic pancreatitis, author manuscript, glucose, type diabetes, pancreatic, patients, nih-pa author, nih-pa, mellitus


measured after fasting at both one and two hours following glucose ingestion. Per the American Diabetes Association (2), a diagnosis of diabetes mellitus should be made by a two-hour glucose measurement of ≥ 200 mg/dl, and an impaired glucose tolerance is defined by a two-hour glucose of 140-199 mg/dl, which is consistent with pre-diabetes (Table 2). While there are no standard criteria for interpreting the one-hour glucose test, a level ≥ 200 mg/dl likely represents an early indication of impaired beta cell function in patients with pancreatic disease (21). If insulin resistance associated with type 2 diabetes is suspected, a fasting serum insulin level may be helpful to document hyperinsulinemia. Discussion Question 2.3: How can diabetes due to chronic pancreatitis be distinguished from type 1 and type 2 diabetes? Guidance Statement 2.3—An absent pancreatic polypeptide response to mixed-nutrient ingestion is a specific indicator of pancreatogenic diabetes. Pancreatology. Author manuscript; available in PMC 2014 July 01. NIH-PA Author Manuscript NIH-PA Author Manuscript NIH-PA Author Manuscript Level of Agreement: A 39%; B 33%; C 20%; D 7%; E 2% Evidence—The presence of islet antibodies (e.g., against glutamine acid decarboxylase, biochemical evidence of insulin resistance (e.g., acanthosis nigricans or hyperinsulinemia) is associated with type 2 diabetes. However, if ambiguity remains, confirmation of pancreatogenic diabetes can be established by measurement of the pancreatic polypeptide (PP) response to insulin-induced hypoglycemia, secretin infusion, or mixed-nutrient ingestion (Table 3). Mixed-nutrient ingestion can be standardized to 12 ounces of Boost® or equivalent and administered with prescribed pancreatic enzymes; definitive criteria for the assessment of the PP response to nutrients have yet to be established, but non-diabetic subjects demonstrate a 4-6 fold increase (basal and stimulated values are elevated in the elderly), whereas patients with severe chronic pancreatitis demonstrate less than a doubling of their low basal values (1). Therefore, an absent PP response distinguishes pancreatogenic from early type 1 diabetes in which PP levels may be elevated (22, 23) and may distinguish pancreatogenic from type 2 diabetes, which is characterized by elevated levels of PP (24, 25). In cystic fibrosis, the PP response to a mixed-nutrient meal (26) and to hypoglycemia (17) is essentially absent in exocrine-insufficient individuals with or without current cystic fibrosis-related diabetes. While this suggests that an absent PP response may be an early marker for endocrine impairment in patients with exocrine insufficiency, it is not yet known if measuring this response leads to earlier
