NIH Public Access
KEYWORDS: diabetes, type, pancreatitis, manuscript, chronic, author, chronic pancreatitis, author manuscript, glucose, type diabetes, pancreatic, patients, nih-pa author, nih-pa, mellitus


that an absent PP response may be an early marker for endocrine impairment in patients with exocrine insufficiency, it is not yet known if measuring this response leads to earlier identification of impaired glucose homeostasis compared with measures of fasting glucose, HbA1c, and oral glucose tolerance, as discussed above. Both type 1 and type 3c diabetes are associated with insulin deficiency due to beta- cell loss (see Table 3). Although a deficiency in PP responsiveness suggests exocrine pancreatic disease, this conclusion should be supported by other historical and investigative evidence to confirm a diagnosis of type 3c diabetes. Discussion Question 2.4: When should assessment of pancreatic endocrine reserve be performed in chronic pancreatitis? Guidance Statement 2.4—Assessment of pancreatic endocrine reserve, and importantly that of functional beta-cell mass, should be performed as part of the evaluation and followup for TPIAT. Level of Agreement: A 45%; B 20%; C 10%; D 18%; E 8% Evidence—Functional beta-cell mass can be estimated from serum C-peptide levels determined during either oral glucose tolerance (14) or mixed-nutrient meal testing (Table 3). Beta-cell secretory capacity may be more accurately measured by the insulin or C- peptide response to glucose-potentiated arginine testing (27), but such testing is not routinely available. Discussion Question 3: What steps should be taken to optimize treatment of diabetes mellitus in patients with chronic pancreatitis? Guidance Statement 3—Patients with pancreatic diabetes shall be treated with specifically tailored medical nutrition and pharmacologic therapies. Level of Agreement: A 85%; B 10%; C 3%; D 0%; E 3% Evidence—In the setting of chronic pancreatitis and diabetes, the primary goals of medical nutrition therapy are to prevent or treat malnutrition, control symptoms of steatorrhea, and minimize meal-induced hyperglycemia. Oral pancreatic enzyme replacement improves fat absorption in patients with pancreatic exocrine insufficiency and can help control symptoms of steatorrhea. However, many patients with chronic pancreatitis manifest some degree of fat malabsorption, regardless of the presence of symptoms. Fecal elastase C-1 levels and Pancreatology. Author manuscript; available in PMC 2014 July 01. NIH-PA Author Manuscript NIH-PA Author Manuscript NIH-PA Author Manuscript fecal fat collections can confirm the presence of pancreatic exocrine insufficiency (28). In addition, the release of intestinal-derived incretin hormones that augment glucose-dependent insulin secretion is impaired in patients with pancreatic exocrine insufficiency. Replacement with oral pancreatic enzymes restores incretin hormone secretion, which is associated with improved insulin secretion and glucose tolerance during meal ingestion (29, 30). Oral pancreatic
