NIH Public Access
KEYWORDS: diabetes, type, pancreatitis, manuscript, chronic, author, chronic pancreatitis, author manuscript, glucose, type diabetes, pancreatic, patients, nih-pa author, nih-pa, mellitus


with pancreatic exocrine insufficiency. Replacement with oral pancreatic enzymes restores incretin hormone secretion, which is associated with improved insulin secretion and glucose tolerance during meal ingestion (29, 30). Oral pancreatic enzyme replacement also protects against the loss of fat-soluble vitamins A, D, E, and K. Maintaining vitamin D levels is essential to prevent metabolic bone disease and osteoporosis. The most common issues with pancreatic enzyme replacement include inappropriate dosing and timing of enzymes, misdistribution of calories across meals, lack of acid suppression therapy, not taking enzymes with snacks, and, less commonly, associated bacterial overgrowth (31-33). A reduction in fat intake may reduce the symptoms of steatorrhea, but the reduction in fat can result in greater carbohydrate intake, which in turn can exacerbate hyperglycemia, necessitating adjustments in diabetes medications. Alcohol abstinence can help with diabetes management, since alcohol temporarily impairs hepatic glucose production and can cause hypoglycemia, especially in the setting of insulin therapy. Alcohol abstinence is particularly important for patients with alcoholic pancreatitis, as alcohol exacerbates the progression of exocrine pancreatic insufficiency and causes pain. No study has yet compared the long-term relative efficacy and safety of different hypoglycemic agents in chronic pancreatitis. Therefore, therapy is dictated by patient phenotype and an understanding of the pathophysiology of hyperglycemia in chronic pancreatitis. Since the principal endocrine defect is insulin deficiency, insulin therapy is the preferred treatment for most patients. The degree of insulin deficiency varies with disease severity and duration. Controlling mild hyperglycemia with oral hypoglycemic agents early in the disease history may be a valid approach. During acute episodes of pancreatitis, oral agents should be avoided, since they are usually not effective and may be unsafe. In advanced pancreatogenic diabetes, insulin replacement therapy is the only effective treatment option, and patients should be treated using general insulin dosing and regimen guidelines for type 1 diabetes. In pancreatogenic diabetes, blood glucose control may be labile due to loss of the glucagon response to hypoglycemia, carbohydrate malabsorption, and/or inconsistent eating patterns due to pain and/or nausea. Insulin pump therapy should be considered for patients who are sufficiently motivated to provide adequate prandial coverage of multiple small meals. The American Diabetes Association-European Association for the Study of Diabetes consensus group recommends metformin as a first-line oral therapy for type 2 diabetes because insulin resistance is a prominent feature (34). In diabetes due to chronic pancreatitis, when hyperglycemia is mild (HbA1c < 8.0%) and
