NIH Public Access
KEYWORDS: diabetes, type, pancreatitis, manuscript, chronic, author, chronic pancreatitis, author manuscript, glucose, type diabetes, pancreatic, patients, nih-pa author, nih-pa, mellitus


a first-line oral therapy for type 2 diabetes because insulin resistance is a prominent feature (34). In diabetes due to chronic pancreatitis, when hyperglycemia is mild (HbA1c < 8.0%) and concomitant insulin resistance is suspected, therapy with the insulin sensitizer metformin should be considered in the absence of contraindications and if tolerated. The main side effects of metformin include nausea, abdominal discomfort, diarrhea, and weight loss (35) — symptoms that patients with chronic pancreatitis are less likely to tolerate. However, observational studies in type 2 diabetes suggest that metformin may confer protection against pancreatic cancer, providing a theoretical rationale for using this drug. Thiazolidinediones also improve insulin sensitivity but are associated with increased risk of fluid retention, congestive heart failure, and fractures (36). The latter is of particular concern, since patients with chronic pancreatitis are at increased risk for osteoporosis. Given that treatment alternatives are available, the use of thiazolidinediones should generally be avoided in pancreatogenic diabetes. In early diabetes due to chronic pancreatitis (HbA1c < 8.0%), therapy with insulin secretagogues (sulfonylurea and glinides) may also be considered. Because secretagogues Pancreatology. Author manuscript; available in PMC 2014 July 01. NIH-PA Author Manuscript NIH-PA Author Manuscript NIH-PA Author Manuscript can cause hypoglycemia, short-acting agents are preferred when meal ingestion is inconsistent. Incretin-based therapies (e.g., GLP-1 analogues and DPP-IV inhibitors) also enhance insulin secretion but require further study. GLP-1 analogues have a high frequency of gastrointestinal side effects (e.g., nausea, delayed gastric emptying, weight loss) (37), symptoms that patients with chronic pancreatitis routinely experience. Both GLP-1 analogues and DPP-IV inhibitors have been associated with cases of drug-induced pancreatitis (38-40). Until more data are available, incretin-based therapies should be avoided in pancreatogenic diabetes. As with type 1 and type 2 diabetes, those affected with diabetes due to chronic pancreatitis are at risk for microvascular complications (41). Patients should be monitored for the development of retinopathy, nephropathy, and neuropathy using the same guidelines as for patients with type 1 and type 2 diabetes. Research Recommendations The systematic review of glucose intolerance and diabetes mellitus in the setting of pancreatitis revealed knowledge gaps in definition and detection (Guidance Statements 1.1 – 1.2), diagnosis (Guidance Statements 2.1 – 2.4), and treatment (Guidance Statement 3). Further research in the following specific areas was recommended to provide stronger levels of evidence in areas of uncertainty or lower levels of agreement. Guidance Statement 1.1 Further refinement of risk stratification
