NIH Public Access
KEYWORDS: diabetes, type, pancreatitis, manuscript, chronic, author, chronic pancreatitis, author manuscript, glucose, type diabetes, pancreatic, patients, nih-pa author, nih-pa, mellitus


in the following specific areas was recommended to provide stronger levels of evidence in areas of uncertainty or lower levels of agreement. Guidance Statement 1.1 Further refinement of risk stratification is needed for diabetes that could influence clinical decision making, such as, for example, earlier consideration of TPIAT prior to loss of islet function. Areas for investigation include the molecular genetics of recurrent acute or chronic pancreatitis, their relationship with type 2 diabetes susceptibility alleles, and canonical risk factors for type 2 diabetes. Guidance Statement 1.2 During the discussion, it was recognized that while pathophysiologic defects that distinguish between pancreatogenic (type 3c), type 1, and type 2 diabetes have been described, further research is needed to determine whether metabolic tests of islet cell hormone secretion and action or other biomarkers can better distinguish among these three forms of diabetes, and whether treatment based on proper classification improves clinical outcomes. Guidance Statement 2.1 Additional research is needed to determine whether earlier case identification can result in improved long-term glycemic control and a consequent reduction in diabetes-associated complications. Guidance Statement 2.2 Further research is needed into whether the one-hour glucose level during a standard 75 gram oral glucose tolerance test can improve risk stratification and, if so, using what criteria. In addition, investigation into the potential role for simultaneous measurement of C-peptide and insulin during the oral glucose tolerance in assessing insulin secretion and sensitivity, respectively, is warranted to evaluate the discriminatory value of this test for identifying impaired beta-cell function or insulin resistance. Pancreatology. Author manuscript; available in PMC 2014 July 01. NIH-PA Author Manuscript NIH-PA Author Manuscript NIH-PA Author Manuscript Guidance Statement 2.3 Further research is needed to better define the PP response compared with measures of fasting glucose, HbA1c, and oral glucose tolerance in the determination of risk for progression to pancreatogenic diabetes. Guidance Statement 2.4 Future research is needed to determine whether the insulin or C-peptide response to glucose- potentiated arginine testing is predictive of islet yield and metabolic functional outcomes when assessed prior to TPIAT. Guidance Statement 3 Additional studies should examine the efficacy, safety, and tolerability of metformin compared with sulfonylurea therapy early in the course of pancreatogenic diabetes. Furthermore, studies are needed to evaluate the long-term glycemic control and rate of diabetes-associated complications of early insulin compared with oral therapy for pancreatogenic diabetes. Summary These statements represent the most current, clinically relevant recommendations on the
