NIH Public Access
KEYWORDS: diabetes, type, pancreatitis, manuscript, chronic, author, chronic pancreatitis, author manuscript, glucose, type diabetes, pancreatic, patients, nih-pa author, nih-pa, mellitus


long-term glycemic control and rate of diabetes-associated complications of early insulin compared with oral therapy for pancreatogenic diabetes. Summary These statements represent the most current, clinically relevant recommendations on the evaluation and treatment of glucose intolerance and diabetes mellitus in patients with recurrent acute and chronic pancreatitis. Type 3c pancreatitis may also occur with other disorders such as hemochromatosis and pancreatic cancer, which were not addressed by the working group. There was strong consensus (≥90% agreement, as indicated by A or B in Table 1) that a large portion of patients with chronic pancreatitis are likely to eventually develop diabetes mellitus; that diabetes mellitus often co-exists with exocrine insufficiency; that fasting glucose and HbA1c should be measured annually; that abnormal findings should be further evaluated with a 75 gram oral glucose tolerance test; and that diabetes should be treated with specifically tailored medical nutrition and pharmacologic therapies. There was weaker consensus (<90% but >50% agreement) that diabetes secondary to chronic pancreatitis should be recognized as pancreatogenic diabetes; that absent pancreatic polypeptide responses to mixed nutrient ingestion is a specific indicator of pancratogenic diabetes; and that pancreatic endocrine reserve should be part of the evaluation for TPIAT. No statements received less than 50% agreement. Taken together, the response to these statements highlight the need to include specific testing for and treatment of diabetes in patients with chronic pancreatitis and that more research and education are needed to provide guidance in addressing pancreatogenic diabetes as distinct from type 1 and type 2 diabetes and in the evaluation of patients who are potential candidates for TPIAT. Acknowledgments This work was supported in part by conference grants from the National Institute of Diabetes and Digestive and Kidney Diseases [R13DK083216 (2009), R13DK088452 (2010), and R13DK09604 (2012)] and accredited Olympus through the University of Pittsburgh office of Continuing Medical Education. The authors thank Ms. Michelle Kienholz, Ms. Joy Jenko Merusi, and Ms. Marianne Davis for their expert assistance with the editing of this manuscript. Pancreatology. Author manuscript; available in PMC 2014 July 01. NIH-PA Author Manuscript NIH-PA Author Manuscript NIH-PA Author Manuscript Appendix: Consensus Development Participants Participants who critically reviewed and approved the document (PA)), Participants who attended the conference and received a voting device Pancreatology. Author manuscript; available in PMC 2014 July 01. NIH-PA Author Manuscript NIH-PA Author Manuscript NIH-PA Author Manuscript (University of Pittsburgh Medical Center (PA)) Kenneth Lee MD (University of Pittsburgh Wang
