Acta Clin Croat 2019; 58:771-776 Case Report
KEYWORDS: liver, products, herbalife, damage, liver damage, use, herbal, herbalife products, report, case, hepatotoxicity, hepatitis, cases, ingredients, case report


Acta Clin Croat 2019; 58:771-776 Case Report doi: HERBALIFE® ASSOCIATED SEVERE HEPATOTOXICITY IN A PREVIOUSLY HEALTHY WOMAN Dragan Jurčić1,2, Maruška Gabrić2, Rosana Troskot Perić1,2,3, Ana Marija Liberati Pršo4, Jure Mirat1, Aleksandar Včev1, Ivan Alerić1,5 and Barbara Ebling1 SUMMARY – Lately there has been an increased consumption of herbal preparations, distrib- uted as nutritional supplements, often claimed to be ‘natural’ and harmless. However, as their use is not subjected to strict pre-marketing testing and regulations, their ingredients are not clearly defined and there is no quality control or proof of their effectiveness and safety. A growing body of references ac- centuate their harmful effects, in particular hepatotoxicity, which varies from minimal hepatogram changes to fulminant hepatitis requiring liver transplantation. This case report describes liver damage that was highly suspected to originate from Herbalife® products consumption. We excluded alcohol, viral, metabolic, autoimmune and neoplastic causes of liver lesions, as well as vascular liver disease, but we noticed a connection between the use of Herbalife® products and liver damage. The exact mecha- nism of liver damage in our patient was not determined. After removing the Herbalife® products, liver damage resolved and there was no need to perform liver biopsy. Taking into consideration the growing consumption of herbal products and their potential harmfulness, we consider that more strict regulations of their production process and sale are necessary, including exact identification of active substances with a list of ingredients, toxicologic testing and obligatory side effect report. Key words: Herbalife; Plant preparations; Dietary supplements; Liver failure Introduction Many references accentuate harmful effects of herbal products. Their most frequent harmful side effect is Lately there has been an increase in the use of hepatotoxicity4. Herbalife® products are connected to herbal preparations, which are important components various grades of liver damage, from minimal hepato- of supplemental and alternative products1. Their popu- gram changes to fulminant hepatitis that requires liver larity is based on their wide availability and the belief transplantation5-7. This case report describes liver dam- that they are ‘natural’ and therefore harmless2. In many age that was likely associated with the use of Herba- western countries, herbal products are distributed as life® products. nutritional supplements. Their use is not subjected to strict pre-marketing testing and regulations, therefore, Case Report their ingredients are not defined, there is no quality control or proof of their effectiveness and safety3. A 54-year-old female patient was admitted to the Department of Gastroenterology
