Acta Clin Croat 2019; 58:771-776 Case Report
KEYWORDS: liver, products, herbalife, damage, liver damage, use, herbal, herbalife products, report, case, hepatotoxicity, hepatitis, cases, ingredients, case report


Case Report their ingredients are not defined, there is no quality control or proof of their effectiveness and safety3. A 54-year-old female patient was admitted to the Department of Gastroenterology and Hepatology for icterus, abdominal pain, pale stool, tiredness and gen- Posavskog 19A, HR-10000 Zagreb, Croatia E-mail: eral weakness, which occurred several days prior to Acta Clin Croat, Vol. 58, No. 4, 2019 771 D. Jurčić et al. Herbalife® associated hepatotoxicity: case report (Fig. 1). Gastroscopy confirmed Helicobacter (H.) py- lori positive chronic gastritis, but no signs of portal hypertension. Considering elevated hepatogram val- ues, eradication therapy of H. pylori infection was con- ducted in later therapeutic period. Subsequently, we found out that the patient had been using the following Herbalife® products: Gua- rana comprese, RoseOx, Herbalifeline, Tang Kuei Plus and Formula 4 at recommended dosage (10 tablets per day in total) (Table 3), for approximately half a year before admission. During her stay at the Department of Gastroenterology and Hepatology, these products picture regressed and the initially high hepatogram values decreased (Table 1, Figs. 2 and 3). According to the World Health Organization cri- teria (WHO-UMC Criteria) for the cause and effect of liver failure and Herbalife® products, the patient’s Fig. 1. Ultrasound showing a diffuse liver lesion. toxic hepatitis was probably the result of taking the aforementioned products8. Discussion and Conclusion illnesses or any similar problems before. She denied alcohol or drug addiction, taking any medicine as acute Liver damage frequently occurs as a result of using or chronic therapy, receiving blood transfusions and/or medicines and their byproducts, since it is the most any blood products. Epidemiology and family history important organ for metabolizing medicines1. Hepa- were negative. At admission, she was hemodynami- totoxicity occurs in 10% of cases and is the most com- cally stable and not febrile. Icterus was noticed during mon cause of side effect reporting, as well as putting physical examination, however, there was no chronic medical products off the market. Harmful effects of liver disease stigmata. Initial laboratory tests showed conventional medical products are well known, how- significantly elevated markers of hepatocellular dam- ever, side effects of herbal products are becoming more age (Table 1). Coagulation parameters and proteino- frequent as they are being more widespread. It is gram were normal. Complete blood count, inflamma- known that up to 67% of Americans use herbal prod- tion parameters, glucose, electrolytes, kidney function ucts9, and
