Artificial heart implantation as a bridge to transplantation for end-stage refractory
KEYWORDS: patients, tah, heart, transplantation, implantation, reported, compared, group, support, comparative, patients tah, study, comparative study, failure, non-randomised


interventions, coronary revascularisation, valve replacement or repair, may also be used for patients with end-stage refractory biventricular heart failure. When these therapies no longer work, left ventricular or biventricular assist devices or heart transplantation may be considered. 3 The procedure 3.1 A total artificial heart (TAH) can be implanted to provide circulatory support with the aim that the patient survives while waiting for a donor heart to become available (a technique known as 'bridge to transplantation'). In this procedure, the device replaces the heart function completely. 3.2 Implantation of a TAH is done with the patient under general anaesthesia and on cardiopulmonary bypass. The native left and right ventricles, and all 4 cardiac valves are excised. The TAH device is implanted and attached to the atria, for blood inflow, and pulmonary artery and aorta, for blood outflow. Depending on the type of TAH, power is supplied either by drive lines connected percutaneously to an external biventricular pneumatic pump (which may be portable or static) or by batteries that are implanted internally and can be recharged through the skin using a transcutaneous energy transfer system. When the device begins to pump and restores blood flow around the body, cardiopulmonary bypass is stopped and the chest incision is closed. 4 Efficacy This section describes efficacy outcomes from the published literature that the committee considered as part of the evidence about this procedure. For more detailed information on the evidence, see the interventional procedure overview. 4.1 In a non-randomised prospective comparative study of patients at risk of imminent death from irreversible biventricular heart failure, total artificial heart (TAH) implantation (n=81) was compared with no TAH implantation (matched historical controls; n=35). The rates of survival to heart transplantation were 79% (95% confidence interval [CI] 68% to 87%) in the TAH group compared with 46% in the control group (p<0.001). The 1-year survival to heart transplantation rates were 70% (95% CI 63% to 77%) and 31% respectively (p<0.001). In a non-randomised retrospective comparative study (United Network of Organ Sharing [UNOS] database analysis) comparing TAH support (n=212) with biventricular assisted device (BIVAD) support (n=366) as a bridge to transplantation (BTT) in adult patients, device support survival rates were similar in both groups (p=0.8): 95% compared with 93% at 30 days and 77% compared with 69% at 1 year. In a non-randomised retrospective comparative study comparing TAH support (n=81) with paracorporeal BIVAD support (n=67) as a BTT
