Graves’ Disease: Complications
KEYWORDS: graves, patients, thyroid, endocrinol, orbitopathy, disease, graves orbitopathy, ophthalmopathy, orbital, treatment, clin, clin endocrinol, clinical, hyperthyroidism, glucocorticoids


not be considered appropriately prepared for surgery by current standards. Exacerbation of thyrotoxicosis is still seen in patients sent too soon to surgery, but it is unusual in the antithyroid drug-controlled patient. Thyroid storm occasionally occurs in patients operated on for some other illness while severely thyrotoxic. Severe exacerbation of thyrotoxicosis is rarely seen following 131-I therapy for hyperthyroidism; some of these may be defined as thyroid storm (7). Thyroid storm appears most commonly following infection (1), which seems to induce an escape from control of thyrotoxicosis. Pneumonia, upper respiratory tract infection, enteric infections, or any other infection can cause this condition. The decreased incidence of thyroid storm can be largely attributed to improved diagnosis and therapy. In most cases, thyrotoxicosis is recognized early and treated by measures of predictable therapeutic value. Patients are routinely made euthyroid before thyroidectomy or 131-I therapy (8). Using thionamides preoperatively, thyroid glands have only minimal amounts of stored hormones, thus minimizing thyroid hormone release due to manipulation. Diagnosis Diagnosis of thyroid storm is made on clinical grounds and involves the usual diagnostic measures for thyrotoxicosis. Semi-quantitative scales and related scores evaluating the presence and severity of clinical manifestations may be of some help in confirming the diagnosis (1, 3, 9). There are no peculiar laboratory abnormalities. Free T4 and, if possible, free T3 should be measured. Serum total T3 may be not particularly elevated or even normal, due to reduced T4 to T3 conversion as observed in nonthyroidal illness (1). Electrolytes, blood urea nitrogen (BUN), blood glucose, liver function tests, and plasma cortisol should be monitored. Therapy Thyroid storm is an endocrine emergency that has to be treated in an intensive care unit (Table 12-1). Table 1. Treatment of Thyroid Storm Supportive Measures 1. Rest 2. Mild sedation, or anticonvulsant therapy if convulsions occur 3. Fluid and electrolyte replacement 4. Nutritional support and vitamins as needed 5. Oxygen therapy 6. Nonspecific therapy as indicated 7. Antibiotics 8. Cardio-supportive 9. Cooling Specific therapy 1. Propranolol (20 to 200 mg orally every 6 hours, or 1 to 3 mg intravenously every 4 to 6 hours) 2. Antithyroid drugs (150 to 250 mg PTU or 15 to 25 mg methimazole, every 6 hours) 3. Potassium iodide (one hour after first dose of antithyroid drugs): 4. 100 mg KI every 12 hours 5. Dexamethasone (2 mg every 6 hours) Possibly useful therapy 1. Ipodate (Oragrafin) or other iodinated
