Graves’ Disease: Complications
KEYWORDS: graves, patients, thyroid, endocrinol, orbitopathy, disease, graves orbitopathy, ophthalmopathy, orbital, treatment, clin, clin endocrinol, clinical, hyperthyroidism, glucocorticoids


such as infection, and specific agents (antithyroid drugs, iodine, propranolol, and corticosteroids) produce a marked improvement within 24 hours. A variety of additional approaches have been reported, but indications for their use are not well defined. For example, oral gallbladder contrast agents such as ipodate and iopanoic acid in doses of 1-2 g, which inhibit peripheral T4 to T3 conversion, might have value. Unfortunately, these agents are no longer available. Peritoneal dialysis can remove circulating thyroid hormone, and plasmapheresis can do likewise, but at the expense of serum protein loss. Orally administered ion-exchange resin (20-30g/day as Colestipol-HCl) can trap hormone in the intestine and prevent recirculation. These treatments are rarely needed. Antithyroid treatment should be continued until euthyroidism is achieved, when a final decision regarding antithyroid drugs, surgery, or 131-I therapy can be made. GRAVES’ ORBITOPATHY Graves’ orbitopathy (GO) is the main and most frequent extrathyroidal manifestation of Graves’ disease, although it may less frequently occur in patients with Hashimoto’s thyroiditis or apparently without thyroid abnormalities (so-called Euthyroid Graves’ disease) (11-15). Epidemiology Fig. 1: Prevalence of GO in a series of 346 patients with newly diagnosed Graves’ hyperthyroidism. Moderate-to-severe GO includes one case of sight-threatening dysthyroid optic neuropathy (DON). Derived from Tanda ML et al. (17). Data on the incidence of GO are limited (11, 14). In a population-based setting in USA, an adjusted rate of 16 cases per 100.000 per year in women and 2.9 cases per 100.000 in men was reported (16). In a recent study of a large cohort of newly diagnosed Graves’ patients, about 75% had no ocular involvement at diagnosis, only 6% had moderate-to-severe GO, and 0.3% showed sight-threatening GO due to dysthyroid optic neuropathy (DON) (17) (Figure 1). In a Danish population, moderate-to-severe GO showed an incidence of 16.1/million per year (women: 26.7; men: 5.4) (18). Ocular involvement is in most cases bilateral, although often asymmetrical, but it may be unilateral in up to 15% of cases (12, 14). As recently reviewed by the European Group on Graves’ Orbitopathy (EUGOGO), the overall prevalence of GO in Europe is about 10/10,000 patients, but the prevalence of its variants (hypothyroid GO, GO associated with dermopathy, GO associated with acropachy, asymmetrical or unilateral GO) is much lower, and recently euthyroid GO has been listed as a rare disease in Europe (19). The onset of GO apparently has a bimodal peak in the fifth and seventh decades of
