Graves’ Disease: Complications
KEYWORDS: graves, patients, thyroid, endocrinol, orbitopathy, disease, graves orbitopathy, ophthalmopathy, orbital, treatment, clin, clin endocrinol, clinical, hyperthyroidism, glucocorticoids


and recently euthyroid GO has been listed as a rare disease in Europe (19). The onset of GO apparently has a bimodal peak in the fifth and seventh decades of life, but eye disease may occur at any age (20). It is more frequent in women, but men tend to have a more severe disease (21-23), as suggested by a decrease in the female/male ratio from 9.3 in mild GO, to 3.2 in moderately severe GO, and 1.4 in severe GO (20). There is a close temporal relationship between the onset of GO and the onset of hyperthyroidism. In approximately 85% of cases GO and hyperthyroidism occur within 18 months of each other (20), although GO may both precede (about 20% of cases) or follow (about 40% of cases) the onset of hyperthyroidism (20). The natural history of GO is poorly understood. However, in a longitudinal cohort study, spontaneous amelioration was observed in two thirds of cases, while ocular involvement did not change with time in 20% and progressed in 14% (22). The observation that mild GO rarely progresses and often spontaneously remits was recently confirmed by a large prospective study of patients with recent onset Graves’ hyperthyroidism (17) and summarized in a review of published studies (24). It is worth noting that GO seems to be less frequent than in the past. A review of the first 100 consecutive patients seen at the same joint thyroid-eye unit in 1960 and 1990 revealed a decrease in the proportion of Graves’ patients with clinical relevant GO from 57% to 32% (23); likewise, a reduction in the proportion of severe forms of GO compared to milder forms was observed (18), likely reflecting an earlier diagnosis and treatment of both hyperthyroidism and orbitopathy. It should be noted that a multicenter study carried out by the European Group on Graves’ Orbitopathy (EUGOGO) reported that 40% of GO patients had mild disease, 33% had moderate GO, and 28% had severe eye disease (25). It should be noted that these figures were clearly influenced by the fact that EUGOGO centers are all referral centers where it is likely to see more complicated cases of GO. Accordingly, a recent single-center study confirmed that most patients newly diagnosed with Graves’ disease have mild GO (26), although whether these forms are chronic remitting or a transient disease (27) or whether GO ever disappears completely (28) is unsettled. In summary,
