Graves’ Disease: Complications
KEYWORDS: graves, patients, thyroid, endocrinol, orbitopathy, disease, graves orbitopathy, ophthalmopathy, orbital, treatment, clin, clin endocrinol, clinical, hyperthyroidism, glucocorticoids


with Graves’ disease have mild GO (26), although whether these forms are chronic remitting or a transient disease (27) or whether GO ever disappears completely (28) is unsettled. In summary, based on recent studies and reviews of the available literature, it can be concluded that GO is a rare disease, particularly in its severe expressions (19). An important epidemiologic feature of GO is its relation with cigarette smoking (29,30). The prevalence of smokers among Graves’ women with orbitopathy is much higher than that in Graves’ women apparently without GO or in normal controls (Figure 2) (31). Smoking is a predictor of Graves’ hyperthyroidism, with a hazard ratio of 1.93 in current smokers, 1.27 in ex-smokers, and 2.65 in heavy smokers (32). In a case-control study, the odds ratio of cigarette smoking for Graves’ hyperthyroidism without GO was 1.7, but raised to 7.7 for Graves’ disease with GO (33). Whether passive smoking may have the same impact as active smoking is unsettled; however, in a recent European survey of GO in childhood, the highest prevalence of Graves’ children with GO was found in countries where the prevalence of smokers among teenagers was also highest: since >50% of children were <10 years of age, it is likely that passive smoking rather than active smoking influenced GO occurrence (34). Mechanisms whereby smoking may affect the development and course of GO are unclear. In addition to direct irritative effects and modulation of immune reactions in the orbit (35), smoking was associated with an increase in the orbital connective tissue volume as assessed by MRI (36), and with an increased adipogenesis and hyaluronic acid production in in vitro cultured orbital fibroblasts (37). Whatever the mechanism(s) involved, cigarette smoking is strong (probably the strongest) predictor of GO occurrence in patients with Graves’ hyperthyroidism (38). Figure 2. Prevalence of smokers among women with Graves’ disease with (GO) or without (GD) associated orbitopathy. NTG: Non-toxic goiter; C: controls. Derived from Bartalena et al (31). Pathogenesis Clinical manifestations of GO reflect remodeling of the orbital space related to the enhanced orbital volume, due to an increase in retroocular fibroadipose tissue and swelling of extraocular muscles (39-41). Orbital tissues, including muscles, are infiltrated by inflammatory cells, including lymphocytes, mast cells, and macrophages. Proliferation of orbital fibroblasts and adipocytes, both in the retroocular space and in the perimysial space, is also associated with an increased production of glycosaminoglycans, which are the
