Graves’ Disease: Complications
KEYWORDS: graves, patients, thyroid, endocrinol, orbitopathy, disease, graves orbitopathy, ophthalmopathy, orbital, treatment, clin, clin endocrinol, clinical, hyperthyroidism, glucocorticoids


and macrophages. Proliferation of orbital fibroblasts and adipocytes, both in the retroocular space and in the perimysial space, is also associated with an increased production of glycosaminoglycans, which are the ultimate responsible for edematous changes both in the connective tissue and the muscles, owing to their hydrophilic nature. The relative contribution of the increase in fibroadipose tissue volume and extraocular muscle swelling is not always the same, and a predominance of either component may be observed in different patients with similar clinical features (42). Furthermore, the increase in orbital fat might be a rather late phenomenon (43). Because the orbit is a rigid, bony structure anteriorly limited by the orbital septum, the increased orbital volume deriving from cell proliferation, inflammatory infiltration and edema, results into enhanced intraorbital pressure, forward displacement of the globe (proptosis or exophthalmos), extraocular muscle dysfunction causing diplopia and/or strabismus, soft tissue changes with periorbital edema, conjunctival hyperemia and chemosis. If proptosis, which can be considered a form of spontaneous decompression, is severe, subluxation of the eye may occur. Proptosis is responsible for corneal exposure which may be particularly dangerous at night for the incomplete eyelid closure (lagophthalmos), and may result into sight-threatening corneal ulceration. The enlarged muscle volume may cause optic nerve compression (dysthyroid optic neuropathy), especially if the orbital septum is tight and proptosis is minimal. Optic nerve compression is particularly evident at the orbital apex and may be responsible for sight loss. Orbital inflammation and related anatomical changes may cause venous and lymphatic congestion that contribute to periorbital edema and chemosis. With time inflammation subsides and muscle fatty degeneration and fibrosis may contribute to further extraocular muscle restriction and strabismus, which, at this stage, can only be corrected by surgery. GO is an autoimmune inflammatory disorder related to the thyroid and triggered by the migration of autoreactive T-helper cells into the orbit, which is infiltrated by CD4+ T cells and, to a lesser extent, CD8+ T cells, B cells, fibrocytes, mast cells, and macrophages (40, 41). Orbital fibroblasts are the main target and key effector cells in the disease (44). After recognition of one or more antigens (shared with the thyroid) on fibroblast surface, facilitated by HLA class II antigen expression on antigen-presenting cells (B cells, macrophages), CD4+ T cells secrete cytokines which activate CD8+ T cells, autoantibody-synthesizing B cells (45) and stimulate orbital fibroblasts (46). Fibroblasts proliferate, may differentiate into myofibroblasts and adipocytes,
