Graves’ Disease: Complications
KEYWORDS: graves, patients, thyroid, endocrinol, orbitopathy, disease, graves orbitopathy, ophthalmopathy, orbital, treatment, clin, clin endocrinol, clinical, hyperthyroidism, glucocorticoids


(B cells, macrophages), CD4+ T cells secrete cytokines which activate CD8+ T cells, autoantibody-synthesizing B cells (45) and stimulate orbital fibroblasts (46). Fibroblasts proliferate, may differentiate into myofibroblasts and adipocytes, accumulate and secrete hyaluronic acid (HA), synthesize and secrete chemoattractants (interleukin-16, RANTES, CXCL10) and a number of cytokines (interleukin-1, interleukin-6, interferon-g, tumor necrosis factor-a, interleukin-8, interleukin-10, platelet-derived growth factor, transforming growth factor-b), which concur to auto-maintain the inflammatory process (47). HA is hydrophilic and thereby attracts water and causes edema of the extraocular muscles and orbital tissue (40). Orbital fibroblasts can be differentiated based on the expression or lack of expression of a cell surface glycoprotein (thymocyte antigen-1, thy-1). Thy-1+ fibroblasts are mostly represented in extraocular muscles and produce HA, thereby contributing to extraocular muscle edema and enlargement, whereas thy-1- fibroblasts are mainly present in connective tissue and may differentiate into adipocytes, thereby contributing to fibroadipose tissue expansion (40). The TSH receptor (TSH-R), the ultimate cause of hyperthyroidism due to Graves’ disease, is likely the shared antigen responsible for GO. TSH-R expression has been shown in the orbital tissue of GO patients, both at the mRNA and protein levels (48, 49); however, TSH-R is also expressed in several other tissues not involved in Graves’ disease and orbitopathy (50), and, although at lower levels, in normal orbital fibroadipose tissue samples and cultures (51). On the other hand, BALB/c mice injected with spleen cells primed either with a TSH-R fusion protein or with TSH-R cDNA developed thyroiditis with blocking-type TRAb, but also showed orbital pathological changes (lymphocytic and mast cell infiltration, edema, presence of glycosaminoglycans) similar to those seen in human GO (52). This model could not be reproduced in other laboratories. More recently a novel preclinical female mouse model of GO was established (53). In this model, some of the mice immunized by human TSH A-subunit by TSH receptor plasmid in vivo electroporation showed large infiltrates surrounding the optic nerve, increased adipogenesis, orbital muscle hypertrophy, exophtahlmos, and chemosis (53, 54). The role of the TSH-R seems to be supported also by other animal models (55-57). Another putative antigen involved in the pathogenesis of GO is the IGF-1 receptor. As recently reviewed (58), increased IGF-1 receptor levels have been reported in orbital fibroblasts as well as in B and T lymphocytes from Graves’ patients, and immunoglobulins displacing IGF-1 from its binding to the IGF-1 receptor have also been found in these patients
