Graves’ Disease: Complications
KEYWORDS: graves, patients, thyroid, endocrinol, orbitopathy, disease, graves orbitopathy, ophthalmopathy, orbital, treatment, clin, clin endocrinol, clinical, hyperthyroidism, glucocorticoids


fibroblasts as well as in B and T lymphocytes from Graves’ patients, and immunoglobulins displacing IGF-1 from its binding to the IGF-1 receptor have also been found in these patients (59). Colocalization of TSH receptor and IGF-1 receptor has been shown both in orbital fibroblasts and thyrocytes, suggesting that the two receptors might form a functional complex (60). Stimulation of the TSHR by the monoclonal TSHR-stimulating antibody, M22, could be inhibited by an IGF-1R-blocking monoclonal antibody in orbital fibroblasts (61). Involvement of the IGF-1R is not specific for Graves’ disease, since it is implicated in other autoimmune diseases, such as rheumatoid arthritis (62). Thus, although involvement of the IGF-1R in the pathogenesis of GO seems likely (63), it is tempting to speculate, for the time being, that autoimmunity to the TSH receptor be the initiating mechanism, while subsequent increased expression of the IGF-1R might be fundamental to maintain ongoing reactions in the orbit (64). Interestingly, two recent reports found that, at variance with TRAb, only a minority of patients with GO have circulating antibodies to the IGF-1R (65, 66). This may be related to the low sensitivity and specificity of tests used to detect such antibodies (62). Alternatively, it may be conceived that IGF-1 (and/or IGF-1R antibodies) locally produced in the orbit be relevant for the pathogenesis of GO (67). Other autoantigens, including several eye muscle antigens, acetylcholine receptor, thyroperoxidase, thyroglobulin, alpha-fodrin, have been proposed as putative shared antigens, but their true role is, to say the least, uncertain (68). The role of genetic factors in the pathogenesis of GO is not very well defined, and no striking differences have been observed between Graves’ patients with or without associated GO (69-73). An association between GO and Major Histocompatibility Complex (MHC), cytotoxic T-lymphocyte-associated antigen-4 (CTLA-4) or intercellular adhesion molecule 1 gene polymorphisms has been looked for, but results are not unequivocal (74-76). GO likely stems from a complex interplay between endogenous factors and exogenous (environmental) risk factors (13, 77). The latter are probably more important and include cigarette smoking, thyroid dysfunction, and, in a subset of patients, radioiodine therapy for Graves’ hyperthyroidism (13, 77). The relationship between cigarette smoking and GO has been discussed above (see paragraph on Epidemiology). Both hyperthyroidism (78, 79) and hypothyroidism (80) seem to influence negatively the course of the orbitopathy. TRAb are independent risk factors for GO and can help to predict severity and outcome of
