Graves’ Disease: Complications
KEYWORDS: graves, patients, thyroid, endocrinol, orbitopathy, disease, graves orbitopathy, ophthalmopathy, orbital, treatment, clin, clin endocrinol, clinical, hyperthyroidism, glucocorticoids


(78, 79) and hypothyroidism (80) seem to influence negatively the course of the orbitopathy. TRAb are independent risk factors for GO and can help to predict severity and outcome of eye disease (81). Radioiodine therapy for Graves’ hyperthyroidism is associated with GO progression in about 15% of cases, although this effect may be transient (82-86). This effect is more frequently observed in patients who already have GO prior to radioiodine therapy, smoke, have high TRAb levels, or whose post-radioiodine hypothyroidism is not promptly corrected by L-thyroxine replacement therapy (13, 77). Radioiodine-associated progression of GO can be prevented by a short course of prednisone (87). Lower doses of oral prednisone (0.2 mg/Kg bw) for 6 weeks are as effective in preventing RAI-associated progression of GO as higher doses used in the past (88). Neither thyroidectomy (typically partial) nor antithyroid drugs influence the course of the orbitopathy (89-91). The above observations have important practical implications in terms of GO prevention (Table 2), because GO patients should be urged to refrain from smoking, their thyroid dysfunction (both hyper- and hypothyroidism) should be promptly corrected, and, in the case of radioiodine therapy, a short course of oral prednisone should be administered (92). Table 2. Risk factors for the occurrence/progression of Graves’ orbitopathy and preventive measures View in own window Risk factor Preventive measure Cigarette smoking Refrain from smoking Hyperthyroidism Restore euthyroidism by antithyroid drugs and/or obtain a permanent control by thyroid ablation (thyroidectomy, radioiodine, both) Hypothyroidism Restore euthyroidism by L-thyroxine replacement therapy Radioiodine therapy for hyperthyroidism Give oral prednisone concomitantly with radioiodine administration. Avoid leaving the patient with untreated post-radioiodine hypothyroidism High TSH-receptor antibody levels Control hyperthyroidism as soon as possible Oxidative stress Give a 6-month selenium course in mild GO Clinical Features Signs & Symptoms . Clinical features of GO include soft tissue changes, exophthalmos, extraocular muscle dysfunction, corneal abnormalities, and optic nerve involvement (Figures 3-6). The NOSPECS classification (Table 3) is a useful memory aid of GO abnormalities (93). Recommendations for GO assessment in clinical practice have recently been reviewed by EUGOGO (94) and other groups (VISA classification) (95). Soft tissue changes include eyelid edema and periorbital swelling, eyelid erythema, conjunctival hyperemia and chemosis, inflammation of the caruncle or plica: their assessment and grading can be done with the aid of a color atlas (96), which can be downloaded from EUGOGO website (www.eugogo.eu). Proptosis, i.e., protrusion of the eye (exophthalmos), is usually
