Graves’ Disease: Complications
KEYWORDS: graves, patients, thyroid, endocrinol, orbitopathy, disease, graves orbitopathy, ophthalmopathy, orbital, treatment, clin, clin endocrinol, clinical, hyperthyroidism, glucocorticoids


and grading can be done with the aid of a color atlas (96), which can be downloaded from EUGOGO website (www.eugogo.eu). Proptosis, i.e., protrusion of the eye (exophthalmos), is usually measured by Hertel exophthalmometer; normal values are usually less than 20 mm, but vary with race, age, gender, degree of myopia, and should be established in each center or institution. Extraocular muscle dysfunction is responsible for diplopia (double vision), which can be subjectively defined as intermittent (i.e., present only when fatigued or when first waking), inconstant (i.e., present only at extremes of gaze), or constant (i.e., present also in reading positions and primary gaze); objective assessment of extraocular muscle functioning can be done by several methods, including measurement of duction in degrees (94). Palpebral aperture may be increased due to several factors, including upper and/or lower lid retraction, and proptosis. Lid retraction and proptosis are responsible for corneal exposure, which may lead to corneal epithelium damage (punctate keratopathy), corneal ulceration and perforation. The incomplete eye closure at night (lagophthalmos) and the absence of Bell’s phenomenon (no upward eye rotation on attempted eye closure) are risk factors for corneal damage (92, 94). Intraocular pressure is often increased, particularly in upward gaze, but this abnormality rarely progresses to true glaucoma. Dysthyroid optic neuropathy, due to optic nerve compression at the orbit apex by swollen extraocular muscles, or, less frequently, to optic nerve stretching in cases of marked proptosis or eye subluxation, is a sight-threatening expression of GO. It can be diagnosed by fundoscopy showing disc swelling, reduced visual acuity, abnormal color vision test, contrast sensitivity, perimetry, visual-evoked potentials, and pupillary responses (95). Figure 3. Female patient with moderately severe GO. Note periorbital swelling, injection of conjunctival vessels, proptosis, marked lid retraction, and proptosis. Figure 4. Male patient with moderately severe GO. Note marked periorbital swelling, conjunctival hyperemia, esotropia (strabismus) in the left eye. Figure 5. Male patient with moderately severe GO. Note the superior eyelid edema, mild conjunctival vessel injection, marked proptosis, and marked upper lid retraction. Figure 6. Female patient with severe GO. Note marked periorbital swelling, palpebral hyperemia, conjunctival hyperemia, proptosis (particularly in the left eye), caruncle edema. Eye motility was markedly reduced, lagophthalmos was present, there were two corneal ulcers in the left eye, and corneal punctate staining in the right eye, reduced visual acuity in the left eye (5/10). CT scan showed enlargement of extraocular muscles (particularly medial
