Graves’ Disease: Complications
KEYWORDS: graves, patients, thyroid, endocrinol, orbitopathy, disease, graves orbitopathy, ophthalmopathy, orbital, treatment, clin, clin endocrinol, clinical, hyperthyroidism, glucocorticoids


(reflecting extraocular muscle impairment), or may persist (probably reflecting optic neuropathy, particularly if associated with gray areas in the field of vision). In addition to reduced visual acuity, optic nerve involvement can be heralded by decreased color perception. Diplopia may be absent if extraocular muscle involvement is symmetrical in both eyes. Table 4. Symptoms associated with Graves’ orbitopathy 1. Changes in eye appearance, particularly eyelid or periorbital swelling, eye bulging 2. Excessive lacrimation, often more pronounced on waking 3. Incomplete closure of eyes at night (lagophthalmos), as reported by the partner 4. Photophobia, need to protect eyes with dark lenses 5. Increased eye “sensitivity” to irritative factors other than light (e.g., wind, smoke, pollution) 6. Ocular discomfort, described as grittiness, foreign body or sandy sensation, often defined as “allergy” 7. Ocular pain, either related or unrelated to eye movements 8. Neck ache, with abnormal head posture (torcicullum) 9. Diplopia a. Intermittent: present only when tired or on waking b. Inconstant: present only at extremes of gaze c. Constant: present also in primary and reading positions 10. Blurred vision a. Disappearing with blinking b. Not disappearing with blinking 11. Reduced color perception Clinical manifestations of GO have a profound negative impact on quality of life and daily activities of affected individuals (98). By the use of general health-related quality of life (HRQL) questionnaires, such as the SF-36 or its shorter forms, it was shown that GO is associated with significant changes in several functions, including physical functioning, role functioning, social functioning, mental health, general health perception, and bodily pain (99). Interestingly, these changes in HRQL parameters were similar to those found in patients with inflammatory bowel disorders, and even more marked than those observed in patients with diabetes mellitus, heart failure or emphysema (99). Since HRQL questionnaires are broad and may not address items specific for a given disease, a GO-specific quality of life (GO-QoL) questionnaire was developed and validated in clinical studies (99, 100-102). This questionnaire (dowloadable from EUGOGO website at www.eugogo.eu) is composed of 16 questions, 8 concerning the consequences of diplopia and deceased visual acuity on visual functioning, and 8 regarding the consequences of changes in physical appearance on social functioning. The Go-QoL is a useful tool for self-assessment of treatment outcomes for GO (103). Activity & Severity . Definition of GO severity is somehow arbitrary and may reflect different views (11, 23). According to the most recent
