Graves’ Disease: Complications
KEYWORDS: graves, patients, thyroid, endocrinol, orbitopathy, disease, graves orbitopathy, ophthalmopathy, orbital, treatment, clin, clin endocrinol, clinical, hyperthyroidism, glucocorticoids


self-assessment of treatment outcomes for GO (103). Activity & Severity . Definition of GO severity is somehow arbitrary and may reflect different views (11, 23). According to the most recent EUGOGO definition (92), mild GO is characterized by one or more of the following features: minor lid retraction (<2 mm), mild soft tissue involvement, exophthalmos <3 mm above normal for race and gender, transient or no diplopia, and corneal exposure; the above features usually have a minor impact on daily life to justify immmuno-suppression or surgical treatment; moderate-to-severe GO have any one or more of the following: lid retraction > 2 mm, moderate or severe soft tissue involvement, exophthalmos > 3 mm above normal for race and gender, inconstant or constant diplopia; Patients in this category have an impact on daily life as to justify immunosuppression (if GO is active) or surgical intervention (if GO is inactive); sight-threatening GO is due to dysthyroid optic neuropathy (DON) or corneal breakdown, and warrants immediate intervention (Table 5) (92). Assessment of severity is particularly relevant to decide on whether a given patient should be treated by aggressive treatments (either medical or surgical) or simply by local or general supportive measures (see below).The other important feature of GO is its activity. Although, as stated above, GO natural history is not completely understood, it is commonly accepted that GO undergoes an initial phase of activity, characterized by progressive exacerbation of ocular manifestations until a plateau phase is reached; GO then tends to remit spontaneously, but remission is invariably partial. In the inactive phase (burnt-out GO), only residual ocular manifestations are present (e.g., proptosis, strabismus due to muscle fibrotic changes), but inflammation has subsided and it is unlikely that it may flare up. It is unknown how long this process takes to be completed, but it is widely believed that it takes between 6 months and two years. Recognition of the different phases of the disease is important, because active disease, basically characterized by the presence of inflammation, can respond to immunosuppressive treatments, which are largely ineffective when GO is burnt-out. Different indicators have been proposed to assess GO activity, including short duration of treatment (<18 months), positivity of octreoscan, decreased extraocular muscle reflectivity at orbital ultrasound, prolonged T2 relaxation time at MRI, increased urinary glycosaminoglycan levels, but they lack sufficient specificity and accuracy. A useful tool to assess GO activity is represented by the Clinical
