Graves’ Disease: Complications
KEYWORDS: graves, patients, thyroid, endocrinol, orbitopathy, disease, graves orbitopathy, ophthalmopathy, orbital, treatment, clin, clin endocrinol, clinical, hyperthyroidism, glucocorticoids


ultrasound, prolonged T2 relaxation time at MRI, increased urinary glycosaminoglycan levels, but they lack sufficient specificity and accuracy. A useful tool to assess GO activity is represented by the Clinical Activity Score (CAS), which can be calculated very easily and is recommended by EUGOGO in the assessment of GO in routine clinical practice, in specialist multidisciplinary clinics, and for clinical trials (92). In its original formulation (104) it included 10 items, which were subsequently reduced to 7 when revised by an ad hoc Committee of the four sister thyroid societies (105). (Table 6). If one point is given to each item when present, CAS, which basically reflect eye inflammation, may range from 0 (absent activity) to 7 (maximal activity); GO is generally defined active if CAS is > 3. Table 5. Assessment of severity of Graves’ orbitopathy View in own window Degree of Ocular involvement Features Mild GO Minor lid retraction (<2 mm), mild soft tissue involvement, exophthalmos <3 mm above normal for race and gender, transient or no diplopia, corneal exposure responsive to lubricants Moderate-to-severe GO Lid retraction > 2 mm, moderate-to-severe soft tissue involvement, exophthalmos > 3 mm above normal for race and gender, inconstant or constant diplopia Sight-threatening GO Presence of dysthyroid optic neuropathy and/or corneal breakdown Derived from Bartalena & EUGOGO (92) Table 6. Clinical Activity Score (CAS). View in own window 1. Spontaneous retrobulbar pain 2. Pain on eye movements 3. Eyelid erythema 4. Conjunctival injection 5. Chemosis 6. Swelling of the caruncle 7. Eyelid edema or fullness One point is given to each item, if present. CAS is the sum of single scores, ranging from 0 (no activity) to 7 (maximal activity). Active GO: CAS > 3 From Mourits et al (104), modified from an ad hoc Committee of the four Thyroid sister Societies (105). Diagnosis Diagnosis of GO is usually easy on clinical grounds and by careful ophthalmological examination. Although not necessary in most Graves’ patients, CT scan or MRI of the orbit confirm diagnosis by showing enlarged extraocular muscles (without involvement of the tendon) and/or increased orbital fibroadipose tissue (106). Modest extraocular muscle enlargement and increased fibroadipose tissue volume are often found in Graves’ patients without clinical manifestations of ocular involvement. Orbital imaging is very useful to detect signs of optic nerve compression, which support the diagnosis of optic neuropathy. Imaging is required in asymmetrical or, particularly, unilateral forms of GO, to
