Graves’ Disease: Complications
KEYWORDS: graves, patients, thyroid, endocrinol, orbitopathy, disease, graves orbitopathy, ophthalmopathy, orbital, treatment, clin, clin endocrinol, clinical, hyperthyroidism, glucocorticoids


imaging is very useful to detect signs of optic nerve compression, which support the diagnosis of optic neuropathy. Imaging is required in asymmetrical or, particularly, unilateral forms of GO, to rule out that proptosis, periorbital swelling, inflammation, or diplopia be due to disorders other than GO (12, 106). The latter include primary or metastatic orbital tumors, vascular abnormalities (e.g., carotid-cavernous sinus fistula, carotid aneurysm, cavernous sinus thrombosis, subarachnoid hemorrhage, subdural hematoma), granulomatous disorders, IgG4-related ophthalmic disease (107). Occasionally, angiograms or venograms may be required for diagnosis. Octreoscan may be useful to identify patients with active GO (106), but its role in clinical practice is limited, also in view of its high cost. Management Management of GO is based on a multidisciplinary approach which involves endocrinologists, ophthalmologists, orbit surgeons, radiologists and radiotherapists. In a survey of GO management based on a questionnaire distributed among members of the European Thyroid Association, European Society of Ophthalmic Plastic and Reconstructive Surgery, and European Association of Nuclear Medicine, 96% of responders stated that a multidisciplinary setting for GO management is valuable, although 21% of patients were in the end not treated in a multidisciplinary setting (108). The therapeutic approach to a GO patient should be based on both severity and activity of the disease, the former being the feature to assess first. Mild GO . Most patients have mild GO, which does not require particularly aggressive treatments and often is self-limiting (92, 110, 111). If GO activity is modest, simple local measured can be suggested to obtain symptomatic relief until GO is burnt-out (Table 7). Photophobia can be mitigated by sunglasses; grittiness due to corneal exposure can be controlled by artificial tears and topical lubricants, particularly indicated in the presence of lagophthalmos; the latter may require taping the eyelids shut at night; eyelid retraction can be controlled (with a variable degree of success) by b-blocking drops (useful for the increased intraocular pressure) or by botulinum toxin injections (112); elevation of the bed may be helpful to reduce periorbital swelling due to congestion; mild diplopia often is controlled by prisms (if they are tolerated). Reassurance is an important issue, and the patient must be informed that his/her eye disease is unlikely to progress to more severe forms, usually stabilizes, and often ameliorates spontaneously. Control of thyroid dysfunction is fundamental, because progression often is associated with hyper- or hypothyroidism (12, 92); refrain from smoking is also essential,
