Graves’ Disease: Complications
KEYWORDS: graves, patients, thyroid, endocrinol, orbitopathy, disease, graves orbitopathy, ophthalmopathy, orbital, treatment, clin, clin endocrinol, clinical, hyperthyroidism, glucocorticoids


forms, usually stabilizes, and often ameliorates spontaneously. Control of thyroid dysfunction is fundamental, because progression often is associated with hyper- or hypothyroidism (12, 92); refrain from smoking is also essential, because it is associated with a decreased chance of developing proptosis and diplopia (113), and decreases the likelihood to develop severe GO (29). Patients who do not succeed to quit smoking by themselves, should be helped by professional stop-smoking clinics, organizations, groups, where they can receive counseling, behavioral therapies, pharmacological treatments. In a subset of patients with mild GO, the impact of GO on the quality of life is so pronounced as to justify the risk of immunosuppression (or surgery) as for moderate-to-severe GO (92). A recent randomized controlled trial performed by EUGOGO in a large cohort of patients with mild GO showed that selenium supplementation for 6 months has beneficial effects on mild GO compared with placebo and can often prevent its progression to more severe forms (114). Thus, selenium, for its anti-inflammatory and immunomodulatory actions, should be considered both as a therapeutic tool for mild GO and a preventive measure (115). Whether selenium is also useful as an adjuvant therapy in patients with moderate-to-severe GO is presently unsettled. Table 7. Management of mild Graves’ orbitopathy View in own window Sign and/or symptom and/or associated problem Therapeutic measure Photophobia Sunglasses Foreign body or sandy sensation Artificial tears and ointments Eyelid retraction alpha-blocking eye drops. Botulinum toxin injections Increased intraocular pressure alpha-blocking eye drops Lagophthalmos Nocturnal eye taping Thyroid dysfunction (hyper/hypo) Restoration of euthyroidism, as appropriate Smoking Refrain from smoking Anxiety about possible further progression Reassurance on the natural history of mild GO Management of clinical picture and prevention of progression Selenium supplementation Moderate-to-severe GO . Management of moderate-to-severe GO depends not only on severity, but also on activity of the orbitopathy (Table 8). Medical treatment is likely to be beneficial in patients with active GO, with florid signs and symptoms of inflammation, recent-onset extraocular muscle dysfunction, recent progression of the ocular abnormalities as a whole. On the contrary, in long-standing GO, with chronic proptosis and residual, stable diplopia and/or strabismus, but no no evidence of inflammation, medical treatment has little chances to produce favorable effects, and the surgical, rehabilitative approach is preferable (92). Dysthyroid optic neuropathy, the most severe expression of the orbitopathy, is a clinical, sight-threatening emergency, which requires immediate treatment. If there is no response to medical
