Graves’ Disease: Complications
KEYWORDS: graves, patients, thyroid, endocrinol, orbitopathy, disease, graves orbitopathy, ophthalmopathy, orbital, treatment, clin, clin endocrinol, clinical, hyperthyroidism, glucocorticoids


approach is preferable (92). Dysthyroid optic neuropathy, the most severe expression of the orbitopathy, is a clinical, sight-threatening emergency, which requires immediate treatment. If there is no response to medical treatment (high-dose intravenous glucocorticoids), orbital decompression is warranted (92). Table 8. Management of moderate-to-severe Graves’ orbitopathy View in own window Treatment Validity Glucocorticoids Established Orbital Radiotherapy Established Orbital Decompression Established Rehabilitative Surgery (squint surgery, eyelid surgery) Established Somatostatin analogs Non-validated (octreotide, lanreotide) Intravenous immunoglobulins Non-validated Cyclosporine Limited applications Antioxidants Selenium (validated only for mild GO) Rituximab Two conflicting and small randomized clinical trials Etanercept Limited data (non-validated in randomized clinical trials) Mycophenolate Two randomized clinical trials with positive results Teprotumumab One randomized clinical trial with positive results Thyroid ablation by 131-I and/or surgery Controversial Glucocorticoids are the mainstay in the medical treatment of GO (12, 92, 116, 117). They have been used for decades because of their anti-inflammatory effects, but also because they exert immunosuppressive actions useful to control the course of the orbitopathy (12, 92, 116, 117). The latter include interference with the function of T and B lymphocytes, decreased recruitment of neutrophils and macrophages, down-regulation of adhesion molecules, inhibition of cytokine secretion, inhibition of glycosaminoglycan secretion. Locally (subconjunctivally or retrobulbarly) given glucocorticoids are less effective than systemically given glucocorticoids ) (11, 92), although favorable responses in terms of improvement of diplopia and reduction in extraocular muscle dysfunction have been reported with in a recent randomized clinical trial of periocular injections of triamcinolone acetate (118) . Glucocorticoids have for a long time been given mostly orally. This route of administration has several drawbacks: high doses are required every day (e.g., prednisone 60-100 mg daily as a starting dose, or equivalent doses of other steroids) (11), treatment lasts for several months (at least 5-6 months), recurrences are frequent upon drug tapering or withdrawal, side effects (particularly Cushing’s syndrome) are frequent (12, 92, 116, 117). In the last 20 years the intravenous route has become the most commonly used (101) and currently represents the first-line treatment for moderate-to-severe and active GO (92). Intravenous glucocorticoids are more effective, with a rate of favorable responses reported until few years ago of about 80-90% versus 60-65% with oral glucocorticoids (117, 119), and better tolerated than oral glucocorticoids (120). As a proof of principle, in a placebo-controlled, randomized trial, intravenous methylprednisolone (four cycles at a dose of 500 mg for 3 consecutive days at 4-week
