Graves’ Disease: Complications
KEYWORDS: graves, patients, thyroid, endocrinol, orbitopathy, disease, graves orbitopathy, ophthalmopathy, orbital, treatment, clin, clin endocrinol, clinical, hyperthyroidism, glucocorticoids


than oral glucocorticoids (120). As a proof of principle, in a placebo-controlled, randomized trial, intravenous methylprednisolone (four cycles at a dose of 500 mg for 3 consecutive days at 4-week intervals) effected inflammatory changes and extraocular muscle dysfunction in 5 of 6 patients (83%) compared to only one of 11 placebo-treated patients (121) Glucocorticoids are most effective on soft tissue, inflammatory changes, recent-onset extraocular muscle dysfunction, and dysthyroid optic neuropathy, whereas proptosis and long-lasting eye muscle impairment are less responsive (11, 117). However, it should be noted that severe liver damage, heralded by a marked rise in serum concentrations of hepatic enzymes, was noted in 7 of about 800 treated patients (approximately 0.8%), three of whom died (122). The causes of this hepatotoxicity are unclear, but might include direct liver toxicity of glucocorticoids, precipitation of virus-induced hepatitis, sudden reactivation of the immune system upon drug withdrawal leading to autoimmune hepatitis. Statins are not a risk factor for liver damage associated with intravenous glucocorticoid pulse therapy for GO (123). The cumulative dose of glucocorticoids might also be important, since no cases of liver damage were reported in a recent randomized clinical trial in which lower, but equally highly effective, doses of glucocorticoids were employed (124). In this trial, the cumulative dose of methylprednisolone was 4.5 grams, subdivided in 12 weekly 2-hour infusions (500 mg for the first 6 infusions, 250 mg for the remaining 6 infusions) (124). A questionnaire-based surgery carried out among members of the European Thyroid Association showed a wide heterogeneity in the regimens of intravenous glucocorticoid therapy for moderate-to severe and active GO (125). A recent mullticenter, randomized clinical trial of a large cohort of patients with moderate-to-severe and active GO showed that a cumulative dose of about 7.5 g of methylprednisolone was associated with more favorable treatment outcomes than lower doses (about 5 g or 2.25 g), but also caused adverse events more frequently (126). Thus, the cumulative dose should somehow be tailored to the severity and activity of GO, reserving the highest dose to patients with most severe expressions of the disease. In any case, the current recommendation is that the cumulative dose of glucocorticoids per course should not exceed 8 grams (92). Response to intravenous glucocorticoids may occur early in the course of the intravenous course, but also later; accordingly, the lack of response after the first 5-6 infusions is not an indication to stop
