Graves’ Disease: Complications
KEYWORDS: graves, patients, thyroid, endocrinol, orbitopathy, disease, graves orbitopathy, ophthalmopathy, orbital, treatment, clin, clin endocrinol, clinical, hyperthyroidism, glucocorticoids


glucocorticoids may occur early in the course of the intravenous course, but also later; accordingly, the lack of response after the first 5-6 infusions is not an indication to stop the treatment (127). Adverse events of high-dose glucocorticoid treatment remain a relevant issue (128). Accordingly, patients should be treated in specialized centers under strict medical surveillance (92). Intravenous glucocorticoid treatment of Graves’ ophthalmopathy is not associated with secondary adrenocortical insufficiency. (129, 130),presumably because it is given for a limited period and intermittently. Orbital radiotherapy is the other non-surgical mainstay in the management of GO (131). The rationale for its use and the indications are quite similar to those of glucocorticoids; in addition, irradiation exploits the radiosensitivity of T lymphocytes which infiltrate the orbit (131). Irradiation is currently carried out by linear accelerators, using a cumulative dose of 20 Gray fractionated in 10 daily 2-Gray doses over a 2-week period (131), although other regimens (and lower doses) might be equally effective (132). Favorable responses have been reported in about 60% of treated patients (131). Recent years have witnessed a lively debate on the true effectiveness of orbital radiotherapy (133, 134). However, the results of several randomized studies confirmed, with one exception, its efficacy (132, 135-138). In addition, orbital radiotherapy is a safe procedure devoid of relevant short-term and long-term side effects or complications (139, 140). Preexisting retinopathy associated with diabetes mellitus or hypertension represents a contraindication to its use (92). As for glucocorticoids, orbital radiotherapy is mostly effective on soft tissue inflammatory changes and recent-onset extraocular muscle dysfunction (131). Orbital radiotherapy can be used either alone or in combination with glucocorticoids. The association exploits the prompter effect of glucocorticoids and the more sustained action of irradiation; in two randomized prospective studies, combined therapy (using oral glucocorticoids) proved to be more effective than either treatment alone (141, 142). Whether the combination of intravenous glucocorticoids and orbital radiotherapy is more effective than intravenous glucocorticoids alone is presently unsettled. For this reason the recent guidelines for the management of moderate-to-severe and active suggest the combination of orbital radiotherapy and oral glucocorticoids as a second-line treatment in the case of a partial or absent response to intravenous glucocorticoids (92). Cyclosporine , used in GO for its immunosuppressive properties, has been reported in only two randomized and controlled studies (143, 144) . Cyclosporine has a lower efficacy than glucocorticoids as a single-agent therapy, although a combination
