Graves’ Disease: Complications
KEYWORDS: graves, patients, thyroid, endocrinol, orbitopathy, disease, graves orbitopathy, ophthalmopathy, orbital, treatment, clin, clin endocrinol, clinical, hyperthyroidism, glucocorticoids


its immunosuppressive properties, has been reported in only two randomized and controlled studies (143, 144) . Cyclosporine has a lower efficacy than glucocorticoids as a single-agent therapy, although a combination of both drugs might be more effective than either treatment alone (143, 144). Thus, the use of cyclosporine might be maintained in patients who are relatively resistant to glucocorticoids in whom persistent GO activity warrants continuing medical intervention (145). Side effects of cyclosporine are not negligible and should be carefully considered. As for orbital radiotherapy, no studies have compared the combination of cyclosporine and intravenous glucocorticoids. Therefore, the association of oral glucocorticoids and cyclosporine is considered an alternative option when the response to intravenous glucocorticoids is poor (92). Rituximab is a CD20+ B-cell depleting monoclonal antibody originally used for B-cell non-Hodgkin lymphoma, but then utilized for autoimmune B-cell (and T-cell) driven autoimmune disorders. This drug has been used for GO in small and uncontrolled preliminary studies (reviewed in refs. 146 and 147). The rationale for using rituximab is sound, based on our understanding of pathogenesis of GO. The available data suggest that rituximab may have favorable effects on moderate-to-severe and active GO, with relatively low adverse event rate (146, 147). Two small, single-center, randomized clinical trials have recently been published. They produced conflicting results, because the first one (148) showed no difference in the effect of rituximab compared to placebo (148), whereas the second one (149) showed that rituximab was as effective as intravenous glucocorticoids in inactivating GO and was not associated with a flare-up of the disease, not infrequently seen after withdrawal of glucocorticoids. The reason for this conflicting results remains elusive and larger multicenter studies are warranted to clarify this issue (150), nevertheless rituximab may be considered as a possible second-line treatment in the case of a partial or absent response to intravenous glucocorticoids (92). Rituximab is contraindicated in patients with overt or impending dysthyroid optic neuropathy (92). Two recent randomized clinical trials have evaluated the effect of mycophenolate , an immunosuppressant agent inhibiting both T cells and B cells, widely used for the prevention of organ transplant rejection, but also for autoimmune disorders. The first, single-center study showed that mycophenolate mofetil was more effective than intravenous glucocorticoids on moderate-to-severe and active GO, but the experimental design had several limitations (151). The second, large, multicenter study carried out by EUGOGO demonstrated that the combination of mycophenolate sodium and
