Graves’ Disease: Complications
KEYWORDS: graves, patients, thyroid, endocrinol, orbitopathy, disease, graves orbitopathy, ophthalmopathy, orbital, treatment, clin, clin endocrinol, clinical, hyperthyroidism, glucocorticoids


on moderate-to-severe and active GO, but the experimental design had several limitations (151). The second, large, multicenter study carried out by EUGOGO demonstrated that the combination of mycophenolate sodium and intravenous glucocorticoids was more effective than intravenous glucocorticoids alone (152). The safety profile at the dose used (720 mg/day for 6 months) appears to be good (153). Therefore mycophenolate sodium may represent a useful tool for the management of GO. Teprotumumab is a monoclonal antibody inhibiting the IGF-1 receptor. Because the latter seems to be involved in the pathogenesis of GO (154), teprotumumab might play a role in the management of the disease. A recent placebo-controlled randomized clinical trial showed that teprotumumab is more effective than placebo in reducing the CAS (155). The most striking effect was marked reduction in the exophthalmos (155), a feature of GO which is very poorly modified by whatever medical treatment. This study is not devoid of limitations and further studies are warranted before it can be included among the tools for the management of active and moderate-to-severe GO (156). Orbital decompression is a milestone in the management of GO. It is aimed at increasing the space available for the increased orbital content by removing part of the bony walls of the orbit and/or the orbital fibroadipose tissue (157). It is indicated in patients who have impending sight loss due to optic neuropathy and do not respond promptly to intravenous glucocorticoids (157). Other important indications for decompressive surgery are represented by corneal damage due to eyeball exposure in patients with marked proptosis, or by recurrent subluxation of the globe, which may stretch the optic nerve and cause sight loss (157). In recent years, thanks to the improved surgical techniques and the diminished surgical risk, the indications for orbital decompression have expanded, including also correction of residual cosmetic problems (157, 158). Several techniques of orbital decompression are available, aimed at removing part of one, two, three or four orbital walls (floor, roof, lateral wall, medial wall) as well as part of the retroorbital fibroadipose tissue. The different surgical options should be discussed with the patient, as well possible complications of the procedure, particularly the de novo occurrence or worsening of diplopia, particularly frequent after extensive removal of the orbital floor (157, 159). Removal of fibroadipose tissue can be done together with or without bone removal, but removal of fat alone is associated with a lower reduction
