Graves’ Disease: Complications
KEYWORDS: graves, patients, thyroid, endocrinol, orbitopathy, disease, graves orbitopathy, ophthalmopathy, orbital, treatment, clin, clin endocrinol, clinical, hyperthyroidism, glucocorticoids


of the orbital floor (157, 159). Removal of fibroadipose tissue can be done together with or without bone removal, but removal of fat alone is associated with a lower reduction of proptosis (159). Rehabilitative surgery includes surgery for strabismus or eyelid retraction. Extraocular muscle surgery is aimed at correcting residual diplopia after medical and/or surgical treatment of GO. Timing of surgery is crucial, because it should not be performed when GO is active, but when it has been inactive for 6 months (160, 161). The goal of eye muscle surgery is to align the eyes, avoiding abnormal head posture and restoring single binocular vision in primary and reading positions; multiple operations may be required to achieve this goal. Eyelid surgery may rarely be an emergency procedures in patients with exposure keratitis and corneal ulcerations, but it usually is carried out to correct eyelid malposition after medical treatment or orbital decompression. Eyelid surgery usually constitutes the last step of rehabilitation (161). Thyroid ablation . The question of whether in a patient with GO, Graves’ hyperthyroidism should be treated by non-ablative (i.e., thionamides) or ablative (i.e., radioiodine therapy, thyroidectomy, both) therapy is unanswered (162, 163). Supporters of thyroid ablation justify this approach by mentioning the pathogenic link between thyroid and orbit: removal of thyroid-orbit shared antigen(s) and autoreactive T lymphocytes might be beneficial to the eye (162); supporters of non-ablative thyroid treatment suggest that control of thyrotoxicosis by antithyroid drugs may be associated with a reduction of autoimmune phenomena which might be reflected by an amelioration of ocular conditions; furthermore, once triggered, GO might proceed independently of thyroid treatment (163). Two retrospective studies showed that total thyroid ablation (thyroidectomy followed by radioiodine therapy, as in thyroid cancer) was associated with an improvement of clinical GO (164, 165). A recent randomized, controlled clinical trial demonstrated that, as compared to total thyroidectomy alone, total thyroid ablation is followed by a better outcome of GO in patients given intravenous glucocorticoids (166). A follow-up study of this cohort recently showed that in the long run total thyroid ablation was no better than total thyroidectomy alone, although it was associated with a prompter achievement of the best possible result obtainable by medical treatment and with an earlier possibility to submit the patient to rehabilitative surgery (147). Other cohort studies emphasized the opportunity to postpone definitive treatment of hyperthyroidism until GO is cured (168, 169). Thus, the optimal
