Graves’ Disease: Complications
KEYWORDS: graves, patients, thyroid, endocrinol, orbitopathy, disease, graves orbitopathy, ophthalmopathy, orbital, treatment, clin, clin endocrinol, clinical, hyperthyroidism, glucocorticoids


possibility to submit the patient to rehabilitative surgery (147). Other cohort studies emphasized the opportunity to postpone definitive treatment of hyperthyroidism until GO is cured (168, 169). Thus, the optimal thyroid treatment in patients with GO still is a dilemma (170-172). THYROID DERMOPATHY AND ACROPACHY Thyroid dermopathy (also called pretibial myxedema or localized myxedema) is an uncommon extrathyroidal manifestations of Graves’ disease (less frequently of chronic autoimmune thyroiditis) (13, 173). It almost always occurs in Graves’ patients who also have GO. In a review of 178 consecutive patients with thyroid dermopathy, only 4 patients had no evidence of eye disease (174). However, in a community-based epidemiologic study, only 4% of GO patients also had thyroid dermopathy, although the latter was more frequent in patients with severe GO (175). It is more common in older than in younger patients, with a large preponderance in women (176). Skin lesions are edematous and thickened plaques, typically localized in the pretibial area; however they can be less frequently found in other skin areas, such as feet, toes, upper extremities, shoulders, upper back, nose. Prevalent localization in the pretibial area is related to mechanical and dependent position. The occurrence of lesions in less common sites is often preceded (triggered?) by local trauma (177, 178). There can be three clinical types: nodular, diffuse, and elephantias-like.(179, 180) (Figures 7-9). Fig. 7: Thyroid dermopathy. Courtesy of Dr. Vahab Fatourechi, Mayo Clinic Fig. 8: thyroid dermopathy. Courtesy of Dr. Vahab Fatourechi, Mayo Clinic Fig. 9: Thyroid dermopathy. Courtesy of Dr. Vahab Fatourechi, Mayo Clinic Histopathologically, skin lesions are characterized by the accumulation of activated fibroblasts (and, to a lesser extent, mast cells), with a markedly increased production of glycosaminoglycans in the dermis and subcutaneous tissues (181). Whereas in normal skin approximately 5% of the acid mucopolysaccharides are hyaluronic acid, in pretibial myxedema this amount increases to 90%. Glycosaminoglycans are responsible for fluid retention, subsequent compression and occlusion of lymphatic vessels, and lymphedema (182). Thus, as in GO, fibroblasts seem to play a central role in the pathogenesis of localized myxedema. This notion is further supported by the finding of limited variability of T cell receptor V gene usage in pretibial myxedema, pointing to a primary immune response of antigen-specific T lymphocytes (183). Furthermore, as is the case with acropachy, lymphocytes do recognize local fibroblasts. IgG from patients with pretibial myxedema was shown to stimulate proteoglycan synthesis by human skin
