Graves’ Disease: Complications
KEYWORDS: graves, patients, thyroid, endocrinol, orbitopathy, disease, graves orbitopathy, ophthalmopathy, orbital, treatment, clin, clin endocrinol, clinical, hyperthyroidism, glucocorticoids


T lymphocytes (183). Furthermore, as is the case with acropachy, lymphocytes do recognize local fibroblasts. IgG from patients with pretibial myxedema was shown to stimulate proteoglycan synthesis by human skin fibroblasts (182). As for GO, TSH-R has been implicated in the pathogenesis of localized myxedema. TSH-R is expressed in peripheral skin fibroblasts from patients with localized myxedema, both at the mRNA and protein level (13). However, TSHR is expressed also in skin from normal subjects (183, 184). Likewise, TSH-R immunoreactivity was detected in cultured fibroblasts from pretibial myxedema, although the specificity of this finding remains to be established. As mentioned above, IgG from Graves’ patients with localized myxedema was reported to stimulate glycosaminoglycan production in cultured skin fibroblasts (183), but this data is not unequivocal, because IgG from normal subjects were equally effective in other studies (185). To summarize, although pathogenic mechanisms remain to be fully elucidated, localized myxedema appear to result from autoimmune reactions leading to fibroblast proliferation and increased glycocosaminoglycan secretion. From a clinical standpoint, localized myxedema presents as light-colored (sometimes yellowish brown) skin lesions, frequently with an orange peel texture (Figures 7-9). Skin lesions may be characterized by hyperpigmentation and hyperkeratosis. They usually represent only a cosmetic problem and are asymptomatic, but sometimes they may be associated with itching and pain, or may be functionally important, e.g., they may cause problems to wear shoes, especially the elephantiasic form of localized myxedema. Localized myxedema may remain stable, but frequently improves with time, partially or completely (13). Many cases of mild localized myxedema do not require any treatment, but in moderately severe lesions or when there is cosmetic concern, topical glucocorticoids applied with occlusive plastic dressing produce beneficial effects in a relevant proportion of patients (13). If necessary, treatment is repeated until clinical remission occurs (13). When localized mxedema is severe and extensive, steroid pulse therapy, or decongestive physiotherapy, a combination of manual lymphatic drainage, bandaging, exercise, and scrupulous skin care, may be tried (13). No substantial effect was reported by long-term octreotide treatment in three patients with localized myxedema (186). Two studies on the use of intravenous IgG in a small number of patients have reported discrepant effects (reviewed in 13). Thus, measures such as compression bandaging and topical glucocorticoids still are the most cost effective treatments for localized myxedema. Acropachy is a very uncommon extrathyroidal expression of Graves’ disease, usually associated with severe GO (13) and localized
