Graves’ Disease: Complications
KEYWORDS: graves, patients, thyroid, endocrinol, orbitopathy, disease, graves orbitopathy, ophthalmopathy, orbital, treatment, clin, clin endocrinol, clinical, hyperthyroidism, glucocorticoids


topical glucocorticoids still are the most cost effective treatments for localized myxedema. Acropachy is a very uncommon extrathyroidal expression of Graves’ disease, usually associated with severe GO (13) and localized myxedema (13), thus reflecting severity of the autoimmune process. It seems more common in women than in men (13). It is characterized by clubbing of fingers (Fig. 10) and toes, with concomitant soft-tissue swelling of hands and feet. These abnormalities are usually painless and may be asymmetric (13). As for GO, there seems to be a strong relation with cigarette smoking. X-ray of affected sites shows soft-tissue swelling and subperiosteal bone formation. There is currently no treatment that can solve the esthetic and (less frequent) functional abnormality of thyroid acropachy, which occasionally may remit spontaneously in the long-term. Fig. 10: Thyroid acropachy. Courtesy of Dr. Vahab Fatourechi, Mayo Clinic CLINICAL ABNORMALITIES OF THE HEART The biochemical actions of thyroid hormone on the heart are described in Chapter 10. Hyperthyroidism is usually associated with relevant cardiovascular symptoms and changes in cardiovascular hemodynamics (186, 187).Thyrotoxicosis increases the demands on the heart both by chronotropic and inotropic alterations. Cardiac output is markedly increased owing to increased stroke volume and rapid heart rate (186, 187). It is possible that the metabolic efficiency of heart muscle is decreased (186, 187). Irritability of the heart is increased. Investigation with stress echocardiography shows in hyperthyroidism impaired chronotropic, contractile, and vasodilatatory cardiovascular reserves, that are reversible upon conversion to euthyroidism (188). In a recent, large, matched case-control study, cardiovascular symptoms and signs, including palpitations, chest pain, dyspnea, cough, orthopnea, displaced apex, cardiac murmur, chest wheeze/crepitus were much more frequent in hyperthyroid patients than in controls, and some of them persisted despite effective restoration of euthyroidism by antithyroid drug treatment (182). This common finding of cardiovascular alterations in hyperthyroid patients may result from thyroid hormone excess itself, by hyperthyroidism-related worsening of preexisting cardiovascular disorders, or by the occurrence of novel cardiovascular abnormalities (186, 187). The importance of cardiovascular abnormalities is underscored by the observation that mortality of hyperthyroid patients is increased, mainly due to cardiovascular events (189, 190). Similar conclusions were reached also in a community-based study of elderly people (191), in which, however, definition of hyperthyroidism was based on the finding of low/suppressed serum TSH, which may not necessarily reflect thyroid hormone excess, but rather be the result of non-thyroidal illness syndrome. Mitral valve prolapse was found more
