Graves’ Disease: Complications
KEYWORDS: graves, patients, thyroid, endocrinol, orbitopathy, disease, graves orbitopathy, ophthalmopathy, orbital, treatment, clin, clin endocrinol, clinical, hyperthyroidism, glucocorticoids


on the finding of low/suppressed serum TSH, which may not necessarily reflect thyroid hormone excess, but rather be the result of non-thyroidal illness syndrome. Mitral valve prolapse was found more commonly in hyperthyroid patients (43%) than in controls (18%) (190). This increased incidence might be due to increased adrenergic tone, autoimmunity, or the augmented cardiac output associated with thyrotoxicosis. Most patients with thyrotoxicosis are adults. Many, especially those with toxic nodular goiter, are in the 50- to 70-years age group, which has a relatively high incidence of organic heart disease anyway (192). Thus, it is not surprising that cardiac abnormalities are prominent among the symptoms of thyrotoxicosis. Frequent premature beats and paroxysmal tachycardia sometimes appear in thyrotoxic patients and may be disturbing to the patient. Atrial fibrillation occurs in thyrotoxicosis with or without preexisting heart disease, but it is more frequent in older patients (193), probably reflecting an increase in the prevalence of underlying cardiac abnormalities of ischemic or different origin (194). It may be paroxysmal or persistent during the thyrotoxic period. Attempts to correct this arrhythmia to normal in patients with persistent atrial fibrillation are usually unsuccessful while they are hyperthyroid. Once euthyroidism has been restored, atrial fibrillation may revert spontaneously or may be converted pharmacologically or by electroconversion. About two-thirds of patients undergo spontaneous reversion to sinus rhythm after receiving therapy for thyrotoxicosis, usually within 4 months; later on, spontaneous conversion is unlikely (195). It is wise to always evaluate thyroid function in clinically euthyroid patients with atrial arrhythmias with or without heart disease, because in about 20% of patients TSH tests and/or FT4 point to an overactive thyroid and in 50% of these patients normal sinus rhythm resumes after treatment with antithyroid drugs (195). It is widely accepted that subclinical hyperthyroidism is associated, in individuals aged 60 years or more with a 3-to-5-fold increased risk of developing atrial fibrillation (195). Congestive heart failure is a frequent complication in thyrotoxic patients with pre-existing organic heart disease, particularly if old (196-198). In the elderly hyperthyroid patient, cardiac symptoms may so dominate the clinical picture that diagnosis of thyrotoxicosis may be overlooked. Careful attention should be given to this possibility in all patients with congestive heart failure, especially if goiter is detected (196). Congestive heart failure may occur in patients who have no detectable preexisting organic heart disease (199). Overt hyperthyroidism may cause ventricular dilatation and persistent tachycardia, which may
