Graves’ Disease: Complications
KEYWORDS: graves, patients, thyroid, endocrinol, orbitopathy, disease, graves orbitopathy, ophthalmopathy, orbital, treatment, clin, clin endocrinol, clinical, hyperthyroidism, glucocorticoids


is detected (196). Congestive heart failure may occur in patients who have no detectable preexisting organic heart disease (199). Overt hyperthyroidism may cause ventricular dilatation and persistent tachycardia, which may lead to heart failure and fatal events (200). It is often difficult to establish whether an underlying heart disease is present in a hyperthyroid patient who also has a disorder of rhythm, a cardiac murmur, or congestive heart failure, because all these conditions may be ascribed to thyrotoxicosis per se. It is frequently gratifying to observe normalization of cardiac findings once euthyroidism has been restored. In hyperthyroidism, owing to the increased metabolic demand, angina can be worsened if pre-existing, or induced de novo (186, 201, 202). Evidence of myocardial lactate production when the heart is paced at an accelerated rate (203), and normal coronary arteries are found at angiography after episodes of angina or infarction (203), have suggested that changes in thyrotoxicosis are due to an imbalance between O2 demand and supply rather than to arterial obstruction. This possibility is corroborated by the finding that coronary artery spasm of an otherwise normal vessel may occur during thyrotoxicosis (202). Cardiac abnormalities found in Graves' disease often are entirely reversible, except that longstanding atrial fibrillation due to hyperthyroidism is not always convertible after euthyroidism is restored. It has become evident that even in the mildest forms of thyrotoxicosis subtle cardiac abnormalities may be present. Thus, in patients with so-called "subclinical" thyrotoxicosis, i.e. suppressed TSH and normal serum free T4 and T3 concentrations, due to multinodular, autonomous goiter or TSH-suppressive T4 treatment, mean basal 24-h heart rate is increased, there is an augmented risk of atrial premature beats and atrial fibrillation, and left ventricular function and wall thickness are increased (204).There is controversy whether TSH suppressive T4 treatment leads to functional cardiac abnormalities (204, 205). Treatment of heart failure in the presence of thyrotoxicosis does not differ from its treatment in euthyroid patients, but it may be more difficult. Rest, salt restriction, diuretic therapy, digitalization and administration of afterload-reducers, like angiotensin converting enzyme (ACE) inhibitors, betablockers, aldosterone antagonists and other specific measures, are in order (186, 196). Larger than normal doses of digoxin are required, but there is probably no change in the toxic-to-therapeutic dose ratio. Atrial fibrillation may be controlled by digoxin, propranolol, or both. Electroconversion is usually successful only after thyrotoxicosis has been resolved for a few months (206). Hyperthyroidism should
