Neurotensinomas
KEYWORDS: neurotensin, bloom, tumors, syndrome, hypotension, plasma, features, clinical, pancreatic, levels, secretion, cases, peptide, patients, endocrinol


ABSTRACT Neurotensin (NT) is a 13 amino acid polypeptide first extracted from bovine brain subsequently isolated from the human GI tract. Neurotensin has a number of interesting pharmacologic effects that include hypotension, tachycardia, and cyanosis and stimulation of secretion from the small intestine. It also has been reported to inhibit the interdigestive myoelectric complex and stimulate insulin release. NT also increases venous vascular permeability, raises blood glucose, and lowers blood pressure. High concentrations of NT-like immunoreactivity (NTLI) are localized to a specific “N” cell in the jejunum. Plasma concentrations rise after food ingestion, and high circulating levels have been found after surgery for duodenal ulcer and jejunoileal bypass for obesity. No clear physiologic role has been established for the peptide. High circulating levels also have been found in patients with VIPomas. The clinical features of reported cases include diarrhea, hypotension, hypokalemia, edema, weight loss, and, occasionally, diabetes. It can mimic the Vipoma syndrome comprising WDHHA ( watery diarrhea, hypotension, hypokalemia and acidosis). Surgical removal cures about 50% of cases and tumors are sensitive to streptozotocin. Neurotensin (NT) is a 13 amino acid polypeptide first extracted from bovine brain by Carraway and Leeman (1). It subsequently was isolated from the human GI tract and found to have the same amino acid sequence as that in brain (2). Neurotensin has a number of interesting pharmacologic effects that include hypotension, tachycardia, and cyanosis (3) (4) and stimulation of secretion from the small intestine (5). It also has been reported to inhibit the interdigestive myoelectric complex and stimulate insulin release (6). NT also increases venous vascular permeability, raises blood glucose, (7) (8) (9) and lowers blood pressure (1) (4). High concentrations of NT-like immunoreactivity (NTLI) are present in the ileal mucosa, where it is localized to a specific “N” cell (10). Plasma concentrations rise after food ingestion (11), and high circulating levels (12) have been found after surgery for duodenal ulcer and jejunoileal bypass for obesity (13). No clear physiologic role has been established for the peptide. High circulating levels also have been found in patients with VIPomas (14-18). (Assay available at Inter Science Institute-800-255-2873). In 1981, based on the pharmacologic actions of NT, it was predicted (19) that a syndrome of excess would emerge, presenting with features that are consonant with the pharmacologic actions of the peptide: diabetes, hypotension, vasodilatation, cyanosis, and edema. In addition to these features, investigation would reveal net secretion
