Neurotensinomas
KEYWORDS: neurotensin, bloom, tumors, syndrome, hypotension, plasma, features, clinical, pancreatic, levels, secretion, cases, peptide, patients, endocrinol


emerge, presenting with features that are consonant with the pharmacologic actions of the peptide: diabetes, hypotension, vasodilatation, cyanosis, and edema. In addition to these features, investigation would reveal net secretion of fluid and electrolytes, inhibition of gastric acid secretion, infrequent interdigestive myoelectric complexes, and prolonged biologic reaction of gastric emptying. The prediction that diabetes would occur was based on the predominant stimulation of adrenomedullary secretions despite stimulation of insulin secretion (20). The clinical features of reported cases include diarrhea, hypotension, hypokalemia, edema, weight loss, and, occasionally, diabetes (21) (19). Apart from these reported cases, Blackburn and colleagues (22) examined plasma NT levels in 326 fasting patients with tumors in a variety of sites. Of these patients, 180 had tumors of the pancreas, including glucagonomas (23), gastrinomas (24), insulinomas (25), nonsecretory tumors (26), and VIPomas (27). Plasma NTLI levels were raised in only six patients with VIPomas and none with the other tumors. Twenty-one of the tumors containing VIP were removed surgically, and six were found to contain NTLI. The clinical features of these six patients did not appear to differ from those of the remaining 15 patients. With so few cases, it is difficult to generalize on the clinical picture. Fifty percent of the cases were cured by resection of tumors in the pancreas (28) or lung, (29) and the remainder have responded well to streptozotocin. The syndrome appears to comprise diarrhea, diabetes, and weight loss; as such, it may not be readily distinguishable from the VIPoma syndrome. Neurotensinomas probably are best characterized as yet another tumor that is capable of causing the WDHHA (watery diarrhea, hypokalemia, hypochlorhydria, and acidosis) syndrome. Edema, hypotension, and flushing should increase the suspicion of a neurotensinoma. Of interest the rise in the use of bariatric surgery in the treatment of obesity has generated clinical syndromes which mimic the above and it would be of interest to determine if neurotensin might be implicated. REFERENCES Carraway R, Leeman SE. The isolation of a new hypotensive peptide, neurotensin, from bovine hypothalami. J Biol Chem 1973; 248(19):6854-6861. Hammer RA, Leeman SE, Carraway R, Williams RH. Isolation of human intestinal neurotensin. J Biol Chem 1980; 255(6):2476-2480. Hammer R, Leeman S. Neurotensin: properties and actions. In Gut Hormone. Edinburgh: Churchill Livingstone, 1981: 290. Mitchenere P, Adrian TE, Kirk RM, Bloom SR. Effect of gut regulatory peptides of intestinal luminal fluid in the rat. Life Sci 1981; 29(15):1563-40. Andersson S, Rosell
