Prostate Cancer Detection
KEYWORDS: prostate, cancer, prostate cancer, psa, men, biopsy, risk, screening, years, journal, patients, detection, antigen, study, clinical


ABSTRACT Prostate cancer is the second most common cause of male cancer deaths in Western countries. However, one of the most contentious topics in medicine continues to be whether testing for this very common tumor is in the best interests of individual patients. Although there is a spectrum of progression rates for this tumor, in most instances, prostate cancer replicates and spreads slowly. As this tumor is uncommonly diagnosed before the age of 40 years and the likelihood of clinical detection increases as men age, most patients have comorbidities when diagnosed with prostate cancer. For this reason and because there are not insignificant potential disadvantages with the detection process and its consequences, it is important to determine whether the benefits of detection are likely to be greater than the unwanted effects of leaving a possible prostate cancer undiagnosed. In this Endotext chapter, the likelihood of a detectable prostate cancer being present is placed in context of patients’ ages and co-morbidies before detailing the tests currently used in clinical practice, together with their limitations. For complete coverage of all related areas of Endocrinology, please visit our on-line FREE web-text, WWW.ENDOTEXT.ORG. INTRODUCTION AND BACKGROUND Prostate Cancer is an increasingly common diagnosis in Western societies with over 240 000 diagnoses made in the US (1), as well as 196,200 in Asia and 417,100 in Europe each year (2). There is a wide range in the incidence of prostate cancer across the globe with the highest rates in developed countries, being more than four-fold higher than less developed regions for a slightly lower mortality (3), although non-Westernized societies are changing as reported recently in relation to the Asia-Pacific region (4)( Figure 1 ). These differences are likely multifactorial, including genetic, environmental, detection, and reporting differences. As reported for 2012, Australia and New Zealand now has had the highest age-standardized incidence (111.6) and cumulative risk (13.6% by age 75) of prostate cancer in the world, with a high incidence observed in Northern America (97.2) and Western Europe (94.9). Figure 1 Prostate Cancer Incidence Rates for Select Registries, 2000–2004 (5) Mortality rates vary from country to country as well (6-7)with prostate cancer following lung and bowel cancers in Europe and Australia in terms of mortality rates. Worldwide, Caribbean and African populations display the highest prostate cancer mortality rates ( Figure 2 ) (3). This disparity is also likely multifactorial and additionally includes factors related to treatment
