Prostate Cancer Detection
KEYWORDS: prostate, cancer, prostate cancer, psa, men, biopsy, risk, screening, years, journal, patients, detection, antigen, study, clinical


both primary and secondary lesions remains a major goal and challenge. Once prostate cancer metastasizes, apart from causing loss of life, the toll it exacts is often considerable with regard to morbidity from both the disease itself and administered therapies. As a result of increasing numbers of men having their prostate cancers diagnosed earlier, more patients are now eligible for treatment with curative intent. Improved surgical and radiation-based treatments have been developed so that the prognosis of a man diagnosed today with prostate cancer is better than ever before. ANATOMY AND PHYSIOLOGY The word "prostate", originally derived from the Greek prohistani which means "to stand in front of," has been attributed to Herophilus of Alexandria who used the term in 355 BC to describe the small organ located in front of the bladder (25). The prostate gland is a small firm structure, about the size of a chestnut, located below the bladder and in front of the rectum ( Figure 4 ). The urethra, the channel through which urine is voided, passes from the bladder through the prostate and penis ( Figure 5 ). Figure 4 The Normal Prostate and its Relationship to Other Pelvic Structures The primary function of the prostate gland, which contracts with ejaculation, is to provide enzymes to maintain the fluid nature of seminal fluid and to nourish sperm as they pass through the prostatic and penile urethra to outside the body. Figure 5 Zonal Anatomy of the Prostate (sagittal depiction) 1 = peripheral zone - the zone where most cancers originate 2 = central zone – zone in which middle lobe develops 3 = transition zone – zone in which BPH ‘lateral lobes’ form 4 = anterior zone B = bladder U = urethra NATURAL HISTORY OF PROSTATE CANCER Traditionally, prostate cancer was considered to be a disease of "older men." As such, it was generally accepted that "men never died from prostate cancer, they died of other conditions with prostate cancer." Consequently, treatment was conservative and directed toward palliation and management of any debilitating and painful sequelae. In addition, diagnosis from histopathology from a biopsy was generally made after palpating a rock-hard and nodular prostate on digital rectal exam [DRE] or by symptoms and signs of primary or secondary tumors, such as urinary obstruction, back pain, nerve root or, less commonly, spinal cord compression. In a large majority of cases, tumors had already disseminated
