Prostate Cancer Detection
KEYWORDS: prostate, cancer, prostate cancer, psa, men, biopsy, risk, screening, years, journal, patients, detection, antigen, study, clinical


signs of primary or secondary tumors, such as urinary obstruction, back pain, nerve root or, less commonly, spinal cord compression. In a large majority of cases, tumors had already disseminated at the time of diagnosis and, therefore, were incurable. It was in the mid-1980s, with the introduction of the PSA blood test that prostate cancer began to be diagnosed earlier and in younger men. Prostate cancer is usually slow in its development and in the majority of cases, slow to progress as is illustrated in Table 1 below from Surveillance Epidemiology and End Results (SEER) registry : SEER collects and publishes cancer incidence and survival data from population-based cancer registries covering approximately 28% of the population of the United States(1). If autopsy findings are an indication, premalignant and inapparent tumors are very common with one United States study indicating that, of 249 cases examined, 70% of the prostates with the premalignant condition high grade prostate intra-epithelial neoplasia (HGPIN) harbored adenocarcinoma, whereas the frequency of cancerin prostates without HGPIN was 24%. HGPIN was encountered in 0, 5, 10, 41 and 63% of men in the 3rd, 4th, 5th and 7th decades, respectively. The corresponding figures for invasive carcinoma were 2, 29, 32, 55 and 64% respectively (26). Although methods of diagnosis and treatment of localized disease have become well-entrenched, they are beginning to change. However, both early detection through PSA screening and the management of prostate cancer remain controversial. The tumor has a variable biologic course, the traditional biopsy approach is invasive, costly and clinical staging of tumors is imprecise. Furthermore, there are significant limitations in prediction of the clinical outcome of patients with both organ-confined and extra-prostatic disease - not to mention the morbidity associated with all currently established treatments. It is sobering to muse that, were the unwanted effects of diagnosis and treatment insignificant, the dilemma of whether or not to diagnose and treat would not be issues. COMPETING MORBIDITIES AND LIFE EXPECTANCY: COMPARISONS The likelihood of men dying from causes other than from prostate cancer increases with ageing because of competing mortalities (as indicated by Figure 6 below), in particular cardiovascular and cerebrovascular diseases ( Figure 6 below): the fact that most prostate cancers progress slowly compared with other cancers needs to be considered in terms of life expectancy from competing causes of death. Life expectancy has been reported to be increasing for Australian men, recently estimated to
