Prostate Cancer Detection
KEYWORDS: prostate, cancer, prostate cancer, psa, men, biopsy, risk, screening, years, journal, patients, detection, antigen, study, clinical


other cancers needs to be considered in terms of life expectancy from competing causes of death. Life expectancy has been reported to be increasing for Australian men, recently estimated to be 80.4 years from birth, the 7 th highest worldwide, and 84.5 years at age 65(27). Calculation of life expectancy is difficult; however, use of statistically calculated “life tables”, based on population estimates, may provide the most accurate prediction. Figure 6 Panel A – life expectancy estimates for Australian men and women since 1890. Panel B – Population pyramid for Australia in 2016, demonstrating the proportion of population for each age group. Available from: https://www.aihw.gov.au/reports/life-expectancy-death/deaths-in-australia/contents/life-expectancy If death from prostate cancer is compared with the likelihood of death from other conditions, the older a man, the greater is the likelihood that another condition will be the cause of his demise; in Australia in 2009, one in three male deaths was attributed to cardiovascular disease (28). The following graphs ( Figure 7 ) from the Australian Government website show approximately parallel increases for incidence and death from prostate cancer, estimated to be 23 years apart ( Figure 7 ). Consequently, if death is the endpoint being addressed, the patient’s life expectancy, based on his age and comorbidities, needs to be considered in the context of the natural history of his disease. Figure 7 Estimated age-specific incidence (solid line) and mortality (dashed line) rates for prostate cancer, 2017 (Panel A), compared with 2007 (Panel B) (https://prostate-cancer.canceraustralia.gov.au/statistics) TARGETING PROSTATE CANCER AT-RISK POPULATIONS Major genetic epidemiologic studies published in the last two decades support the notion that prostate cancer may exist as clusters in families. In the 1980s, a Utah Mormon genealogy study found that prostate cancer exhibited the fourth strongest degree of familial clustering after lip, melanoma, and ovarian cancers (29). Prostate cancer, interestingly, had a higher familial association than either colon or breast carcinoma, to which patients are known to be predisposed by genetic or familial components. A later study determined cancer pedigrees in 691 men with prostate cancer and 640 spouse controls and found that men with an affected father or brother were twice as likely to develop prostate cancer as men with no affected relatives (30). Although these findings strongly suggest that familial clustering of prostate cancer risk does exist, they did not address the underlying etiological mechanisms. Indeed, familial clustering can reflect either shared environmental and lifestyle risk factors, or
