Prostate Cancer Detection
KEYWORDS: prostate, cancer, prostate cancer, psa, men, biopsy, risk, screening, years, journal, patients, detection, antigen, study, clinical


that familial clustering of prostate cancer risk does exist, they did not address the underlying etiological mechanisms. Indeed, familial clustering can reflect either shared environmental and lifestyle risk factors, or a genetic mechanism, or both. To determine what might distinguish hereditary prostate cancer from its sporadic counterparts, a number of clinical features of prostate cancer were examined by Carter, et al.(31). Clinical stage at presentation, pre-operative PSA, final pathologic stage, and prostate weight were examined in a series of approximately 650 patients divided among three categories. Individuals were classified as having hereditary disease if 3 or more relatives were affected in a single generation, prostate cancer occurred in each of 3 successive generations in either paternal or maternal lineages, or 2 relatives were affected under the age of 65 years. For the other groups, either no other family members were affected (sporadic disease), or other family members were affected but not to the extent found in families classified as hereditary. In summary, no unique clinical or pathological characteristics distinguished hereditary prostate cancer in this group of patients. This parallel between hereditary and sporadic prostate cancer also extends to the incidence of multifocality found in both of these categories. These findings were supported by Brandt et al (2011) in an analysis of the nationwide Swedish Family-Cancer Database between 1961 and 2006. They found that the age-specific hazard ratio of prostate cancer diagnosis increased with the number of affected relatives and decreased with increasing age. The highest hazard ratios were observed for men <65 yr. of age with three affected brothers (approximately 23) and the lowest for men between 65 and 74 yr. of age with an affected father (HR: approximately 1.8). The hazard ratios increased with decreasing paternal or fraternal diagnostic age. The pattern of the risk of death from familial prostate cancer was similar to the incidence data (32). A similar study also from Sweden determined that a positive family history was a risk factor for developing prostate cancer and most pronounced in younger men (aged 45-49 years) (33). A vast array of molecular alterations implicated in sporadic and familial prostate cancer have been described (34)and reported to account for 30% of familial risk (35). However, there are differences between hereditary and sporadic prostate cancers. The onset of hereditary prostate cancer is, on average, 6 years earlier than for sporadic cancer. Although the clinical course is in no way different
