Prostate Cancer Detection
KEYWORDS: prostate, cancer, prostate cancer, psa, men, biopsy, risk, screening, years, journal, patients, detection, antigen, study, clinical


hereditary and sporadic prostate cancers. The onset of hereditary prostate cancer is, on average, 6 years earlier than for sporadic cancer. Although the clinical course is in no way different and the pathological characteristics are the same in most instances (36), patients with a family history of germ-line mutations in the family-susceptibility genes BRCA1 and BRCA2 , in particular the latter, and G84E mutation in HOXB13(37), have a significantly increased susceptibility for developing this malignancy. Furthermore, these patients tend to present at a younger age, have more aggressive and disseminated disease with poorer survival outcomes [31-6](38-44). Targeted screening of at risk men has been performed, with the IMPACT study reporting a higher positive predictive value of PSA and detection of intermediate- or high-risk disease in BRCA2 mutation carriers(45). TESTS USED IN DIAGNOSING PROSTATE CANCER In evaluating this issue, it is important to appreciate that the diagnostic approach is a two-step process that begins with the decision about whether or not to have a Prostate Specific Antigen (PSA) blood test (+/- other investigations) and, secondly, to confirm a suspected diagnosis of prostate cancer by biopsy for histopathology. Most men with a PSA level less than 10ng/ml will have a normal feeling prostate on digital rectal examination (DRE), hence the removal of DRE by non-urologists from many guidelines. The FDA initially approved PSA testing in 1986 for monitoring the disease status of prostate cancer patients and, subsequently in 1994, it was endorsed as a screening method for prostate cancer (46). The PSA blood test is a continuous variable with no cut point (47)so that very low levels don’t completely exclude the possibility that prostate cancer is present(48-50), but the higher the serum PSA the greater the likelihood of prostate cancer being detectable. Importantly, PSA doesn’t distinguish between those who do and do not have cancer or identify those whose cancers will benefit from curative treatment. PSA increases with a number of conditions including prostate cancer, but the most common associated pathology is the non-cancerous condition benign prostatic hyperplasia (BPH) which is the cause, in most instances, of bladder outlet obstruction in men. Factors Affecting PSA Measurements Themedicationfinasteridewhich targets the 5-α-reductase type 2 enzyme and the more recently available drug, dutasteride, which inhibits both type 1 and type 2 enzymes, affect theconversion of testosterone to dihydrotestosterone (DHT) in prostatic cells. They reduce prostate volume with comparable effectiveness, with their designated clinical role being
