Prostate Cancer Detection
KEYWORDS: prostate, cancer, prostate cancer, psa, men, biopsy, risk, screening, years, journal, patients, detection, antigen, study, clinical


both type 1 and type 2 enzymes, affect theconversion of testosterone to dihydrotestosterone (DHT) in prostatic cells. They reduce prostate volume with comparable effectiveness, with their designated clinical role being to decrease bladder outflow obstruction responsible for lower urinary tract symptoms (LUTS) present in a large number of older men. In reducing the benign prostatic hyperplasia (BPH) component of the prostate, both finasteride and dutasteride also reduce serum PSA levels by ~50% within 6 months of treatment. However, with the influence of the non-cancer BPH component significantly reduced, PSA changes are more likely to indicate prostate cancer. For patients taking finasteride or dutasteride, an increase in PSA of > 0.3 ng/ml from nadir is generally regarded as an indication for further investigation based on the findings of Marks et al (2006) who determined that applying this recommendation resulted in a 71% sensitivity and a 60% specificity for prostate cancer being detected in men receiving dutasteride (51). Use of dutasteride may also affect interpretation of multiparametric MRI (mpMRI) and require a reduced biopsy threshold(52). Concerns with respect to finasteride use and subsequent prostate cancer were addressed by long-term data from the Prostate Cancer Prevention Trial. Results confirmed that finasteride reduced the risk of prostate cancer by about one third but also found that high-grade prostate cancer was more commonly found on biopsy in the finasteride group than in the placebo group. However, after 18 years of follow-up, there was no significant difference between-groups in the rates of overall survival or survival after the diagnosis of prostate cancer (53). Other non-malignant causes affecting serum PSA levels include prostatic infection and ageing since prostates tend to become larger as men get older (54). Instrumentation of the prostate and urinary tract can also raise PSA levels (55)as can bacterial or severe prostatitis, both of these capable of resulting in sudden rises in this enzyme ( Figure 8 ). Testosterone supplementation is commonly used for hypogonadism and might intuitively complicate interpretation of serum PSA levels. However, available data suggests that testosterone supplementation does not significantly increase serum PSA (0.1 ng/mL; 95% CI -0.28 – 0.48)(56-57), prostate size, intraprostatic testosterone, or prostate cancer incidence and progression in men with pre-treatment serum testosterone higher than 5 – 7 nmol/L (144 - 202 ng/dl(58). Testosterone therapy also causes minimal changes in lower urinary tract symptoms, with 77.5% of patients on supplementation having similar or improved symptoms for change
