Prostate Cancer Detection
KEYWORDS: prostate, cancer, prostate cancer, psa, men, biopsy, risk, screening, years, journal, patients, detection, antigen, study, clinical


rectum · Increase detection of clinically significant cancer · Minimize detection of insignificant cancer 2) Patients with prior negative biopsy · Provide target for biopsy · Assessment of anterior and apical areas that are areas poorly sampled by TRUS · Increase detection of clinically significant cancer · Minimize detection of insignificant cancer · Decrease unnecessary repeat biopsy As an initial form of detection, MRI has the potential to improve the sensitivity of detection of intermediate and high-risk prostate cancer, especially in the anterior zone of the prostate, where cancers may not be sampled using transrectal ultrasound guided biopsy techniques. However, in some countries cost is still a handicap to widespread application. Interpretation of prostate imaging with different sequences (summarized in Table 4 ), using a “multiparametric” approach, requires expertise and collaboration, most commonly according to a structured reporting scheme, prostate imaging-reporting & data system (PI-RADS), which has since been updated to PI-RADS v2 (142-144). A PI-RADS score is assigned to each individual lesion using T2 weighting, diffusion-weighted imaging (DWI), and dynamic contrast enhancement to assign scores based on a Likert (5-point) scale based on the probability of clinically significant malignancy: PI-RADS 1 very low; PI-RADS 2 low; PI-RADS 3 intermediate; PI-RADS 4; PI-RADS 5 very high (145). A summary of the standardized anatomical description map and PI-RADS scoring specifications are shown Figures 15 and 16). For lesions in the peripheral zone DWI is the dominant sequence, and for the transition zone T2 dominant. Table 4 MRI Imaging Sequences View in own window Use T1-weighted Detection of hemorrhage post biopsy as hyperintense Detection of bone metastasis Detection of abnormal lymph nodes T2- weighted Demonstrates zonal anatomy. Sensitive but non-specific as prostate cancer, prostatitis, atrophy, BPH, and changes after treatment (e.g., radiation induced arteritis) are hypointense Dominant sequence for PIRADS scoring of transitional zone. Diffusion-weighted imaging (DWI) Prostate cancer demonstrates restricted diffusion, appearing hyperintense at high b values and hypointense on ADC map Dominant sequence for PIRADS scoring of peripheral zone Dynamic contrast enhancement (DCE) Prostate cancer shows early enhancement and early washout Spectroscopy Requires extra time for acquisition and may not add diagnostic value. Not frequently used. Citrate is reduced, whereas choline is increased in prostate cancer Figure 15 Prostate Map for Description of Lesions Detected on mpMRI According to PIRADS Classification Figure 16 Prostate Map for Description of Lesions Detected on mpMRI According to PIRADS Classification for Peripheral (right) and
