Prostate Cancer Detection
KEYWORDS: prostate, cancer, prostate cancer, psa, men, biopsy, risk, screening, years, journal, patients, detection, antigen, study, clinical


3 were identified. The targeted biopsy could be performed with software or cognitive fusion and could be transrectal or transperineal. The detection of clinically significant prostate cancer (defined as Gleason 3+4 or greater) was 26% in the standard biopsy group and 38% in the mpMRI group. This increased detection occurred despite the fact that 28% of patients in the mpMRI group were not biopsied because the study was reported as PIRADS 1-2 but still included in the population/denominator. Conversely, the detection of Gleason 3+3 cancer was 22% in the standard biopsy and 9% in the mpMRI group. Clinically significant cancer was detected in 12% of PIRADS 3, 60% of PIRADS 4 and 85% of PIRADS 5 lesions, similar to that seen in previous studies. Of note, the centers contributing the majority of patients had significant prior experience with prostate mpMRI reporting and targeted prostate biopsies. Whether centers with limited experience can achieve similar results remains to be demonstrated. Patients with Prior Negative Biopsy MRI has shown been shown to be useful in the subset of patients with prior negative biopsies. For these patients, the biopsy detection rate is approximately 30%, decreasing with each subsequent biopsy procedure (150-151).MRI followed by MRI-guided biopsies identifies prostate cancer in 41-59% (152-153). A recent review showed that across 16 studies MRI guidance improved the absolute detection of clinically significant prostate cancer between 6-18% in patients with previous negative TRUS biopsy (154). DEFINITIVE DIAGNOSIS REQUIRES BIOPSIES Prostate biopsy is required for the definitive diagnosis of prostate cancer. Systematic TRUS-guided biopsies have been the standard for the past decades but concerns about missing significant cancer and the risk of sepsis are changing the landscape. While TRUS imaging permits spatial positioning for systematic sampling, by itself it has low accuracy in detecting suspicious areas. The number of biopsy cores taken is important with the chance of missing a cancer by standard sextant biopsy estimated to be approximately 25% (155)so that, more recently, the numbers of cores recommended are at least 10-12. In addition, it is advocated that biopsies should be directed laterally and that they should include the anterior horns of the peripheral zone (155-158). Still, recent studies have shown that systematic TRUS biopsies performed via the rectum miss approximately 50% of clinically significant cancers (139,148,159). The introduction of mpMRI is changing this situation at least in terms of missing significant cancer. One of the problems facing clinicians
