Prostate Cancer Detection
KEYWORDS: prostate, cancer, prostate cancer, psa, men, biopsy, risk, screening, years, journal, patients, detection, antigen, study, clinical


concern expressed that hospital admissions due to post-TRUS biopsy may be rising, with one study reporting a 3-fold increase from 0.55% across 2002-2009 to 2.15% across 2010-2011 (162,167-168). Changing bacterial resistance patterns and antibacterial practices have contributed to the spectrum of infectious complications with the infection rate being much higher in certain population groups such as men who have been taking antibacterial drugs prior to the biopsy and people who have been in South East Asia and Mediterranean countries within the past 6-12 months (168-169). Not surprisingly there is wide variation in the reported incidence of overall infectious complications from 0.1% to 7% and of sepsis from 0.3% to 3.1% across studies (166,170). A prospective New Zealand study reported that drug resistance rates for patients who required intensive care admission for sepsis following TRUS biopsy were 43% for gentamicin, 60% for trimethoprim-sulphamethoxazole (60%) and 62% for ciprofloxacin as well as 19% for all 3 agents in combination. E. coli sequence type 131 clone was implicated as being particularly problematic, accounting for 41% of all E. coli isolates after TRUS biopsy (171). Fluoroquinolone resistance in rectal cultures has been reported to predict infectious complications following TRUS biopsy (172). The changing patterns of drug sensitivities and reports of low resistant rates to drugs such as carbapenems for patients with unresolving sepsis (173)has resulted in some advocating for the use of these drugs as prophylactic agents just prior to TRUS biopsy (174-175). However, adoption of such a strategy runs the risk of decreasing the number and effectiveness of those pharmaceutical agents currently kept in reserve for patients with overwhelming sepsis (175). The transperineal approach has emerged as an alternative with significantly decreased risk of infections complications, albeit requiring specialized equipment, general anesthesia in most centers, increased operative time, an increased risk of urinary retention and potential nerve damage affecting erectile ability. A notable advantage of the transperineal approach is better sampling of the anterior zone of the prostate (174). MRI also allows one to perform targeted biopsies, thereby increasing the detection of significant cancer. The main types of guided prostate biopsy techniques following diagnostic imaging with MRI include cognitive fusion (visual estimation from clinician’s interpretation of TRUS and mpMRI images), MRI-guided (biopsy performed under MRI guidance), fusion software (software integrating MR images on to the TRUS screen to guide biopsy needle to target index lesions), and robotic (automatic fusion and alignment for clinician).
