Prostate Cancer Detection
KEYWORDS: prostate, cancer, prostate cancer, psa, men, biopsy, risk, screening, years, journal, patients, detection, antigen, study, clinical


under MRI guidance), fusion software (software integrating MR images on to the TRUS screen to guide biopsy needle to target index lesions), and robotic (automatic fusion and alignment for clinician). A particular issue with biopsying performed under real-time MR imaging is cost because this approach uses MR equipment which otherwise would be used for other purposes. These options are summarized in Table 6 . Table 6 Approaches for MRI-guided Targeted Prostate Biopsy View in own window Description Characteristics References Cognitive fusion (visual estimation) Manually directed based on MRI TRUS or TP Low cost Operator dependent Sciarra 2010 Lee 2012 Panebianco 2015 In-gantry (real time) MRI-guided biopsy MRI-compatible biopsy gun used and trajectory established. Biopsy gun fired and sampling confirmed TRUS or TP High cost with each procedure Steep learning curve Highest precision Overduin 2013 Penzkofer 2015 Schimmöller 2016 Yaxley 2017 MRI-TRUS software fusion biopsy Software assisted targeting of lesions TRUS or TP Initial cost outlay Ongoing costs similar Good accuracy Porpiglia 2016 Siddiqui 2015 Meng 2016 Robotic-Assisted Potentially less operator dependent TRUS or TP Initial cost outlay Tilak 2015 In a meta-analysis of 11 studies Wegelin et al. compared the prostate cancer detection rates of cognitive-fusion, in-gantry, and TRUS software-fusion biopsy. In-gantry biopsy had a higher overall detection rate than cognitive-fusion, but the detection of clinically significant cancer was not different across the 3 techniques. Yaxley et al. performed a retrospective review comparing in-gantry MRI-guided biopsy to cognitive TRUS biopsy. In 595 PI-RADS 3-5 lesions, there was a high prostate cancer detection rate with no difference across biopsy methods (176). While the advantages of obtaining an MRI prior to biopsy are clear, up to 13% of clinically significant tumors can be missed when only targeted biopsies are performed (177-178). Moreover, this figure may be higher for lower volume centers with limited experience in MRI interpretation and MRI-guided biopsies. Consequently, many practitioner’s biopsy both index lesions seen with MRI as well as systematically sampling all parts of the prostate with 12 or more biopsies. In doing so, cognitive or in-gantry approaches are used for index lesions with a template employed to ensure correct special placing of biopsy needles for systematic sampling of the whole of the prostate. Histopathological Assessment The biopsy result provides important information for the patient and clinician on which to base management decisions (179). Important prognostic information on biopsy assessment include tumor quantification values (fraction of positive cores
