Prostate Cancer Detection
KEYWORDS: prostate, cancer, prostate cancer, psa, men, biopsy, risk, screening, years, journal, patients, detection, antigen, study, clinical


result provides important information for the patient and clinician on which to base management decisions (179). Important prognostic information on biopsy assessment include tumor quantification values (fraction of positive cores i.e. the number of positive cores versus the number of cores submitted and the percentage or length in mm of cancer in intact positive cores), cancer grade (Gleason score in each positive core and ISUP [International Society of Urological Pathology] grade) and presence or absence of perineural invasion, lymphovascular invasion, intraductal carcinoma, and extraprostatic extension (180). Increasing tumor burden and poor histological differentiation are associated with a higher risk of metastatic disease, an increased chance of post-treatment failure, and a worse overall prognosis (181-183). Histological analysis is the ‘gold standard’ for classifying prostatic adenocarcinoma. Using architectural patterns, the tumor is assigned a Gleason score and ISUP grade between 1 and 5, with higher numbers representing less differentiated, more aggressive tumors (see Table 7). A single prostate can harbor multiple foci of different histologic patterns of adenocarcinoma, and it is possible to have Gleason grade 3, 4 and 5 patterns in the same specimen: 85% of prostate tumors are multifocal. The Gleason score and ISUP grade are generated by combining the values of the first and second most common (dominant and subdominant) grades assessed by the uropathologist using light microscopy. In needle biopsies, the Gleason score and ISUP grade are calculated using the most common and highest grade of cancer (184). These values provide s important prognostic information. Table 7 The International Society of Urological Pathology (ISUP) Grading System (185) View in own window ISUP grade Gleason scores Definition Grade 1 2-6 Only individual discrete well-formed glands Grade 2 3+4=7 Predominantly well-formed glands with lesser component of poorly formed/ fused/ cribriform glands Grade 3 4+3=7 Predominantly poorly formed/fused/ cribriform glands with lesser component of well-formed glands Grade 4 4+4=8 Only poorly formed/fused/cribriform glands 3+5=8 Predominantly well-formed glands and lesser component lacking glands (or with necrosis) 5+3=8 Predominantly lacking glands (or with necrosis) and lesser component of well-formed glands Grade 5 9-10 Lacking gland formation (or with necrosis) with or without poorly formed/fused/ cribriform glands The presence of Gleason grade 4 or greater histology carries a significantly poorer prognosis (186-187). It has been shown that Gleason score 4+3 tumors behave much worse than Gleason score 3+4 tumors and that there is a biological continuum within Gleason score 7 tumors with the proportion
