Prostate Cancer Detection
KEYWORDS: prostate, cancer, prostate cancer, psa, men, biopsy, risk, screening, years, journal, patients, detection, antigen, study, clinical


been shown that Gleason score 4+3 tumors behave much worse than Gleason score 3+4 tumors and that there is a biological continuum within Gleason score 7 tumors with the proportion of pattern 4 cancer that is reflected in clinical outcome (188). In the large majority of instances, gray-scale TRUS does not permit differentiation between cancer and non-cancer so TRUS and transperineal biopsies are taken blindly. Consequently, there is a possibility that small tumors may be missed, despite careful spatial positioning of biopsy needles with multiple cores taken. Furthermore, in large glands especially, the anterior part of the prostate may be poorly sampled via the transrectal route so, for these reasons, it is not surprising that the histology from biopsies and radical prostatectomies may differ. In these instances, the Gleason score from the radical prostatectomy specimen is usually higher (upgrading) but downgrading is also observed. Recently, the International Society of Urological Pathology (ISUP) proposed a new Grading system in order to improve prognostication of tumor grade, as well as improve patient education (184,189-191). Although the term “ grade groups” has been used for these prognostic categories, it has been shown to be erroneous as they are not groupings of grades but groupings of scores (184,189). Furthermore, these categories were the result of a consensus conference organized by the ISUP for the purpose updating the ISUP modified Gleason scoring system of 2005 and as such, the new ISUP grades are based on the 2005 ISUP modified Gleason scores (Table 7). These grades have been validated in surgical cohorts and show distinct patterns of recurrence free progression (RFP) depending on the highest Grade within the RP and biopsy histology (190-191). PROSTATIC INTRAEPITHELIAL NEOPLASIA [PIN] Prostatic intraepithelial neoplasia [PIN] is believed to be a precursor of prostate cancer, given the strong association between high grade PIN and prostatic adenocarcinoma (192-194). The presence of high grade PIN is often indicative of the presence of prostate cancer. It has been shown that more than 80 percent of prostates with adenocarcinoma also contain high-grade PIN (PIN-11 & III). High-grade PIN has cytologic features resembling cancer and carries many of the genetic alterations of prostate cancer. The finding of high-grade PIN alone in a biopsy has been cited as an indication to proceed with repeat biopsies given the high co-frequency between high-grade PIN and carcinoma. However, in current practice, the predictive value of PIN in finding cancer on
