Prostate Cancer Detection
KEYWORDS: prostate, cancer, prostate cancer, psa, men, biopsy, risk, screening, years, journal, patients, detection, antigen, study, clinical


as an indication to proceed with repeat biopsies given the high co-frequency between high-grade PIN and carcinoma. However, in current practice, the predictive value of PIN in finding cancer on subsequent biopsies has declined, probably due to the extended biopsy techniques yielding higher rates of initial cancer detection (195). A diagnosis of PIN by itself is certainly insufficient for a patient to undergo either radical prostatectomy or radiotherapy. ATYPICAL PROSTATIC GLANDULAR PROLIFERATIONS Foci of atypical glands, also labeled ‘atypical small acinar proliferation of uncertain significance’, have features suspicious for, but not diagnostic of, cancer. These encompass a variety of lesions including benign mimickers of cancer, HGPIN, and small foci of carcinoma which, for a variety of reasons, cannot be accurately diagnosed. The reported incidence of these lesions on prostate needle biopsies is 1.5% to 5.3% (195). Patients with atypical glands on needle biopsy have a high risk of harboring cancer. The reported incidence of prostate cancer from repeat biopsies has ranged from 34 to 60% (196). Following an atypical diagnosis, biopsies need to be repeated (197). TNM STAGING SYSTEM Once a diagnosis of prostate cancer is made, it must be determined whether the patient is a candidate for potentially curative treatment (surgery or radiation). This depends upon several factors, including general health and projected longevity in conjunction with the likelihood that the cancer is still localized within the prostate and has not yet metastasized. The most important factor, however, is the patient’s decision after he has considered the ‘pros and cons’ of the various choices as they relate to him (see below). Currently, the TNM system is used for staging ( Table 8 ), and prostate cancers can be assigned both a clinical stage and, subsequently should the prostate be removed surgically, a pathologic stage . This differentiation is important with the clinical and pathological stage designated by the letters ‘c’ and ‘p’, respectively, preceding the stage denotation (e.g. cT2a = clinically, tumor is palpably involving one lobe of the prostate or less). Table 8 TNM Staging Classifications [per American Joint Committee on Cancer (AJCC) 8th Edition 2016)(198) View in own window Primary Tumor Tx T0 Primary tumor cannot be assessed No evidence of primary tumor T1 Clinically inapparent tumor not palpable not visible by imaging T1a Incidental tumor in < 5% of TUR tissue T1b Incidental tumor in > 5% of TUR tissue T1c Needle biopsy prompted by elevated
