Prostate Cancer Detection
KEYWORDS: prostate, cancer, prostate cancer, psa, men, biopsy, risk, screening, years, journal, patients, detection, antigen, study, clinical


no significant difference in prostate cancer mortality (224) But what constitutes a significant comorbidity? “a condition or complaint either coexisting with the principal diagnosis or arising during the episode of care or attendance at a health care facility” (225). How do you assess it? Crawford et al chose an expanded definition that included both ‘standard’ Charlson comorbidity index conditions and hypertension (even if well controlled), diverticulosis, gallbladder disease and obesity (224) But when the analysis was repeated using only validated measures of comorbidity (Charlson comorbidity index conditions only), there was no interaction (226) A simple patient-reported index, a modified form of the Total Illness Burden Index modified for prostate cancer (216)vs Charlson Comorbidity Index (217-218) The American Society of Anesthesiologists (ASA) physical status classificationhas been recommended to serve as a basis of assessing suitability for radical prostatectomy in men >65 years (219) Onset of erectile dysfunctionmay serve as an indicator of limited life expectancy due to cardiovascular death (220-221) Morbidity of (frequently repeated) TRUS & T/P biopsies TRUS biopsy infections in 4.5%: 48% had rectal swabs showing Ciprofloxacin resistant bacteria (165,167,169) High over-diagnosis rate: active surveillance, where men diagnosed with low risk prostate cancer may be monitored with serial PSA and biopsies to delay or avoid treatment, may decrease the concern of over detection and over treatment Psychosocial aspects pervade all aspects of detection & treatment. Recent studies have reported psychological distress levels severe enough to meet defined criteria close to the time of diagnosis from 10% to 23% (227). Bill-Axelson and colleagues in an eight year longitudinal study reported that although extreme distress was not common in men with localized prostate cancer, 30–40% of men reported ongoing health-related distress and worry about their health, feeling low, and sleep disturbance (228). Risk of suicide may be increased in the first six to twelve months after the diagnosis of prostate cancer (229-230). Screening for distress and referral to appropriate support services is widely accepted and recommended in men diagnosed with prostate cancer (231-232). In addition to distress, contemporary evidence suggests socio-demographic and psychosocial variables to be highly influential on intervention effects (232). Decisional conflicts impact upon continuation of Active Surveillance (233-234). When making decisions about treatment for prostate cancer men tend to rely on lay beliefs about cancer with the opinion of the clinician highly influential (233). A systematic review of psychosocial interventions for men with prostate cancer and their partners
