Prostate Cancer Detection
KEYWORDS: prostate, cancer, prostate cancer, psa, men, biopsy, risk, screening, years, journal, patients, detection, antigen, study, clinical


to rely on lay beliefs about cancer with the opinion of the clinician highly influential (233). A systematic review of psychosocial interventions for men with prostate cancer and their partners found that group cognitive-behavioral and psychoeducational interventions were helpful in promoting better psychological adjustment and quality of life (QOL) for men with prostate cancer (235). Multi-modal psychosexual and psychosocial interventions for men diagnosed with prostate cancer are recommended(232). Reassurance: PSA level <1ng/ml at the age of 65 years (50)or <3 ng/ml at the age of 75 years have a very low chance of contracting fatal cancer (160) EARLY DIAGNOSIS AND TREATMENT WITH CURATIVE INTENET AND LESSENING THE LIKELIHOOD OF METASTASES OCCURRING The recently completed PSA Evaluation Report by the National Health and Medical Research Council (NHMRC) of Australia concluded that, although there was some inconsistency in the definition of prostate cancer metastases across the RCTs, overall, the evidence indicates that PSA testing reduces the risk of having metastases present at the time of diagnosis of prostate cancer. The NHMRC review focused on the RCTs above in its considerations but did not conclude that intervention with curative intent reduces the likelihood of subsequent metastases [163]. However, evaluation of evidence from multiple non-RCTs has reported that PSA testing and intervention with curative intent does reduce the likelihood of subsequent metastases. There are very few RCTs for prostate cancer treated with curative intent. Bill Axelson et al (2014) (222)recruited patients from 14 centers in Sweden, Finland and Iceland: The trial is noteworthy since the study included patients detected with prostate cancer at a later stage than is currently diagnosed: only 12% had impalpable disease on DRE - detected by what are now outmoded methods. The results are summarized below: Swedish Trial Of Radical Prostatectomy Versus Watchful Waiting (222,236) From October 1989 through February 1999, 695 men with ‘early’ prostate cancer were randomly assigned to watchful waiting, where men are “watched” and treated only when symptomatic or with significant concern for complications, or radical prostatectomy Eligibility required patients to be <75 yrs. of age and a life expectancy >10 years: mean age was 65 yrs. Clinically localized disease (T1 or T2, using IUCC 1978 criteria) Diagnosis by core biopsy or fine needle aspiration cytology Well or moderately differentiated adenocarcinoma (WHO classification) PSA <50 ng/ml: mean PSA was 13 ng/ml a negative bone scan During a median of 13.4 years, 200 of the 347 men
