Prostate Cancer Detection
KEYWORDS: prostate, cancer, prostate cancer, psa, men, biopsy, risk, screening, years, journal, patients, detection, antigen, study, clinical


within 30 days after surgery occurred in 21.4% of men, including one death. In 2017, Wilt et al updated the results reporting that after nearly 20 years of follow-up among men with localized prostate cancer: surgery, was not associated with significantly lower all-cause or prostate-cancer mortality than observation. However, there were serious deficiencies with the PIVOT study (238). Although the three Endpoints Committee members were blinded to randomized treatment assignments, reviewed medical records and death certificates when available to assign a cause of death using a primary and a secondary adjudication question, initial disagreements were resolved through discussion. Complete agreement on cause of death by all three committee members before any discussion was achieved in 200/354 (56%) cases on the primary and 209/354 (59%) cases on the secondary. Complete agreement on the primary cause rose to 306/354 (86%) when ‘definite’ and ‘probably’ categories were collapsed, as planned a priori. There was no separate ‘gold standard’ by which to judge the accuracy of the final endpoints committee adjudications, and useful death certificates could not be obtained on about a third of PIVOT participants who died. U.S. PIVOT – Radical Prostatectomy Versus Observation (237) Recruitment difficulties and patient compliance issues affected numbers so that only 731 of the proposed 2000 men could be recruited to the trial and hence this study is considered to be underpowered to detect a difference in overall survival (239) Serious lack of agreement on cause of death by Endpoint Committee Members: Useful death certificates could not be obtained for approximately one third of participants Differences between histological reporting at participating sites and by a central pathologist affected risk stratification and, consequently, secondary endpoint results A less predictive pre-2005 ISUP Consensus Gleason classification was used with ~25% of patients with Gleason scores of 7 or higher reported at the peripheral sites compared with 48% with Gleason scores 7 or higher by a central pathologist Consequently, the answer based on RCT evidence remains uncertain. Early Diagnosis And Treatment With Curative Intent: Avoiding The Late Clinical Problems Resulting From A Large Pelvic Tumor There is a paucity of high level evidence that early diagnosis of prostate cancer will prevent or minimize the problems resulting from a large pelvic tumor. Anecdotally, managing patients with disabling symptoms from advanced local prostate cancer constituted a considerable part of a urologist’s workload. Frequent visits to hospital for interventions together with burden of clinical symptoms
