Prostate Cancer Detection
KEYWORDS: prostate, cancer, prostate cancer, psa, men, biopsy, risk, screening, years, journal, patients, detection, antigen, study, clinical


who decide to be tested should be offered PSA testing every 2 years from age 40/ 45 to 69 with the starting age depending on the strength of their family history Digital rectal examination is not recommended in addition to PSA testing in the primary care setting The full guideline can be accessed at www.pcfa.org.au/psa-testing-guidelines or https://wiki.cancer.org.au/australia/Guidelines:PSA_Testing The approach that is considered to be optimal for achieving high quality patient decisions is shared decision making (242). Shared decision makingis defined as a process carried out between a patient and his health care professional where both parties share information and the patient understands the risks and benefits of each treatment option, participates in the decision to the extent that he desires and makes a decision consistent with his preferences and values, or defers the decision to another time(243). Shared decision making may not be easy to achieve for all patients (243). For example, although many patients with cancer indicate a preference for sharing decision making with their clinicians, some, in the case of prostate cancer between 8% to 58% of men, prefer a passive decision-making role where clinicians make treatment decisions on their behalf (244-245). However, clinicians still need to understand patients’ preferences to ensure that they are making quality decisions on behalf of their patients. As well, there is often a gap between the clinical ideal of shared decision making and actual clinical practice where decision complexity and time constraints may make this approach difficult for both parties to achieve (246-247). There are, however, defined strategies and decision aids that can facilitate this process (248). Supporting Patient Choice About Testing For Prostate Cancer Many groups advocate an informed decision-making process as an evidence-based approach and necessary precursor to screening for early prostate cancer (241,249). Others have suggested that informed decision-making on this health topic is also necessary as a medico-legal risk management strategy (250-251). While some researchers have suggested a set of information that needs to be communicated to men about this health decision (252-253), there are few explicit guidelines on this subject (254). Problematically, patients and clinicians do not agree on core content, including a basic explanation of a PSA test and the psychological effects of a positive PSA test result (255). It has been advised that, for any screening test, patients need to understand the purpose of the test, the likelihood of false-negatives and false-positives, the uncertainties and
