Prostate Cancer Detection
KEYWORDS: prostate, cancer, prostate cancer, psa, men, biopsy, risk, screening, years, journal, patients, detection, antigen, study, clinical


test result (255). It has been advised that, for any screening test, patients need to understand the purpose of the test, the likelihood of false-negatives and false-positives, the uncertainties and risks associated with testing, significant medical, social or financial implications of testing and any possible sequelae and follow up care plans (256) www.ipdas.ohri.ca . Such information needs to be communicated to patients in a logical and balanced sequence in order to promote better understanding and increased decisional control by men. One approach that has been proposed in primary care in Australia is the use of six decision steps (see Figure 18 ). Each decision step logically follows to prompt the clinician to overview important health information, with tailoring suggested in Step 1 to ensure the discussion is consistent with the patient’s concerns. For example, for a man with a significant family history of prostate cancer, this factor is likely to be central to the patient discussion (257). Men who experience uncomplicated LUTS often worry about prostate cancer, so addressing this concern first may be priority (258-259). In this regard, resources for patients that explain about male reproductive health problems such as urinary symptoms and sexual dysfunction are available at www.andrologyaustralia.org . As well, National Health and Medical Research Council guidelines are available about the management of LUTS http://www.health.gov.au/nhmrc/publications/synopses/cp42syn.htm Other overseas websites include: http://www.cancer.org http://www.cdc.gov/cancer/prostate/ http://www.macmillan.org.uk/Cancerinformation/Cancertypes/Prostate/Prostatecancer.aspx cancerscreening.nhs.uk/prostate/prostate-patient-info-sheet.pdf http://www.npc.nhs.uk/therapeutics/other/prostate/resources/pda_prostate_cancer.pdf Figure 18 Six Decision Steps From this point, checking to ensure the patient has a basic understanding of both the prostate and possible tests is needed and, given many men may be unaware of the location and function of the prostate gland, an anatomical diagram may be a useful teaching tool here. Next, a consideration of individual risk with regard to both the incidence and mortality of prostate cancer is needed. Communicating health risks effectively is a challenge in the provision of effective decision support. In general people find probabilities hard to understand, often estimate their level of risk incorrectly, and tend not to weigh up pros and cons in a systematic way when deciding about treatments (234,260-261). As well, population-based statistics provide data about populations, not individuals, so risk communication needs to acknowledge this as a limitation and, where possible, refer to age-based risk estimates and relevant individual factors such as family history) (262). There are a number of communication strategies that have been suggested to help patients understand risk. These include
