Prostate Cancer Detection
KEYWORDS: prostate, cancer, prostate cancer, psa, men, biopsy, risk, screening, years, journal, patients, detection, antigen, study, clinical


age-based risk estimates and relevant individual factors such as family history) (262). There are a number of communication strategies that have been suggested to help patients understand risk. These include using numbers as well as words to explain risk where possible providing the absolute risk or benefit using frequencies rather than single event probabilities using consistent denominators putting the risk into context by comparing it to other life events offering both the possible negative and positive outcomes to balance the message frame (263-265). However, a quality health decision goes beyond the simple transfer of information and includes consideration and incorporation of each patient’s values and personal preferences (266). Thus, Step 5 in Box 1 prompts the clinician to discuss each man’s individual preferences. A number of strategies can be used to do this, most commonly the use of a pros and cons exercise in which patients are encouraged to explicitly consider the factors that matter most to them personally in this decision, and the direction and leaning of their preferences either for or against each possible option. One approach to support this process for this health topic is the inclusion of a values table within a decision card (see Table 11 ). A decision aid that incorporates both the six decision steps and this values clarification exercise can be found on the Andrology Australia website at: http://www.prostate.org.au/articleLive/attachments/1/GP%20Show%20Card%20041007.pdf Table 11 What is most important to you? View in own window FOR: Is this like you? AGAINST: Is this like you? I’m concerned that I might get prostate cancer I think my chance of getting prostate cancer is low I want the best chance of finding it early, if I do get it I am not convinced about the effectiveness of testing I’m not interested in waiting for all the proof to be in I am more concerned about avoiding treatment side effects, if there’s no guarantee I’d be reducing my risk of dying from prostate cancer I want to do everything possible to reduce my risk of dying from prostate cancer Decision aids are also effective in supporting patients to make informed choices. With regards to PSA testing, patient-focused decision aids and decision counselling or support interventions have been found to be effective in increasing men’s knowledge about PSA testing and decreasing decision-related distress (254,267-270), with a variable effect on actual testing behavior. A range of aids is freely available from
