Transmyocardial laser revascularisation for refractory angina pectoris
KEYWORDS: patients, tmlr-treated patients, tmlr-treated, angina, treated, reported, medically, treated medically, myocardial, follow-up, tmlr, cabg, patients reported, rcts, difference


1 Guidance 1.1 Current evidence on transmyocardial laser revascularisation (TMLR) for refractory angina pectoris shows no efficacy, based on objective measurements of myocardial function and survival. Current evidence on safety suggests that the procedure may pose unacceptable risks. Therefore, this procedure should not be used. 2 The procedure 2.1 Indications and current treatments 2.1.1 Angina pectoris is chest discomfort, often described as pressure or pain, typically occurring on exertion. It is caused by inadequate delivery of oxygen to the heart muscle, usually because of coronary artery disease. Refractory angina is a severe angina form that cannot be controlled by normal medical or surgical treatment. 2.1.2 Angina treatment depends on symptoms, medical history and angiography findings. Treatments include anti-anginal medication and revascularisation interventions (percutaneous coronary intervention or coronary artery bypass surgery). For patients with refractory angina, these treatments have either failed or are not clinically suitable. 2.2 Outline of the procedure 2.2.1 Transmyocardial laser revascularisation (TMLR) for refractory angina pectoris is carried out with the patient under general anaesthesia. Ischaemic areas are selected for treatment using echocardiography or myocardial perfusion scan and coronary angiography before surgery. A left thoracotomy is performed and the pericardium opened. A laser device is then used to create a number of channels in the myocardium. Transoesophageal echocardiography confirms complete passage across the myocardial wall by the laser. 2.2.2 A number of different types of laser can be used for this procedure. 2.3 Efficacy Sections 2.3 and 2.4 describe efficacy and safety outcomes which were available in the published literature and which the Committee considered as part of the evidence about this procedure. 2.3.1 A meta-analysis of 10 randomised controlled trials (RCTs; total 1,359 patients) found no difference in 12-month mortality between TMLR-treated patients and controls treated either medically or with coronary artery bypass grafting (CABG; odds ratio [OR] 0.89; 95% confidence interval [CI] 0.5 to 1.8). Nor was there any difference in mortality when studies comparing TMLR plus CABG against CABG alone were excluded (OR 0.8; 95% CI 0.5 to 1.2). 2.3.2 An RCT of 100 patients treated either with TMLR or medically reported that myocardial contractility (assessed with stress echocardiography or single photon emission computed tomography [SPECT]; lower value indicating worse function) was significantly lower in TMLR-treated patients (1.49±0.44) than those treated medically (1.56±0.47) at 12-month follow-up (p<0.05). Six other RCTs found no significant difference in myocardial perfusion (examined with stress testing or perfusion scanning)
