PO Box 2345, Beijing 100023, China World J Gastroenterol 2006 July 21; 12(27): 4431-4434
KEYWORDS: transplantation, abdominal, right, mvtx, recipient, kidney, patient, liver, adrenal, intestinal, organs, multivisceral, including, donor, transplant


2004, when she was referred to our institution. Persistent intra-abdominal and transrectal bleeding due to intra-abdominal abscesses and portal hypertension required 8-10 units of packed red B blood cells (RBC) per week. Urgent reoperation revealed extensive intra-abdominal scaring in terms of a frozen Ao abdomen with complete obstruction of the abdominal cavity by the residual mesentery, extensive scaring of the retroperitoneum and an approximately 10 cm dehiscence K of the abdominal wall. Hematomas and abscesses were drained, the bleeding situation could be stabilized and a closure of the abdominal wall was performed. However, since a surgical separation, also of the upper abdominal organs, was not possible due to extensive scaring, the indication for en-bloc MVTx was confirmed. In the following months, the patient suffered from recurrent decompensations of liver and kidney function. Figure 1 Graft after perfusion and removal including liver stomach, duodenal- pancreatic complex, small intestine, ascending colon and right kidney (K). The After 5 mo, a blood group and body-weight matched, greater omentum (O) was preserved to protect the bowels in case of abdominal 13-year old donor was available, who died of brain death dehiscence. The spleen was removed at the back-table. The aorta (Ao) was four days after a car accident. During donor procedure, sutured below the offspring of the right renal artery and used as a neo-colic trunk. preparation was limited to the resection of colon transversum, while the omentum was preserved at the greater curvature of stomach. Later on it was harvested en A bloc together with the other grafts. Organs were perfused en bloc with 5 liters UW solution through the aorta, while small bowel perfusion was reduced after 1000 mL by occlusion of the superior mesenteric artery to avoid intestinal edema. The abdominal graft was harvested en bloc, including whole abdominal aorta and caval vein (CV) and all abdominal organs (Figure 1). In the back-table procedure the spleen was dissected and the left kidney was preserved for a different recipient. The aorta was sutured below the origin of the right renal artery in order to build a new celiac trunk as an offspring where all visceral arteries origin. B The recipient operation was started with a meticulous surgical dissection and exenteration of the abdominal cavity (Figure 2). The whole abdominal cavity and retro- peritoneum were filled with massive collaterals because of severe portal hypertension which also explained the daily parastomal bleeding episodes prior
