PO Box 2345, Beijing 100023, China World J Gastroenterol 2006 July 21; 12(27): 4431-4434
KEYWORDS: transplantation, abdominal, right, mvtx, recipient, kidney, patient, liver, adrenal, intestinal, organs, multivisceral, including, donor, transplant


abdominal cavity (Figure 2). The whole abdominal cavity and retro- peritoneum were filled with massive collaterals because of severe portal hypertension which also explained the daily parastomal bleeding episodes prior to MVTx. Although a CV veno-venous bypass was used between left femoral vein K Ao K and left axillar vein to reduce the venous blood flow in the abdomen, a total of 71 packed RBCs, 69 units of FFPs, and 5 units of platelet concentrates were transfused during the 11 h operation. MVTx included stomach, pancreatoduodenal complex, small bowel, ascending colon, liver, right kidney, the Figure 2 Recipient operation with a meticulous surgical dissection and adjacent right adrenal gland, and the greater omentum. exenteration of the abdominal cavity. A: Recipient’s steatotic liver and Following vascular anastomoses were performed: reminiscence of mesenterium and duodenal-pancreatic complex; B: During exenteration caval vein (CV) was resected and prepared for the orthotopic Venous reconstruction was accomplished by inserting placement of the multivisceral graft. The aorta (Ao) was preserved in full length the retrohepatic caval vein including the right renal vein and both kidneys (K) of the recipient were left in place. www.wjgnet.com Pascher A et al. Multivisceral graft plus kidney transplantation 4433 Figure 4 Situs after reperfusion. The right A B kidney (KTx) including the adrenal gland was grafted orthotopically. The greater omentum was used to cover the small bowel and the ascending colon (Co) to protect it against direct contact with the KTx alloplastic mesh. Co Figure 3 Venous and arterial reconstruction. A: Schematic demonstration of the multivisceral transplant. Venous reconstruction was accomplished by inserting the trough levels were adjusted to approximately 7-8 ng/mL 2 retrohepatic caval vein including the right renal vein (RV) into the recipient (CV) using standard end-to-end anastomosis of the suprahepatic inferior CV and of the mo after MVTx was accompanied by administration of 5 infrahepatic CV between the insertion of the right donor RV and recipient RV. B: mg prednisolone daily. She was doing well and recovered Arterial reconstruction was performed using the donor abdominal aorta with the completely 30 mo after transplantation. natural offsprings of the celiac trunk (CT), superior mesenteric artery (SMA), and right renal artery (RA) and inserting it as aneo-celiac trunk at the site of the original recipient celiac trunk. DISCUSSION MVTx with varying combinations of visceral organs has (RV) into the recipient (CV) using standard end-to- been performed increasingly along with the improvements end
