PO Box 2345, Beijing 100023, China World J Gastroenterol 2006 July 21; 12(27): 4431-4434
KEYWORDS: transplantation, abdominal, right, mvtx, recipient, kidney, patient, liver, adrenal, intestinal, organs, multivisceral, including, donor, transplant


the original recipient celiac trunk. DISCUSSION MVTx with varying combinations of visceral organs has (RV) into the recipient (CV) using standard end-to- been performed increasingly along with the improvements end anastomosis of the suprahepatic inferior CV and achieved in intestinal transplantation. Combined the infrahepatic CV between the insertion of the right MVTx and KTx has been mentioned before, but only donor RV and recipient RV. Arterial reconstruction was documented in two patients, of them one underwent performed as previously described using the donor MVTx without the liver. Because recipients of MVTx abdominal aorta with the natural offsprings of the celiac normally have an extensive history of abdominal surgeries, trunc (CT), superior mesenteric artery (SMA), and right abdominal exenteration and the transplant procedure itself renal artery (RA) and inserting it as neo-celiac trunk at are technically demanded. Secondary problems such as the site of the original recipient celiac trunk (Figures 3A injury to adrenal glands with the potential effect of adrenal and 3B). After a cold ischemia time of 436 min and warm gland insufficiency may arise. We have described here a ischemia time of 31 min, reperfusion of the grafts was patient with previous extensive abdominal surgeries after performed without any complications. Initial function fistulizing CD, subtotal colectomy, recurrent anastomotic of the organs was excellent including urine production leakages and prolonged intra-abdominal sepsis. Since of the transplanted kidney. Reestablishment of intestinal extensive intra-abdominal and retroperitoneal scaring in continuity was accomplished by end-to-side gastrostomy terms of a frozen abdomen and retroperitoneal sclerosis of the recipient cardia and donor fundus (Figure 3A), and were present and documented at an earlier point of time terminal colostomy of the ascending colon in the lower before transplantation during a massive intra-abdominal right quadrant. The right donor ureter was inserted into bleeding episode which required emergency surgery, the the right recipient ureter in a side-to-end fashion. The adrenal gland adjacent to the right kidney was included described procedure enabled us to place the transplanted into the graft. This cautionary measure was proved to kidney and adrenal gland in almost-orthotopic position just be important because neither of the adrenal glands was ventrally to the remnant right recipient kidney. Because of identifiable due to extensive scaring in the retroperitoneal the concomitant transplantation of the greater omentum, suprarenal regions and intraoperative bleeding. direct contact of the mesh with the transplanted intestine Regarding the vascular reanastomosis, two modifi- was avoided
