PO Box 2345, Beijing 100023, China World J Gastroenterol 2006 July 21; 12(27): 4431-4434
KEYWORDS: transplantation, abdominal, right, mvtx, recipient, kidney, patient, liver, adrenal, intestinal, organs, multivisceral, including, donor, transplant


retroperitoneal the concomitant transplantation of the greater omentum, suprarenal regions and intraoperative bleeding. direct contact of the mesh with the transplanted intestine Regarding the vascular reanastomosis, two modifi- was avoided (Figure 4). The abdomen could be closed cations of the originally described and frequently temporarily by an alloplastic mesh and approximated modified procedure for MVTx were used, representing completely within 7 d after transplantation. the most appropriate and elegant solution for this patient. Immunosuppression consisted of alemtuzumab The donor abdominal aorta including CT, SMA and (Campath 1H), tacrolimus and steroids. Early enteral right RA was inserted into the recipient aorta as a neo- immunonutrition was commenced on postoperative celiac trunk. Venous reconstruction was conducted in d 1. The patient was off TPN by postoperative wk 3. a way that allowed placing the right kidney and adrenal She experienced one episode of pneumonia caused gland in almost orthotopical position with the end-to-end by citrobacter and enterococcus species which was anastomosis between infrahepatic caval veins of the donor successfully treated. The patient was discharged 2.5 and recipient being located just between the right donor mo after MVTx, with excellent graft function of all and recipient RAs. The piggy back procedure was not used transplanted organs. During follow-up she experienced as we were worried about potential venous congestion of aspergillosis in the left sphenoidal sinus which was treated the grafted organs when draining into the infrahepatic CV by drainage and antifungal therapy. There were no further of the donor. complications and no rejection episodes. Tacrolimus Being aware of recent reports about abdominal wall www.wjgnet.com 4434 ISSN 1007-9327 CN 14-1219/ R World J Gastroenterol July 21, 2006 Volume 12 Number 27 transplantation for patients with dehiscent abdominal wall 3 Williams JW, Sankary HN, Foster PF, Loew JM, Goldman after repeat surgery, we considered this option in the GM. Splanchnic transplantation. An approach to the infant dependent on parenteral nutrition who develops irreversible described patient, too. However, we decided to keep the liver disease. JAMA 1989; 261: 1458-1462 greater omentum with the graft, thus preserving its natural 4 Margreiter R, Königsrainer A, Schmid T, Koller J, Kornberger role in protecting the bowels. Additionally, it induced rapid R, Oberhuber G, Furtwängler W. Successful multivisceral formation of granulation tissue covering the alloplastic transplantation. Transplant Proc 1992; 24: 1226-1227 mesh rapidly and leading to rapid reepithelialization of the 5 Intestinal Transplant Registry. Available from: URL: http:// www.intestinaltrans-plant.org/. Access:
