Helminths and Endocrinology
KEYWORDS: pubmed, helminth, type, diabetes, infections, infection, free, thyroid, pmc, free article, article, pmc free, article pubmed, helminth infections, type diabetes


INTRODUCTION The term helminth refers to parasitic worms which are broadly classified as flatworms (including Cestodes and Trematodes) and roundworms (nematodes) ( 1 ). These infections may be soil-transmitted and present as intestinal infections while others may invade different tissues such as blood vessels or other organs. These parasitic worms are endemic in several parts of the world, specifically in underdeveloped and parts of developing countries ( 1 ). It is estimated that approximately one-sixth of the world’s population is affected by helminth infections ( 2 ). Helminths employ complex mechanisms to evade host immunity. They induce malnutrition in the host while simultaneously ensuring an adequate supply of nutrients for their own growth and reproduction. Table 1. Classification of Helminths View in own window PHYLUM Affected Organ Examples Platyhelminths Intestine Cestodes -Taenia, Echinococcus Liver Trematodes- Schistosoma, Fasciola Nematodes Intestine Ascaris, Enterobius, Necator, Ancylostoma, Trichuris, Strongyloides Cutaneous Strongyloides Tissues Onchocerca, Loa, Wuchereria These immunological and metabolic interactions between helminth and the host may modulate the pathophysiology of several endocrine disorders including diabetes, thyroid disorders, and gonadal disorders apart from others. A discussion of each of these groups of disorders is presented below. DIABETES MELLITUS Diabetes mellitus is among the most common endocrine disorders with its rapidly growing prevalence earning it the designation of a pandemic. While type 1 diabetes mellitus is an autoimmune disease, type 2 diabetes is mediated by insulin resistance which is of multifactorial origin with genetics, environmental factors, and inflammation all playing their part. Among these factors, it has been noticed that areas with a high prevalence of soil-transmitted helminth infections have a relatively lower prevalence of diabetes ( 3 ). Although several other factors may also be operational in such areas, there are several proposed mechanisms by which helminth infections may influence diabetes and its pathogenesis. Type 2 Diabetes Mellitus Type 2 diabetes mellitus has been described as a chronic inflammatory disorder. Chronic inflammation in adipose tissues has been shown to be among the factors underlying this disease. The inflammatory process in adipose tissue involves infiltration by inflammatory cells such as lymphocytes, macrophages, and neutrophils. Eosinophils on the other hand appear to have an anti-inflammatory effect. Apart from infiltration, several phenotypic changes occur in these cells which tip the balance towards inflammation. These include the predominance of T helper type 1 (Th1) and T helper type 17 (Th17) instead of the T helper type 2 (Th2) and
