Helminths and Endocrinology
KEYWORDS: pubmed, helminth, type, diabetes, infections, infection, free, thyroid, pmc, free article, article, pmc free, article pubmed, helminth infections, type diabetes


tip the balance towards inflammation. These include the predominance of T helper type 1 (Th1) and T helper type 17 (Th17) instead of the T helper type 2 (Th2) and the regulatory T cells (Tregs). The Th1 and Th17 cells promote the macrophage activation into classically activated macrophages (CAM) which in turn secrete inflammatory markers such as tumor necrosis factor-alpha (TNF-α), interleukin 6 and 12(IL6, IL12). TNF-α has been shown to interfere with insulin signaling. On the other hand, Th2 and T reg cells secrete IL-3 and IL 4 which stimulate the formation of alternatively activated macrophages (AAM) which are anti-inflammatory and express IL-10. Adipokines such as leptin, lipocalin 2, retinol-binding protein (RBP4), resistin, angiopoietin-like protein 2 (ANGPTL2), IL-6, IL-1, CC-chemokine ligand 2 (CCL2), CXC-chemokine ligand 5 (CXCL5) are also pro-inflammatory while adiponectin may have anti-inflammatory actions. Helminth infections are associated with induction of type 2 immune response which involves increased activation of Th2 cells, eosinophilia, and production of IgE. The Th2 response in turn manifests as increased secretion of IL-4, IL-5, IL-9, IL-10, IL-13 which are anti-inflammatory. This also promotes the induction of anti-inflammatory AAMs. Similarly, helminth infections are associated with an increase in T reg cells which mediate a state of T cell hypo-responsiveness. These changes on one hand limit the damage to host tissues by uncontrolled inflammation in response to helminth antigens and on the other hand prevent the clearance of the helminth from the host. The T cell hypo-responsiveness to parasite antigens can spill over to other antigens as well and this phenomenon has been invoked to explain the reduced prevalence of certain allergic and autoimmune disorders in helminth infected populations. Therefore, it has been hypothesized that since the immunological changes associated with helminth infections are anti-inflammatory in nature, they can reduce chronic inflammation in adipose and other tissues, thereby mitigating insulin resistance and the resultant type 2 diabetes. The above hypothesis is supported by epidemiological data. In a study from China, previous schistosome infection was associated with a lower prevalence of obesity and metabolic syndrome as compared to those without such infection ( 4 ). Another study, which used ultrasonography to document chronic liver disease caused by schistosomiasis, found that metabolic syndrome prevalence was reduced to half of that seen in those without evidence of schistosomiasis ( 5 ). Serological evidence of chronic Strongyloides stercoralis infection was associated with a 61% lower risk of developing
