Helminths and Endocrinology
KEYWORDS: pubmed, helminth, type, diabetes, infections, infection, free, thyroid, pmc, free article, article, pmc free, article pubmed, helminth infections, type diabetes


to half of that seen in those without evidence of schistosomiasis ( 5 ). Serological evidence of chronic Strongyloides stercoralis infection was associated with a 61% lower risk of developing type 2 diabetes as compared to those who did not have this infection, despite adjustment for parameters such as age, BMI, and hypertension ( 6 ). In Indonesia, higher insulin sensitivity was demonstrated in patients who had infections with soil-transmitted helminths as evidenced by lower BMI and HOMA-IR levels ( 7 ). A randomized controlled trial to demonstrate the effect of ongoing helminth infection on insulin sensitivity has been conducted ( 8 ). This trial randomized households in an area endemic for helminth infection to receive albendazole or placebo over a period of time. In this trial, treatment of helminth infected subjects with albendazole lead to an increase in insulin resistance along with a reduction in IgE and eosinophil counts. However, at the community level, insulin resistance remained unchanged ( 9 ). While the mechanisms of the reduction in type 2 diabetes have not been concretely studied in humans, animal studies provide support for the role of immunomodulation. Infections with Schistosoma mansoni, Nippostrongylus brasiliensis, and Litomosoides sigmodontis have been shown to increase eosinophils and AAMs in mice with diet-induced obesity ( 10 – 12 ). These animals had improved insulin sensitivity and glucose tolerance - this effect was lost in eosinophil deficient mice. S. mansoni soluble egg antigen and egg-derived ὠ-1 antigens stimulate innate lymphoid type 2 cells which produce IL-5 and IL-13 cytokines necessary for sustaining eosinophils and AAMs ( 13 ). L. sigmodontis Ag-treated obese mice had greater numbers of CD4+Foxp3+ Tregs in white adipose tissues as compared to controls indicating the upregulation of these cells as a mechanism of reducing insulin resistance ( 12 ). Apart from these immunomodulatory mechanisms, the effect on body weight and gut microbiota are also potential mechanisms. The soluble egg antigen of S. japonicum, has been shown to reduce hepatic expression of microRNA 802 (miR802) which suppresses hepatic lipid production by upregulating the AMPK pathway. This has been proposed to be a future therapeutic target in obesity ( 14 ). However, the effect of helminth infection on insulin sensitivity has been shown to be independent of BMI in mice ( 10 ). This echoes the study on Australian aboriginals where the findings persisted despite adjusting for BMI ( 6 ). Similarly, data
