Helminths and Endocrinology
KEYWORDS: pubmed, helminth, type, diabetes, infections, infection, free, thyroid, pmc, free article, article, pmc free, article pubmed, helminth infections, type diabetes


to be independent of BMI in mice ( 10 ). This echoes the study on Australian aboriginals where the findings persisted despite adjusting for BMI ( 6 ). Similarly, data on gut microbiota changes is scanty and conflicting. A few studies show an increase in gut bacterial diversity after helminth infection ( 15 , 16 ). Other authors have not found any significant changes in gut microbiota ( 17 ). While the mechanisms require further elucidation in both animal as well as human studies, there seems to be sufficient evidence to support the role of helminth infections in modulating the pathophysiology of type 2 diabetes. Type 1 Diabetes Mellitus Regarding type 1 diabetes, the type 2 immune response and suppressive regulatory environment induced by helminths may induce a protective effect. The incidence of type 1 diabetes has been increasing rapidly in developed countries and these regions are relatively less affected by helminth infections ( 18 ). The hygiene hypothesis has been invoked to explain this phenomenon ( 19 ). There are very few human studies which directly look at helminth infection and amelioration of type 1 diabetes risk. Enterobiasis did not reduce risk of type 1 diabetes in a population based study ( 19 ). Several animal studies do support the protective role of helminth infection. Axenic Caenorhabditis elegans antigen can protect against type 1 diabetes in the non-obese diabetes (NOD) mouse model ( 20 ). Trehalose produced by some helminths can alter intestinal microbiota leading to induction of CD8+ T cells which protect against type 1 diabetes in mice models ( 21 ). The severity of type 1 diabetes in mice models is ameliorated by recombinant Schistosoma japonicum cystatin and fructose-1,6-bisphosphate aldolase ( 22 ). Interestingly, children with schistosomiasis appear to have islet cell antibodies and defects in insulin secretion when compared to non-infected siblings of children with insulin-dependent diabetes mellitus ( 23 ). Future studies may further shed light on this interesting topic. THYROID DISORDERS There appears to be a bidirectional relationship between the thyroid gland and helminth infections. On one hand, helminths appear to possess several proteins which are analogous to those involved in human thyroid physiology while on the other hand helminths can play a role in several thyroid diseases. Thyroid hormone receptors which were earlier thought to be found only in chordates have been found to be present in S. mansoni ( 24 ). Two
