Helminths and Endocrinology
KEYWORDS: pubmed, helminth, type, diabetes, infections, infection, free, thyroid, pmc, free article, article, pmc free, article pubmed, helminth infections, type diabetes


in several thyroid diseases. Thyroid hormone receptors which were earlier thought to be found only in chordates have been found to be present in S. mansoni ( 24 ). Two homologues of mammalian thyroid receptor (TR) has been isolated and characterized in S. mansoni ( 25 ), The thyroid hormone receptor beta from S. japonicum has also been characterized and evaluated as a vaccine candidate for this infection ( 26 ). Similarly, a nuclear hormone receptor has been identified in S. stercoralis which has some resemblance with steroid/thyroid hormone receptor found in humans ( 27 ). A transthyretin like protein has also been identified in Schistosoma dublin and Caenorhabditis elegans, although its function is unclear ( 28 ). Thyroid hormones may be essential for helminth growth and multiplication. In mice infected with Schistosoma mansoni, thyroid hormone therapy led to parasite multiplication and an increase in size whereas iodine deficient or thyroid hormone receptor knockout mice had lesser parasite numbers and smaller sized worms ( 29 ). Some novel insights into thyroid physiology have also come from studies in helminths. Studies on the nematode Caenorhabditis have helped elucidate the mechanisms behind toxic effects of excess iodine - the dual oxidase maturation factor (DOXA-1) being among the implicated factors ( 30 ). Similarly, helminth studies have shown that iodotyrosine deiodinase may also have a role in regulating potassium channels in muscles ( 31 ). Hypothyroidism and Thyroid Nodules With respect to thyroid disorders, hypothyroidism and thyroid nodules appear to have some associations with helminth infections. S. stercoralis has been associated with hypothyroidism in one case report ( 32 ). Fasciola gigantica infection in buffaloes has been shown to lead to lymphocytic thyroiditis and hypothyroidism ( 33 ). Hydatid cyst disease can mimic thyroid nodules and is often diagnosed by fine needle aspiration cytology ( 34 ). Cysticerosis may also present as a thyroid nodule ( 35 ). Similarly, microfilaria have also been found in fine needle aspirations from the thyroid ( 36 ). Schistosomiasis may interfere with technetium pertechnetate uptake in various tissues including the thyroid as demonstrated in mice- this may have implications for thyroid scan performed in infected humans ( 37 ). Hyperthyroidism Graves' disease, which is the most common cause of hyperthyroidism, may be affected by helminth infections. Considering that helminths affect host immune response and Graves' disease is an autoimmune process, such an association is not unexpected. Graves'
