Helminths and Endocrinology
KEYWORDS: pubmed, helminth, type, diabetes, infections, infection, free, thyroid, pmc, free article, article, pmc free, article pubmed, helminth infections, type diabetes


cause of hyperthyroidism, may be affected by helminth infections. Considering that helminths affect host immune response and Graves' disease is an autoimmune process, such an association is not unexpected. Graves' disease is characterized by autoantibodies to the TSH receptor which leads to gland enlargement, hyperthyroidism, as well as extrathyroidal manifestations such as orbitopathy and dermopathy. Animal models of Graves' disease have been developed which involve introduction of TSH receptor complementary DNA. It has been shown in such a mouse model that prior infection with S. mansoni may lead to a sustained Th2 type immune response towards the parasite egg antigens. This Th2 type immune response prevented the development of Graves' disease when mice were immunized with non-replicative recombinant adenovirus expressing the human TSHR. However, if given after disease onset, the Schistosoma infection could not cure the disease. Graves’ disease was once thought to be a Th2-type immune response, but recent studies have described a Th1-type as well as a Th2-type response suggesting that reversal of an activated immune response to the TSH receptor is not possible ( 38 ). Based on similar findings with other infections, a hygiene hypothesis for Graves disease has also been proposed ( 39 ). BONES AND CALCIUM METABOLISM There is limited information regarding calcium metabolism and bone health in helminth infections. Hydatid cyst disease involving the vertebrae has been described recently and pathological hip fracture has also been reported ( 40 , 41 ). However, this is likely to represent direct involvement of the bone rather than alterations in bone metabolism. Inflammatory arthritis is associated with secondary osteoporosis. The Th2 type immune response seen with helminth infections may attenuate inflammatory arthritis. N. brasiliensis was able to inhibit arthritis and bone loss in two experimental models of inflammatory arthritis ( 42 ). In vitro osteoclast differentiation has been shown to be inhibited by excretory/ secretory products from Heligmosomoides polygyrus bakeri, a murine helminth ( 43 ). C-terminal sequence of Fasciola helminth defense molecule-1 (C-FhHDM-1) has been shown to reduce RANKL secretion as well as prevents both the formation of osteoclasts and acidification of lysosomes in animal models [6]. These features may be beneficial in osteoporotic states. However, in a study on pregnant mice, Heligmosomoides bakeri infection in late pregnancy and lactation led to a decrease in maternal bone mineral density and was associated with an increase in levels of inflammatory cytokines (IL-1 beta and IL-6) (
