Helminths and Endocrinology
KEYWORDS: pubmed, helminth, type, diabetes, infections, infection, free, thyroid, pmc, free article, article, pmc free, article pubmed, helminth infections, type diabetes


in late pregnancy and lactation led to a decrease in maternal bone mineral density and was associated with an increase in levels of inflammatory cytokines (IL-1 beta and IL-6) ( 44 ). There may be several similarities between human and helminth physiology with respect to certain metabolic pathways. Homologues of osteonectin, also called SPARC [Secreted Protein Acidic and Rich in Cysteine]), have been found in C. elegans while S. mansoni has homologues of TGF-beta receptor ( 45 , 46 ). More recently, it has been found that bone morphogenetic protein signaling may be conserved between humans and helminths, especially C. elegans. Secreted Modular Calcium-binding protein-1 (SMOC-1) gene identified in Caenorhabditis elegans may promote BMP signaling leading to the growth of the helminth ( 47 , 48 ). While BMP pathway plays several roles in human physiology including bone growth, the implications of these discoveries in helminths are still unclear. ADRENALS Helminth infections in the adrenal with presentation as an adrenal mass have been reported in the literature. Paragonimus westermani has been reported in a patient who had a lung cavity and an adrenal mass ( 49 ). Echinococcus multilocularis can infrequently present as a right adrenal mass detected incidentally ( 50 ). Adrenal schistosomiasis has also been reported ( 51 ). F. gigantica can cause adrenal insufficiency in animals ( 33 ). Acute adrenal insufficiency accompanied by adrenal hemorrhage has also been reported with S. stercoralis ( 52 ). Activation of the hypothalamic-pituitary-adrenal axis leading to immunosuppression has been shown in mouse studies with Angiostrongylus cantonensis ( 53 ). While chronic immunosuppressive therapy can lead to hyperinfection with helminths like S. stercoralis ( 54 , 55 ), adrenalectomized mice appeared to have higher worm burden and worm fecundity rates when infected with S mansoni ( 56 ). Previous mouse studies have shown adrenal hypertrophy and higher cortisol levels in S. mansoni infection ( 57 ). In vitro treatment of S. mansoni with adrenal hormones suggests that DHEA has a toxic effect with cercariae being more susceptible than schistosomula and adults ( 58 ). GONADS The manifestations of helminth infections with respect to gonads include hypogonadism and infertility. Hypogonadism S. mansoni infection has been associated with low normal testosterone and elevated estrogen levels in males although hepatic dysfunction may also play a role in these abnormalities ( 59 ). Patients infected with Loa loa and Mansonella perstans filariasis are more likely
