Helminths and Endocrinology
KEYWORDS: pubmed, helminth, type, diabetes, infections, infection, free, thyroid, pmc, free article, article, pmc free, article pubmed, helminth infections, type diabetes


estrogen levels in males although hepatic dysfunction may also play a role in these abnormalities ( 59 ). Patients infected with Loa loa and Mansonella perstans filariasis are more likely to have low testosterone and elevated gonadotropins as compared to control subjects ( 60 ). Further research in this area revealed that an estradiol-related compound was present in schistosome worm extracts ( 61 ). Later, the same authors confirmed the presence of this estradiol-related compound by mass spectrometry and also demonstrated that this compound has an antagonistic activity on the estrogen receptor and leads to a reduced expression of the estrogen receptor ( 62 ). Schistosome eggs can also convert estrogens to catechol-estrogens which in turn can be metabolized to active quinones. These quinones can cause DNA modifications and are implicated in the pathogenesis of malignancies related to schistosomiasis ( 63 ). These hormonal changes explain the pathogenesis of hypogonadism in schistosomiasis. Infertility Schistosomiasis has been well recognized as a cause of infertility especially in females. Apart from hypogonadism caused by alterations in the estrogen axis, schistosomiasis can affect the genital tract leading to infertility. Genital involvement occurs in the form of granulomatous inflammation, fibrosis, and adhesion formation. The manifestations of this infection in females include tubal blockage, tubal pregnancy, tubal abortions, hemoperitoneum, preterm births, and miscarriages ( 64 ). Males can also have direct testicular inflammation along with, blockage of the genital ductal system and venous drainage leading to infarction. However, the involvement of male genital tract has been reported infrequently ( 65 ). Female infertility has also been reported with enterobiasis ( 66 ). Filarial involvement of male genitalia leading to hydrocele is well recognized ( 67 ). Male sterility can occur in such cases ( 68 ). Some insights into genetic hypogonadism may come from helminth studies. The gene responsible for Kallman syndrome, KAL-1, appears to have a functionally conserved homologue in C. elegans. This gene plays a role in morphogenesis by influencing migration of epidermal cells in C. elegans. This discovery has established C. elegans as a model for study of Kallman syndrome for which a mouse model has proved to be elusive [33]. GROWTH Children with helminth infections may have impaired growth- a phenomenon that can easily be attributed to malnutrition. However, helminth infections in adults are associated with significantly lower free IGF-1 which showed improvement after anti-helminth treatment( 69 ). IGF-BP3 levels remain unchanged.
