Chapter 40: Health Care Utilization and Costs of Diabetes
KEYWORDS: diabetes, age, years, visits, diagnosis, age years, care, people, health, home, national, hospital, error, codes, listed


40–1 CHAPTER 40 HEALTH CARE UTILIZATION AND COSTS OF DIABETES Laura N. McEwen, PhD, MPH, and William H. Herman, MD, MPH Dr. Laura N. McEwen is Epidemiologist in the Division of Metabolism, Endocrinology and Diabetes and Dr. William H. Herman is Professor in the Departments of Internal Medicine and Epidemiology at the University of Michigan, Ann Arbor, MI. Received in final form June 17, 2015. SUMMARY People with diabetes visit physician offices and emergency rooms more frequently than people without diabetes and are more likely to be admitted to the hospital and nursing homes and to receive home health care. In 2010, 29.9 million office-based physician visits had a primary diagnosis of diabetes, and 51.1 million office-based physician visits had diabetes as any listed diagnosis. In 2011, almost half of all people with diabetes in the United States had six or more office-based physician visits. Only 4% of people with diabetes did not have any office-based physician visits compared to 13% of people in the general U.S. population. People with diabetes were also more likely to visit the emergency room, with 30% having at least one visit compared to 20% of the general population. Fifty-three percent of people with diabetes had a dental visit in the past year, but 21% had not visited a dentist in more than 5 years. Ten percent of people with diabetes had phone contact with their physician’s office in the past 2 weeks, 5% used email to communicate with their physician, and 34% looked up health information on the internet. In 2010, 6.76 million hospitalizations listed diabetes as one of the discharge diagnoses; these accounted for 34.67 million hospital days. Diabetes was the primary discharge diagnosis for 622,000 hospitalizations. People with diabetes were 2.6 times more likely to be hospi­ talized in the past year than people without diabetes (21% vs. 8%). Having complications of diabetes was associated with hospitalization. Comorbid diabetic ketoacidosis, cardiovascular disease, and cardiac procedures were frequently present. Multiple hospitalizations were also common. In 2011, almost 30% of people with diabetes who were hospitalized had two or more hospitalizations. In 2004, 358,500 nursing home residents age ≥55 years had diagnosed diabetes. They accounted for approximately 25% of the nursing home population. Residents with diabetes are more likely to be younger and nonwhite than residents without diabetes. More than 85% have comorbid cardiovascular disease, 63% have mental disorders, and 90% have two or
