Chapter 40: Health Care Utilization and Costs of Diabetes
KEYWORDS: diabetes, age, years, visits, diagnosis, age years, care, people, health, home, national, hospital, error, codes, listed


with diabetes are more likely to be younger and nonwhite than residents without diabetes. More than 85% have comorbid cardiovascular disease, 63% have mental disorders, and 90% have two or more chronic conditions in addition to diabetes. Home health care agencies are an increasingly important source of long-term care, and 33% of people receiving home health care in 2007 had diabetes. The prevalence of diabetes is highest for home health care patients age 65–74 years. Home health care patients with diabetes are more likely to be middle-aged and nonwhite than patients without diabetes. More than 75% have comorbid cardio­ vascular disease, and 14% are receiving post-hospital aftercare. Seventy-two percent of home health care recipients have two or more chronic conditions in addition to diabetes, and limitations in activities of daily living are common. Because people with diabetes visit physician offices, hospital outpatient departments, and emergency rooms more frequently than people without diabetes and are more likely to be admitted to the hospital and nursing homes and to receive home health care, their medical costs are higher than for people without diabetes. Economic analyses performed by the American Diabetes Association in 2012 suggest that the excess economic costs attributable to diabetes in the United States were $245 billion, including $176 billion related to medical care for diabetes, its complications, and comorbidities and $69 billion related to time lost from work and usual activities due to illness, disability, and premature mortality. The costs of diabetes increased by approximately 200% from 2002 to 2012. While health care costs for inpatient and outpatient care attributable to diabetes have increased steadily over time, costs related to outpatient medi­ cations and supplies increased dramatically from 2007 to 2012. Americans with diabetes have direct medical costs 2.3 times higher than those without diabetes at an annual per capita excess cost of $7,888 attributable to their diabetes. AMBULATORY MEDICAL CARE FOR PEOPLE WITH DIABETES People with diabetes use health care services more frequently than people without diabetes. The higher rate of utili­ zation is related to diabetes management, as well as surveillance and treatment of diabetes-related microvascular, neuro­ pathic, and macrovascular complications and comorbidities. In this section, national survey data are used to describe rates of and trends in ambulatory medical care for people with diabetes and the charac­ teristics of people with diabetes who use ambulatory medical care. 40–2 DIABETES IN AMERICA, 3rd Edition NATIONAL SURVEYS AND
