Chapter 40: Health Care Utilization and Costs of Diabetes
KEYWORDS: diabetes, age, years, visits, diagnosis, age years, care, people, health, home, national, hospital, error, codes, listed


in ambulatory medical care for people with diabetes and the charac­ teristics of people with diabetes who use ambulatory medical care. 40–2 DIABETES IN AMERICA, 3rd Edition NATIONAL SURVEYS AND DATA SOURCES New analyses describing ambulatory care among people with diabetes were conducted for Diabetes in America, 3rd edition. The three major sources of data for these analyses were the National Health Interview Survey (NHIS), the National Ambulatory Medical Care Survey (NAMCS), and the Medical Expenditure Panel Survey (MEPS). Data were analyzed for adults age ≥18 years. This excludes not only the entire pediatric population, but also the increasing number of younger teens with diabetes. National Health Interview Survey The National Center for Health Statistics has sponsored the NHIS annually since 1957. It describes the health status of the civilian, noninstitutionalized population of the United States (1). Data are collected through a series of personal household interviews and include a core question­ naire and supplemental questions about current health topics. In the core ques­ tionnaire, each person is asked about the presence or absence of specific chronic conditions, including “Have you ever been told by a doctor or other health profes­ sional that you have diabetes or sugar diabetes?” and the frequency of medical contacts in the past year, including hospital- and non-hospital-based physi­ cian office visits, emergency room visits, and telephone contacts. From this, the frequency of contacts with the medical care system for people with diabetes is calculated. The questionnaire also asks about age at diagnosis of diabetes and treatment for diabetes. From this, people with probable type 1 diabetes are distin­ guished from people with probable type 2 diabetes. Type 1 diabetes is defined as age at onset <30 years and current use of insulin. All others are considered to have type 2 diabetes. In 2003, a supplemental questionnaire was administered to all individuals who self-reported physician-​ diagnosed diabetes. It included questions about whether the respondent had one physician he/she usually sees for diabetes, the frequency of contact with that person, and more details regarding the care received. Self-reported information, such as that provided by the NHIS, has limitations. Self-report of physician-diagnosed diabetes may be incorrect, although the accuracy of self-report has been shown to be very good (2,3). In addition, recall bias may impact the reporting of remote events. For this reason, the NHIS only asks about physician visits and hospital­ izations in the past 12
