Chapter 40: Health Care Utilization and Costs of Diabetes
KEYWORDS: diabetes, age, years, visits, diagnosis, age years, care, people, health, home, national, hospital, error, codes, listed


good (2,3). In addition, recall bias may impact the reporting of remote events. For this reason, the NHIS only asks about physician visits and hospital­ izations in the past 12 months. Finally, a proxy respondent (generally a spouse or other responsible household adult) may answer questions in the core question­ naire for sample persons who are not available at the time of the interview or are unable to answer for themselves (i.e., children, older adults, and those who are mentally incompetent). In 2010, 95.4% of people with diabetes responded for them­ selves, and 4.6% had proxy respondents. In general, proxy responses are consid­ ered to be of equal quality as non-proxy responses (4). When looking at data trends over time, it is also important to consider how data collection instruments have changed. In 1997, the National Center for Health Statistics redesigned the sampling frame of the NHIS. This impacted the percentage of people estimated to have diabetes and the comparability of some of the data before and after that date (5). National Ambulatory Medical Care Survey The National Center for Health Statistics has conducted the NAMCS annually since 1989. It provides a national prob­ ability sample of visits to non-federally employed, office-based physicians who are primarily engaged in direct patient care. Visits to specialists in anesthe­ siology, pathology, and radiology are excluded (6). The survey assesses patients’ demographic characteristics, vital signs, and up to three complaints, symptoms, or other reasons for the visit and the corresponding physicians’ diagnoses, diagnostic testing, health education, and the medication and non-medication treatments ordered. The NAMCS codes each physician visit according to the diagnosis most associ­ ated with the patient’s primary complaint (primary diagnosis). Two additional diagnoses (secondary diagnoses) can be coded corresponding to other reasons for the patient’s visit for a maximum of three diagnoses per visit. Medical data and drug coding are performed centrally with rigorous quality control procedures. Physicians’ diagnoses are coded according to the International Classification of Diseases, Ninth Revision, Clinical Modification (ICD-9-CM). Data are presented for people with diabetes (ICD-9-CM codes 250 [all], 357.2, 362.0, 366.41, 648.0, and 775.1) listed as the primary (first-listed) diagnosis or, sepa­ rately, as any listed diagnosis. Rates of outpatient visits for people with diabetes were calculated by dividing the number of outpatient visits with diabetes as the primary or any listed diagnosis (in 2010) by the estimated number of people with physician-diagnosed diabetes in
