Chapter 40: Health Care Utilization and Costs of Diabetes
KEYWORDS: diabetes, age, years, visits, diagnosis, age years, care, people, health, home, national, hospital, error, codes, listed


were calculated by dividing the number of outpatient visits with diabetes as the primary or any listed diagnosis (in 2010) by the estimated number of people with physician-diagnosed diabetes in the United States in 2010 as determined by the NHIS. Starting in 2005, check boxes were added to the NAMCS to record the presence of specific chronic medical conditions, including diabetes. People with diabetes can be identified in one of two ways. The first is to identify people with diabetes using the three physicians’ diagnoses. This method likely under­ estimates the true prevalence of diabetes in patients receiving ambulatory care because the diagnoses listed reflect the reason for the visit rather than the patient’s full range of medical condi­ tions. The second method is to identify people with diabetes as those with diabetes checked as a chronic medical condition. Unfortunately, there are no published studies validating information provided by the check box, and it is unclear whether a checked box reflects a physician diagnosis, patient self-report, or other less methodologically sound evidence. For analyses presented in this chapter, people with diabetes were defined using the first method. Even though this may miss some people with diabetes seeking care for what are likely to be nondiabetes-related medical issues, it is more likely to capture people with Health Care Utilization and Costs of Diabetes 40–3 physician-diagnosed diabetes who are seeking medical care for diabetes. It also makes these estimates comparable to those reported in earlier editions of Diabetes in America (7). Because NAMCS data are visit-based and not patient-based, they may overrepresent people who take insulin for their diabetes, since these individuals have more frequent ambulatory care visits than those who are not treated with insulin (7). Medical Expenditure Panel Survey The Agency for Healthcare Research and Quality, through the U.S. Department of Health and Human Services, has conducted the MEPS annually since 1996. There are two major components to the MEPS: the Household Component, which collects data from individual households and their medical providers, and the Insurance Component, which collects employer-based health insurance data from employers (8). The Household Component uses a sample of families and individuals drawn from a nationally representative subsample of households that participated in the prior year’s NHIS. Data are collected during a series of household interviews covering two full years and include demographic characteristics, health conditions, health status, use of medical services, charges and source of
