Chapter 40: Health Care Utilization and Costs of Diabetes
KEYWORDS: diabetes, age, years, visits, diagnosis, age years, care, people, health, home, national, hospital, error, codes, listed


1–5 vists and a higher percentage of people with ≥13 visits (Figure 40.13). A large number of the outpatient visits to physicians made by people with diabetes may be related to the treat­ ment of diabetes and its complications and comorbidities. The excess ambu­ latory care for people with diabetes relative to the general population can be estimated by comparing utilization data for people with diabetes to that of the total population after adjusting for age and sex (Figure 40.14). The percentage of people with no visits in the past year was more than three times lower in the population with diabetes compared to the general population (4% vs. 13%). Similarly, the percentage of people with 6–12 or ≥13 visits in the past year was substantially higher for people with diabetes compared to the general population (31% vs. 20% and 16% vs. 9%, respectively). These trends were the same for women and men. The MEPS 2012 showed similar trends when utilization data for people with diabetes were compared to that of the total popu­ lation after adjusting for age and sex (Figure 40.15). When respondents to the NHIS 2003 Diabetes Supplement were asked about the nature and frequency of their contacts with medical doctors, 84% indicated that they had one physician whom they saw for most of their diabetes care (Table 40.6). This finding was true for all age and sex groups. Hispanic and Mexican American people with diabetes, especially those in the younger age groups, were more likely to report not having a physician for diabetes care than non-Hispanic whites, non-Hispanic blacks, and non-Hispanic Asians. Among people who reported having a regular physician for diabetes care, the average individual reported seeing his or her physician about six times in the previous year. This was true for women of all ages and men age ≥45 years (Table 40.7). Men age <45 years reported fewer visits. Hispanics had the most frequent visits (10.5 visits in the past year), followed by non-Hispanic blacks (7.8 visits) and non-Hispanic Asians (7.9 visits), Mexican Americans (6.1 visits), and non-Hispanic whites (4.8 visits). People with type 2 diabetes who were taking insulin tended to have more frequent visits than those with type 2 diabetes who were not taking insulin or persons with type 1 diabetes. This observation may reflect the greater age and more frequent comorbidities among people with type 2 diabetes taking insulin. FIGURE 40.10.
