Chapter 40: Health Care Utilization and Costs of Diabetes
KEYWORDS: diabetes, age, years, visits, diagnosis, age years, care, people, health, home, national, hospital, error, codes, listed


be consistent with earlier surveys. Only a small percentage of NHDS discharges that list diabetes classify it as the primary diagnosis. The percentage of NHDS discharges with diabetes as any listed diagnosis that list diabetes as the primary diagnosis has declined over time for all age groups (11). Fifteen percent of such discharges listed diabetes as the primary diagnosis in 1990 (7), and 12% listed diabetes as the primary diagnosis in 2010. Ascertainment of race from the NHDS is problematic because a substantial percentage of discharges are missing racial classification and because the sampling technique does not allow for accurate estimation for some minority groups. In 2010, race was unknown for 14% of all hospital discharges in the NHDS. Medical Expenditure Panel Survey In addition to asking questions about ambulatory care, as described in the preceding section on ambulatory medical care for people with diabetes, the MEPS asks questions about hospitalization, including whether the respondent was hospitalized overnight in the past year, the frequency of hospitalization, and the number of nights spent in the hospital during each hospitalization. A limitation of using the MEPS data for hospital discharges for people with diabetes is the small sample size. When MEPS data are presented in this section, they should be interpreted as the yearly average for the time period 2008–2012. Health Care Utilization and Costs of Diabetes 40–27 HOSPITAL DISCHARGE DATA 2010 Hospital Discharge Data In 2010, approximately 622,000 hospi­ talizations in the United States recorded diabetes as the primary diagnosis on the hospital discharge record (2% of all hospitalizations in the United States), and 6.76 million hospitalizations recorded diabetes as any listed diagnosis (21% of all hospitalizations in the United States). Hospitalizations with a primary diagnosis of diabetes accounted for 2.84 million hospital days, and those with diabetes as any listed diagnosis accounted for 34.67 million hospital days. Approximately 73% of hospitalizations with diabetes as the primary diagnosis occurred in people age ≥45 years (Figure 40.24). For hospi­ talizations with diabetes as any listed diagnosis, the number of hospitalizations increased with age; approximately 90% were for people age ≥45 years. Diabetes was listed as the primary diag­ nosis for 2% of all hospitalizations in the United States. The hospital discharge rate with diabetes as the primary diagnosis (calculated as the number of discharges with diabetes listed as the primary diagnosis per 100 people with diabetes as determined from the NHIS) was
