Chapter 40: Health Care Utilization and Costs of Diabetes
KEYWORDS: diabetes, age, years, visits, diagnosis, age years, care, people, health, home, national, hospital, error, codes, listed


with diabetes as the primary diagnosis (calculated as the number of discharges with diabetes listed as the primary diagnosis per 100 people with diabetes as determined from the NHIS) was more than double for people age 18–44 years compared to people age 45–64 or ≥65 years (Figure 40.25). Younger women tended to have a higher rate of hospitalizations with the primary diagnosis of diabetes compared to younger men. Rates of hospitalization were similar for the two older age groups by sex (Figure 40.26). Diabetes was included as any listed diagnosis for 21% of all hospitalizations in the United States. The hospitalization rate for diabetes as any listed diagnosis increased with age and was more than double for persons age ≥65 years compared to the youngest age group (Figure 40.25). After stratifying by sex, the hospitalization rate for diabetes as any listed diagnosis increased with age for men. Women in the two younger age groups had similar rates, and both were approximately half the rate in the oldest age group (Figure 40.26). Figure 40.27 shows rates of hospitaliza­ tion with diabetes as the primary or any listed diagnosis by age and race/ethnicity. Rates of hospitalization with diabetes as the primary diagnosis were highest in non- Hispanic blacks. For diabetes as the primary diagnosis, non-Hispanic whites and non- Hispanic blacks in the youngest age group had the highest rates of hospi­ talization. These differences may in part be due to differences in the prevalence of type 1 diabetes among these racial/ ethnic groups. For diabetes as any listed diagnosis, non- Hispanic whites showed rates of hospitalization that increased with age. Non-Hispanic blacks and Hispanics both showed the highest rates of hospital­ ization in the ≥65 years age group. FIGURE 40.24. Number of Hospital Discharges With Diabetes as Primary or Any Listed Diagnosis Among Adults Age ≥18 Years, by Age, U.S., 2010 Primary diagnosis Any listed diagnosis* Diabetes is defined as International Classification of Diseases, Ninth Revision, Clinical Modification (ICD-9-CM) codes 250 (all), 357.2, 362.0, 366.41, 648.0, and 775.1. Error bars represent 95% confidence intervals. Confidence intervals were most likely underestimated because the National Hospital Discharge Survey sampling variables were not available, and consequently, it was not possible to take into account the complex sampling design. * Based on up to 15 diagnosis codes. SOURCE: National Hospital Discharge Survey 2010 FIGURE 40.25. Rate of Hospital Discharges With Diabetes as Primary or Any Listed
