Chapter 40: Health Care Utilization and Costs of Diabetes
KEYWORDS: diabetes, age, years, visits, diagnosis, age years, care, people, health, home, national, hospital, error, codes, listed


one may need to meet health or personal needs over a long period of time (13). Long-term care can be delivered as either medical care or assistance with the basic personal tasks of everyday life and can be provided in the home by family members or home health care organizations or in nursing home facilities. Nursing home facilities typically provide more intensive care for those whose needs cannot be met in the home environment. In this section, national survey data are used to describe the demographic characteristics, health status, and use of care among people with diabetes who reside in nursing home facili­ ties or receive home health care. NATIONAL SURVEYS AND DATA SOURCES New analyses were conducted to describe long-term care utilization among people with diabetes for Diabetes in America. The three major sources of data for analysis were the National Nursing Home Survey (NNHS), the National Home and Hospice Care Survey (NHHCS), and the MEPS. National Nursing Home Survey The NNHS was conducted by the National Center for Health Statistics in 1973–1974 and again in 1977, 1985, 1995, 1997, 1999, and 2004. It surveyed a nationally representative sample of U.S. nursing homes and their services, staff, and residents (14). Data were collected from nursing homes with at least three beds that were either certified by Medicare or Medicaid or had a state license to operate as a nursing home. The NNHS collected data on the providers of services and the recipients of care. For recipients of care, data were obtained from medical records and included demographic infor­ mation, health status, diagnoses at time of admission and at the time of interview, medication use, services received, and sources of payment. In 2004, the NNHS was redesigned to collect data on one admission diag­ nosis (with one or two corresponding ICD-9-CM codes) and up to 16 possible diagnoses at the time of interview (with one or two corresponding ICD-9-CM codes each). Previously, the NNHS collected data for six ICD-9 diagnosis codes at both the time of admission and time of interview. For the data presented in this section, all listed diagnosis codes at the time of admission and the time of interview were used. Data are reported for people with diabetes (ICD-9-CM codes 250, 357.2, 362.0, 366.41, 648.0, and 775.1) listed as any diagnosis at the time of admission or at the time of the interview. For some anal­ yses,
