Chapter 40: Health Care Utilization and Costs of Diabetes
KEYWORDS: diabetes, age, years, visits, diagnosis, age years, care, people, health, home, national, hospital, error, codes, listed


presented in this section, they should be interpreted as the yearly average for the time period 2008–2012. It is also important to note that the MEPS has a much broader scope than the NHHCS data. The MEPS includes three types of home health care providers, as specified above, whereas the NHHCS is much more selective, and eligible agencies had to be either certified by Medicare or Medicaid or licensed by a state to provide services. NURSING HOME CARE Nursing Home Environment In 2004, there were 16,100 licensed nursing home facilities in the United States with almost 1.5 million residents (16). There were, on average, 108 beds per nursing home with an occupancy rate of 86%. More than two-thirds (68%) of nursing homes were in metropolitan counties, and most (67%) were located in the Midwest and South. Sixty-two percent of nursing homes were owned by for-profit organizations, 31% were operated as voluntary nonprofit facilities, and 8% were owned by government and other entities. Certified nursing assistants represented the majority of staff employed in nursing homes. Other staff included registered nurses, licensed practical nurses, nurses’ aides, and orderlies. Nursing care was usually provided according to the orders of physicians who visited the facilities. Supervising physicians included private physicians from the community (86%), physicians from contracted physician group practices (30%), or directly employed staff physicians (20%) (16). Pharmacy services and medical director services were most often provided under formal contract with outside providers (84% and 84%, respec­ tively) (16). Other services commonly provided by outside sources included hospice, physical and occupational therapy, podiatry, dental, and diagnostic services. Demographic Characteristics of Nursing Home Residents According to the NNHS, 358,500 people with diabetes age ≥55 years resided in nursing homes in the United States in 2004. Table 40.30 shows the number of nursing home residents with diabetes by age and sex. Approximately 25% of nursing home residents had diabetes listed as any diagnosis at either the time of admission or the time of inter­ view. The percentage of nursing home residents with diabetes decreased with age. Nursing home residents age ≥85 years were approximately half as likely to have diabetes as those age 55–64 years. The prevalence of diabetes was slightly higher for men (29%) than women (24%). Women tended to have higher prevalence of diabetes in the younger age groups (55–74 years), and men tended to have a higher prevalence of diabetes in the
