Chapter 40: Health Care Utilization and Costs of Diabetes
KEYWORDS: diabetes, age, years, visits, diagnosis, age years, care, people, health, home, national, hospital, error, codes, listed


in a home setting. Home health care can vary from rehabilitation care after surgery for an otherwise healthy person to end-of-life care for a terminally ill person. Home health care agencies provide long-term care for an increasing number of people. For many, home health care provides an attractive alternative to nursing home admission. In 2007, there were 14,500 licensed home health and hospice care agencies in the United States, with most (75%) providing only home health care (17); approximately 15% provided only hospice care; and 10% provided both home health and hospice care. There were an average of 109 current home health care patients for agencies providing only home health care and an average of 178 current home health care patients for agencies providing both home health and hospice services. More than three-quarters (76%) of agencies providing home health care only and 58% of agen­ cies providing both home health care and hospice services were in metropolitan counties. Seventy-six percent of agencies that provided home health care only were owned by for-profit organizations. Only 26% of agencies providing both home health care and hospice services were proprietary. The majority of home health care agencies provided skilled nursing services (95%), physical therapy (79%), and assistance with activities of daily living (83%). Other services commonly provided included speech therapy, occupational therapy, medical social services, and homemaker services. Characteristics of Home Health Care Patients According to the NHHCS, 456,395 people with diabetes age ≥18 years received home health care in 2007. Nearly one-third of all home health care recip­ ients had diabetes. Table 40.38 shows the number and prevalence of diabetes in home health care recipients by age and sex. The prevalence of diabetes increased with age, reaching its highest prevalence (45%) in home health care recipients age 65–74 years. Thereafter, the prevalence of diabetes decreased in home health care recipients. The prevalence of diabetes was similar among men (35%) and women (32%) receiving home health care in all age groups (Figure 40.62). According to the MEPS, the yearly average number of people with diabetes age ≥18 years receiving home health care between 2008 and 2012 was over 2 million, and 30% of all home health care recipients had diabetes. Table 40.39 shows the number of people with diabetes and prevalence of diabetes in home health care recipients by age and sex. The data from the MEPS are similar to the NHHCS data.
