Chapter 40: Health Care Utilization and Costs of Diabetes
KEYWORDS: diabetes, age, years, visits, diagnosis, age years, care, people, health, home, national, hospital, error, codes, listed


cholesterol-lowering medications. NATIONAL SURVEYS AND DATA SOURCES In the past, a variety of methodologic approaches have been used to estimate the economic impact of diabetes (7). Since 1992, the ADA has used a prevalence-based approach to estimate the costs of diabetes, and since 2002, the methods and results have been comparable (18,19,20). The ADA uses national data to describe the prevalence of diagnosed diabetes, the health care utilization of those with diabetes, and the direct and indirect costs of those with diabetes to construct a cost of diabetes model. The method­ ology builds on the NHIS, the American Community Survey, the Behavioral Risk Factor Surveillance System, the MEPS, the OptumInsight de-identified Normative Health Information data­ base, the Medicare 5% sample Standard Analytical Files, the Nationwide Inpatient Sample, the NAMCS, the National Hospital Ambulatory Medical Care Survey, the NNHS, the NHHCS, and the Current Population Survey (20). Small sample sizes limit meaningful analyses for some categories of services, including over-the-counter medication use, optometry, and dental services. Intangible costs, such as pain and suffering and reduced quality of life, are omitted from the analyses. Lost productivity estimates are for people with diagnosed diabetes and do not include lost productivity of family members associated with caring for people with diabetes. DIRECT AND INDIRECT COSTS OF DIABETES Costs may be divided into direct costs associated with medical care and indirect costs associated with lost productivity due to morbidity and mortality. The direct medical costs of diabetes include the costs of diabetes treatment, the costs of treating the acute, microvascular, and neuropathic complications of diabetes, and the costs of treating diabetes-related comorbid conditions. Direct costs include expenditures associated with hospital and nursing home care, physician services, laboratory tests, prescription drugs, and medical supplies. To estimate the direct medical costs of comorbid conditions attributable to diabetes, resource use among people with diabetes in excess of the resource use that would be expected in the absence of diabetes is estimated. This estimate is then combined with estimates of the average medical cost per event to compute total medical costs attributable to diabetes. Indirect costs represent the value of work days missed due to health condi­ tions (absenteeism), reduced work productivity while working due to health conditions (presenteeism), reduced workforce participation due to disability, and productivity lost due to premature mortality. Indirect costs are estimated by adding the years of work lost due to absenteeism, presenteeism, chronic disability,
