Chapter 40: Health Care Utilization and Costs of Diabetes
KEYWORDS: diabetes, age, years, visits, diagnosis, age years, care, people, health, home, national, hospital, error, codes, listed


oral medications and non-insulin injectable diabetes agents, such as exenatide and pramlintide. † Includes, but is not limited to, eyewear, orthopedic items, hearing devices, prosthesis, bathroom aids, medical equipment, and disposable supplies. SOURCE: Reference 20, copyright © 2013 American Diabetes Association, reprinted with permission from the American Diabetes Association The highest annual per capita expendi­ ture for outpatient care was for office visits ($683 for physician office visits and $226 for hospital outpatient visits). This spending is two to three times the annual per capita expenditure for the next two categories: emergency depart­ ment ($299) and home health care ($200). This likely reflects the high rates of office visits necessary for the treat­ ment of diabetes and its complications. Ambulance services and podiatry had very low annual per capita expenditures (approximately $10 each). Per capita expenditures increased with age for physician office visits and home health. For emergency department visits, the highest per capita expenditures were for the youngest (<45 years) age group. For all other categories of outpatient care, the per capita expenditures were similar across age groups. Health Care Utilization and Costs of Diabetes 40–65 After hospital inpatient care, the next largest contributor to the excess annual per capita expenditure attributable to diabetes was for prescription medications. Average annual per capita expenditures for insulin and other antihyperglycemic medi­ cations were $276 and $544, respectively, and expenditures for diabetes supplies were $103. Average annual per capita expenditures attributable to diabetes for other prescription medications were $1,423. These represent expenditures for prescription medications (other than insulin and other antihyperglycemic medi­ cations) to treat the complications and comorbidities of diabetes. Average annual per capita expenditures for medications and supplies increased with age with the ≥65 years age group having almost three times higher annual per capita costs than the <45 years age group. The youngest age group (<45 years) had the highest average annual per capita expenditures for insulin, which is not unexpected as this age group has the highest proportion of people with type 1 diabetes. Table 40.55 shows the annual per capita expenditures for antihyperglycemic medications among adults with diabetes (among those taking insulin or non-insulin antihyperglycemic agents) age ≥18 years by age, sex, and race/ethnicity based on analyses of MEPS 2012 data. The annual per capita cost of insulin among those taking insulin was $2,358, and the annual per capita cost of non-insulin antihyper­ glycemic agents among those
