Chapter
KEYWORDS: tobacco, smoking, percent, countries, price, deaths, control, chaloupka, interventions, smokers, nrt, million, cigarette, jha, increase


Tobacco Addiction Prabhat Jha, Frank J. Chaloupka, James Moore, Vendhan Gajalakshmi, Prakash C. Gupta, Richard Peck, Samira Asma, and Witold Zatonski Cigarette smoking and other forms of tobacco use impose a ontheuniquelyaddictivepropertiesofnicotine.Areviewofthe tobaccouseisestimatedtokillabout5millionpeopleannually, tiationandinincreasingcessationfollows.Acost-effectiveness accounting for 1 in every 5 male deaths and 1 in 20 female analysis of these interventions is provided. Finally, thecon- deaths of those over age 30. On current smoking patterns, straintstoimplementingtobacco-controlpoliciesarediscussed. annual tobacco deaths will rise to 10 million by 2030.The 21st century is likely to see 1 billion tobacco deaths,most of them SMOKING TRENDS in low-income countries. In contrast, the 20th century saw 100million tobacco deaths,most ofthem in Western countries Tobacco use,in both smoked and nonsmoked forms,is com- and the former socialist economies. mon worldwide. This chapter focuses on smoked tobacco, Hundreds of millions of premature tobacco deaths could chiefly cigarettes and bidis (tobacco hand rolled in the leaf of be avoided if effective interventions were widely applied in another plant,temburi,which is popular in India and parts of low- and middle-income countries. Numerous studies from Southeast Asia),because smoked tobacco is more common— high-income countries and a growing number from low- and accounting for about 65 to 85 percent ofall tobacco produced middle-income countries provide robust evidence that tobacco worldwide —and causes more disease and more tax increases, timely dissemination of information about the diverse types ofdisease than does oral tobacco use. Prevalence workplaces, comprehensive bans on advertising and promo- tion,and increased access to cessation therapies are effective in A systematic review of139 studies on adult smoking prevalence reducing tobacco use and its consequences. Cessation by the (Jha and others 2002) found that more than 1.1 billion people 1.1billion current smokers is central to meaningful reductions worldwide smoke,with about 82 percent of smokers residing in tobacco deaths over the next five decades.New analyses pre- in low- and middle-income countries.Table 46.1 provides an sented here find that higher tobacco taxes could prevent 3 mil- update ofthese estimates for the population in 2000.Globally, lion tobacco deaths by 2030 among smokers alive today. male smoking far exceeds female smoking,with a smaller gen- Reduced uptake of smoking by children would yield benefits der difference in high-income countries.Smoking prevalence is chiefly after 2050.Price and non-price interventions are,for the highest in Europe and Central Asia, where 35 percent of all most part,highly cost-effective. adults are smokers. Thischapterbeginswithanoverviewofsmokingtrendsand While overall smoking prevalence continues to increase in tobacco’shealthconsequences,followedbyadiscussionof the many low- and middle-income
