Chapter
KEYWORDS: tobacco, smoking, percent, countries, price, deaths, control, chaloupka, interventions, smokers, nrt, million, cigarette, jha, increase


respectively for addiction, the prevailing view was that tobacco use was (Peto and others 2000; figure 46.3). These results have been largely a voluntary behavior or personal choice . supported by a recent multicenter study of men in four Since that time, clinicians, behavioral scientists, researchers, Europeancountries;formenwhoquitsmokingatage40,the andpublichealthexpertshaveincreasinglyrecognized manu- study found that the excess lung cancer risk avoided was factured tobacco products as some of the most addictive and 85percent,91percent,and80percentintheUnitedKingdom, deadly dependence-producing substances available. Although Germany, and Italy, respectively (Crispo and others 2004). numerous factors have been identified that can contribute to Smoking cessation is uncommon in most developing coun- thereinforcementofthesmokinghabit—forexample,thesyn- tries,butsomeevidenceexiststhat,amongChinesemen,quit- ergisticandindependenteffectsofothercompoundsintobacco tingalsoreducestherisksoftotalandvascularmortality(Lam smoke(suchastarandacetaldehyde)orthesensoryandenvi- andothers2002). ronmental stimuli associated with smoking (such as tobacco advertising)—little debate exists that nicotine is a significant contributortothedevelopmentandmaintenanceofthesmok- RATIONALE FOR GOVERNMENT INTERVENTION inghabit(MarkouandHenningfield2003).Inmostaspectsof dependence,nicotineisonparwithotherpowerfullyaddictive drugs, such as heroin and cocaine. Newer evidence has con- an economic rationale exists for government to intervene to vergedonthefollowingkeypoints. reduce tobacco use: • Consumers have inadequate information about the health Biological Aspects. Nicotine is a psychoactive drug that trig- consequences of tobacco use (Jha and others 2000;Warner gers a cascade ofneurobiological events in the reward areas of and others 1995).Specifically,the decision to initiate smok- the brain and throughout the body that can,in turn,act in con- ing is made primarily by youths,whose ability to make fully cert to reinforce tobacco use (Markou and Henningfield 2003). informed, appropriately forward-looking decisions is Even a short-term exposure to nicotine has been shown to questioned by society in many different contexts (minimum induce long-lasting changes of the excitatory input into the ages for drinking, driving, and voting, for instance). In brain’s reward system,which may be an important early step in industrial countries, about 80 percent of adult smokers the path to addiction (Laviolette and van der Kooy 2004). begin smoking before age 20. Even if children and young Notably,in some experimental models,if nicotine’s neurobio- adults have information on future risks, they tend to dis- logical effects are blocked pharmacologically, or if nicotine is count that future risk greatly. removed from cigarette smoke, smoking eventually ceases Tobacco Addiction | 873 . The overwhelming property of nicotine that smoking choices, the net economic costs of tobacco are pro- leads to its frequent use is the occurrence of nicotine with- foundly negative (Barnum 1994;Peck and others 2000).While drawal,for which cigarette smoke provides rapid relief.Though some of the methods for such costing have been disputed, each individual differs greatly
