Chapter
KEYWORDS: tobacco, smoking, percent, countries, price, deaths, control, chaloupka, interventions, smokers, nrt, million, cigarette, jha, increase


nicotine with- foundly negative (Barnum 1994;Peck and others 2000).While drawal,for which cigarette smoke provides rapid relief.Though some of the methods for such costing have been disputed, each individual differs greatly in his or her sensitivity to nico- newer economic evidence supports the idea that widespread tine dependence, evidence suggests that most adults are sus- hazards oftobacco use lead to major economic costs.Jamison, ceptible to the biological effects of nicotine and tobacco Sandbu, and Wang (2001) have outlined that male survival . explains income growth independent of changes in physical capital,education,fertility,economic openness,and technical Psychological Aspects. In addition to the unique neurobiolo- progress. Thus, if adult male survival in the former socialist gy of nicotine,the ready availability of tobacco influences the economies ofEurope had been that ofhigh-income countries, uptake of smoking as well as the development and mainte- annual growth rates over the past three decades would have nance ofdependence.With illicit drugs,legal and social barri- been about 1.4 percent rather than 1 percent,making 1990 per ers constantly test a user’s drive to consume the drug. In capita income about 12 percent higher,or an absolute value of contrast, a smoker is presented with nearly ubiquitous US$140 billion. The chief determinant of the mortality gap opportunities and frequent cues to both purchase and use between the former socialist economies and high-income tobacco because ofmass marketing and promotion oftobacco countries from 1960 to 1990 is smoking (Peto and others 1994; (Shiffman and West 2003). Young people, who are attracted Zatonski and Jha 2000). More recent economic studies that tomany risk behaviors,such as fast driving or binge drinking, have put a value on “statistical life”suggest that smoking cessa- people become safer drivers and moderate drinkers as adults (2003) find that in the United States,the value ofreduced mor- (Jha and others 2000;O’Malley,Bachman,and Johnston 1988). tality from all causes between 1970 and 1998 amounted to US$2.6 trillion per year, or half of gross domestic product Economics. The traditional economic formulation of costs (GDP) growth during the period.Fully US$1.1 trillion per year and benefits tends not to take into account the unique proper- arose from reduced heart disease, of which at least one-third ties of addiction (see Chaloupka,Tauras,and Grossman 2000 was from reduced smoking and saturated fat in diets (Cutler for a review).Newer models have begun to incorporate factors and Kadiyala 2003;see chapter15 for a fuller discussion on the such as lack of information, regret, and addiction itself. One
