Chapter
KEYWORDS: tobacco, smoking, percent, countries, price, deaths, control, chaloupka, interventions, smokers, nrt, million, cigarette, jha, increase


(Cutler for a review).Newer models have begun to incorporate factors and Kadiyala 2003;see chapter15 for a fuller discussion on the such as lack of information, regret, and addiction itself. One economic benefits ofdisease control). key innovation by Gruber and Koszegi (2001, 2002) permits smokers to be time inconsistent, meaning that, given prefer- INTERVENTIONS TO REDUCE DEMAND ences, smokers would make different decisions at different FOR TOBACCO points in time.This approach,now widely used within the new field of behavioral economics, admits conflict between what Numerous studies, mostly from high-income countries, have smokers would like for themselves today and what they would examined the effect of interventions aimed at reducing the like for themselves in the future. demand for tobacco products on smoking and other kinds of tobacco use. The small but growing number of studies from Implications for Control Programs. These newer economic low- and middle-income countries provide useful lessons models have several implications for control programs.First is about differences in the effect of these interventions between the need for much more aggressive tobacco taxation to deter these countries and high-income countries.The following is a the development of tobacco smoking. Estimates suggest that, review of the effect of price and non-price interventions in inthe United States, optimal taxation taking into account reducing demand for smoking,including a discussion of each smoking initiation and nicotine addiction would be at least intervention’s effect on initiation and cessation.A more com- US$1 higher per pack (Gruber 2003;Gruber and Koszegi 2002; plete study ofthe effectiveness ofvarious interventions is avail- Gruber and Mullainathan 2002). The second implication is able elsewhere (Jha and Chaloupka 2000b). that the usual assumption that higher taxes reduce the welfare Tobacco Taxation or satisfaction ofcontinuing smokers may not be true.Higher taxes enhance welfare by acting like an external control device Nearly all governments tax tobacco products.However,signifi- over the time-inconsistent preferences of smokers, which cant differences exist across countries in levels oftobacco taxa- would reduce the likelihood ofsmoking initiation. tion.Some of these taxes are specific or per unit taxes;others The third implication is that the overall economic benefits are expressed as a percentage of wholesale or retail prices (ad of tobacco control,taking into account addiction,are likely to valorem taxes). As illustrated in figure 46.4, taxes tend to be be substantially positive. Earlier cost-benefit analyses have absolutely higher and account for a greater share of the retail shown that if even modest costs are assigned to
