Chapter
KEYWORDS: tobacco, smoking, percent, countries, price, deaths, control, chaloupka, interventions, smokers, nrt, million, cigarette, jha, increase


tend to be be substantially positive. Earlier cost-benefit analyses have absolutely higher and account for a greater share of the retail shown that if even modest costs are assigned to uninformed price (two-thirds or more) in high-income countries. In 874 | Disease Control Priorities in Developing Countries | Prabhat Jha, Frank J. Chaloupka, James Moore, and others Average price or tax per pack (US$) Percentage of tax share to 13 percent shorter smoking duration or a 3.4 percent higher 3.5 80 probability ofcessation. Many recent studies from the United States have used 3.0 70 individual-level data to explore differences in the price elastic- 60 ity of cigarette demand by age,with a particular emphasis on 2.5 youth and young adults (Chaloupka,Hu,and others 2000;U.S. 2.0 DHHS 2000). Given that most smoking behavior becomes 40 firmly established during teenage years and young adulthood, 1.5 interventions that are effective in preventing smoking initiation and the transition to regular,addicted smoking will have sig- 1.0 nificant long-term public health benefits.Estimates from these 0.5 10 recent studies conclude that an inverse relationship exists between price elasticity and age,with estimates for youth price 0 0 High-income Upper-middle- Lower-middle- Low-income elasticity ofdemand up to three times those obtained for adults countries income income countries (Gruber 2003;Ross,Chaloupka,and Wakefield 2001).Several countries countries recent studies have begun to explore the differential effect of Average price Percentage cigarette prices on youth smoking uptake, concluding that Average tax of tax share higher cigarette prices are particularly effective in preventing young smokers from moving beyond experimentation into Source: Authors. regular, addicted smoking (Emery, White, and Pierce 2001; Figure 46.4 Average Cigarette Price, Tax, and Percentage of Tax Ross,Chaloupka,and Wakefield 2001). Share per Pack, by Income Group, 1996 In the United Kingdom and the United States,increases in the price of cigarettes have had the greatest effect on smoking low- and middle-income countries, taxes are generally much among the lowest-income and least educated populations lowerandaccountforlessthanhalf of thefinalpriceof ciga- (CDC 1994; Townsend, Roderick, and Cooper 1998). rettes.IntheUnitedStates,federalandstateexcisetaxesoncig- Furthermore,it was estimated that smokers in U.S.households arettes were one-third lower,in real terms,in 1995 than their below median income level are four times more responsive to peaklevelofthemid1960s.However,taxesrosesharplyoverthe price increases than smokers in households above median nexteightyearsandstoodatUS$1.12perpackasof2002. income level. In general, estimates of price elasticity for low- Well over 100 studies from high-income countries clearly and middle-income countries are about double those esti- demonstrate that increases in taxes on cigarettes and other
