Chapter
KEYWORDS: tobacco, smoking, percent, countries, price, deaths, control, chaloupka, interventions, smokers, nrt, million, cigarette, jha, increase


cases rettes provide more direct evidence on the effect ofadvertising funded by earmarked tobacco taxes,have generated reductions these products . One study using data from in cigarette smoking and other tobacco use (Kenkel and Chen 22 high-income countries for the period 1970 through 1992 2000; Saffer 2000). Decreases in smoking prevalence were provides strong evidence that comprehensive bans on cigarette largest in Western countries,where the public is constantly and advertising and promotion led to significant reductions in cig- consistently reminded of the dangers of smoking by extensive arette smoking. The study predicts that a comprehensive set coverage of issues related to tobacco in the news media of tobacco advertising bans in high-income countries could (Molarius and others 2001). reduce tobacco consumption by more than 6 percent, taking In many low- and middle-income countries,a lack ofaware- into account price and non-price control interventions (Saffer ness continues to exist about the risks ofmortality and disease and Chaloupka 2000).However,the study concludes that par- posed by smoking.For example,a national survey in China in tial bans have little effect on smoking behavior,given that the 1996 found that 61 percent of smokers thought that tobacco tobacco industry can shift its resources from banned media to did them “little or no harm”(Chinese Academy of Preventive other media that are not banned. Medicine 1997).In high-income countries,smokers are aware ofthe risks,but a recent review ofpsychological studies found Smoking Cessation Treatments that few smokers judge the size ofthese risks to be higher and imize the personal relevance ofthese risks . heavily on smoking cessation.Numerous behavioral smoking cessation treatments are available,including self-help manuals, Bans on Advertising and Promotion moted products in the world. In 2002, cigarette companies pharmacological treatments, including nicotine replacement 876 | Disease Control Priorities in Developing Countries | Prabhat Jha, Frank J. Chaloupka, James Moore, and others therapies (NRT) and bupropion, have become much more ment of antismuggling laws, and stronger penalties for those widely available in recent years in high-income countries caught violating these laws (Joossens and others 2000).Recent through deregulation ofsome NRT from prescription to over- analysis suggests that, even in the presence of smuggling, the-counter status (Novotny and others 2000; U.S. DHHS tax increases will reduce consumption and increase revenue 2000). The evidence is strong and consistent that pharmaco- (Merriman,Yurekli,and Chaloupka 2000). logical treatments significantly improve the likelihood ofquit- In contrast to the effectiveness of demand-side interven- ting,with success rates two to three times those
