Chapter
KEYWORDS: tobacco, smoking, percent, countries, price, deaths, control, chaloupka, interventions, smokers, nrt, million, cigarette, jha, increase


and consistent that pharmaco- (Merriman,Yurekli,and Chaloupka 2000). logical treatments significantly improve the likelihood ofquit- In contrast to the effectiveness of demand-side interven- ting,with success rates two to three times those when pharma- tions,there is much less evidence that interventions aimed at ceutical treatments are not used (Novotny and others 2000; reducing the supply of tobacco products are as effective in Raw,McNeill,and West 1999;U.S.DHHS 2000).The effective- reducing cigarette smoking (Jha and Chaloupka 1999,2000a). ness of all commercially available NRT seems to be largely The U.S.experience provides mixed evidence about the effec- independent of the duration of therapy, the setting in which tiveness oflimiting youth access to tobacco products in reduc- the therapy is provided, regulatory status (over-the-counter ing youth tobacco use (U.S.DHHS 2000;Woolery,Asma,and versus prescribed therapy),and the type ofprovider (Novotny Sharp 2000). In addition, the effective implementation and others 2000). Over-the-counter NRT without physician and enforcement of these policies may require infrastructure oversight have been used in many countries for a number of and resources that do not exist in many low- and middle- years with good success. income countries. A preliminary discussion is occurring in Although NRT are successful in treating nicotine addic- Canada about reducing its number ofretail outlets for tobacco tion, the markets for NRT and other pharmacological thera- from the current 65,000.Neither the effect ofsuch a move nor pies are more highly regulated and less affordable than are its enforcement costs are well known. Crop substitution and nicotine-containing tobacco products. Recent evidence indi- diversification programs are often proposed as a means of catesthatthedemandforNRTisrelatedtoeconomicfactors, reducing the supply of tobacco.However,little evidence exists including price (Tauras and Chaloupka 2003). Policies that that such programs would significantly reduce the supply of decrease the cost of NRT and increase availability—such as tobacco,given that the incentives for growing tobacco tend to subsidizingNRTforuninsuredorunderinsuredindividuals— prohibition oftobacco production is not likely to be politically would likely lead to substantial increases in the use of these feasible, effective, or economically optimal. Finally, although products.Giventhedemonstratedefficacyof NRTintreating trade liberalization has contributed to increases in tobacco use smoking,thesepoliciescouldgeneratesignificantincreasesin (particularly in low- and middle-income countries), restric- smoking cessation. tions on trade in tobacco and tobacco products that violate international trade agreements or draw retaliatory measures (or both) may be more harmful (Taylor and others 2000). INTERVENTIONS TO REDUCE THE SUPPLY OF TOBACCO EFFECTIVENESS AND COST-EFFECTIVENESS The key intervention on the supply side is the control ofsmug- OF TOBACCO-CONTROL INTERVENTIONS gling.Recent estimates
