Chapter
KEYWORDS: tobacco, smoking, percent, countries, price, deaths, control, chaloupka, interventions, smokers, nrt, million, cigarette, jha, increase


US$150 (data not other non-price interventions).A number ofstudies have com- shown). pared the effect of price and non-price interventions; few For a given set of assumptions, the variation in the cost- empirical attempts have been made to assess how these inter- effectiveness of each intervention between low- and middle- ventions might interact. Although price increases have been incomeregionsisrelativelysmallandsensitivetothediscount found in this analysis to be the most cost-effective antismoking rate (data not shown).All three interventions are most cost- intervention, policy makers should use both price and non- effectiveinSouthAsiaandSub-SaharanAfrica.Thedifference price interventions to counter smoking. Non-price measures betweenlow-andmiddle-incomecountriesandhigh-income may be required to affect the most heavily dependent smokers, countries is more pronounced.For NRT,the cost per year of for whom medical and social support in stopping willbe nec- healthylifegainedis3to10timeshigherinhigh-incomecoun- essary.Furthermore,these non-price measures may be effective tries than elsewhere. For non-price interventions other than in increasing social acceptance and support of tobacco price NRT,thecostinhigh-incomecountriesis22timeshigher,and increases. for price increases, almost 42 times higher. Of note, the esti- matesofcost-effectivenessaregivenaswideranges,whichreflect Cost-Effectiveness ofAntismoking Interventions. In general, therangeofassumptionsused. price increases are found to be the most cost-effective anti- For price increases, the high-end estimates are roughly 25 smoking intervention. A 33 percent price increase (our base times the low-end estimates, and this difference is consistent case scenario)could be achieved for a cost ofUS$13 to US$195 among the regions.For NRT,the high-end estimates are 2.5 to per DALY saved globally, or US$3 to US$42 in low-income 10 times the low-end estimates,varying among the regions.For countries and US$85 to US$1,773 in high-income countries. non-price interventions other than NRT, the high-end esti- Wider access to NRT could be achieved for between US$75 and mates are 20 times the low-end estimates,and this difference is US$1,250 per DALY saved,depending on which assumptions consistent among the regions. are used. Non-price interventions other than NRT could be The cost-effectiveness results can be compared against exist- implemented for between US$233 and US$2,916 per DALY ing studies only for high-income countries because of a lack saved (table 46.5). Thus, NRT and other non-price measures of studies situated elsewhere.Our estimates of deaths avoided are slightly less cost-effective than price increases but remain for a 10 percent price increase are conservative compared with cost-effective in many settings.The cost-effectiveness ofNRT is those ofMoore (1996) and Warner (1986). Table 46.5 Range of Cost-Effectiveness Values for Price Increase, NRT, and Non-price Interventions, 2000 (2002 U.S. dollars per DALY saved) NRT with Non-price interventions 33 percent
