Chapter
KEYWORDS: tobacco, smoking, percent, countries, price, deaths, control, chaloupka, interventions, smokers, nrt, million, cigarette, jha, increase


881 CONSTRAINTS TO EFFECTIVE or “dead-weight losses” from earmarking tobacco taxes are TOBACCO-CONTROL POLICIES minimal(Hu,Xu,andKeeler1998).Furthermore,earmarking tobaccotaxescanbejustifiedif governmentsusethefundsto Although substantial evidence exists concerning the effective- benefitthosewhopay(thebenefitsprinciple),provideassured ness of numerous policy interventions to reduce tobacco use, fundingfortobacco-controlpoliciesandprograms,andsecure the use of these interventions globally is uneven and limited public support for new or higher tobacco taxes. Earmarked (see a more formal analysis in Chaloupka and others 2001). taxesalsohaveapoliticalfunctioninthattheyhelpconcentrate World Bank data reveal that ample room exists to increase politicalwinnersof tobaccocontrolandthusinfluencepolicy. tobacco taxes. In 1995, the average percentage of all govern- Earmarkedfundsthatsupportbroadhealthandsocialservices ment revenue derived from tobacco tax was 0.63 percent. (suchasotherdiseaseprograms)broadenthepoliticalandcivil Middle-income countries averaged 0.51 percent of govern- society support base for tobacco control. In Australia, broad ment revenue from tobacco taxes,while lower-income coun- politicalsupportfromtheMinistriesof SportsandEducation tries averaged only 0.42 percent.An increase in cigarette taxes helped convince the Ministry of Finance that raising tobacco of 10percent globally would raise cigarette tax revenues by taxeswaspossible.Indeed,afteranearmarkedtaxwaspassed, nearly 7 percent, with relatively larger increases in revenues theMinistryofFinancewentontoraisetobaccotaxesfurther inhigh-income countries and smaller increases in revenues in without earmarking . Additionally, targeting been underused.Guindon,Tobin,and Yach (2002) studied 80 gains—reduced tobacco consumption combined with purchasing power,fell in most developing countries from 1990 10percentincreaseincigarettetaxeswoulddecreaseconsump- to 2000. tion by 5 percent and would increase government revenue by Why does so much variation exist in tobacco-control 5 percent. The increased earnings could finance a package of policies? The political economy of tobacco control has been essential health services for one-third of China’s poorest inadequately studied.A few plausible areas ofinterest are out- 100millioncitizensin1990(SaxenianandMcGreevey1996). hazard appears to be the impetus for most of the tobacco- come some of these constraints is the Framework Convention control policies in many high-income countries. Some evi- on Tobacco Control (FCTC). The World Health Assembly dence shows that improved national capacity and local needs ofthe World Health Organization adopted the FCTC in assessment could increase the likelihood that tobacco-control May2003.It consists ofa series ofnegotiated protocols within measures will be adopted.For example,econometric analyses a general framework.The first three protocols are negotiations inSouthAfricagearedtolocalpolicyrequirementssubstantially covering smuggling, advertising, and treatment of tobacco increased the willingness of the government to implement addiction.Countries agreeing to the negotiated protocols are to tobacco-control policies (Abedian and others 1998). Second, adopt appropriate legislation and,if necessary,implement the tobacco-control budgets are only a fraction ofwhat is required. appropriate measures.As ofFebruary 2005,168 countries had Funding is needed not so much to implement programs as to signed the FCTC,57 had ratified it,and
