Chapter
KEYWORDS: tobacco, smoking, percent, countries, price, deaths, control, chaloupka, interventions, smokers, nrt, million, cigarette, jha, increase


are only a fraction ofwhat is required. appropriate measures.As ofFebruary 2005,168 countries had Funding is needed not so much to implement programs as to signed the FCTC,57 had ratified it,and it had come into force fight offtobacco industry tactics and to build popular support on February 27,2005. for control. Third, the most obvious constraint to tobacco control is political opposition, which is difficult to quantify. Opposition from the tobacco industry is well organized and CONCLUSION well funded . Akeytoolforaddressingpoliticaloppositionisearmarking Worldwide,onlytwolargeandgrowingcausesof deathexist. tobaccotaxes.Earmarkinghasbeensuccessfullyusedinseveral OneisHIV-1infection,and the otheristobacco.Oncurrent countries, including Australia, Finland, Nepal, and Thailand. consumption patterns, about 1 billion people in the 21st Of the 48 countries currently in the World Health century will be killed by their addiction to tobacco. Strong Organization’sEuropeanregion,12earmarktaxesfortobacco evidence shows that tobacco tax increases,the dissemination allocation is less than 1 percent of total tax revenue (WHO on smoking in public places and workplaces, comprehensive 2002).Earmarkingdoesintroduceclearrestrictionsandineffi- bans on advertising and promotion, and increased access to ciencies on public finance, and for this reason alone most cessationtherapiesareeffectivebothinreducingtobaccouse worthythecause.However,analysissuggeststhattheefficiency evidence, these policies, especially higher taxes, have been 882 | Disease Control Priorities in Developing Countries | Prabhat Jha, Frank J. Chaloupka, James Moore, and others appliedaggressivelyonlyin a fewhigh-incomecountries,cov- Ezzati, M., and A. D. Lopez. 2003. “Estimates of Global Mortality ering a small proportion of the world’s smokers. Limited Attributable to Smoking in 2000.”Lancet362 (9387):847–52. Farrelly,M.C.,T.F.Pechacek,and F.J.Chaloupka.2003.“The Impact of implementation of effective tobacco control in developing Tobacco Control Program Expenditures on Aggregate Cigarette Sales: countries is due to political constraints as well as the lack of 1981–2000.”Journal ofHealth Economics22 (5):843–59. awareness of the unique effectiveness and cost-effectiveness Gajalakshmi, C. K., P. Jha, K. Ranson, and S. Nguyen. 2000. “Global oftheseinterventions. Patterns ofSmoking and Smoking-Attributable Mortality.”In Tobacco Control in Developing Countries,ed.P.Jha and F.J.Chaloupka.Oxford, U.K.:Oxford University Press. ACKNOWLEDGMENTS Gajalakshmi,V.,R.Peto,T.S.Kanaka,and P.Jha.2003.“Smoking and Mortality from Tuberculosis and Other Diseases in India: Retrospective Study of 43,000 Adult Male Deaths and 35,000 We thank Allison Gilbert for help with the cost-effectiveness Controls.”Lancet362 (9883):507–15. analyses and Helen Gelband, Andra Ghent, and Dhirendra Sinha for comments. Out?”Australia and New Zealand Journal ofPublic Health21 (4 Spec. No.):429–30. Gruber,J.2003.“Government Policy toward Smoking:A New View from REFERENCES Economics.”Disease Control Priorities Project Working Paper Series. Paper presented at the Disease Control Priorities Project Nicotine Abedian, I., R. van der Merwe, N. Wilkins, and P. Jha, eds. 1998. The Addiction Workshop,Mumbai,India,September 2003. Economics of Tobacco Control: Towards an Optimal Policy Mix.Cape Gruber, J., and
