Osteogenesis Imperfecta
KEYWORDS: type, bone, pubmed, imperfecta, osteogenesis imperfecta, osteogenesis, collagen, mutations, types, free, article, article pubmed, free article, pmc free, pmc


III, IV and VI without accumulating in the bone matrix. Disturbance of calcium homeostasis is a clinically significant side effect. Anabolic therapy with growth hormone to ameliorate short stature in OI is successful for type I and about half of type IV OI children; responders also have improved bone histology, increased bone density and fewer fractures. Two antibody-based drugs with anabolic action on bone: anti-sclerostin, a negative regulator of bone formation in the Wnt pathway, and anti-TGF-β, a coordinator of bone remodeling produced by osteoblasts, have shown promising efficacy in early phase clinical trials and animal studies, respectively. Overall, a multidisciplinary approach to management of this set of disorders is most beneficial, with care centered on maximizing patient quality of life. For complete coverage of all related areas of Endocrinology, please visit our on-line FREE web-text, WWW.ENDOTEXT.ORG . INTRODUCTION Osteogenesis imperfecta (OI), also known as Brittle Bone Disease, is a clinically and genetically heterogeneous group of heritable disorders of connective tissue. The hallmark feature of OI is bone fragility, with a tendency to fracture from minimal trauma or from the work of bearing weight against gravity. In the more severe forms of the disorder, the bones are deformed as well as fragile. Most individuals with OI have significant physical disabilities. Affected persons also exhibit an array of associated features, including short stature, macrocephaly, blue sclerae, dentinogenesis imperfecta, hearing loss and neurological and pulmonary complications. Autosomal dominant OI types occur at comparable frequency in different genders, races, and ethnic groups. Various recessive OI types occur at higher frequency in populations in which founder mutations have been identified: type VII ( CRTAP; First Nations in Ontario, Canada) type VIII ( P3H1; West Africa), type XI ( FKBP10; Turkey), Type XIV ( TMEM38B; Bedouins), Type XV ( WNT1; Hmong group in Vietnam and China). Historically, osteogenesis imperfecta has been viewed as an autosomal dominant disorder of type I collagen, the major protein component in the extracellular matrix of bone. In the past decade, the OI paradigm has undergone a major shift with the identification of autosomal recessive forms. The etiology of recessive OI types involves molecules that modify or interact with collagen post-translationally or are involved in osteoblast differentiation. These include proteins involved in bone mineralization, BRIL and PEDF; proteins involved in collagen modification and processing, CRTAP, P3H1 and CyPB (three components of the endoplasmic reticulum-resident collagen prolyl 3-hydroxylation complex), the chaperone HSP47,
