Osteogenesis Imperfecta
KEYWORDS: type, bone, pubmed, imperfecta, osteogenesis imperfecta, osteogenesis, collagen, mutations, types, free, article, article pubmed, free article, pmc free, pmc


in bone mineralization, BRIL and PEDF; proteins involved in collagen modification and processing, CRTAP, P3H1 and CyPB (three components of the endoplasmic reticulum-resident collagen prolyl 3-hydroxylation complex), the chaperone HSP47, the foldase FKBP65, and the processing enzyme BMP-1; proteins involved in osteoblast differentiation SP7, WNT1 and Oasis (transcription factors), TRIC-B (a cation channel), the chaperone SPARC and the intramembrane regulatory protease S2P. OI, regardless of etiology, requires clinical management and genetic analysis. The incidence of forms of OI recognizable at birth is 1:10-20,000, with about equal incidence of mild forms that are not recognizable until later in life ( 1 ). OI and Marfan Syndrome share the distinction of being the most common heritable connective tissue disorders. CLINICAL CLASSIFICATION AND PHENOTYPE David Sillence formulated the classification currently in use for osteogenesis imperfecta in 1979 ( 2 ). Since type I collagen defects were not known to cause OI at that time, the Sillence Classification is based on clinical and radiographic features. The clinical spectrum of OI ranges from perinatal lethal to a mild form that can present in middle-aged adults as premature osteoporosis. In the past decade’s discovery of 16 genes other than COL1A1 and COL1A2 have expanded the genotypic and phenotypic spectrum of OI. This spurred the proposal for a new classification system to accommodate the long-standing functional and relevant grouping of OI types and the expanding genotypes ( 3 ). Within this new classification scheme ( table 1 ), OI types I-IV retain their clinical descriptions and are associated with autosomal dominant mutations in the two collagen genes. Types V and XV OI are the only other newly discovered types to have an autosomal dominant inheritance pattern. The remaining OI types, typically occurring at much lower frequency, are autosomal recessive with OI type XVIII having an X-linked inheritance pattern. Table 1. Classification and Clinical Features of Osteogenesis Imperfecta View in own window OI Type 1 Clinical Features Inheritance Defective Gene /Protein Defects in collagen synthesis, structure, and assembly I Normal stature, little or no deformity, blue sclerae, hearing loss in 50% of families. Dentinogenesis imperfecta (DI), where present, is a highly heritable trait. AD 2 COL1A1/Collagen I (α1) II Lethal in the perinatal period; minimal calvarial mineralization with relative macrocephaly, beaded ribs, compressed femurs, marked long bone deformity, platyspondyly. AD (new mutations) COL1A1/Collagen I (α1) or COL1A2/Collagen I (α2) Parental mosaicism III Progressively deforming bones, usually with moderate
