Osteogenesis Imperfecta
KEYWORDS: type, bone, pubmed, imperfecta, osteogenesis imperfecta, osteogenesis, collagen, mutations, types, free, article, article pubmed, free article, pmc free, pmc


bone bowing. Wormian bones. High bone mass despite recurrent fractures and high turnover. No shortening of extremities. AR BMP1(mTLD)/BMP1 Defects in osteoblast differentiation XIII Moderate bone dysplasia. White sclerae. Mixed hearing loss. Micrognathia. No DI. Wormian bones. Bowing of upper and lower limbs. Mild scoliosis. Mild pectus carinatum. Generalized osteoporosis. AR SP7/Osterix XIV Moderate bone dysplasia. Mild to moderate short stature in some. Mildly gray-blue sclerae. Generalized osteopenia. Bowing deformity. Thin ribs. Wormian bones. Cardiovascular defects. AR TMEM38B/TRIC-B XV Moderate to severe; progressively deforming. Bluish to blue sclerae in some. Marked deformity, bowing of long bones. Striking scoliosis; vertebral fractures. Wormian bones. Generalized demineralization. Osteopenia. Muscle hypotonia. Some with neurological defects. AR/AD WNT1/WNT1 XVI Severe. Blue-gray sclerae. Soft calvarial bones. Thin or beaded ribs. Multiple fractures neonatally and healing with deformity. Bowed femora and humeri. Easy bruising. AR CREB3L1/OASIS XVII Severe. White sclerae. No DI. Scoliosis. Joint hyperlaxity. AR SPARC/Osteonectin XVIII Severe. Sclerae blue or white. Pectus deformity. Scoliosis. X-linked recessive MBTPS2/S2P 1 Modified from Sillence et al., 1979 2 AD = autosomal dominant; AR = autosomal recessive Patients with type I OI have a distinctly milder form of the disease, which is generally not detectable at birth. Patients with type I OI tend to present with early osteoporosis; DEXA z-scores range from -1 to -3. Patients may have their first fracture in the pre-school years, for example when attaining ambulation. They may also have a series of fractures in the pre-pubertal years due to mild trauma. Fractures generally decrease dramatically in the post-pubertal years. Patients with type I OI have normally modeled bone and may have mild bowing of long bones and minimal central vertebral compressions. They are often a few inches shorter than same gender relatives. Leg length may be disproportionately short. Blue scleral hue is a defining feature in the Sillence classification, though, in actuality, it may be present or absent. These patients are expected to be spontaneous ambulators, but may have some mild delay of gross motor skills. They can be expected to have a full life span, limited only by greater vulnerability to accidental trauma. Type II OI is the perinatal lethal form. Infants may be stillborn; if they survive birth, they usually die in the first two months of life ( 4 ). Some infants with type II OI may live for as long as a year, but eventually do succumb to multiple pneumonias
