Osteogenesis Imperfecta
KEYWORDS: type, bone, pubmed, imperfecta, osteogenesis imperfecta, osteogenesis, collagen, mutations, types, free, article, article pubmed, free article, pmc free, pmc


the first two months of life ( 4 ). Some infants with type II OI may live for as long as a year, but eventually do succumb to multiple pneumonias or respiratory insufficiency. The limbs, especially the legs, are short with severe bowing deformities ( Figure 1 ). Most often the legs are abducted into the classic “frog leg position”. The cranium is relatively large for the trunk and is very poorly ossified. The anterior fontanelle is large, and often extends frontally to the forehead and laterally along the sagittal suture. The posterior fontanelle is often open as well. The presence of two enlarged fontanelles frequently results in ossification only along the lateral plates and for a fingertip breadth at the crown. The infants tend to have flat triangular facies with a small beaked nose and dark blue-gray sclerae. The thorax is usually deformed with a narrow apex. Radiographic examination reveals multiple in utero fractures in various stages of healing. There may be beads of callus on the ribs, which are quite gracile. The long bones are very osteoporotic with minimal to no cortex. Upper extremity long bone morphology is better than that of the lower extremities. The lower long bones are crumpled as well as fractured and are abnormally modeled, with a cylindrical shape. Thus, the defect in type I collagen affects the development as well as the mineralization of the skeleton. Figure 1. Radiograph of infant with type II OI. Shows severe osteoporosis of skeleton with fractures of upper extremities, crumpled femora, flared rib cage with narrow apex and multiple beads of callus on each rib. Type III OI, also known as the Progressive Deforming type ( 1 ), is the most severe form of OI compatible with survival beyond infancy and is severely disabling. Individuals with type III OI can have a full life span; however, a significant proportion succumb to respiratory or neurological complications, either during childhood or in early to middle adult years. The long bones of individuals with type III OI are soft as well as fragile and can have bowing deformities of 70-90°, caused either by the tension of normal muscle on the bone, or from angulated healing of fractures ( Figures 2 , 3 ). Long bones have a cylindrical shape with more modeling of the metaphysis than in type II; by late childhood there is often exaggerated metaphyseal flaring accompanied by
