Osteogenesis Imperfecta
KEYWORDS: type, bone, pubmed, imperfecta, osteogenesis imperfecta, osteogenesis, collagen, mutations, types, free, article, article pubmed, free article, pmc free, pmc


, 3 ). Long bones have a cylindrical shape with more modeling of the metaphysis than in type II; by late childhood there is often exaggerated metaphyseal flaring accompanied by a slender diaphysis ( 5 ). An additional finding in the metaphysis and epiphysis of lower limb long bones are so called “popcorn” calcifications caused by disorganization around the growth plate. More than half of the individuals with type III OI develop this radiographic change between the ages of 4 to 14 years with resolution of popcorn calcifications when epiphyses close ( 6 ). Fractures can occur from activities of daily living; there may be hundreds of fractures in a lifetime. DEXA z-scores are in the range of –5 to –7 SD. Body proportions are better preserved than in type II OI, with less shortening of the extremities relative to the trunk. The calvarium is almost always relatively macrocephalic for the body and frequently measures greater than 95 th centile for age, though occasionally children will have a normal or smaller than average head circumference for age. The midface is flat with frontal bossing and DI is common and its presence correlates with that of basilar invagination ( 7 ). Mixed type hearing loss occurs more commonly in adults than children with type III OI. Children with type III OI almost always develop chest wall abnormalities; pectus carinatum is more frequent and less detrimental to pulmonary status than pectus excavatum. Virtually all children with OI type III will also develop significant scoliosis. Even with aggressive intervention, these individuals are most often full-time wheelchair users. Figure 2. A, B: Radiographs of lower extremities of type III OI child. Shows osteoporosis, flared metaphyses, and placement of intramedullary Rush rod. C, D: Radiographs of child with type III OI. Shows lower long bones osteoporotic with cystic formation and “popcorn” metaphyses, and placement of telescoping intramedullary rods. Lateral view of spine shows anterior and central compression of multiple vertebrae. Figure 3. AP view of spine from type III OI child. Shows severe scoliosis and flared rib cage, as well as gracile and wavy ribs. Type IV OI is the moderately severe type. The skeletons of these individuals are brittle, not soft. On average, people with type IV OI have dozens of fractures ( Figure 4 ). Most fractures occur either prior to puberty or beyond middle age, with the intervening years relatively protected by
