Osteogenesis Imperfecta
KEYWORDS: type, bone, pubmed, imperfecta, osteogenesis imperfecta, osteogenesis, collagen, mutations, types, free, article, article pubmed, free article, pmc free, pmc


with type IV OI have dozens of fractures ( Figure 4 ). Most fractures occur either prior to puberty or beyond middle age, with the intervening years relatively protected by sex steroids. Popcorn calcifications have been reported as a radiographic change associated with type IV OI; however, it does not occur as frequently as seen in type III ( 6 ). Individuals are significantly osteoporotic, with DEXA z-scores in the range of –3 to –5 SD. With medical intervention these individuals can expect to be community ambulators and have an essentially normal life span. Body proportions approach normal, although the legs are still short for the trunk and the cranium is relatively macrocephalic. As with type I OI, individuals with type IV are divided into types A and B by the Sillence classification, based on the presence or absence of dentinogenesis imperfecta ( 8 ). Vertebral compressions in childhood and laxity of paraspinal muscles may lead to significant scoliosis. Figure 4. Radiographs of lower extremities of type IV OI child. Shows mild bowing and placement of Rush rod. B: Lateral view of spine shows milder scoliosis and milder compression of vertebrae. OI types V and above comprise the approximately 15-20% of individuals who have a phenotype characteristic of OI but who do not have a defect in the collagen genes COL1A1 or COL1A2 . In many ways, type V OI is clinically indistinguishable from type IV because both types present with frequent fractures, moderate deformity, ligamentous laxity, tendency to bruise easily and periodic fracture-related loss of mobility. Clinical, histological and molecular differences exist, however, that distinguish type V from IV. Individuals with type V do not have blue sclera or DI. In type V, the distinctive bone histology is an irregular arrangement or a mesh-like appearance of the lamellae. Patients also have a triad of hypertrophic callus, dense metaphyseal bands and ossification of the interosseus membranes of the forearm. This causes severely limited pronation/supination of forearms. In addition, the type I collagen protein of these patients has normal electrophoretic mobility ( 9 ). In 2012, it was found that all cases of type V OI are caused by the same recurring defect in the IFITM5 gene that encodes the BRIL (Bone-restricted IFITM-like) protein, a known osteoblast marker which is highly expressed in mineralizing osteoblasts ( 10 ). The heterozygous mutation adds a 5-residue MALEP extension to the N-terminus of BRIL,
