Osteogenesis Imperfecta
KEYWORDS: type, bone, pubmed, imperfecta, osteogenesis imperfecta, osteogenesis, collagen, mutations, types, free, article, article pubmed, free article, pmc free, pmc


(Bone-restricted IFITM-like) protein, a known osteoblast marker which is highly expressed in mineralizing osteoblasts ( 10 ). The heterozygous mutation adds a 5-residue MALEP extension to the N-terminus of BRIL, disrupting the normal protein with a gain-of-function defect. Type VI OI is clinically and histologically distinct from type V. Characteristics of individuals with type VI OI include short stature, ligamentous laxity, white or faintly blue sclera and no DI. There are no fractures or other signs of OI at birth. First fractures in type VI OI occur when affected individuals begin standing as infants/toddlers, with progressive deformity clinically similar to type III. Deformity caused by long bone fractures can be moderate to severe, often necessitating support devices for ambulation or wheelchairs to maintain mobility. Type VI OI is distinguished by distinct histologic and molecular criteria ( 11 ). Bone histology includes “fish-scale” pattern of the lamellae under polarized light, and decreased mineralized bone volume secondary to increased osteoid volume. This bone mineralization defect is a defining attribute of Type VI OI. Various autosomal recessive null mutations in the SERPINF1 gene, which encodes PEDF (pigment epithelium-derived factor), a potent anti-angiogenic factor that binds to type I collagen and a tumor inhibitor, have been shown to cause OI type VI ( 12 , 13 ). These patients have negligible serum PEDF levels, as opposed to type V and other types, in which PEDF serum levels are equivalent to controls. Individuals with a point mutation in one copy of the IFITM5 gene, causing a p.S40L substitution in BRIL, present with histomorphologic and biochemical features of type VI OI, further underlining the connection between the two protein products and OI types ( 14 ). Molecular and biochemical defects in types VII, VIII and IX OI were the first of the recessive forms identified; specifically, each type has a defect which causes deficiency of one of the components of the collagen prolyl 3-hydroxylation complex. Although 3-hydroxylation of Pro986 in type I collagen had been known to occur for almost three decades ( 15 ), its importance to bone formation had not been appreciated. The initial understanding of recessive OI as being due to a deficiency of this ER-resident collagen modification complex shifted the paradigm for collagen-related bone dysplasias ( 16 ). LEPRE1 , CRTAP and PPIB are the three genes that encode the components of the collagen prolyl 3-hydroxylation complex, prolyl 3-hydroxylase 1 (P3H1- the
