Osteogenesis Imperfecta
KEYWORDS: type, bone, pubmed, imperfecta, osteogenesis imperfecta, osteogenesis, collagen, mutations, types, free, article, article pubmed, free article, pmc free, pmc


collagen-related bone dysplasias ( 16 ). LEPRE1 , CRTAP and PPIB are the three genes that encode the components of the collagen prolyl 3-hydroxylation complex, prolyl 3-hydroxylase 1 (P3H1- the enzymatic component of the complex), cartilage–associated protein (CRTAP- the helper-protein in the complex) and cyclophilin B (CyPB), respectively. The proteins form a 1:1:1 complex in the endoplasmic reticulum ( 17 ). The complex binds collagen post-translationally and hydroxylates a single residue, Proline 986, on each α1(I) chain. In normal collagen, over 90% of Pro986 residues are 3-hydroxylated. The importance of the collagen prolyl 3-hydroxylation complex for bone development became clear during investigation of the Crtap knock-out mouse. These mice have severe osteopenia, rhizomelia and later develop kyphosis. In addition, these mice lacked 3-hydroxylation of Proline 986 on both α1 (I) and α1(II) collagen chains ( 18 ). The type I collagen of CRTAP - or LEPRE1 -deficient individuals also lacks Pro986 hydroxylation. Surprisingly, this collagen is, in turn, overmodified by Prolyl 4-hydroxylase (P4H) and lysyl hydroxylases (LH), proteins that modify proline and lysine residues along the length of the helical region of both alpha chains. Excess modification of the helix indicates that folding of the helix has been delayed. Interestingly, the phenotype as well as the collagen biochemical findings of CRTAP and LEPRE1 null mutations are essentially indistinguishable. The basis of this similarity is the mutual protection of CRTAP and P3H1 in the modification complex ( 19 ). Cells with a null mutation in either gene are missing both proteins; restoration of the genetically deficient protein restores both proteins. Thus, null mutations in either gene cause absence of the complex from the cell. Type VII OI is a lethal/severe recessive chondro-osseous dysplasia caused by null mutations in CRTAP. Fractures and limb deformities are present at birth. Radiographically, long bones are severely under-tubulated. Infants with type VII may develop respiratory insufficiency in the neonatal and postnatal periods and frequently die as a result of the underlying problem (i.e., pulmonary anatomical anomalies or infectious disease) ( 20 ). Distinctive features of type VII OI include small or normal head circumference, exophthalmia, white or light blue sclera, and rhizomelia. Deficiency of CRTAP affects post-translational modification of both bone (type I collagen) and cartilage (type II collagen). The index pedigree from Quebec ( 21 ) first described for type VII OI has a hypomorphic defect in CRTAP ( 18 ) and a correspondingly milder
