Osteogenesis Imperfecta
KEYWORDS: type, bone, pubmed, imperfecta, osteogenesis imperfecta, osteogenesis, collagen, mutations, types, free, article, article pubmed, free article, pmc free, pmc


(type II collagen). The index pedigree from Quebec ( 21 ) first described for type VII OI has a hypomorphic defect in CRTAP ( 18 ) and a correspondingly milder phenotype with rhizomelia, coxa vara and white sclerae, more similar to dominant type IV OI in skeletal severity. These children have moderate growth deficiency. They attain ambulation without assistive devices. Type VIII OI, caused by defects in LEPRE1 (encoding P3H1) is also a severe/lethal autosomal recessive form of OI ( 22 - 24 ). Phenotypic characteristics overlap the dominant types II (lethal) and III (severe) OI, but have the distinguishing features of white sclerae, under-tubulated long bones and normal to small head circumference. Like type VII OI, rhizomelia is a distinctive feature of type VIII. Some individuals with type VIII OI have lived into their second or third decade (currently, the oldest known individual is mid-20’s). Their physical exam is notable for extreme short stature, severe osteoporosis (DEXA z-scores of -6 or -7), and popcorn calcifications during the growing years. The most frequently identified LEPRE1 mutation is a West African founder mutation (IVS5+2G>T) that also occurs in Afro-Caribbeans and African-Americans ( 23 ). Homozygosity for this West African allele has been lethal by 3 months of age. Mutations causing deficiency of the third component of the collagen prolyl 3-hydroxylation complex, CyPB, are rarer and have been designated as type IX OI ( 25 , 26 ). In this type, individuals have a distinctive phenotype compared to types VII/VIII in that they do not have rhizomelia. However, they share the white sclera of recessive OI. Total absence of cyclophilin B (CyPB) due to a mutation in the start codon causes moderately severe OI, overlapping dominant type IV OI in skeletal severity ( 25 ). Their osteoporosis is also moderately severe, with DEXA z-scores in the -2 to -3 range. They have attained community ambulation after osteotomy procedures. They have moderate short stature and may or may not have vertebral compressions. Biochemically, they have normal 3-hydroxylation of Pro986, consistent with persistence of the CRTAP/P3H1 complex in the absence of CyPB. More surprisingly, they do not have excess modification of their collagen helix, suggesting that CyPB is not the unique peptidyl-prolyl isomerase. In other cases, the presence of truncated CyPB ( 26 ) interferes with function of the 3-hydroxylation complex and causes severe or lethal OI. As for types VII and VIII OI,
