Osteogenesis Imperfecta
KEYWORDS: type, bone, pubmed, imperfecta, osteogenesis imperfecta, osteogenesis, collagen, mutations, types, free, article, article pubmed, free article, pmc free, pmc


other cases, the presence of truncated CyPB ( 26 ) interferes with function of the 3-hydroxylation complex and causes severe or lethal OI. As for types VII and VIII OI, these CyPB mutations are associated with decreased Pro986 hydroxylation and delayed collagen folding. Type X OI has been traced to a defect in SERPINH1 , which encodes HSP47, a critical player in correct intracellular folding and transport of the procollagen triple helix. The only known SERPINH1 mutation causing bone dysplasia in humans caused severe, progressive OI with a myriad of clinical signs, some common and some unusual for OI ( 27 ). This patient survived for 3 years (probably due to functionality of the small amount of residual protein) despite the embryonic lethality of the null mutation in mice. Type XI OI is caused by mutations in the FKBP10 gene, which encodes a known PPIase, FKBP65 ( 28 ), another important protein for proper folding of procollagen molecules. The first discovery of FKBP10 mutations was in a moderately severe type of OI ( 29 ). FKBP10 mutations have since been shown to be causative in the recessive Bruck syndrome I (severe OI with congenital contractures) ( 30 ), and the contractures are now understood to be variable expression of the null FKBP10 allele. Also, an in-frame tyrosine deletion in a PPI’ase domain of FKBP65 ( 31 ) was delineated as the cause of Kuskokwim syndrome, an Alaskan Yup’ik Eskimo congenital contracture syndrome with minor skeletal symptoms. Prior to these discoveries, there had been no known link between these three disorders, which represent the phenotypic range of the gene spectrum, encompassing bone dysplasia and congenital contractures of large joints. Type XII OI is associated with an autosomal recessive inheritance pattern of mutations in BMP1, which encodes the C-propeptidase of type I procollagen ( 32 ). Individuals with type XII OI experience recurrent fractures early and, unlike previous OI types, have increased bone mineral density. A high bone mass OI phenotype was also observed in individuals with dominantly inherited mutations at the C-propeptide cleavage site of collagen ( 33 ). Conversely, mutations in the N-propeptidase ADAMTS-2, or the N-propeptide cleavage site, the N-anchor domain of the helical region cause combined osteogenesis imperfecta and Ehlers–Danlos syndrome (EDS) (OI/EDS) ( 34 ). The subsequent, more recently identified, OI types are very rare, each with only a few cases described. Causative mutations reside in genes
