Osteogenesis Imperfecta
KEYWORDS: type, bone, pubmed, imperfecta, osteogenesis imperfecta, osteogenesis, collagen, mutations, types, free, article, article pubmed, free article, pmc free, pmc


and Ehlers–Danlos syndrome (EDS) (OI/EDS) ( 34 ). The subsequent, more recently identified, OI types are very rare, each with only a few cases described. Causative mutations reside in genes involved in regulation of osteoblast differentiation. Inheritance pattern is autosomal recessive for all except type XVIII OI, which is X-linked. Type XIII OI has been described in two families with skeletal phenotype similar to that seen in Type IV OI ( 35 , 36 ). The first report was on an Egyptian male, the second on an Iraqi sibship. Both families reported consanguinity. The associated gene is SP7/Osterix ( OSX ), which is a transcriptional factor and a regulator of bone function in mouse models and in the human cases ( 35 , 36 ). Type XIV OI is caused by null mutations in TMEM38B , encoding TRIC-B, a cation channel also involved in cell differentiation. The mechanism for this disruption involves impaired osteoblast Ca2+ flux from cytoplasm into the ER. Reported cases were first identified among Saudi Arabian and Israeli Bedouins ( 37 , 38 ), but have since been identified in individuals of other ethnicities ( 39 ). Their clinical phenotype is similar to that of Type IV OI, with distinctive histological features of decreased osteoblast number and normal mineralization at the tissue level, in contrast to the elevated mineral content seen in other OI types. Because of the intracellular Ca2+ signaling involvement, cardiac involvement may occur at a higher frequency ( 39 ). Type XV OI has been associated with mutations in WNT1 , and reported in individuals of various ethnic backgrounds ( 40 - 43 ). Individuals with homozygous or compound heterozygous mutations in WNT1 have Type IV OI phenotype, while those with heterozygous mutation in WNT1 have osteoporosis ( 42 ). In its role as a stimulator of bone formation, WNT1 interacts with LRP5, which is known to cause a juvenile osteoporosis similar to type IV OI ( 44 ). Brain malformations have been reported in some individuals with this OI type. Type XVI OI has a severity similar to that of Type II OI, in that almost all individuals diagnosed with it have died in utero ( 45 ). A living 11-yo male with Type XVI OI has severe bone dysplasia similar to that seen in Type III OI ( 46 ). Mutations in CREB3L1 , encoding OASIS, an ER-stress transducer and regulator of
