Osteogenesis Imperfecta
KEYWORDS: type, bone, pubmed, imperfecta, osteogenesis imperfecta, osteogenesis, collagen, mutations, types, free, article, article pubmed, free article, pmc free, pmc


Type XVI OI has severe bone dysplasia similar to that seen in Type III OI ( 46 ). Mutations in CREB3L1 , encoding OASIS, an ER-stress transducer and regulator of genes in cellular differentiation and maturation, are causative ( 45 ). Mice lacking Creb3l1 show spontaneous fractures due to severe osteopenia ( 47 ). Individuals with heterozygous mutations in CREB3L1 have been reported to have features of blue sclerae, osteopenia, and mild recurrent fractures history ( 48 ). Type XVII OI is caused by mutations in SPARC, whose protein product is a chaperone for extracellular matrix proteins. Only two individuals have been identified with this OI type ( 49 ). The presentation is similar to Type IV OI, with progressive skeletal involvement, including the spine. Type XVIII OI has been described in male individuals from two families with phenotypes in the severity range of types III and IV OI ( 50 ). The gene involved, MBTPS2, codes for S2P, an intramembrane protease in the Golgi apparatus. In concert with S1P, S2P processes and activates transcription factors such as OASIS in the Regulatory Intramembrane Proteolysis (RIP) pathway. Despite the OASIS link, the phenotype for type XVIII is not as severe as that in type XVI. Obligate female carriers of MBTPS2 mutations do not have OI features ( 50 ). SECONDARY FEATURES OF OI Growth Short stature is the most prevalent secondary feature of OI. Children with types III and IV OI fall off normal growth curves by one year of age, entering a phase with slow growth that lasts until age 4-5 years. After age five years, children with type III OI have increased growth rates, but the slope is always less than that of the normal curve. Average final adult stature is in the range of a 5-7-year-old for both sexes ( 51 , 52 ). Children with type IV OI often grow either parallel to the normal growth curve or with a moderately decreased slope. However, they cannot make up for the loss of height incurred during the plateau phase, so average final stature approximates that of a 7-8 year old for females and a preteenager for males ( 51 ). OI types (III or IV) and sex are more correlative and predictive of stature growth than genotype (i.e. mutations in COL1A1 or COL1A2 ) ( 51 ). Individuals with type I OI grow parallel to the normal growth
