Osteogenesis Imperfecta
KEYWORDS: type, bone, pubmed, imperfecta, osteogenesis imperfecta, osteogenesis, collagen, mutations, types, free, article, article pubmed, free article, pmc free, pmc


more correlative and predictive of stature growth than genotype (i.e. mutations in COL1A1 or COL1A2 ) ( 51 ). Individuals with type I OI grow parallel to the normal growth curve and final height is usually a few inches shorter than same sex relatives ( 53 ). Growth pattern for individuals with the more rare OI types may mirror those for type I, III or IV as is the case for type V OI ( 9 , 53 ). The cause of short stature in OI is not clear. Defects in primary development of long bones and their healing following repeated fractures, intraosseous calcifications at the growth plates, unequal opposition to musculature forces on soft bones, and scoliosis are all likely contributary. Obesity or higher body mass index (BMI) is a prevalent finding in individuals with OI ( 51 , 53 ). Type III OI and female sex are associated with BMI values significantly higher than those in the average pediatric population ( 51 ). While it is tempting to attribute this finding entirely to decreased mobility and activity, this has not been proven and other causes such as plasticity of osteoblast-adipocyte differentiation need to be explored. Scleral Hue Scleral hue is a defining feature of the Sillence classification, with blue sclerae in type I OI, white sclerae in type IV. This resulted in grouping children with inconsistent skeletal features. We consider scleral hue a secondary, not a defining, feature. Most people with type I OI have blue sclerae, but some will have white sclerae. Many persons with types III and IV OI will have blue sclerae. Blue sclerae have also been reported in at least some individuals in most OI types. Individuals with types VII and VIII OI have predominantly white sclerae. The bluish tinge may result from decreased scleral thickness ( 54 ). However, it can also occur with normal thickness. In this case, tissues with different proteoglycan compositions, and therefore different hydration, may cause the blue tinge by their reflection of wavelengths of color. Hearing Loss A majority of adults with osteogenesis imperfecta have functionally significant hearing loss related to combined conductive and sensorineural deficits ( 55 ). Molecular studies have revealed that hearing loss is not related to OI types or to location of mutation in COL1A1 or COL1A2 ( 56 ). In most cases, deficits are detectable only on audiology examination in childhood and the
