Osteogenesis Imperfecta
KEYWORDS: type, bone, pubmed, imperfecta, osteogenesis imperfecta, osteogenesis, collagen, mutations, types, free, article, article pubmed, free article, pmc free, pmc


related to OI types or to location of mutation in COL1A1 or COL1A2 ( 56 ). In most cases, deficits are detectable only on audiology examination in childhood and the teen years; functional loss does not occur until the twenties. A study of hearing in Finnish children with OI reported loss greater than 20 dB in 6.7% ( 57 ); this is comparable to the 7.7% detected in the NIH pediatric OI population ( 58 ). Most pediatric hearing loss is first detected between ages 5-9 years; some children may require hearing aids. For adults, the hearing deficits are very similar to those found in otosclerosis. Swinnen reported hearing loss in 97 of 184 patients, with the percentage of hearing-impaired patients (primarily bilateral, symmetric and progressive loss) increasing with age ( 59 ). There was significant variability in hearing pattern, even for identical mutations. Of 56 adult OI patients ( 60 ), those with conductive/mixed hearing loss had lower trabecular BMD relative to those with normal hearing or sensorineural loss. Possibly, OI patients with lower BMD might be more prone to microfractures, thinning of the ossicles and impaired bone remodeling in the temporal bone causing conductive hearing loss. When hearing loss exceeds the compensation of hearing aids, surgical interventions may be used. Stapedectomy can give satisfactory long-term results; however, this surgery should not be undertaken routinely. The fragility of the small bones of the ear results in a significant percentage of unsatisfactory long term hearing restoration ( 61 ). However, stapes surgery in experienced hands often successfully resolves the conductive hearing loss in OI patients. Stapedotomy improves hearing and facilitates rehabilitation with a hearing aid. While OI genotype is not determinative of middle ear pathology, postoperative hearing gain in patients with OI types I and IV are identical ( 62 ). Given the rarity of OI and surgical complications in OI (i.e., middle ear anatomic anomalies and tendency for profuse bleeding), surgical outcomes may be better at medical facilities experienced with stapes surgery and hearing loss due to OI ( 63 ). Insertion of cochlear implants has been reported in a few case studies ( 64 ); however, this data is limited. The implants have resulted in a short-term improvement in hearing ability, but long term hearing restoration remains unknown ( 65 ). Cardiopulmonary Complications Cardiopulmonary complications of OI are the major cause of mortality directly related to the disorder
