Osteogenesis Imperfecta
KEYWORDS: type, bone, pubmed, imperfecta, osteogenesis imperfecta, osteogenesis, collagen, mutations, types, free, article, article pubmed, free article, pmc free, pmc


in hearing ability, but long term hearing restoration remains unknown ( 65 ). Cardiopulmonary Complications Cardiopulmonary complications of OI are the major cause of mortality directly related to the disorder ( 66 ). Infants with type II OI die of respiratory insufficiency or pneumonias. Children with type III OI develop vertebral collapse and kyphoscoliosis, which contribute to restrictive lung disease. These skeletal features, as well as the inactivity associated with wheelchair mobility, predispose them to multiple pneumonias. Lung disease may progress to cor pulmonale in middle age. Pulmonary function should be evaluated every few years, starting in childhood, to facilitate early management with bronchodilators, and should be correlated with arm span rather than reduced stature. The need for chronic oxygen may arise as early as adolescence but most frequently occurs in the forties and fifties. Pulmonary dysfunction was not correlated with kyphosis or chest wall deformity ( 67 ). Pulmonary compromise is strongly correlated with thoracic scoliosis of more than 60 degrees ( 67 ). In addition, sternal deformities such as pectus carinatum that frequently occur in severe type III OI, alter respiratory muscle coordination and ventilation ( 68 ). In addition to these external forces on respiration, there are the intrinsic factors that result from mutant collagen composition in OI. A longitudinal pediatric OI cohort with collagen structural mutations but without scoliosis was shown to have significant decline in PFTs (tidal lung capacity and FVC) during childhood, albeit with a slower rate of decline than children with scoliosis ( 69 ). Type I OI causes no aberrant cardiopulmonary function at rest ( 69 ). Murine and patient data also point to direct effects of OI on the cardiac system, in addition to the cor pulmonale that is a late secondary effect of pulmonary dysfunction. This is not surprising given that type I collagen accounts for 75% of total collagen in the myocardium. In children with moderate to severe OI, the abnormality most frequently noted is mild regurgitation of the tricuspid valve ( 69 ). In adults, dilatation of the aorta and pulmonary vessels ( 70 ) and regurgitation of the mitral and aortic valves ( 66 ) are the most frequently reported findings. Adults with OI should have regular monitoring of blood pressure, since elevated BP, age and OI were significant predictors of increased LV mass ( 71 ). In addition, adults with type III OI had greater RV
