Osteogenesis Imperfecta
KEYWORDS: type, bone, pubmed, imperfecta, osteogenesis imperfecta, osteogenesis, collagen, mutations, types, free, article, article pubmed, free article, pmc free, pmc


monitoring of blood pressure, since elevated BP, age and OI were significant predictors of increased LV mass ( 71 ). In addition, adults with type III OI had greater RV dimensions ( 72 ). Valvular and aortic surgery carry higher risk in OI but pose fewer problems than in Marfan syndrome ( 73 ). Neurological Complications Osteogenesis imperfecta is frequently associated with either relative or absolute macrocephaly. Between ages 2-3 years, the child’s head circumference may rapidly cross centile lines for age. Prominence of sulci and ventriculomegaly are not associated with intellectual deficit. There is a high frequency of basilar invagination (BI) in patients with severe osteogenesis imperfecta. BI generally progresses slowly in childhood; radiologic evidence for BI may be present for years before symptoms are present. Children should be screened by CT every 2-3 years, and followed annually by MRI if radiographic signs of BI develop. In a longitudinal study on craniocervical junction in growing OI patients ( 74 ), almost half of patients with a skull base abnormality had comorbidities of BI, basilar impression and platybasia. A small study based on lateral skull radiographs found skull base abnormalities in about a fifth of the studied OI patients, with platybasia being the most frequent finding. Stature (Z-score < -3SD) conferred the highest risk of developing skull base abnormalities. Bisphosphonate treatment was not protective against skull base abnormalities ( 75 , 76 ). Early intervention with occipitocervical bracing has been recommended, along with shunting of hydrocephalus, to slow the adolescent progression of significant basilar impression ( 77 ). Severe cases will still require neurosurgery. Without surgery, immobilization might result, which leads to atrophy of the muscles from disuse, and ankylosis of the joints ( 78 ). Favorable outcomes have been obtained by surgical intervention delayed until the patient experiences severe headaches as well as long tract signs. Typical clinical features of BI include headaches, nystagmus, dysphagia, ataxia and changes in facial sensation that, if not treated, can progress to rapid neurologic decline and/or respiratory distress ( 79 ). As patients become symptomatic they should be followed in centers (University of Iowa, Johns Hopkins) with experience in performing anterior ventral decompression with occipitocervical fusion in OI patients ( 77 , 80 ). DIAGNOSTIC WORK-UP AND DIFFERENTIAL DIAGNOSIS Crucial elements of the diagnostic work-up focus on the skeletal system. The physical exam includes measurements of length and head circumference, as well as
