Osteogenesis Imperfecta
KEYWORDS: type, bone, pubmed, imperfecta, osteogenesis imperfecta, osteogenesis, collagen, mutations, types, free, article, article pubmed, free article, pmc free, pmc


be confused with primary juvenile osteoporosis or other secondary causes of osteoporosis in childhood, such as hypogonadism of malignancy. The major differential diagnosis with types I and IV OI is non-accidental trauma. Molecular genetic sequencing, whether via broad-based panels or step-wise testing, has become the common first approach to diagnosis. Step-wise genetic testing applies in areas where access and cost remain challenging, and would include interrogating dominant OI genes first in individuals without family history of OI. This approach would yield informative findings in ~80% of the cases, and if a causal mutation is not identified may be followed by sequencing of recessive OI genes. Biochemical studies of collagen and of the components of the collagen prolyl 3-hydroxylation complex can complement decreased BMD and other skeletal features of OI, in cases of uncertain molecular findings. COLLAGEN MUTATIONS AND GENOTYPE-PHENOTYPE CORRELATION The majority (85-90%) of OI causing mutations occur in the genes that code for the two chains that comprise type I collagen, the major protein of the extracellular matrix of bone, skin and tendon ( 81 ). Type I collagen is a heterotrimer composed of two copies of the α1 chain, encoded by the COL1A1 gene on chromosome 17, and one copy of the α2 chain, encoded by COL1A2 on chromosome 7. The two alpha chains are similar in sequence organization; they are composed of 338 uninterrupted repeats of the sequence Gly-X-Y, where Gly is glycine, X is often proline and Y is often hydroxyproline. A glycine residue in every third position along the chain is crucial for helix formation; the small size of glycine’s side chain allows it to be tucked into the sterically constricted internal aspect of the helix. The collagen genes are organized with each exon coding for the helical region beginning with a glycine codon and ending with a Y-position codon; therefore the skipping of a helical exon does not cause a frameshift in the collagen transcript. As of 2019, over 1600 unique pathogenic variants in both chains of type I collagen had been described in OI patients ( 82 - 84 ). One general correlation between genotype and phenotype emerged: Type I OI, the mild form, is caused by quantitative defects in collagen. Only half the normal amount of collagen is produced but all the collagen produced is structurally normal. This is almost always due to a null allele of COL1A1 ( 85 ). On
