Osteogenesis Imperfecta
KEYWORDS: type, bone, pubmed, imperfecta, osteogenesis imperfecta, osteogenesis, collagen, mutations, types, free, article, article pubmed, free article, pmc free, pmc


the normal amount of collagen is produced but all the collagen produced is structurally normal. This is almost always due to a null allele of COL1A1 ( 85 ). On the other hand, types II, III and IV OI, the clinically significant forms, are caused by structural defects in either of the type I collagen chains. About 80% of these structural mutations cause the substitution of another amino acid, with a charged, polar or bulky side chain, for one of the obligatory glycine residues occurring in every third position along the chain. Glycine substitution mutations temporarily block helix formation and cause over-modification (glycosylation) of the chains of the trimer. About 20% of structural mutations are single exon skipping defects, which are incorporated into the trimer because the frame of the transcript remains intact ( 84 ). Essentially all of the collagen mutations are dominant negative mutations. They exert their effects by being secreted and incorporate into the matrix, causing a weakened higher order structure. For structural mutations of type I collagen, the relationship between genotype and phenotype has been elusive. A lethal mutation was found to be more likely in the α1 chain, in which about one-third of known glycine substitutions caused lethal OI, than in the α2 chain, in which only ~20% were lethal ( 84 ). Nonetheless, both chains contain substantial numbers of mutations causing the full range of the OI phenotype. The two chains have different patterns of lethal and non-lethal mutations along the helical region, supporting different roles for the two chains in matrix. Lethal and non-lethal clusters alternate along the α2(I) chain ( 86 ). The clusters are quite evenly spaced, and appear to play a role in regularly repeating interactions of collagen with non-collagenous matrix molecules. When the alignment of cluster boundaries was compared to the clinical outcome of mutations, the cluster boundaries correctly predicted the phenotype of 86% of α2(I) mutations ( 84 ). In the α1(I) chain, the mutations may disrupt the stability of the collagen helix itself ( 84 ). Two regions of uninterrupted lethal mutations in the carboxyl end of α1(I) coincide with the major ligand binding region (MLBR) for integrins, fibronectin, and COMP ( 84 ). The phenotype-genotype relationship in OI is complicated by multiple examples of variable expression. Individuals with the same genotype have a different phenotype, an interesting feature of many dominant disorders. In the α1(I) chain,
