Osteogenesis Imperfecta
KEYWORDS: type, bone, pubmed, imperfecta, osteogenesis imperfecta, osteogenesis, collagen, mutations, types, free, article, article pubmed, free article, pmc free, pmc


in OI is complicated by multiple examples of variable expression. Individuals with the same genotype have a different phenotype, an interesting feature of many dominant disorders. In the α1(I) chain, there are several dozen sites with examples of extreme variable expression of the same mutation; these glycine substitutions are found in both lethal and non-lethal forms of OI. A more frequent occurrence in both chains is substantial variation in severity between family members or unrelated individuals with the same mutation. For example, phenotype can range from type III to IV OI. One explanation for this interesting feature may be the existence of discrete modifying genes. Understanding modifying factors may provide new approaches to treatment. Animal models for OI, including the Brtl (brittle), Amish, and Aga2 (abnormal gait 2) mice have shed new light on pathophysiology, modifying factors and treatment of OI. The Brtl mouse is a knock-in model for type IV OI ( 87 ). It contains a classic glycine substitution in one allele at α1(I) G349C, which causes dominant negative OI. The Brtl mouse reproduces the phenotype, histology, biochemistry and biomechanics of the disorder. It also has variable phenotypic expression, which may lead to an understanding of modifying factors. Clinically relevant findings elucidated with the Brtl mouse model include post-pubertal improvement in bone matrix material properties ( 88 ), the imbalance between decreased osteoblast function and increased osteoclasts precursors as a potential lead to novel OI therapies ( 89 ), and the concomitant beneficial and detrimental effects of cumulative bisphosphonates exposure ( 90 ). A knock-in mouse model for the α2(I) chain has also been published ( 91 ). It recapitulates the mutation found in a large Amish pedigree that causes a Gly610Cys substitution, hence its designation as the Amish mouse. Long bones of the Amish mouse are less fragile than those of Brtl. The human pedigree with the Gly610Cys substitution has a wide range of phenotypic variability. Crossing the murine mutations into different genetic backgrounds demonstrated that whole bone fracture susceptibility was influenced by factors reflected in the size and shape of bone, and will be useful for the identification of genetic modifiers. Finally, the Aga2 mouse has a dominant mutation located in the terminal C-propeptide that was created using an N-ethyl-N-nitrosourea mutagenesis strategy ( 92 ). Like the Brtl mouse model, the Aga2 phenotype has a perinatal lethal and a severe surviving form. This mouse will provide
