Osteogenesis Imperfecta
KEYWORDS: type, bone, pubmed, imperfecta, osteogenesis imperfecta, osteogenesis, collagen, mutations, types, free, article, article pubmed, free article, pmc free, pmc


created using an N-ethyl-N-nitrosourea mutagenesis strategy ( 92 ). Like the Brtl mouse model, the Aga2 phenotype has a perinatal lethal and a severe surviving form. This mouse will provide important insight into the special mechanism of OI caused by mutations in the C-propeptide. Since the C-propeptide is normally removed before collagen is incorporated into matrix, it is not clear why mutations in this region should cause moderate to lethal OI. In Aga2 osteoblasts, the intracellular retention of abnormal collagen chains has been shown to induce the Unfolded Protein Response (UPR) and result in cellular apoptosis. In addition, there is a naturally occurring mouse model for type III OI, the oim mouse ( 93 ). Although this mouse has been extensively studied, its histomorphometry differs from that seen in classical dominant OI, limiting the utility of this model ( 94 ). The oim mouse is also atypical in other ways. First, although it has a collagen defect in COL1A2, the phenotype is recessively inherited vs the dominant inheritance of other type I collagen defects. Second, the collagen chain configuration in oim does not normally occur in bone. The defect in oim in the α2(I) chain prevents the fully synthesized chain from incorporating into heterotrimer and leads to the production of an α1(I) homotrimer. Third, and perhaps most importantly, the mechanism of bone defect in oim is also atypical. Patients with α1(I) homotrimer caused by null-mutations in the amino end of the α2(I) chain have been shown to have Ehlers/Danlos Syndrome but not OI ( 95 , 96 ). Since the bone dysplasia of oim cannot be directly attributed to the presence of homotrimer, but is likely connected to the cellular effects of degrading unincorporated α2(I) chains, it is impossible to meaningfully interpret oim investigations. Murine models for types V-XII, XV, and XVII have been developed ( 97 , 98 ). Canine models for types III and X, and zebrafish models for types I-IV, VII, VIII, and XIII have also been reported (98, Forlino A et al. , Matrix Biology , In Press ). GENETIC COUNSELING AND RATIONALE FOR COLLAGEN STUDIES Genetic counseling is an essential component of complete care for individuals who have OI. More than half of individuals with autosomal dominant OI have a family history of OI. In a Finnish survey ( 57 ), about 65 percent of individuals with OI were in families in which a prior
