Osteogenesis Imperfecta
KEYWORDS: type, bone, pubmed, imperfecta, osteogenesis imperfecta, osteogenesis, collagen, mutations, types, free, article, article pubmed, free article, pmc free, pmc


autosomal dominant OI have a family history of OI. In a Finnish survey ( 57 ), about 65 percent of individuals with OI were in families in which a prior generation was affected and the remaining 35 percent represented new mutations in a type 1 collagen gene. In contrast, individuals with autosomal recessive OI seldom have a family history. Collagen studies are useful in cases where the molecular sequencing result is equivocal. Virtually all type I collagen mutations have dominant inheritance. If no collagen mutation is identified, abnormal collagen biochemistry can point to defects in CRTAP or LEPRE1 . PPIB defects will rely on sequencing for detection, since collagen biochemistry may be normal or abnormal. In autosomal dominant OI, a severe presentation is likely to be the result of a spontaneous mutation that occurred at or around conception; the affected individual is likely to be the first affected person in the family. The parents of a child with a de novo mutation are at no increased risk of recurrence compared to the general population. However, genetic testing of both child and parents is required to determine whether the OI is inherited from a mosaic parent (see below), which occurs in 5-10% of new cases and increases the risk of recurrence. Individuals who are affected with dominant OI have a 50% risk of transmission with each pregnancy. Genetic counseling for autosomal recessive OI is challenging given the limited carrier information about these newly identified OI types. Certainly, parental consanguinity increases the risk that a child may have recessive OI. However, data have shown that the carrier frequency for type VIII OI among contemporary West Africans is over 1%; among African Americans about 1/200-300 individuals are carriers ( 99 ). Currently the carrier frequency of other recessive OI types is not known. Because recessive OI types can present as lethal OI and be incorrectly assumed to be type II OI, the genes for type I collagen frequently are not sequenced leading to the missed diagnosis of recessive OI and parental carrier status. The parents of a child with recessive OI have a 25% risk of recurrence. The mother of a son with X-linked OI overall has a 25% risk of recurrence with an unaffected partner. Parental Mosaicism In some families, clinically unaffected parents will have more than one child with dominant OI. This occurs because one parent is a mosaic carrier of
