Osteogenesis Imperfecta
KEYWORDS: type, bone, pubmed, imperfecta, osteogenesis imperfecta, osteogenesis, collagen, mutations, types, free, article, article pubmed, free article, pmc free, pmc


an unaffected partner. Parental Mosaicism In some families, clinically unaffected parents will have more than one child with dominant OI. This occurs because one parent is a mosaic carrier of the mutation. Presumably, the mutation occurred during the parent’s fetal development; that parent then has both a normal and a mutant cell population. The proportion of mutant cells and their distribution in somatic and germline tissues depends on the timing of the mutation and the distribution of cells arising from the first mutant cell ( 100 ). The frequency of occurrence of mosaic parents is relatively high in OI. Empirically, 5-10% of unaffected couples whose child has dominant OI will be at risk of recurrence. For those couples in which one member is a mosaic carrier the recurrence risk may be as high as 50%, equivalent to the fully heterozygous state. To date, all mosaic parents have been detectable by examination of leukocyte DNA for the mutation present in their child. The mutation may also be detectable in dermal fibroblasts, hair bulb and germ cells. PRENATAL DIAGNOSIS For the first case of moderate to severe OI in a family, prenatal diagnosis will probably occur during ultrasound at 18 to 24 weeks’ gestation ( 101 , 102 ). Given the severity of types VII-IX, XIV-XVI and XVIII OI and their clinical overlap with types II and III OI, the first case of recessive OI in a pedigree can be expected to be diagnosed in the same timeframe by ultrasound. Detecting recurrence of all OI types prenatally is easiest if the exact mutation in the affected child is known. In that case, a potential mutation in the current pregnancy can be detected early and with confidence. Cultured chorionic villi cells (CVS) can be used for DNA or RNA extraction and detection by either PCR and restriction enzyme digestion or sequencing. CVS can also be used for biochemical analysis if the known mutation causes significant collagen protein over-modification ( 100 ). Amniocentesis is only appropriate for molecular diagnosis via RNA or DNA analysis. Biochemical analysis of amniocytes is complicated by the overproduction of α1(I) chains; the excess chains form homotrimers, which are overmodified and co-migrate with overmodified heterotrimers, potentially causing a false-positive test result ( 100 ). At this time, there are no data available on expression of the components of the 3-hydroxylation complex in CVS or amniocytes. Thus, analysis of DNA by
