Osteogenesis Imperfecta
KEYWORDS: type, bone, pubmed, imperfecta, osteogenesis imperfecta, osteogenesis, collagen, mutations, types, free, article, article pubmed, free article, pmc free, pmc


result ( 100 ). At this time, there are no data available on expression of the components of the 3-hydroxylation complex in CVS or amniocytes. Thus, analysis of DNA by sequencing or restriction digestion will be required. Collagen analysis is useful when the diagnosis is equivocal. A positive collagen biochemical study can counteract charges of child abuse in mild cases, although the absence of a positive study still leaves a substantial possibility (about 25%) of a false negative result. False negative biochemical tests occur with most mutations in the amino-quarter of the alpha chains, which is also a region where almost all mutations are non-lethal ( 103 ). A positive collagen analysis can also settle subtle distinctions between type IV OI and idiopathic juvenile osteoporosis. From a research standpoint, each new collagen mutation delineated in OI provides information about genotype-phenotype relationships either directly or by making the cells containing that particular mutation available for studies of mechanism at the level of bone matrix. Further, mutations may vary in response to different therapeutic approaches. Determination of mutations that cause OI may allow investigators to understand which drugs or therapies will be helpful for different individuals. THERAPEUTIC APPROACHES A multidisciplinary approach to OI management is most beneficial ( 104 ). A combination of nonsurgical treatment (e.g. rehabilitation, bracing, splinting), surgical intervention, and pharmacological management (bisphosphonates or growth hormones) are used. Conventional Conventional management of OI involves intensive physical rehabilitation, supplemented with orthopedic intervention as needed. Many parents and physicians place undue importance on the number of fractures sustained by children with OI. Fracture number may not be as important in judging the severity of the disorder as the degree of trauma needed to cause a fracture. In general, children with type III OI sustain fractures from more trivial trauma than those with type IV OI. In addition, they tend to have more fractures in arms and ribs than occur in type IV. Fractures, in addition to long bone deformity, can lead to significant physical handicap. The goal of physical rehabilitation for children with OI is to promote and maintain optimal functioning in all aspects of life. This is best accomplished by a program combining early intervention, muscle strengthening, and aerobic conditioning. Early intervention should include correct positioning of the infant. Proper head support to help avoid torticollis and neutral alignment of the femora are essential ( 105 ). Custom molded seats can
