Osteogenesis Imperfecta
KEYWORDS: type, bone, pubmed, imperfecta, osteogenesis imperfecta, osteogenesis, collagen, mutations, types, free, article, article pubmed, free article, pmc free, pmc


intervention should include correct positioning of the infant. Proper head support to help avoid torticollis and neutral alignment of the femora are essential ( 105 ). Custom molded seats can help with lower extremity alignment as well as head and spine positioning ( 105 ). Gross motor skills are delayed in OI, mostly because of muscle weakness. This can be addressed with isotonic strengthening exercises of the deltoids and biceps in the upper extremity and the gluteus maximus and medius and trunk extensors in the lower extremity. Strengthening of these muscle groups will ensure that children are able to lift their limbs against gravity and transfer independently ( 106 ). Physical therapy should be directed by a therapist experienced with OI, using an individualized program to maximize the BAMF (Brief Assessment of Motor Function) and muscle strength scores. Children and adults with severe forms of OI will have the challenge of gaining motor skills and then having to regain them after fractures, even with the placement of intramedullary rods and current pharmacotherapy. Pain and weakness must be managed in parallel with fear of re-fracture. Water therapy is often a useful adjunct, allowing partial weight bearing as activity is regained. Young adults with severe OI reported lower levels of activity, employment and transportation use, though many severely affected young adults have gone independently to collage with facilitation by an aide and live employed, independent lives. Hence there are occupational therapy challenges beyond physical therapy for facilitation of full lives for young adults. Children with mild type I OI can be differentiated from other OI children, have generally normal motor activity and are independent for self-care. Many children with mild disease have the musculoskeletal ability to play non-contact sports. For these children, the strength and functionality of the ankle plantar-flexor group is critical for jumping, hopping and maneuvering, and strengthening these muscles can be a high-yield goal. Joint hyperextensibility may hamper movement in these children and should be addressed. In patients with potential, protected ambulation should be initiated as early as possible. This frequently requires a combination of surgical correction and physical therapy. Individuals with OI should be under the care of an orthopedic surgeon with experience in the management of this disorder. Fractures should be evaluated with standard x-rays and should be managed with reduction and realignment, as needed, to prevent loss of function. Cast immobilization should be monitored to minimize
