Osteogenesis Imperfecta
KEYWORDS: type, bone, pubmed, imperfecta, osteogenesis imperfecta, osteogenesis, collagen, mutations, types, free, article, article pubmed, free article, pmc free, pmc


disorder. Fractures should be evaluated with standard x-rays and should be managed with reduction and realignment, as needed, to prevent loss of function. Cast immobilization should be monitored to minimize any worsening of osteoporosis and muscle weakness. The decision to intervene surgically must take into account functional as well as skeletal status. Appropriate goals for surgery are to correct bowing to enhance ambulation potential and to interrupt a cycle of fracturing and refracturing. The classical surgical procedure was developed by Sofield and Millar, with multiple osteotomies, realignment of the long bone sections and fixation with intramedullary rods. Indications for this procedure include long bone angulation of greater than 40°, functional valgus or varus deformity which interferes with gait, or more than two fractures in the same bone in a 6-month period. Both elongating [Bailey-Dubow (BD) and Fassier-Duval (FD)] and non-elongating (Rush) rods are currently used for intramedullary fixation. Elongating rods have the advantage of extension with growth, but have a high rate of migration from OI bone ( 107 ). A recent study found proximal migration in 7 of 50 postoperative femora studied ( 108 ). The risk of proximal rod migration was decreased by correcting angular deformity and securing the rod at the distal physis. The possibility of migration needs special attention at follow-up, since it is still significant with FD as well as BD rods. The complication rate is similar for the two types of extensible rods, so choice of rod is best based on surgical experience and preference ( 109 ). Initial FD femoral rodding improved ambulation, self-care and gross motor skills (including mobility) in children with OI with significant femoral deformities beyond physiological expectations ( 110 ). Rush rods have less migration potential but need revision as the child outgrows them. In general, intramedullary rods induce significant cortical atrophy through mechanical unloading, especially in the diaphysis. The least stiff and smallest diameter rod possible should be utilized. Current intramedullary rodding procedures necessitate smaller incisions and, therefore, reduce pain and improve healing time after surgery. Rarely, long-leg bracing may be indicated to provide support for weak muscles, control joint alignment and improve upright balance. Stabilizing the pelvic girdle and controlling the knees helps facilitate independent movement. Braces do not provide protection per se against fractures. Instead, bracing support promotes increased independent activity that may actually put the child at risk of incurring additional fractures. However, the advantages
