Osteogenesis Imperfecta
KEYWORDS: type, bone, pubmed, imperfecta, osteogenesis imperfecta, osteogenesis, collagen, mutations, types, free, article, article pubmed, free article, pmc free, pmc


do not provide protection per se against fractures. Instead, bracing support promotes increased independent activity that may actually put the child at risk of incurring additional fractures. However, the advantages of increased independence and higher functional level tend to outweigh any increased fracture risk. Due to an increasing lifespan in OI patients, clinicians may see increased incidence of OI hip osteoarthritis. In a series of patients with OI undergoing total hip arthroplasty with a median follow-up of 7.6 years (4 to 35 years), the survival rate of the primary total hip arthroplasty was 16% and there were ten complications: fractures, septic loosening and aseptic loosening ( 111 ). Preoperative planning, because of altered patient anatomy, should involve a custom appliance fabricated based on the patient’s CT scan to improve the long-term outcome. Significant scoliosis is a feature of most type III and some type IV OI. Severe scoliosis does not correlate with number of collapsed vertebrae, because ligamentous laxity is a strong contributing factor. Since resultant thoracic deformities can lead to pulmonary compromise, routine attention to the OI spine is warranted ( 7 ). Scoliosis in OI does not respond to management with Milwaukee bracing. Spinal fusion with Harrington rod placement can provide stabilization and some correction to prevent pulmonary complications, but will not fully correct the curve. For best results, corrective surgery should occur when the curvature is less than 60°. In a study of 316 patients with OI, 157 (50%) had scoliosis (39% for type I, 54% for type IV, and 68% for type III) ( 112 ). Scoliosis surgery utilizing hooks and wire systems produce many complications in OI ( 113 ). Novel methods utilizing pedicle screw fixation systems have unique biomechanical advantages; long term effectiveness remains to be determined. Pharmacological Therapy When bisphosphonate treatment was introduced in the 1990’s, it caused great excitement in the OI patient community and generated a rush to treatment. These drugs are synthetic analogs of pyrophosphate; their mechanism of action involves the inhibition of bone resorption. Bisphosphonates are deposited on the bone surface and are ingested by osteoclasts, inducing apoptosis. Because they inhibit bone resorption, these drugs have been used to treat malignancies with bony metastases, most commonly breast cancer. In the oncology context, their ability to attenuate the need for major pain medications has been noted, although the duration of this effect was limited in controlled trials. There is also
