Osteogenesis Imperfecta
KEYWORDS: type, bone, pubmed, imperfecta, osteogenesis imperfecta, osteogenesis, collagen, mutations, types, free, article, article pubmed, free article, pmc free, pmc


the oncology context, their ability to attenuate the need for major pain medications has been noted, although the duration of this effect was limited in controlled trials. There is also extensive experience with these compounds in treatment of post-menopausal osteoporosis. Only limited knowledge about treatment of patients with structurally abnormal bone matrix had been gathered, and they had not previously been used to treat children. When used in patients with OI, bisphosphonates would presumably not affect the deposition of abnormal collagen into matrix. Thus, patients might have quantitatively more bone after treatment, but it would not be more structurally normal than before drug administration. Uncontrolled studies of pamidronate use in children, teenagers and infants with OI reported not only increased vertebral DEXA and geometry and decreased long bone fractures, but also improved muscle strength, mobility and bone pain ( 114 , 115 ). Anecdotal use of the drug was widely associated with decreased bone pain, especially in the spine, and increased endurance. However, controlled trials ( 116 - 119 ), while they have demonstrated the expected increase in vertebral bone density and, more importantly, in vertebral height and area, have not shown an improvement in motor function, strength, or self-reported pain. No controlled trial reported a decreased incidence of long-bone fractures, although two studies obtained downward trends and two reported decreased relative risks when fractures were modeled for initial BMD, gender and OI type using unspecified models. Meta-analyses do not support significant reduction in long bone fractures in children treated with bisphosphonates ( 120 ). In fact, the lack of improvement in fracture rates in the controlled double-blind trial of alendronate led the FDA to specify a labeling change for the drug to indicate that no change in fracture or pain incidence occurred with treatment and that alendronate was not indicated for the treatment of OI ( 121 ). The equivocal improvement in fractures in children is illuminated by data from bisphosphonate treatment of the Brtl mouse ( 89 ). Treatment increases bone volume and load to fracture of murine femora, but concomitantly decreases material strength and elastic modulus. Femurs become, ironically, more brittle after prolonged treatment, and bands of mineralized cartilage create matrix discontinuities that decrease bone quality. Prolonged treatment also alters osteoblast morphology. However, pamidronate treatment has not caused osteonecrosis of the jaw in any reported OI cases. Because of the long half-life of bisphosphonates and the risk
