Osteogenesis Imperfecta
KEYWORDS: type, bone, pubmed, imperfecta, osteogenesis imperfecta, osteogenesis, collagen, mutations, types, free, article, article pubmed, free article, pmc free, pmc


treatment also alters osteoblast morphology. However, pamidronate treatment has not caused osteonecrosis of the jaw in any reported OI cases. Because of the long half-life of bisphosphonates and the risk of adynamic bone, it is important to use the lowest effective cumulative dose for improved bone density and vertebral geometry. Also, given the balance of bone benefits and detriments, the question arises as to how long children with OI should be treated and what cumulative dose they should receive. Two studies have shown that the maximum effect for bone histology and bone density is achieved in 2-3 years of treatment ( 117 , 122 ). Also, the interval between cycles is currently the subject of a clinical trial to determine whether a longer cycle interval and thus a lower cumulative dose is equally efficacious. There has also been discussion of when to stop treatment, with some investigators proposing treatment to epiphyseal closure to prevent fractures at the junction of treated and non-treated bone. On the NIH treatment regimen, we have not seen any junctional fractures. Our view is that long-term adynamic bone is a greater detriment than a junctional fracture. We favor a regimen in which children are treated with pamidronate for 3 years, then followed carefully for fractures, bone density and vertebral geometry over the subsequent years. Some children may require another year of treatment at one or two subsequent time point to solidify the gains in bone volume. The hope that preservation of vertebral geometry in OI children treated with pamidronate would impede the initiation or progress of scoliosis has not been fulfilled. While asymmetric vertebral compressions contribute to scoliosis, improving vertebral height expands thoracic volume but does not significantly change the incidence or degree of scoliosis in OI types IV and III. This is likely because the laxity of spinal ligaments in OI is still sufficient to lead to scoliosis. The oral bisphosphonate risedronate has been administered to both children ( 123 ) and adults with OI. A moderate improvement in fractures was reported in children during the first treatment year, but fracture incidence approached that of the placebo group during the 2 nd and 3 rd years of treatment. Adults treated with risedronate experienced an increase in bone density but not a decrease in fracture incidence ( 124 ). Bisphosphonates were reported to be marginally effective in type VI OI, caused by PEDF deficiency ( 125
