Osteogenesis Imperfecta
KEYWORDS: type, bone, pubmed, imperfecta, osteogenesis imperfecta, osteogenesis, collagen, mutations, types, free, article, article pubmed, free article, pmc free, pmc


in bone density but not a decrease in fracture incidence ( 124 ). Bisphosphonates were reported to be marginally effective in type VI OI, caused by PEDF deficiency ( 125 ). It was later postulated ( 126 ) that because bisphosphonates bind to mineralized bone before they are ingested by osteoclasts, the increased amounts of unmineralized osteoid in type VI OI bone might disrupt bisphosphonate deposition. Denosumab, an anti-RANK ligand antibody that inhibits osteoclast activity, was more effective than bisphosphonate in normalizing bone turnover for these patients in a short-term study. Denosumab also has the advantage of a much shorter half-life than pamidronate, 3-4 months vs 10 years. Denosumab treatment studies remain small and uncontrolled. In addition, serious side effects involving altered calcium homeostasis (hypocalcemia on, and rebound hypercalcemia off, treatment) indicate need for further research and development. Teriparatide, another pharmacologic option to improve bone mineral density, is a human parathyroid hormone analog that has shown preliminary effectiveness in adults with type I OI ( 127 , 128 ). Observations of less significant effect in types III and IV OI, possible increased risk for developing osteosarcoma, and more severe bone loss following teriparatide withdrawal have ruled out the use of this drug in the pediatric population and again posit the need for further research ( 129 ). The use of growth hormone to ameliorate the cardinal feature of short stature in types III and IV OI is still under investigation. Approximately half of the children studied up to 2010 achieved a sustained increase in linear growth of 50% or more over baseline growth rate ( 130 ). Most responders (about 70%) had moderate type IV OI, and higher baseline PICP values. In addition, responders had increased bone formation and density. Patients who respond to growth hormone have increased BMD and improved bone histology (BV/TV). Additional data have supported the positive effect of rGH on BMD and on growth rate, even though rGH studies in patients with OI are rare. Prepubertal patients with mild and moderate OI (types I, IV) were treated for 1 year in a randomized controlled study with the combination of resorption-inhibiting bisphosphonate and anabolic rGH. BMD at the spine and wrist, and overall growth rate were improved, although small sample size precluded conclusions about fracture incidence ( 131 ). Therefore, GH is encouraging as an anabolic therapy. Unfortunately, it will be applicable to only a subgroup of
