Osteogenesis Imperfecta
KEYWORDS: type, bone, pubmed, imperfecta, osteogenesis imperfecta, osteogenesis, collagen, mutations, types, free, article, article pubmed, free article, pmc free, pmc


although small sample size precluded conclusions about fracture incidence ( 131 ). Therefore, GH is encouraging as an anabolic therapy. Unfortunately, it will be applicable to only a subgroup of OI children. Other drugs that have an anabolic action on bone are in active testing in murine models for OI, since the trials of rGH in pediatric OI were encouraging for effectiveness of anabolic agents. The novel drugs under study are both antibodies, one to sclerostin, a negative regulator of bone formation in the Wnt pathway, and one to TGF-beta, a coordinator of bone remodeling produced by osteoblasts. The neutralizing sclerostin antibody (Scl-Ab) is an anabolic bone drug currently used in clinical osteoporosis trials. Sclerostin is an osteocyte protein that acts on osteoblasts to inhibit bone formation via the canonical wnt signaling pathway. Two weeks of treatment with Scl-Ab increased bone formation rate in the Brtl OI murine model, increasing bone mass and improving bone mechanical properties (including fracture risk) without hindering mineralization ( 132 ). Furthermore, five weeks of treatment increased bone formation, bone mass, and bone strength in an adult mouse model of OI ( 133 ). Even after correcting for age, sex, bone mineral content, and body mass index, other studies report lower sclerostin levels in OI-I, III and IV, indicating negative feedback to stop bone loss ( 134 ). Gene Therapy Gene therapy of a dominant negative disorder such as OI is not amenable to the replacement approach being employed for recessive enzyme disorders. Dominant negative disorders are disorders of commission; the mutant collagen is synthesized, secreted from the cell and incorporated into matrix, where it actively participates in weakening the structure. Therefore, researchers have used approaches that either suppress expression of mutant collagen or replace mutant cells with donated bone cell progenitors. The first approach to mutation suppression is modeled on type I OI, in which individuals have a null allele, make half the normal amount of collagen and have mild disease. Specific suppression of expression of the mutant allele, by hammerhead ribozymes, for example, would transform the recipient biochemically from type II, III or IV OI into type I ( 135 ). Although this suppression is complete and specific in vitro, and substantial (50%) and highly selective (90%) in cells, the successful application to animal models is still in development. The second approach attempts to replicate the natural example of mosaic carriers, who have
