Osteogenesis Imperfecta
KEYWORDS: type, bone, pubmed, imperfecta, osteogenesis imperfecta, osteogenesis, collagen, mutations, types, free, article, article pubmed, free article, pmc free, pmc


and highly selective (90%) in cells, the successful application to animal models is still in development. The second approach attempts to replicate the natural example of mosaic carriers, who have a substantial proportion of cells heterozygous for the collagen mutation but are clinically normal. They demonstrate that the presence of a substantial burden of mutant cells can be below the threshold of clinical disease. Studies of osteoblasts from mosaic carriers of type III and IV OI have shown that 40-75% of cells are mutant, setting the threshold for minimal symptoms at 30-40% normal cells ( 136 ). Transplantation studies using murine models have evaluated the potential of mesenchymal stem cells to treat OI. Progenitor cells have been demonstrated to engraft at low levels in oim ( 137 , 138 ). Most encouraging have been transplantation studies of adult GFP+ bone marrow into Brtl pups in utero . Despite low engraftment of bone (about 2%), transplantation eliminated the perinatal lethality of Brtl mice and improved the biomechanical properties of femora in 2-month old treated Brtl mice ( 139 ). However, other murine transplantation studies have indicated a limited regenerative capacity of transplanted cells beyond 6 months ( 140 ). A single human fetus received in utero transplantation of fetal mesenchymal stem-cells; engraftment (0.3%) could still be demonstrated in bone at age 9 months. Evaluation of clinical outcome was complicated by treatment in infancy with bisphosphonate, but the child had sustained fractures and had significant growth deficiency ( 141 ). Bone marrow transplantation of OI children with marrow-derived mesenchymal cells claimed transient improvement in growth, total body mineral content and fractures ( 142 ), but the methodology of these studies was controversial ( 143 ). A final approach is a variant on cell transplantation and involves gene targeting of mutant COL1A1 and COL1A2 using adeno-associated vectors in adult mesenchymal stem cells (MSC). This has been successful in less than half of 1% of cells with a COL1A1 or COL1A2 mutation, and the production of normal collagen by these targeted cells has been demonstrated. This approach could be potentially valuable for individuals with OI who are past early childhood. However, issues with low targeting success and random integration need to be solved before this approach is suitable for clinical trials ( 144 , 145 ). ACKNOWLEDGMENT The authors thank Helen Rajpar, PhD and Simone M. Smith, PhD for their work on prior versions
