Article
KEYWORDS: cv-, using, viral, isolates, rna, sequences, analysis, indian, usa, fam, viruses, figure, giv-, strains, tree


software to identify the nucleotide substitutions . The aligned filewassubsequentlyanalyzedtoidentifythemutationsbyemployinganin-housePython FASTA file was subsequently analyzed to identify the mutations by employing an in- pipeline. To confirm the derived mutations, we utilized MEGA11, where the aligned house Python pipeline. To confirm the derived mutations, we utilized MEGA11, where FASTAfilewastranslatedtoassessspecificchangesattheaminoacidlevel. Weexamined the aligned FASTA file was translated to assess specific changes at the amino acid level. Wseeq euxeanmciensedo bsetaqiuneendcefsr oobmtaiInCeMd fRro-Nma ItCioMnRa-lNInatsiotintualt eInostfitVuitreo olfo Vgiyr,oPlougnye, ,PIunnde,i aIn(dICiaM R-NIV) (fIrCoMmRt-hNeIVy)e farrosm2 0th0e9 yaenadrs2 2002039 taondu n20c2o3v teor unnocvoevlemr nuotvaetli omnust,aitfioannsy, .if any. A Aschsecmhaetmic arteicprreespenretasteionnta otifo ntheo fcothmeplceotem wploertkeflowwo rfkroflmow safmropmle sparmocepslseinpgr otoc essing to analyses is shown in Figure 2. analysesisshowninFigure2. FFiigguurere 2.2 S.c S h c e h m e a m ti a c t r i e c p r r e e p se r n es ta e t n io ta n t o io f n th o e f w th or e k w flo o w rk . flow. 3. Results 3.1. MolecularCharacterizationofEnterovirus-PositiveSamples Amongthen=301ocularswabs,158werefoundtobeEV-positive.AlltheEV-positive sampleswerefurthertyped,and73werespecificallyidentifiedastheCV-A24vserotype throughamplificationandsequencingofthepartial3Cproteaseregion. Viruses 2025, 17, x FOR PEER REVIEW6 of 19 3. Results 3.1. Molecular Characterization of Enterovirus-Positive Samples Among the n = 301 ocular swabs, 158 were found to be EV-positive. All the EV- Viruses2025,17,371 6of18 positive samples were further typed, and 73 were specifically identified as the CV-A24v serotype through amplification and sequencing of the partial 3C protease region. 3.2. IsolationofCV-A24v 3.2. Isolation of CV-A24v Amongthe73typedCV-A24vspecimens, 32wereselectedforanattemptatvirus Among the 73 typed CV-A24v specimens, 32 were selected for an attempt at virus isolation. TheassaywasconductedusingtheHeLacellline, culturedwithina24-hour isolation. The assay was conducted using the HeLa cell line, cultured within a 24-hour timeframe. Blind passages in duplicates were carried out from P-1 to P-5. Figure 3A,B timeframe. Blind passages in duplicates were carried out from P-1 to P-5. Figure 3A, B depict samples that consistently showed morphological changes in the form of CPEs, depict samples that consistently showed morphological changes in the form of CPEs, noted from day 4 onwards. The most pronounced CPEs comprised cell rounding, cell noted from day 4 onwards. The most pronounced CPEs comprised cell rounding, cell aggregationintoclumps,increasedgranularityduetotheformationofinclusionbodies, aggregation into clumps, increased granularity due to the formation of inclusion bodies, andcelldetachmentfromthesubstrate. Cellsexhibitingmorethan90to95%CPEswere and cell detachment from the substrate. Cells exhibiting more than 90 to 95% CPEs were harvehsatervde.sCteodn.fi Crmoantfiiormnsaotifotnhse voifr athleis ovliartaels iwsoelraetepse rwfoerrme epdebrfyosrumbejedc tbinyg sPu-b5jevcitrianlgly Psa-5te viral toRTl-yqsPaCteR t.oS RixTC-qVP-CAR24. vSiixs oClVat-eAs2w4evr iesothlautseso bwtaeirnee
