Chapter
KEYWORDS: developing, development, products, countries, product, costs, cost, drugs, diseases, research, new, million, vaccines, process, vaccine


Product Development Priorities Adel Mahmoud, Patricia M. Danzon, John H. Barton, and Roy D. Mugerwa The overall goal of this chapter is to introduce the multistep Even though investigators have explored the conceptual process that leads to new product development and use and to framework for understanding how knowledge may be trans- outline the economic and institutional context for products lated into products over the years,consensus is lacking on the developed specifically for major global diseases.In addition,it specific drivers of the process or on the effects of alternative attempts to define the major financial efforts under way to help institutional arrangements. stimulate the process. Because product development is inte- Several features of the innovation process and its environ- grally related to intellectual property issues and to regulatory ment are essential for product development (Hilleman 2000; and liability concerns,these topics are also included.Data on Nederbragt 2000; Schmid and Smith 2002). Innovation product development for the developing countries are not advancesthroughasequenceofstepsfromdiscovery,through systematically available.We have, therefore, used information process development, to animal and human testing—a se- based on analyses for developed countries and,when possible, quencewithmanyoverlappingfeatures.Discoverymaycomein made comparisons. twoways:inanonlinear,quantum-leapfashionthatresultsin findingsofanunexpectedorunpredictablenatureorinalinear fashionthatbuildsonexistingknowledge.Nonlinearprocesses INTRODUCTION are characteristically random despite many efforts to inject varying degrees of predictability or goal definitions (Webber In recent decades, scientific advances in many disciplines, andKremer2001).Bycontrast,thegoaloflinearinnovationis particularly molecular biology, genomics, and medicinal definedimprovementofaknownprocessormechanism. chemistry, opened the way for developing new therapeutic agents,several vaccines,and enhanced diagnostic capabilities. Discovery The central questions for the purpose ofthis chapter are what drives research,discovery,and development and what institu- Product development is fundamentally anchored to the discov- tional and financing arrangements are necessary to promote ery process.In modern societies,discovery represents a societal research and development (R&D) for global diseases? Medical capability that involves multiple institutions and constituents. needs and public health imperatives constitute the logical The concept of networks of innovation has been introduced answer to the first question;however,our armamentarium for to describe one of the processes of discovery that leads to combating major global diseases suffers from certain funda- the development of pharmaceutical products or vaccines process whereby the findings of many sciences are translated tions are made in organizations widely distributed across soci- cines) or reverse disease (therapeutic and diagnostic products). biotechnology companies,or the large organizations dedicated to R&D.Because of the multiplicity of these settings and the market needs to determine the level ofinvestment required for traditions of open scientific communications,combined with plant construction and operation are
