Chapter
KEYWORDS: developing, development, products, countries, product, costs, cost, drugs, diseases, research, new, million, vaccines, process, vaccine


HICs generally rely on equity capital from venture capitalists to US$450 million per year, with the potential to grow to and other private investors, whereas established firms issue US$700 million per year .This amount is within shares in the broadly based public equity markets but finance the range normally considered necessary to attract private most of their R&D from retained earnings on existing prod- investment. However, estimated potential revenues for anti- ucts.The need to provide a competitive return to shareholders malarials and treatments for other LIC diseases are still well means that commercial firms can invest only in products that below this threshold.In addition to the limited ability to pay, focused on products with a potential market in industrial medicines and vaccines effectively, which further reduces countries because of their residents’ability to pay prices suffi- incentives for R&D investment. cient to cover costs. Given the low potential revenues and lack of necessary infrastructure, R&D for tropical diseases and TB for the past Differential,or “Tiered,”Pricing. For global products—that 25years has been far less,relative to need,than for global dis- is,productstargetingdiseasesthatoccurinallcountries,suchas eases.The number ofNCEs per million disability-adjusted life cardiovasculardiseases—revenuesgeneratedinHICsandinthe years lost (a proxy for research relative to need) was 0.55 for moreaffluentsectorsofmiddle-incomecountriesaresufficient infectious and parasitic diseases but roughly 1.25 to 1.44 for to recoup the investment in R&D to the extent that, ideally, cardiovascular system diseases (Troullier and others 2002). pricesinLICsneedtocoveronlytheincrementalormarginal Between 1975 and 1999,just 16 of the 1,393 NCEs registered costsofproductionforthesecountries. were for tropical diseases or TB (Troullier and others 2002).5 146 | Disease Control Priorities in Developing Countries | Adel Mahmoud, Patricia M. Danzon, John H. Barton, and others Several ofthese products were fortuitous by-products ofcom- Fight AIDS,Tuberculosis,and Malaria,is allocated primarily to mercial research efforts initially intended for the oncology or paying for vaccinations and treatment.By paying for vaccines veterinary market . and drugs, such financing could provide additional revenues Multinational companies appear to be showing some signs to suppliers of these products and, hence, stimulate R&D. of increasing their investment in tropical disease R&D. For However, for the financing of vaccines and therapeutics to example, GlaxoSmithKline, AstraZeneca, and Novartis have serve as an effective pull mechanism for future R&D, such recently announced or established research centers devoted to financing must be sustained and must pay originators enough tropical disease.AstraZeneca’s facility in Bangalore,India,will that they can recoup the costs of R&D.Thus,purchasers such focus on TB treatments and receive a commitment ofperson-
