Chapter
KEYWORDS: developing, development, products, countries, product, costs, cost, drugs, diseases, research, new, million, vaccines, process, vaccine


n.a. n.a. 1,200 353,000,000 Source:Sander 2004. n.a. (cid:1)not applicable; — (cid:1)not available. Table 6.4 Product Development PPPs’ Portfolios, 2004 Number of products in PPP Preclinical trials Phase 1 Phase 2 Phase 3 Aeras 2 Drugs for Neglected Diseases Initiativea 3 European Malaria Vaccine Initiative Foundation for Innovative New Diagnostics 1 1 1 GATBb 10 0 1 0 Human Hookworm Vaccine Initiative 2 International AIDS Vaccine Initiative 2 2 1 Institute for OneWorld Health 3 1 1 International Partnership for Microbicides Microbicides Development Programme 1 1 MMV 14 in discovery 4 2 2 Malaria Vaccine Initiative 8 6 1 Pediatric Dengue Vaccine Initiative South African AIDS Vaccine Initiativec 6 0 Total 47 16 7 8 Of which drugs 26 8 5 8 Of which vaccines 19 8 2 0 a. The Drugs for Neglected Diseases Initiative has two malaria drugs in phase 3 that are partly financed by the European Union. b. The GATB anticipates a portfolio of three phase 1 trials and expects its current phase 2 trial will enter phase 3 before 2007. Its portfolio also includes platform-related investments. c. The South African AIDS Vaccine Initiative does not yet have any of its own products at phase 1 but is collaborating on two projects that are at this stage. Product Development Priorities | 149 also far short of the Commission on Macroeconomics and unclear.Second,the presumption that patents result in subop- Health’s target for 2006 of US$3 billion in R&D spending for timal drug consumption because ofmonopoly pricing ignores diseases in developing countries . the widespread prevalence of insurance in HICs and middle- income countries,so that,in practice,consumers face out-of- pocket prices that are already close to marginal cost.Third,and Industry in Developing Countries most important, is the difficulty of estimating the value of a Pharmaceutical firms in developing countries have tradition- product before its use in the market,because both positive fea- ally focused on the generic sector,making use oftheir expertise tures (additional uses) and negative features (side effects) may in engineering and other skills needed for efficient drug manu- be discovered.In addition,distortions in the amounts paid for facturing.More recently,the adoption of product patents has patent rights would distort incentives for R&D.Moreover,the created incentives for LIC firms to invest in R&D.For example, proposal would reduce originator firms’incentives to invest in India adopted product patents as of 2005,and several leading postlaunch improvements. generic firms are already developing new products. However, assuming that these
