Chapter
KEYWORDS: developing, development, products, countries, product, costs, cost, drugs, diseases, research, new, million, vaccines, process, vaccine


proposal would reduce originator firms’incentives to invest in India adopted product patents as of 2005,and several leading postlaunch improvements. generic firms are already developing new products. However, assuming that these firms will focus their efforts on developing drugs for tropical diseases would be a mistake. As for-profit INTELLECTUAL PROPERTY firms,they face similar incentives to those ofcommercial firms in any country, which means focusing on the global diseases The issue of intellectual property is involved in the debate that offer the greatest expected net revenues rather than dis- about the perceived conflict between patents and access. eases specific to LICs.Nonetheless,several policies might help target R&D efforts in these countries toward tropical diseases. The Role of Patents in Drug Development These policies include collaboration with the product develop- ment PPPs, provision of special government funding or tax Under a patent system, an inventor is entitled to a limited credits for products that target LIC diseases,and provision of monopoly for a period oftime,typically 20 years.This exclusiv- subsidies targeting the development and scientific testing of ity may permit high prices and, consequently, an increased products derived from local products and other traditional economic return that serves as an incentive to develop new medicines. products.The system has worked quite effectively in the phar- maceutical area,where the incentives deriving from exclusivity have resulted in important new drugs.The first generation of Other Proposed Mechanisms for Increasing Affordability patients pays a higher price than subsequent generations,which In evaluating other proposals for making drugs or vaccines provides compensationfor the large research costs involved in available in developing countries, distinguishing proposals to developing a new drug.When the patent expires,the price nor- stimulate new product development from proposals to increase mally falls as generic competitors enter the market. the affordability of existing drugs is critical. One proposal Even though this approach has been extremely successful in pertaining to affordability is that multinational companies the developed world,it does not generally work for products should voluntarily license production rights to LIC producers. for which the main market is limited to the developing world. Experience with generic markets across countries indicates that The total magnitude ofthe market in the developing world for necessary conditions for such out-licensing to reduce prices to products for HIV, malaria, TB, or less widespread diseases is consumers are (a) the existence ofcompetition between multi- likely to be too small to provide an adequate incentive for the ple licensees, (b)
