Chapter
KEYWORDS: developing, development, products, countries, product, costs, cost, drugs, diseases, research, new, million, vaccines, process, vaccine


example for illustrating this process is the FDA fundswillbeneededforthispurpose.Suchfundsarecurrently (2004).Over the years,FDA regulations have developed into a inadequate. clear pathway.The process is initiated through an application by the manufacturer and a step-by-step approach toward licensing.The agency gets involved in every phase ofthe devel- The Research Tool Issue opment process and approves in advance the experimental medical research and ofpatenting practice.This is the research lected all the information, the agency examines the materials tool problem:many ofthe basic tools used in medical research submitted and reaches a decision. The FDA process extends are now themselves patented.For example,the research use of through regulating and approving marketing materials and certain genetically modified mice is patented in the United postlicensing collection ofefficacy data and information about States,as are the uses ofmany gene sequences and protein crys- possible side effects. tal coordinates. In the case of the malaria antigen merozoite The FDA approval process differs somewhat for pharma- surface protein 1,some 39 patent families cover various aspects ceutical products and vaccines.One of the main differences is of the protein (U.K. Commission on Intellectual Property the obligation of vaccine manufacturers to prepare materials Rights 2002). for use in phase 3 trials in the final and approved production Such patents can significantly complicate research and facility. This requirement means that the firm must invest in makeit more expensive.Each one that might affect a particular completing the manufacturing plant well ahead oflaunching a research program requires legal analysis to determine whether specific product,a process that can take three to six years.The it is valid and actually applies to the planned research program. regulatory process for vaccines also dictates batch release for If relevant,a license must be sought or the research program every batch readyfor deployment in the marketplace.This part must be redesigned.The more patents are involved,the greater of the regulatory process,although it ensures quality control, the likelihood that a patent holder will refuse to grant a license adds to costs and to the timeline. or will demand an exorbitant sum.Even though Walsh,Arora, In 1996, the European Union adopted a centralized and Cohen’s (2003) study finds no cases of research programs procedure for applications and approvals through the being canceled midstream because of this problem, it finds European Medicines Evaluation Agency and through a mutual 152 | Disease Control Priorities in Developing Countries | Adel Mahmoud, Patricia M. Danzon, John H. Barton, and others recognition process (Pignatti, Boone, and Moulon
