Chapter
KEYWORDS: developing, development, products, countries, product, costs, cost, drugs, diseases, research, new, million, vaccines, process, vaccine


Agency and through a mutual 152 | Disease Control Priorities in Developing Countries | Adel Mahmoud, Patricia M. Danzon, John H. Barton, and others recognition process (Pignatti, Boone, and Moulon 2004). In Whether or how this trend in the United States will affect many ways,the procedure parallels the FDA process,with sev- the developing world is unclear. Europe has moved toward a eral differences reflecting the fact that the European Union liability system somewhat similar to that of the United States, consists ofmany countries,each with a country-based process but many developing nations may not have such a tort liability munitywide process. The International Conference on pating in pharmaceutical development might be sued in the Harmonization of Technical Requirements for Regulation of United States for harm occurring in the developing world. Pharmaceuticals for Human Use was established to achieve Doctrines exist that restrict such suits,but firms may fear that coordination of the process of drug development between these doctrines are insufficiently effective.Hence,recognizing industry, Japan, the United States, and the European Union the potential costs of protecting against liability and, at the (Abraham and Reed 2002;Ohno 2002).The conference’s activ- same time,ensuring that products are designed and manufac- ities have improved understanding of the regulatory process tured to the highest standards will be important. and reduced duplication. In contrast, the absence of a unified or harmonized NOTES approach to product registration and approval at the global level adds multiple layers of complexity. National systems 1.The phase transition probabilities in DiMasi, Hansen, and consist of complex processes with differing thresholds and Grabowski (2003) and the overall success probability of0.215,conditional interpretations and with changing requirements in addition on entering human trials,are estimated from a larger sample of538 inves- tigational compounds first tested in humans between 1983 and 1994. to differing Global Manufacturing Program standards and 2.The size oftrial required to estimate statistical significance depends enforcement. A number of recent attempts have been made on the magnitude ofthe drug effect;the extent ofstratification within the confidence;and other factors. Organization’s effort to expand its prequalification system,to 3.DiMasi,Hansen,and Grabowski’s (2003) data for average cost and develop technical standards earlier in the approval process,and average number of patients are based on actual,retrospective cost data, to expand the availability ofreference reagents for international whereas the GATB estimates are prospective estimates (best guesses) based on prior clinical trials for tuberculosis drugs in the United States and a sur- calibration (Milstien and Belgharbi 2004).These
