Guidelines
KEYWORDS: patients, pbc, disease, liver, udca, risk, therapy, treatment, patients pbc, guidelines, clinical, alp, evidence, cirrhosis, strong


Guidelines The British Society of Gastroenterology/UK- PBC primary biliary cholangitis treatment and management guidelines Gideon M Hirschfield,1,2,3 Jessica K Dyson,4,5,6 Graeme J M Alexander,7,8 Michael H Chapman,9 Jane Collier,10 Stefan Hübscher,3,11 Imran Patanwala,12,13 Stephen P Pereira,7,8,9 Collette Thain,14 Douglas Thorburn,7,8 Dina Tiniakos,5 Martine Walmsley,15 George Webster,9 David E J Jones4,5,6 For numbered affiliations see ABSTRACT document to provide detailed advice and recom- end of article. Primary biliary cholangitis (formerly known as primary mendations on the best approaches to the manage- biliary cirrhosis, PBC) is an autoimmune liver disease in ment of the disease. A series of recommendations Correspondence to which a cycle of immune mediated biliary epithelial cell and audit standards are proposed to ensure that Professor Gideon M Hirschfield; injury, cholestasis and progressive fibrosis can culminate patients are offered timely licensed therapy (ursode- g. hirschfield@ bham. ac. uk over time in an end-stage biliary cirrhosis. Both genetic oxycholic acid (UDCA), obeticholic acid (OCA)) in Received 11 September 2017 and environmental influences are presumed relevant to addition to being actively managed for symptoms as Revised 22 January 2018 disease initiation. PBC is most prevalent in women and well as complications of progressive liver disease. Accepted 23 January 2018 those over the age of 50, but a spectrum of disease is In brief its key recommendations, based on the Published Online First 28 March 2018 recognised in adult patients globally; male sex, younger GRADE classification system (Strong/Weak; quality age at onset (<45) and advanced disease at presentation of evidence: High/Moderate/Low/Very low), are: are baseline predictors of poorer outcome. As the disease 1. The presence of antimitochondrial antibodies is increasingly diagnosed through the combination (>1 in 40) or highly PBC-specific antinu- of cholestatic serum liver tests and the presence of clear antibodies, in the appropriate context of antimitochondrial antibodies, most presenting patients cholestatic liver biochemistry, without alterna- are not cirrhotic and the term cholangitis is more tive explanation, is usually sufficient for confi- accurate. Disease course is frequently accompanied by dently reaching the diagnosis of PBC (Strong; symptoms that can be burdensome for patients, and High). management of patients with PBC must address, in a 2. All patients with PBC should be offered struc- life-long manner, both disease progression and symptom tured life-long follow-up, recognising that burden. Licensed therapies include ursodeoxycholic different patients have different disease cours- acid (UDCA) and obeticholic acid (OCA), alongside es and may require different intensity of fol-
