Guidelines
KEYWORDS: patients, pbc, disease, liver, udca, risk, therapy, treatment, patients pbc, guidelines, clinical, alp, evidence, cirrhosis, strong


life-long follow-up, recognising that burden. Licensed therapies include ursodeoxycholic different patients have different disease cours- acid (UDCA) and obeticholic acid (OCA), alongside es and may require different intensity of fol- experimental new and re-purposed agents. Disease low-up (Strong; Moderate). management focuses on initiation of UDCA for all 3. Risk assessment should evaluate disease sever- patients and risk stratification based on baseline and ity and activity at baseline and on treatment. on-treatment factors, including in particular the response We recommend a combination of serum liver to treatment. Those intolerant of treatment with UDCA tests (to identify those with an elevated bil- or those with high-risk disease as evidenced by UDCA irubin, a platelet count <150 or biochemical treatment failure (frequently reflected in trial and clinical disease activity on treatment), imaging (liver practice as an alkaline phosphatase >1.67 × upper limit ultrasound to identify overt cirrhosis and sple- of normal and/or elevated bilirubin) should be considered nomegaly; transient elastography to identify for second-line therapy, of which OCA is the only increased liver stiffness) and recognition of currently licensed National Institute for Health and Care young age at disease onset (<45 years) and Excellence recommended agent. Follow-up of patients is male sex (Strong; Moderate). life-long and must address treatment of the disease and 4. To identify those at greatest risk of disease pro- management of associated symptoms. gression, we recommend that all patients have individualised risk stratification using bio- chemical response indices following 1 year of ExECuTivE SummARy UDCA therapy (Strong; High). We suggest that Primary biliary cholangitis (PBC) is a chronic auto- UDCA treated patients with an alkaline phos- immune liver disease. It continues to have a burden phatase (ALP) >1.67 x upper limit of normal of morbidity and mortality that spans both the (ULN) and/or elevated bilirubin <2 x ULN consequences of a sometimes progressive biliary represent a group of high-risk patients in injury, alongside a symptom profile notably encom- whom there is randomised controlled trial ev- passing pruritus, sicca complex, fatigue, abdominal idence for the addition of second-line therapy To cite: Hirschfield GM, Dyson JK, Alexander GJM, discomfort and arthralgias/bone pain. UK-PBC and (Weak; Moderate). et al. Gut the British Society of Gastroenterology (BSG) have 5. We recommend oral UDCA at 13–15 mg/kg/ 2018;67:1568–1594. partnered to develop a comprehensive guideline day is used as the first-line pharmacotherapy in 1568 Hirschfield GM, et al. Gut 2018;67:1568–1594. doi: Guidelines all patients with
