Guidelines
KEYWORDS: patients, pbc, disease, liver, udca, risk, therapy, treatment, patients pbc, guidelines, clinical, alp, evidence, cirrhosis, strong


at 13–15 mg/kg/ 2018;67:1568–1594. partnered to develop a comprehensive guideline day is used as the first-line pharmacotherapy in 1568 Hirschfield GM, et al. Gut 2018;67:1568–1594. doi: Guidelines all patients with PBC. If tolerated, treatment should usually Diagnostically, PBC should always be considered in patients be life-long (Strong; High). with otherwise unexplained repeated elevation of usually serum 6. In patients with inadequate response to UDCA (or UDCA alkaline phosphatase (ALP), but also gamma-glutamyl trans- intolerance) as defined by ALP >1.67 x ULN and/or ele- ferase (GGT). Autoantibody status should be checked in all such vated bilirubin <2 x ULN, the addition of OCA has been patients and the presence of clinically significant antimitochon- associated with improvements in biochemical surrogates of drial antibody (AMA or anti-M2 ELISA according to local prac- disease activity reasonably likely to predict improved out- tice) is sufficient to confirm the diagnosis in the absence of biopsy comes. We therefore recommend, in keeping with the NICE in most patients. The presence of specific anti-nuclear-rim, evaluation of OCA, that the addition of OCA for patients anti-nuclear-dot or anti-centromere antibodies (or anti-gp210 with an inadequate response to UDCA, or intolerant of or sp-100 by ELISA) can frequently be sufficient to diagnose UDCA, is considered. We recommend dose adjustment in AMA-negative PBC. True autoantibody-negative disease exists patients with advanced liver disease as per the drug label and can only be diagnosed on biopsy. (Strong; Low). Oral ursodeoxycholic acid (UDCA) therapy is appropriate for 7. We recommend all patients should be evaluated for the pres- all patients at a dose of 13–15 mg/kg/day. Crossover features ence of symptoms, particularly fatigue and itch. Clinicians suggestive of a potentially corticosteroid-responsive autoim- should recognise that severity of symptoms does not cor- mune hepatitis-type liver injury should be considered in patients relate with stage of disease (Strong; Moderate). only after further investigation, usually including a liver biopsy 8. True overlap with autoimmune hepatitis is probably rare and expert hepatopathological review. Inadequate response to and we suggest that, when suspected, liver biopsy with ex- UDCA (defined using validated criteria) has been robustly asso- pert clinicopathological review is needed to make the diag- ciated with increased risk of death or need for liver transplan- tation. The concept of treatment failure with UDCA is evolving nosis and guide treatment (Strong; Moderate). and no single risk tool has been identified as ideal; however, 9. We recommend that patients with PBC
