Guidelines
KEYWORDS: patients, pbc, disease, liver, udca, risk, therapy, treatment, patients pbc, guidelines, clinical, alp, evidence, cirrhosis, strong


treatment failure with UDCA is evolving nosis and guide treatment (Strong; Moderate). and no single risk tool has been identified as ideal; however, 9. We recommend that patients with PBC should be offered the concept that the lower the serum ALP value, the better the the chance to seek support from patient support groups patient outcome is reflected in all tools, alongside other predic- (Strong; Moderate). tive factors such as bilirubin, age and platelet count. Those clas- 10. We recommend that clinicians caring for patients with PBC sified by their clinicians as having an inadequate response to should consider introducing clinical audit tools to docu- UDCA have a clear enhanced risk of liver disease progression, ment and improve the quality of care delivered to patients and in particular such patients should be subject to long-term (Strong; Low). monitoring for the complications of cirrhosis. At the time of writing, although there are numerous risk scores proposed for inTRoduCTion patients with PBC, there is insufficient evidence to recommend Primary biliary cholangitis (formerly known as primary biliary one over another on the grounds of head-to-head data; each cirrhosis, PBC), is a life-long autoimmune cholestatic liver stratifier as discussed has, however, been validated. Despite disease that is a rare but important cause of chronic liver disease. this, it should be noted that the ‘Toronto’ biochemical strat- More than 15 000 individuals in the UK live with the risks and ification (an ALP value of at least 1.67 times the upper limit consequences of chronic biliary inflammation. New advances in of the normal (ULN) range and/or an abnormal total bilirubin) has been used in clinical trial settings and represents a simple and demonstrated the value to patients of approaches to risk and easily applied stratifier of risk for clinicians and patients. stratification. At present, care remains predominantly led by Second-line therapy in the UK has been licensed and recom- secondary and tertiary care physicians, who confirm diagnosis, mended by the National Institute for Health and Care Excel- initiate therapy and coordinate ongoing follow-up. These guide- lence (NICE) in the form of obeticholic acid (OCA). Patients lines are targeted predominantly towards those gastroenterolo- failing UDCA, or those intolerant of UDCA, therefore now have gists and hepatologists leading the care of patients with PBC. the opportunity to consider (conditionally) licensed therapy However, in addition they will be of value to nurses, primary other than UDCA. In addition,
