Guidelines
KEYWORDS: patients, pbc, disease, liver, udca, risk, therapy, treatment, patients pbc, guidelines, clinical, alp, evidence, cirrhosis, strong


leading the care of patients with PBC. the opportunity to consider (conditionally) licensed therapy However, in addition they will be of value to nurses, primary other than UDCA. In addition, other therapies (repurposed and care physicians and those more broadly involved in patient care, new) continue to also be evaluated. as well as patients themselves. The guidelines have been devel- Given the heightened awareness of poorer outcomes, atten- oped as a partnership between the BSG and UK-PBC, a Medical tion should be given to managing high-risk, younger and UDCA Research Council (MRC)-funded National Institute for Health non-responsive patients in specialist centres. Deterioration of Research (NIHR) Rare Disease adopted, stratified medicine PBC can be rapid in the end stages (particularly once a patient initiative in PBC (www. uk- pbc. com). The guideline development is jaundiced) and timely referral for consideration of transplan- has followed the BSG established pathway ( sg. org. tation, which is an effective treatment for end-stage disease, is lines_ advice_d ocument_ may2016. pdf),1 and includes develop- only rarely clinically relevant. ment of a broad membered cholestasis Guidelines Development While the majority of patients will have good QoL, for a signif- Group, including patient participation. icant and important minority, impairment is notable and clini- The impact for patients living with PBC reflects the risk of cians should enquire specifically about symptoms. Cholestatic development of advanced cirrhotic and portal hypertensive liver pruritus affects about a third of patients and effective first-line disease as well as marked effects on quality of life (QoL) from (bile acid sequestrants) and second-line (rifampicin) therapies associated symptoms. Treatment is available for patients with exist, although with tolerability and side effect concerns. Fatigue PBC and some of its symptoms, increasing the importance of is a significant problem in up to half of patients and is complex timely evaluation and diagnosis. Stratification of personal risk in nature. Social isolation is an important factor in poor QoL in of complications is emerging and highlights the ‘at-risk’ indi- fatigued patients with PBC. There is no single effective therapy viduals for whom additional new therapies may ultimately be for fatigue and a structured approach, including effective treat- suitable. ment of comorbid conditions such as pruritus (nocturnal itch Hirschfield GM, et al. Gut 2018;67:1568–1594. doi: 1569 Guidelines can be a significant factor in sleep disturbance contributing to informed patients would choose the recommended management fatigue) and depression, is needed. and that
