Guidelines
KEYWORDS: patients, pbc, disease, liver, udca, risk, therapy, treatment, patients pbc, guidelines, clinical, alp, evidence, cirrhosis, strong


al. Gut 2018;67:1568–1594. doi: 1569 Guidelines can be a significant factor in sleep disturbance contributing to informed patients would choose the recommended management fatigue) and depression, is needed. and that clinicians can structure their interactions with patients accordingly. Weak recommendations mean that patients’ choices will vary according to their values and preferences, and clini- GuidElinE dEvElopmEnT pRoCESS cians must ensure that patients’ care is in keeping with their These guidelines are designed primarily with the hospital physi- values and preferences. cian in mind. They nevertheless underpin the management of PBC across all specialities and between primary and hospital care. The guidelines have been produced as a consensus docu- BACkGRound ment of the BSG Liver Section and UK-PBC with the aim of PBC is a chronic autoimmune cholestatic liver disease.2 3 assisting clinicians in the diagnosis and management of patients Previous guidelines have included the European Association for with PBC. The guidelines were initiated by the Liver Section of the Study of the Liver (EASL) and American Association for the BSG and approved by the BSG Clinical Services and Stan- the Study of Liver Diseases (AASLD) practice guidelines which dards Committee (CSSC), with internal peer review by the BSG. review prior literature and cite many important references.4–6 Members of the writing committee included gastroenterolo- These current guidelines build from previous documents and gists, hepatologists, transplant physicians, liver pathologists and include an approach to the management of PBC wherein care is patient representatives. Additional review has been sought from delivered to patients based on individual risk of disease-associ- experts spanning primary and secondary care, as well as patient ated complications. charities. Where possible, clear, clinically applicable recommen- The characteristics of PBC are sustained elevation (>6 months) dations are provided. above the ULN for serum ALP activity, the presence of frequently granulomatous inflammation of the portal tracts accompanying Guidelines development Group (GdG) lymphocytic mediated damage to (and destruction of) the small The Guidelines Development Group (which met twice in person intrahepatic bile ducts, with accompanying cholestasis, and a and regularly by email) had a broad constitution. All members typical pattern of serum and secretory autoantibodies reactive declared their conflicts of interest to the BSG prior to guide- predominantly with mitochondrial antigens (AMA; reactivity line writing. Consensus was reached for therapeutic guidance with PBC-specific antinuclear antibodies (ANA) is also seen). where perceived conflicts were possible. Feedback was received The condition is progressive in most
