Guidelines
KEYWORDS: patients, pbc, disease, liver, udca, risk, therapy, treatment, patients pbc, guidelines, clinical, alp, evidence, cirrhosis, strong


line writing. Consensus was reached for therapeutic guidance with PBC-specific antinuclear antibodies (ANA) is also seen). where perceived conflicts were possible. Feedback was received The condition is progressive in most patients, with the devel- the British Association for the Study of the Liver, as well as the fied by treatment with UDCA.7 8 Criteria defined for the study were posted on the UK-PBC website for a time limited period use and underpin inclusion criteria for current trials.9 The pres- for open comment. ence of all three of cholestatic liver biochemistry, AMA or other These guidelines have been produced using a systematic review PBC-specific autoantibody at a titre of >1/40, and diagnostic of publications identified using PubMed, Medline and Cochrane or supportive liver histology indicates definite PBC; two out of database searches in line with the Appraisal of Guidelines three indicates the presence of probable PBC. In clinical prac- Research & Evaluation (AGREE) instrument II (www.a greetrust. tice, the vast majority of patients are appropriately and confi- in June 2017) were ‘primary biliary cirrhosis’, ‘primary biliary the term 'probable PBC' should not be used with patients.10 cholangitis’ and 'autoimmune overlap syndrome’. Additional Response to UDCA is variable, and incomplete response is asso- keywords were included for specific searches such as ‘therapy’ ciated with increased risk of death from PBC or need for liver and ‘ursodeoxycholic acid’. transplantation.11–18 Evidence levels (as per Grading of Recommendations, Epidemiology Assessment, development and Evaluations (GRAdE) system) The epidemiology of PBC has been studied extensively.19 The recommendations are based on the GRADE classification PBC meets the criteria for rare disease status (prevalence system (Strong/Weak; quality of evidence: High/Moderate/Low/ <50/100 000) in all populations studied.20 Data from the Very low). largest UK study, in the north-east of England, suggest a prev- GRADE classifies recommendations as strong or weak. alence of definite or probable disease of 35/100 000, with an Strength of recommendation is determined by the balance annual incidence of 2–3/100 000.21 22 Comparison with other between desirable and undesirable consequences of alterna- Northern European and North American cohorts suggest these tive management strategies, quality of evidence, variability in rates are broadly typical.23–30 Reported prevalence appears stable values and preferences, and resource use. The larger the differ- following several years of increase. This may reflect a now fully ence between the desirable and undesirable effects, the higher evolved change in diagnostic activity and practice linked to the likelihood
