Guidelines
KEYWORDS: patients, pbc, disease, liver, udca, risk, therapy, treatment, patients pbc, guidelines, clinical, alp, evidence, cirrhosis, strong


several years of increase. This may reflect a now fully ence between the desirable and undesirable effects, the higher evolved change in diagnostic activity and practice linked to the likelihood that a strong recommendation is warranted. increased awareness of the disease. The narrower the gradient, the higher the likelihood that a PBC prevalence is asymmetrical within the population with weak recommendation is warranted. The higher the quality of markedly higher rates being seen in women than men (the differ- evidence, the higher the likelihood that a strong recommenda- ence is 10-fold).19 UK data suggest that PBC is diagnosed at a tion is warranted. The more values and preferences vary, or the later stage in men, potentially reflecting perception bias among greater the uncertainty in values and preferences, the higher the clinicians.12 PBC is also typically a disease of older patients likelihood that a weak recommendation is warranted. The higher with the median age at diagnosis being 65 years. The dual the costs of an intervention—that is, the greater the resources effects of age and sex mean that PBC can reach a prevalence consumed—the lower the likelihood that a strong recommen- of as high as 1 in 800 in women over the age of 45 years. PBC dation is warranted. Strong recommendations mean that most is yet to be reliably diagnosed pre-menarche (youngest report 1570 Hirschfield GM, et al. Gut 2018;67:1568–1594. doi: Guidelines is of a girl aged 15 years).31 There are potentially important of UDCA treatment in slowing disease progression, it makes differences in the clinical expression of PBC between men and sense that early diagnosis may facilitate better outcomes. Treat- women and between older and younger patients, although the ment failure is seen more commonly in those presenting with basic approach to management is the same in all demographic cirrhosis and in the ductopenic variant of PBC. Despite aware- groups.12 The impact of ethnicity on presentation is not well ness of PBC and its target demographic, occasional patients still described, but there are reports internationally of how ethnicity present with very advanced disease at the point of needing liver affects the presentation of autoimmune liver disease, and clini- transplantation. cians should be aware that classical descriptions of disease are frequently derived from Caucasian-only populations.32–36 Blood tests Familial PBC is clearly recognised, with familial rates similar The diagnostic accuracy of the combination of cholestatic serum to those seen in other
