Guidelines
KEYWORDS: patients, pbc, disease, liver, udca, risk, therapy, treatment, patients pbc, guidelines, clinical, alp, evidence, cirrhosis, strong


no clear evidence of superiority. IF is modes and routes of presentation operator-dependent and reporting variability can relate to labo- Increased awareness of the serological associations of PBC ratory operator experience. There are also issues around avail- and the widespread use of blood test-based screening in the ability and cost of composite tissue block substrates. IF, however, community has led to an evolution of the mode of presentation allows subtle autoantibody specificity variations (eg, the non-E2 of PBC in recent years, away from presentation with clinically 2-OADC antigens) to be detected. ELISA can have greater sensi- overt disease (eg, advanced liver disease)64 towards presentation tivity and is less prone to non-specificity of reactivity resulting following identification of liver biochemical abnormality on from the high levels of polyclonal immunoglobulin M (IgM) seen screening65(figure 1). Increasing awareness of PBC as a cause of in PBC. Where PBC-related autoantibodies are detected in the chronic fatigue and pruritus may have led to an increase in diag- context of an autoantibody profile performed following clinical nosis following symptomatic presentation. Given the efficacy suspicion of an alternative autoimmune disease, the possibility of Hirschfield GM, et al. Gut 2018;67:1568–1594. doi: 1571 Guidelines Figure 1 The BSG/UK-PBC consensus care pathway for patients with primary biliary cholangitis (PBC). While care needs always to be personalised to the patient, there are consensus pathways that are important for patients with PBC, which encompass the important ‘pillars’ of care that are believed to provide optimal management of disease and its complications. undiagnosed PBC must always be considered and liver function from the 1980s showed that such AMA-positive patients with tests (LFTs) measured.77 normal LFTs had a high frequency of biliary features of PBC A titre of >1 in 40 for any autoantibody linked to PBC is on liver biopsy, and the majority went on to develop classical conventionally regarded as being positive.9 Caution should be PBC over prolonged follow-up (although notably not advanced applied in interpreting lower titre autoantibody values because liver disease).83 84 More recent large-scale blood donor and of the risk of non-specific reactivity and thus false positivity. Such population studies have suggested that low titre AMA positivity findings need to be interpreted in the broader context of clinical in the context of normal LFTs is seen in ~0.5% of the popu- presentation and other investigations, including other autoan- lation.85 86 Whether this apparent increase in AMA positivity tibody assessment
