Guidelines
KEYWORDS: patients, pbc, disease, liver, udca, risk, therapy, treatment, patients pbc, guidelines, clinical, alp, evidence, cirrhosis, strong


the context of normal LFTs is seen in ~0.5% of the popu- presentation and other investigations, including other autoan- lation.85 86 Whether this apparent increase in AMA positivity tibody assessment modalities such as ELISA following initial IF reflects false positivity arising, for example, in the context of assessment. It is common practice in many centres to replicate other chronic inflammatory conditions, increased sensitivity of AMA identified by IF by use of anti-M2 or other ELISA. For the modern assays, or a true increase in the prevalence of AMA routine cases, with clear-cut high-titre reactivity in the primary resulting, for example, from increased environmental triggering assay used, there is usually no additional value from a confirma- with the potential to be followed by a significant increase in tory second assay. PBC incidence over time is unclear. The clinical context of any There is no evidence to suggest that the concentration of AMA AMA result is therefore critical and further research is needed above the diagnostic threshold holds any prognostic signifi- in this area. Given the benign prognosis in patients presenting cance. Repeat measurement is therefore not recommended once with AMA and normal LFTs even in the historical series, neither a clear-cut diagnosis is established. Additionally, the titre can biopsy nor use of UDCA therapy is recommended in this group. fall on UDCA therapy and repeated measurement may there- Follow-up of liver biochemistry in primary care (following fore confuse unnecessarily. There is evidence to suggest that initial assessment in the secondary setting) is suggested. Stan- PBC-linked ANA (in particular anti-gp210/anti-nuclear rim anti- dard advice is for the patient to have serum liver tests repeated body) may be associated with more rapidly progressive disease annually. If those tests become abnormal, patients should either and disease which is less responsive to UDCA therapy.76 79–82 be re-referred to secondary care (most common practice) or have The clinical significance of AMA detected in the presence of UDCA commenced if the abnormality in ALP is for longer than normal liver biochemistry is currently unclear. Cohort studies 6 months. Additionally, the context of the immunological profile 1572 Hirschfield GM, et al. Gut 2018;67:1568–1594. doi: Guidelines needs to be considered with a lower threshold for intervention underlying disease process in PBC. Clinical judgement should in patients with other classic autoimmune diseases such as celiac be used as to whether the rare concern about the possibility of disease or primary
