Guidelines
KEYWORDS: patients, pbc, disease, liver, udca, risk, therapy, treatment, patients pbc, guidelines, clinical, alp, evidence, cirrhosis, strong


in PBC. Clinical judgement should in patients with other classic autoimmune diseases such as celiac be used as to whether the rare concern about the possibility of disease or primary Sjögren’s syndrome. haematological or other forms of malignant disease is sufficient to warrant biopsy exclusion on a case-by-case basis. In end-stage Immunoglobulins PBC, imaging to screen for the complications of cirrhosis should Changes in immunoglobulin G (IgG) and IgM concentrations be routine as for cirrhosis of other aetiology. are seen in patients with PBC. A polyclonal elevation of IgM is characteristic of PBC,87 88 with the majority of patients having a Histological features of pBC non-specific elevation in IgM concentration. In one well-char- Histopathological evaluation of liver biopsy tissue in PBC can be acterised cohort of patients with PBC,89 the mean IgM concen- challenging and interpretation of histological findings needs to tration was 2.4 x ULN, and 1.16 x ULN for IgG at baseline. High IgM concentrations (which do not reflect the presence of frequent patchy nature of PBC throughout the liver as well as IgM autoantibody) do not form part of standard diagnostic para- the importance of recognising that, in early stage disease, char- digms but can be useful in making a clinical diagnosis in patients acteristic features may be absent. As with all liver biopsy inter- with atypical other features. IgM reduction with UDCA and pretation, but notably in the context of biliary disease, adequate experimental second-line therapies has been reported, but the biopsy size is essential. The adequacy of any biopsy is of course prognostic significance of such change has yet to be established and IgM response does not currently feature in any response be of large enough size to view a representative amount of assessment paradigms.90 91 Further research is needed in this parenchyma and number of portal tracts (proposed to be more area. Elevation of serum IgG can be a feature of the presence than 11).92 Hallmarks of PBC include destructive granulomatous of additional autoimmune hepatitis (AIH)-like features in PBC, lymphocytic cholangitis affecting interlobular and septal bile but is also more commonly reported in AMA-negative series, ducts leading to progressive bile duct loss, chronic cholestasis, and is additionally likely equally frequently to be a reflection of fibrosis and cirrhosis. Other features that are seen include advanced fibrosis/cirrhosis generally. lymphocytic interface activity, parenchymal necro-inflammation and nodular regenerative hyperplasia.93 94 The significance of RECommEndATion 1 features such
