Guidelines
KEYWORDS: patients, pbc, disease, liver, udca, risk, therapy, treatment, patients pbc, guidelines, clinical, alp, evidence, cirrhosis, strong


4 (cirrhosis) being found such that for the vast majority a screening ultrasound suffices. in the same explanted organ at liver transplantation.99 For these Particular attention to exclusion of primary sclerosing cholan- reasons, staging biopsy to determine disease progression and gitis (PSC) and its mimics by magnetic resonance cholangiopan- establish or exclude the presence of cirrhosis is also not recom- creatography (MRCP) is warranted for seronegative patients. mended routinely. The existing concept of AIH overlap disease Gallstones are a frequent finding in patients with PBC and are which potentially may benefit from corticosteroid therapy, and typically clinically silent. The over-interpretation of the presence the emerging concept of high-risk disease with a low level of of gallstones in patients of the typical PBC demographic, with the response to UDCA and the concomitant need for second-line failure to consider PBC as the underlying diagnosis, is a potential therapy, mean that liver biopsy may have a value in disease strat- reason for delayed diagnosis of PBC. MRCP is typically normal ification and selection of appropriate additional or second-line in patients with PBC. Enlargement of the peri-portal lymph therapy in PBC. The precise value and timing of prognostic liver nodes is common in PBC (and liver disease generally) and can biopsy in PBC remains to be established, as does the role of cause concern about the possible presence of malignancy. Biopsy specific pathological scoring systems. A brief discussion of histo- of such nodes typically shows the presence of reactive/inflam- logical scoring systems100–104 which have been used in PBC is matory changes and the enlargement is thought to be part of the included in the legend to figure 2. Hirschfield GM, et al. Gut 2018;67:1568–1594. doi: 1573 Guidelines Figure 2 The histopathology of PBC classical staging systems for PBC divide the histological injury of PBC into four stages: florid duct lesions and portal inflammation without interface activity (stage 1), interface hepatitis, ductular proliferation and periportal fibrosis (stage 2), bridging necrosis or bridging fibrosis (stage 3), and cirrhosis (stage 4).93 These systems are easy to apply and are quite reproducible. However, their practical utility is limited because of the uneven distribution of diagnostic histological lesions of PBC and different disease stages co-existing at any time.93 Furthermore, they incorporate features such as inflammation, which are more appropriately regarded as a manifestation of disease activity (histological ‘grade’) rather than disease progression (histological ‘stage’). A more recent scoring system
