Guidelines
KEYWORDS: patients, pbc, disease, liver, udca, risk, therapy, treatment, patients pbc, guidelines, clinical, alp, evidence, cirrhosis, strong


copper-associated protein deposition in periportal/periseptal hepatocytes (cholate stasis), cholestatic rosettes and biliary metaplasia of hepatocytes (arrow) (keratin 7 immunostain, DAB chromagen, x10). (C) Loss of canals of Hering in acinar zone 1 (arrowheads) detected by keratin 19 immunostaining has recently been proposed as an early feature of PBC in the absence of the classic destructive biliary lesions.104 Focal intraepithelial inflammation (cholangitis) is noted in the K19-positive interlobular bile duct (arrow) (keratin 19 immunostain, DAB chromagen, x20). Both enhanced liver fibrosis (ELF)105 and transient elastog- RECommEndATion 5 raphy (TE)106 107 (eg, FibroScan) have, in cross-sectional studies, We recommend liver biopsy is not usually required in the diag- shown accuracy in determining disease stage as confirmed by nosis of PBC or for monitoring of disease progression unless its change in these parameters with time and their relationship to change in the disease characteristics. While their use is increasing RECommEndATion 6 in clinical practice because of access to ELF testing and/or TE We recommend there are a range of non-invasive tools to stage machines, their optimal use is currently a research question and and monitor disease progression. There is no consensus as to the findings are not, in routine practice, as yet linked into para- what is the optimal strategy, but clinicians should be aware of an digms for location and intensity of patient follow-up. Systematic evolving likely clinical utility. (Strong; Moderate) evaluation of these approaches, together with recently described laboratory parameter-based scoring formulae,108 109 in identi- RECommEndATion 7 fying high- and low-risk patients in whom to target enhanced We recommend that, in the presence of cholestatic serum liver hospital-based monitoring and return to management in primary tests but an absence of diagnostic autoantibodies, the confirma- care, respectively, is warranted. tion of PBC requires a liver biopsy. (Strong; Moderate) RECommEndATion 4 RECommEndATion 8 We recommend all patients with suspected PBC should have We recommend that liver biopsy can be considered if there is a (Strong; High) non-alcoholic fatty liver disease (NAFLD), viral hepatitis or alcohol 1574 Hirschfield GM, et al. Gut 2018;67:1568–1594. doi: Guidelines use) or the presence of overlapping autoimmune hepatitis, either at evaluated using cardiovascular risk assessment, focusing on diagnosis or during follow-up. (Strong; Moderate) identification of patients with PBC and metabolic syndrome (with high cholesterol, low HDL cholesterol and high low-den- sity lipoprotein (LDL) cholesterol levels). There is no added wHAT oTHER CondiTionS SHould BE ConSidEREd in contraindication to the
