Guidelines
KEYWORDS: patients, pbc, disease, liver, udca, risk, therapy, treatment, patients pbc, guidelines, clinical, alp, evidence, cirrhosis, strong


metabolic syndrome (with high cholesterol, low HDL cholesterol and high low-den- sity lipoprotein (LDL) cholesterol levels). There is no added wHAT oTHER CondiTionS SHould BE ConSidEREd in contraindication to the use of HMG-CoA reductase inhibitors in THE diFFEREnTiAl diAGnoSiS oF pBC? patients with PBC. (Strong; Low) The diagnosis of PBC usually causes little confusion because of the specificity and sensitivity of PBC-associated autoanti- bodies.110 Care must be taken in autoantibody-negative disease, wHAT iS THE nATuRAl HiSToRy oF pBC? with the chief differential being small duct PSC. Other differ- PBC is a chronic disease, generally characterised by a slow ential diagnoses which should be considered include sarcoid, graft-versus-host disease (in appropriately at-risk individuals), able. The majority of patients diagnosed today are asymptomatic idiopathic ductopenia, drug-induced liver injury and variants at diagnosis and one contemporary series showed that nearly of genetic cholestatic syndromes. Care must also be taken with 90% do not have fibrosis when first identified (although others patients with ‘low titre’ AMA because of the danger of autoan- have shown higher rates potentially reflecting case mix).11 12 26 27 tibody false positivity in inflammatory conditions, in particular The initial 10-year follow-up report of asymptomatic disease NAFLD, where low level rises in ALP are not infrequent. suggested that 50% of asymptomatic patients became symptom- atic over this period of time.124 More recent studies with longer wHAT CondiTionS ARE ASSoCiATEd wiTH pBC? follow-up indicate that, although asymptomatic disease tends PBC is principally associated with other autoimmune conditions to progress at a much slower rate than symptomatic disease, reflecting shared immunogenetic susceptibility.19 38 The strongest survival of both symptomatic and asymptomatic patients with association is with Sjögren’s syndrome (most frequently secondary PBC is significantly less than that of the general population.125 126 ‘sicca complex’ although primary Sjögren’s syndrome is associated) It should be noted, however, that in many earlier studies of and the management of the symptoms of sicca complex can be an symptomatic disease the definition of symptomatic included important part of controlling the overall symptom burden in PBC. the presence of features such as jaundice or ascites which would The presence of associated thyroid disease (present in up to 25% more accurately be regarded as features of advanced disease, the of patients) or anaemia with an immune/autoimmune aetiology association of which with poor prognosis is unsurprising. One (including pernicious anaemia, autoimmune haemolytic anaemia UK study suggested absolute survival was the same
