Guidelines
KEYWORDS: patients, pbc, disease, liver, udca, risk, therapy, treatment, patients pbc, guidelines, clinical, alp, evidence, cirrhosis, strong


the absence of cirrhosis, led to liver failure; this is the so-called is associated with increased risk of liver injury and these drugs ‘pre-cirrhotic ductopenic’ variant of PBC, characteristic of early can be used as would be indicated in patients without PBC.119–121 onset symptomatic (pruritus) disease.127 Of relevance to cardiac risk is the observation from case–control It is relevant to appreciate rates of histological progression: epidemiology studies that there is a significant rate of cigarette Corpechot et al described the progression toward cirrhosis in 183 smoking in PBC.43 122 123 patients treated with UDCA.96 The incidence of cirrhosis after 5 years of UDCA treatment was 4% and 59% among patients RECommEndATion 9 followed-up from stages 1 (early disease) and 3 (fibrosis), respec- We suggest that at baseline it is reasonable to screen all patients tively (17% and 76%, respectively after 10 years). The median with PBC for celiac, thyroid disease and Sjögren’s syndrome. time for developing cirrhosis from stages 1 and 3 was 25 years During follow-up, patients should be monitored clinically, and we and 4 years, respectively. The independent predictive factors of suggest testing considered for the development of associated auto- cirrhosis development were serum bilirubin >17 µmol/L, serum immune conditions including celiac, thyroid disease and Sjögren’s albumin <38 g/L and moderate to severe lymphocytic interface syndrome based on clinical need. (Weak; Moderate) hepatitis. Future validation of this observation regarding the importance of interface hepatitis is significant, as are identi- RECommEndATion 10 fying other potential factors. There is no good evidence that the We recommend that there is no substantiated evidence that the AMA titre correlates with the course of PBC (although it can hyperlipidaemia of PBC is associated with an elevated cardiac fall with treatment),90 but some groups have suggested specific risk, and a patient’s need for lipid-lowering therapy should be anti-nuclear antibodies may delineate subtypes of PBC (gp210 Hirschfield GM, et al. Gut 2018;67:1568–1594. doi: 1575 Guidelines with progressive disease and centromere antibodies with portal have, if any, on the use of UDCA therapy. Conversely, classifying hypertensive phenotypes).76 128 129 This, however, remains to be low risk more effectively may have value in reducing secondary validated widely. care follow-up for many. To that effect, more dynamic linear risk models have been developed, but at this stage we need more information about how to implement these clinically.108 109 RECommEndATion 11 Appreciating the evolution of these risk scores is,
