Guidelines
KEYWORDS: patients, pbc, disease, liver, udca, risk, therapy, treatment, patients pbc, guidelines, clinical, alp, evidence, cirrhosis, strong


not to predictive of better survival on multivariate analysis. Responders invalidate either the absolute serum bilirubin or the Mayo risk (defined as either stable or improved porto-hepatic gradient and score as prognostic markers.133 normalised AST level at 2 years) had a 15-year survival similar More sophisticated risk scores designed to predict prognosis to that of a matched local Canadian population. In keeping with in patients with PBC have been developed, and in particular this, Trivedi et al in a cohort of over 1000 patients confirmed recent approaches to survival analysis have addressed whether that the AST:platelet ratio is not only independently associated simple assessments of biochemical response to treatment, in with outcome, but is additive to classic biochemical stratifiers.139 particular with UDCA, may be useful clinically, and whether Further refinement of stratification tools has been possible by variability in such response may underpin the heterogeneity of use of large cohorts, and this has led to two important non-cat- earlier treatment and outcome studies (table 1).134 Stratification egorical scores: the Global PBC score109 and the UK-PBC risk by biochemistry has now been reproduced widely across cohorts score.108 These scoring systems derive from large multicentre and is recommended for all patients after 1 year of UDCA cohorts and convey probability of survival on a continuous, as therapy. This is in order to identify those high-risk patients who opposed to dichotomous, scale (area under the receiver oper- are predicted to have reduced survival and are considered likely ator curve >0.9). In addition to being internally validated, the to benefit from new disease-modifying therapy trials. In addition latter in particular has been compared against a healthy age- and to stratification by biochemistry, large-scale studies have been sex-matched control population. able to confirm clinical observations that age at presentation and It is of course clear that there are varied criteria for evaluating gender are also stratifiers of risk. It is currently unclear as to treatment response. In clinical practice the expert group noted which risk/response criteria are optimal for use in clinical prac- that criteria applied to recruitment into clinical trials were the tice. At present it is unclear what the significance is of meeting ones seemingly used in wider spread practice at the current time response criteria prior to therapy and what impact this should in the UK that is focused around an ALP >1.67 x ULN. 1576 Hirschfield GM, et al. Gut 2018;67:1568–1594.
