Guidelines
KEYWORDS: patients, pbc, disease, liver, udca, risk, therapy, treatment, patients pbc, guidelines, clinical, alp, evidence, cirrhosis, strong


2 years: ALP >1.67xULN, P=0.001, OR 12.14, 95% CI 2.69 to 54.74 initial histological diagnosis when defined as an increase in one stage ALP >1.76× ULN, P=0.03, OR 5.07, 95% CI 1.17 to 21.95 when defined as an increase in two stages Ductopenia (>50% loss) predicted histological progression (P=0.012) and biochemical response to UDCA (P=0.002) Rotterdam criteria17 PBC classified as early (pre-treatment bilirubin 375 patients; Prognosis for early PBC comparable to Dutch population and better and albumin values normal), moderately advanced median follow-up time 9.7 years than predicted by Mayo risk score (one level abnormal), or advanced (both values Survival of responders better than that of non-responders abnormal) (according to Paris and Rotterdam criteria; P<0.001) Prognosis of Biochemical response defined by normalisation of early PBC comparable for responders and non-responders abnormal bilirubin and/or albumin values Prognosis of responders significantly better in those with (moderately) advanced disease RECommEndATion 12 controlled trial evidence for the addition of second-line therapy. Risk assessment should evaluate disease severity and activity at (Weak; Moderate) baseline and on treatment. We recommend a combination of serum liver tests (to identify those with an elevated bilirubin, RECommEndATion 15 a platelet count <150 or biochemical disease activity on treat- It is unclear as to when to repeat risk evaluation in patients strat- ment), imaging (liver ultrasound to identify overt cirrhosis ified to a low-risk group. However, we suggest that all patients and splenomegaly; TE to identify increased liver stiffness) and with PBC should have annual serum liver tests and documented recognition of young age at disease onset (<45 years) and male repeat risk assessment every 3 years. Low-risk patients can be sex. These can all aid risk stratification for patients with PBC. considered to be those without cirrhosis who have an ALP (Strong; Moderate) <1.67 x ULN and a normal bilirubin. (Weak; Moderate) RECommEndATion 13 RECommEndATion 16 To identify those at greatest risk of disease progression, we We suggest that care provision should involve a partnership recommend that all patients have individualised risk stratifi- cation using biochemical response indices following 1 year of cine. Care delivery for an individual patient should encompass UDCA therapy. (Strong; High) patient risk assessment, symptom burden as well as how local services are configured. (Weak; Low) RECommEndATion 14 Prospective research is required to better evaluate risk stratifi- cation tools, but we suggest that UDCA treated patients with an RECommEndATion 17 ALP >1.67 x ULN and/or
