Guidelines
KEYWORDS: patients, pbc, disease, liver, udca, risk, therapy, treatment, patients pbc, guidelines, clinical, alp, evidence, cirrhosis, strong


Low) RECommEndATion 14 Prospective research is required to better evaluate risk stratifi- cation tools, but we suggest that UDCA treated patients with an RECommEndATion 17 ALP >1.67 x ULN and/or elevated bilirubin <2 x ULN repre- We suggest that those patients with UDCA non-responsive sent a group of high-risk patients in whom there is randomised disease, advanced liver fibrosis/cirrhosis, features of portal Hirschfield GM, et al. Gut 2018;67:1568–1594. doi: 1577 Guidelines hypertension or complex symptoms have disease for which Ultimately then, this combined analysis of the three trials (548 hospital-led care is indicated. We suggest that patients with patients) showed a one-third reduction in the risk of death or non-cirrhotic, UDCA-responsive disease without high symptom transplant for patients with moderate to severe PBC. Subgroup burden may have disease that, in the context of appropriate analyses showed that survival free of liver transplantation was service configuration and agreed care pathways, can be led from significantly improved in medium- and high-risk groups (serum primary care. (Weak; Low) bilirubin 1.4–3.5 or >3.5 mg/dL; P<0.0001 and P<0.03, respec- tively) and histological stage IV subgroup (P<0.01). One other concern raised was the observation that those patients crossed How SHould pATiEnTS wiTH pBC BE mAnAGEd? over to UDCA continued to have a poorer clinical course. The care of patients with PBC encompasses many aspects A further large trial (151 patients) employed a lower dose addressing disease progression and symptom control (figure 1). (10–12 mg/kg bodyweight daily) and a different preparation of UDCA. After 2 years of treatment no difference in survival was drug therapy to prevent disease progression seen, there being eight deaths in those randomised to UDCA and Ursodeoxycholic acid (UDCA) 12 in those randomised to placebo. Prolonged follow-up also Oral UDCA has been studied widely and discussed in depth with showed no survival benefit. regard to its efficacy.140 The use of UDCA is recommended for A key factor in the debate over UDCA efficacy is the limitations all patients with PBC by AASLD and EASL, as well as in this in the quality of the underlying source trial data with varying, guideline.141–151 A number of other agents have been studied and often inadequate, sample size and duration of several studies, including immunosuppressants, but reproducible and/or consis- as well as inclusion of data from trials using suboptimal doses. tent evidence of benefit has been universally lacking. Prior studies Since not all placebo or non-intervention patients
