Guidelines
KEYWORDS: patients, pbc, disease, liver, udca, risk, therapy, treatment, patients pbc, guidelines, clinical, alp, evidence, cirrhosis, strong


and/or consis- as well as inclusion of data from trials using suboptimal doses. tent evidence of benefit has been universally lacking. Prior studies Since not all placebo or non-intervention patients were eventu- of failed alternative therapies are not reviewed here in detail.2 ally given UDCA (although a majority were), the evaluation of UDCA normally accounts for about 4% of bile acids, but with the non-randomised phases of these trials has biases with impli- pharmacotherapy it becomes the predominant bile acid.152–154 cations for the basis for an intention-to-treat analysis. Of the of bile enrichment and improvement in liver biochemistry. nearly half of the trials had a high risk of bias. In all studies, Overall, the data suggest that the optimum dose is 13–15 mg/ the administration of UDCA was associated with an improve- kg per day, which can be given as a single oral daily dose or ment in liver biochemistry. An updated Cochrane meta-analysis in divided doses if tolerability is an issue. When evaluating the shows that overt ascites and obvious jaundice are less frequent UDCA trial data, note must be taken of the treatment dose used in patients randomised to UDCA, but there was no difference in because some earlier studies applied lower than optimal treat- the number of patients with bleeding varices or HE. These data ment paradigms. In PBC, a dose of 13–15 mg/kg/day has been suggest that prolonged treatment with UDCA, started at early shown to be superior to 5–7 mg/kg/day or 23–25 mg/kg/day. stages of disease, are likely required to exert a maximal posi- UDCA at the recommended dose is very safe with minimal side tive effect on the natural course of disease. The meta-analysis effects (weight gain of ~3 kg in the first 12 months, hair loss and, that was confined to trials using an appropriate dose of UDCA rarely, diarrhoea and flatulence are reported). There are no data (>10 mg/kg/day) and with sufficient follow-up (at least 2 years) to suggest that UDCA is teratogenic. Evidence-based advice over included a total of 1038 patients (522 who received UDCA and includes safe use before and during the first trimester; a good significant improvement in liver biochemical values. Histological safety profile exists from its use in intrahepatic cholestasis of evidence of disease progression was similar for the two treatment pregnancy.155 156 groups, but subjects without evidence of fibrosis (stages 1 and 2) Many studies have attempted
