Guidelines
KEYWORDS: patients, pbc, disease, liver, udca, risk, therapy, treatment, patients pbc, guidelines, clinical, alp, evidence, cirrhosis, strong


intrahepatic cholestasis of evidence of disease progression was similar for the two treatment pregnancy.155 156 groups, but subjects without evidence of fibrosis (stages 1 and 2) Many studies have attempted to demonstrate clinical efficacy who were treated with UDCA had slower disease progression for UDCA and most trials show beneficial effects on biochem- than subjects in the control group. A total of 160 patients who ical parameters in particular. With such a slow natural history, were treated with UDCA and 186 control subjects died or under- however, any individual trial in PBC will inevitably lack the went liver transplantation. This difference was significant in a power to address end points such as death or liver transplanta- fixed-effect model (OR 0.76; 95% CI, 0.57 to 1.00; P=0.05) tion. Additional criticism can be made for assuming that every but not in a random-effects model (OR 0.77; 95% CI 0.50 to patient benefits equally—that is, identifying and treating more 1.21; P=0.30). patients with mild disease may be self-fulfilling if those patients were never destined to progress, and historical failure to stratify RECommEndATion 18 patients may have confused the literature. We recommend that oral UDCA at 13–15 mg/kg/day is used as Three large double-blind randomised trials used the same the first-line pharmacotherapy in all patients with PBC. If toler- dose of UDCA (13–15 mg/kg/day), and thus the results have ated, treatment should usually be life-long. (Strong; High) been analysed according to an intention-to-treat principle. In two of these a composite ‘treatment failure’ outcome measure was used, and in the third the percentage change in total serum obeticholic acid (oCA) bilirubin over 2 years was used as the primary outcome measure. OCA is a semi-synthetic hydrophobic bile acid analogue that is Few adverse effects of UDCA were reported and the withdrawal highly selective for farnesoid X receptor (FXR), having exponen- rate was less than 20% in all three studies. In two of the three tial activation potency relative to the endogenous counterpart trials a crossover design was adopted, with some patients initially chenodeoxycholic acid. OCA also induces expression of gut-de- randomised to placebo switching to open-label UDCA after the rived hormones, in particular fibroblast growth factor 19 (FGF- first 24 months. However, the results were analysed according 19). The nuclear receptor FXR is a central transcriptional sensor to intention-to-treat, so that those patients initially randomised of bile acid metabolic cascades, and FXR is highly expressed
