Guidelines
KEYWORDS: patients, pbc, disease, liver, udca, risk, therapy, treatment, patients pbc, guidelines, clinical, alp, evidence, cirrhosis, strong


analysed according 19). The nuclear receptor FXR is a central transcriptional sensor to intention-to-treat, so that those patients initially randomised of bile acid metabolic cascades, and FXR is highly expressed in to receive placebo and subsequently switched to receive UDCA the liver and in enterocytes. The main FXR target gene in the remained in the placebo group for the purposes of analysis. gut is FGF-19, which is an enterokine secreted into the portal 1578 Hirschfield GM, et al. Gut 2018;67:1568–1594. doi: Guidelines blood on bile acid stimulation. FGF-19 reaches the liver where (reversible) alterations in serum lipid levels; specifically, most it activates the duo fibroblast growth factor receptor 4 (FGFR4)/ notably a small decrease in HDL. It is not yet known whether beta KLOTHO on the hepatocyte basolateral membrane trig- these consequences impact the long-term cardiovascular risk. gering intracellular pathways that repress cholesterol 7-α-hy- NICE has appraised OCA ( nice. org. uk/g uidance/ droxylase (CYP7A1), which is the rate-limiting enzyme in bile ta443) and recommended OCA within its marketing authorisa- acid synthesis. FXR signalling directly regulates genes involved tion as an option for treating PBC in combination with UDCA in bile acid synthesis, secretion, transport, absorption and detox- for people whose disease has responded inadequately to UDCA ification; additionally, FXR signalling impacts on inflammation, or as monotherapy for those who cannot tolerate UDCA. NICE metabolic regulation and liver fibrosis.157 recommended that clinicians assess the response to OCA after Relevant trial data reflect studies spanning phase II and III 12 months and that treatment should only continue if there is drug development. In a phase II randomised double-blind evidence of clinical benefit. controlled trial of OCA in PBC, the therapeutic efficacy of three doses (10, 25 and 50 mg/day) as add-on therapy to UDCA in a RECommEndATion 19 multicentre study restricted to patients having persistent eleva- In patients with an inadequate response to UDCA (or UDCA tions in serum ALP (>1.5 × ULN) was evaluated.91 The primary intolerance) as defined by ALP >1.67 x ULN and/or elevated endpoint was a significant reduction in serum ALP from base- bilirubin <2 x ULN, the addition of OCA (initial dose 5 mg/day, line, and was met across all three doses of OCA versus placebo. titrating to 10 mg/day at 6 months if tolerated) has been asso- Moreover, 87%, 69% and 7% of all OCA-treated patients ciated with improvements in biochemical surrogates of disease completing
