Guidelines
KEYWORDS: patients, pbc, disease, liver, udca, risk, therapy, treatment, patients pbc, guidelines, clinical, alp, evidence, cirrhosis, strong


population as a whole needs confirmation in prospec- budesonide in improving liver histology and biochemistry when tive follow-up studies. Survival benefit has yet to be demon- used in combination with UDCA. A randomised placebo-con- strated and, for that purpose, a long-term randomised trial is trolled trial (n=39) was the first to study budesonide (9 mg/ currently ongoing. In using OCA, attention is important to day) as add-on therapy to UDCA in patients with early-stage assessing the likelihood of benefit, and in those patients with PBC.159 Over the 2-year study period, patients with combination advanced disease dose adjustment is important. More experi- therapy exhibited a significant reduction in serum ALP as well ence is needed in patients with advanced liver disease and, while as improvement in liver histology according to the Ludwig clas- there were patients with cirrhosis in the pivotal trial of Nevens sification system. Moreover, in a subsequent 3-year randomised et al,158 there were no patients with decompensation. As per non-blinded study performed in non-cirrhotic PBC patients the drug label, OCA is dose adjusted to 5 mg weekly initially (n=77), budesonide 6 mg/day plus UDCA (n=46) was associ- (with a maximum dose of 10 mg twice weekly) in Child Pugh B ated with a 25% regression in liver fibrosis.160 However, despite or C liver disease. It may well also be prudent when initiating encouraging results, note must be taken of a high rate of fibrosis therapy in a patient with Child Pugh A liver disease to also dose progression (an increase of 70%) in patients receiving UDCA adjust in the presence of portal hypertension. Cirrhotic patients, monotherapy. In a US open label study of 22 biochemical non-re- particularly once evidence of portal hypertension exists, should sponders (ALP persistently >2 x ULN), only a very minimal have intensified early safety evaluation (e.g. repeat blood tests additional benefit of budesonide to UDCA was reported, with a monthly at outset) and, in the context of development of decom- significant increase in the Mayo PBC score prognostic index and pensation or progression of liver disease, OCA dose adjustment significant deterioration in bone mineral density; true compar- or treatment cessation may be indicated. ison is challenging, however, because this cohort may have had Treatment with OCA is associated with a dose-dependent patients at later stages of disease.161 Most notably, a phase III exacerbation in pruritus leading to treatment discontinua- double-blind randomised placebo-controlled trial evaluating
