Guidelines
KEYWORDS: patients, pbc, disease, liver, udca, risk, therapy, treatment, patients pbc, guidelines, clinical, alp, evidence, cirrhosis, strong


with OCA is associated with a dose-dependent patients at later stages of disease.161 Most notably, a phase III exacerbation in pruritus leading to treatment discontinua- double-blind randomised placebo-controlled trial evaluating tion in 1–10% of patients. These observations emphasise the UDCA+budesonide vs UDCA +placebo awaits reporting (Eudra importance of dose titration with or without timely provision CT number 2007-004040-70). of therapy (rifampicin may be preferred, given potential inter- Fibrates exert potent anticholestatic effects through the vari- actions with bile acid sequestrants leading to fecal OCA loss) able activation of peroxisome proliferator-activated receptors for symptom control. OCA-treated patients may also exhibit (PPAR), in addition to downregulation of several pathways Hirschfield GM, et al. Gut 2018;67:1568–1594. doi: 1579 Guidelines leading to bile acid synthesis.162 It is important for practising quantification of their impact in patients reporting their pres- interest regarding these agents in cholestatic liver disease, in patients (approaches can include Likert or visual analogue scales, the UK drug labelling has documented contraindication to their which are well established for itch particularly and the use of use in PBC because of concerns over reported hepatotoxicity. more complex patient-derived measures such as the multi-do- Fibrates at high dose inhibit some CYP enzymes, in particular main PBC-40 QoL measure172 173). Therapies for symptoms CYP2C9. At therapeutic doses, fibric acid derivatives increase should be continuously evaluated rather than on an ad hoc serum alanine transaminase (ALT) and AST levels which may basis, and it is important to re-evaluate symptoms and response relate to known transcriptional effects on liver transaminase to therapy. There is also a risk of recurring symptoms on stop- synthesis. For creatinine elevations it may also be that hyper- ping therapy and most patients require treatment long term. The icity requires ongoing investigation and caution. Other adverse and do not improve with UDCA therapy.12 effects are recognised: 5–10% of patients, mostly with bezafi- brate, develop musculoskeletal pain. RECommEndATion 20 Studies from the 1990s evaluated the use of bezafibrate We recommend all patients should be evaluated for the presence (400 mg/day) as an adjunctive therapy to UDCA, in which of symptoms, particularly fatigue and itch. Clinicians should normalisation of serum ALP was reported in ~45% of UDCA recognise that the severity of symptoms does not correlate with non-responders versus ~18% taking placebo.163 More recently, stage of disease. (Strong; Moderate) a non-blinded prospective randomised controlled study (n=27; 100–120 months of treatment) reported that serum ALP levels
