Guidelines
KEYWORDS: patients, pbc, disease, liver, udca, risk, therapy, treatment, patients pbc, guidelines, clinical, alp, evidence, cirrhosis, strong


and patients should be warned area have been limited to date, and there is no licensed therapy. about this. Gabapentin has been suggested as a potential treat- Fatigue in PBC as in other chronic diseases is inherently complex ment due to the theoretical benefit of increasing the threshold in nature and a structured approach to it is essential if improve- to experience nociception. However, a small trial failed to show ment is to be seen.212 A structured approach to management, benefit over placebo.197 Further evaluation of gabapentin may quantifying fatigue and its impacts (through the use of tools times have a non-specific anti-pruritic effect which may be due exacerbating factors and supporting patients to cope with its to their sedative properties but are not recommended as specific impact has been shown to be effective.212 It is important, when therapy; they are, however, useful adjuncts for some. Table 2 addressing fatigue, to identify other disease processes and ther- shows an approach to the treatment of cholestatic pruritus. apies linked to PBC either directly or indirectly which may be Cholestatic pruritus is an area of active research with a contributing to fatigue. These include other autoimmune condi- number of experimental agents and approaches under develop- tions such as hypothyroidism or autoimmune anaemias and ment and evaluation. Trials of novel agents, including bile acid demography-associated conditions and therapies such as type 2 Hirschfield GM, et al. Gut 2018;67:1568–1594. doi: 1581 Guidelines of sicca symptoms and Sjögren’s syndrome should be consulted Table 3 Stepwise approach to management of fatigue in patients for further details.217 If serological positivity (anti-Ro/La) or with PBC extraglandular features are found, evaluation for multisystem Treat direct Pruritus disease associated with Sjögrens disease by an expert clinician contributors Pruritus, particularly at night, is a significant factor in sleep may be appropriate. Further patients with refractory symptoms disturbance and secondary fatigue Associated autoimmune disease new therapies may be available. AIH (overlap syndrome), thyroid, celiac disease, pernicious anaemia, autoimmune haemolytic anaemia and Addison’s disease are all linked to PBC, are associated with fatigue and miscellaneous are treatable Up to one-quarter of patients with PBC have Raynaud’s Age-related conditions phenomenon which occurs due to spasmodic arterial contrac- Diabetes, heart failure and renal failure are common in the tion in the extremities (usually fingers and toes, but sometimes typical PBC patient age range, are associated with fatigue ears and nose).38 Patients should be asked specifically
