Guidelines
KEYWORDS: patients, pbc, disease, liver, udca, risk, therapy, treatment, patients pbc, guidelines, clinical, alp, evidence, cirrhosis, strong


to manage the clinical needs of a patient with pBC and diabetes and antihypertensive therapy.38 The steps to manage- advanced liver disease ment of fatigue in PBC, which should be taken sequentially, are Patients with decompensated liver disease are easy to recognise, outlined in table 3. There is no evidence to suggest that exercise allowing institution of appropriate management. It can be more is harmful in PBC fatigue. Indeed, there are pilot data to suggest difficult, however, to identify patients with PBC with well-com- that structured exercise initiated at levels which can be tolerated pensated cirrhosis and even liver biopsy can be falsely reassuring by fatigued patients may be beneficial.213 due to the patchy nature of disease severity within the liver. There are no defined cut-offs and it is an assessment of relative RECommEndATion 23 risk which allows clinicians to decide when a patient requires We recommend that alternative causes of fatigue should be screening for the complications of cirrhosis. sought and treated. (Strong; Moderate) A practical approaching to identifying cirrhosis in clinical prac- tice is to consider cirrhosis as defined by either confirmation by Sicca complex liver biopsy or on the basis of radiological findings (nodular liver Sicca complex is common in PBC, with symptoms of dry eyes with enlarged spleen) with either a history of complications of and/or dry mouth frequently seen in patients.38 214 Most patients liver disease (ascites, variceal bleeding, encephalopathy, pervious have sicca symptoms rather than primary Sjögren’s syndrome. bacterial peritonitis) or supportive laboratory findings (low Other symptoms may include dysphagia and vaginal dryness. platelets, low albumin, prolonged prothrombin time or INR). Clinicians should specifically enquire about these symptoms. Liver stiffness measurement (LSM), assessed by vibration-con- Artificial tears and saliva are often helpful. Pilocarpine or cevime- trolled transient elastography (VCTE), has been shown as one line (muscarinic receptor agonists) can be used if symptoms are of the best surrogate markers for the detection of cirrhosis or refractory.215 216 Patients with severe xerostomia should be given severe fibrosis (ie, bridging fibrosis) in patients with PBC.107 220 oral hygiene advice to prevent the development of dental caries. With increasingly greater access to VCTE now occurring across Clinicians should also be vigilant of the risk of oral candidiasis secondary and tertiary care, many clinicians now use VCTE as an in patients with severe xerostomia. Vaginal moisturisers may be adjunctive tool to help establish whether a patient has significant
