Guidelines
KEYWORDS: patients, pbc, disease, liver, udca, risk, therapy, treatment, patients pbc, guidelines, clinical, alp, evidence, cirrhosis, strong


secondary and tertiary care, many clinicians now use VCTE as an in patients with severe xerostomia. Vaginal moisturisers may be adjunctive tool to help establish whether a patient has significant helpful but the use of oestrogen creams should be directed in underlying liver fibrosis/cirrhosis; the results must, however, primary care or by a gynaecologist (there are no concerns from a be interpreted in the clinical context of the patient. In one hepatology perspective). Specific guidelines for the management study, diagnostic thresholds of liver stiffness in discriminating 1582 Hirschfield GM, et al. Gut 2018;67:1568–1594. doi: Guidelines fibrosis stages ≥F1, ≥F2 ,≥F3 and=F4 were 7.1, 8.8, 10.7 and Table 4 Tools to help identify patients at risk of varices and who 16.9 kPa, respectively.107 One large collaborative study showed might benefit from endoscopic screening LSM and IQR/median as the two independent criteria of VCTE reliability221; EASL-Asociación Latinoamericana para el Estudio Tool details other information tation of LSM measurements should account for whether such count with an AUROC for identifying patients with recommendations are implemented locally—for example, in varices of 0.86 particular time of VCTE and whether the patient is fasting.222 Mayo Risk Score (not Independent predictor for routinely used in the the presence of varices; including: UK)282 score >4 helps in selecting 1. Evidence of portal hypertension: thrombocytopenia, spleno- patients for endoscopic megaly and/or varices surveillance who are at 2. Histology: biopsy-proven cirrhosis risk of varices 3. Predictive formulae: for example, Newcastle Varices Score Ratio of platelet count Simple tool with a ratio Meta-analysis of 8 studies 4. Imaging: ultrasound, cross-sectional evidence of cirrhotic liv- to spleen diameter above 909 having a high acknowledged that evidence (PC:SD)284 negative predictive value grading is low and this tool er/splenomegaly or TE for the presence of varices should be incorporated with 5. Serum markers of fibrosis: for example, ELF test other assessments of risk285 In terms of monitoring patients for the development of Measurement of Most accurate way to HVPG is invasive and not widely advanced disease, those who are non-responders to treatment portal pressure using risk stratify patients. used as a screening tool. It is who did not have advanced disease at presentation should have the hepatic venous Clinically significant portal also important to be aware that life-long follow-up and annual monitoring for evidence of pressure gradient hypertension present HVPG can be inaccurate in PBC progression (eg, ultrasound, TE (evidence not clear but accumu-
