Guidelines
KEYWORDS: patients, pbc, disease, liver, udca, risk, therapy, treatment, patients pbc, guidelines, clinical, alp, evidence, cirrhosis, strong


iden- endoscopic screening. Table 4 shows the various tools available tify patients as being at increased risk (in addition to cirrhosis). to help identify patients at risk of varices and who might benefit Non-responders to treatment are at greater risk and men are from endoscopic screening. The Baveno VI guidelines use the more likely to get HCC than women in PBC (of note given that term ‘compensated advanced chronic liver disease (cACLD)’ to PBC is much less common in men).229 230 Screening should be reflect the spectrum of disease in asymptomatic patients and undertaken in accordance with international guidelines.224–226 encourage the use of TE in clinical practice.231 Patients with a There is currently an absence of specific UK guidelines. Inter- liver stiffness <20 kPa and platelet count >150 000 are at very national guidelines currently advise abdominal ultrasound at low risk of having varices that require treatment, although it is 6-monthly intervals. Alpha-fetoprotein (AFP) has recently been acknowledged that patients with PBC were not well represented removed from some international guidelines but is still widely in the studies to date. Annual assessment using TE and platelet used in clinical practice alongside abdominal ultrasound. The count should be considered. This approach may decrease the discussion of the health economics of HCC screening in PBC is number of screening endoscopies required. These tools can be outside the remit of these guidelines, but note should be taken of used to help decision making regarding which patients require of all ages. should always be followed up with endoscopy. Hirschfield GM, et al. Gut 2018;67:1568–1594. doi: 1583 Guidelines It is important to note that patients with PBC can develop The UKELD score is effective in risk stratification in the varices even in the absence of established cirrhosis, although context of transplantation and most UK patients are listed for in clinical practice pre-sinusoidal varices are relatively transplantation based on an elevated UKELD score with accom- unusual.234–236 Non-cirrhotic portal hypertension can occur in panying liver failure/end-stage liver disease (jaundice, ascites, PBC and the possibility of its presence should be considered in encephalopathy, variceal bleeding, sarcopenia, HCC) that is not all PBC patients with a GI bleed. responsive to medical therapy. Fatigue in isolation is not an indi- Transjugular intrahepatic portosystemic shunt (TIPS) should cation for transplantation. Intractable pruritus unresponsive to be considered for patients with variceal bleeding that fails to medical therapy is an indication for transplantation
