Guidelines
KEYWORDS: patients, pbc, disease, liver, udca, risk, therapy, treatment, patients pbc, guidelines, clinical, alp, evidence, cirrhosis, strong


Transjugular intrahepatic portosystemic shunt (TIPS) should cation for transplantation. Intractable pruritus unresponsive to be considered for patients with variceal bleeding that fails to medical therapy is an indication for transplantation with good respond to endoscopic or pharmacological therapy.237 238 Patients outcomes in terms of pruritus. with portal hypertension may also develop ascites which should In practice it is optimal to ensure patients who may be poten- be managed according to current guidelines.233 239 240 TIPS has a tially eligible for transplantation are referred early and/or role in the management of patients with refractory ascites, with discussed with centres linked to transplant programmes because a recent randomised controlled trial showing that covered TIPS this facilitates ready access to transplant services. In practice, in stents increase the proportion of cirrhotic patients with recur- view of the varied nature and timescale for overt decompensa- rent ascites surviving transplantation-free for 1 year compared tion, clinicians should actively consider whether transplanta- with repeated large volume paracentesis.241 Portal hypertension tion is the best treatment in any patient with advanced PBC as in PBC often has a slowly progressive course and patients may evidenced by a UKELD score >49, jaundice, portal hypertension sarcopenia). Recurrent PBC (rPBC) post liver transplant is well recognised RECommEndATion 27 but clinically relevant for only a few.246 248 It can only be We recommend that patients with suspected portal hypertension confirmed histologically given that many complications should be screened for gastro-oesophageal varices according to post-transplant (biliary, rejection, vascular) present with an BSG guidelines. (Strong; Moderate) elevated ALP, and serologic features of PBC persist post-trans- plant so are not additive diagnostically. Protocol liver biopsies Hepatic encephalopathy (HE) are no longer commonly performed and there may be minor HE can be the cause of significant life quality impairment in changes in liver biochemistry that are not histologically evalu- patients with advanced disease but is relatively unusual in PBC ated in patients, therefore the rate of rPBC is an estimate in the (and should not be mistaken for the much commoner cognitive literature but is at least ~20% by 10 years. Across studies the impairment associated with fatigue). Where present, HE in PBC reported prevalence rate of rPBC, however, ranges from 0% to characteristically affects older patients. The first-line manage- 35%. The median time to rPBC ranges between 3 and 5.5 years. ment is with lactulose (at a dose achieving 2–3 soft stools per Graft loss
