Guidelines
KEYWORDS: patients, pbc, disease, liver, udca, risk, therapy, treatment, patients pbc, guidelines, clinical, alp, evidence, cirrhosis, strong


patients. The first-line manage- 35%. The median time to rPBC ranges between 3 and 5.5 years. ment is with lactulose (at a dose achieving 2–3 soft stools per Graft loss is possible with rPBC but rare (~1%), and recurrent day). Some patients may require regular enemas in addition to disease can occur in a second graft. Seemingly, the use of tacro- lactulose. In any patient with HE, it is important to rule out limus is associated with increased risk of PBC recurrence in the secondary causes such as constipation, dehydration, infection allograft, and some have advocated cyclosporine in patients athy, rifaximin is frequently used and is now NICE approved.242 however, meant that practice has not changed. Others have Rifaximin is a non-absorbable antibiotic that improves HE, proposed all patients are routinely given UDCA post-transplant, recurrent HE.243–245 It must be remembered that patients with supporting UDCA as preventing recurrence. No overwhelming HE cannot drive. evidence for particular immunosuppressive strategies exist; in particular, there is no evidence to support long-term prednis- olone, although in the early post-transplant period a slightly RECommEndATion 28 higher rate of acute rejection can be expected. We recommend that ascites and hepatic encephalopathy should be treated as in standard practice. (Strong; Moderate) RECommEndATion 29 We recommend that liver transplantation can be an effective Transplantation treatment for advanced PBC and eligibility should be assessed in Liver transplantation is an established and successful procedure line with national guidelines. (Strong; Moderate) that prolongs the life of patients with chronic liver disease and, in certain settings, improves their QoL as well. PBC was among RECommEndATion 30 the very early indications for liver transplantation and remains We recommend that pruritus refractory to all medical therapy a strong disease indication for surgery.246 Liver transplantation, can be an indication for liver transplantation in highly selected however, remains a challenging procedure and, in most settings, patients regardless of disease stage. (Strong; High) organ availability has a significant impact on determining the precise timing and indications for surgery. In the UK, patients should have a clear indication for trans- RECommEndATion 31 plantation as well as, usually, a UKELD score of 49 or greater We recommend that fatigue is not an indication for liver trans- (ie, meet minimal listing criteria based on a biochemical marker plantation in patients not meeting established UK liver trans- of disease severity calculated using the latest bilirubin, INR, plant minimal listing criteria. (Strong;
