Guidelines
KEYWORDS: patients, pbc, disease, liver, udca, risk, therapy, treatment, patients pbc, guidelines, clinical, alp, evidence, cirrhosis, strong


listing criteria based on a biochemical marker plantation in patients not meeting established UK liver trans- of disease severity calculated using the latest bilirubin, INR, plant minimal listing criteria. (Strong; Moderate) creatinine and sodium). Patients with certain variant indications are eligible for listing for transplantation in the absence of an Fat-soluble vitamin supplementation elevated UKELD score, and for patients with PBC this may be While it is rare for patients to develop overt fat-soluble vitamin relevant (pruritus in particular).247 (vitamin A, D, E, and K) deficiency, this is well described in those 1584 Hirschfield GM, et al. Gut 2018;67:1568–1594. doi: Guidelines with chronic cholestasis, particularly once individuals become therapies such as OCA,158 which has FDA and EMA approval, jaundiced.250 251 Routine measurement of vitamin levels is not as well as NICE evaluation in the UK. Currently there are trials usually additive or necessary but, in patients with advanced in three distinct areas and patients should be offered the oppor- icteric disease, consideration should be given to oral supplemen- tunity to participate if they fall into targeted groups (see https:// tation of vitamins A, D, E and K using standard preparations. clinicaltrials. gov/ ct2/ results? term= primary+ biliary+ cirrhosis+ OR+ primary+ biliary+ cholangitis& Search= Search). osteoporosis Osteoporosis affects 20–44% of patients with PBC with the High-risk/UDCA-unresponsive disease have osteopenia.111 Risk factors for osteopenic bone disease in an inadequate response to UDCA has focused interest on trials PBC include female gender, menopausal status, low body mass of enhanced or second-line therapy. Trials currently under devel- index (through the effects of disordered bile acid homeostasis opment target two aspects of the disease process—namely, the and the pancreatic insufficiency seen in some patients with PBC), upstream autoimmune response causing initial bile duct injury older age, advanced disease and chronic cholestasis with resul- (typically but not exclusively using second-generation biologi- tant vitamin D deficiency.112 Patients with PBC also have higher cal-based approaches) and the cycle of cholestatic injury (using markers of bone resorption (urinary hydroxyproline) and lower second-line bile acid-targeting therapeutics such as FXR agonists markers of bone formation (osteocalcin).112 that suppress bile acid production and fibrates, which have anec- Patients should be given general lifestyle advice to prevent dotal evidence but as yet no randomised placebo-controlled loss of bone density (weight-bearing exercise, smoking cessation, data). The standard approach in current and proposed enhanced minimising alcohol intake, etc). Falls are seen with increased disease therapy
