Guidelines
KEYWORDS: patients, pbc, disease, liver, udca, risk, therapy, treatment, patients pbc, guidelines, clinical, alp, evidence, cirrhosis, strong


required, alendronic acid is usually exclude confounding causes, and the systematic approach to used first line.254–257 Specialist referral should be considered for addressing such confounding processes outlined elsewhere in patients who are unable to tolerate alendronate or risedronate. these guidelines should be followed before trial participation Treatment options include strontium ranelate, raloxifene, deno- is considered. sumab and teriparatide. There is a widely held view that oral bisphosphonates are unsafe in patients with varices because of management of special populations the risk of superficial erosion and enhanced bleeding risk. The Variant presentations of PBC evidence to support this view is limited. Intravenous bisphospho- The classical presentation of PBC is in a woman with the combi- nates can be used if there is clinical concern. There are limited nation of cholestatic LFTs and positive AMA, with or without data regarding the use of hormone replacement therapy and its efficacy in osteoporosis prevention in PBC.258 259 the systemic symptoms of PBC. Important variants are seen in the clinic: 1. AMA-negative (AMA −ve) PBC: Approximately 5% of pa- RECommEndATion 32 tients with PBC are negative for AMA (or anti PDC-E2/M2 We recommend that all patients with PBC should have a risk by ELISA), although this figure in practice reflects the assays assessment for osteoporosis. Treatment and follow-up should be employed.263 264 The majority of these patients will be posi- according to national guidelines. (Strong; High) tive for the PBC-specific nuclear antibodies.265 Such antibod- ies are equivalent to AMA in terms of diagnostic accuracy for For many years following the original UDCA trials there has for diagnostic confirmation. True autoantibody-negative PBC been little or no trials activity in PBC. This is now changing with cannot be diagnosed without biopsy. In terms of manage- in the condition,260 261 with progress to new licensed second-line AMA +ve. There are data to suggest that ANA +ve patients Hirschfield GM, et al. Gut 2018;67:1568–1594. doi: 1585 Guidelines progress more rapidly.76 At present this information does not piecemeal necrosis (interface hepatitis)’ being suggested as diag- influence therapy decisions, although this may change in the nostic of overlap in the context of a PBC diagnosis. Although a future with the development of stratified treatment models. diagnosis of PBC/AIH overlap syndrome could theoretically be 2. AMA +ve with normal LFTs: Up to 0.5% of the population made without a liver biopsy, uncertainty about establishing the in screening studies are found to be
