Guidelines
KEYWORDS: patients, pbc, disease, liver, udca, risk, therapy, treatment, patients pbc, guidelines, clinical, alp, evidence, cirrhosis, strong


There is evidence to support the use liver disease. As noted already, such patients may need liver of budesonide in combination with UDCA, an approach which biopsy to identify the dominant liver injury, particularly as improves survival in comparison to UDCA monotherapy and is an elevation in ALP alone can also be found in patients with associated with fewer side effects than other immunosuppres- NAFLD. sive regimes.170 Caution must be applied, however, when using 3. PBC/AIH overlap syndromes: A small minority of patients budesonide in patients potentially with cirrhosis/portosystemic with PBC can also have simultaneous AIH features. The shunts. Evidence is lacking as to how to approach long-term management of this group is discussed in detail below. maintenance therapy in overlap patients stepping down from 4. AMA +ve AIH: A small minority of patients with AIH are corticosteroids. It would be reasonable, however, to extrapolate AMA +ve, typically in the context of other AIH-characteristic from management regimes for pure AIH with the use of azathio- autoantibodies.268 269 Such cases do not usually present a di- prine (used in conjunction with long-term UDCA). agnostic challenge because of the presence of a biochemical Patients with parameters diagnostic of PBC or AIH, and asso- pattern characteristic of AIH rather than PBC (ALT/AST and ciated non-diagnostic features of a second condition, should IgG elevation rather than ALP and IgM). AMA +ve AIH be treated for the predominant disease in the first instance (in should be treated as for AMA −ve AIH. PBC predominant disease with UDCA at 13–15 mg/kg) and the response to therapy assessed,273 the rationale being the fact that Overlap syndromes such AIH-like features are also characteristic of UDCA non-re- A small proportion of patients with PBC also exhibit some or sponsive PBC. It is likely that the emerging second-line bile acid all of the clinical features of AIH. The nature of such ‘overlap’ therapeutic agents will become the recommended agents for use syndromes, the criteria for their diagnosis and the optimal in such patients following failure to respond to UDCA. approach to treatment has been a source of debate for a number of years.270 271 PBC/AIH overlap is best not considered as a distinct pathological entity, but rather the reflection of an inherent distri- RECommEndATion 33 with autoimmune liver disease. There have been only a small when suspected, liver biopsy with expert clinicopathological number of reported putative cases of overlap between
