Guidelines
KEYWORDS: patients, pbc, disease, liver, udca, risk, therapy, treatment, patients pbc, guidelines, clinical, alp, evidence, cirrhosis, strong


an inherent distri- RECommEndATion 33 with autoimmune liver disease. There have been only a small when suspected, liver biopsy with expert clinicopathological number of reported putative cases of overlap between PBC and review is needed to make the diagnosis and guide treatment. PSC. The critical question is how does the possibility of overlap (Strong; Moderate) impact on clinical management? The key distinction is between ‘true’ overlap, where patients are exhibiting definitive features of RECommEndATion 34 both conditions, and situations where patients with PBC exhibit We suggest that biochemical evidence of marked hepatitic activity features more typically associated with AIH but which fall short (transaminases >5 x ULN), alongside elevated IgG concentra- of classical diagnostic criteria. The importance of this distinction tions, are most relevant in considering who should have a liver has been increased by the emerging data suggesting that clinical biopsy. (Weak; Moderate) features which might be superficially suggestive of AIH (elevated serum aminotransferase activity and interface hepatitis on liver biopsy) are in fact also strongly associated with aggressive PBC, RECommEndATion 35 predicting both poor outcome and UDCA non-response. We suggest that the presence of severe interface hepatitis in the Criteria have been proposed by the Paris group for ‘true’ PBC/ correct context is usually required to initiate immunosuppres- AIH overlap,272 with two out of three of (a) ALT >5 x ULN, sion after the risks and benefits of treatment, particularly with (b) IgG >2 x ULN or positive anti-SMA and (c) liver biopsy corticosteroids, have been discussed with the patient. (Weak; with ‘moderate or severe periportal or periseptal lymphocytic Moderate) 1586 Hirschfield GM, et al. Gut 2018;67:1568–1594. doi: Guidelines pregnancy and pBC of a patient with PBC have a 10.5-fold higher risk of developing While most patients are diagnosed at an age when pregnancy is the disease than age- and sex-matched community controls), not a relevant consideration, a significant minority of patients while the relative risk rises to 35 for the daughters of patients with PBC are women of reproductive age. In this younger age with PBC.37 The prevalence of PBC in the UK population has range of PBC, pregnancy may either be a reason for diagnosis been estimated as being 350/million (700/million women), (failure of resolution of obstetric cholestasis) or may be compli- giving a prevalence for PBC among the daughters of mothers cated by worsening pruritus. Significant medical risks are infre- with the disease of ~2%.
