Guidelines
KEYWORDS: patients, pbc, disease, liver, udca, risk, therapy, treatment, patients pbc, guidelines, clinical, alp, evidence, cirrhosis, strong


obstetric cholestasis) or may be compli- giving a prevalence for PBC among the daughters of mothers cated by worsening pruritus. Significant medical risks are infre- with the disease of ~2%. Given the low likelihood of screening quent but can be relevant if patients have cirrhosis and portal being positive, the lack of time-dependent therapy where early hypertension. In this setting, management is no different from diagnosis materially alters the nature of therapy, and anecdotal any other aetiology of cirrhosis (eg, gastroscopy if concern over reports of people being screened for PBC subsequently having portal hypertension; exclusion of splenic artery aneurysm by difficulty getting life and travel insurance, formal screening for ultrasound). PBC in relatives of patients is not recommended. Patient anxiety, PBC specific experience is limited to case series, but expert however, needs to be taken into account and may be a relevant nancy and post-partum.277 Additionally, cholestyramine and rifampicin (second trimester onwards) are considered safe in pregnancy, although the data are limited.155 278 Rarely, itch RECommEndATion 38 We recommend that the relatives of patients with PBC do not during pregnancy becomes unbearable and plasmapheresis may help.279 In those with notable cholestasis, fat-soluble vitamin need to be routinely screened for PBC. (Strong; Moderate). deficiency should be avoided. Post-partum cholestatic flares have been described and clinical follow-up in the post-partum period patient support and patient education is important. NICE recommends in the guideline ‘Patient Experience in Adult Pre-pregnancy counselling should be pragmatic; recognition NHS Services: Improving the Experience of Care for People that in those with a marked ductopenic variant of PBC, disease Using Adult NHS services’ that clear, consistent, evidence- progression from intense added cholestasis during pregnancy based, tailored information is available to patients throughout does need consideration. Similarly, patients with portal hyper- all stages of their care.225 In PBC, evidence exists from quali- tension have the greatest risks associated with pregnancy and tative research to show that factors such as knowledge, infor- should be appropriately counselled. Variceal bleeding can occur mation, consistency, a positive approach, simplification and in patients with cirrhosis of any aetiology as a consequence of repetition lead to a positive diagnosis experience.280 Findings pregnancy-related increase in portal pressure. Such patients were used to develop a patient information DVD with expert should be electively endoscoped in the second trimester and clinicians describing PBC and patients talking about their expe- managed appropriately. Pregnant patients with PBC should be
