Guidelines
KEYWORDS: patients, pbc, disease, liver, udca, risk, therapy, treatment, patients pbc, guidelines, clinical, alp, evidence, cirrhosis, strong


information DVD with expert should be electively endoscoped in the second trimester and clinicians describing PBC and patients talking about their expe- managed appropriately. Pregnant patients with PBC should be riences. This DVD allows consistent evidence-based informa- screened for anti-Ro and anti-La antibodies, as their presence tion to be provided to patients. It is available to patients and would change obstetric practice regarding fetal screening for professionals by contacting the patient charity LIVErNORTH bradycardia. ( info@ livernorth. org. uk; livernorth. org. uk/ pages/ factsheet. htm# DVD). Answers to some frequently encountered RECommEndATion 36 concerns over PBC care are shown in box 1 and table 5. NICE Pregnancy is typically well tolerated in non-cirrhotic patients ( ice. org. uk) also recommends that patients are with PBC, but pruritus can be exacerbated. We recommend given both oral and written information. Leaflets are available including guidance over use of UDCA and treatment of pruritus. are written by clinicians with patient input (The British Liver While data regarding UDCA in pregnancy are limited, we recom- Trust, The PBC Foundation and LIVErNorth). Leaflets can be mend that expert practice is to continue use peri-conception, obtained by contacting UK-PBC via the website ( k- peri-partum and post-partum. (Strong; Moderate) pbc. com/). Leaflets should be made readily available to patients. RECommEndATion 37 Pregnancy in patients with cirrhosis carries a higher risk of Box 1 Situations to consider consultation with a centre maternal and fetal complications. We recommend patients with hosting a specialist hepatology programme features to suggest advanced liver disease have pre-conception counselling and subsequent interdisciplinary specialist moni- toring during pregnancy. (Strong; Moderate). ► Disease unresponsive or under-responsive to UDCA ► Age at diagnosis: young patients with PBC are at higher risk of progressive disease Familial screening ► Approaching need for consideration of liver transplantation Awareness of the increased risk of PBC seen in the first-degree ► Patients who may require transplant who need complex non- relatives of patients with PBC and the role played by genetic liver surgery factors in disease pathogenesis can give rise to anxiety among ► HCC complicating PBC patients with regard to the risk that their relatives run of devel- ► Overlap syndromes oping the condition. There can be particular concern in the ► Intractable symptoms unresponsive to conventional therapy daughters of mothers with PBC because of the female predomi- ► Complex therapeutic questions—for example, where nance of the disease. Screening for
