Guidelines
KEYWORDS: patients, pbc, disease, liver, udca, risk, therapy, treatment, patients pbc, guidelines, clinical, alp, evidence, cirrhosis, strong


the ► Intractable symptoms unresponsive to conventional therapy daughters of mothers with PBC because of the female predomi- ► Complex therapeutic questions—for example, where nance of the disease. Screening for any disease must balance any other drugs with potential impact are being considered for benefit resulting from earlier diagnosis of the condition against intercurrent disease (eg, biologicals for rheumatological the individual and healthcare costs associated with the screening disease) activity. In the case of PBC, the sibling relative risk is 10 (siblings Hirschfield GM, et al. Gut 2018;67:1568–1594. doi: 1587 Guidelines Fatigue has been shown to be the symptom with the biggest Table 5 Frequently encountered clinical questions impact on patients. Fatigued patients perceive a poor QoL Frequently asked compared with controls and their levels of social engagement questions Current opinion are lower.171 219 Very little is written in relation to social isola- Can patients with PBC It is perfectly safe to take exercise with PBC and in fact tion and improving support mechanisms in PBC, but there are take exercise? there is some pilot trial evidence that exercise therapy a number of telephone helplines and patient support groups is helpful for the treatment of fatigue.213 Patients with that offer free qualified peer support to patients. It is recom- PBC frequently lack confidence to undertake exercise so support can be useful291 mended (based on expert opinion) that details of helplines can Do patients with PBC Expert opinion is that the vast majority of patients with be suggested to patients who may be at risk of social isolation. need to follow a specific early stage disease, and who are not overtly cholestatic, Information can be found on the following web pages: diet? have no dietary problems and can eat a normal healthy ► pbcfoundation. org. uk/ Home/ CMSPageView/ diet. Where patients have cholestasis or one of the 532 (The PBC Foundation) associated malabsorption syndromes, fat malabsorption can be an issue which can lead to nutritional problems.292 ► livernorth. org. uk/ pages/ contact. htm In this group, fat-soluble vitamin deficiency should be (LIVErNorth) considered251 293 ► liver4life.o rg. uk/ helpline. html (Liver4Life) give up smoking? however, also specific evidence in PBC to suggest that cognitive behavioural therapy, to be used to support patients smoking is more prevalent,294 and may be associated with with PBC. Such approaches have been found to be effective in more aggressive disease.122 There is therefore a specific other
