Guidelines
KEYWORDS: patients, pbc, disease, liver, udca, risk, therapy, treatment, patients pbc, guidelines, clinical, alp, evidence, cirrhosis, strong


patients smoking is more prevalent,294 and may be associated with with PBC. Such approaches have been found to be effective in more aggressive disease.122 There is therefore a specific other chronic conditions for managing distress resulting from rationale for patients with PBC to avoid smoking debilitating symptoms. Blackburn et al explored the psycholog- Can patients with PBC There is no evidence to support an association between drink alcohol? either the development of PBC or disease severity, and ical impact of fatigue in PBC using semi-structured interviews expert opinion is therefore that there is no reason why and validated assessment tools for psychological symptoms. patients with PBC cannot drink alcohol within accepted Patients with PBC who report high levels of fatigue were found safe limits. Patients with advanced liver disease are to be more vulnerable to emotional distress and are more likely however advised to abstain from alcohol to perceive that their QoL has been negatively affected.281 We Are any drugs As with any liver disease, expert opinion is that caution therefore advise that a patient with profound psychological contraindicated in PBC? must always be applied in therapeutics; however, there are no specific concerns regarding drug toxicity in PBC distress associated with fatigue should be referred to appropriate per se psychological services for assessment. Is PBC associated with This issue has been extensively looked at295 and the only cancer risk? malignancy associated with PBC is HCC in patients with advanced disease296 (with a particularly increased risk in RECommEndATion 39 UDCA non-responding patients and in male patients.297 We recommend that patients with PBC should be offered the Previous concerns regarding breast cancer risk have not chance to seek support from patient support groups. (Strong; been substantiated in well-designed studies298 Moderate). Is PBC inherited? Daughters in particular of patients with PBC show a slightly increased risk of the disease, but this does not represent Mendelian inheritance.37 It is thought to SERviCE STAndARdS/AudiT RECommEndATionS FoR pBC represent either shared immunogenetic susceptibility or, Opportunities exist to implement the BSG/UK-PBC PBC guide- potentially, shared exposure to environmental triggers. The lifetime risk of the daughter of a patient with PBC in lines into clinical practice through audit of current and future screening is not routinely recommended and targets be adopted by clinical teams caring for patients with Is cardiac risk increased This has been extensively explored and there is no PBC, with the goal being improved and
