Guidelines
KEYWORDS: patients, pbc, disease, liver, udca, risk, therapy, treatment, patients pbc, guidelines, clinical, alp, evidence, cirrhosis, strong


targets be adopted by clinical teams caring for patients with Is cardiac risk increased This has been extensively explored and there is no PBC, with the goal being improved and more effective and in PBC? robust evidence to suggest that cardiac atherosclerotic uniform care for patients with PBC: risk is increased in PBC,299 300 despite the elevations 1. To exclude alternative aetiologies for cholestasis, all patients in cholesterol seen in the disease. Patients with PBC and appropriate cardiac preventative screening and part of their baseline assessment (standard 90%). intervention is recommended. Differential cholesterol 2. All patients should be offered therapy with UDCA. UDCA at assessment is necessary because of the HDL 13–15 mg/kg/day is recommended for first-line use in all pa- hypercholesterolaemia of the condition and the smoking tients with PBC (standard 90% of patients receiving therapy association is key at adequate dose or documented to be intolerant). Is PBC transmissible to No; although infectious agents have been postulated others? as triggers for disease, there is no evidence that shared 3. To facilitate the identification of patients at risk of progres- exposure triggers disease and patients should be advised sive disease, individualised risk stratification using biochem- and reassured ical response indices is recommended following 1 year of A number of online resources are available for patients. Recommended web sites UDCA therapy (standard 80% of patients receiving UDCA include: therapy to have their response status recorded in the notes and the criteria used recorded). (UK-PBC). 4. To highlight the impact on QoL and to ensure appropriate (The British Liver Trust). (The PBC Foundation). investigation and treatment, all patients should be evaluated (LIVErNorth). for the presence of symptoms, particularly fatigue and itch (Liver4Life). (standard 90% of patients have the presence/absence of fa- tigue and pruritus recorded in the notes in the last year). 5. To maximise the opportunity for all patients to be considered The use of international web sites by patients is not recom- in a timely way for liver transplantation, all patients with a mended as the clinical practice described may differ from that in bilirubin >50 µmol/L or evidence of decompensated liver the UK, causing confusion. disease should be discussed with a hepatologist linked to a 1588 Hirschfield GM, et al. Gut 2018;67:1568–1594. doi: Guidelines transplant programme (; s tandard 90 % documentation that provenance and peer review Not commissioned; externally peer reviewed. discussion has taken place within 3
