www.nature.com/scientificreports
KEYWORDS: sorafenib, cells, nitazoxanide, mcts, cell, mitochondrial, sigma-aldrich, min, regorafenib, using, sorafenib regorafenib, oxphos, treatment, cancer, fig


www.nature.com/scientificreports OPEN Sorafenib and nitazoxanide disrupt mitochondrial function and inhibit regrowth capacity in three‑dimensional models of hepatocellular and colorectal carcinoma Frida Ek1, Kristin Blom1, Tove Selvin1, Jakob Rudfeldt1, Claes Andersson1, Wojciech Senkowski1,2, Christian Brechot3, Peter Nygren4, Rolf Larsson1, Malin Jarvius1,5,6 & Mårten Fryknäs1,6* Quiescent cancer cells in malignant tumors can withstand cell‑cycle active treatment and cause cancer spread and recurrence. Three‑dimensional (3D) cancer cell models have led to the identification of oxidative phosphorylation (OXPHOS) as a context‑dependent vulnerability. The limited treatment options for advanced hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC) and colorectal carcinoma (CRC) metastatic to the liver include the multikinase inhibitors sorafenib and regorafenib. Off‑target effects of sorafenib and regorafenib are related to OXPHOS inhibition; however the importance of this feature to the effect on tumor cells has not been investigated in 3D models. We began by assessing global transcriptional responses in monolayer cell cultures, then moved on to multicellular tumor spheroids (MCTS) and tumoroids generated from a CRC patient. Cells were treated with chemotherapeutics, kinase inhibitors, and the OXPHOS inhibitors. Cells grown in 3D cultures were sensitive to the OXPHOS inhibitor nitazoxanide, sorafenib, and regorafenib and resistant to other multikinase inhibitors and chemotherapeutic drugs. Furthermore, nitazoxanide and sorafenib reduced viability, regrowth potential and inhibited mitochondrial membrane potential in an additive manner at clinically relevant concentrations. This study demonstrates that the OXPHOS inhibition caused by sorafenib and regorafenib parallels 3D activity and can be further investigated for new combination strategies. Prior research demonstrated that cancer cells primarily rely on glycolysis for survival and proliferation, known as the Warburg effect1. However, it is now clear that cells, under certain conditions, require OXPHOS for their metabolic demands and that enhanced OXPHOS is a characteristic of cancer stem cells and cancer cells with inherent or acquired drug resistance2–4. Furthermore, oxygen and nutritional gradients arise at radial distances from blood vessels in solid tumors. This allows for fast cell proliferation near blood vessels. In contrast, more dis- tant cells suffer from hypoxia, starvation, and dropping pH, all of which drive cells to a quiescent and OXPHOS- dependent s tate5,6. Quiescent cells are non-proliferating and thus insensitive to cell-cycle active chemotherapy, allowing for disease relapse and metastasis7. Therefore, these cells are high-priority targets when developing new cancer treatment strategies. Since the hypoxic and nutrient-deprived cells cannot rely solely on glycolysis to meet their energy demands, drugs that impair OXPHOS seem to be promising treatment alternatives2,4,8. of South
