www.nature.com/scientificreports
KEYWORDS: sorafenib, cells, nitazoxanide, mcts, cell, mitochondrial, sigma-aldrich, min, regorafenib, using, sorafenib regorafenib, oxphos, treatment, cancer, fig


treatment strategies. Since the hypoxic and nutrient-deprived cells cannot rely solely on glycolysis to meet their energy demands, drugs that impair OXPHOS seem to be promising treatment alternatives2,4,8. of South Florida and Romark L.C., Tampa Florida, USA. 4Department of Immunology, Genetics and Pathology, equally: Malin Jarvius and Mårten Fryknäs. *email: Scientific Reports | (2022) 12:8943 | 1 Vol.:(0123456789) www.nature.com/scientificreports/ Quiescent OXPHOS-dependent cancer cells can be modeled using three-dimensional (3D) cell cultures in which hypoxia, glucose deprivation, and low pH mimic the avascular tumor m icroenvironment9. A 3D model of moderate complexity suitable for high-throughput testing is the multicellular tumor spheroid (MCTS) model10. MCTS consist of cells from immortalized cell lines that are allowed to self-assemble into spheroids. Cells grow- ing in the MCTS periphery, with access to oxygen and nutrients, can proliferate. In the center of the MCTS, the conditions are hypoxic and the pH acidic, causing cells to be slowly-proliferating, quiescent, or even necrotic11. If a limited amount of cell medium is used and not replaced during the culture period, a larger fraction of the cells will become quiescent12. The tumoroid model established from primary cultures of patient tumor cells is more complex and, poten- tially, more clinically relevant. They develop tumor-like structures by self-assembly, have a high cellular hetero- geneity, and often resembles the original tumor both genetically and phenotypically13–15. Tumoroids constitute a unique possibility to study clinically relevant treatment efficacy in vitro, predict drug sensitivity in vivo15 and guide personalized cancer therapy13,15. Screening efforts using 3D cell models have revealed that mitochondrial OXPHOS is a vulnerability that can be exploited t herapeutically2,7,16,17. Several anthelmintic drugs, including nitazoxanide and niclosamide, have been identified in phenotypic MCTS based screens as repurposing candidates12,18,19. Nitazoxanide and niclosamide inhibit OXPHOS via mitochondrial uncoupling, and both have substantial effects on quiescent MCTS12,20. Sev- eral other mitochondrial inhibitors have also been d eveloped12, including the mitochondrial complex I inhibitor IACS-010759 currently in clinical trials21. The multikinase inhibitors sorafenib and its close structural analog regorafenib (see Supplementary Table 1 for comparison) both have OXPHOS inhibitory properties in vitro22–26. This off-target effect may be relevant to Thus, we investigated whether OXPHOS inhibition by sorafenib and regorafenib, alone or in combination with nitazoxanide, is effective in 3D models of hepatocellular and colorectal carcinoma. Results Global gene expression and galactose experiments indicate similarity between sorafenib and OXPHOS inhibitors. It has been clearly shown and well-documented that the multikinase
