www.nature.com/scientificreports
KEYWORDS: sorafenib, cells, nitazoxanide, mcts, cell, mitochondrial, sigma-aldrich, min, regorafenib, using, sorafenib regorafenib, oxphos, treatment, cancer, fig


models of hepatocellular and colorectal carcinoma. Results Global gene expression and galactose experiments indicate similarity between sorafenib and OXPHOS inhibitors. It has been clearly shown and well-documented that the multikinase inhibitors sorafenib and regorafenib have off-target effects causing OXPHOS inhibition in monolayer (2D) c ultures22,23,26 most likely caused by mitochondrial uncoupling25. Here we first hypothesized that this mitochondrial effect could elicit an immediate response at the global gene expression level, which would imply that induction of mitochondrial dysfunction plays a role in the mode of action. We used the LINCS d atabase27, a publicly available resource suitable for compound characterization, to explore global effects on gene expression after sorafenib exposure in 2D cultures. LINCS enables transcriptional response comparisons for more than 3000 compounds. After exposure to sorafenib, the global transcription profiles generated from nine different cell lines were, in aggregate, more similar to those of other OXPHOS-inhibitors (e.g., malonoben, niclosamide, CCCP, etc.) than other clinically used kinase inhibitors (Fig. 1A). Thus, this agrees with previous reports of sorafenib-induced mitochondrial dysfunction and indicates that it may be an integral part of the mechanism of action12,25,28. To fur- ther investigate the possible parallels between the antiparasitic uncoupling drugs (i.e., niclosamide and nitazoxa- nide) and the multikinase inhibitors sorafenib and regorafenib, monolayer (2D) experiments were performed in medium containing either glucose or galactose (supplementary Fig. 1). Growth in galactose-containing medium prevents glycolytic metabolism, forcing cells to rely solely on oxidative phosphorylation for ATP generation29. The 24-h ATP levels demonstrate that niclosamide and nitazoxanide are considerably more active under condi- tions when functional OXPHOS is required (i.e., galactose containing medium). Sorafenib, regorafenib, and the positive controls CCCP (uncoupler) and oligomycin (ATPase inhibitor) cause similar responses to anti parasitic compounds. On the other hand, the multikinase inhibitor sunitinib and the cytotoxic compounds irinotecan and oxaliplatin are not more effective when grown in galactose as compared to the response in glucose counting medium. Similar results were obtained in the HCC cell line Huh-7 and CRC cell line HCT116 (supplementary Fig. 1). Cancer cells in different types of 3D models. We and others have previously shown that well-func- tioning OXPHOS is critically important in hypoxic and metabolically stressed cancer c ells2,7,12,16,17,20,21. Here, two types of 3D models, MCTSs and tumoroids from a patient, were used to test the treatment effects after compound exposure. MCTS were generated from Huh-7 and the CRC cell line HCT116. Unlike most other
