www.nature.com/scientificreports
KEYWORDS: sorafenib, cells, nitazoxanide, mcts, cell, mitochondrial, sigma-aldrich, min, regorafenib, using, sorafenib regorafenib, oxphos, treatment, cancer, fig


MCTSs and tumoroids from a patient, were used to test the treatment effects after compound exposure. MCTS were generated from Huh-7 and the CRC cell line HCT116. Unlike most other spheroid-based approaches, the current method did not involve any medium changes throughout the spheroid growing phase. In terms of glucose content and pH, we could better simulate circumstances found in dormant tumor areas in vivo12. The center of HCT116 MCTSs had a hypoxic interior and structural changes consistent with necrotic core and only a rim of proliferating (i.e., KI-67 positive) cells in the periphery after seven days of growth (Fig. 1B–D). CRC-tumoroids from a patient were more heterogeneous and retained a more in vivo remi- niscent 3D organization (Fig. 1E–G). The low density of cells in the core of tumoroids indicates central necrosis (Fig. 1E). They also developed a low proliferation center and a proliferating peripheral zone (Fig. 1F). Epithelial marker EpCam was positive throughout the whole tumoroid (Fig. 1G), indicating that it consisted of colorectal cancer cells of epithelial origin. Sorafenib, regorafenib and nitazoxanide are active against cells in 3D models. We tested a panel of compounds in the MCTS models, including previously reported OXPHOS inhibitors (i.e., nitazoxanide and the multikinase inhibitors sorafenib and regorafenib) and compounds without prior documentation on OXPHOS inhibitory capacity (i.e., the multikinase inhibitors sunitinib and imatinib and the cytotoxic com- Scientific Reports | (2022) 12:8943 | 2 Vol:.(1234567890) www.nature.com/scientificreports/ (A) (B) (E) HE HE (C) (F) KI-67 KI-67 (D) (G) Pimonidazole EpCAM (H) (I) (J) Figure 1. Sorafenib response in 2D and 3D models compared to OXPHOS inhibitors, kinase inhibitors, and cytotoxic compounds. (A) Global gene expression-based response analysis (L1000, LINCS database). (B–D) IHC staining of HCT116 MCTS with hematoxylin–eosin (B), ki-67 (C), hypoxia marker pimonidazole (D). Scale bars = 200 μm. (E–G) IHC staining of tumoroids in hematoxylin–eosin (E), proliferation marker ki-67 (F), and epithelial marker EpCam (G). Scale bars = 100 μm. (H,I) Viability, plotted as mean ± SD, after treatment with six compounds for 72 h, measured using ATP-assay in HCT116 MCTS (H) n = 4 (quadruplicate wells), Coefficient of variation CV(controls) = 5% and Huh-7 MCTS (I) n = 3 (quadruplicate wells), CV(controls) = 5%. (J) Tumoroid viability, after treatment with 12 compounds for 72 h, was measured using the ATP-assay. The graph plots mean ± SD, n = 1 (duplicate wells for all compounds but nitazoxanide which was run
