www.nature.com/scientificreports
KEYWORDS: sorafenib, cells, nitazoxanide, mcts, cell, mitochondrial, sigma-aldrich, min, regorafenib, using, sorafenib regorafenib, oxphos, treatment, cancer, fig


with 12 compounds for 72 h, was measured using the ATP-assay. The graph plots mean ± SD, n = 1 (duplicate wells for all compounds but nitazoxanide which was run in quadruplicates wells). CV(controls) = 8%. pound irinotecan). In the MCTS models, compounds previously documented as OXPHOS inhibitors were dra- matically more effective (Fig. 1H,I). This response is specific to the conditions generated in 3D cultures as the same pattern was not found in monolayer cell cultures of HCT116 and Huh-7 (supplementary Fig. 2 and sup- Scientific Reports | (2022) 12:8943 | 3 Vol.:(0123456789) www.nature.com/scientificreports/ (A) Control FCCP Nitazoxanide Sorafenib Regorafenib Sunitinib Imatinib Irinotecan 8 µM 8 µM 8 µM 8 µM 8 µM 8 µM 8 µM (B) (C) 10 100 Concentration ( M) plementary Tables 4 and 5). When tested in the colon cancer tumoroid model, a similar pattern of sensitivity to nitazoxanide, sorafenib, and regorafenib was observed, whereas other kinase inhibitors (i.e., sunitinib, imatinib, dasatinib, and crizotinib), and cytotoxic drugs (i.e., irinotecan, cisplatin, docetaxel, mitomycin, fluorouracil, and gemcitabine) remained ineffective (Fig. 1J and supplementary Tables 2 and 3). Sorafenib, regorafenib, and nitazoxanide disrupt mitochondrial function in 3D. To investigate if mitochondrial membrane potential (Δψm)-disruption can be demonstrated in 3D cultures, we performed the JC-1 assay directly on MCTS formed from Huh-7 and HCT116 cells (Fig. 2). The MCTS were treated for 2 h with compounds that have reported OXPHOS-activity (i.e., nitazoxanide, sorafenib, regorafenib, and the posi- Mitochondrial membrane potential (Δψm) was decreased in MCTS after exposure to nitazoxanide, sorafenib, regorafenib, and positive control FCCP. At the same time, sunitinib, imatinib, and irinotecan did not affect mito- chondrial membrane potential, compared to untreated control (Fig. 2, supplementary Fig. 3 and supplementary Table 6). Concentrations that affect the mitochondrial potential (Fig. 2B,C) are comparable to the concentrations that affect viability in 3D (Fig. 1D,H,I). Sorafenib affects colony expansion. Clonogenic assay was performed after treatment of MCTS, formed from HCT116 cells, to corroborate the ATP measurements (Fig. 1H) with an orthogonal assay. After treatment, the MCTS were disintegrated enzymatically and re-seeded at low density to allow regrowth and colony forma- tion. When MCTs are grown according to this method, almost the entire MCTS consists of quiescent cells after 7 days of growth in a depleted m edium12,30. This experiment aimed to investigate if sorafenib can eradicate quiescent cancer cells as previously demonstrated for nitazoxanide12. Both nitazoxanide and sorafenib inhibited colony
