www.nature.com/scientificreports
KEYWORDS: sorafenib, cells, nitazoxanide, mcts, cell, mitochondrial, sigma-aldrich, min, regorafenib, using, sorafenib regorafenib, oxphos, treatment, cancer, fig


of growth in a depleted m edium12,30. This experiment aimed to investigate if sorafenib can eradicate quiescent cancer cells as previously demonstrated for nitazoxanide12. Both nitazoxanide and sorafenib inhibited colony regrowth potential in HCT116 MCTS, sorafenib already at 4 mM. Imatinib, irinotecan, and DMSO did not affect colony expansion in HCT116 MCTS (Fig. 3A and supplementary Table 8). Importance of exposure duration. To evaluate possible treatment regimes, exposure-effect relation- ships were established. When exposed for 72 h, 3D grown cells were sensitive to sorafenib (Figs. 1H–J and 3A). However, disruption of mitochondrial function occurs already two hours post-treatment (Fig. 2). To shed light on treatment duration requirement, we performed a clonogenic regrowth assay after 24, 48, and 72 h of drug exposure (Fig. 3B). Colony formation inhibition correlated to exposure time for nitazoxanide and sorafenib, while exposure duration of imatinib and irinotecan did not affect colony regrowth. This supports the notion that Scientific Reports | (2022) 12:8943 | 4 Vol:.(1234567890) )lortnocfo%(ecnecseroulF HCT116 1 10 100 Concentration ( M) )lortnocfo%(ecnecseroulF Huh-7 Irinotecan Sunitinib Imatinib Nitazoxanide Sorafenib Regorafenib FCCP Figure 2. Disruption of mitochondrial function in MCTS. The JC-1 assay was used to visualize alterations in mitochondrial membrane potential (Δψm) utilized as a marker for mitochondrial function. A, Images of HCT116 MCTS treated with seven compounds for 2 h (scale bar = 400 µm). (A–C) Mitochondrial membrane potential (Δψm) was decreased by nitazoxanide, sorafenib, regorafenib, and positive control FCCP in both Huh-7 MCTS. Huh-7 treated with nitazoxanide, sorafenib, regorafenib, sunitinib, imatinib, irinotecan: n = 4 (quadruplicate wells) for 8–32 µM and n = 2 (quadruplicate wells) for 2–4 µM, FCCP: n = 2 (quadruplicate wells), CV(controls) = 6.5–10.6%. HCT116: n = 3 (quadruplicate wells), CV(controls) = 7.3–12.5%). Δψm was unaffected by sunitinib, imatinib, and irinotecan, compared to control in both cell lines. (B,C) Graphs depicting Δψm as % red fluorescence compared to control (mean ± SEM). www.nature.com/scientificreports/ Nitazoxanide Sorafenib 4 µM 8 µM 16 µM sustained treatment is crucial and reproduces previous results for n itazoxanide12. Colony counts and statistical analysis from three replicates are shown in supplementary Fig. 5 and supplementary table 8. Combining sorafenib and nitazoxanide results in additive effects on viability, mitochondrial function, and colony expansion. Since sorafenib and regorafenib have dose-limiting side effects, com- bination therapy with another mitochondrial inhibitor might improve the therapeutic potential. Therefore, sorafenib and nitazoxanide were combined to evaluate whether the efficacy, disruption of
