www.nature.com/scientificreports
KEYWORDS: sorafenib, cells, nitazoxanide, mcts, cell, mitochondrial, sigma-aldrich, min, regorafenib, using, sorafenib regorafenib, oxphos, treatment, cancer, fig


regorafenib have dose-limiting side effects, com- bination therapy with another mitochondrial inhibitor might improve the therapeutic potential. Therefore, sorafenib and nitazoxanide were combined to evaluate whether the efficacy, disruption of mitochondrial func- tion, and colony expansion potential indicate additive effects. When sorafenib and nitazoxanide were added to MCTS in a combination matrix between 0.5 and 32 mM, additive effects were visible in ATP-assay (Fig. 4A), mitochondrial function (Fig. 4B, supplementary Fig. 4 and supplementary Table 7), and colony expansion (Fig. 4C and supplementary Fig. 5 and supplementary Table 8). Importantly, we have used concentrations simi- lar to what can be clinically achieved for sorafenib ( C 4.3 µM23), regorafenib (C 8.1 µM23), and nitazoxanide max max (6 µM31). A synergy analysis was also performed using MacSynergy32 where additive effects were demonstrated (data not shown). These results indicate that sorafenib and nitazoxanide have additive effects on quiescent can- cer cells and should be further investigated as a promising combination treatment. Discussion We propose that the previously described mitochondrial effects of sorafenib and regorafenib at clinically relevant concentrations translate into potent activity against quiescent cancer cells in 3D models. This property can be used as a basis for combination therapy with less toxic OXPHOS inhibitors. Over the last few decades, the role of functioning OXPHOS in cancer cells has become increasingly evident, and direct links between tumorigenicity, stemness, and vital mitochondria have been d emonstrated8. For exam- ple, cancer cells that lack mtDNA (Rho-0) have been utilized to establish the association between functional OXPHOS and retained tumorigenicity33. Metformin, used for the treatment of type 2 diabetes, can act as an inhibitor of complex I and specifically induces metabolic stress and apoptosis in cancer stem cells, causing a decrease in tumorigenic cells in vivo34. Metformin is currently undergoing numerous clinical trials for a variety well as the mitochondrial inhibitor ME-34421,35,36. Scientific Reports | (2022) 12:8943 | 5 Vol.:(0123456789) Mµ edinaxozatiN Mµ binefaroS Mµ binitamI OSMD (A) (B) 24 h 48 h 72 h 2 µM 4 µM 8 µM Imatinib DMSO 8 µM Figure 3. Sorafenib affects colony expansion, and duration of treatment is critical. (A) using clonogenic assay, HCT116 MCTS decreased their colony expansion capacity after sorafenib and nitazoxanide treatment for 72 h, while imatinib and DMSO did not. (B) Treatment with concentrations of 8 µM for > 24 h was necessary to ensure low re-growth potential using sorafenib and nitazoxanide. One
