www.nature.com/scientificreports
KEYWORDS: sorafenib, cells, nitazoxanide, mcts, cell, mitochondrial, sigma-aldrich, min, regorafenib, using, sorafenib regorafenib, oxphos, treatment, cancer, fig


h, while imatinib and DMSO did not. (B) Treatment with concentrations of 8 µM for > 24 h was necessary to ensure low re-growth potential using sorafenib and nitazoxanide. One representative well from one experiment shown, numeric results on replicate experiments in supplementary table 3, n = 3 (triplicate wells) for all treatments but imatinib treatment (n = 2 (triplicate wells). www.nature.com/scientificreports/ 24 h 48 h 72 h + - The importance of lipophilicity to penetrate cancer parenchyma has been previously described, and a connec- tion between higher logP value and increased efficacy in 3D models has been e stablished37. Substances with effect against quiescent cells in this study all have relatively high lipophilicity (XlogP ≥ 2, see supplementary Table 1). In contrast, conventional cytostatic compounds like 5-fluorouracil and gemcitabine have considerably lower lipophilicity (XlogP −0.9 and −1.5, respectively, supplementary Table 1). However, both irinotecan and docetaxel have higher XlogP. Thus, a high XlogP can be considered required but not sufficient for activity in 3D cultures. OXPHOS inhibition as a therapeutic strategy has been clinically evaluated, as exemplified by 2,4-dinitro- phenol (2,4-DNP). The ammunition-ingredient 2,4-DNP induced weight loss after reports of exposure-related poisoning in factories during the first world war. Within a year after the first published clinical study in the 1930s, over 100,000 people had taken 2,4-DNP, and the results in terms of weight loss were impressive. However, there was a wide range of reported side effects including fatally increased body temperature, which led to the withdrawal of 2,4-DNP38–40. In this context, it may be worth noting that fever is a well-documented side effect of nitazoxanide, sorafenib, and regorafenib treatment. Furthermore, in patients with HCC treated with sorafenib, fever has been described as an independent predictor of good therapy response41. Naturally, the severity of side effects that may be tolerated varies depending on whether the aim is weight loss or cancer treatment. We show that the global transcription profiles induced by sorafenib are similar to those elicited by OXPHOS inhibitors, highlighting the role of mitochondrial uncoupling in sorafenib’s mechanism of action. When sorafenib and regorafenib were added to cells grown in galactose-containing media, ATP was depleted at clinically rel- evant concentrations, indicative of OXPHOS inhibition. This is in line with previous studies12,25,28 and similar to the effects we found following exposure to the antiparasitic uncouplers nitazoxanide and niclosamide12,30. Sorafenib and regorafenib diminish mitochondrial membrane potential, while the other kinase
