Stress: Endocrine Physiology and Pathophysiology
KEYWORDS: pubmed, stress, crh, axis, chrousos, secretion, glucocorticoid, effects, hormone, central, hpa, corticotropin-releasing, hpa axis, chronic, activity


ABSTRACT Stress constitutes a state of threatened homeostasis triggered by intrinsic or extrinsic adverse forces (stressors) and is counteracted by an intricate repertoire of physiologic and behavioral responses aiming to maintain/reestablish the optimal body equilibrium (eustasis). The adaptive stress response depends upon a highly interconnected neuroendocrine, cellular, and molecular infrastructure, i.e. the stress system. Key components of the stress system are the hypothalamic-pituitary-adrenal (HPA) axis and the autonomic nervous system (ANS), which interact with other vital centers in the central nervous system (CNS) and tissues/organs in the periphery to mobilize a successful adaptive response against the imposed stressor(s). Dysregulation of the stress system (hyper- or hypo-activation) in association with potent and/or chronic stress can markedly disrupt the body homeostasis leading to a state of cacostasis or allostasis, with a spectrum of clinical manifestations. This chapter describes the organization and physiology of the stress system, focusing on its interactions with other CNS centers and endocrine axes, and reviews the existing evidence linking stress to pathophysiologic mechanisms implicated in the development of stress-related diseases affecting the endocrine, metabolic, gastrointestinal, and immune systems. For complete coverage of all related areas of Endocrinology, please visit our on-line FREE web-text, WWW.ENDOTEXT.ORG . STRESS AND STRESS SYNDROME- DEFINITIONS AND PHENOMENOLOGY All vital physiologic systems of the body are inherently programmed, through rigorous fine-tuning achieved during evolution, to preserve a predefined steady state ( homeostasis or eustasis) , which is essential for life and well-being [ 1 - 3 ]. This optimal equilibrium is constantly challenged by adverse forces which are intrinsic or extrinsic, real or even perceived, and are described as stressors [ 1 ]. Thus, stress is defined as a state of disharmony ( cacostasis or allostasis) and is counteracted by an intricate repertoire of physiologic and behavioral responses which aim to maintain/reestablish the threatened homeostasis ( adaptive stress response ) [ 1 ]. This adaptive stress response is mediated by a complex and interconnected neuroendocrine, cellular, and molecular infrastructure which constituents the stress system and is located in both the central nervous system (CNS) and the periphery [ 1 , 2 ]. The adaptive response of each individual to stress is determined by a multiplicity of genetic, environmental, and developmental factors. Changes in the ability to effectively respond to stressors ( e.g. inadequate, excessive and/or prolonged reactions) may lead to disease. Moreover, highly potent and/or chronic stressors can have detrimental effects on a variety
