Stress: Endocrine Physiology and Pathophysiology
KEYWORDS: pubmed, stress, crh, axis, chrousos, secretion, glucocorticoid, effects, hormone, central, hpa, corticotropin-releasing, hpa axis, chronic, activity


ability to effectively respond to stressors ( e.g. inadequate, excessive and/or prolonged reactions) may lead to disease. Moreover, highly potent and/or chronic stressors can have detrimental effects on a variety of physiologic functions, including growth, metabolism, reproduction, and immune competence, as well as on behavior and personality development. Of note, prenatal life, infancy, childhood, and adolescence are critical periods in the process of forming the matrix of the adaptive stress response, characterized by high plasticity of the stress system and increased vulnerability to stressors. The stress system receives and integrates a great diversity of neurosensory ( i.e. visual, auditory, somatosensory, nociceptive, and visceral), blood-borne, and limbic signals which arrive at the various stress system centers/stations through distinct pathways. Acute stress system activation triggers a cluster of time-limited changes, both behavioral and physical, which are rather consistent in their qualitative presentation and are collectively defined as the stress syndrome [ 1 - 4 ]. Under normal conditions these changes are adaptive and improve the chances of survival. Initially, the stimulation of the stress system components follows a stressor-specific mode; however, as the potency of the stressor(s) increases the specificity of the adaptive response decreases in order to eventually present the relatively nonspecific stress syndrome phenomenology which follows exposure to potent stressors. Behavioral adaptation includes enhanced arousal, alertness, vigilance, cognition, focused attention, and analgesia, whilst there is concurrent inhibition of vegetative functions, such as feeding and reproduction. In parallel, physical adaptation mediates an adaptive redirection of energy and body resources. As such, increases in the cardiovascular tone, respiratory rate and intermediate metabolism (gluconeogenesis and lipolysis) work in concert to promote this redirection of vital substrates, while energy consuming functions ( e.g. digestion, reproduction, growth, and immunity) are temporally suppressed. Thus, oxygen and nutrients are primarily shunted to the CNS and to stressed body site(s) where they are needed the most. In addition to the adaptive stress response, restraining forces are also activated during stress to prevent a potential excessive response of the various stress system components [ 1 - 4 ]. The ability to timely and precisely develop restraining forces is equally essential for a successful outcome against the imposed stressor(s), since prolonging the mobilized adaptive stress response can turn maladaptive and contribute to the development of disease. Interestingly, the mobilization of the stress system is often of a magnitude and nature that allows the perception of control by the individual. Under
