Stress: Endocrine Physiology and Pathophysiology
KEYWORDS: pubmed, stress, crh, axis, chrousos, secretion, glucocorticoid, effects, hormone, central, hpa, corticotropin-releasing, hpa axis, chronic, activity


contribute to the development of disease. Interestingly, the mobilization of the stress system is often of a magnitude and nature that allows the perception of control by the individual. Under such conditions, stress can be rewarding and pleasant, or even exciting, providing positive stimuli to the individual for emotional and intellectual growth and development [ 5 ]. Thus, it is not surprising that the stress system activation during feeding and sexual activity, both sine qua non functions for survival, is primarily linked to pleasure. STRESS SYSTEM- PHYSIOLOGY AND INTERACTIONS Neuroendocrine Effectors of the Stress Response- “The Stress System” Although the entire CNS is directly or indirectly involved in preserving and fine-tuning the overall body homeostasis, specific areas of the brain have critical, distinct roles in orchestrating the stress response. As such, the central components of the stress system are located in the hypothalamus and the brainstem and include the parvocellular corticotropin-releasing hormone (CRH) and arginine-vasopressin (AVP) neurons of the paraventricular nuclei (PVN) of the hypothalamus, and the CRH neurons of the paragigantocellular and parabranchial nuclei of the medulla, as well as the locus coeruleus (LC) and other catecholaminergic, norepinephrine (NE)-synthesizing cell groups of the medulla and pons (central sympathetic nervous system) [ 1 - 4 ]. The peripheral limps of the hypothalamic-pituitary-adrenal (HPA) axis, together with the efferent sympathetic/adrenomedullary system, constitute the peripheral components of this interconnected system. CENTRAL STRESS SYSTEM - CRH, AVP, & CATECHOLAMINERGIC NEURONS The central neurochemical circuitry responsible for the stress system activation forms a highly complex physiological system within the CNS, consisting of both stimulatory and inhibitory networks with multiple sites of interaction which modulate and fine-tune the adaptive stress response [ 1 - 4 ]. The key components of these networks are the hypothalamic CRH and AVP neurons in combination with the central catecholaminergic (LC/NE) neurons ( Figure 1 ). The central stress system activation is based on reciprocal reverberatory neural connections between the PVN CRH and the catecholaminergic LC/NE neurons, with CRH and NE stimulating the secretion of each other through CRH receptor-1 (CRH-R1) and α1-noradrenergic receptors, respectively [ 6 - 8 ]. Of note, autoregulatory ultrashort negative feedback loops exist in both the PVN CRH and the brainstem catecholaminergic neurons [ 9 , 10 ], with collateral fibers inhibiting CRH and catecholamine secretion respectively, via inhibition of the corresponding presynaptic CRH- and α2-noradrenergic receptors [ 11 ]. In addition, multiple other regulatory
