Stress: Endocrine Physiology and Pathophysiology
KEYWORDS: pubmed, stress, crh, axis, chrousos, secretion, glucocorticoid, effects, hormone, central, hpa, corticotropin-releasing, hpa axis, chronic, activity


, 10 ], with collateral fibers inhibiting CRH and catecholamine secretion respectively, via inhibition of the corresponding presynaptic CRH- and α2-noradrenergic receptors [ 11 ]. In addition, multiple other regulatory central pathways exist, since both CRH and catecholaminergic neurons receive stimulatory innervation from the serotoninergic and cholinergic systems [ 12 , 13 ], and inhibitory input from the gamma-aminobutyric acid (GABA)/benzodiazepine (BZD) and the opioid neuronal systems of the brain [ 14 , 15 ], as well as by glucocorticoids (the end-product of the HPA axis) [ 16 ]. Interestingly, both α2-adrenoceptor and opiate agonists act through separate receptors on neurons in the LC, albeit sharing common post-receptor effector signaling mediated through Gi proteins [ 17 ]. Figure 1. A simplified representation of the central and peripheral components of the stress system, their functional interrelations and their relationships to other central nervous system (CNS) pathways involved in the stress response. CRH: corticotropin-releasing hormone; LC/NE sympathetic system: locus coeruleus/norepinephrine-sympathetic system; POMC: proopiomelanocortin; AVP: arginine vasopressin; GABA: γ-aminobutyric acid; BZD: benzodiazepine; ACTH: adrenocorticotropic hormone (corticotrophin); NPY: neuropeptide Y; SP: substance P. Activation is represented by solid green lines and inhibition by dashed red lines. CRH, a 41-amino acid peptide, was first isolated as the principal hypothalamic stimulus to the pituitary-adrenal axis by Vale et al. in 1981 [ 18 ]. The subsequent availability of synthetic CRH and of inhibitory analogues opened huge vistas for stress research. Thus, CRH and CRH-receptors were identified in numerous extra-hypothalamic sites of the brain, including parts of the limbic system, the basal forebrain, the anterior pituitary and the central arousal-sympathetic systems (LC-sympathetic systems) in the brainstem and spinal cord [ 19 , 20 ]. Moreover, central administration of CRH was shown to set in motion a coordinated series of physiologic and behavioral responses which included activation of the pituitary-adrenal axis and the sympathetic nervous system (SNS), as well as characteristic stress-related behaviors [ 21 ]. Hence, it became evident that CRH plays a broader role in coordinating the stress response than had been previously suspected [ 3 , 4 ]. In fact, this neuropeptide appears to reproduce the stress response phenomenology, as summarized in Table 1 . Table 1. Behavioral and Physical Adaptation During Stress View in own window Behavioral Adaptation Adaptive redirection of behavior Increased arousal and alertness Increased cognition, vigilance and focused attention Suppression of feeding behavior Suppression of reproductive behavior Inhibition of gastric motility;
