Stress: Endocrine Physiology and Pathophysiology
KEYWORDS: pubmed, stress, crh, axis, chrousos, secretion, glucocorticoid, effects, hormone, central, hpa, corticotropin-releasing, hpa axis, chronic, activity


own window Behavioral Adaptation Adaptive redirection of behavior Increased arousal and alertness Increased cognition, vigilance and focused attention Suppression of feeding behavior Suppression of reproductive behavior Inhibition of gastric motility; stimulation of colonic motility Containment of the stress response Physical Adaptation Adaptive redirection of energy Oxygen and nutrients directed to the central nervous system and stressed body site(s) Altered cardiovascular tone; increased blood pressure and heart rate Increased respiratory rate Increased gluconeogenesis and lipolysis Detoxification from toxic products Inhibition of reproductive and growth axes Containment of the stress response Containment of the inflammatory/immune response Adapted from Chrousos G.P. and Gold P.W., JAMA, 1992; 267,1244. CRH binds to specific receptors which belong to the class II seven-transmembrane G-protein-coupled receptor superfamily of receptors (GPCRs) [ 22 ]. In addition to their wide expression throughout the brain, CRH receptors are found in a number of peripheral sites, including the adrenal medulla, prostate, gut, spleen, liver, kidney and testis. Distinct CRH receptor subtypes have been identified in humans, i.e. CRH-R1 and CRH-R2, which are encoded by distinct genes on chromosomes 17 and 7, respectively ( Figure 2 ) [ 23 , 24 ]. CRH-R1 and CRH-R2 share a 70% homology of their amino acid sequence, but exhibit unique pharmacologic profiles and are differentially expressed, hence they appear to mediate selective actions of CRH at different target organs/tissues. CRH-R1 is widely distributed in the brain, mainly in the anterior pituitary, neocortex and cerebellum, whilst is also expressed in the adrenal gland, gastrointestinal tract, skin, ovary and testis [ 25 ]. On the other hand, CRH-R2 receptors are mainly expressed in the peripheral vasculature, skeletal muscles, gastrointestinal tract and heart, while they also exhibit a widespread distribution in subcortical structures of the brain ( e.g. in the lateral septum, amygdala, hypothalamus and brain stem) [ 26 ]. Importantly, CRH-R1 is considered the only CRH-R type present in the LC, cerebellar cortex, thalamus and striatum, whereas exclusive CRH-R2 expression has been reported in the bed nucleus of the stria terminalis [ 27 - 29 ]. Of note, both CRH receptor genes have the ability of variant splicing, producing different isoforms for each subtype. As such, the CRH-R1 gene appears to have several splice variants (R1b, R1c, R1d, R1e, R1f, R1g and R1h) which encode proteins with altered N-terminal (CRH-R1c, CRH-R1e, CRH-R1h), intracellular (CRH-R1b, CRH-R1f) and transmembrane (CRH-R1g, CRH-R1d) segments compared to the prototypic CRH-R1a; however, their ligand-binding
