Stress: Endocrine Physiology and Pathophysiology
KEYWORDS: pubmed, stress, crh, axis, chrousos, secretion, glucocorticoid, effects, hormone, central, hpa, corticotropin-releasing, hpa axis, chronic, activity


R1e, R1f, R1g and R1h) which encode proteins with altered N-terminal (CRH-R1c, CRH-R1e, CRH-R1h), intracellular (CRH-R1b, CRH-R1f) and transmembrane (CRH-R1g, CRH-R1d) segments compared to the prototypic CRH-R1a; however, their ligand-binding affinity is low and their expression in native tissues has not been fully characterized [ 30 ]. Similarly, the CRH-R2 gene has three splice variants, respectively, encoding the CRH-R2a, CRH-R2b, CRH-R2c isoforms which differ only in the extracellular N-terminus and have distinct tissue distributions. Indeed, CRH-R2a is localized in subcortical regions, including the lateral septum and the hypothalamic paraventricular and ventromedial nuclei. Conversely, CRH-R2b in rodents is primarily localized in the heart, gastrointestinal tract, skeletal muscles and in non-neural brain tissues ( e.g. in cerebral arterioles and the choroid plexus), whilst CRH-R2c expression has been detected in human limbic regions [ 26 ]. This diversity of CRH receptor subtype and isoform expression is considered to play an important role in modulating the stress response by implicating locally different ligands (CRH and CRH-related peptides) and different intracellular second messengers ( e.g. CRH-R2 is now recognized to play a significant role in the physiology and pathophysiology of the cardiovascular system) [ 22 , 31 ]. Figure 2. Corticotropin-releasing hormone (CRH) receptor subtypes, splice variants and tissue distribution. CRH is considered the specific endogenous ligand for CRH-R1, while Urocortin 2 and Urocortin 3 are considered the specific endogenous ligands of CRH-R2. Urocortin 1 is considered an endogenous ligand for both CRH-R subtypes. CRH binds to CRH-R2 with an affinity that is 100-fold lower compared to the binding affinity of urocortins. CRH-R: Corticotropin-releasing hormone receptor, TM: transmembrane. AVP is a nonapeptide produced by PVN parvocellular neurons and by the magnocellular neurons of the neurohypophysis [ 32 ]. While the AVP from the posterior pituitary is secreted into the circulation and modulates fluid and electrolyte homeostasis, AVP of PVN origin, like CRH, is secreted into the hypophyseal portal system and holds a key role in the stress response, representing the second most important modulator of pituitary ACTH secretion [ 32 , 33 ]. Notably, whilst CRH appears to directly stimulate ACTH secretion, AVP and other factors ( e.g. angiotensin II) have primarily synergistic or additive effects [ 32 - 35 ]. Indeed, AVP exhibits synergy with CRH in vivo , when these peptides are co-administered in humans [ 36 ], by acting on a V1-type receptor (V1β, also referred as V3) and exerting its effects
