Stress: Endocrine Physiology and Pathophysiology
KEYWORDS: pubmed, stress, crh, axis, chrousos, secretion, glucocorticoid, effects, hormone, central, hpa, corticotropin-releasing, hpa axis, chronic, activity


with CRH in vivo , when these peptides are co-administered in humans [ 36 ], by acting on a V1-type receptor (V1β, also referred as V3) and exerting its effects through calcium/phospholipid-dependent mechanisms [ 37 ]. This synergistic effect on pituitary ACTH secretion offers an alternate pathway to influence the consequent HPA axis activation at the hypothalamic level, since the secretion of CRH and AVP is further regulated by a variety of different neuropeptides, including catecholamines which stimulate CRH secretion, and ghrelin (a GH-secretagogue factor) which appears to stimulate predominantly AVP secretion [ 38 , 39 ]. Similarly, leptin which is expressed in the central branch of the HPA axis can regulate both CRH and ACTH secretion acting in an autocrine/paracrine manner with most evidence indicating that it exerts an inhibitory effect on the HPA axis, although depending on the species, it may also stimulate the HPA activity [ 40 ]. Furthermore, endocannabinoids appear to negatively regulate basal and stimulated ACTH release at multiple levels of the HPA axis [ 41 ]. Interestingly, a subset of parvocellular neurons synthesize and secrete both CRH and AVP and the relative proportion of this subset is increased significantly by stress conditions [ 42 - 44 ]. Moreover, the terminals of the parvocellular PVN CRH and AVP neurons project to different CNS sites, including noradrenergic neurons of the brainstem and the hypophyseal portal system in the median eminence. PVN CRH and AVP neurons also send projections to and activate pro-opiomelanocortin (POMC)-containing neurons in the arcuate nucleus of the hypothalamus. In turn, these POMC-containing neurons project reciprocally to the PVN CRH and AVP neurons, innervate LC/NE-sympathetic neurons of the central stress system in the brainstem and terminate on pain control neurons of the hind brain and spinal cord. Thus, stress system activation, via CRH and catecholamines, stimulates the hypothalamic secretion of β-endorphin and other POMC-peptides which reciprocally inhibit the stress system activity, induce analgesia ("stress-induced" analgesia) and may also influence the emotional tone ( Figure 1 ). It is also noteworthy that, among the multiple regulatory central pathways which influence the central stress system activity, neuropeptide Y (NPY) stimulates CRH neurons, whereas it inhibits the central SNS [ 45 , 46 ]. This may be of particular relevance to changes in stress system activity in states of dysregulated food intake and obesity. Interestingly, glucocorticoids, which stimulate appetite, have been also shown to stimulate the hypothalamic
