Stress: Endocrine Physiology and Pathophysiology
KEYWORDS: pubmed, stress, crh, axis, chrousos, secretion, glucocorticoid, effects, hormone, central, hpa, corticotropin-releasing, hpa axis, chronic, activity


of particular relevance to changes in stress system activity in states of dysregulated food intake and obesity. Interestingly, glucocorticoids, which stimulate appetite, have been also shown to stimulate the hypothalamic NPY gene expression, while they inhibit the PVN CRH and LC/NE-sympathetic systems [ 47 ]. Of note, in addition to its appetite stimulating and anxiolytic activities, NPY can also act peripherally exerting detrimental actions on the cardiovascular system and metabolism, related to adaptation to stress [ 48 ]. On the other hand, substance P (SP) has reciprocal actions to those of NPY, since it inhibits CRH neurons [ 49 ], whereas it activates the central catecholaminergic system [ 50 ]. It is considered that, SP release is increased centrally by peripheral activation of somatic afferent fibers and, hence, may be relevant to stress system activity changes induced by chronic inflammatory and/or painful states [ 51 ]. Along with NPY and SP, a number of other neuropeptides, including the Tyr-MIF-1 family of peptides, teneurin C-terminal associated peptides (TCAP), oxytocin, cholecystokinin (CCK) and galanin, appear to be implicated in the regulation of stress-like behavior [ 52 ]. HYPOTHALAMIC-PITUITARY-ADRENAL (HPA) AXIS The HPA axis is a vital component of both the central and the peripheral limb of the stress system [ 1 , 4 ]. As such, HPA axis integrity and precise regulation of its function are essential characteristics of the successful adaptive response to any stressor. At the level of the hypothalamic-pituitary unit, CRH is released into the hypophyseal portal system and acts as the principal regulator of the anterior pituitary ACTH secretion [ 4 ]. As aforementioned, CRH binding on CRH-R1 of the corticotrophs is permissive for ACTH secretion, whilst AVP acts as a potent synergistic factor to CRH with little ACTH secretagogue activity by itself [ 32 - 34 , 53 ]. Under non-stressful conditions, both CRH and AVP are secreted into the portal system in a circadian and highly concordant pulsatile fashion [ 54 , 55 ]. Indeed, the HPA axis activity is characterized not only by a typical circadian rhythm, but also by an ultradian pattern of discrete pulsatile release of glucocorticoids, with a pulse of production every 1-2 hours [ 56 ]. The amplitude of the CRH and AVP pulses increases in the early morning hours, consequently resulting in increased amplitude and frequency of ACTH and cortisol secretory bursts in the systemic circulation [ 57 , 58
