Stress: Endocrine Physiology and Pathophysiology
KEYWORDS: pubmed, stress, crh, axis, chrousos, secretion, glucocorticoid, effects, hormone, central, hpa, corticotropin-releasing, hpa axis, chronic, activity


and AVP pulses increases in the early morning hours, consequently resulting in increased amplitude and frequency of ACTH and cortisol secretory bursts in the systemic circulation [ 57 , 58 ]. Of note, recent data indicate that various factors including age, body mass index (BMI), and gender, are individually and in some cases jointly associated with endogenous ACTH-induced stimulation of overnight pulsatile cortisol secretion [ 59 ]. The circadian release of CRH/AVP/ACTH/cortisol in their characteristic pulsatile manner appears to be controlled by one or more CNS pace makers, as will be more precisely described in the following section on the “CLOCK system” [ 60 , 61 ]. These diurnal variations are perturbed by changes in lighting, feeding and physical activity patterns, whilst they are disrupted when a stressor is imposed. During acute stress, the amplitude and synchronization of both CRH and AVP secretory pulses increases, with additional recruitment of PVN CRH and AVP secretion. Furthermore, angiotensin II, various cytokines and lipid mediators of inflammation are also secreted, depending on the stressor, and act on various levels of the HPA axis to mainly stimulate its activity. Interestingly, nicotine can also induce the HPA axis via both CRH-R and AVP V(1b) receptors; hence, when CRH-R is blocked, nicotine may utilize the AVP V(1b) receptor to induce its action and increase the secretion of ACTH and glucocorticoids [ 62 ]. The adrenal cortex constitutes the principal target organ of the pituitary-derived circulating ACTH. The latter is the key regulator of glucocorticoid and adrenal androgen secretion by the zona fasciculata and zona reticularis , respectively, whilst it is also implicated in the regulation of aldosterone secretion by the zona glomerulosa [ 63 ]. Notably, existing evidence suggests that the adrenal cortisol secretion is further regulated by other hormones and/or cytokines coming from the adrenal medulla or the systemic circulation, and by neuronal signals via the autonomic innervation of the adrenal cortex ( Figure 1 ). Glucocorticoids are the final hormonal effectors of the HPA axis, exerting their pleiotropic effects via their ubiquitously distributed intracellular receptors (GRα and GRβ; both members of the nuclear receptor superfamily) [ 64 ]. The non-activated glucocorticoid receptor resides in the cytosol as a hetero-oligomer with heat shock proteins and immunophilin [ 65 ]. Upon ligand binding, glucocorticoid receptors dissociate from the rest of this hetero-oligomer, and subsequently homodimerize and translocate into the nucleus, where they interact with specific glucocorticoid
