Stress: Endocrine Physiology and Pathophysiology
KEYWORDS: pubmed, stress, crh, axis, chrousos, secretion, glucocorticoid, effects, hormone, central, hpa, corticotropin-releasing, hpa axis, chronic, activity


immunophilin [ 65 ]. Upon ligand binding, glucocorticoid receptors dissociate from the rest of this hetero-oligomer, and subsequently homodimerize and translocate into the nucleus, where they interact with specific glucocorticoid response elements (GREs) of the DNA to transactivate or transrepress appropriate hormone-responsive genes [ 66 ]. Transactivation has been suggested as mediating most of the adverse effects of glucocorticoids, while transrepression is considered to mediate mostly anti-inflammatory glucocorticoid effects by inhibiting several inflammatory mediators/pathways ( e.g. AP-1, NF-κB). Post-translational modifications of glucocorticoid receptors ( e.g. phosphorylation, acetylation, ubiquitination and sumoylation) regulate the receptor stability and nuclear localization, as well as its interaction with other proteins [ 67 - 69 ]. Furthermore, glucocorticoid receptor activation causes changes in the stability of other mRNAs and, thus, the translation rates of several glucocorticoid-responsive proteins. Notably, glucocorticoids influence the secretion rates of specific proteins and alter the electrical potential of neuronal cells, through mechanisms that remain to be elucidated. Glucocorticoids can further induce rapid non-genomic effects, via mechanisms which are also not fully clarified yet [ 70 ]. Moreover, there are also data indicating that glucocorticoids have the ability to regulate mitochondrial functions and energy metabolism. Indeed, the presence of both GRα and GRβ in mitochondria of animal and human cells has been associated with modulation of mitochondrial functions indicating that the cross-talk of glucocorticoid receptors with mitochondria may be involved in cell survival [ 71 , 72 ]. Glucocorticoids play a crucial role in the regulation of the basal HPA axis activity and in the termination of the stress response by acting at multiple levels, including extra-hypothalamic regulatory centers, the hypothalamus and the pituitary ( Figure 1 ) [ 73 ]. As such, the inhibitory glucocorticoid feedback on the ACTH secretory response limits the duration of the total tissue exposure to glucocorticoids, thus minimizing the catabolic, anti-reproductive and immunosuppressive effects of these hormones. Interestingly, a dual glucocorticoid receptor system exists in the CNS, including both type I glucocorticoid receptors (mineralocorticoid receptor) which respond to low levels of glucocorticoids and primarily act to induce activation; and the classic glucocorticoid receptor (type II) which responds to higher levels of glucocorticoids, stress-related or not, and can either dampen some systems or activate other. The negative feedback control of the CRH and ACTH secretion is mediated through type II glucocorticoid receptors. Finally, it must be highlighted that, the glucocorticoid secretion pulsatility is among the main factors determining
