Stress: Endocrine Physiology and Pathophysiology
KEYWORDS: pubmed, stress, crh, axis, chrousos, secretion, glucocorticoid, effects, hormone, central, hpa, corticotropin-releasing, hpa axis, chronic, activity


control of the CRH and ACTH secretion is mediated through type II glucocorticoid receptors. Finally, it must be highlighted that, the glucocorticoid secretion pulsatility is among the main factors determining the HPA axis responsiveness to stress and the transcriptional responses of glucocorticoid responsive genes [ 74 , 75 ]. Data on the downstream effects of short-term fluctuations in serum glucocorticoid concentrations indicate that ultradian cortisol pulsatility can impact on the gene expression and phenotype of target cells. Importantly, pulsatile cortisol has been shown to significantly reduce cell survival due to increased apoptosis compared to continuous exposure to the same cumulative dose [ 76 ]. SYMPATHETIC/ADRENOMEDULLARY AND PARASYMPATHETIC SYSTEMS The autonomic nervous system (ANS) provides a rapidly responsive mechanism to control a wide range of physiologic functions. As such, the cardiovascular, respiratory, gastrointestinal, renal, endocrine, and other vital systems are tightly regulated by either the SNS or the parasympathetic system or the combined activity of both [ 77 ]. Indeed, the ANS activity is typically regulated through a dual reaction mechanism, since the parasympathetic system can equally assist or antagonize most of the SNS functions by withdrawing or increasing its activity, respectively. Sympathetic innervation of peripheral organs is derived from the efferent preganglionic fibers whose cell bodies lie in the intermediolateral column of the spinal cord. These nerves synapse in the bilateral chain of sympathetic ganglia with postganglionic sympathetic neurons, which innervate the smooth muscle cells of the vasculature, skeletal muscles, heart, kidneys, gut, adipose tissue and many other organs [ 78 ]. The preganglionic neurons are primarily cholinergic, whereas the postganglionic neurons release mostly noradrenaline. The SNS activity has an additional humoral contribution consisting of circulating epinephrine and, to a lesser extent, norepinephrine released by the adrenal medulla which can be considered as a modified sympathetic ganglion. Moreover, a plethora of additional neurotransmitters is implicated in the regulation of the ANS activity, complementing the effects of acetylcholine and norepinephrine. Both the sympathetic and parasympathetic system contain several subpopulations of target-selective and neurochemically coded neurons which express a variety of neuropeptides and, in some cases, adenosine triphosphate (ATP), nitric oxide (NO), or lipid mediators of inflammation [ 79 ]. Interestingly, CRH, NPY, somatostatin, and galanin are colocalized in noradrenergic vasoconstrictive neurons, whereas vasoactive intestinal polypeptide (VIP) and, to a lesser extent, SP and calcitonin gene-related peptide (CGRP) are colocalized in cholinergic neurons. In addition, the signal transmission in sympathetic ganglia is
