Stress: Endocrine Physiology and Pathophysiology
KEYWORDS: pubmed, stress, crh, axis, chrousos, secretion, glucocorticoid, effects, hormone, central, hpa, corticotropin-releasing, hpa axis, chronic, activity


whereas vasoactive intestinal polypeptide (VIP) and, to a lesser extent, SP and calcitonin gene-related peptide (CGRP) are colocalized in cholinergic neurons. In addition, the signal transmission in sympathetic ganglia is further modulated by neuropeptides released from preganglionic fibers and short interneurons ( e.g. enkephalin and neurotensin), as well as by primary afferent ( e.g. VIP and SP) nerve collaterals [ 80 ]. Thus, the particular combination of neurotransmitters in sympathetic neurons is markedly influenced by central and local factors which may trigger or suppress specific genes. Interactions with Other CNS Components The stress system not only sets the arousal level and regulates vital signs, but further interacts with other crucial CNS components, including the mesocorticolimbic dopaminergic system (“reward” system), the amygdala/hippocampus complex and the arcuate nucleus POMC neuronal system [ 81 - 83 ]. In turn, following activation by stress, these CNS systems act via specific neuronal pathways to modify the stress system activity, hence forming a complex reciprocal mechanism which fine-tunes the adaptive response. Of note, well-established interactions exist between the stress system and distinct CNS centers which are essential for survival, such as the thermoregulatory and appetite-satiety centers [ 84 ]. MESOCORTICOLIMBIC DOPAMINERGIC SYSTEM The mesocortical and mesolimbic components of the dopaminergic system are highly innervated by PNV CRH neurons and the LC/NE-sympathetic noradrenergic system and, thus, are activated by CRH, catecholamines and glucocorticoids during stress. The mesocortical system contains dopaminergic neurons of the ventral tegmentum which send projections to the prefrontal cortex. Activation of these neurons appears to centrally suppress the stress system response and is implicated in anticipatory phenomena and cognitive functions [ 82 ]. Similarly, the mesolimbic system also consists of dopaminergic neurons of the ventral tegmentum. These neurons innervate the nucleus accumbens and are considered to play a pivotal role in motivational/reinforcement/reward phenomena and in forming the central dopaminergic “reward” system [ 84 ]. Hence, euphoria and dysphoria are likely to be mediated by the mesocorticolimbic system which is considered the central target of several addictive substances ( e.g. cocaine). AMYGDALA/HIPPOCAMPUS The amygdala/hippocampus complex is activated during stress primarily by ascending catecholaminergic neurons originating in the brain stem or by inner emotional stressors ( e.g. conditioned fear) possibly from cortical association areas [ 83 ]. The amygdala nuclei constitute the principal CNS center for fear-related behaviors and their activation is important for both retrieval and emotional analysis of all relevant stored information for any
