Stress: Endocrine Physiology and Pathophysiology
KEYWORDS: pubmed, stress, crh, axis, chrousos, secretion, glucocorticoid, effects, hormone, central, hpa, corticotropin-releasing, hpa axis, chronic, activity


]. The amygdala nuclei constitute the principal CNS center for fear-related behaviors and their activation is important for both retrieval and emotional analysis of all relevant stored information for any given stressor. In response to emotional stressors, the amygdala can directly stimulate central stress system components and the mesocorticolimbic dopaminergic system. Interestingly, there are CRH peptidergic neurons in the amygdala which respond positively to glucocorticoids and whose activation leads to stress system stimulation and anxiety. Of note, CRH neurons in the central nucleus of the amygdala send projections to the PVN parvocellular regions and the parabrachial nucleus of the brain stem which are considered crucial for CRH-induced neuroendocrine, autonomic and behavioral effects. Moreover, CRH fibers also interconnect the amygdala with the bed nucleus of the stria terminalis and the hypothalamus [ 85 , 86 ]. Conversely to the stimulatory CRH and norepinephrine effect, the hippocampus exerts a tonic and stimulated inhibitory effect on the amygdala activity and the PVN CRH and LC/NE-sympathetic systems. Indeed, the hippocampus plays an important role in shutting off the HPA stress response; hence, hippocampal atrophy or damage impairs this shut off function and can lead to prolonged HPA responses to psychological stressors [ 87 ]. These findings led to the "glucocorticoid cascade hypothesis" of stress and aging. Accordingly, Lupien et al. have shown that progressively increased salivary cortisol levels during annual exams over a 5-year period can predict reduced hippocampal volume and decreased performance on hippocampal-dependent learning and memory tasks [ 88 ]. Moreover, Refojo et al. have demonstrated, through specific CRH-R1 deletions in glutamatergic, GABAergic, dopaminergic and serotonergic cells, that CRH-R1 absence in forebrain glutamatergic circuits reduces anxiety and impairs neurotransmission in the amygdala and hippocampus, whilst elective CRH-R1 deletion in midbrain dopaminergic neurons results in increased anxiety-like behavior, suggesting a bidirectional model for the CRH-R1 role in anxiety [ 89 ]. ARCUATE NUCLEUS PROOPIOMELANOCORTIN (POMC) NEURONAL SYSTEM Reciprocal innervation exists between opioid peptide (POMC-producing) neurons of the hypothalamic arcuate nucleus and both the CRH/AVP-producing and LC/NE-noradrenergic neurons [ 6 , 81 ]. Stress system activation stimulates hypothalamic release of POMC-derived peptides, including α-melanocyte-stimulating hormone (α-MSH) and β-endorphin, which reciprocally inhibit the activity of both the central stress system components. Moreover, through projections of these neurons to the hind brain and the spinal cord, "stress- induced analgesia” is achieved by inhibition of the ascending pain pathways ( Figure 1 ). THERMOREGULATORY CENTER- TEMPERATURE REGULATION
