Stress: Endocrine Physiology and Pathophysiology
KEYWORDS: pubmed, stress, crh, axis, chrousos, secretion, glucocorticoid, effects, hormone, central, hpa, corticotropin-releasing, hpa axis, chronic, activity


these neurons to the hind brain and the spinal cord, "stress- induced analgesia” is achieved by inhibition of the ascending pain pathways ( Figure 1 ). THERMOREGULATORY CENTER- TEMPERATURE REGULATION It is well-established that the activation of the LC/NE-noradrenergic and PVN CRH systems by stressors increases the body core temperature. Intracerebroventricular administration of both norepinephrine and CRH can cause temperature elevation, possibly through prostanoid-mediated actions on the septal and hypothalamic temperature-regulating center. CRH has also been shown to partly mediate the pyrogenic effects of the three major inflammatory cytokines, i.e. tumor necrosis factor-α (TNF-α), interleukin 1 (IL-1), and interleukin-6 (IL-6), following stimulation by lipopolysaccharide (LPS; endotoxin, a potent exogenous pyrogen) [ 84 ]. Interestingly, psychological stress appears to also significantly affect the central thermoregulatory system, inducing a rise in body core temperature through activation of thermoregulatory sympathetic premotor neurons in the medullary raphe region [ 90 ]. This psychogenic fever can last for as long as the underlying psychological stressor(s) exist(s) [ 91 ], whilst in animal stress models it can be reduced by systemic injection of an antagonist of the β 3 -adrenoreceptor [ 90 - 92 ]. Of note, the latter is the adrenoreceptor subtype which is abundantly expressed in brown adipose tissue (BAT) and mediates BAT thermogenesis [ 93 ]. APPETITE/SATIETY CENTERS- APPETITE REGULATION Stress is directly implicated in the regulation of appetite by influencing the central appetite/satiety centers in the hypothalamus. As such, CRH can acutely cause anorexia, whilst NPY (a potent orexigenic neuropeptide) also stimulates CRH secretion via Y1 receptors, probably to counter-regulate its own actions. In parallel, NPY also inhibits the LC/NE-sympathetic system and activates the parasympathetic system, with both effects decreasing thermogenesis and facilitating digestion and storage of nutrients [ 45 , 46 ]. On the other hand, leptin (an adipocyte-derived satiety hormone/adipokine), inhibits the secretion of hypothalamic NPY, whilst it also stimulates arcuate nucleus POMC neurons which secrete α-MSH (a potent anorexigenic and thermogenic peptide, acting through specific melanocortin receptors type 4; MC4) ( Figure 3 ). Importantly, apart from its appetite enhancing effects, NPY appears to be critical for maintaining stress responses, although its range of actions in the rest of the body and its exact role as a stress mediator remain to be fully clarified [ 48 ]. Of note, existing evidence indicates that stress-induced eating behavior in obese women with binge-eating disorders is characterized both by stronger motivation to
