Stress: Endocrine Physiology and Pathophysiology
KEYWORDS: pubmed, stress, crh, axis, chrousos, secretion, glucocorticoid, effects, hormone, central, hpa, corticotropin-releasing, hpa axis, chronic, activity


remain to be fully clarified [ 48 ]. Of note, existing evidence indicates that stress-induced eating behavior in obese women with binge-eating disorders is characterized both by stronger motivation to eat (as manifested by a fast-initial eating rate) and by absence of satiety perception (as manifested by a lower deceleration of the eating rate) [ 94 ]. Finally, recent data support the direct implication of glucocorticoids in appetite regulation [ 95 ]. Figure 3. Schematic representation of interactions between the hypothalamic-pituitary-adrenal (HPA) axis, adipose tissue and hypothalamic appetite-satiety centers. ARC: arcuate nucleus; PVN: paraventricular nucleus; LHA: lateral hypothalamic area; CRH: corticotropin-releasing hormone; ACTH: adrenocorticotropic hormone (corticotrophin); POMC: proopiomelanocortin; NPY: neuropeptide Y; AgRP: agouti related peptide; α-MSH: α-melanocyte-stimulating hormone; Y1: neuropeptide Y receptor type 1; MC4R: melanocortin receptor type 4; TRH: thyrotropin-releasing hormone; MCH: melanin concentrating hormone; OXY: oxytocin. Activation is represented by solid green lines and inhibition by dashed red lines. CLOCK System More recently, it became evident that the stress system is interconnected and communicates at multiple levels with an additional vital system, defined as the CLOCK system, which generates the body circadian rhythms and regulates a wide range of physiologic functions [ 60 ]. This system is comprised by a main central hypothalamic component and numerous associated extra-hypothalamic, peripheral components [ 60 , 96 ]. The central CLOCK system component is located in the suprachiasmatic nuclei (SCN) of the hypothalamus and acts as a “master” CLOCK under the influence of light/dark input through the eyes ( Figure 4 ) [ 96 ]. Indeed, light/dark information can travel through the retinohypothalamic tract (RHT; a photic neural input pathway implicated in the regulation of circadian rhythms in mammals). As such, this information travels from the retina, and specifically from the photosensitive retina ganglion cells, to the SCN. Subsequently, SCN neurons of the central CLOCK system send efferent projections: (i) to the other CNS sites [ e.g. to the PVN, medial preoptic area (MPA) and dorsomedial nucleus (DMH) of the hypothalamus and to the pineal gland] to transfer timing information, regulate melatonin and pituitary hormone secretion and control sleep, food intake and body temperature; and (ii) to ANS centers (sympathetic and parasympathetic) [ 96 , 97 ]. As a result, all these basic physiologic functions of the body follow circadian rhythm patterns under the control of the central CLOCK system which facilitates the entrainment of these circadian rhythms to the daily
