Stress: Endocrine Physiology and Pathophysiology
KEYWORDS: pubmed, stress, crh, axis, chrousos, secretion, glucocorticoid, effects, hormone, central, hpa, corticotropin-releasing, hpa axis, chronic, activity


these basic physiologic functions of the body follow circadian rhythm patterns under the control of the central CLOCK system which facilitates the entrainment of these circadian rhythms to the daily light/dark cycle and essentially to the rotation of earth ( Figure 4 ) [ 98 , 99 ]. Notably, an important intracellular signaling pathway which couples light to entrainment of the mammalian “master” CLOCK is mediated via the p42/44 mitogen-activated protein kinase (MAPK) pathway and mitogen- and stress-activated protein kinase 1 (MSK1; a downstream target of the MAPK cascade) [ 100 ]. Figure 4. Central CLOCK synchronizes the peripheral CLOCKs and regulates peripheral organ activities via neural and humoral interactions. Light/dark information travels via the retinohypothalamic tract (RHT) from the retina (specifically from the retina ganglion cells which are intrinsically photosensitive) to the suprachiasmatic nucleus (SCN) where efferent neurons: (i) transfer timing information to other parts of the CNS, such as the paraventricular nucleus (PVN), medial preoptic area (MPO) and dorsomedial nucleus (DMH) of the hypothalamus and the pineal gland; and (ii) affect the autonomic nervous system (sympathetic and parasympathetic); in order to regulate the secretion of pituitary hormones and melatonin, which in turn control basic physiologic functions, including regulation of sleep, food intake and body temperature. DMV: dorsal motor nucleus of vagus. [Adapted from Nader, N, Chrousos, GP, Kino T. Trends Endocrinol Metab 2010;21:277]. The extra-hypothalamic, peripheral components of the CLOCK system are located in all other organs/tissues, including brain centers beyond the SCN [ 98 , 101 ]. Interestingly, in order to generate intrinsic circadian rhythms, the central and peripheral CLOCKs utilize almost the same transcriptional regulatory machinery [ 98 , 102 ]. A central role in this machinery is played by two specific transcription factors, i.e. the circadian locomotor output cycles kaput (Clock; a histone acetyltransferase) and the brain-muscle-arnt-like protein 1 (Bmal1; the heterodimer partner of Clock) transcription factor, which both belong to the basic helix-loop-helix (bHLH) PER-ARNT-SIM (PAS) superfamily of transcription factors [ 96 ]. During the day, the Clock/Bmal1 interaction leads to transcriptional activation of two principal clock genes, i.e. the Per (Period 1,2,3) and Cry (Cryptochrome 1,2) gene, resulting in high levels of these transcripts. The Per and Cry proteins, after heterodimerization, translocate to the nucleus and interact with the Clock/Bmal1 complex, thus inhibiting their own transcription. During the night, the Per/Cry repressor complex is degraded and the Clock/Bmal1 complex can then activate a
