Stress: Endocrine Physiology and Pathophysiology
KEYWORDS: pubmed, stress, crh, axis, chrousos, secretion, glucocorticoid, effects, hormone, central, hpa, corticotropin-releasing, hpa axis, chronic, activity


the nucleus and interact with the Clock/Bmal1 complex, thus inhibiting their own transcription. During the night, the Per/Cry repressor complex is degraded and the Clock/Bmal1 complex can then activate a new cycle of transcription [ 103 ]. This entire cycle lasts approximately 24 hours and results from a combination of transcriptional and post-translational negative feedback loops, where Per and Cry proteins periodically suppress their own expression. Notably, post-translational modification and degradation of circadian clock proteins appear to play crucial roles in determining the circadian periodicity of the CLOCK [ 104 ], whilst rhythmic alterations in 3',5'-cyclic adenosine monophosphate (cAMP) signaling can determine central CLOCK properties, including amplitude, phase and period [ 105 ]. In addition, a number of other candidate CLOCK mediators, such as Timeless, Dec1, Dec2, Rev-erbα, retinoic acid receptor-related orphan receptor α (RORα) and E4bp4, appear to play further roles in this system which are not fully explored yet [ 106 , 107 ]. Importantly, the central (master) CLOCK can synchronize the circadian rhythm of peripheral CLOCKs via both humoral and neural connections which remain to be further clarified [ 99 ]. Thus, destruction of the central CLOCK can revoke the synchronization of peripheral CLOCKs in different organs/tissues, while the circadian rhythm of each peripheral CLOCK is still retained. The latter suggests that peripheral CLOCKs exhibit a relative autonomy from the central CLOCK. The circadian rhythm which characterizes the fluctuation of circulating glucocorticoid levels is well-established, with peak levels in the early morning and a nadir in the late evening in humans [ 108 ]. It is now evident that the light-activated central CLOCK system is orchestrating the daily rhythmic release of glucocorticoids by regulating the HPA axis activity via efferent connections from the SCN to the PVN CRH/AVP-neurons ( Figure 5 ) [ 99 , 109 ]. In addition, splanchnic innervation to the adrenal medulla via the aforementioned SCN-ANS axis also contributes to the circadian glucocorticoid secretion and resets the local adrenal clock via modulating adrenal sensitivity to ACTH through effects of epinephrine and other secretory products of the adrenal medulla, such as NPY ( Figure 5 ) [ 110 ]. Figure 5. The light-activated central CLOCK located in the suprachiasmatic nucleus (SCN) is orchestrating the daily rhythmic release of glucocorticoids by influencing the activity of the hypothalamic-pituitary-adrenal (HPA) axis through efferent connections from the SCN to the CRH/AVP-containing neurons of the PVN. Additionally, splanchnic nerve innervation
