Stress: Endocrine Physiology and Pathophysiology
KEYWORDS: pubmed, stress, crh, axis, chrousos, secretion, glucocorticoid, effects, hormone, central, hpa, corticotropin-releasing, hpa axis, chronic, activity


rhythmic release of glucocorticoids by influencing the activity of the hypothalamic-pituitary-adrenal (HPA) axis through efferent connections from the SCN to the CRH/AVP-containing neurons of the PVN. Additionally, splanchnic nerve innervation to the adrenal medulla via the SCN-ANS axis also contributes to circadian glucocorticoid secretion and resets the adrenal local clock through modulating the adrenal sensitivity to ACTH by the action of epinephrine. In turn, secreted glucocorticoids reset and phase-delay circadian rhythm of the peripheral CLOCKs by stimulating the expression of several CLOCK-related genes; this is particularly important for temporal adjustment of the body’s activity against stress. The peripheral CLOCKs also regulate the effects of glucocorticoids in local tissues through interactions between Clock/Bmal1 and glucocorticoid receptors, providing a local counter regulatory feedback loop to the effect of central CLOCK on the HPA axis. CRH: corticotropin-releasing hormone; AVP: arginine vasopressin; PVN: paraventricular nucleus; Clock: circadian locomotor output cycles kaput transcription factor; Bmal1: brain-muscle-arnt-like protein 1 transcription factor (the heterodimer partner of Clock). [Adapted from Nader, N, Chrousos, GP, Kino T. Trends Endocrinol Metab 2010;21:277]. Along with these central mechanisms, experimental evidence supports the existence of a peripheral clock machinery which is intrinsic to the adrenal gland and may also underlie the circadian regulation of the glucocorticoid rhythm [ 111 - 114 ]. As such, glucocorticoid biosynthesis is also closely linked with the local adrenal oscillator by clock-controlled expression of steroidogenic acute regulatory protein (StAR; the rate-limiting step of steroidogenesis). In turn, rhythmic StAR expression promotes a daily oscillation in adrenal steroidogenesis, thus contributing to the generation of a robust circadian glucocorticoid rhythm in the systemic circulation [ 115 ]. Reciprocally, the HPA axis affects the circadian rhythm of the CLOCK system through glucocorticoids. Glucocorticoids are considered to exert their effects on peripheral CLOCKs in almost all organs/tissues, but not on the central CLOCK in the SCN. In support of this, glucocorticoid receptors are not expressed in the SCN [ 116 ]. Glucocorticoids reset the peripheral CLOCKs via influencing the expression of several clock-related genes ( e.g. Per1 and Per2) in both peripheral tissues ( e.g. in the liver, kidney and heart) and in certain CNS sites ( e.g. in the amygdala) in a GRE-dependent manner ( Figure 5 ) [ 117 - 119 ]. Interestingly, acetylation of the glucocorticoid receptors at multiple lysine residues in their hinge region can lead to repression of their transcriptional effects on several glucocorticoid responsive genes either
