Stress: Endocrine Physiology and Pathophysiology
KEYWORDS: pubmed, stress, crh, axis, chrousos, secretion, glucocorticoid, effects, hormone, central, hpa, corticotropin-releasing, hpa axis, chronic, activity


119 ]. Interestingly, acetylation of the glucocorticoid receptors at multiple lysine residues in their hinge region can lead to repression of their transcriptional effects on several glucocorticoid responsive genes either through reducing binding of glucocorticoid receptors to GREs, or by altering the translocation of the receptor into the nucleus, or both. Of note, Clock/Bmail1 acetylates glucocorticoid receptors at these lysine residues, hence regulating the transcription of glucocorticoid responsive genes [ 69 ]. Overall, strong evidence indicates that there is bidirectional crosstalk between the CLOCK system and the HPA axis at the level of peripheral target organs/tissues, whereas the master CLOCK in the SCN retains its intrinsic circadian rhythm independently of HPA axis activation by external or internal stimuli. The aforementioned findings suggest that the CLOCK system acts as a reverse-phase negative regulator of glucocorticoid action in target organ/tissues, potentially by antagonizing the biological glucocorticoid effects through synchronizing the peak glucocorticoid concentrations to coincide with the peak glucocorticoid resistance at the target organs/tissues [ 96 ]. Importantly, this protective feedback loop which acts as an intrinsic safety valve against over-exposure to glucocorticoids becomes decoupled when glucocorticoid secretion is stimulated by stress. Over a prolonged period of time, such a disruption in the synchronization/coupling between the HPA axis activity and the circadian glucocorticoid receptor acetylation could create a sustained/chronic stress-related hypercortisolism (mild or even functional hypercortisolism) which promotes the development of various pathologic conditions, including metabolic and cardiovascular disorders [ 60 , 120 - 123 ]. Stress System- Endocrine Axes Interactions The stress system is tightly interconnected with all the major endocrine axes, including the reproductive, growth and thyroid axis. This ensures that the activity of the endocrine system is rapidly regulated in a coordinated and precise way in order to serve the adaptive stress response and maximize the chances of survival against the imposed stressor(s). REPRODUCTIVE AXIS Although the observation that stress can impact negatively on the reproductive function traces back to antiquity, the exact pathophysiologic and molecular mechanisms which mediate this effect still pose a research challenge [ 124 - 126 ]. The reproductive system, both in females and males, is inhibited at all levels by various components of the HPA axis ( Figure 6 ). As such, CRH suppresses the gonadotropin-releasing hormone (GnRH) neurons directly and indirectly via enhancing β-endorphin secretion by the arcuate POMC neurons. Recent data indicate that CRH-R1 mediates, at least in part, the effects of
