Stress: Endocrine Physiology and Pathophysiology
KEYWORDS: pubmed, stress, crh, axis, chrousos, secretion, glucocorticoid, effects, hormone, central, hpa, corticotropin-releasing, hpa axis, chronic, activity


the gonadotropin-releasing hormone (GnRH) neurons directly and indirectly via enhancing β-endorphin secretion by the arcuate POMC neurons. Recent data indicate that CRH-R1 mediates, at least in part, the effects of restraint acute-stress on the reproductive axis, whilst antalarmin (a selective CRH-R1 antagonist) can abolish these effects [ 127 ]. In addition, glucocorticoids exert inhibitory effects on GnRH neurons, pituitary gonadotrophs and directly on the gonads, whilst also rendering target organs/tissues resistant to sex steroids [ 128 , 129 ]. Thus, steroidogenesis is directly inhibited at both the ovaries and testes, with concomitant inhibition of the pulsatile GnRH secretion from the hypothalamus. Notably, certain pro-inflammatory circulating cytokines ( e.g. IL-6) can also suppress the reproductive function at multiple levels, providing a link between inflammatory stress and reproductive dysfunction [ 130 ]. Figure 6. Schematic representation of the interactions between the hypothalamic-pituitary-adrenal (HPA) axis and the reproductive and growth axes. Chronic hyperactivation of the stress system may lead to both osteoporosis and metabolic syndrome. CRH: corticotropin-releasing hormone; GnRH: gonadotropin-releasing hormone; ACTH: adrenocorticotropic hormone (corticotrophin); LH: luteinizing hormone; FSH: follicle-stimulating hormone; GHRH: growth hormone releasing hormone; STS: somatostatin; GH: growth hormone; SmC: somatomedin C. Activation is represented by solid green lines and inhibition by dashed red lines. In women these suppressing effects HPA axis on reproduction are responsible for the hypothalamic amenorrhea of stress which is manifested under various conditions of prolonged/chronic stress, including anxiety, depression, eating disorders, and chronic excessive exercise [ 131 ]. Similarly, in men these HPA axis effects result in decreased libido and hypo-fertility [ 132 ]. Of note, in addition to stress-induced testosterone decrease, direct effects of stress on the seminiferous epithelium have also been reported [ 133 ]. Moreover, the presence of CRH and its receptors in the female and male reproductive system suggests the presence of a local reproductive CRH system [ 134 , 135 ]. Existing evidence supports the role of this local CRH system in the physiology and pathophysiology of reproduction, highlighting its implication in several reproductive functions as an additional autocrine/paracrine modulator. Ovarian CRH is primarily localized in thecal cells and in luteinized cells of the stroma, mediating ovulation and luteolysis processes [ 136 ]. Furthermore, ovarian CRH is also potentially implicated in the premature ovarian failure observed in women exposed to high psychosocial stress [ 137 ]. In addition, intrauterine CRH appears to play a critical role in mechanisms responsible for embryo
