Stress: Endocrine Physiology and Pathophysiology
KEYWORDS: pubmed, stress, crh, axis, chrousos, secretion, glucocorticoid, effects, hormone, central, hpa, corticotropin-releasing, hpa axis, chronic, activity


the premature ovarian failure observed in women exposed to high psychosocial stress [ 137 ]. In addition, intrauterine CRH appears to play a critical role in mechanisms responsible for embryo implantation and maintenance of pregnancy by killing activated T-cells and regulating the expression of carcinoembryonic antigen-related cell adhesion molecule-1 (CEACAM1), respectively [ 133 , 138 ]. Both epidemiologic and experimental data indicate that adverse intrauterine stressors ( e.g. abnormal trophoblast invasion, deficient remodeling of spiral arteries with high-resistance placental vessels and subsequent placental dysfunction) may lead to preterm labor, fetal growth restriction and pre-eclampsia. Notably, all these conditions are characterized by increased CRH levels both in the maternal circulation and in the fetus; although it is still unclear whether this CRH increase is causally related to or only a consequence of the underlying pathophysiology. Importantly, elevated CRH levels and abnormally increased cortisol in the fetus are recognized as predisposing risk factors of adult disease, including insulin resistance, cardio-metabolic complications and psychiatric disorders [ 139 ]. Indeed, adverse intrauterine stressors, as well as maternal prenatal stress, anxiety and depression can impact on the fetal programming and lead to development of chronic disease later in life ( e.g. type 2 diabetes, cardiovascular disease, and neurodevelopmental disorders) [ 140 - 142 ]. Interestingly, maternal gestational stress may also lead to low birth weight which, in turn, appears associated with increased plasma cortisol levels in adult life and risk for developing metabolic syndrome [ 121 , 143 ]. It is noteworthy that, the third trimester of pregnancy by itself constitutes a condition characterized by hypercortisolism of a degree similar to that observed in severe depression, anorexia nervosa, and mild Cushing’s syndrome, whilst it is the only known physiological state in humans which exhibits increased CRH levels in the circulation that are high enough to directly cause HPA axis activation [ 144 - 146 ]. This circulating CRH has a placental origin and, although it is bound with high affinity to CRH-binding protein, its circulating free fraction is sufficient to explain the observed escalating hypercortisolism when the CRH-binding protein plasma levels start to gradually decrease after the 35 th week of pregnancy [ 147 , 148 ]. A model for fetal programming by altered placental function and/or glucocorticoid overexposure has been proposed. According to this model, prenatal maternal stress reduces the activity of the placental 11β-hydroxysteroid dehydrogenase type 2 (11β-HSD 2; an enzyme which metabolizes
