Stress: Endocrine Physiology and Pathophysiology
KEYWORDS: pubmed, stress, crh, axis, chrousos, secretion, glucocorticoid, effects, hormone, central, hpa, corticotropin-releasing, hpa axis, chronic, activity


function and/or glucocorticoid overexposure has been proposed. According to this model, prenatal maternal stress reduces the activity of the placental 11β-hydroxysteroid dehydrogenase type 2 (11β-HSD 2; an enzyme which metabolizes cortisol to its inactive form, i.e. cortisone), hence allowing the high circulating levels of maternal glucocorticoids to enter the fetal circulation [ 149 ]. Additional molecular mechanisms which are implicated in the programming effects of fetal stress and exposure to increased glucocorticoid levels include the epigenetic changes in target chromatin, affecting the tissue-specific expression of glucocorticoid receptors [ 139 ]. As such, excess glucocorticoid exposure in early life can alter tissue glucocorticoid signaling in a permanent way, which, although it may confer short-term adaptive benefits, in the long-term increases the risk of later life disease [ 139 ]. Finally, it must be noted that the interaction between CRH and the gonadal axis appears to be bidirectional [ 132 ]. Indeed, studies have documented both the presence of estrogen response elements in the promoter area of the CRH gene and direct stimulatory estrogen effects on CRH gene expression [ 150 ]. This implicates the CRH gene and, hence, the HPA axis, as a target of ovarian steroids and a potential mediator of gender-related differences in the HPA axis activity and the overall stress response [ 151 ]. On the other hand, the activated estrogen receptor interacts with and, on occasion, potentiates the c-jun/c-fos heterodimer which mediates several cytokine effects. Furthermore, estrogen appears to stimulate adhesion molecules and their receptors in immune and immune accessory cells, thus offering a possible explanation as to why autoimmune diseases afflict more frequently females than males. GROWTH AXIS The growth axis is also inhibited at various levels during stress ( Figure 6 ). Prolonged activation of the HPA axis leads to suppression of growth hormone (GH) secretion and inhibition of somatomedin C (SmC) and other growth factor effects on their target tissues by glucocorticoids [ 152 , 153 ], presumably via inhibition of the c-jun/c-fos heterodimer. However, acute transient elevations of GH concentrations in plasma may occur at the onset of the stress response, as well as after acute administration of glucocorticoids, potentially mediated through GRE-stimulated GH expression [ 154 ]. In addition to the direct effects of glucocorticoids which play a key role in the suppression of growth observed under prolonged stress, increased somatostatin (STS) secretion caused by CRH which results in inhibition of GH
