Stress: Endocrine Physiology and Pathophysiology
KEYWORDS: pubmed, stress, crh, axis, chrousos, secretion, glucocorticoid, effects, hormone, central, hpa, corticotropin-releasing, hpa axis, chronic, activity


effects of glucocorticoids which play a key role in the suppression of growth observed under prolonged stress, increased somatostatin (STS) secretion caused by CRH which results in inhibition of GH secretion, appears to also contribute to the stress-related suppression of the growth axis ( Figure 6 ) [ 155 ]. Redirection of oxygen, nutrients and vital substrates to the brain and other stressed organ/tissues where they are needed most in the context of the adaptive stress response is the apparent teleology for the suppressive effects of stress on growth. Interestingly, psychosocial dwarfism is a term that has been used to describe severe childhood/adolescent growth arrest and/or delayed puberty due to emotional deprivation and/or psychologic harassment [ 156 - 158 ]. Decreased GH secretion that is reversible after separation of the child from the responsible environment is a characteristic finding in this condition, which is further associated with a spectrum of behavioral abnormalities, including depression and disturbed eating behaviors. This form of growth arrest was first studied in infants housed in foundling homes or orphanages, who exhibited decreased growth and high mortality rates. Although deficient nutrition may contribute to this failure to thrive, it has been shown that in these infants’ weight gain is also independent of food intake, whilst a caring and attentive environment improved both their growth rate and psychological profile. Little is known about the HPA axis activity in infants/children with this condition; however, it is suggested that chronic activation of the HPA axis is implicated, thus explaining the other endocrine abnormalities observed in these children. It must be also noted that, premature infants are at increased risk for delayed growth and development, particularly after prolonged hospitalization in the intensive care nursery. This is known as reactive attachment disorder of infancy and exhibits similarities to psychosocial dwarfism. The key role that the quality of parental care plays on later growth, development and behavior has been also shown in nonhuman primates which are socially organized in extended families, such as the common marmoset (a small primate species) [ 159 ]. Finally, infantile malnutrition is characterized by hypercortisolism, decreased responsiveness to CRH, incomplete dexamethasone suppression, growth arrest and thyroid function test changes reminiscent of the euthyroid sick syndrome as will be discussed in the following section [ 2 , 160 ]. These abnormalities can be restored following nutritional rehabilitation [ 2 , 160 ]. THYROID AXIS Stress-related inhibition of thyroid
