Stress: Endocrine Physiology and Pathophysiology
KEYWORDS: pubmed, stress, crh, axis, chrousos, secretion, glucocorticoid, effects, hormone, central, hpa, corticotropin-releasing, hpa axis, chronic, activity


be discussed in the following section [ 2 , 160 ]. These abnormalities can be restored following nutritional rehabilitation [ 2 , 160 ]. THYROID AXIS Stress-related inhibition of thyroid axis activity has also been documented ( Figure 7 ). Chronic HPA axis activation is associated with decreased production of thyroid stimulating hormone (TSH) and inhibited conversion of the relatively inactive thyroxine (T4) to the more biologically active triiodothyronine (T3) in peripheral tissues (a condition described as the "euthyroid sick" syndrome) [ 161 - 163 ]. Although the exact mechanism(s) underlying these effects have not been fully clarified, increased circulating glucocorticoid levels are considered to mediate the stress-induced suppression of the thyroid axis which serves a desired energy conservation during the adaptive stress response. Indeed, existing evidence suggests decreased efficacy of TRH in stimulating TSH release in patients with hypercortisolism and in healthy subjects after glucocorticoid administration, which is dose-dependent [ 161 , 164 ]. Interestingly, even a single dose of glucocorticoids (1-2 mg of dexamethasone) can cause an acute decrease in pulsatile TSH production in healthy men [ 165 ], whilst mildly elevated cortisol plasma levels induced by timed cortisol infusions can also decrease the pulsatile TSH secretion by 50% [ 166 ]. Of note, in Cushing’s syndrome patient’s cortisol excess decreases TSH secretion by diminishing its pulsatile release, while surgically cured patients exhibit elevated non-pulsatile TSH release [ 163 ]. Moreover, in cases of hypercortisolism-induced TSH-decrease, the circulating free-T4 levels can remain within normal limits, suggesting that the biological activity of TSH may be increased potentially through altered posttranslational processing of the oligosaccharide chains of the TSH molecule [ 161 , 163 , 167 ]. Finally, in the case of inflammatory stress inhibition of TSH secretion and enhanced somatostatin production may be mediated, at least in part, by effects of cytokines on the hypothalamus and/or the pituitary [ 168 , 169 ]. Figure 7. Schematic representation of the interactions between the hypothalamic-pituitary-adrenal (HPA) axis and the thyroid and immune function. CRH: corticotropin-releasing hormone; STS: somatostatin; TRH: thyrotropin releasing hormone; TSH: thyroid stimulating hormone; T4: thyroxine; T3: triiodothyronine; TNF-α: tumor necrosis factor-α; IL-1: interleukin-1; IL-6: interleukin-6. Activation is represented by solid green lines and inhibition by dashed red lines. Stress System- Metabolism In the context of the adaptive stress response, glucocorticoids exert primarily catabolic effects as part of a generalized effort to utilize every available energy resource against the
