Stress: Endocrine Physiology and Pathophysiology
KEYWORDS: pubmed, stress, crh, axis, chrousos, secretion, glucocorticoid, effects, hormone, central, hpa, corticotropin-releasing, hpa axis, chronic, activity


Stress System- Metabolism In the context of the adaptive stress response, glucocorticoids exert primarily catabolic effects as part of a generalized effort to utilize every available energy resource against the imposed stressor(s). Thus, glucocorticoids increase hepatic gluconeogenesis and glucose plasma levels, induce lipolysis (although they favor abdominal and dorsocervical fat accumulation) and cause protein degradation at multiple tissues ( e.g. in skeletal muscles, bone and skin) to provide amino acids which can be utilized as an additional substrate for oxidative pathways [ 1 , 170 , 171 ]. In parallel to their direct catabolic actions, glucocorticoids also antagonize the anabolic actions of GH, insulin and sex steroids on their target organs/tissues [ 1 , 170 , 171 ]. This shift of the metabolism to a catabolic state by the activated HPA axis normally reverses upon retraction of the imposed stressor(s). However, chronic HPA axis activation can have a range of detrimental effects, including increased visceral adiposity, suppressed osteoblastic activity, decreased lean body mass (decreased muscle and bone mass causing sarcopenia and osteopenia) and insulin resistance ( Figure 8 ) [ 1 , 170 , 171 ]. Figure 8. Schematic representation of the detrimental effects of chronic stress on adipose tissue, bone and muscle metabolism. GH: growth hormone. Activation is represented by solid green lines and inhibition by dashed red lines. In addition, metabolic homeostasis is also centrally affected by the neuroendocrine crosstalk between the central stress system components, HPA axis and the CNS centers which control appetite/satiety and energy expenditure ( Figure 3 ) [ 172 ]. It is a common observation that acute stressful situations are frequently associated with anorexia and marked suppression of food intake. Indeed, CRH stimulates the POMC neurons of the arcuate nucleus which, via α-MSH release, elicit anorexigenic signals and increase thermogenesis [ 173 ]. The anorexigenic effects of CRH appear to involve the lateral septum or the bed nucleus of the stria terminalis and are probably mediated through CRH-R2 receptors [ 174 ]. Anorexia nervosa represents an interesting example of the implication of the stress system in the regulation of appetite and energy intake. As such, anorexia nervosa can be regarded as a complex condition of chronic stress which is associated with HPA axis dysregulation and suppression of multiple other endocrine axes ( e.g. gonadal, growth and thyroid axis), whilst it is characterized by low levels of insulin and leptin and high levels of
