Stress: Endocrine Physiology and Pathophysiology
KEYWORDS: pubmed, stress, crh, axis, chrousos, secretion, glucocorticoid, effects, hormone, central, hpa, corticotropin-releasing, hpa axis, chronic, activity


dysregulation and suppression of multiple other endocrine axes ( e.g. gonadal, growth and thyroid axis), whilst it is characterized by low levels of insulin and leptin and high levels of ghrelin and NPY [ 175 - 177 ]. Interestingly, high cortisol and NPY levels have been shown to exhibit an association with disordered eating psychopathology, independently of BMI [ 178 ]. Moreover, existing evidence also indicates that insulin and leptin play important roles in the regulation of central pathways related to food reward [ 179 ]. However, it should also be noted that, under normal conditions glucocorticoids enhance the intake of carbohydrates and fat and inhibit energy expenditure by stimulating the secretion of NPY at the hypothalamus. NPY additionally inhibits the LC-norepinephrine system and activates the parasympathetic system, facilitating digestion and storage of nutrients [ 180 - 182 ]. The association between chronic, experimentally induced psychosocial stress, hypercortisolism and the development of a metabolic syndrome-like state with increased incidence of atherosclerosis, has been documented in cynomolgus monkeys. In such animal studies, HPA axis activation induced by chronic stress and the consequent hypercortisolism has been shown to result in visceral obesity, insulin resistance and suppression of GH secretion, hence promoting the development of the metabolic syndrome phenotype (physical and biochemical) [ 170 ]. Similar findings have been documented in humans where epidemiological data suggest strong associations between chronic stress exposure and metabolic disease [ 170 , 183 - 185 ]. Indeed, chronic HPA hyperactivation in individuals with a genetic predisposition exposed to a permissive environment may lead to visceral fat accumulation and decreased lean body mass (muscle and bone mass) as a result of chronic hypercortisolism and stress-induced low GH secretion and hypogonadism [ 1 , 120 , 184 , 185 ]. Moreover, hypercortisolism can directly cause insulin resistance in peripheral target organs/tissues which appears to be proportional to both the glucocorticoid levels and to glucocorticoid sensitivity of the target organs/tissues, as suggested by studies on polymorphisms of the glucocorticoid receptor gene [ 186 ]. This can cause reactive compensatory insulin hypersecretion and further increased visceral obesity and sarcopenia, resulting in type 2 diabetes, dyslipidemia and hypertension [ 1 , 120 ]. More recently, chronic stress has been also associated with a low-grade inflammatory state which follows fat accumulation, especially visceral [ 187 - 189 ]. Thus, obese patients typically exhibit increased circulating levels of pro-inflammatory adipokines and cytokines ( e.g.
