Stress: Endocrine Physiology and Pathophysiology
KEYWORDS: pubmed, stress, crh, axis, chrousos, secretion, glucocorticoid, effects, hormone, central, hpa, corticotropin-releasing, hpa axis, chronic, activity


a low-grade inflammatory state which follows fat accumulation, especially visceral [ 187 - 189 ]. Thus, obese patients typically exhibit increased circulating levels of pro-inflammatory adipokines and cytokines ( e.g. leptin, resistin, TNF-a and IL-6) and decreased levels of anti-inflammatory adipokines ( e.g. adiponectin and omentin), creating an adverse adipokine profile which strongly correlates to the metabolic syndrome manifestations [ 187 - 189 ]. Indeed, this obesity related chronic inflammatory stress can cause a range of detrimental effects on peripheral tissues/organs ( e.g. on the liver, skeletal muscles and cardiovascular system), promoting enhanced secretion of acute-phase reactants ( e.g. fibrinogen and C-reactive protein), insulin resistance, hypertension, atherosclerosis, hypercoagulability, thrombosis and cardiac dysfunction [ 170 , 187 - 189 ]. Of note, glucocorticoids have also been shown to induce both insulin and leptin secretion, thus further contributing to the leptin-resistant state which characterizes obesity. Interestingly, because intracellular glucocorticoid levels are regulated by 11β-hydroxysteroid dehydrogenase type 1 (11β-HSD1; an enzyme which converts inactive cortisone to cortisol), research has focused on tissue specific changes in 11β-HSD1 expression and activity in obesity and insulin resistance. As such, it has been shown that the global 11β-HSD1 activity, as measured by urinary corticosteroid metabolite analysis, is impaired in obesity [ 190 , 191 ], whilst selective 11β-HSD1 inhibitors are in development as novel therapeutic approaches for obesity and metabolic syndrome [ 192 ]. It is also noteworthy that, obstructive sleep apnea (OSA) appears also associated with an adverse metabolic profile consisting of increased visceral adiposity and insulin resistance, as well as elevated levels of circulating stress hormones and pro-inflammatory adipokines/cytokines [ 193 - 197 ]. Indeed, obesity, particularly central/visceral, and insulin resistance may contribute to OSA development, whilst, in turn, OSA may promote fat accumulation and reduce insulin sensitivity, potentially through progressive elevation of stress hormones and cytokines ( e.g. increased cortisol, noradrenaline, TNFα and IL-6 plasma levels) [ 196 ]. Thus, a vicious cycle appears to fuel the association between OSA, chronic stress and metabolic dysregulation. Increased LC/NE sympathoadrenal system activity, including the central LC/NE neurons, is also an important pathophysiologic component of chronic stress which appears to contribute to the development of impaired glucose tolerance and to the particularly increased risk of acute cardiovascular events ( e.g. myocardial infraction and stroke) [ 198 - 200 ]. Finally, chronic stress disorders exhibit a strong positive correlation to a number of behavioral changes with an adverse
