Stress: Endocrine Physiology and Pathophysiology
KEYWORDS: pubmed, stress, crh, axis, chrousos, secretion, glucocorticoid, effects, hormone, central, hpa, corticotropin-releasing, hpa axis, chronic, activity


events ( e.g. myocardial infraction and stroke) [ 198 - 200 ]. Finally, chronic stress disorders exhibit a strong positive correlation to a number of behavioral changes with an adverse effect on physical activity ( e.g. sedentary lifestyle and increased hours of sleep) and dietary habits ( e.g. increased portion size, binge eating and alcohol consumption); hence leading to further weight gain and potentially to dysregulation of glucose and lipid metabolism ( Figure 9 ) [ 187 , 201 ]. Figure 9. Schematic representation of the proposed links between stress and dysregulation of metabolic homeostasis. Chronic stress induces hyperactivation of both the hypothalamic-pituitary-adrenal (HPA) axis and the sympathetic nervous system (SNS) which together with distinct changes in certain health behaviors can progressively lead to the development of obesity (particularly central/visceral) and metabolic syndrome manifestations. Moreover, the circadian CLOCK system is also implicated in the pathophysiologic mechanisms linking stress and metabolic syndrome [ 60 , 120 ]. Notably, most of the metabolic phenotypes associated with dysregulation of the CLOCK system and the HPA axis overlap [ 96 ]. As aforementioned, the Clock-mediated repression of the glucocorticoid receptor transcriptional activity oscillates during the day in inverse phase to the normal diurnal rhythm of the HPA axis, whilst stress disrupts this synchronization/coupling. As such, even mild elevations of circulating cortisol levels during the evening, as frequently observed in chronic stress conditions, can cause a type of functional hypercortisolism with disproportionately more potent glucocorticoid-induced effects due to the concurrently increased glucocorticoid sensitivity of the target organs/tissues. This stress-related functional hypercortisolism further promotes the development of metabolic syndrome manifestations [ 69 , 96 , 122 , 202 ]. It must be highlighted that, the links between stress and metabolic dysregulation are also particularly significant during fetal life, childhood and adolescence which constitute periods of heightened vulnerability to intense acute and/or chronic stress. As aforementioned, both early nutritional stress (even during fetal or early infant life) and low birth weight are associated with higher risk for obesity and obesity-related cardio-metabolic disease later in life, highlighting the impact on fetal programming of adiposity and its consequences [ 203 , 204 ]. Moreover, most of the children who experienced chronic stress, anxiety, depression or post-traumatic stress disorder (PTSD) exhibit higher cortisol and catecholamine plasma levels than in the resting state, especially during evening hours [ 205 ]. These children are also at higher risk to develop obesity, hypertension
