Stress: Endocrine Physiology and Pathophysiology
KEYWORDS: pubmed, stress, crh, axis, chrousos, secretion, glucocorticoid, effects, hormone, central, hpa, corticotropin-releasing, hpa axis, chronic, activity


exhibit higher cortisol and catecholamine plasma levels than in the resting state, especially during evening hours [ 205 ]. These children are also at higher risk to develop obesity, hypertension and other related comorbidities later in adulthood [ 206 , 207 ]. As observed in adults, both biological and behavioral pathways mediated the links between chronic stress and obesity in children ( Figure 9 ) [ 204 ]. Finally, prolonged stress can also have a significant negative impact on bone metabolism ( Figure 8 ). Indeed, chronic stress can shift the balance of bone remodeling in favor of bone resorption due to both direct effects of increased glucocorticoid and IL-6 plasma levels on bones and indirect effects resulting from the suppression of the growth, gonadal and thyroid axes, thus leading over time to osteopenia and potentially manifestations of osteoporosis [ 1 , 187 ]. Stress System- Immune System Interactions EFFECTS OF THE STRESS SYSTEM ON THE IMMUNE/INFLAMMATORY CASCADE HPA axis activation exerts primarily suppressing effects on the inflammatory/immune response, since both the innate and adaptive immunity are modulated by glucocorticoids with cortisol suppressing the immune system at multiple levels ( Figure 7 ) [ 1 , 208 , 209 ]. At the cellular level, the main anti-inflammatory effects of glucocorticoids include changes in leukocyte trafficking and function, decreased production of cytokines and other mediators of inflammation, and inhibition of pro-inflammatory signaling pathways in target organs/tissues [ 63 , 208 , 209 ]. For example, glucocorticoid-mediated suppression of TNF-α and IL-1β production appears to be the basis for their efficacy in relieving symptoms of rheumatoid arthritis, inflammatory bowel disease, and psoriasis. Indeed, cytokine signaling is affected by glucocorticoids through multiple mechanisms, including direct transcriptional repression of cytokine gene expression by activated glucocorticoid receptors [ 209 - 211 ]. Of note, transcriptional interference between activated glucocorticoid receptors and other transcription factors, such as the nuclear factor-κB (NF-κB) and activator protein-1 (AP-1; a key transcription factor mediating inflammatory responses and pro-inflammatory cytokine production), at various cytokine promoters is a typical example of repression through protein-protein interactions [ 209 ]. However, not all cytokines are suppressed, since anti-inflammatory cytokines ( e.g. IL-10) are up-regulated by glucocorticoids in accord to the immunosuppressive activities of these hormones [ 211 ]. A large infrastructure of anatomical, chemical and molecular connections further facilitates the close communication between the neuroendocrine and immune systems. As such, the efferent sympathetic/adrenomedullary system
