Stress: Endocrine Physiology and Pathophysiology
KEYWORDS: pubmed, stress, crh, axis, chrousos, secretion, glucocorticoid, effects, hormone, central, hpa, corticotropin-releasing, hpa axis, chronic, activity


hormones [ 211 ]. A large infrastructure of anatomical, chemical and molecular connections further facilitates the close communication between the neuroendocrine and immune systems. As such, the efferent sympathetic/adrenomedullary system is also considered too closely participate in interactions between the HPA axis and the immune/inflammatory cascade since: (i) it is reciprocally connected with the CRH system; (ii) it receives and transmits humoral and nervous immune signals from the periphery; (iii) it densely innervates both primary and secondary lymphoid organs; and (iv) it reaches all sites of inflammation via the postganglionic sympathetic neurons [ 212 , 213 ]. The innate immune system constitutes one of the SNS targets with adrenergic signaling directly affecting pro-inflammatory pathways [ 214 , 215 ]. Furthermore, similar to what is noted for the HPA axis, a neuroendocrine immune feedback loop appears to exist in order to allow the peripheral immune activation to signal to the CNS and activate the central stress system, thus allowing the CNS to sense and regulate inflammation in the periphery [ 216 - 218 ]. Hence, when activated during stress, the ANS exerts its own direct effects on immune organs/cells which can be immunosuppressive ( e.g. inhibition of natural killer cell activity) or both immunopotentiating and immunosuppressive by inducing secretion of IL-6 in the systemic circulation [ 219 , 220 ]. Indeed, the SNS can exert both pro- and anti-inflammatory effects with various factors determining which of these effects will prevail, including the underlying state of the respective target tissue. For example, it has been shown that an already activated inflammatory pathway can be downregulated by adrenergic signaling, whereas in non-activated immune cells adrenergic signals can activate the pro-inflammatory cascade [ 220 ]. In light of these findings, the stress system effects on the immune system can be more accurately characterized as immunomodulating, rather than immunosuppressing. In addition to affecting antigen presentation, cytokine secretion and leukocyte proliferation and trafficking, the principal stress hormones, i.e. glucocorticoids and catecholamines, further modulate the balance between T helper-1 (Th1) versus Th2 responses ( Figure 10 ). It is now established that, both glucocorticoids and catecholamines directly inhibit the production of type 1 cytokines ( e.g. IL-12, IL-2, TNF-α and INF-γ) which enhance cellular immunity and Th1 formation, whilst conversely favor the production of type 2 cytokines ( e.g. IL-10, IL-4, IL-13) which induce humoral immunity and Th2 activity [ 221 ]. Interestingly, glucocorticoids may inhibit Th1
