Stress: Endocrine Physiology and Pathophysiology
KEYWORDS: pubmed, stress, crh, axis, chrousos, secretion, glucocorticoid, effects, hormone, central, hpa, corticotropin-releasing, hpa axis, chronic, activity


formation, whilst conversely favor the production of type 2 cytokines ( e.g. IL-10, IL-4, IL-13) which induce humoral immunity and Th2 activity [ 221 ]. Interestingly, glucocorticoids may inhibit Th1 cell activity also indirectly through manipulating dendritic cell subsets by regulating the expression of Toll-like receptor 2 (TLR2) [ 211 , 222 ]. In accord with these effects, during immune challenges stress causes an adaptive Th1 to Th2 shift in order to protect the organs/tissues against the potentially destructive actions of pro-inflammatory type 1 cytokines and other products of activated macrophages. Of note, this potentially protective role of the stress-induced Th2 shift against overshooting of cellular immunity often complicates pathologic conditions in which either cellular immunity is beneficial ( e.g. carcinogenesis and infections) or humoral immunity is deleterious ( e.g. allergy and autoimmune diseases) [ 223 ]. Indeed, HPA axis hyperactivation has been associated with increased susceptibility to both infectious agents and tumors. Thus, relapse of mycobacterial infections, progression of HIV infection and infections following major traumatic injuries or burns have been associated to excessive HPA axis responses and a sustained/prolonged Th2 shift. Similarly, several studies have documented a higher incidence of tumor growth and metastases in relation to chronic stress, highlighting the role of cellular immunity in surveillance and eradication of tumor cells [ 224 ]. More recent evidence indicates that, stress can influence the immune response in an even more complicated way. Indeed, although stress hormones systemically inhibit Th1/pro-inflammatory responses and induce a Th2 shift, in certain local responses these hormones can induce pro-inflammatory cytokine production and activation of the peripheral CRH-mast cell-histamine axis [ 223 ]. This constitutes an additional mechanism via which the stress system may be implicated in the pathogenesis of chronic inflammation and immune-related disease [ 223 ]. Adding to the complexity of the interactions between stress and the immune system, there are also data indicating that glucocorticoids may impact on Th17 differentiation and function through molecular mechanisms which have not been fully clarified [ 225 , 226 ]. Th17 cells constitute a newer effector T-cell subset which secrete IL-17 and appear to play an important role in autoimmune processes, thus providing another potential link between stress and autoimmune disease [ 210 ]. Finally, the CLOCK system induces circadian fluctuations of several cytokines ( e.g. IFN-γ, ΙL-1β, IL-6 and TNFα) and of natural killer cell and T- and B-lymphocyte populations [ 227 , 228
