Stress: Endocrine Physiology and Pathophysiology
KEYWORDS: pubmed, stress, crh, axis, chrousos, secretion, glucocorticoid, effects, hormone, central, hpa, corticotropin-releasing, hpa axis, chronic, activity


the CLOCK system induces circadian fluctuations of several cytokines ( e.g. IFN-γ, ΙL-1β, IL-6 and TNFα) and of natural killer cell and T- and B-lymphocyte populations [ 227 , 228 ]. Hence, it appears that the central CLOCK system, by regulating glucocorticoid secretion, can also influence the peripheral CLOCK system of immune cells. Moreover, the CLOCK system can also modulate immune functions by regulating the actions of endogenous glucocorticoids on various components of the immune system via interactions between the Clock/Bmal1 transcription factors and glucocorticoid receptors. EFFECTS OF THE IMMUNE SYSTEM ON THE STRESS SYSTEM The immune system exerts its surveillance/defense function constantly and mostly unconsciously for the individual. It has been well-established that immune/inflammatory stimuli/insults ( e.g. infectious diseases, accidental or operative trauma and active autoimmune processes) are associated with concurrent HPA axis activation. More recently, it also became evident that immune cytokines and other humoral mediators of inflammation are potent activators of the central stress-responsive neurotransmitter systems, constituting the afferent limb of the feedback loop via which the immune/inflammatory system and the CNS communicate ( Figure 10 ). Indeed, through this pathway, the peripheral immune apparatus signals the brain to participate in maintaining immunological and behavioral homeostasis [ 108 , 229 ]. Figure 10. Schematic representation of interactions between the stress and immune system. LC/NE: locus coeruleus/norepinephrine-sympathetic system; SPGN: sympathetic postganglionic neurons; CRH: corticotropin-releasing hormone; AVP: arginine vasopressin; ACTH: adrenocorticotropic hormone (corticotrophin); PAF: platelet activating factor; NE/E: norepinephrine/epinephrine; Th1: T-helper lymphocyte 1; Th2: T-helper lymphocyte 2. Activation is represented by solid green lines and inhibition by dashed red lines. The three main pro-inflammatory cytokines, i.e. TNF-α, IL-1 and IL-6, are produced in this order and in a cascade-like fashion at inflammatory sites, whilst by entering the systemic circulation they can cause HPA axis stimulation in vivo , alone or in synergy with each other [ 230 - 232 ]. These effects can be significantly blocked with CRH-neutralizing antibodies, prostanoid synthesis inhibitors and glucocorticoids. In addition, all of these three cytokines can directly stimulate hypothalamic CRH secretion in vitro , an action which may also be suppressed by glucocorticoids and prostanoid synthesis inhibitors [ 233 - 235 ]. Similarly, IL-2 can stimulate ACTH secretion indirectly and potentially directly [ 236 - 238 ]. Of note, IL-1β also increases the hypothalamic and anterior pituitary expression of leukemia-inhibitory factor (LIF) which is a member of the IL-6 family and a potent
