Stress: Endocrine Physiology and Pathophysiology
KEYWORDS: pubmed, stress, crh, axis, chrousos, secretion, glucocorticoid, effects, hormone, central, hpa, corticotropin-releasing, hpa axis, chronic, activity


236 - 238 ]. Of note, IL-1β also increases the hypothalamic and anterior pituitary expression of leukemia-inhibitory factor (LIF) which is a member of the IL-6 family and a potent ACTH secretagogue [ 239 , 240 ]. The specific effects mediated by CRH and LIF in HPA axis regulation during inflammation remain under investigation. Existing evidence suggests that central CRH appears to be more critical in mediating ACTH release in response to shock or alcohol rather than to LPS [ 241 ]. This is further supported by data showing that CRH knockout animals have nearly normal HPA axis reaction to inflammatory challenges [ 242 ]. Furthermore, LIF deficient animals exhibit markedly lower POMC and ACTH responses to inflammation induced by high LPS doses [ 243 ], whilst exogenous LIF injection restores the pituitary POMC expression in LIF knockout animals [ 244 ]. In vitro studies have also shown that LIF greatly potentiates the CRH effects on POMC transcription. Therefore, although CRH is required for rapid increase of ACTH synthesis and secretion in response to any nonspecific stressful challenge, it appears that LIF is important for maintaining a sustained HPA axis activation during inflammatory stress. However, mice deficient in both CRH and LIF still demonstrate robust ACTH and corticosterone responses to inflammation, probably due to abundant TNFα, IL-1β and IL-6 activation observed in the hypothalamus and pituitary of these animals [ 245 ]. A body of evidence also suggests that IL-6, which constitutes the main endocrine/circulating cytokine, plays the primary role in immune stimulation of the human HPA axis, particularly in the long-term. Indeed, IL-6 has been shown to be an extremely potent activator of the HPA axis in humans [ 168 , 220 , 246 ]. Notably, the ACTH and cortisol elevations attained by IL-6 are well above those observed with maximal stimulatory doses of CRH, suggesting that parvocellular AVP and other ACTH secretagogues are additionally stimulated by this cytokine. Moreover, high doses of IL-6 have been shown to further stimulate peripheral elevations of AVP, presumably as a result of a stimulatory effect on magnocellular AVP-secreting neurons [ 247 ]. This suggests that IL-6 may be involved in the pathogenesis of the syndrome of inappropriate antidiuretic hormone secretion (SIADH) which is observed during the course of infectious/inflammatory disease or during trauma. Some of the activating effects of inflammation on the HPA axis may be exerted indirectly through stimulation of the
