Stress: Endocrine Physiology and Pathophysiology
KEYWORDS: pubmed, stress, crh, axis, chrousos, secretion, glucocorticoid, effects, hormone, central, hpa, corticotropin-releasing, hpa axis, chronic, activity


is observed during the course of infectious/inflammatory disease or during trauma. Some of the activating effects of inflammation on the HPA axis may be exerted indirectly through stimulation of the central catecholaminergic pathways by pro-inflammatory cytokines and other humoral mediators of inflammation. Furthermore, activation of peripheral nociceptive, somatosensory and visceral afferent fibers could lead to stimulation of both the catecholaminergic and CRH neuronal systems via ascending spinal pathways. Of note, in chronic inflammatory states which may be characterized by chronic central elevations of SP, impaired HPA axis responsiveness to stimuli or stress may be observed, potentially due to the suppressive effect of SP on CRH neurons [ 49 , 84 ]. This impairment has been documented in AIDS, African trypanosomiasis and extensive burns in humans and also in animal models of chronic inflammation [ 84 , 248 ]. In addition to the three main pro-inflammatory cytokines, other mediators of inflammation may also participate in the HPA axis activation. Indeed, several eicosanoids, platelet activating factor (PAF) and serotonin show potent CRH-releasing properties [ 249 , 250 ]. However, it is still unclear exactly which of these effects are endocrine and which are paracrine. Although delayed, direct effects on pituitary ACTH secretion have been documented by most of the above cytokines and mediators of inflammation [ 168 , 251 , 252 ], whilst direct effects of these substances on adrenal glucocorticoid secretion appear to be also present [ 253 ]. Notably, both prostaglandins and nitric oxide (NO), which are key mediators of inflammation and immunity, have been found to impact on ACTH and cortisol secretion. Experimental evidence suggests opposite actions of prostaglandins generated by cyclooxygenase (COX) and NO synthesized by the inducible NO synthase (iNOS; a pro-inflammatory enzyme which dysregulates NO production) in the LPS-induced HPA axis response, with prostaglandins stimulating the ACTH response to endotoxin, while NO inhibits it [ 254 , 255 ]. Further data on the role of prostaglandins in the HPA axis response to LPS indicate that induced prostaglandin synthesis, mediated via Cox-2, contributes to the delayed HPA axis activation, whereas constitutive prostaglandin synthesis, mediated preferentially via Cox-1, is involved in the early HPA response [ 256 ]. An intriguing aspect of the immune response is that CRH is also secreted peripherally at inflammatory sites (peripheral or immune CRH) by postganglionic sympathetic neurons and by cells of the immune system ( e.g. macrophages and tissue fibroblasts) [ 257
