Stress: Endocrine Physiology and Pathophysiology
KEYWORDS: pubmed, stress, crh, axis, chrousos, secretion, glucocorticoid, effects, hormone, central, hpa, corticotropin-releasing, hpa axis, chronic, activity


is also secreted peripherally at inflammatory sites (peripheral or immune CRH) by postganglionic sympathetic neurons and by cells of the immune system ( e.g. macrophages and tissue fibroblasts) [ 257 ]. The secretion of immune CRH has been studied both in experimental animal models of inflammation [ 257 ], and in patients with rheumatoid arthritis [ 258 ], Hashimoto thyroiditis and other inflammatory illnesses [ 259 ]. Glucocorticoids and somatostatin have been shown to suppress this immune CRH secretion [ 257 ]. Of note, mast cells are considered as the primary target of immune CRH where, along with SP, it acts via CRH-R1 receptors causing degranulation. As a result, histamine is released causing vasodilation, increased vascular permeability and other manifestations of local inflammation. Hence, locally secreted CRH triggers a peripheral CRH-mast cell-histamine axis, which has potent pro-inflammatory properties, whereas central CRH alleviates the immune response [ 108 , 260 ]. Another interesting topic relating to the interactions between the immune and stress system is the study of critically ill patients with systemic inflammation. To date, the results of studies investigating the adrenal response to critical illness have been conflicting. As such, the initial phase of critical illness is characterized by excessive release of ACTH and cortisol as a result of increased CRH/AVP secretion and cytokine production. Although the magnitude of the increase of cortisol plasma levels may not correlate linearly with the illness severity, some studies have documented that patients with the highest circulating cortisol levels had also the highest mortality [ 261 ]. However, the ACTH and cortisol responses may diverge during prolonged critical illness, with high cortisol plasma levels persisting despite ACTH suppression, thus suggesting that cortisol secretion is further stimulated by alternative pathways, other than hypothalamic CRH, potentially involving factors such as AVP, atrial natriuretic peptide (ANP), endothelin and a variety of cytokines (especially IL-6) [ 261 , 262 ]. Notably, in severe critical illness a relative corticosteroid insufficiency may also develop, characterized as critical illness-related corticosteroid insufficiency (CIRCI) [ 263 ]. The exact mechanisms of adrenal suppression in critical illness remain largely unclear [ 264 - 266 ]. Cytokines and adipokines derived from the adipose tissue may influence the normal synthesis and release of ACTH and cortisol, as well as the activity of glucocorticoid receptors. Indeed, TNF-α and peptides derived from immune cells, such as the corticostatins, may compete with ACTH on its receptor, negatively influencing
