Stress: Endocrine Physiology and Pathophysiology
KEYWORDS: pubmed, stress, crh, axis, chrousos, secretion, glucocorticoid, effects, hormone, central, hpa, corticotropin-releasing, hpa axis, chronic, activity


cortisol, as well as the activity of glucocorticoid receptors. Indeed, TNF-α and peptides derived from immune cells, such as the corticostatins, may compete with ACTH on its receptor, negatively influencing adrenal cortisol secretion and inducing tissue resistance to glucocorticoids [ 264 - 266 ]. Stress System- Gastrointestinal Function The stress system activity is implicated in the regulation of gastrointestinal function and exhibits a strong association with gastrointestinal illness [ 267 - 269 ]. Interestingly, data from a study in patients with chronic painful gastrointestinal disorders revealed a high incidence of physically and sexually abused women in this patient population [ 270 ]. It has been also shown that sexually abused girls exhibit chronic HPA axis activation, similarly to patients with melancholic depression [ 271 ]. Thus, it has been proposed that CRH hypersecretion may constitute a hidden link between the symptomatology of chronic painful gastrointestinal disorders and a history of physical and/or psychological abuse [ 270 , 272 ]. Indeed, increasing evidence suggests that CRH is involved in the mechanisms by which stress affects the gastrointestinal function. Of note, several studies have identified immunoreactive CRH and urocortin, as well as CRH-R1 and CRH-R2 in the human colonic mucosa [ 273 , 274 ]. During acute stress, PVN CRH, independently of the associated HPA axis stimulation, induces both inhibition of gastric emptying and stimulation of colonic motor function by alterations in the ANS activity ( Figure 11 ) [ 275 ]. It is considered that inhibition of the vagus nerve activity at the dorsal vagal complex results in selective inhibition of gastric motility, while stimulation of the sacral parasympathetic system activity results in selective stimulation of colonic motility, with the latter possibly mediated through CRH projections of the Barrington nucleus which is part of the LC complex [ 276 , 277 ]. At the receptor level, it appears that stress-induced delayed gastric emptying involves the central medullary CRH-R2 receptors and also the peripheral CRH-R2 receptors in the gastrointestinal tract, whereas the CRH-R1 subtype seems to mediate the colonic motor responses ( e.g. stimulation of distal colonic transit) [ 273 ]. Hence, CRH may play a role in mediating the gastric stasis which is associated with the stress of surgery and the increased IL-1 levels during surgery and the immediate postoperative period, whilst it is also implicated in the stress-induced colonic hyper-motility of the irritable bowel syndrome (IBS) [ 274 , 275
