Stress: Endocrine Physiology and Pathophysiology
KEYWORDS: pubmed, stress, crh, axis, chrousos, secretion, glucocorticoid, effects, hormone, central, hpa, corticotropin-releasing, hpa axis, chronic, activity


increased IL-1 levels during surgery and the immediate postoperative period, whilst it is also implicated in the stress-induced colonic hyper-motility of the irritable bowel syndrome (IBS) [ 274 , 275 , 278 ]. Moreover, the colonic contraction in IBS patients can activate the LC-noradrenergic system, thus, creating a vicious cycle which may explain the chronicity of this condition [ 275 ]. Importantly, CRH can also modulate the visceral pain hypersensitivity in IBS [ 274 , 279 ]. Existing evidence suggests contrasting roles of the two CRH-R subtypes in visceral nociception, with CRH-R1 being involved in the pro-nociceptive effects of visceral pain, while CRH-R2 mediates an anti-nociceptive response [ 274 ]. Figure 11. Schematic representation of stress system effects on gastrointestinal function. CRH: corticotropin-releasing hormone; ACTH: adrenocorticotropic hormone (corticotrophin); PVN: paraventricular nucleus; LC: locus coeruleus. Activation is represented by solid green lines and inhibition by dashed red lines. Additional studies exploring the underlying mechanisms mediating the stress-induced stimulation of colonic motility further revealed that restraint stress in conscious rats can stimulate vagal efferent nerves innervating the proximal colon via central CRH-R1 receptors, resulting in 5-hydroxytryptamine (5-HT) release from the proximal colon. This released 5-HT activates 5-HT 3 receptors located at the vagal afferent fibers, whilst, in turn, this 5-HT 3 receptor activation stimulates colonic motility via the vagovagal reflex [ 280 ]. Thus, it appears that the primary target of restraint stress may be the enterochromaffin cells of the proximal colon [ 280 ]. Although acute stress stimulates colonic motor function via a central CRH, it seems that colonic motility is decreased following chronic stress through an adaptation mechanism which does not implicate reduced sensitivity to central CRH [ 281 ]. Apart from the colonic motility, the delayed gastric emptying induced by acute stress can be also completely restored following chronic homotypic stress in rats [ 282 ]. The latter appears mediated by a mechanism involving oxytocin expression upregulation in the hypothalamus which, in turn, attenuates CRH expression [ 282 ]. More recently, additional mechanisms have been proposed as potential mediators of stress-induced changes in the gastrointestinal motility, implicating changes in circulating ghrelin and ghrelin-O-acyltransferase levels, as well as the neuropeptide S (NPS; a neuropeptide mainly produced by neurons in the amygdala and between the Barrington nucleus and the LC) [ 283 , 284 ]. In addition to altering gastrointestinal motility patterns, stressors can further exert profound effects in several other
