Stress: Endocrine Physiology and Pathophysiology
KEYWORDS: pubmed, stress, crh, axis, chrousos, secretion, glucocorticoid, effects, hormone, central, hpa, corticotropin-releasing, hpa axis, chronic, activity


amygdala and between the Barrington nucleus and the LC) [ 283 , 284 ]. In addition to altering gastrointestinal motility patterns, stressors can further exert profound effects in several other aspects of the gastrointestinal function. As such, it has been shown that stress-induced activation of central and peripheral CRH receptors can cause dysfunction of the intestinal barrier, increase the gastrointestinal permeability and promote inflammatory bowel disease (IBD) relapse [ 267 - 269 ]. Finally, chronic activation of the HPA axis and/or the LC/NE-sympathetic system may induce depletion or tachyphylaxis of the opioid-peptide system responsible for stress-induced analgesia, which may account for the observed lower pain threshold for visceral sensation in patients with functional gastrointestinal disorders [ 267 - 269 ]. STRESS: ENDOCRINE PATHOPHYSIOLOGY In the context of the adaptive stress response, the mobilization of different stress system components must be of intensity that correlates to the presented threat by the imposed stressor(s) and of duration that allows a timely return to the desired steady state (homeostasis) [ 1 - 4 ]. Thus, a successful stress system response should be both of magnitude to overpower the homeostatic threat posed by the stressor(s) without overshooting and of time-limited duration which would render its accompanying catabolic, anti-reproductive, antigrowth and immunosuppressive adaptive effects transient and temporarily beneficial rather than sustained and detrimental [ 1 - 4 ]. The dose-response relationship between the stress system response activity and the potency of any given stressor can be depicted in a simplified way by a sigmoidal curve which starts from the basal stress system activity levels at rest and plateaus at a maximum activity level when all available adaptive forces have been mobilized ( Figure 12A ). Of note, this sigmoidal response curve varies in each individual; however, there is a relatively limited, narrow range between basal and maximum activity which characterizes the normal reactive individuals. Therefore, dose-response curves of stress activity extending outside the two extremes of this normal range denote pathologic stress responses, with higher and lower-shifted curves denoting excessive and defective reactions, respectively ( Figure 12A ). Similarly, the dose-response relationship between the sense of well-being or performance ability of each individual and the stress system activity can be represented by an inverted U-shaped curve which covers the normal range of the stress system activity. Shifts to the left or the right of this range result in hypoarousal or hyperarousal (anxiety) states, respectively, with
