Stress: Endocrine Physiology and Pathophysiology
KEYWORDS: pubmed, stress, crh, axis, chrousos, secretion, glucocorticoid, effects, hormone, central, hpa, corticotropin-releasing, hpa axis, chronic, activity


curve which covers the normal range of the stress system activity. Shifts to the left or the right of this range result in hypoarousal or hyperarousal (anxiety) states, respectively, with a suboptimal sense of well-being and/or diminished performance ( Figure 12B ). The following sections present briefly the principles which characterize the pathophysiology of chronic hyper- and hypo-activation of the stress system in relation to the aforementioned stress system organization and physiology. Figure 12. A. The dose-response curve between the potency of an imposed stressor and the activity of the stress system components responding to this specific stressor. Curve 1 (green): the normal dose-response curve; Curve 2 (red): the dose-response curve which defines the upper physiologic level of stress system activity; Curve 3 (purple): the dose-response curve which defines the lower physiologic level of stress system activity. Any curve higher than Curve 2 represents stress system hyperactivity, while any curve lower than Curve 3 represents stress system hypoactivity. B. The inverted U-shaped dose-response curve between the sense of well-being or performance ability and the stress system activity. Curve 1 (green): optimal stress system activity curve; Curve 2 (red): excessive stress system activity curve; Curve 3 (purple): defective stress system activity curve. Curves 2 and 3 curtail the top of the optimal curve and represent shifts to the right (hyperarousal/anxiety) and to the left (hypoarousal), respectively, whilst both are associated with suboptimal sense of well-being or diminished performance. [Adapted from Chrousos G.P. and Gold P.W., JAMA, 1992, 267,1244]. Chronic Hyperactivation of the Stress System - Pathophysiology Chronic stress system hyperactivation leads to the syndromal state which Selye first described in 1936 [ 1 , 2 , 285 ]. As previously discussed, CRH coordinates the neuroendocrine, autonomic, immune and behavioral adaptation during stress, hence increased and prolonged CRH production is regarded to play a pivotal role in the pathogenesis of the chronic stress syndrome and its clinical manifestations, including endocrine, cardio-metabolic, immune and psychiatric complications [ 1 , 2 ]. In this context, the syndrome of adult melancholic depression represents a typical example of dysregulation of the generalized stress response, leading to chronic, dysphoric hyperarousal, with hyperactivation of both the HPA axis and the SNS and relative immunosuppression [ 286 , 287 ]. Indeed, these patients exhibit increased cortisol excretion, decreased plasma ACTH response to exogenous CRH and elevated CRH levels in the cerebrospinal fluid (CSF) [ 288 , 289 ]. These
