Stress: Endocrine Physiology and Pathophysiology
KEYWORDS: pubmed, stress, crh, axis, chrousos, secretion, glucocorticoid, effects, hormone, central, hpa, corticotropin-releasing, hpa axis, chronic, activity


]. Indeed, these patients exhibit increased cortisol excretion, decreased plasma ACTH response to exogenous CRH and elevated CRH levels in the cerebrospinal fluid (CSF) [ 288 , 289 ]. These findings suggest that melancholic depression correlates with distinct hypersecretion of CRH which may participate in the initiation and/or perpetuation of a vicious pathophysiologic cycle. As such, patients with depression history were found on autopsy to have a significantly increased number of CRH neurons in the PVN [ 290 ], whilst imaging studies have also documented marked hippocampal atrophy and a small and hypo-functioning section of the medial frontal lobe ( Figure 13 ) [ 291 , 292 ]. Whether and to what extent this pathology is genetically determined, or environmentally induced, or both is still the subject of intense research. Figure 13. Schematic representation of the central neurocircuitry and its altered activity implicated in acute stress and melancholic depression (chronic stress system hyperactivation). Hyperfunctioning amygdala, hypofunctioning hippocampus and/or hypofunctioning mesocorticolimbic system (MCLS) could be associated with chronic hyperactivation of the PVN CRH-AVP system and predispose to melancholic depression. PVN: paraventricular nucleus; CRH: corticotropin-releasing hormone; AVP: arginine vasopressin. Activation is represented by solid green lines and inhibition by dashed red lines. Similarly to the prototypic example of melancholic depression, a broad spectrum of other clinical conditions have been associated with various degrees of increased and prolonged stress system activation ( Table 2 ), including panic anxiety disorders [ 293 ]; obsessive-compulsive disorder [ 294 ]; childhood physical/sexual abuse [ 295 ]; chronic alcohol abuse [ 296 ]; alcohol/narcotic withdrawal [ 297 , 298 ]; anorexia nervosa [ 175 , 299 , 300 ]; central (visceral) obesity [ 170 , 301 ]; diabetes (especially when complicated by diabetic neuropathy) [ 302 , 303 ]. Table 2. Clinical Conditions Associated with Altered Hypothalamic-Pituitary-Adrenal (HPA) Axis Activity and Dysregulation of the Adaptive Stress Response View in own window Increased HPA axis activity Decreased HPA axis activity Chronic stress Adrenal insufficiency Melancholic depression Atypical/Seasonal depression Anorexia nervosa Chronic fatigue syndrome Obsessive-compulsive disorder Fibromyalgia Panic disorder Hypothyroidism Excessive exercise (obligate athleticism) Nicotine withdrawal Chronic active alcoholism Post glucocorticoid therapy Alchohol and narcotic withdrawal Post Cushing's syndrome cure Diabetes mellitus Postpartum period Central obesity (Pseudo-Cushing syndrome) Post chronic stress Childhood sexual abuse Rheumatoid arthritis Hyperthyroidism Premenstrual tension syndrome Cushing's syndrome Climacteric depression Pregnancy Adapted from Chrousos G.P. and Gold P.W., JAMA, 1992; 267,1244. Chronic Hypoactivation of the
