Stress: Endocrine Physiology and Pathophysiology
KEYWORDS: pubmed, stress, crh, axis, chrousos, secretion, glucocorticoid, effects, hormone, central, hpa, corticotropin-releasing, hpa axis, chronic, activity


chronic stress Childhood sexual abuse Rheumatoid arthritis Hyperthyroidism Premenstrual tension syndrome Cushing's syndrome Climacteric depression Pregnancy Adapted from Chrousos G.P. and Gold P.W., JAMA, 1992; 267,1244. Chronic Hypoactivation of the Stress System - Pathophysiology Chronic stress system hypoactivation with reduced CRH secretion may result in pathologic hypoarousal which characterizes another group of pathophysiologic states ( Table 2 ). Patients with atypical and seasonal depression or chronic fatigue syndrome appear to belong in this category [ 304 , 305 ]. As such, periods of depression (winter period) of the former and periods of marked fatigue in the latter are characterized by prolonged HPA axis hypoactivity. Similarly, patients with fibromyalgia exhibit decreased urinary free cortisol excretion and frequently complain of fatigue [ 306 ]. Interestingly, amongst the clinical manifestations of hypothyroidism is atypical depression, with hypothyroid patients exhibiting evidence of CRH hyposecretion [ 307 ]. Moreover, smoking withdrawal has been documented as a state associated with decreased cortisol and catecholamine secretion [ 308 , 309 ]. Decreased CRH secretion in the early period of nicotine abstinence in habitual smokers could explain the hyperphagia, low metabolic rate and weight gain frequently observed during attempts to stop smoking. It should be also noted that, the clinical presentation of Cushing’s syndrome with atypical depression, hyperphagia, weight gain, fatigue and anergia is consistent with suppression of CRH neurons by the associated hypercortisolism. Periods following cure of hypercortisolism or cessation of chronic stress, as well as the postpartum period are also associated with suppressed PVN CRH secretion and decreased HPA axis activity ( Table 2 ) [ 1 , 2 , 142 , 310 , 311 ]. Finally, a defective HPA axis response to inflammatory stimuli can reproduce the glucocorticoid-deficient state and may lead to relative resistance to infections and neoplastic disease, but increased susceptibility to autoimmune/inflammatory diseases [ 108 , 224 , 312 , 313 ]. Indeed, such findings were documented in studies utilizing an interesting pair of near-histocompatible, highly inbred rat strains, i.e. the Fischer and Lewis rats which were genetically selected out of Sprague-Dawley rats for their resistance or susceptibility, respectively, to inflammatory disease [ 314 , 315 ]. In accord with the findings of animal studies in these models, an increasing body of clinical evidence indicates that rheumatoid arthritis patients may exhibit a mild form of central hypocortisolism, with reduced 24-hour cortisol excretion, less pronounced diurnal rhythm of cortisol secretion and blunted adrenal
