Stress: Endocrine Physiology and Pathophysiology
KEYWORDS: pubmed, stress, crh, axis, chrousos, secretion, glucocorticoid, effects, hormone, central, hpa, corticotropin-releasing, hpa axis, chronic, activity


clinical evidence indicates that rheumatoid arthritis patients may exhibit a mild form of central hypocortisolism, with reduced 24-hour cortisol excretion, less pronounced diurnal rhythm of cortisol secretion and blunted adrenal responses to surgical stress [ 316 , 317 ]. Taken together these findings suggest that HPA axis dysfunction can play a role in the development and/or perpetuation of autoimmune disease, rather than being an epiphenomenon. This rationale may also explain the high incidence of autoimmune disease in the period after cure of hypercortisolism and during the postpartum period, as well as in untreated or under-replaced adrenal insufficiency [ 224 ]. Potential Role of CRH Antagonists in Clinical Practice Based on the implication of stress system dysregulation in clinical manifestations of a wide spectrum of diseases, research has focused on identifying novel therapeutic approaches targeting this underlying pathophysiologic link. As such, small molecular weight antagonists of CRH-R1 and CRH-R2 have been developed which can be absorbed orally and cross the blood brain barrier, thus exhibiting a therapeutic potential in the treatment of disorders linked to disturbances of CRH-regulated pathways [ 30 , 318 ]. Antalarmin is a non-peptidic prototype CRH antagonist which binds with high affinity to CRH-R1. This small lipophilic pyrrolopyrimidine agent decreases the activity of both the HPA axis and the LC/NE-sympathetic system, blocking a variety of manifestations associated with anxiety and the development/expression of conditioned fear [ 319 ]. In addition, antalarmin can suppress neurogenic inflammation, stress-induced peptic ulcers and colonic hyperfunction, whilst it also blocks CRH-induced skin mast cell degranulation [ 30 , 320 - 324 ]. Importantly, chronic administration of antalarmin is not associated with glucocorticoid or catecholamine deficiency and permits adequate HPA axis and LC/NE responses to severe stress [ 325 ]. Overall, data from several studies that tested the efficacy of such CRH-R1 antagonists indicate a potential therapeutic role in various disorders, including melancholic depression, chronic anxiety, narcotic withdrawal, IBS, allergic reactions and autoimmune/inflammatory disease. Indeed, clinical studies with the CRH-R1 antagonists NBI-30775/R121919 and NBI-34041 have reported promising outcomes in depression and anxiety [ 326 ]. In addition, it is considered that CRH-R2 antagonists could potentially play a role in the treatment of atypical depression, chronic fatigue syndrome, fibromyalgia and stress-induced anorexia [ 30 , 327 , 328 ]. However, the available data on effects of selective CRH-R2 antagonists are relatively limited [ 30 ]. Identifying specific CRH-R2 neuronal pathways which are implicated in
