Stress: Endocrine Physiology and Pathophysiology
KEYWORDS: pubmed, stress, crh, axis, chrousos, secretion, glucocorticoid, effects, hormone, central, hpa, corticotropin-releasing, hpa axis, chronic, activity


, 327 , 328 ]. However, the available data on effects of selective CRH-R2 antagonists are relatively limited [ 30 ]. Identifying specific CRH-R2 neuronal pathways which are implicated in various disease states in humans and better understanding of the role of CRH-related peptides, such as urocortin (Ucn) I, UcnII, UcnIII and urotensin I, is expected to shed more light on the overall therapeutic potential of CRH-R2 antagonists. Notably, urocortin appears to participate in the regulation of anxiety levels, learning, memory and body temperature, whilst it may also exhibit neuro- and cardio-protective properties [ 329 - 331 ]. Hence, there is also increasing research interest on the role of these agents and the effects of CRH-R2 inhibition in neuro-inflammation and cardiovascular function [ 330 - 336 ]. Finally, an additional study showed that astressin-2B (a selective CRH-R2 antagonist) attenuated stress-induced bacterial growth and prevented severe sepsis in an animal model [ 337 ], indicating that CRH-R2 inhibition may be protective against stress-induced pneumococcal disease and suggesting that the therapeutic potential of such agents may be even broader. CONCLUSION Despite the multiple challenges in studying the stress system and identifying the exact mechanisms underlying stress-induced pathology, stress research represents an important field of biomedical research with high translational value for targeted prevention and/or management of a broad spectrum of clinical conditions. It is now recognized that strong interdependent links exist between neurobehavioral/psychoemotional states relating to stress and certain “classic” disease states relating to autoimmunity, inflammation, malignancy, as well as metabolic, reproductive and growth disorders. Understanding the organization and integration of specific stress system pathways and neurochemical networks which facilitate these links constitutes a significant step forward in exploring the pathogenesis of stress-related complications. To date, a compelling body of experimental, epidemiologic and clinical evidence strongly supports the significant impact of acute and chronic stress on both physical health and emotional well-being, highlighting the need for further ongoing research in this field. REFERENCES 1. Chrousos GP. Stress and disorders of the stress system. Nat Rev Endocrinol. 2009; 5 (7):374–81. [ PubMed : 19488073 ] 2. Chrousos GP, Gold PW. The concepts of stress and stress system disorders. Overview of physical and behavioral homeostasis. JAMA. 1992; 267 :1244–1252. [ PubMed : 1538563 ] 3. Chrousos GP. Regulation and dysregulation of the hypothalamic-pituitary-adrenal axis. The corticotropin-releasing hormone perspective. Endocrinol Metab Clin North Am. 1992; 21 :833–858. [ PubMed : 1486878 ] 4. Tsigos C,
