Myxedema and Coma (Severe Hypothyroidism)
KEYWORDS: coma, myxedema, hypothyroidism, myxedema coma, thyroid, treatment, dose, administration, patients, note, intravenous, serum, initial, hyponatremia, severe


CLINICAL RECOGNITION Myxedema coma is a rare life-threatening clinical condition in patients with longstanding severe untreated hypothyroidism, in whom adaptive mechanisms fail to maintain homeostasis. Most patients, however, are not comatose, and the entity rather represents a form of very severe, decompensated hypothyroidism. PATHOPHYSIOLOGY Usually a precipitating event disrupts homeostasis which is maintained in hypothyroid patients by a number of neurovascular adaptations. These adaptations include chronic peripheral vasoconstriction, diastolic hypertension, and diminished blood volume, in an attempt to preserve a normal body core temperature. Homeostasis might no longer be maintained in severely hypothyroid patients if blood volume is reduced any further (e.g. by gastrointestinal bleeding or the use of diuretics), if respiration already compromised by a reduced ventilatory drive is further hampered by intercurrent pulmonary infection, of if CNS regulatory mechanisms are impaired by stroke, the use of sedatives, or hyponatremia. DIAGNOSIS and DIFFERENTIAL The three key features of myxedema coma are: Altered mental status. Usually somnolence and lethargy have been present for months. Lethargy may develop via stupor into a comatose state. There may have been transient episodes of reduced consciousness before a more complete variety develops. Defective thermoregulation: hypothermia. The lower the temperature, the worse the prognosis. Please check the ability of the thermometer to accurately measure decreased temperatures (automatic thermometers may not register frank hypothermia). Fever may be absent despite infectious disease. With cold weather the body temperature may drop sharply. Myxedema coma mostly develops during winter months. Precipitating event. Look for cold exposure, infection, drugs (diuretics, tranquillizers, sedatives, analgesics), trauma, stroke, heart failure, gastrointestinal bleeding.The typical patient is an older woman with altered consciousness, presenting in wintertime. There is often a history of hypothyroidism, neck surgery or radioactive iodine treatment. Physical examination may reveal hypothermia, hypoventilation, hypotension, bradycardia, dry coarse skin, macroglossia, and delayed deep-tendon reflexes. Absence of mild diastolic hypertension in severely hypothyroid patients is a warning sign of impending myxedema coma. Laboratory examination may reveal anemia, hyponatremia, hypoglycaemia, hypercholesterolemia, and high serum creatine kinase concentrations. Most patients have low serum FT4 and high serum TSH. Serum TSH can be low or normal, however, due to the presence of central hypothyroidism or the nonthyroidal illness syndrome. THERAPY Myxedema coma is a medical emergency. Early diagnosis, rapid administration of thyroid hormones and adequate supportive measures (Table) are essential for a successful outcome. The prognosis, however, remains poor with a reported mortality between 20% and 50%. In-hospital
