Medications for Deep Venous Thrombosis
KEYWORDS: patients, bleeding, factor, dvt, dose, treatment, ufh, given, warfarin, day, used, anticoagulants, hours, heparin, lmwh


Almost all patients with deep venous thrombosis (DVT) are given anticoagulants and in rare cases thrombolytics. A number of anticoagulants are effective for management of deep venous thrombosis (see also Deep Venous Thrombosis). Non-pharmacologic treatments include surgery and inferior vena cava filters. Anticoagulants The anticoagulants (see figure Anticoagulants and Their Sites of Action and table Oral Anticoagulants) include Low molecular weight heparins (LMWHs) Unfractionated heparin (UFH) Factor Xa inhibitors: oral (eg, rivaroxaban, apixaban, edoxaban) and parenteral (fondaparinux) Direct thrombin inhibitors: oral (dabigatran etexilate) and parenteral (argatroban, bivalirudin, desirudin) Warfarin Oral factor Xa inhibitors and direct thrombin inhibitors are sometimes referred to as direct oral anticoagulants (DOACs). However, there are also parenteral agents that inhibit both factor Xa and thrombin (unfractionated heparin), that inhibit mainly factor Xa (LMWH), or that inhibit only factor Xa (fondaparinux). These agents can be used both for patients with DVT and those with pulmonary embolism (PE). Anticoagulants and Their Sites of Action LMWH = low molecular weight heparin; TF = tissue factor; UFH = unfractionated heparin. TABLE Direct Oral Anticoagulants for Treatment of Venous Thromboembolism Medication Dose Comments Factor Xa inhibitors Apixaban should not be used for DVT or PE if creatinine 10 mg twice a day clearance is < 30 for 7 days mL/minute Apixaban 2 (0.5mL/s/m ). Then 5 mg twice a day Dosage may be lowered to 2.5 mg twice a day after 6– 12 months of treatment. 2/11 Medication Dose Comments Initial treatment with a low 60 mg once a day molecular weight If creatinine heparin is needed clearance is 15–50 for 5 days. mL/minute (0.25 to Edoxaban Edoxaban should 2 0.83 mL/s/m ) or if not be used if body weight is ≤ 60 creatinine kg, 30 mg once a clearance is < 15 day mL/minute (0.25 mL/s/m2). Rivaroxaban should not be used for DVT or PE if creatinine 15 mg twice a day clearance is < 30 for 21 days taken mL/minute with food Rivaroxaban 2 (0.5mL/s/m ). Then 20 mg once a Dosage may be day taken with food lowered to 10 mg once a day after 6– 12 months of treatment. Factor IIa (thrombin) inhibitor Initial treatment with low molecular weight heparin is needed for 5 days. Dabigatran should Dabigatran 150 mg twice a day not be used for DVT if creatinine clearance is < 30 mL/minute 2 (0.5mL/s/m ). DVT = deep venous thrombosis; PE = pulmonary
