Medications for Deep Venous Thrombosis
KEYWORDS: patients, bleeding, factor, dvt, dose, treatment, ufh, given, warfarin, day, used, anticoagulants, hours, heparin, lmwh


should Dabigatran 150 mg twice a day not be used for DVT if creatinine clearance is < 30 mL/minute 2 (0.5mL/s/m ). DVT = deep venous thrombosis; PE = pulmonary embolism. 3/11 Anticoagulation strategies for DVT There are several strategies for anticoagulation of patients with DVT: Initial treatment with an injectable heparin (unfractionated or low molecular weight) followed after several days by long-term treatment with an oral drug (warfarin, a factor Xa inhibitor, or a direct thrombin inhibitor) Initial and long-term treatment with a LMWH Initial and long-term treatment with certain oral factor Xa inhibitors (rivaroxaban or apixaban) Dosing regimens for treatment of DVT differ from those used for prevention of thromboembolism in patients with atrial fibrillation. Some, but not all, of the direct oral anticoagulants are alternatives to warfarin as 1st-line treatment for DVT and PE and may also be used as monotherapy (see table Oral Anticoagulants). Compared to warfarin, these medications have been shown to give similar protection against recurrent DVT and have similar (or with apixaban, perhaps lower) risk of serious bleeding (1). Their advantages are that they are effective within several hours and thus do not require a period of overlapping treatment with heparin (bridging treatment), although edoxaban and dabigatran require at least 5 days of pretreatment with an injectable anticoagulant. Also, they are given as a fixed dose and thus, unlike warfarin, do not require ongoing laboratory testing. The main disadvantage is the higher cost compared to warfarin and the high cost of DOAC reversal agents in the case of bleeding or need for an urgent surgery or procedure. Duration of treatment varies. Patients with transient risk factors for DVT (eg, immobilization, surgery) can usually stop taking anticoagulants after 3 to 6 months. Patients with idiopathic (or unprovoked) DVT with no known risk factors, or recurrent DVT should take anticoagulants for at least 6 months and, in selected patients, probably for life unless they are at high risk for bleeding complications. Patients with cancer-associated thrombosis should receive at least 3 months of anticoagulation. Treatment is usually longer in patients receiving ongoing cancer therapy and in patients with advanced, metastatic disease. Patients with selected hypercoagulable states (eg, antiphospholipid syndrome or protein C, protein S, or antithrombin deficiency) should also be considered for extended-duration anticoagulation. Low molecular weight heparins (LMWHs) A low molecular weight heparin (eg, enoxaparin, dalteparin, tinzaparin) is one of the initial treatments of choice
