Medications for Deep Venous Thrombosis
KEYWORDS: patients, bleeding, factor, dvt, dose, treatment, ufh, given, warfarin, day, used, anticoagulants, hours, heparin, lmwh


deficiency) should also be considered for extended-duration anticoagulation. Low molecular weight heparins (LMWHs) A low molecular weight heparin (eg, enoxaparin, dalteparin, tinzaparin) is one of the initial treatments of choice because LMWHs can be given on an outpatient basis. LMWHs are as effective as unfractionated heparin (UFH) for reducing DVT recurrence, thrombus extension, and risk of death due to PE (2). Like UFH, LMWHs catalyze the action of antithrombin (which inhibits coagulation factor proteases), leading to inactivation of coagulation factor Xa and, to a lesser degree, factor IIa. LMWHs also have some antithrombin–mediated anti-inflammatory properties, which facilitate clot organization and resolution of symptoms and inflammation. 4/11 LMWHs are typically given subcutaneously in a standard weight-based dose (eg, enoxaparin 1.5 mg/kg subcutaneously once a day or 1 mg/kg subcutaneously every 12 hours or dalteparin 200 units/kg subcutaneously once a day). Patients with renal insufficiency may be treated with UFH or with reduced doses of LMWH. Monitoring is not reliable because LMWHs do not significantly prolong the results of global tests of coagulation. Furthermore, they have a predictable dose response, and there is no clear relationship between the anticoagulant effect of LMWH and bleeding. If warfarin is used after initial anticoagulation, treatment with LMWH is continued until full anticoagulation is achieved with warfarin (typically about 5 days). Transition to the oral agents rivaroxaban or apixaban can be done at any time with no overlap. Transition to edoxaban or dabigatran requires at least 5 days of LMWH treatment, but no overlap is needed. LMWHs and direct oral anticoagulants are first-line treatment options for patients with cancer- associated DVT (3), including in patients who have a central venous catheter and develop DVT. Warfarin is a 2nd-line alternative due to its low cost, but use requires careful monitoring. Complications of LMWHs include bleeding, thrombocytopenia, urticaria, and, rarely, thrombosis and anaphylaxis. Inpatients and possibly outpatients should be screened for bleeding with serial complete blood counts and, where appropriate, testing for occult blood in stool. Unfractionated heparin (UFH) Unfractionated heparin may be used instead of LMWH for patients who are hospitalized and for patients who have renal insufficiency or failure (creatinine clearance 10 to 30 mL/minute, (0.17 to 2 0.5mL/s/m ) because UFH is not cleared by the kidneys. UFH is given as a bolus and infusion to achieve full anticoagulation (eg, activated partial thromboplastin time [aPTT] 1.5 to 2.5 times that of the reference range). For
