Medications for Deep Venous Thrombosis
KEYWORDS: patients, bleeding, factor, dvt, dose, treatment, ufh, given, warfarin, day, used, anticoagulants, hours, heparin, lmwh


the kidneys. UFH is given as a bolus and infusion to achieve full anticoagulation (eg, activated partial thromboplastin time [aPTT] 1.5 to 2.5 times that of the reference range). For outpatients, UFH 333 units/kg initial bolus, then 250 units/kg subcutaneously every 12 hours can be substituted for IV UFH to facilitate mobility; the dose does not need adjustment based on aPTT. If warfarin is used after initial anticoagulation, UFH is continued until full anticoagulation has been achieved with warfarin (about 5 days). Complications of UFH are similar to those of LMWHs, except that heparin-induced thrombocytopenia, which is rare and may be life-threatening, is more common with UFHs. Long-term use of UFH causes hyperkalemia, liver enzyme elevations, and osteopenia. Rarely, UFH given subcutaneously causes skin necrosis. Inpatients and possibly outpatients being given UFH should be screened for bleeding. Factor Xa inhibitors Rivaroxaban and apixaban can be started as monotherapy immediately upon diagnosis or used in transition from an injectable heparin at any time without overlap. Dosing of rivaroxaban is 15 mg orally twice a day for 3 weeks followed by 20 mg orally once a day for a total of 3 to 6 months. Apixaban dosing is 10 mg orally twice a day for 7 days followed by 5 mg orally twice a day for 3 to 6 months. For patients at high risk of recurrent venous thromboembolism who require long-term anticoagulation, low- intensity dosing (apixaban 2.5 mg twice a day or rivaroxaban 10 mg once daily) following 6 months of standard dosing is associated with a lower risk of major bleeding events and is non-inferior in preventing recurrent thrombosis (4, 5). 5/11 Before edoxaban is started, an initial 5 to 7 days of treatment with LMWH or UFH is required. Then edoxaban is given 60 mg orally once a day. To transition from an injectable anticoagulant, the factor Xa inhibitor is typically started within 6 to 12 hours after the last dose of a twice-daily LMWH regimen and within 12 to 24 hours after a once-daily LMWH regimen. There is evidence that apixaban, edoxaban, and rivaroxaban can be used in select patients with cancer- associated venous thromboembolism (VTE) as an alternative to monotherapy with LMWH (6, 7, 8). Fondaparinux, a parenteral selective factor Xa inhibitor, may be used as an alternative to UFH or LMWH for the initial treatment of DVT or PE. It is given in a fixed dose
