Medications for Deep Venous Thrombosis
KEYWORDS: patients, bleeding, factor, dvt, dose, treatment, ufh, given, warfarin, day, used, anticoagulants, hours, heparin, lmwh


parenteral selective factor Xa inhibitor, may be used as an alternative to UFH or LMWH for the initial treatment of DVT or PE. It is given in a fixed dose of 7.5 mg subcutaneously once a day (10 mg for patients > 100 kg, 5 mg for patients < 50 kg). It has the advantage of fixed dosing and is less likely to cause thrombocytopenia. Direct thrombin inhibitors Dabigatran 150 mg orally twice a day is given only after an initial 5 days of treatment with LMWH. It is typically started within 6 to 12 hours after the last dose of a twice-daily LMWH regimen and within 12 to 24 hours after a once-daily regimen. Parenteral direct thrombin inhibitors (argatroban, bivalirudin, desirudin) are available but do not have a role in treatment or prevention of DVT or PE. Argatroban may be useful to treat DVT in patients with heparin-induced thrombocytopenia. Vitamin K antagonists (warfarin) Warfarin is a treatment option for patients with DVT who are not pregnant. It is also an option for patients with severe renal dysfunction. Warfarin is also a second-line option for patients with cancer- associated VTE. Warfarin 5 to 10 mg can be started immediately along with heparin because it takes about 5 days to achieve desired therapeutic effect. Older patients and patients with a liver disorder typically require lower warfarin doses. Therapeutic goal is an international normalized ratio (INR) of 2.0 to 3.0. INR is monitored weekly for the first 1 to 2 months of warfarin treatment and monthly thereafter; the dose is increased or decreased by 0.5 to 3 mg to maintain the INR within this range. Patients taking warfarin should be informed of possible drug interactions, including interactions with foods and nonprescription medicinal herbs. Rarely, warfarin causes skin necrosis in patients with inherited protein C deficiency or protein S deficiency. Bleeding During Use of Anticoagulants Bleeding is the most common complication of anticoagulants and ranges on a continuum from minor to severe, life-threatening hemorrhage. For minor bleeding (eg, epistaxis), local measures to stop bleeding (eg, direct pressure) are often sufficient. The anticoagulant is usually not discontinued or reversed unless bleeding becomes more severe. For severe bleeding (eg, heavy gastrointestinal bleeding), the anticoagulant is usually withheld (at least temporarily) and other measures taken. Bleeding is generally considered severe when it is: Heavy (loss of ≥ 2 units of blood in ≤ 7 days) In
