Medications for Deep Venous Thrombosis
KEYWORDS: patients, bleeding, factor, dvt, dose, treatment, ufh, given, warfarin, day, used, anticoagulants, hours, heparin, lmwh


usually withheld (at least temporarily) and other measures taken. Bleeding is generally considered severe when it is: Heavy (loss of ≥ 2 units of blood in ≤ 7 days) In a critical location (eg, intracranial, intraocular) In a location where hemostasis is difficult to achieve (eg, small bowel, posterior nasal cavity, lung) Risk factors for severe bleeding include Age ≥ 65 years History of prior gastrointestinal bleeding or stroke Recent myocardial infarction Coexisting anemia (hematocrit < 30%), renal insufficiency (serum creatinine > 1.5 mg/dL [115 micromol/L]), or diabetes 7/11 Supportive care for severe bleeding includes local measures to stop bleeding (eg, direct pressure, cauterization, injection). Patients with signs and symptoms of volume loss and those with heavy ongoing bleeding may require intravenous fluid resuscitation and packed red blood cell transfusions. These measures are sufficient for many bleeding episodes. In patients with life-threatening and/or ongoing bleeding or bleeding in a critical location, clinicians also consider giving Reversal agents Clotting factors (eg, prothrombin complex concentrate, fresh frozen plasma) Antifibrinolytics However, by definition these agents are prothrombotic and the risks of continued bleeding should be balanced with the increased risk of thrombosis. Anticoagulant reversal Many of the anticoagulants have specific reversal agents. If these are unavailable or ineffective, clotting factors, typically in the form of 4-factor prothrombin complex concentrate or sometimes fresh frozen plasma, can be given. Some anticoagulants can be removed by hemodialysis or have absorption blocked by activated charcoal. With the heparins, bleeding can be stopped or slowed with protamine. It is more effective on UFH than on LMWH because protamine only partially neutralizes LMWH inactivation of factor Xa. The dose is 1 mg protamine for each 100 units of UFH given or for each milligram of LMWH; protamine is infused slowly over 10 to 20 minutes (maximum dose 50 mg in 10 minutes). The dose is lowered depending on the time since UFH was given. If a 2nd dose is required, it should be one half the first dose. During all infusions, patients should be observed for hypotension and a reaction similar to an anaphylactic reaction. Because UFH given IV has a half-life of 30 to 60 minutes, protamine is typically not given to patients who have received UFH > 60 to 120 minutes beforehand) or is given at a reduced dose based on the amount of heparin estimated to be remaining in plasma, based on the half-life of UFH.
