Medications for Deep Venous Thrombosis
KEYWORDS: patients, bleeding, factor, dvt, dose, treatment, ufh, given, warfarin, day, used, anticoagulants, hours, heparin, lmwh


60 to 120 minutes beforehand) or is given at a reduced dose based on the amount of heparin estimated to be remaining in plasma, based on the half-life of UFH. Warfarin anticoagulation can be reversed with vitamin K; the dose is 1 to 2.5 mg orally if INR is 5 to 9, 2.5 to 5 mg orally if INR is > 9, and 5 to 10 mg IV (given slowly to avoid anaphylaxis) if there is active hemorrhage. If hemorrhage is severe, prothrombin complex concentrate should be given; fresh frozen plasma may be used if prothrombin complex concentrate is unavailable. Selected patients with overanticoagulation (INR 5 to 9) who are neither actively bleeding nor at increased risk of bleeding can be managed by omitting 1 or 2 warfarin doses and monitoring INR more frequently, then giving warfarin at a lower dose. With dabigatran, a humanized monoclonal antibody idarucizumab 5 g IV is an effective antidote to bleeding. If the agent is not available, 4-factor prothrombin complex concentrate 50 units/kg IV can be given. Hemodialysis also may help because dabigatran is not highly protein bound. Oral activated charcoal is an option if the last dose of dabigatran was within 2 hours. 8/11 With factor Xa inhibitors, andexanet alfa is an antidote available in the United States; however, its use is restricted in part due to its high cost (1). If the patient is on a high dose of a factor Xa inhibitor (eg, rivaroxaban > 10 mg or apixaban > 5 mg), or if the patient took the medication < 8 hours before presentation, a high dose of andexanet alfa (800 mg IV at 30 mg/minute followed by 960 mg IV at 8 mg/minute) is given. If the patient is on a low dose of a factor Xa inhibitor or took the medication > 8 hours before presentation, a lower dose of andexanet alfa (400 mg IV at 30 mg/minute followed by 480 mg IV at 8 mg/minute) is given. Fondaparinux anticoagulation can theoretically be reversed with andexanet alfa although this has not been studied in research trials. If andexanet alfa is unavailable, 4- factor prothrombin complex concentrate may be considered. Oral activated charcoal is an option in patients who took an oral factor Xa inhibitor within a few hours of presentation (8 hours for rivaroxaban, 6 hours for apixaban, and 2 hours for edoxaban). Hemodialysis is not effective for removal
