Medications for Deep Venous Thrombosis
KEYWORDS: patients, bleeding, factor, dvt, dose, treatment, ufh, given, warfarin, day, used, anticoagulants, hours, heparin, lmwh


an oral factor Xa inhibitor within a few hours of presentation (8 hours for rivaroxaban, 6 hours for apixaban, and 2 hours for edoxaban). Hemodialysis is not effective for removal of the oral factor Xa inhibitors. Other reversal agents for direct oral anticoagulants are currently being developed (eg, ciraparantag). Clotting factors Clotting factors are available in the form of Prothrombin complex concentrate Fresh frozen plasma Individual clotting factors Prothrombin complex concentrate (PCC) is available in several forms. Three-factor PCC contains high levels of factors II, IX, and X, and 4-factor PCC adds factor VII; both also have proteins C and S. PCCs can be unactivated, or activated, in which some of the factors have been cleaved to the active form. The 4- factor PCC is preferred as it tends to be more effective at reversing bleeding than 3-factor PCC. If 3- factor PCC is used, fresh frozen plasma (FFP) can also be given because FFP contains factor VII, which is not contained in 3-factor PCC. Typical dose is 50 units/kg IV. Because evidence of benefit is uncertain and risk of clotting is significant, PCCs should be reserved for life-threatening bleeding. Fresh frozen plasma contains all the clotting factors but only at normal plasma levels. It is now typically used only if PCC is unavailable; there is no evidence it is effective in bleeding due to factor Xa inhibitors Individual clotting factors such as activated recombinant factor VII are available but are not thought to be helpful for anticoagulant-related bleeding. Antifibrinolytics and other agents Antifibrinolytic agents can also be tried; however, their use has not been studied for reversal of bleeding in patients taking anticoagulants. Tranexamic acid 10 to 20 mg/kg IV bolus followed by 10 mg/kg IV every 6 to 8 hours may be used. Aminocaproic acid may be started at 2 gm IV every 6 hours. Resumption of anticoagulation after bleeding Clinical judgment is necessary when deciding whether to permanently stop or lower the dose of anticoagulant. 9/11 If a patient has almost completed their treatment course of anticoagulant and has a severe bleeding episode, the anticoagulant can be stopped. However, if a patient has just started or is mid-way through their treatment course and has a severe bleed, the decision of whether to stop or reduce the dose of anticoagulant is not as straightforward and should be made in consultation with a multidisciplinary team and keeping in mind
