Medications for Deep Venous Thrombosis
KEYWORDS: patients, bleeding, factor, dvt, dose, treatment, ufh, given, warfarin, day, used, anticoagulants, hours, heparin, lmwh


the decision of whether to stop or reduce the dose of anticoagulant is not as straightforward and should be made in consultation with a multidisciplinary team and keeping in mind the patient's priorities. Thrombolytic (Fibrinolytic) Agents Thrombolytic agents, which include alteplase, tenecteplase, and streptokinase, lyse clots and may be more effective than heparin alone in selected patients with DVT, but the risk of bleeding is higher than with heparin alone. For patients with DVT, a clinical trial showed that catheter-directed thrombolytic therapy did not reduce the incidence of post-thrombotic syndrome compared with conventional anticoagulant therapy (1). Consequently, thrombolytic agents should be considered only in highly selected patients with DVT. Patients who may benefit from thrombolytic agents include those with extensive iliofemoral DVT who are younger (< 60 years) and do not have risk factors for bleeding. Thrombolytic therapy should be given stronger consideration in patients with extensive DVT who have evolving or existing limb ischemia (eg, phlegmasia cerulea dolens). For patients with PE, thrombolytic therapy should be considered if patients have clinically massive PE, defined as PE associated with systemic hypotension (systolic blood pressure < 90 mm Hg), cardiogenic shock, or respiratory failure. Most other patients, with submassive PE, do not appear to benefit from thrombolytic therapy. However, in selected patients with submassive PE, thrombolytic therapy may be considered if there is clinical deterioration despite conventional anticoagulant therapy. In patients with submassive PE and right ventricular dysfunction, thrombolytic therapy should not be routinely used. For either DVT or PE, available evidence comparing local (ie, catheter-directed) with systemic administration of thrombolytic therapy has not shown a clear benefit of either modality with respect to mortality. Bleeding, if it occurs, is most often at the site of arterial or venous puncture sites. This complication can be treated by stopping the thrombolytic agent and doing mechanical compression or surgical repair of the puncture site. Life-threatening bleeding is treated with cryoprecipitate and fresh frozen plasma in addition to stopping the thrombolytic agent.
