Hameedetal.EuropeanRadiology(2025)35:7484–7496
KEYWORDS: disease, bowel, imaging, mre, ius, mural, activity, inflammation, response, active, treatment, fig, assessment, inflammatory, complications


tolerated. diseasecontrolandavoidinglong-termcomplications. CT is typically used as a second line or in the acute Cross-sectional imaging plays a crucial role in this treat- setting (level of evidence: high). to-target strategy. ● There are several validated mural and extramural This ESR essentials review from ESGAR (European signs of inflammation (active disease) which should Society of Gastrointestinal and Abdominal Radiology) be assessed; bowel mural thickening, mural and provides a comprehensive overview of the high-level evi- perimural oedema, ulceration, and hypervascularity. dence around the use of cross-sectional imaging for They are frequently superimposed on chronic diagnosis and treatment response assessment in luminal smooth muscle changes) in the same bowel imaging selection, and communication within the multi- segment, manifesting as mural thickening, but also disciplinary team. muralfatdeposition,fibrosis,pseudosacculation,and fibro-fatty proliferation. A judgement should be Diagnosis made of the predominant phenotype to aid ThepathogenesisofCDisnotyetfullyunderstoodbutis appropriate management (level of evidence: high). thoughttoinvolveacomplexinterchangebetweengenetic ● The imaging signs of active disease are also disposition, environmental factors, immune factors, and responsive and used in the assessment of treatment the gut microbiome. CD can affect any part of the gas- responsewhichshouldbeexpressedaccordingtothe trointestinal tract, but most commonly, the terminal European Crohn’sandColitis organisation (ECCO)- ileum is involved. The main symptoms are abdominal ESGAR recommendations; (i) transmural remission, pain, diarrhoea, fatigue, and weight loss, although the disease, and (iv) progressive disease with or mimic CD, such as intestinal infections (e.g., Yersinia without stricturing or penetrating complications. enterocolitica, Clostridium difficile, Mycobacterium To aid clear communication within the tuberculosis), connective tissue disorders, vasculitis, multidisciplinary team, structured reports using ischaemia, eosinophilic enteritis, non-steroidal anti- standardised terminology are recommended (level inflammatory drug use, and neoplasms. The diagnosis of chemical, radiological, endoscopic, and histological Introduction investigations . Crohn’s disease (CD) is a lifelong relapsing andremitting The behaviour of the disease has been classified into condition affecting any part of the gastrointestinal tract, three phenotypic subtypes based on the degree of characterised bypatchy transmuralinflammation. Patient transmural involvement, although there is ongoing symptoms do not always accurately reflect disease debate as to whether current classification systems inflammatory burden, and clinicians need objective should be further refined to reflect the dynamism of the information on the extent and activity of the disease and disease and overlapping subtypes . (1) The presence of (extra)mural complications to optimise inflammatory subtype is characterised by acute inflam- patient management. Although endoscopy is still the mationofthegastrointestinaltractwithnofistulisingor reference standard for CD activity assessment, its limita- stricturing complications. (2)
