Hameedetal.EuropeanRadiology(2025)35:7484–7496
KEYWORDS: disease, bowel, imaging, mre, ius, mural, activity, inflammation, response, active, treatment, fig, assessment, inflammatory, complications


(extra)mural complications to optimise inflammatory subtype is characterised by acute inflam- patient management. Although endoscopy is still the mationofthegastrointestinaltractwithnofistulisingor reference standard for CD activity assessment, its limita- stricturing complications. (2) The stricturing subtype tions are increasingly recognised. Less invasive, less presents with chronic changes (chronic inflammation expensive, and better tolerated cross-sectional imaging with varying levels of fibrosis, smooth muscle thicken- techniques (US, CT, and MRI) have emerged as viable ing, and fat deposition) and luminal narrowing with or alternatives to endoscopy for both diagnosing and mon- without obstruction. (3) The penetrating subtype man- itoring CD . Moreover, cross-sectional imaging ifests by the development of transmural complications, modalities have distinct advantages over endoscopy as such as fistulae or abscesses. In addition to these sub- they allow visualisation of the full length of the small types, patients can develop perianal disease (fistula and/ bowel beyond the reach of endoscopy and enable assess- orabscess),whichcanoccurregardlessoftheunderlying ment of the full thickness of the bowel wall (transmural luminal disease phenotype . Hameedetal.EuropeanRadiology(2025)35:7484–7496 7486 Timely diagnosis, accurate phenotyping, and staging of reporting cross-sectional imaging in CD patients, to CDareessentialforoptimisingpatientmanagement,witha improve communication between teams and increase key role for cross-sectional imaging. MR Enterography reportingconsistency.Severalradiologicalfeatures (MRE)andIUShaveemergedastheprimarycross-sectional of active disease (inflammation) have been validated smallbowelinvestigations,asbothareaccurateintheinitial against endoscopy, histopathology, and biomarkers in diagnosisandongoingassessmentofCD.TheMETRIC the blood and stool. The main imaging findings asso- study group reported that both MRE and IUS had a high ciated with inflammation in CD include, bowel mural sensitivity and specificity for detecting active small bowel thickening, mural oedema, perimural inflammation, disease (97% and 96% for MRE; 92% and 84% for IUS . ulceration, and increased vascularity (Table 2) [9–13]. However, MRE was superior in assessing the extent of dis- Bowelmuralthickeningisthemostrobustparameterfor easeinthesmallbowel,particularlyinilealdiseaseupstream evaluating disease activity, although nearly all patholo- of the terminal ileum, with a sensitivity of 80% and a spe- gicalbowelconditionscancausethickening.Athreshold cificity of 95% for MRE, significantly higher than IUS (70% of >3mm measured in a well-distended bowel segment and 81%, respectively). Therefore, when available, MRE is is generally accepted as a sign of active disease in both usuallypreferredoverIUSforaccuratestagingatthetimeof the small bowel and colon (Figs. 1 and 2). However, as diagnosis when the disease distribution and phenotype are there is significant overlap between acute inflammatory first defined. IUS is sensitive for detecting CD in the small and chronic changes in diseased bowel in CD, other bowel, so it is a useful first-line investigation for initial activity parameters
