Hameedetal.EuropeanRadiology(2025)35:7484–7496
KEYWORDS: disease, bowel, imaging, mre, ius, mural, activity, inflammation, response, active, treatment, fig, assessment, inflammatory, complications


Comparing imaging modalities in the same patient can What does the multidisciplinaryteam want to know? be difficult. There is an overlap in the signs of disease Close interdisciplinary working is key in CD, and the best to compare these various signs between modalities. acute setting. To facilitate effective communication, changeably with considerable variation in modality and standardise reporting (Fig. 7) . selection and/or availability. For example, if an MRE shows active disease, treatment response assessment may Imaging selection for different patient groups be performed with IUS. The best option is to select the Appropriate imaging selection is dependent on disease optimal follow-up imaging modality based on disease factors (phenotype and anatomical location), individual location and phenotype and patient tolerance, even if patientfactors(e.g.,claustrophobia, patienttoleranceand Hameedetal.EuropeanRadiology(2025)35:7484–7496 7493 Fig.7 OptimalcontentandstandardisedterminologyforastructuredreportintheCDnewdiagnosisandfollow-upsettings,basedonECCO-ESGAR recommendations.*Bowelmuralthickeningcanbeduetochronicfibrosis,andsootheractivitysignsshouldbeconsidered and availability of imaging options delivered by a trained also likely for suspected relapse cases . The increased workforce (Fig. 8). patient acceptability of IUS with its reduced scan dura- IUS is highly sensitive for terminal ileal and colonic tion, no requirement for oral contrast, and ability to disease in suitable patients, and outperforms MRE for communicate with the operator, makes it an excellent Hameedetal.EuropeanRadiology(2025)35:7484–7496 7494 Fig.8 Flowchartillustratingoptimalimagingmodalityselectionfordistinctclinicalscenariosandpatientgroups.MRE,MRenterography;IUS,intestinal ultrasound;CTE,CTEnterography.*IflocalIUScapacityallows,otherwiseMRE,**CTEisusuallyreservedasasecond-lineoptionwithMREpreferredin theseclinicalscenarios choice for follow-up where disease distribution is known MR Enterography and IUS are the recommended first- . IUS can troubleshoot equivocal MRE findings, such line cross-sectional imaging modalities, with a clear as targeted assessment of bowel loops with graded com- advantage over colonoscopy in being able to accurately pression and direct visualisation of peristalsis. There is assess the full thickness of the bowel wall, and form the datathatIUScanbeacostandclinicallyeffectivefirst-line cornerstone of management. CT has a more limited role, test in patients with low probability of CD, but it is selected if MRE and IUS are unavailable, or in the acute resource-intensive, and MRE remains an alternative if setting. there is better capacity . A key objective for radiologists is to phenotype disease MRE is better suited for initial disease staging at byidentifyingsignsofactiveinflammation,evaluatingthe diagnosis; assessing complex, multifocal disease, parti- relative burden of inflammation and chronic disease, cularly in suspected disease relapse ; deep pelvic identifying complications, and assessing treatment location of disease, defining strictures, and mapping response. ESGAR recommends the use of standardised disease prior to intervention. MRE is also preferred if terminology and structured reporting to clearly commu- there is a clinical suspicion of penetrating disease or nicate findings and maximise the clinical
