Gluten and Intestinal Permeability in People with CD
KEYWORDS: gfd, patients, group, intestinal, diet, gluten-free, zonulin, celiac, gluten-free diet, permeability, study, people, intestinal permeability, ngfd, groups


Gluten and Intestinal Permeability in People with CD ORIGINAL ARTICLE GASTROINTESTINAL TRACT Öztekin et al. The Investigation of Nutritional Status, Intestinal Permeability, and Quality of Life in People with Celiac Disease Yeşim Öztekin1 , Fatma Esra Güneş2 , Yeşim Özen Alahdab3 Cite this article as: Öztekin Y, Güneş FE, Özen Alahdab Y. The investigation of nutritional status, intestinal permeability, and quality of life in people with celiac disease. Turk J Gastroenterol. 2022;33(12):1043-1049. ABSTRACT Background: Celiac disease is associated with impaired intestinal epithelial barrier integrity. Its consequences affect the nutritional status and quality of life of patients. This study aimed to determine nutritional status, intestinal permeability, and quality of life in people with celiac disease. It was researched whether patients who are non-compliant to gluten-free diet have higher serum zonulin levels and intestinal permeability. Methods: The study was completed with 44 celiac patients. Dietary records and a questionnaire were used to evaluate patients’ compli- ance to the gluten-free diet. Dietary records were analyzed by using a nutrition analysis program. Anthropometric measurements were taken. Body compositions were analyzed to assess the nutritional status of patients. Blood samples were collected and then zonulin levels and total serum proteins were measured to evaluate intestinal permeability. Celiac Disease Questionnaire was used to assess the quality of life scores. Results: Patients were divided into 2 groups considering compliance to the gluten-free diet and it was found that 17 patients were com- pliant to the gluten-free diet, and 27 patients were non-compliant to the gluten-free diet. Serum zonulin, zonulin/total protein ratio, and intestinal permeability were higher in non-compliant to the gluten-free diet group (P < .05). There was no significant difference between anthropometric measurements, Celiac Disease Questionnaire scores, daily energy, and nutrient intakes of groups (P > .05). zonulin levels and intestinal permeability were higher in people with celiac disease who are non-compliant to gluten-free diet. Keywords: Celiac disease, gluten-free diet, intestinal permeability, quality of life, zonulin INTRODUCTION release zonulin in people with CD. Increased zonulin con- Celiac disease (CD) is defined as an autoimmune enter- centration in blood is considered an indicator of increased opathy that progresses with malabsorption of gluten pro- intestinal permeability.4 Currently, the only treatment for tein found in wheat, barley, and rye. It is characterized by CD is a lifelong gluten-free diet (GFD). A decrease in vil- mucosal inflammation of the small intestine in individu- lous atrophy, intestinal permeability, and nutrient malab-
