Gluten and Intestinal Permeability in People with CD
KEYWORDS: gfd, patients, group, intestinal, diet, gluten-free, zonulin, celiac, gluten-free diet, permeability, study, people, intestinal permeability, ngfd, groups


status and determine the quality of life of 2 How did you learn about the gluten-free diet after the people with CD. diagnosis? 3 What is your eating frequency in cafes or restaurants? MATERIALS AND METHODS 4 Are there any gluten-containing foods you have consumed in the past 4 weeks? And what is it? Ethics committee approval was received from the Marmara University (approval no: 09.2018.359/accep- 5 What is cross-contamination? What are the precautions that you take against cross-contamination of gluten? tance date: May 04, 2018). The study was conducted 6 What do you pay attention to the label of a product when in accordance with the ethical principles of the 1964 buying packaged products? Declaration of Helsinki and its later amendments. Adult 7 What is the meaning of the “it may contain trace amount celiac patients who applied to the gastroenterology unit gluten” expression? in a hospital between May 2019 and October 2019 were accepted as the population of the study. Inclusion crite- ria for the study were given as follows: patients should be questions were asked to evaluate compliance with the between the ages of 19 and 65, should have a small intes- GFD. With these questions, the evaluation of patients’ tinal biopsy-proven CD diagnosis, and should be a volun- knowledge level about CD and gluten-free nutrition was teer by signing the informed consent form. Patients who aimed. The questions for the evaluation of compliance to have another autoimmune disease such as type 1 diabe- GFD were given in Table 1. In food records, patients were tes, psoriasis, Hashimoto’s thyroid, rheumatoid arthritis, asked to state the brands of the packaged foods they systemic lupus erythematosus and who are in pregnancy consume. Therefore, it can be understood whether the or lactation period were excluded. Patients who were tak- diet is exactly gluten-free or not. Considering the nutri- ing probiotic/prebiotic supplements in the last 2 months tional history and dietary records of patients, they were and taking antibiotics or non-steroidal anti-inflammatory divided into 2 groups as compliant to the GFD and non- drugs in the past week were also excluded. All patients compliant to the GFD (NGFD) group. who met the inclusion and exclusion criteria and provided informed consent were included in the study. Measurement of Serum Zonulin Levels Venous blood samples taken from the participants after In previous studies, it was emphasized that dietary records 8-12 hours of fasting
