Gluten and Intestinal Permeability in People with CD
KEYWORDS: gfd, patients, group, intestinal, diet, gluten-free, zonulin, celiac, gluten-free diet, permeability, study, people, intestinal permeability, ngfd, groups


included in the study. Measurement of Serum Zonulin Levels Venous blood samples taken from the participants after In previous studies, it was emphasized that dietary records 8-12 hours of fasting should be used in the zonulin test. and nutritional history taken by a dietitian were the best Each blood sample was centrifuged for 15 minutes at methods for the evaluation of compliance to a GFD.10,11 In 1500 rpm at +4°C (Allegra X-I5R; Beckman Coulter Inc., this consideration, an experienced dietitian interviewed USA), and 1 mL of serum sample was separated and each patient for 30-45 minutes. During the dietitian stored at −80°C in Eppendorf tubes until zonulin analy- interview, 3-day dietary records and nutritional history of sis. The assays are based on the sandwich enzyme-linked patients were taken. In nutritional history, 7 open-ended immunosorbent assay (ELISA) method, and human zonu- lin ELISA kits (Cusabio) were used. All assays were per- formed according to the manufacturer’s kit protocol, Main Points and the tests were duplicated for each sample. 100 µL of each blood sample was added to each well of the plate • Compliance to a gluten-free diet decreases intestinal per- and incubated. The liquid in the wells was removed and meability in people with celiac disease. 100 µL of biotin-bound antibody was added to each well. • Zonulin levels are lower in people with celiac disease who After incubation, the liquid in the wells was removed, and are on a gluten-free diet. each well was washed with distilled water. Then, 100 µL • The nutritional quality of a gluten-free diet affects the nutritional status and anthropometric measurements of of Horseradish Peroxidase (HRP)-avidin enzyme was celiac patients. added and incubated at 37°C for 1 hour. The liquid was • The first effect of compliance to a gluten-free diet in terms removed and washed 5 times. 90 µL of tetramethylbenzi- of quality of life can be seen as an increase in gastrointes- dine substrate was added and incubated, and the reaction tinal health-related quality of life. was terminated by adding 50 µL of stopping solution to Öztekin et al. Gluten and Intestinal Permeability in People with CD Turk J Gastroenterol 2022; 33(12): 1043-1049 each well. Absorbance values were read in 450 nm spec- celiac patients. Patients were given the opportunity to trophotometer within 5 minutes. Zonulin concentrations not answer a question if they do not want to. were calculated in milliliters of
