Gluten and Intestinal Permeability in People with CD
KEYWORDS: gfd, patients, group, intestinal, diet, gluten-free, zonulin, celiac, gluten-free diet, permeability, study, people, intestinal permeability, ngfd, groups


spec- celiac patients. Patients were given the opportunity to trophotometer within 5 minutes. Zonulin concentrations not answer a question if they do not want to. were calculated in milliliters of total protein in nanograms (ng/mL). In addition, the total protein amount of serum Statistical Analysis samples was measured in milligrams (mg/mL) per millili- Statistical Package for the Social Sciences version 24.0 ter by using bicinchoninic acid kit (Pierce; Thermo Fisher program (IBM Corp.; Armonk, NY, USA) was used to ana- Scientific Inc.; Massachusetts, USA). Thus, the ratio of lyze the data. Normality of distribution was tested using zonulin amount to total protein amount in serum was cal- the Shapiro–Wilk test. The Mann–Whitney U non-para- culated (ng/mg). metric test was performed for data in the non-normal Determination of Nutritional Status in the normal distribution. The chi-Square test was used A 3-day dietary record was maintained for 3 non-consec- for categorical variables. Pearson and Spearman’s tests utive days. All foods and drinks, their contents, and brand were performed for correlation analysis. In all analyses, names were recorded. Food records were analyzed in the P < .05 was accepted as statistically significant. Nutrition Information Systems (BEBIS) program. The mean value of energy and nutrient intake was calculated RESULTS for each individual. These values were compared with ref- The study was completed with 44 celiac patients who erence values published in Dietary Guidelines for Turkey met the inclusion and exclusion criteria. The gluten-free (TUBER) in 2015.12 Anthropometric measurements of diet group consists of 17 celiac patients, and the NGFD each individual were taken. Height was measured with group consists of 27 patients. The allocation of partici- a stadiometer. Weight (kg) and body composition com- pants was shown in Figure 1. The mean age of the NGFD ponents were measured with a bioelectrical impedance group was 36.23 ± 14.07 years, while the GFD group was Korea). Measurements of body composition were deter- demographic characteristics of the groups. There was mined by following both standard protocols and manu- no significant difference between the groups in terms of facturer’s guidelines. Height and body composition were clinical and demographic characteristics (P > .05). Serum measured with bare feet. In order to increase the accu- zonulin levels, total protein amount, and serum zonulin racy of measurement, participants were requested to fast levels to total protein ratio were given in Table 3. Serum overnight (8-12 hours) and to remove metallic
