Gluten and Intestinal Permeability in People with CD
KEYWORDS: gfd, patients, group, intestinal, diet, gluten-free, zonulin, celiac, gluten-free diet, permeability, study, people, intestinal permeability, ngfd, groups


amount, and serum zonulin racy of measurement, participants were requested to fast levels to total protein ratio were given in Table 3. Serum overnight (8-12 hours) and to remove metallic accessories zonulin level and zonulin/total protein ratio were signifi- before body composition analysis. Body mass index (BMI) cantly higher in the NGFD group compared to the GFD was calculated as weight divided by squared height (kg/ group (P < .05). m2). Body mass index values were categorized accord- ing to the World Health Organization criteria as follows: There was no statistically significant difference between <18.5 kg/m2 as underweight, 18.5-24.9 kg/m2 as normal groups in terms of energy and macronutrient intake lev- weight, 25-29.9 kg/m2 as overweight, and ≥30 kg/m2 as els (P > .05). In both the groups, energy and carbohydrate obese.13 Waist and hip circumference were measured, and and dietary fiber intake were lower than TUBER refer- the ratio of waist circumference to hip circumference was ence values, while protein and fat intake was higher than calculated. the reference values. There was no significant difference between the groups in terms of certain micronutrient Determination of Celiac Disease Questionnaire Scores Celiac Disease Questionnaire was performed on all par- ticipants by face-to-face interview method. The ques- tionnaire has 4 subscales for the emotional, social, gastrointestinal, and anxiety states of the patients. Celiac Disease Questionnaire consists of 28 questions, and each question was evaluated with 7-point Likert scale so that the total score is between 0 and 196 points and subscale scores are between 0 and 49 points. The low score indi- Figure 1. Flowchart of inclusion of participants in the current study. cates the low health-related quality of life and the high GFD, compliant to gluten-free diet group; NGFD, non-compliant to score indicates the high health-related quality of life for gluten-free diet group. Turk J Gastroenterol 2022; 33(12): 1043-1049 Öztekin et al. Gluten and Intestinal Permeability in People with CD vitamin B and B zinc, iron, calcium, and magnesium 6 12, NGFD Group was lower than the reference values in both groups. The GFD Group n % n % P comparison of participants’ energy and nutrient intake Gender .218 was given in Table 4. Data on the anthropometric mea- surements of the groups were shown in Table 5. Body Female 5 29.4 13 48.1 mass index, waist circumference, and waist/hip ratio were Male 12 70.6 14 51.9 higher in NGFD group.
