Gluten and Intestinal Permeability in People with CD
KEYWORDS: gfd, patients, group, intestinal, diet, gluten-free, zonulin, celiac, gluten-free diet, permeability, study, people, intestinal permeability, ngfd, groups


poor food intake. Similarly, subscale scores and lower social and anxiety subscale it was found in our study that the energy and carbohy- scores were seen in the GFD group. These subscale scores drate and dietary fiber intake of both GFD and NGFD can be affected by life conditions. Therefore, the impact groups were lower than the reference values. It has been of a GFD on the quality of life may not be seen. stated in various studies that the intake of dietary fiber is inadequate in people with CD.20,21 One of the reasons Similarly, Deepak et al27 revealed that gastrointestinal for inadequate fiber intake is the low fiber in gluten-free symptoms decreased as the first effect of a GFD when products because gluten-free products generally contain celiac patients began to consume a GFD. The result of a potato, corn, and rice starch.22 Micronutrient composition systematic review and meta-analysis study indicated that manganese, and vitamin B of gluten-free products ana- of patients.28 A limitation of our study is that recall and lyzed by Larretxi et al7 was lower in gluten-free products self-report problems of dietary records. Additionally, the as compared to standard gluten-containing products. In study was a single-center trial with small sample size. a systematic review and meta-analysis study published in 2019, insufficient iron, zinc, vitamin D, B , and folate lev- In conclusion, adherence to a GFD is still challenging els were found in celiac patients even if patients adhere to for people with CD. A considerable number of patients a GFD.23 Therefore, the composition of GFD has a pivotal consume gluten in their diet. However, intake of glu- role in the nutritional status of patients. The mean value of ten increases zonulin levels and intestinal permeability. BMI in both GFD and NGFD groups was found in the nor- It should be noted that a GFD is the only treatment for mal range in our study. However, Ukkola et al24 observed CD. This study indicated whether intestinal disruption low BMI in adult patients who do not adhere to a GFD. and permeability can be reversed in people with CD who On the other hand, changes can be seen in the nutri- adhere to a GFD. Moreover, the nutritional composition tional status of patients. A study published by Kabbani of the GFD should be adequate and balanced to prevent et al25 showed that after adherence to a GFD, the
