Pipeline Flex embolisation device with Shield Technology for the treatment of complex
KEYWORDS: pipeline, patients, coiling, cost, stent-assisted, stent-assisted coiling, committee, aneurysms, procedure, sponsor, used, use, costs, occlusion, total


intracranial aneurysms 1 Recommendations 1.1 The case for adopting the Pipeline Flex embolisation device with Shield Technology in the NHS is supported by the current evidence when it is used in patients with complex giant or large intracranial aneurysms which are unsuitable for surgery and being considered for stenting, and where large numbers of coils would be needed during stent-assisted coiling. 1.2 The Pipeline Flex embolisation device with Shield Technology is estimated to be cost saving when compared with stent-assisted coiling, in patients with complex giant or large intracranial aneurysms when the number of Pipeline embolisation devices inserted does not exceed 2, and when treatment would otherwise require the use of 34 or more coils combined with 1 stent for stent-assisted coiling. If 2 Pipeline embolisation devices are used the total procedure cost is estimated as £37,625 compared with £38,320 for the use of 34 coils for stent-assisted coiling (a saving of £695 using Pipeline embolisation device). [2019] 1.3 Clinicians should submit details of all patients being treated with the Pipeline Flex embolisation device with Shield Technology to the UK Neurointerventional Radiology Group audit database, to increase the evidence base and guide future use of this technology. 2 The technology Description of the technology 2.1 The Pipeline Flex embolisation device with Shield Technology ('Pipeline'; Medtronic) is a self-expanding blood flow diverter that is placed across the neck of an intracranial aneurysm. While blood flow through the parent vessel is maintained via the device, flow within the aneurysm sac is disrupted, leading to stagnation and eventual thrombosis formation. Pipeline provides a scaffold for endothelial growth leading to the formation of a biological seal and exclusion of the aneurysm from the circulation. [2019] 2.2 Pipeline is a braided, cobalt chromium and platinum stent-like device which is loaded into and delivered via a microcatheter. It is manufactured in lengths of 10 mm to 35 mm and is available in different diameters from 2.5 mm to 5 mm (in 0.25 mm increments). Multiple devices can be used within each other and/or in sequence to increase the overall length of the construct or to increase the metal surface coverage within an aneurysm. 2.3 Pipeline is indicated for use in patients with unruptured, complex intracranial aneurysms, specifically large and giant, wide-necked and fusiform aneurysms. This is the group of patients covered by this guidance. Pipeline may also be used in patients whose aneurysms are unsuitable for
