Pipeline Flex embolisation device with Shield Technology for the treatment of complex
KEYWORDS: pipeline, patients, coiling, cost, stent-assisted, stent-assisted coiling, committee, aneurysms, procedure, sponsor, used, use, costs, occlusion, total


specifically large and giant, wide-necked and fusiform aneurysms. This is the group of patients covered by this guidance. Pipeline may also be used in patients whose aneurysms are unsuitable for standard coiling and/or stenting and for neurosurgical treatment; and in patients for whom previous coiling/ clipping procedures have failed. 2.4 The cost of Pipeline stated in the sponsor's submission is £10,171. These costs have been updated in the latest revision of the cost model to £10,450. [2019] 2.5 The claimed benefits of Pipeline in the case for adoption presented by the sponsor are: • A higher rate of complete, permanent occlusion of large/giant intracranial aneurysms compared with coiling and stent-assisted coiling, leading to reduced rates of retreatment and a decreased risk of haemorrhage. • Increased access to treatment for patients with complex intracranial aneurysms. Pipeline offers a new option for treating patients with complex intracranial aneurysms which are not suitable for stent-assisted coiling or surgery, and patients for whom previous interventions have failed. • Patients may experience a resolution of neurological symptoms as a result of relieving pressure on surrounding areas of the brain caused by the mass effect of aneurysms. • Increased long-term vessel patency, preserving blood flow to distal tissues supplied by the aneurysmal artery. • The high rate of complete, permanent occlusion of the target aneurysm with the possibility of reduced need for retreatment and an overall decrease in use of NHS resources. Current management 2.6 Current options for managing complex intracranial aneurysms include coiling, often with concomitant use of stent placement (stent-assisted coiling), neurosurgical clipping requiring craniotomy (with or without bypass procedures), parent vessel occlusion (by open neurosurgery or by endovascular means) and conservative management. 3 Clinical evidence Summary of clinical evidence 3.1 Full details of all clinical outcomes considered by the committee are available in the assessment report overview. 3.2 The key clinical outcomes for Pipeline presented in the decision problem are: • successful device deployment • successful occlusion of the aneurysm, with or without preservation of flow through the parent vessel • size of the aneurysm and its contained thrombus mass • resolution of symptoms (including headache, diplopia, nystagmus or other neurological dysfunction), relief of pain and quality of life outcomes • resource use outcomes (for example, re-admission rates, repeat interventions and duration of hospital stay) • stroke related to device insertion (any cause, but particularly due to vessel occlusion or bleeding) • delayed
