Pipeline Flex embolisation device with Shield Technology for the treatment of complex
KEYWORDS: pipeline, patients, coiling, cost, stent-assisted, stent-assisted coiling, committee, aneurysms, procedure, sponsor, used, use, costs, occlusion, total


caused by the mass effect of aneurysms, or a high risk of future bleeding, whose aneurysms are unsuitable for either stent- assisted coiling or surgical treatment and for whom parent vessel occlusion would result in stroke or death. 3.17 The committee considered that data from the studies described above provided evidence for the efficacy of Pipeline in most patients. In the context of the high risks posed to patients by untreated complex large or giant aneurysms the safety profile was judged to be acceptable. 3.18 The committee noted that the effect of the device on symptoms or on the risk of bleeding is subject to some delay. 3.19 The committee recognised that patient selection for treatment either by Pipeline or by comparator interventions is complex, and needs to be carried out by an experienced multidisciplinary team. 3.20 The committee noted that most of the clinical evidence came from the United States, where patient selection for different types of endovascular interventions may differ from the UK, in terms of the treatments selected for intracranial aneurysms based on their size and shape. 3.21 The committee noted that the clinical evidence comparing the efficacy of Pipeline with other interventions was very limited. This made evaluation difficult. The committee recognised the difficulties in conducting comparative studies, particularly randomised controlled trials, for large and giant complex intracranial aneurysms. 3.22 The committee noted that both new studies and an extension of the PUFS study are in progress. 3.23 The committee considered that data collection using a register would be an important practical way of developing evidence to guide future practice, in addition to the ongoing studies. 4 NHS considerations System impact 4.1 No secondary treatments were required at 1-year follow-up among patients in the PUFS study (FDA 2011). Need for retreatment was not reported in the PITA study (Nelson et al. 2011). Need for retreatment was not reported in the other 14 studies included in the external assessment centre's assessment report. Committee considerations 4.2 The committee noted that little evidence was available on the need for retreatment following treatment with Pipeline. 4.3 The committee recognised that there are a small number of patients for whom Pipeline offers the only possible means of treatment (an estimated 60 patients per year in the UK). For these patients the potential benefits offered by Pipeline are important, because they are at high risk of aneurysm rupture and because their intracranial
