Pipeline Flex embolisation device with Shield Technology for the treatment of complex
KEYWORDS: pipeline, patients, coiling, cost, stent-assisted, stent-assisted coiling, committee, aneurysms, procedure, sponsor, used, use, costs, occlusion, total


patients per year in the UK). For these patients the potential benefits offered by Pipeline are important, because they are at high risk of aneurysm rupture and because their intracranial aneurysms are unsuitable for other treatments. 5 Cost considerations Cost evidence 5.1 The sponsor submitted a de novo cost analysis for Pipeline for the treatment of complex intracranial aneurysms. Full details of all cost evidence and modelling considered by the committee are available in the assessment report overview. 5.2 The sponsor presented a decision tree (for the peri-procedural period) followed by a Markov model (for long-term outcomes) to estimate the costs and consequences associated with Pipeline against 5 comparator interventions: stent-assisted coiling, neurosurgical clipping, endovascular parent vessel occlusion, neurosurgical parent vessel occlusion and conservative management. The patient population included those with unruptured large or giant intracranial aneurysms as outlined in the scope, but did not include fusiform or wide-necked aneurysms. 5.3 The decision-tree structure separated patients who had survived initial treatment, based on a mortality rate for the procedure, into 1 of 3 occlusion categories (complete occlusion, residual neck and residual aneurysm). For each occlusion category, patients were tracked through 5 possible health states: 'no complications', 'new non-fatal rupture', 'post rupture', 'fatal rupture' and 'dead (all cause)'. It was assumed that transition probabilities for the health states would be constant over time. The time horizon of the base-case analysis was 10 years. 5.4 An NHS and personal social services perspective was used. The cost analysis included the costs associated with the duration of the procedure, staff time (surgeon, radiologist, nurse, anaesthetist), hospital costs (neurology operating or neurosurgical operating room, and recovery ward), imaging (angiography, fluoroscopy or MRI), consumables, drugs; and for conservative management only, long-term monitoring with annual MRI. The cost associated with stroke was assumed to be representative of the cost of rupture. Costs applied to each type of retreatment were assumed to be the same as the full cost if that treatment had been used initially. 5.5 The costs and consequences associated with adverse events were not included in the base-case analysis because the sponsor considered there to be insufficient reliable data for each treatment group. However, the sponsor did include costs associated with mortality at 31 days, rupture and retreatment. 5.6 In the base case the number of Pipeline embolisation devices used was 1.46, based on data submitted to the sponsor from use of the device in
