Pipeline Flex embolisation device with Shield Technology for the treatment of complex
KEYWORDS: pipeline, patients, coiling, cost, stent-assisted, stent-assisted coiling, committee, aneurysms, procedure, sponsor, used, use, costs, occlusion, total


stent-assisted coiling from £36,137 to £35,725, while the total procedure cost for Pipeline (with 2 devices) remained at £30,354. 5.15 The sponsor's economic model assumed different drug use for patients having stent-assisted coiling and those having Pipeline (18,000 mg aspirin and 6,750 mg clopidogrel compared with 25,000 mg aspirin and 13,500 mg clopidogrel respectively). The expert advisers stated that in clinical practice drug use in the 2 groups is likely to be equal. The external assessment centre noted that in the sponsor's economic model drug use was calculated from 2 non-comparative studies, but that few published data are available on clinical use. The external assessment centre stated that the low cost of these drugs means that relatively small differences in drug use are unlikely to have a significant impact on the overall procedure costs for stent-assisted coiling and Pipeline. In the absence of a systematic review the external assessment centre stated that the drug costs used in the model were appropriate. 5.16 In its exploratory analysis the external assessment centre identified 2 calculation errors in the sponsor's economic model, both relating to the number of days of drug therapy. The external assessment centre stated that correcting these calculation errors made only a very small difference in the total procedure costs for both Pipeline and stent-assisted coiling, reducing them from £30,354 to £30,346 and £35,725 to £35,724 respectively. 5.17 In the sponsor's economic model, the average duration of the procedure (in hours) and therefore the use of additional endovascular equipment were different for stent-assisted coiling and insertion of Pipeline. The expert advisers stated that the procedures are likely to take the same amount of time in clinical practice. The external assessment centre noted that the time taken for stent-assisted coiling was derived from 1 non-comparative study and the time for inserting Pipeline from another. However the external assessment centre was not able to judge which study was the best source for duration of procedure and no systematic review was carried out. The external assessment centre stated that because both studies were appropriately and accurately used in the model no changes were justified with regard to procedure time for stent-assisted coiling or Pipeline. The external assessment centre also noted that the sponsor included the use of additional endovascular equipment in the model based on the duration of procedure, but provided no justification for why it was included only for stent- assisted coiling
