Pipeline Flex embolisation device with Shield Technology for the treatment of complex
KEYWORDS: pipeline, patients, coiling, cost, stent-assisted, stent-assisted coiling, committee, aneurysms, procedure, sponsor, used, use, costs, occlusion, total


included the use of additional endovascular equipment in the model based on the duration of procedure, but provided no justification for why it was included only for stent- assisted coiling and not for Pipeline or the other comparators. Furthermore, there was no justification for why the cost of additional equipment was only included in calculating the retreatment cost but not the cost of the initial procedure. The exploratory analyses demonstrated that removing the costs of additional endovascular equipment from the model reduced the total procedure cost of stent-assisted coiling from £35,724 to £35,693 while the total procedure cost for Pipeline remained at £30,346. Committee considerations 5.18 The committee considered the cost consequences of using Pipeline against 5 comparators – stent-assisted coiling, neurosurgical clipping, endovascular parent vessel occlusion, neurosurgical parent vessel occlusion and conservative management. 5.19 The committee noted that in UK clinical practice, patients who might currently be considered for Pipeline would be those for whom surgery would not be possible and for whom stent-assisted coiling would be the only other potential intervention. It therefore considered that comparison of costs with those for stent-assisted coiling was of particular relevance. The committee noted that for this cost comparison, the main drivers of cost were the numbers of Pipeline embolisation devices used and the numbers of coils used during stent-assisted coiling. The committee was given advice from the experts about whether 1 or 2 Pipeline embolisation devices should be used as the most typical number on which to base its judgements about cost. It therefore considered the cost modelling for a range of scenarios – with different numbers of Pipeline embolisation devices. During its discussions the committee was informed both by expert advisers and by data from the sponsor that 2 Pipeline embolisation devices were likely to be needed for most patients treated in the UK for complex giant or large aneurysms. 5.20 There was considerable uncertainty about the number of coils likely to be used during stent-assisted coiling. The committee was advised that 40 coils was probably an overestimate of the number needed for most complex aneurysms and there were suggestions that about 25 to 30 coils might be more typical of the number needed for aneurysms being considered for treatment using Pipeline. The committee recognised that it is not possible to estimate accurately the number of coils which will be required to treat an aneurysm during stent-assisted coiling, but it
