Pipeline Flex embolisation device with Shield Technology for the treatment of complex
KEYWORDS: pipeline, patients, coiling, cost, stent-assisted, stent-assisted coiling, committee, aneurysms, procedure, sponsor, used, use, costs, occlusion, total


using Pipeline. The committee recognised that it is not possible to estimate accurately the number of coils which will be required to treat an aneurysm during stent-assisted coiling, but it was advised by experts that the number can usually be predicted with an accuracy of plus or minus 6 coils. 5.21 The committee discussed a number of parameters in the sponsor's economic model based on comments received during public consultation. As described in sections 5.12 to 5.17, these included: the cost of microcatheters used for stent- assisted coiling; balloon use in UK practice during stent-assisted coiling; drug costs for patients having Pipeline and those having stent-assisted coiling; the duration of the procedure and the use of additional endovascular equipment in stent-assisted coiling. These parameters were examined in additional analyses by the external assessment centre. 5.22 The committee considered that the costs for microcatheters used for stent- assisted coiling in the sponsor's base-case analysis were overestimated. It agreed with the views of the expert advisers that it was reasonable to use the average cost of the microcatheters most commonly used in UK clinical practice. This reduced the total procedure cost for stent-assisted coiling from £37,451 to £36,137. 5.23 Based on expert advice, the committee accepted that the inclusion of balloon use during stent-assisted coiling in the sponsor's base-case analysis was inappropriate and that it was reasonable to adjust this cost to zero. This reduced the total procedure cost for stent-assisted coiling from £36,137 to £35,725, while the total procedure cost for Pipeline remained at £30,354. 5.24 The committee considered the drug costs presented in the sponsor's base-case analysis. It noted the external assessment centre's view that few published data are available on clinical use and that the low cost of these drugs and the difference in drug use would not be likely to have any significant impact on the overall procedure costs for either stent-assisted coiling or Pipeline. The committee agreed that the drug cost in the sponsor's base-case analysis was appropriate 5.25 The committee considered the average duration of the procedure presented in the sponsor's base-case analysis. It noted the external assessment centre's view that both studies were appropriately and accurately used in the model and that therefore no changes were justified for the average duration of the procedure for stent-assisted coiling or inserting Pipeline. The committee agreed that the average duration of the procedure presented in the sponsor's base-case
