Pipeline Flex embolisation device with Shield Technology for the treatment of complex
KEYWORDS: pipeline, patients, coiling, cost, stent-assisted, stent-assisted coiling, committee, aneurysms, procedure, sponsor, used, use, costs, occlusion, total


were justified for the average duration of the procedure for stent-assisted coiling or inserting Pipeline. The committee agreed that the average duration of the procedure presented in the sponsor's base-case analysis was appropriate. 5.26 The committee was advised by the experts that it was not appropriate to include the cost for additional endovascular equipment for stent-assisted coiling only. This was because the cost of endovascular equipment was likely to be the same for Pipeline compared with stent-assisted coiling. The committee accepted the views of the expert advisers that removing this cost from the model for stent- assisted coiling was appropriate. This reduced the total procedure cost for stent- assisted coiling from £35,724 (this cost takes account of the drug cost calculation errors referred to in section 5.16) to £35,693 while the total procedure cost for Pipeline remained at £30,346. 5.27 With these issues in mind, the committee considered a graph showing the costs of Pipeline and of stent-assisted coiling using different numbers of Pipeline embolisation devices and coils. This indicated that the total cost of treatment using 2 Pipeline embolisation devices is greater than that of stent-assisted coiling (using 1 stent) if 31 coils or fewer are used, but Pipeline is less costly if 32 or more coils are needed. The cost saving associated with Pipeline compared with stent-assisted coiling with 32 coils was estimated to be £492 (total costs of £30,346 and £30,838 respectively). 5.28 The committee noted that using 2 Pipeline embolisation devices would incur a higher total treatment cost than neurosurgical clipping, endovascular parent vessel occlusion, neurosurgical parent vessel occlusion or conservative management for patients in whom those other options were feasible. 5.29 For the guidance review, the external assessment centre revised the model to reflect updated costs. The main parameter changes were costs associated with staff, hospital imaging equipment, drugs, rupture and adverse event costs. Further details of the revised model are in the revised model summary. [2019] 6 Conclusions 6.1 The committee concluded that current evidence supports the case for adoption of Pipeline when it is used in highly selected patients with complex giant or large intracranial aneurysms which are unsuitable for surgery and being considered for stenting, when the number of Pipeline embolisation devices does not exceed 2 and when 32 or more coils and 1 stent would be needed during stent-assisted coiling. For these patients use of Pipeline appears efficacious and is less
