Gastroenterología y Hepatología 48 (2025) 502208
KEYWORDS: los, pacientes, que, los pacientes, una, por, del, tips, tratamiento, riesgo, cirrosis, para, portal, ascitis, como


S.L.U. y ARÁN EDICIONES, S.L. en nombre de Sociedad Espan˜ola de Patolog´ıa Digestiva. Este es un art´ıculo Open Access bajo la CC BY-NC-ND licencia ( A. Albillos, R. Ban˜ares and V. Hernández-Gea la prevención del primer episodio de descompensación y de su recurrencia, el tratamiento de la hemorragia aguda por varices y de otras complicaciones de la hipertensión portal, las indicaciones del uso del TIPS y, por último, el diagnóstico y el tratamiento de las enfermedades vasculares del hígado. © 2024 Los Autores. Publicado por Elsevier Espan˜a S.L.U. y ARÁN EDICIONES, S.L. en nombre de Sociedad Espan˜ola de Patolog´ıa Digestiva. Este es un art´ıculo Open Access bajo la CC BY-NC-ND licencia ( KEYWORDS Portal hypertension; Cirrhosis; Transient elastography; Liver stiffness; Gastroesophageal varices; Ascites; TIPS; portal Portal vein thrombosis; Budd-Chiari hypertension: recommendations for diagnosis and treatment. Consensus document sponsored by the Spanish Association for the Study of the Liver (AEEH) and the Biomedical Research Network Centre for Liver and Digestive Diseases (CIBERehd) Abstract Portal hypertension is a hemodynamic abnormality that complicates the course of cirrhosis, as well as other diseases that affect the portal venous circulation. The development of portal hypertension compromises prognosis, especially when it rises above a certain threshold known as clinically significant portal hypertension (CSPH). In the consensus conference on Portal Hypertension promoted by the Spanish Association for the Study of the Liver and the Hepatic and Digestive diseases area of the Biomedical Research Networking Center (CIBERehd), different aspects of the diagnosis and treatment of portal hypertension caused by cirrhosis or other disea- ses were discussed. The outcome of this discussion was a set of recommendations that achieved varying degrees of consensus among panelists and are reflected in this consensus document. The six areas under discussion were: the relevance of CSPH and the non-invasive methods used for its diagnosis and that of cirrhosis, the prevention of the first episode of decompensation and its recurrence, the treatment of acute variceal bleeding and other complications of portal hypertension, the indications for the use of TIPS, and finally, the diagnosis and treatment of liver vascular diseases. © 2024 The Author(s). Published by Elsevier Espan˜a S.L.U. and ARÁN EDICIONES, S.L. on behalf of Sociedad Espan˜ola de Patolog´ıa Digestiva. This is an open access article under the CC BY-NC-ND license ( SESIÓN 1. Diagnóstico de cirrosis e hipertensión portal (tabla 1) 1. Gradiente de presión venosa hepática La medición del gradiente de presión
