www.nature.com/scientificreports
KEYWORDS: oxygen, samples, ischemia, luminal, bowel, intraluminal, small, treated, centre, group, flow, catheter, treatment, intestinal, control


www.nature.com/scientificreports OPEN Intraluminal oxygen can keep small bowel mucosa intact in a segmental ischemia model Guido Trentadue 1,13*, Peter B. F. Mensink 2,13, Claudius Kruse 3,8, Bernward Reszel 9,11, Gursah Kats‑Ugurlu 4, Tjasso Blokzijl 5, Jan Willem Haveman 6, Klaas Nico Faber 1,5, Gerard Dijkstra 1, Uvo M. Hölscher 7, Jeroen J. Kolkman 2 & Gisbert Knichwitz 3,10 Intestinal preservation for transplantation is accompanied by hypoperfusion with long periods of ischemia with total blood cessation and absolute withdrawal of oxygen leading to structural damage. The application of intraluminal oxygen has been successfully tested in small‑animal series during storage and transport of the organ but have been so far clinically unrelatable. In this study, we tested whether a simple and clinically approachable method of intraluminal oxygen application could prevent ischemic damage in a large animal model, during warm ischemia time. We utilised a local no‑flow ischemia model of the small intestine in pigs. A low‑flow and high‑pressure intraluminal oxygen deliverance system was applied in 6 pigs and 6 pigs served as a control group. Mucosal histopathology, hypoxia and barrier markers were evaluated after two hours of no‑flow conditions, in both treatment and sham groups, and in healthy tissue. Macro‑ and microscopically, the luminal oxygen delivered treatment group showed preserved small bowel’s appearance, viability, and mucosal integrity. A gradual deterioration of histopathology and barrier markers and increase in hypoxia‑inducible factor 1‑α expression towards the sites most distant from the oxygen application was observed. Intraluminal low‑flow, high oxygen delivery can preserve the intestinal mucosa during total ischemia of the small intestine. This finding can be incorporated in methods to overcome small bowel ischemia and improve intestinal preservation for transplantation. Keywords Small intestine, Animal disease models, Ischemia, Intestinal Mucosa, Oxygen, Preservation, Intestinal transplantation Abbreviations CIT C old ischemia time HIF1-α Hypoxia-inducible factor 1-α IRI I schemia–reperfusion injury ITx I ntestinal transplant(ation) PEEP Positive end-expiratory pressure WIT Warm ischemia time Parts of this manuscript were presented as an oral presentation in the XIV International Small Bowel Transplant Symposium in 2015 in Buenos Aires, Argentina. Hanzeplein 1, 9713GZ Groningen, The Netherlands. 2Department of Internal Medicine and Gastroenterology, Evaluation and Research, Lörrach, Germany. 10Present address: Dreifaltigkeits-Krankenhaus Cologne, Klinik Für Anästhesiologie, Intensivmedizin Und Schmerztherapie, Cologne, Germany. 11Berufliche Fortbildungszentren der Bayerischen Wirtschaft (bfz) gGmbH, München, Germany. 13These authors contributed equally: Guido Trentadue and Peter B. F. Mensink. *email: Scientific Reports | (2024) 14:13732 | 1 Vol.:(0123456789) www.nature.com/scientificreports/ Of the
