www.nature.com/scientificreports
KEYWORDS: oxygen, samples, ischemia, luminal, bowel, intraluminal, small, treated, centre, group, flow, catheter, treatment, intestinal, control


der Bayerischen Wirtschaft (bfz) gGmbH, München, Germany. 13These authors contributed equally: Guido Trentadue and Peter B. F. Mensink. *email: Scientific Reports | (2024) 14:13732 | 1 Vol.:(0123456789) www.nature.com/scientificreports/ Of the abdominal organs, the intestine is the most sensitive for ischemia due to the high oxygen consumption of its mucosa, and the most immunogenic due to its intrinsic contamination and large amount of immune-cell population in the body1. Ischemia of the bowel will eventually drive multiple organ failure2. Organ preservation in intestinal transplantation (ITx) is unavoidable and leads to ischemia reperfusion injury which eventually results in worse graft survival. During the donor procedure there is a slow decrease in the temperature of the organs starting with the vascular flush of cold preservation s olution3. The cold-ischemia time (CIT), which begins at this point, consists of the period of cold storage and graft inspection before implan- tation. A period of warm-ischemia time (WIT) exists before restoration of the blood flow in the recipient and lasts an average of 47 (± 15) minutes in our Dutch centre, and an average of 45 (± 11) in several reports from the l iterature4–7. Ischemia generates cell swelling, adenosine triphosphate depletion and accumulation of reactive oxygen s pecies8. Preservation injury and ischemia–reperfusion injury (IRI) are the results of the damage that the (intes- tinal) graft suffers during and after transplantation9. The destruction of the epithelial lining serves as passage for commensal bacteria to translocate to the lamina propria. These occurrences will eventually determine the early and late outcomes of the treatment9–11. The ischemic state produced by WIT is unavoidable, and its effects are as grave, if not worse, than those of CIT, mainly because of the metabolic rates occurring at normothermia4,12. Standard transplant procedures and current research do not focus either on improvement of conditions during WIT, or on the most effective way to reach the intestine: its lumen. Furthermore, the available research models problems is to preserve the intestine during ischemia with luminal treatments. This is particularly advantageous in ITx, when the organ is easily accessible, and ischemia is a programmed occurrence. In this study, we modi- fied a large-animal model of local no-flow ischemia in a small intestine segment of clinically relevant length and size and used a low-flow and high-pressure intraluminal oxygen delivery system. The goal of the study was to address three major points with these experiments: (1) overcoming temporary warm ischemia
