www.nature.com/scientificreports
KEYWORDS: oxygen, samples, ischemia, luminal, bowel, intraluminal, small, treated, centre, group, flow, catheter, treatment, intestinal, control


size and used a low-flow and high-pressure intraluminal oxygen delivery system. The goal of the study was to address three major points with these experiments: (1) overcoming temporary warm ischemia and the con- sequent mucosal damage by (2) intraluminal oxygenation in (3) a large animal model that could be clinically translatable by use of appropriately-sized tools for human bowels. Materials and methods Animal experiments were performed in the University of Muenster in compliance with the institutional review research. Data acquisition from the gathered samples was performed both in the University of Muenster and the University Medical Center Groningen. There are additional materials and methods described in the Supplemen- tary Information section including gene expression studies and further analyses on immunohistochemistry. The study is reported in accordance with ARRIVE guidelines. Animal preparation The model herewith described was adapted from an existent, successful, large pig model of ischemia previ- ously described by this group13–15. Twelve 1-year-old female domestic pigs were fed on a standard diet and fasted overnight and randomised into the different groups. Premedication consisted of intramuscular 5 mg/kg ketamine, 3 mg/kg azaperone and 0.02 mg/kg atropine. Anaesthesia was induced using thiopentone 5–6 mg/ kg, administered through an ear vein. The pigs were intubated and ventilated using the closed system ventilator Physioflex (Draeger, Lübeck, Germany) with 50% oxygen in air and a tidal volume of 10 mL/kg. The respiratory rate was set and, if required, adjusted to maintain normocarbia. Anaesthesia was maintained throughout the experiment applying 1.8 ± 0.07% isoflurane. An arterial catheter was inserted into the right carotid artery, and a thermodilution pulmonary artery catheter was inserted via the right jugular vein. A midline laparotomy was performed, and 100 cm of the small bowel were chosen, starting 50 cm behind the ligament of Treitz. From this section, a segment of 70 cm was selected, and opened on both ends to place plastic tubes with a length of 2 cm and a diameter of 1 cm in the lumen on either side to allow free passage of luminal gases during outer-mural ligation of wall vessels (Fig. 1). These mesenteric ligatures were placed around the tubes to block the intramural collateral network. Four catheters were introduced though the proximal tube with their tips at the middle of the experimental segment (“centre” from here on). The proximal opening was closed after insertion of the catheters. The mesenteric vessels were also ligated at 10
