www.nature.com/scientificreports
KEYWORDS: oxygen, samples, ischemia, luminal, bowel, intraluminal, small, treated, centre, group, flow, catheter, treatment, intestinal, control


tips at the middle of the experimental segment (“centre” from here on). The proximal opening was closed after insertion of the catheters. The mesenteric vessels were also ligated at 10 cm intervals. Complete cessation of blood flow of the selected bowel segment could be achieved with closure of these ligatures. Monitoring materials The catheters placed in the lumen were an oxygen supply tube with 9 separate inner catheters to ensure per- manent low volume, high pressure flow and avoid clogging, no balloon at the end, connected to the central oxygen supply (Fig. 1, “O” 8 + 1-lm silicone “manometry” catheter, 13 Fr; Medical Measurement Systems BV, Enschede, The Netherlands); an O measurement catheter (Fig. 1 “mO” O2C catheter, 100 cm length, 13 Fr; 2 2 LEA Medizintechnik GmbH, Giessen, Germany); a pressure sensor (Fig. 1 “P” 14 Fr; Becton Dickinson GmbH, Heidelberg, Germany); and a standard infusion catheter (Fig. 1 “S” Baxter Germany GmbH, Unterschleißheim, Germany) connected to a positive end-expiratory pressure (PEEP)-valve system which was set on 2 kPa, to avoid intraluminal overpressure. A fibreoptic sensor (Fig. 1 “f”) for PCO and pH measurement (Paratrend 7®; Biomedical Sensors, Wycombe, United Kingdom) was introduced near the centre of the experimental section. Treatment and sample and data collection After 30 min, ischemia was induced by tightening the mesenteric ligatures (t = 0). In the treatment group (n = 6) oxygen therapy was started at t = 0. The oxygen therapy consisted of 100% oxygen delivered at low-flow (5 ml/ Scientific Reports | (2024) 14:13732 | 2 Vol:.(1234567890) www.nature.com/scientificreports/ Figure 1. Schematic drawing of the small bowel segmental ischemia model. Left: (a) Small bowel lumen— proximal end; (b) intraluminal tubes; (c) ligatures; (d) mesenteric blood vessels, ligated at distal branches; (e) intraluminal catheter (oxygen delivery at the tip)—distal end; (f) fibre-optic sensor for O , PCO and pH 2 2 measurements; (g) histology sampling points, in centimetres: centre (0), − 10 and + 10 cm, − 20 and + 20 cm, − 30 and + 30 cm, and measurements outside the ischemic area, − 60 and + 60 cm. Right, zoomed view of the (distal) end to show catheters: (b) plastic tube to allow free passage of luminal gases; (e) O -supplying tube, containing an infusion catheter (S) connected to a positive end-expiratory pressure (PEEP)-valve system, an O - measurement catheter ( mO), the oxygen supply tube with inner catheters ( O),
