www.nature.com/scientificreports
KEYWORDS: oxygen, samples, ischemia, luminal, bowel, intraluminal, small, treated, centre, group, flow, catheter, treatment, intestinal, control


tube, containing an infusion catheter (S) connected to a positive end-expiratory pressure (PEEP)-valve system, an O - measurement catheter ( mO), the oxygen supply tube with inner catheters ( O), and a pressure-sensor catheter 2 2 (P). min) and high-pressure (2 bar) for 120 min, more than doubling the average WIT of our transplant centre. The sham group (n = 6) did not receive treatment after the ligation. The abdomen was closed immediately after t = 0. During the experiment, the body temperature was maintained at 38 ± 1 °C. Heart rate, mean arterial pres- sure, temperature and intraluminal PCO, P O and pH were measured continuously. The pulmonary capillary 2 2 wedge pressure was measured every 30 min, simultaneously with blood gas analysis (pH, p CO and PO) and 2 2 haemoglobin concentration from arterial blood samples (ABL 520 blood gas analyser, Radiometer Copenhagen, Copenhagen, Denmark). Lactate was measured from peripheral venous blood. After 120 min (t = 120) the abdo- men was re-opened. Samples for histological examination were taken from two areas at the centre of the small intestine segment, and 10, 20, and 30 cm, both proximal and distal, from that location. Samples were taken also outside the ischemic area, 100 cm proximal and distal from the centre, and considered control tissue (Fig. 1, left). Histology The specimens were immediately fixed in 4% formaldehyde-buffered solution. They were embedded in paraffin, cut into 4 µm-thick slices, and stained with haematoxylin and eosin for morphometric analysis. One investiga- tor, blinded, independently examined the specimens, using scanned, high-resolution files of at least two slides per sample (× 400; Hamamatsu C9600-12 slide scanner and NDP.scan 2 software for viewing and measuring; Hamamatsu Photonics, Japan). The morphological changes in the mucosa were categorised according to the 8-grade scale introduced by Chiu et al.16,17 and further developed by Park et al.18 (Chiu/Park score, see Supple- mentary Table S1). To account for the patchy nature of ischemic lesions, scores were taken from twenty randomly selected high-power fields (400x) per sample. Additionally, the percentage of healthy surface epithelium of the full sample present on each slide (Chiu/Park score ≥ 3) and, villous height, crypt depth and villous to crypt ratio (VCR) were calculated19. Immunohistochemistry Glass slides with 4 µm-thick tissue samples were pre-treated for epitope retrieval (citrate, pH 6). Subsequently, samples were blocked and incubated with the primary antibody for one hour. The primary antibodies
