www.nature.com/scientificreports
KEYWORDS: oxygen, samples, ischemia, luminal, bowel, intraluminal, small, treated, centre, group, flow, catheter, treatment, intestinal, control


slides with 4 µm-thick tissue samples were pre-treated for epitope retrieval (citrate, pH 6). Subsequently, samples were blocked and incubated with the primary antibody for one hour. The primary antibodies were anti- hypoxia-inducible factor-1-alpha (HIF-1α, 1:200 dilution, [mgc3] ab16066) and anti-villin-1 (1:100, ab52102) from Abcam (Cambridge, London, United Kingdom). Rabbit anti-mouse immunoglobulin and goat anti-rabbit immunoglobulin, both peroxidase-labelled (1:50, Dako, Agilent, Santa Clara, CA, USA), were each incubated for 30 min as secondary and tertiary antibodies. 3,3′-diaminobenzidine was used as substrate. Statistics Data analysis was performed in blind fashion. Scientific Reports | (2024) 14:13732 | 3 Vol.:(0123456789) www.nature.com/scientificreports/ The results of the luminal gas measurements and systemic haemodynamic values, acid–base variables and biochemical markers are presented as mean ± SD. To find significant changes between measurements of different The distribution of the individual Chiu/Park scores for the control samples were tested for normality with the Kolmogorov–Smirnov and Shapiro-Wilks tests. To check for differences between all control segments, their individual scores underwent Kruskal–Wallis and Dunn’s tests. Similarly, to check for differences between pairs of central segments, a Mann–Whitney test was performed. Consequently, the mean scores of the 20 microscopic fields of each individual animal were used for statistical analyses thereafter. Results are presented as median and range (minimum–maximum), evaluated using a nested one-way ANOVA and Tukey´s multiple comparisons tests (p < 0.05 was considered significant). The villous height, crypt depth and VCR are presented as median and interquartile range (25–75%) and was evaluated with Kruskal–Wallis and corrected for multiple comparisons with Dunn’s test. Data analyses and statistical tests were performed using Excel (Microsoft, Redmond, WA, United States), GraphPad Prism 8.0 (GraphPad Software, Inc., La Joya, CA, United States) respectively. Results Acid–base variables and biochemical markers between sham and treatment group were similar No difference in pre-manipulation body weight between both groups was found (sham, 73.5 kg, range 72–79 and treatment, 74.5 kg, range 73–79). While the heart rate remained equal throughout the experiment, mean arterial pressure increased over time on the treated subjects (p = 0.006, Supplementary Figure S1). The arterial pH, p CO , p O , haemoglobin, glucose, Na+, and Cl− did not differ between groups and remained stable. The 2 2 values of Ca2+, HCO increased over time in the untreated group, as did arterial K+ levels in both groups (Sup- plementary Table S2). Intraluminal P O increased and P CO decreased in the treatment group 2 2
