www.nature.com/scientificreports
KEYWORDS: oxygen, samples, ischemia, luminal, bowel, intraluminal, small, treated, centre, group, flow, catheter, treatment, intestinal, control


in the untreated group, as did arterial K+ levels in both groups (Sup- plementary Table S2). Intraluminal P O increased and P CO decreased in the treatment group 2 2 In the untreated group, the intraluminal PO dropped to nearly 0 mmHg within 30 min after ligation, and the intraluminal PCO peaked to 135 mmHg after 30 min. In the treatment group, the intraluminal P O raised from 2 2 126 mmHg directly after ligation, to a maximum of 679 mmHg after 90 min. The intraluminal PCO decreased gradually from 61 mmHg at the start, to 43 mmHg after 120 min. The intraluminal pressure during the experi- ments did not exceed 1 kPa. The luminal pH decreased to 6.6 after 60 min, comparable in both groups. Luminal oxygen preserved the small intestine macroscopically The isolated, non-perfused bowel segments of the sham group looked clearly ischemic (Fig. 2a). The bowel was flaccid on palpation and no peristalsis was observed. In contrast, the bowel segments perfused with oxygen appeared viable with normal colour, muscle tension and clearly visible peristaltic waves, albeit with some areas of hypoperfusion close to the ligatures and further from the centre of the segment (Fig. 2b). Figure 2. Clear macroscopic difference between treated and untreated bowel loops. (a) Appearance of the intestine after two hours of ischemia without treatment. Arrows point to the area where the organ was ligated. Arrowheads show mesenteric vessel ligations. Thin arrow shows catheters, emphasising the O supplier (*). (b) Treated small bowel after two hours of no-flow ischemia. Arrow shows one of the ligations around the organ to avoid collateral blood flow after ligation of mesenteric vessels (arrowheads). Thin arrows show the position of the oxygen-supplying catheter. Scientific Reports | (2024) 14:13732 | 4 Vol:.(1234567890) www.nature.com/scientificreports/ The protective effect of oxygen at microscopic level depends on luminal flow Healthy tissue shows an overall median score of 0 (0–5). No differences were found when testing all control seg- ments or twin central samples within each group (Supplementary Figure S2), so these were pooled for further analyses. In the sham group, the damage is homogeneous throughout the experimental segment (Chiu/Park score 5, 4–8, p < 0.0001, Fig. 3). There is a difference between the control samples and all untreated sections (p < 0.0001) which was also found on the treated samples in all distal (p ≤ 0.0001) and proximal 10 (p = 0.007) and 30
