www.nature.com/scientificreports
KEYWORDS: oxygen, samples, ischemia, luminal, bowel, intraluminal, small, treated, centre, group, flow, catheter, treatment, intestinal, control


but with the lamina propria naked to the l umen19 (Supplementary Figure S4). No statistical differences between healthy and treated samples at the centre and up to 20 cm proximally and 10 cm distally were found. When samples were stratified, statistical significance appeared from 10 cm from the origin of oxygen administration onwards. Another known reaction of the intestinal mucosa to ischemia are the villous length, reflecting the loss of vil- lous tissue due to ischemia, and crypt depth, which increases as a response to ischemia because of the presence of intestinal pluripotent stem cells19. Healthy villous height was of 612.5 µm (529–692). Differences in these values were found both between control and sham and control and treated (p < 0.001) central samples. However, villi were significantly higher in the centre of the therapy group when compared to the untreated central samples (p = 0.0004, Supplementary Figure S5). This difference was not conserved further away from these areas. When pooling the samples by distance, the significance became larger (p = 0.0001). Regarding the crypt depth, the normal median value in healthy tissue was of 309.5 µm (253–365.3). There were differences between the control tissue and the untreated samples at the centre (p < 0.0001), but also with the treated samples (p = 0.0064). When comparing treated and untreated samples at the centre, a statistical difference was found, reflecting the presence of deeper crypts on the latter (162 versus 257 µm). These differences appeared up to 10 cm in each direction, also as the locations were stratified (Supplementary Figure S6). Taken together, these results show a protective effect of gaseous luminal oxygen in ischemic bowel loops depending on the site and direction of application, with distances further from the centre being less protected, more so when the mucosa lies opposite to the direction of the flow. HIF 1‑α expression is reduced and barrier function is preserved in luminal oxygenated small intestine A staining for HIF1-α was performed to further specify whether there was a direct effect on oxygenation on the damage, or lack thereof, and to localise this damage when it occurred. Areas that were subjected to ischemia without the presence of oxygen showed more expression of this molecule. Oxygenated areas where the epithelium is still present and healthy samples show a mild cytoplasmic staining in enterocytes (Fig. 4). To understand whether the maintained epithelial layer in treated samples kept barrier
