www.nature.com/scientificreports
KEYWORDS: oxygen, samples, ischemia, luminal, bowel, intraluminal, small, treated, centre, group, flow, catheter, treatment, intestinal, control


where the epithelium is still present and healthy samples show a mild cytoplasmic staining in enterocytes (Fig. 4). To understand whether the maintained epithelial layer in treated samples kept barrier functional markers also intact, we stained for villin-1. Villin-1 is present in the brush border of the enterocytes, giving an apical membranous staining in control samples. Staining is continuous and recedes when approaching the crypt epithelium. Treated samples show, when the epithelium is present, a thinner yet more intense staining (compact). The staining intensity decreases when reaching areas with no epithelium. This gradual pattern is not associated with the sudden loss of structure (Supplementary Figure S7). Generally, these markers show a similar pattern of staining between control samples and areas where the epithelium is well maintained due to luminal oxygen treatment. Taken together, these results show the beneficial effect of luminal oxygen to maintain epithelial microstructure. Discussion This study shows that intraluminal oxygen can preserve small bowel mucosal integrity and prevent ischemic damage during two hours of complete normothermic cessation of blood flow. We observed a protected small intestinal mucosa with this oxygen administration method, which is characterized by low-flow delivery. This delivery system may be clinically feasible and deserves further exploration in prevention of ischemia-related injury of the intestine. Current preservation methods for the intestinal graft do not consider the organ’s high mucosal energy requirements, so intraluminal preservation is not used in current ITx protocols. Because of its high oxygen consumption, luminal provision of oxygen could address these issues, particularly during the periods of warm ischemia. Ischemia of the bowel which lasts more than an hour is associated with decreased patient survival when4. A faster transition to colder temperatures during organ procurement in multi organ donors can be addressed with the use of an ice-cold luminal preservation solution. In our study we show that luminal gaseous oxygenation can maintain the bowel’s integrity during prolonged periods of ischemia. This luminal delivery system could also improve the distribution of oxygen throughout the graft and delay the increase in temperature during implantation, thereby decreasing WIT. Studies with luminal preservation solutions applied during CIT have shown improvement of the state of the graft for transplantation20–24. To the extent of our knowledge, only one group experimented with oxygenated solutions such as perfluorocarbon. Because it has a high molecular weight (twice that of water), large volumes are needed25–27, uneven distribution of perfluorocarbon in the bowel
