www.nature.com/scientificreports
KEYWORDS: oxygen, samples, ischemia, luminal, bowel, intraluminal, small, treated, centre, group, flow, catheter, treatment, intestinal, control


group experimented with oxygenated solutions such as perfluorocarbon. Because it has a high molecular weight (twice that of water), large volumes are needed25–27, uneven distribution of perfluorocarbon in the bowel with localized high-pressure zones is conceivable. Luminal gaseous oxygen was tested in the past by the teams of Churchill and Minor, who successfully tested their methods in rats, showing improvement of function and reduction in oxidative damage after r eperfusion28,29. The stronger presence of HIF1-α and villin point to an improvement in the preservation of function and lower oxidative damage in the treated segments in this current study. The effects of reperfusion have not been addressed within this study. Since the model focuses on supplying a permanent flow of oxygen, IRI is expected not to be significant at the onset of reperfusion. Even so, the protective measures that come from the vascular flush are also not present, and, yet there is notable improvement in the macro- and microscopic evaluations of the organ. The presence of an epithelial layer and increased activity of Scientific Reports | (2024) 14:13732 | 6 Vol:.(1234567890) www.nature.com/scientificreports/ Figure 4. Less presence of HIF1-α in intestinal mucosa in direct contact with luminal oxygen according to immunohistochemistry compared to untreated bowels. 100 × magnification except where noted. (a) Control tissue. (b) Central area of the ischemic, untreated segments. Strong staining in the lamina propria and complete absence of the epithelial layer. (c) Treated bowel has a similar staining pattern as control samples, with areas of oedema and loss of enterocytes between the crypts and superficial epithelium. (d) Higher magnification of well- maintained villi tips of the treated group (c) with light cytoplasmic staining and strong positive staining of the erythrocytes present within the villi vessels (400x). the intestinal stem cells as reflected by the deeper crypts is an unequivocal sign of improvement and readiness for the reperfusion stage. The preservation of a normal anaerobic healthy microbiota could be of concern when applying luminal o xygen30. Because of the state of the epithelial barrier with this treatment, and of the relatively short amount of time that is needed to treat the bowel during moments of normothermic ischemia (about an hour in most transplant centres), the influence of luminal oxygen on the composition of the microbiota is not expected to be significant. Technical inconveniences must be addressed before any type of luminal preservation treatment can be applied in the clinics.
