www.nature.com/scientificreports
KEYWORDS: oxygen, samples, ischemia, luminal, bowel, intraluminal, small, treated, centre, group, flow, catheter, treatment, intestinal, control


on the composition of the microbiota is not expected to be significant. Technical inconveniences must be addressed before any type of luminal preservation treatment can be applied in the clinics. The delivery method for any of these materials to the lumen must be quick and not interfere with the transplantation procedure. Our proposed technique relies mainly on luminal catheter placement. Most donors and ITx recipients already have catheters placed in their digestive tracts, so this method could be applied in situ in both. However, the length of the catheters should conform to intestinal segments treated, which in the case of adult intestinal transplantations can be quite long. The recipient’s stoma can also function as a readily avail- able point of entry for an oxygen delivery method such as the one described herein in the case of post-surgical vascular complications. In our experiments, luminal oxygenation resulted in a macroscopically slightly inflated small bowel. The intraluminal pressure did not exceed 1 kPa during the experiments, but entrapment of oxygen in small bowel loops might in theory give rise to overpressure and complications. These concerns can be cleared with a dynamic method of application, seemingly necessary according to our results. Intraluminal oxygenation may be of use for several other clinical conditions. The temporary mucosal ischemia consistent relationship between anastomotic ischemia and complications is r eported31–36. Few models have tested at 10–40% of baseline38, whilst our model presents 100% cessation. Also, the ischemic area in this study is large in comparison with surgical anastomosis where the low flow area is restricted to a few centimetres at both sides31. Scientific Reports | (2024) 14:13732 | 7 Vol.:(0123456789) www.nature.com/scientificreports/ The small amount of oxygen used in this experiment (5 ml/min) could be reduced even further for these cases, which would minimise those potential complications of gaseous oxygen application. In summary, the results of this study demonstrate that in a pig model, intraluminal application of low flow of gaseous oxygen can keep the mucosa intact, preventing ischemic damage in an extreme model of jejunal ischemia using zero blood flow conditions. Ideally, oxygen should be administered in a dynamic way, since the distance from the application point and the flow direction seems to be of importance to reach the best possible results. Data availability The datasets used and/or analysed during the current study available from the corresponding author on reason- able request. Received: 9 November 2023; Accepted: 11
