Hypoparathyroidism and Pseudohypoparathyroidism
KEYWORDS: pubmed, hypoparathyroidism, mutations, free, free article, article, pmc free, article pubmed, pmc, patients, pth, type, syndrome, pseudohypoparathyroidism, journal


ABSTRACT In primary hypoparathyroidism with hypocalcemia and hyperphosphatemia, deficient parathyroid hormone (PTH) secretion most commonly occurs from surgical excision of, or damage to, the parathyroid glands. The term idiopathic hypoparathyroidism describes isolated cases when a cause is not obvious, and there is no family history. However, hypoparathyroidism is also a feature common to a variety of hereditable syndromes that may present de novo . Familial isolated hypoparathyroidism may show autosomal dominant, autosomal recessive, or X-linked inheritance. Genes involved include PTH , SOX3 , CASR , GNA11 and GCM2 . Parathyroid hypoplasia is a frequent feature of 22q11.2 deletion syndrome with involvement of the TBX1 gene. The Hypoparathyroidism, Nerve Deafness, and Renal Dysplasia syndrome is due to haploinsufficiency of the GATA3 gene. Antibodies against parathyroid tissue are found in isolated hypoparathyroidism or combined with other endocrine deficiencies. Antibodies against the CASR occur in type 1 autoimmune polyglandular syndrome, due to mutations of the AIRE gene, or in acquired hypoparathyroidism. Disorders characterized by end-organ resistance to PTH are described collectively by the term pseudohypoparathyroidism (PHP), and PHP1A and PHP1B are caused by maternally-inherited changes at the imprinted GNAS complex gene that encodes the Gsα protein. Deleterious mutations of the PTH1R gene show resistance to PTH and PTHrP and present as Blomstrand lethal chondrodysplasia, Eiken syndrome, endochondromatosis, and primary failure of tooth eruption. Calcium and vitamin D are the standard therapy for the management of hypoparathyroidism, with hormone replacement [recombinant human PTH( 1 - 84 )] therapy recently becoming an option. Calcilytics, PTH analogs, and orally active small molecule PTH1R agonists may, in the future, join the treatment armamentarium. For complete coverage of all related areas of Endocrinology, please visit our on-line FREE web-text, WWW.ENDOTEXT.ORG . PRIMARY HYPOPARATHYROIDISM Primary hypoparathyroidism is caused by a group of heterogeneous conditions in which hypocalcemia and hyperphosphatemia occur as a result of deficient parathyroid hormone (PTH) secretion ( 1 ). This most commonly results from surgical excision of, or damage to, the parathyroid glands. However, autoimmune disease is also a significant factor in acquired cases, and genetic forms of hypoparathyroidism due to decreased PTH secretion are not rare ( Table 1 ). Table 1. Forms of Hypoparathyroidism having a Genetic Basis View in own window Isolated 1) Autosomal dominant A) PTH mutation B) CASR activating mutation (ADH1) a) Bartter Syndrome Type V C) GCM2 mutation (dominant negative) D) GNA11 activating mutation (ADH2) 2) Autosomal recessive A) PTH
