Hypoparathyroidism and Pseudohypoparathyroidism
KEYWORDS: pubmed, hypoparathyroidism, mutations, free, free article, article, pmc free, article pubmed, pmc, patients, pth, type, syndrome, pseudohypoparathyroidism, journal


or Trousseau sign. A positive Chvostek sign is a prolonged reflex contraction of the facial muscle in response to a digital tap on the cheek just anterior to the ear. As with other hyperreflexias, up to 20% of normal individuals may demonstrate a slight positive reaction. A positive Trousseau sign is carpopedal spasm induced by inflation of a blood pressure cuff covering the upper arm to 20 mm Hg above systolic blood pressure for three minutes. This response reflects the heightened irritability of nerves undergoing pressure ischemia. In hypoparathyroidism, serum calcium concentrations are decreased and serum phosphate levels are increased. Serum PTH is low or undetectable. (The important exception is PTH resistance, discussed further below.) Usually, serum 1,25-dihydroxyvitamin D (1,25(OH) 2 D) is low, but alkaline phosphatase activity is normal. Despite an increase in fractional excretion of calcium, intestinal calcium absorption and bone resorption are both suppressed. The renal filtered load of calcium is decreased, and the 24-h urinary calcium excretion is reduced; nephrogenous cyclic AMP excretion is low and renal tubular reabsorption of phosphate is elevated. The terms idiopathic or isolated hypoparathyroidism have been traditionally used to describe isolated cases of glandular hypofunction when a cause is not obvious and there is no family history. However, hypoparathyroidism is a feature common to a variety of heritable syndromes that may present de novo . Hypoparathyroidism can occur because of a congenital hypoplasia/aplasia with or without other congenital anomalies such as dysmorphic facies, immunodeficiency, lymphedema, nephropathy, nerve deafness or cardiac malformation. Thus, in patients with hypoparathyroidism of uncertain onset, a careful examination of craniofacial features and assessment of endocrine, cardiac and renal systems should be performed to exclude a syndromic cause. Similarly, autoimmune hypoparathyroidism can occur as an isolated endocrine condition or with other glandular deficiencies in a pluriglandular autoimmune syndrome, requiring attention to multi-organ endocrine dysfunction. A significant number of patients with idiopathic hypoparathyroidism and hypercalciuria, but no other anomalies may be found to have de novo activating mutations of the CASR gene. Because of the implications for treatment, CASR molecular screening of patients with this presentation is recommended ( 6 , 7 ). Familial Isolated Hypoparathyroidism Familial isolated hypoparathyroidism (FIH) may show autosomal dominant, autosomal recessive, or X-linked inheritance. In a few instances of autosomal dominant disease, a mutation in the PTH gene (MIM# 168450 ( 8 ) - https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/entrez/query.fcgi?db=OMIM ) has been found. In one family, a missense
