Hypoparathyroidism and Pseudohypoparathyroidism
KEYWORDS: pubmed, hypoparathyroidism, mutations, free, free article, article, pmc free, article pubmed, pmc, patients, pth, type, syndrome, pseudohypoparathyroidism, journal


In a few instances of autosomal dominant disease, a mutation in the PTH gene (MIM# 168450 ( 8 ) - https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/entrez/query.fcgi?db=OMIM ) has been found. In one family, a missense mutation (C18R) in the signal sequence of the preproPTH precursor has been identified ( 9 ) and the mutant shown to be defective in vitro in processing preproPTH to proPTH, although, as patients had one normal gene copy, the autosomal dominant mode of inheritance remained unexplained. Then, further studies in transfected cells showed that the mutant was trapped in the endoplasmic reticulum (ER) promoting ER stress and apoptosis ( 10 ). In a family with autosomal recessive hypoparathyroidism, a different, homozygous, signal sequence mutation (S23P) segregates with affected status ( 11 ). This mutation may prevent proper cleavage of the signal peptide during processing of the nascent protein. In a girl with isolated hypoparathyroidism, a homozygous S23X signal sequence mutation was found predicting a truncated inactive PTH peptide ( 12 ). However, the circulating PTH level was not undetectable, suggesting some translational readthrough of the mutant preproPTH mRNA. A homozygous [Cys25]PTH( 1 - 84 ) mutation that impairs PTHR1 activation was identified in an idiopathic hypoparathyroid family ( 13 ). Elevated circulating PTH levels were found in some (but not all) assays thus defining a novel form of hypoparathyroidism. In another family with autosomal recessive hypoparathyroidism, a donor splice site mutation at the exon 2/intron 2 junction of the PTH gene was identified ( 14 ). The mutation leads to exon skipping and loss of exon 2 containing the initiation codon and signal sequence of preproPTH mRNA. The SOX3 gene encodes a transcriptional factor likely involved in the embryonic development of the parathyroid gland ( 15 ). In two multigeneration families with X-linked recessive hypoparathyroidism exhibiting neonatal onset of hypocalcemia and parathyroid agenesis, the trait was mapped to a 906-kb region on distal Xq27 that contains three genes including SOX3 but no intragenic mutations were found (MIM# 307700). An interstitial deletion-insertion involving chromosomes 2p25.3 and Xq27.1 was found downstream of SOX3 and was speculated to exert a positional effect on SOX3 expression ( 16 ). Gain-of-function mutations in the calcium-sensing receptor (CASR) gene (MIM#601199) have been identified in a number of families clinically diagnosed with autosomal dominant hypocalcemia type 1 (ADH1 – MIM#515361) ( 17 , 18 ). In the parathyroid gland, the activated CASR suppresses PTH secretion, and in
