Hypoparathyroidism and Pseudohypoparathyroidism
KEYWORDS: pubmed, hypoparathyroidism, mutations, free, free article, article, pmc free, article pubmed, pmc, patients, pth, type, syndrome, pseudohypoparathyroidism, journal


of families clinically diagnosed with autosomal dominant hypocalcemia type 1 (ADH1 – MIM#515361) ( 17 , 18 ). In the parathyroid gland, the activated CASR suppresses PTH secretion, and in the kidney, it induces hypercalciuria that may contribute to the hypocalcemia. In many cases of ADH1, the family history is positive, but de novo mutations are quite common ( 19 , 20 ). Mosaicism for de novo mutation in an otherwise healthy parent has been described ( 21 ), and may explain some cases of apparently recessive disease. Most importantly, there are implications for counseling parents about the risks of recurrence. Almost all of the activating mutations are missense and appear almost equally divided between the amino-terminal third of the extracellular domain (ECD) and the transmembrane domain (TMD). Of special interest is the cluster of ECD mutations (A116T to C131W) that cause an increase in receptor sensitivity to extracellular calcium, suggesting that this region is critical for receptor activation. This cluster overlaps the two cysteine residues –cys-129 and cys-131– involved in the interface of the mature protein dimer ( 22 ). Further details can be found in the locus-specific database – http://data.mch.mcgill.ca/casrdb/ ( 23 ) and ( 24 ). Although Bartter syndrome subtype V is represented by only a handful of cases with heterozygous severe activating mutations in the CASR (MIM#601199), it provides additional insight into the functioning of the CaSR in the thick ascending limb (TAL) of the nephron ( 25 - 27 ). Bartter syndrome encompasses a heterogeneous group of electrolyte homeostasis disorders, the common features of which are hypokalemic alkalosis, hyperreninemia, and hyperaldosteronism. Bartter syndrome subtypes I–IV are autosomal recessive disorders due to inactivating mutations in the following ion transporters or channels active in the TAL: type I, the sodium potassium-chloride cotransporter (NKCC2); type II, the outwardly rectifying potassium channel (ROMK); type III, the voltage-gated chloride channel (CLC-Kb); type IV, Barttin, a chloride channel beta-subunit that is required for trafficking of CLC-Ka and CLC-Kb. Patients with the autosomal dominant Bartter syndrome subtype V have, in addition to the classic features of the syndrome, hypocalcemia, and may exhibit neuromuscular manifestations, seizures, and basal ganglia calcifications. NKCC2 and ROMK in the apical membrane (luminal side) of the TAL have been proposed to generate a transepithelial electrochemical gradient that drives passive paracellular transport of Na + , Mg 2+ , and Ca 2+ from the lumen to blood ( 28
