Hypoparathyroidism and Pseudohypoparathyroidism
KEYWORDS: pubmed, hypoparathyroidism, mutations, free, free article, article, pmc free, article pubmed, pmc, patients, pth, type, syndrome, pseudohypoparathyroidism, journal


38 - 40 ). A patient with neonatal hypoparathyroidism was found to be homozygous for a partial deletion acquired from both parents ( 41 ), and a pair of siblings with homozygous mutations has been reported ( 42 ). Additional studies have identified inactivating GCM2 mutations in cases with autosomal recessive FIH ( 43 , 44 ). On the other hand, heterozygous mutations that cause dominant-negative GCM2 mutants have also been identified in patients with autosomal dominant hypoparathyroidism ( 43 , 45 , 46 ). Additional recessive and dominant GCM2 mutations have been noted in this gene that continues to be expressed in the adult parathyroid [see ( 47 )]. Nevertheless, it appears that the prevalence of genetic defects affecting GCM2 function is not high in isolated hypoparathyroidism, as a recent study investigating 20 unrelated cases with this disorder (10 familial and 10 sporadic) failed to identify any GCM2 mutations segregating with the disease and/or leading to loss of function ( 48 ). Of further interest is that a genetic variant, Y282D that demonstrates significantly enhanced transcriptional activity relative to wild-type GCM2 associates with hyperparathyroidism in some cohorts of the sporadic primary disorder ( 49 ). Most recently, novel heterozygous active GCM2 variants that segregate with affected status in some kindreds with familial isolated hyper parathyroidism have been described ( 50 ). Thus, like CASR and GNA11 , both gain-of-function and loss-of-function variants of GCM2 may contribute to calcemic disorders. Hypoparathyroidism with Syndromic Features Hypoparathyroidism due to parathyroid hypoplasia is a frequent feature of 22q11.2 microdeletions , the most common cause of DiGeorge syndrome 1 (DS1; MIM#188400) ( 51 , 52 ) . This syndrome complex arises from a failure of the third and fourth pharyngeal pouches to develop, leading to agenesis or congenital hypoplasia of the parathyroid glands, thymus, and the anterior heart field. Patients with DS1 may typically present with neonatal hypocalcemic seizures due to hypoparathyroidism, severe infections due to thymic hypoplasia, and conotruncal heart defects ( 53 ). Because a microdeletion is involved, the identification of novel developmental genes in the 22q11 region has been keenly pursued. One of the genes is TBX1 , encoding a DNA-binding transcription factor of the T-box family known to have important roles in vertebrate and invertebrate organogenesis and pattern formation ( 54 , 55 ). Mouse models with Tbx1 haploinsufficiency established the essential contribution of this factor to conotruncal development (
