Hypoparathyroidism and Pseudohypoparathyroidism
KEYWORDS: pubmed, hypoparathyroidism, mutations, free, free article, article, pmc free, article pubmed, pmc, patients, pth, type, syndrome, pseudohypoparathyroidism, journal


roles in vertebrate and invertebrate organogenesis and pattern formation ( 54 , 55 ). Mouse models with Tbx1 haploinsufficiency established the essential contribution of this factor to conotruncal development ( 56 ), and placed it in developmental context during organogenesis ( 57 , 58 ). However, while the Tbx1 null mutant mice had all the developmental anomalies of DS1 – thymic and parathyroid hypoplasia, abnormal facial structures and cleft palate, skeletal defects and cardiac outflow abnormalities – Tbx1 haploinsufficiency in mice was associated with only defects of the fourth pharyngeal pouch responsible for the cardiac outflow abnormalities ( 59 ). cDNA microarray analyses of mice lacking Tbx1 have identified Gcm2 as one of the downregulated genes in the pharyngeal region, indicating that Tbx1 is upstream of Gcm2 ( 60 ). Furthermore, as Tbx1 is regulated by sonic hedgehog (Shh) ( 61 ), a Shh-Tbx1-Gcm2 parathyroid developmental pathway is indicated. The basis for the phenotypic differences between DGS1 patients who are heterogeneous for TBX1 loss and the Tbx1 +/- mice is unclear but could reflect a species-specific gene dosage requirement together with roles of downstream genes regulated by Tbx1. Some patients may have late-onset DGS1 and develop symptomatic hypocalcemia in childhood or later with only subtle phenotypic abnormalities ( 62 , 63 ). Of note is that the age of diagnosis in rare families with DGS1 patients having TBX1 inactivating (missense or frameshift) mutations ranged from 7 to 46 years in keeping with late-onset DGS1 ( 54 ). The 22q11.2 deletion syndrome (22q11.2DS) encompasses a wider spectrum of clinical conditions that includes isolated congenital heart disease and velocardiofacial (VCF) syndrome ( 52 ). Associated craniofacial abnormalities include cleft palate, pharyngeal insufficiency and mildly dysmorphic facies. In the VCF syndrome, anatomical anomalies of the pharynx are prominent and hypernasal speech due to abnormal pharyngeal musculature with or without cleft palate is typical. In most patients, some degree of intellectual deficit is present and there is strong predisposition to psychiatric illness (schizophrenia or bipolar disorder) in adolescents and adults ( 64 , 65 ). Further information, both clinical and educational, can be found at web sites specifically devoted to this condition [see ( 66 )]. The 22q11.2DS is due to one of the most common microdeletions (1 in 4000 live births), and it may go clinically unrecognized in its milder or variant forms. Most cases with hypoparathyroidism (~50% of cases) are the result
