Hypoparathyroidism and Pseudohypoparathyroidism
KEYWORDS: pubmed, hypoparathyroidism, mutations, free, free article, article, pmc free, article pubmed, pmc, patients, pth, type, syndrome, pseudohypoparathyroidism, journal


most common microdeletions (1 in 4000 live births), and it may go clinically unrecognized in its milder or variant forms. Most cases with hypoparathyroidism (~50% of cases) are the result of de novo deletion through meiotic non-allelic homologous recombination, and driven by a unique cluster of low copy repeats designated LCR22 A-H [see ( 66 , 67 ) ]. Most commonly (~85% of cases), a deletion of ~3 Mb is found, encompassing proximal repeats A to D. Many of the others (~10% of cases) involve atypical nested deletions including those spanning LCR22 A to B. Thus, LSR22 A to B, which includes the TBX1 gene, is the primary site contributing to parathyroid dysgenesis. Detailed characterization and long-term follow-up for the hypoparathyroid component of this disorder is ongoing. Although most cases of DiGeorge syndrome are sporadic, as mentioned above autosomal dominant inheritance is not unknown. In utero influences may be important determinants of the clinical picture, since there are instances of monozygotic twins with discordant phenotypes ( 68 - 70 ). Phenocopies occur with diabetic embryopathy, fetal alcohol syndrome, and retinoid embryopathy. In rare instances, it has been shown that a phenotypically normal parent can transmit a microdeletion to an offspring. Such parents have been found to carry a duplication of the 22q11 on the second chromosome, and the combination of duplication and deletion alleles in a parent generates a balanced state, termed “gene dosage compensation” ( 71 , 72 ). Although the hypoparathyroidism affects about half of all carriers, it is usually not severe, and frequently treatment following neonatal hypocalcemia can be tapered or stopped in older children. However, the hypoparathyroidism may also remain asymptomatic until adolescence or emerge at times of stress, such as corrective cardiac surgery or severe infection, suggesting that continued surveillance of parathyroid gland reserve is important ( 73 - 75 ). Traditionally, diagnosis of 22q11.2DS is established with specific cytogenetic studies -- usually with locus-specific fluorescence in-situ hybridization (FISH) testing. These tests will pick up many of the larger common deletions that involve regions of low-copy number repeats (LCRs). However, specific chromosomal array-based and MLPA analyses are now preferred, as they have been shown to have increased sensitivity for smaller deletions ( 66 ). Recently, the diagnostic power of next-generation sequencing has been harnessed to identify almost all of the microdeletions underlying sporadic and inherited forms of the disorder ( 52 ). Non-invasive prenatal screening
