Hypoparathyroidism and Pseudohypoparathyroidism
KEYWORDS: pubmed, hypoparathyroidism, mutations, free, free article, article, pmc free, article pubmed, pmc, patients, pth, type, syndrome, pseudohypoparathyroidism, journal


the diagnostic power of next-generation sequencing has been harnessed to identify almost all of the microdeletions underlying sporadic and inherited forms of the disorder ( 52 ). Non-invasive prenatal screening and pre-implantation genetic diagnosis) are also clinically available ( 76 ). Because the clinical picture is so variable and the prevalence so high, testing for 22q11.2 microdeletion should be considered in the workup for any new hypoparathyroid case for which another cause is not found. Finally, distinct genetic defects can coexist with 22q11.2DS, as exemplified by the finding of concurrence of this syndrome in an adolescent with longstanding hyper calcemia who had familial hypocalciuric hypercalcemia type 3 due to an AP2S1 mutation ( 77 ). Clinicians will also want to be aware that a small but significant minority (~10%) of patients will have associated autoimmune disease, driven in part, perhaps, by the thymus-based defect in T cell function ( 64 , 79 ). Among the more common (non-endocrine) conditions are arthritis, celiac disease, and autoimmune hematologic disease, particularly idiopathic thrombocytopenic purpura. Autoimmune thyroid disease, with either hypo- or hyperparathyroid states, has been reported ( 78 , 79 ), and serum TSH assay should be measured regularly. It has been suggested that the later-onset hypoparathyroid disease may be partly autoimmune in origin, not developmental. A survey of 59 Norwegian patients showed discordance of adult onset disease with neonatal hypoparathyroidism, but a significant correlation with parathyroid autoantibodies and the presence of autoimmune disease ( 78 ). The clinical features of DiGeorge syndrome, including hypoparathyroidism, also occur with other cytogenetic abnormalities, notably chromosome 10p haploinsufficiency ( 80 , 81 ). Deletions of two non-overlapping regions of chromosome 10p contribute to DiGeorge syndrome 2; DS2 at 10p13-14 ( 82 ), and the Barakat or HDR (Hypoparathyroidism, Nerve Deafness, and Renal Dysplasia) syndrome (MIM#146255) ( 83 , 84 ) at 10p14-10pter ( 85 , 86 ). The latter is due to haploinsufficiency of GATA3 (MIM#131320), which encodes a dual zinc finger transcription factor ( 87 ) that is essential for normal embryonic development of the parathyroids, auditory system, and kidney. Since the original description, several additional GATA3 loss-of-function mutations have been described in HDR patients [e.g., ( 88 - 91 )]. Heterozygous Gata3 -deficient mice develop parathyroid abnormalities as revealed by challenge with a diet low in calcium and vitamin D that are due to dysregulation of the parathyroid-specific transcription factor, Gcm2. Gata3 -/- embryos
