Hypoparathyroidism and Pseudohypoparathyroidism
KEYWORDS: pubmed, hypoparathyroidism, mutations, free, free article, article, pmc free, article pubmed, pmc, patients, pth, type, syndrome, pseudohypoparathyroidism, journal


(ophthalmoplegia, retinal degeneration, and cardiac-conduction defects) (MIM#530000), the Pearson marrow pancreas syndrome (lactic acidosis, neutropenia, sideroblastic anemia, and pancreatic exocrine dysfunction) ( 107 ) (MIM#557000) and mitochondrial encephalomyopathy (MIM#540000). The molecular defects range from large deletions and duplications of the mitochondrial genomes in a large number of tissues ( 108 , 109 ) to single base-pair mutations in one of the transfer RNA genes found only in a restricted range of cell types (MIM#590050). The role of these mitochondrial mutations in the pathogenesis of hypoparathyroidism remains to be clarified. However, mutations in HADHB, that encodes the β-subunit of mitochondrial trifunctional protein, cause infantile onset hypoparathyroidism and peripheral polyneuropathy ( 110 ). Long-chain hydroxyacyl-CoA dehydrogenase (LCHAD) deficiency (MIM#600890) is an inborn error of oxidative fatty acid metabolism that may be accompanied by hypoparathyroidism ( 111 ). Whether the parathyroid disease is directly related to the enzyme deficiency or secondary to the accompanying mitochondrial disease needs further study. Parathyroid insufficiency and symptoms of hypocalcemia are occasionally seen in inherited metabolic disorders leading to excess storage of iron ( thalassemia, Diamond-Blackfan anemia, hemochromatosis) or copper (Wilson disease) ( 112 ). In most instances, there is similar dysfunction in other endocrine glands, and the parathyroid disease is usually mild. Nonetheless, recognition of the hypoparathyroid state may help explain otherwise non-specific symptoms and aid in overall management of these multisystem diseases. Autoimmune Hypoparathyroidism: Acquired and Inherited Disorders Antibodies directed against parathyroid tissue have been detected in up to 38% of patients with isolated hypoparathyroid disease, and over 40% of patients having hypoparathyroidism combined with other endocrine deficiencies ( 113 , 114 ). Subsequently, a survey of a parathyroid expression library led to the identification of one protein selectively associated with the autoimmune process, the NACHT leucine-rich-repeat protein 5 (NALP5). Elevated antibody titers occur in half the patients with autoimmune hypoparathyroidism, with or without another autoimmune disease, but uncommonly in other conditions without hypoparathyroidism ( 114 , 115 ). Antibodies against the extracellular domain of the parathyroid CASR were originally reported in more than half of patients with either type 1 autoimmune polyglandular syndrome (APS-1, also known as autoimmune polyendocrinopathy-candidiasis-ectodermal dystrophy or APECED ), MIM# 240300, ( 116 ) or acquired hypoparathyroidism associated with autoimmune hypothyroidism ( 117 ). This finding was confirmed in a subsequent study of 51 cases of idiopathic hypoparathyroidism, but there was a 13% positive rate in controls ( 118 ). Other
