Hypoparathyroidism and Pseudohypoparathyroidism
KEYWORDS: pubmed, hypoparathyroidism, mutations, free, free article, article, pmc free, article pubmed, pmc, patients, pth, type, syndrome, pseudohypoparathyroidism, journal


( 117 ). This finding was confirmed in a subsequent study of 51 cases of idiopathic hypoparathyroidism, but there was a 13% positive rate in controls ( 118 ). Other studies of APS-1 patients have also identified elevated CASR antibodies in some cases but at a lower frequency ( 119 - 121 ). Although some have suggested that CASR antibody assays are clinically indicated in acquired hypoparathyroidism ( 122 ), it remains to be seen whether the autoantibodies are of primary or secondary importance ( 114 , 123 ). There is now good evidence that autoantibodies can be functional activators of CASR and thereby could induce hypoparathyroidism. While presently there may not be a convenient clinical test for this, patient sera have been demonstrated to activate the CASR transfected into HEK cells in vitro ( 124 ). In some hypoparathyroid patients, both autoimmune parathyroid destruction and suppression by CASR activation may co-exist ( 125 ). In APS-1, the most common associated manifestations are hypoparathyroidism with mucocutaneous candidiasis and Addison's disease. Additional features include pernicious anemia, chronic active hepatitis, alopecia, keratitis, gonadal failure, thyroid disease, pancreatic insufficiency, and diabetes mellitus ( 116 ). The phenotype is highly variable and patients may not express all elements of the basic triad, leading to the suggestion that the criteria used for molecular screening be relaxed ( 125 , 126 ). The disease usually presents in infancy with chronic oral thrush, followed by hypoparathyroidism in the first decade, and then adrenocortical failure in the third. Interestingly, there is nearly 100% penetrance of hypoparathyroidism in females, but less than 60% in males, even though the adrenal hypofunction affects both sexes equally ( 119 ). Moreover, patients who develop the adrenal hypofunction first are less likely to be male and may never develop hypoparathyroidism. The responsible gene, called the autoimmune regulator (AIRE), maps to chromosome 21q22 and encodes a transcriptional regulator ( 127 - 129 ) . In the absence of AIRE protein, tissue-specific self-antigens are not expressed in the thymus and multiorgan autoimmunity develops, because negative selection of the T cells bearing the autoantigens is disrupted ( 130 ). Many patients with APS-1 can be shown to have autosomal recessive inheritance of the AIRE defect. In families with autosomal recessive mutations of AIRE, obligate heterozygotes may also have common autoimmune disorders but APECED is not seen ( 131 ). A phenocopy leading to acquired APS-1 may
