Hypoparathyroidism and Pseudohypoparathyroidism
KEYWORDS: pubmed, hypoparathyroidism, mutations, free, free article, article, pmc free, article pubmed, pmc, patients, pth, type, syndrome, pseudohypoparathyroidism, journal


families with autosomal recessive mutations of AIRE, obligate heterozygotes may also have common autoimmune disorders but APECED is not seen ( 131 ). A phenocopy leading to acquired APS-1 may occur when the AIRE gene is silenced by thymic neoplasia ( 132 ). APS-1 has been associated with more than 300 mutations of the AIRE gene, and updates can be found in the online mutation database ( https://grenada.lumc.nl/LOVD2/mendelian_genes/home.php?select_db=AIRE ). PARATHYROID RESISTANCE SYNDROMES Pseudohypoparathyroidism Several clinical disorders characterized by end-organ resistance to PTH have been described collectively by the term pseudohypoparathyroidism (PHP). They are associated with hypocalcemia, hyperphosphatemia, and increased circulating PTH. Target tissue unresponsiveness to the hormone manifests as a lack of increased phosphate excretion and, in some cases, cAMP excretion in response to PTH administration ( 133 ). The biochemical characteristics of the different forms of PHP are contrasted with those of hypoparathyroidism in Table 3 . Table 3. Biochemical Characteristics of Hypoparathyroidism and Pseudohypoparathyroidism View in own window Defects Serum PO4 PTH 25(OH)D 1,25(OH)2D UcAMP* UPO4* Multiple Endocrine Defects Hypoparathyroidism ↑ ↓ - ↓ - - Yes/No** Pseudohypoparathyroidism Type 1a ↑ ↑ - ↓ ↓ ↓ Yes Type 1b ↑ ↑ - ↓ ↓ ↓ No/Yes# Type 1c ↑ ↑ - ↓ ↓ ↓ Yes Type 2 ↑ ↑ - ↓ - ↓ No ↑, increased; ↓, decreased; -, normal. * Response to PTH infusion. ** , depending upon the etiology. # , variable, mild defects of the thyroid axis due to TSH resistance may be seen. Albright Hereditary Osteodystrophy Fuller Albright first recognized that the likely cause of the hypoparathyroid state in PHP is a constitutive absence of target tissue responsiveness ( 134 ). In many patients, the end-organ resistance is accompanied by a specific pattern of physical findings, called Albright hereditary osteodystrophy (AHO ; MIM#300800). Typically, patients have short stature, round facies, brachydactyly, obesity, and ectopic soft tissue or dermal ossification(s) (osteoma cutis) ( Figure 1 ). In the calvaria, this may manifest as hyperostosis frontalis interna ( 135 ). Intracranial calcification(s), cataracts and band keratopathy, subcutaneous calcifications, and dental hypoplasia are also common but are likely the consequences of longstanding hypoparathyroid hypocalcemia ( Table 4 , see below Figure 1 ). The brachydactyly may be asymmetric or not, and may involve one or both hands or feet, but the pattern is quite distinctive ( 136 , 137 ). The shortening tends to involve the first
