Hypoparathyroidism and Pseudohypoparathyroidism
KEYWORDS: pubmed, hypoparathyroidism, mutations, free, free article, article, pmc free, article pubmed, pmc, patients, pth, type, syndrome, pseudohypoparathyroidism, journal


asymmetric or not, and may involve one or both hands or feet, but the pattern is quite distinctive ( 136 , 137 ). The shortening tends to involve the first distal phalanx, with a thumbnail (or first toenail) that is wider than it is long. The fourth and fifth metacarpals (or metatarsals) are frequently shortened out of proportion to the others and the second metacarpal is often spared. Radiographic analysis of the hands (pattern profiling) may be helpful in assessment of the brachydactyly ( Figure 1 ) ( 138 ). Figure 1. Albright’s hereditary osteodystrophy (AHO) and characteristic skeletal abnormalities. A) A child with AHO exhibiting short stature, obesity, and round facies. B) The hand X-ray of a patient with AHO, displaying brachydactyly of the fourth and fifth metacarpal bones. C) Dimpling over the knuckles of a clenched fist (also known as Archibald sign), indicating the short metacarpals. D) Evidence of brachydactyly in the hand, reflecting the shortened fourth and fifth metacarpals and the distal phalanx of the thumb. Images are from: Levine, MA. ( 139 ). Table 4. Incidence of signs and symptoms in PHP with AHO a View in own window Percentage Short stature 80 Obesity 50 Craniofacial Round face 92 b Lenticular opacities 44 Strabismus 10 b Dental hypoplasia 51 b Basal ganglia calcification 50 Thickened calvaria 62 Mental deficit 75 Brachydactyly Brachymetacarpia 68 Brachymetatarsia 43 Brachyphalangia 50 Other connective tissue features Decreased bone density 15 Ectopic ossification 56 b Subcutaneous calcification 55 a Taken from Drezner and Neelon (1995). b Features common to other forms of chronic hypoparathyroid hypocalcemia. Although affected patients are generally short as adults, their bone age as children may be advanced and growth accelerated ( 138 ). Patients with AHO may be predisposed to hypertension ( 140 ), conductive and sensorineural hearing loss ( 135 , 141 ), cord compression due to spinal anomalies ( 142 ), and movement disorders due to basal ganglia calcification ( 143 ). The features of AHO may be subtle in infancy or early childhood; in a few, there is little to see even in adulthood. The round facies, short neck, and low, flat nasal bridge are often accompanied by central obesity ( 144 ). A study showed that the obesity phenotype occurs primarily in those patients who also have multiple hormone resistance, i.e., PHP1A (see below), and according to data from mice, a hypothalamic mechanism, rather
