Hypoparathyroidism and Pseudohypoparathyroidism
KEYWORDS: pubmed, hypoparathyroidism, mutations, free, free article, article, pmc free, article pubmed, pmc, patients, pth, type, syndrome, pseudohypoparathyroidism, journal


have been described, who also showed platelet Gs hypofunction. Those patients were found to have IGF2 hypermethylation and SNURF hypomethylation, as well as imprinting defects within GNAS , the gene encoding the stimulatory G protein alpha-subunit (Gsα; see below) ( 155 ). PHP1A PHP1A patients are characterized by AHO, PTH resistance, and evidence of target organ resistance to other hormones. Patient-derived cells are found to have a reduction in the activity of the Gsα subunit, which is part of the membrane-associated heterotrimeric stimulatory G-protein complex - transducing signals between G-protein coupled receptors and adenylate cyclase ( 156 - 158 ). Adenylyl cyclase catalyzes the synthesis of the second messenger cAMP, and therefore, PHP1A patients tend to have a deficiency in cAMP generation, particularly in certain tissues. As explained above, this deficiency is clear when measuring cAMP excretion in response to PTH administration. The GNAS gene (MIM#168470) encoding the Gsα protein maps to 20q13.2-13.3 and has at least 4 alternative transcriptional start sites ( Figure 2 ) and an antisense transcript, GNAS-AS1 ( 159 ). The three upstream exons and the preceding promoter regions are genetically imprinted, i.e., methylated in an allele specific manner. The promoter of the Gsα transcript, which uses exon 1, is unmethylated. Unlike the other alternative GNAS products, Gsα expression is biallelic except in a small set of tissues, where Gsα is derived predominantly from the maternal allele ( 160 - 164 ) . This tissue-specific monoallelic Gsα expression affects the penetrance of the PHP phenotype. The maternal transmission of the hormone resistance in PHP1A ( 165 ) can be explained by the silencing of the paternal Gsα allele, which would otherwise allow expression of 50% of Gsα protein ( 166 ). Thus, the full expression of a coding GNAS mutation, which occurs in maternally transmitted cases, leads to AHO plus hormone resistance (PHP1A). On the other hand, if the same mutation is inherited paternally, it causes AHO alone. The latter is termed pseudopseudohypoparathyroidism (PPHP). Thus, PHP1A and PPHP can be found in the same families. Note that a systematic nomenclature and classification, “inactivating PTH/PTHrP signaling disorder” (iPPSD), has been suggested for PHP1A, PPHP, and related disorders arising from abnormal PTH and/or cAMP signaling, accounting for the underlying genetic/epigenetic abnormalities and associated phenotypes ( 167 ). Despite clinical evidence supporting imprinting in portions of the kidney tubule, it has been difficult to confirm this experimentally in humans
