Hypoparathyroidism and Pseudohypoparathyroidism
KEYWORDS: pubmed, hypoparathyroidism, mutations, free, free article, article, pmc free, article pubmed, pmc, patients, pth, type, syndrome, pseudohypoparathyroidism, journal


underlying genetic/epigenetic abnormalities and associated phenotypes ( 167 ). Despite clinical evidence supporting imprinting in portions of the kidney tubule, it has been difficult to confirm this experimentally in humans ( 168 ). The imprinting of GNAS is complex and involves multiple differentially methylated regions (DMR) ( 159 ). Moreover, it is tissue-specific and may vary with developmental stage, although key imprinting of the A/B (also referred to as 1A) DMR is thought to be a primary event that occurs during gametogenesis and is maintained thereafter ( 169 ). Ablation of the Gsα ortholog in mice ( Gnas ) has confirmed that maternal, but not paternal, transmission of the deleted allele results in PTH resistance. The homozygous deletion of Gnas is embryonic lethal ( 160 ). Comparison of Gsα expression in mice with maternally vs paternally disrupted Gsα expression also demonstrated that Gsα expression is predominantly maternal in the renal cortex, but not in renal medulla ( 160 , 170 ) . PTH resistance is delayed until after infancy in most PHP1A patients, and a study using mice demonstrated that the silencing of the paternal Gsα allele develops postnatally ( 171 ). Figure 2. Simplified view of the GNAS region and its transcripts. The normal allele-specific methylation and expression patterns of the four alternate first exons of GNAS which splice onto exon 2 to produce transcripts encoding NESP55, XLαs, 1A (referred to as A/B in humans), and Gsα (which uses exon 1). NESP55 and XLαs promoters are oppositely imprinted: NESP55 is expressed from the maternal allele and its promoter region is methylated on the paternal allele, whereas XLαs is expressed from the paternal allele and its promoter is methylated on the maternal allele. Gsα is paternally silenced in some tissues e.g., renal proximal tubule cells, indicated by the dashed arrow. NESP55 protein is unrelated to Gsα, and its entire coding region is located within its first exon. In contrast, XLαs and Gsα proteins have identical COOH-terminal domains (encoded by exons 2-13), while their unique NH2-terminal domains are encoded within their respective first exons. Exon A/B (1A) does not have a translational start site but is transcriptionally active. Loss of exon A/B imprinting (methylation) is associated with decreased Gsα expression in renal proximal tubules and some other hormone-responsive tissues and is the typical cause of PHP1B. (figure from Liu et al., 2000, with permission). A variety of inactivating mutations in the
