Hypoparathyroidism and Pseudohypoparathyroidism
KEYWORDS: pubmed, hypoparathyroidism, mutations, free, free article, article, pmc free, article pubmed, pmc, patients, pth, type, syndrome, pseudohypoparathyroidism, journal


renal proximal tubules and some other hormone-responsive tissues and is the typical cause of PHP1B. (figure from Liu et al., 2000, with permission). A variety of inactivating mutations in the Gsα-coding portion of the GNAS gene have been identified in PHP1A patients ( 172 , 173 ). The spectrum includes missense mutations, point mutations impairing efficient and accurate splicing, and small insertion/deletion mutations. The 4-bp deletion in exon 7 (ΔGACT 188/190) has been observed in multiple unrelated cases, suggesting that this may be a hot spot ( 174 , 175 ). Several other mutations have also been observed in more than one kindred, indicating that additional susceptibility regions may exist. The identification of de novo germline mosaicism ( 176 ) is consistent with the view that most sporadic cases harbor new mutations, but the separation of such sporadic cases from familial ones, in which there is suppression of phenotype due to imprinting, may be difficult without detailed molecular studies. PHP1A cases have been described in which no mutations of the GNAS gene have been found by nucleotide sequence analysis of exons encoding Gsα. This may be because the mutation is in a regulatory region of the gene not yet examined, or it may be that a large deletion prevents amplification of the mutant allele for subsequent analyses. In cases without identified GNAS coding mutations, an assessment of Gsα bioactivity in erythrocytes is helpful in ruling out regulatory region mutations or large deletions. A 35-kb deletion spanning exons 1 through 5 has been identified by using comparative genome hybridization in a patient with PHP1A in whom coding mutations had been ruled out, but a marked reduction of erythrocyte Gsα activity demonstrated ( 177 ). Typically, PHP1A is associated with multiple hormone resistance, including thyroid stimulating hormone (TSH) and gonadotropins, causing hypothyroidism and gonadal failure, respectively. Because the hypothyroidism may express before hypocalcemia is observed ( 178 ), early surveillance of thyroid function is warranted. However, thyroid replacement from birth does not appear to prevent the mental deficit typical of PHP1A. In women, the hypogonadism is partial ( 179 ), and thus, oral contraceptives may help regulate the menstrual cycle. Estrogen can antagonize bone resorption, leading to an exacerbation of hypocalcemia ( 180 ), but placental 1,25-dihydroxyvitamin D synthesis likely obviates this effect altogether in pregnancy so women are frequently normocalcemic at that time ( 181 ). Abnormalities of the somatotropin axis
