Hypoparathyroidism and Pseudohypoparathyroidism
KEYWORDS: pubmed, hypoparathyroidism, mutations, free, free article, article, pmc free, article pubmed, pmc, patients, pth, type, syndrome, pseudohypoparathyroidism, journal


180 ), but placental 1,25-dihydroxyvitamin D synthesis likely obviates this effect altogether in pregnancy so women are frequently normocalcemic at that time ( 181 ). Abnormalities of the somatotropin axis have also been reported, with documentation of subnormal growth hormone release following stimulation by L-arginine or growth hormone-releasing hormone ( 182 , 183 ). The tissue-specific silencing of the paternal Gsα allele also plays a key role in the development of the additional hormone resistance phenotypes, as monoallelic Gsα expression has been demonstrated in the thyroid, the ovaries, and the pituitary ( 161 - 164 ). Studies have revealed that obesity also develops primarily in patients who inherit the inactivating Gsα mutations from their mothers ( 184 ). Gsα is not imprinted in the white adipose tissue ( 185 ), but the investigations of mice in which Gsα is ablated conditionally in the brain showed that Gsα is also monoallelic in certain parts of the hypothalamus ( 145 , 146 ), thus explaining the imprinted mode of inheritance of the obesity phenotype. This likely reflects impaired signaling downstream of the melanocortin receptor type-4 (MC4R), given that it signals via G proteins including Gsα and that inactivating MC4R mutations are causal for dominantly inherited morbid obesity ( 186 , 187 ). Indeed, almost all GNAS mutations identified in a large cohort of children with severe obesity impaired MCR4 signaling in cell-based assays ( 147 ). In mice, ablation of the maternal but not paternal Gnas allele in the dorsomedial nucleus of the hypothalamus leads to obesity ( 145 ), similar to the findings in mice with the conditional MC4R deficiency in this part of the brain ( 188 ). Like obesity, it has been noted that cognitive impairment, a typical AHO feature, also develops primarily after maternal inheritance of the inactivating Gsα mutation ( 189 ), although the underlying mechanisms behind the parental-specific inheritance of this phenotype have yet to be defined. PHP1B PHP1B is typically not associated with AHO or a generalized reduction in Gsα expression ( 190 - 192 ). PHP1B patients show a defect in renal PTH signaling, but an apparently normal response to PTH in bone ( 193 , 194 ). Affected individuals are therefore functionally hypoparathyroid but show normal skeletal architecture and development. Due to unimpaired PTH responsiveness in bone, however, signs of hyperparathyroid bone disease (osteitis fibrosa cystica) are occasionally observed, complicating the picture (
