Hypoparathyroidism and Pseudohypoparathyroidism
KEYWORDS: pubmed, hypoparathyroidism, mutations, free, free article, article, pmc free, article pubmed, pmc, patients, pth, type, syndrome, pseudohypoparathyroidism, journal


but show normal skeletal architecture and development. Due to unimpaired PTH responsiveness in bone, however, signs of hyperparathyroid bone disease (osteitis fibrosa cystica) are occasionally observed, complicating the picture ( 195 ). Biochemical abnormalities suggestive of thyroid stimulating hormone resistance are also seen in some patients ( 164 ). In fact, sometimes, PHP1B cases can present first with hypothyroidism ( 196 , 197 ). A study also demonstrated short stature and growth hormone deficiency in monozygotic twins with PHP1B ( 198 ). Abnormalities of renal uric acid handling have been documented ( 199 , 200 ). However, clinically significant hormone resistance is restricted to PTH in most cases. Because the hormone resistance is mostly limited to PTH, it was thought at one time that these findings could be explained by a defect in the type-1 parathyroid hormone receptor (PTH1R, MIM#168468). Sequence analyses, however, found no mutations in protein-coding exons or gene promoter regions of the gene ( 201 - 203 ), and studies of PHP1B families show no linkage to PTHR1 ( 204 , 205 ). Most cases of PHP1B are sporadic, but a familial form of PHP1B with an apparent autosomal dominant mode of inheritance also exists (AD-PHP1B). In four AD-PHP1B kindreds, linkage to chromosome 20q13.3 was established, the same region which includes the GNAS locus ( 204 ). In these families, the pattern of transmission suggested paternal imprinting, and inheritance is therefore the same as for PHP1A. A further 13 PHP1B subjects were studied, some of whom had bone responsiveness to PTH ( 166 ). All lacked methylation of the alternate exon A/B, an epigenetic defect that is postulated to inhibit expression of the functional exon 1-containing Gsα transcript in renal tissues only ( Figure 2 ). Thus, the loss of methylation of the maternal exon A/B allele leads to the silencing of the maternal as well as paternal Gsα allele, causing PTH resistance specifically in renal proximal tubule cells. A genetic analysis indicated that mutations in a regulatory region some distance from the GNAS coding exons were likely to account for the unique imprinting defect(s) associated with PHP1B ( 206 ). A search for the mutation revealed the presence of a 3 kb microdeletion that segregated with the disease in 12 kindreds with AD-PHP1B and also occurred in 4 sporadic cases ( 207 ). The deletion, flanked by direct repeats, removes 3 exons of the STX16 gene,
