Hypoparathyroidism and Pseudohypoparathyroidism
KEYWORDS: pubmed, hypoparathyroidism, mutations, free, free article, article, pmc free, article pubmed, pmc, patients, pth, type, syndrome, pseudohypoparathyroidism, journal


the disease in 12 kindreds with AD-PHP1B and also occurred in 4 sporadic cases ( 207 ). The deletion, flanked by direct repeats, removes 3 exons of the STX16 gene, which encodes syntaxin-16. Two other deletions within STX16 and larger deletions spanning both STX16 and its telomeric neighbor NPEPL1 have been identified in AD-PHP1B kindreds ( 208 - 211 ). In all these cases, maternal, but not paternal, inheritance of the STX16 deletion led to PTH resistance. Because STX16 is apparently not imprinted ( 208 ), loss of one copy of this gene is not predicted to underlie the PHP1B pathogenesis. Interestingly, two large deletions ablating NESP55 without any overlap with STX16 as the cause of PHP1B in families in whom affected individuals showed isolated loss of A/B methylation ( 211 , 212 ). Note that the NESP55 region showed an apparent gain of methylation due to the deletion of the maternal allele. In two other PHP1B kindreds, nearly identical deletions of the NESP55 DMR including exons 3 and 4 of the antisense transcript segregated with the disease ( 213 ). In this instance, however, the A/B DMR was not the only region to lose the differential methylation required to allow maternal expression of Gsα in the kidney. Maternal methylation was also lost in the regions of the XLαs and GNAS-AS1 promoters. Another kindred with these widespread epigenetic defects of GNAS has been described ( 214 ). The affected individuals in this kindred carried a maternally inherited deletion that removed antisense exons 3 and 4 with flanking intronic regions but not the NESP55 exon. Additional genomic deletions or rearrangements in the chromosomal regions comprising GNAS have also been identified and proposed to underlie the GNAS methylation abnormalities in some AD-PHP-Ib cases ( 215 - 219 ). These PHP1B deletions point to two different imprinting control regions (ICRs) for the GNAS complex locus: one within the STX16 gene and the other at the NESP55 DMR. The ICR defined by the deletion at the neighboring STX16 gene seems to be in a different location in the mouse, because the targeted ablation of the region homologous to the 3-kb deletion caused neither Gnas methylation defects nor PTH resistance in mice ( 220 ). Recently, genome-wide methylation analysis of embryonic stem cells indicated that the A/B region is modestly hypomethylated compared to differentiated cells ( 221 , 222 ), suggesting that this imprinted region
