Hypoparathyroidism and Pseudohypoparathyroidism
KEYWORDS: pubmed, hypoparathyroidism, mutations, free, free article, article, pmc free, article pubmed, pmc, patients, pth, type, syndrome, pseudohypoparathyroidism, journal


Recently, genome-wide methylation analysis of embryonic stem cells indicated that the A/B region is modestly hypomethylated compared to differentiated cells ( 221 , 222 ), suggesting that this imprinted region differs from most other imprinted loci and is regulated critically in the early embryo. Subsequently, a study showed that deleting either the maternal STX16-ICR or the maternal NESP55-ICR results in significant further A/B hypomethylation in human embryonic stem cells (hESCs) ( 223 ). Moreover, while wild-type hESCs recovered their methylation following a transient inhibition of the maintenance DNA methyltransferase DNMT1 (mimicking the global demethylation process in the preimplantation embryo), the cells with maternally deleted STX16- or NESP55-ICR failed to regain methylation ( 223 ). This study also showed that the shortest region of overlap among the PHP1B-causing STX16 deletions was shown to harbor a pluripotent cell-specific enhancer element for the NESP55 promoter on the maternal allele ( 223 ). Taken together with a mouse study implicating NESP55 transcription in the regulation of maternal GNAS imprints ( 224 ), these findings strongly suggest that the GNAS exon A/B imprint is controlled, at least partly, in the early embryo by the NESP55 transcript that relies on the long-range enhancer within STX16. Thus, perturbation of this mechanism appears to be the underlying cause of the GNAS methylation defects observed in familial PHP1B cases. Sporadic PHP1B cases also show broad GNAS epigenetic defects that involve A/B. In some of these cases, paternal uniparental disomy of different chromosome 20 segments have been reported as the likely cause of PHP1B in several such cases ( 225 - 229 ). The cause of the epigenetic defects and PTH resistance, however, remains unknown for most cases of sporadic PHP1B. GNAS methylation defects have been identified in some cases with hypomethylation at multiple maternally methylated imprinted regions ( 230 - 233 ). In fact, some of those cases show both PTH resistance and the clinical features resulting from the methylation changes of the other loci, such as Beckwith-Wiedemann Syndrome. A recent study revealed that, in addition to the exon A/B DMR, methylation at a new GNAS region close to the GNAS-AS1 promoter (termed GNAS-AS2 ), is lost in patients who carry STX16 deletions ( 234 ). Note that this region is also affected in those cases that display broad GNAS methylation changes. Recently, two distinct subdomains with the GNAS-AS2 region have been identified, and a patient with partial loss
