Hypoparathyroidism and Pseudohypoparathyroidism
KEYWORDS: pubmed, hypoparathyroidism, mutations, free, free article, article, pmc free, article pubmed, pmc, patients, pth, type, syndrome, pseudohypoparathyroidism, journal


region is also affected in those cases that display broad GNAS methylation changes. Recently, two distinct subdomains with the GNAS-AS2 region have been identified, and a patient with partial loss of A/B methylation showed gain-of-methylation in one subdomain and no alteration in the other ( 235 ). The effect of methylation changes at GNAS-AS2 has yet to be determined at the level of gene expression, and their pathophysiologic significance is unclear. Two distinct PHP1B families have been recently described to carry maternal retrotransposon insertions in the large intron between exon XL and A/B of the maternal GNAS allele ( 236 , 237 ). These cases had apparently normal levels of GNAS-AS2 methylation ( 235 , 237 ), reflecting, perhaps, that the deleterious genetic alteration is located downstream of this DMR. The mechanism by which these retrotransposons cause A/B hypomethylation may entail perturbation of NESP55 transcription. The inserted sequence comprises multiple polyadenylation signals (AAUAAA), which may truncate the transcript prematurely, and one of the studies showed that the level of NESP55 transcript was reduced in patient-derived induced pluripotent cells ( 236 ). A study compared the clinical phenotypes of PHP1B patients who show isolated A/B loss of methylation to those with broad GNAS methylation defects ( 238 ). No clinical differences could be established according to the pattern of GNAS epigenetic defects, although serum PTH levels were significantly higher in females with broad GNAS methylation defects than females with isolated loss of 1A methylation. Another study also found an intrauterine growth advantage for both AD-PHP-1b and sporadic PHP-1b cases, but the results indicate that the sporadic cases are not as markedly growth accelerated as AD-PHP-1b cases at birth ( 239 ). Contrary to the classical understanding that AHO features are unique to PHP1A, some studies have identified patients with PTH resistance and AHO features who show GNAS epigenetic defects rather than Gsα coding mutations ( 200 , 240 - 242 ). Thus, there may be some overlap between the clinical and molecular features of PHP1A and PHP1B. It is possible that the AHO features observed in patients with GNAS epigenetic defects result from a genetic mechanism that is similar to the mechanism underlying the hormone resistance in PHP1A patients, i.e., due to monoallelic Gsα expression in additional tissues. A PHP1B family with a novel Gsα mutation, deletion of isoleucine-382 in the carboxyl terminus has been described ( 243 ). In transfected
