Hypoparathyroidism and Pseudohypoparathyroidism
KEYWORDS: pubmed, hypoparathyroidism, mutations, free, free article, article, pmc free, article pubmed, pmc, patients, pth, type, syndrome, pseudohypoparathyroidism, journal


to monoallelic Gsα expression in additional tissues. A PHP1B family with a novel Gsα mutation, deletion of isoleucine-382 in the carboxyl terminus has been described ( 243 ). In transfected cells this mutation led to uncoupling from the PTHR1 and isolated PTH resistance but not from other receptors, including TSH receptor. However, the same mutation showed uncoupling from multiple receptors, questioning the role of this mutation in the pathogenesis of PHP1B in this family. Such mutations within Gsα coding exons are likely to be a rare cause of PHP1B ( 166 ). PHP1c and PHP2 Patients with PHP1c have multiple hormone resistance but normal Gsα activity. The defect may be in other components of the receptor-adenylate cyclase system, such as the catalytic unit, but some PHP1c cases have been reported to carry Gsα coding mutations ( 244 ). These mutations render the Gsα protein unable to mediate cAMP generation in response to receptor activation but do not affect basal adenylate cyclase stimulating activity or the ability to be activated by non-hydrolyzable GTP analogs ( 244 - 246 ). Thus, some forms of PHP1c appear to be an allelic variant of PHP1A. Finally, patients with PHP2 have a normal urinary cAMP response to PTH but an impaired phosphaturic response ( 247 ). The defect could be in the cAMP-dependent protein kinase (PKA), one of its substrates or targets, or in a component of the PTH-PKC signaling pathway. Impaired PTH-induced phosphaturia with normal nephrogenous cAMP formation (i.e., PHP2) appears as the least common form of PHP. PHP2 is a sporadic disorder, but a familial form of PHP2 has been reported ( 248 ). In addition, a self-limited form of this disease in newborns has also been described, suggesting that it is transient in nature ( 249 - 251 ). The etiology and pathophysiological mechanisms behind this PHP variant remain unknown. Because patients show adequate nephrogenous cAMP generation in response to exogenous PTH, molecular defects downstream of cAMP production are implicated, such as protein kinase A ( 247 ). Accordingly, a study ( 252 ) has discovered a heterozygous mutation of the gene encoding the regulatory subunit of PKA ( PRKAR1A ) in three patients with multiple hormone resistance and acrodysostosis , a form of skeletal dysplasia that includes severe brachydactyly type-E and other skeletal findings that resemble AHO (also known as Maroteaux-Malamut syndrome ( 253 , 254 ). Several other variants of
