Hypoparathyroidism and Pseudohypoparathyroidism
KEYWORDS: pubmed, hypoparathyroidism, mutations, free, free article, article, pmc free, article pubmed, pmc, patients, pth, type, syndrome, pseudohypoparathyroidism, journal


form of skeletal dysplasia that includes severe brachydactyly type-E and other skeletal findings that resemble AHO (also known as Maroteaux-Malamut syndrome ( 253 , 254 ). Several other variants of PRKAR1A have also been identified in other patients with a similar phenotype ( 255 - 258 ). These mutations, including the recurrent mutation R368X leading to the truncation of the C-terminal 14 residues, impair cAMP binding to the regulatory subunit, thereby blocking the activation of PKA ( 252 , 259 - 261 ). In addition to acrodysostosis, patients carrying this mutation display evidence for target organ resistance to PTH, thyrotropin, growth hormone-releasing hormone, and gonadotropins, but these findings are accompanied by elevated basal plasma and urinary cAMP levels and with an apparently normal cAMP response to exogenous PTH administration. In certain other patients with acrodysostosis, but mostly without hormone resistance, it has been shown that the disease is caused by missense mutations in PDE4D , which encodes a cAMP phosphodiesterase ( 258 , 262 , 263 ). Given that PDE4D is an enzyme that reduces the intracellular cAMP concentration, the PDE4D mutations are likely to be gain-of-function ( 264 ). The type of acrodysostosis caused by PRKAR1A mutations has been termed acrodysostosis-1 (MIM#101800), while the one caused by PDE4D mutations acrodysostosis-2 (MIM#614613). In addition, another subtype of cAMP phosphodiesterase, PDE3A, is affected in another disorder characterized by severe hypertension and brachydactyly type-E with short stature ( 154 , 265 ), underscoring the importance of cAMP signaling in skeletal development and the regulation of vascular tone. Other Phenotypes Associated with GNAS Mutations In contrast to the PHP phenotype associated with inactivating GNAS mutations, a different form of sporadic bone disease, ( polyostotic fibrous dysplasia) results from de novo GNAS mutations that cause constitutive Gsα activity ( 266 ). A more severe form of this disease ( panostotic fibrous dysplasia ) with hyperphosphatasia and hyperphosphaturic rickets has also been described ( 267 , 268 ) . Patients carrying these activating mutations are mosaic for mutant and wild-type cells, indicating that the mutation is acquired during postzygotic development. These mutations affect the arginine residue at position 201 (exon 8) and, rarely, the glutamine at 227 (exon 9), and inhibit the intrinsic GTP hydrolase activity of Gsα, thereby leading to constitutive activity. Such constitutively activating mutations of GNAS are also found in a variety of endocrine and non-endocrine tumors, such as growth hormone-secreting adenomas
