Hypoparathyroidism and Pseudohypoparathyroidism
KEYWORDS: pubmed, hypoparathyroidism, mutations, free, free article, article, pmc free, article pubmed, pmc, patients, pth, type, syndrome, pseudohypoparathyroidism, journal


activity of Gsα, thereby leading to constitutive activity. Such constitutively activating mutations of GNAS are also found in a variety of endocrine and non-endocrine tumors, such as growth hormone-secreting adenomas ( 269 ) . A missense mutation in exon 13 (A366S) results in a Gsα protein that is unstable at 37°C, but constitutively active at lower temperatures ( 270 , 271 ). Affected patients have PHP due to PTH resistance and precocious puberty (testotoxicosis) due to hormone-independent constitutive activation of luteinizing hormone receptors at lower ambient temperatures in the testes. Another Gsα mutant carrying Ala-Val-Asp-Thr amino acid repeats in the guanine-binding domain has been described in a patient with neonatal diarrhea and PTH resistance ( 272 ). In this instance, the mutant protein is unstable and localized to the cytoplasm rather than plasma membrane, which explains the hormone resistance. On the other hand, this mutation increases the rate of GDP-GTP exchange and, thus, confers overactivity. The increased activity of Gsα seems to be evident during the neonatal period in the gut, where the mutant localizes to the plasma membrane, thus explaining the diarrhea phenotype. Additional cases with missense Gsα mutations have been reported, presenting with clinical findings that likely reflect both gain and loss of Gsα function ( 273 , 274 ). Inactivating GNAS mutations have also been identified in patients with congenital osteoma cutis and progressive osseous heteroplasia (POH ), suggesting that these connective tissue conditions are another variant in the phenotypic spectrum of GNAS -related disease ( 275 - 278 ). No genotype-phenotype correlation has been revealed regarding these disorders, as the same mutation can be associated with either typical AHO features or severe ossifications that involve deep connective tissues and skeletal muscle ( 279 ). Nonetheless, patients with POH inherit the GNAS mutation from their fathers or acquire this mutation de novo on the paternal GNAS allele. This parent-of-origin specific inheritance of POH was established by analyzing 18 unrelated kindreds with this disorder ( 280 ). In a single, three generation, kindred, the inheritance of the mutation from males led to POH, while the inheritance of the same mutation from females led to typical AHO. It thus appears likely that alterations in the activity of a paternally expressed GNAS product, such as XLαs, contribute to the pathogenesis of POH. However, POH-like features have also been seen in some patients with maternally inherited GNAS mutations ( 281 ).
