Hypoparathyroidism and Pseudohypoparathyroidism
KEYWORDS: pubmed, hypoparathyroidism, mutations, free, free article, article, pmc free, article pubmed, pmc, patients, pth, type, syndrome, pseudohypoparathyroidism, journal


expressed GNAS product, such as XLαs, contribute to the pathogenesis of POH. However, POH-like features have also been seen in some patients with maternally inherited GNAS mutations ( 281 ). A study revealed that the distribution of POH lesions follows dermomyotomes and shows a tendency for one-sidedness, suggesting that post-zygotic second hits may contribute to the development of these lesions on top of the inherited heterozygous mutations of GNAS ( 282 ). Differential Diagnosis and Genetic Counseling Patients with dysmorphic features resembling AHO may require careful endocrinologic work-up to confirm and delineate the form of PHP that is present. Similar studies of family members may also be warranted, since the biochemical and clinical features vary within families. If PHP1A with AHO is established, genetic counseling may aid in understanding the multisystemic nature of the disorder, particularly in relation to the patient's growth and development, and later-onset connective tissue complications. For either PHP1A or PHP1B, extensive counseling may be required to adequately explain the various implications of paternal imprinting for the parent-specific recurrence risks in offspring. Germline mosaicism has been reported ( 176 ) , which is clearly important in assessing risks for recurrence in future sibs of a singleton family. Given the recently described complexities in the molecular, biochemical, and physical features of PHP1A and PHP1B, molecular testing is critical for achieving a clear diagnosis and validating the inheritance pattern in any given family. THE PARATHYROID HORMONE RECEPTOR AND SKELETAL DYSPLASIAS PTHR1 is a family B G protein-coupled receptor that signals through multiple different G proteins including Gsα ( 283 ). It responds to two ligands, PTH and the PTH-related peptide (PTHrP). It would thus be predicted that deleterious mutations might show resistance to PTH, as well as evidence for a defect of PTHrP action. Functional polymorphisms in the PTHR1 are associated with adult height and bone mineral density ( 284 ), emphasizing the role that the receptor and its ligands play in endochondral bone formation. Inactivating or loss-of-function mutations in the PTHR1 have been implicated in the molecular pathogenesis of Blomstrand lethal chondrodysplasia (BLC ; MIM#215045), and other skeletal dysplasias and dental abnormalities ( 285 ). The rare, recessive BLC is characterized by short-limbed dwarfism with craniofacial malformations, hydrops, hypoplastic lungs and aortic coarctation ( 286 - 290 ). The bones show accelerated endochondral ossification and deficient remodeling. The Blomstrand disease has been subdivided into type I , which
