Hypoparathyroidism and Pseudohypoparathyroidism
KEYWORDS: pubmed, hypoparathyroidism, mutations, free, free article, article, pmc free, article pubmed, pmc, patients, pth, type, syndrome, pseudohypoparathyroidism, journal


hypoplastic lungs and aortic coarctation ( 286 - 290 ). The bones show accelerated endochondral ossification and deficient remodeling. The Blomstrand disease has been subdivided into type I , which refers to the severe (classical) form, and type II , which refers to a relatively milder variant, and the difference between severity is attributed to complete or incomplete inactivation of the PTHR1, respectively ( 291 , 292 ). A milder form of recessively inherited skeletal dysplasia, known as Eiken syndrome (MIM#600002), has also been linked to mutations of PTHR1 ( 293 ). Dominantly acting PTHR1 mutations have been identified in endochondromas of patients with enchondromatosis (Ollier's disease - MIM#166000), a familial disorder with evidence of autosomal dominance characterized by multiple benign cartilage tumors, and a predisposition to malignant osteocarcinomas ( 294 , 295 ). As many patients with Ollier’s disease do not have PTHR1 mutations, it is likely that the condition is genetically heterogeneous ( 296 ). Dominantly inherited symmetrical enchondromatosis is associated with duplication of 12p11.23 to 12p11.22 that includes the PTHLH gene encoding PTHrP suggesting that abnormal PTHR1 signaling may underlie this unusual form of endochondromatosis ( 297 ). In addition, some cases of autosomal dominant nonsyndromic primary failure of tooth eruption (PFE ) are due to loss-of-function mutations in the PTHR1 that are dominantly acting, leading to haploinsufficiency of the receptor ( 298 - 302 ) . HYPOMAGNESEMIA In humans, hypomagnesemia leads to a suppression of parathyroid hormone release and some degree of peripheral resistance. Although the exact molecular mechanism underlying the suppression of the parathyroid gland in hypomagnesemia is unknown, it is important to recognize that laboratory testing in cases of hypocalcemia with reduced PTH should include measurement of serum magnesium, particularly in newborns ( 303 ). Primary hypomagnesemia with secondary hypocalcemia (HSH) is an autosomal recessive disorder characterized by neuromuscular symptoms in infancy due to extremely low levels of serum magnesium and moderate to severe hypocalcemia. Homozygous mutations in the magnesium transporter gene transient receptor potential cation channel member 6 (TRPM6) cause the disease. HSH, a potentially lethal condition, can be misdiagnosed as primary hypoparathyroidism ( 304 ). Long-term prognosis after treatment with high dose of oral magnesium supplementation is good. Hypomagnesemia is also associated with long-term use of proton-pump inhibitors that decrease the luminal pH of the intestine by acting on the enterocyte apical TRPM6/7 channels ( 305 , 306 ). MANAGEMENT OF HYPOPARATHYROIDISM
