Hypoparathyroidism and Pseudohypoparathyroidism
KEYWORDS: pubmed, hypoparathyroidism, mutations, free, free article, article, pmc free, article pubmed, pmc, patients, pth, type, syndrome, pseudohypoparathyroidism, journal


with long-term use of proton-pump inhibitors that decrease the luminal pH of the intestine by acting on the enterocyte apical TRPM6/7 channels ( 305 , 306 ). MANAGEMENT OF HYPOPARATHYROIDISM Calcium and Vitamin D. The goal of treatment in hypoparathyroid states is to raise the serum calcium sufficiently to alleviate acute symptoms of hypocalcemia and prevent the chronic complications ( 307 , 308 ). The calcium concentration required for this purpose is generally in the low-normal range. It is equally important to ensure that treatment does not result in hypercalcemia, as even transient hypercalcemia could lead to nephrocalcinosis and renal failure. Acute or severe symptomatic hypocalcemia is best treated with intravenous calcium infusion. Initial doses of 2 to 5 millimoles of elemental calcium as the gluconate salt can be given over a 10 to 20 minute period, followed by 2 millimoles elemental calcium per hour as a maintenance dose, to be adjusted according to symptoms and biochemical response. Care must be taken to ensure that the infusion does not extravasate, as this can lead to severe tissue damage. Where possible treatment through central access is preferred. Ionized or total calcium levels should be monitored frequently. Doses in children 5 to 14 years of age need to be adjusted for body weight, while neonates and infants require age-specific dosing. If present, hyperphosphatemia, alkalosis and hypomagnesemia should be corrected concomitantly. Post-surgical hypocalcemia after thyroid or parathyroid surgery is now rarely severe and usually transient with appropriate management ( 309 ). However, the occasional patient can represent a significant problem, particularly if the indication for surgery is chronic hyperparathyroidism, and the post-operative hypoparathyroid state is permanent ( 310 ). The long-term effects of standard therapy, hypercalciuria, nephrolithiasis, nephrocalcinosis, ectopic tissue calcification and mood changes, remain a concern ( 311 ). The mainstay of chronic treatment is oral calcium and activated vitamin D (calcitriol), which should be started as soon as possible to allow reduction and discontinuation of the intravenous calcium. Oral calcium comes in several forms, but calcium carbonate is generally the least expensive. A total of 20 to 80 millimoles elemental calcium daily (2 to 8 g calcium carbonate per day) is generally effective, but should be given in divided doses and adjusted on the basis of gastro-intestinal tolerance, relief of hypocalcemic symptoms, and appropriate biochemical response. Vitamin D is preferably administered as calcitriol (0.25 to 1.0 micrograms per day), but, with
