Hypoparathyroidism and Pseudohypoparathyroidism
KEYWORDS: pubmed, hypoparathyroidism, mutations, free, free article, article, pmc free, article pubmed, pmc, patients, pth, type, syndrome, pseudohypoparathyroidism, journal


adjusted on the basis of gastro-intestinal tolerance, relief of hypocalcemic symptoms, and appropriate biochemical response. Vitamin D is preferably administered as calcitriol (0.25 to 1.0 micrograms per day), but, with some conditions, pharmacological doses of cholecalciferol or ergocalciferol or calcidiol may be less expensive and equally efficacious ( 312 ). Cholecalciferol and ergocalciferol doses are more difficult to titrate, and given their long duration of action, any overdoses can result in sustained toxicity. It is, therefore, appropriate to institute a starting dose of 25,000 IU/day and titrate upwards (to 100,000 IU/daily) with an assessment of serum and urinary parameters afterward with follow-up at 6 and 12 months, even if the patient is relatively asymptomatic. However, the use of active vitamin D (calcitriol or alphacalcidol) is recommended given that the lack of PTH along with the accompanying hyperphosphatemia reduces renal conversion of 25-hydroxyvitamin D to active vitamin D ( 307 , 308 ). Serum calcium and 24-hour urinary excretion should be carefully monitored when therapy is started and continued until the dosing is stabilized. Hypercalciuria that occurs as treatment is initiated, even prior to the normalization of the serum calcium, may warrant an assessment of nephrocalcinosis by renal ultrasound. Consequently, only a low-normal serum calcium concentration may be attainable, but many patients feel well enough that there is no need to entirely normalize the serum calcium. In this way, the risk of renal failure due to chronic hypercalciuria − especially problematic in patients with CASR activating mutations ( 6 , 7 ) − is minimized. Even after normalization or near-normalization of serum calcium, a significant number of patients report problems with fatigue, exhaustion, and mood disturbances (e.g., depression, anxiety, hostility, and paranoid ideation) not in keeping with the degree of hypocalcemia, suggesting that there may be non-calcitropic effects of PTH not remedied by maintenance of normocalcemia alone ( 311 ). In an epidemiological and health-related quality of life study from Norway, postsurgical hypoparathyroid patients scored worse than those with nonsurgical hypoparathyroidism or pseudohypoparathyroidism ( 313 ), providing further support for the notion of direct effects of PTH on mood. In pseudohypoparathyroidism, calcitriol (and not other forms of vitamin D) should be used for the treatment, because the PTH resistance in the proximal tubule does not allow for the efficient synthesis of 1,25(OH) 2 D from 25-hydroxyvitamin D. In pseudohypoparathyroidism type 1A, there is also a degree of PTH resistance in the
