Hypoparathyroidism and Pseudohypoparathyroidism
KEYWORDS: pubmed, hypoparathyroidism, mutations, free, free article, article, pmc free, article pubmed, pmc, patients, pth, type, syndrome, pseudohypoparathyroidism, journal


proximal tubule does not allow for the efficient synthesis of 1,25(OH) 2 D from 25-hydroxyvitamin D. In pseudohypoparathyroidism type 1A, there is also a degree of PTH resistance in the bone due to haploinsufficiency of Gsα. However, in pseudohypothyroidism type 1B, the bone is fully sensitive to PTH, so monitoring serum PTH levels during treatment is critical with the aim of normalizing or reducing PTH levels as much as possible ( 314 , 315 ). Hypercalciuria as a result of the calcitriol and calcium treatment is a lesser concern in pseudohypoparathyroidism because PTH actions in the distal tubule are still functional, preventing excess loss of calcium in the urine and providing greater protection against nephrocalcinosis. Hormone Replacement Therapy Hormone replacement has been advocated as a potentially superior form of treatment for decades but only recently have preparations of recombinant human hormone –– teriparatide (PTH 1-34), full-length parathyroid hormone (PTH 1-84), and abaloparatide (PTHrP analog) — become available. In 2015, the U.S. Food and Drug Administration (FDA) approved recombinant human (rh) PTH ( 1 - 84 ) for the management of hypoparathyroidism ( 316 ). This provided an additional therapeutic option for the management of those patients who demonstrate poor control with the standard calcium and active vitamin D supplemental therapy. The FDA indication was for subjects with hypoparathyroidism of any etiology, except ADH, but including postsurgical cases. The FDA did not limit the duration of its use but approved rhPTH( 1 - 84 ) with a “black box” warning because of the history of rat osteosarcoma and PTH use ( 317 ). However, no evidence for this in primates or in clinical use has been forthcoming ( 318 ), and the ‘black box’ warning has since been withdrawn ( 319 ). The use of PTH in hypoparathyroidism was demonstrated initially with the amino-terminal fragment of PTH, teriparatide [PTH( 1 – 34 )] ( 320 ). Beneficial control in children and in adults occurred when teriparatide was administered daily, with better control when the peptide was administered in twice-daily dosing regimens ( 320 - 324 ). With a pump delivery system by which teriparatide could be administered continuously ( 325 , 326 ), urinary calcium excretion fell, and markers of bone turnover normalized. A smaller daily dose was required with pump delivery vs multiple daily dosing regimens. An open-label trial of PTH( 1 – 34 ) in adult subjects with postsurgical
