Hypoparathyroidism and Pseudohypoparathyroidism
KEYWORDS: pubmed, hypoparathyroidism, mutations, free, free article, article, pmc free, article pubmed, pmc, patients, pth, type, syndrome, pseudohypoparathyroidism, journal


turnover normalized. A smaller daily dose was required with pump delivery vs multiple daily dosing regimens. An open-label trial of PTH( 1 – 34 ) in adult subjects with postsurgical hypoparathyroidism showed improvement in quality of life ( 327 ). Beneficial effects on calcium homeostasis have also been demonstrated in specific ADH cases with activating CaSR mutations ( 328 , 329 ). The full-length PTH ( 1 - 84 ) mimics the secreted product of the parathyroid gland, and its longer biological half-life (than PTH( 1 - 34 ) makes once-daily dosing feasible in the treatment of hypoparathyroidism ( 330 - 332 ). Studies by several groups have noted a substantial reduction in the requirement for calcium and active vitamin D ( 333 - 335 ); only transient reductions in urinary calcium excretion ( 331 ); a tendency for lumbar spine bone mineral density (BMD) to increase and that of the distal one-third radius to fall ( 334 ); a rapid increase in bone turnover, assessed by circulating markers and dynamic histomorphometric analyses of bone that achieves a new steady state that is higher than baseline values within 2–3 years ( 336 ); and improvements in quality of life in some studies ( 333 , 337 ). In a placebo-controlled 24-week clinical trial of rhPTH ( 1 - 84 ) in 130 hypoparathyroid patients the primary endpoints of a reduction by 50% in calcium supplements and in active vitamin D along with maintenance of the serum calcium were met in over half of the study subjects ( 338 ). There was a greater percentage of subjects in whom active vitamin D could be eliminated entirely while taking no more than 500 mg of oral calcium daily. The drug was titrated from 50 to 100 μg/d, with just over half of the subjects needing the highest dose. The rhPTH( 1 - 84 ) reduced serum phosphate levels, improved the calcium-phosphate product, and maintained 1,25(OH) 2 D and serum calcium levels in the normal range ( 339 ). In addition, therapy with a long-acting prodrug of PTH( 1 - 34 ), TransCon PTH (palopegteriparatide), in hypoparathyroidism has been shown to improve scores in quality-of-life measures ( 340 ). However, despite these early positive results, the inconvenient route of administration, daily or twice daily subcutaneous injection, leads to most patients opting for conventional treatment with oral calcium and calcitriol. The manufacturer of rhPTH(
