Hypoparathyroidism and Pseudohypoparathyroidism
KEYWORDS: pubmed, hypoparathyroidism, mutations, free, free article, article, pmc free, article pubmed, pmc, patients, pth, type, syndrome, pseudohypoparathyroidism, journal


positive results, the inconvenient route of administration, daily or twice daily subcutaneous injection, leads to most patients opting for conventional treatment with oral calcium and calcitriol. The manufacturer of rhPTH( 1 - 34 ) has recently decided to discontinue this product at the end of 2024 due to an unresolved supply issue ( https://www.takeda.com/newsroom/statements/2022/discontinue-manufacturing-natpar-natpara/ ). In addition, the use of teriparatide or aboloparatide for hypoparathyroidism has not been approved by the FDA. Therefore, no available FDA-approved hormone replacement therapies currently exist for the management of this disorder. Calcilytics Calcilytics are small molecule allosteric modulators of the CASR that antagonize the calcium-sensing receptor and promote PTH secretion and are a promising alternative for disorders with intact but hypofunctioning parathyroid glands ( 341 ). Calcilytics inhibit the activation of the CASR in both the parathyroid and renal tubule, and thus, they not only promote PTH secretion but also increase renal calcium reabsorption and are, therefore, of potential interest for the treatment of ADH1. In contrast, clinical studies in patients with ADH1 treated with PTH( 1 - 34 ) led to better control of blood calcium levels ( 324 ), but the effects of the activated CASR in the kidney led to continued increases in urinary calcium excretion, different from patients with postsurgical hypoparathyroidism ( 326 , 329 ). Thus, while FDA approval was given for PTH treatment of hypoparathyroidism, ADH1 was excluded from the indication. In cell culture experiments studying activating CASR mutants, calcilytics normalize the left-ward shift of the calcium response curve ( 342 , 343 ). The utility of calcilytics was further demonstrated in studies of mice harboring activating Casr mutations. In one study, two knock-in mouse models of ADH1 with activating mutations in the Casr were generated. Daily oral administration of the calcilytic JTT-305/MK-3442 to these mice increased serum PTH and calcium levels and reduced urinary calcium excretion ( 310 ). Intraperitoneal injection of the calcilytic NPS2143 in the nuf mouse model of ADH1, transiently increased circulating PTH and calcium levels without increasing urinary calcium levels ( 342 ). In a preliminary clinical study, IV administration of the calcilytic NPSP795 to five patients with ADH1 increased their plasma PTH levels and decreased their fractional urinary calcium excretion ( 344 ). Calcilytics comprise two main classes of compounds; the amino alcohols (e.g., NPS2143, NPSP795, JTT-305/MK-5442) and the quinazolinones (e.g., ATF936 and AXT914) ( 341 ). While both classes of compounds
