TYPEMiniReview
KEYWORDS: gut, gastrointestinal, microbiota, microbial, dysbiosis, disorders, ibd, bacteria, therapeutic, research, specific, gastrointestinal disorders, fmt, including, factors


Firmicutes abundance below Thisreviewhassystematicallyoutlinedtheassociationsbetween 30% might be prioritized for FMT, while those with high GM dysbiosis and major gastrointestinal disorders, highlighting Ruminococcaceae could respond better to specific prebiotics. both common and unique microbial signatures across conditions Finally,dynamicmonitoringthroughrepeatedfecalmetabolomics like IBD, IBS, CRC, and GC. It has also detailed the mechanisms (tracking SCFA levels) or microbial sequencing is crucial for and current evidence for various therapeutic strategies, including assessingresponseandadjustingtherapy. probiotics, prebiotics, FMT, and dietary interventions. Looking forward, several key challenges and research directions must be addressed to advance the field: Future efforts must focus on 4.2 Gut microecological interactions standardizing therapeutic protocols (FMT procedures, probiotic strainsanddosages)anddevelopingpersonalizedGMmodulation Thegutecosystemextendsbeyondbacteriatoincludefungiand plans tailored to an individual’s baseline microbiota, disease research underscores the significant role of fungal dysbiosis move beyond correlations and elucidate the precise molecular (mycobiota) in IBD pathogenesis, highlighting mechanisms such mechanisms by which specific microbes and their metabolites FrontiersinCellularandInfectionMicrobiology 08 frontiersin.org Zhangetal. influence host physiology. This includes a deeper investigation of Foundation Co-Sponsored Program (No. 2024J08328); Xiamen the gut-brain axis in disorders like NEC and the functional role Health Commission High-Quality Development Science and ofbacteriocins. TechnologyPlanProject(No.2024GZL-GG49). The significant variability in GM composition across populations and the limitations of animal models necessitate Acknowledgments larger, more diverse human cohort studies that account for dietary, geographical, and genetic confounders. Future research should expand to study the complex interactions between gut Figureswerecreatedin bacteria, viruses (phages), fungi, and other members of the gut Conflict of interest and disease. The integration of emerging approaches, such as engineered microbes, postbiotics, phage therapy, and the manipulation of GM to improve cancer immunotherapy, holds The author(s) declared that this work was conducted in the great promise for developing next-generation therapeutics. By absenceofanycommercialorfinancialrelationshipsthatcouldbe addressing these priorities, the field can overcome current construedasapotentialconflictofinterest. limitations and fully realize the potential of GM modulation as a cornerstoneofpersonalizedmedicineforgastrointestinaldisorders. Generative AI statement Author contributions Theauthor(s)declared thatgenerativeAIwasnotusedinthe creationofthismanuscript. M-YZ: Conceptualization, Writing – original draft, Writing – Anyalternativetext(alttext)providedalongsidefiguresinthis review&editing.S-YC:Writing–review&editing.Y-HL:Writing– articlehasbeengeneratedbyFrontierswiththesupportofartificial review&editing.X-XY:Writing–review&editing. intelligence and reasonable efforts have been made to ensure accuracy, including review by the authors wherever possible. Ifyouidentifyanyissues,pleasecontactus. Funding Theauthor(s) declared thatfinancialsupport wasreceivedfor Publisher’s note this work and/or its publication. National Center for the Development of Distinguished Specialties in Traditional Chinese All claims expressed in this article are solely those of the Medicine; Shanghai Baoshan District Key Medical Specialty (No. authors and do not necessarily represent those of their affiliated BSZK-2023-A01); Excellent Youth Project of Natural Science organizations, or those
