HHS Public Access
KEYWORDS: hcv, infection, author, manuscript, author manuscript, treatment, hcv infection, recommended, manuscript author, testing, hepatitis, cirrhosis, liver, guidance, persons


AASLD-IDSA HCV Guidance Project Scientific Writer, Editor, and Author Tina M. St. John, M.D. Vancouver, WA AASLD-IDSA HCV Guidance Panel Financial Relationships With Commercial Entities Chairs Dr. Ghany has no relevant financial affiliations to disclose (updated November 12, 2019). Dr. Marks was awarded research grants, paid to her institution, from Gilead Sciences and Merck & Co. (updated November 12, 2019). Dr. Morgan was awarded research grants, paid to his institution, from AbbVie, GENFIT, Gilead Sciences, and Merck & Co. (updated November 12, 2019). Dr. Wyles was awarded research grants, paid to his institution, from Gilead Sciences (updated November 18, 2019). Members Dr. Aronsohn has no relevant financial affiliations to disclose (updated November 12, 2019). Dr. Bhattacharya has no relevant financial affiliations to disclose (updated November 13, 2018). Ms. Broder has no relevant financial affiliations to disclose (updated November 13, 2018). Dr. Falade-Nwulia (recent but not a current member of the HCV guidance panel) has no relevant financial affiliations to disclose (updated November 29, 2018). Dr. Feld serves as a scientific consultant to AbbVie, Arbutus Biopharma, Enanta Pharmaceuticals, Gilead Sciences, F. Hoffmann-La Roche, and Merck & Co. He was awarded research grants, paid to his institution, from AbbVie, FUJIFILM Wako Chemicals U.S.A., Gilead Sciences, and Janssen Pharmaceuticals (updated November 12, 2019). Hepatology. Author manuscript; available in PMC 2022 November 30. Author Manuscript Author Manuscript Author Manuscript Author Manuscript Recommendations for Testing, Managing, and Treating Hepatitis C Virus Infection AASLD-IDSA Hepatitis C Guidance Panel* Keywords HCV screening; direct-acting antiviral treatment; HCV guidance; chronic HCV treatment Preamble The American Association for the Study of Liver Diseases (AASLD) and the Infectious Diseases Society of America (IDSA) initiated the hepatitis C guidance project (hereafter HCV guidance) in 2013. The AASLD-IDSA HCV guidance website (www.HCVGuidelines.org) disseminates up-to-date, peer-reviewed, unbiased, evidence- based recommendations to aid clinicians making decisions regarding the testing, management, and treatment of hepatitis C virus (HCV) infection. Utilizing a web-based system enables timely and nimble distribution of the HCV guidance, which is periodically Dr. Gordon was awarded research grants, paid to his institution, from AbbVie, Gilead Sciences, and Merck & Co. (updated November 12, 2019). Dr. Heller has no relevant financial affiliations to disclose (updated November 12, 2019). Dr. Jhaveri serves as a scientific consultant for AstraZeneca. He received research grants, paid to his institution, from AbbVie and Gilead Sciences (updated October 31, 2019). Dr. Jonas serves as a scientific consultant to Gilead Sciences
