HHS Public Access
KEYWORDS: hcv, infection, author, manuscript, author manuscript, treatment, hcv infection, recommended, manuscript author, testing, hepatitis, cirrhosis, liver, guidance, persons


addressing other aspects of HCV testing and management, see the online HCV guidance (www.HCVGuidelines.org). Process The HCV guidance was developed and is updated by a volunteer panel (representing AASLD and IDSA) of hepatology and infectious diseases clinicians with hepatitis C expertise using an evidence-based review of available data, including information presented at scientific conferences and published in peer-reviewed journals. Based on scientific evidence and expert opinion, recommendations are rated by the level of evidence (I, II, or III) and the strength of the recommendation (A, B or C) using a system adapted original AASLD-IDSA hepatitis C guidance publication(7) or the HCV guidance website for additional details about the processes and methods employed. All recommendations are reviewed and approved by the governing boards of AASLD and IDSA. The HCV guidance panel classifies therapeutic regimens as recommended, alternative, or not recommended based on patient factors (i.e., treatment naive versus experienced, cirrhosis status, and comorbidities) and viral characteristics (i.e., genotype, subtype, resistance-associated substitutions). Recommended regimens are considered equivalent; Hepatology. Author manuscript; available in PMC 2022 November 30. Author Manuscript Author Manuscript Author Manuscript Author Manuscript alternative regimens are effective but, compared to recommended regimens, have potential disadvantages, limitations for use in certain patient populations, or less supporting data. Universal and Risk-Based Hepatitis C Screening and Follow-Up The identification of risk factors associated with contracting HCV infection served as the basis for the risk-based hepatitis C screening recommendations issued by the U.S. Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) in 1998.(8) Although sensitive for the identification of persons with chronic HCV infection, risk-based screening failed to identify the majority of individuals with HCV infection due to both clinician and patient barriers.(9–12) Analysis of the 2003–2010 National Health and Nutrition Examination Survey (NHANES) prevalence data demonstrated that approximately three fourths of individuals with chronic hepatitis C in the United States belonged to the 1945 through 1965 birth cohort.(13) Based on these data, both CDC and the U.S. Preventive Services Task Force (USPSTF) recommended one-time hepatitis C screening of all individuals in this birth cohort (1945 through 1965) regardless of risk factors.(14, 15) Since these recommendations were established in 2012, HCV epidemiology in the United States has changed. Hepatitis C infection incidence nearly quadrupled from 2010 to 2017, primarily driven by increased injection drug use related to the opioid epidemic.(16–19) CDC viral hepatitis surveillance data indicate progressively increasing acute HCV infection incidence each year from 2009
