HHS Public Access
KEYWORDS: hcv, infection, author, manuscript, author manuscript, treatment, hcv infection, recommended, manuscript author, testing, hepatitis, cirrhosis, liver, guidance, persons


to 2017, primarily driven by increased injection drug use related to the opioid epidemic.(16–19) CDC viral hepatitis surveillance data indicate progressively increasing acute HCV infection incidence each year from 2009 through 2017. Most of these new HCV infections occurred in persons born after 1965 with those aged 20–39 years accounting for the majority of cases. This ongoing trend has spurred interest in expanding HCV screening among the general U.S. population. Several modeling studies suggest the cost-effectiveness of such an approach.(20–23) Accordingly, the AASLD-IDSA guidance HCV screening and follow-up recommendations have been updated and include newly recommended universal HCV screening for all adults aged 18 years or older followed by periodic testing for persons with ongoing risk behaviors and/or exposures. One-Time, Universal Hepatitis C Screening for Adults Recommendations 1. One-time, routine, opt out HCV screening is recommended for all individuals aged 18 years or older. (I, B) In light of the inadequacy of targeted HCV case finding using risk-based and birth cohort HCV screening,(24, 25) investigators have modeled the cost- effectiveness of one-time universal HCV screening for adults aged ≥18 years. Independent studies using different modeling techniques demonstrate that one-time universal screening for adults aged ≥18 years is cost-effective (<$30,000/quality-adjusted life years) compared with birth-cohort screening. (20, 26) Additionally, the cost-effectiveness of nontargeted HCV screening has proven robust in a variety of venues including correctional,(27) prenatal,(28, 29) and primary care(30) settings, and substance use treatment centers.(31, 32) Given the current epidemiology of HCV disease in the United States, the cost-effectiveness of universal HCV screening, the high efficacy of DAA Hepatology. Author manuscript; available in PMC 2022 November 30. Author Manuscript Author Manuscript Author Manuscript Author Manuscript (33–38) the HCV guidance panel recommends universal, one-time, opt out HCV screening of adults aged ≥18 years. Although neither CDC nor the USPSTF currently recommend universal HCV screening in adults, CDC initiated a peer review process to consider such a recommendation in July 2019. Similarly, in August 2019, the USPSTF published a draft recommendation for universal HCV screening among adults aged 18–79 years. The USPSTF draft universal hepatitis C screening recommendation differs from that of the AASLD-IDSA HCV guidance by setting an upper age limit of 79 years. The HCV guidance panel does not recommend an age limit for universal adult HCV screening due to the excellent quality of life of many octogenarians and the association between advanced age and more rapid HCV disease progression.
