HHS Public Access
KEYWORDS: hcv, infection, author, manuscript, author manuscript, treatment, hcv infection, recommended, manuscript author, testing, hepatitis, cirrhosis, liver, guidance, persons


an age limit for universal adult HCV screening due to the excellent quality of life of many octogenarians and the association between advanced age and more rapid HCV disease progression. The HCV guidance panel’s new universal screening recommendation is intended to enhance HCV case finding among adults not included in the 1945 through 1965 birth cohort and aligns with the WHO and NASEM goals of eliminating HCV as a public health threat by 2030. This is particularly important for men and women aged 20–39 years due to the disproportionate overlapping impact of the opioid epidemic and associated injection drug use and the rising rate of incident HCV infections in this age group. Universal HCV screening also bypasses the inherent barriers in ascertaining an accurate risk factor assessment. Risk-Based HCV Testing Recommendations 2. One-time HCV testing should be performed for all persons younger than 18 years old with behaviors, exposures, or conditions or circumstances associated with an increased risk of HCV infection. (I, B) 3. Periodic repeat HCV testing should be offered to all persons with behaviors, exposures, or conditions or circumstances associated with an increased risk of HCV exposure. (IIa, C) 4. Annual HCV testing is recommended for all persons who inject drugs and for men with human immunodeficiency virus (HIV) infection who have unprotected sex with men. (IIa, C) One-time, risk-based HCV screening is recommended for persons younger than 18 years old with current or past behaviors, exposures, or conditions or circumstances associated with an increased risk of HCV infection (see Table 1). There is currently insufficient evidence to support universal HCV screening in the pediatric population. People with ongoing risk factor(s) for HCV infection remain vulnerable for as long as the behavior, exposure, condition, or circumstance persists, thereby warranting periodic repeat HCV testing. There is a paucity of data addressing the optimal frequency of repeat testing thereby leaving the periodicity to the clinician’s discretion on a case-by-case basis with consideration of an individual’s risk for HCV infection or reinfection. People who inject Hepatology. Author manuscript; available in PMC 2022 November 30. Author Manuscript Author Manuscript Author Manuscript Author Manuscript drugs (PWID) and men with HIV infection who have unprotected sex with men are exceptions to this guidance. Because of the high incidence and prevalence of HCV infection in these populations,(39–47) at least annual HCV testing is recommended. Given that many PWID lack access to or eschew traditional healthcare
