HHS Public Access
KEYWORDS: hcv, infection, author, manuscript, author manuscript, treatment, hcv infection, recommended, manuscript author, testing, hepatitis, cirrhosis, liver, guidance, persons


of the high incidence and prevalence of HCV infection in these populations,(39–47) at least annual HCV testing is recommended. Given that many PWID lack access to or eschew traditional healthcare delivery systems, integration of HCV testing services into substance use treatment programs, needle/syringe service programs, and acute detoxification programs expands the opportunities to accomplish periodic HCV testing in this key population.(48–50) Initial HCV Testing and Follow-Up Recommendations 5. HCV-antibody testing with reflex HCV RNA polymerase chain reaction testing is recommended for initial HCV screening. (I, A) 6. Among persons with a negative HCV-antibody test who were exposed to HCV within the prior 6 months, HCV-RNA or follow-up HCV-antibody testing 6 months or longer after exposure is recommended. HCV-RNA testing can also be considered for immunocompromised persons. (I, C) 7. Among persons at risk for reinfection after previous spontaneous or treatment- related viral clearance, HCV-RNA testing is recommended because a positive HCV-antibody test is expected. (I, C) 8. Persons found to have a positive HCV-antibody test and negative results for HCV RNA by polymerase chain reaction should be informed that they do not have evidence of current (active) HCV infection but are not protected from reinfection. (I, A) 9. Quantitative HCV-RNA testing is recommended prior to initiation of antiviral therapy to document the baseline level of viremia (i.e., baseline viral load). (I, A) 10. HCV genotype testing may be considered for those in whom it may alter treatment recommendations. (I, A) HCV-antibody testing using a U.S. Food and Drug Administration (FDA) approved assay (laboratory-based or point-of-care) is recommended for initial HCV screening.(51, 52) The sensitivity and specificity of the lone FDA-approved point-of-care test (OraQuick HCV Rapid Antibody Test; OraSure Technologies Inc., Bethlehem, Pennsylvania) are similar to laboratory-based assays.(53, 54) A positive HCV-antibody test indicates current (active) HCV infection (acute or chronic), a past resolved infection, or rarely a false positive result.(55) A test to detect HCV viremia is necessary to confirm active HCV infection (see Figure 1). Ideally, a positive HCV-antibody test automatically reflexes to HCV-RNA testing. This approach requires a single blood collection and avoids a return visit for confirmatory testing, a major barrier in the continuum of care.(56) Collection of dried blood spots is an option for sequential HCV-antibody and reflex HCV- RNA testing. Dried blood spot collection can be accomplished with a fingerstick rather than venipuncture and transport does not require an intact cold chain, Hepatology. Author manuscript;
