HHS Public Access
KEYWORDS: hcv, infection, author, manuscript, author manuscript, treatment, hcv infection, recommended, manuscript author, testing, hepatitis, cirrhosis, liver, guidance, persons


and reflex HCV- RNA testing. Dried blood spot collection can be accomplished with a fingerstick rather than venipuncture and transport does not require an intact cold chain, Hepatology. Author manuscript; available in PMC 2022 November 30. Author Manuscript Author Manuscript Author Manuscript Author Manuscript making this an advantageous testing option in rural areas and among people for whom phlebotomy is a testing barrier.(57) An FDA-approved quantitative or qualitative HCV-RNA assay with a detection level of ≤25 IU/mL should be used. HCV-RNA testing is required to detect reinfection after previous spontaneous or treatment-related viral clearance because HCV-antibody positivity is expected (see Figure 1). Immunocompromised persons and those with possible HCV exposure in the prior 6 months may be HCV antibody negative due to delayed or failed seroconversion(58) or being in the seroconversion window period, (52) respectively. HCV-RNA testing is a consideration for these individuals, particularly for those with known risk factor(s). Persons who have a reactive HCV-antibody test and a negative (not detected) HCV-RNA test should be informed that they do not have evidence of current HCV infection. Although additional testing is typically unnecessary, HCV-RNA testing can be repeated for persons with ongoing HCV infection risk or if there is a high index of suspicion for recent infection. If either the clinician or patient wish to determine whether a positive HCV-antibody test in the absence of HCV viremia represents a resolved HCV infection or a biologic false positive, repeat testing with a different HCV-antibody assay can be undertaken. A false positive typically does not occur with two different assays.(51, 59) Quantitative HCV-RNA testing is recommended prior to initiating antiviral therapy to determine baseline viremia (viral load), which may affect treatment duration with ledipasvir/sofosbuvir therapy. With the advent of pangenotypic DAA regimens, HCV genotyping is no longer universally required prior to treatment initiation. Pretreatment genotyping is recommended for persons with a prior HCV treatment failure because DAA regimen selection and duration may differ by genotype. Pretreatment genotyping is not required for treatment-naive patients without cirrhosis if a pangenotypic regimen is used. Counseling and Clinical Care for Persons With Active HCV Infection Recommendations 11. Persons with current HCV infection should receive education and interventions aimed at reducing liver disease progression and preventing HCV transmission. (IIa, B) 12. Abstinence from alcohol and, when appropriate, interventions to facilitate cessation of alcohol consumption should be advised for all persons with HCV infection. (IIa, B) 13. All
