HHS Public Access
KEYWORDS: hcv, infection, author, manuscript, author manuscript, treatment, hcv infection, recommended, manuscript author, testing, hepatitis, cirrhosis, liver, guidance, persons


transmission. (IIa, B) 12. Abstinence from alcohol and, when appropriate, interventions to facilitate cessation of alcohol consumption should be advised for all persons with HCV infection. (IIa, B) 13. All persons with HCV infection should be provided education about how to prevent HCV transmission to others. (I, C) 14. Evaluation for advanced fibrosis using noninvasive markers (or liver biopsy, if required) is recommended for all persons with HCV infection to facilitate an appropriate decision regarding HCV treatment strategy, and to determine Hepatology. Author manuscript; available in PMC 2022 November 30. Author Manuscript Author Manuscript Author Manuscript Author Manuscript the need for initiating additional measures for cirrhosis management (e.g., hepatocellular carcinoma screening). (I, A) 15. Evaluation for other conditions that may accelerate liver fibrosis, including hepatitis B and HIV infections, is recommended for all persons with active HCV infection. (IIb, B) 16. Vaccination against hepatitis A and hepatitis B is recommended for all susceptible persons with HCV infection. (IIa, C) 17. Vaccination against pneumococcal infection is recommended for all persons with cirrhosis. (IIa, C) Upon diagnosis of active HCV infection, patients require counseling and certain clinical interventions prior to initiation of antiviral therapy. Prevention of further liver damage is crucial. To that end, counseling patients to abstain from alcohol takes priority because of associations between excess alcohol use and incident or progressive fibrosis, and the development of hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC). (60–69) There is no known safe level of alcohol use for patients with chronic hepatitis C. All patients with chronic hepatitis C, especially those with advanced fibrosis or cirrhosis, should be advised to abstain from alcohol use.(70–72) Persons suffering from alcohol use disorder require treatment for this condition; consider referring these individuals to an addiction specialist. Ongoing alcohol use, however, is not a contraindication to antiviral therapy. Data indicate that ongoing alcohol use does not affect therapeutic outcomes with DAA regimens among treatment-adherent patients.(73) how to avoid transmitting the virus to others (Table 2) serves as an essential primary prevention measure to curb and eventually eliminate the hepatitis C epidemic. Exposure to infected blood is the primary mode of HCV transmission. Epidemics of acute HCV due to sexual transmission in men with HIV infection who have sex with men have also been described.(74–77) Assessing liver disease severity is an essential component of the workup for all persons with newly diagnosed chronic hepatitis C as this factor influences initial and follow-up evaluation.
