HHS Public Access
KEYWORDS: hcv, infection, author, manuscript, author manuscript, treatment, hcv infection, recommended, manuscript author, testing, hepatitis, cirrhosis, liver, guidance, persons


been described.(74–77) Assessing liver disease severity is an essential component of the workup for all persons with newly diagnosed chronic hepatitis C as this factor influences initial and follow-up evaluation. This assessment (i.e., presence or absence of cirrhosis) can usually be accomplished with noninvasive tests (Table 3). Liver biopsy is rarely required but is a consideration if other causes of liver disease are suspected. Persons with known or suspected cirrhosis are at increased risk for complications of advanced liver disease and require frequent follow-up. They should also avoid hepatotoxic drugs, such as excessive acetaminophen (>2 g/d) and certain herbal supplements. Nephrotoxic drugs (e.g., nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs) should also be avoided. Ongoing imaging surveillance for HCC and gastroesophageal varices is recommended for patients with cirrhosis.(78–80) Cirrhosis with portal hypertension portends a greater likelihood of developing future hepatic complications in untreated patients.(81, 82) Transient elastography Hepatology. Author manuscript; available in PMC 2022 November 30. Author Manuscript Author Manuscript Author Manuscript Author Manuscript provides point-of-care information regarding liver stiffness and can reliably distinguish patients with a high versus low likelihood of cirrhosis.(83–85) Screening for hepatitis B virus (HBV) with an FDA-approved hepatitis B surface antigen (HBsAg) assay and HIV with an FDA-approved HIV-antigen/antibody test is recommended because these coinfections are associated with a poorer HCV prognosis.(86–90) Persons who test positive for HBsAg require additional monitoring during HCV treatment due to HBV reactivation risk.(91) Anti-HBV therapy is another consideration for these patients. For persons who test negative for HBsAg but positive for hepatitis B core antibodies (with or without hepatitis B surface antibodies) have resolved HBV infection and no further workup or additional monitoring is needed.(92) Primary prevention measures for persons without coinfection include counseling about how to avoid contracting HIV and HBV, and immunization against HBV and hepatitis A virus (HAV) as needed. CDC also recommends pneumococcal vaccination for all persons with chronic liver disease.(93) Universal Treatment of Adults With Chronic Hepatitis C and Simplified Treatment Algorithms Chronic HCV infection is an important infectious cause of death in the United States and a major contributor to morbidity and mortality from viral hepatitis globally. The availability of safe, effective, well tolerated therapy substantially facilitates the goal of expanding HCV treatment as recommended in the HCV elimination strategies of WHO(3) and NASEM.(4) Overall, DAA regimens successfully cure HCV infection in >95% of treated persons.(2) Moreover, the development of coformulated, pangenotypic regimens that require relatively short
