HHS Public Access
KEYWORDS: hcv, infection, author, manuscript, author manuscript, treatment, hcv infection, recommended, manuscript author, testing, hepatitis, cirrhosis, liver, guidance, persons


HCV elimination strategies of WHO(3) and NASEM.(4) Overall, DAA regimens successfully cure HCV infection in >95% of treated persons.(2) Moreover, the development of coformulated, pangenotypic regimens that require relatively short treatment durations has greatly simplified HCV antiviral therapy administration. Despite these remarkable therapeutic improvements, in 2015, only 7.4% of persons with diagnosed HCV had begun antiviral treatment.(94) Although more recent limited data indicate increased DAA access and uptake, this has been uneven geographically and across different patient populations.(95–97) Thus, only a minority of persons with HCV infection obtain the many health benefits of successful treatment. From a public health perspective, successful HCV treatment also supports primary prevention by decreasing the population of persons capable of transmitting the virus, thereby reducing the incidence of HCV infection. Universal Treatment of Adults With HCV Infection Recommendation 18. Antiviral treatment is recommended for all adults with acute or chronic HCV infection, except those with a short life expectancy that cannot be remediated by HCV therapy, liver transplantation, or another directed therapy. (I, A) reduced rates of all-cause mortality, cirrhosis, hepatic decompensation, and HCC.(33, 37, 98–110) Successful treatment also confers improvement Hepatology. Author manuscript; available in PMC 2022 November 30. Author Manuscript Author Manuscript Author Manuscript Author Manuscript in extrahepatic manifestations of HCV disease, including cryoglobulinemic vasculitis(111–116) and HCV-related non-Hodgkin lymphoma and other lymphoproliferative disorders,(117–125) as well as improved productivity and quality of life.(34, 35, 126–131) Given these and other benefits associated with virologic cure, the HCV guidance panel strongly recommends antiviral treatment for all adults with acute or chronic HCV infection (except those with a short life expectancy that cannot be remediated). Importantly, this recommendation includes persons with ongoing substance use (alcohol or drugs). Several studies demonstrate that treatment-committed individuals in this disproportionately affected population achieve sustained virologic response (SVR) rates with DAA therapy comparable to those without known, current substance use.(73, 132–139) The universal treatment recommendation represents a principal tenet of the HCV guidance along with newly recommended universal hepatitis C screening of adults. The HCV guidance panel urges healthcare providers caring for adults to encourage hepatitis C screening and treatment (if positive) because DAA therapy is safe and cures HCV infection in most people.(2) Simplified HCV Treatment Algorithms for Treatment-Naive Adults Without Cirrhosis or With Compensated Cirrhosis One approach to improving access to curative HCV treatment is expanding the number of healthcare providers administering antiviral therapy. Data demonstrate that HCV treatment can
