HHS Public Access
KEYWORDS: hcv, infection, author, manuscript, author manuscript, treatment, hcv infection, recommended, manuscript author, testing, hepatitis, cirrhosis, liver, guidance, persons


Cirrhosis or With Compensated Cirrhosis One approach to improving access to curative HCV treatment is expanding the number of healthcare providers administering antiviral therapy. Data demonstrate that HCV treatment can be effectively provided by a broad range of healthcare professionals with differing treatment efficacy or safety.(95, 140) Consequently, the HCV guidance panel developed simplified HCV treatment algorithms for treatment-naive adults (without cirrhosis or with compensated cirrhosis), which align with the NASEM plan to eliminate HCV as a U.S. public health burden by 2030. These simplified treatment algorithms are designed to be used by any healthcare provider knowledgeable about HCV disease and treatment, including those without extensive experience who have timely access to a specialist. The simplified treatment algorithms provide concise, clear guidance on pretreatment assessment, on-treatment monitoring, assessment of response, and post-treatment management (see Figures 2 and 3). Simplified HCV Treatment Algorithm for Treatment-Naive Adults Without Cirrhosis—The simplified HCV treatment algorithm for adults without cirrhosis (see Figure 2) applies to persons aged ≥18 years who have not been previously treated for their infection and do not have evidence of cirrhosis as defined by the noninvasive parameters specified in the HCV guidance. Evidence of cirrhosis includes a FIB-4 score >3.25 or any of the following findings from a previously performed test: transient elastography indicating cirrhosis (e.g., FibroScan [Echosens, Paris, France] stiffness >12.5 kPa); noninvasive serologic tests that exceed proprietary cutoffs (e.g., FibroSure [BioPredictive, Paris, France], evidence of cirrhosis (e.g., liver nodularity and/or splenomegaly on imaging, platelet count <150,000/mm3, etc.); and/or prior liver biopsy showing cirrhosis. This simplified treatment Hepatology. Author manuscript; available in PMC 2022 November 30. Author Manuscript Author Manuscript Author Manuscript Author Manuscript algorithm is not recommended for persons with HIV and/or HBV infection, prior liver transplantation, HCC, end-stage renal disease (i.e., eGFR <30 mL/min/m2), and/or current pregnancy because they require more nuanced care. See the online HCV guidance for management and treatment recommendations for these patients. The pretreatment evaluation should include an assessment for cirrhosis, medication reconciliation, drug-drug interactions, and patient education regarding treatment administration and the importance of adherence, and transmission prevention. Recommended pretreatment laboratory testing is conducted to confirm chronic HCV infection and exclude decompensated liver disease, HBV and/or HIV coinfection, end-stage renal disease, and pregnancy prior to treatment initiation. Clearance of HCV infection with DAA therapy can improve hepatic function and thereby affect the safety and efficacy of some concomitantly administered medications. Real-world data indicate
