HHS Public Access
KEYWORDS: hcv, infection, author, manuscript, author manuscript, treatment, hcv infection, recommended, manuscript author, testing, hepatitis, cirrhosis, liver, guidance, persons


prior to treatment initiation. Clearance of HCV infection with DAA therapy can improve hepatic function and thereby affect the safety and efficacy of some concomitantly administered medications. Real-world data indicate an association between DAA therapy and reduced glycemia, particularly among people with diabetes.(141–144) Patients taking diabetes medication(s) should be informed of the potential for symptomatic hypoglycemia during and after DAA therapy. Glucose monitoring during and after DAA treatment is recommended; dosage adjustments of diabetes medication(s) may be needed. Real-world data also indicate an association between DAA therapy and a clinically significant reduction in warfarin dose-response. (145, 146) Patients taking warfarin should be informed of the potential for a change in their anticoagulation status. INR monitoring for subtherapeutic anticoagulation is recommended during and after DAA treatment; warfarin dosage adjustments may be needed. For others, on-treatment laboratory monitoring is not required unless a patient experiences treatment- related side effects or there are adherence concerns. curative efficacy of glecaprevir/pibrentasvir(148–158) and sofosbuvir/velpatasvir(159–164) among treatment-naive persons without cirrhosis regardless of HCV genotype. These findings have been confirmed in real-world cohort studies for both glecaprevir/ pibrentasvir(165–167) and sofosbuvir/velpatasvir.(167–171) Based on these data, 8 weeks of glecaprevir/pibrentasvir or 12 weeks of sofosbuvir/velpatasvir is recommended for adults eligible for the simplified treatment algorithm. To assess treatment response, HCV-RNA and hepatic aminotransferase testing is recommended 12 or more weeks after completing DAA treatment. Undetectable HCV RNA represents SVR and virologic cure. In the absence of cirrhosis, persons who attain SVR require no liver-specific follow-up. For those with ongoing HCV risk factors, risk-reduction counseling is recommended as well as HCV-RNA testing annually or anytime an increase in hepatic aminotransferase levels occurs. Recurrent HCV viremia after attainment of SVR represents either reinfection or a relapse (i.e., reemergence of the originally infecting HCV strain).(172, 173) With reinfection, treatment approaches are identical to those for initial treatment. If relapse is suspected or cannot be ruled out, such patients should be managed by clinicians with expertise in managing HCV treatment failure. Hepatology. Author manuscript; available in PMC 2022 November 30. Author Manuscript Author Manuscript Author Manuscript Author Manuscript Persons who attain SVR but have persistently elevated hepatic aminotransferase levels require evaluation for other causes of liver disease. Individuals for whom treatment fails can often be successfully retreated; see the online HCV guidance for management and antiviral regimen recommendations for treatment-experienced persons. If retreatment is delayed or not feasible, assessment for liver disease progression every
