HHS Public Access
KEYWORDS: hcv, infection, author, manuscript, author manuscript, treatment, hcv infection, recommended, manuscript author, testing, hepatitis, cirrhosis, liver, guidance, persons


be successfully retreated; see the online HCV guidance for management and antiviral regimen recommendations for treatment-experienced persons. If retreatment is delayed or not feasible, assessment for liver disease progression every 6–12 months is recommended as specified in Figure 2. Advise all patients, regardless of SVR, to avoid excess alcohol intake to prevent liver damage. Simplified HCV Treatment Algorithm for Treatment-Naive Adults With Compensated Cirrhosis—The simplified HCV treatment algorithm for adults with compensated cirrhosis (see Figure 3) applies to persons aged ≥18 years who have not been previously treated for their infection and have evidence of compensated cirrhosis (i.e., Child-Turcotte-Pugh [CTP] class A) but not decompensated cirrhosis (i.e., CTP class B or C). Noninvasive evidence of cirrhosis mirrors the parameters specified in the previous section and are shown in Figure 3. Calculation of the CTP score is recommended to differentiate compensated versus decompensated cirrhosis. A CTP score ≥7 or any history of decompensation disqualifies these patients for the simplified treatment algorithm. Recommended pretreatment assessment also includes clinical evaluation for ascites and hepatic encephalopathy, and ultrasound imaging of the liver within the prior 6 months to evaluate for HCC and subclinical ascites; any of these clinical or imaging findings are contraindications to use of the simplified treatment algorithm. See the online HCV guidance for treatment and management of persons with decompensated cirrhosis. Other circumstances and comorbid conditions that disqualify a patient for use of the simplified treatment algorithm mirror those described in the previous section and are shown in Figure 3. Similarly, medication reconciliation, assessment for potential drug-drug interactions, and pretreatment education and counseling are the same as for treatment-naive patients without cirrhosis (see Figure 3). Pretreatment laboratory assessment of patients with compensated cirrhosis eligible for use of the simplified treatment algorithm includes CBC, INR, a hepatic function panel, and eGFR within 3 months of initiating antiviral therapy. Quantitative HCV RNA, HIV antigen/ antibody, and HBsAg tests are recommended any time prior to initiating DAA therapy. Notably, pretreatment genotype testing is recommended if sofosbuvir/velpatasvir therapy is planned because of the necessity for baseline RAS testing in persons with cirrhosis and genotype 3 infection. Because new-onset hepatic decompensation develops rarely during HCV DAA treatment, clinicians may opt for on-treatment blood tests to detect liver injury. Patients who experience deteriorating hepatic laboratory parameters and/or new-onset jaundice, ascites, encephalopathy, or other new liver-related signs or symptoms should promptly see a liver specialist. On-treatment monitoring of
