HHS Public Access
KEYWORDS: hcv, infection, author, manuscript, author manuscript, treatment, hcv infection, recommended, manuscript author, testing, hepatitis, cirrhosis, liver, guidance, persons


liver injury. Patients who experience deteriorating hepatic laboratory parameters and/or new-onset jaundice, ascites, encephalopathy, or other new liver-related signs or symptoms should promptly see a liver specialist. On-treatment monitoring of blood glucose levels and INR are recommended for persons on diabetes medications or warfarin, respectively, with dosage adjustments as warranted (see previous section for a more detailed discussion). Multiple rigorous clinical trials have demonstrated the safety(139) and high curative efficacy of glecaprevir/pibrentasvir(148, 174–177) and sofosbuvir/velpatasvir(160, 162–164, 171, 178–180) Hepatology. Author manuscript; available in PMC 2022 November 30. Author Manuscript Author Manuscript Author Manuscript Author Manuscript among treatment-naive adults with compensated cirrhosis, regardless of HCV genotype. These findings have been confirmed in real-world cohort studies for both glecaprevir/ pibrentasvir(153, 165–167, 181–183) and sofosbuvir/velpatasvir.(169, 170, 184–189) Based on these data, recommended regimens for adults eligible for the simplified treatment algorithm are 8 weeks of glecaprevir/pibrentasvir for patients with genotype 1–6, or 12 weeks of sofosbuvir/velpatasvir for those with genotype 1, 2, 4, 5, or 6. Pretreatment RAS testing is recommended for persons with genotype 3 because only those without a baseline NS5A Y93H RAS are eligible for a 12-week course of sofosbuvir/velpatasvir. Patients with genotype 3 and a baseline Y93H RAS should be treated with glecaprevir/pibrentasvir or an alternative regimen (see the online HCV guidance). HCV-RNA and aminotransferase testing are recommended 12 or more weeks after completion of DAA therapy to assess treatment response. Undetectable HCV RNA represents SVR and virologic cure. Ultrasound surveillance for HCC (with or without alpha-fetoprotein testing) every 6 months after treatment completion is recommended for patients with cirrhosis, regardless of achieving SVR.(78) Upper endoscopic surveillance for esophageal varices is recommended, consistent with AASLD guidance on portal hypertensive bleeding in cirrhosis.(190) Advise all patients to abstain from alcohol use to reduce the risk of liver disease progression. Risk-reduction counseling is recommended for persons with ongoing HCV risk factors. HCV-RNA testing annually or anytime an increase in hepatic aminotransferase levels occurs is also recommended for these persons. Recurrent HCV viremia after attainment of SVR represents either reinfection or a relapse.(172, 173) With reinfection, the treatment approaches are identical to those for initial treatment. If relapse is suspected or cannot be ruled out, such patients should be managed by clinicians with expertise in managing HCV treatment failure. Persons who attain SVR but experience persistently elevated hepatic aminotransferase levels require evaluation for other causes of liver disease. Individuals in whom initial
