HHS Public Access
KEYWORDS: hcv, infection, author, manuscript, author manuscript, treatment, hcv infection, recommended, manuscript author, testing, hepatitis, cirrhosis, liver, guidance, persons


with expertise in managing HCV treatment failure. Persons who attain SVR but experience persistently elevated hepatic aminotransferase levels require evaluation for other causes of liver disease. Individuals in whom initial treatment fails should be evaluated by a specialist for retreatment, which often proves successful. See the online HCV guidance for management and antiviral regimen recommendations for treatment-experienced persons. If retreatment is delayed or not feasible, assessment for liver disease progression every 6–12 months is recommended as specified in Figure 3. HCV in the Pediatric Population An estimated 3.5 million to 5.0 million children and adolescents worldwide have chronic HCV infection,(191, 192) including an estimated 23,000 to 46,000 pediatric patients in the United States.(193) Vertical transmission accounts for most HCV infections in the pediatric population.(194) The rate of mother-to-child transmission of HCV infection is approximately 5%, although rates are higher among women with inadequately controlled HIV coinfection, and in women with HCV RNA >6 log IU/mL.(195–201) Universal prenatal hepatitis C screening, as recommended by the HCV guidance panel, is expected to facilitate improved identification of at-risk infants who require HCV testing.(202–204) This will likely result in better HCV disease case finding in the pediatric population. Hepatology. Author manuscript; available in PMC 2022 November 30. Author Manuscript Author Manuscript Author Manuscript Author Manuscript Antiviral treatment of children and adolescents with HCV infection has been previously limited to adolescents aged ≥12 years due to the absence of FDA-approved regimens for younger children. Recent and anticipated FDA approval of additional regimens for children aged 3 through 11 years present an opportunity to expand HCV treatment in the pediatric population. Modeling data indicate that HCV DAA therapy is cost-effective in children as young as 12 years(205) and is anticipated to be so for the 3- through 11-year-old age group. Testing of Perinatally Exposed Children and Siblings of Children With HCV Infection Recommendations 19. All children born to women with acute or chronic hepatitis C should be tested for HCV infection. Antibody-based testing is recommended at or after 18 months of age. (I, A) 20. Testing with an HCV-RNA assay can be considered in the first year of life, but the optimal timing of such testing is unknown. (IIa, C) 21. Testing with an HCV-RNA assay can be considered as early as 2 months of age. (IIa, B) 22. Repetitive HCV-RNA testing prior to 18 months of age is not recommended. (III, A) 23. Children who
