HHS Public Access
KEYWORDS: hcv, infection, author, manuscript, author manuscript, treatment, hcv infection, recommended, manuscript author, testing, hepatitis, cirrhosis, liver, guidance, persons


can be considered as early as 2 months of age. (IIa, B) 22. Repetitive HCV-RNA testing prior to 18 months of age is not recommended. (III, A) 23. Children who are anti-HCV positive after 18 months of age should be tested with an HCV-RNA assay after age 3 to confirm chronic hepatitis C infection. (I, A) 24. The siblings of children with vertically acquired chronic hepatitis C should be tested for HCV infection, if born from the same mother. (I, C) The HCV guidance panel recommends HCV-antibody testing at age ≥18 months for children born to women with HCV infection. Earlier antibody testing is not recommended due to maternal anti-HCV, which can persist in the infant’s serum for up to 18 months.(206, 207) For infants with a positive HCV-antibody test at or after 18 months of age, the HCV guidance panel recommends HCV-RNA testing at age ≥3 years to determine chronic infection versus spontaneous viral clearance. Approximately 25%−50% of vertically infected infants spontaneously resolve HCV infection by 4 years of age,(191, 200, 208–211) although spontaneous viral clearance can occur later in childhood.(212–214) HCV-RNA testing can be considered in the first year beginning at 2 months of age, particularly in the setting of concern about loss to follow-up. Detectable HCV RNA during the first year of life reliably correlates to anti-HCV positivity at 18 months.(215) Repetitive HCV-RNA testing prior to 18 months of age is not recommended. Hepatitis C screening is indicated for siblings of children with vertically acquired, chronic HCV infection if born to the same mother and not previously tested for HCV infection. Hepatology. Author manuscript; available in PMC 2022 November 30. Author Manuscript Author Manuscript Author Manuscript Author Manuscript Counseling Parents and Children Regarding HCV Transmission and Prevention Recommendations 25. Parents should be informed that hepatitis C is not transmitted by casual contact and can participate in school, sports, and athletic activities, and engage in all other regular childhood activities without restrictions. (I, B) 26. Parents should be informed that universal precautions should be followed at school and in the home of children with HCV infection. Educate families and children about the risk and routes of HCV transmission, and the techniques for avoiding blood exposure, such as avoiding the sharing of toothbrushes, razors, and nail clippers, and the use of gloves and dilute bleach to clean up blood. (I, B) Children with HCV infection often face discrimination and
