HHS Public Access
KEYWORDS: hcv, infection, author, manuscript, author manuscript, treatment, hcv infection, recommended, manuscript author, testing, hepatitis, cirrhosis, liver, guidance, persons


the sharing of toothbrushes, razors, and nail clippers, and the use of gloves and dilute bleach to clean up blood. (I, B) Children with HCV infection often face discrimination and stigmatization in school and child-care settings, usually driven by public misconceptions about contracting hepatitis C. Further, well-intentioned parents and caregivers may limit the activities of a child with HCV infection due to concerns about their parents that their child poses no threat to others because HCV is not transmitted by casual contact in the absence of blood exposure. Children with HCV infection can and should fully participate in school and extracurricular activities of their choosing without restrictions. Educate parents and appropriately aged children and adolescents about how to prevent HCV transmission in the home and at school. This includes implementing universal precautions for preventing transmission of bloodborne pathogens, covering open wounds, cleaning blood- contaminated surfaces with dilute bleach, and avoiding sharing personal hygiene items that might be contaminated with blood, such as toothbrushes, razors, nail clippers, and so on (see Table 2). Sexual transmission of HCV occurs but inefficiently except among men with HIV infection who have unprotected sex with men.(218–220) Encourage adolescents with HIV/HCV coinfection and those with multiple sexual partners and/or sexually transmitted infections (STIs) to use barrier precautions to prevent transmission of HCV and other STIs. Counsel other adolescents with HCV infection that the risk of sexual transmission is low, but barrier precautions are recommended to prevent HIV and other STIs. Monitoring and Medical Management Recommendations 27. Routine liver biochemistries at initial diagnosis and at least annually thereafter are recommended to assess for HCV disease progression. (I, C) 28. Appropriate vaccinations are recommended for children with HCV infection who are not immune to HBV and/or HAV to prevent these infections. (I, C) 29. Disease severity assessment via routine laboratory testing and physical examination, as well as use of evolving noninvasive modalities (i.e., transient Hepatology. Author manuscript; available in PMC 2022 November 30. Author Manuscript Author Manuscript Author Manuscript Author Manuscript elastography, imaging, or serum fibrosis markers) is recommended for all children with chronic hepatitis C. (I, B) 30. Children with cirrhosis should undergo HCC surveillance and endoscopic surveillance for varices per standard recommendations. (I, B) 31. Hepatotoxic drugs should be used with caution in children with chronic hepatitis C after assessment of potential risks versus benefits of treatment. Use of corticosteroids, cytotoxic chemotherapy, or therapeutic doses of
