HHS Public Access
KEYWORDS: hcv, infection, author, manuscript, author manuscript, treatment, hcv infection, recommended, manuscript author, testing, hepatitis, cirrhosis, liver, guidance, persons


drugs should be used with caution in children with chronic hepatitis C after assessment of potential risks versus benefits of treatment. Use of corticosteroids, cytotoxic chemotherapy, or therapeutic doses of acetaminophen are not contraindicated in children with chronic hepatitis C. (II, C) 32. Solid organ transplantation and bone marrow transplantation are not contraindicated in children with chronic hepatitis C. (II, C) 33. Anticipatory guidance about the potential risks of alcohol for progression of liver disease is recommended for adolescents with chronic HCV infection and their families. Abstinence from alcohol and interventions to facilitate cessation of alcohol consumption, when appropriate, are advised for all persons with chronic HCV infection. (I, C) The initial assessment of children with chronic HCV infection includes exclusion of other causes of liver disease, assessment of HCV disease severity, and detection of extrahepatic manifestations of HCV (uncommon in children). Children with chronic HCV infection usually appear clinically well on physical examination; hepatomegaly occurs in ≤10% of patients.(221, 222) Assessment of hepatic laboratory parameters, including albumin, aminotransferase levels, total bilirubin, INR, and platelet count, is recommended every 6–12 months. Persistently or intermittently elevated hepatic aminotransferase levels occur in approximately 50% of children with chronic HCV infection.(221) Serum disease severity.(223) Laboratory testing for concomitant infections with HBV (i.e., HBsAg, anti-HBc, and anti-HBs testing) and HIV (i.e., anti-HIV), and immunity to HAV (i.e., anti-HAV IgG) are also recommended due to shared risk factors and the need to vaccinate nonimmune children against HAV and HBV. Serum fibrosis markers hold promise to assess hepatic disease severity but require further validation in the pediatric population.(224–226) For pediatric patients with suspected advanced liver disease, initial assessment using liver ultrasound imaging to evaluate for splenomegaly and/or venous collaterals is recommended to avoid ionizing radiation exposure. Although liver biopsy remains the gold standard to assess inflammation grade and fibrosis stage, sampling variability and potential adverse events (e.g., bleeding) are problematic.(227–231) Additionally, most clinicians and patients (or their parents) prefer noninvasive alternatives to determine the presence or absence of cirrhosis, particularly in the pediatric population. Ultrasound-based, liver elastography appears increasingly promising for monitoring children and adolescents with chronic HCV infection.(232–236) Hepatology. Author manuscript; available in PMC 2022 November 30. Author Manuscript Author Manuscript Author Manuscript Author Manuscript HCV-related liver disease generally progresses more slowly in children and adolescents compared to adults, although disease progression is unpredictable. (191, 221, 237–239) Despite a paucity of data evaluating risk factors
