HHS Public Access
KEYWORDS: hcv, infection, author, manuscript, author manuscript, treatment, hcv infection, recommended, manuscript author, testing, hepatitis, cirrhosis, liver, guidance, persons


abstinence is strongly advised to reduce the risk for liver disease progression.(61, 63, 64, 66–72) Similarly, counsel appropriately aged, untreated pediatric patients and their parents about the importance of maintaining a healthy body weight due to the deleterious effects of insulin resistance on HCV-related fibrosis progression.(260–271) Hepatology. Author manuscript; available in PMC 2022 November 30. Author Manuscript Author Manuscript Author Manuscript Author Manuscript Whom and When to Treat Among Children and Adolescents With HCV Infection Recommendations 34. DAA treatment with an approved regimen is recommended for all children and adolescents with HCV infection aged ≥3 years as they will benefit from antiviral therapy, regardless of disease severity. (I, B) 35. The presence of extrahepatic manifestations—such as cryoglobulinemia, rashes, and glomerulonephritis—as well as advanced fibrosis should lead to early antiviral therapy to minimize future morbidity and mortality. (I, C) Although advanced HCV-related liver disease occurs uncommonly in children and adolescents, hepatic fibrosis progresses over time and complications may develop during early adulthood. The rationale for treating persons with HCV infection in the pediatric population mirrors that for adults, i.e., to reduce disease-related morbidity and mortality. Additionally, curative DAA therapy during childhood or adolescence supports the HCV treatment as transmission prevention paradigm, a pillar of the 2017 NASEM hepatitis C elimination strategy.(4) The extension of pediatric HCV antiviral treatment to 3- through 11-year-olds comes at a critical inflexion point in the hepatitis C epidemic, given the recent increase in HCV infection among women of childbearing age(272–275) and the fact that an estimated 29,000 women with HCV infection gave birth each year from 2011 to 2014.(18) HCV Antiviral Therapy for Children and Adolescents Aged ≥3 Years, Without Cirrhosis or With Compensated Cirrhosis (Child-Pugh A) Recommendations for Treatment-Naive and Interferon-Experienced Patients 36. An 8-week course of the daily fixed-dose combination of glecaprevir (300 mg)/ pibrentasvir (120 mg) is recommended for treatment-naive adolescents aged ≥12 years or weighing ≥45 kg with any HCV genotype, without cirrhosis or with compensated cirrhosis. (I, B) 37. A 12-week course of the combination of ledipasvir/sofosbuvir (weight-based dosing, see Table 4) is recommended for treatment-naive or interferon- experienced children aged ≥3 years with HCV genotype 1, 4, 5, or 6 infection, without cirrhosis or with compensated cirrhosis. (I, B) The high rate of HCV clearance with DAA regimens previously demonstrated in adults are increasingly being replicated in the pediatric population. Eight weeks of the daily fixed-dose combination of glecaprevir (300
