HHS Public Access
KEYWORDS: hcv, infection, author, manuscript, author manuscript, treatment, hcv infection, recommended, manuscript author, testing, hepatitis, cirrhosis, liver, guidance, persons


high rate of HCV clearance with DAA regimens previously demonstrated in adults are increasingly being replicated in the pediatric population. Eight weeks of the daily fixed-dose combination of glecaprevir (300 mg)/pibrentasvir (120 mg) gained FDA approval for use in treatment-naive or interferon-experienced adolescents aged ≥12 years or weighing ≥45 kg with any HCV genotype infection, without cirrhosis or with compensated cirrhosis (Child-Pugh A). Although the registration trial included only adolescents with genotype 1 through 4,(276) glecaprevir/pibrentasvir garnered FDA approval for all genotypes based on the safety and efficacy of the regimen demonstrated in adults. (148–150, 152–157, 165–167, 277) The recommendations for use of glecaprevir/ Hepatology. Author manuscript; available in PMC 2022 November 30. Author Manuscript Author Manuscript Author Manuscript Author Manuscript pibrentasvir in treatment-experienced adolescents is also based on clinical trial data from adults.(154, 156, 176, 278–280) Given its pangenotypic activity, and safety and efficacy records in adults, the HCV guidance panel recommends glecaprevir/ pibrentasvir as the first choice for adolescent HCV treatment. Coadministration of carbamazepine, efavirenz-containing regimens, and St. John’s wort should be avoided because these compounds may decrease circulating concentrations of glecaprevir and pibrentasvir. In August 2019, the FDA approved an expansion of pediatric indications for ledipasvir/sofosbuvir to include the 3- through 11-year-old age group in addition to the ≥12 years adolescent group for specific clinical scenarios. Dosing is weight based (see Table 4). Twelve weeks of ledipasvir/sofosbuvir is recommended for treatment-naive children and adolescents aged ≥3 years with genotype 1, 4, 5, or 6, without cirrhosis or with compensated cirrhosis (Child-Pugh A). This regimen is also recommended for interferon-experienced (± ribavirin, with or without an HCV protease inhibitor) children and adolescents aged ≥3 years with genotype 1 or 4. A 12-week course is recommended for patients without cirrhosis; 24 weeks is recommended for those with compensated cirrhosis. Three clinical trials supporting the approval of ledipasvir/sofosbuvir in the pediatric population aged ≥3 years demonstrated high SVR12 rates comparable to those observed in adults.(281–283) Limited real-world data further corroborate these findings.(284, 285) In September 2019, the FDA newly approved weight-based sofosbuvir plus ribavirin for treatment-naive and interferon-experienced (± ribavirin) children aged ≥3 years with genotype 2 or 3, without cirrhosis or with compensated cirrhosis (Child-Pugh A). A 12-week course is recommended for pediatric patients without cirrhosis and 24 weeks is recommended for those with compensated cirrhosis (see the online HCV guidance for dosing recommendations). The registration trial conducted in
