HHS Public Access
KEYWORDS: hcv, infection, author, manuscript, author manuscript, treatment, hcv infection, recommended, manuscript author, testing, hepatitis, cirrhosis, liver, guidance, persons


is recommended for pediatric patients without cirrhosis and 24 weeks is recommended for those with compensated cirrhosis (see the online HCV guidance for dosing recommendations). The registration trial conducted in children aged 3 to <12 years demonstrated an SVR12 of 98%.(286) The use of sofosbuvir plus ribavirin is further supported by clinical trial data involving adolescents(287) and adults with genotype 2 or 3 infection.(288–291) At the time of manuscript preparation, sofosbuvir (plus ribavirin) remained the only FDA-approved DAA for children 3 evaluating weight-based dosing of sofosbuvir/velpatasvir(292) and glecaprevir/ pibrentasvir(293) are expected to lead to FDA approval for children aged 3 through 11 years. The HCV guidance panel recommends awaiting approval of a pangenotypic regimen unless there is a compelling need for immediate antiviral treatment of children aged 3 through 11 years with genotype 2 or 3 infection. DAA-experienced pediatric HCV patients are rarely encountered in clinical practice. Due to a paucity of data in the pediatric population, DAA-experienced children and adolescents with HCV infection should be treated using the adult HCV guidance while under the supervision of a pediatric HCV specialist. Similarly, decompensated cirrhosis and recurrent HCV after liver transplantation are rare clinical scenarios; children and adolescents with these conditions require Hepatology. Author manuscript; available in PMC 2022 November 30. Author Manuscript Author Manuscript Author Manuscript Author Manuscript specialty care. See the online HCV guidance for additional information about treatment of these children and adolescents. As with adults, testing for active HBV infection (i.e., HBsAg, anti-HBc, and anti-HBs) is recommended prior to initiating HCV DAA therapy in pediatric patients due to the risk for HBV reactivation during or after treatment. (92, 294, 295) Additionally, on-treatment and post-treatment glucose monitoring for hypoglycemia in children and adolescents with diabetes and INR monitoring in those taking warfarin is recommended due to potential alterations in dose-response relationships associated with DAA-related HCV viral clearance. (141–146) Acute HCV Infection Acute HCV infection is arbitrarily defined as the first 6 months of infection. Patients are often minimally symptomatic or experience nonspecific symptoms (e.g., fatigue, anorexia, mild or moderate abdominal pain, low-grade fever, nausea, and/or vomiting) with mild to moderate elevations in hepatic aminotransferases.(296) Jaundice occurs in a minority of patients (< 25%) and fulminant hepatic failure is extremely rare.(297, 298) Despite difficulties in diagnosis and reporting, CDC estimates that 44,300 acute HCV infections occurred in the United States in 2017 with the upper limit of the confidence
