HHS Public Access
KEYWORDS: hcv, infection, author, manuscript, author manuscript, treatment, hcv infection, recommended, manuscript author, testing, hepatitis, cirrhosis, liver, guidance, persons


extremely rare.(297, 298) Despite difficulties in diagnosis and reporting, CDC estimates that 44,300 acute HCV infections occurred in the United States in 2017 with the upper limit of the confidence interval being 151,000 cases.(299) As previously noted, increased injection drug use associated with the opioid epidemic accounts for much of the recent increase in acute HCV infection incidence. An estimated 75% of persons acutely infected with HCV progress to chronic infection, although this number varies depending on host factors (e.g., age at exposure, sex, HIV coinfection, and IL28B genotype). Substantial fluctuations in viremia during acute HCV infection may lead to higher HCV RNA levels in this phase of the infection compared with those seen during chronic infection. (300, 301) Drawing on the analogy from HIV infection and limited evidence with HCV, acute HCV infection may be associated with an increased risk for transmission.(302) Conversely, antiviral treatment during acute infection has the potential to reduce transmission to other susceptible individuals (i.e., treatment as prevention). Modeling studies support treatment of acute HCV infection, demonstrating cost-effectiveness assuming high treatment efficacy with a relatively short treatment duration—requisite conditions that currently exist.(303, 304) Successful HCV treatment as prevention of transmission has been demonstrated in several cohorts of HIV-positive men who have sex with men (MSM) where unrestricted access to DAA therapy resulted in an approximately 50% decrease in acute HCV infections.(305) Data addressing optimal treatment approaches for acute HCV infection continue to evolve. In the interim, current guidance is to treat with regimens and durations as recommended for chronic HCV infection until additional data on abbreviated treatment regimens become available. Hepatology. Author manuscript; available in PMC 2022 November 30. Author Manuscript Author Manuscript Author Manuscript Author Manuscript Diagnosis of Acute HCV Infection Recommendation 38. HCV-antibody and HCV-RNA testing are recommended when acute HCV aminotransferase levels (see Figure 4). (I, C) HCV RNA typically becomes reliably detectable within 2–3 weeks after viral exposure(306–309); HCV antibody seroconversion among immunocompetent persons typically occurs 2–3 months after exposure, on average.(308–311) Therefore, the best laboratory evidence to support a diagnosis of acute HCV infection is a positive HCV-RNA test in the setting of a negative HCV-antibody test (identification during the seronegative window period) or a positive HCV- antibody test after a prior negative anti-HCV test (seroconversion).(51, 52, 312) Rarely, these approaches may be misleading such as in immunosuppressed individuals with impaired antibody production.(58, 313, 314) Laboratory-based diagnosis of acute HCV
