HHS Public Access
KEYWORDS: hcv, infection, author, manuscript, author manuscript, treatment, hcv infection, recommended, manuscript author, testing, hepatitis, cirrhosis, liver, guidance, persons


a prior negative anti-HCV test (seroconversion).(51, 52, 312) Rarely, these approaches may be misleading such as in immunosuppressed individuals with impaired antibody production.(58, 313, 314) Laboratory-based diagnosis of acute HCV infection is most straightforward when there has been a discrete, known or suspected exposure (e.g., after new onset or a change in drug injection practice, a percutaneous needlestick exposure to HCV-infected blood, a potentially nonsterile tattoo, or sexual contact). Baseline HCV-antibody and HCV-RNA testing should be performed within 48 hours of the exposure to document baseline HCV infection status (see Figure 4). If baseline testing is negative, repeat testing for HCV antibody and HCV RNA is recommended. The frequency can be tailored based on management objectives (e.g., monthly testing to identify and treat acute infection). If the baseline HCV- antibody test is positive but HCV RNA is undetectable, repeat HCV-RNA and ALT testing is recommended to identify acute reinfection. When baseline HCV- antibody and HCV-RNA testing are both positive, the person most likely already has chronic infection from a prior exposure. Individuals suspected of having acute HCV infection often do not have a discrete exposure and/or have no prior baseline testing, making a definitive diagnosis of acute infection more challenging (see Table 5). Acute infection should be suspected if there is a new rise in the ALT level without an alternative cause. (315, 316) Acute infection should also be suspected when there are low (especially <104 IU/mL) or fluctuating (>1 log IU/mL) HCV-RNA levels, or spontaneous clearance during follow-up. These patterns do not commonly occur outside of the acute phase of HCV infection.(300, 301, 317) Patients suspected of having acute HCV infection also require laboratory evaluation to exclude other or coexisting causes of acute hepatitis (e.g., HAV, HBV, hepatitis delta virus superinfection if and autoimmune hepatitis).(318) HIV testing is also recommended. Hepatology. Author manuscript; available in PMC 2022 November 30. Author Manuscript Author Manuscript Author Manuscript Author Manuscript Medical Management and Transmission Prevention Recommendations 39. After the initial diagnosis of acute HCV with viremia (defined as quantifiable RNA), HCV treatment should be initiated without awaiting spontaneous resolution. (I, B) 40. Counseling is recommended for patients with acute HCV infection to avoid hepatotoxic insults, including hepatotoxic drugs (e.g., acetaminophen) and alcohol consumption, and to reduce the risk of HCV transmission to others. (I, C) 41. Referral to an addiction medicine specialist is recommended for patients with acute HCV infection related to
