HHS Public Access
KEYWORDS: hcv, infection, author, manuscript, author manuscript, treatment, hcv infection, recommended, manuscript author, testing, hepatitis, cirrhosis, liver, guidance, persons


consumption, and to reduce the risk of HCV transmission to others. (I, C) 41. Referral to an addiction medicine specialist is recommended for patients with acute HCV infection related to substance use. (I, B) The HCV guidance panel newly recommends initiating DAA therapy upon initial diagnosis of acute HCV infection without awaiting possible spontaneous clearance (i.e., a test and treat strategy). Real-world data demonstrate a reduction in HCV viremia incidence and prevalence with unrestricted access to HCV therapy.(305, 319) Mathematical modeling studies also suggest that scaling up DAA treatment can reduce HCV incidence and prevalence, especially among populations at highest risk of onward transmission (e.g., MSM and PWID). (303, 320–322) Additionally, delay introduced by waiting for spontaneous clearance may increase the number of patients lost to follow-up. Counseling persons with acute HCV infection to reduce behaviors that could result in virus transmission (e.g., sharing injection equipment and engaging in high-risk sexual practices) is recommended. Because the risk of transmission of other bloodborne, sexually transmitted infections (e.g., HIV and HBV) is higher in the acute phase of infection, some experts counsel persons with acute HCV to consider using barrier precautions, even in a stable monogamous relationship. For persons with acute HCV infection who have a history of recent injection is recommended as needed.(323–326) Monitoring with hepatic panels (ALT, AST, bilirubin, and INR in the setting of an increasing bilirubin level) is recommended at 2-week to 4-week intervals until resolution of acute hepatitis C.(316) Hepatic laboratory parameters typically improve rapidly with antiviral treatment. Alteration of dosages of concomitant medications that are metabolized by hepatic enzymes is unnecessary unless there is concern for developing acute liver failure (e.g., increasing bilirubin level and prolongation of INR). Acetaminophen and alcohol consumption should be avoided during acute HCV infection.(327–329) Patients with acute HCV infection rarely require hospitalization unless nausea and vomiting are severe. Although acute liver failure is very rare (<1%), it represents a serious and life-threatening complication of acute HCV infection. Patients with an INR >1.5 and those who exhibit any signs of acute liver failure (e.g., hepatic encephalopathy) should be immediately referred to a liver Hepatology. Author manuscript; available in PMC 2022 November 30. Author Manuscript Author Manuscript Author Manuscript Author Manuscript transplant center. Use of HCV antiviral regimens in acute liver failure should be managed by a clinician experienced in HCV treatment, ideally in consultation with a liver transplant specialist. HCV infection spontaneously
