HHS Public Access
KEYWORDS: hcv, infection, author, manuscript, author manuscript, treatment, hcv infection, recommended, manuscript author, testing, hepatitis, cirrhosis, liver, guidance, persons


Use of HCV antiviral regimens in acute liver failure should be managed by a clinician experienced in HCV treatment, ideally in consultation with a liver transplant specialist. HCV infection spontaneously clears in 20%−50% of untreated patients.(330) Clearance of acute HCV infection usually occurs within 6 months of the estimated time of infection. Only 11%–14% of those who remain viremic at 6 months spontaneously clear the infection at a later time.(331, 332) Predictors of spontaneous clearance include presentation with jaundice, elevated ALT, HBsAg positivity, female sex, younger age, genotype 1 infection, and host genetic polymorphisms, most notably those near the IL28B gene.(330, 333) Patients who experience spontaneous clearance do not require antiviral therapy. at least annually for this development in the setting of ongoing risk behaviors. Notably, transient suppression of viremia sometimes occurs in persons with acute HCV infection, even among those who progress to chronic infection. Thus, a single undetectable HCV-RNA test result is insufficient to declare spontaneous clearance.(300, 333, 334) Acute HCV Infection Treatment Recommendation 42. Due to high efficacy and safety, the same regimens that are recommended for chronic HCV infection are recommended for acute infection. (IIa, C) Data are emerging regarding treatment of acute HCV infection with abbreviated courses of DAA regimens in both HCV monoinfection and HIV/HCV coinfection.(335–338) There are presently insufficient data, however, to recommend abbreviated courses of any approved DAA regimens. Until more definitive data are available, recommended treatment is as described for chronic hepatitis C infection in the online HCV guidance. Pangenotypic regimens, as recommended in the simplified HCV treatment section, represent the preferred choice for eligible patients. For patients who are ineligible for simplified HCV treatment, genotyping may be considered to guide DAA regimen selection. Organ Transplantation From HCV-Viremic Donors to HCV-Negative Recipients In 2018, 8,250 liver transplantations were performed in the United States, the largest number ever performed in a single year.(339) Despite annual increases in the number of liver transplantations performed in the United States in the 10-year period from 2009 through 2018, more than 14,000 liver transplantation candidates died awaiting the procedure.(339) Given the sizable chasm between the number of waitlisted liver transplantation candidates and the pool of available organs, some transplant programs are turning to a previously untapped pool of organs from deceased HCV-viremic donors; historically, these organs were discarded with rare exception.(340) Coincident with the marked increase in drug overdose deaths among PWID in the United States,(341)
