HHS Public Access
KEYWORDS: hcv, infection, author, manuscript, author manuscript, treatment, hcv infection, recommended, manuscript author, testing, hepatitis, cirrhosis, liver, guidance, persons


pool of organs from deceased HCV-viremic donors; historically, these organs were discarded with rare exception.(340) Coincident with the marked increase in drug overdose deaths among PWID in the United States,(341) this pool of donor organs has sadly increased Hepatology. Author manuscript; available in PMC 2022 November 30. Author Manuscript Author Manuscript Author Manuscript Author Manuscript substantially.(342) In stark contrast to this tragic loss of life, the development of safe and highly effective(2) DAA therapy provides an opportunity to consider use of allografts from HCV-viremic donors in HCV-negative recipients because iatrogenic HCV infection can be cured with retention of allograft function in the majority of cases. Recent data indicate increasing acceptance of these organs among HCV-negative recipients.(340, 343, 344) Although early outcome data are encouraging, the overall experience is limited and many ethical issues and scientific questions remain, such as avoidance of selection bias, the optimal timing of DAA therapy, detailed evaluation of drug-drug interactions between DAAs and immunosuppressants, and long-term graft and patient outcomes. Additional research is needed to clarify short-term and long-term risks and benefits, and to determine and refine optimal clinical management practices. Considerations for Use of HCV-Viremic Donor Organs in HCV-Negative Recipients Recommendations 43. Informed consent should include the following elements (I, C): • Risk of transmission from an HCV-viremic donor (and with a U.S. for other viral infections) • Risk of liver disease if HCV treatment is not available or treatment is unsuccessful • Benefits, specifically reduced waiting time and possibly lower waiting list mortality • Unknown long-term consequences (hepatic and extrahepatic) of HCV exposure (even if cure is attained) • Risk of allograft failure • Risk of HCV transmission to partner 44. Transplant centers should have a programmatic strategy to (I, C): • Document informed consent • Assure access to HCV treatment and retreatment(s), as necessary • Ensure long-term follow-up of recipients (beyond SVR12) The informed consent process for HCV-negative patients contemplating accepting an organ from an HCV-viremic donor must address not only the potential benefits and risks of the procedure itself but also the known HCV- specific risks as well as long-term uncertainties. Given the mismatch between the number of organ transplantation candidates and the pool of available organs, willingness to accept an allograft from an HCV-viremic donor can reduce waitlist time(345, 346) and improve access to transplantation,(347) thereby reducing the risk of dying while awaiting an available organ.(348–350) Hepatology. Author manuscript; available in
