HHS Public Access
KEYWORDS: hcv, infection, author, manuscript, author manuscript, treatment, hcv infection, recommended, manuscript author, testing, hepatitis, cirrhosis, liver, guidance, persons


from an HCV-viremic donor can reduce waitlist time(345, 346) and improve access to transplantation,(347) thereby reducing the risk of dying while awaiting an available organ.(348–350) Hepatology. Author manuscript; available in PMC 2022 November 30. Author Manuscript Author Manuscript Author Manuscript Author Manuscript To make an informed decision to consent to accepting an organ from an HCV- viremic donor, the recipient needs to understand the high risk of HCV infection. All donors undergo HCV-antibody testing and nucleic acid testing for HCV RNA. Donors who are HCV antibody positive and HCV RNA negative pose a very low risk of HCV transmission to the recipient.(351–353) Rarely, high risk donors with very recent HCV exposure who are anti-HCV positive and HCV RNA negative may pose a transmission risk.(354) These increased risk donors are identified according to guidelines issued by the U.S. Public Health Service. (355) Increased risk donors may also pose a risk for HIV and HBV transmission depending on their specific risk factors. Patients who receive an allograft from an increased risk donor require monitoring after transplantation to detect HCV transmission(353, 355) as well as possible HBV and/or HIV infection if the donor was at increased risk for these infections. HCV-viremic donors pose the highest risk for HCV transmission to allograft recipients. Transplant recipients need to understand the risks conferred on them in the event of iatrogenic HCV infection from the allograft. This includes the necessity of HCV antiviral therapy and the risk of liver disease if such treatment is unavailable or unsuccessful. Additionally, there is a risk of DAA-associated allograft rejection and possible loss,(356–362) and/or reduced allograft function. (361, 363–366) Because use of allografts from HCV-viremic donors in HCV- negative recipients is a recent development in transplant medicine, there are no data on possible long-term hepatic and extrahepatic adverse effects associated with HCV exposure, even among those cured of the infection. Allograft recipients who are HCV viremic can potentially sexually transmit the virus to their partner(s), particularly among MSM.(74, 367–372) The HCV guidance panel recommends that all programs performing HCV- viremia discordant solid organ transplantations have a strategy to execute and document a rigorous informed consent process; assure access to HCV treatment and retreatment, as needed; and ensure long-term follow-up of organ recipients to monitor for potential late consequences of HCV exposure and allograft function. Treatment of HCV-Negative Recipients of Allografts from HCV-Viremic Donors Recommendation Regarding Timing of DAA Therapy 45. Prophylactic/preemptive
