HHS Public Access
KEYWORDS: hcv, infection, author, manuscript, author manuscript, treatment, hcv infection, recommended, manuscript author, testing, hepatitis, cirrhosis, liver, guidance, persons


recipients to monitor for potential late consequences of HCV exposure and allograft function. Treatment of HCV-Negative Recipients of Allografts from HCV-Viremic Donors Recommendation Regarding Timing of DAA Therapy 45. Prophylactic/preemptive DAA therapy with a pangenotypic regimen is recommended. (II, B) Recommendations for DAA Therapy 46. An 8-week course of the pangenotypic daily fixed-dose combination of glecaprevir (300 mg)/pibrentasvir (120 mg) is recommended. (I, C) 47. A 12-week course of the pangenotypic daily fixed-dose combination of sofosbuvir (400 mg)/velpatasvir (100 mg) is recommended. (I, C) Hepatology. Author manuscript; available in PMC 2022 November 30. Author Manuscript Author Manuscript Author Manuscript Author Manuscript 48. A 12-week course of the daily fixed-dose combination of ledipasvir (90 mg)/ sofosbuvir (400 mg) is recommended for patients with genotype 1, 4, 5, or 6 only. (I, C) Initiation of DAA therapy for HCV-negative recipients of an allograft from an HCV-viremic donor can occur prophylactically/preemptively (i.e., perioperatively without confirmation of HCV viremia in the recipient) or reactively after documentation of HCV viremia. The goal is to undertake DAA therapy as early as clinically possible to avoid the development of acute hepatitis and other complications of HCV infection. Emerging data suggest that initiating prophylactic/preemptive DAA therapy before viremia occurs reduces the likelihood of complications, such as fibrosing cholestatic hepatitis. (359, 373–376) The prophylactic/preemptive approach may also allow for a shorter duration of DAA treatment,(359, 377) although this is not currently recommended outside of a clinical trial setting. Because genotyping of HCV-viremic donors is not routinely performed, only a pangenotypic DAA regimen (i.e., glecaprevir/pibrentasvir or sofosbuvir/ velpatasvir) should be used if opting for a prophylactic/preemptive treatment approach. With the reactive treatment approach, genotyping can be used to guide DAA regimen selection if a pangenotypic regimen is not utilized. Although clinical trial data demonstrate the safety and efficacy of elbasvir/ grazoprevir among HCV-negative kidney transplant recipients of allografts from HCV-viremic donors,(378–381) it is recommended as an alternative regimen due to the necessity for baseline RAS testing and the need for addition of ribavirin to the regimen if RASs are present. Several other important considerations should be taken account when selecting a DAA regimen for these patients. Protease inhibitors should be avoided in the presence of moderate to severe liver dysfunction (i.e., Child-Pugh B or C).(382) Assessment of drug-drug interactions is crucial as some medications are contraindicated or not recommended during DAA therapy (e.g., high-dose proton pump inhibitors [twice daily dosing],
