HHS Public Access
KEYWORDS: hcv, infection, author, manuscript, author manuscript, treatment, hcv infection, recommended, manuscript author, testing, hepatitis, cirrhosis, liver, guidance, persons


(i.e., Child-Pugh B or C).(382) Assessment of drug-drug interactions is crucial as some medications are contraindicated or not recommended during DAA therapy (e.g., high-dose proton pump inhibitors [twice daily dosing], amiodarone [contraindicated with sofosbuvir-inclusive regimens], and certain statins [eg, atorvastatin], among others). Importantly, complex interactions occur between DAAs and calcineurin inhibitors.(383–388) Coadministration of elbasvir/grazoprevir and cyclosporine leads to a 15-fold increase in grazoprevir and a 2-fold increase in elbasvir area under the concentration-time curve;(389) this DAA regimen and immunosuppressant combination should be avoided. A 40%−50% increase in tacrolimus level is predicted with coadministration of elbasvir/grazoprevir(389); no dosing adjustments are anticipated but tacrolimus levels should be monitored. Please see the online HCV guidance for additional information about drug- drug interactions between DAAs and immunosuppressants as well as other medications. Limited short-term data from liver,(340, 357, 390, 391) kidney,(358, 378–380, 390–394) heart,(359, 373, 390, 395) and lung(359, 374) transplant programs performing Hepatology. Author manuscript; available in PMC 2022 November 30. Author Manuscript Author Manuscript Author Manuscript Author Manuscript solid organ transplantations involving HCV-viremic donors and HCV-negative recipients are encouraging. However, the overall number of published cases is limited and treatment approaches varied. Known risks include DAA treatment failure with emergence of complex RASs and possible severe or rapidly progressive liver disease.(358, 374, 396, 397) Due to the limited, heterogeneous experience to date and lack of long-term safety data, strong consideration should be given to performing these transplantations under institutional review board approved protocols as recommended by the American Society of Transplantation consensus panel.(353) Acknowledgment: We thank the able staffs of AASLD and IDSA, particularly Sheila Tynes, Audrey Davis-Owino, Vita Washington, and Vincent Keane for project management, and administrative and technical support of the HCV guidance project. Financial Support: Funding for the hepatitis C guidance project is provided exclusively by AASLD and IDSA. The hepatitis C guidance panel members serve as uncompensated volunteers. Abbreviations: AASLD American Association for the Study of Liver Diseases ALT alanine aminotransferase AST aspartate aminotransferase CBC complete blood count CDC U.S. Centers for Disease Control and Prevention CTP Child-Turcotte-Pugh DAA direct-acting antiviral FDA U.S. Food and Drug Administration HAV hepatitis A virus HBsAg hepatitis B virus surface antigen HBV hepatitis B virus HCC hepatocellular carcinoma HCV hepatitis C virus HIV human immunodeficiency virus IDSA Infectious Diseases Society of America INR international normalized ratio MSM men who have sex with men Hepatology. Author manuscript; available in PMC 2022 November 30.
