Prolactinoma Management
KEYWORDS: patients, pubmed, pituitary, prolactinomas, hyperprolactinemia, dopamine, prolactin, treatment, endocrinol, levels, tumor, cabergoline, pregnancy, prolactin levels, therapy


patients may present with delayed or arrested puberty, growth failure, and weight gain. Many aspects of the care for children and adolescents with prolactinomas are similar to that in adults; however, key differences exist, particularly in presentation and etiology. For that reason, children and adolescents with pituitary adenomas, including prolactinomas, should be treated by a pituitary specific multidisciplinary team. For complete coverage of all related areas of Endocrinology, please visit our on-line FREE web-text, WWW.ENDOTEXT.ORG . CLINICAL RECOGNITION Patients with prolactinomas come to clinical recognition because of the effects of elevated prolactin levels or tumor mass effects. The most typical symptoms of hyperprolactinemia in premenopausal women are oligo/amenorrhea (approximately 90%) and galactorrhea (approximately 80%) ( 1 ). Hyperprolactinemia is a cause of amenorrhea in 10%-20% of nonpregnant women ( 2 ), while non-puerperal galactorrhea may occur in 5-10% of normally menstruating, normoprolactinemic women, and therefore is suggestive, but not definitive, of hyperprolactinemia. However, when oligo/amenorrhea is associated with galactorrhea, about 75% of women will be found to have hyperprolactinemia. Galactorrhea is reported in ~10% of cases in men with prolactinomas and is virtually pathognomonic of a prolactinoma. Hyperprolactinemia inhibits the pulsatile secretion of gonadotropin releasing hormone via interfering with hypothalamic kisspeptin-secreting cells via the prolactin receptor and may involve an opioid link ( 3 ). Table 1. Etiology of Hyperprolactinemia View in own window Pituitary Disease Prolactinomas Acromegaly Clinically nonfunctioning pituitary adenomas Empty Sella syndrome Hypophysitis Rathke’s pouch cyst Metastases (breast, lung) Hypothalamic Disease Craniopharyngiomas Meningiomas Germinomas Other tumors Sarcoidosis Langerhans cell histiocytosis Neuroaxis irradiation Vascular Tuberculosis Pituitary Stalk Section Medications Phenothiazines Butyrophenones Atypical Antipsychotics Tricyclic Antidepressants Serotonin Reuptake Inhibitors Serotonin Noradrenaline Reuptake inhibitors Sibutramine MAO inhibitors Reserpine Methyldopa Verapamil Metoclopramide Domperidone Opioids Estrogens GnRH agonists Other Neurogenic Chest wall/Breast lesions Spinal Cord lesions Other Pregnancy Breast-feeding Hypothyroidism Renal Insufficiency Severe liver disease Adrenal Insufficiency Polycystic ovary syndrome Ectopic prolactin production Familial hyperprolactinemia (mutated prolactin receptor) Untreated phenylketonuria and tetrahydrobiopterin deficiencies Idiopathic EPIDEMIOLOGY Prolactinomas comprise 25 to 50% of all pituitary adenomas ( 4 ). Prolactinomas are roughly three times more common in women than in men; prior to menopause, prolactinomas predominantly affect women in a ratio of 5:1 to 10:1, while the ratio equalizes afterwards, mainly reflecting the decline in circulating estrogen levels. Microprolactinomas (<10 mm in maximal diameter) are the most frequent type and very rarely grow into macroprolactinomas (≥ 10 mm in maximal diameter). Macroprolactinomas, on the
