Prolactinoma Management
KEYWORDS: patients, pubmed, pituitary, prolactinomas, hyperprolactinemia, dopamine, prolactin, treatment, endocrinol, levels, tumor, cabergoline, pregnancy, prolactin levels, therapy


in circulating estrogen levels. Microprolactinomas (<10 mm in maximal diameter) are the most frequent type and very rarely grow into macroprolactinomas (≥ 10 mm in maximal diameter). Macroprolactinomas, on the other hand, have a different clinical prognosis (higher risk of invasiveness, higher rates of resistance to medical therapy as well as a higher frequency of other anterior pituitary hormone deficiencies) and require closer follow-up, particularly in men ( 5 ). Prolactinomas measuring > 40 mm in diameter are named giant prolactinomas. PATHOPHYSIOLOGY The vast majority of prolactinomas are sporadic. Familial cases of prolactinomas are very rare and occur usually in association with Multiple Endocrine Neoplasia type 1 or the Familial Isolated Pituitary Adenoma (FIPA) syndrome and more rarely due to MEN4, MEN5 or associated with paragangliomas ( 6 - 8 ). Genetic testing for young-onset macroprolactinomas should include the MEN1 and AIP genes. Similar to other types of pituitary adenomas, prolactinomas arise from a single transformed cell (lactotroph) with monoclonal proliferation. A number of candidate somatic genetic alterations involved in the genesis and progression of prolactinomas have been investigated, among which a somatic mutation in the splicing factor 3 subunit B1 (SF3B1) gene stands out. A mutational hotspot (SF3B1R625H) was described in approximately 20% of over 200 surgically resected prolactinomas from a cohort of Chinese patients ( 9 ). A recent study by the same group suggests that the SF3B1R625H allele, by promoting aberrant splicing and suppression of Human Disc Large (DLG1), a tumor suppressor protein, may stimulate cell migration, invasion, and epithelial-mesenchymal transition ( 10 ). A recent retrospective, multicenter study involving 282 patients from 8 European centers detected SF3B1 variants (including a new variant SF3B1R625C) in seven patients with lactotroph tumors, including 3 metastatic and 3 aggressive tumors ( 11 ). The overall prevalence of likely pathogenic SF3B1 variants in lactotroph tumors was 2.5%, but when considering only metastatic cases, it reached the 50%. Furthermore, SF3B1 variants correlated with significantly larger tumor size, higher Ki67 proliferation index, multiple treatments, including radiotherapy and chemotherapy, increased disease-specific death, and shorter postoperative survival. DIAGNOSIS AND DIFFERENTIAL DIAGNOSIS The majority of patients with hyperprolactinemia do not actually have prolactinomas ( Table 1 ) ( 2 , 12 , 13 ). Drug-induced hyperprolactinemia is the most common cause, and a number of physiological conditions, including stress (psychological or associated with acute illness), exercise and sleep can also cause prolactin elevation. The hyperprolactinemia caused
