Prolactinoma Management
KEYWORDS: patients, pubmed, pituitary, prolactinomas, hyperprolactinemia, dopamine, prolactin, treatment, endocrinol, levels, tumor, cabergoline, pregnancy, prolactin levels, therapy


is the most common cause, and a number of physiological conditions, including stress (psychological or associated with acute illness), exercise and sleep can also cause prolactin elevation. The hyperprolactinemia caused by drugs and other non-prolactinoma causes is usually <150 ng/mL (3000 mIU/L). Many medications block dopamine release or action, the most common being antipsychotic medications, verapamil, and metoclopramide ( 14 , 15 ). The best way to determine whether hyperprolactinemia is drug-induced or not is to discontinue the drug or switch to another drug in a similar class that is not known to cause hyperprolactinemia and see if the prolactin levels return to normal within 72 hours. The best example is the partial dopamine receptor agonist aripiprazole, which has been shown to be effective in attenuating antipsychotic medication-induced hyperprolactinemia ( 16 ). A variety of suprasellar lesions cause hyperprolactinemia because of compression of the hypothalamus or pituitary stalk with decreased dopamine reaching the lactotrophs. These can be mass lesions, such as craniopharyngiomas or meningiomas, or infiltrative disease, such as sarcoidosis and Langerhans cell histiocytosis. Cystic prolactinomas, which are prolactin secreting tumors in which the cystic component accounts for more than 50% of the tumor volume, may offer a diagnostic challenge since the prolactin levels are usually lower (50-150 ng/mL) than their solid counterparts. The diagnostic evaluation should exclude other pituitary cystic lesions with hyperprolactinemia caused by stalk compression, such as cystic non-functioning pituitary adenomas (NFPAs), craniopharyngiomas, and Rathke's cleft cysts. It should be noted that cystic prolactinomas might respond to dopamine agonist therapy, which should be considered a viable option, particularly in patients without urgent need of optic chiasm decompression ( 5 ). The rapidity and degree of response to dopamine agonist therapy could be a possible way to differentiate the two scenarios with the idea that hyperprolactinemia due to lack of dopamine release would respond more rapidly and markedly to dopamine agonist therapy than prolactinomas. Nevertheless, a recent descriptive study on 68 prolactinomas presenting with prolactin levels between 50 and 200 ng/mL described a median prolactin percent change of 87% by 2 months with more than 25% of the patients having a percent drop >95% ( 17 ). The high estrogen levels of pregnancy cause lactotroph hyperplasia and hyperprolactinemia, so pregnancy must always be excluded. The estrogen levels produced by oral contraceptives or post-menopausal hormonal replacement therapy generally do not cause hyperprolactinemia. The prevalence of hyperprolactinemia in patients with
