Prolactinoma Management
KEYWORDS: patients, pubmed, pituitary, prolactinomas, hyperprolactinemia, dopamine, prolactin, treatment, endocrinol, levels, tumor, cabergoline, pregnancy, prolactin levels, therapy


so pregnancy must always be excluded. The estrogen levels produced by oral contraceptives or post-menopausal hormonal replacement therapy generally do not cause hyperprolactinemia. The prevalence of hyperprolactinemia in patients with polycystic ovary syndrome is variable and should be a diagnosis of exclusion. Notably, prolactin values above 60-80 ng/mL suggest another underlying cause of hyperprolactinemia that should be actively investigated ( 2 , 18 ). Hypothyroidism and renal failure (serum creatinine >2 mg/dL (176 µmol/L) can also cause hyperprolactinemia ( 19 ). Thus, the initial laboratory evaluation involves repeat measurement of prolactin, a TSH, a serum creatinine, and a pregnancy test. Unless there is very good evidence for these conditions or drug-induced hyperprolactinemia, even patients with mild hyperprolactinemia should be evaluated with radiological methods, preferably MRI, to distinguish among idiopathic hyperprolactinemia, microprolactinomas, and large mass lesions. Measurement of IGF-1 is recommended for patients presenting with hyperprolactinemia and pituitary adenomas ( 19 , 20 ) as prolactin may be elevated in up to 50% of patients with GH-secreting tumors ( 21 ). Special caution is needed when two-site (‘sandwich’) prolactin assays are used, as patients with large prolactinomas and very high prolactin levels may appear to have prolactin levels that are normal or only modestly elevated, thus mimicking a large NFPA. This “hook effect” is due to saturation of the assay antibodies and prolactin levels should always be remeasured at 1:10 or 1:100 dilution in patients with larger macroadenomas (> 2-3 cm) and normal to modestly elevated prolactin levels ( 20 , 22 - 24 ). Sometimes prolactin levels are elevated due to increased amounts of macroprolactin. Macroprolactin consists of high molecular weight prolactin variants that are either aggregates with immunoglobulins or dimers and have diminished biological potency. Macroprolactin can be detected in the serum by precipitating the complex with polyethylene glycol. In normal individuals, macroprolactin comprises < 30% of circulating prolactin; therefore, if after precipitation with polyethylene glycol the prolactin levels in the supernatant are > 70% of the upper limit of normal for the assay, the patient can be assumed to have true hyperprolactinemia and not an elevation due simply to macroprolactin. Macroprolactinemia has usually been found in patients with equivocal symptoms and not those typically due to hyperprolactinemia. A lack of recognition of the presence of macroprolactin can lead to unnecessary laboratory investigations, imaging, and pharmacologic or surgical treatment. When no pituitary lesions are seen by radiological studies and
