Prolactinoma Management
KEYWORDS: patients, pubmed, pituitary, prolactinomas, hyperprolactinemia, dopamine, prolactin, treatment, endocrinol, levels, tumor, cabergoline, pregnancy, prolactin levels, therapy


lack of recognition of the presence of macroprolactin can lead to unnecessary laboratory investigations, imaging, and pharmacologic or surgical treatment. When no pituitary lesions are seen by radiological studies and other known causes have been excluded, the diagnosis of idiopathic hyperprolactinemia is made; in long term follow-up, although prolactin levels may rise to over 50% of the baseline in 10-15% of the patients, only about 10% develop detectable microadenomas, one-third resolve their hyperprolactinemia without specific intervention and prolactin levels remain stable in most patients ( 25 ). TREATMENT Figure 1. Serum prolactin measurement is required in all patients presenting with hypothalamic-pituitary lesions before surgery (Figure courtesy of D. Korbonits). Not all patients require treatment. If a patient with a microadenoma or idiopathic hyperprolactinemia presents with non-bothersome galactorrhea and has normal estrogen/testosterone levels, they can simply be followed with periodic prolactin levels. Similar patients who may have amenorrhea but are not interested in fertility may be treated with estrogen replacement. However, for most symptomatic patients, a dopamine agonist is the therapy of choice. Dopamine agonists normalize prolactin levels, correct amenorrhea-galactorrhea, and decrease tumor size by more than 50% in 80-90% of patients, with cabergoline generally being more efficacious and better tolerated than bromocriptine ( 19 , 26 ). Thus, defining whether a pituitary tumor is a prolactinoma is crucial for optimal patient management since it is reasonable to use cabergoline as first-line therapy even in patients with visual field defects, unless visual acuity is threatened by rapid progression or recent tumor hemorrhage, in which cases, surgery is indicated ( Figure 2 ). Starting dose in patients with large tumors threatening vision could be somewhat higher than usual, as illustrated by a retrospective case series of 14 patients with giant prolactinomas and visual field defects who received cabergoline starting doses of 0.5 mg twice or three times a week with visual improvement in 85% of the cases ( 27 ). Rapid escalation of cabergoline dose seems to be safe but not more effective than conventional treatment for the achievement of normoprolactinemia and significant tumor shrinkage as shown by a prospective randomized trial including 38 newly diagnosed patients with macroprolactinomas, 68% of them presenting with visual field defects ( 28 ). The drop in prolactin levels may be seen as early as 24 hours after initiation of medical treatment, as illustrated by the case of a 16-year old male patient presenting with a
