Prolactinoma Management
KEYWORDS: patients, pubmed, pituitary, prolactinomas, hyperprolactinemia, dopamine, prolactin, treatment, endocrinol, levels, tumor, cabergoline, pregnancy, prolactin levels, therapy


in prolactin levels may be seen as early as 24 hours after initiation of medical treatment, as illustrated by the case of a 16-year old male patient presenting with a giant invasive prolactinoma whose prolactin levels fell from 1,238,960 mIU/L (58,441 ng/mL) to 307,500 mIU/L (14,505 ng/mL) after a single dose of cabergoline 0.25 mg ( 29 , 30 ). Vision often starts to improve within days after the initiation of dopamine agonist therapy and should be preferentially monitored with serial Goldman perimetry tests. Figure 2. Suggested management in patients presenting with a pituitary mass and new onset compressive symptoms. In non-emergent situations cabergoline is usually initiated at 0.25-0.5 mg/week (taken initially carefully with meal just before bedtime, to reduce nausea and improve compliance), whereas the initial dose of bromocriptine is 1.25 mg/day. About 40-50% of patients, whose prolactin levels normalize and tumors shrink to the point of non-visualization, can be tapered off cabergoline after 1-2 years without tumor re-expansion. Favorable predictors of successful withdrawal include low maintenance doses of cabergoline, treatment duration >2 years, and substantial adenoma size reduction ( 5 ) Factors associated with greater risk of recurrence are the presence of pituitary deficits at diagnosis and higher prolactin levels, at diagnosis and before withdrawal ( 31 ) A rare but significant side-effect of dopamine agonist treatment is cerebrospinal fluid leakage (CSF) leak, due to the rapid shrinkage of a large prolactinoma allowing CSF to escape if significant damage is present at the fossa floor ( 32 ). According to a retrospective series of 38 patients with medically induced CSF leaks (97% of them associated with dopamine agonists), the average time from initialization of medical treatment to onset of rhinorrhea was 3.3 months (range 3 days-17 months), but this adverse effect can also occur during long term treatment ( 33 ). Patients should be advised to seek medical assistance if clear fluid appears and this should be tested for beta-2 transferrin ( 20 , 34 ) or beta-trace-protein ( 35 ), If positive, patients need urgent neurosurgical input. Discontinuing dopamine agonist therapy is not usually recommended as it may cause recurrence of the tumor ( 36 ). Dopamine agonist therapy has been implicated as a precipitating factor for pituitary apoplexy in patients with prolactinomas ( 37 , 38 ). Nonetheless, prolactinomas are, by themselves, more prone to bleeding, and the reported prevalence of pituitary apoplexy in macroprolactinomas treated
