Prolactinoma Management
KEYWORDS: patients, pubmed, pituitary, prolactinomas, hyperprolactinemia, dopamine, prolactin, treatment, endocrinol, levels, tumor, cabergoline, pregnancy, prolactin levels, therapy


pituitary apoplexy in patients with prolactinomas ( 37 , 38 ). Nonetheless, prolactinomas are, by themselves, more prone to bleeding, and the reported prevalence of pituitary apoplexy in macroprolactinomas treated with dopamine agonists, ranging from 1% to 6%, is not significantly different from the rate recorded in untreated prolactinomas ( 39 ). As opposed to the normal pituitary, the vascularization of pituitary adenomas is predominantly supported by a direct arterial blood supply rather than the portal system ( 40 ). Indeed, abnormal terminal arterioles have been described in prolactinomas suggesting reduced blood supply ( 41 ). Further precipitating factors which have been associated with pituitary apoplexy are cerebral angiography, surgical procedures, head trauma, dynamic tests, anticoagulation therapy, and pregnancy ( 40 , 42 ). Pituitary apoplexy is a medical emergency and treatment must be tailored to each patient after a thorough evaluation by a multidisciplinary team, including an endocrinologist, a neuroradiologist, an ophthalmologist, and a neurosurgeon with expertise in pituitary pathology. The optimal management of pituitary apoplexy is still controversial, as some patients recover normal visual and endocrine function after conservative steroid-based management. However, prolactinomas with an important bleeding component may not significantly shrink under conservative management and close surveillance is mandatory. Surgical decompression is the most rapid treatment to improve symptoms and relieve compression of local structures and is indicated in case of significant neuro-ophthalmic signs or reduced levels of consciousness ( 43 ). Rarely, vision deterioration may occur during dopamine agonist treatment despite normalization of prolactin levels and tumor shrinkage. An under recognized complication of dopamine agonist therapy in macroprolactinomas is optic chiasm herniation (the optic chiasm which is pulled down into a partially empty sella) which can be diagnosed by MRI ( 44 , 45 ). Multidisciplinary team evaluation is indicated, and treatment approaches include reduction/interruption of dopamine agonist therapy or neurosurgery (chiasmopexy). A well-described side-effects of dopamine agonists include psychiatric complications, such as depression, anxiety, insomnia, hallucinations, and mania. More recently impulse control disorders have also been described in pituitary adenoma patients ( 20 , 46 - 49 ). The underlying mechanism is related to an interaction between the dopamine agonists and the D3 receptor in the mesolymbic system ( 50 ). Impulse control disorders can manifest as hypersexualism, gambling, compulsive eating, compulsive shopping, and “punding” (compulsive performance of and fascination with repetitive mechanical tasks, for example assembling and disassembling household objects or collecting or sorting
