Prolactinoma Management
KEYWORDS: patients, pubmed, pituitary, prolactinomas, hyperprolactinemia, dopamine, prolactin, treatment, endocrinol, levels, tumor, cabergoline, pregnancy, prolactin levels, therapy


manifest as hypersexualism, gambling, compulsive eating, compulsive shopping, and “punding” (compulsive performance of and fascination with repetitive mechanical tasks, for example assembling and disassembling household objects or collecting or sorting various items) ( 48 ), with hypersexualism and gambling being the most commonly observed in pituitary patients. Hypersexualism has also been described in teenage children ( 30 ). Although impulse control disorders are infrequent, they have the potential to cause devastating consequences on patients’ life and clinicians should be sensitive to these potential side-effects discussing it with the patient and patient´s partner and/or family members at the start of treatment and during long-term follow-up ( 48 ). Discontinuation of the dopamine agonists usually reverse these side-effects ( 47 ). In some cases, prolactinomas appear to be resistant to a dopamine agonist, but it is important to ensure compliance and to be certain that the underlying lesion is a prolactinoma and not some other cause of hyperprolactinemia. About 50% of patients resistant to bromocriptine will then respond to cabergoline. Most patients resistant to standard doses of cabergoline respond to larger doses ( 51 ). T2-weighted MRI intensity may aid as a tool for predicting response to dopamine agonists. Prolactinomas showing T2-weighted MRI signal heterogeneity are more common in males, are usually larger, more secreting, and may show poorer hormonal response to dopamine agonists as compared with homogeneous prolactinomas ( 52 ). In females, T2-weighted MRI tumor hypointensity has been associated with higher prolactin levels at diagnosis and dopamine agonists resistance ( 53 ). Previous reports in patients taking cabergoline for Parkinson’s disease have shown that doses >3 mg/day may be associated with cardiac valvular abnormalities. Whether similar valvular changes occur in patients receiving low-dose cabergoline for treatment of hyperprolactinemia is still debatable; common practice has been to perform periodic echocardiograms every 12 to 24 months in patients taking >2 mg/week ( 54 ). However, a clinically significant association between low dose cabergoline and cardiac valvulopathy is not supported by a large multicenter follow-up study ( 55 ). A meta-analysis of case-control studies evaluating patients who had received ≥6 months cabergoline treatment for hyperprolactinemia reported an increased risk of mild tricuspid regurgitation in the cabergoline-treated patients compared to controls ( 56 ). Nevertheless, these results were mainly influenced by the results from a single center ( 57 ) and in the majority of the reviewed studies there were no cases of moderate-severe
