Prolactinoma Management
KEYWORDS: patients, pubmed, pituitary, prolactinomas, hyperprolactinemia, dopamine, prolactin, treatment, endocrinol, levels, tumor, cabergoline, pregnancy, prolactin levels, therapy


Nevertheless, these results were mainly influenced by the results from a single center ( 57 ) and in the majority of the reviewed studies there were no cases of moderate-severe tricuspid regurgitation in either group. Furthermore, neither cumulative dose nor treatment duration was associated with an increased risk of moderate-severe valve lesions ( 56 ) and none of these lesions were found as a result of cardiac symptoms. According to the cross-sectional CATCH study conducted among 174 community-based adults (mean age of 49 years) receiving dopamine agonists for >12 months for hyperprolactinemia and no cardiac-related symptoms, cabergoline use and greater cumulative cabergoline exposure (>115 mg) were associated with a higher prevalence of valvular regurgitation, i.e., ≥2 valves with grade 2+ regurgitation, compared with bromocriptine ( 58 ). According to a joint position statement of the British Society of Echocardiography, the British Heart Valve Society and the Society for Endocrinology ( 59 ), a standard transthoracic echocardiogram should be performed before a patient starts dopamine agonist therapy for hyperprolactinemia in order to detect any pre-existing valve alterations. Repeat transthoracic echocardiography should then be performed at 5 years after starting cabergoline in patients taking a total weekly dose less than or equal to 2 mg. If there has been no change on the 5-year scan, repeat echocardiography could continue at 5-yearly intervals. If a patient is taking more than a total weekly dose of 2 mg, then annual echocardiography is recommended. Patients treated with ≤2.0 mg/week of cabergoline who develop clinical signs or symptoms potentially suggestive of valvular abnormalities should undergo annual echocardiography if treatment is continued. Decisions regarding discontinuation of dopamine agonist therapy should only be made after review of serial imaging by a cardiologist experienced in analyzing drug induced valvopathy or carcinoid heart disease. These recommendations diverge to some extent from a recently published international consensus statement of the Pituitary Society ( 5 ) which recommends baseline echocardiography only if long-term treatment with a weekly dose > 2 mg is anticipated, echocardiographic monitoring every 2-3 years in patients taking more than a total weekly dose of 2 mg, instead of annual cardiac examination, and, in patients treated with < 1 mg per weak who have no clinical signs of valvular dysfunction, some experts suggested repeated examinations would not be necessary. An alternative approach is transsphenoidal surgery, which has initial remission rates of approximately 75% for microprolactinomas and 40% for macroadenomas,
