Prolactinoma Management
KEYWORDS: patients, pubmed, pituitary, prolactinomas, hyperprolactinemia, dopamine, prolactin, treatment, endocrinol, levels, tumor, cabergoline, pregnancy, prolactin levels, therapy


dysfunction, some experts suggested repeated examinations would not be necessary. An alternative approach is transsphenoidal surgery, which has initial remission rates of approximately 75% for microprolactinomas and 40% for macroadenomas, and long-term recurrence rates of nearly 20% and 35%, respectively, when performed by expert neurosurgeons ( 60 ). Transsphenoidal surgery has been usually reserved for patients with resistance or intolerance to dopamine agonists, macroprolactinomas with chiasmal compression and visual deficits without rapid improvement on medical treatment, or with acute tumor complications, such as symptomatic apoplexy or cerebrospinal fluid leakage ( 20 ). Complications of hypopituitarism, infections, and bleeding are minimal, but increase proportionately with tumor size. Nevertheless, reappraisal of the position of surgery as a viable first line option alongside dopamine agonists in the treatment algorithm of adult patients with microprolactinomas and well circumscribed macroprolactinomas (Knosp grade 0 and 1) has been recently advocated by some experts ( 5 ) based on the advance of surgical techniques over the years, improved remission and low complication rates of current transsphenoidal surgery performed by experienced neurosurgeons ( 61 , 62 ). Craniotomy for large tumors is rarely curative and is fraught with much higher complication rates. Radiation therapy is reserved for those patients with macroadenomas not responding to either medical or surgical treatment. Radiation therapy in all forms is associated with a high rate of hypopituitarism that develops gradually over many years. Temozolomide, an orally-active alkylating chemotherapeutic agent, is reserved for the treatment of aggressive prolactinomas refractory to other treatment modalities ( 63 ). Despite current limited experience, alternative medical approaches for uncontrolled patients with aggressive tumors include cytotoxic drugs, mTOR/Akt inhibitors, tyrosine kinase inhibitors, anti-VEGF monoclonal antibody, peptide receptor radionuclide therapy, and immunotherapy ( 64 ). FOLLOW-UP The goals of treatment are to normalize prolactin levels or at least bring them to levels at which gonadal/reproductive/sexual function is normalized and to decrease tumor size. As noted, according to different series, nearly 80% of patients treated with dopamine agonists will reach these prolactin goals and achieve significant tumor size reduction ( 65 - 67 ). Once prolactin levels have reached normal or near-normal level, they can just be monitored every 3-6 months for the first year and then every 6-12 months thereafter. Macroadenoma tumor size can be monitored by serial MRI scans and once maximal size reduction has been documented, further scans may not be necessary as long as prolactin levels are
