Prolactinoma Management
KEYWORDS: patients, pubmed, pituitary, prolactinomas, hyperprolactinemia, dopamine, prolactin, treatment, endocrinol, levels, tumor, cabergoline, pregnancy, prolactin levels, therapy


Macroadenoma tumor size can be monitored by serial MRI scans and once maximal size reduction has been documented, further scans may not be necessary as long as prolactin levels are being monitored. Whether a second MRI scan is necessary in patient with microadenomas is debatable if prolactin levels are regularly monitored. It is extremely rare for a tumor to increase in size without there being a significant increase in prolactin levels. Visual field testing should be repeated until the visual fields normalize or remain stable and then do not need to be repeated. PREGNANCY Dopamine agonists have to be given to allow ovulation to occur and then are usually stopped once pregnancy is diagnosed. In this fashion, the developing fetus has been exposed to the drug for about 4-6 weeks. There do not appear to be any risks for fetal malformations or other adverse pregnancy outcomes with either bromocriptine or cabergoline. A comprehensive review confirms no impairments in maternal–fetal outcomes in bromocriptine-induced pregnancies (6272 cases) as well as in cabergoline-induced pregnancies (1061 cases) regarding premature labor, abortions, and fetal malformations ( 68 ). In a recent multicenter study including 194 women (233 pregnancies) with prolactinomas the miscarriage rate among women who discontinued cabergoline shortly after pregnancy diagnosis was lower (7.5%) than in those who maintained the medication by medical advice or inadvertently (38%) ( 69 ). Despite the potential effect of cabergoline on abortion rates, no associations were observed between maintaining cabergoline after the first trimester and preterm birth, congenital malformations, or neurodevelopmental changes. Dopamine agonists should be reinstituted when breast-feeding is completed. Pregnancy is a risk factor for prolactinoma enlargement, especially for macroprolactinomas, and risk is increased in patients without prior surgery ( 5 ). Symptomatic growth occurs in about 23% of macroprolactinomas and about 3% of microprolactinomas in the second or third trimester due both to the stimulatory effect of the high estrogen levels of pregnancy and the withdrawal of the dopamine agonist that may have been restraining tumor growth. In patients with growing or invasive macroadenomas, pregnancy can be recommended once the gonadotrophic axis is restored and the tumor is reduced within the sellar boundaries ( 68 ). Maintenance of dopamine agonist therapy during pregnancy is an option, particularly in patients who have not had prior surgical or radiation therapy of if the tumor is abutting the optic chiasm ( 5 , 19 ). A recent joint
