Prolactinoma Management
KEYWORDS: patients, pubmed, pituitary, prolactinomas, hyperprolactinemia, dopamine, prolactin, treatment, endocrinol, levels, tumor, cabergoline, pregnancy, prolactin levels, therapy


option, particularly in patients who have not had prior surgical or radiation therapy of if the tumor is abutting the optic chiasm ( 5 , 19 ). A recent joint position statement from the Brazilian Societies of Endocrinology and Gynecology recommends dopamine agonists for at least one year to reduce tumor dimension to less than 10 mm in patients with macroprolactinomas who wish to become pregnant. If the tumor reduces in size, discontinuation of the medication once pregnancy is confirmed may be discussed ( 45 ). Otherwise, pituitary surgery should be considered. Pre-pregnancy adenoma debulking could increase the chance to avoid symptoms from tumor enlargement during pregnancy. If transsphenoidal surgery is performed prior to pregnancy, the risk of symptomatic macroprolactinoma enlargement is reduced from 21% to 4.7% ( 5 , 70 ).Nevertheless, patients undergoing pituitary surgery before pregnancy should be informed of the potential risk of hypopituitarism and its impact on fertility. Most experts recommend surgery in women with macroprolactinomas who wish to become pregnant if the tumor is close to optic structures and do not experience pituitary tumor shrinkage during dopamine agonist therapy or who cannot tolerate dopamine agonist therapy ( 5 , 19 ). Visual field testing should be carried out each trimester in patients with macroadenomas but in those with microadenomas only when they develop visual symptoms or progressive headaches. MRI scans (without gadolinium) are done in those patients who develop visual field defects or severe headaches when a therapeutic intervention is contemplated. Prolactin levels may rise during pregnancy when there is no tumor size change and some tumors enlarge without an associated rise in prolactin; therefore, measurement of prolactin during pregnancy need not be carried out, as the results can be misleading. When there is evidence of significant symptoms and tumor growth, the patient should be restarted on the dopamine agonist that was discontinued at conception ( 71 ). Again, there are fewer data with cabergoline than bromocriptine but there is no particular reason to favor one versus the other in this context. Transsphenoidal surgical decompression can be performed if there is an unsatisfactory response to the dopamine agonist. Delivery of the baby and placenta can also be initiated if the pregnancy is sufficiently advanced. Pituitary apoplexy during pregnancy is a rare event, estimated to occur in about 1 in 10,000 term pregnancies and, on numerous occasions, it can be the first clinical manifestation of a
