Prolactinoma Management
KEYWORDS: patients, pubmed, pituitary, prolactinomas, hyperprolactinemia, dopamine, prolactin, treatment, endocrinol, levels, tumor, cabergoline, pregnancy, prolactin levels, therapy


apoplexy during pregnancy is a rare event, estimated to occur in about 1 in 10,000 term pregnancies and, on numerous occasions, it can be the first clinical manifestation of a pituitary tumor ( 43 ). The pathogenesis of pituitary apoplexy during pregnancy is suggested to include compromised blood supply to the pituitary gland due to the physiological gestational growth of the lactotroph cells and the compression of blood vessels which, in combination with a prothrombotic state of pregnancy may predispose to infarction or hemorrhage. According to a recent review of 25 cases of prolactinomas complicated by apoplexy during pregnancy ( 72 ), pituitary apoplexy mostly occurred during the second or third trimester. The main presenting symptom was sudden severe headache, followed by visual disturbances. Dopamine agonists had been discontinued at the diagnosis of pregnancy in all cases. Microadenomas accounted for 9 out of 25 cases. Half of the prolactinomas, whether microprolactinomas or not, were managed conservatively, with dopamine agonist therapy and hormone replacement when necessary. In the other half of patients, surgery was performed. Healthy babies were born at term in most of the cases. CHILDREN AND ADOLESCENTS Despite the rarity of pituitary adenomas in this age group, prolactinoma is the most common adenoma type in children and adolescents, affecting approximately 100,000 patients every year ( 73 ). Although prolactinomas may be diagnosed before puberty, an adolescent presentation is more typical ( 74 ). Many aspects of the care for children and adolescents with prolactinomas are similar to those in adults; however, key differences exist, particularly in presentation and etiology. For that reason, children and adolescents with pituitary adenomas, including prolactinomas, should be treated by a pituitary specific multidisciplinary team, with experts from both pediatric and adult practice aiming to achieve optimal care, improved quality of live and reducing potentially serious life-changing and life-limiting sequelae ( 15 , 75 ). Pediatric patients with hyperprolactinemia may display delayed or arrested puberty, growth failure, menstrual disturbances, including primary or secondary amenorrhea (in post-menarche girls), galactorrhea, and gynecomastia (in boys). Of course, gynecomastia is very common in adolescent boys even in the absence of hyperprolactinemia. Of note, up to 50% of children or adolescents with macroprolactinomas may present with overweight or obesity at diagnosis and weight gain may be the main complaint in some patients ( 76 ). As macroprolactinomas, including giant prolactinomas, are more common in this age group compared to adults
