Prolactinoma Management
KEYWORDS: patients, pubmed, pituitary, prolactinomas, hyperprolactinemia, dopamine, prolactin, treatment, endocrinol, levels, tumor, cabergoline, pregnancy, prolactin levels, therapy


diagnosis and weight gain may be the main complaint in some patients ( 76 ). As macroprolactinomas, including giant prolactinomas, are more common in this age group compared to adults ( 77 ), mass effects, such as headaches and visual field loss, are frequently observed and are more common in boys than in girls. Visual assessment in children and adolescents should be done with age-specific tests, including assessment of visual acuity (ideally with logarithm of the minimum angle of resolution measurement), visual fields (ideally Goldmann perimetry), fundoscopy (with or without color vision) and, in patients with potentially severe deficits, optical coherence tomography ( 75 ). Pituitary hemorrhage resulting in apoplexy seems to be more common within prolactinomas in children than in adults. ( 78 ). Therefore, the level of suspicion for potential apoplexy in children with prolactinoma and new headache, visual loss or other sudden symptoms should be high. Genetic testing should be offered to all children and adolescents with prolactinomas. In a retrospective series of 77 patients with macroprolactinomas diagnosed before the age of 20, 14% had a genetic etiology (5% MEN 1 and 9% AIP) ( 76 ). Further rare germline abnormalities described include MEN-1 like due to MAX variants and pheochromocytoma-paraganglioma gene related pituitary disease (3PA) due to SDHx variants, as previously mentioned. In regards to biochemical evaluation, serum prolactin concentrations need to be interpreted according to pubertal status and sex. Pediatric cohort studies of prolactinomas report diagnostic serum PRL concentrations above 4,000 mIU/L (188 mcg/L), although lower levels may be seen in patients with microprolactinomas ( 74 , 76 ). As in adults, IGF-1 should be also evaluated to rule out mixed GH and prolactin hypersecretion and should be interpreted according to age and sex-specific reference ranges. Few cases of macroprolactinemia have been reported in the pediatric population ( 79 , 80 ), so assessment of baseline macroprolactin levels should be performed where serum prolactin is found to mildly or incidentally elevated. As with the adult population, serial dilutions of serum for prolactin measurement should be ordered in patients with large lesions and normal or mildly elevated PRL levels to exclude a “high dose hook-effect”. Medical treatment with a dopamine agonist is first line treatment in children and adolescents with prolactinomas. Several studies conducted in the pediatric population have shown that dopamine agonists reduce clinical symptoms and prolactin levels as well as induce tumor shrinkage (
