Prolactinoma Management
KEYWORDS: patients, pubmed, pituitary, prolactinomas, hyperprolactinemia, dopamine, prolactin, treatment, endocrinol, levels, tumor, cabergoline, pregnancy, prolactin levels, therapy


children and adolescents with prolactinomas. Several studies conducted in the pediatric population have shown that dopamine agonists reduce clinical symptoms and prolactin levels as well as induce tumor shrinkage ( 73 , 81 ). Cabergoline is the agonist of choice due to its superior effectiveness and lower adverse effect profile, even in the presence of visual disturbance and pituitary apoplexy, while carefully monitoring for any deterioration in vision, pituitary function, or general status. Dopamine agonist therapy is initiated at low doses (for example, 0.25 mg per week of cabergoline), with slow dose increases due to increased probability of adverse effects in children. The frequency of dose-independent psychological intolerance, including mental disorders and behavioral problems, seems to be higher in children and adolescents than in adults ( 82 ). Maintenance doses do not differ from the adult population, with most patients achieving treatment goals with conventional doses (up to 2 mg/week). For resistant cases, the dose may be increased to 3.5 mg/week or up to 7 mg in exceptional cases. Although successful dopamine agonist discontinuation has been achieved in children and adolescents, younger patients and those with high serum prolactin concentrations at diagnosis are less likely to achieve complete remission ( 81 ). To date, cardiac valvopathy in children and adolescents treated with dopamine agonists for hyperprolactinemia has not been reported. Nevertheless, considering potential longer treatment duration and larger cumulative doses in the pediatric population, surveillance for cardiac valvopathy with echocardiography is recommended as in the adult population. In children and adolescents with prolactinomas, neurosurgical intervention should be considered if vision deteriorates or does not improve on medical therapy or if dopamine agonist resistance, escape or intolerance occurs. Pediatric series report lower surgical remission rates than in adults, most likely due to the higher incidence of proportionately larger prolactinomas in children and adolescents, as well as a possible higher frequency of new and permanent pituitary hormone deficiencies after surgery ( 83 , 84 ). If surgery is indicated, it should be performed by experienced pituitary surgeons in age-appropriate neurosurgical units. Endoscopic rather than microscopic transsphenoidal surgery should be considered for its potentially superior efficacy in preserving pituitary function in this age group ( 85 , 86 ). Radiotherapy is reserved for exceptional patients who need control of tumor growth where other treatment modalities are not available or have been exhausted ( 75 ). For follow-up imaging, particularly in macroadenomas, gadolinium-containing contrast
