RESEARCH ARTICLE
KEYWORDS: testing, hbv, hepatitis, viral, load, viral load, study, results, genexpert, women, platform, data, pregnant, prophylaxis, pregnant women


Optimizing hepatitis B diagnosis for mothers in a low-resource setting: A field pilot of Xpert point- of-care viral load testing in Ugandan antenatal clinics Linda Kisaakye Nabitaka 1*, Viola Kasone 2☯, Emmanuel Olal 3☯, Judith Kyokushaba 2, Philip Kasibante1, Susan Nambozo2, Aidarayaan Namakula2, Susan Nabadda Ndidde2, Ponsiano Ocama4, Isaac Ssewanyana2 ☯ These authors contributed equally to this work. * Abstract Mother-to-child transmission accounts for most new hepatitis B (HBV) infections in high-burden regions globally. The World Health Organization recommends antiviral OPEN ACCESS prophylaxis for pregnant women with high hepatitis B viral load levels, but access to Citation: Nabitaka LK, Kasone V, Olal E, viral load testing remains limited and untimely in many countries, due to centralized Kyokushaba J, Kasibante P, Nambozo S, et al. (2026) Optimizing hepatitis B Diagnosis testing. We assessed the operational feasibility, accessibility, and cost of implement- for mothers in a low-resource setting: A field ing the Xpert HBV DNA assay in antenatal care settings. This was a two-phase study pilot of Xpert point-of-care viral load testing in at 10 high-volume hospitals across nine regions of Uganda. Phase I verified the diag- Ugandan antenatal clinics. PLOS Glob Public journal.pgph.0006380 Phase II assessed feasibility, usability, and cost of integrating PoC testing into routine Editor: Mustafa A Barbhuiya, UMass Chan antenatal care using GeneXpert systems. Quantitative data were extracted from facility registers, entered into ODK, and analysed using SPSS 19 and Excel. Qualita- UNITED STATES OF AMERICA tive data, consisting of feedback from study teams, were analysed thematically. Xpert HBV DNA assay demonstrated full concordance with the COBAS platform. Overall, 96.7% of samples were processed, 92% returned to providers, and 61% of mothers Published: May 4, 2026 received their results on the same day. Of 181 pregnant women provided HBV DNA Peer Review History: PLOS recognizes the testing, 12% had viral loads >200,000 IU/mL, thus eligible for antiviral prophylaxis. benefits of transparency in the peer review Among pregnant women eligible for prophylaxis, 14 had received antiviral prophy- process; therefore, we enable the publication of all of the content of peer review and laxis. Birth records were available for 15 pregnant women, and 73.3% of their new- author responses alongside final, published borns had received the hepatitis B birth dose vaccine. Coordination between ANC articles. The editorial history of this article is and laboratory services, including the timely dispatch of results to pregnant women, available here: pgph.0006380 was generally smooth
