RESEARCH ARTICLE
KEYWORDS: testing, hbv, hepatitis, viral, load, viral load, study, results, genexpert, women, platform, data, pregnant, prophylaxis, pregnant women


the only PoC HBV DNA platform currently available in Uganda. Uganda extensively employs the GeneXpert platform for tuberculosis, HIV, HPV, and COVID-19 diagnostics , offering an opportunity to leverage existing infrastructure for HBV DNA testing. The GeneXpert platform has demonstrated high diagnostic accuracy for HBV DNA, with a limit of quantification as low as 10IU/mL . However, evidence of its real-world feasibility in antenatal settings for the prevention of mother-to- child transmission is limited. This study assessed the operational performance, accessibility, feasibility, and cost of using the Xpert HBV Viral Load assay to strengthen the PMTCT of HBV in Uganda, leveraging the country’s existing GeneXpert network. As Uganda prepares to scale HBV PMTCT services, real-world evidence on PoC solutions is critical to inform policy and investment decisions. Methods Study design and settings This was a two-phase, pragmatic, cross-sectional, mixed-methods implementation study conducted between April and December 2024 across ten high-volume public and private not-for-profit hospitals in Uganda. Participating sites included the central laboratory (CPHL), where Phase I was conducted at the laboratory responsible for testing all viral load samples from public health facilities. This aimed to verify the diagnostic accuracy of the Xpert HBV Viral Load (VL) assay against implementation. Phase II was implemented across 10 purposively selected hospitals based on high antenatal care (ANC) volume, docu- mented location in regions with a high burden of hepatitis B, and the presence of substantial GeneXpert platform capacity (16 modules) to minimize disruption to other molecular tests such as those for TB, human papillomavirus, and COVID-19 testing. For Phase II, the aim was to evaluate the feasibility, usability, acceptability, and cost of incorporating the assay into routine ANC workflows using Uganda’s decentralized GeneXpert network. Study population and sampling Phase I clinical performance evaluation involved a specimen panel of 50 archived samples selected using a simple random sampling approach, including HBV-positive plasma specimens, as described in 1 below. These samples were obtained from the National Biorepository at CPHL, stored at -80°C for 3 weeks, and had sufficient volume per the protocol. The manufacturer recommends that archived plasma specimens remain stable when frozen at -80°C to 20°C for 6 weeks. The sample size for analysis was reduced from the originally planned 248–50. This decision complies with CPHL IVD evaluation guidelines, which set testing requirements for this type of assay. Likewise, for this CE-marked test, this sample size is considered sufficient to ensure a robust
