RESEARCH ARTICLE
KEYWORDS: testing, hbv, hepatitis, viral, load, viral load, study, results, genexpert, women, platform, data, pregnant, prophylaxis, pregnant women


complies with CPHL IVD evaluation guidelines, which set testing requirements for this type of assay. Likewise, for this CE-marked test, this sample size is considered sufficient to ensure a robust performance evaluation (Table 1). Phase II rolled out to the 10 sites: enrolled HBsAg-positive pregnant women aged 18 years and above attending ANC services at study sites. A purposive target of 20 participants per site (~200 total) was determined based on the availability of test cartridges provided by Cepheid Inc. In addition, healthcare workers involved in ANC and laboratory services were purposively selected to participate in qualitative interviews and focus group discussions (FGDs). Table 1. Specimens for the clinical evaluation. Type of specimens Number of specimens Specimens from HBV-infected individuals < 20 000 IU/mL, including 15 <2 000 IU/mL 15 2000-20 000 0 > 20 000 IU/mL, including 35 20 000–200 000 IU/mL 17 Study procedures Phase I: Diagnostic accuracy evaluation. The diagnostic accuracy of the GeneXpert platform has been extensively validated in prior studies. Therefore, this phase of the study aimed only to verify its performance within the local context. We assessed agreement with the platform currently used for routine viral load testing, using 50 archived samples. The 50 archived plasma samples were retrieved from the CPHL biorepository and tested using the Xpert HBV VL assay. The samples had been archived between 24th February 2024 and 12th March 2024. Tests were done on 12th March-14th March 2024. HBV-positive specimens were characterized using the COBAS AmpliPrep-COBAS TaqMan Hepatitis B Virus Quantita- tive test (Roche Diagnostics GmbH) on plasma. The result obtained with this test served as the reference; no additional testing was necessary. Results were compared with those previously obtained from the COBAS platform. Viral load results were log-transformed to evaluate agreement and clinical performance. The test was performed according to IFU Reference GXHBV-VL-CE-10. Testing was conducted by two operators who demonstrated competency in using the assay before starting the evaluation. Clinical specimens described above were tested individually on the assay under evaluation using one lot. Phase II: Participant identification and enrollment. At the ten study sites, pregnant women attending ANC were screened for HBsAg. Participants were recruited from 29th April to 5th December 2024. Eligibility for enrolment included: a positive hepatitis B surface antigen test, gestational age above 24 weeks, and providing informed consent to participate in the study. Blood samples were collected and processed for HBV DNA testing
