RESEARCH ARTICLE
KEYWORDS: testing, hbv, hepatitis, viral, load, viral load, study, results, genexpert, women, platform, data, pregnant, prophylaxis, pregnant women


positive hepatitis B surface antigen test, gestational age above 24 weeks, and providing informed consent to participate in the study. Blood samples were collected and processed for HBV DNA testing on-site using the Xpert platform. Participant information was recorded using Open Data Kit (ODK) pretested electronic questionnaires. Sample collection and onsite testing. Each eligible participant provided 5 mL of venous blood collected at ANC by the midwife in BD Vacutainers and Plasma Preparation Tubes. The midwife sent samples to the laboratory for on-site testing using the Xpert HBV VL assay. Samples were tracked using unique identifiers on viral load request forms to ensure services continued per national guidelines. Operational monitoring and implementation feedback. Throughout the study, operational indicators such as uptake, test completion rates, and turnaround time were monitored by a data manager. Monthly virtual feedback meetings discussion (FGD) was held with 21 participants, including site-level staff and national program officers. A semi-structured engagement guide was used to explore implementation domains, including workflow integration, test usability, turnaround time, data handling, and perceived patient experience. Data quality and verification. To enhance data completeness, the study team conducted a follow-up visit at facilities with incomplete records. The visit helped to retrieve or verify information on participant identifiers, test results, and any data fields that were not captured during routine electronic data collection. Visual summary of testing models. To contextualize the intervention, Fig 1 compares sample flow under the conventional hub-based testing model versus the integrated point-of-care approach. The left panel depicts the standard multi-tier sample transport pathway to the Central Public Health Laboratory (CPHL). The right panel to care. Follow-up of mother-infant pairs for prophylaxis and hepatitis B birth dose vaccination. Pregnant women eligible for prophylaxis or treatment were later followed up by the study coordinator to ascertain whether they had been successfully linked to prophylaxis or chronic treatment, and whether their newborns had received hepatitis B birth dose vaccination, in line with Uganda guidelines. Data analysis Pha se I. The viral load values (copies/ml) were transformed to log10 copies/ml. Descriptive statistics were presented as mean values ± standard deviations (SDs). The Deming regression method was used to compare the two methods. A Bland–Altman plot was used to visualize the mean differences between the quantification assays . Furthermore, the sensitivity and specificity of the Xpert HBV Viral Load were assessed against the COBAS CAPCTM/Taqman as the gold Phase II. Quantitative data were
