RESEARCH ARTICLE
KEYWORDS: testing, hbv, hepatitis, viral, load, viral load, study, results, genexpert, women, platform, data, pregnant, prophylaxis, pregnant women


between the quantification assays . Furthermore, the sensitivity and specificity of the Xpert HBV Viral Load were assessed against the COBAS CAPCTM/Taqman as the gold Phase II. Quantitative data were analyzed using SPSS version 26 and Excel, and summarized as means and standard deviations for continuous variables, and as percentages and median plus interquartile ranges for categorical variables, using tables and graphs. Thematic analysis was used to analyze qualitative data describing the technical and operational feasibility, acceptability, and the cost of testing per patient. Fig 1. Comparing conventional sample flow with PoC GeneXpert flow. Ethical consideration All participants provided written informed consent for study participation. The study was approved by the Uganda Minis- National Council for Science and Technology (HS4687ES). Archived samples used in Phase I were anonymized before testing, while all the clients who participated in Phase II of the study provided written informed consent. Only participants 18 years and above were included in this study. Data was stored securely with coded identifiers to ensure participant confidentiality. Results Phase I The level of agreement and correlation with the reference COBAS AmpliPrep-COBAS TaqMan Hepatitis B Virus Quan- titative test was within acceptable limits, with a correlation coefficient of 0.99, as shown in Table 2. The Xpert HBV Viral Load on Gene Xpert systems demonstrated good performance and successfully met all the requirements for use as a test for quantification of HBV Viral load in patients. We did not measure turnaround time in Phase I, as both platforms were located at the CPHL and had comparable sample processing times. See S1 File for further details. Phase II Sociodemographic and clinical characteristics of participants. A total of 259 pregnant women were screened for potential enrolment into the study. Sociodemographic characteristics and other relevant background health information of the pregnant women were collected to ensure eligibility and understand the implementation of other areas of triple elimination. Of the 259 women, 13 were ineligible: 1 tested negative for hepatitis B, 3 were already known HBV-positive and on treatment, and 7 were less than 24 weeks’ gestation; two had HIV HBV co-infection and were already on a TDF- blood samples for hepatitis B viral load testing; thus, they had laboratory assessment reports, as shown in Table 3. data analysis. Notably, 100% of pregnant women were screened for HIV and syphilis, in line with Uganda’s triple elimination strategy for HIV, HBV, and syphilis. Most (96.8%) expressed
