RESEARCH ARTICLE
KEYWORDS: testing, hbv, hepatitis, viral, load, viral load, study, results, genexpert, women, platform, data, pregnant, prophylaxis, pregnant women


same day. Of the 92% of results sent to the ANC service provider, 61% were delivered to the pregnant women on the same day as the sample collection date (Fig 2 and S3 File). Linkage to prophylaxis and hepatitis B birth dose vaccination: Among the 188 pregnant women who completed clinical interviews, 96.3% provided blood samples for hepatitis B viral load testing. Of these, 18% had an undetectable viral load, 2% between 20,000 and 200,000, 12% greater than 200,000, while 69% had a viral load below 20,000. This means that only 12% of mothers were eligible for prophylaxis under Uganda’s hepatitis B PMTCT guidelines. The 12% (22 women) eligible for prophylaxis were followed up by the study coordinator at the end of the study to assess their pregnancy status and newborn outcomes. Of these, no further facility records existed for four women. Of the remaining 18 women with available records, 14 (77.8%) received antiviral prophylaxis. However, three (21.4%) were lost to follow-up later. By the end of the study, 15 women, including those who had not started prophylaxis, had delivered. Of their newborns, 11 (73.3%) received the hepatitis B birth dose vaccination. Field-level experiences with GeneXpert as a point-of-care platform for HBV load testing Overall findings from the field-level implementation of GeneXpert for hepatitis B viral load testing reveal a largely positive experience across participating health facilities in Uganda. Health workers (laboratory personnel and midwives) reported point of care. The integration of testing into maternal services strengthened patient engagement and enabled the timely initiation of treatment. However, these successes were tempered by recurring challenges, including stockouts, data entry constraints, prioritization constraints with other tests, e.g., TB, HPV, and HIV, and gaps in patient education. These insights highlight both the potential and the practical limitations of decentralized HBV testing in real-world settings and offer valuable lessons for future scale-up efforts. Key quotes from these engagements are captured in Table 4. Fig 2. Flow diagram showing different time points from sample collection to results receipt by pregnant women (mothers). Ease of use and operational experience Participants from several sites consistently described the GeneXpert platform as user-friendly, especially when standard operating procedures were followed. Although some participants reported initial challenges such as cartridge rejection or interpreting log-format results, these were recurring early-use issues that were quickly resolved with technical support. Overall, participants indicated rapid adaptation and the ability to perform the tests with
