RESEARCH ARTICLE
KEYWORDS: testing, hbv, hepatitis, viral, load, viral load, study, results, genexpert, women, platform, data, pregnant, prophylaxis, pregnant women


rejection or interpreting log-format results, these were recurring early-use issues that were quickly resolved with technical support. Overall, participants indicated rapid adaptation and the ability to perform the tests with minimal errors thereafter. Results turnaround time and clinical decision-making GeneXpert significantly improved turnaround times for HBV viral load results, often delivering same-day results. This rapid titis clinics in some regions facilitated same-day testing, result receipt, and care. Patient care and clinical integration The availability of on-site testing was reported to have greatly enhanced patient satisfaction and improved health worker confidence in HBV management. Some sites ran integrated HIV/HBV clinics, enhancing continuity of care. Mothers appre- ciated access to testing, counselling, and follow-up in a single visit. Table 4. Field-level experiences of using the GeneXpert PoC Platforms for hepatitis B viral load testing. Theme Key Quotes Ease of use and operational experience “The machine is straightforward to use when we were running those tests... most of the time we are within the turnaround time.” Laboratory Personnel, “For the case of Jinja, we did not have any challenges utilizing the point-of-care machine.” Clinician Results turnaround time and clinical “Eligible pregnant women received the point-of-care test and the results in one to two hours.” decision-making Midwife viral load could be very high.” Clinician their results that same day.” Midwife “This simplified hepatitis B care... If we had this point of care earlier on, by now we would have gone far.” Clinician Result transmission and follow-up mechanisms “Through LabXpert... clinicians have been informed of the results... and patients also receive notifications.” Laboratory personnel “If you’re free, you can go and pick up your results so that you can clear up your patient to go home.” Clinician Training and Capacity Building Needs “The training wasn’t really that sufficient… we would need further training if we could organize.” Laboratory Personnel “There were issues to do with the interpretation of results... we need the retraining.” Central Coordination Team Prioritization of Samples on GeneXpert “If they found the machine was operating, they would wait… if it was free, they would run the sample.” “We have several tests going on... finding free modules was sometimes hard.” Laboratory Personnel Stockouts and Supply Chain Challenges “We’ve had no testing kits for some time… now we have kits and have begun doing so.” Clinical Lead “We experienced stockouts of testing kits.” Clinical Lead Data Entry and System Integration Issues “The Internet was
