RESEARCH ARTICLE
KEYWORDS: testing, hbv, hepatitis, viral, load, viral load, study, results, genexpert, women, platform, data, pregnant, prophylaxis, pregnant women


largely due to poor internet connectivity, incompatible devices, or a lack of clarity on how to use the digital platforms. This affected real-time data capture and synchronization between clinical and laboratory information systems. Community education and patient misconceptions Several mothers held misconceptions about hepatitis B, including beliefs about casual transmission through handshakes strengthened community education and patient counseling. Hepatitis B viral load testing: commodity & cost comparison This study aimed to assess the itemized costs of delivering hepatitis B viral load testing at the point of care using the Gen- eXpert platform, which was being piloted. We used an ingredient-based costing approach to estimate the economic costs from the provider’s perspective. This method involved identifying the total quantities of goods and services used in delivering the intervention and multiplying these quantities by their respective unit prices. The cost focused on direct inputs related to diagnostic commodities: test kits, reagents, consumables, and associated transportation logistics. The analysis excluded indirect costs such as personnel, patient-incurred costs, and overhead costs such as electricity, waste management, and water. The estimated unit cost per hepatitis B viral load test was USD 15.37 using the Cepheid GeneX- pert platform, which is comparable to that of the COBAS platform currently being used in the country. See S4 File for an itemized cost comparison between the two platforms Discussion Timely hepatitis B viral load testing and prompt transmission of results to clinical teams are crucial for the optimal initiation of antiviral prophylaxis for pregnant women who test positive for hepatitis B surface antigen (HBsAg) during antenatal care, aiming to prevent hepatitis B mother-to-child transmission (MTCT) . We aimed to evaluate the operational feasi- bility and effectiveness of a point-of-care platform for HBV DNA testing across 10 high-volume district and regional referral hospitals in nine regions of Uganda. Our findings indicate that use of the GeneXpert PoC platform substantially reduced result turnaround time compared with the centralized testing model, which has been associated with prolonged delays, decision-making . In this study, nearly all samples were received and processed, with results returned to providers on the same day, demonstrating the efficiency of PoC platforms in real-world settings. The PoC also enabled same-day results for over three-fifths of pregnant women (61%). While analytical processing times for GeneXpert and centralized COBAS platforms are broadly comparable, the decentralized placement of GeneXpert at the point of care or near point of care eliminates pre-analytical
