RESEARCH ARTICLE
KEYWORDS: testing, hbv, hepatitis, viral, load, viral load, study, results, genexpert, women, platform, data, pregnant, prophylaxis, pregnant women


While analytical processing times for GeneXpert and centralized COBAS platforms are broadly comparable, the decentralized placement of GeneXpert at the point of care or near point of care eliminates pre-analytical delays related to sample transportation and handling, thus resulting in a substantially shorter day. While the overall turnaround time remained substantially shorter than that reported in other studies for centralized testing, these delays were partly attributable to workload constraints and the need to prioritize other samples, including the delay. Timely results significantly reduce loss to follow-up and facilitate quick access to life-saving prophylaxis, thereby improving HBV prevention of mother-to-child transmission outcomes at scale. Specifically, we found that 14 of the 22 pregnant women eligible for prophylaxis received it. Among newborns with traceable facility records, 73.3% (11/15) received the hepatitis B birth dose vaccination to protect against hepatitis B infection. Our findings are consistent with a systematic review by Gu et al. (2024), which combined results from five countries (Egypt, Ethiopia, The Gambia, Sierra Leone, and Zambia). It found that HBV PoC DNA testing provided results in less than one day, significantly improving timely linkage to treatment initiation among eligible women . We further evaluated the operational characteristics of the GeneXpert PoC platform according to the WHO Assured Crite- ria to determine if it is affordable, sensitive, specific, user-friendly, rapid, robust, equipment-free, and deliverable to end-users . All participants widely reported that the GeneXpert platform was easy to operate, enabled timely decision-making, and supported rapid initiation of antiviral treatment. Moreover, its sensitivity and specificity were comparable to a conventional centralized testing platform. The operational ease of using the GeneXpert platform concurs with other studies from across Africa, including Kenya and Zimbabwe , where it was shown that the platform required limited training to adopt and Considering that all ten sites had 16 module Xpert platforms, a part of Uganda’s network of about 295 GeneXpert plat- forms used for tuberculosis, HIV, early infant diagnosis, HPV, and COVID-19 testing . Most laboratory personnel were already familiar with its use, making integration of new assays such as hepatitis B viral load testing operationally feasible. Equally, this existing infrastructure constitutes a strong platform for scale-up, thus minimizing the need for additional capi- tal investments and human resources, leading to greater efficiencies. Our findings further suggest that implementing HBV DNA testing on the GeneXpert platform was equally cost- comparable to centralized testing. Specifically, the unit cost
