RESEARCH ARTICLE
KEYWORDS: testing, hbv, hepatitis, viral, load, viral load, study, results, genexpert, women, platform, data, pregnant, prophylaxis, pregnant women


human resources, leading to greater efficiencies. Our findings further suggest that implementing HBV DNA testing on the GeneXpert platform was equally cost- comparable to centralized testing. Specifically, the unit cost per test was USD 15.37 for the GeneXpert platform, closely matching the USD 15.26 cost associated with centralized testing. This cost equivalence is partly due to efficiencies from eliminating sample transportation and logistical overheads required for the central laboratory processing. PoC testing can also substantially reduce costs associated with repeated patient visits for result collection and losses to follow-up, as results are typically available the same day, as has been documented in similar evaluations of HIV viral testing on GeneX- pert PoC platforms . PoC testing also improves efficiencies by eliminating the numerous steps involved in conventional oratory for processing, followed by sample reception and processing, and finally, the return of results to the facility and the patient. This translates into lower personal costs for pregnant women. We are cognizant that this costing was conducted from a provider perspective during the study period and does not represent a full economic or societal cost. Indirect expenses, including essential equipment maintenance, long-term logistical support, and patient-incurred costs, were not captured, but are likely lower than under the counterfactual. Furthermore, in our study, we observed complete concordance in sensitivity and specificity between the Xpert platform and a conventional centralized testing platform. This finding is consistent with results reported from other diverse settings, including India, The Gambia, and other regions . Also, clinicians reported that the GeneXpert platform was easy eXpert results were transmitted to clinicians via an SMS notification system that alerts clinicians when results are ready. This is consistent with findings from Tanzania, where the use of Xpert SMS enabled rapid results delivery . Nevertheless, in this operational research, not all eligible pregnant women were linked to prophylaxis, nor were all infants vaccinated, especially those at greater risk of infection. Uptake of hepatitis B prophylaxis in African antenatal settings is constrained by multiple interrelated health system and demand-side barriers that extend beyond diagnostic availability. Studies from sub-Saharan Africa report that financial barriers, inadequate counselling, and limited apprecia- tion among mothers for the risks of hepatitis infection have been shown to reduce maternal preparedness for hepatitis B prophylaxis, even when women are diagnosed during pregnancy . In addition, competing service delivery priorities, particularly the stronger institutionalization of HIV and syphilis PMTCT programs, contribute
