Bookshelf_NBK385289
KEYWORDS: deletion, recurrent, recurrent deletion, individuals, disorder, testing, genetic, issues, risk, proband, feeding, anxiety, family, reported, disorders


NLM Citation: Mulle JG, Gambello MJ, Sanchez Russo R, et al. 3q29 Recurrent Deletion. 2016 Sep 22 [Updated 2021 Jul 1]. In: Adam MP, ® Bick S, Mirzaa GM, et al., editors. GeneReviews [Internet]. Seattle Bookshelf URL: 3q29 Recurrent Deletion Synonyms: 3q29 Deletion Syndrome, 3q29 Microdeletion Syndrome 1 2 2 2 3 3 3 4 5 6 3 3 Created: September 22, 2016; Updated: July 1, 2021. Summary Clinical characteristics 3q29 recurrent deletion is characterized by neurodevelopmental and/or psychiatric manifestations including mild-to-moderate intellectual disability (ID), autism spectrum disorder (ASD), anxiety disorders, attention- deficit/hyperactivity disorder (ADHD), executive function deficits, graphomotor weakness, and psychosis/ schizophrenia. Age at onset for psychosis or prodrome can be younger than the typical age at onset in the general population. Neurodevelopmental and psychiatric conditions are responsible for the majority of the disability associated with the 3q29 deletion. Other common findings are failure to thrive and feeding problems in infancy that persist into childhood, gastrointestinal disorders (including constipation and gastroesophageal reflux disease [GERD]), ocular issues, dental anomalies, and congenital heart defects (especially patent ductus arteriosus). Structural anomalies of the posterior fossa may be seen on neuroimaging. To date more than 200 affected individuals have been identified. Diagnosis/testing The diagnosis of the 3q29 recurrent deletion is established by identification of a heterozygous 1.6-Mb deletion at the approximate position of chr3:195998129-197623129 in the reference genome (NCBI Build 38). Medicine, Atlanta, Georgia; Email: ; Email: ; Email: ; Email: ; Email: . 4 Neurodevelopmental 2 GeneReviews ® Management Treatment of manifestations: Early speech and language therapy to address speech delays; physical/occupational therapy as needed to address motor issues; individualized education program for school-age children; care by a child psychiatrist/psychologist as needed for neuropsychiatric disorders with transfer of care to an adult psychiatrist when appropriate; cognitive behavioral therapy to address social disability and/or anxiety; adaptive behavior as needed; applied behavioral analysis for ASD; medication as needed for anxiety, ADHD, or psychosis; standard treatment of seizures; feeding therapy and consideration of gastrostomy tube as needed; routine management of musculoskeletal issues, GERD, strabismus, dental issues, congenital heart defects, recurrent ear infections, and epistaxis; consider behavioral treatment for enuresis; implement healthy sleep hygiene; family support. Surveillance: At each visit: monitor developmental progress, educational needs, growth, nutrition, and feeding; assess for seizures, gastrointestinal issues, otitis, enuresis, and/or sleep issues. Annual assessment for neuropsychiatric manifestations and scoliosis; annual ophthalmology examination; dental examination every six months. Evaluation of
