Bookshelf_NBK385289
KEYWORDS: deletion, recurrent, recurrent deletion, individuals, disorder, testing, genetic, issues, risk, proband, feeding, anxiety, family, reported, disorders


nutrition, and feeding; assess for seizures, gastrointestinal issues, otitis, enuresis, and/or sleep issues. Annual assessment for neuropsychiatric manifestations and scoliosis; annual ophthalmology examination; dental examination every six months. Evaluation of relatives at risk: If one of the proband's parents has the 3q29 recurrent deletion, it is appropriate to test at-risk sibs of the proband in order to identify those who would benefit from close assessment/monitoring of developmental milestones (in children) and monitoring for neuropsychiatric manifestations (in children and adults). Genetic counseling 3q29 recurrent deletion is an autosomal dominant disorder typically caused by a de novo deletion. If the proband represents a simplex case (i.e., a single affected family member) and neither parent has the 3q29 recurrent deletion or a balanced chromosome rearrangement, the recurrence risk to sibs is low (presumed to be <1%) but greater than that of the general population because of the possibility of parental mosaicism for the deletion. Each child of an individual with the 3q29 recurrent deletion has a 50% chance of inheriting the deletion. Once the 3q29 recurrent deletion has been identified in an affected family member, prenatal testing for a pregnancy at increased risk for the 3q29 recurrent deletion and preimplantation genetic testing are possible. Diagnosis Suggestive Findings The 3q29 recurrent deletion should be considered in individuals with the following clinical findings [Sanchez Russo et al 2021]: • Developmental delay typically including speech and motor delays • Intellectual disability; mild to moderate (34%), severe (<5%) • Neuropsychiatric disorders including attention-deficit/hyperactivity disorder, anxiety disorders, and/or autism spectrum disorder (ASD) • Failure to thrive and/or feeding problems in infancy that persist into childhood • Gastrointestinal disorders including gastroesophageal reflux disease • Ocular issues • Dental anomalies • Congenital heart defects, especially patent ductus arteriosus • Subtle facial dysmorphology including a prominent forehead, prominent nasal tip, and thin vermilion of the upper lip [Mak et al 2021] 3q29 Recurrent Deletion 3 Of note, most individuals with the 3q29 recurrent deletion are identified by chromosomal microarray (CMA) analysis performed in the context of evaluation for developmental delay (DD), intellectual disability (ID), and/or ASD. Establishing the Diagnosis The diagnosis of the 3q29 recurrent deletion is established by identification of a heterozygous 1.6-Mb deletion at chromosome 3q29, typically by CMA. For this GeneReview, the 3q29 recurrent deletion is defined as the presence of a recurrent 1.6-Mb deletion at the approximate position of chr3:195998129-197623129 in the reference genome (NCBI Build 38).
