Bookshelf_NBK385289
KEYWORDS: deletion, recurrent, recurrent deletion, individuals, disorder, testing, genetic, issues, risk, proband, feeding, anxiety, family, reported, disorders


in executive function, and significant delays in adaptive behavior – all previously undiagnosed. This individual had an average IQ score of 94 [Murphy et al 2020]. Prevalence The approximate prevalence is 1:30,000-1:40,000, based on (1) a large population-based study in Iceland in which three of 101,655 individuals tested had the 3q29 recurrent deletion [Stefansson et al 2014] and (2) prevalence in the UK Biobank, in which five individuals with the 3q29 recurrent deletion were identified in a population-based cohort of 152,728 individuals [Kendall et al 2017]. Prevalence in other populations is not known. Genetically Related Disorders At least 50 individuals with recurrent 3q29 duplication have been reported in the literature. Ballif et al summarized manifestations in eight individuals and found that at least half had intellectual disability, microcephaly, and obesity. A more recent study described 31 individuals with the 3q29 duplication; feeding problems (55%), failure to gain weight (42%), and hypotonia (39%) were common in infancy. Later in childhood, phenotypes that emerge include learning problems (71%), seizures (26%), anxiety disorders (32%), and autism spectrum disorder (39%) [Pollak et al 2020]. Differential Diagnosis The differential diagnosis of the 3q29 recurrent deletion is broad due to the variable spectrum and presence of relatively common abnormal phenotypes that occur in affected individuals including developmental delay, learning problems, and neuropsychiatric disorders. All manifestations of the 3q29 recurrent deletion can also be seen in individuals with other genomic disorders. Management Evaluations Following Initial Diagnosis To establish the extent of disease and needs in an individual diagnosed with the 3q29 recurrent deletion, the evaluations summarized in Table 3 (if not performed as part of the evaluation that led to diagnosis) are recommended. 8 GeneReviews ® Table 3. Recommended Evaluations Following Initial Diagnosis in Individuals with 3q29 Recurrent Deletion System Evaluation Comment • Eval for developmental needs & early intervention (e.g., PT, speech-language therapy, cognitive Neuro- Eval by developmental pediatrician &/or clinical behavioral therapy for social skills training) developmental psychologist • Eval of fine motor function (e.g., OT) • Eval for ASD, cognitive ability, & for executive function deficits Eval for anxiety disorders, ADHD, & emerging features of Psychiatric Eval by child/adult psychiatrist prodrome/psychosis • Eval for seizures if indicated Neurologic • Eval of muscle tone Referral to neurologist as needed • Brain MRI to identify posterior fossa anomalies Musculo- skeletal • Assess growth & feeding GI/Nutrition • Assess for signs/symptoms of GER, constipation, &/or chronic diarrhea
