Bookshelf_NBK385289
KEYWORDS: deletion, recurrent, recurrent deletion, individuals, disorder, testing, genetic, issues, risk, proband, feeding, anxiety, family, reported, disorders


childhood • Measurement of growth parameters Feeding • Eval of nutritional status & safety of oral intake At each visit Monitor for gastroesophageal reflux, constipation, & chronic Gastrointestinal diarrhea Vision / Ophthalmology exam & vision screening for refractive errors & As recommended by ophthalmologist Ocular issues strabismus Eval w/pediatric dentist throughout childhood for abnormal Every 6 mos or more frequently as Dental anomalies enamel, tooth shape & number recommended by pediatric dentist Ears, nose, throat Assess for recurrent otitis & epistasis. Enuresis Assess for enuresis. At each visit Pulmonary & sleep Assess for sleep issues. Assess family need for social work support (e.g., palliative/respite Family/Community care, home nursing, other local resources) & care coordination. Evaluation of Relatives at Risk If genomic testing detects the 3q29 recurrent deletion in one of the proband's parents, it is appropriate to clarify the genetic status of older and younger sibs of the proband in order to identify those who would benefit from close assessment/monitoring of developmental milestones (in children) and monitoring for neuropsychiatric manifestations (in children and adults). See Genetic Counseling for issues related to testing of at-risk relatives for genetic counseling purposes. 3q29 Recurrent Deletion 11 Therapies Under Investigation Search ClinicalTrials.gov in the US and EU Clinical Trials Register in Europe for access to information on clinical studies for a wide range of diseases and conditions. Note: There may not be clinical trials for this disorder. Genetic Counseling Genetic counseling is the process of providing individuals and families with information on the nature, mode(s) of inheritance, and implications of genetic disorders to help them make informed medical and personal decisions. Th e following section deals with genetic risk assessment and the use of family history and genetic testing to clarify genetic status for family members; it is not meant to address all personal, cultural, or ethical issues that may arise or to substitute for consultation with a genetics professional. —ED. Mode of Inheritance The 3q29 recurrent deletion is an autosomal dominant disorder typically caused by a de novo deletion. Risk to Family Members Parents of a proband • Although most deletions are de novo, inherited deletions have been reported [Cox & Butler 2015]. Of the 28 families with the 3q29 recurrent deletion in which parents have undergone genomic testing, the deletion was confirmed to be inherited in two families (7%). • Evaluation of the parents by genomic testing that will detect the 3q29
