Bookshelf_NBK385289
KEYWORDS: deletion, recurrent, recurrent deletion, individuals, disorder, testing, genetic, issues, risk, proband, feeding, anxiety, family, reported, disorders


which parents have undergone genomic testing, the deletion was confirmed to be inherited in two families (7%). • Evaluation of the parents by genomic testing that will detect the 3q29 recurrent deletion present in the proband is recommended to confirm their genetic status and to allow reliable recurrence risk counseling. (Note: A parent who has a 3q29 recurrent deletion may have only mild manifestations of the disorder or have phenotypes that go undetected because appropriate evaluations have not been conducted.) Testing for a balanced chromosome rearrangement in the parents is also recommended. • If neither parent has the 3q29 recurrent deletion identified in the proband or a balanced chromosome rearrangement, the following possibilities should be considered: ⚬ The proband has a de novo deletion. ⚬ The proband inherited the deletion from a parent with germline (or somatic and germline) mosaicism. Somatic/germline mosaicism was reported in one father of a proband with the 3q29 recurrent deletion [Petrin et al 2011]. Note: Testing of parental leukocyte DNA may not detect all instances of somatic mosaicism and will not detect a deletion that is present in the germ cells only. Sibs of a proband. The risk to the sibs of the proband depends on the genetic status of the parents: • If the proband represents a simplex case (i.e., a single affected family member) and neither parent has the 3q29 recurrent deletion or a balanced chromosome rearrangement, the recurrence risk to sibs is low (presumed to be <1%) but greater than that of the general population because of the possibility of parental germline mosaicism for the deletion. • If one of the parents has the 3q29 recurrent deletion, the risk to each sib of inheriting the deletion is 50%. However, it is not possible to reliably predict the phenotype in a sib who inherits the deletion, as the phenotypic spectrum associated with the 3q29 recurrent deletion can vary widely among family members [Digilio et al 2009, Li et al 2009, Murphy et al 2020]. 12 GeneReviews ® • If one of the parents has a balanced chromosome rearrangement, the risk to sibs of having the 3q29 recurrent deletion is increased and depends on the specific chromosome rearrangement and the possibility of other variables. Offspring of a proband. Each child of an individual with the 3q29 recurrent deletion has a 50% chance of inheriting the deletion. Other family members. The risk to other family
