Bookshelf_NBK385289
KEYWORDS: deletion, recurrent, recurrent deletion, individuals, disorder, testing, genetic, issues, risk, proband, feeding, anxiety, family, reported, disorders


Offspring of a proband. Each child of an individual with the 3q29 recurrent deletion has a 50% chance of inheriting the deletion. Other family members. The risk to other family members depends on the genetic status of the proband’s parents: if a parent has the 3q29 recurrent deletion or a balanced chromosome rearrangement, the parent's family members may also have the deletion or the chromosome rearrangement. Related Genetic Counseling Issues See Management, Evaluation of Relatives at Risk for information on evaluating at-risk relatives for the purpose of early diagnosis and treatment. Family planning • The optimal time for determination of genetic risk and discussion of the availability of prenatal/ preimplantation genetic testing is before pregnancy. Similarly, decisions about testing to determine the genetic status of at-risk asymptomatic family members are best made before pregnancy. • It is appropriate to offer genetic counseling (including discussion of potential risks to offspring and reproductive options) to young adults who are at risk of having a child with the 3q29 recurrent deletion. Note: If a parent is known to have a balanced chromosome rearrangement, genetic counseling should also address reproductive risks associated with balanced chromosome rearrangements. Prenatal Testing and Preimplantation Genetic Testing Pregnancies known to be at increased risk for the 3q29 recurrent deletion. Once the 3q29 recurrent deletion has been identified in an affected family member, prenatal testing for a pregnancy at increased risk for the 3q29 recurrent deletion and preimplantation genetic testing are possible. Prenatal testing or preimplantation genetic testing using genomic testing that will detect the 3q29 recurrent deletion found in the proband may be offered when: • A parent has the 3q29 recurrent deletion; • The parents do not have the recurrent deletion but have had a child with the 3q29 recurrent deletion. In this instance, the recurrence risk associated with the possibility of parental germline mosaicism or other predisposing genetic mechanisms is probably slightly greater than that of the general population (though still presumed to be <1%). Pregnancies not known to be at increased risk for 3q29 recurrent deletion. CMA performed in a pregnancy not known to be at increased risk may detect the 3q29 recurrent deletion. Note: Regardless of whether a pregnancy is known or not known to be at increased risk for the 3q29 recurrent deletion, prenatal test results cannot reliably predict the phenotype. Differences in perspective may exist among medical professionals and within families regarding the
