Journal of Epidemiology and Global Health (2026) 16:53
KEYWORDS: syphilis, congenital, congenital syphilis, case, penicillin, vdrl, maternal, pregnancy, screening, cases, positive, neonates, treatment, titers, weeks


LETTER TO THE EDITOR The Reemergence of Congenital Syphilis-Maternal and Fetal Risks and Consequences Santhiya Srinivasan1 · Pratima Anand1 · Tapas Bandyopadhyay1 · Ajay Kumar Dudeja1 · Sushma Nangia1 Received: 20 March 2025 / Accepted: 5 May 2025 © The Author(s) 2025 Abstract The reemergence of congenital syphilis, a preventable condition, carries significant implications for both maternal and fetal health. This resurgence is closely linked to the increasing rates of primary and secondary syphilis among women of reproductive age, inadequate access to antenatal care, absence of routine maternal serological testing, and insufficient in both mothers and neonates observed at our institution over a one-year period. Keywords Congenital syphilis · Neonates · Management 1 Introduction Congenital syphilis can be divided into early (< 2 years) & late (> 2 years) depending on the clinical manifestations. Congenital syphilis is a serious bacterial infection caused Two third cases of early congenital syphilis are asymptom- by Treponema pallidum, which can be transmitted from an atic. Symptoms of early syphilis include skin rash, hepato- infected mother to her fetus either transplacental transmis- splenomegaly, rhinitis, generalized lymphadenopathy, and sion during pregnancy or during delivery through contact failure to thrive. (Central Nervous System) CNS manifesta- with lesions in the birth canal. Maternal syphilis is asso- tions in congenital syphilis are usually rare in the neonatal ciated with a wide range of adverse perinatal outcomes, period . including early fetal loss, preterm birth, stillbirth, and neo- Despite a global rise in congenital syphilis cases, early natal infection. Congenital syphilis is a matter of concern detection through prenatal screening and timely treatment for both neonatologists and public health professionals for remains critical in preventing transmission and improving two primary reasons: (i) it can lead to severe outcomes for outcomes. tion of penicillin during pregnancy can effectively prevent observed in mothers with untreated syphilis during preg- transmission. nancy and their neonates diagnosed with congenital syphilis at our institute. Sushma Nangia 2 Case 1 Santhiya Srinivasan 2.1 Maternal Case Presentation Pratima Anand A 25-year-old primigravida presented to our hospital at 33 weeks of gestation with a history of skin lesions involving Tapas Bandyopadhyay the palms and soles. On examination, she had a discrete maculopapular rash localized to the same areas, raising Ajay Kumar Dudeja clinical suspicion for secondary syphilis (Fig. 1). Serologic testing revealed a (Venereal Disease Research Laboratory) 1 3 Table 1 Relevant clinical investigations of the neonates Investigations Case
