Journal of Epidemiology and Global Health (2026) 16:53
KEYWORDS: syphilis, congenital, congenital syphilis, case, penicillin, vdrl, maternal, pregnancy, screening, cases, positive, neonates, treatment, titers, weeks


live births in 2020, indicating a steep rise qualitative VDRL and TPHA tests, confirming syphilis. The over the years . mother had not received any treatment during pregnancy. In India, the true incidence of congenital syphilis remains HIV, HCV, and HBsAg screening were negative. unknown due to the absence of active surveillance systems. In 2012, it was estimated that approximately 16,324 new- 4.2 Neonatal Outcome borns had clinical evidence of congenital syphilis. In the fis- cal year 2022–23, approximately 2,583 infants were treated A male neonate was delivered by caesarean section for fetal for congenital syphilis . Each case represents a failure of distress at 39 weeks of gestation, weighing 3.1 kg, with the healthcare system to detect and adequately treat mater- Apgar scores of 8 and 9 at 1 and 5 min. The physical exami- nal syphilis during pregnancy. nation was normal. However, blood VDRL was positive The (American Academy of Paediatrics) AAP and CDC (details in Table 1). published guidelines to categorize congenital syphilis into 4 categories i)“proven or highly probable”, ii)“possible”, iii)“less likely” and iv) “unlikely”. The classification is 5 Case 4 based on maternal information (history of syphilis infection and treatment, RPR results during pregnancy and at the time The key points of the guidelines include that all infants born A 34-year-old second gravida presented at 30 weeks of to mothers with a known perinatal syphilis infection or posi- gestation. Antenatal screening revealed VDRL titers of tive syphilis screening (combination treponemal and non- 1:64 and positive TPHA, confirming early latent syphilis. treponemal) during pregnancy or at delivery should undergo The mother received one dose of penicillin but was lost to screening for congenital syphilis prior to discharge from HCV, and HBsAg screenings were negative. quantitative nontreponemal (RPR) test. In our case series, qualitative RPR testing was used for the diagnosis of one of the cases of congenital syphilis due to the unavailability 1 3 of quantitative testing at our centre, which represents a lim- 7 Conclusion itation of our study. Treponemal tests are not used in the diagnosis of congenital syphilis as maternal IgG antibodies Congenital syphilis, though preventable, is experiencing a cross the placenta and interfere with diagnosis. Penicillin global resurgence due to factors such as high-risk behaviors, is the drug of choice for congenital syphilis. The regimens substance abuse, low socioeconomic status, and inadequate available are a ten-day regimen (Aqueous Penicillin G IV/ public
