Journal of Epidemiology and Global Health (2026) 16:53
KEYWORDS: syphilis, congenital, congenital syphilis, case, penicillin, vdrl, maternal, pregnancy, screening, cases, positive, neonates, treatment, titers, weeks


as high-risk behaviors, is the drug of choice for congenital syphilis. The regimens substance abuse, low socioeconomic status, and inadequate available are a ten-day regimen (Aqueous Penicillin G IV/ public health interventions. Our case series underscores the Procaine penicillin G IM) or single-day regimen (Benza- critical need to strengthen public health measures focused thine penicillin G IM) . AAP and CDC recommend IV on the early detection and timely management of perinatal aqueous penicillin as the 1st choice in neonates with proven syphilis to help reduce the burden of congenital syphilis. or possible cases of congenital syphilis to prevent long-term sequelae . Benzathine Penicillin G is the only WHO-rec- Acknowledgements None. ommended treatment during pregnancy. During the period Author Contributions SS collected the case details and created the first of penicillin shortage, some countries like Brazil and Rio draft of the manuscript. PA and SN conceptualized the manuscript and de Janeiro have reported an increase in cases of congenital provided critical inputs for preparation of the first draft. TN and AD syphilis . critically reviewed the manuscript at all stages and modified it accord- After treatment, all the neonates must be followed to ingly. All authors reviewed and agreed upon the final manuscript draft. document negative serology by 6 months of age. Persistent Funding None. or raising titers at the end of 6 to 12 months signifies treat- ment failure and the infant needs repeat evaluation includ- Data Availability No datasets were generated or analysed during the ing the CSF analysis and retreatment . In our case series, current study. all the neonates were followed up with the repeat quantita- tive VDRL which was negative at 3 months of age. Declarations In (Low-Middle- Income Countries) LMICs, the factors contributing to increased transmission of syphilis may be Ethics Approval and Consent to Participate Consent taken. different and multifactorial. In addition to high risk behav- Consent for Publication Yes. iour, lack of awareness, overcrowding, working in environ- ments with poor sanitation, lack of access to appropriate Competing Interests The authors declare no competing interests. screening tests in remote rural areas, and lack of accurate reporting with underreporting of cases are the factors to Open Access This article is licensed under a Creative Commons be considered in LMICs . Hence, there is an urgent Attribution-NonCommercial-NoDerivatives 4.0 International License, reproduction in any medium or format, as long as you give appropri- widespread surveillance testing,
