Journal of Epidemiology and Global Health (2026) 16:53
KEYWORDS: syphilis, congenital, congenital syphilis, case, penicillin, vdrl, maternal, pregnancy, screening, cases, positive, neonates, treatment, titers, weeks


Commons be considered in LMICs . Hence, there is an urgent Attribution-NonCommercial-NoDerivatives 4.0 International License, reproduction in any medium or format, as long as you give appropri- widespread surveillance testing, standardize surveillance ate credit to the original author(s) and the source, provide a link to the metrics, prioritize sexually transmitted infection (STI) pre- Creative Commons licence, and indicate if you modified the licensed testing . Periconceptional sex education and vaccination adapted material derived from this article or parts of it. The images or other third party material in this article are included in the article’s Cre- can prevent certain sexually transmitted diseases like Hepa- ative Commons licence, unless indicated otherwise in a credit line to titis B and Human papilloma virus. While there is currently the material. If material is not included in the article’s Creative Com- no vaccine available for syphilis, periconceptional screen- mons licence and your intended use is not permitted by statutory regu- education, remain essential strategies for its prevention. h t t p : / / c r e a t i v e c o m m o n s . o r g / l i c e n s e s / b y - n c - n d / 4 . 0 /. Recently, the Government of India launched the guidance document for the Elimination of Vertical Transmission of HIV and Syphilis (EVTHS) under the National AIDS Con- References trol Program (NACP) across seven states with a high burden of HIV and syphilis . Furthermore, focused education of 1. Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC). Sexually strategies, is warranted. 2. Kimball A, Torrone E, Miele K, Bachmann L, Thorpe P, Wein- In summary, congenital syphilis can be effectively pre- stock H, et al. Missed opportunities for prevention of congeni- vented through prenatal serological screening and timely tal Syphilis — United States, 2018. MMWR Morb Mortal Wkly treatment during the antenatal period. Rep. 2020;69(22):661–5. 1 3 3. National AIDS Control Organisation (NACO) Elimination of ver- 7. Sunny MP, Krishnan C, Abdulla PS, Geeta M. Congenital syphi- tical transmission of HIV and syphilis. New Delhi, Ministry of lis: need for intensification of antenatal screening and clinician 4. Centers for disease control and prevention table 21. Congenital 8. Kumar P, Das C. Elimination of vertical transmission of HIV and syphilis—reported cases and rates of reported cases by year of syphilis as a public
