INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF CIRCUMPOLAR HEALTH
KEYWORDS: vitamin, levels, vitamin levels, participants, ibd, trend, test, disease, test trend, ref, study, higher, compared, nmol, ref ref


INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF CIRCUMPOLAR HEALTH 2025, VOL. 84, 2519803 ORIGINAL RESEARCH ARTICLE Vitamin D status in Faroese adults and its association with inflammatory bowel diseases - a cross-sectional study from the FarGen 2 project Randi Næss Lisberga, Kári Rubek Nielsenb,c, Leivur Nattestad Lydersend,e, Katrin Didriksen Apold,e, Jóngerð Midjordb, Olivia Grayf, Melissa Hendershottf, Marin Strøma,c and Noomi Oddmarsdóttir Gregersend,e ABSTRACT ARTICLE HISTORY Vitamin D is vital for physiological functions and is obtained primarily through sunlight and a few Received 11 December 2024 dietary sources. With limited sunlight exposure, the Faroe Islands face challenges in maintaining Revised 10 June 2025 sufficient levels of vitamin D, while the Faroese population has documented the highest inci- Accepted 10 June 2025 dence and prevalence of inflammatory bowel disease worldwide. This study investigates vitamin KEYWORDS D status among Faroese adults and its association with inflammatory bowel disease as well as Vitamin D; FarGen; Faroe other self-reported diseases in a subset of the Faroe Genome Project 2. Cross-sectional study Islands; inflammatory bowel including 1,748 participants aged 18–86 years. Among participants, 74.3% maintained sufficient disease; cross-sectional vitamin D levels, while 25.7% were insufficient (<50 nmol/l). Individuals with conditions like study hypertension, type 2 diabetes, and inflammatory bowel disease showed significantly higher rates of vitamin D sufficiency compared to those without these conditions. Notably, 83% of participants with inflammatory bowel disease had sufficient vitamin D. Our data reveal higher vitamin D levels compared to previous studies in the Faroe Islands. Furthermore, contrary to our hypothesis, our data shows higher vitamin D levels for participants reporting diseases including inflammatory bowel disease, indicating patients with inflammatory bowel disease can attain high Introduction Furthermore, several outcomes have shown non-linear relations with vitamin D level, including psychiatric and Vitamin D is an essential fat-soluble nutrient necessary cardiovascular outcomes, as well as all-cause mortality for the physiological function of various organs and is and active tuberculosis in Greenland . considered an environmentally modifiable factor . It Researchers initially recognised vitamin D for its role is primary synthesised in the skin through UVB radiation in calcium regulation, with deficiency leading to rickets exposure, while dietary sources like eggs and oily fish in children and osteoporosis in adults . However, serve as secondary contributors . The process from more recent research has unveiled its influence on gut absorption or skin synthesis to gene expression physiological systems beyond established functions in involves several steps. Vitamin D-3, produced
