INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF CIRCUMPOLAR HEALTH
KEYWORDS: vitamin, levels, vitamin levels, participants, ibd, trend, test, disease, test trend, ref, study, higher, compared, nmol, ref ref


ensure a sufficient number of partici- sun angle and frequent cloud cover . From October pants with specific diseases for statistically robust vitamin D levels through skin exposure alone . letters to individuals diagnosed with these conditions, Previous research conducted in the Faroe Islands following the standard procedures of the Faroese between 2010 and 2016 reported vitamin Health Authorities. This paper presents data collected D insufficiency (<50 nmol/l) in half to two-thirds of the from March 2022 to August 2023, involving 1,748 parti- participants [2,14–16], and researchers observed no cor- cipants, aged 18 to 86 years. relation between the consumption of fish and whale The registration and testing process has also been blubber and vitamin D status . described in detail previously . In short, participants Moreover, due to periods of reduced population size register via the project’s website or a local digital ser- that limited genetic diversity, along with genetic drift, vice (www.vangin.fo), where they must complete the Faroe Islands have relatively high prevalences of a digital questionnaire before attending tests. Upon specific diseases . The Faroe Islands have the high- arrival for testing, participants provide informed con- est incidence and prevalence of inflammatory bowel sent and have the opportunity to ask questions about disease (IBD) in the world. The age-standardised inci- the study. The data collection included blood and urine dence was 70 per 100,000 person-years from 2010 to samples, blood pressure measurement, spirometry, ret- 2020, and the age-standardised prevalence was inal fundus imaging, and anthropometric evaluations, 1414 per 100,000 in 2021 . IBD includes three as well as a questionnaire . subgroups: Ulcerative colitis (UC), Crohn´s disease (CD) The dataset for our analyses includes self-reported we aim to investigate the vitamin D status according to D analyses from blood samples. Notably, the question- demographic and behavioural characteristics and to naire did not inquire about vitamin D supplement analyse the association of vitamin D status with IBD intake. by utilising data from a large cross-sectional sample of In addition to questions on demographic and beha- Faroese adults, the FarGen 2 project. vioural characteristics, participants were asked about 28 Based on previous research suggesting a potential different diseases, as well as any familial history of these link between vitamin D deficiency and IBD [22–24], we conditions. We asked participants, “Have you ever been hypothesise that individuals with IBD exhibit lower diagnosed with any of these conditions?” with response vitamin
