INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF CIRCUMPOLAR HEALTH
KEYWORDS: vitamin, levels, vitamin levels, participants, ibd, trend, test, disease, test trend, ref, study, higher, compared, nmol, ref ref


D deficiency and IBD [22–24], we conditions. We asked participants, “Have you ever been hypothesise that individuals with IBD exhibit lower diagnosed with any of these conditions?” with response vitamin D levels compared to the healthy participants. options including “Yes, currently”, “Yes, previously” and “No”. For our analysis, we merged “Yes, currently” and “Yes, previously” into a single “Yes” category. In the Materials and methods disease analysis, the “Yes” group includes participants The present study is a cross-sectional study conducted with the specific disease of interest, while the “No” as part of the larger FarGen 2 project (www.fargen.fo), group comprises all other participants, including those that aims to establish an infrastructure for genetic with other conditions. research within the isolated population of the Faroe In addition to self-reported diagnoses for our ana- Islands , and to create a foundation for personalised lyses we used the variables sex (male/female), age medicine . FarGen 2 specifically targets metabolic grouped in five-year intervals, exercise duration and autoimmune diseases including spondyloarthropa- (hours/day), smoking status (yes/no), alcohol intake thy, type 2 diabetes, IBD, and hypertension. (units/week), and education level (categorised as pri- Recruitment for the FarGen 2 project began in 2022 mary school/upper secondary school/bachelor’s and has so far involved data collection from approxi- degree/master’s degree or higher) obtained from the mately 3,200 participants. The recruitment target is questionnaire. INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF CIRCUMPOLAR HEALTH 3 We categorised the blood collection seasons as Statistical analyses were performed using the Spring (March-May), Summer (June-September), Statistical Package for Social Science (SPSS), IBM for Autumn (October-November), and Winter (December- Windows (version 29.0; SPSS Inc., Chicago, Il, USA). February). For stratified analyses we merged Winter and Spring into “dark season” and Summer and Autumn into “light season”. We measured vitamin D status Results from plasma, and we assessed body mass index (BMI) Our study population included 1748 participants, with using bioelectrical impedance on the InBody 270 sys- a median 25(OH)D level of 65.0 nmol/l. The mean age tem (Biospace, California, USA) . was 47.9 years (SD 15.8): approximately one third of participants were younger than 40 years, and one Vitamin D status third were older than 60 years. There were more women than men in our study population, 59% of Blood samples were collected in PSR II mint green-top participants were female and 41% male (Table 1). tubes to measure total plasma 25-hydroxyvitamin Among participants, 5% reported IBD, 21% hyperten-
