INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF CIRCUMPOLAR HEALTH
KEYWORDS: vitamin, levels, vitamin levels, participants, ibd, trend, test, disease, test trend, ref, study, higher, compared, nmol, ref ref


Blood samples were collected in PSR II mint green-top participants were female and 41% male (Table 1). tubes to measure total plasma 25-hydroxyvitamin Among participants, 5% reported IBD, 21% hyperten- D [25(OH)D], including both 25(OH)D and 25(OH)D . 2 3 sion, 4% diabetes and 4% spondyloarthropathy, The samples were centrifuged within 30 min, stored at whereas 29% reported no diagnosed diseases. 5°C, and analysed within 48 hours of sampling. In our study population, nearly three-quarters had Analysis of 25(OH)D was conducted at the Faroese sufficient vitamin D levels (≥50 nmol/l), while 3.3% were classified as indeficient. Median vitamin D levels varied Islands) using chemiluminescent microparticle immu- significantly between age groups. Specifically, the old- noassay on the Abbott Alinity I system (Abbott est group exhibited the highest levels, and the young- Diagnostics, Lake Forest, IL, USA). The Alinity I 25 est group the lowest (p < 0.001). (OH)D analyzes is standardised against NIST SRM We also found significant sex differences, with 2972 (National Institute of Standards & Technology women showing approximately 12–13% higher levels Standard Reference Material 2972). The lower detec- compared to men (p < 0.001). Further, seasonal varia- tion limit was 8.8 nmol/l, and a coefficient of variation tions were significant, with higher levels recorded in (CV) of 5.1% at a concentration of 45 nmol/l . The summer and autumn compared to winter and spring classification of Vitamin D status in the Faroe Islands (p < 0.001). follows the Danish Guidelines set by the Danish Regarding BMI, individuals in the underweight cate- gory (BMI <18.5) had the lowest levels, but for the is defined as <25 nmol/l and insufficiency as <50 nmol/ remaining participants, we observed a trend of decreas- l. A level of ≥ 50 is considered sufficient, with optimal ing vitamin D levels with increasing BMI. We found no levels between 75 and 150 nmol/l, while risk for toxi- significant differences in vitamin D levels across educa- city >200 nmol/l . tion groups, smoking habits, or weekly alcohol consumption. Statistical analysis When comparing individuals with the diseases The plasma vitamin D variable was not normally dis- included in the questionnaire to those without it, over- tributed, according to the Kolmogorov-Smirnov test. all vitamin D levels were higher among those with Therefore, we present the results as median and inter- a disease (Table 2). For IBD the pattern was similar, quartile range (IQR). Group comparisons for plasma even
