INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF CIRCUMPOLAR HEALTH
KEYWORDS: vitamin, levels, vitamin levels, participants, ibd, trend, test, disease, test trend, ref, study, higher, compared, nmol, ref ref


part of Epi-IBD, this stan- . Some previous studies suggest that CD patients dardised approach may have contributed to relatively tend to show a higher prevalence of vitamin higher vitamin D levels in our cohort compared to other D deficiency compared to UC patients, possibly due to studies. Additionally, the structured healthcare system greater difficulty in absorbing vitamin D in this group in the Faroe Islands, including early diagnosis and . proactive disease management, may also play a role in However, we did not find a significant difference in maintaining better disease control and vitamin D levels. vitamin D levels between patients with Crohn’s Disease This clinical practice may account for our findings (CD) and those with Ulcerative Colitis (UC). Both groups regarding an inverse association. were receiving vitamin D supplements at the time of 8 R. N. LISBERG ET AL. their diagnosis. Additionally, CD patients were treated sample collected per participant over an 18-months with TNF alpha inhibitors from the time of diagnosis period . Hansen et al., 2018 obtained two . This consistent treatment approach may explain blood samples from each participant, one in spring why our cohort did not include any patients with short and one in autumn, and found substantial seasonal bowel syndrome. variation, with most participants having sufficient levels In general, our data show that 74.3% of participants, of vitamin D in autumn but many being insufficient or nearly three quarters, meet the Danish National during spring, consistent with our study . Board of Health’s criteria for vitamin D sufficiency In terms of demographic and behavioural character- (≥50 nmol/l) , with a median level of 65 nmol/l. istics, our study identified a significant difference This proportion is considerably higher than earlier stu- between age groups, with the elderly exhibiting the dies conducted in the Faroe Islands. In a study from highest vitamin D levels, while the group <40 years 2010, fewer than half of elderly individuals were vitamin showed the lowest levels. Furthermore, there was D sufficient . In 2014, two studies, one investigating a difference in sex, with women exhibiting higher vita- vitamin D in relation to autism and the other in relation min D levels compared to men. This observation aligns to Parkinson’s disease, reported that only one-third of with findings from circumpolar regions in Sweden and participants had sufficient vitamin D levels . The Canada, as well as in Denmark and the
