INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF CIRCUMPOLAR HEALTH
KEYWORDS: vitamin, levels, vitamin levels, participants, ibd, trend, test, disease, test trend, ref, study, higher, compared, nmol, ref ref


disease, reported that only one-third of with findings from circumpolar regions in Sweden and participants had sufficient vitamin D levels . The Canada, as well as in Denmark and the United States, most recent study from 2016 found that 10% of preg- suggesting that it may be due to more frequent use of nant women had sufficient vitamin D . The relatively supplementation among women and elderly [36,41– high levels observed in our study sample may reflect an 43]. Both environmental and biological factors may increased attention on vitamin D deficiency in the contribute to this. Studies indicate that women, due Faroes following the results of these previous studies. to naturally higher fat mass, can maintain more stable For example, the Faroese dairy industry, in consultation Vitamin D levels throughout the year compared to vitamin D in 2018 . It is possible that a higher intake of traditional mar- A Danish study from 2018 reported a median vitamin ine Faroese food items can explain that we observe the D level of 62 nmol/l, with approximately one-third of highest levels of vitamin D levels among the elderly in participants using vitamin D supplements . our study population. In fact, intake of grind (pilot Additionally, a European study suggests that whale) was 3 times as high for the oldest age group Scandinavian countries, including Denmark, tend to (≥60 y) compared to the youngest (18–29 y) in the most have higher vitamin D levels due to the widespread recent national public health survey (n > 5000) . use of supplements . This likely explains the However, intake of grind was also approximately twice increase in vitamin D levels we observed among as high among men as among women, in all age Faroese participants. Sales data from the National groups, and therefore, if this was the explanation of Pharmacy Service in the Faroe Islands show that vita- the high vitamin D levels, we would also expect higher min D supplement sales have more than doubled since levels among men than among women. This was not 2015, which could account for our findings (Figure 1). the case in our data, rather levels were significantly However, when comparing our results to studies that higher among women, which might indicate that the follow different guidelines, such as the Endocrine reason for the high vitamin D levels among the elderly Society Guidelines, which define sufficient vitamin is more
