INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF CIRCUMPOLAR HEALTH
KEYWORDS: vitamin, levels, vitamin levels, participants, ibd, trend, test, disease, test trend, ref, study, higher, compared, nmol, ref ref


which might indicate that the follow different guidelines, such as the Endocrine reason for the high vitamin D levels among the elderly Society Guidelines, which define sufficient vitamin is more likely to be supplement use. D levels as ≥75 nmol/l, we found that 62% of partici- We also found significant differences in vitamin pants had levels below this threshold . D levels across BMI groups, with individuals in the In an additional analysis, we categorised participants normal BMI (18.5–24.9) exhibiting the highest vitamin based on vitamin D levels above and below 50 nmol/l, D levels, while vitamin D levels decreased as BMI as an attempt to differentiate between likely supple- increased. Conversely, underweight individuals had ment users (above 50) and non-users (below 50). Here the lowest vitamin D levels. This inverse relationship we found that for IBD, hypertension and type 2 dia- between vitamin D levels and BMI has been shown in betes disease prevalences were higher in the group several other studies and may reflect differing D supplements (Table 5). patterns, as well as biological processes. Orces , Our results also showed significant seasonal varia- found that participants with a higher BMI were less tions in vitamin D levels across all participants (p < likely to take vitamin D supplements compared to 0.001), as supported by previous general studies those with a normal BMI. Additionally, a recent study . This variation was observed with one blood from Boston, Massachusetts, suggested that this may INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF CIRCUMPOLAR HEALTH 9 be attributed to greater removal of vitamin D from the interest, as well as invitation letters were sent to circulation due to an increased storage capacity across patients, the proportion of study participants with IBD higher adiposity volumes . Weight loss interventions was much higher than in the general population (5% in supported this, where vitamin D levels increased as study sample vs. 1.4% according to Hammer et al. and weight decreased without the use of supplementation Nielsen et al. ). These biases could result in parti- or fortified food . cipants in FarGen 2 having slightly higher vitamin Furthermore, we found significant associations with D levels compared to the general population. exercise, as individuals who reported ≥4 hours of phy- Additionally, the lack of information on vitamin sical activity weekly exhibited significantly higher vita- D supplementation in the questionnaire could obscure min D levels compared to those who reported
