INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF CIRCUMPOLAR HEALTH
KEYWORDS: vitamin, levels, vitamin levels, participants, ibd, trend, test, disease, test trend, ref, study, higher, compared, nmol, ref ref


phy- Additionally, the lack of information on vitamin sical activity weekly exhibited significantly higher vita- D supplementation in the questionnaire could obscure min D levels compared to those who reported <4 hours the results. If supplementation information were avail- weekly. This aligns with findings from an exercise study, able, it could have explained why the findings deviate which showed that endurance exercise can significantly from the original hypothesis. Furthermore, because all increase serum 25(OH)D levels in vitamin D-deficient variables except the vitamin D variable and BMI variable individuals . On the other hand, exercise may also were self-reported, recall bias, as well as reporting bias, serve as a confounding variable for traditional marine is clearly a risk, which might manifest in underreporting Unfortunately, dietary surveys are lacking for the gen- whereas the outcome, IBD, is dependent upon the eral Faroese population, and the data collected in the understanding of participants of their own condition. FarGen 2 project did not include a thorough dietary However, in a previous similar study self-reported assessment, so we are not able to scrutinise such con- diagnoses were evaluated against data from the elec- founder associations in our analyses. tronic patient journal, and it is reassuring that the This study has both strengths and limitations. agreement was very high (data not published). There Strengths include a relatively large sample size, repre- is also a risk of residual confounding or confounding by senting 3.2% of a small population, even though the factors we could not account for. This study included low number of participants with IBD in absolute terms relevant, but not all, variables from the FarGen 2 may imply low statistical power in exposure-outcome project. association analyses. The homogeneity in latitude and Despite the unexpected results contrasting with our genetic background across the population strengthens initial hypothesis, the similarity of the median vitamin the reliability of the findings. D level to the other Scandinavian countries supports However, there are also limitations to consider. the external validity of our findings. Additionally, the Firstly, the study design is cross-sectional, providing consistency of patterns observed across various dis- only a single point in time that measure exposure and eases supports internal validity. outcome simultaneously, making it impossible to assess In conclusion, our study showed higher vitamin D levels causality and provide incidence data. Secondly, measur- compared to previous studies conducted on individuals ing 25(OH)D concentration in plasma serves as
