INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF CIRCUMPOLAR HEALTH
KEYWORDS: vitamin, levels, vitamin levels, participants, ibd, trend, test, disease, test trend, ref, study, higher, compared, nmol, ref ref


In conclusion, our study showed higher vitamin D levels causality and provide incidence data. Secondly, measur- compared to previous studies conducted on individuals ing 25(OH)D concentration in plasma serves as an indi- from the Faroe Islands. Furthermore, contrary to our cator of the circulating vitamin D levels in the blood hypothesis, our data suggest higher vitamin D levels for and provides a comparable metric. However, this alone participants reporting diseases, including IBD, compared does not fully reflect its biological effects as the process with healthy participants. Participants with IBD tended to from gut absorption or skin synthesis to gene expres- have higher levels of vitamin D compared to those without sion is complex and involves multiple steps . the disease, although this difference was not consistently Thirdly, participation in the study was voluntary, poten- statistically significant. Additionally, there was a trend of tially introducing selection bias. Although we made increasing odds of IBD associated with increasing vitamin efforts to obtain a representative sample, there is evi- D levels, potentially due to vitamin D supplementation, as dence to suggest that individuals who choose to take participants’ levels are monitored as part of clinical man- part in studies such as this are generally more health agement. Our findings indicate that patients with IBD can There was a slight overrepresentation of females, and importance. The fact that many participants diagnosed a slight underrepresentation of individuals aged 70 and with diseases associated with vitamin D deficiency exhib- older in our study sample as compared to the general ited elevated vitamin D levels may be related to increased Faroese population. Since FarGen 2 specifically sampled use of supplementation. This is further supported by the patients with selected metabolic and autoimmune dis- generally higher vitamin D levels observed in our study eases, in the sense that in public recruitment efforts compared to previous studies conducted in the Faroe these groups were mentioned to be of particular Islands. Future research should explore the association 10 R. N. LISBERG ET AL. between vitamin D and IBD more thoroughly by examining action in low- and middle-income countries. Ann patients’ vitamin D levels concurrently with diagnosis, pos- N Y Acad Sci. 2018;1430(1):44–79. doi: Nielsen NO, Skifte T, Andersson M, et al. Both high and sibly utilising registry data for more comprehensive under- low serum vitamin D concentrations are associated with standing. Future studies could also include intervention tuberculosis: a case–control
