Lipoprotein (a) in Youth
KEYWORDS: pubmed, lipoprotein, risk, levels, children, elevated, ascvd, free, stroke, disease, pmc, pmc free, free article, study, article


aortic valve disease (CAVD) ( 1-9 ). Data suggest that Lp(a) is the strongest independent genetic risk factor for both myocardial infarction (MI) and aortic stenosis ( 10 ), and inversely correlated with life expectancy ( 11 ). In many ways, Lp(a) is more atherogenic than low density lipoprotein cholesterol (LDL-C) because of its pro-inflammatory and antifibrinolytic properties ( 12 ). The bulk of available data show that Lp(a) is predictive of ASCVD events independent of the LDL-C level ( 13 ); the lifetime risk of ASCVD increases with higher Lp(a) levels independent of the LDL-C level. Although fewer studies have focused on Lp(a) in youth, data in the pediatric population suggests that it augments the risk of future ASCVD and is a risk factor for arterial ischemic stroke (AIS) including recurrent events. Recently, data from YFS (Cardiovascular Risk in Young Finns) and the BHS (Bogalusa Heart Study) showed adults with early onset ASCVD were more likely to have Lp(a) ≥ 30 mg/dL at 9-24 years of age, with a hazard ratio of 2.0 in YFS and 2.5 in BHS ( 14 ). Like familial hypercholesterolemia (FH), Lp(a) is a highly hereditable disorder and although the genes for these two lipid disorders are not linked, when they occur jointly and/or in combination with other common risk factors such as diabetes and hypertension, they markedly accelerate the development of premature ASCVD, underscoring the importance of cascade screening and reverse cascade screening in families ( 15-17 ). EPIDEMIOLOGY AND GENETICS The distribution and prevalence of elevated Lp(a) levels in the population are based on data from well-known epidemiologic studies including the Copenhagen General Population Study ( 18 ), Epic-Norfolk ( 19 ), and the Multi-Ethnic Study of Atherosclerosis ( 20 ). In children, initial data came from the 3 rd National Health Nutrition and Examination Survey (NHANES), which characterized Lp(a) levels in 4-19 year-old youth ( 21 ). Since then multiple studies have evaluated Lp(a) levels in youth ( 22 ) and newborns ( 23 ) The percentile distributions and prevalence of Lp(a) > 30 mg/dL in youth aged 4–19 years from the NHANES survey is shown in Figure 1 . To better understand the choice of cut points in youth and adults, the distribution of Lp(a) in the Danish adult population from the Copenhagen study is shown in Figure 2 . Figure 1. The percentiles distributions and prevalence of Lp(a) >
