Lipoprotein (a) in Youth
KEYWORDS: pubmed, lipoprotein, risk, levels, children, elevated, ascvd, free, stroke, disease, pmc, pmc free, free article, study, article


adults, the distribution of Lp(a) in the Danish adult population from the Copenhagen study is shown in Figure 2 . Figure 1. The percentiles distributions and prevalence of Lp(a) > 30 mg/dL in youth aged 4–19 years from the NHANES study (Ref 24 ). Fig 2. Distributions of Lp(a) levels in ∼3000 men and 3000 women in the Copenhagen General Population Study from Ref. 21 . The distribution is highly skewed towards low levels and varies with gender. A threshold value of 50 mg/dL corresponding to values > 80 th percentile in a predominately Caucasian population have been proposed by the European Atherosclerosis Society/European Society of Cardiology (EAS/ESC) ( 24 ) and the National Lipid Association guideline statement but these values are not used in all guidelines. Many laboratories across the U.S. consider values > 30 mg/dL as abnormal, which may arguably be more appropriate since this is a value above which excess ASCVD risk begins to accrue ( 25 ). Significant variability in Lp(a) levels exists among different races and ethnicities (see NHANES data in Figure 1 ); higher rates of elevated Lp(a) in Black children have been demonstrated compared to White children ( 26 ). In adults, the median (inter-quartile range) values for White adults in the Copenhagen study were 12 mg/dL (5-32 mg/dL), while in Hispanic adults the mean was 19 mg/dL (8–43 mg/dL), and in Black adults it was 39 mg/dL (19–69 mg/dL) ( 18 ). The UK Biobank study found that the median value of Lp(a) was the lowest in Chinese individuals (16 nmol/L) slightly higher in Whites and South Asians (19 and 31 nmol/L respectively) and the highest in Black individuals (75 nmol/L) ( 4 ). Overall, the concentration of Lp(a) can vary up to a 1000-fold among individuals and up to ∼3-fold higher levels are reported in Black populations compared to White populations ( 2 , 27 , 28 ). This can be compared to the extremes of LDL-C where there is approximately a 5-fold difference between individuals with normal values versus those with familial hypercholesterolemia (FH). Lipoprotein (a) and LDL-C levels in children can also vary throughout the year and in the setting of infection. Gidding et al studied the combined biologic and analytic variation in Lp(a) and other lipid levels measured 4 times over a one year period when children were healthy as well as within a week after acute infections
