Lipoprotein (a) in Youth
KEYWORDS: pubmed, lipoprotein, risk, levels, children, elevated, ascvd, free, stroke, disease, pmc, pmc free, free article, study, article


and analytic variation in Lp(a) and other lipid levels measured 4 times over a one year period when children were healthy as well as within a week after acute infections in 63 adolescents ( 29 ). The 50 th percentile for variability in children’s Lp(a) was 19%, but 5% of children had up to 40% variability in Lp(a) over the one year period. For LDL-C, less variability overall was noted (25% variability for the 50 th and 95 th percentile). No significant differences were observed for lipids after acute infections, except for a statistically significant drop in HDL-C and apo A-I. The gene encoding apo(a) is inherited as an autosomal co-dominant trait and is one of the most heritable disorders in humans with estimates of 0.51 to 0.98 for the total Lp(a) level ( 30-32 ), accounting for the strong association with parental ASCVD ( 31 , 32 ). By some estimates, up to 90% of the variation in the Lp(a) level is attributed to genetic expression ( 30 ). A child inherits one allele from each parent; as a result, most individuals produce two distinct Lp(a) isoforms differing with respect to both structure and concentration. When an evaluated Lp(a) is found in an individual of any age, it is vitally important to emphasize this strong genetic inheritance pattern and facilitate screening of family members. Zawacki et al in fact noted that a family history of early-onset ASCVD correlated better with an elevated Lp(a) level in a child (>50 mg/dL) than an elevated LDL-C level (>190 mg/dL) ( 16 ). This is similar to findings from the LIPIGEN (Lipid Transport Disorders Italian Genetic Network) pediatric group ( 33 ). Cascade screening (parent to child) as well as reverse cascade screening (child to parent) has a high yield for detecting new cases. In the SAFEHEART (Spanish Familial Hypercholesterolemia Cohort) study, Ellis et al showed that in individuals with both FH and an elevated Lp(a), 1 new case of elevated Lp(a) was detected for every 2.4 individuals screened; index cases with FH who did not have an elevated Lp(a) level detected 1 individual for every 5.8 individuals screened ( 15 ). In Australia, a cascade screening program for FH and high Lp(a) found a new case of FH for every 1.5 relatives tested, a new case of high Lp(a) and FH for every 2.1 relatives tested, and a new case of isolated
