Lipoprotein (a) in Youth
KEYWORDS: pubmed, lipoprotein, risk, levels, children, elevated, ascvd, free, stroke, disease, pmc, pmc free, free article, study, article


found a new case of FH for every 1.5 relatives tested, a new case of high Lp(a) and FH for every 2.1 relatives tested, and a new case of isolated high Lp(a) in every 3.0 relatives tested ( 17 ). Youth with FH and a family history of premature ASCVD (defined as onset of ASCVD in male relatives ≤ 50 years and females ≤ 60 years), were 3 times more likely to have an elevated Lp(a) level (≥ 50 mg/dL) than those with late onset ASCVD ( 16 ). The Family Heart Foundation ( www.thefhfoundation.org ) and the National Lipid Association ( www.lipid.org ) provide a number of resources for patients and clinicians to facilitate a better understanding and identification of affected family members. When screening for elevated lipoprotein (a), biochemical testing, as opposed to genetic testing, is generally performed (see testing discussion below in Interpretation of Lp(a) Levels). In contrast, FH can be diagnosed either by biochemical measurement of LDL-C or through genetic testing. INTERPRETATION OF Lp(a) LEVELS The unparalleled polymorphism in the apo(a) gene gives rise to the vast diversity of levels among individuals and ethnicities. This polymorphism is the result of a varying number of repeats of one of the kringle domains (tri-looped structures depicted in Figure 3 ) resulting in ~55 different isoforms of apo(a) ranging from 300 – 800 kDa. It is this structural heterogeneity that has also led to interassay variability, lack of standardization, and consequently much difficulty correlating and reconciling differences in reported outcomes ( 34 , 35 ) . The serum Lp(a) level is inversely related to the size of the apo(a) protein i.e., individuals with small apo(a) isoforms have high serum Lp(a) levels while individuals with large apo(a) isoforms have low serum Lp(a) levels. As noted above, the size of the apo(a) isoforms is inherited, with an individual having two distinct apo(a) isoforms derived from apo(a) genes from their mother and father. This results in individuals having two different size Lp(a) particles in the serum. Fig 3. Structure of lipoprotein(a) depicting the apo(a) protein with repeating KIV domains linked through a S-S bond to apoB100. TG=triglycerides, CE=cholesterol ester, FC=free cholesterol, PL=phospholipid (from Ref 1 ). There are also multiple methods to measure Lp(a) ( 36 ), reported as either the molecular weight (mass concentration) in mg/dL or the particle (molar) concentration (nmol/L), and these measures are not interconvertible. The molecular weight
