Lipoprotein (a) in Youth
KEYWORDS: pubmed, lipoprotein, risk, levels, children, elevated, ascvd, free, stroke, disease, pmc, pmc free, free article, study, article


measure Lp(a) ( 36 ), reported as either the molecular weight (mass concentration) in mg/dL or the particle (molar) concentration (nmol/L), and these measures are not interconvertible. The molecular weight of the Lp(a) particle includes all components shown in the Lp(a) structure in Fig. 3 , namely the apo(a) protein, the LDL-like particle (including the protein portion which accounts for roughly one-third of the particle mass), the associated particle lipids (free cholesterol, triglycerides, phospholipids), and carbohydrate moieties. As noted above, there is substantial variation in the molecular weight due to the variability in the two apo(a) isoforms each person expresses. Additionally, the size of the apo(a) isoform, i.e., small versus large, has been proposed as a key determinant of the atherogenic characteristics ( 37 ). Although much of the literature discussing population distribution of values and/or the attributable ASCVD risk references report Lp(a) values in mg/dL, a value strongly influenced by the apo(a) size, it has been suggested that measuring the number of Lp(a) particles (nmol/L) is preferred, in part because Lp(a) reference material is standardized in nmol/L and independent of isoform size ( 1 ). This approach was affirmed in a landmark study by Gudbjartsson et al showing that in a large Icelandic population, the association of Lp(a) with CHD was highly correlated with the molar concentration rather than the type pf of apo(a) isoform ( 38 ). In the past, a conversion factor of 2.85 for small apo(a) isoforms and 1.85 for large apo(a) isoforms with a mean of 2.4 nmol/L per 1 mg has been used. However, since individuals can express two distinct apo(a) isoforms, this conversion estimate can be inaccurate and is not generally recommended. Like the measurement of apoB100 (the protein portion of the LDL particle), neither assay is affected by whether or not the individual was fasting since they measure lipoprotein mass or molar levels do not vary with food intake. In a standard lipid profile, the cholesterol carried by Lp(a) , i.e., Lp(a)-C, is included in the LDL-C and non-HDL-C measurement. A simplified way to think of this is to imagine lipoproteins as "buckets" that carry cholesterol and triglyceride. The Lp(a) measurement itself is the number of "buckets" whereas the cholesterol carried by this "bucket” is included in the LDL-C measurement. Correction factors have been proposed to estimate the contribution of Lp(a)-C to the calculated LDL-C value based on the Dahlen equation, but
