Lipoprotein (a) in Youth
KEYWORDS: pubmed, lipoprotein, risk, levels, children, elevated, ascvd, free, stroke, disease, pmc, pmc free, free article, study, article


this "bucket” is included in the LDL-C measurement. Correction factors have been proposed to estimate the contribution of Lp(a)-C to the calculated LDL-C value based on the Dahlen equation, but these are rarely used or reported in the literature ( 36 ). With the development of drugs designed to specifically lower Lp(a) and Lp(a)-C knowledge of the true LDL-C and Lp(a)-C levels may assume greater importance ( 39 ). Methods are being developed to measure Lp(a) cholesterol levels ( 40 ); these methods indicate that calculating the cholesterol in Lp(a) using equations may not be accurate. The EAS consensus panel recommended to avoid routine correction of LDL-C by subtracting 30% of the Lp(a) mass measurement till we have more data on the Lp(a) cholesterol content ( 13 ). DEVELOPMENTAL AND DYNAMIC CHANGES IN Lp(a) Lp(a) is detectable in the serum of newborn infants; gestational age but not birth weight seems to affect newborn levels ( 21 , 41 , 42 ). Lp(a) levels in umbilical cord blood correlated strongly with measurements on neonatal venous blood, which had moderate correlations with levels at 2 months and 15 months of age. Most significantly, Lp(a) levels at birth greater than the 90 th percentile predicted lipoprotein (a) > 42mg/dL at 15 months ( 43 ). This is consistent with previous studies of Lp(a) showing full expression of the gene product in the first ( 44 ) and second ( 45 ) years of life, a pattern strikingly different from other lipoproteins.. In fact, no other lipoprotein level seems to track as perfectly to adulthood as Lp(a). The highly hereditable trait is reflected by a close correlation with the Lp(a) level and the number of grandparents the child has with a history of CHD ( 46 ). However, some studies suggest there is variability in Lp(a) measurements in childhood; one study of children referred to a pediatric lipid clinic showed 22% of children who were on no lipid lowering therapy had an increase in Lp(a) in adulthood. Among children prescribed statin monotherapy or statin/ezetimibe in combination, 43% and 9% of children had higher Lp(a) in adulthood respectively ( 22 ). Analysis of the YFS cohort showed that most individuals with Lp(a) ≥ 30mg/dL at any point continued to have high Lp(a) ( 47 ), indicating that the clinical impact of variability in Lp(a) during childhood may not be clinically significant. Lp(a) is produced by
