Lipoprotein (a) in Youth
KEYWORDS: pubmed, lipoprotein, risk, levels, children, elevated, ascvd, free, stroke, disease, pmc, pmc free, free article, study, article


any point continued to have high Lp(a) ( 47 ), indicating that the clinical impact of variability in Lp(a) during childhood may not be clinically significant. Lp(a) is produced by the liver, but the clearance pathways are not well understood. The clearance of Lp(a) is not predominantly regulated by the LDL receptor and therefore lowering LDL-C levels with statins or ezetimibe does not lower Lp(a) levels. The kidney appears to play an important role in Lp(a) clearance as renal disease is associated with increased Lp(a) levels. The levels of Lp(a) appear to be regulated primarily by the rate of production of Lp(a). Renal disease may increase levels while severe liver disease may result in lower Lp(a) levels ( 1 ). Recently, high endogenous levels or therapeutic administration of human growth hormone were linked to increased serum Lp(a) levels, which may explain the association between childhood human growth hormone treatment and higher risk of ASCVD ( 48 ). SCREENING FOR ELEVATED Lp(a) Expert opinions on screening strategies for elevated Lp(a) differ. The National Lipid Association recommends a selective screening strategy which is summarized in Table 1 ( 1 ). The European Atherosclerosis Society recommends universal screening in adulthood and a selective screening strategy for youth ( 13 ). The American College of Cardiology and the American Heart Association do not have official screening guidelines for Lp(a) ( 49 ). Canadian guidelines ( 50 ) and the European Society of Cardiology ( 13 ) advise universal screening for Lp(a) in adulthood. The 2011 Expert Panel on Integrated Guidelines for Cardiovascular Health and Risk Reduction in Children and Adolescents suggested testing Lp(a) in children with ischemic or hemorrhagic stroke, or with a family history of ASCVD not explained by classical risk factors ( 51 ). However, it should be noted that since the time of their publication the knowledge regarding Lp(a) as a risk factor has been considerably strengthened - data which was incorporated into the NLA statement. The main argument against universal Lp(a) testing in adults or children is that to date, no clinical trials have been able to show benefit from treatment aimed at lowering Lp(a) ( 52 ). However, such data are expected to be forthcoming with the release of drugs that specifically target Lp(a). Thanassoulis argues that “although there is no targeted therapy for Lp(a) lowering yet, to properly care for our cardiovascular patients requires knowledge of Lp(a). Individuals
