Lipoprotein (a) in Youth
KEYWORDS: pubmed, lipoprotein, risk, levels, children, elevated, ascvd, free, stroke, disease, pmc, pmc free, free article, study, article


drugs that specifically target Lp(a). Thanassoulis argues that “although there is no targeted therapy for Lp(a) lowering yet, to properly care for our cardiovascular patients requires knowledge of Lp(a). Individuals with high Lp(a) have a higher burden of atherogenic lipoproteins and are therefore at higher cardiovascular risk, which can only be detected by Lp(a) measurement. These individuals can obtain significant benefit from more aggressive lifestyle modifications and the maintenance of optimal risk factors throughout life.” This is similar to advice from Zawacki et al ( 16 ) who noted that “reverse-cascade screening of children with FH and high Lp(a) represents two opportunities for potentially life-saving diagnosis and treatment for family members” providing “an opportunity to intervene at an earlier age for both children and their adult relatives.” In summarizing key points, the NLA guidelines noted that “Even in the absence of an approved Lp(a)-lowering medication, in youth found to have an elevated level of Lp(a), it is important to emphasize early and lifelong adoption of a heart-healthy lifestyle by the child and family members, especially with respect to smoking avoidance or cessation, given the thrombotic risk attributable to Lp(a)” ( 1 ). Table 1. NLA Recommendations (from Ref 1 ) View in own window Clinically suspected or genetically confirmed FH. A family history of first-degree relatives with premature ASCVD (<55 years of age in men, <65 years of age in women). An unknown cause of ischemic stroke. A parent or sibling found to have an elevated Lp(a). All recommendations were Class IIb (weak) and were based on limited data (Level C-LD) Some professional societies have also suggested levels be measured in those whose LDL-C levels fails to decrease as predicted following statin therapy, and individuals with a history of coronary artery restenosis or recurrent ASCVD not explained by other risk factors ( 53-55 ). RELATIONSHIP WITH STROKE IN YOUTH The most extensive data on the impact of Lp(a) in youth come from pediatric stroke studies. Although the evidence for Lp(a) as a stroke risk factor is not as robust as the relationship with CHD, in part likely due to the more heterogeneous etiology for stroke, i.e., both ischemic (large and small artery), hemorrhagic, and embolic, several meta-analyses concluded that an elevated Lp(a) level is a risk factor for incident stroke in adults ( 8 , 56-58 ) as well as a large prospective, observational study demonstrating that Lp(a) levels were
