Lipoprotein (a) in Youth
KEYWORDS: pubmed, lipoprotein, risk, levels, children, elevated, ascvd, free, stroke, disease, pmc, pmc free, free article, study, article


). An important consideration in these studies is that Lp(a) levels were measured in many cases after the initiation of anticoagulation therapy, which likely included aspirin, the latter which has been reported to reduce Lp(a). While venous thromboembolism (VTE) is rare in children and the majority of events are due to central venous line-related thrombotic events or underlying medical conditions (i.e., congenital heart disease, infection, cancer, prematurity), several studies reported an increased risk of VTE with an elevated Lp(a) level ( 65 , 66 ). However, this has not been supported in larger adult studies ( 13 ). As is the case in many studies of the impact of childhood risk factors, long-term studies linking elevated levels of Lp(a) to adult-onset ASCVD-related events are limited. LIFESTYLE CHANGES TO LOWER Lp(a) As Lp(a) levels are dominated by genetic influence, conventional wisdom has been that diet has little impact ( 53 ). Paradoxically, multiple studies have reported that a low-fat diet and low-fat-high-carbohydrate diets significantly increase Lp(a) in adults ( 67-69 ). More limited studies have demonstrated similar findings in youth. Brandstatter et al measured Lp(a) mass and the apo(a) isoform size before and after a 3-week hypocaloric diet and exercise in obese children ( 67 ). With a 6.6% decrease in body weight, they observed a ~20% decrease in Lp(a) levels, which was comparable to the declines seen for LDL-C and triglycerides. The decline in Lp(a) was greater in youth with higher baseline levels of Lp(a). Studies of a diet enriched in plant sterols ( 70 ) failed to significantly change Lp(a) levels. Data on lipoprotein (a) levels in low carbohydrate diets are mixed, with one study showing a low glycemic index diet did not change Lp(a) levels ( 71 ) and another study showing a decrease in Lp(a) with a low carbohydrate diet ( 72 ). It is unclear if weight loss or diet composition is the primary factor. Importantly, a healthy diet, exercise, avoidance of tobacco (including secondhand smoke exposure), and maintaining a healthy body weight are fundamental in minimizing the acquisition of additional risk factors that compound the atherogenic effect of an elevated Lp(a) level. PHARMACEUTICAL INTERVENTIONS TO LOWER Lp(a) Currently, there are no Food and Drug Administration (FDA) approved medications for targeted lowering of Lp(a) in adults or children. Previously niacin, which has been shown to lower Lp(a) levels, was commonly used in adults with elevated Lp(a)
