Lipoprotein (a) in Youth
KEYWORDS: pubmed, lipoprotein, risk, levels, children, elevated, ascvd, free, stroke, disease, pmc, pmc free, free article, study, article


(FDA) approved medications for targeted lowering of Lp(a) in adults or children. Previously niacin, which has been shown to lower Lp(a) levels, was commonly used in adults with elevated Lp(a) but failed to prevent ASCVD events in two clinical outcome trials, the Atherothrombosis Intervention in Metabolic Syndrome With Low HDL/High Triglycerides and Impact on Global Health Outcomes (AIM-HIGH) ( 73 ) and the Second Heart Protection Study (HPS-2 THRIVE) ( 74 ). Although proprotein convertase subtilisin/kexin 9 inhibitors (PCSK9i) are not indicated for targeted treatment of Lp(a), studies show significant reductions. For example, the FOURIER study found that adults with the highest Lp(a) levels had greater reductions in Lp(a) with their use and greater risk reduction ( 75 ). Only one clinical trial of this class of drugs has included adolescents, all of whom had homozygous FH. In this population evolocumab was safe and effective ( 76 ). Statin therapy has been the foundation treatment to reduce LDL-C and to lower the risk of ASCVD events but it does not seem to reduce Lp(a) mass appreciably and in fact may actually increase levels of Lp(a) ( 77 ). Despite this trend, statins remain the mainstay of pharmaceutical therapy to reduce ASCVD risk in both children and adults. Statin therapy in children with high Lp(a) remains controversial, with very limited data to guide clinical decision making. Generally speaking, statin therapy is not recommended for children whose sole risk factor is an elevated Lp(a) level, but as in adults, it is the first-line therapy to reduce LDL-C in youth with a high risk of developing premature ASCVD as adults ( 51 ) and it should be considered when a child has elevated LDL-C and Lp(a), particularly with a family history of premature ASCVD or other ASCVD risk factors ( 51 ). A 20-year study using pravastatin in children affirmed both the long-term safety and efficacy of this approach in 214 youth with FH ( 78 ). In addition to the effects of PCSK9i and niacin, mipomersen, lomitapide, and cholesterol-ester-transfer protein inhibitors have also been shown to decrease Lp(a) concentrations ( 79-81 ). Antisense oligonucleotides to apo(a) mRNA are in development ( 80 , 82 ) and, in the future, may play a role in treatment of elevated Lp(a) in children ( 83 ). While bempedoic acid lowers LDL-C, it has a minimal impact on the Lp(a) level (2.4% elevation) ( 84 ).
