Lipoprotein (a) in Youth
KEYWORDS: pubmed, lipoprotein, risk, levels, children, elevated, ascvd, free, stroke, disease, pmc, pmc free, free article, study, article


role in treatment of elevated Lp(a) in children ( 83 ). While bempedoic acid lowers LDL-C, it has a minimal impact on the Lp(a) level (2.4% elevation) ( 84 ). The effect of the various pharmaceuticals on Lp(a) levels is shown in Table 2 . Finally, lipoprotein apheresis, which removes all apoB-containing lipoproteins including LDL-C and Lp(a), can be used but is generally reserved for youth with extremely high short-term risk of ASCVD events such as those with homozygous FH ( 85 , 86 ). Table 2. Effect of Lipid Lowering Drugs on Lp(a) Levels View in own window Statins No Effect or slight increase Ezetimibe No Effect or slight increase Fibrates No Effect Bempedoic Acid Minimal Effect Niacin Decrease 15-25%. Greatest decrease in patients with highest Lp(a) levels PCSK9 Inhibitors Decrease 20-30% Estrogen Decrease 20-35% Mipomersen* Decrease 25-30% Lomitapide* Decrease 15-20% CETP Inhibitors** Decrease ~ 25% Apo (a) antisense** Decrease > 75% * Only approved for the treatment of Homozygous FH; **not currently available CONCLUSIONS Future investigations of the relationship of Lp(a) and ASCVD risk will require large and ethnically diverse populations as well as uniformity and standardization of Lp(a) measurement. As is the case in most pediatric outcome studies, sample size is problematic. However, the usual pitfalls of extrapolating from adult data may be less problematic for Lp(a) given that the gene is fully expressed at a young age. Clearly in cases of AIS and strong family history of ASCVD, measurement of Lp(a) is warranted. Whether or not youth with markedly elevated Lp(a) levels should be treated with lipid-lowering medications (i.e., statins) remains controversial. At a minimum, encouraging avoidance of acquired ASCVD risk factors is a critical component of the health care we can provide children and their parents. Emphasis should be placed on teaching youth about the importance of lifelong tobacco avoidance. The role of maintaining a healthy body weight and daily physical activity is critical in helping reduce the additional inflammatory risk attributable to obesity and insulin resistance, problems which are exacerbated by the development of added risk factors (low HDL-C, type 2 diabetes, and hypertension). In young women with an elevated Lp(a) level, issues surrounding the potential thrombotic risk of oral contraceptives should also be addressed and attention given to choosing a formulation with the lowest risk ( 87 ). Given that a child’s medical history is often forgotten with time, it is essential that
