Case report
KEYWORDS: liver, bowel, patient, sbo, small bowel, small, case, capsule, liver capsule, emergency, omental, obstruction, patch, omental patch, trauma


Case report Traumatic damage to the liver capsule: an unusual cause of small bowel obstruction Kymberlie Aloni,1 Holly Harris ,2 Gianluca Colucci,1 Malcolm McFall1 1General Surgery, Worthing SUMMARY accident 3 months prior to presentation where Hospitals, Worthing, UK his right side while cycling, but had not sought medical a CT scan revealed an SBO. In addition, an 11 cm attention. On admission, a CT scan showed small bowel high- density lesion in the liver was seen, which Correspondence to obstruction (SBO) and he underwent an emergency appeared subcapsular with small bowel entering the Dr Holly Harris; holly. harris3@ nhs. net open laparotomy. Intraoperatively, a subcapsular liver lesion (figure 1). The patient underwent an emer- haematoma was identified, with incarcerated, necrotic gency laparotomy. Findings included a subcapsular Accepted 13 April 2021 small bowel within the liver capsule. The patient liver haematoma, 300 mL of free peritoneal blood underwent deroofing of the haematoma with an and necrotic small bowel within the liver haema- omental patch and a small bowel resection with primary toma, incarcerated into the liver capsule. He under- anastomosis. We believe this is the first reported case of went deroofing of the haematoma with omental SBO secondary to small bowel herniation into the liver patch and a small bowel resection with primary capsule following trauma. anastomosis. INVESTIGATIONS BACKGROUND The patient went an urgent CT scan on admission Small bowel obstruction (SBO) is a common presen- (figures 1 and 2). tation in the accident and emergency department (A&E) and is responsible for 50% of emergency OUTCOME AND FOLLOW-UP laparotomies in the UK each year.1 Laparotomy for The patient made a good recovery. From theatre, he SBO is associated with high morbidity rates and a was transferred to the high dependency unit for 3 days, 90- day mortality rate of up to 13%.2 An abdom- stepped down to the surgical ward and was discharged inal CT scan can confirm a diagnosis of SBO, iden- 7 days postoperatively. In total, he reported a recovery tify when surgical management is indicated and period of 3–4 months before he felt well enough to provide valuable information on the likely cause.2 exercise and cycle again. Since, the patient has had Appropriateness of surgical intervention is defined three emergency admissions to hospital with adhe- by the characteristics of the obstruction: partial sional SBO. Once this was managed conservatively, or complete; simple or complicated; functional or and on
