Case report
KEYWORDS: liver, bowel, patient, sbo, small bowel, small, case, capsule, liver capsule, emergency, omental, obstruction, patch, omental patch, trauma


three emergency admissions to hospital with adhe- by the characteristics of the obstruction: partial sional SBO. Once this was managed conservatively, or complete; simple or complicated; functional or and on the other two occasions, the patient required mechanical. Indications for immediate operative open laparotomy and band adhesiolysis, the most intervention include evidence of ischaemia to the recent of which was in October 2020. bowel, complete obstruction and abnormal blood results, such as lactic acidosis, leucocytosis and acidaemia.3 In the Western world, patients most DISCUSSION In the majority of cases, traumatic hepatic haematomas commonly present to A&E with SBO due to intra- are suitable for non- operative management (NOM).5 abdominal adhesions, malignancy and bowel herni- ation, but there are rarer causes to be aware of.4 The severity of liver injuries is classified according to the American Association for the Surgery of Trauma Infectious or inflammatory causes include Crohn’s (AAST) grading scale, with grades I to III mostly being disease, mesenteric adenitis, diverticulitis or appen- dicitis.3 More rarely gallstone ileus, foreign bodies, managed conservatively and grades IV and V more frequently requiring operative intervention.5 Gener- enteroliths and bezoars can obstruct the ileo- caecal valve.3 Some other unusual causes in adults ally, a combination of AAST grade, haemodynamic status and associated injuries is used to guide manage- are intussusception, endometriosis and radiation enteritis.4 ment.5–7 The World Society of Emergency Surgery (WSES) has laid out treatment guidelines based on a combination of the AAST grades and haemodynamic © BMJ Publishing Group CASE PRESENTATION stability of the patient. This additional classification Limited 2021. No commercial re- use. See rights and In 2016, the patient presented to the emergency is clinically important as it recognises that low- grade and generally feeling unwell following a cycle ride. management in a haemodynamically unstable patient, To cite: Aloni K, Harris H, He had a medical history of laparoscopic chole- and high- grade lesions (grades IV to V) have the Colucci G, et al. BMJ Case Rep 2021;14:e241632. cystectomy for cholelithiasis in 2013 and Nissen potential to be managed conservatively in a haemo- doi:- fundoplication for chronic gastric volvulus in 2014. dynamically stable patient.5 However, it is important 241632 He was otherwise fit and well. He reported a cycling to note that NOM of moderate or severe liver injuries Aloni K, et al. BMJ Case Rep 2021;14:e241632. doi: 1 Case report to repair the liver is a recognised method of
