Case report
KEYWORDS: liver, bowel, patient, sbo, small bowel, small, case, capsule, liver capsule, emergency, omental, obstruction, patch, omental patch, trauma


note that NOM of moderate or severe liver injuries Aloni K, et al. BMJ Case Rep 2021;14:e241632. doi: 1 Case report to repair the liver is a recognised method of achieving haemo- stasis in liver injury, as the omentum adheres to sites of injury, increases vascularity and encourages neoangiogenesis. The procedure involves conversion of the omentum into a pedicled flap while actively bleeding vessels of the liver are ligated. The omental patch can then be packed in the liver cavity and stabi- lised in place with sutures. A drain can be inserted into the hepa- torenal fossa and removed around the 5th to 10th postoperative day.8 One study demonstrated efficient haemostasis in 85.7% of patients in which omental patch was used in repair of the liver.9 When implemented in this way, the omentum can be effective in aiding tissue repair and restoring homeostasis in any grade of liver injury.10 Patients should be monitored for complications such as continuing haemorrhage, liver abscess formation and haemobilia.8 This case presents a very rare and unusual cause of SBO to be aware of following blunt trauma to the abdomen. Learning points ► It is possible that traumatic damage to the liver capsule can lead to small bowel obstruction (SBO). ► CT scanning can help successfully identify rare causes of SBO Figure 1 Admission CT scan: Coronal image showing herniation of and guide management. small bowel into the liver capsule. ► An example where an omental patch can successfully be used to repair damage to the liver capsule. should only be considered if the hospital is able to provide intensive monitoring, angiography, an emergency operating room and imme- diate access to blood and blood product. Contributors KA and HH wrote the article. Both involved in the inpatient care of the patient. MM and GC helped edit, review and supervise writing. Both surgeons Although hepatic haematomas, bowel stenosis and obstruc- were involved in the operative care and inpatient care of the patient. tion are recognised complications of trauma, associated bowel Funding The authors have not declared a specific grant for this research from any herniation into the liver capsule is very unusual. According to funding agency in the public, commercial or not- for- profit sectors. our literature search, there are no recorded cases of a patient Competing interests None declared. presenting with SBO secondary to bowel incarceration in the liver capsule following blunt trauma to the
