Zhang et al. BMC Neurology (2024) 24:44 BMC Neurology
KEYWORDS: intracranial, corpus, copper, callosum, lipomas, disease, lipoma, corpus callosum, wilson, wilson disease, patient, intracranial lipoma, case, dysplasia, abnormal


4.0 International License, which permits use, sharing, adaptation, distribution and reproduction in any medium or format, as long as you give appropriate credit to the original author(s) and the source, provide a link to the Creative Commons licence, and indicate if changes were made. The images or other third party material in this article are included in the article’s Creative Commons licence, unless indicated otherwise in a credit line to the material. If material is not included in the article’s Creative Commons licence and your intended use is not permitted by statutory licence, visit The Creative Commons Public Domain Dedication waiver ( mons.org/publicdomain/zero/1.0/) applies to the data made available in this article, unless otherwise stated in a credit line to the data. Introduction approximately 1:4,000 live births, it causes a wide range Wilson’s disease (WD) is a rare autosomal recessive of clinical conditions . Its independent existence was disorder with a global prevalence of approximately first reported in 1912 by Reil . Although intracranial 1:30,000–1:50,000 . It is caused by a mutation in the lipomas combined with corpus callosum dysplasia have ATP7B gene in hepatocytes, leading to inactivation of been reported, no cases of all three disorders occurring the ATP7B transporter protein, which results in blocked together in patients with WD have been reported. Here, copper excretion from the bile and a disturbance of the we report a case of a patient with WD who had both dynamic copper homeostasis . Clinical damage to lipoma at the cerebral falx and corpus callosum dysplasia. organs, including the liver, brain, and kidneys, was fre- Case presentation quently observed, and some patients exhibited anoma- lous lipid metabolism . Intracranial lipomas are At the age of 9 years, the child’s physical examination extremely rare tumors, accounting for about 0.1 - 0.5% showed that “liver function showed that alanine ami- of all intracranial tumors, and were first described notransferase was 130 U/L and glutamic aminotrans- by Rokitansky in 1856 . Intracranial lipomas may ferase was 57 U/L”. Further examination showed that originate from abnormal differentiation of the primitive “ceruloplasmin was < 0.1 g/L (reference value 0.2-0.6 meninges around normally developing brain tissue, in g/L)”, which is considered “Wilson’s disease”. At the age adipose tissue. However, the specific etiology of intracra- plasmin: 46.7mg/L (reference value 200.0-420.0mg/L); nial lipomas has not been clarified. Potential risk factors serum copper: 3.29umol/L (10.50-24.40umol/L); Copper ine infections, ischemia, and abnormal environmental
