Zhang et al. BMC Neurology (2024) 24:44 BMC Neurology
KEYWORDS: intracranial, corpus, copper, callosum, lipomas, disease, lipoma, corpus callosum, wilson, wilson disease, patient, intracranial lipoma, case, dysplasia, abnormal


and asymptomatic. They are often discovered Table 1 The patient was admitted twice for examination and blood test results Detection time AST ALT Liver pSWE elastography TG AFP measurements 10 years old 74U/L 115U/L 1.68m/s moderate fibrosis 1.52mmol/L 14.9U/mL 12 years old 50U/L 100U/L 1.20 Mild fibrosis 1.69mmol/L 3.7U/mL The normal range of indicators: AST(0-50 U/L); ALT (0-50/L); liver fibrosis staging and pSWE quantitative reference values: absent/mild fibrosis (0-1.34m/s); moderate fibrosis (1.34-2.2m/s); severe fibrosis (above 2.2m/s); TG (0.56-1,47mmol/L); AFP (< 10.0IU/mL) Fig. 2 A, B are MRI scanning axial T1 and T2 images, respectively, which show parallel separation of bilateral lateral ventricles, widening of the spacing between the bodies of bilateral lateral ventricles, and a lipoma (white arrowhead) at the lower margin of the cerebral falx, with a size of about 40mm*9mm, with high signal in T1 and T2. C is an axial DWI image; the lesion is seen without diffusion restriction. D is a sagittal T2 image; the septum pellucidum is not closed, and the corpus callosum is thinned in the sagittal position (white arrow) incidentally on neuroimaging or only detected at autopsy, inflammatory responses and thus increasing the serum lev- with incidence rates of 0.08% and 0.46%, respectively els of various inflammatory factors . These inflamma- . It has been shown that the protomembrane contains tory factors may promote adipocyte proliferation, inhibit primitive perivascular reticular endothelium, cells spe- adipocyte apoptosis, and promote fat synthesis, leading cialized in storing fat. These abnormalities in the primi- to the growth of intracranial lipomas . Therefore, tive cells of the meninges may ultimately allow them to maintaining good liver function and keeping appropriate differentiate directionally into adipose tissue and form serum copper levels are essential to inhibit the growth of lipomas. Thus, meningeal lipomas are not true tumors intracranial lipomas in patients . In addition, Schaefer but an aberrant developmental process . Intracranial reported that the formation of subcutaneous lipomas in lipomas are often accompanied by intracranial or extrac- patients with WD may be associated with mutations in an ranial malformations, with common comorbid malfor- adjacent region of the ATP7B gene . Unfortunately, the mations including hypoplasia of the corpus callosum, patient in this case did not undergo relevant genetic testing. defect of septum pellucida, and craniosynostosis or agen- There are extremely limited reports on the coexistence of esis. Interhemispheric lipomas interfere with the embry- WD, corpus callosum dysplasia, and intracranial lipoma
