Zhang et al. BMC Neurology (2024) 24:44 BMC Neurology
KEYWORDS: intracranial, corpus, copper, callosum, lipomas, disease, lipoma, corpus callosum, wilson, wilson disease, patient, intracranial lipoma, case, dysplasia, abnormal


of septum pellucida, and craniosynostosis or agen- There are extremely limited reports on the coexistence of esis. Interhemispheric lipomas interfere with the embry- WD, corpus callosum dysplasia, and intracranial lipoma in onic development of the brain, during which the corpus this case. The patient’s small head circumference and wide callosum is formed by the migration and attachment of eye spacing may be related to corpus callosum dysplasia, nerve cells from midline structures, which may be the which does not require special treatment. In addition, the mechanism by which intracranial lipomas cause corpus patient’s intracranial lipoma was small and clinically insig- callosum dysplasia. An intracranial lipoma may interfere nificant, so no specific treatment was required, and only with the normal cell migration and connections during regular imaging monitoring was required. Only when the these developmental processes, resulting in corpus callo- intracranial lipoma enlarges and is accompanied by symp- sum dysplasia. The patient in our case had a combination toms such as convulsions, mental retardation, pituitary- of corpus callosum dysplasia and an unclosed septum hypothalamic endocrine disorders, and visual disturbances pellucidum , consistent with the above theory. does targeted treatment need to be considered . Cur- The patient, in this case, was diagnosed with WD and rently, patients only need to be treated for WD to avoid had a concurrent intracranial lipoma.WD is caused by copper’s high effects on the growth of intracranial lipomas defects in the ATP7B gene, resulting in abnormal cop- . In addition, patients need to follow a low-fat diet per metabolism, tissue copper accumulation, and copper- because there is a correlation between significant lipoma induced oxidative damage .Typical cranial MRI changes growth and increased body fat content . in WD usually present as symmetrical, high, or mixed sig- nals on T2-weighted images, affecting mainly the putamen, pontine, midbrain, and thalamus . Although previ- Conclusions ous studies have less frequently addressed corpus callosum Combining WD with intracranial lipoma and corpus cal- abnormalities, a study by Trocello et al. demonstrated that losum dysplasia is exceedingly rare. This case provides some patients with Wilson’s disease also have abnormali- some evidence about the association between WD and ties of the corpus callosum . The growth of intracranial both. However, further case studies and basic research lipomas may be associated with abnormal copper metabo- are required to understand the mechanisms and relation- lism in WD. Abnormal copper metabolism affects lipid ships between them
