Zhang et al. BMC Neurology (2024) 24:44 BMC Neurology
KEYWORDS: intracranial, corpus, copper, callosum, lipomas, disease, lipoma, corpus callosum, wilson, wilson disease, patient, intracranial lipoma, case, dysplasia, abnormal


and basic research lipomas may be associated with abnormal copper metabo- are required to understand the mechanisms and relation- lism in WD. Abnormal copper metabolism affects lipid ships between them better. metabolism and triggers an inflammatory response. Abnor- malities of lipid metabolism in a rat model of hepatic cop- Abbreviations per overload were demonstrated by Medici et al . First, DMPS Sodium Dimercaptosulphon liver damage in patients with WD affects lipid metabolic WD Wilson’s disease AST Aspartate aminotransferase pathways, such as the sphingolipid and glycerophospho- ALT Alanine aminotransfease lipid metabolic pathways, leading to elevated serum con- TG Triglyceride centrations of several lipid molecules which may promote AFP alpha-fetoprotein the growth of intracranial lipomas . In addition, WD is accompanied by a certain degree of inflammatory Supplementary Information response. Several studies have found that serum inflamma- The online version contains supplementary material available at https:// doi. org/ 10. 1186/ s12883- 024- 03541-2. tory factors such as interleukin-6(IL-6) and tumor necro- sis factorα(TNF-α) are abnormally high in patients with Additional file 1. WD. This phenomenon is attributed to the accumulation and abnormal metabolism of copper in the body, which Acknowledgements leads to oxidative stress and cellular damage, triggering Many thanks to Editage for the English proofreading Authors’ contributions 12. Rędzia-Ogrodnik B, Członkowska A, Antos A, Bembenek J, Kurkowska- Liangjie Zhang and Ling Zhu collected patient data and wrote the article; Jastrzębska I, Przybyłkowski A, Skowrońska M, Smoliński Ł, Litwin T. Chunling Ci and Wenlong Ai provided patient examination results; Yu Wang Pathognomonic neuroradiological signs in Wilson’s disease - truth or and Xun Wang revised the article. myth? Parkinsonism Relat Disord. 2023;107:105247. 13. Yu XE, Gao S, Yang RM, Han YZ. MR Imaging of the brain in neurologic Funding Wilson disease. AJNR Am J Neuroradiol. 2019;40(1):178–83. S, Poupon J, Chappuis P, Woimant F. Corpus callosum abnormalities in Availability of data and materials Wilson’s disease. J Neurol Neurosurg Psychiatry. 2011;82(10):1119–21. No dataset was generated or analyzed during this study. 15. Medici V, Shibata NM, Kharbanda KK, LaSalle JM, Woods R, Liu S, Engel- berg JA, Devaraj S, Török NJ, Jiang JX, Havel PJ, Lönnerdal B, Kim K, Halsted CH. Wilson’s disease: changes in methionine metabolism and inflamma- Declarations tion affect global DNA methylation in early liver disease. Hepatology. 2013;57(2):555–65. Ethics approval and consent to participate 16. Ralle M, Huster D, Vogt S, Schirrmeister W, Burkhead JL, Capps TR, et al. Written informed consent to
