Overview of Heart Failure
KEYWORDS: heart, failure, heart failure, cardiac, ventricular, myocardial, pressure, blood, increases, pulmonary, dysfunction, increased, left, performance, preload


Heart failure (HF) is a clinical syndrome in which the heart is not able to meet the metabolic demands of the body due to a structural and or functional cardiac abnormality, leading to low cardiac output, elevated ventricular filling pressure, or both. HF can involve systolic and/or diastolic function, in the left and/or right heart. Left ventricular (LV) failure typically causes shortness of breath and fatigue, and right ventricular (RV) failure typically causes peripheral and abdominal fluid accumulation; the ventricles can be involved together or separately. Diagnosis is initially clinical, supported by chest radiography, echocardiography, hemodynamic evaluation, and laboratory testing. Treatment includes patient education, treating the cause(s) of the HF syndrome, pharmacologic therapy including neurohormonal modulation, implantable pacemakers/defibrillators, mechanical circulatory support, and heart transplantation. Heart failure affects more than 64 million people worldwide (1). In the United States, there are approximately 6.7 million people with heart failure and approximately 1 million new cases per year; 8.7 million people are projected to have heart failure by 2030 (2, 3). Cardiovascular Physiology Cardiac contractility (force and velocity of contraction), ventricular performance, and myocardial oxygen requirements are determined by: Preload Afterload Substrate availability (eg, oxygen, fatty acids, glucose) Heart rate and rhythm Amount of viable myocardium Cardiac output is the product of stroke volume and heart rate; it is also affected by venous return, peripheral vascular tone, and neurohumoral factors. Preload is the loading condition of the heart at the end of its relaxation and filling phase (diastole) just before contraction (systole). Preload represents the degree of end-diastolic fiber stretch and end- diastolic volume, which is influenced by ventricular diastolic volume and pressure and the composition of the myocardial wall. Typically, left ventricular (LV) end-diastolic pressure, especially if higher than normal, is a reasonable measure of preload. LV dilation, hypertrophy, and changes in myocardial distensibility (compliance) modify preload. Preload is not identical to, but is largely a function of, the body's overall intravascular volume status. Afterload is the force resisting myocardial fiber contraction at the start of systole. It is determined by LV chamber pressure, radius, and wall thickness at the time the aortic valve opens. Clinically, systemic systolic blood pressure at or shortly after the aortic valve opens correlates with peak systolic wall stress and approximates afterload. The Frank-Starling principle describes the relationship between preload and cardiac performance. It states that, normally, systolic performance (often estimated by stroke volume) is proportional to
