Overview of Heart Failure
KEYWORDS: heart, failure, heart failure, cardiac, ventricular, myocardial, pressure, blood, increases, pulmonary, dysfunction, increased, left, performance, preload


wall stress and approximates afterload. The Frank-Starling principle describes the relationship between preload and cardiac performance. It states that, normally, systolic performance (often estimated by stroke volume) is proportional to preload within the normal physiologic range (see figure Frank-Starling Principle). In patients with heart failure, systolic performance and myocardial contractility are reduced when compared to those with a healthy heart at the same preload. Contractility is difficult to measure clinically (because it requires cardiac catheterization with pressure-volume analysis) but is reasonably reflected by the ejection fraction (EF), which is the percentage of end-diastolic volume ejected with each contraction (stroke volume/end-diastolic volume). EF can generally be adequately assessed noninvasively with echocardiography, nuclear imaging, or MRI. The force-frequency relationship refers to the phenomenon in which repetitive stimulation of a muscle within a certain frequency range results in increased force of contraction. Normal cardiac muscle at typical heart rates exhibits a positive force-frequency relationship, so a faster rate causes stronger contraction (and corresponding greater substrate requirements). During some types of heart 2/15 failure, the force-frequency relationship may become negative, so that myocardial contractility decreases as heart rate increases above a certain rate. Cardiac reserve is the ability of the heart to increase its performance above resting levels in response to emotional or physical stress; body oxygen consumption may increase from 250 mL/minute to ≥ 1500 mL/minute during maximal exertion. Mechanisms include: Increasing heart rate Increasing diastolic filling volumes Increasing contractility and stroke volume Selectively altering systemic vascular resistance to direct blood flow toward certain organs (eg, skeletal muscle during exercise) Increasing tissue extraction of oxygen (the difference between oxygen content in arterial blood and in mixed venous or pulmonary artery blood) In well-trained young adults during maximal exercise, heart rate may increase from 55 to 70 beats/minute at rest to > 180 beats/minute, and cardiac output may increase from 6 L/minute to ≥ 25 L/minute. At rest, arterial blood contains approximately 18 mL oxygen/dL of blood, and mixed venous or pulmonary artery blood contains approximately 14 mL/dL. Oxygen extraction is thus approximately 4 mL/dL. When demand is increased, oxygen extraction may increase to 12 to 14 mL/dL. This mechanism also helps compensate for reduced tissue blood flow in heart failure. 3/15 Frank-Starling Principle Normally (top curve), as preload increases, cardiac performance also increases. However, at a certain point, performance plateaus, then declines. In heart failure (HF) due to systolic dysfunction (bottom curve), the
