Overview of Heart Failure
KEYWORDS: heart, failure, heart failure, cardiac, ventricular, myocardial, pressure, blood, increases, pulmonary, dysfunction, increased, left, performance, preload


Normally (top curve), as preload increases, cardiac performance also increases. However, at a certain point, performance plateaus, then declines. In heart failure (HF) due to systolic dysfunction (bottom curve), the overall curve shifts downward, reflecting reduced cardiac performance at a given preload, and as preload increases, cardiac performance increases less. With treatment (middle curve), performance is improved, although not normalized. Pathophysiology of Heart Failure In heart failure, the heart may not provide tissues with adequate blood for metabolic needs, and cardiac-related elevation of pulmonary or systemic venous pressures may result in organ congestion. This condition can result from abnormalities of systolic or diastolic function or, commonly, both. Although a primary abnormality can be a change in cardiomyocyte function, there are also changes in collagen turnover of the extracellular matrix. Cardiac structural defects (eg, congenital defects, valvular disorders), rhythm abnormalities (including persistently high heart rate), and high metabolic demand (eg, due to thyrotoxicosis) also can cause heart failure. Classification of heart failure 4/15 Overview of Heart Failure VIDEO Heart failure can be classified as primarily left or right heart failure, or by the Universal Definition and Classification of Heart Failure (1), which uses the left ventricular ejection fraction. The traditional distinction between left and right ventricular failure is somewhat misleading because the heart is an integrated pump, and changes in one chamber ultimately affect the whole heart. However, these terms indicate the major site of pathology leading to heart failure and can be useful for initial evaluation and treatment. Other common terms used to differentiate types of and causes for heart failure include acute or chronic; high output or low output; dilated or nondilated; and ischemic, hypertensive, or idiopathic dilated cardiomyopathy. Treatment also differs based on whether the presentation is acute or chronic HF. LV failure Heart failure most commonly occurs as a result of left ventricular dysfunction (2). As a result, the Universal Classification of Heart Failure has categorized heart failure according to reduced, preserved, minimally reduced, and improved ejection fraction based on left ventricular systolic function (1). In left heart failure, cardiac output decreases and pulmonary venous pressure increases. When pulmonary capillary pressure exceeds the oncotic pressure of plasma proteins (approximately 24 mm Hg), fluid extravasates from the capillaries into the interstitial space and alveoli, reducing pulmonary compliance and increasing the work of breathing. Lymphatic drainage increases but cannot compensate for the increase in pulmonary fluid. Marked fluid accumulation
