Overview of Heart Failure
KEYWORDS: heart, failure, heart failure, cardiac, ventricular, myocardial, pressure, blood, increases, pulmonary, dysfunction, increased, left, performance, preload


into the interstitial space and alveoli, reducing pulmonary compliance and increasing the work of breathing. Lymphatic drainage increases but cannot compensate for the increase in pulmonary fluid. Marked fluid accumulation in alveoli (pulmonary edema) significantly alters ventilation-perfusion (V/Q) relationships. Deoxygenated pulmonary arterial blood passes through poorly ventilated alveoli, decreasing systemic arterial oxygenation (partial pressure of arterial oxygen [PaO2]) and causing dyspnea. However, dyspnea may occur before V/Q abnormalities, probably because of elevated pulmonary venous pressure and increased work of breathing; the precise mechanism is unclear. 5/15 In severe or chronic LV failure, pleural effusions characteristically develop, further aggravating dyspnea. Minute ventilation increases; thus, partial pressure of arterial carbon dioxide (PaCO2) decreases and blood pH increases (respiratory alkalosis). Marked interstitial edema of the small airways may interfere with ventilation, elevating PaCO2—a sign of impending respiratory failure. Heart failure with reduced ejection fraction (HFrEF) In HFrEF (also called systolic heart failure), global LV systolic dysfunction predominates. The LV contracts poorly and empties inadequately, leading to: Increased diastolic volume and pressure Decreased ejection fraction (≤ 40%) Many defects in energy utilization, energy supply, electrophysiologic function, and contractile element interaction occur, with abnormalities in intracellular calcium modulation and cyclic adenosine monophosphate (cAMP) production. Predominant systolic dysfunction is common in heart failure due to myocardial infarction, myocarditis, and dilated cardiomyopathy. Systolic dysfunction may affect primarily the LV or the right ventricle (RV); LV failure often leads to RV failure. Heart failure with preserved ejection fraction (HFpEF) In HFpEF (also called diastolic heart failure), LV filling is impaired, resulting in: Increased LV end-diastolic pressure at rest or during exertion Usually, normal LV end-diastolic volume Global contractility and hence LV ejection fraction remain normal (≥ 50%). However, in some patients, marked restriction to LV filling can cause inappropriately low LV end- diastolic volume and thus cause low cardiac output and systemic symptoms. Elevated left atrial pressures can cause pulmonary hypertension and pulmonary congestion. Diastolic dysfunction usually results from impaired ventricular relaxation (an active process), increased ventricular stiffness, valvular disease, or constrictive pericarditis. Acute myocardial ischemia is also a cause of diastolic dysfunction. Resistance to filling increases with age, reflecting cardiomyocyte dysfunction and cardiomyocyte loss, and increased interstitial collagen deposition; thus, diastolic dysfunction is particularly common among older adults. Diastolic dysfunction predominates in hypertrophic cardiomyopathy, other disorders with ventricular hypertrophy (eg, hypertension, significant aortic stenosis), and amyloid infiltration of the myocardium. LV filling and function may also be
