Overview of Heart Failure
KEYWORDS: heart, failure, heart failure, cardiac, ventricular, myocardial, pressure, blood, increases, pulmonary, dysfunction, increased, left, performance, preload


adults. Diastolic dysfunction predominates in hypertrophic cardiomyopathy, other disorders with ventricular hypertrophy (eg, hypertension, significant aortic stenosis), and amyloid infiltration of the myocardium. LV filling and function may also be impaired if marked increases in RV pressure shift the interventricular septum to the left. Diastolic dysfunction is recognized as an important cause of HF. Approximately 50% of patients with heart failure have HFpEF; the prevalence increases with age and in patients with diabetes (3). HFpEF is a complex, heterogenous, multiorgan, systemic syndrome, often with multiple concomitant pathophysiologies. Data suggest that multiple comorbidities (eg, obesity, hypertension, diabetes, chronic kidney disease) lead to systemic inflammation, widespread endothelial dysfunction, cardiac 6/15 microvascular dysfunction, and, ultimately, molecular changes in the heart that cause increased myocardial fibrosis and ventricular stiffening. Thus, although HFrEF is typically associated with primary myocardial injury, HFpEF may be associated with secondary myocardial injury due to abnormalities in the periphery. Heart failure with mildly reduced ejection fraction (HFmrEF) HF with mildly reduced ejection fraction (HFmrEF) is defined as an LV ejection fraction of 41 to 49%. It is unclear whether this group is a distinct population or consists of a mixture of patients with either HFpEF or HFrEF. Heart failure with improved ejection fraction (HFimpEF) Patients with HF whose LV ejection fraction has improved by more than an absolute of 10% from a prior value and also measures over 40% are categorized as having HFimpEF. RV failure Right ventricular failure most commonly occurs as a consequence of or in tandem with left ventricular failure. Isolated right heart failure is observed much less commonly. In heart failure that involves right ventricular dysfunction (see Right Heart Failure), systemic venous pressure increases, causing fluid extravasation and consequent edema, primarily in dependent tissues (feet and ankles of ambulatory patients) and abdominal viscera. The liver is most severely affected, but the stomach and intestine also become congested; fluid accumulation in the peritoneal cavity (ascites) can occur. RV failure commonly causes moderate hepatic dysfunction, with usually modest increases in conjugated and unconjugated bilirubin, prothrombin time (PT), and hepatic enzymes (particularly alkaline phosphatase and gamma- glutamyl transpeptidase [GGT]). The impaired liver breaks down less aldosterone, further contributing to fluid accumulation. Chronic venous congestion in the viscera can cause anorexia, malabsorption of nutrients and medications, protein-losing enteropathy (characterized by diarrhea and marked hypoalbuminemia), chronic gastrointestinal blood loss, and rarely ischemic bowel infarction. Responses to heart failure Myocardial response When
