Overview of Heart Failure
KEYWORDS: heart, failure, heart failure, cardiac, ventricular, myocardial, pressure, blood, increases, pulmonary, dysfunction, increased, left, performance, preload


anorexia, malabsorption of nutrients and medications, protein-losing enteropathy (characterized by diarrhea and marked hypoalbuminemia), chronic gastrointestinal blood loss, and rarely ischemic bowel infarction. Responses to heart failure Myocardial response When left ventricular contractility is impaired, as is the case in HRrEF, a higher preload is required to maintain cardiac output. As a result, the ventricles are remodeled over time. During remodelling, the LV becomes less ovoid and more spherical, dilates, and hypertrophies; the RV dilates and may hypertrophy. Initially compensatory, remodelling ultimately is associated with adverse outcomes because the changes eventually increase diastolic stiffness and wall tension (ie, diastolic dysfunction develops), compromising cardiac performance, especially during physical stress. Increased wall stress raises oxygen demand and accelerates apoptosis (programmed cell death) of myocardial cells. Dilation of the ventricles can also cause mitral or tricuspid valve regurgitation (due to annular dilation) with further increases in end-diastolic volumes. Hemodynamic response 7/15 With reduced cardiac output, oxygen delivery to the tissues is maintained by increasing oxygen extraction from the blood and sometimes shifting the oxyhemoglobin dissociation curve (see figure Oxyhemoglobin Dissociation Curve) to the right to favor oxygen release. Reduced cardiac output with lower systemic blood pressure activates arterial baroreflexes, increasing sympathetic tone and decreasing parasympathetic tone. As a result, heart rate and myocardial contractility increase, arterioles in selected vascular beds constrict, venoconstriction occurs, and sodium and water are retained. These changes compensate for reduced ventricular performance and help maintain hemodynamic homeostasis in the early stages of heart failure. However, these compensatory changes increase cardiac work, preload, and afterload; reduce coronary and renal perfusion; cause fluid accumulation resulting in congestion; increase potassium excretion; and may cause cardiomyocyte necrosis and arrhythmias. Renal response As cardiac function deteriorates, renal blood flow decreases due to low cardiac output. In addition, renal venous pressures increase, leading to renal venous congestion. These changes result in a decrease in glomerular filtration rate (GFR), and blood flow within the kidneys is redistributed. The filtration fraction and filtered sodium decrease, but tubular resorption increases, leading to sodium and water retention. Blood flow is further redistributed away from the kidneys during exercise, but renal blood flow improves during rest. Decreased perfusion of the kidneys (and possibly decreased arterial systolic stretch secondary to declining ventricular function) activates the renin-angiotensin-aldosterone system, increasing sodium and water retention and renal and peripheral vascular tone. These effects are amplified by the intense sympathetic activation accompanying heart failure. The
