Overview of Heart Failure
KEYWORDS: heart, failure, heart failure, cardiac, ventricular, myocardial, pressure, blood, increases, pulmonary, dysfunction, increased, left, performance, preload


ventricular function) activates the renin-angiotensin-aldosterone system, increasing sodium and water retention and renal and peripheral vascular tone. These effects are amplified by the intense sympathetic activation accompanying heart failure. The renin-angiotensin-aldosterone-vasopressin (antidiuretic hormone [ADH]) system causes a cascade of potentially deleterious long-term effects. Angiotensin II worsens heart failure by causing vasoconstriction, including efferent renal vasoconstriction, and by increasing aldosterone production, which enhances sodium reabsorption in the distal nephron and also causes myocardial and vascular collagen deposition and fibrosis. Angiotensin II increases norepinephrine release, stimulates release of vasopressin, and triggers apoptosis. Angiotensin II may be involved in vascular and myocardial hypertrophy, thus contributing to the remodeling of the heart and peripheral vasculature, potentially worsening heart failure. Aldosterone can be synthesized in the heart and vasculature independently of angiotensin II (perhaps mediated by corticotropin, nitric oxide, free radicals, and other stimuli) and may have deleterious effects in these organs. Heart failure that causes progressive renal dysfunction (including renal dysfunction caused by medications used to treat HF) contributes to worsening HF and has been termed the cardiorenal syndrome. Neurohumoral response In conditions of stress, neurohumoral responses help increase heart function and maintain blood pressure and organ perfusion. Chronic activation of these responses is detrimental to the normal 8/15 balance between myocardial-stimulating and vasoconstricting hormones and between myocardial- relaxing and vasodilating hormones. The heart contains many neurohumoral receptors (alpha-1, beta-1, beta-2, beta-3, angiotensin II type 1 [AT1] and type 2 [AT2], muscarinic, endothelin, serotonin, adenosine, cytokine, natriuretic peptides); the roles of all of these receptors are not fully defined. In patients with heart failure, beta-1 receptors (which constitute 70% of cardiac beta receptors) are downregulated, probably in response to intense sympathetic activation. The result of downregulation is impaired myocyte contractility and increased heart rate. Plasma norepinephrine levels are increased, largely reflecting sympathetic nerve stimulation as plasma epinephrine levels are not increased. Detrimental effects include vasoconstriction with increased preload and afterload, direct myocardial damage including apoptosis, reduced renal blood flow, and activation of other neurohumoral systems, including the renin-angiotensin-aldosterone-vasopressin system. Vasopressin is released in response to a fall in blood pressure via various neurohormonal stimuli. Increased vasopressin decreases renal excretion of free water, possibly contributing to hyponatremia in heart failure. Vasopressin levels in patients with HF and normal blood pressure vary. Atrial natriuretic peptide is released in response to increased atrial volume and pressure; brain (B-type) natriuretic peptide (BNP) is released from the ventricle in
