Insulinoma
KEYWORDS: pubmed, insulinoma, insulinomas, hypoglycemia, insulin, pancreatic, patients, neuroendocrine, malignant, metastatic, tumor, treatment, endocrinol, free, pmc free


ABSTRACT Insulinomas are rare pancreatic neuroendocrine neoplasms (panNENs - incidence of 1-3 cases per million per year). Most are solitary and do not show signs of malignant spread. Multiple synchronous or metachronous panNENs / insulinomas may occur in multiple endocrine neoplasia type 1 (MEN-1). The diagnosis of an insulinoma requires demonstration of inappropriately high insulin, proinsulin or C-peptide levels for the prevailing hypoglycemia in a 72h fast. Localization of the tumor and exclusion or confirmation of metastatic disease by computed tomography is still the preferred initial option followed by endoscopic ultrasonography (EUS) or MRI. Glucagon-like peptide receptor 1 (GLP-1R) receptor positron emission tomography (PET) CT or MRI is a highly sensitive localization technique for indolent, localized (“benign”) insulinomas. For single solitary tumors surgical excision or radiofrequency ablation are the treatments of choice. In aggressive malignant (metastatic) cases, debulking of the panNENs, including locoregional lymph nodes can be considered. If hyperinsulinemia and hypoglycemia persist, diazoxide with a thiazide diuretic relieves hypoglycemia. Liver metastases can be resected, or treated by bland embolization, radioembolization (SIRT), radiofrequency ablation (RFA), microwave and cryoablation, high-intensity focused ultrasound (HIFU), laser, brachytherapy and irreversible electroporation (IRE) depending on local availability. In patients with unresectable low-grade metastatic malignant insulinomas, the long-acting somatostatin analog Lanreotide Autogel is the approved first-line therapy for control of tumor growth and sometimes control of hypoglycemia is achieved with this drug. If indicated, peptide receptor radiotherapy (PRRT) with radiolabeled somatostatin analogs, or Everolimus can be used for tumor, symptom and glucose control. Malignant NENs can also be treated with cytotoxic chemotherapy regimens, particularly those with a high tumor grade. For complete coverage of all related areas of Endocrinology, please visit our on-line FREE web-text, WWW.ENDOTEXT.ORG . HISTORY The pancreatic islet cells were first described by the German medical student Paul Langerhans (1847-1888) in 1869. James R Macleod (1876-1935), Frederick G. Banting (1891-1941), Charles H. Best (1899-1978) and James B. Collip (1892-1965) first isolated insulin in 1922. The US surgeon Seale Harris (1870-1957) was the first to identify a case of endogenous hyperinsulinism. In 1926, the US surgeon William J Mayo (1861-1939) performed an exploratory laparotomy on a patient with recurrent severe hypoglycemia and found an unresectable pancreatic tumor (malignant insulinoma) with multiple liver, lymph node, and mesenteric metastases. In 1927, the US physician Russel M. Wilder (1885-1959) and colleagues reported on the necropsy of this patient. Extracts of a liver metastasis produced marked lowering of
