Insulinoma
KEYWORDS: pubmed, insulinoma, insulinomas, hypoglycemia, insulin, pancreatic, patients, neuroendocrine, malignant, metastatic, tumor, treatment, endocrinol, free, pmc free


hypoglycemia include neuroglycopenic (e.g., confusion, visual changes, unusual behavior) and sympathetico-adrenal (e.g., palpitations, diaphoresis, tremulousness) symptoms. A firmly established diagnosis of an insulin-secreting lesion of the pancreas is essential for successful management. Therefore, it is critically important to rule out other causes of hypoglycemia associated with fasting ( 13 , 14 ). HEREDITARY TUMORS An overview of the multiple endocrine neoplasia type 1 (MEN1) syndrome can be found in the chapter “MEN1 ( 15 ). Fifty percent of MEN-1 patients harbor pancreatic NENs (panNENs) ( 13 , 15 , 16 ). 5–10% of insulinomas are associated with the MEN1 syndrome. MEN1-related NENs / insulinomas may occur as multiple lesions ( 15 ). In patients with the multiple endocrine neoplasia type 4 (MEN4) syndrome caused by inactivating mutations in the CDKN1B ( Cyclin Dependent Kinase Inhibitor 1B ) gene, pancreatic NENs can also be found, but it is unclear if insulinomas are more prevalent in MEN4 ( 17 , 18 ). PanNENs can also be diagnosed in patients with von Hippel Lindau disease (VHL), but also there seems not to be a preponderance of insulinomas in this syndrome ( 19 ). Tuberous sclerosis complex (TSC) is a genetic tumor-predisposing syndrome associated with the development of multiple hamartomas among other abnormalities. TSC is caused by mutations of two tumor suppressor genes, TSC1 on chromosome 9q34 and TSC2 on chromosome 16p13.3, which encode for hamartin and tuberin, respectively. PanNENs are uncommon in TSC, but insulinoma seems to be the predominant panNEN in this genetic disorder ( 20 ). CLINICAL FEATURES The hallmark of the diagnosis of insulinoma is Whipple’s triad: 1) symptoms known or likely to be caused by hypoglycemia, 2) a low plasma glucose measured at the time of the symptoms and 3) relief of symptoms when the glucose is raised back to normal. The principal biochemical feature of an insulinoma is hypoglycemia but there are other malignancies and disorders which can cause hypoglycemia like big-IGF-2-producing tumors, glycogen storage diseases, administration of exogenous insulin or oral glucose-lowering drugs, insulinomatosis, the autoimmune insulin antibody syndrome (Hirata’s disease) or insulin receptor (anti-ISR) antibody syndrome (Flier’s syndrome) and congenital hyperinsulinism/nesidioblastosis in the pancreas ( 14 , 21 - 31 ). While hypoglycemia is a hallmark of insulinoma, the low blood glucose level alone is not diagnostic of insulinoma, nor in general is the absolute insulin level elevated in all cases of organic hyperinsulinism. Hypoglycemia activates
