Insulinoma
KEYWORDS: pubmed, insulinoma, insulinomas, hypoglycemia, insulin, pancreatic, patients, neuroendocrine, malignant, metastatic, tumor, treatment, endocrinol, free, pmc free


of insulinoma, the low blood glucose level alone is not diagnostic of insulinoma, nor in general is the absolute insulin level elevated in all cases of organic hyperinsulinism. Hypoglycemia activates the adrenergic and cholinergic nervous systems and depending on the degree of the hypoglycemia presents different levels of impairment of neurologic function ( Table 1 ) ( 14 , 29 , 32 - 35 ). Table 1. Distinguishing Signs and Symptoms of Insulinomas View in own window Neurogenic Neuroglycopenic · Adrenergic Palpitations Tremor Anxiety/arousal/nervousness · Cholinergic Sweating/diaphoresis Hunger Paresthesia Circumpolar tingling · Blurred Vision · Cognitive impairments · Behavioral changes · Psychomotor abnormalities · Confusion · Disorientation · Memory Loss · Seizure · Stupor BIOCHEMICAL DIAGNOSIS The first step in the diagnosis of an insulinoma is to demonstrate hyperinsulinemic hypoglycemia (this is also called “organic hyperinsulinism”). This can potentially be achieved during a spontaneous hypoglycemia. However, most frequently a 72-hour fast is needed, which is currently the standard test to diagnose an insulinoma. The patient is closely clinically observed while serial glucose and insulin levels are obtained over the 72 hours until the patient becomes symptomatic, or a hypoglycemia is demonstrated. More than 95% of cases can be diagnosed based on responses to this easy test. Because the absolute insulin level is not elevated in all patients with insulinomas, a nondetectable or nonelevated insulin level does not rule out the disease. Values of insulin equal to or greater than 3 μU/mL (using modern insulin assays) in the presence of a blood glucose less than 3 mmol/l (55 mg/dl) are highly suggestive. Most specialists prefer more stringent cut-off glucose values amounting to 2.2 – 2.5 mmol/L (40 - 45 mg/dL) or less to increase the diagnostic specificity. Because of the potential increased proinsulin secretion, which is not detected using the currently used insulin assays, it is generally recommended also to measure proinsulin and/or C-peptide levels, particularly in those cases with low to undetectable insulin levels in the blood. In the past these elevated proinsulin levels were also detected using the insulin RIAs, whereas nowadays these tumors are inadvertently addressed as pro-insulinomas. In these cases, concomitant C-peptide levels equal to or greater than 0.2 nmol/l and/or concomitant pro-insulin levels equal to or greater than 5 pmol/l (in the presence of a hypoglycemia) are also suggestive of an insulinoma. Commercial insulin preparations do not contain C-peptide and low C-peptide levels combined with high
