Insulinoma
KEYWORDS: pubmed, insulinoma, insulinomas, hypoglycemia, insulin, pancreatic, patients, neuroendocrine, malignant, metastatic, tumor, treatment, endocrinol, free, pmc free


greater than 5 pmol/l (in the presence of a hypoglycemia) are also suggestive of an insulinoma. Commercial insulin preparations do not contain C-peptide and low C-peptide levels combined with high insulin levels confirm the diagnosis of factitious hyperinsulinemia ( 14 , 21 , 29 , 36 , 37 ). Furthermore, absence of sulphonylurea (metabolites) in the plasma or urine has also been used to exclude factitious hypoglycemia’s in (von) Munchhausen syndrome / (von) Munchausen by proxy. Patients who take sulfonylureas surreptitiously may have raised insulin and C-peptide values soon after ingestion, but chronic use will result in hypoglycemia without raised insulin or C-peptide levels. Only a high index of suspicion and measurement of plasma or urine sulfonylureas will lead to the correct diagnosis. ( 14 , 21 , 29 , 37 ). Finally, the demonstration of ß-hydroxy-butyrate levels equal to or less than 2.7 mmol/l at end of fast is used by some to confirm the hyperinsulinemic state. Some experts require the demonstration of a glucose response to 1 mg glucagon of more than 1.4 mmol/l (25 mg/dl) at end of fast. This increase of glucose is illustrative for the hyperinsulinemic state, because hyperinsulinemia preserves the liver glycogen storage despite ( 14 , 21 , 24 , 29 , 32 - 37 ). TUMOR LOCALIZATION Once the diagnosis of insulinoma is confirmed, every effort should be made to localize the tumor. Preoperative localization is important because approximately 30% of insulinomas are less than 1 cm in diameter and 10% are multiple, the latter particularly is present in MEN-1 patients ( 16 ). In addition, 10 to 15% are aggressive, malignant (metastatic), and very few patients will have either islet cell hyperplasia, or congenital hyperinsulinism/nesidioblastosis and no visible tumor at all. The anatomical localization of nonmetastatic (benign) insulinomas is also important for the choice between laparoscopic, robot-assisted, and open pancreatic surgery and between enucleation or resection – partial pancreatectomy and radiofrequency ablation (RFA) ( 37 ). Techniques most commonly used to demonstrate tumors in the pancreas include 3 phase CT and MRI, and endoscopic ultrasound (EUS). Each modality has variable reported abilities to identify insulinomas, likely reflecting institutional or operator-dependent (like in EUS) expertise ( Table 2 ) ( 37 ). Table 2. Imaging Strategies in Insulinoma Patients View in own window Sensitivity Transabdominal ultrasound Three phase CT MRI (T1 +T2 weighted images + fat suppression) Endoscopic Ultrasound (EUS) Arterial Calcium
