Insulinoma
KEYWORDS: pubmed, insulinoma, insulinomas, hypoglycemia, insulin, pancreatic, patients, neuroendocrine, malignant, metastatic, tumor, treatment, endocrinol, free, pmc free


symptoms, larger size, expression of ARX and alpha-1-antitrypsin; and decreased or absent immunohistochemical expression of insulin, PDX1 and GLP-1R. Moreover, aggressive insulinomas often harbor Alpha-Thalassemia/mental Retardation, X-linked ( ATRX ) and Death Domain Associated Protein (DAXX) mutations, the alternative lengthening of telomeres phenotype (ALT) and chromosomal instability (CIN). Tumor grade and MEN1 and YY1 mutations are less useful for predicting behavior. Aggressive insulinomas have similarities to normal alpha-cells and nonfunctional pancreatic neuroendocrine tumors, while indolent insulinomas remain closely related to normal beta-cells ( 11 , 51 ), SURGICAL AND INTERVENTIONAL TREATMENT The treatment of pancreatic localized insulinoma usually is surgical; in the great majority of cases, it will provide a complete cure. It should be performed only when the diagnosis is certain, however, and by a surgeon who is skilled in pancreatic surgery. The surgical approach to an insulinoma is straightforward when the tumor is localized. Localized insulinomas are typically removed by enucleation of the tumor and rarely do tumors at the head of the pancreas require a pancreaticoduodenectomy (Whipple’s procedure). Precise localization obviates blind pancreatic resection. EUS with special focus on the relationship between the tumor and the pancreatic duct is an excellent tool to guide the surgical decision. Laparoscopic, or robot-assisted enucleation of an insulinoma has been shown to be feasible, particularly if the lesion is visualized pre-operatively on CT scan or by EUS. In patients who have been unresponsive to medical therapy and in whom 18 F-DOPA PET/CT, PTHVS, or intra-arterial calcium stimulation with venous sampling suggests diffuse or multiple sources, such as adenomatosis, nesidioblastosis/congenital hyperinsulinemia, or hyperplasia, a resection of at least 80% of the distal pancreas can be indicated. In selected cases curative endoscopic ultrasound-guided radiofrequency ablation (EUS-RFA) of a localized insulinoma can be feasible ( 2 , 46 , 52 - 54 ). Malignant aggressive (metastatic) insulinomas can occasionally be surgically cured when there is localized or oligometastatic disease. Also, liver metastases can be resected, or treated by bland or chemo-embolization (TACE), radioembolization (SIRT), radiofrequency ablation (RFA), microwave and cryoablation, high-intensity focused ultrasound (HIFU), laser, brachytherapy and irreversible electroporation (IRE) depending on availability at the institution ( 55 ). If more than 90% of tumor load can be resected, palliative surgery can also be considered. However, most aggressive malignant metastatic insulinomas cannot be cured by surgery only and require medical antihormonal and antitumor treatment ( 46 ). MEDICAL MANAGEMENT When hypoglycemia can be controlled
