Insulinoma
KEYWORDS: pubmed, insulinoma, insulinomas, hypoglycemia, insulin, pancreatic, patients, neuroendocrine, malignant, metastatic, tumor, treatment, endocrinol, free, pmc free


considered. However, most aggressive malignant metastatic insulinomas cannot be cured by surgery only and require medical antihormonal and antitumor treatment ( 46 ). MEDICAL MANAGEMENT When hypoglycemia can be controlled with diet alone or with small, well-tolerated doses of diazoxide, and/or when the medical condition of the patient increases the hazard of surgery sufficiently, medical management alone may be considered. Patients with diffuse hyperinsulinism for whom an operation is planned first should have a trial of treatment with diazoxide and a natriuretic benzothiadiazide. Medical treatment is required for the great majority of malignant insulinomas because only occasionally are they cured by operation. Medical treatment for localized, indolent (“benign”) insulinomas includes a change in meals to include “lente carbohydrate” or unrefined carbohydrate given as frequently as required to prevent hypoglycemia. The management of malignant insulinoma is antihormonal and antitumor therapy ( 14 , 46 ). DIETARY MANAGEMENT The cornerstone of medical management of insulinoma and other forms of hyperinsulinism is the diet. Not uncommonly, patients may avoid symptoms of hypoglycemia for variable periods of time by shortening the number of hours between meals. For some, the inclusion of a bedtime (11:00 pm) feeding is sufficient; for others, a midmorning, midafternoon, and/or a 3:00 pm snack is necessary. More slowly absorbable forms of carbohydrates (e.g., starches, bread, potatoes, rice) generally are preferred. During hypoglycemic episodes, rapidly absorbable forms (e.g., fruit juices with added glucose or sucrose) are indicated. In patients with severe refractory hypoglycemia, use of a continuous nasogastric tube feeding or intravenous infusion of glucose, coupled with increased dietary intake of carbohydrate, frequently alleviates hypoglycemia long enough to institute additional therapy ( 14 ). MEDICAL THERAPY Diazoxide (Proglycem) owes its potent hyperglycemic properties to two effects: it directly inhibits the release of insulin by β cells through stimulation of α-adrenergic receptors. It also has an extra-pancreatic hyperglycemic effect, probably by inhibiting cyclic adenosine monophosphate phosphodiesterase (cyclic AMP), resulting in higher plasma levels of cyclic AMP and enhanced glycogenolysis. Because Diazoxide induces the retention of sodium, edema is troublesome at higher dosages. The addition of a diuretic benzothiadiazine (e.g., Hydrochlorothiazide) not only corrects or prevents edema but synergizes the hyperglycemic effect of Diazoxide. At the doses needed to counteract the higher doses of diazoxide (e.g., 450-600 mg/d), natriuretic benzothiadiazines frequently induce hypokalemia. Nausea is an additional complication at higher dosages of Diazoxide, and hypertrichosis may complicate long-term treatment. These compounds have been
