Insulinoma
KEYWORDS: pubmed, insulinoma, insulinomas, hypoglycemia, insulin, pancreatic, patients, neuroendocrine, malignant, metastatic, tumor, treatment, endocrinol, free, pmc free


of diazoxide (e.g., 450-600 mg/d), natriuretic benzothiadiazines frequently induce hypokalemia. Nausea is an additional complication at higher dosages of Diazoxide, and hypertrichosis may complicate long-term treatment. These compounds have been useful to elevate blood levels of glucose into the euglycemic range if an operation must be delayed for weeks or months. If they can be tolerated, higher doses may be used in patients with malignant insulinomas ( 56 ). Theoretically, calcium channel blockers are capable of inhibiting insulin secretion. Verapamil and Diltiazem have been used with variable results in patients with organic hyperinsulinism ( 57 , 58 ). β-Adrenergic-receptor blocking drugs inhibit insulin secretion and therefore may be of value in treating organic hyperinsulinism. The use of Propranolol has been associated with the reduction of plasma insulin levels and with the relief of hypoglycemic attacks in patients with localized, indolent (“benign”), or aggressive malignant (metastatic) insulinoma. Because this drug can also mask the adrenergic symptoms of hypoglycemia and inhibit muscle glycogenolysis, however, there is a risk of aggravating the clinical syndrome. The drug should be used with extreme caution and careful monitoring ( 59 ). The anticonvulsive Diphenylhydantoin has been shown to inhibit the in vitro release of insulin from both the labile and storage β-cell pools. In only one-third or less of patients with localized, indolent (“benign”) insulinoma, however, is the hyperglycemic effect of Diphenylhydantoin of any clinical significance ( 60 , 61 ). Furthermore, adverse effects usually occur with the dosages required. Maintenance doses range from 300 to 600 mg/d. The concurrent administration of Diazoxide lowers measurable blood levels of Diphenylhydantoin, and their concurrent use is not recommended. Several reports exist on the successful use of intermediate acting subcutaneous octreotide injections (100-500 µg t.i.d.) in prolonging the ability to fast in a patient with localized, indolent (“benign”) and aggressive malignant (metastatic) insulinomas. However, long-term administration of depot octreotide (Sandostatin LAR 30 mg / 4wks IM) or lanreotide (Somatuline Autogel 120 mg / 4 wks deep SC) may give only short-term relief of hypoglycemia. SSAs may also actually worsen plasma glucose levels probably by inhibiting the counterregulatory glucagon response. SSA treatment in insulinoma and nesidioblastosis patients should, therefore, always be preceded by a clinical trial with intermediate acting subcutaneous octreotide. In a limited number of cases, the second generation pan-SSA Pasireotide has been successfully used to control hypoglycemias in patients with malignant insulinomas ( 62 - 65 ). Targeting
