Insulinoma
KEYWORDS: pubmed, insulinoma, insulinomas, hypoglycemia, insulin, pancreatic, patients, neuroendocrine, malignant, metastatic, tumor, treatment, endocrinol, free, pmc free


octreotide. In a limited number of cases, the second generation pan-SSA Pasireotide has been successfully used to control hypoglycemias in patients with malignant insulinomas ( 62 - 65 ). Targeting the pathway of the mammalian target of rapamycin (mTOR) has been shown in several trials to be effective in the management of low grade metastatic inoperable neuroendocrine tumors ( 66 ). Several studies have recently shown that Everolimus (10mg/day) can normalize blood glucose levels in insulinoma patients. mTOR inhibitors like Everolimus can reduce the insulin secretion and increase insulin resistance ( 62 , 67 - 72 ). The multi-kinase inhibitor Sunitinib (25mg/day) has only been occasionally reported to improve symptoms of hypoglycemia ( 62 , 68 , 73 ). Tyrosine kinase inhibitors (TKIs) do not have the capacity to suppress insulin, as well as inducing insulin resistance, like Everolimus. The use of glucocorticoids, which increase gluconeogenesis and cause insulin resistance, also can help to stabilize blood glucose at an acceptable level. Pharmacologic doses (Prednisone, approximately 1 mg/kg) must be used ( 74 ). Glucagon may help to raise blood glucose concentrations, but it may simultaneously directly stimulate the release of insulin ( 55 ). ANTI-TUMOR TREATMENT IN MALIGNANT INSULINOMAS Like in the other panNEN subtypes, anti-tumor treatments can consist of peptide receptor radiotherapy (PRRT) with radiolabeled beta radiation emitting somatostatin analogs (SSAs), several chemotherapy schedules (For a review see ref ( 75 )) and targeted treatment with Everolimus and Sunitinib. PRRT with radiolabeled beta radiation emitting SSAs and, as mentioned above, mTOR inhibitors like Everolimus, are frequently able to successfully control the hypoglycemias in patients with inoperable metastatic insulinomas ( 66 - 69 , 75 - 79 ). REFERENCES 1. de Herder WW, Rehfeld JF, Kidd M, Modlin IM. A short history of neuroendocrine tumours and their peptide hormones. Best Pract Res Clin Endocrinol Metab. 2016; 30 (1):3–17. [ PubMed : 26971840 ] 2. Mehrabi A, Fischer L, Hafezi M, Dirlewanger A, Grenacher L, Diener MK, et al. A systematic review of localization, surgical treatment options, and outcome of insulinoma. Pancreas. 2014; 43 (5):675–86. [ PubMed : 24921202 ] 3. La Rosa S, Hong SM, Ohike N, Brosens LAA, Mete O, de Herder W. Insulinoma. In: Klimstra DS, Osamura RY, editors. WHO Classification of Tumours Endocrine and neuroendocrine tumours. 5 ed. Lyon: International Agency for Research on Cancer; 2023. 4. Shames JM, Dhurandhar NR, Blackard WG. Insulin-secreting bronchial carcinoid tumor
