Pulmonary Stenosis
KEYWORDS: pulmonary, stenosis, valve, pulmonary stenosis, heart, second, murmur, pulmonary valve, patients, right, valvuloplasty, patient, peak, symptoms, fourth


By Guy P. Armstrong, MD, Waitemata District Health Board and Waitemata Cardiology, Auckland Reviewed By Jonathan G. Howlett, MD, Cumming School of Medicine, University of Calgary Reviewed/Revised Jun 2025 Pulmonary stenosis (PS) is narrowing of the pulmonary outflow tract, or restricted opening of the pulmonary valve leaflets, causing obstruction of blood flow from the right ventricle to the pulmonary artery during systole. Most mild cases are congenital; many remain asymptomatic until adulthood. Signs include a crescendo-decrescendo ejection murmur. Diagnosis is by echocardiography. Symptomatic patients and those with large gradients require balloon valvuloplasty. Etiology of Pulmonary Stenosis Pulmonary stenosis is most often congenital and affects predominantly children; stenosis may be valvular or just below the valve in the outflow tract (infundibular); commonly it is a component of tetralogy of Fallot. Supravalvular stenosis may also occur, sometimes in combination with valvar stenosis, as a tethered valve/supravalve complex, or as isolated supravalvar narrowing (as in Williams or Alagille syndromes). Less common causes are: Noonan syndrome (a genetic syndrome involving the Ras/mitogen-activated protein kinase pathway) Carcinoid syndrome (in adults) Symptoms and Signs of Pulmonary Stenosis Many children with pulmonary stenosis remain asymptomatic for years and do not develop overt symptoms until adulthood, although abnormalities can sometimes be detected on exercise testing before symptoms appear. Even in adulthood, many patients remain asymptomatic. When symptoms of 1/5 pulmonary stenosis develop, they resemble those of aortic stenosis (exercise intolerance, syncope, angina, dyspnea). Visible and palpable signs reflect the effects of right ventricular (RV) hypertrophy and include a prominent jugular venous a wave (due to forceful atrial contraction against a hypertrophied RV), an RV precordial lift or heave, and a left parasternal systolic thrill at the second intercostal space. Auscultation Widened second heart sound (S2) and delayed pulmonic component of S2 (P2) Harsh crescendo-decrescendo ejection murmur On auscultation, the first heart sound (S1) is normal and the splitting S2 is widened (but not fixed) because prolonged pulmonary ejection causes a delay in P2. As severity of PS worsens, P2 becomes softer in volume. A click in congenital PS is thought to result from abnormal ventricular wall tension. The click occurs early in systole (very near S1) and may be louder in inspiration. A harsh crescendo- decrescendo ejection murmur is audible and is heard best at the left parasternal second (valvular stenosis) or fourth (infundibular stenosis) intercostal space with the diaphragm of the stethoscope when the patient leans forward.
