Pulmonary Stenosis
KEYWORDS: pulmonary, stenosis, valve, pulmonary stenosis, heart, second, murmur, pulmonary valve, patients, right, valvuloplasty, patient, peak, symptoms, fourth


is audible and is heard best at the left parasternal second (valvular stenosis) or fourth (infundibular stenosis) intercostal space with the diaphragm of the stethoscope when the patient leans forward. In RV failure and hypertrophy, the third and fourth heart sounds (S3 and S4) are rarely audible at the left parasternal fourth intercostal space. Unlike the aortic stenosis murmur, a pulmonary stenosis murmur does not radiate, and the crescendo component lengthens as stenosis progresses. The murmur grows louder immediately with Valsalva release and with inspiration; the patient may need to be standing for this effect to be heard. AUDIO Pulmonary Stenosis Murmur Diagnosis of Pulmonary Stenosis Echocardiography Diagnosis of pulmonary stenosis is confirmed by Doppler echocardiography, which can characterize the severity as (1): Mild: Peak gradient < 36 mm Hg or peak velocity < 3 m/second Moderate: Peak gradient 36 to 64 mm Hg or peak velocity 3 to 4 m/second Severe: Peak gradient > 64 mm Hg or peak velocity > 4 m/second ECG may be normal or show RV hypertrophy or right bundle branch block. Right heart catheterization is indicated when 2 levels of obstruction are suspected (valvular and infundibular), when direct measurement of right ventricular or other pressures is needed, when clinical and echocardiographic findings differ, or before intervention is performed. Cardiac MRI may be useful if there is a need for quantification of right ventricle size or function, or the degree of concomitant pulmonary insufficiency. Phonocardiographic Characteristics of Heart Murmurs Treatment of Pulmonary Stenosis Balloon valvuloplasty Sometimes surgical valvuloplasty or valve replacement Prognosis of pulmonary stenosis without treatment is generally good and improves with appropriate intervention. Mild pulmonary valve stenosis in children may improve and even resolve spontaneously. The first-line treatment of pulmonary stenosis is balloon valvuloplasty, which is indicated for patients with symptoms and moderate or severe valvular stenosis and for asymptomatic patients with severe stenosis. Surgical valvuloplasty may be performed when there is another indication for cardiac surgery if the patient is otherwise not a candidate for a transcatheter approach. Pulmonary valve replacement may be necessary if there is significant pulmonary regurgitation (PR), pulmonary valve dysplasia, and/or hypoplasia of the pulmonary valve annulus (1). A valved or unvalved right ventricle to pulmonary artery conduit is used when the anatomy precludes use of the native valve. When surgical valve replacement is necessary, bioprosthetic valves are preferred due to the high rates of thrombosis of right-sided
