World Journal of Urology (2025) 43:554
KEYWORDS: cpps, patients, bacterial, pain, significant, prostatitis, scores, chronic, group, observed, pcr, bacteria, detected, treatment, nih-cpsi


RESEARCH A prospective evaluation of hidden bacterial involvement and antibiotic efficacy in nonbacterial CP/CPPS: addressing an underexplored therapeutic approach Hiroyuki Kitano1 · Hiroki Ohge2 · Kayoko Tadera3 · Yuki Kohada1 · Tomoya Hatayama1 · Hiroyuki Shikuma1 · Ryo Tasaka1 · Kenshiro Takemoto1 · Shunsuke Miyamoto1 · Kohei Kobatake1 · Yohei Sekino1 · Hiroki Kitagawa2 · Seiya Kashiyama3 · Nobuyuki Hinata1 Received: 26 June 2025 / Accepted: 1 September 2025 / Published online: 15 September 2025 © The Author(s) 2025 Abstract Purpose To identify bacteria potentially involved in chronic prostatitis/chronic pelvic pain syndrome (CP/CPPS) classified as nonbacterial and evaluate the clinical effectiveness of antibiotic therapy against these pathogens. Methods Patients were classified into two groups—CP/CPPS category IIIb and the bacterial prostatitis subgroup of CP/ CPPS—based on the presence or absence of pyuria and bacteriuria in urine samples obtained before and after prostatic massage. Treatment efficacy was compared between the two groups. The bacterial prostatitis subgroup was further stratified according to whether uropathogens or non-uropathogens were detected, and treatment responses were analyzed accordingly. Results A total of 28 patients were classified in the CP/CPPS category IIIb and 17 patients in the bacterial prostatitis sub- group. The bacterial prostatitis subgroup showed a significantly greater reduction in National Institutes of Health-Chronic Prostatitis Symptom Index total scores compared with the IIIb group, particularly in the pain domain, which also showed significant improvement over time. The quality-of-life scores also improved in this subgroup. Within the bacterial prostatitis subgroup, both uropathogen-positive and non-uropathogen-positive patients showed a reduction in pain scores, with signifi- cantly greater improvement observed in the non-uropathogen group. Conclusion These findings suggest that some patients classified as CP/CPPS category IIIb under conventional diagnostic methods may, in fact, have bacterial involvement. Antibiotic therapy may be effective in such cases, including those with non-uropathogenic bacterial detection. Keywords Antibacterial agents · Bacteriuria · Chronic pelvic pain · Prostatitis · Pyuria · Quality of life Introduction Chronic prostatitis/chronic pelvic pain syndrome (CP/ a common genitourinary diagnosis in men, defined as the “presence of genitourinary pain in the absence of uropatho- genic bacteria detected by standard microbiologic method- Hiroyuki Kitano ology” . Pain associated with CPPS is primarily reported in the pelvis, perineum, and genital area and is often 734-8551, Japan patients’ quality of life (QOL) and contribute to depression 1 3 include infections, lower urinary tract dysfunction, autoim- no bacteria were detected underwent symptomatic treatment mune mechanisms, pelvic floor
