World Journal of Urology (2025) 43:554
KEYWORDS: cpps, patients, bacterial, pain, significant, prostatitis, scores, chronic, group, observed, pcr, bacteria, detected, treatment, nih-cpsi


Japan patients’ quality of life (QOL) and contribute to depression 1 3 include infections, lower urinary tract dysfunction, autoim- no bacteria were detected underwent symptomatic treatment mune mechanisms, pelvic floor muscle spasms, or prostatitis based on the UPOINTS (Urinary, Psychosocial, Organ Spe- . CPPS often presents with symptoms similar to those of cific, Infectious, Neurological/systemic, and Tenderness of urinary tract infections and is frequently treated empirically skeletal muscles) classification . with antibiotics. The presence of bacteria in the prostate Before treatment and at 1, 2, and 3 months after treatment has been demonstrated in earlier studies using transperineal initiation, we obtained the patients’ NIH-Chronic Prostatitis prostate biopsy . However, it remains unclear whether Symptom Index (NIH-CPSI), International prostate symp- the bacteria present in the prostate are involved in the patho- tom score (IPSS), and Overactive Bladder Symptom Score genesis of CPPS. (OABSS) to evaluate treatment efficacy. We also obtained Based on the hypothesis that pathogens undetectable by the patients’ responses to the following item from the G-8 conventional bacterial culture methods might be respon- geriatric screening tool: “In comparison with other people ent molecular techniques to identify hidden pathogens [4, status?” . 5]. Although the causative bacterial species have not been definitively identified, multiple bacterial species may be DNA extraction and PCR analysis involved in the pathogenesis of CP/CPPS. This study aimed to clarify whether bacteria present in the prostate Urine samples were centrifuged at 13,000g for 10 min, are involved in the pathophysiology of CPPS by identify- and 400 µL of the sediment was used for DNA extraction. ing bacteria in the urine or expressed prostatic secretions of DNA was extracted using the automatic extraction system men and observing the efficacy of antibiotic treatment for magLEAD® with magLEAD® Dx SV reagent (Precision CPPS-specific symptoms. System Science Co., Ltd., Chiba, Japan) in accordance with the manufacturer’s instructions. The final eluate (50 µL) was stored at − 80 °C until further use. The PCR test for Methods Myc. hominis targeting 16 s rRNA gene was performed at the following conditions: 2 min at 95 °C; 30 cycles com- Study design and participants prising 1 min at 95 °C, 1 min at 60 °C, and 1 min at 72 °C; and a final extension step of 5 min at 72 °C. The following This prospective study was approved by the Institutional PCR primers were used: RNAH1, 5′-C A A T G G
