World Journal of Urology (2025) 43:554
KEYWORDS: cpps, patients, bacterial, pain, significant, prostatitis, scores, chronic, group, observed, pcr, bacteria, detected, treatment, nih-cpsi


G G T A G C G A-3′; 23 S-2129-R, 5′-T C T C T ples but reported symptoms of CP/CPPS. Among them, 28 A C A T G G T G G T G T T T T G A-3′ . The length of the PCR patients also had no pyuria nor bacteriuria in post-massage product was 158 bp. Sanger sequencing in both directions urine and were diagnosed with category IIIb prostatitis (CP/ was performed on DNA amplicons. To identify mutations/ CPPS category IIIb group). Their symptoms were classi- sequence variations, we compared DNA sequences with the fied according to the UPOINT system; treatment consisted reference sequence Mycoplasma genitalium G37 (GenBank of an α1-blocker or a phosphodiesterase type 5 inhibitor accession no. NC_000908). for urinary symptoms; Cernilton, Eviprostat, or acetamin- ophen for organ-specific symptoms; and pregabalin for Statistical analysis tenderness of skeletal muscles. The remaining 17 patients showed no pyuria but did show bacteriuria in post-massage Comparison between groups was performed using the Fish- urine. Since these patients did not match into any existing er’s exact and Mann–Whitney tests for categorical and con- NIH classification, they were categorized as the bacterial measures analysis of variance (ANOVA) (type III sum of clinical characteristics of patients with uropathogen or non- squares) was conducted to assess the effects of treatment uropathogen-positive findings in the CP/CPPS bacterial over time between the two groups using GraphPad Prism prostatitis subgroup are summarized 2. version 10 software (Dotmatics Inc., San Diego, CA, USA). No significant differences were observed between the two groups in age, body mass index, number of previous Table 1 Baseline characteristics of patients with CP/CPPS category IIIb and the bacterial prostatitis subgroup of patients with CP/CPPS 1 3 Table 2 Baseline characteristics of patients with uropathogen or non-uropathogen detection in the CP/CPPS bacterial prostatitis subgroup treatments, prostate volume, prostate tenderness, uroflowm- Antibiotics etry parameters (Qmax, Average flow rate, voided volume, residual volume), total NIH-CPSI score, and scores for pain, Patients in whom Enterococcus faecalis was detected were urinary symptoms, and QOL. However, the bacterial group treated with oral amoxicillin 500 mg every 8 h. The patient showed significantly lower IPSS and QOL scores in IPSS. with Myc. genitalium was treated with oral azithromycin No significant differences were observed in OABSS and 1000 mg once weekly. The patient with C. freundii received tool. patient with Mo. morganii was treated with oral levofloxa- cin 500
