World Journal of Urology (2025) 43:554
KEYWORDS: cpps, patients, bacterial, pain, significant, prostatitis, scores, chronic, group, observed, pcr, bacteria, detected, treatment, nih-cpsi


with some estimates reaching as Werneburg et al. identified Mycoplasma penetrans in high as 11.5% among men under the age of 50 , indicat- one case, whereas we detected Myc. genitalium in one case ing that it is a relatively common benign condition. with no prior history of pyuria or bacteriuria. Mycoplasma However, the pathophysiology of CPPS remains unclear. genitalium was detected for the first time through PCR test Although several studies have investigated the potential on post-prostatic massage urine. Although reports of Myc. involvement of bacteria in CPPS , our study is the genitalium in patients with CPPS are limited, Krieger et al. first to use liquid culture media for bacterial detection and performed PCR tests on prostate biopsies from 135 patients to compare outcomes between patients treated with antibi- diagnosed with CPPS and detected Myc. genitalium, Chla- otics—after bacterial identification—and a control group. mydia trachomatis, and Trichomonas vaginalis in 8 cases. Among the bacteria detected in our study, the most fre- These findings suggest that sexually transmitted pathogens quently identified uropathogen was E. faecalis, found in may also be involved in the pathogenesis of CPPS . 5 cases (62.5%). This finding is consistent with previous We observed that urinary function tended to be better reports in which E. faecalis was detected in 30–80% of uro- in the group with bacterial detection than in the one with- pathogen-positive cases , suggesting that it may be a out bacterial detection. However, despite no significant 1 3 difference in the total NIH-CPSI score, the pain score the number of detected bacterial species between the flare tended to be relatively higher in the group with bacterial and non-flare groups, fungi—specifically Candida and Sac- detection. Similar to the findings by Werneburg et al. , charomyces species—were significantly more prevalent in we found no significant differences in any of the NIH-CPSI the flare group . Nickel et al. also conducted a compara- domains between patients with and without detection of tive analysis using the Ibis T-5000 Universal Biosensor sys- uropathogens. tem to assess the urinary microbiota in men with CP/CPPS Although the presence of bacteria in the prostate has and asymptomatic controls. They analyzed first-void, mid- been demonstrated, CPPS often presents with symptoms stream, and post-prostatic massage urine samples. While similar to those of urinary tract infections and is frequently no significant difference was observed in the mean number treated empirically with antibiotics despite
