World Journal of Urology (2025) 43:554
KEYWORDS: cpps, patients, bacterial, pain, significant, prostatitis, scores, chronic, group, observed, pcr, bacteria, detected, treatment, nih-cpsi


and post-prostatic massage urine samples. While similar to those of urinary tract infections and is frequently no significant difference was observed in the mean number treated empirically with antibiotics despite limited evi- of detected microbial species per individual between the dence. Reports of antibiotic treatment specifically targeting patients with CPPS and controls, a significant difference in causative pathogens are extremely limited . microbial composition was identified at both the species and In their study, Werneburg et al. reported that among nine genus levels (p = 0.002 and p = 0.004, respectively). Nota- individuals in whom bacteria were detected via NGS, only bly, Burkholderia cenocepacia was significantly more fre- one (11%) did not show therapeutic response to antibiotic quently detected in the CPPS group . treatment . They defined a positive treatment response as This study is limited by the relatively short observation the disappearance of pain and lower urinary tract symptoms period. Nevertheless, the findings offer clinically valuable 6 weeks post-treatment. Another study evaluating antibiotic insights into the diagnosis and treatment of CPPS. efficacy for chronic bacterial prostatitis reported temporary Although none of the patients showed symptoms sugges- symptom improvement in 40 (83.3%) of 48 patients . tive of urethritis, such as purulent discharge, the potential In our comparison between groups with and without bacte- presence of urethral-derived Mycoplasma spp. cannot be rial detection in CPPS, significant pain improvement with ruled out as 16S rRNA analysis was not conducted before antibiotic therapy was observed in the bacterial detection prostate massage. While a certain therapeutic effect was group. These findings suggest that antibiotics may be effec- observed with antibiotic treatment, post-treatment culture tive in patients with CPPS where bacteria are implicated. testing was not performed. Re-examination with both cul- Intraprostatic bacteria may persist due to biofilm formation, ture and 16S rRNA PCR testing may be necessary to con- allowing symptoms to continue even in the presence of few firm bacterial eradication. leukocytes in the urine; antibiotic treatment can be effec- Mycoplasma hominis, U. parvum, and U. urealyticum tive in such cases . The duration of antibiotic therapy, are commensal bacteria associated with colonization and typically reported as 4–6 weeks , remains an area for infection of the urogenital tract . In the present study, future investigation. metagenomic analysis of post-massage urine or EPS might The contribution of microbial infection to conditions also have enabled a more comprehensive characterization of such as
