World Journal of Urology (2025) 43:554
KEYWORDS: cpps, patients, bacterial, pain, significant, prostatitis, scores, chronic, group, observed, pcr, bacteria, detected, treatment, nih-cpsi


the present study, future investigation. metagenomic analysis of post-massage urine or EPS might The contribution of microbial infection to conditions also have enabled a more comprehensive characterization of such as CP/CPPS and interstitial cystitis/bladder pain syn- the prostatic microbiota. drome has remained unclear . However, recent findings using NGS, as well as highly sensitive bacterial culture techniques, have demonstrated the presence of a bladder Conclusion microbiome. A decrease in the bladder microbiome diver- sity has been associated with interstitial cystitis/bladder Our study demonstrated the presence of bacteria in cases of pain syndrome . CPPS and showed that antibiotic administration can allevi- In the present study, we employed liquid culture media, ate pain in affected patients. Although treatment for CPPS ing in a positive detection rate of 37.8% (17/45). This detec- manifestations, our findings suggest that antibiotic therapy tion rate is comparable to that reported using prostate biopsy is effective when bacteria are detected and may represent or NGS , suggesting that our method may also be use- a valuable treatment strategy. Future research should focus ful for identifying bacteria in patients with CPPS. Nickel on determining the optimal duration of antibiotic treatment. et al. used the Ibis T-5000 Universal Biosensor system— a highly sensitive hybrid system that combines PCR with Acknowledgements We would like to thank Editage (www.editage.jp) for English language editing. mass spectrometry (MALDI-TOF MS), allowing for the simultaneous identification of multiple microbial species Author contributions H.K. wrote the entire manuscript. H.O. edited without the need for culture—to analyze the urinary micro- the manuscript. K.T. wrote the DNA extraction and PCR analysis sec- biota in initial and midstream urine samples from women tion. Y.K., T.H., H.S., R.T., K.Ta., S.M., K.K., and Y.S. contributed to with CPPS . Although they observed no difference in the creation of parts of the tables. H.Ki. and S.K. contributed to the DNA extraction and PCR analysis. N.H. provided overall supervision. 1 3 This research received no external funding. ture findings of men with chronic pelvic pain syndrome do not differ from those of healthy controls. J Urol 169:584–587. h t t p Data availability No datasets were generated or analysed during the s : / / d o i . o r g / 1 0 . 1 0 9 7 / 0 1 . j u . 0 0 0 0 0 4 5 6 7 3 . 0 2 5 4 2
