Functional Anatomy of the Hypothalamus and Pituitary
KEYWORDS: neurons, nucleus, hypothalamus, pituitary, hypothalamic, anterior, fig, median, medial, eminence, median eminence, secretion, pvn, lateral, posterior


ABSTRACT In mammals and man, historical investigation suggests that early recognition for a role of the hypothalamus as a site for integration of endocrine, autonomic and behavioral responses can be dated to the 2 nd -18 th centuries A.D. Although the hypothalamus comprises only 2% of the total brain volume, it is a key regulator of pituitary function and homeostatic balance. In this chapter, we provide an overview of the historical landmarks, embryologic, gross, microscopic and functional anatomy of the mammalian and human hypothalamus and pituitary, and how the hypothalamus relates to the rest of the brain and responds to peripheral signals. In particular, we show that its rostral, nuclear portion exerts prominent regulation of homeostatic behaviors related to energy balance and reproduction. The two caudal portions are primarily involved in ensuring adequate metabolic resources for defensive and exploratory behaviors and responses to sudden changes in endogenous and exogenous stimuli. In addition, we discuss how its network of neurons is made of cells with different functions (neurosecretory, autonomic, motor), how they interact, and how these neural circuitries are woven into a complex architecture of conduits for the movement of intercellular fluids (vasculature, glymphatic channels, meningeal lymphatic vessels). Finally, we focus on the hypothalamic mechanisms involved in the regulation of anterior and posterior pituitary secretion (hypothalamic tuberoinfundibular and neurohypophysial systems), as well those involved in food and fluid intake, lactation, thermoregulation, circadian rhythmicity and the sleep-wake cycle. For complete coverage of all related areas of Endocrinology, please see our online FREE web-book, www.endotext.org . HISTORICAL OVERVIEW As suggested by its Greek derivation, the hypothalamus ( hypo = below, thalamus = bed) is that portion of the diencephalon in all vertebrates that lies inferior to the thalamus (1). The hypothalamus and pituitary gland has attracted the interest of scientists and artists for centuries since the first description by Galen of Pergamon in the 2nd century AD. Galen described the hypothalamic infundibulum and the pituitary gland in De Usu Partium as the draining route and receptacle, respectively, for mucus passing from the brain ventricular structures (primarily the third ventricle) to the nasopharynx, and named the capillary network surrounding the pituitary gland the rete mirabilis (2). Notably, he also recognized the association of the third ventricle with a dorsally-located, small gland he named “pineal”. The Galenic concepts dominated scientific thought about the hypothalamus and pituitary for approximately 1200 years until the 14 th century
