Functional Anatomy of the Hypothalamus and Pituitary
KEYWORDS: neurons, nucleus, hypothalamus, pituitary, hypothalamic, anterior, fig, median, medial, eminence, median eminence, secretion, pvn, lateral, posterior


third ventricle with a dorsally-located, small gland he named “pineal”. The Galenic concepts dominated scientific thought about the hypothalamus and pituitary for approximately 1200 years until the 14 th century when the Italian anatomist, Mondino de’ Liuzzi, in his Anothomia , proposed that the third ventricle serves as an “integrator” of body functions ( Fig. 1 ) (3). Some of these ideas were extended by Andreas Vesalius in the 16th century in De Humani Corporis Fabrica , the first anatomical depiction of the infudibular-pituitary stalk including part of their venous drainage, consistent with our current anatomical knowledge for petrosal sinus sampling ( Fig. 2 ). Attention to the importance of the hypothalamic-pituitary region influenced the work of some of the most famous Renaissance artists including Leonardo da Vinci, whose drawings of the third ventricle and rete mirabilis are shown in Fig. 3 , and Michelangelo Buonarroti, whose painting on the ceiling of the Sistine Chapel in the Vatican uses the brain including the hypothalamic-pituitary region as a backdrop to his depiction of the creation of man ( Fig. 4 ) (4). Further interest in the functional role of the third ventricle occurred during the 17 th century by the philosopher, Renè Descartes. He hypothesized that a photic stimulus might reach the pineal gland from the retina, passing through the optic chiasm and third ventricle to stimulate the somatic motor nerves destined to the peripheral muscles to produce movement ( Fig. 5 ). Fig. 1 Description of the functional role exerted by the cerebral third ventricle, as reported by Mondino de’ Liuzzi in Anothomia. (A) Original front page of Anothomia in a XIV century edition; (B) Original text (in brackets) in medieval Latin (from the 1316 A.D. manuscript kept at the Società Medica Chirurgica in Bologna, Italy); (C) a portion of the Latin fragment shown in (B) containing the most important concepts; (D) English translation shown in (B). (From Toni R., Ancient views on the hypothalamic-pituitary-thyroid axis: an historical and epistemological perspective, Pituitary 3: 83-95, 2000). Fig. 2 Plates from the seventh book of the first edition (1543) of the Fabrica by Andreas Vesalius, showing what is believed to be the oldest anatomical drawings in Western literature of the hypothalamic-pituitary unit. (Courtesy of the Library of the Department of Human Anatomy of the University of Bologna, Italy, with permission) 1) Enlarged view of the pituitary gland (A), hypothalamic infundibulum (B) and
