Functional Anatomy of the Hypothalamus and Pituitary
KEYWORDS: neurons, nucleus, hypothalamus, pituitary, hypothalamic, anterior, fig, median, medial, eminence, median eminence, secretion, pvn, lateral, posterior


of Prof. Aldo Pinchera], In: L’Endocrinologo, Per una Storia dell’Endocrinologia [For a History of Endocrinology], 13, suppl. to n. 6, 1-11, 2012. Fig. 3 Drawings by Leonardo da Vinci (1508-1509) taken from the Codici di Anatomia of the Windsor’s Collection (Courtesy of the Library of the Department of Human Anatomy of the University of Parma, Italy). (A) Inferior surface of the brain, showing the rete mirabilis (arrow) that surrounds the pituitary gland; (B) three-dimensional representation of the cerebral ventricles. The third ventricle (3v) was believed to be the site of afference and elaboration of the “sensus communis” (Latin for peripheral physical sensations). (From Toni R, Malaguti A, Benfenati F, Martini L: The human hypothalamus: a morphofunctional perspective. J Endocrinol Invest 27 (supp to n.6), 73-94, 2004.) Fig. 4 Detail from the fresco, “Creation of Adam,” by Michelangelo Buonarroti, visible on the ceiling of the Sistine Chapel in the Vatican at Rome, Italy, painted between 1508-1512. (A) Photograph of the fresco showing God giving spiritual life and intellect to Adam through his touch; (B) The contour of the same image is reminiscent of a midline saggital section of the brain and includes the hypothalamus, pituitary and brainstem. (From Toni R, Malaguti A, Benfenati F, Martini L: The human hypothalamus: a morphofunctional perspective. J Endocrinol Invest 27 (supp to n.6), 73-94, 2004.) Fig. 5 Drawing from the De Homine of Descartes (1662), showing the pathway of the light through the ocular globe, retina, and collaterals of the optic nerves (corresponding to the retino-hypothalamic tract) that project to the 3rd ventricle (i.e. to the suprachiasmatic nucleus – SCN), to stimulate the pineal gland to release the animal spirit (corresponding to the nerve impulse) to the peripheral striatal muscles. Indeed, we currently know that the photic stimuli may not only activate a hypothalamic-medullary-epithalamic pathway for melatonin release (see Circadian Rhythm section) and thus signal the day/night shift to SCN-dependent pituitary secretions, but also trigger the lateral habenular nucleus. The lateral habenular nucleus receives projections from the SCN directly through the stria medullaris of the thalamus, and indirectly via the superior colliculi by lateral hypothalamic efferents. It influences brainstem motor centers like the substantia nigra and reticular raphe nuclei, to regulate body movement in relation to visual clues. In addition, melatonin acts on skeletal muscle as an ergogenic factor, favoring aerobic motor performance. Thus, Descartes’ view of the hypothalamic-pineal connection is partly consistent with evidence
