Functional Anatomy of the Hypothalamus and Pituitary
KEYWORDS: neurons, nucleus, hypothalamus, pituitary, hypothalamic, anterior, fig, median, medial, eminence, median eminence, secretion, pvn, lateral, posterior


to visual clues. In addition, melatonin acts on skeletal muscle as an ergogenic factor, favoring aerobic motor performance. Thus, Descartes’ view of the hypothalamic-pineal connection is partly consistent with evidence that light impulses transmitted through the hypothalamus may influence motor activity via the pineal gland and related epithalamus. (From Toni R. “Il sistema ipotalamo-ipofisario nell’antichità [The hypothalamic-pituitary system in the antiquity] - Dedicato alla memoria del Prof. Aldo Pinchera [Dedicated to the memory of Prof. Aldo Pinchera], In: L’Endocrinologo, Per una Storia dell’Endocrinologia [For a History of Endocrinology], 13, suppl. to n. 6, 1-11, 2012. The current term “hypothalamus", however, was not actually introduced until 1893 by the Swiss anatomist, Wilhelm His. On the basis of his studies on the ontogenesis of the human, fetal brain, His named the first anatomical subdivision of the hypothalamus the “pars optica hypothalami” (5), which is now recognized to include the preoptic region, tuber cinerium and infundibulum. Discovery of the connection between the hypothalamus and posterior pituitary (supraoptic-hypophysial tract) by Ramon Cajal in 1894, and subsequent work on neurosecretion in fish hypothalamus by the Sharrers in 1928, set the groundwork for rapid advancement in the understanding of the hypothalamus that unraveled throughout the 20th century and continues into the 21st century. Table 1 summarizes the major historical advances in the elucidation of the functional anatomy of the mammalian hypothalamic-pituitary unit (6). Table 1. Timeline of Major Breakthroughs in Elucidation of the Functional Anatomy of the Mammalian Hypothalamic-Pituitary Unit View in own window II century A.D. Galen in Anatomicae Administrationes describes the third ventricle and its association with the rete mirabilis around the pituitary gland and dorsally with the pineal gland. In De Usum Partium considers the hypothalamic infundibulum and pituitary gland as draining route and receptacle for brain mucous to the nasopharynx 1928 E. Scharrer describes “glandular cells” in the fish hypothalamus (concept of “neurosecretion”) 1316 Mondino de Liuzzi da Bologna in his Anothomia refers to the third cerebral ventricle as “integrator” of body functions, including psychic, emotional, and behavioral responses 1930 Popa and Fielding describe in the human pituitary stalk a portal vascular system interpreted as a route of the blood upward the hypothalamus 1522 Berangario da Carpi in his Isagogue Breves denies the existence of the Galenic rete mirabilis in the human brain 1940-1955 Harris and Green establish the basis for the neural control of the pituitary gland secretion and demonstrate its
