Functional Anatomy of the Hypothalamus and Pituitary
KEYWORDS: neurons, nucleus, hypothalamus, pituitary, hypothalamic, anterior, fig, median, medial, eminence, median eminence, secretion, pvn, lateral, posterior


hypothalamic neuron, introducing the concept of “neuroendocrine regulation by multiple neuronal messengers” 1860 Von Luska describes the primary (or hypothalamic) capillary plexus of the portal vessels 1986 K. Fuxe and L. F. Agnati show that the median eminence is organized in modules, introducing the concept of “medianosome”, and hypothalamic neurons are regulated by both autocrine/paracrine and synaptic mechanisms, better known as “volume and wiring transmissions” 1872-1877 Meynert and Forel define the anatomical borders of what they call “the neural portion extending forward the region of the subthalamus” (i.e. the hypothalamus) 2009 Garcia-Lavandeira et al. identify stem cells/progenitors in the marginal zone of the adult human pituitary gland 1893 His introduces the term “hypothalamus” and provides the first anatomical subdivision based on ontogenesis of the human brain 2012 Iliff et al. describe the “glymphatic system” in rodents, glia-dependent perivascular tunnels interconnected with meningeal lymphatics, allowing for distribution of metabolites and neuromodulators to hypothalamic neurons (Based on Toni R, Malaguti A, Benfenati F, Martini L: The human hypothalamus: a morphofunctional perspective. J Endocrinol Invest 27, supp to n.6, 73-94, 2004, and Toni R. “Il sistema ipotalamo-ipofisario nell’antichità [The hypothalamic-pituitary system in the antiquity] - Dedicato alla memoria del Prof. Aldo Pinchera [Dedicated to the memory of Prof. Aldo Pinchera], In: L’Endocrinologo, Per una Storia dell’Endocrinologia [For a History of Endocrinology] , 13, suppl. to n. 6, 1-11, 2012 The pituitary gland lies within a recess of the median part of the middle cranial fossa in the sphenoid bone (sella turcica) and is composed of two major components, the anterior lobe (adenohypophysis) and the posterior lobe (neurohypophysis) that can be readily distinguished radiologically by magnetic resonance imaging ( Fig. 6 ). The anterior lobe contains three subdivisions including the pars distalis , pars intermedia and pars tuberalis . The pars distalis makes up the bulk of the anterior pituitary and is responsible for the secretion of anterior pituitary hormones into the peripheral circulation. In man, it contains follicles of different sizes, typically surrounded by folliculostellate (FS) cells (7). The pars intermedia lies between the pars distalis and the posterior pituitary, representing what remains of the original Ratke’s pouch cleft (see section on Embyiologic Anatomy). Although considered vestigial in man, it contains follicles enriched with FS cells, mainly at its perimeter (i.e. the marginal zone), likely functioning as a subpopulation of pituitary stem cells (8). The pars tuberalis is well defined in most mammalian
