Functional Anatomy of the Hypothalamus and Pituitary
KEYWORDS: neurons, nucleus, hypothalamus, pituitary, hypothalamic, anterior, fig, median, medial, eminence, median eminence, secretion, pvn, lateral, posterior


with FS cells, mainly at its perimeter (i.e. the marginal zone), likely functioning as a subpopulation of pituitary stem cells (8). The pars tuberalis is well defined in most mammalian species, including man, and surrounds the infundibular stem (9). The floor of the sella, or lamina dura, abuts the sphenoid sinus, allowing direct surgical access to the pituitary by the transsphenoidal route. Other important boundaries to the pituitary gland are the cavernous sinus laterally, which contain the internal carotid artery surrounded with sympathetic fibers, and the cranial nerves III, IV, V (ophthalmic and maxillary branches), and VI ( Fig. 7 ). The optic chiasm is located superiorly, separated from the pituitary by the cerebrospinal fluid-filled suprasellar cistern and the dural roof of the pituitary, the diaphragma sella. Fig. 6 (A) Magnetic resonance image (MRI) and (B) corresponding schematic illustration of the human hypothalamus (H) and pituitary gland seen in saggital orientation. Note the high intensity or "bright spot" of the posterior pituitary by MRI in (A), sharply defining the boundary between the anterior pituitary gland. III = third ventricle (Modified from Lechan RM. Neuroendocrinology of Pituitary Hormone Regulation. Endocrinology and Metabolism Clinics 16:475-501, 1987.) Fig. 7 (A) MRI and (B) schematic image of the pituitary fossa and its anatomic relationships seen in coronal orientation. The cavernous sinus contains the internal carotid artery and cranial nerves III, IV, V1, V2, and VI. The optic chiasm resides immediately above the pituitary gland and is separated from it by a cerebrospinal fluid-filled cistern. (Modified from Lechan RM. Neuroendocrinology of Pituitary Hormone Embryologic Anatomy The posterior lobe of the pituitary gland is smaller than the anterior lobe and embryologically derives from the neural primordia as an outpouching from the floor of the third ventricle. As a direct, anatomic extension of the central nervous system, it is not surprising that the posterior pituitary is composed primarily of unmyelinated axons and axon terminals as well as specialized glial cells called pituicytes.(Figure 8) In contrast to the posterior pituitary, the anterior pituitary derives from the oral ectoderm as Rathke's pouch, first seen by the third week of pregnancy in man, and gives rise to both the pars distalis and tuberalis. There is little if any direct nervous innervation to the pars distalis , but cell-to-cell contact with the neuroectoderm of the primordium of the ventral hypothalamus is critical for differentiation of the anterior pituitary into the five
