Functional Anatomy of the Hypothalamus and Pituitary
KEYWORDS: neurons, nucleus, hypothalamus, pituitary, hypothalamic, anterior, fig, median, medial, eminence, median eminence, secretion, pvn, lateral, posterior


innervation to the pars distalis , but cell-to-cell contact with the neuroectoderm of the primordium of the ventral hypothalamus is critical for differentiation of the anterior pituitary into the five major cell types. This occurs as a result of the release of specific growth and transcription factors such as bone morphogenic protein (BMP)-4 and fibroblast growth factor (FGF)-8 (10). Among the numerous transcription factors involved in positional determination and terminal differentiation of pituitary cell types ( Fig. 9 ), the Notch signaling pathway serves a major role in mediating epigenetic regulation of lineage commitment through activation of non-coding RNAs and chromatin-histone interactions (11,12). Recent evidence has also indicated a key role for SOX 2 and SOX3 in regulating pituitary morphogenesis both in rodent and man (13). In humans, mutations of early transcription factors like Rpx, Prop-1 and Pit-1 lead to variable degrees of pituitary insufficiency (10). Once the pituitary matures, the ability of the hypothalamus to communicate with the pars distalis is dependent upon the hypophysial portal system, a vascular link that connects the base of the hypothalamus to the pituitary gland. Fig. 8 Signaling molecules and transcription factors involved in the development of the mouse anterior pituitary from Rathke’s pouch. In the anterior lobe somatotrophs, lactotrophs and caudally-placed thyrotrophs derive from a common lineage, determined by Prop-1 and Pit-1. Independent lineages are observed for a rostrally-placed group of thyrotrophs, corticotrophs, gonadotrophs and intermediate lobe melanotrophs. All cell types are committed to a specific lineage through activation of Notch signalling at the placodal stage. (Adapted from Cohen and Radovick, Endocrine Reviews 23: 431-442, 2002; Zhu X, Gleiberman AS, Rosenfeld MG, Physiol Rev 87: 933-963, 2007; Zhu X, Wang J, Ju B-G, Rosenfeld MG, Curr Op Cell Biol 19: 605-611, 2007). Microscopic Anatomy Microscopically, the anterior pituitary is composed of nests or cords of cuboidal cells organized near venous sinusoids lined with a fenestrated epithelium into which secretory products from the anterior pituitary are collected. Classically, five cell types and six secretory products of the anterior pituitary gland can be identified immunocytochemically including the somatotrophs (growth hormone), lactotrophs (prolactin), corticotrophs (adrenocorticotropic hormone), thyrotropes (thyroid-stimulating hormone), and gonadotrophs (luteinizing hormone and follicle-stimulating hormone) (14). It is well recognized, however, that the anterior pituitary is vastly more complicated. In addition to morphological and physiological evidence for heterogenity among the classical anterior pituitary cell types (15-18) and the presence of clusters of a unique
