Functional Anatomy of the Hypothalamus and Pituitary
KEYWORDS: neurons, nucleus, hypothalamus, pituitary, hypothalamic, anterior, fig, median, medial, eminence, median eminence, secretion, pvn, lateral, posterior


S = somatotroph, T = thyrotroph, UN = unknown The pars distalis of the anterior pituitary gland receives little or no arterial blood supply from branches of the internal carotid artery (24,25), while the posterior pituitary is fed by an anastomotic arterial circle derived from each of the inferior hypophysial arteries as they pierce the cavernous sinus ( Fig. 9 ). Rather, the pars distalis is supplied by venous blood delivered through the long portal veins that descend along the ventral surface of the pituitary stalk and interconnect capillary beds in the pars distalis with specialized capillary beds of the portal capillary system in the base of the hypothalamus called the median eminence ( Fig. 9 ). In turn, the portal capillary plexus in the median eminence receives arterial blood from a separate branch of the internal carotid artery, the superior hypophysial artery, after the internal carotid artery ascends from the cavernous sinus. In addition to venous blood draining from the hypothalamus, the pars distalis also receives venous blood draining from the posterior pituitary through the short portal vessels, giving rise to approximately 30 per cent of the total blood supply to the anterior pituitary (26,27). The perfusion sequence of arterial blood first reaching the posterior pituitary and the median eminence, followed by venous drainage to the anterior pituitary can visualized in man using rapidly enhanced magnetic resonance images (dynamic MRI) (28) ( Fig. 10 ). As a result of the venous blood flow pattern to the pituitary, the pars distalis is in a unique position where it can receive humeral information from the hypothalamus and the posterior pituitary, as well as substances circulating in the peripheral bloodstream. Due to the location of pars tuberalis cells in the pituitary stalk and ventral surface of the median eminence, adjacent to the portal capillary plexus, it is likely that these cells also contribute to the humeral substances that are carried by a vascular route to the pars distalis (29), although its physiological significance is unknown. Venous drainage from the anterior pituitary to the systemic circulation is through adenohypophysial veins located at a sulcus separating the anterior pituitary from the posterior pituitary (24). Other than the short portal vessels, venous drainage from the posterior pituitary collects into neurohypophysial veins, which together with adenohypophysial veins, extend as common vessels (confluent pituitary veins) to the cavernous sinus ( Fig. 9 ). The cavernous sinus is
