Functional Anatomy of the Hypothalamus and Pituitary
KEYWORDS: neurons, nucleus, hypothalamus, pituitary, hypothalamic, anterior, fig, median, medial, eminence, median eminence, secretion, pvn, lateral, posterior


posterior pituitary collects into neurohypophysial veins, which together with adenohypophysial veins, extend as common vessels (confluent pituitary veins) to the cavernous sinus ( Fig. 9 ). The cavernous sinus is enriched by an additional draining system composed of paravascular spaces around the hypophysial arteries and veins, variably interconnected with intradural channels lined by a lymphatic endothelium, giving rise to the pituitary glymphatic system (30). It provides a route for transport and clearance of intercellular fluid and metabolites into the blood circulation, allowing for volume transmission of soluble information at the level of the hypothalamic-pituitary unit (for anatomical details of this circuitry, see the section on the lymphatic system and sinus-associated dural lymphatics). Fig. 9 Drawing of the vasculature of the primate anterior and posterior pituitary gland. A portion of the pituitary stalk (I) has been cut away to visualize the infundibular recess (IR) and portal capillaries (PC). CPV = confluent pituitary veins, CS = cavernous sinus, H = hypothalamus, IC = internal carotid artery, IHA = inferior hypophysial artery, IP = infundibular processes or posterior pituitary, LPV = long portal veins, SHA = superior hypophysial artery, SPV = short portal veins. (From Lechan RM, Functional Microanatomy of the Hypophysial-Pituitary Axis, in Melmed, S (Ed), Oncogenesis and Molecular Biology of Pituitary Tumors, Frontiers of Hormone Research, 20: 2-40, 1996.) Fig. 10 (A-D) MRI of sequential sequences of the stalk and pituitary gland in saggital orientation following the intravenous administration of gadolineum. (A) Appearance prior to gadolineum. (B) Following gadolineum, the posterior pituitary is the first structure to show contrast enhancement. (C) This is followed by the pituitary stalk (arrow) and then finally (D) the anterior pituitary. (From Yuh et al, AJNR 15: 101-108, 1994.) ANATOMY OF THE HYPOTHALAM Gross Anatomy The hypothalamus lies directly above the pituitary gland ( Fig. 11 ) and occupies approximately 2 per cent of the brain volume. It is composed of a number of cell groups ( Fig. 12 ) as well as fiber tracts that are symmetric about the third ventricle. In saggital section, the hypothalamus extends from the optic chiasm, lamina terminalis and anterior commissure rostrally to the cerebral peduncle and interpeduncular fossa caudally ( Fig. 11 ). The cavity of the third ventricle lies in the midline. In coronal section ( Fig. 13 ), each of the two symmetric walls of the hypothalamus can be divided into four surfaces: a lateral surface contiguous
