Functional Anatomy of the Hypothalamus and Pituitary
KEYWORDS: neurons, nucleus, hypothalamus, pituitary, hypothalamic, anterior, fig, median, medial, eminence, median eminence, secretion, pvn, lateral, posterior


lies in the midline. In coronal section ( Fig. 13 ), each of the two symmetric walls of the hypothalamus can be divided into four surfaces: a lateral surface contiguous with the thalamus, subthalmus and internal capsule, the latter dividing the hypothalamus from the corpus striatum; a medial surface extending to the wall of the third ventricle, covered by ependymal cells; a superior surface corresponding to the hypothalamic sulcus that separates the hypothalamus from the central mass of the thalamus; and an inferior surface that is in continuity with the floor of the third ventricle. The external surface of the hypothalamic floor ( Fig. 14 ) gives rise to a median protuberance called the tuber cinereum (or gray swelling due to the pale bluish color of the blood vessels seen in the postmortem human brain), whose central part extends anteriorly and downward into a funnel-like process, the infundibulum or median eminence. The infundibulum is in direct continuity with the infudibular stem of the posterior pituitary gland, and together with the pars tuberalis of the anterior pituitary, forms the pituitary stalk ( Fig. 6 ). Two additional symmetric eminences, the lateral eminences, corresponding to the most lateral portion of the hypothalamic wall and the postinfundibular eminence, as well as the symmetric mammillary bodies, complete the macroscopic morphology of the hypothalamic floor. Fig. 11 Midsaggital section of the human brain (from the XIX century wax collection of human brains at the Museum of the Department of Human Anatomy of the Unversity of Bologna, Italy). The hypothalamus (asterisk) lies above the pituitary gland (cross) and has as its boundaries (1) the anterior commissure and lamina terminalis anteriorly; (2) mammillary bodies and midbrain posteriorly, and (3) thalamus superiorly.(From Lechan R.M. and Toni R., Regulation of Pituitary Function, in Korenman S.G (Ed), Atlas of Clinical Endocrinology, Current Medicine, vol IV, 1-25, 2000). Fig. 12 Magnified view of a fixed human brain in midsagittal orientation. The third ventricle makes up the core of the hypothalamus and extends into the pituitary (or infundibular) stalk, creating the infundibular recess. Many of the major cell groups are located near the midline. These include (from rostral to caudal) the preoptic nucleus (Pop), paraventricular nucleus (Pvn), dorsomedial nucleus (Dm), ventromedial nucleus (Vm), arcuate (or infundibular) nucleus (If), posterior hypothalamic nucleus (Po), and medial mammillary nucleus (mm). Ac = anterior commissure, fx = fornix, lt= lamina terminalis, ot = optic tract and
