Functional Anatomy of the Hypothalamus and Pituitary
KEYWORDS: neurons, nucleus, hypothalamus, pituitary, hypothalamic, anterior, fig, median, medial, eminence, median eminence, secretion, pvn, lateral, posterior


(Vm), arcuate (or infundibular) nucleus (If), posterior hypothalamic nucleus (Po), and medial mammillary nucleus (mm). Ac = anterior commissure, fx = fornix, lt= lamina terminalis, ot = optic tract and chiasm, Lv = lateral ventricle, MB = midbrain, PN = pons, Sr = supraoptic recess, T = thalamus. (From Lechan R.M. and Toni R., Regulation of Pituitary Function, in Korenman S.G (Ed), Atlas of Clinical Endocrinology, Current Medicine, vol IV, 1-25, 2000). Fig. 13 Coronal section of a fixed human brain at the level of the posterior hypothalamus. The third ventricle (III) lies in the midline directly above the mammillary bodies (m). The subthalamus (sb), zona incerta (zi) and thalamus (T) are located at the superior border of the hypothalamus, whereas the corpus striatum (ST) is located laterally. FL = fasciculus lenticularis, FT = fasciculus thalamicus, ic = internal capsule, SN = substantia nigra, H1 = field H1 of Forel; H2 = field H2 of Forel. (From Toni R, Malaguti A, Benfenati F, Martini L: The human hypothalamus: a morphofunctional perspective. J Endocrinol Invest 27 (supp to n.6), 73-94, 2004.) Fig. 14 Basal view of the brain showing the external surface of the floor of the hypothalamus and its arterial vessels. The infundibulum (I) lies posteriorly to the optic tracts and chiasm (ot) and anterior to the mammillary bodies (m). The arterial circle of Willis surrounds the hypothalamic floor and provides the arterial supply to the hypothalamic nuclei and fiber tracts. ac = anterior cerebral artery, aco = anterior communicating artery, b = basilar artery, ic = internal carotid artery, P = pons, pc = posterior cerebral artery, pco = posterior communicating artery. (From the XIX century wax collection of human brains at the Museum of the Department of Human Anatomy of the University of Bologna, Italy.) Embryologic Anatomy The diencephalon derives from the caudal part the proencephalic vesicle, which is the cranial expansion of the primitive neural tube, and the hypothalamus develops from the lateral wall of the diencephalon by extending ventrally to a groove called the “hypothalamic sulcus” that appears early in the lateral wall of the diencephalon (Figure 15). Therefore, the hypothalamus can be considered a ventral derivative of the neural tube and to originate from the embryonic basal plate (31). Since the basal plate is the source of all skeletal and autonomic motor neurons in the CNS, by inference, the hypothalamus has also been considered a
