Functional Anatomy of the Hypothalamus and Pituitary
KEYWORDS: neurons, nucleus, hypothalamus, pituitary, hypothalamic, anterior, fig, median, medial, eminence, median eminence, secretion, pvn, lateral, posterior


embryonic basal plate (31). Since the basal plate is the source of all skeletal and autonomic motor neurons in the CNS, by inference, the hypothalamus has also been considered a motor system (32). Indeed, neuroendocrine neurons that are involved in the regulation of the anterior and posterior pituitary secretion clearly have secretomotor functions. However, some authorities believe that the basal (motor) plate of the neural tube ends at the level of the mesencephalon, and that the diencephalon (hypothalamus included), is actually a derivative of the dorsal or alar plate, which is primarily sensory (33). Partial confirmation of this idea has been recently provided by the evidence that mouse embryonic stem cells may spontaneously differentiate into neurons expressing the Rax gene, a marker common to both the preoptic/tuberal hypothalamus and neural retina (a sensory structure), but do not express the Irx3 and En2 genes, typical of the midbrain structures (34). These findings are consistent with the presence of neurosecretory cells with sensory properties in the forebrain of invertebrates and fish (35), suggesting evolutionarily conserved sensory properties of neuroendocrine hypothalamic cells. Fig. 15 Three-dimensional reconstruction of the developing proencephalon in the human embryo. Note that at the level of the inferior portion of the lateral wall is the region of the hypothalamus (Hyp) with the infundibular bud (I) and pituitary anlage (P) (Redrawn from Hines M, J Comp Neurol 34: 73-171,1922.) ap = alar plate, bp = basal plate, ce = cerebral hemisphere, cp = choroidal plexus, CS = corpus striatum, ep = epiphysis, EP = epithalamus, eps = epithalamic sulcus, h = hippocampal fissure, hs = hypothalamic sulcus, if = interventricular foramen, lt = lamina terminalis, oc = optic chiasm, sl = sulcus limitans, sr = supraoptic recess, T = thalamus. Within the neural tube, dividing hypothalamic neuroblasts remain confined within the cell layer adjacent to the ependymal canal (ependymal or ventricular layer), whereas postmitotic elements migrate more laterally into a cell-dense region (mantle layer) before reaching their final destination (36) (Figure 16). Collectively, hypothalamic progenitors reach their final patterning and location in ventral and dorsal regions by exposure to two, specific, transcription factors, the ‘ventralising’ Shh and subsequently the ‘dorsalising’ Bmp7. As a result, specific transcription factor codes are established, leading to early differentiation of ventrolateral progenitors expressing the homeobox gene product, Pax 7 (37). Outgrowth of neural process occurs at the most lateral borders of the hypothalamic mantle layer
