Functional Anatomy of the Hypothalamus and Pituitary
KEYWORDS: neurons, nucleus, hypothalamus, pituitary, hypothalamic, anterior, fig, median, medial, eminence, median eminence, secretion, pvn, lateral, posterior


leading to early differentiation of ventrolateral progenitors expressing the homeobox gene product, Pax 7 (37). Outgrowth of neural process occurs at the most lateral borders of the hypothalamic mantle layer to give rise to tangential fiber tracts that course parallel to the ependymal canal and connect hypothalamic neurons with cranial and caudal portions of the developing neural tube. These fiber tracts are highly ordered into spatial and temporal patterns (38). Early connections include those with the midbrain (mammilotegmental tract) and hippocampus (stria terminalis), followed by those with the thalamus (mammilothalamic tract) (39). Fig. 16 Coronal section of the anterior hypothalamus in a human fetus of gestational age 12-14 weeks, counterstained with methylgreen and thionine. (A) Note that from the wall of the third ventricle, constituting the ependymal layer of the neural tube, a front of developing cells (arrows) migrate laterally towards the mantle layer to give rise to the primordium of the paraventricular nucleus (PVN). (B) High magnification of the image included in the rectangle shown in A. Note the high cellular density in the ependymal layer (EL) of the neural tube contrasts with the more diffuse distribution of migrating neuroblasts in the developing mantle layer (ML). III = third ventricle. Organization of the hypothalamus into specific nuclear groups occurs in a temporal and spatial pattern both in rodents (38,39) and man (40), such that the entire preoptic to posterior lateral hypothalamus followed by the medially-located, neurohypophysial centers and the main part of the medial preoptic and tuberal hypothalamus all arise during an early phase of development, whereas the periventricular hypothalamus, the floor of the third ventricle and mammillary complex develop later (see Section C, Microscopic Anatomy). Peak birth dates of specific hypothalamic nuclei in the primate are shown in Table 3 . Table 3 Birthdates of Hypothalamic Nuclei in the Primate Brain View in own window Hypothlamic nucleus Peak birthdate MPA e43-e45 SCN e30-e43 SON e30-e38 PVN e40-e43 ARC e30 VMN e30 DMN e38 ( Based on van Eerdenburg FJCM, Rakic P. Early neurogenesis in the anterior hypothalamus of the rhesus monkey. Dev. Bran Res. 79: 290-296, 1994) In addition to generalizations above regarding the development of specific hypothalamic nuclei, there are developmental differences that distinguish neuroendocrine neurons in the hypothalamus from non-neuroendocrine neurons. Namely, neuroendocrine neurons, including those that give rise to the tuberoinfundibular and magnocellular neurohypophysial systems that are involved in regulation of the anterior and posterior
