Functional Anatomy of the Hypothalamus and Pituitary
KEYWORDS: neurons, nucleus, hypothalamus, pituitary, hypothalamic, anterior, fig, median, medial, eminence, median eminence, secretion, pvn, lateral, posterior


the hypothalamus from non-neuroendocrine neurons. Namely, neuroendocrine neurons, including those that give rise to the tuberoinfundibular and magnocellular neurohypophysial systems that are involved in regulation of the anterior and posterior pituitary, respectively (see later), differentiate immediately after closure of the neural tube, even before reaching their final destination within hypothalamic nuclei (41). This phenomenon has been clearly demonstrated for GnRH neurons, that are fully differentiated at the level of the olfactory placode, even before migrating into the preoptic region of the hypothalamus (42). Similarly, neuroblasts immunoreactive for the hypophysiotropic peptides, somatostatin and thyrotropin-releasing hormone, can be identified in the human fetal hypothalamus at the interface between the ependymal and mantle layers during a developmental stage that precedes complete formation of the PVN (43,44). A number of genes have now been identified that regulate the temporal and spatial patterns of differentiation of hypothalamic cell groups. The POU III-related homeobox genes, Brn-1, Brn2, and Brn4, are involved in the development of the periventricular and medial parts of the hypothalamus (45). Transgenic mice with loss of function mutations or with targeted disruption of the Brn-2 gene, lack both the PVN and supraoptic nuclei, and have no somatostatin-producing neurons in the periventricular hypothalamus (46,47). Expression of Brn-2 is dependent upon transcription factors Sim1 and ARNT2, since mutations of these genes in transgenic mice result in a phenotype that is similar to the Brn-2 KO mice (48-50). Similarly, mice with decreased Sim1 expression have reduced vasopressin and oxytocin neurons, and develop a hyperphagic and obese phenotype (61). A number of other genes have been identified that are involved in differentiation of specific hypothalamic nuclei and are listed in Table 4 . Temporal and spatial expression of many of these genes is selectively regulated by circulating sex hormones (52) and peripheral satiety signals such as leptin (53), suggesting that innate neuroendocrine behavioral responses are epigenetically influenced during the embryonic and fetal life. Indeed, epigenetic imprinting in the mammalian hypothalamus has been recognized for a number of maternally silenced genes by knockout of the paternally-expressed allele including: a) Magel2, encoding a transcriptional regulator whose disruption leads to neonatal growth retardation, excessive post-weaning weight gain, adiposity, reduced food intake, and disappearance of orexin neurons; b) Ndn, encoding the growth suppressor and anti-apoptotic factor, necdin, whose loss leads to reduction in oxytocin and LHRH neurons; c) Nnat, encoding neuronatin that regulates energy homeostasis for which a single nucleotide polymorphism
