Functional Anatomy of the Hypothalamus and Pituitary
KEYWORDS: neurons, nucleus, hypothalamus, pituitary, hypothalamic, anterior, fig, median, medial, eminence, median eminence, secretion, pvn, lateral, posterior


bodies, and the mammillo-thalamic tract that projects from the mammilary bodies upward to the thalamus, create an anatomical boundary that divides the hypothalamus into medial and lateral subdivisions ( Fig. 17 ). Contained within the medial subdivision is the periventricular subdivision, a 5-6 cell layer thick nuclear group surrounding the third ventricle that is easily recognized in rodents using standard vital stains, but has less clear anatomical boundaries in the human brain. Both the medial and periventricular subdivisions of the mammalian hypothalamus contain a high density of neuronal cell bodies organized into nuclear groups (Tables 5 and Fig. 17 ) and in the human brain, has been classified with a number of different synonyms ( Table 6 ). Both subdivisions are crucial for the regulation of the anterior and posterior pituitary gland. The medial hypothalamus also contains nuclear groups that serve as relay centers for highly differentiated neural information coming from the neocortex, limbic system and autonomic sensory centers in the brainstem involved in initiation phases of specific homeostatic behaviors such as thirst, hunger, thermoregulation, the sleep-wake cycle, and reproductive behavior (55). The lateral hypothalamus occupies the largest portion of the hypothalamus by volume. However, it has relatively fewer neurons compared to the medial hypothalamus, and only a limited number of nuclear groups intercalated within a massive fiber system, the medial forebrain bundle (MFB). It is through this fiber system that information from the medial forebrain (amygdala, hippocampus, septum, olfactory system, neocortex) and the brainstem is carried to the medial and periventricular hypothalamic subdivisions, delegating an important role to the lateral hypothalamus to influence homeostatic control systems elaborated by the medial hypothalamus. Figure 18 schematically depicts major interrelationships between the periventricular, medial and lateral hypothalamic subdivisions and the rest of the brain. Fig. 17 Schematic representation of the human hypothalamus in coronal orientation (A-D: rostral to caudal), demonstrating the location of major nuclear groups. Drawings correspond to MRI images in Fig. 27. Using the fornix (fx) as an anatomic landmark as it passes through the mid-portion of the hypothalamus on each side of the third ventricle, it is convenient to divide the hypothalamus into medial and periventricular zones (that lie largely medial to the fornix) and a lateral zone (that lies lateral to the fornix). The medial and periventricular zones contain most of the hypothalamic cell groups, and the lateral zone contains relatively fewer neurons. This is because the lateral
