Functional Anatomy of the Hypothalamus and Pituitary
KEYWORDS: neurons, nucleus, hypothalamus, pituitary, hypothalamic, anterior, fig, median, medial, eminence, median eminence, secretion, pvn, lateral, posterior


rodents have proposed a functional perspective of hypothalamic subdivisions aimed at coordinating behavioral responses like feeding, reproduction and defense/exploration with autonomic and neuroendocrine responses. In particular, it has been suggested that specific nuclei in the rostral part (chiasmatic region) of the periventricular subdivision (namely the preoptic area) and dorsal zone of the tuberal region (namely the dorsomedial nucleus) reciprocally interact to provide outputs unique for different pools of neuroendocrine neurons located along the walls of the third ventricle (collectively considered as a periventricular motor zone), coupled to outputs to selective pools of autonomic neurons in all hypothalamic subdivisions (collectively considered as preautonomic cell groups). This neuronal network would be responsible for constant, reproducible but different patterns of endocrine and autonomic activation in response to specific homeostatic signals (hunger, sexual desire, motivated motor activity), constituting a hypothalamic visceromotor pattern generator (HVPG). In this manner, the HVPG would appear to be comprised of a contingent of neurons interposed between the classical periventricular and medial hypothalamic subdivisions (56). Circumventricular Organs Median Eminence (ME) One of the most important regions in the hypothalamus that is essential for regulation of the pituitary gland is the median eminence , a midline structure located in the basal hypothalamus ventral to the third ventricle and adjacent to the arcuate nucleus. It is here that all hypophysiotropic hormones converge before they are conveyed to the pituitary gland. The median eminence is one of seven so called circumventricular organs situated as midline structures in the walls of the lateral, third or fourth ventricles (57,58). Other circumventricular organs include the organum vasculosum of the lamina terminalis , subfornical organ , choroid plexus , pineal gland , subcommissural organ and area postrema ( Fig. 19 ). Characteristically the circumventricular organs contain a rich capillary plexus and with the exception of the subcommissural organ, have a fenestrated endothelium rendering the structures outside of the blood brain barrier. This morphologic feature together with the presence of neural elements contacting the fenestrated capillaries allows the secretion of brain-derived products into the peripheral circulation and/or makes circumventricular organs targets for blood-born information which can then be transmitted to the brain (59). Fig. 19 Location of circumventricular organs in the rat brain. AP = area postrema, ME = median eminence, OVLT = organum vasculosum of the lamina terminalis, P = pineal gland, PP = posterior pituitary, SFO = subfornical organ. (Modified from Saper and Breder, New England
