Functional Anatomy of the Hypothalamus and Pituitary
KEYWORDS: neurons, nucleus, hypothalamus, pituitary, hypothalamic, anterior, fig, median, medial, eminence, median eminence, secretion, pvn, lateral, posterior


= median eminence, OVLT = organum vasculosum of the lamina terminalis, P = pineal gland, PP = posterior pituitary, SFO = subfornical organ. (Modified from Saper and Breder, New England Journal of Medicine 330: 1080-1886, 1994.) The median eminence is a highly organized structure containing three zones: the ependymal zone, the internal zone (or zona interna) and the external zone (or zona externa) (60,61) (Fig. 20A). The ependymal zone forms the floor of the third ventricle and has some very specialized features including densely formed tight junctions between adjacent cells and highly specialized cells, tanycytes, that extend bleb-like protrusions and microvilli into the cerebrospinal fluid (CSF) at their ventricular surface and long cytoplasmic processes ventrally into the substance of the median eminence (61,62). Since the portal capillaries in the median eminence lie outside of the blood brain barrier, one of the functions of the ependymal zone is to create a barrier to the brain, preventing substances released into the periportal capillary spaces from entering the cerebrospinal fluid (63,64). Tight junctions also can be found at the dorso-lateral margins of the median eminence adjacent to the neuropil of the arcuate nucleus created by perivascular tanycyte processes (48), thereby compartmentalizing all substances entering the periportal capillary spaces within the confines of the median eminence, itself. Norsted et al (49), however, have demonstrated the absence of endothelial barrier antigen in blood vessels at the far ventro-medial aspect of the arcuate nucleus close to the border between the walls and floor of the third ventricle, and propose the lack of a blood brain barrier in this region. Allowing blood-born substances including gut peptides, glucose, amino acids and fatty acids to enter the arcuate nucleus in this region may be an important homeostatic mechanism that contributes to the regulation of appetite and satiety (see later). Fig. 20 (A) Schematic diagram of the median eminence showing the organization of its three major zones: ependymal zone (E), internal zone (ZI), and external zone (ZE). ZE is invigilated by portal capillaries which are contacted by axon terminals of the tuberoinfundibular system and by processes of specialized ependymal cells, the tanycytes. (B) Fibers coursing through the ZI are seen immunocytochemically in the rat using antiserum to vasporessin. (C) Fibers terminating in the ZE in close association to portal capillaries (PC) are seen immunocytochemically in the rat using a proTRH-directed antiserum. III = third ventricle. (From Lechan RM, Functional Microanatomy
