Functional Anatomy of the Hypothalamus and Pituitary
KEYWORDS: neurons, nucleus, hypothalamus, pituitary, hypothalamic, anterior, fig, median, medial, eminence, median eminence, secretion, pvn, lateral, posterior


terminating in the ZE in close association to portal capillaries (PC) are seen immunocytochemically in the rat using a proTRH-directed antiserum. III = third ventricle. (From Lechan RM, Functional Microanatomy of the Hypophysial-Pituitary Axis, in Melmed, S (Ed), Oncogenesis and Molecular Biology of Pituitary Tumors, Frontiers of Hormone Research, 20: 2-40, 1996.) Based on their location, morphology, cytochemistry and ultrastructure, tanycytes can be divided into several subtypes including alpha, beta and recently characterized gamma subtypes (65,66). The alpha subtypes line the ventrolateral walls of the third ventricle and beta subtypes line the floor and lateral extensions of the third ventricle. Gamma subtypes are small tanycytes that can be found throughout the substance of the median eminence (67). While presumed to be barrier cells, they likely have other important, neuroendocrine functions that may supersede their role as barrier cells. The close association of tanycyte foot processes with the basal lamina of the portal capillaries and with individual axon terminals ( Fig. 21 ) could create a retractable barrier to regulate the diffusion of secretory products entering or exiting specific regions of the portal capillary plexus or from axon terminals (68,69). This mechanism has been shown to have an important role in the regulation of gonadal function in photoperiod sensitive animals, in which retraction of the tanycyte foot processes from portal vessels during long days allow activation of reproductive function (70). Beagley and Hatton (71) have described a similar dynamic interaction between glial cells and secretory nerve endings in the posterior pituitary. In addition, the absorption of substances from the CSF at its apical surface for transport to the portal capillaries (62,72,73) could result in a mechanism whereby secretory products released into the CSF have access to the anterior pituitary. Tanycytes may also serve as a scaffolding for axons entering the median eminence during embryologic development, guiding them to their ultimate destination in the external zone (74). Tanycytes express one of the highest concentrations in the brain of type 2 deiodinase (D2) (75), the enzyme responsible for the conversion of thyroxine (T4) into its more biologically potent product, triiodothyronine (T3), as well as D2 degrading and reactivating enzymes, WSB-1 and VUD-1 (76), and in thyroid hormone transporters (77), suggesting a role in control of the hypothalamic-pituitary-thyroid axis and/or in regulating tissue levels of thyroid hormone in the hypothalamus. Tanycytes also express a number of embryotic genes (78), suggesting that they may serve
