Functional Anatomy of the Hypothalamus and Pituitary
KEYWORDS: neurons, nucleus, hypothalamus, pituitary, hypothalamic, anterior, fig, median, medial, eminence, median eminence, secretion, pvn, lateral, posterior


control of the hypothalamic-pituitary-thyroid axis and/or in regulating tissue levels of thyroid hormone in the hypothalamus. Tanycytes also express a number of embryotic genes (78), suggesting that they may serve as stem cells. Indeed, any damage to tanycytes is repaired by rapid regeneration of these cells to reline the third ventricle (79). Along these lines, tanycytes have been observed to express POMC mRNA (80), raising the possibility that they may have the ability to differentiate into neurons and contribute to the neuronal population in the adjacent arcuate nucleus. Other evidence for tanycyte differentiation into neurons has also been given (78,81). Finally, tanycytes have properties of inflammatory cells and may be capable of producing cytokines and chemokines that contribute to the mechanism of hypothalamic inflammation associated with a high fat intake (personal observations). Fig. 21 Electron micrograph of the external zone of the median eminence showing the presence of axon terminals (a) and a tanycyte process (t) adjacent to a fenestrated capillary (C) of the portal plexus. One axon (closed arrowhead) has been engulfed by the tanycyte and another (open arrowhead) is separated from the portal capillary space by the tanycyte foot process. Note presence of dense core vesicles (arrows) as well as smaller secretory vesicles in several axon terminals. (From Lechan RM, Functional Microanatomy of the Hypophysial-Pituitary Axis, in Melmed, S (Ed), Oncogenesis and Molecular Biology of Pituitary Tumors, Frontiers of Hormone Research, 20: 2-40, 1996.) The internal zone of the median eminence lies directly below the ependymal zone and is primarily composed of unmyelinated axons of passage of the hypothalamic-neurohypophysial system en route to the posterior pituitary (Fig. 20B). Characteristic of these axons are dilatations or Herring bodies, in which collect large numbers of neurosecretory granules measuring 200 to 350 nm in diameter (Inset, Fig. 20B). The internal zone also contains cytoplasmic processes of tanycytes and axons of passage of the hypothalamic tuberoinfundibular system as they descend into the external zone. The external zone underlies the internal zone and in addition to the portal capillaries and cytoplasmic extensions of the tanycytes described above, it contains numerous fine caliber, unmyelinated axons and axon terminals of the hypothalamic tuberoinfundibular system (Fig. 20C). Characteristic of these axon terminals are dense-core vesicles ranging from 50 to 130 nm in diameter ( Fig. 21 ). The close proximity of many of the axon terminals to the portal system suggests that these axons are capable
