Functional Anatomy of the Hypothalamus and Pituitary
KEYWORDS: neurons, nucleus, hypothalamus, pituitary, hypothalamic, anterior, fig, median, medial, eminence, median eminence, secretion, pvn, lateral, posterior


some distance from the portal capillary plexus, may be to serve a modulatory role on other axon terminals rather than secrete into the portal plexus and explain the large numbers of peptides in the median eminence that either have no certain, direct action on anterior pituitary cells or can not be measured in the portal blood (82). Axon terminals containing dopamine, for example, are located in close proximity to axon terminals containing GnRH (83) at the lateral margins of the external zone of the median eminence and can modulate the secretion of GnRH by presynaptic inhibition (84,85). Galanin containing axon terminals have also been observed to overlap with GnRH terminals in the lateral portion of the median eminence (86) but stimulate GnRH release from median eminence fragments (87). Although axo-axonal synapses are uncommon in the median eminence of most animal species studied using morphologic criteria (54), receptors for several different peptide hormones have been identified on axon terminals in the external zone suggesting that axo-axonal interactions can take place. Given the slow circulation time of blood perusing the median eminence (88), synaptic specialization in the median eminence may be unnecessary. Alternatively, axons terminating at a distance from the portal capillaries may be held in reserve and only secrete to the anterior pituitary under certain physiological conditions. This phenomenon has been described for several peptides such as neuropeptide Y, whose concentration increases in portal capillary blood during an ovulatory surge to potentiate the action of GnRH on gonadotropin secretion (89,90). Similarly, VIP/PHI, which shows a minimal immunocytochemical staining pattern in the median eminence in the basal state, increases during suckling to stimulate prolactin release (91) and vasopressin markedly accumulates in the external zone following adrenalectomy (92). The anatomical correlate of these physiologic observations may be suggested by the work by King and Letourneau (93) on gonadotropin regulation in which GnRH-containing axon terminals in the median eminence can be found at different distances from the portal capillaries in intact animals vs gonadectomized animals. This indicates the potential for a dynamic association between axon terminals of the tuberoinfundibular system and the portal capillaries under specific physiologic conditions. Marked reorganization in the median eminence of several different peptide-containing axon terminals in the median eminence has also been observed following hypophysectomy (94). A further complexity to the physiology of axon secretion in the external zone of the median eminence is the common occurrence of more
