Functional Anatomy of the Hypothalamus and Pituitary
KEYWORDS: neurons, nucleus, hypothalamus, pituitary, hypothalamic, anterior, fig, median, medial, eminence, median eminence, secretion, pvn, lateral, posterior


has also been observed following hypophysectomy (94). A further complexity to the physiology of axon secretion in the external zone of the median eminence is the common occurrence of more than one peptide or transmitter coexisting in the same axon terminal. For example, TRH and preproTRH 160-169 coexist in the same axon terminals in the median eminence (95) and together have important potentiating effects on anterior pituitary TSH secretion (96). Galanin coexists with GHRH in the majority of GHRH-tuberoinfundibular neurons (97) and although does not stimulate growth hormone secretion by itself in dispersed anterior pituitary cells (98), when administered together with GHRH, it increases GH secretion over what can be achieved by GHRH alone (99). Rather than arise as a biosynthetic product of the same precursor molecule as preproTRH 160-169 and TRH, galanin and GHRH are derived from two separate gene products, expanding the possible sources for peptides that potentiate anterior pituitary secretion (100). The coexistence of substances in axon terminals may also help to coordinate the secretion of separate anterior pituitary hormones as has been proposed for VIP/PHI, neurotensin, and enkephalin in CRH-producing neurons (101) to coordinate the secretion of ACTH, GH and prolactin during stress (102). In addition to axon terminals in the external zone of the median eminence, densely packed fibers that contain VIP and the nitric oxide-synthesizing enzyme, nitric oxide synthase (103) have been described on the ventral surface of the median eminence separated from the external layer (104). These fibers surround portal vessels and innervate smooth muscle of precapillary arterioles that supply the portal capillary plexus of the median eminence. Since both VIP and NO are potent vasodilators (105,106), these substances may play an important role in regulating the rate of blood flow to the median eminence and hence to the anterior pituitary, thereby exerting a separate level of control over anterior pituitary secretion. As opposed to axon terminals in the external zone of the median eminence that derive from the hypothalamus (see below), axons involved in regulation of portal blood flow appear to arise from other regions such as the sphenopalatine ganglion (103,104). Consistent with the concept that the median eminence lies outside of the blood-brain barrier, claudin-5 and ZO-1, markers for tight junctions, are absent from vessels in the external layer (63). Organum Vasculosum of the Lamina Terminalis (OVLT) The OVLT is located in the midline of the lamina terminalis as part of
