Functional Anatomy of the Hypothalamus and Pituitary
KEYWORDS: neurons, nucleus, hypothalamus, pituitary, hypothalamic, anterior, fig, median, medial, eminence, median eminence, secretion, pvn, lateral, posterior


are absent from vessels in the external layer (63). Organum Vasculosum of the Lamina Terminalis (OVLT) The OVLT is located in the midline of the lamina terminalis as part of the anterior wall of the third ventricle ( Fig. 19 ). Its dorsal surface protrudes into the third ventricle cavity and its ventral surface is in direct contact with the prechiasmatic cistern. Thus, OVLT cells are in a position to be bathed by soluble factors in the CSF in both ventricular and cisternal spaces. In rodents, ultrastructural studies by Weindl et al (107) and Mitro and Palkovits (108) have described a variety of cell types in the OVLT, including specialized neurons, tanycytes, ciliated ependyma, and glial cells (109). Some of these cells send long processes to the periventricular space, whereas others establish specialized junctions and synaptic contacts or project outside the OVLT (109-111). As in the median eminence, the OVLT contains fenestrated capillaries. They are derived from small branches of the preoptic artery that break up into a dense network of small vessels in the pia matter lining the external surface of the lamina terminals, and loop up towards the ventricular lumen (112). These vessels circumscribe interstitial spaces filled with cellular processes and secretory nerve endings that contain a number of neurotransmitter substances including atrial naturetic peptide, vasopressin, somatostatin, and GnRH (113), suggesting that like the median eminence, the OVLT subserves a neuroendocrine function. In contrast to the median eminence, however, blood from the OVLT does not drain into a portal plexus, but rather primarily to the medial preoptic region (114), suggesting a close functional interrelationship between the OVLT and this region of the hypothalamus. In addition, neurons in the OVLT project to the preoptic nucleus, subfornical organ, arcuate nucleus, supraoptic nucleus, medial thalamus and parts of the limbic system, primarily the cingulate, temporal and insular cortices. This anatomical organization, therefore, strategically places the OVLT in an ideal location to receive blood-born information and then transmit this information to specific regions of the brain. Accordingly, the OVLT has been implicated in mediating the febrile effects of circulating cytokines (see Thermoregulation). In addition, the OVLT is involved in osmoregulation and fluid balance through osmoreceptor cells that express the transient receptor potential vanilloid (TRPV) 1 gene (115), and respond to circulating levels of angiotensin II and relaxin (116,117). Its osmoregulatory role has been recently demonstrated in human volunteers subjected to excessive sweating
