Functional Anatomy of the Hypothalamus and Pituitary
KEYWORDS: neurons, nucleus, hypothalamus, pituitary, hypothalamic, anterior, fig, median, medial, eminence, median eminence, secretion, pvn, lateral, posterior


vanilloid (TRPV) 1 gene (115), and respond to circulating levels of angiotensin II and relaxin (116,117). Its osmoregulatory role has been recently demonstrated in human volunteers subjected to excessive sweating using functional neuroimaging and blood flow distribution. These studies showed that the OVLT is co-activated with limbic regions well known to be involved in thirst consciousness after thalamic relay (cingulate and temporal cortex), whereas after water ingestion, prominent activation of the cortical satiety centers (insula) occurred (118). The OVLT is also densely innervated by axon terminals containing GnRH, originating from perikarya in the septum and areas surrounding the OVLT that presumably contribute to the regulation of pituitary gonadotropin secretion (119), perhaps through connections between the OVLT and the median eminence (120). In female rodents, these axons cross the OVLT en route to the median eminence to trigger pulsatile proestral release of pituitary gonadotropins (121), whereas in males, their gonadotropin-releasing hormone content is regulated by levels of circulating thyroid hormone (122,123). Direct connections between the OVLT and the median eminence have also been described (120). Subfornical Organ (SFO) The name of this circumventricular organ derives from its midline, anatomical location under the fornix ( Fig. 18 ), at the point where the lamina terminalis joins the tela choroidea of the third ventricle (124). Embryologically, the SFO arises from the same part of the neural tube as the OVLT, and accordingly, have a similar microarchitecture and share common functions (125). The SFO can be divided into two regions: a peripheral shell or “perimeter” that is rich in nerve endings arising from neurons intrinsic to the SFO but poor in blood capillaries, and a more densely packed center or “core” crowded with neuronal and glial perikarya and containing a dense vascular network of fenestrated and unfenestrated capillaries. In caudal portions of the SFO, capillaries are continuous with those of the choroid plexus (126). It is presumed that the “core” of the SFO is the locus for major hormonal receptor fields and fiber terminals of its afferent neuronal innervation, particularly the median preoptic nucleus, whereas the “perimeter” is the site of exit for SFO axons projecting to specific target regions in the hypothalamus including the preoptic nucleus, OVLT, supraoptic nucleus, paraventricular nucleus and lateral hypothalamus (127). The SFO has an important role in coordination of fluid balance with blood pressure and drinking behavior, especially during hemorrhage and hypovolemia (128). The rich vasculature of the
