Functional Anatomy of the Hypothalamus and Pituitary
KEYWORDS: neurons, nucleus, hypothalamus, pituitary, hypothalamic, anterior, fig, median, medial, eminence, median eminence, secretion, pvn, lateral, posterior


hypothalamus (127). The SFO has an important role in coordination of fluid balance with blood pressure and drinking behavior, especially during hemorrhage and hypovolemia (128). The rich vasculature of the SFO allows circulating angiotensin II to stimulate intrinsic neurons (129) via angiotensin type 1 receptors (130). Through direct projections to the paraventricular nucleus, supraoptic nucleus and accessory magnocellular cell groups of the hypothalamus (131), SFO neurons induce release of vasopressin from the posterior pituitary (132), activate paraventricular nucleus neurons that descend to sympathetic centers of the spinal cord that regulate vasoconstriction (133), and possibly favor the release of vasoactive peptides like VIP from the anterior pituitary and a number of other neural sites related to fluid and blood pressure balance (134). Evidence for intrinsic production of angiotensin II in the SFO (135) and the antagonistic effects of galanin released from axon terminals that synapse on SFO neurons on angiotensin II-induced drinking behavior and vasopressin release (136), may also contribute to the regulation of fluid homeostasis. The presence of other peptides in the SFO and/or their receptors including obestatin, somatostatin and thyrotropin-releasing hormone, has suggested that the SFO might play a role in coordinating the ingestive behavior of liquids with solid food and the sleep cycle (137-139). This idea is also supported by the presence of leptin receptors in the SFO, and that their deletion abolishes the leptin-mediated increase in sympathetic outflow to the kidney (140). In addition, due to its connections with the preoptic nucleus and OVLT, the SFO is also involved in the regulation of thirst and locomotor behavior for drinking (141). FIBER SYSTEMS The fiber systems that link the hypothalamus to the rest of the brain are numerous and intricate, reflecting the importance of the hypothalamus as an integrating center for the rest of the brain. Due to the complexity of the fiber systems, however, it is impractical to individually describe each fiber pathway linking each nuclear group, particularly for the human hypothalamus in which nuclear boundaries and relative projections are less clear than in other mammals. Readers are referred to extensive reviews on this topic (142,143). We will describe only the major hypothalamic fiber systems with respect to their afferent and efferent connections to the periventricular, medial and lateral hypothalamic nuclear subdivisions. Afferent Connections Inputs to the mammalian hypothalamus arise primarily from the limbic system, brainstem reticular formation, thalamus, subthalamus, basal ganglia, retina and possibly the neocortex
