Functional Anatomy of the Hypothalamus and Pituitary
KEYWORDS: neurons, nucleus, hypothalamus, pituitary, hypothalamic, anterior, fig, median, medial, eminence, median eminence, secretion, pvn, lateral, posterior


and lateral hypothalamic nuclear subdivisions. Afferent Connections Inputs to the mammalian hypothalamus arise primarily from the limbic system, brainstem reticular formation, thalamus, subthalamus, basal ganglia, retina and possibly the neocortex ( Fig. 22 ). Afferents from the limbic system include 3 main fiber groups, the medial forebrain bundle , the stria terminalis , and the fornix. The medial forebrain bundle is located in the most lateral part of the hypothalamus and contains fibers originating from more than 50 nuclear groups in different regions of the brain including descending fibers from the olfactory and septal areas, and ascending fibers from the amygdaloid complex and substantia innominata, the latter forming the ventral amygdalofugal component of the ansa peduncularis . The stria terminalis originates in the amygdaloid complex, and the fornix in the hippocampus, both entering the rostral-medial hypothalamus close to the ventricular surface, and then arching into the substance of the hypothalamus to terminate along the entire extent of the hypothalamus. Afferents from the brainstem reticular formation include the dorsal longitudinal fasciculus (fasciculus of Schutz), the periventricular fiber system and the medial forebrain bundle. The dorsolongitudinal fasciculus receives primarily autonomic inputs from centers in the mesencephalic tegmentum (limbic midbrain area), reticular raphe nuclei in the pons and viscero-sensitive nuclei (e.g. the nucleus tractus solitarius) in the medulla oblongata. The periventricular system carries fibers ascending from both the central grey (including the raphe nuclei) and medial nuclei of the reticular formation in the mesencephalon or dorsal nucleus of the mesencephalic tegmentum (limbic midbrain area). Collectively, these fibers enter the hypothalamus close to the ventricular wall. The medial forebrain bundle also receives a well-defined fiber tract, the mammillary peduncle, originating from the medial nuclei of the mesencephalic reticular formation (limbic midbrain area). It courses ventrally in the cerebral peduncle (within the ventral tegmental area of Tsai), and then laterally to the mammillary bodies. Fig. 22 Overview of the major afferent pathways to the hypothalamus. (A) Schematic organization of medial forebrain bundle (MFB). Fibers afferent to the hypothalamus enter the lateral wall of the hypothalamus and are shown in different colors in relation to their anatomical source (amygdala, septal areas, olfactory areas, frontal neocortex). Reciprocal efferent connections from the hypothalamus to the same regions are shown by dotted black lines parallel to the colored lines. Pink fibers (and related reciprocal black dotted lines) indicate the amygdalofugal (and related amygdalopetal) components of the ansa peduncularis, entering
