Functional Anatomy of the Hypothalamus and Pituitary
KEYWORDS: neurons, nucleus, hypothalamus, pituitary, hypothalamic, anterior, fig, median, medial, eminence, median eminence, secretion, pvn, lateral, posterior


ansa pednucularis (an extension of the medial forebrain bundle). Afferents from the subthalamus are believed to originate in the nucleus subthalamicus and zona incerta, and directly enter the hypothalamus along the lateral aspect of the hypothalamic wall (144). Afferents from basal ganglia (corpus striatum) arise from the nucleus accumbens, located in the ventral portion of the caudate nucleus, and via the substantia innominata, directly and indirectly reach the lateral portions of the hypothalamus. Afferents from the retina reach the hypothalamus via the retino-hypothalamic tract, and travel through the optic chiasm to terminate in the suprachiasmatic nucleus. Finally, direct projections arise from the frontal cortex and course in the medial forebrain bundle to the most lateral part of the ventricular wall. Efferent Connections Outputs from the mammalian hypothalamus include fiber pathways to the anterior and posterior pituitary gland, limbic system, brainstem reticular formation, thalamus, subthalamus, basal ganglia, superior colliculi, substantia nigra, cerebellum, and neocortex ( Fig. 23 ). With exception of projections to the pituitary gland, discussed in detail below (see Hypothalamic Tuberoinfundibular System and Hypothalamic Neurohypophysial Tract) and those directed to locomotor centers such as the optic tectum, susbstantia nigra, and cerebellum, in general, efferent fibers from the hypothalamus reciprocate its afferent fibers in a sort of feedback loop. Efferents to the limbic system include 2 major fiber groups. The first course in the medial forebrain bundle (lateral hypothalamus) and carries projections that ascend to the septal areas and descend to the amygdalo-piriform cortex complex. These latter fibers form the ventral amygdalopetal component of the ansa pedunclaris. The second, the stria terminalis system with its bed nucleus, is positioned medially, very close to the inner surface of the third ventricle, and projects to the amygdala. Fig. 23 Overview of the major efferent pathways from the hypothalamus. (A) Connections with the limbic cortex, brainstem, thalamus and septum. (B) Course of hypothalamic fibers in the dorsal longitudinal fasciculus (fasciculus longitudinalis dorsalis) or fasciculus of Schutz, reaching autonomic and somatic centers in the brainstem and spinal cord. A = anterior hypothalamic nucleus; ac = anterior commissure; cc = corpus callosum; CGRF = central grey - reticular formation; Dm = dorsomedial nucleus; dnmt = dorsal nucleus of the mesencephalic tegmentum; E-Wn = nucleus of Edinger-Wepstal; fb = medial forebrain bundle; ep = epithalamus; fld = fasciculus longitudinalis dorsalis (fasciculus of Schutz); fr = fasciculus retroflexus; ha = habenula; HYP = hypothalamus; htt = habenulo-tectal
