Functional Anatomy of the Hypothalamus and Pituitary
KEYWORDS: neurons, nucleus, hypothalamus, pituitary, hypothalamic, anterior, fig, median, medial, eminence, median eminence, secretion, pvn, lateral, posterior


Edinger-Wepstal; fb = medial forebrain bundle; ep = epithalamus; fld = fasciculus longitudinalis dorsalis (fasciculus of Schutz); fr = fasciculus retroflexus; ha = habenula; HYP = hypothalamus; htt = habenulo-tectal tract; ilm = intermediate-lateral column of the spinal cord; inf = infundibular or arcuate nucleus; mb = mammillary body; MES = mesencephalon; mfb = medial forebrain bundle; MO = medulla oblongata; mteg = mammillo-tegmental tract; mp = mammillary peduncle; mtt = mammillo-thalamic tract; nts = nucleus tractus solitarius; optec = optic tectum; Po = preoptic area; PP = posterior nuclues; Pv = paraventricular nucleus; pvs = periventricular systems; sm = stria medullaris; so = supraoptic nucleus; RF = reticular formation; rn = red nucleus; tec-spt = tectospinal tract; TS = thoracic spine; Vm = ventromedial nucleus. (From Toni R, Malaguti A, Benfenati F, Martini L: The human hypothalamus: a morphofunctional perspective. J Endocrinol Invest 27 (supp to n.6), 73-94, 2004.) Efferents to the brainstem reticular formation include 2 main fiber groups. The first is a dorsal and medial group formed by the dorsal longitudinal fasciculus and periventricular system. These axons descend to the brainstem to innervate visceral motor, sensory and somatic nuclei (occulomotor, trigeminal, facial, glossopharyngeal, vagus and accessory spinal nerves), and to autonomic sympathetic and parasympathetic preganglionic neurons in the spinal cord. The second courses in the medial forebrain bundle and gives off fibers that project to the medial nuclei of the mesencephalic reticular formation (limbic midbrain area) through the mammillary-tegmental tract and the mammillary peduncle. Efferents to the thalamus include 3 main systems. The first is the mammillo-thalamic tract that links the posterior hypothalamus to the cingulate gyrus of the limbic cortex (a component of the “Papez circuit”). The second is the periventricular fiber system that projects to the medial (dorsomedian nucleus) and median (midline, intralaminar and reticular nuclei) thalamus and epithalamic habenula through the stria medullaris. The third is part of the medial forebrain bundle that courses in the inferior thalamic peduncle of the ansa peduncularis to reach the medial thalamic nuclei. Efferents to the subthalamic and basal ganglia region course in the lateral aspect of the ventricular wall in the mammillo-thalamic tract (mammillo-subthalamic tract) terminating in the field H1 of Forel, and in the substantia innominata (144,145). Efferents to superior colliculi, substantia nigra and cerebellum travel in either the stria terminalis and periventricular fiber system, or in the medial forebrain bundle as a part of the
