Functional Anatomy of the Hypothalamus and Pituitary
KEYWORDS: neurons, nucleus, hypothalamus, pituitary, hypothalamic, anterior, fig, median, medial, eminence, median eminence, secretion, pvn, lateral, posterior


(144,145). Efferents to superior colliculi, substantia nigra and cerebellum travel in either the stria terminalis and periventricular fiber system, or in the medial forebrain bundle as a part of the mammillary peduncle. Finally, efferents to the neocortex are carried laterally within the medial forebrain bundle. Hypothalamic Tuberoinfundibular System The hypothalamic tuberoinfundibular system comprises all neurons in the brain that send axonal projections to the external zone of the median eminence. Although the arcuate nucleus and inferior portion of the periventricular nucleus were thought primarily responsible for this pathway on the basis of silver stains (146), the relative paucity of myelin in these neurons and high density of perikarya in the medial and periventricular zones of the hypothalamus made it impossible to elucidate the full extent of the tuberoinfundibular system using this technique. In addition, the inability of pharmacologic ablation of the arcuate nucleus to significantly reduce the concentration of TRH and GnRH in the median eminence (147), made it likely that the origin of neurons contributing to the tuberoinfundibular system is considerably broader than just the medial basal hypothalamus. Using retrogradely transported marker substances that are taken up in axon terminals in the external zone of the median eminence and transported back to the cell body of origin, a detailed analysis of the tuberoinfundibular system has been possible (148-151). Retrogradely labeled cells of the tuberoinfundibular system concentrate in four major hypothalamic regions: the arcuate nucleus, periventricular nucleus, paraventricular nucleus, and medial preoptic-septal region ( Fig. 24 ). Within the arcuate nucleus the labeled cells accumulate in two distinct clusters ( Fig. 24 G-I), a dorsomedial group of small to medium size neurons in the distribution of the dopamine-containing A12 group of Dahlstrom & Fuxe (152), and a basolateral group of medium sized cells that contain dopamine, GHRH, galanin, galanin-like peptide and neurotensin (153-157). Occasional enkephalin-producing neurons in the arcuate nucleus are retrogradely labeled from the median eminence (158), but the majority of these cells, as well as ACTH-producing neurons (personal observations), do not contain the retrogradely transported marker substance. These observations emphasize that only a small subset of chemically coded neurons in the arcuate nucleus project to the median eminence. In the periventricular nucleus ( Fig. 24 A-F), a thin layer of retrogradely marked neurons in the subependymal neuropil contain somatostatin and dopamine (154,159). These retrogradely labeled cells can be identified even in the most rostral portions of the periventricular
