Functional Anatomy of the Hypothalamus and Pituitary
KEYWORDS: neurons, nucleus, hypothalamus, pituitary, hypothalamic, anterior, fig, median, medial, eminence, median eminence, secretion, pvn, lateral, posterior


layer of retrogradely marked neurons in the subependymal neuropil contain somatostatin and dopamine (154,159). These retrogradely labeled cells can be identified even in the most rostral portions of the periventricular nucleus, but the majority concentrate between the middle of the optic chiasm and anterior portion of the median eminence ( Fig. 24 B). Often cells interdigitate between the ependymal wall and even extend into the third ventricular space suggesting possible secretion into the CSF. Axonal projections from these cells to the median eminence is through a circuitous pathway that extends laterally into the lateral hypothalamus toward the ventral surface of the hypothalamus (retrochiasmatic area) and then medially to enter the median eminence, although some fibers also descend directly in the periventricular neuropil. Fig. 24 Coronal sections (rostral to caudal) of rat hypothalamus showing the regional distribution of neurons that accumulate a retrogradely transported marker substance injected into the external zone of the median eminence. Cells of origin of both the tuberoinfundibular pathway and hypothalamic neurohypophysial tract are identified due to diffusion of the tracer into the internal zone of the median eminence. (A-F) Level of the paraventricular nucleus (PVN); (G-I) level of the arcuate nucleus (ARC). III = third ventricle, AH = anterior hypothalamus, M = magnocellular division of the PVN, ME = median eminence, ap = anterior parvocellular subdivision, dp = dorsal parvocellular subdivision, mp = medial parvocellular subdivision, pp = periventricular parvocellular subdivision, vp = ventral parvocellular subdivision of the PVN. The most remarkable finding of studies using retrogradely transported marker substances from the median eminence is the massive accumulation of the marker substance in neurons of the paraventricular nucleus ( Fig. 24 A-F). This winged-shaped nucleus at the dorsal margin of the third ventricle can be divided into two major portions based on the size of the neuronal perikarya, including a magnocellular division of large neurons and a parvocellular division of small to medium sized neurons (160). The parvocellular portion is located in the most medial portion of the nucleus adjacent to the ependymal wall of the third ventricle and can be broken down into several, smaller subdivisions shown in detail in Fig. 25 . Retrogradely labeled cells of the tuberoinfundibular system are located primarily in the anterior, medial and periventricular subdivisions of the paraventricular nucleus with relatively few or no neurons in the dorsal, ventral and lateral parvocellular subdivisions. Many of these retrogradely labeled cells contain
