Functional Anatomy of the Hypothalamus and Pituitary
KEYWORDS: neurons, nucleus, hypothalamus, pituitary, hypothalamic, anterior, fig, median, medial, eminence, median eminence, secretion, pvn, lateral, posterior


anterior, medial and periventricular subdivisions of the paraventricular nucleus with relatively few or no neurons in the dorsal, ventral and lateral parvocellular subdivisions. Many of these retrogradely labeled cells contain TRH, corticotropin-releasing hormone (CRH), enkephalin, somatostatin, and VIP (158,159,161-165). Not all neurons in the anterior, medial and periventricular parvocellular subdivisions project to the median eminence, however. This is particularly apparent for TRH neurons in the anterior parvocellular subdivision that cannot be retrogradely labeled by marker substances introduced into the median eminence (166). These neurons are also immunocytochemically distinct from hypophysiotropic TRH neurons in the medial and periventricular parvocellular subdivisions in that they do not co-express the peptide, cocaine and amphetamine-regulated transcript (CART) (167). The true, physiologic function of TRH neurons in the anterior parvocellular subdivision is not known. Fig. 25 Schematic of the hypothalamic PVN showing major subdivisions. (A) Anterior, (B) Mid, and (C) Caudal levels. AP = anterior parvocellular subdivision, DP = dorsal parvocellular subdivision, LT = lateral parvocellular subdivision, MN = magnocellular division, MP = medial parvocellular subdivision, P = periventricular parvocellular subdivision, VP = ventral parvocellular subdivision. Tuberoinfundibular neurons in the paraventricular nucleus project to the median eminence either by arching laterally and inferiorly through the lateral hypothalamus through the retrochiasmatic area before turning medially to terminate or by descending along the wall of the third ventricle to directly enter the median eminence. As the ependymal wall underlies both the paraventricular and periventricular nuclei and is likely permeable to the diffusion of CSF (68), these cells of the hypothalamic tuberoinfundibular system could be influenced by substances carried in the CSF or secrete directly into the CSF as an alternative way to reach the median eminence. Finally, small, bipolar and multipolar, retrogradely labeled cells that can be immunostained with GnRH (165,168), are found in the rostral hypothalamus in the ventral wings of the diagonal band of Broca, lamina terminalis, medial septum, and medial preoptic nucleus, while few cells extend more caudally in the basolateral hypothalamus. In primates, however, retrogradely labeled GnRH cells are located more caudally in the basal hypothalamus (169). Axonal projections to the external zone of the median eminence occur either by joining the medial forebrain bundle in the lateral hypothalamus or along the wall of the third ventricle. The tendency for GnRH neurons of the tuberoinfundibular pathway to be more deeply embedded into the substance of the hypothalamus than is typical for the periventricular distribution
