Functional Anatomy of the Hypothalamus and Pituitary
KEYWORDS: neurons, nucleus, hypothalamus, pituitary, hypothalamic, anterior, fig, median, medial, eminence, median eminence, secretion, pvn, lateral, posterior


the third ventricle. The tendency for GnRH neurons of the tuberoinfundibular pathway to be more deeply embedded into the substance of the hypothalamus than is typical for the periventricular distribution of the majority of the hypothalamic tuberoinfundibular system relates to the embryologic origin of GnRH neurons from the nasal epithelium (170), as opposed to primordial cells in the walls of the third ventricle. Although the bulk of tuberoinfundibular neurons arise from periventricular and medial portions of the hypothalamus, some brain stem neurons also have direct projections to the median eminence, explaining the presence of catecholamines in addition to dopamine in this structure. Retrogradely neurons can be identified in C1-C2 adrenergic neurons and A2 noradrenergic neurons (171), but since the tracer was injected into the bloodstream in this study, uptake could have occurred from other circumventricular organs in addition to the median eminence. Lesions of the brainstem, however, do result in degeneration of axon terminals in the median eminence (172). Hypothalamic Neurohypophysial Tract The hypothalamic neurohypophysial tract defines the neuronal system terminating in the posterior pituitary and is best known for its secretion of vasopressin and oxytocin into the peripheral circulation to regulate water balance (antidiuresis), milk ejection and uterine contraction (173). Neurons of this tract arise primarily from the magnocellular division of the paraventricular nucleus and the supraoptic nucleus (174), the latter situated as a cluster of cells dorsal and lateral to the optic chiasm (Fig. 26A-C). The axon trajectory from magnocellular neurons to the posterior pituitary is by way of arching fibers extending laterally and inferiorly from the paraventricular nucleus above and below the fornix toward the supraoptic nucleus, where it gathers fibers from the supraoptic nucleus and continues medially along the base of the hypothalamus into the internal zone of the median eminence. Vasopressin-containing axon terminals have also been demonstrated in the external zone of the median eminence, particularly following adrenalectomy (175), but largely arise from a separate population of parvocellular neurons in the paraventricular nucleus that contain CRH (176). Vasopressin is a weak corticotropic factor but potentiates the secretion of ACTH in the presence of CRH (177) and is responsible for the ACTH rise following hypoglycemia (178). Fig. 26 Organization of the hypothalamic neurohypophysial tract (arrows). Note arching fibers emanating from magnocellular neurons in the paraventricular nucleus (PVN) as they descend toward and join fibers emanating from the supraoptic nucleus (SON). The fiber tract converges in the
