Functional Anatomy of the Hypothalamus and Pituitary
KEYWORDS: neurons, nucleus, hypothalamus, pituitary, hypothalamic, anterior, fig, median, medial, eminence, median eminence, secretion, pvn, lateral, posterior


arching fibers emanating from magnocellular neurons in the paraventricular nucleus (PVN) as they descend toward and join fibers emanating from the supraoptic nucleus (SON). The fiber tract converges in the midline at the base of the hypothalamus in the retrochiasmatic area (arrowheads) before entering the internal zone of the median eminence. III = third ventricle, F = fornix, OC = optic chiasm. Magnocellular neurons of the paraventricular and supraoptic nucleus possess large perikarya and prominent dendrites that interdigitate with adjacent perikarya and dendrites, respectively, of other magnocellular neurons. These dendrites contain numerous hormone-laden neurosecretory granules that can be released by exocytosis (179) and may be important to coordinate the secretion of vasopressin or oxytocin from individual neurons in unison through somato-somatic and/or dendro-dendritic interactions, or alter the sensitivity of these neurons in response to a biologic stimulus such as suckling. Regulation of magnocellular neurons may also depend upon dynamic glial-neuronal interactions in response to specific stimuli, reducing or enlarging the cell to cell contact area between magnocellular neurons by retraction or extension of astrocytic processes that separate perikarya and dendrites (180), or to permit the formation of new synaptic contacts on magnocellular neurons (synaptic plasticity) (181). In addition to vasopressin and oxytocin, magnocellular neurons of the hypothalamic neurohypophysial tract also produce and transport numerous other peptides to the posterior pituitary. These peptides include dynorphin, enkephalin, galanin, cholecystokinin, dopamine, TRH, VIP, neuropeptide Y, substance P, CRH, and endothelin (182-185). A number of different neuropeptides are also carried into the posterior pituitary by axons from parvocellular neurons including GnRH, TRH, somatostatin, enkephalin, neurotensin CRH and dopamine (186). Furthermore, there is evidence that messenger RNA for vasopressin, oxytocin (187) and tyrosine hydroxylase (188) can be transported in axons of the hypothalamic neurohypophysial tract, particularly during osmotic stress. The functional significance of numerous biologically active substances in axons from both magnocellular and parvocellular neurons, other than vasopressin and oxytocin, is of great interest. Since their concentration in the posterior pituitary is low, release into the peripheral circulation for action at a distant locus seems remote. Endothelin-1 may be an exception, however, where co-release with vasopressin into the periphery may assist the effect of vasopressin on water conservation by decreasing glomerular filtration rate (153). Other substances are likely involved in the regulation of vasopressin and oxytocin secretion by a paracrine or autocrine mechanism or by acting presynaptically on nerve endings in the posterior pituitary. Dopamine,
