Functional Anatomy of the Hypothalamus and Pituitary
KEYWORDS: neurons, nucleus, hypothalamus, pituitary, hypothalamic, anterior, fig, median, medial, eminence, median eminence, secretion, pvn, lateral, posterior


substances are likely involved in the regulation of vasopressin and oxytocin secretion by a paracrine or autocrine mechanism or by acting presynaptically on nerve endings in the posterior pituitary. Dopamine, for example, may be important in stimulating vasopressin release during an osmotic challenge (189). Neuropeptide Y has also been shown to enhance the secretion of vasopressin (190) and NPY Y2 receptors are present on nerve endings in the posterior pituitary in high density (191). Some neuropeptides in the posterior pituitary may act as trophic hormones (94), important to promote regeneration of its axon terminals following injury or to increase the proliferation of endothelial cells to promote changes in its vascularization (192). There is considerable evidence, however, that some of the peptides in the posterior pituitary are destined for transport to the anterior pituitary via the short portal vessels, thereby utilizing the posterior pituitary as an accessory median eminence. The most convincing data that the posterior pituitary can influence anterior pituitary function comes from animal studies in which the posterior pituitary is surgically removed. Consequently, the blood flow to the anterior pituitary from the median eminence through the long portal veins is preserved, but the blood flow from the posterior pituitary through the short portal veins is disrupted. These animals have a number of abnormal neuroendocrine responses including a diminished ACTH response to stress (193), elevation in basal prolactin levels (188), and the loss of either suckling or estrogen induced prolactin release (194,195). These responses indicate the requirement of magnocellular derived-vasopressin or some other posterior pituitary secretogogue (CRH, oxytocin, dopamine, TRH, other prolactin releasing factor) to achieve normal physiologic responses. Radiologic Anatomy Magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) gives remarkable detail of the hypothalamus ( Fig. 27 ) and thereby, has become the major radiologic tool to assess pathology in this region of the brain. While individual hypothalamic nuclear groups cannot be identified with this technique, some of the major fiber tracts that traverse the hypothalamus can be seen as high intensity signals, particularly in T-2 weighted images (196). These tracts include the fornix and the mammilothalamic tract, shown in Fig. 27B. Thus, using these fiber pathways as anatomical landmarks, it is possible to radiologically divide the hypothalamus into the two major subdivisions, the medial and lateral hypothalamic areas. In addition, in the most rostral portions of the hypothalamus, the anterior commissure is readily seen by MRI (Fig. 27A), and increased signal in
