Functional Anatomy of the Hypothalamus and Pituitary
KEYWORDS: neurons, nucleus, hypothalamus, pituitary, hypothalamic, anterior, fig, median, medial, eminence, median eminence, secretion, pvn, lateral, posterior


the medial and lateral hypothalamic areas. In addition, in the most rostral portions of the hypothalamus, the anterior commissure is readily seen by MRI (Fig. 27A), and increased signal in the lateral hypothalamus is most likely due to the presence of the medial forebrain bundle (Fig. 27B-D). Fig. 27 MRI of coronal sections through the hypothalamus. (A) Anterior hypothalamus corresponding to Fig. 17A showing location of the anterior commissure (arrows). (B) Mid hypothalamus corresponding to Fig. 17B showing location of the fornix (arrow). (C) Mid hypothalamus corresponding to Fig. 17C showing the optic tract. The fornix can sometimes also be visualized at this level. (D) Caudal hypothalamus corresponding to Fig. 17D at the level of the medial mammillary bodies (arrow). Sometimes the mammilothalamic tract can be visualized at this level. Blood Supply All arteries carrying blood to the hypothalamus are terminal branches of the circle of Willis, including the internal carotid, anterior cerebral, anterior communicating, posterior communicating, posterior cerebral and basilar arteries ( Fig. 13 ). Curiously this arterial circle, named for Thomas Willis’s work published in Cerebri Anatome in 1664 ( Fig. 28 ), had already been described between the end of the 16 th century and beginning of the 17 th century by the Italian anatomists, Fallopius and Casserio (197). These anatomists noted the existence of small arterial branches entering the floor of the third ventricle and surrounding the tuber cinereum in a position that is now well described as the anastomotic circuminfundibular plexus and prechiasmal anastomotic arteriolar-capillary plexus. These two anastomotic plexuses are highly developed in species such as Carnivora, Cetacea, Edentata and Ungulata (198) and likely represent the capillary system that Galen described as the rete mirabilis , given that he worked on animal species and not human brains and the anatomical differences between what he described and what is now recognized as the primary portal plexus (see below). Fig. 28 Original depiction of the arterial circle (or “polygon”) surrounding the hypothalamic infundibulum at the base of the brain, as shown in the Cerebri Anatome (1664) by Thomas Willis and drawn by the British architect, Cristopher Wren. Note the presence of branches to the mammillary bodies but absence of vessels to the infundibulum. (Courtesy of the Library of the Department of Human Anatomy of the University of Parma, Italy.) The vascular supply to the hypothalamus has been extensively studied in man using three-dimensional casts of the
