Functional Anatomy of the Hypothalamus and Pituitary
KEYWORDS: neurons, nucleus, hypothalamus, pituitary, hypothalamic, anterior, fig, median, medial, eminence, median eminence, secretion, pvn, lateral, posterior


tuberal nucleus, MMN = medial mammillary nucleus, MPA = medial preoptic area, PN = posterior hypothalamic nucleus, PV = periventricular nucleus, PVN = paraventricular nucleus, SCN = suprachiasmatic nucleus, SMN = superamammillary nucleus, SON = supraoptic nucleus, VMN = ventromedial nucleus Glymphatic system and dural sinus-associated lymphatics Recent studies in rodents have revealed that fluorescent tracers injected into the arachnoid cisternae can travel along a perivascular network of channels coursing throughout the brain, the hypothalamus included, and contain cerebrospinal fluid (CFS), water, food metabolites (primarily lipids) and proteins arising from tissue degradation/inflammaton (e.g. α-amyloid), coined the glymphatic system (204). Although these findings replicate similar observations made more than 30 years agò using, horseradish peroxidase in dogs and cats (205), it is only recently that it became clear that these channels do originate as a continuation of the subarachnoid cisternae around the arteries dividing inside the brain parenchyma otherwise known as Virchow-Robin spaces. Virchow-Robin spaces are externally lined by the glia limitans that gives rise to a pavement underneath the basal lamina of the perivascular leptomeningeal cells facing the brain parenchyma, whereas a symmetrical leptomeningeal lining embraces the basal lamina of the smooth muscle, arterial cells. Once the arteries enter the depth of the brain matter to become penetrating arterioles and capillaries, they loose both their muscular sheath and perivascular leptomeninges, but a narrow interstitum persists between the basal lamina of the vascular endothelial cells and that of the original subarachnoid cells. The latter basal lamina is ensheated by the endfeet of aquaporin4 (AQP4)-expressing astrocytes that form the external boundaries of the glymphatic interstitium, where they regulate the passage of water and intercellular solutes from the interneuronal spaces into the perivascular CSF, and vice versa . The absence of endothelial tight junctions in circumventricular organs (63) such as the median emince, amplifies the opportunity for reciprocal exchange with blood-born substances. The liquid bulk is passed into a connected perivenular and perivenous space (206) that then drains into the extracranial perivenous lymphatics (207) ( Fig. 29 ). Fig. 29 Composite of different drawings schematizing the 3D organization of the brain glymphatic system with particular reference to the hypothalamic-pituitary unit. A) Distribution by magnetic resonance imaging of paramagnetic contrast (yellow arrows) in paravascular channels of the rat hypothalamus (HYP), pituitary (Pit), and pineal (Pin) recesses following injection into the cisterna magna (adapted from ref. 30). A contingent of glymphatic flow connects the medial-basal
