Functional Anatomy of the Hypothalamus and Pituitary
KEYWORDS: neurons, nucleus, hypothalamus, pituitary, hypothalamic, anterior, fig, median, medial, eminence, median eminence, secretion, pvn, lateral, posterior


channels of the rat hypothalamus (HYP), pituitary (Pit), and pineal (Pin) recesses following injection into the cisterna magna (adapted from ref. 30). A contingent of glymphatic flow connects the medial-basal hypothalamus to the limbic structures and olfactory area (OA) and lobe (OL), ensuring a wide interplay by local soluble materials (volume transmission); B) Structure of the glymphatic channels (adapted from ref. 206): pial arteries (Ar) coursing in the subarachnoid space are surrounded by CSF that flows in the perivascular space, termed the Virchow–Robin space. The arteriolar tunica media is isolated from the CSF by a lining of leptomeningeal cells; however, the CSF-containing Virchow–Robin spaces progressively narrow and finally disappear at the level of capillaries (red rectangle). The CSF continues its flow into perivascular spaces provided only by the extracellular matrix of the basal lamina. Astrocytic vascular endfeet expressing aquaporin-4 (AQP4) surround the entire vasculature and form the boundary of the perivascular spaces. These astrocytes may transfer information carried by solutes in the glymphatic system to surrounding glial cells and neurons, and vice versa; C) the glymphatic spaces are in continiuity with venules and veins (adapted from ref. 204), allowing for glymphatic drainage either into sinus-associated dural lymphatics and venous brain sinuses or exiting the brain into perivenular lymphatics and lymph nodes. (D) Remarkably, the fluid dynamics in the hypothalamic glymphatic channels is affected by alterations in carbohydrate metabolism, such as diabetes mellitus, as a result of enlargement of the paravascular spaces by structural arteriolar and/or venular damage (208). This suggests a potential role for the hypothalamic glymphatic network in regulating the intrahypothalamic exposure of glucose, free fatty acids, and proteins to relevant hypothalamic nuclei involved in the regulation of appetite and satiety (See section on Appetite and Satiety). Similar, transthyretin-coupled thyroid hormones reaching the CSF from the choroid plexus (209) might enter the hypothalamic glymphatic system and act as an amplifier of a thyroid-dependent, volume transmission in the hypothalamus (210), influencing a large array of hypothalamic homeostatic neurons (see section on Functional Anatomy of Hypothalamic Homeostatic Systems). The glymphatic channels are in position to merge with dural lymphatics. The latter were originally described in the dura mater and pia mater in human cadavers in 1787 by the Italian anatomist, Paolo Mascagni (211), and recently rediscovered in rodent models (212,213) as an unexpected anatomical novelty (214), challenging the concept of brain parenchyma as a site of “immune privilege”. Endothelial cells of
