Functional Anatomy of the Hypothalamus and Pituitary
KEYWORDS: neurons, nucleus, hypothalamus, pituitary, hypothalamic, anterior, fig, median, medial, eminence, median eminence, secretion, pvn, lateral, posterior


response to hormonal feedback signals. To demonstrate how the CNS can exert regulatory control over hypophysiotropic neurons, examples of modulation of GH secretion and regulation of the hypothalamic-pituitary-adrenal (HPA), hypothalamic-pituitary-thyroid (HPT), and reproductive axes are given below. Modulation of GHRH/SRIF Tuberoinfundibular Neurons A well-studied example of local afferent influences on the activity of tuberoinfundibular neurons is demonstrated by the hypothalamic regulatory system involved in the control of GH secretion. The pattern of GH secretion is episodic, showing a regular periodicity of one pulse every 2 to 4 hours and low or undetectable trough values (220). This rhythm is the result of the control by two separate components of the tuberoinfundibular system, including GHRH-producing neurons (stimulatory) in the basolateral portion of the arcuate nucleus and somatostatin-producing neurons (inhibitory) in the periventricular nucleus, each secreting into the portal capillary plexus. To coordinate this rhythmic secretion, reciprocal axonal connections between these two populations of neurons may be necessary ( Fig. 30 ). In this manner, somatostatin neurons receive direct, stimulatory inputs from GHRH neurons while GHRH neurons receive direct, inhibitory inputs from somatostatin-containing neurons, which in addition to hormonal feedback signals from the periphery (GH and IGF-1), contribute to a finely tuned regulatory system (221). GH secretion can also be modulated by a number of other factors including glucose and free fatty acids circulating in the bloodstream, but also neurotransmitters and peptides intrinsic to the central nervous system, the latter acting primarily on somatostatin and/or GHRH producing tuberoinfundibular neurons (195). The rise of GH during sleep, for example, is probably mediated by cholinergic pathways suppressing somatostatin secretion (223). Stress and sepsis can also be associated with a rise in GH levels mediated by catecholamines by increasing GHRH (222). The precise origin of the neurons giving rise to these neuromodulators, however, is not known. Glutamate may also be of importance by increasing the secretion of GHRH as N-methyl-D-aspartate increases GH secretion (224), and this can be attenuated by GHRH antibodies (225). In addition, the majority of GHRH neurons in the arcuate nucleus are contacted by axons expressing the glutamate transporter 2 (VGLUT2) (226), a selective marker for glutamatergic elements. PACAP also increases GH secretion, but PACAP knock-outs do not have disturbance in GH release (227,228). Multiple other peptides have also been shown to have either a stimulatory or inhibitory effect on GH secretion but their physiological significance is unknown (229). Fig. 30 Schematic representation
