Functional Anatomy of the Hypothalamus and Pituitary
KEYWORDS: neurons, nucleus, hypothalamus, pituitary, hypothalamic, anterior, fig, median, medial, eminence, median eminence, secretion, pvn, lateral, posterior


(227,228). Multiple other peptides have also been shown to have either a stimulatory or inhibitory effect on GH secretion but their physiological significance is unknown (229). Fig. 30 Schematic representation of the interactions between somatostatin (SRIH)-producing neurons in the hypothalamic periventricular nucleus (Pev) and growth hormone releasing hormone (GHRH)-producing neurons in the arcuate nucleus. Note that in addition to projections to the external zone of the median eminence, these neurons may also have reciprocal connections. Ghrelin (GHR) may also influence GH secretion by acting directly on somatotrophs or through stimulatory effects on GHRH neurons. AP = anterior pituitary, GH = growth hormone, IGF = insulin-like growth factor, ME = median eminence, PP = posterior pituitary. R-SRIH and R-GHRH correspond to receptors for the respective peptides. (Adapted from Epelbaum J: Intrahypothalamic neurohormonal interactions in the control of growth hormone secretion. Functional Anatomy of the Neuroendocrine Hypothalamus, Wiley, Chichester, 1992; pp 54-68.) A relatively new and potentially exciting chapter in the understanding of the physiology of GH secretion has been the discovery of ghrelin, the most potent (on a molar basis) GH secretogogue known to man (230). Ghrelin circulates in the bloodstream, secreted primarily from the stomach, but is also produced by neurons in the hypothalamic arcuate nucleus (231). When administered as a single intravenous dose, it induces an acute release of GH, and when administered contiuously, it increases 24h pulsatile secretion of GH (232). Although the anterior pituitary somatotrophs contain receptors for ghrelin, and ghrelin can directly induce GH secretion, it is more likely that ghrelin exerts its main effects in the hypothalamus by triggering GHRH secretion (233), as pulsatile patterns of plasma or CSF ghrelin do not correlate well to circulating GH concentrations (234). Ghrelin levels fall in response to rising levels of GH, providing evidence for a gastro-hypophysial feedback loop (235). Modulation of CRH Tuberoinfundibular Neurons by Stress Afferent input to tuberoinfundibular neurons from distant loci in the brain is yet another important regulatory mechanism over hypophysiotropic function and is one way that tuberoinfundibular neurons are integrated with other functions of the brain. The parvocellular subdivision of the paraventricular nucleus receives direct, dense, afferent input from autonomic centers in the lower brain stem including the nucleus of the tractus solitarius (NTS), dorsal motor nucleus of the vagus (DMNv) and several catecholamine groups in the dorsal and ventral lateral medulla, carrying visceral sensory information primarily from the abdomen and thorax
