Functional Anatomy of the Hypothalamus and Pituitary
KEYWORDS: neurons, nucleus, hypothalamus, pituitary, hypothalamic, anterior, fig, median, medial, eminence, median eminence, secretion, pvn, lateral, posterior


solitarius (NTS), dorsal motor nucleus of the vagus (DMNv) and several catecholamine groups in the dorsal and ventral lateral medulla, carrying visceral sensory information primarily from the abdomen and thorax through the vagus and glossopharyngeal nerves (236). At least part of this projection is noradrenergic but other substances such as neuropeptide Y (237), activin (238), and GLP-1 (239) are also carried in these fibers, some coexisting in catecholaminergic neurons. After traversing through the medial forebrain bundle in the lateral hypothalamus, axons containing catecholamines have been observed to make numerous synaptic contacts with CRH-producing neurons in the paraventricular nucleus (240,241) and to induce the secretion of CRH primarily via 1 adrenergic receptors (242). In this manner, sensory information from the periphery (e.g. heart rate, blood pressure as during hemorrhagic shock) has the potential to alter the set point for the secretion of hypophysiotropic CRH using norepinephrine as the central mediator, and thereby increase circulating levels of glucocorticoids. In a similar fashion, increased secretion of glucocorticoids in response to infection or inflammation is due to the activation of catecholaminergic neurons of the NTS (A2 noradrenergic, C2 adrenergic) and rostral ventrolateral medulla but initiated by endotoxin and proinflammatory cytokines such as interleukin-1 (IL-1) (243). Under these circumstances, the set point for feedback inhibition of hypophysiotropic CRH secretion is altered to allow the powerful immunosuppressant action of glucocorticoids to limit the severity of the inflammatory response (244). If the ascending catecholamine pathway to the PVN is transected, the ability of IL-1 to increase CRH mRNA in PVN neurons is reduced (245). It is proposed that IL-1 exerts its effect on endothelial cells and/or perivascular microglia at the blood-brain interface, resulting in activation of cyclooxygenase-2 (the rate limiting enzyme for the formation of prostaglandins), the release of prostaglandin E2 (PGE2) into the surrounding tissue, and ultimately activation of catecholaminergic neurons through prostaglandin receptors (246). This hypothesis is supported by the demonstration that focal injection of PGE2 into the medulla reproduces the activating effects of IL-1 on CRH neurons in the PVN (247). Alternatively, cytokines may exert their effects on vascular cells at the blood-brain-barrier directly within the PVN, itself, or after penetrating the blood-brain barrier at circumventricular organs such as the OVLT, and then transmitting the information through neural pathways that interconnect these structures with the PVN (246, see Thermoregulation below). Neurogenic stress also leads to resetting of the HPA axis and similarly characterized by
