Functional Anatomy of the Hypothalamus and Pituitary
KEYWORDS: neurons, nucleus, hypothalamus, pituitary, hypothalamic, anterior, fig, median, medial, eminence, median eminence, secretion, pvn, lateral, posterior


the information through neural pathways that interconnect these structures with the PVN (246, see Thermoregulation below). Neurogenic stress also leads to resetting of the HPA axis and similarly characterized by elevated circulating glucocorticoid levels and increased CRH gene expression in hypophysiotropic neurons (243). However, the mechanism would appear to be vastly different than that described above as indicated by persistent HPA activation under these conditions despite disruption of the ascending catecholaminergic pathways to the PVN (248). CRH neurons receive inputs from other portions of the brain such as the forebrain limbic system, and surgical ablation of hippocampal efferents to the hypothalamus (249) or lesions in the bed nucleus of the stria terminalis (250) increase the concentration of CRH mRNA in the paraventricular nucleus. In addition, activation of NPY neurons originating in the hypothalamic arcuate nucleus may contribute to increased CRH cellular activity induced by insulin hypoglycemia (251,252). Interactions among axon terminals containing GABA, glutamate and endocannabinoids may also contribute to modulation of stress-induced activation of CRH neurons (253). Thus, while the end result to increase circulating levels of glucocorticoids is similar in all stress paradigms, depending upon the type of stress, different regions of the brain are recruited to allow resetting of the HPA axis. The mitogen activated protein (MAP) kinase signaling pathway may be a common final mechanism in hypophysiotropic CRH neurons that links a variety of different stimuli that activate the HPA axis to an increase in CRH gene expression (254-256). Stress and glucocorticoid-induced synaptic plasticity of the neural circuitry regulating hypophysiotropic CRH neurons may also contribute to regulation of the HPA axis, particularly in the face of chronic stress (253). The circuitry described above that allows resetting of the HPA axis is illustrated in Fig. 31 . Fig. 31 Schematic diagram showing autonomic regulation of corticotropin-releasing hormone (CRH) neurons of the hypothalamic tuberoinfundibular tract. (1) Visceral sensory information carried by the glossopharyngeal (IX) and vagus (X) nerves terminates in lower brain stem autonomic centers which (2) project to CRH neurons in the paraventricular nucleus (PVN), (3) modulating the secretion of CRH into the portal capillary system in the median eminence (ME). Descending pathways from the PVN reach autonomic centers in the (4) lower brainstem and (5) spinal cord and can influence the autonomic nervous system. (6) CRH neurons also receive direct input from the limbic system via bed nucleus of the stria terminalis. IML = intermediolateral cell
