Functional Anatomy of the Hypothalamus and Pituitary
KEYWORDS: neurons, nucleus, hypothalamus, pituitary, hypothalamic, anterior, fig, median, medial, eminence, median eminence, secretion, pvn, lateral, posterior


cord and can influence the autonomic nervous system. (6) CRH neurons also receive direct input from the limbic system via bed nucleus of the stria terminalis. IML = intermediolateral cell column of the spinal cord. (Schematic diagram based on rat data and modified from Sawchenko PE, Swanson LW, Science 1981; 214:685-687.) Modulation of TRH Tuberoinfundibular Neurons by Fasting and Infection Elucidation of the mechanisms by which the hypothalamic-pituitary-thyroid (HPT) axis responds to fasting provides another excellent example of how afferent input from neurons arising outside of the PVN can influence the secretion of hypophysiotropic neurons. Similar to the feedback mechanisms controlling the adrenal axis, maintenance of normal thyroid function is dependent upon a negative feedback control system. Circulating levels of thyroid hormone (T4 and T3) influence the biosynthesis and secretion of TRH in hypophysiotropic neurons in the PVN (Fig. 32A,B) and TSH in the anterior pituitary (219), although a role for thyroid hormone-induced upregulation of the TRH degrading enzyme, pyroglutamyl peptidase II, expressed in tanycytes has also been proposed by regulating the amount of TRH released into the portal system (257). In response to fasting or infection, however, this normal homeostatic system is altered in a way that is presumably beneficial for survival. Under these circumstances, there is a fall in circulating thyroid hormone levels but a seemingly paradoxical reduction in TRH gene expression in the PVN (Fig. 32C,D), reduced secretion of TRH into the portal blood and low or inappropriately normal plasma TSH (258-261), rather than the anticipated increase in all of these parameters as seen in primary hypothyroidism. Thus, during fasting, the normal feedback mechanism described above is overridden, and a state of central hypothyroidism is transiently induced. Presumably, by reducing thyroid thermogenesis and preserving nitrogen stores, this mechanism is an important adaptive response to reduce energy expenditure until the adverse stimulus is removed (262). Fig. 32 High magnification in situ hybridization autoradiographs of proTRH mRNA in the paraventricular nucleus (PVN) of a (A) euthyroid and (B) hypothyroid animal. Note marked increase in TRH mRNA when circulating levels of thyroid hormone fall. Low magnification in situ hybridization autoradiographs of proTRH mRNA in the PVN of (C) normal fed and (D) fasting animals. Hybridization signal is markedly reduced in the fasting animals despite low circulating levels of thyroid hormone. The HPT axis is primarily modulated by afferent input derived from the hypothalamus, itself. At least two anatomically distinct populations
