Functional Anatomy of the Hypothalamus and Pituitary
KEYWORDS: neurons, nucleus, hypothalamus, pituitary, hypothalamic, anterior, fig, median, medial, eminence, median eminence, secretion, pvn, lateral, posterior


the fasting animals despite low circulating levels of thyroid hormone. The HPT axis is primarily modulated by afferent input derived from the hypothalamus, itself. At least two anatomically distinct populations of neurons in the arcuate nucleus with opposing functions, proopiomelanocortin (POMC)-producing neurons that also co-express cocaine and amphetamine-regulated transcript (CART), and NPY-producing neurons that co-express agouti related peptide (AGRP), appear to be responsible (170,263-265). Both neuronal populations express receptors for the white adipose tissue-derived circulating hormone, leptin, and project to hypophysiotropic TRH neurons in the PVN through a monosynaptic, arcuate-PVN pathway (266-268). Alpha-MSH, a translation product of POMC, and CART (originally described as a mRNA induced in the striatum following psychostimulant drug administration) both induce transcription of the TRH gene in hypophysiotropic neurons (159,263), whereas NPY and AGRP are inhibitory (264,265), NPY via direct effects on Y1 and Y5 receptors on TRH neurons (269), and AGRP by antagonizing -MSH at melanocortin receptors (270). Thus, during fasting when circulating levels of leptin decline, expression of the genes encoding POMC and CART are reduced simultaneously with a marked increase in the genes encoding NPY and AGRP (271,272), effectively lowering the threshold of feedback inhibition of hypophysiotropic TRH by circulating levels of thyroid hormone. This important homeostatic system, which is present in all animal species studied including man, is illustrated in Fig. 33 . Fig. 33 Schematic representation of the regulatory system involved in establishing the set point for feedback regulation of TRH mRNA in hypophysiotropic neurons in the hypothalamic paraventricular nucleus in (A) fed and (B) fasted states. Insets in A and B are in situ hybridization autoradiograms of coronal sections through the rat hypothalamus showing the effect of fasting to reduce TRH mRNA in the PVN. ARC = arcuate nucleus, PVN = paraventricular nucleus. Circulating thyroid hormone levels also fall in association with severe illnesses and infection (272), but use a different set of regulatory controls. This is based on the observation that both POMC and CART gene expression are increased in the arcuate nucleus (273) and circulating levels of leptin are elevated under these conditions (274). In addition, norepinephrine secretion is increased in the PVN, and ordinarily would be expected to stimulate the secretion of TRH (275). The precise anatomical pathways and mediators that override the activating effects of catecholamines, leptin and α-MSH on TRH neurons are not yet known. However, type 2 iodothyronine deiodinase (D2), an enzyme that converts
