Functional Anatomy of the Hypothalamus and Pituitary
KEYWORDS: neurons, nucleus, hypothalamus, pituitary, hypothalamic, anterior, fig, median, medial, eminence, median eminence, secretion, pvn, lateral, posterior


pathways and mediators that override the activating effects of catecholamines, leptin and α-MSH on TRH neurons are not yet known. However, type 2 iodothyronine deiodinase (D2), an enzyme that converts thyroxine into the more biologically active thyroid hormone, tri-iodothyronine, is expressed in tanycytes and D2 expression and enzymatic activity is substantially increased by endotoxin (276). Given the location of tanycytes in the median eminence in contact with both the CSF and blood in the portal vascular plexus, and evidence that they express the thyroid hormone transporter, monocarboxylate transporter 8 (MCT8) (277), it is conceivable that tanycytes contribute to the fall in circulating thyroid hormone associated with infection by increasing the concentration of T3 in the mediobasal hypothalamus and suppressing the synthesis of TRH in hypophysiotropic neurons by local feedback regulation. Hence, tanycytes may extract T4 from the bloodstream or the CSF, convert T4 to T3, and then release T3 into the CSF that could diffuse into the PVN by volume transmission (278) after moving between ependymal cells lining the third ventricle; release T3 directly into the median eminence that could be taken up by TRH axon terminals and then transported retrogradely to the PVN; and/or concentrate in arcuate nucleus neurons that have known projections to TRH neurons in the PVN (263,267,268,279). This mechanism is supported by observations demonstrating that the administration of LPS to D2 KO mice prevents the anticipated reduction in TRH mRNA observed in WT animals (280). T3 may also be released into the portal capillary system for conveyance to the anterior pituitary and contribute to the mechanism whereby endotoxin inhibits the secretion of TSH. The hypothesized regulatory mechanism is schematized in Fig. 34 . Fig. 34 Proposed mechanism for D2-regulation of the hypothalamic-pituitary-thyroid axis following the administration of LPS. LPS increases D2 activity in tanycytes resulting in increased T4 to T3 conversion. [1] T3 is released from tanycyte apical processes into the CSF for conveyance to the paraventricular nucleus, or [2] taken up from hypophysiotropic TRH axonal processes in the median eminence and transported retrogradely back to its cell body in the paraventricular nucleus. [3] T3 may also be released into the portal capillary system and directly inhibit the secretion of TSH. Local tissue hyperthyroidism inhibits TRH in the paraventricular nucleus. (From Lechan, R. M.; Fekete, C., Role of thyroid hormone deiodination in the hypothalamus. Thyroid 2005, 15, (8), 883-997.) Regulation of GnRH Secretion Pulses of GnRH
