Functional Anatomy of the Hypothalamus and Pituitary
KEYWORDS: neurons, nucleus, hypothalamus, pituitary, hypothalamic, anterior, fig, median, medial, eminence, median eminence, secretion, pvn, lateral, posterior


in the paraventricular nucleus. (From Lechan, R. M.; Fekete, C., Role of thyroid hormone deiodination in the hypothalamus. Thyroid 2005, 15, (8), 883-997.) Regulation of GnRH Secretion Pulses of GnRH initiate the pulsatile release of anterior pituitary gonadotropins, and changes in the GnRH pulse frequency dictate how much LH and FSH ultimately will be released (281,282). This intermittent signal is of critical importance for pubertal development and necessary for the regulation and maintenance of normal reproductive function throughout the ovulatory cycle. In the absence of episodic GnRH release, such as with continuous, exogenous administration of GnRH, the synthesis and secretion of gonadotropins are profoundly suppressed as a result of desensitization of GnRH receptors (283). The central mechanisms governing the pulsatile secretion of GnRH may involve a variety of factors, but the most important would appear to be the recently discovered kisspeptin/G protein-coupled receptor 54 (GPR54) neuroregulatory system (284,285). The kisspeptins derive from a single precursor but comprise a group of peptide molecules ranging from 10-54 amino acids, all capable of binding and activating the G-protein coupled receptor GPR54 with similar efficacy (285,286). In humans, kisspeptin-54 has also been termed metastin on the basis that it was originally recognized to suppress cancer metastasis (287). GnRH-producing neurons are located primarily in the preoptic region in rodents, but in all animal species give rise to axons that project caudally to terminate in the external zone of the median eminence (288). Although GnRH neurons may have intrinsic oscillatory characteristics that might explain the pulsatile secretion of GnRH (289,290), evidence would support the importance of GPR54 and the kisspeptins in modulating their secretory responses and in particular, the resurgence of GnRH pulsatility during puberty. Namely, both humans and animals with GRP54 deficiency have hypogonadotropic hypogonadism despite normal development of GnRH neurons and normal LH and FSH secretion in response to GnRH (281,291), GPR54 mRNA is expressed by GnRH neurons (291), central and peripheral administration of kisspeptins potently induce gonadotropin secretion (292,293), kisspeptin-induced LH secretion can be blocked with GnRH receptor antagonists (293,294), kisspeptin depolarizes ~90% of GnRH neurons in adult mice (295), and transgenic mice with targeted disruption of the Kiss1 gene (that gives rise to the kisspeptins) has an identical phenotype as transgenic mice deficient in GPR54 (296). As brief intravenous infusions of kisspeptin every hour for 48h induce pulsatile LH discharges similar to those observed during puberty, whereas continuous kisspeptin infusion in mice
