Functional Anatomy of the Hypothalamus and Pituitary
KEYWORDS: neurons, nucleus, hypothalamus, pituitary, hypothalamic, anterior, fig, median, medial, eminence, median eminence, secretion, pvn, lateral, posterior


deficient in GPR54 (296). As brief intravenous infusions of kisspeptin every hour for 48h induce pulsatile LH discharges similar to those observed during puberty, whereas continuous kisspeptin infusion in mice or monkeys downregulate LH secretion by desentensitizing GRP54 (297-300), it has been proposed kisspeptin-producing neurons comprise the pulse generator for GnRH neurons or at the very least, amplify the activity of the pulse generator (301). Neurons producing the kisspeptins are located in the hypothalamic arcuate nucleus and in some species, the anteroventral paraventricular nucleus (AVPV) (300), and express the alpha estrogen receptor (302). Curiously, these two populations are regulated inversely to each other. Thus, kisspeptin gene expression in arcuate nucleus neurons increases following ovariectomy and decreases with estrogen administration, whereas the reverse occurs in anteroventral paraventricular cells (299,300). It has been proposed, therefore, that these two, kisspeptin neuronal populations may mediate the negative and positive feedback effects of estrogen on GnRH neurons (303), with the AVPV neurons involved in the estradiol/progesterone-induced preovulatory GnRH/LH surge (304). Functional heterogeneity among the two kisspeptin neuronal populations is exemplified by the observation that kisspeptin neurons in the AVPV are sexually dimorphic, being particularly prominent in females, but virtually absent in males secondary to increased testosterone levels in males during development, and explain the inability of male rodents to mount a LH surge (305,306). In addition, the arcuate nucleus population of kisspeptin neurons co-express neurokinen B and dynorphin (307), that contribute to the pulsatile release of GnRH by increasing kisspeptin (308). Arcuate nucleus kisspeptin neurons also mediate the inhibitory effects of anorexia on reproductive function via a leptin-dependent mechanism (309). Kisspeptin-containing axon terminals have been observed to terminate on hypophysiotropic GnRH neurons, but only the minority of cells and with surprisingly few boutons (299,301). In contrast, kisspeptin-containing axons heavily inundate the median eminence and extensively intermingle with GnRH-containing axon terminals (299,301). Although axo-axonal interactions between kisspeptin- and GnRH-containing axon terminals have not been observed (299), these specializations may not be required for physiologic function in the median eminence. Evidence that peripheral administration of kisspeptin has a similar potent action on LH secretion as central administration (281), and physiologic data showing that exogenous administration of kisspeptin to hypothalamic explants deficient in GnRH neurons still potently release LH into the medium (297), strengthen the possibility that kisspeptin‘s actions may be directly on GnRH axon terminals in the median eminence. Figure 35 summarizes a hypothesized mechanism for the
