Functional Anatomy of the Hypothalamus and Pituitary
KEYWORDS: neurons, nucleus, hypothalamus, pituitary, hypothalamic, anterior, fig, median, medial, eminence, median eminence, secretion, pvn, lateral, posterior


LH into the medium (297), strengthen the possibility that kisspeptin‘s actions may be directly on GnRH axon terminals in the median eminence. Figure 35 summarizes a hypothesized mechanism for the neuroendocrine regulation of GnRH neurons by kisspeptin. Glial-neuronal interactions in the median eminence and in contact with GnRH cell bodies may also be involved in regulating the delivery of GnRH to the portal system. In the median eminence, two mechanisms have been proposed (310-313). The first involves the release of glutamate, prostaglandins and growth factors from tanycytes that induce the secretion of GnRH from their axon terminals in the median eminence. The second involves plastic rearrangements between tanycyte end foot processes and GnRH axon terminals, allowing or disallowing secreted GnRH from entering portal capillaries. Thus, it is proposed during the preovulatory gonadotrophin surge, estrogen binds to alpha type estrogen receptors on tanycytes and induces tanycyte end feet retraction through PGE2-dependent production of TGF1, allowing GnRH axon terminals to establish better contact with the portal vessels (314). Estrogen may also affect the synthesis of adhesion molecules such as polysialylated neuronal cell adhesion molecule (PSA-N-CAM) and synaptic cell adhesion molecule (SynCAM) that facilitate glial-neuronal interactions and remodeling (310,311). The release of nitric oxide from portal vessel endothelial cells may also participate in tanycyte retraction by affecting actin cytoskeleton remodeling (314). Astrocytes have also been observed to enwrap GnRH perikarya and may similarly induce the release of GnRH through the release of PGE2 and/or TGF (313). It has also been hypothesized that astrocytes contribute to the mechanism whereby GnRH neurons are synchronized to generate the pulsatile release of the neuropepide (313). Fig. 35 Proposed mechanism for the regulation of GnRH secretion by kisspeptin. Two populations of kisspeptin neurons, oppositely regulated by estrogen, impinge on GnRH neurons in the medial preoptic nucleus that project to the neural-hemal contact zone in the median eminence. Kisspeptin-containing axon terminals may also interact with GnRH axon terminals in the median eminence. Modulation of Vasopressin Secretion and Osmoregulation Maintenance of the appropriate solute concentration in plasma (osmotic homeostasis) and plasma volume (volume homeostasis) is dependent upon two major factors, the perception of thirst and the ability to synthesize and secrete the antidiuretic hormone, arginine vasopressin from magnocellular neurons in the hypothalamic PVN (315). These two factors are closely interrelated such that amount of vasopressin circulating in the periphery is proportional to the plasma osmolality (316). Vasospressin induces cAMP and
