Functional Anatomy of the Hypothalamus and Pituitary
KEYWORDS: neurons, nucleus, hypothalamus, pituitary, hypothalamic, anterior, fig, median, medial, eminence, median eminence, secretion, pvn, lateral, posterior


in the ventral lateral medulla (236). Fig. 36 Schematic drawing of the major pathways involved in regulation of vasopressin secretion. Information about osmolality is relayed to the hypothalamus largely through osmoreceptor cells in the organum vasculosum of the lamina terminalis (OVLT), subfornical organ (SFO) and medial preoptic nucleus (MnPO). Baroregulatory information is carried to magnocellular neurons in the paraventricular nucleus (PVN) and supraoptic nucleus (SON) largely by direct afferent projections from the brainstem including the bed nucleus of the stria terminalis (NST) and ventrolateral medulla (VLM) using catecholamines as its neurotransmitter, or indirectly through the parabrachial nucleus (PBN). Vasopressin secretion can also be stimulated by activation of the chemoreceptor trigger zone in the area postrema (AP). (Adapted from Stricker and Verbalis, Fundamental Neuroscience, ch 42, pp 1111-1126, 1999.) As described for hypothalamic tuberoinfundibular neurons, the threshold for vasopressin secretion by neurons of the magnocellular neurosecretory system can also be modified by their afferent signals as well as circulating factors. For example, the osmotic threshold for vasopressin release can be altered by glucocorticoids. Dexamethasone attenuates the vasopressin response to salt loading (328) and hypoadrenalism is commonly associated with the syndrome of inappropriate secretion of antidiuretic hormone (SIADH) that can be corrected by glucocorticoid administration (329). These effects are exerted directly on vasopressin neurons given the presence of glucocorticoid receptors in these cells (330). Other causes for SIADH, however, such as pulmonary disease and central nervous system disorders may be mediated through afferent pathways to the PVN. Hormone mediators of these projections include vasoactive intestinal polypeptide (VIP), acetylcholine, angiotensin II, neuropeptide Y and noradrenaline, among numerous others (331,332). Appetite and Satiety The demonstration that discrete regions of the hypothalamus control food intake was based on the early studies of Hetherington and Ranson (333) in 1940 showing that localized lesions of the hypothalamus result in obesity. These observations were seemingly confirmed in man when Reeves and Plum (334) reported that a discrete lesion (hypothalamic hamartoma) involving the hypothalamic ventromedial nucleus in a 28 year old woman was associated with increased food consumption and profound obesity. In contrast, bilateral lesions of the lateral hypothalamus in animals result in anorexia and weight loss (333). Thus, the concept of a hypothalamic ventromedial nucleus satiety center and lateral hypothalamic orexigenic center that can be influenced by peripheral signals was developed, and dominated thinking about the hypothalamic control of feeding for several decades. It was not until 1994,
