Functional Anatomy of the Hypothalamus and Pituitary
KEYWORDS: neurons, nucleus, hypothalamus, pituitary, hypothalamic, anterior, fig, median, medial, eminence, median eminence, secretion, pvn, lateral, posterior


lateral hypothalamic orexigenic center that can be influenced by peripheral signals was developed, and dominated thinking about the hypothalamic control of feeding for several decades. It was not until 1994, however, when the discovery of leptin revolutionized thinking on the mechanisms governing appetite and satiety (335). Leptin serves as an important humeral signal that reflects body fat stores, and by acting on discrete regions in the hypothalamus, orchestrates the behavioral, metabolic, and neuroendocrine adaptations to nutrient availability (270,271,336-339). Thus, during nutrient abundance, leptin secretion is increased, leading to decreased appetite and increased caloric disposal, whereas nutrient insufficiency leads to decreased leptin secretion, resulting in increased appetite, energy conservation, and a shift to a neuroendocrine profile that facilitates metabolic adaptation. A major site of leptin’s action is the mediobasal hypothalamus, primarily the hypothalamic arcuate nucleus via specific receptors (Ob-Rb) that influence the activities of two separate groups of neurons with opposing functions through a number of signaling pathways that include Jak-STAT, PI3k-Akt-FoxO1, SHP2-ERK, AMPK, mTOR-S6K (340-342). These neurons include -MSH-producing neurons that co-express CART, and AGRP neurons that co-express NPY (301). These neurons send monosynaptic projections to identical target regions within discrete regions of the hypothalamus where the signals are integrated and then relayed by independent pathways to regions of the brain governing feeding behavior, energy expenditure, and hypophysiotropic function (271,336-338). When circulating leptin levels are suppressed, such as during fasting, expression of genes encoding proteins that promote weight loss, and energy expenditure, α-MSH and CART, are reduced simultaneously with a marked increase in the genes encoding proteins that promote weight gain and reduce energy expenditure, AGRP and NPY. Cooperation between the opposing components of the regulatory system governing appetite and satiety is underscored by the biological action of AGRP as both a competitive antagonist and inverse agonist at melanocortin receptors (MC3r and MC4r) (270,343). Thus, during fasting, the rise in AGRP cooperates in down regulation of melanocortin signaling by antagonizing the action of -MSH concurrently with inhibition of the POMC gene. Reciprocal connections between the arcuate nucleus NPY/AGRP neurons and α-MSH/CART neurons also are present (344), suggesting an even greater complexity to this regulatory system. It is becoming increasingly recognized that the melanocortin signaling system may be the predominant regulatory system governing appetite and satiety. Whereas animals with targeted deficiency of NPY have an essentially normal phenotype and intact responses to fasting (345), animal models with targeted deletion of the
