Functional Anatomy of the Hypothalamus and Pituitary
KEYWORDS: neurons, nucleus, hypothalamus, pituitary, hypothalamic, anterior, fig, median, medial, eminence, median eminence, secretion, pvn, lateral, posterior


system governing appetite and satiety. Whereas animals with targeted deficiency of NPY have an essentially normal phenotype and intact responses to fasting (345), animal models with targeted deletion of the type 4 melanocortin receptor (MC4r) and in humans bearing mutations that interfere with the function of the MC4r, the POMC gene, or the processing enzymes necessary to generate a fully mature -MSH, develop a severe obesity syndrome (346-349). Loss of tone in the melanocortin signaling system as a result of senescence of the arcuate nucleus POMC neurons may also explain the tendency for weight gain with aging (350,351). Conversely, studies by Wisse et al (352) and Marks et al (353) have demonstrated that cancer cachexia can be prevented in experimental animals by the administration of melanocortin receptor antagonists. Maintaining adequate tone in the melanocortin signaling system, therefore, would appear to have an especially important role in the maintenance of normal body weight. The arcuate nucleus is a main sensor of circulating levels of leptin, and by projecting to several different regions in the brain, provide the mechanism whereby leptin is capable of integrating a host of responses involved in energy homeostasis. The arcuate-PVN projection pathway has an important role in regulation of the thyroid axis (see above). Thus, hypophysiotropic TRH neurons in the medial parvocellular PVN receive direct projections from NPY/AGRP- and -MSH/CART-producing neurons in the arcuate nucleus, altering the set point at which circulating thyroid hormone inhibits TRH (154,234-236). The end result during fasting is suppression of the HPT axis as a way to reduce energy expenditure. Other targets in the PVN include neurons in the anterior and ventral parvocellular subdivisions of the PVN on the basis that these neurons show phosphorylation of CREB following the central administration of α-MSH (354). Both subdivisions receive a high density of axons containing α-MSH and AGRP derived from the arcuate nucleus (355,356). Thus, these regions may be involved in some of the other actions of leptin including the regulation of feeding and/or energy disposal. This concept is supported by the observation that focal injections of α-MSH or α-MSH agonists directly into the PVN reduces feeding and can fully replicate the reduced feeding responses following icv administration (357). Conversely, α-MSH antagonists injected into the PVN have a potent effect to increase feeding (358). Since anterior parvocellular PVN neurons project to the limbic system (lateral septum and amygdala) (359,360), it is possible that this
