Functional Anatomy of the Hypothalamus and Pituitary
KEYWORDS: neurons, nucleus, hypothalamus, pituitary, hypothalamic, anterior, fig, median, medial, eminence, median eminence, secretion, pvn, lateral, posterior


the PVN have a potent effect to increase feeding (358). Since anterior parvocellular PVN neurons project to the limbic system (lateral septum and amygdala) (359,360), it is possible that this part of the PVN is involved in the behavioral manifestations of feeding. The ventral parvocellular subdivision is involved in the regulation of the autonomic nervous system through descending projections to brainstem and spinal cord targets (160,360,361). This region, therefore, may be involved in the regulation of energy disposal by controlling heat loss from brown adipose tissue through effects on uncoupling protein-1 (UCP-1) (362 and by affecting lipolysis and proteolysis in white fat and muscle, respectively (363). A population of POMC-responsive, glutamatergic PVN neurons descends to the parabrachial nucleus, now also considered to be an important brainstem nucleus involved in the suppression of appetite (364). Some parabrachial neurons project to the central nucleus of the amygdala using calcitonin gene-related transcript as a transmitter (365), implicating the central nucleus of the amygdala as another important node in the satiety pathway. Descending projections from leptin-responsive PVN neurons may also modulate the sensitivity of brainstem neurons to satiety signals originating from the gastrointestinal tract, mediated at the level of brainstem nuclei (366,367), and have been shown to affect the anorexigenic effects of peripherally administered CCK (368). Oxytocin may be one of several PVN-derived peptides relaying forebrain information about appetite and satiety to the brainstem (369). In addition to the PVN, leptin-responsive neurons in the arcuate nucleus synapse on two separate populations of neurons in the lateral hypothalamus that produce melanin-concentrating hormone (MCH) and orexin (370). These neurons project to multiple regions of the brain including the cerebral cortex, midbrain and pons including the ventral tegmental area (VTA) and the nucleus accumbens, well-recognized reward centers involved in hedonic eating and addiction (371). MCH acts as an endogenous stimulator of food intake and its mRNA is increased during fasting (372,373) whereas orexin promotes arousal responses (374) that would have an essential role in permitting food-seeking behavior during periods of nutrient deficiency. Orexin also increases gastric contractility through projections to the brainstem, and by reducing gastric distension, suppresses satiety signals carried by the vagus nerve (375). Thus, during caloric restriction, activation of orexin- and MCH-producing neurons would have several actions to promote increased food ingestion and promote weight gain through effects on appetite, behavior and the incentive to feed. Leptin-responsive, CART-producing neurons in the arcuate nucleus also
