Functional Anatomy of the Hypothalamus and Pituitary
KEYWORDS: neurons, nucleus, hypothalamus, pituitary, hypothalamic, anterior, fig, median, medial, eminence, median eminence, secretion, pvn, lateral, posterior


have several actions to promote increased food ingestion and promote weight gain through effects on appetite, behavior and the incentive to feed. Leptin-responsive, CART-producing neurons in the arcuate nucleus also project directly to the intermediolateral cell column of the spinal cord (376), indicating their importance in autonomic control. Leptin receptors are also expressed by other hypothalamic nuclear groups including the caudal part of the hypothalamic dorsomedial nucleus (DMN) and the dorsomedial division of the ventromedial nucleus (VMN) (377). Evidence that leptin-responsive regions of the brain other than the arcuate nucleus contribute to the regulation of feeding has been demonstrated by only a modest reduction in hyperphagia after the leptin receptor has been re-expressed selectively in arcuate nucleus of animals with leptin deficiency (378,379). The DMN has extensive projections to the PVN, particularly portions involved in autonomic control, as well as direct brainstem projections to the dorsomotor complex of the vagus (380). In addition, the DMN receives extensive projections from the arcuate nucleus, including projections from NPY/AGRP- and -MSH/CART-leptin-responsive neurons (267,268). As lesions of the DMN produce hypophagia and reduce linear growth, this nucleus has an important role in the homeostatic control of feeding behavior (381). The DMN may also mediate the anorexic effect of cholecystokinin-8 (CCK-8) (382) through projections from CCK-8-producing neurons in the superior lateral subdivision of the parabrachial nucleus (383). The VMN has been long implicated in the regulation of feeding behavior as lesions of the VMN produce hyperphagia (384). However, these observations were likely due to transection of surrounding fiber pathways. Because the dorsomedial portion of the VMN projects to the subparaventricular zone, it has been proposed that leptin-sensitive VMN neurons may have a role in circadian rhythms (271). The brainstem also contributes to leptin-regulated neuroendocrine responses involved in feeding, particularly the dorsal vagal complex (DVC) (385). The DVC is an important relay center in the brainstem for visceral sensory information carried by the vagus nerve from the liver GI tract, but also receives descending information from the forebrain including the PVN (336). Glucagon-like peptide (GLP-1)-producing neurons in the DVC have been shown to be leptin responsive (386), and this peptide has potent anorexic effects (387). NPY-producing neurons in the hypothalamic arcuate nucleus have been proposed as the primary target for GLP-1 due to the high concentration of GLP-1 receptors in this region and because GLP-1 can inhibit NPY-induced feeding (388,389). However, the arcuate nucleus contains relatively
