Functional Anatomy of the Hypothalamus and Pituitary
KEYWORDS: neurons, nucleus, hypothalamus, pituitary, hypothalamic, anterior, fig, median, medial, eminence, median eminence, secretion, pvn, lateral, posterior


the primary target for GLP-1 due to the high concentration of GLP-1 receptors in this region and because GLP-1 can inhibit NPY-induced feeding (388,389). However, the arcuate nucleus contains relatively few GLP-1-containing nerve terminals as compared to the PVN and DMN (390), and discrete injections of GLP-1 into the PVN are capable of suppressing feeding (391). Leptin also enhances the anorexic effects of CCK (see below) that can be diminished by selective knock-out of leptin receptors in the DVC (392). Leptin also has important effects on dopaminergic neurons in the ventral tegmental area (VTA), that mediates motivated and reward-seeking behaviors including food consumption, as selective knock-out of the leptin receptor in this area results in increased feeding (393). In addition to leptin, a number of gut peptides contribute to the central regulation of appetite and satiety (Table 10), either by acting directly on the hypothalamic arcuate nucleus or transmitted through the DVC via vagal and spinal afferent neurons (394-396). Among these are insulin, cholecystokinin (CCK), peptide YY (3-36), pancreatic polypeptide (PP), GLP-1, amylin, oxyntomodulin and ghrelin (397). Like leptin, levels of insulin vary with adiposity (395) and are suppressed by fasting and increased by eating. In addition, the intracerebroventricular administration of insulin reduces food intake and body weight (398) and prevents fasting-induced increases of NPY and AGRP mRNA in arcuate nucleus neurons (399). Amylin is co-released with insulin in response to a meal and functions as an anorectic hormone through effects on serotonin, dopamine and histamine (400). Both CCK and pYY are secreted by the gut in response to feeding and may have a role in the termination of eating, CCK through effects on receptors in visceral sensory axons that travel in the vagus nerve (401) and pYY through blood-borne inhibitory signals exerted through Y2 receptors on NPY/AGRP neurons in the hypothalamic arcuate nucleus (402). In addition to the central GLP-1 system described above, GLP-1 is also released into the circulation after a meal from the distal small intestine and colon, decreasing food intake through a vagal mechanism (403). Oxyntomodulin, which like GLP-1 derives from the same intestinal cells by posttranslational processing of proglucagon, binds to the GLP-1 receptor and has similar actions on reducing food intake that are abolished in the GLP-1 receptor knockout mouse (404). However, this peptide also appears to increase energy expenditure, raising the possibility of its particular utility in the treatment of obesity (405). As
