Functional Anatomy of the Hypothalamus and Pituitary
KEYWORDS: neurons, nucleus, hypothalamus, pituitary, hypothalamic, anterior, fig, median, medial, eminence, median eminence, secretion, pvn, lateral, posterior


in the GLP-1 receptor knockout mouse (404). However, this peptide also appears to increase energy expenditure, raising the possibility of its particular utility in the treatment of obesity (405). As its name suggests, PP derives from the pancreas and inhibits food intake by binding to Y4 receptors in the DVC and arcuate nucleus and through effects mediated by the vagus nerve (406). Ghrelin, produced primarily by the stomach, is secreted directly into the bloodstream, but as opposed to all other identified gut-derived peptides, ghrelin stimulates food intake and is highest just prior to a meal and falls after eating (407). Thus, ghrelin may have a primary role in meal initiation. Its target is also the hypothalamic arcuate nucleus, increasing the expression of NPY/AGRP mRNAs (408) and inhibiting POMC neurons (409). However, vagotomy abolishes ghrelin-stimulated eating (410), indicating that ghrelin may also signal through the brainstem. Hypersecretion of ghrelin has been proposed as a mechanism for the morbid obesity associated with the Prader Willi syndrome (411). Nevertheless, treatment of Prader Willi patients with somatostatin analogues that suppresses circulating levels of ghrelin, does not improve the hyperphagia associated with this disorder (412), indicating that other mechanisms are responsible or that compensatory mechanisms take place. A second peptide derived from the ghrelin gene has been recently identified, obestatin, but its role in the regulation of appetite requires further characterization. Curiously, obestatin appears to suppress food intake (413). Nesfatin-1 has also been found to co-localize with ghrelin in gastric cells (414) and has potent satiety effects (415). While circulating nesfatin-1 can cross the blood-brain-barrier and inhibit NPY neurons in the arcuate nucleus (416), the peptide is highly expressed in the lateral hypothalamus in MCH neurons (417) and in the PVN and may be under the regulation of -MSH (415). New and potentially exciting chapters in gut-brain signaling relates to the importance of bile acids (418) and gut microbiota (396) in influencing central neural signaling primarily to affect energy homeostasis, but the mechanisms by which this takes place have yet to be fully elucidated. Thyroid hormone should probably also be considered as a circulating hormone involved in appetite regulation through actions on the hypothalamus. Thyrotoxicosis is commonly associated with hyperphagia both in experimental animal models and humans (419-423), although the mechanism(s) by which this occurs are uncertain. Ishii et al (421) have shown an increase in hypothalamic NPY mRNA following the administration of thyrotoxic doses
