Functional Anatomy of the Hypothalamus and Pituitary
KEYWORDS: neurons, nucleus, hypothalamus, pituitary, hypothalamic, anterior, fig, median, medial, eminence, median eminence, secretion, pvn, lateral, posterior


and humans (419-423), although the mechanism(s) by which this occurs are uncertain. Ishii et al (421) have shown an increase in hypothalamic NPY mRNA following the administration of thyrotoxic doses of T3, perhaps secondary to T3-induced increase in neuronal uncoupling protein 2 in NPY neurons (424). Nevertheless, T3-associated hyperphagia is only partially attenuated by a NPY receptor antagonist, indicating that other mechanisms must also be operable. The hypothalamus is richly endowed with thyroid hormone receptors (425,426), and nuclear T3 concentrations in hypothalamic extracts are elevated following the systemic administration of thyrotoxic doses of T3 or T4 (427). Recent studies by Kong et al (428) have demonstrated that the systemic administration of superphysiologic doses of T3 increase immediate early gene expression in the hypothalamic ventromedial nucleus. In addition, microinjection of T3 into the hypothalamic ventromedial nucleus induces a 4-fold increase in food intake during the first hour following injection. These data suggest a direct effect of T3 on the hypothalamus to induce feeding. Evidence that the nuclear T3 concentrations in the hypothalamus are elevated following the systemic administration of thyrotoxic doses of T3 or T4 (427) further substantiates this hypothesis. The coincidence that rats display a nocturnal pattern of feeding and that hypothalamic deiodinase activity follows a circadian pattern that increases during the night which may have the effect of increasing local tissue levels of T3 (423,428), provides circumstantial evidence for the potential importance of thyroid hormone to regulate feeding by increasing local, neural tissue concentrations of T3. White adipose-derived peptides (adipokines) other than leptin are also believed to have important roles in the regulation of appetite and energy expenditure (429). In particular, adiponectin serves as a starvation signal to preserve fat stores, increasing in the plasma with fasting. Adiponection, thereby, functions inversely to leptin in the brain by binding to the adiponectin receptor 1 (AdipoR1) in the arcuate nucleus, and by activating AMPK, increases food intake and reduces energy expenditure by suppressing UCP-1 in brown adipose tissue (430). Recent attention has also been given to the role of neurotransmitters and endocannabinoids in the regulation of food intake and energy expenditure (431,432). The cannabinoid receptor, type 1 (CB1) is the primary cannabinoid receptor in the central nervous system (433), and has a widespread distribution that includes the hypothalamus and limbic structures (434). Endogenous ligands for CB1, anandamide (AEA) and 2-arachidonoyl glycerol (2-AG), inhibit synaptic release of transmitters in both excitatory and
