Functional Anatomy of the Hypothalamus and Pituitary
KEYWORDS: neurons, nucleus, hypothalamus, pituitary, hypothalamic, anterior, fig, median, medial, eminence, median eminence, secretion, pvn, lateral, posterior


a widespread distribution that includes the hypothalamus and limbic structures (434). Endogenous ligands for CB1, anandamide (AEA) and 2-arachidonoyl glycerol (2-AG), inhibit synaptic release of transmitters in both excitatory and inhibitory terminals (435). Since endocannabinoids are synthesized by neurons postsynaptic to axon terminals containing CB1 receptors, they are actually a retrograde signaling system. Neuronal release of endocannabinoids, therefore, regulates the activity of the cells’ own CB1-containing innervation. Endocannabinoids exert orexigenic effects when injected into the hypothalamus and may mediate the effects of ghrelin to increase food intake, block the inhibitory input to MCH neurons in the lateral hypothalamus and attenuate the excitatory input of anorexigenic neurons in the paraventricular nucleus (436,437). Endocannabinoids also activate the mesolimbic dopamine system that is involved in hedonistic eating (see below). With respect to neurotransmitters, selective removal of the GABA transporter from AGRP neurons, for example, results in a lean phenotype, even on a high fat diet (438), whereas the selective deletion of leptin receptors from all neurons that express the GABA vesicular transporter develop marked hyperphagia (439). Serotonin is also known to have a profound effect on food intake, probably by acting on a subset of POMC neurons in the hypothalamic arcuate nucleus that express serotonin 2C receptors (440). Thus, two populations of POMC neurons have been proposed, those responsive to leptin that increase energy expenditure and those responsive to serotonin that reduce food intake (439). Heterogeneity of POMC neurons in the arcuate nucleus as defined by GABAergic and glutamatergic phenotypes has recently been recognized (441), although the physiologic significance is still uncertain. As noted above, dopamine has also been associated with reward-related food intake mediated through leptin-responsive, dopamine-producing neurons in the VTA (442). Dopamine has a major role in the regulation of reward processing including the desire for drugs of abuse and sweet foods (443). Recent evidence has linked impaired dopamine transmission in the mesolimbic nervous system to dietary obesity (444). Nutrient sensing by the brain also appears to contribute to the regulation of appetite and satiety. Hypoglycemia increases food intake, presumably as a result of glucose deprivation on brainstem catecholamine neurons which project to the hypothalamus (445); the amino acid, L-leucine, but not other branched chain amino acids, exerts its anorexic actions by activating the mammalian target of rapamycin, mTORC1 pathway, in arcuate nucleus NPY/AGRP neurons by reducing NPY and AGRP (446) and in the caudomedial nucleus of the NTS (447); and
