Functional Anatomy of the Hypothalamus and Pituitary
KEYWORDS: neurons, nucleus, hypothalamus, pituitary, hypothalamic, anterior, fig, median, medial, eminence, median eminence, secretion, pvn, lateral, posterior


by activating the mammalian target of rapamycin, mTORC1 pathway, in arcuate nucleus NPY/AGRP neurons by reducing NPY and AGRP (446) and in the caudomedial nucleus of the NTS (447); and fatty acids inhibit food intake by suppressing AMP-activated protein kinase (AMPK) in arcuate nucleus which similarly reduces NPY (448). Alpha-MSH-producing neurons in the arcuate nucleus are also excited by glucose-mediated closure of ATP-sensitive potassium (K ATP ) channels (449). The importance of this mechanism has been shown by Parton et al (450), demonstrating that expression of a mutant form of the K ATP channel subunit Kir6.2b in α-MSH-producing neurons that impairs ATP-mediated closure of K ATP channels, results in impaired glucose tolerance. In addition to the major role of the hypothalamus and brainstem in the regulation of eating, many other regions of the brain are also involved, particularly in the human brain (51). As noted above, dopaminergic neurons in the ventral tegmental area and substantial nigra that project to the nucleus accumbens, striatum and orbitofrontal cortex are involved in hedonic feeding, leading individuals to seek highly rewarding, high caloric foods. Emotional eating may be mediated by projections from the amygdala to the hypothalamus to initiate a huner response. Finally, cognitive control systems in the prefrontal cortex can allow for self-restraint, even though food may seem highly appealing. A summary diagram of the complex mechanisms involved in the regulation of appetite and satiety is shown in Fig. 37 . Fig. 37 Simplified schematic representation of some of the regulatory factors and pathways involved in the regulation of appetite and satiety. Circulating factors derived from fat, pancreas, liver and the gastrointestinal tract converge on the hypothalamus and/or brainstem to orchestrate a series of responses that promote increased appetite, decreased energy expenditure, activation of mesolimbic reward centers and reduce circulating thyroid hormone levels. Note similarities of target regions in the brain by several regulatory factors, particularly for AGRP/NPY and -MSH/CART neurons in the hypothalamic arcuate nucleus. The endocannabinoid system exerts regulatory effects on neurons in multiple regions of the brain. Other regions of the brain including the amygdala, hippocampus, and prefrontal cortex also have important roles in the regulation of eating. ARC= arcuate nucleus, DMN= dorsomedial nucleus, DVC= dorsal vagal complex, LH= lateral hypothalamus, PVN= paraventricular nucleus, SNS=sympathetic nervous system, VMN= ventromedial nucleus. Lactation Suckling is a well-recognized physiological stimulus for increased prolactin secretion from the anterior pituitary gland and oxytocin from the
