Functional Anatomy of the Hypothalamus and Pituitary
KEYWORDS: neurons, nucleus, hypothalamus, pituitary, hypothalamic, anterior, fig, median, medial, eminence, median eminence, secretion, pvn, lateral, posterior


hypothalamus, PVN= paraventricular nucleus, SNS=sympathetic nervous system, VMN= ventromedial nucleus. Lactation Suckling is a well-recognized physiological stimulus for increased prolactin secretion from the anterior pituitary gland and oxytocin from the magnocellular, neurohypophysial system (452). This stimulus is relayed to the hypothalamus via the spinal cord and brainstem (453,454), although the precise intrahypothalamic pathways involved have not been precisely elucidated (455). Using c-fos as a marker for neuronal activation, several potential relay centers in the brainstem have been identified including the ventrolateral medulla (A1 catecholamine cell group), locus coeruleus, lateral parabrachial nucleus, caudal portion of the paralemniscal nucleus, and lateral and ventrolateral portions of the caudal part of the periaqueductal gray (456). By inhibiting tuberoinfundibular dopamine neurons in the arcuate nucleus and increasing prolactin releasing factors in tuberoinfundibular neurons in the hypothalamic PVN and posterior pituitary (457), these signals permit high circulating levels of prolactin, particularly when dopamine has been inhibited. Putative prolactin releasing factors include thyrotropin-releasing hormone, oxytocin, serotonin, opioid peptides and TIP39, although the latter may function by increasing dynorphin (455). Prolactin also feeds back on dopamine neurons in the arcuate nucleus to inhibit the release of dopamine (458), but this ultrashort feedback loop is inhibited during lactation by dissociation of electrical activity and dopamine release from dopamine neurons, allowing for sustained elevations in prolactin in response to suckling (459). Prolactin is not only important for the synthesis and maintenance of milk secretion, but contributes to the physiologic responses that complement lactation including the development of material behavior and inhibition of reproductive function (452). These effects are facilitated by upregulation of prolactin receptors in the choroid plexus during lactation (460), allowing increased entry of prolactin from the circulation into the brain through a carrier-mediated transport system, as well as in several hypothalamic nuclear groups including the medial preoptic nucleus, PVN, supraoptic nucleus and arcuate nucleus (461). In particular, binding of prolactin to its receptor in the medial preoptic nucleus may be important for maternal behavior, as antagonizing prolactin receptors with a specific prolactin receptor antagonist injected directly into the preoptic area delays the onset of material behavior (462). In addition, inhibition of pulsatile gonadotropin secretion associated with lactation may be at least partly mediated by the effects of prolactin on GnRH neurons in this region (452), although recent evidence for suckling-induced inhibition of kisspeptin gene expression in arcuate nucleus neurons may also be contributory (463.464). Suckling also results in
