Functional Anatomy of the Hypothalamus and Pituitary
KEYWORDS: neurons, nucleus, hypothalamus, pituitary, hypothalamic, anterior, fig, median, medial, eminence, median eminence, secretion, pvn, lateral, posterior


on GnRH neurons in this region (452), although recent evidence for suckling-induced inhibition of kisspeptin gene expression in arcuate nucleus neurons may also be contributory (463.464). Suckling also results in a marked increase in NPY gene expression in arcuate nucleus neurons (465,466), mediated both by neuronal afferents relayed from the brainstem and by the fall in circulating levels of leptin brought about by negative energy balance resulting from milk production (467). As described above (see C. Appetite and Satiety), NPY is a powerful orexigenic substance. Its increase during suckling, therefore, has been proposed to explain the hyperphagia associated with lactation to meet the energy demands imposed by milk production (467), although other changes are also observed in arcuate nucleus neurons that may contribute to hyperphagic responses including an increase in AGRP gene expression and decrease in POMC and CART mRNAs (468,469), similar to that described above for fasting. NPY-containing axon terminals of arcuate nucleus origin also richly innervate the medial preoptic region and can be found in close proximity to GnRH neurons (470). The suckling-induced rise in NPY, therefore, may also contribute to inhibition of reproductive function (469) through direct actions on GnRH neurons by binding to NPY Y5 receptors (471). The other major component of the suckling response is the effect on oxytocin release from the posterior pituitary to allow milk ejection. While some of the anatomical pathways responsible for this response may parallel with those inducing prolactin secretion, distinct pathways are also likely to exist. Particularly remarkable about this mechanism is that during suckling, oxytocin neurons on both sides of the hypothalamus in the paraventricular and supraoptic nucleus are synchronized to release oxytocin in a pulsatile manner throughout the suckling stimulus. This coordinated pattern of release may be regulated by afferent inputs to the oxytocin neurons that include glutamatergic neurons arising in the lateral septum and bed nucleus of the stria terminalis (455). Anatomic plasticity of the oxytocin neurosecretory system also contributes through reraction of astoglial processes that normally separate oxytocin neurons, allowing for increased somatic appositions (472). Local release of oxytocin from somata and dendrites (intranuclear release) in response to suckling may also contribute by modulating the effect of neurotransmitters, increasing oxytocin gene expression and through local effects on astroglia to promote somatic appositions (455). The circuitry involved in the coordinated responses to suckling is illustrated in Fig. 38 . Fig. 38 Schematic drawing of the major
