Functional Anatomy of the Hypothalamus and Pituitary
KEYWORDS: neurons, nucleus, hypothalamus, pituitary, hypothalamic, anterior, fig, median, medial, eminence, median eminence, secretion, pvn, lateral, posterior


effects on astroglia to promote somatic appositions (455). The circuitry involved in the coordinated responses to suckling is illustrated in Fig. 38 . Fig. 38 Schematic drawing of the major pathways involved in lactation. Suckling leads to neurogenic responses mediated through the medulla to inhibit dopamine secretion in arcuate nucleus (ARC) neurons and stimulate oxytocin (OXY) secretion in paraventricular (PVN) neurons. Prolactin and oxytocin exert effects on the breast, but prolactin also gains entry into the CNS to affect maternal behavior and inhibit reproductive function by acting on medial preoptic neurons (mPOA), and further inhibit the secretion of dopamine from ARC neurons. Milk production leads to a fall in circulating levels of leptin causing an increase in NPY and AGRP and inhibition of POMC in ARC neurons. NPY is also increased by neurogenic signals from the brainstem. Inhibitory effects of NPY on GnRH-producing neurons in the mPOA contributes to inhibition of reproductive function. NPY also exerts direct effects on the PVN to induce increase feeding and promote energy conservation. Thermoregulation The hypothalamus is the primary locus for coordinating thermoregulatory information and integrating thermoregulatory responses (473,474). It continually monitors local brain temperature through temperature sensitive neurons and by utilizing thermoreceptors in the skin, abdominal cavity and spinal cord, and then orchestrates a series of responses to maintain normal, core body temperature by utilizing the autonomic nervous system, altering behavior, and through neuroendocrine responses. Thyroid hormone is a necessary component for heat regulation, since in its absence (myxedema), hypothermia commonly develops. Although thermosensitive neurons can be found throughout the hypothalamus (475) the most important thermoregulatory locus is the preoptic region including neurons in medial and lateral portions of the preoptic nucleus, anterior hypothalamus including the perifornical region, dorsomedial nucleus and nearby regions of the septum. Although most of the data on the anatomy of thermogenesis arises from work in rodents, evidence that the preoptic/anterior hypothamus is also the critical hypothalamic area for regulating thermogenesis in humans is apparent by functional MRI (478). Preoptic cooling increases heat production by inducing shivering, or by nonshivering thermogenesis mediated by sympathetic activation of uncoupling protein-1 (UCP-1) in brown adipose tissue that allows mitochondria to generate heat from ATP, and by increasing intermediary metabolism in muscle and other parenchymal organs. In addition, cooling induces heat retention responses by cutaneous vasoconstriction and redirecting blood flow from cutaneous to deep vascular beds, results in behavioral responses (seek warmer environment,
