Functional Anatomy of the Hypothalamus and Pituitary
KEYWORDS: neurons, nucleus, hypothalamus, pituitary, hypothalamic, anterior, fig, median, medial, eminence, median eminence, secretion, pvn, lateral, posterior


other parenchymal organs. In addition, cooling induces heat retention responses by cutaneous vasoconstriction and redirecting blood flow from cutaneous to deep vascular beds, results in behavioral responses (seek warmer environment, put on more cloths, increase food intake), and in some animal species, increases thyroid thermogenesis by activating the hypothalamic-pituitary-thyroid axis (477). Conversely, preoptic warming reduces heat production and increases heat loss responses through vasoconstriction, sweating, increased respiration (panting), inhibition of UCP-1 in brown adipose tissue, and specific behavioral responses (475). Two types of thermosensitive neurons can be found in the preoptic region, warm sensitive neurons that increase their firing rate when preoptic temperature rises and cold sensitive neurons that increase their firing when preoptic temperature falls (475). However, the warm sensitive neurons predominate both in cell number and in importance of the regulatory responses for both heat loss and heat production mechanisms. Thus, lesions involving the preoptic region per se are commonly characterized by abnormalities in heat dissipation and lead to hyperthermia and elevated temperature in brown adipose tissue (478). Surprisingly, the neurotransmitter/peptide mediators and pathways mediating thermoregulatory responses are not precisely known. When injected directly into the preoptic area, however, a number of different substances can induce hypothermic or hyperthermic responses ( Table 11 ). Since thermoregulation involves the coordination of multiple responses that can differ between animal species (i.e. panting in the dog, increased salivation in the rat which can be applied to the fur to enhance evaporative heat loss, sweating in man), it is logical that several different pathways are employed at the same time. Evidence suggests that efferent pathways governing shivering involve ipsilateral and crossed fibers (479) that traverse the median forebrain bundle to terminate in the posterior hypothalamus, using GABA as a neurotransmitter (480). The pathway continues caudally through the midbrain, dorsolateral to the red nucleus, and interacts with reticulospinal neurons. It then proceeds through the reticulospinal tract, to innervate -motor neurons in the ventral horn of the spinal cord. Regulation of heat production in brown adipose tissue also proceeds from preoptic neurons through the medial forebrain bundle to hypothalamic nuclear groups involved in autonomic regulation, particularly the PVN, but also the DMN and VMN (480). The PVN has direct efferent projections to preganglionic neurons in the intermediolateral column of the spinal cord which give rise to the sympathetic innervation of brown adipose tissue (481). Regulation of cutaneous blood flow also proceeds from thermosensitive neurons
