Functional Anatomy of the Hypothalamus and Pituitary
KEYWORDS: neurons, nucleus, hypothalamus, pituitary, hypothalamic, anterior, fig, median, medial, eminence, median eminence, secretion, pvn, lateral, posterior


in the intermediolateral column of the spinal cord which give rise to the sympathetic innervation of brown adipose tissue (481). Regulation of cutaneous blood flow also proceeds from thermosensitive neurons in the preoptic region through axons descending in the medial forebrain bundle, but likely relayed to neurons in ventrolateral portions of the midbrain periaqueductal gray (PAG) before proceeding to sympathetic preganglionic neurons in the spinal cord. PAG neurons show strong c-fos induction following unilateral preoptic region heating (482) and induce cutaneous vasodilatation when stimulated (483). Preoptic warming also inhibits vasoconstrictor neurons in the medullary raphe (raphe magnus and pallidus) (484) that have projections directly to preganglionic sympathetic neurons in the intermediolateral column of the spinal cord (485). Pathways mediating behavioral changes associated with thermoregulation are unknown. Table 11 Substances That Exert Thermoregulatory Effects in the CNS View in own window HYPOTHERMIC HYPERTHERMIC ACETYLCHOLINE CRH ANGIOTENSIN II GABA CCK OPIOID PEPTIDES DOPAMINE PROGESTERONE ESTROGEN PROSTAGLANDINS α-MSH SEROTONIN NEUROTENSIN TRH NOREPINEPHRINE OPIOID PEPTIDES SOMATOSTATIN SUBSTANCE P VASOPRESSIN Under normal circumstances, there is a diurnal variation of body temperature, highest in late afternoon and early evening and lowest in morning upon arising. The hypothalamic suprachiasmatic nucleus controls this rhythm, and would appear to do so through direct projections to the dorsal portion of the subparaventricular zone, a region just ventral to the PVN (see F. Circadian Rhythmicity). Thus, bilateral focal lesions in the dorsal subparaventricular zone disrupts the circadian variation of body temperature, whereas bilateral lesions of the PVN, itself, is without effect (486). Since the subparaventricular zone has prominent projections to the preoptic area (487), it is presumed that the suprachiasmatic nucleus relays information to thermosensitive neurons in the preoptic region by a multisynaptic pathway involving the subparaventricular zone (486). However, the precise targets in the preoptic region from subparaventricular zone neurons have not yet been identified. The set point for temperature regulation is also sensitive to circulating levels of sex steroids, with core body temperature falling just prior to the midcycle surge in women and rising during the luteal phase (488,489). Estrogen, itself, would appear to be responsible for the fall in temperature in the late follicular phase by increasing the firing rate of preoptic warm sensitive neurons (490), whereas progesterone increases temperature in the luteal phase by decreasing the firing rate of preoptic warm sensitive neurons and, perhaps, increasing the firing rate of cold sensitive neurons (491). Both steroids readily
