Functional Anatomy of the Hypothalamus and Pituitary
KEYWORDS: neurons, nucleus, hypothalamus, pituitary, hypothalamic, anterior, fig, median, medial, eminence, median eminence, secretion, pvn, lateral, posterior


increases temperature in the luteal phase by decreasing the firing rate of preoptic warm sensitive neurons and, perhaps, increasing the firing rate of cold sensitive neurons (491). Both steroids readily pass the blood-brain barrier and thereby are presumed to act directly on thermosensitive neurons in the preoptic nucleus (492). Not unexpectedly, therefore, the lack of estrogen in the postmenopausal period gives rise to altered thermoregulatory responses (hot flashes) that occurs in over 80% of this group, and can be readily reversed by the administration of estrogen. It has been proposed that in the absence of estrogen, the sensitivity of warm sensitive neurons to even small increases in body temperature is increased (493). Along these lines, it is of interest that in one study, the frequency of hot flashes was greatest during the afternoon and evening when body temperature normally rises under the influence of the suprachiasmatic nucleus circadian pacemaker (494). The therapeutic response of some women with postmenopausal hot flashes to clonidine (495), an 2-adrenergic agonist, would indicate that catecholamines also participate in the heat loss responses. Under certain circumstances, there is an adaptive advantage to elevate body temperature beyond the normal physiologic range that is highly conserved among animal species. Such is the situation during infection, when fever is a necessary response to facilitate recovery by improving the efficiency of immune cells and impairing replication of microorganisms (496,497). This homeostatic response is achieved by altering the thermoregulatory set point in medial preoptic neurons, but through a different mechanism than described above. Under these circumstances, it is proposed that circulating endotoxin and proinflammatory cytokines interact with specific receptors on vascular endothelial cells and/or subendothelial microglia in the OVLT, resulting in activation of cyclooxygenase and production of PGE2 (498,499). PGE2 released into the surrounding tissue binds to neighboring warm sensitive neurons in the median preoptic nucleus that express EP3 prostaglandin receptors (500), which by reducing GABAergic inhibition of thermogenic neurons in the hypothalamic paraventricular and dorsomedial nuclei and/or brainstem rostral ventromedial medulla (rMR, comprised of serononergic neurons in the raphe pallidus and magnus, sympathetic premotor neurons), influence sympathetic preganglionic neurons in the spinal intermediolateral cell column that contribute to the generation of fever, cutaneous vasomotion, tachycardia and shivering (501-503). The proposed mechanism is schematized in Fig 39. Fig. 39 Schematic drawing showing major pathways of the temperature control center. Heat sensors in the median preoptic hypothalamus (MnPO) project to neurons in
