Functional Anatomy of the Hypothalamus and Pituitary
KEYWORDS: neurons, nucleus, hypothalamus, pituitary, hypothalamic, anterior, fig, median, medial, eminence, median eminence, secretion, pvn, lateral, posterior


mechanism is schematized in Fig 39. Fig. 39 Schematic drawing showing major pathways of the temperature control center. Heat sensors in the median preoptic hypothalamus (MnPO) project to neurons in the hypothalamic paraventricular nucleus (PVN) and dorsomedial nucleus (DMN) or directly to the raphe pallidus (RPa) in the brainstem to control autonomic responses mediated through preganglionic neurons in the spinal cord. Blatteis et al (462) suggest an alternative mechanism for fever induction in which PGE2 release into the preoptic region is mediated by norepinephrine, arising in noradrenergic (A2 cell group) neurons in the ventrolateral medulla. This is based on the observation that in guinea pigs, the intra-preoptic microdialysis of 2-receptor antagonists potentiate the febrile response to LPS (505). The mechanism proposed involves activation of hepatic branches of the vagus nerve by mediators (possibly PGE2) produced by liver Kupffer cells following the systemic administration of LPS. Vagal afferent signals are then carried to the nucleus tractus solitarius in the brainstem, and after projecting to noradrenergic neurons in the ventrolateral medulla (A2), ascend in the ventral noradrenergic pathway and medial forebrain bundle to terminate in the preoptic region. Ek et al (505) have also demonstrated in the rat that the intravenous administration of interleukin-1 is capable of activating vagal sensory neurons in the nodose ganglion and can be attenuated by inhibitors of prostaglandin synthesis. In addition to inducing fever, endotoxin simultaneously activates an endogenous, counterregulatory, antipyretic response, to prevent body temperature from rising too severely. This is largely achieved by stimulating the hypothalamic-pituitary-adrenal axis (see above) that exerts a dampening effect on the cytokine response, but more specifically by the direct antipyretic actions of -MSH within the CNS (506). The latter situation occurs only in association with cytokine activation, as -MSH has no effect on temperature regulation in the absence of fever (506,507). Alpha-MSH arises from the neuronal population in the hypothalamic arcuate nucleus (273), and while it is unknown precisely where -MSH exerts its actions, the preoptic region including the VMPO is heavily innervated by axon terminals containing -MSH, suggesting a direct effect on thermosensitive neurons (508). Alpha-MSH is also contained in axons that heavily innervate autonomic regulatory neurons in the parvocellular PVN and the hypothalamic DMN, providing an alternative route for regulatory control over vasomotor responses and heat generation. While it is clear that the transient receptor potential ion channels, including TRP vanilloid 1 (TRPV1), TRPV3, TRPV4 and TRPV8, are
