Functional Anatomy of the Hypothalamus and Pituitary
KEYWORDS: neurons, nucleus, hypothalamus, pituitary, hypothalamic, anterior, fig, median, medial, eminence, median eminence, secretion, pvn, lateral, posterior


for regulatory control over vasomotor responses and heat generation. While it is clear that the transient receptor potential ion channels, including TRP vanilloid 1 (TRPV1), TRPV3, TRPV4 and TRPV8, are involved as heat receptors in the periphery (503), it remains controversial whether these receptors contribute to thermoregulatory responses at the level of the preoptic nucleus (509). TRPV1 mRNA is present in the hypothalamus, and administration of capsaicin, a ligand for TRPV1, directly into the preoptic hypothalamus induces hypothermic responses, suggesting activation of warm-sensitive neurons (510,511). Nevertheless, mice deficient in TRPV1 show normal thermoregulation when placed in a warm environment (512), raising questions about the physiologic importance of TRPV1 in central thermoregulatory responses. The recent discovery of substantial amounts of brown adipose tissue in adult humans by 18 F-FDG PET/CT scanning (513,514) has indicated that similar to smaller mammals, brown adipose tissue may also play an important role in whole body thermogenesis in man. It has been proposed that when stimulated to produce heat, just a few grams of brown adipose tissue is adequate to increase daily energy expenditure in humans by ~20% (515). Conversely, transgenic mice lacking UCP1 have reduced thermogenic capacity and a propensity to gain weight (516). Knowledge of the regulatory circuits and factors that govern thermogenesis in brown adipose tissue (see above and section C. Appetite and Satiety), therefore, has provided insight for the development of innovative molecular and pharmacological approaches to achieve weight loss (517), although still at a preliminary stage. Circadian Rhythmicity Circadian rhythms are genetically determined, cyclic modifications of specific physiological functions and behaviors, generated through endogenous mechanisms in nearly all living organisms (518,519). The basic organization of the circadian timing system includes an endogenous rhythm generator or pacemaker (also called endogenous clock or zeitgeber ), a light-dark receptive system to entrain the endogenous clock to the time of day mediated by retinal photoreceptors (mainly cones) and visual pathways (retinohypothalamic pathway), and an efferent neural system coupling the pacemaker activity with effector systems in the brain that give rise to specific physiological functions and behaviors (518,519). The master clock in mammals is the hypothalamic suprachiasmatic nucleus (SCN), a small, paired nucleus embedded in the dorsal surface of the optic chiasm. Contained within this nucleus are multiple, small neurons that produce autonomous, self-sustaining oscillations synchronously firing to generate a common rhythmic output, perhaps mediated by the local release of GABA (520,521). If the SCN is
