Functional Anatomy of the Hypothalamus and Pituitary
KEYWORDS: neurons, nucleus, hypothalamus, pituitary, hypothalamic, anterior, fig, median, medial, eminence, median eminence, secretion, pvn, lateral, posterior


are multiple, small neurons that produce autonomous, self-sustaining oscillations synchronously firing to generate a common rhythmic output, perhaps mediated by the local release of GABA (520,521). If the SCN is lesioned bilaterally, “free-running circadian rhythmicity” is produced, characterized by disruption of the sleep-wake cycle and loss of predictable daily oscillations in feeding, drinking, melatonin secretion and the secretion of some anterior pituitary hormones (522,523). Normal rhythmicity can be restored if the SCN is transplanted back into the lesioned animals (524). Molecular mechanisms for the endogenous pacemaker activity of SCN neurons have been attributed to clock genes that include period (per ), Clock , Cryptochrome ( Cry ), and Bmal (518,519). Circadian oscillations in a number of other gene products mediated by microRNA (miR) has also been described in other tissues such as the liver (miR-122), retina (miR-26) and brain circuitries involved in locomotion (miR279) without any requirement for miRNA rhythmicity. Presumably this mechanism involves translational regulation of clock protein mRNA by miR accumulation, and/or functional heterogeneity of miRNA species in a single, constitutively expressed miR population (525). In addition, beyond transcriptional-translational feed-back loops occuring intracellularly, increasing evidence suggests that timekeeping mechanisms can be also controlled through non-transcriptional oscillators (NTO). Examples of NTO in mammals are the redoxbased rhythms in post-translational modification of the antioxidant peroxiredoxin (PRX) proteins found in mouse liver and human red blood cells, suggesting that NTO can be coupled to classical transcriptional-translational feedback loops to regulate circadian rythmiticy (526). Two different subdivisions of the SCN have been described, a ventrolateral and dorsomedial subdivision (450,518). The ventrolateral subdivision or “core”, receives the major input to the SCN, including a massive projection of pituitary adenyl cyclase-activating peptide (PACAP)- and nitric oxide (NO)-containing axons from the retinohypothalamic pathway, GABA- and NPY-containing axonal projections from the intergeniculate leaflet of the thalamus, and serotonin neurons from the midbrain raphe (518,519). These inputs have an important role in modulating the endogenous rhythms of the individual SCN pacemaker cells during the day / night alternance and as a result of changes in locomotor activity (527). The dorsomedial subdivision or “shell”, primarily serves as the field for afferent information coming from the limbic system (hippocampus, bed nucleus of the stria terminalis, septum) and the hypothalamus, itself. It is likely that through these inputs, cognitive and emotional information may exert phase-shifting effects on SCN pacemaker activity (528). Both subdivisions are composed of a heterogeneous population of
