Functional Anatomy of the Hypothalamus and Pituitary
KEYWORDS: neurons, nucleus, hypothalamus, pituitary, hypothalamic, anterior, fig, median, medial, eminence, median eminence, secretion, pvn, lateral, posterior


itself. It is likely that through these inputs, cognitive and emotional information may exert phase-shifting effects on SCN pacemaker activity (528). Both subdivisions are composed of a heterogeneous population of immunocytochemically distinct neurons. The ventrolateral SCN contains neurons that express vasoactive intestinal polypeptide (VIP), gastric-releasing peptide and GABA (518). The VIP-containing population seems to play a role in coordinating the different SCN neuronal groups involved in entraining different cyclic activities, thus ensuring intra-SCN synchrony (528). Dorsomedial neurons express arginine vasopressin (AVP), angiotensin II, somatostatin, GABA (518) and prokineticin 2 (PK2) (529). PK2 neurons have a distribution similar to AVP cells, and would be active during the light phase to favour locomotor patterns and thermoregulation, whereas they would remain silent at night (530). However, while ventrolateral subdivision neurons receive light information, most of these neurons do not produce rhythmic patterns (531). In contrast, the dorsomedial subdivision does contain rhythmic neurons, particularly apparent for AVP-producing neurons in which the peptide peaks during the day and is lowest at night (532). This rhythmic pattern is partly secondary to the presence of binding sites for clock genes in the AVP promoter region (533), but also dependent upon synaptic transmission from other SCN neurons (534), perhaps those in the ventrolateral subdivision through intra-SCN connections (535) where VIP-containing cells are the best candidates (529). The SCN has massive projections to three major regions of the diencephalon. The most important is the hypothalamic subparaventricular zone (SPVZ). Projections from the dorsal SPVZ reach the medial preoptic hypothalamus and are involved in the regulation of body temperature set-point and food-dependent energy intake (528). In contrast, projections from the ventral SPVZ heavily innervate the hypothalamic dorsomedial nucleus and, to lesser extent, the midline thalamus, midbrain reticular formation and basal forebrain. These outputs entrain photic stimuli with changes in food intake, rest/locomotion behavior, sleep-wake phases and pituitary hormone secretions. The second major projection is a GABAergic fiber tract to the hypothalamic PVN, and is primarily related to the secretion of melatonin from the pineal gland (528,536,537) by way of a multisynaptic pathway involving dorsal parvocellular neurons in the PVN, preganglionic cholinergic neurons in the intermediolateral cell column of the spinal cord, and postganglionic noradrenergic neurons in the superior cervical ganglion (537,538). Melatonin is of importance as a humoral signal that feeds back on the SCN through melatonin receptors expressed in this nucleus, to facilitate sleep onset by communicating information concerning initiation
