Functional Anatomy of the Hypothalamus and Pituitary
KEYWORDS: neurons, nucleus, hypothalamus, pituitary, hypothalamic, anterior, fig, median, medial, eminence, median eminence, secretion, pvn, lateral, posterior


Melatonin is of importance as a humoral signal that feeds back on the SCN through melatonin receptors expressed in this nucleus, to facilitate sleep onset by communicating information concerning initiation and length of the dark phase (450,452). In addition, it regulates immune function, is of particular importance for reproductive activity in animals with seasonal breeding patterns (540,541), and participates in accommodating pituitary function with the shift to torpor in hibernators (542,543). In homeothermic mammals, melatonin has been implicated in the inhibition of pituitary TSH biosynthesis at night (529). A direct projection to the PVN may also mediate the day / night shift of anterior pituitary hormone secretion. In rats, the SCN inhibits hypophysiotrophic CRH release through excitatory AVP outputs impinging onto GABAergic PVN interneurons. In contrast, through direct SCN AVP outputs to tuberoinfundibular CRH cells (and possibly glutammateric inputs), release of CRH is triggered just before awaking, establishing circadian oscillation in the ACTH-glucocorticoid axis. At the same time, autonomic PVN neurons are activated to stimulate the downstream, spinal, sympathetic outflow to the adrenal gland, resulting in incresed ACTH sensitivity of the zona fasciculata (544,545). However, circadian oscillations in CRH, ACTH and glucocorticoid release can also be regulated by the endogenous clock genes, per1, per2 and Bmal1, that exhibit antiphasic patterns in the PVN and adrenal cortex with respect to the pituitary corticotrophes. The expression of these three, clock genes, in fact, can be differentially influenced by restricted feeding, acting as a metabolic effector independent of SCN outputs (546). Similar to the sympathetic projections to the adrenal, the thyroid gland is also belived to receive an indirect SCN input via PVN neurons, activating sympathetic spinal outflow that would contribute to circadian regulation of thyroid hormone secretion (529). A third major projection is directed to the medial and lateral tuberal hypothalamus, primarily the ventromedial nucleus, arcuate nucleus and lateral hypothalamic area. These fibers are believed to influence the regulation of the neuroendocrine tuberoinfundibular and neurohypophysial secretions. Figure 40 schematically depicts an integrated view of the mammalian circadian timing system and the main physiological functions and behaviors it controls. Fig. 40 Schematic drawing showing an integrated view of the mammalian circadian timing system and the main neuroendocrine responses, physiological functions and behaviors under its control. AII = angiotensin II; APv = anterior periventricular nucleus of the hypothalamus; AVP = arginine vasopressin; BNST = bed nucleus of the stria terminalis; CAL = calretinin; ENK
