Functional Anatomy of the Hypothalamus and Pituitary
KEYWORDS: neurons, nucleus, hypothalamus, pituitary, hypothalamic, anterior, fig, median, medial, eminence, median eminence, secretion, pvn, lateral, posterior


its control. AII = angiotensin II; APv = anterior periventricular nucleus of the hypothalamus; AVP = arginine vasopressin; BNST = bed nucleus of the stria terminalis; CAL = calretinin; ENK = enkephalin; GABA = aminobutiric acid; GRP = gastrin-releasing peptide; GLU = glutamic acid; 5-HT = 5-hydroxytryptamine or serotonin; HYP = hypothalamus, IGL = intergeniculate leaflet; NO = nitric oxide; NPY = neuropeptide Y; PACAP = pituitary adenylyl cyclase-activating peptide; PK2= prokineticin 2; PTA = pretectal area; PVN = hypothalamic paraventricular nucleus; rht = retinohypothalamic tract; SCN = suprachiasmatic nucleus; SP = substance P; SPVZ = hypothalamic subparaventricular zone; SRIF = somatostatin; VIP = vasoactive intestinal polypeptide. Sleep-Wake Cycle Sleep is a natural state of altered consciousness, easily reversible, self-regulating and characterized by a stereotypic posture, decrease in voluntary motor activity and increase in arousal threshold. In mammals and man, sleep periods are cyclically coupled to periods of wakefulness, giving rise to a circadian sleep-wake cycle. Electrophysiologically, sleep is characterized by a progressively slower, higher voltage, and more synchronized electrical activity of the cortex (alpha waves – stage 1, spindle and k-complexes – stage 2, delta waves – stages 3 and 4) as opposed to wakefulness where fast, low voltage, and desynchronized electrical activity prevails (beta waves). Only relatively brief times are spent in sleep-wake transitions. Episodes of partial arousal without wakefulness occur during sleep, and are characterized by desynchronized electrical cortical activity resembling the EEG pattern of wakefulness and the initial sleep phase (theta waves). This arousal is coupled to rapid eye movements (REM) and loss of muscle tone (except for respiratory and inner ear muscles). In contrast, non-REM or NREM sleep is devoid of involuntary eye movements and muscle tone resumes, leading to deep sleep (547). The basic neural organization of the sleep-wake cycle relies on two adjacent areas of the neuraxis, the diencephalon-basal forebrain and the mid-rostral brainstem, collectively expressing two, stable, firing states to produce either rest or arousal, with a tendency to avoid intermediate conditions (flip-flop switch). In this manner, inappropriate behavioral fluctuations that might endanger survival are avoided, favoring discrete and rapid changes between sleep and waking profiles (or between REM and NREM sleep) above a background of slow and continuous variations in circadian and homeostatic inputs (either photic or non-photic autonomic, endocrine-metabolic and immune stimuli) (547,548). The neural structures participating in this flip-flop switch establish reciprocal, feedback circuitries and can be classified as
