Functional Anatomy of the Hypothalamus and Pituitary
KEYWORDS: neurons, nucleus, hypothalamus, pituitary, hypothalamic, anterior, fig, median, medial, eminence, median eminence, secretion, pvn, lateral, posterior


and homeostatic inputs (either photic or non-photic autonomic, endocrine-metabolic and immune stimuli) (547,548). The neural structures participating in this flip-flop switch establish reciprocal, feedback circuitries and can be classified as sleep- and wakefulness-promoting centers, the latter including specific cell groups that trigger and shut off the REM arousal state during sleep. The primary sleep center is localized in the preoptic hypothalamus, and involves GABA- and galanin-containing neurons in the ventrolateral preoptic nucleus or VLPO (549). A secondary sleep center is located in the midline thalamus (visceral or limbic thalamus), primarily in the dorsomedial (550) and reticular (551) thalamic nuclei. Wakefulness centers are numerous and in large part belong to the ascending reticular activating system of Moruzzi and Magoun (552). This system can be subdivided in two different components, including monoaminergic and cholinergic cell groups in the pontine and mesencephalic (or limbic midbrain area) reticular formation. The monoaminergic neurons comprise the noradrenergic locus coeruleus (LC), the serotoninergic median and dorsal raphe (DR) and parabrachial nucleus (PBN) (including some neurons that co-contain glutamage), and the dopaminergic ventral periaqueductal grey (vPAG) in the tegmentum of the mesencephalon. The cholinergic neurons are located in the pontine tegmentum, specifically in the laterodorsal (LDT) and peduncolopontine tegmental (PPT) nuclei, respectively. In addition to pontine and mesencephalic reticular nuclei, wakefulness centers also involve histaminergic neurons in the posterior hypothalamus (tuberomammillary nucleus or TMN), peptidergic cell groups (orexin/hypocretin and melanin-concentrating hormone or MCH) in lateral hypothalamic area (LHA)/perifornical area (PF), and cholinergic and GABAergic magnocellular neurons in the basal forebrain (nucleus basalis of Maynert in the substantia innominata, magnocellular preoptic nucleus, medial septal nucleus, nucleus of the diagonal band of Broca) (548). Axons from the primary sleep center (VLPO) travel caudally towards the wakefulness centers of the posterior hypothalamus (TMN) and ponto-mesencephalic reticular formation (LC, DR) via the medial forebrain bundle (MFB) (553). Their cells of origin can be traced primarily to the VLPO core (VLPOc), but also extend to the periphery of this nuclear group (VLPOex) that innervate the LC, DR and mesopontine tegmentum (LDT and PPT). Synaptic contacts in the LC and DR are primarily established by galanin-containing and to a lesser extent, GABAergic VPLO inputs (554-557). VPLO synaptic contacts in the LDT and PPT are made with interneurons, likely disinhibiting inhibitory influences originating in TMN, LC and DR. The signals are then directed to the principal cholinergic cells of the mesopontine tegmentum (557,558). Fibers from
