Functional Anatomy of the Hypothalamus and Pituitary
KEYWORDS: neurons, nucleus, hypothalamus, pituitary, hypothalamic, anterior, fig, median, medial, eminence, median eminence, secretion, pvn, lateral, posterior


made with interneurons, likely disinhibiting inhibitory influences originating in TMN, LC and DR. The signals are then directed to the principal cholinergic cells of the mesopontine tegmentum (557,558). Fibers from the secondary sleep center (thalamic DM and reticular nuclei) course either in the periventricular system or in the MFB (thalamic peduncle of the ansa peduncolaris) to reach the periventricular and lateral preoptic hypothalamus (553) and mesopontine tegmental nuclei (559), respectively. Some of these axons contain glutamate and may enter the corona radiata to innervate the prefrontal cortex (451, 452), that reproject back to the lateral hypothalamus (559). Axons from the wakefulness cell groups (ponto-mesencephalic, hypothalamic and telencephalic) enter the MFB and travel rostrally through 2 pathways. The first is through a dorsal route, mainly provided by cholinergic mesopontine tegmental nuclei (LDT and PPT) and, to a lesser extent, by cholinergic and GABAergic basal forebrain neurons. Axons innervate primarily the intralaminar and reticular thalamic nuclei, that diffusely reproject to the cortex. The second is through a ventral route arising from aminergic/glutamatergic pontine and mesencephalic nuclei (LC, PC, DR-PBN, vPAG), aminergic (histamine) and peptidergic (orexin/hypocretin and MCH) cell groups in the posterior and lateral hypothalamus (TMN and LHA/PF, respectively), as well as by the majority of cholinergic and GABAergic basal forebrain neurons. These fibers cross the lateral hypothalamus and basal forebrain to reach all cortical areas (547,562). However, only the PBN and paracoeruleus (PC) glutamateric projections diffusely innervate the magnocellular nuclei in the basal forebrain (563). Finally, peptidergic (orexin/hypocretin and MCH) neurons in the LHA/PF also enter the MFB to heavily innervate aminergic and cholinergic cell groups in the posterior hypothalamus (TMN), pons-mesencephalon (LC, DR) and pontine tegmentum (LDT, PPT), respectively (564). Initiation of sleep and maintenance of deep sleep are driven by the VLPO, via inhibition of monoaminergic centers in the posterior hypothalamus (TMN) and ponto-mesencephalic reticular formation (primarily LC and DR). Rodents with excitotoxic lesions of the VLPO show a reduction of NREM sleep that closely correlates with the loss of Fos-immunoreactive neurons in the VLPOc (557,558). Indeed, pontine and mesencephalic reticular nuclei (including the vPAG) and the cholinergic basal forebrain cells are responsible for electrical brain resynchronization, arousal and the waking state, through their excitatory dorsal- and ventral-projecting axonal pathways to the cortex (564,565). Specifically, glutamatergic projections from the PBN and PC, mediated by basal forebrain centers, play a key role in maintaining wakefulnees and REM sleep depending on
