Functional Anatomy of the Hypothalamus and Pituitary
KEYWORDS: neurons, nucleus, hypothalamus, pituitary, hypothalamic, anterior, fig, median, medial, eminence, median eminence, secretion, pvn, lateral, posterior


pathways to the cortex (564,565). Specifically, glutamatergic projections from the PBN and PC, mediated by basal forebrain centers, play a key role in maintaining wakefulnees and REM sleep depending on activation or inhibition of the ascending monoaminergic arousal system (563). Such a possibility is consistent with clinical evidence that in humans, long lasting coma and a persistent vegetative state correlate with hemorrahge in the PBN region (566). In contrast, reactivation of the PBN-PC complex by lesions of the inhibitory, mesopontine tegmentum, may trigger dream-like states with intense visual experiences in awake subjects at inappropriate times (so called peduncolar hallucinosis), mimiking cortical REM-like behavior in a state of vigilance (567). Orexin/hypocretin cells in the LHA/PF contribute to the waking state by stimulating the posterior hypothalamic (TMN) and ponto-mesencephalic (LC, DR) aminergic waking centers, thus reinforcing cortical arousal. Excitatory orexin 1 and 2 receptors have been found in all brainstem and basal forebrain wakefulness centers (568,569. Injection of orexin/hypocretin into these areas increases neuronal firing (570,571), while its administration into the preoptic hypothalamus presynaptically inhibits VLPO excitability (572). In addition, gene knockout for orexin/hypocretin, mutations in the orexin 2 receptor gene or absence of CSF orexin are associated with narcolepsy in mammals and man (573-575). The VLPO also stimulates cholinergic neurons in the LDT and PPT to induce REM bursts, thus favoring arousal without wakefulness. In particular, outputs from LDT and PPT (and possibly from part of the basal forebrain cells) are excitatory to thalamic neurons projecting to the cortex. When the VLPO activates the reticular pontotegmental nuclei, the transthalamic sensory transmission may easily diffuse to the cortical mantle, leading to enhancement of cortical arousal during conditions of synchronized brain activity (NREM to REM shift) (547,564). Conversely, loss of Fos-immunoreactive neurons in the VLPOex correlates with a reduction in REM sleep episodes (557,558). In contrast, cholinergic neurons in the basal forebrain (medial septum and diagonal band of Broca) are implicated in the generation of specific electrical activity during REM episodes (theta waves) in response to stimulation by brainstem aminergic inputs (576) such as from the PBN-PC complex (563). Also, MCH neurons in the LHA/PF contribute to the REM sleep by inhibiting the ponto-mesencephalic monoaminergic inputs to the cortex. This inhibition amplifies arousal without wakefulness (REM phase) mediated by mesopontine tegmental centers (LDT and PPT) (547). A reciprocal, negative feedback circuitry is established between pontine aminergic cell groups (LC area and tegmental area),
