Functional Anatomy of the Hypothalamus and Pituitary
KEYWORDS: neurons, nucleus, hypothalamus, pituitary, hypothalamic, anterior, fig, median, medial, eminence, median eminence, secretion, pvn, lateral, posterior


locomotor activity and sleep-wake cycle itself onto the CTS, and homeostatic mechanisms endogenous to the sleep and wakefulness neural circuitries (sleep homeostat) (547) including the activity of the glymphatic system (206). The CTS is primarily governed by the hypothalamic suprachiasmatic nucleus (SCN) and its widespread CNS projections, including those that trigger melatonin secretion from the pineal gland (see section F. Circadian Rhythmicity). In rats, sleep-wake rhythmicity is adaptively coordinated with feeding behavior. In fact, light sensitive, SCN projections to the ventral subparaventricular zone (581) innervate food-entrainable neurons in the hypothalamic dorsomedial nucleus (581,582) that sends stimulatory glutamate-containing inputs to LHA orexin neurons and inhibitory GABAergic inputs to VLPO neurons (583). In this manner, photic-dependent stimuli can be integrated with nonphotic stimuli to establish a rest/sleep-locomotion/wakefulness cycle that is ideal for nutritional success (584). In turn, locomotor activity may feed back onto the SCN by activating NPY-containing outputs in the intergeniculate leaflet of the thalamus and serotoninergic projections in the median raphe nucleus to entrain the sleep-wake cycle with levels of exploratory behavior (585). In humans, disruption of this locomotor-circadian rhythm circuitry has been implicated as a potential cause for development of cognitive decline and neurodegeneration. In support, recent evidence in Drosophila shows that stable, long-term memory depends on circadian cycles in rest and activity, leading to impairment in memory consolidation when sleep disruption occurs. In fact, increased locomotion and waking state results in loss of synaptic remodelling at critical brain sites (586) such as the hypocretin/orexin system in the LHA where the number of synapses oscillates with light and dark phases (587). In addition, stress has been associated with increased cFos expression in a number of limbic areas (infralimbic cortex, central nucleus of the amygdala, bed nucleus of the stria terminalis) projecting to both activating (VLPO) and inhibiting (LC, TMN) sleep centers. These inputs may be important for maintaining a waking state during behavioral arousal, such as an emergency occurring during normal sleep. Their activation by anxiety may contribute to stress-induced insomnia (588). Hyperactivation of corticolimbic sites has also been shown in human subjects with insomnia and might contribute to the excessive high frequency EEG activity seen during NREM sleep, including their sensation of being awake even when the EEG appears to be in NREM, a condition known as “sleep state misperception” (589). Finally, some cellular and molecular mechanisms may serve as an internal homeostat to inhibit aminergic waking centers
