Functional Anatomy of the Hypothalamus and Pituitary
KEYWORDS: neurons, nucleus, hypothalamus, pituitary, hypothalamic, anterior, fig, median, medial, eminence, median eminence, secretion, pvn, lateral, posterior


appears to be in NREM, a condition known as “sleep state misperception” (589). Finally, some cellular and molecular mechanisms may serve as an internal homeostat to inhibit aminergic waking centers and activate the VLPO (586,590). In particular, in conditions of sleep deprivation, rat astrocytes have been found to release adenosine in the perineuronal space of LC and orexigenic LHA/PF to shut off monoaminergic excitatory systems via A1 inhibitory adenosine receptors. This inhibition of noradrenergic arousal mechanisms would also favour activation of the the hypothalamic glymphatic flow by increasing the interstial space, relieving the restraining effect of catecholaminergic inputs to the choroid plexus to allow increased CSF production. Thus, neurotoxic waste products could be more readily removed during regular sleep (206). Extraneuronal adenosine may also reduce presynaptic inhibition of VLPO neurons via A2 excitatory adenosine receptors, thereby triggering compensatory sleep (586). This and a number of circulating endocrine, metabolic and immune inputs controlled by the CTS may influence circadian clock genes (547,591) that in turn, influence the sleep-wake cycle. In particular, knockout mice for Clock, Cry1/Cry2, and Bmal1 in the SCN and related neural pathways show either an increase (Clock) or decrease (Cry and Bmal1) in NREM sleep (592-594). In rodents, Clock and Bmal1 deactivation also reduces orexin outputs in the LHA, giving rise to a hyperphagic, obese and dismetabolic phenotype. Other gene candidates involved in this regulation include REV-Erba1, whose impairment leads to altered locomotor activity in either constant light or darkness, and PGC-1α / PGC-1β, that control metabolic rate in liver and muscle, body temperature and locomotor activity in the dark phase (595). Collectively, clock gene activation / deactivation phases by the CTS during the sleep-wake cycle may play a key role in regulating synaptic plasticity and metabolic balance. REFERENCES Christ JF. 1969 Derivation and boundaries of the hypothalamus, with atlas of hypothalamic grisea, in Haymaker W, Anderson E, Nauta WJH (eds): The Hypothalamus. Charles C. Thomas, pp 13-60. May MT. 1968 Galen: On the usefulness of the parts of the body. De Usu Partium. Cornell University Press, pp 424- 461. Toni R. 2000 Ancient views on the hypothalamic-pituitary-thyroid axis: an historical and epistemological perspective. Pituitary 3: 83-95. Meshberger FL. 1990 An interpretation of the Michelangelo’s Creation of Adam based on neuroanatomy. JAMA 10: 1837-1841. His W. 1893 Vorschlage zur Einteilung des Gehirns. Arch Anat Physiol, Anat Alb 172-179. Toni R, Malaguti A, Benfenati F, Martini L. The human
