November 1994
KEYWORDS: pylori, ulcer, patients, eradicated, therapy, tetracycline, gastric, bismuth, peptic, treatment, evidence, amoxicillin, duodenal, disease, ulcers


November 1994 Definitive Treatment of Peptic Ulcer Disease by Eradication of Helicobacter Pylori (H.pylori) The following quotation by a Gastroenterologist, Dr. Ransohoff, amply defines the impact of the discovery of H.pylori on our thinking about peptic ulcer disease: "The long-held hypothesis that duodenal ulcer dis- ease is caused primarily by acid has, after a decade of siege by the H.pylori hypothesis, finally collapsed. That the acid hypothesis could even be challenged, much less toppled, appeared as unthinkable 10 years ago as the fall of Communism in the former USSR. Within the last few years, strong evidence has accumulated, however, about H.pylori's importance, persuading even this previ- ously skeptical writer."1 • What upper GI conditions are not associated with H. pylori infestation? • What is H. pylori? Most evidence indicates that NSAID induced H. pyloriis a gram-negative, microoerophilic, spiral ulcers and reflux esophagitis are not associated bacillus (see Figure) originally cultured in 1982 with H. pylori infestation. There is insufficient evi- from gastric biopsy specimens in patients with dence to link non-ulcer dyspepsia symptoms with documented gastritis. H. pylori.2,3 Proper randomized controlled trials are needed to investigate this relationship. • What conditions are associcded with H. pylori infestation? • What treatments have been Strong evidence demonstrates that H. pylori is a satisfactorily tested at this time? A meta analysis of the results of treatment in adults causal factor in gastritis and duodenal ulcer2and to is shown in Table 1. The ulcer recurrence rate at a lesser extent gastric ulcer. Moderate epidemio- 1 year is less than 10% if H. pylori is eradicated logic evidence supports arelationbetween H. pylori and greater than 50% if H. pyloriis not eradicated. and gastric adenocarcinoma and lymphoma. Table 1: Results of Treatment of Helicobacter pylori 5,7 Treatment H. pylori eradication rate * (n) * measured one month after stopping antibiotics H2 blockers alone No effect (n) number of patients in Omeprazole alone No effect meta-analysis Bismuth and amoxicillin 44% (197) # meta-analysis done by the Therapeutics Initiative Bismuth and metronidazol 55% (118) Omeprazole and amoxicillin 58% (433) # Bismuth, metronidazole and amoxicillin 73% (130) Bismuth, metronidazole and tetracycline 94% (434) • What are the advantages to my patients • What about safety and compliance? if H. pylori is successfully eradicated? The incidence of side effects with the one week triple Most patients with recurrent peptic ulcer disease will therapy (tetracycline) regimen was 14 out of 210
