November 1994
KEYWORDS: pylori, ulcer, patients, eradicated, therapy, tetracycline, gastric, bismuth, peptic, treatment, evidence, amoxicillin, duodenal, disease, ulcers


pylori is successfully eradicated? The incidence of side effects with the one week triple Most patients with recurrent peptic ulcer disease will therapy (tetracycline) regimen was 14 out of 210 (7%) be "cured". This means they will no longer need any including dizziness, nausea, metallic taste and diar- maintenance therapy for suppression of ulcer symp- rhea. Side effects due to local gastric irritation can be toms. In a recent study of 35 patients in whom H. minimized by taking the medication together with a pylori was effectively eradicated, 32 (92%) remained glass of water. It is important to emphasize the H. pylori and ulcer negative after an average follow- importance of compliance to the patient; with up period of 7 years.4 triple therapy H. pylori was eradicated in 96% of patents who took more than 60% of the medication. Shorter, simpler and equally effective regimens may • What is the best treatment and how become available, but the data are insufficient at long do you treat? this time. The dose and duration of the two most effecfive regi- mens are shown in Table 2. The addition of an agent • When should you treat H. pylori infection? to decrease acid production (e.g.cimetidine) improves •All patients with proven gastric or duodenal ulcers symptom resolution in the first week, but has no effect who are infected with H. pylori. on ulcer resolution or H. pylori eradication.7 •Patients with previously proven recurrent duodenal ulcers who are currently requiring maintenance antiulcer therapy. •For management of the small number of peptic ulcers in children a definifive endoscopic and microbiological diagnosis is advisable.6 Table 2: Triple therapy regimens Medication Dose Duration Trade Names Daily ingredient cost* Bismuth subsalicylate 30 ml QID 1 week7 Pepto Bismol $1.26+ Tetracycline # 500 mg QID 1 week7 Achromycin, Tetracyn, Medicycline $0.16 Novotetra, Nu Tetra Metronidazole 250 mg QID 1 week7 Flagyl, NeoTric, Novonidazol, $0.12 Trikacide Or Replacement of Tetracycline # with: Amoxicillin 500 mg QID 2 weeks for Amoxil, ApoAmoxi, each of the Axicillin, Novamoxin, $0.84 3 ingredients5 Nu Amoxi, Pro Amix # tetracycline is contraindicated in children and during pregnancy, +over the counter, * lowest cost alternative formulation (BC, 1993)
