Percutaneous Coronary Interventions (PCI)
KEYWORDS: pci, risk, patients, stent, coronary, restenosis, stents, cabg, thrombosis, anticoagulation, rate, artery, angioplasty, myocardial, infarction


Percutaneous coronary interventions (PCI) include percutaneous transluminal coronary angioplasty (PTCA) with or without stent insertion. Primary indications are treatment of Angina pectoris (stable or unstable) Myocardial ischemia Acute myocardial infarction (particularly in patients with developing or established cardiogenic shock) PTCA and stent placement within 90 minutes of onset of pain is the optimal treatment of transmural ST- segment elevation myocardial infarction (STEMI). Elective PCI may be appropriate for post–myocardial infarction (MI) patients who have recurrent or inducible angina before hospital discharge and for patients who have angina and remain symptomatic despite medical treatment. Percutaneous Coronary Intervention Percutaneous transluminal angioplasty (PTA) is also used to treat peripheral arterial disease. PTCA is done via percutaneous femoral, radial, or brachial artery puncture. The radial approach reduces patient discomfort, improves time to ambulation, and reduces the incidence of some complications (eg, bleeding, pseudoaneurysm formation). A guiding catheter is inserted into a large peripheral artery and threaded to the appropriate coronary ostium. A balloon-tipped catheter, guided by fluoroscopy or intravascular ultrasonography, is aligned within the stenosis, then inflated to disrupt the atherosclerotic plaque and dilate the artery. Angiography is repeated after the procedure to document any changes. The procedure is commonly done in 2 or 3 vessels as needed. Stents for PCI Stents for coronary arteries are expandable wire mesh cylinders that help hold stenotic areas open. Stents are most useful for Short lesions in large native coronary arteries not previously treated with PTCA Focal lesions in saphenous vein grafts Treatment of abrupt closure during PTCA Stents are used frequently for acute myocardial infarction, ostial or left main disease, chronic total occlusions, and bifurcation lesions. Types of stents Bare-metal stents (BMS) are made of nickel-titanium alloy. Drug-eluting stents (DES) have drugs (eg, first-generation: sirolimus, paclitaxel; second-generation: everolimus, ridaforolimus, zotarolimus) bonded to the metal that limit neointimal proliferation to reduce the risk of restenosis. Biodegradable stents are being developed and initial short-term outcomes have shown promise, but their use is currently limited to clinical trials (1). Anticoagulation and ancillary therapy Various anticoagulation and antiplatelet regimens are used during and after PCI to reduce the incidence of thrombosis at the site of balloon dilation and stent placement. 2/5 Anticoagulation is usually initiated with unfractionated heparin. Enoxaparin and bivalirudin are alternatives. Bivalirudin or argatroban should be used in place of unfractionated heparin in patients with heparin-induced thrombocytopenia. Dual antiplatelet treatment with P2Y12 inhibitors (clopidogrel, prasugrel, ticagrelor) and aspirin
