Percutaneous Coronary Interventions (PCI)
KEYWORDS: pci, risk, patients, stent, coronary, restenosis, stents, cabg, thrombosis, anticoagulation, rate, artery, angioplasty, myocardial, infarction


bivalirudin are alternatives. Bivalirudin or argatroban should be used in place of unfractionated heparin in patients with heparin-induced thrombocytopenia. Dual antiplatelet treatment with P2Y12 inhibitors (clopidogrel, prasugrel, ticagrelor) and aspirin is started at the time of the procedure in patients undergoing percutaneous coronary intervention. Glycoprotein IIb/IIIa inhibitors (abciximab, eptifibatide, tirofiban) may be added in patients with unstable non-ST-segment elevation myocardial infarction periprocedurally. P2Y12 inhibitors (often in combination with aspirin) are continued for at least 6 to 12 months after PCI to decrease the risk of in-stent thrombosis until endothelialization of the stent has occurred. For patients who require anticoagulation for another reason (eg, atrial fibrillation), direct-acting oral anticoagulants (apixaban, dabigatran, edoxaban, or rivaroxaban) are preferred long-term over warfarin, unless there is a contraindication to them. For most patients requiring anticoagulation, triple therapy with oral anticoagulation, P2Y12 inhibitor, and aspirin is stopped within 1 week to 1 month after intervention, and patients are continued on oral anticoagulation and a P2Y12 inhibitor for 6 months to 1 year. Calcium channel blockers and nitrates may also be given to reduce risk of coronary spasm. Contraindications to PCI Relative contraindications to PCI include Coagulopathy A single diseased vessel providing all perfusion to the myocardium Critical left main coronary stenosis without collateral flow from a native vessel or previous bypass graft to the left anterior descending artery Diffusely diseased vessels without focal stenoses Hypercoagulable states Lack of cardiac surgical support Stenosis < 50% Total occlusion of a coronary artery Although lack of cardiac surgical support is sometimes considered an absolute contraindication to PCI, many experts advocate that when revascularization is required urgently in STEMI, experienced operators in approved catheterization laboratories should proceed with PCI even if surgical backup is not available. Although bypass is typically preferred for patients with critical left main coronary stenosis without collateral flow from either a native vessel or previous bypass graft, PCI is often and increasingly being used in this scenario in selected patients. Complications of PCI 3/5 The main complications of balloon angioplasty and stent placement are Arterial dissection Bleeding caused by adjunctive anticoagulation Restenosis Standard complications of cardiac catheterization and coronary angiography Thrombosis and distal embolization Overall, risks of undergoing PCI are comparable to those of CABG. Overall mortality rate is < 1%, but varies based on individual risk factors and tends to be similar to that of CABG; Q wave MI rate is < 1%. In <
