Percutaneous Coronary Interventions (PCI)
KEYWORDS: pci, risk, patients, stent, coronary, restenosis, stents, cabg, thrombosis, anticoagulation, rate, artery, angioplasty, myocardial, infarction


mortality rate is < 1%, but varies based on individual risk factors and tends to be similar to that of CABG; Q wave MI rate is < 1%. In < 1% of patients, intimal dissection causes obstruction requiring emergency CABG. Risk of stroke with PCI is lower than with CABG. A meta-analysis of 19 randomized trials reported a higher risk of stroke in patients undergoing CABG (1.2%) than PCI (0.34%,) at 30 days (1). Risk of bleeding is 1 to 2%. Of all angiographic procedures, PCI has the highest risk of contrast nephropathy (due to increased contrast load and procedural time); this risk can be reduced by preprocedural hydration and possibly by use of a nonionic contrast agent or hemofiltration in patients with preexisting renal insufficiency. Compared to coronary angiography without angioplasty or stent placement, risk of death, MI, and stroke is greater. CLINICAL CALCULATORS PTCA Mortality Prediction Thrombosis Stent thrombosis causes complete blockage and may occur at any time: Acutely (immediately during or after the procedure) Subacutely (within 30 days) Late (> 30 days) Very late ( > 1 year) Stent thrombosis may be due to inadequate stent expansion or incomplete stent apposition at the time of the procedure, discontinuation of dual antiplatelet therapy (eg, due to nonadherence, need for noncardiac surgery), or both. Rarely, the stent may break up an intracoronary clot (ie, as may be present in acute MI), which may embolize distally and cause myocardial infarction. Use of protection strategies (eg, temporarily blocking blood flow within the artery using a balloon and then aspirating the emboli, deploying a small filter distal to the site of PCI to capture emboli) may improve outcome in PCI done on a previous saphenous vein graft but is not commonly done. With balloon angioplasty alone, risk of acute thrombosis is about 5 to 10%. 4/5 Use of stents has almost eliminated the need for emergency coronary artery bypass grafting following PCI; the rate of acute and subacute thrombosis is < 1%. However, using a drug-eluting stent increases risk of late stent thrombosis, about 0.6%/year up to 3 years. Restenosis Restenosis is typically due to collagen deposition and thus does not occur until several weeks after the procedure or later; it may cause partial or, less commonly, complete vessel blockage. With balloon angioplasty alone, the risk of subacute restenosis is about 5%, and the overall restenosis rate is about 30 to 45%.
