Aortic stenosis overview
KEYWORDS: aortic, valve, stenosis, aortic stenosis, aortic valve, patients, area, left, used, replacement, heart, valve replacement, symptoms, valve area, severe


Overview The aortic valve ensures that the blood moves forward from the left ventricle into the aorta and that it does not leak backwards during diastole. When functioning appropriately, the aortic valve does not impede the flow of blood between the left ventricle and the aorta and it does not leak. Under some circumstances, the aortic valve becomes narrower than normal impeding the flow of blood. This is known as aortic valve stenosis, or aortic stenosis, often abbreviated as AS. Classification Aortic stenosis can be classified broadly into two main categories: acquired and congenital. Further classification can be applied based on the origin of the stenosis such as acquired rheumatic, congenital bicuspid, congenital subaortic, congenital subvalvular, and congenital supravalvular aortic stenosis.[1][2] Pathophysiology Aortic stenosis is the progressive narrowing of the aortic valve. Calcific aortic stenosis, in particular, is an active atherosclerotic pathology where inflammation, fibrosis and calcification are involved in the progressive narrowing of the effective aortic valve area in the absence of any commissural fusion. In contrast, rheumatic aortic stenosis is due to fusion of the commissures with valvular scarring and calcification.[3] Aortic stenosis causes an impedance to the antegrade blood flow not only at the level of the aortic valve itself, but also at the subvalvular (below the aortic valve) or supravalvular (above the aortic valve) levels. As a result, chronic pressure overload develops in the left ventricle. The left ventricle undergoes hypertrophy as an initial adaptive mechanism to overcome the increased afterload. This compensatory mechanism ends up being maladpative by causing apoptosis of the hypertrophied myocytes and subsequent heart failure. [4] Hence, aortic stenosis is a progressive valvular disease which progression depends mainly on the degree of the narrowing of the aortic valve as well as on the maladaptive ventricular wall response.[5] Causes The frequency of causes of aortic stenosis varies with the age of the patient. Bicuspid valve is the most common cause of aortic stenosis in people below 50 years of age whereas calcified aortic valve is more common in older patients.[6] Differentiating Aortic Stenosis from other Disorders Aortic stenosis must be differentiated from other cardiac or pulmonary causes of dyspnea, weakness, and dizziness. Furthermore, if there is left ventricular outflow tract obstruction, it is critical to identify whether the obstruction is subvalvular, valvular or supravalvular or due to hypertrophic cardiomyopathy (HOCM). Epidemiology and Demographics Aortic stenosis primarily affects older adults and the majority of
