Aortic stenosis overview
KEYWORDS: aortic, valve, stenosis, aortic stenosis, aortic valve, patients, area, left, used, replacement, heart, valve replacement, symptoms, valve area, severe


critical to identify whether the obstruction is subvalvular, valvular or supravalvular or due to hypertrophic cardiomyopathy (HOCM). Epidemiology and Demographics Aortic stenosis primarily affects older adults and the majority of cases are due to calcific degeneration. Aortic stenosis tends to affect approximately 2% of patients over the age of 65, 3% of patients over the age of 75, and 4% of patients over the age 85.[7] Risk Factors The most common risk factor for the subsequent development of aortic stenosis is congenital bicuspid aortic valve. Rheumatic fever is another risk factor for the subsequent development of aortic stenosis (rheumatic heart disease). Risk factors that may speed up the progression of degenerative calcific aortic stenosis include: hypertension, diabetes mellitus, hyperlipoproteinemia, uremia and smoking. Natural History, Complications and Prognosis Left untreated, aortic valve stenosis can lead to angina, syncope, congestive heart failure, atrial fibrillation, endocarditis, and sudden cardiac death. Surgical treatment of aortic stenosis also carries risks and potential complications that include vascular complications and mitral valve injury. Diagnosis History and Symptoms The main symptoms of aortic stenosis include angina, syncope and congestive heart failure. Left untreated, the average survival is 5 years after the onset of angina, 3 years after the onset of syncope, and 1 year after the onset of congestive heart failure. [8][9][10] Other symptoms include dyspnea on exertion, orthopnea and paroxysmal nocturnal dyspnea. Physical Examination Aortic stenosis is most often diagnosed when it is asymptomatic and can sometimes be detected during routine examination of the heart and circulatory system. The major signs include pulsus parvus et tardus (a slow-rising, small volume carotid pulse), a lag time between apical and carotid impulses, and a distinct systolic ejection murmur. Electrocardiogram The electrocardiogram in the patient with moderate to severe aortic stenosis may reveal left ventricular hypertrophy and heart block. Cardiac Stress Test 2/6 Exercise testing should not be performed in symptomatic patients with AS but can be used to elicit exercise-induced symptoms and abnormal blood pressure responses in asymptomatic patients.[3] Chest X-ray Chest X-ray may be used as a diagnostic tool in the evaluation of aortic stenosis. Findings associated with aortic stenosis include left ventricular hypertrophy and calcification of the aortic valve. CT Scan Computed tomography can be helpful as a diagnostic tool in conditions where the echocardiographic findings are inconclusive. MRI Magnetic resonance imaging is rarely used in the diagnosis of aortic stenosis, except in rare cases where the
