Aortic stenosis overview
KEYWORDS: aortic, valve, stenosis, aortic stenosis, aortic valve, patients, area, left, used, replacement, heart, valve replacement, symptoms, valve area, severe


a diagnostic tool in conditions where the echocardiographic findings are inconclusive. MRI Magnetic resonance imaging is rarely used in the diagnosis of aortic stenosis, except in rare cases where the echocardiographic findings are inconclusive. There is a signal void where the high velocity jet exits the aortic valve. Echocardiography Echocardiography is the best non-invasive test to evaluate the aortic valve anatomy and function. It is indicated in the case of presence of symptoms suggestive of valvular problems or in the case of detection of a systolic murmur with a grade greater than 3/6. Doppler echocardiography allows the measurement of the maximum jet velocity and can be used to estimate the effective orifice area of the aortic valve as well as the gradient across the aortic valve using the modified Bernoulli equation (gradient = 4 x velocity2). The flow must be constant, so as the velocity increases, the valve area decreases proportionally. Attention to technical details is important as they may lead to underestimation of the severity of the aortic stenosis.[3] Echocardiography can also be used to assess the severity of left ventricular hypertrophy. Cardiac Catheterization Left and right heart catheterization as well as angiography may be useful in the assessment of the patient prior to aortic valve replacement surgery. In addition, asymptomatic patients with aortic stenosis should undergo cardiac catherization when echocardiographic findings are inconsistent with the clinical findings[3]. Aortic Valve Area The aortic valve area is the size of the orifice for blood to flow from the left ventricle to the aorta. The aortic valve area is reduced in aortic stenosis, and the aortic valve area is the metric that is used to gauge the need for aortic valve replacement surgery. The pressure gradient across a narrowed aortic valve cannot be used to gauge the need for valve replacement as the gradient may be low in patients with impaired left ventricular function. Aortic Valve Area Calculation 3/6 The calculation of the aortic valve area is an indirect method used to determine the area of the aortic valve. The calculated aortic valve orifice area is currently one of the measures for evaluating the severity of aortic stenosis. An aortic valve having an area less than 0.8 cm² is considered to be severe aortic stenosis.[11][12] There are many ways to calculate the aortic valve area. The most commonly used methods involve measurements taken during echocardiography. For interpretation of these values, the
