Aortic stenosis overview
KEYWORDS: aortic, valve, stenosis, aortic stenosis, aortic valve, patients, area, left, used, replacement, heart, valve replacement, symptoms, valve area, severe


be severe aortic stenosis.[11][12] There are many ways to calculate the aortic valve area. The most commonly used methods involve measurements taken during echocardiography. For interpretation of these values, the aortic valve area is generally divided by the body surface area. Treatment General Approach Once a patient becomes symptomatic with aortic stenosis, aortic valve replacement should be performed as long as the patient can tolerate surgery and has no co-morbidities. If severe left ventricular dysfunction is present in the setting of aortic stenosis, it is of utmost importance to differentiate between true severe aortic stenosis and pseudo-severe aortic stenosis as these two entities have different pathophysiologies and different outcomes after aortic valve replacement. Medical therapy reduces symptoms but does not prolong life. If a patient has extensive co- morbidities, transcatheter aortic valve implantation can be considered. Aortic valvuloplasty can be considered in those patients who are too sick for surgery or transcatheter aortic valve implantation. Medical Therapy While medical therapy may improve the symptoms of patients with aortic stenosis, medical therapy does not prolong life expectancy. Aortic valve replacement remains the definitive treatment for symptomatic aortic stenosis and it improves both the symptoms and life expectancy of the patients. When pharmacological therapies are used, extreme caution must be taken in the administration of vasodilators as an excess in vasodilation may lead to hypotension, a reduction in perfusion pressure to the heart, a further decline in cardiac output and further hypotension. This vicious circle can be fatal and must be avoided at all costs. Surgery Surgical intervention may be a necessary component of treatment for symptomatic severe aortic stenosis. Aortic valve replacement is the mainstay of treatment of symptomatic aortic stenosis, as it improves both the symptoms and life expectancy in aortic stenosis patients, in contrast to medical therapy alone which may improve the symptoms without prolonging life expectancy.[6] Percutaneous Aortic Balloon Valvotomy (PABV) or Aortic Valvuloplasty Surgical aortic valve replacement is the mainstay of the treatment of aortic stenosis as it improves both symptoms and life expectancy. However, some patients may not be surgical candidates due to coexisting comorbidities. Hence, minimally invasive treatment such as percutaneous aortic balloon valvotomy (PABV) maybe an alternative to surgery as a palliative strategy. PABV is a procedure during which one or more balloons are placed across a stenotic valve and then inflated in order to 4/6 cause a decrease the severity of aortic stenosis.
