Aortic stenosis overview
KEYWORDS: aortic, valve, stenosis, aortic stenosis, aortic valve, patients, area, left, used, replacement, heart, valve replacement, symptoms, valve area, severe


is a procedure during which one or more balloons are placed across a stenotic valve and then inflated in order to 4/6 cause a decrease the severity of aortic stenosis. This is to be distinguished from transcatheter aortic valve implantation (TAVI) which is a different method that involves replacement of the valve percutaneously. Transcatheter Aortic Valve Implantation Until recently, aortic valve replacement (AVR) was the only effective treatment for severe symptomatic aortic stenosis. However, over the past decade percutaneous treatment of aortic valve disease with the implantation of a stent-based valve prosthesis has been introduced as a new treatment in patients considered inoperable because of severe co-morbidities.[13] In Transcatheter Aortic Valve Implantation (TAVI) also known as Percutaneous Aortic Valve Replacement (PAVR), a synthetic valve is advanced to the heart through a small hole made in the groin. This procedure is similar in its mechanism to the insertion of a stent, or performing balloon angioplasty albeit with much larger equipment. Traditional aortic valve replacement is an invasive surgical procedure, with considerable mortality and morbidity, especially in more fragile patients. In the newly developed TAVI procedure, the dysfunctional aortic valve is replaced percutaneously, which obviates the need for open heart surgery. Follow Up Follow up is recommended for all patients with operated and unoperated aortic stenosis. Asymptomatic patients with aortic stenosis should undergo follow up since aortic stenosis is an ongoing disease that progresses with time. In fact, asymptomatic patients should undergo follow up every 1 year, 3 years and 5 years in case of severe, moderate and mild aortic stenosis respectively.[14] Prevention Aortic stenosis associated with rheumatic heart disease can be minimized with antibiotic therapy in patients with documented streptococcal pharyngitis (strep throat).[1] Bicuspid aortic valve disease is a congenital variant and cannot be prevented. Calcific degeneration of the valve can potentially be minimized by rosouvistatin and other measures targeting prevention of atherosclerosis.[2] Precautions and Prophylaxis People with aortic stenosis of any etiology are at risk for the development of infection of their stenosed valve, i.e. infective endocarditis and antibiotic prophylaxis should be considered. Patients with severe aortic stenosis should avoid strenuous exercise and any exercise that greatly increases afterload such as weight lifting.
