High-sensitivity troponin tests for the early rule out of NSTEMI
KEYWORDS: troponin, litre, test, hours, tests, strategies, sensitivity, using, high-sensitivity, hour, rule-out, myocardial, used, litre hours, infarction


can help to quickly rule out a type of heart attack called an NSTEMI. Doing these tests can mean people with normal troponin levels do not need to be admitted to hospital, and those with a confirmed NSTEMI can get earlier treatment. Evidence shows that, of the high-sensitivity troponin tests, 9 are similarly effective in terms of diagnostic performance. Of these, 8 are also similarly cost effective compared with standard troponin tests in different early rule-out test strategies and so are recommended for use in the NHS. There is only 1 diagnostic accuracy study for Elecsys STAT, and no diagnostic accuracy evidence for Alinity and Dimension EXL. But they use the same methods, principles and reagents as alternative versions of the tests that do have diagnostic accuracy evidence and were included in the economic model. The main difference is that they are run on different analysers. They are therefore also recommended. Although the TriageTrue test has the potential to be cost effective, its diagnostic accuracy when used on whole blood is uncertain. 2 The diagnostic tests Clinical need and practice 2.1 Chest pain and suspected myocardial infarction were the cause of about 5% of all emergency hospital admissions in 2017 to 2018. However, myocardial infarction will have occurred in only about 20% of those admissions. Tests that can quickly tell whether a person is having a myocardial infarction or not could mean that unnecessary hospital admissions are avoided, reducing waiting time and anxiety for many people. 2.2 Cardiac troponins I and T are biological markers of cardiac muscle death (cardiomyocyte necrosis). They are released into the circulation, so rise when the cardiac muscle is damaged. They are used as markers of acute myocardial infarction along with clinical history taking and electrocardiography (ECG) monitoring. ST-segment elevation myocardial infarction (STEMI) can usually be diagnosed by ECG alone. So, the main diagnostic challenge is detecting or ruling out non-ST-segment elevation myocardial infarction (NSTEMI). 2.3 The optimum sensitivity of older (non-high-sensitivity) troponin tests (referred to here as standard troponin tests) for acute myocardial infarction is 10 to 12 hours after the onset of symptoms. For many people, this means hospital admission and observation while serial troponin testing is done. To overcome this, high- sensitivity troponin tests have been developed. These can detect lower levels of troponin in the blood earlier than standard troponin tests, so enable early rule out of NSTEMI after the onset
