High-sensitivity troponin tests for the early rule out of NSTEMI
KEYWORDS: troponin, litre, test, hours, tests, strategies, sensitivity, using, high-sensitivity, hour, rule-out, myocardial, used, litre hours, infarction


troponin tests have been developed. These can detect lower levels of troponin in the blood earlier than standard troponin tests, so enable early rule out of NSTEMI after the onset of acute chest pain. This could lead to fewer people being admitted to hospital, earlier discharge for people with normal troponin levels and earlier intervention for those with a confirmed NSTEMI. 2.4 NICE's 2014 guidance on high-sensitivity troponin tests recommended the Elecsys troponin T-high sensitive test and ARCHITECT STAT High Sensitive Troponin-I test as options for the early rule out of NSTEMI in people presenting to an emergency department with chest pain and suspected acute coronary syndrome. Since that guidance was published, NICE's guideline on recent-onset chest pain of suspected cardiac origin has been updated to include high- sensitivity troponin tests. But stakeholder feedback suggests that high-sensitivity troponin testing used with early rule-out strategies has not been routinely adopted in the NHS and, if it has, there is wide variation in how it is being done. This updated assessment is being done to ensure that guidance is based on evidence including new high-sensitivity tests developed and marketed since publication of the NICE guidance. It is also to provide more detailed recommendations on how to use high-sensitivity tests (for example, timing of testing and using sequential testing strategies) when possible. The interventions 2.5 All tests included in the assessment are CE marked and available to the NHS. Access High-Sensitivity Troponin I Assay (Beckman Coulter) 2.6 The Access test is designed to be used in a laboratory with the Beckman Coulter Access 2 and DxI/DxC analysers. The company says that the test's performance is the same regardless of analyser. It is a paramagnetic particle chemiluminescent immunoassay for in-vitro quantitative determination of troponin I in serum and plasma samples. Results are available in 17 minutes. Recommended 99th percentile cut-offs are: • 17.5 ng/litre for the whole population • 11.6 ng/litre for women • 19.8 ng/litre for men. Each 99th percentile has a coefficient of variation (CV) of less than 10%. The test can detect troponin I in more than 97% of the reference population. ARCHITECT STAT High Sensitive Troponin-I assay (Abbott Diagnostics) 2.7 The ARCHITECT test is designed to be used in a laboratory with the Abbott ARCHITECT i2000SR and i1000SR analysers. The test is a chemiluminescent microparticle immunoassay for in-vitro quantitative determination of troponin I in serum and plasma samples. Results are
