High-sensitivity troponin tests for the early rule out of NSTEMI
KEYWORDS: troponin, litre, test, hours, tests, strategies, sensitivity, using, high-sensitivity, hour, rule-out, myocardial, used, litre hours, infarction


a sandwich electrochemiluminescence immunoassay for in-vitro quantitative determination of troponin T in serum and plasma samples. Results are available in 18 minutes with the standard test and in 9 minutes with the STAT test. Both tests can detect troponin T in 57% of the reference population. Recommended 99th percentile cut-offs are: • 14.0 ng/litre for the whole population with a CV of less than 10% • 9.0 ng/litre for women • 16.8 ng/litre for men. TriageTrue High Sensitivity Troponin I Test (Quidel Cardiovascular) 2.14 The TriageTrue test can be used at point of care or in a laboratory with the Triage MeterPro analyser. It is a fluorescence immunoassay for the in-vitro quantitative determination of troponin I in EDTA anticoagulated whole blood and plasma samples. Test results are available in less than 20 minutes. Recommended 99th percentile cut-offs are: • 20.5 ng/litre for the whole population with a CV of less than 10% • 14.4 ng/litre for women • 25.7 ng/litre for men. The test can detect troponin I in more than 50% of the reference population. VITROS High Sensitivity Troponin I Assay (Ortho Clinical Diagnostics) 2.15 The VITROS test is designed to be used in a laboratory on the following analysers: VITROS ECi/ECiQ/3600 Immunodiagnostic Systems and the VITROS 5600/XT 7600 Integrated System. It is an immunometric immunoassay for the in- vitro quantitative determination of troponin I in serum and plasma samples. Test results are available in 15 minutes. Recommended 99th percentile cut-offs are: • 11 ng/litre in lithium heparin and serum for the whole population • 9 ng/litre in lithium heparin and serum for women • 13 ng/litre in lithium heparin and 12 ng/litre in serum for men. The test can detect troponin I in more than 50% of the reference population. VIDAS High sensitive Troponin I assay (bioMérieux) 2.16 The VIDAS test is designed to be used in a laboratory on the following analysers: VIDAS, MINI VIDAS and VIDAS 3. It is for the in-vitro quantitative determination of troponin I in serum and plasma (lithium heparin) samples. Test results are available in 20 minutes. Recommended 99th percentile cut-offs are: • 19 ng/litre for the whole population • 11 ng/litre for women • 25 ng/litre for men. The comparator 2.17 The comparator was standard troponin testing over 10 to 12 hours from symptom onset used with early rule-out strategies. 3 Evidence The diagnostics advisory committee considered evidence on high-sensitivity troponin
