High-sensitivity troponin tests for the early rule out of NSTEMI
KEYWORDS: troponin, litre, test, hours, tests, strategies, sensitivity, using, high-sensitivity, hour, rule-out, myocardial, used, litre hours, infarction


The comparator was standard troponin testing over 10 to 12 hours from symptom onset used with early rule-out strategies. 3 Evidence The diagnostics advisory committee considered evidence on high-sensitivity troponin tests for the early rule out of non-ST-segment elevation myocardial infarction (NSTEMI) from several sources. Full details of all the evidence are in the committee papers. Clinical effectiveness 3.1 The external assessment group (EAG) did a systematic review to identify evidence on the clinical effectiveness of high-sensitivity troponin tests for the early rule out of acute myocardial infarction, including NSTEMI, in people who come to hospital with chest pain. It also considered studies used to develop the original diagnostics guidance on early rule out of myocardial infarction using high- sensitivity troponin tests. 3.2 The EAG identified 37 studies that met the inclusion criteria. Test accuracy data were reported for the following high-sensitivity troponin tests: Elecsys (30 studies), ARCHITECT (9 studies), Atellica (2 studies), ADVIA Centaur (3 studies), Access (2 studies). One study each reported accuracy data for Dimension Vista, VITROS, VIDAS and TriageTrue. 3.3 Seven studies reported diagnostic accuracy data for more than 1 test. No studies were identified that matched the inclusion criteria for the review for Alinity or Dimension EXL tests. Two randomised controlled trials were included in the review: High-STEACS and HiSTORIC. 3.4 Of the 37 included studies, 22 were done in Europe (7 in the UK), 5 in Australia and New Zealand, 6 in the US, 3 in East Asia, and 1 was a worldwide study. 3.5 The randomised controlled trials were quality assessed using the revised Cochrane risk of bias tool for cluster randomised trials. Studies that evaluated a single high-sensitivity test were assessed using the QUADAS-2 tool. Studies that provided data for 2 or more high-sensitivity tests were assessed using the QUADAS-2C tool. Randomised controlled trials 3.6 Both trials used the ARCHITECT test. 3.7 The High-STEACS trial evaluated the implementation of an early rule-out strategy in 10 secondary and tertiary care hospitals in Scotland. It compared the rates at which conditions were reclassified after high-sensitivity troponin tests with the rates of reclassification after standard troponin testing. It also compared the subsequent incidence of myocardial infarction and cardiovascular death. 3.8 The HiSTORIC trial also evaluated the implementation of an early rule-out strategy in 7 acute hospitals in Scotland. The primary outcomes were length of stay and myocardial infarction or cardiac death after discharge at 30
