High-sensitivity troponin tests for the early rule out of NSTEMI
KEYWORDS: troponin, litre, test, hours, tests, strategies, sensitivity, using, high-sensitivity, hour, rule-out, myocardial, used, litre hours, infarction


the implementation of an early rule-out strategy in 7 acute hospitals in Scotland. The primary outcomes were length of stay and myocardial infarction or cardiac death after discharge at 30 days. The results are academic in confidence. 3.9 During the validation phase of High-STEACS (6 to 12 months), results of the high- sensitivity troponin I test were concealed from the attending clinician, and a standard cardiac troponin test was used to guide care. A high-sensitivity test was introduced after 6 months (early implementation) or 12 months (late implementation). 3.10 In patients whose condition was reclassified in the High-STEACS trial, there were no differences between high-sensitivity and standard troponin tests in the primary or any of the secondary efficacy and safety outcome measures (myocardial infarction, unplanned coronary revascularisation, all-cause death, death from cardiovascular causes, hospital admission for heart failure and ischaemic stroke). The median length of stay for patients without myocardial injury was 7 hours (interquartile range 3 to 24) in the validation phase and 4 hours (interquartile range 3 to 20) in the implementation phase. The authors of High-STEACS concluded that implementing an early rule-out strategy was not associated with any increase in myocardial infarction or cardiovascular death within 1 year of initial presentation. Diagnostic test accuracy Elecsys troponin T-high sensitive assay 3.11 Summary estimates of sensitivity and specificity from testing a single sample, using a 99th percentile diagnostic threshold for the general population, were 90% (95% confidence interval [CI] 85 to 94) and 78% (95% CI 72 to 83) respectively, based on data from 22 studies. The summary estimates of sensitivity and specificity, using a single sample and a limit of detection threshold, were 99% (95% CI 97 to 99) and 36% (95% CI 28 to 45) respectively, based on data from 9 studies. The 8 studies that assessed the diagnostic performance of a limit of blank threshold in a single sample gave a similarly high summary estimate of sensitivity of 100% (95% CI 98 to 100), but a reduced specificity of 19% (95% CI 11 to 31). All estimates were similar when the analyses were restricted to studies that excluded people with ST-segment elevation myocardial infarction (STEMI). 3.12 Using multiple sample strategies appears to offer better specificity without substantial loss of sensitivity than using a single sample on presentation and a very low limit of detection or limit of blank threshold. The European Society of Cardiology's (ESC) 0/1-hour
