High-sensitivity troponin tests for the early rule out of NSTEMI
KEYWORDS: troponin, litre, test, hours, tests, strategies, sensitivity, using, high-sensitivity, hour, rule-out, myocardial, used, litre hours, infarction


NSTEMI. Sensitivity and specificity estimates for the High-STEACS pathway (symptoms for at least 2 hours and an initial troponin concentration of less than 5 ng/litre, or a troponin concentration of 34 ng/litre or less in women, or 53 ng/litre or less in men at 3 hours and an absolute change in concentration from 0 to 3 hours, of less than 3 ng/litre) were 98% (95% CI 95 to 100) and 74% (95% CI 72 to 76) respectively for NSTEMI. Dimension Vista High-Sensitivity Cardiac Troponin I Assay 3.22 The study of the Dimension Vista test assessed a strategy using measurements done at baseline using a troponin concentration threshold of less than 5 ng/litre and an absolute change of less than 2 ng/litre within 1 hour. The sensitivity of the strategy was 100% (95% CI 97 to 100) and specificity was 66% (95% CI 62 to 69) for NSTEMI. Diagnostic accuracy in relevant subgroups 3.23 The EAG identified some data on the subgroups described in the scope for this guidance. In a study using the Elecsys test and a 99th percentile threshold on a single sample at presentation, a higher sensitivity for any acute myocardial infarction was estimated in people over 70 than for people aged 70 or under (97% [95% CI 92 to 99] and 88% [95% CI 78 to 94] respectively). The estimate of sensitivity for people over 70 was also higher than the corresponding summary estimates from all 22 studies that used the 99th percentile diagnostic threshold. There was a similar pattern for people with a high pre-test probability (determined by clinical judgement of cardiovascular risk factors, type of chest pain, physical findings and electrocardiography [ECG] abnormalities) compared with those with a low to moderate pre-test probability. The same was found for people without pre-existing cardiovascular disease compared with those with pre-existing cardiovascular disease. 3.24 Only the High-STEACS trial reported using sex-specific thresholds. Data from this study appeared to show that testing using a single sample taken on presentation is markedly more sensitive if sex-specific 99th percentile cut-offs are used, compared with a standard troponin test with a uniform threshold. This is particularly true in women, for whom the 99th percentile is lower. This study also used sex-specific thresholds as part of a multiple test strategy: the High-STEACS pathway. It is unclear whether using sex-specific thresholds in this strategy offers any advantage over using a single general population threshold.
