High-sensitivity troponin tests for the early rule out of NSTEMI
KEYWORDS: troponin, litre, test, hours, tests, strategies, sensitivity, using, high-sensitivity, hour, rule-out, myocardial, used, litre hours, infarction


as part of a multiple test strategy: the High-STEACS pathway. It is unclear whether using sex-specific thresholds in this strategy offers any advantage over using a single general population threshold. This is because no equivalent strategy, using a single universal threshold, was evaluated. Other studies reported data on men and women using a single general population threshold in each group. Results from a study on the Elecsys test showed very similar accuracy estimates for the subgroups, although a study on the Dimension Vista reported a lower sensitivity and specificity in men than in women. 3.25 Two studies on the Elecsys test and 2 on the ARCHITECT test reported data on how diagnostic performance varies with renal function. All studies show a decrease in specificity as renal function decreases. Comparative diagnostic accuracy for more than 1 test 3.26 Seven studies reported accuracy data for more than 1 test. 3.27 The APACE study provided data on the ESC 0/1-hour pathway using the Elecsys, ARCHITECT and ADVIA Centaur tests. It also provided data on the ESC 0/1-hour pathway using the Access, VITROS and TriageTrue tests, but these results came from different patient subgroups and were reported in different publications. Data showed that the ESC 0/1-hour pathway performed consistently across all 6 high- sensitivity troponin tests evaluated with sensitivity estimates of 98% or higher. 3.28 Three other studies, ADAPT, ROMI-3, and TRUST, compared the Elecsys and ARCHITECT tests. Although the sensitivity estimates for the Elecsys test, using the 99th percentile and a single sample at presentation, were higher than those for the ARCHITECT test, both had sensitivity estimates of less than 97%. When the limit of detection threshold was used with a single sample at presentation, sensitivity estimates were comparable for the Elecsys test and the ARCHITECT test, and were always 99% or higher. 3.29 The High-STEACS trial provided data on the rule-out performance of 3 strategies (ESC 0/1-hour, ESC 0/3-hour and High-STEACS 0/3-hour) using the ARCHITECT and Atellica tests. It is unclear whether both tests were evaluated in the same subgroup of people in the study. Data showed that the sensitivity of the ESC 0/ 1-hour pathway was lower using the Atellica test (94% [95% CI 79 to 99]) than using the ARCHITECT test (100% [95% CI 91 to 100]). The sensitivity and specificity estimates for the High-STEACS 0/3-hour rule-out pathway were similar using either test (both had sensitivity estimates of 98% or
