High-sensitivity troponin tests for the early rule out of NSTEMI
KEYWORDS: troponin, litre, test, hours, tests, strategies, sensitivity, using, high-sensitivity, hour, rule-out, myocardial, used, litre hours, infarction


cost effectiveness of diagnostic strategies using high-sensitivity troponin testing. The EAG noted that the key drivers of cost effectiveness in the included studies were the accuracy of high-sensitivity troponin tests, and the efficiency of decision making once test results were available. 3.35 The most recent study (Ambavane et al. 2017) reported that a 1-hour strategy using high-sensitivity troponin testing had higher sensitivity (87% compared with 69%) but lower specificity (96% compared with 97%) than standard care. The reference standard used to calculate diagnostic accuracy was determination of final diagnosis based on a comprehensive review of medical records. Total costs were less for the 1-hour strategy compared with standard care (£2,480 compared with £4,561). This was mainly because of a shorter length of stay in the emergency department. Economic analysis 3.36 The EAG developed a de novo economic model to explore the cost effectiveness of high-sensitivity troponin tests for the early rule out of acute myocardial infarction, including NSTEMI, in people with acute chest pain (used up to 4 hours from the onset of chest pain or at presentation). The model compared high- sensitivity tests with standard troponin T or I testing, or both, on admission and at 10 to 12 hours after the onset of symptoms. The population in the model was people presenting to the emergency department with suspected non-ST- segment elevation acute coronary syndrome, who have no major comorbidities needing hospitalisation (for example, heart failure or arrhythmia) and in whom STEMI has been ruled out. 3.37 Only high-sensitivity troponin tests with a sensitivity of 97% or above were used in the economic model, based on expert opinion of the minimum sensitivity acceptable in clinical practice. The strategies evaluated are described in table 1. Table 1 Test strategies evaluated in the economic model Strategy Test Strategy number 99th percentile threshold (under 14 ng/litre at 0 hours AND 1 Elecsys 3 hours) 2 Elecsys Limit of detection under 5 ng/litre at 0 hours ESC 0/1-hour pathway: symptoms over 3 hours AND under 5 ng/ litre at 0 hours 3 Elecsys OR under 12 ng/litre at 0 hours AND an absolute change of less than 3 ng/litre at 0 to 1 hour Strategy Test Strategy number Under 8 ng/litre at 0 hours AND an absolute change of less than 4 Elecsys 3 ng/litre at 0 to 0.5 hours Under 12 ng/litre at 0 hours AND an absolute change of less than
