High-sensitivity troponin tests for the early rule out of NSTEMI
KEYWORDS: troponin, litre, test, hours, tests, strategies, sensitivity, using, high-sensitivity, hour, rule-out, myocardial, used, litre hours, infarction


5 ng/litre at 0 to 2 hours ESC 0/1-hour pathway: symptoms over 3 hours AND under 1 ng/ litre at 0 hours 19 VITROS OR under 2 ng/litre at 0 hours AND an absolute change of under 1 ng/litre at 0 to 1 hour Under 2 ng/litre at 0 hours 20 VIDAS OR under 6 ng/litre at 0 AND 2 hours ESC 0/1-hour pathway: symptoms over 3 hours AND under 4 ng/ litre at 0 hours 21 TriageTrue OR under 5 ng/litre at 0 hours AND an absolute change of less than 3 ng/litre at 0 to 1 hour Model structure 3.38 The model structure from the original diagnostics assessment report was used. This model structure was adapted from the health technology assessment report from Goodacre et al. (2013). It consists of a decision tree and a state-transition model. The decision tree was used to model the 30-day outcomes after presentation, based on test results and the accompanying treatment decision. The following health states were included: • no acute coronary syndrome and no unstable angina (no ACS, no UA) • unstable angina (UA) • post-acute myocardial infarction, treated and untreated (post-AMI) • post-acute myocardial infarction with reinfarction (post-AMI with reinfarction) • death. 3.39 People presenting at the emergency department with suspected non-ST elevation acute coronary syndrome were tested and results were classified as either true positive, false positive, false negative or true negative. These people entered health states as listed (people could also die after treatment or be discharged): • People with true positive test results were correctly treated for acute myocardial infarction and were allocated to 'non-fatal AMI (treated)'. • People with false positive test results were considered to have no acute myocardial infarction, but did not meet early rule-out criteria. They were subdivided between 'no ACS, no UA' and 'UA'. It was assumed that people with false positive test results would remain in the hospital longer but would not be treated for acute myocardial infarction. • People with true negative test results were considered not to be treated for acute myocardial infarction and were subdivided between 'no ACS, no UA' and 'UA'. • People with false negative test results were assumed to have untreated acute myocardial infarction resulting in increased reinfarction and mortality probabilities for 1 year and were allocated to 'non-fatal AMI (untreated)'. 3.40 The long-term consequences in terms of costs and QALYs were estimated using a
