High-sensitivity troponin tests for the early rule out of NSTEMI
KEYWORDS: troponin, litre, test, hours, tests, strategies, sensitivity, using, high-sensitivity, hour, rule-out, myocardial, used, litre hours, infarction


the 'no ACS, no UA' health state. These age-dependent utility scores were combined with age-dependent disutility values for acute myocardial infarction, to calculate utility values for the 'post-AMI' health states (with or without reinfarction). Utility values for the 'UA' health state were calculated based on the 'post-MI' utility values and assuming a utility increment of 0.010. Assumptions 3.46 The following assumptions were applied in the base-case analysis: • Standard troponin testing (at presentation and after 10 to 12 hours) has perfect accuracy. • Compared with acute myocardial infarctions occurring during the decision tree period, all acute myocardial infarctions (either first or reinfarction) occurring in the state-transition model are diagnosed correctly, so are treated. • Unstable angina is always correctly diagnosed, so is treated. • The reinfarction probability for the 'post-AMI with reinfarction' health state is equal to the reinfarction probability for the 'post-AMI' health state. • The increased post-acute myocardial infarction reinfarction and mortality probabilities for untreated acute myocardial infarction were assumed to last 1 year. After this a relative risk of 1.0 was applied (for untreated compared with treated acute myocardial infarction). • There is no additional benefit of starting treatment early, so treatment effect for high-sensitivity strategies is equal to treatment effect for standard troponin strategies. • All 30-day deaths (after presentation at the emergency department) are due to fatal acute myocardial infarction events and will receive the associated costs. 3.47 For the base case, it was assumed that people who tested negative on standard troponin tests and positive on high-sensitivity troponin tests would have a life expectancy and quality of life equal to people with true negative test results, but this assumption is debatable. A meta-analysis by Liplinski et al. (2015) showed that people with a negative standard troponin test and positive high-sensitivity troponin test have an increased risk of reinfarction and mortality compared with those who test negative on both standard troponin and high-sensitivity troponin tests. Although this risk was not as high as in people with both positive standard troponin and positive high-sensitivity troponin tests, it could still be considered prognostically important. A secondary analysis was done in which the risk of acute myocardial infarction and mortality was adjusted for people with false positive results. Results 3.48 In the base case, standard troponin testing was the most effective and the most expensive strategy. But other testing strategies with a sensitivity of 100% (subject to uncertainty)
