High-sensitivity troponin tests for the early rule out of NSTEMI
KEYWORDS: troponin, litre, test, hours, tests, strategies, sensitivity, using, high-sensitivity, hour, rule-out, myocardial, used, litre hours, infarction


Results 3.48 In the base case, standard troponin testing was the most effective and the most expensive strategy. But other testing strategies with a sensitivity of 100% (subject to uncertainty) were almost equally as effective, resulting in the same QALY gain up to 4 decimal places. Compared with standard troponin testing, high-sensitivity troponin testing resulted in probabilistic incremental cost- effectiveness ratios (ICERs) ranging between £34,307 and £36,842,603 savings per QALY lost. 3.49 In the secondary analysis, standard troponin was the cheapest and the least effective testing strategy. Compared with standard troponin testing, high- sensitivity troponin testing resulted in probabilistic ICERs ranging between £4,043 and £6,148 per QALY gained. 3.50 For all scenario analyses of the secondary analysis, results were similar to those from the secondary analysis base case. Standard troponin remained the cheapest and the least effective testing strategy (deterministic analysis). In all scenario analyses of the secondary analysis, high-sensitivity troponin testing compared with standard troponin testing resulted in ICERs less than £10,000 per QALY gained. 3.51 One-way sensitivity analyses were done including all parameters that were changed in the probabilistic sensitivity analysis. In the secondary analysis, the parameters that had a notable effect on the estimated cost-effectiveness estimates were: • 30-day mortality for untreated acute myocardial infarction • mortality 1 year after treated and untreated acute myocardial infarction • discount rate used for outcomes • relative mortality for people who had a true positive result compared with those who had a false positive result. At extreme values (based on 95% confidence intervals) of these inputs, standard troponin testing remains cheaper and less effective than the high- sensitivity troponin tests. 4 Committee discussion Quick, accurate tests may reduce anxiety for patients and carers 4.1 The committee heard from a patient expert who highlighted the stresses and fears that patients and their families experience when attending the emergency department with chest pain. Reducing waiting times is important for patients. Technologies that reduce the time taken from sample to clinical decision, while providing good diagnostic accuracy, may help reduce patient anxiety. Patients may be reassured that they are having the most appropriate treatment with tests that provide an accurate result. Flexibility on tests and strategies helps hospitals 4.2 NICE has previously recommended high-sensitivity troponin for early rule out of acute myocardial infarction, so most emergency departments are already set up for high-sensitivity troponin testing. Many have implemented early rule-out strategies as routine
