High-sensitivity troponin tests for the early rule out of NSTEMI
KEYWORDS: troponin, litre, test, hours, tests, strategies, sensitivity, using, high-sensitivity, hour, rule-out, myocardial, used, litre hours, infarction


high-sensitivity troponin for early rule out of acute myocardial infarction, so most emergency departments are already set up for high-sensitivity troponin testing. Many have implemented early rule-out strategies as routine practice. The committee considered that there were practical issues around early rule-out strategies that incorporate serial testing but that these could be resolved in practice. It also considered that, if more tests and different testing strategies were found to be cost effective and were recommended, this would help with procurement and give hospitals more flexibility to implement a strategy that works for them. Clinical effectiveness The comparative accuracy of the different tests is uncertain 4.3 There were concerns about the level of clinical evidence available for some of the tests. Most diagnostic accuracy results related to the Elecsys (30 studies) and ARCHITECT (9 studies) tests. Other tests had less evidence available but were mostly still acceptable. The committee noted that there was also limited evidence comparing the diagnostic performance of 1 test with another. This meant that although there may be differences in performance between the tests, it is difficult to estimate these differences with any certainty. The sensitivity of single-sample early rule-out strategies varies depending on which threshold is used 4.4 Results from the diagnostic accuracy studies showed that strategies that test a single sample on presentation using a threshold at or close to the limit of detection gave high sensitivity but low specificity. However, the committee commented that single sample strategies can be useful to rule out non-ST- segment elevation myocardial infarction (NSTEMI) early in emergency departments and, for this purpose, specificity is not a priority. There were concerns about the consistency of different analysers to provide accurate results at these low thresholds. However, clinical experts commented that samples with results close to these low thresholds would be from people considered very low risk and would have a good prognosis regardless of treatment. In contrast, results from diagnostic accuracy studies showed that a single test strategy using the 99th percentile threshold had sensitivity estimates too low to be safely used in clinical practice. Multiple sample early rule-out strategies have better specificity than single-sample strategies 4.5 Results from the diagnostic accuracy studies showed that multiple sample early rule-out strategies, that is, those that included a second rule-out step, had better specificity than single-sample strategies using a very low threshold. Multiple sample strategies also maintained high levels of sensitivity. However,
