High-sensitivity troponin tests for the early rule out of NSTEMI
KEYWORDS: troponin, litre, test, hours, tests, strategies, sensitivity, using, high-sensitivity, hour, rule-out, myocardial, used, litre hours, infarction


that is, those that included a second rule-out step, had better specificity than single-sample strategies using a very low threshold. Multiple sample strategies also maintained high levels of sensitivity. However, clinical experts commented that it was difficult to make direct comparisons of the different test strategies based on specificity because the number of true negatives would be affected by the prevalence of NSTEMI in each of the different study populations. High-sensitivity troponin tests should be used alongside clinical judgement 4.6 Clinical experts noted that the clinical context in which decisions on discharging or admitting someone to hospital is important, and that decisions should never be based solely on the results of a high-sensitivity troponin test. For example, a person with a negative high-sensitivity troponin test result should not be discharged without further investigations if they look visibly unwell or if the sample was collected too soon after the suspected cardiac event, a practice that could result in a false negative result. Using sex-specific 99th percentile thresholds could reduce inequality in women's treatment 4.7 Clinical experts explained that there was consistent evidence from reference range studies that the 99th percentile threshold differs between men and women. For the Elecsys and ARCHITECT tests, the 99th percentile upper reference limit for women is much lower than the general (mixed) population 99th percentile. The High-STEACS trial was the only strategy included in the cost- effectiveness modelling to use sex-specific 99th percentile thresholds in an early rule-out strategy. But it did not provide a direct comparison with a general population 99th percentile threshold. The committee therefore considered that the evidence on using sex-specific 99th percentile thresholds in early rule-out strategies was unclear. Clinical experts noted that sex-specific 99th percentile thresholds were sometimes used in clinical practice to help diagnose NSTEMI, but that there was no evidence that using them affected clinical outcomes. They noted that the ongoing CODE-MI study aims to evaluate the effect of using the sex-specific 99th percentile threshold for women for high-sensitivity cardiac troponin. This will be compared with the general (mixed) population 99th percentile threshold, for the diagnosis, treatment and outcomes of women presenting to the emergency department with cardiac chest pain. The committee noted that there was a wider equality issue because women with acute myocardial infarction are generally under-diagnosed and under-treated compared with men. The committee considered that using sex-specific 99th percentile thresholds to help diagnose NSTEMI could be
