High-sensitivity troponin tests for the early rule out of NSTEMI
KEYWORDS: troponin, litre, test, hours, tests, strategies, sensitivity, using, high-sensitivity, hour, rule-out, myocardial, used, litre hours, infarction


issue because women with acute myocardial infarction are generally under-diagnosed and under-treated compared with men. The committee considered that using sex-specific 99th percentile thresholds to help diagnose NSTEMI could be a step towards reducing this health inequality. It concluded that, when NSTEMI is not ruled out using early rule-out test strategies, NICE's guideline on recent-onset chest pain of suspected cardiac origin may be used to help diagnose myocardial infarction, and the use of sex- specific thresholds at the 99th percentile should be considered (see section 5.2). Randomised controlled trial evidence shows early rule-out strategies do not negatively affect health 4.8 The committee considered evidence from 2 randomised controlled trials, High- STEACS and HiSTORIC. It noted that the authors of High-STEACS concluded that the implementation of an early rule-out strategy was not associated with any increase in myocardial infarction or cardiovascular death within 1 year of initial presentation. The HiSTORIC trial was submitted to NICE as academic-in- confidence evidence. The committee concluded that evidence from the randomised controlled trials, which reported end clinical outcomes, strongly supported using high-sensitivity troponin tests with early rule-out strategies in clinical practice. The TriageTrue point-of-care test is innovative but its diagnostic accuracy is uncertain 4.9 The committee noted that the TriageTrue point-of-care test had a turnaround time of around 20 minutes and had the potential to be an important development in the field. The rapid time to test results could have benefits because of a reduced length of time spent waiting for a result in the emergency department (see section 4.1). Only 1 study was available on the TriageTrue test. In this study troponin levels were tested in stored plasma samples rather than the whole blood samples used in clinical practice. The committee noted that the evidence did not reflect how the test would be used in clinical practice at the point of care. It concluded that further evidence on TriageTrue's diagnostic performance when used on whole blood at the point of care is needed before the test can be recommended for use in clinical practice. The Alinity, Dimension EXL and Elecsys STAT tests are likely to have the same performance as alternative versions of tests 4.10 The Alinity and Dimension EXL tests were not included in the economic model because there were no direct diagnostic accuracy data for them in the systematic review. However, the committee noted that these tests were based on the same
