High-sensitivity troponin tests for the early rule out of NSTEMI
KEYWORDS: troponin, litre, test, hours, tests, strategies, sensitivity, using, high-sensitivity, hour, rule-out, myocardial, used, litre hours, infarction


in the economic model because there were no direct diagnostic accuracy data for them in the systematic review. However, the committee noted that these tests were based on the same methods and principles, and used the same reagents as other tests that were included in the modelling. The committee heard that the Alinity test was a newer version of the ARCHITECT test and that the Dimension EXL test was a different version of the Vista test, but the tests were all run on different analysers. It noted further that the Elecsys STAT test was the same in terms of technical specification and performance as the Elecsys troponin T-high sensitive test, and is run on the same analysers. The committee concluded that the diagnostic accuracy of these different versions of the tests should be comparable. It also concluded that it was the responsibility of individual laboratories to assess the equivalency of these tests in practice, and to validate their diagnostic performance against their current system. This would be achieved in part by participating in external quality assessment schemes. Cost effectiveness Only including early rule-out strategies with a minimum sensitivity of 97% in the economic analysis is acceptable 4.11 Only early rule-out strategies with a sensitivity of 97% or more were used in the cost-effectiveness modelling, based on expert opinion about the minimum sensitivity acceptable in clinical practice. The committee noted that this approach could mean that some potentially cost-effective strategies were excluded from the economic modelling. But overall it agreed that it was an acceptable approach that was necessary to keep the number of test strategies in the economic model manageable and ensure that those considered were likely to be safe in practice. The prognostic benefits associated with a false positive high- sensitivity troponin test should be incorporated into decision making 4.12 The secondary analysis incorporated prognostic benefits associated with false positive high-sensitivity troponin test results. Clinical experts noted that it is now widely accepted that people with a negative standard troponin test and a positive high-sensitivity troponin test (classified as false positives in the analysis) have an increased risk of reinfarction and mortality compared with people who have a negative result from both tests. The committee concluded that the secondary analysis was most appropriate for decision making. All early rule-out test strategies in the model are cost effective compared with standard troponin testing at 0 hours and 12 hours 4.13
