High-sensitivity troponin tests for the early rule out of NSTEMI
KEYWORDS: troponin, litre, test, hours, tests, strategies, sensitivity, using, high-sensitivity, hour, rule-out, myocardial, used, litre hours, infarction


analysis was most appropriate for decision making. All early rule-out test strategies in the model are cost effective compared with standard troponin testing at 0 hours and 12 hours 4.13 Compared with standard troponin testing, high-sensitivity troponin test strategies resulted in incremental cost-effectiveness ratios (ICERs) of less than £7,000 per quality-adjusted life year (QALY) gained. These ICERs are below £20,000 per QALY gained, which NICE would typically consider to be cost effective. The committee noted that there were only small differences in costs and QALYs between the different test strategies included in the economic model, and recalled its previous conclusion that it was not possible to indirectly compare the tests and early rule-out strategies. The committee concluded that it was not possible to differentiate between the different test strategies, and that all early rule-out strategies had the potential to be recommended for clinical practice, provided that each test used with them had enough diagnostic accuracy data. The results of the economic model are robust to changes in the input parameter values 4.14 The model results were robust to changes in the input parameter values, for example, the number of admissions based on the specificity of the test strategy and the prevalence of NSTEMI. Early rule-out strategies with lower specificities would likely result in fewer people being discharged from hospital, but this does not have a substantial effect on the cost-effectiveness results. In addition, clinical experts noted that people having standard troponin testing and who get a negative test result would probably have a hospital length of stay of 24 hours rather than the 14 hours assumed in the economic model. So the benefits of using early rule-out strategies may have been underestimated. The external assessment group (EAG) commented that changing this assumption would be unlikely to affect the model results. Recommending a range of different high-sensitivity troponin tests gives greater flexibility to NHS trusts 4.15 Some of the tests had lower levels of clinical evidence than others. But the diagnostic performance and costs of all the tests used in the modelling were comparable (except for the test cost for TriageTrue). There was no strong evidence to differentiate one test over another (see section 4.3), and when used in the early rule-out strategies all were cost effective compared with the standard troponin test (see section 4.13). The committee noted that recommending a range of tests would benefit hospitals by enabling them
