High-sensitivity troponin tests for the early rule out of NSTEMI
KEYWORDS: troponin, litre, test, hours, tests, strategies, sensitivity, using, high-sensitivity, hour, rule-out, myocardial, used, litre hours, infarction


rule-out strategies all were cost effective compared with the standard troponin test (see section 4.13). The committee noted that recommending a range of tests would benefit hospitals by enabling them to operate within existing equipment contracts or investments in a particular platform. It concluded that recommending a range of high-sensitivity troponin tests gives greater flexibility to NHS trusts and enables them to work with any local restrictions or equipment contracts. Recommending a range of early rule-out strategies means hospitals can use one that works for their emergency department 4.16 The original NICE diagnostics guidance on troponin tests for myocardial infarction recommended strategies that test at 0 hours and 3 hours, report absolute values and use an upper reference limit at the 99th percentile. The committee noted that much more evidence is now available on different early rule-out strategies. The committee considered the different strategies included in the model: • single-sample strategies using a threshold at or near to the limit of detection • multiple sample strategies in which all patients would be tested at baseline and again at 1 to 3 hours after the initial test • multiple sample strategies in which people only had a second test (1 hour to 3 hours after the initial test) if the first test result could not be used to rule out acute myocardial infarction. The multiple sample strategies incorporated different thresholds, including those at or close to the limit of detection, the general (mixed) population 99th percentile, and sex-specific 99th percentiles. The committee recalled that all single-sample strategies and multiple sample strategies included in the model were highly sensitive, that is, they had a low false negative rate (see sections 4.4 and 4.5). It considered that strategies in which people could be safely discharged after the first test could be beneficial because fewer people would have to remain in the emergency department for a second test. The committee noted further that all strategies were cost effective compared with a standard troponin test strategy (see section 4.13). The committee concluded that recommending a range of early rule-out strategies would enable hospitals to use strategies that worked with the set up of their emergency department. Further diagnostic accuracy evidence is needed before the TriageTrue test can be recommended for routine clinical use 4.17 The TriageTrue point-of-care test, when used in the European Society of Cardiology 0/1-hour pathway, was cost effective compared with a standard
