High-sensitivity troponin tests for the early rule out of NSTEMI
KEYWORDS: troponin, litre, test, hours, tests, strategies, sensitivity, using, high-sensitivity, hour, rule-out, myocardial, used, litre hours, infarction


test can be recommended for routine clinical use 4.17 The TriageTrue point-of-care test, when used in the European Society of Cardiology 0/1-hour pathway, was cost effective compared with a standard troponin test strategy, with an ICER of less than £5,000 per QALY gained. The committee considered that the potential benefits associated with the rapid turnaround times of point-of-care tests (see section 4.9) may not have been fully captured in the economic model. But the committee was concerned about the evidence used to provide the diagnostic accuracy inputs in the model, so concluded that further research was needed on the TriageTrue test before it could be recommended for routine clinical use. Research considerations Further research to understand the 99th percentile in population subgroups would be useful 4.18 Some evidence supported using sex-specific 99th percentile thresholds in clinical practice in men and women but overall their value in early rule-out is unclear (see section 4.7). The clinical experts said that there are much less data on the 99th percentile in other subgroups, such as older or younger people, people with or without renal disease and black, Asian and minority ethnic groups. The committee considered that it would be helpful to have a better understanding of differences in the 99th percentile between these subgroups. 5 Recommendations for further research 5.1 Further research is recommended on the diagnostic performance of the TriageTrue high-sensitivity troponin test using samples at point of care. 5.2 Further research is recommended on how using sex-specific 99th percentile thresholds affects treatment decisions and clinical outcomes for men and women. 6 Implementation NICE will support this guidance through a range of activities to promote the recommendations for further research. The research proposed will be considered by the NICE Medical Technologies Evaluation Programme research facilitation team for developing specific research study protocols as appropriate. NICE will also incorporate the research recommendations in section 5 into its guidance research recommendations database and highlight these recommendations to public research bodies.
