Chapter 35: Mortality in Type 1 Diabetes
KEYWORDS: diabetes, mortality, type, type diabetes, years, study, deaths, complications, death, disease, risk, rates, age, diabetic, cohort


35–1 CHAPTER 35 MORTALITY IN TYPE 1 DIABETES Aaron M. Secrest, MD, PhD, Raynard E. Washington, PhD, and Trevor J. Orchard, MBBCh, MMedSci Dr. Aaron M. Secrest is a Resident Physician at the University of Utah, Salt Lake City, UT. Dr. Raynard E. Washington is a Health Research Scientist at the Agency for Healthcare Research and Quality, United States Department of Health and Human Services, Rockville, MD. Dr. Trevor J. Orchard is a Professor at the University of Pittsburgh, Pittsburgh, PA. Received in final form October 14, 2014. SUMMARY Despite major advances in management and care, type 1 diabetes remains associated with considerable premature mortality. Although significant improvements in life expectancy have been observed in those diagnosed since 1965, mortality rates among patients with type 1 diabetes remain significantly higher than the general population, a finding confirmed by several studies in the United States and internationally, with standardized mortality ratios revealing that patients with type 1 diabetes have mortality rates that are 3–18 times higher than would be expected in their respective countries. There is marked geographic variation in mortality, and further notable differ­ ences between males and females, compared to the general population. Deaths due to diabetes-related acute and chronic complications appear to account for nearly all of the excess premature mortality in patients with type 1 diabetes compared to the general population. Diabetes-related chronic complications, particularly cardiovascular and renal disease, are now the predominant causes of death in type 1 diabetes, in contrast to the high rates of death due to diabetes-re­ lated acute complications (i.e., glycemic-related events) observed during earlier years (i.e., the pre-insulin era). End-stage renal disease (ESRD), historically, is the leading cause of death in the mid-years of diabetes duration (up to 35 years), accounting for more than half of deaths. After 35 years duration, however, cardiovascular disease (CVD) is the leading cause of death, accounting for two-thirds of deaths. With the decline (or delay) in developing ESRD due to improvements in diabetes management, this pattern may be changing. Several risk factors for type 1 diabetes mortality have been investigated. Females with type 1 diabetes continue to have a greater increase in mortality compared to females in the general population than is found for males. This pattern is consistent for all causes of death, particularly CVD, where the standardized mortality ratio for females (24.7) is nearly three times that for males (8.6), primarily resulting from
