Chapter 35: Mortality in Type 1 Diabetes
KEYWORDS: diabetes, mortality, type, type diabetes, years, study, deaths, complications, death, disease, risk, rates, age, diabetic, cohort


This pattern is consistent for all causes of death, particularly CVD, where the standardized mortality ratio for females (24.7) is nearly three times that for males (8.6), primarily resulting from the lower rates of mortality in the female general population. In addition, African Americans remain at increased risk of premature mortality compared to Caucasians, consistently having mortality rates 2.5 higher than their Caucasian counterparts over the past 30 years. Onset of type 1 diabetes after puberty also appears to be associated with 1.5–2.0-fold higher mortality than prepubertal onset. Several other factors are associated with type 1 diabetes mortality, including lower socioeconomic status, hypertension, smoking, and renal failure. Some risk factors, such as glycemic control and insulin resistance, have not consistently shown direct associations with type 1 diabetes mortality but are associated with diabetes-related chronic complications and are likely contributing factors. Indeed, the Diabetes Control and Complications Trial/Epidemiology of Diabetes Interventions and Complications study suggests that even 6 years of more intensive therapy may lead to a lower mortality over 20 years of further follow-up. Finally, type 1 diabetes has a greater impact on mortality rates in U.S. populations than seen in many European countries, with U.S. standardized mortality ratios of 6.9–7.5 compared to European standardized mortality ratios of 3.3–4.2. These geographic differ­ ences indicate an urgent need to improve disease management and access to care in the United States. INTRODUCTION Historically, type 1 diabetes has been associated with a greatly increased risk of early mortality. Fortunately, this is no longer necessarily the case, and many individuals with type 1 diabetes can expect a normal lifespan. This chapter reviews type 1 diabetes mortality from a variety of perspectives, including improve­ ments in mortality and life expectancy over time and comparisons to the general U.S. population, as well as international type 1 diabetes populations. Major studies and registries are described, and data are presented regarding causes of death and predictors/risk factors for mortality. 35–2 DIABETES IN AMERICA, 3rd Edition HISTORICAL DATA (PRE-1980 ERA) Prior to the availability of insulin in bovine form in 1922, dietary restrictions and supportive therapies could usually only delay mortality for 1–2 years after onset of type 1 diabetes. Based on mortality data from the Joslin Clinic in Boston, Massachusetts, the mortality rate for type 1 diabetes patients dying within the first 10 years of life improved dramatically from 824 per 1,000 in 1897–1914 to 386 per 1,000
