Chapter 35: Mortality in Type 1 Diabetes
KEYWORDS: diabetes, mortality, type, type diabetes, years, study, deaths, complications, death, disease, risk, rates, age, diabetic, cohort


similar for African Americans with type 1 diabetes and Caucasians with type 1 diabetes (7.5 vs. 7.4, respectively) compared to the general population (40). This phenomenon may be partly explained by higher background mortality in younger African Americans in the general population due to accidental and violent causes and the surprising absence of these causes of death in African Americans with type 1 diabetes in Allegheny County. These elevated stan­ dardized mortality ratios among African Americans with type 1 diabetes compared to African Americans in the general popu­ lation are seen not only in the ACR, but also in New Jersey and the U.S. Virgin Islands (Figure 35.10) (29,40,57). Little information exists on long-term cause-specific mortality for African Americans with type 1 diabetes. A retrospective study of death certificates for Chicago residents (age 1–24 years) showed all eight acute complication deaths at onset (of 30 total type 1 diabetes deaths) occurred in either non-Hispanic black (seven) or Hispanic (one) patients (56). Caucasian type 1 diabetic patients accounted for only two deaths during this interval in Chicago, and neither was due to acute complications. African Americans with type 1 diabetes have significantly higher mortality rates for all diabetes-related complications compared to Caucasians with type 1 diabetes (50). This poorer prognosis for African Americans with type 1 diabetes reflects the ongoing racial gap in socioeco­ nomic status or access to and utilization of health care in the United States (58). CAUSES OF DEATH IN TYPE 1 DIABETES Limitations of Death Certificates Epidemiologic studies have long relied on death certificates to obtain mortality data, specifically data relating to the cause(s) of death. A notable Swedish study in 1976 used registry data to validate the cause of death listed on 1,156 death certificates and found that the death certificates were valid for most forms of cancer, stroke, and respiratory disease but not for diabetes (59). In the United States, misclassifica­ tion, as well as substantial underreporting of mortality from diabetes, is also preva­ lent (60). Only one study from Germany has specifically examined the reliability of the cause of death on death certificates in individuals with type 1 diabetes (61). A mortality review committee found that only 25% of hypoglycemic deaths were listed as such on the death certificate, and similarly, only 57% of deaths from diabetic ketoacidosis (DKA) actually listed DKA on the death certificate (61). The committee only agreed with death certificates
