brief communicAtion
KEYWORDS: pancreatitis, normal, colonoscopy, patient, ileus, acute, pancreatitis ileus, abdominal, case, une, acute pancreatitis, associated, endoscopy, amylase, bowel


à la pancréatite. Il s’agit du premier case is the first report of clinical pancreatitis and ileus associated with rapport de cas de pancréatite clinique et d’iléus associés à la coloscopie. colonoscopy. Key Words: Colonoscopy; Ileus; Pancreatitis Colonoscopy is a widely used diagnostic and therapeutic manoeuvres and the application of external pressure. The intervention, and is generally well tolerated. Potential colonoscope was withdrawn and a gastroscope was inserted; complications include postpolypectomy bleeding, perforation however, the gastroscope also could not be passed beyond the and side effects related to sedation and analgesia (1-3). Acute same region. Two polyps in the descending colon, both pancreatitis, a well-documented complication of endoscopic approximately 6 mm in size, were removed by snare coagula- retrograde cholangiopancreatography (4), is generally not con- tion without complications. Almost immediately after the sidered to be a complication associated with an endoscopic procedure, the patient developed generalized cramping and procedure that does not involve ampullary cannulation. A case mid-abdominal pain. She was observed in the endoscopy unit of acute pancreatitis and ileus after colonoscopy is described. for a few hours before being discharged home. The pain per- sisted and she returned to the hospital the next morning for Case presentation assessment. She was nauseous and had not eaten after the pro- Clinical history cedure. There was no feculent or bilious vomitus. She had A 60-year-old Caucasian woman with a previous cadaveric minimal flatus and could not pass any bowel movements. renal transplant for hypertensive nephropathy underwent a On physical examination, the patient’s blood pressure was gastroscopy and colonoscopy for investigation of iron defi- 180/70 mmHg, pulse 80 beats/min and regular, and without any ciency anemia. The patient was otherwise healthy and without orthostatic changes. She was afebrile and her oxygen satura- a history of gastrointestinal symptoms or disease. She rarely tion was 97% on room air. Cardiovascular and respiratory consumed alcohol and had a 15 pack-year smoking history. Her examinations were normal. Her abdomen was markedly dis- regular medications included tacrolimus, mycophenolate tended, tympanic and diffusely tender. There was no evidence mofetil, labetalol, prednisone and diltiazem. All medications of abdominal rigidity, guarding, rebound or percussion tender- were started and doses were stable for at least six months before ness. Bowel sounds were present but scant. She had no hepato- her endoscopic procedures. megaly or splenomegaly, and her rectal examination was The patient was premedicated with midazolam and fentanyl, normal. The remainder
