brief communicAtion
KEYWORDS: pancreatitis, normal, colonoscopy, patient, ileus, acute, pancreatitis ileus, abdominal, case, une, acute pancreatitis, associated, endoscopy, amylase, bowel


U/L) 6.6% of patients undergoing endoscopy. Hyperamylasemia has and lipase of 1525 U/L (normal 23 U/L to 208 U/L). Acute been reported in 12% of patients undergoing endoscopy (7,8) pancreatitis was evident on an abdominal computed tomog- but is thought to be secondary to increased secretion of the raphy scan. With conservative management, the patient salivary isoenzyme of amylase. Clinical pancreatitis was absent improved during the next few days. The present case is unique in all of these cases (6-8). There are three published reports of because our patient developed both pancreatitis and ileus after acute pancreatitis after upper endoscopy without ampullary the colonoscopy. cannulation: one was related to a technically difficult endos- copy (9), the second (10) was related to endoscopic ultrasound ConCLUsion and the third (11) was associated with double-balloon enteros- Patients developing postendoscopy abdominal pain require evalu- copy. There has been only one reported case of pancreatitis ation to rule out causes such as perforation. Pancreatitis and ileus postcolonoscopy (12). A healthy 25-year-old man underwent should also be considered in the differential diagnosis after more colonoscopy for evaluation of weight loss and diarrhea. The common explanations are excluded. Although uncommon, the procedure was technically difficult and the colonoscope initially present case illustrates that it is possible for a patient without pre- could not be advanced beyond the splenic flexure. Eventually, existing risk factors to develop pancreatitis following colonoscopy. with withdrawal and reinsertion, the colonoscope was advanced We suspect that difficulty in advancing a colonoscope past the to the cecum and a sessile polyp 5 mm in size was removed from splenic flexure may result in trauma to the pancreas. It may be the sigmoid colon. The patient experienced severe abdominal necessary to discuss the potential for this complication with pain 4 h after the procedure. Laboratory evaluation revealed an patients when obtaining informed consent for colonoscopy.
