Open Access Case
KEYWORDS: liver, injury, liver injury, patient, supplement, virus, hepatitis, acute, garcinia, cases, hepatitis virus, supplement-related, acute liver, table, calaquian


894 >750 674 60 Platelet count (× 103/µL) 163-356 202 156 262 TABLE 1: Laboratory Data AST: aspartate aminotransferase; ALT: alanine aminotransferase; INR: international normalized ratio The patient had no recent history of alcohol consumption or history of intravenous drug use. She denied any personal or family history of liver disease, hypercoagulable disorders, or malignancy. Baseline liver function How to cite this article Calaquian L L, Yau I (February 15, 2022) Garcinia cambogia—A Supplement-Related Liver Injury. Cureus 14(2): e22225. DOI test enzymes (AST, ALT, total bilirubin) had all previously been within normal limits on screening labs 6 years prior to presentation. She denied taking any prescription or over-the-counter medications except for a weight-loss supplement, Seryburn Day Triple (SERY BOX) that she had been taking daily for the past 3 months. On physical examination, she was notably jaundiced but had no evidence of encephalopathy, abdominal distension, asterixis, or stigmata of chronic liver disease. Vital signs were all within normal limits. Repeat labs at our institution confirmed the elevation in liver enzymes with a model for end-stage liver disease (MELD) score based on her labs of 22 (Table 1). Viral serologies demonstrated no evidence for acute viral hepatitis (Table 2). Variable On Admission (Reference range) Hepatitis A virus Ab IgM Negative Hepatitis B virus surface Ag Negative Hepatitis B virus surface Ab Positive Hepatitis B virus core Ab Positive Hepatitis B virus core Ab IgM Negative Hepatitis C virus Ab Negative Epstein-Barr virus capsid Ab IgM Undetectable (0.0-35.9) Epstein-Barr virus capsid Ab IgG (U/mL) 66 (0.0-17.9) Epstein-Barr virus nuclear Ab IgG (U/mL) 34.7 (0.0-17.9) TABLE 2: Viral Serologies Acetaminophen levels were undetectable, autoimmune markers were negative, and HIV antibody was negative. CT imaging of the abdomen obtained on admission found mild hepatomegaly, diffuse irregularity of the hepatic contour, and periportal edema without evidence of intra- or extrahepatic biliary ductal dilatation (Figure 1). A liver biopsy performed at an outside transplant center demonstrated submassive hepatic necrosis with marked ductal proliferation. The patient’s weight-loss supplement was immediately discontinued and she was admitted for observation. While the patient remained clinically stable, daily labs continued to demonstrate a persistent, worsening coagulopathy (international normalized ratio (INR 2.03)), and so she was transferred to an outside transplant center. The patient was treated with ursodeoxycholic decompensation or worsening liver injury, so she opted to continue conservative management and watchful waiting. During the remainder of her admission, liver enzymes and
