Open Access Case
KEYWORDS: liver, injury, liver injury, patient, supplement, virus, hepatitis, acute, garcinia, cases, hepatitis virus, supplement-related, acute liver, table, calaquian


The patient was treated with ursodeoxycholic decompensation or worsening liver injury, so she opted to continue conservative management and watchful waiting. During the remainder of her admission, liver enzymes and INR continued to downtrend to a normal range, and by the time of discharge nearly two weeks later her AST and ALT had dropped by over 50% (Table 1). 2022 Calaquian et al. Cureus 14(2): e22225. DOI 2 of 4 FIGURE 1: CT Abdomen/Pelvis with IV contrast (Axial view) A CT scan of the abdomen and pelvis obtained on admission showing mild hepatomegaly, diffuse irregularity of the hepatic contour, and periportal edema (white arrows). Discussion DILI accounts for over half of the cases of acute liver injury in the United States . Because it is a diagnosis of exclusion, the actual proportion of DILI in the reported cases of liver injury is difficult to determine . As in our case, patients who present with acute episodes of DILI often have non-specific constitutional symptoms and vague gastrointestinal complaints only suggestive of hepatobiliary illness. Furthermore, widespread underreporting of supplement usage compounds the difficulty linking supplement usage to the onset of liver injury. This is despite the increase in acceptance and popularity of supplement usage as a percentage of patients regularly using supplements is reported to be as high as 60%. Despite this, only 36.6% of respondents from this population reported their dietary supplement use to their physician . This emphasizes the importance of a thorough history and careful medication reconciliation with a detailed timeline of when medications, including supplements, were taken in relation to symptom onset in establishing a timely, accurate diagnosis . The major active ingredient of Seryburn Day Triple is Garcinia cambogia, a fruit-bearing plant native to South and Southeast Asia. In these regions, Garcinia is typically used as cuisine flavoring, as a preservative agent for foods, and as a traditional medicine for ailments in both humans and cattle . More recently, it has been studied and advertised as a weight-loss dietary supplement. One of the plant’s active metabolites is hydroxycitric acid (HCA), which is implicated in the reduction of fatty acid synthesis, reduced lipogenesis, increased fat loss with aerobic exercise, and appetite suppression. Evidence for these benefits has been relatively limited, but a potential association with liver injury due to high levels of HCA is of increasing concern [6-8]. In all cases of liver injury, the differential diagnosis must
