Open Access Case
KEYWORDS: liver, injury, liver injury, patient, supplement, virus, hepatitis, acute, garcinia, cases, hepatitis virus, supplement-related, acute liver, table, calaquian


relatively limited, but a potential association with liver injury due to high levels of HCA is of increasing concern [6-8]. In all cases of liver injury, the differential diagnosis must remain broad, and a thorough evaluation must rule out concomitant toxins and infections. In our patient, the positive hepatitis B virus core antibody in the absence of hepatitis B surface antigen is consistent with immunity due to prior infection of hepatitis B virus, which is endemic in South Korea (the patient’s country of origin), rather than acute viral hepatitis . Epstein-Barr virus capsid and nuclear IgG antibody positivity in the absence of IgM positivity or clinical symptoms of infectious mononucleosis similarly represents prior infection rather than acute infection. A particular concern in all cases of supplement-related liver injury is the reality of minimal regulatory oversight of supplement production, and the possibility that subsequently identified adverse side effects and outcomes may be a result of unlabeled ingredients or contaminants as a result of the production process . Conclusions 2022 Calaquian et al. Cureus 14(2): e22225. DOI 3 of 4 In this case, our patient developed acute liver injury while taking a Garcinia cambogia supplement and demonstrated rapid clinical improvement following discontinuation of the supplement. The mechanism by which Garcinia causes hepatocellular damage is still unclear and has yet to be definitively elucidated. Garcinia itself is an uncommonly identified cause of liver injury, and the supplement Seryburn Day Triple has not been previously implicated in cases of DILI. Despite the increasingly widespread use of supplements, medical knowledge and methodical research remain limited, a significant issue when effective diagnosis and management relies on rapid identification of possible etiologies of disease. As ever in medicine, this shortcoming only serves to underscore the importance of reporting and documenting novel findings, including evidence for potential adverse effects, to further augment our collective medical knowledge and help guide clinical decision-making and patient management. Additional Information Disclosures Human subjects: Consent was obtained or waived by all participants in this study. Conflicts of interest: In compliance with the ICMJE uniform disclosure form, all authors declare the following: Payment/services info: All authors have declared that no financial support was received from any organization for the submitted work. Financial relationships: All authors have declared that they have no financial relationships at present or within the previous three years with any organizations that might have an interest in the submitted work. Other
