Overview of Coronary Artery Disease
KEYWORDS: coronary, artery, risk, coronary artery, patients, disease, blood, arteries, bypass, artery disease, heart, levels, angina, pci, cabg


Coronary artery disease (CAD) involves impairment of blood flow through the coronary arteries, most commonly by atheromas. Clinical presentations include silent ischemia, angina pectoris, acute coronary syndromes (unstable angina, myocardial infarction), and sudden cardiac death. Diagnosis is by symptoms, ECG, stress testing, and sometimes coronary angiography. Prevention consists of modifying reversible risk factors (eg, hypercholesterolemia, hypertension, physical inactivity, obesity, diabetes, smoking). Treatment includes medications and procedures to reduce ischemia and restore or improve coronary blood flow. Coronary artery disease is the leading cause of death in both sexes, accounting for approximately one third of all deaths, and substantial numbers of these occur in low resource areas (1). Mortality from coronary artery disease is approximately 5 times higher in men than in women, but the mortality difference declines with age (2). Etiology of Coronary Artery Disease Usually, coronary artery disease is due to Coronary artery atherosclerosis: Subintimal deposition of atheromas in large and medium- sized coronary arteries Less often, coronary artery disease is due to Coronary artery spasm (see Vasospastic Angina) Vascular endothelial dysfunction can promote atherosclerosis and contribute to coronary artery spasm. Endothelial dysfunction is also recognized as a cause of angina in the absence of epicardial coronary artery stenosis or spasm (see Microvascular Angina). Rare causes include coronary artery embolism, dissection, aneurysm (eg, in Kawasaki disease), and vasculitis (eg, in Takayasu arteritis). Pathophysiology of Coronary Artery Disease Coronary atherosclerosis Coronary atherosclerosis is often irregularly distributed in different vessels but typically occurs at points of turbulence (eg, vessel bifurcations). As the atheromatous plaque grows, the arterial lumen progressively narrows, resulting in ischemia (often causing angina pectoris). The degree of stenosis required to cause ischemia varies with oxygen demand. Occasionally, an atheromatous plaque ruptures or splits. Reasons are unclear but probably relate to plaque morphology, plaque calcium content, and plaque softening due to an inflammatory process. Rupture exposes collagen and other thrombogenic material, which activate platelets and the coagulation cascade (see figure Pathways in Blood Coagulation), resulting in an acute thrombus, which interrupts coronary blood flow and causes some degree of myocardial ischemia. The consequences of acute ischemia, collectively referred to as acute coronary syndromes (ACS), depend on the location and degree of obstruction and range from unstable angina, non–ST-segment elevation myocardial infarction (NSTEMI), to ST-segment elevation myocardial infarction (STEMI), which can result in transmural infarction, and other complications including malignant ventricular arrhythmias, conduction defects, heart failure, and sudden death. Coronary
