Overview of Coronary Artery Disease
KEYWORDS: coronary, artery, risk, coronary artery, patients, disease, blood, arteries, bypass, artery disease, heart, levels, angina, pci, cabg


myocardial infarction (NSTEMI), to ST-segment elevation myocardial infarction (STEMI), which can result in transmural infarction, and other complications including malignant ventricular arrhythmias, conduction defects, heart failure, and sudden death. Coronary artery spasm Coronary artery spasm is a transient, focal increase in vascular tone, markedly narrowing the lumen and reducing blood flow; symptomatic ischemia (vasospastic angina) may result. Marked narrowing can trigger thrombus formation, causing infarction or life-threatening arrhythmia. Spasm can occur in arteries with or without atheroma. In arteries without atheroma, basal coronary artery tone is probably increased, and response to vasoconstricting stimuli is probably exaggerated. The exact mechanism is unclear but may involve endothelial cell abnormalities of nitric oxide production or an imbalance between endothelium-derived contracting and relaxing factors. In arteries with atheroma, the atheroma causes endothelial dysfunction, possibly resulting in local hypercontractility. Proposed mechanisms include loss of sensitivity to intrinsic vasodilators (eg, acetylcholine) and increased production of vasoconstrictors (eg, 2/11 angiotensin II, endothelin, leukotrienes, serotonin, thromboxane) in the area of the atheroma. Recurrent spasm may damage the intima, leading to atheroma formation. Use of vasoconstricting substances (eg, cocaine, nicotine) and emotional stress also can trigger coronary spasm. Coronary artery dissection Coronary artery dissection is a rare, non-traumatic tear in the coronary intima with creation of a false lumen. Blood flowing through the false lumen expands it, which restricts blood flow through the true lumen sometimes causing coronary ischemia or infarction. Dissection may occur in atherosclerotic or non-atherosclerotic coronary arteries. Non-atherosclerotic dissection is more likely in pregnant or postpartum females and/or patients with fibromuscular dysplasia or other connective tissue disorders. Risk Factors for Coronary Artery Disease Risk factors for coronary artery disease are the same as risk factors for atherosclerosis: Older age Male sex Family history of early coronary artery disease (death from coronary artery disease in a first-degree relative prior to age 55 in males or age 65 in females) High blood levels of low-density lipoprotein (LDL) cholesterol (see Dyslipidemia) High blood levels of lipoprotein a Low blood levels of high-density lipoprotein (HDL) cholesterol Diabetes mellitus (particularly type 2) Smoking (including secondhand exposure) Obesity Physical inactivity High level of apoprotein B (apo B) High blood levels of C-reactive protein (CRP) Smoking may be a stronger predictor of myocardial infarction in females (1). Genetic factors play a role, and several systemic disorders (eg, hypertension, hypothyroidism) and metabolic disorders (eg, hyperhomocysteinemia) contribute to risk. A high level of apo B
