Overview of Coronary Artery Disease
KEYWORDS: coronary, artery, risk, coronary artery, patients, disease, blood, arteries, bypass, artery disease, heart, levels, angina, pci, cabg


infarction in females (1). Genetic factors play a role, and several systemic disorders (eg, hypertension, hypothyroidism) and metabolic disorders (eg, hyperhomocysteinemia) contribute to risk. A high level of apo B may identify increased risk when total cholesterol or LDL level is normal (2, 3). CLINICAL CALCULATORS Cardiovascular Risk Assessment (10-year, Revised Pooled Cohort Equations 2018) High blood levels of C-reactive protein indicate plaque instability and inflammation and may be a stronger predictor of risk of ischemic events than high levels of LDL (4). High blood levels of triglycerides 3/11 and insulin (reflecting insulin resistance) may be risk factors, but data are less clear. CAD risk is also increased by a diet high in fat and calories and low in phytochemicals (found in fruits and vegetables), fiber, and vitamins C, D, and E; by a diet relatively low in omega-3 (n-3) polyunsaturated fatty acids (PUFAs—at least in some people); and by poor stress management. The Revised Pooled Cohort risk calculator, recommended by current US-based guidelines, estimates 10- year risk of atherosclerotic cardiovascular disease (5, 6). The PREVENT calculator ( incorporates additional information, including measures of kidney and metabolic health and socioeconomic variation (as determined by U. S. zip code), to provide 10- and 30- year risk estimates for combined atherosclerotic cardiovascular disease and heart failure (7, 8). Coronary Artery Anatomy The right and left coronary arteries arise from the right and left coronary sinuses in the root of the aorta just above the aortic valve orifice (see figure Arteries of the Heart). The coronary arteries divide into large and medium-sized arteries that run along the heart’s surface (epicardial coronary arteries) and subsequently send smaller arterioles into the myocardium. The left coronary artery begins as the left main artery and quickly divides into the left anterior descending (LAD), circumflex, and sometimes an intermediate artery (ramus intermedius). The LAD artery usually follows the anterior interventricular groove and, in some people, continues over the apex. This artery supplies the anterior septum (including the proximal conduction system) and the anterior free wall of the left ventricle (LV). The circumflex artery, which is usually smaller than the LAD artery, supplies the lateral LV free wall. The dominant coronary artery refers to the one that gives rise to the posterior descending artery. Most people have right dominance: The right coronary artery passes along the atrioventricular (AV) groove over the right side of the heart; it supplies the
