Overview of Coronary Artery Disease
KEYWORDS: coronary, artery, risk, coronary artery, patients, disease, blood, arteries, bypass, artery disease, heart, levels, angina, pci, cabg


to the posterior descending artery. Most people have right dominance: The right coronary artery passes along the atrioventricular (AV) groove over the right side of the heart; it supplies the sinus node (in 55%), right ventricle, and usually the AV node and inferior myocardial wall. About 10 to 15% of people have left dominance: The circumflex artery is larger and continues along the posterior AV groove to supply the posterior wall and AV node. Arteries of the Heart 5/11 Coronary Arteries 3D MODEL Treatment of Coronary Artery Disease Medical therapy, including antiplatelet agents, lipid-lowering drugs (eg, statins), and beta- blockers Percutaneous coronary intervention (PCI) For acute thrombosis, sometimes fibrinolytic drugs Coronary artery bypass grafting (CABG) Treatment generally aims to reduce cardiac workload by decreasing oxygen demand and improving coronary artery blood flow, and, over the long term, to halt and reverse the atherosclerotic process. Coronary artery blood flow can be improved by percutaneous coronary intervention (PCI) or coronary artery bypass grafting (CABG). An acute coronary thrombosis may sometimes be dissolved by fibrinolytic drugs. Medical therapy Medical management of patients with CAD depends on symptoms, cardiac function, and the presence of other disorders. Recommended therapy includes Antiplatelet agents to prevent thrombus formation Statins to lower LDL cholesterol levels Beta-blockers to reduce symptoms of angina Antiplatelet agents and statins improve short-term and long-term outcomes, probably by improving atheromatous plaque stability and endothelial function. Beta-blockers reduce symptoms of angina by reducing heart rate and contractility and decreasing myocardial oxygen demand. Beta-blockers also reduce mortality post-infarction, especially in the presence of post-myocardial infarction (MI) LV dysfunction. Calcium channel blockers are also helpful. They often are combined with beta-blockers in managing angina and hypertension but have not been proven to reduce mortality. 6/11 Nitrates modestly dilate coronary arteries and decrease venous return, decreasing cardiac work and relieving angina quickly. Longer acting nitrate formulations help decrease angina events but do not decrease mortality. Angiotensin-converting enzyme (ACE) inhibitors and angiotensin II receptor blockers (ARBs) are most effective at reducing mortality post MI in CAD patients with LV dysfunction (1, 2). Little evidence exists to guide therapy for patients with endothelial dysfunction. Treatment is generally similar to that for typical large-vessel atherosclerosis, and some evidence suggests that use of beta- blockers may enhance endothelial function (3). Percutaneous coronary intervention (PCI) (See Percutaneous Coronary Interventions.) PCI is indicated for patients with acute coronary syndrome (ACS) or with stable ischemic
