Overview of Coronary Artery Disease
KEYWORDS: coronary, artery, risk, coronary artery, patients, disease, blood, arteries, bypass, artery disease, heart, levels, angina, pci, cabg


are most likely due to diminished "neuronal reserve," making older patients more susceptible to minor injuries incurred during cardiopulmonary bypass. Dysfunction ranges from mild to severe and may persist for weeks to years. To minimize this risk, some centers use a beating heart technique (off-pump CABG, which uses no cardiopulmonary bypass), in which a device mechanically stabilizes the part of the heart upon which the surgeon is working. However, long-term studies have failed to demonstrate lasting benefits of this approach in comparison to conventional on-pump CABG. CAD may progress despite bypass surgery. Postoperatively, the rate of proximal obstruction of bypassed vessels increases. Vein grafts become obstructed early if thrombi form and later (several years) if atherosclerosis causes slow degeneration of the intima and media. Aspirin prolongs vein graft patency. Continued smoking has a profound adverse effect on patency. After CABG, a statin should be started or continued at maximally tolerated doses. Prevention of Coronary Artery Disease The American Heart Association (AHA) recommends using the pooled cohort risk assessment equations to estimate lifetime and 10-year risk of atherosclerotic cardiovascular disease. The risk calculator is based on sex, age, race, total and high-density lipoprotein (HDL) cholesterol levels, systolic blood pressure (and whether blood pressure is being treated), diabetes, and smoking status (1). Prevention of coronary artery disease involves modifying atherosclerosis risk factors: Smoking cessation Weight loss 9/11 Healthful diet Regular exercise Modification of serum lipid levels Reduction of salt intake Control of hypertension Control of diabetes Antihypertensive recommendations vary. In the United States, for patients who are at low risk (< 10% 10-year risk) of atherosclerotic cardiovascular disease (ASCVD), antihypertensive therapy is recommended if blood pressure is > 130/80. In patients with coronary artery disease or whose risk of ASCVD is > 10%, antihypertensive medication is recommended for blood pressure > 130/80 mm Hg (2). Modification of serum lipid levels (particularly with statins) may slow or even partially reverse the progression of CAD. Treatment goals have been modified. Instead of trying to achieve specific target low-density lipoprotein (LDL) cholesterol levels, patients are selected for treatment based on their risk of ASCVD. Lower risk patients with elevated LDL may not require statin treatment. Four higher risk patient groups have been identified in whom the benefit of statin therapy outweighs the risk of adverse events: Patients with clinical ASCVD Patients with LDL cholesterol ≥ 190 mg/dL (≥ 4.9 mmol/L) Patients age 40 to 75
