Hypertension in adults: diagnosis and management
KEYWORDS: blood, pressure, blood pressure, people, treatment, hypertension, committee, evidence, recommendations, recommendation, cardiovascular, disease, diabetes, guideline, step


Overview This guideline covers identifying and treating primary hypertension (high blood pressure) in people aged 18 and over, including people with type 2 diabetes. It aims to reduce the risk of cardiovascular problems such as heart attacks and strokes by helping healthcare professionals to diagnose hypertension accurately and treat it effectively. NICE has also produced a guideline on hypertension in pregnancy. Who is it for? • Healthcare professionals • Commissioners and providers • People who have or may have high blood pressure, their families and carers Recommendations People have the right to be involved in discussions and make informed decisions about their care, as described in NICE's information on making decisions about your care. Making decisions using NICE guidelines explains how we use words to show the strength (or certainty) of our recommendations, and has information about prescribing medicines (including off-label use), professional guidelines, standards and laws (including on consent and mental capacity), and safeguarding. The recommendations on measuring blood pressure and diagnosing hypertension in this guideline apply to all adults, including those with type 2 diabetes. The recommendations on treatment and monitoring link to NICE's guidelines on chronic kidney disease, type 1 diabetes and hypertension in pregnancy at points in the care pathway where treatment differs. The recommendations on treatment and monitoring apply to adults with type 2 diabetes and replace recommendations on diagnosing and managing hypertension in NICE's guideline on type 2 diabetes in adults. 1.1 Measuring blood pressure Training, technique and device maintenance 1.1.1 Ensure that healthcare professionals taking blood pressure measurements have adequate initial training and periodic review of their performance. [2004] 1.1.2 Because automated devices may not measure blood pressure accurately if there is pulse irregularity (for example, due to atrial fibrillation), palpate the radial or brachial pulse before measuring blood pressure. If pulse irregularity is present, measure blood pressure manually using direct auscultation over the brachial artery. [2011] 1.1.3 Healthcare providers must ensure that devices for measuring blood pressure are properly validated, maintained and regularly recalibrated according to manufacturers' instructions. See the British and Irish Hypertension Society's website for a list of validated blood pressure monitoring devices. [2004] 1.1.4 When measuring blood pressure in the clinic or in the home, standardise the environment and provide a relaxed, temperate setting, with the person quiet and seated, and their arm outstretched and supported. Use an appropriate cuff size for the person's arm. [2011, amended 2019] Postural
