Hypertension in adults: diagnosis and management
KEYWORDS: blood, pressure, blood pressure, people, treatment, hypertension, committee, evidence, recommendations, recommendation, cardiovascular, disease, diabetes, guideline, step


provide a relaxed, temperate setting, with the person quiet and seated, and their arm outstretched and supported. Use an appropriate cuff size for the person's arm. [2011, amended 2019] Postural hypotension 1.1.5 In people with symptoms of postural hypotension, including falls or postural dizziness: • measure blood pressure with the person lying on their back (or consider a seated position, if it is inconvenient to measure blood pressure with the person lying down) • measure blood pressure again after the person has been standing for at least 1 minute. [2004, amended 2023] 1.1.6 If the person's systolic blood pressure falls by 20 mmHg or more, or their diastolic blood pressure falls by 10 mmHg or more, after the person has been standing for at least 1 minute: • consider likely causes, including reviewing their current medication • manage appropriately (for example, for advice on preventing falls in older people, see NICE's guideline on falls in older people: assessing risk and prevention) • measure subsequent blood pressures with the person standing • consider referral to specialist care if symptoms of postural hypotension persist despite addressing likely causes. [2004, amended 2023] 1.1.7 If the blood pressure drop is less than the thresholds in recommendation 1.1.6 despite suggestive symptoms and the baseline measurement was previously taken from a seated position, repeat the measurements this time starting with the person lying on their back. [2023] 1.1.8 Consider referring the person for further specialist assessment if blood pressure measurements do not confirm postural hypotension despite suggestive symptoms. [2023] 1.2 Diagnosing hypertension 1.2.1 When considering a diagnosis of hypertension, measure blood pressure in both arms: • If the difference in readings between arms is more than 15 mmHg, repeat the measurements. • If the difference in readings between arms remains more than 15 mmHg on the second measurement, measure subsequent blood pressures in the arm with the higher reading. [2019] 1.2.2 If blood pressure measured in the clinic is 140/90 mmHg or higher: • Take a second measurement during the consultation. • If the second measurement is substantially different from the first, take a third measurement. Record the lower of the last 2 measurements as the clinic blood pressure. [2019] 1.2.3 If clinic blood pressure is between 140/90 mmHg and 180/120 mmHg, offer ambulatory blood pressure monitoring (ABPM) to confirm the diagnosis of hypertension. See the section on identifying who to refer for people with a
