Hypertension in adults: diagnosis and management
KEYWORDS: blood, pressure, blood pressure, people, treatment, hypertension, committee, evidence, recommendations, recommendation, cardiovascular, disease, diabetes, guideline, step


for people with type 2 diabetes 1.2.11 Measure blood pressure at least annually in an adult with type 2 diabetes without previously diagnosed hypertension or renal disease. Offer and reinforce preventive lifestyle advice. [2009] Specialist investigations for possible secondary causes of hypertension 1.2.12 Consider the need for specialist investigations in people with signs and symptoms suggesting a secondary cause of hypertension. [2004, amended 2011] For a short explanation of why the committee made the 2019 recommendations and how they might affect practice, see the rationale and impact section on diagnosing hypertension. Full details of the evidence and the committee's discussion are in evidence review A: diagnosis. 1.3 Assessing cardiovascular risk and target organ damage For guidance on the early identification and management of chronic kidney disease, see NICE's guideline on chronic kidney disease. 1.3.1 Use a formal estimation of cardiovascular risk to discuss prognosis and healthcare options with people with hypertension, both for raised blood pressure and other modifiable risk factors. [2004] 1.3.2 Estimate cardiovascular risk in line with the recommendations on identifying and assessing cardiovascular disease risk in NICE's guideline on cardiovascular disease. Use clinic blood pressure measurements to calculate cardiovascular risk. [2008] 1.3.3 For all people with hypertension offer to: • test for the presence of protein in the urine by sending a urine sample for estimation of the albumin:creatinine ratio and test for haematuria using a reagent strip • take a blood sample to measure glycated haemoglobin (HbA1C), electrolytes, creatinine, estimated glomerular filtration rate, total cholesterol and HDL cholesterol • examine the fundi for the presence of hypertensive retinopathy • arrange for a 12-lead electrocardiograph to be performed. [2011, amended 2019] 1.4 Treating and monitoring hypertension Lifestyle interventions For guidance on the prevention of obesity and cardiovascular disease, see NICE's guidelines on overweight and obesity management and cardiovascular disease prevention. 1.4.1 Offer lifestyle advice to people with suspected or diagnosed hypertension, and continue to offer it periodically. [2004] 1.4.2 Ask about people's diet and exercise patterns because a healthy diet and regular exercise can reduce blood pressure. Offer appropriate guidance and written or audiovisual materials to promote lifestyle changes. [2004] 1.4.3 Ask about people's alcohol consumption and encourage a reduced intake if they drink excessively, because this can reduce blood pressure and has broader health benefits. See the recommendations for practice in NICE's guideline on alcohol-use disorders. [2004, amended 2019] 1.4.4 Discourage excessive consumption of coffee and
