Hypertension in adults: diagnosis and management
KEYWORDS: blood, pressure, blood pressure, people, treatment, hypertension, committee, evidence, recommendations, recommendation, cardiovascular, disease, diabetes, guideline, step


can reduce blood pressure and has broader health benefits. See the recommendations for practice in NICE's guideline on alcohol-use disorders. [2004, amended 2019] 1.4.4 Discourage excessive consumption of coffee and other caffeine-rich products. [2004] 1.4.5 Encourage people to keep their dietary sodium intake low, either by reducing or substituting sodium salt, as this can reduce blood pressure. Note that salt substitutes containing potassium chloride should not be used by older people, people with diabetes, pregnant women, people with kidney disease and people taking some antihypertensive drugs, such as ACE inhibitors and angiotensin II receptor blockers. Encourage salt reduction in these groups. [2004, amended 2019] 1.4.6 Do not offer calcium, magnesium or potassium supplements as a method for reducing blood pressure. [2004] 1.4.7 Offer advice and help to smokers to stop smoking. See NICE's guideline on tobacco. [2004] 1.4.8 Inform people about local initiatives by, for example, healthcare teams or patient organisations that provide support and promote healthy lifestyle change, especially those that include group work for motivating lifestyle change. [2004] For a short explanation of why the committee deleted the recommendation on relaxation therapies and how this might affect practice, see the rationale and impact section on relaxation therapies. Full details of the evidence and the committee's discussion are in evidence review H: relaxation therapies. Starting antihypertensive drug treatment NICE has produced a patient decision aid on treatment options for hypertension to help people and their healthcare professionals discuss the different types of treatment and make a decision that is right for each person. For advice on shared decision making for medicines, see the information on patient decision aids in NICE's guideline on medicines optimisation. To support adherence and ensure that people with hypertension make the most effective use of their medicines, see NICE's guideline on medicines adherence. 1.4.9 Offer antihypertensive drug treatment in addition to lifestyle advice to adults of any age with persistent stage 2 hypertension. Use clinical judgement for people of any age with frailty or multimorbidity (see also NICE's guideline on multimorbidity). [2019] 1.4.10 Discuss starting antihypertensive drug treatment, in addition to lifestyle advice, with adults aged under 80 with persistent stage 1 hypertension who have 1 or more of the following: • target organ damage • established cardiovascular disease • renal disease • diabetes • an estimated 10-year risk of cardiovascular disease of 10% or more. Use clinical judgement for people with frailty or multimorbidity
