Hypertension in adults: diagnosis and management
KEYWORDS: blood, pressure, blood pressure, people, treatment, hypertension, committee, evidence, recommendations, recommendation, cardiovascular, disease, diabetes, guideline, step


• established cardiovascular disease • renal disease • diabetes • an estimated 10-year risk of cardiovascular disease of 10% or more. Use clinical judgement for people with frailty or multimorbidity (see also NICE's guideline on multimorbidity). [2019] 1.4.11 Discuss with the person their individual cardiovascular disease risk and their preferences for treatment, including no treatment, and explain the risks and benefits before starting antihypertensive drug treatment. Continue to offer lifestyle advice and support them to make lifestyle changes (see the section on lifestyle interventions), whether or not they choose to start antihypertensive drug treatment. [2019] 1.4.12 Consider antihypertensive drug treatment in addition to lifestyle advice for adults aged under 60 with stage 1 hypertension and an estimated 10-year risk below 10%. Bear in mind that 10-year cardiovascular risk may underestimate the lifetime probability of developing cardiovascular disease. [2019] 1.4.13 Consider antihypertensive drug treatment in addition to lifestyle advice for people aged over 80 with stage 1 hypertension if their clinic blood pressure is over 150/90 mmHg. Use clinical judgement for people with frailty or multimorbidity (see also NICE's guideline on multimorbidity). [2019] 1.4.14 For adults aged under 40 with hypertension, consider seeking specialist evaluation of secondary causes of hypertension and a more detailed assessment of the long-term balance of treatment benefit and risks. [2019] For a short explanation of why the committee made the 2019 recommendations and how they might affect practice, see the rationale and impact section on starting antihypertensive drug treatment. Full details of the evidence and the committee's discussion are in evidence review C: initiating treatment. Monitoring treatment and blood pressure targets For specific recommendations on blood pressure control in people with other conditions or who are pregnant, see NICE's guidelines on chronic kidney disease, type 1 diabetes and hypertension in pregnancy. See also table 1 for clinic blood pressure targets for people aged under 80 and table 2 for clinic blood pressure targets for people aged 80 and over. The tables cover people with hypertension (with or without type 2 diabetes) as well as people with chronic kidney disease or type 1 diabetes. Table 1: Clinic blood pressure targets for people aged under 80 Clinic blood Person under 80 with: pressure Source target • hypertension (with or without type 2 diabetes) or Recommendation 1.4.20 • type 1 diabetes plus albumin to NICE's guideline on type 1 creatinine ratio less than 70 mg/mmol Below diabetes in adults
