Hypertension in adults: diagnosis and management
KEYWORDS: blood, pressure, blood pressure, people, treatment, hypertension, committee, evidence, recommendations, recommendation, cardiovascular, disease, diabetes, guideline, step


monitoring treatment and blood pressure targets for people with cardiovascular disease. Full details of the evidence and the committee's discussion are in the evidence review J: blood pressure targets. 1.4.24 Provide an annual review of care for adults with hypertension to monitor blood pressure, provide people with support, and discuss their lifestyle, symptoms and medication. [2004] Treatment review when type 2 diabetes is diagnosed 1.4.25 For an adult with type 2 diabetes on antihypertensive drug treatment when diabetes is diagnosed, review blood pressure control and medications used. Make changes only if there is poor control or if current drug treatment is not appropriate because of microvascular complications or metabolic problems. [2009] Choosing antihypertensive drug treatment (for people with or without type 2 diabetes) The recommendations in this section apply to people with hypertension with or without type 2 diabetes. They replace the recommendations on diagnosing and managing hypertension in NICE's guideline on type 2 diabetes in adults. For guidance on choosing antihypertensive drug treatment in people with type 1 diabetes, see also the section on control of cardiovascular risk in NICE's guideline on type 1 diabetes. Note that ACE inhibitors and angiotensin II receptor antagonists should not be used in pregnant or breastfeeding women or women planning pregnancy unless absolutely necessary, in which case the potential risks and benefits should be discussed. Follow the MHRA safety advice on ACE inhibitors and angiotensin II receptor antagonists: not for use in pregnancy, recommendations on how to use for breastfeeding and the related clarification on breastfeeding. 1.4.26 For guidance on choice of antihypertensive medicine in people with chronic kidney disease, see NICE's guideline on chronic kidney disease. If possible, offer treatment with drugs taken only once a day. [2004] 1.4.27 Prescribe non-proprietary drugs if these are appropriate and minimise cost. [2004] 1.4.28 Offer people with isolated systolic hypertension (systolic blood pressure 160 mmHg or more) the same treatment as people with both raised systolic and diastolic blood pressure. [2004] 1.4.29 Offer antihypertensive drug treatment to women of childbearing potential with diagnosed hypertension in line with the recommendations in this guideline. For women considering pregnancy or who are pregnant or breastfeeding, manage hypertension in line with the recommendations on management of pregnancy with chronic hypertension, and on antihypertensive treatment while breastfeeding in NICE's guideline on hypertension in pregnancy. [2010, amended 2019] 1.4.30 When choosing antihypertensive drug treatment for adults of Black African or African–Caribbean
