Hypertension in adults: diagnosis and management
KEYWORDS: blood, pressure, blood pressure, people, treatment, hypertension, committee, evidence, recommendations, recommendation, cardiovascular, disease, diabetes, guideline, step


hypertension, and on antihypertensive treatment while breastfeeding in NICE's guideline on hypertension in pregnancy. [2010, amended 2019] 1.4.30 When choosing antihypertensive drug treatment for adults of Black African or African–Caribbean family origin, consider an angiotensin II receptor blocker (ARB), in preference to an angiotensin-converting enzyme (ACE) inhibitor. [2019] Follow the MHRA safety advice on ACE inhibitors and angiotensin II receptor antagonists: not for use in pregnancy, how to use for breastfeeding and clarification on breastfeeding. 1.4.31 For people with cardiovascular disease: • Follow the recommendations for disease-specific indications in the NICE guideline on their condition (for example, when prescribing an ACE inhibitor or an ARB for secondary prevention of myocardial infarction). Relevant recommendations include: － drug therapy for secondary prevention in NICE's guideline on acute coronary syndromes － treatment after stabilisation in NICE's guideline on acute heart failure － treating heart failure with reduced ejection fraction in NICE's guideline on chronic heart failure － drugs for secondary prevention of cardiovascular disease in NICE's guideline on stable angina － blood pressure management in NICE's guideline on type 1 diabetes in adults. • If their blood pressure remains uncontrolled, offer antihypertensive drug treatment in line with the recommendations in this section. [2022] For a short explanation of why the committee made the recommendation on choosing antihypertensive drug treatment for people with cardiovascular disease and how this might affect practice, see the rationale and impact section on choosing antihypertensive drug treatment for people with cardiovascular disease. Full details of the evidence and the committee's discussion are in the evidence review K: pharmacological treatment in cardiovascular disease. Step 1 treatment 1.4.32 Offer an ACE inhibitor or an ARB to adults starting step 1 antihypertensive treatment who: • have type 2 diabetes and are of any age or family origin (see also recommendation 1.4.30 for adults of Black African or African–Caribbean family origin) or • are aged under 55 but not of Black African or African–Caribbean family origin. [2019] Follow the MHRA safety advice on ACE inhibitors and angiotensin II receptor antagonists: not for use in pregnancy, how to use for breastfeeding and clarification on breastfeeding. 1.4.33 If an ACE inhibitor is not tolerated, for example because of cough, offer an ARB to treat hypertension. [2019] Follow the MHRA safety advice on ACE inhibitors and angiotensin II receptor antagonists: not for use in pregnancy, how to use for breastfeeding and clarification on breastfeeding. 1.4.34 Do
