Hypertension in adults: diagnosis and management
KEYWORDS: blood, pressure, blood pressure, people, treatment, hypertension, committee, evidence, recommendations, recommendation, cardiovascular, disease, diabetes, guideline, step


2022 guideline committees have made the following recommendations for research. Key recommendations for research 1 Automated blood pressure monitoring in people with atrial fibrillation Which automated blood pressure monitors are suitable for people with hypertension and atrial fibrillation? [2019] For a short explanation of why the committee made the recommendation for research, see the rationale on monitoring treatment and blood pressure targets for people without cardiovascular disease. Full details of the evidence and the committee's discussion are in evidence review B: monitoring the response to treatment. 2 Thresholds for interventions in adults aged under 40 In adults aged under 40 with hypertension (with or without type 2 diabetes), what are the appropriate risk and blood pressure thresholds for starting treatment? [2019] For a short explanation of why the committee made the recommendation for research, see the rationale on starting antihypertensive drug treatment. Full details of the evidence and the committee's discussion are in evidence review C: initiating treatment. 3 Blood pressure targets for people aged over 80 What is the optimum blood pressure target for people aged over 80 with treated primary hypertension (with or without cardiovascular disease)? [2022] For a short explanation of why the committee made the recommendation for research, see the rationale on blood pressure targets for people with cardiovascular disease. Full details of the evidence and the committee's discussion are in evidence review D: targets. 4 Step 1 treatment Are there subgroups of people with hypertension who should start on dual therapy? [2019] For a short explanation of why the committee made the recommendation for research, see the rationale on step 1 treatment. Full details of the evidence and the committee's discussion are in evidence review E: step 1 treatment. 5 Relaxation therapies What is the clinical and cost effectiveness of relaxation therapies for managing primary hypertension in adults in terms of reducing cardiovascular events and improving quality of life? [2019] For a short explanation of why the committee made the recommendation for research, see the rationale on relaxation therapies. Full details of the evidence and the committee's discussion are in evidence review H: relaxation therapies. Other recommendations for research 6 Same-day hospital specialist assessment Which people with extreme hypertension (220/120 mmHg or higher) or emergency symptoms should be referred for same-day hospital specialist assessment? [2019] For a short explanation of why the committee made the recommendation for research, see the see rationale on identifying who
