Hypertension in adults: diagnosis and management
KEYWORDS: blood, pressure, blood pressure, people, treatment, hypertension, committee, evidence, recommendations, recommendation, cardiovascular, disease, diabetes, guideline, step


symptoms should be referred for same-day hospital specialist assessment? [2019] For a short explanation of why the committee made the recommendation for research, see the see rationale on identifying who to refer for same-day specialist review. Full details of the evidence and the committee's discussion are in evidence review I: same-day specialist review. 7 Blood pressure targets for people with aortic aneurysm What are the optimal blood pressure targets in adults with hypertension and aortic aneurysm, and does this vary by age? [2022] For a short explanation of why the committee made the recommendation for research, see the rationale and impact section on blood pressure targets for people with cardiovascular disease. Full details of the evidence and the committee's discussion are in the evidence review J: blood pressure targets. 8 Blood pressure targets for people with prior ischaemic or haemorrhagic stroke What are the optimal blood pressure targets in adults with prior ischaemic or haemorrhagic stroke, and does this vary by age? [2022] For a short explanation of why the committee made the recommendation for research, see the rationale and impact section on blood pressure targets for people with cardiovascular disease. Full details of the evidence and the committee's discussion are in the evidence review J: blood pressure targets. Rationale and impact These sections briefly explain why the committee made the recommendations and how they might affect practice. They link to details of the evidence and a full description of the committee's discussion. Diagnosing hypertension Recommendations 1.2.1 to 1.2.5 and 1.2.8 Why the committee made the recommendations Overall, there was limited new evidence on the accuracy of different methods of measuring blood pressure. Most of the studies identified were small, and the populations and protocols for measurement varied making interpretation difficult. However, the committee agreed that it was important to focus on the evidence from these more recent studies (post-2000) because the evidence should reflect the current use of electronic sphygmomanometers, which have replaced mercury-based sphygmomanometers. The evidence did not show that changing the current blood pressure thresholds for clinic measurement or home blood pressure monitoring (HBPM) would improve diagnostic accuracy compared with ambulatory blood pressure monitoring (ABPM), so the committee agreed the 2011 thresholds for diagnosis should be retained. The committee noted that these are in line with most international guidance. Limited evidence suggested that clinic blood pressure measurement is less accurate than HBPM or ABPM when used to
