Hypertension in adults: diagnosis and management
KEYWORDS: blood, pressure, blood pressure, people, treatment, hypertension, committee, evidence, recommendations, recommendation, cardiovascular, disease, diabetes, guideline, step


The committee noted that these are in line with most international guidance. Limited evidence suggested that clinic blood pressure measurement is less accurate than HBPM or ABPM when used to diagnose hypertension. The committee members acknowledged that these findings were in line with their clinical experience and agreed that clinic blood pressure measurement alone would not be an adequate method to diagnose hypertension. The committee discussed repeat clinic blood pressure measurements when there is a difference in blood pressure between arms and noted that clinical practice varied. Based on their experience and knowledge, the committee members agreed that a cut-off of 15 mmHg would be more suitable than 20 mmHg, which was specified in the 2011 recommendations. This is in line with recent evidence that suggests a small difference in arm blood pressure is associated with an increased risk of cardiovascular events, possibly due to vascular damage. ABPM correlates well with invasive blood pressure measurement and can identify both white-coat and masked hypertension. Based on the evidence in the 2011 guideline and the committee's experience and knowledge, it was agreed that ABPM remains the gold standard for the accurate measurement of blood pressure in primary care. ABPM has therefore been retained as the preferred method for the diagnosis of hypertension. In addition, economic evidence obtained by updating the health economic model for the 2011 guideline confirmed that ABPM is still likely to be the most cost-effective method for diagnosis, even with the inclusion of new data for improved accuracy of home and clinic measurement. The evidence showed that validated HBPM is an accurate method of diagnosing hypertension for people in sinus rhythm. The committee's experience in clinical practice supported this, and the committee agreed that it is a suitable alternative when ABPM is unsuitable or not tolerated. The committee noted that the British and Irish Hypertension Society maintains a list of validated blood pressure devices for home use. The British and Irish Hypertension Society is an independent reviewer of published work and this does not imply any endorsement of specific devices by NICE. The evidence did not suggest that there were any benefits of adding telemonitoring to HBPM. Therefore, the committee agreed that it could not make a recommendation on telemonitoring for the diagnosis of hypertension. How the recommendations might affect practice The recommendations reinforce current good practice. However, the committee noted that implementation of the 2011 recommendations on ABPM
