Hypertension in adults: diagnosis and management
KEYWORDS: blood, pressure, blood pressure, people, treatment, hypertension, committee, evidence, recommendations, recommendation, cardiovascular, disease, diabetes, guideline, step


telemonitoring for the diagnosis of hypertension. How the recommendations might affect practice The recommendations reinforce current good practice. However, the committee noted that implementation of the 2011 recommendations on ABPM has been challenging and that there is still variation in practice. A change in practice and additional resources and training will be needed in areas where there is currently no access to ABPM devices. However, ABPM was found to be the most cost-effective method of diagnosis, and it is anticipated that the long-term benefits of accurate diagnosis and treatment (such as avoiding over diagnosis and unnecessary treatment) will outweigh any initial costs. Return to recommendations Relaxation therapies Why the committee deleted the recommendation on relaxation therapies The evidence on relaxation therapies was limited to a single small study. The study suggested some benefit in reducing angina and myocardial infarction, but it also suggested an increase in stroke. The committee agreed that the study was not adequate to assess the effectiveness of these therapies or to make a recommendation. The 2011 guideline stated that relaxation therapies could reduce blood pressure, but it did not recommend their routine use in practice. The committee noted that this was based on evidence for reducing blood pressure only, and there was no evidence of a direct benefit to people with hypertension, such as improving quality of life or reducing cardiovascular events. The committee agreed there was insufficient evidence of benefit to recommend that people pursue this option themselves and agreed to remove this recommendation. It is not the intention of the committee to stop people from trying relaxation therapies if they wish to, but to make people aware that there is less evidence for benefit of this intervention compared with other lifestyle interventions or pharmacological treatment. The committee agreed that the clinical focus for non-pharmacological treatment of hypertension should be on encouraging people to make lifestyle changes, such as taking regular exercise and maintaining a healthy weight. The committee agreed that further research would be useful to determine whether relaxation therapies are a clinically effective treatment for hypertension in terms of reducing cardiovascular events or improving quality of life (see the recommendation for research on relaxation therapies). They also noted that a larger study would be needed to obtain meaningful results. How this might affect practice Relaxation therapies were not recommended for routine use in the 2011 guideline, and they are not used in current
