Hypertension in adults: diagnosis and management
KEYWORDS: blood, pressure, blood pressure, people, treatment, hypertension, committee, evidence, recommendations, recommendation, cardiovascular, disease, diabetes, guideline, step


degree of uncertainty in treating people at low risk reflected in the strength of the recommendation. The committee members were mindful of the additional population that would be affected by lowering the threshold and were aware that the decision to start drug treatment would depend on the person's preferences and their individual risk of cardiovascular disease. The recommendations highlight the importance of discussing the person's preferences for treatment and encouraging lifestyle changes. Some studies investigated the benefits of treating hypertension in people with lower cardiovascular risk or people with blood pressure below 140/90 mmHg. However, some of these studies were not directly relevant because they included a high proportion of participants with chronic kidney disease and previous cardiovascular events. For this reason, several studies could not be used to inform the recommendations. For details of these studies see evidence review C: initiating treatment. The committee discussed the lack of evidence to inform a threshold for starting treatment in people aged under 40. It was agreed that this is an important area for future research and the recommendation for research was carried forward from the 2011 guideline (see the recommendation for research on thresholds for interventions in adults aged under 40). The committee agreed that there was no evidence to suggest that thresholds for starting treatment should be different in people with type 2 diabetes. The previous recommendations for people with type 2 diabetes (in NICE's guideline on type 2 diabetes in adults) suggested starting antihypertensive drug treatment if lifestyle interventions alone did not reduce blood pressure to below 140/80 mmHg or 130/80 mmHg in the presence of kidney, cerebrovascular or eye disease. However, this was based on evidence from 2 small studies in which the participants did not have hypertension. Further evidence for lower treatment thresholds in people with type 2 diabetes was limited within this review, with the committee aware of some evidence to suggest that lower blood pressure thresholds did not reduce the rate of cardiovascular events in people without additional risk factors. The committee therefore agreed that there was insufficient evidence to recommend a different threshold for starting treatment for this subgroup. There was no evidence identified on thresholds for people aged over 80, and no prior recommendation for this age group with hypertension below stage 2; therefore, the committee agreed that the threshold for starting treatment in people aged over 80 should be consistent with the
