Hypertension in adults: diagnosis and management
KEYWORDS: blood, pressure, blood pressure, people, treatment, hypertension, committee, evidence, recommendations, recommendation, cardiovascular, disease, diabetes, guideline, step


recommendation for this age group with hypertension below stage 2; therefore, the committee agreed that the threshold for starting treatment in people aged over 80 should be consistent with the target for treatment in this population (150/90 mmHg or lower). The committee discussed the additional risks of starting treatment in older people, particularly those who are frail or have multiple comorbidities. Based on their expertise and experience, they agreed that the use of clinical judgement should be highlighted in decision making for people with frailty or multimorbidity, and that it should apply to people of any age. The committee agreed that a number of factors should be considered when discussing treatment options in this group and noted that healthcare professionals should refer to NICE's guideline on multimorbidity for further advice. How the recommendations might affect practice The recommendations will have a significant impact on practice because more people will now be eligible for treatment. It is difficult to predict the extent of the impact because there is variability in how the 2011 recommendation with a threshold of 20% is being implemented in practice. However, it is believed, based on some recently published UK data, that potentially around 50% of people with stage 1 hypertension and risk below 20% are already being treated with antihypertensive drugs (Association of guideline and policy changes with incidence of lifestyle advice and treatment for uncomplicated mild hypertension in primary care. Sheppard et al. 2018). People with stage 1 hypertension should already be monitored every year, but reducing the threshold will increase the number of people being prescribed antihypertensive drugs and increase staff time and consultations involved in starting and monitoring their drug treatment. However, there will be a reduction in cardiovascular events resulting in savings, although it is acknowledged that the costs and savings may fall in different sectors of the NHS. Return to recommendations Monitoring treatment and blood pressure targets Recommendations 1.4.15 to 1.4.22 Monitoring treatment Why the committee made the recommendations The committee agreed that there was not enough evidence to strongly recommend home blood pressure monitoring (HBPM) for monitoring treatment in adults with hypertension. The evidence on monitoring was limited, with relatively small studies comparing different combinations of HBPM (with or without telemonitoring and with or without pharmacist input), pharmacy monitoring and clinic monitoring. It suggested that people had improved blood pressure control with HBPM with telemonitoring, with or without pharmacy input,
