Hypertension in adults: diagnosis and management
KEYWORDS: blood, pressure, blood pressure, people, treatment, hypertension, committee, evidence, recommendations, recommendation, cardiovascular, disease, diabetes, guideline, step


telemonitoring and with or without pharmacist input), pharmacy monitoring and clinic monitoring. It suggested that people had improved blood pressure control with HBPM with telemonitoring, with or without pharmacy input, compared with clinic monitoring, and the greatest blood pressure reduction was achieved with pharmacist input. However, the evidence was insufficient for the committee to make a recommendation. The committee decided to retain the 2011 recommendation on using clinic blood pressure, but also agreed that the updated guideline should support home monitoring for people who wish to use it. The committee discussed the importance of patient choice and agreed that home monitoring should be an option, if it is suitable and the person is willing and motivated to use it. HBPM is already widely used in practice, especially for people with a white-coat effect. The committee agreed this would be reflected in the recommendation supported by the evidence and consensus opinion. Based on their experience, the committee agreed that training and advice would be needed for people using HBPM to ensure that people take measurements correctly and know when to contact their healthcare professional if they are not achieving their target blood pressure. The 2011 guideline included a recommendation for further research for the best method of monitoring hypertension in people with atrial fibrillation. No evidence was identified in the updated reviews to inform recommendations for this group and therefore the committee agreed that this recommendation for research should be retained to inform future updates of the guideline (see the recommendation for research on automated blood pressure monitoring). The committee agreed they could not make a recommendation on telemonitoring because the evidence was not sufficient to show a clear benefit and the studies were inconsistent in the telemonitoring methods used. How the recommendations might affect practice The recommendations reflect current practice, so there should be no change in practice. They will encourage appropriate and suitable training to be given so that both people with hypertension and their healthcare professionals are confident that blood pressure is being measured properly using home monitoring devices. Return to recommendations Blood pressure targets for people without cardiovascular disease Recommendations 1.4.15 to 1.4.22 Why the committee made the recommendations No evidence was identified to determine whether cardiovascular risk or blood pressure targets should be used. The committee agreed that in the absence of evidence the focus should be on blood pressure targets, based on their expertise and
