Hypertension in adults: diagnosis and management
KEYWORDS: blood, pressure, blood pressure, people, treatment, hypertension, committee, evidence, recommendations, recommendation, cardiovascular, disease, diabetes, guideline, step


risk or blood pressure targets should be used. The committee agreed that in the absence of evidence the focus should be on blood pressure targets, based on their expertise and experience of current practice. The evidence for blood pressure targets showed that there were both benefits and harms associated with a lower clinic systolic blood pressure target of 120 mmHg compared with 140 mmHg in people with primary hypertension without type 2 diabetes. Although the evidence suggested some benefit in reducing mortality and cardiovascular events, the lower blood pressure target was associated with a greater risk of harms, such as injury from falls and acute kidney injury. The committee agreed that the long-term implications of these adverse events were unclear and that further research is needed. This evidence came from the SPRINT trial, which was a large study undertaken in the US. The committee discussed concerns about the population included in the study and the applicability to UK practice of the methods used. The study used automated blood pressure devices with a time delay and an isolated rest period, which is not common practice in the UK. The committee considered that the use of these devices would lead to lower blood pressure readings than in routine UK clinical practice. They also had concerns that some medicines were stopped when blood pressure targets were achieved, which may have had an impact on the results. The committee also discussed concerns about applicability of the population; for example, the participants had high cardiovascular risk levels, including many with pre-existing cardiovascular disease or renal impairment, and were already receiving treatment before the study started. These concerns made the evidence difficult to interpret and use to inform the recommendations. Further details of the committee's discussion of this study is included in evidence review D: targets. Evidence from a smaller study also showed some benefit of lowering clinic systolic blood pressure targets to 130 mmHg. However, the committee noted that the study was based on people already receiving treatment and that it lacked information on adverse events. The committee agreed that there was no evidence to suggest that blood pressure targets should be different in people with type 2 diabetes. Evidence for lower targets in people with type 2 diabetes was also limited, with some evidence to suggest that lower blood pressure targets did not reduce the rate of cardiovascular events. Previous recommendations for people with
