Hypertension in adults: diagnosis and management
KEYWORDS: blood, pressure, blood pressure, people, treatment, hypertension, committee, evidence, recommendations, recommendation, cardiovascular, disease, diabetes, guideline, step


with type 2 diabetes was also limited, with some evidence to suggest that lower blood pressure targets did not reduce the rate of cardiovascular events. Previous recommendations for people with type 2 diabetes (in NICE's guideline on type 2 diabetes in adults) suggested a blood pressure target below 130/80 mmHg in the presence of target organ damage such as kidney, cerebrovascular or eye disease. The committee noted that the evidence behind this recommendation was based on 2 small studies in people without hypertension. They also had concerns about the relevance of the study design. The committee were also aware of trial data showing less benefit in populations with type 2 diabetes with fewer additional risk factors. The committee therefore agreed that there was insufficient evidence to recommend a different blood pressure target for this subgroup. It was noted that people with later-stage chronic kidney disease are covered by other NICE guidelines. Overall, the committee agreed that the evidence was unclear and insufficient to determine whether a lower target would be beneficial and whether it would outweigh the associated harms. Therefore, the 2011 clinic blood pressure target of 140/90 mmHg for adults under 80 years was retained and applies to people with or without type 2 diabetes. The corresponding HBPM and ambulatory blood pressure monitoring (ABPM) targets were also retained at 135/85 mmHg. The recommendations emphasise the importance of achieving and maintaining a level consistently below the person's blood pressure target, whether this target be based on clinic blood pressure, HBPM or ABPM. Based on their experience, the committee members felt that people with postural hypotension are at risk of adverse events if a sitting or lying blood pressure is used for monitoring, because this measurement would overestimate daytime blood pressure and result in overtreatment. For example, a patient with a sitting systolic blood pressure of 140 mmHg might have a much lower blood pressure when standing and be at an increased risk of falls if treated based on their sitting blood pressure. The committee decided to recommend that 3 groups who are at risk of postural hypotension (people over 80 years, with type 2 diabetes and with symptoms of postural hypotension) should have their standing blood pressure measured, and their treatment modified accordingly if they have postural hypotension. The standing blood pressure should be used for future monitoring. How the recommendations might affect practice The recommendations should reinforce current good
