Hypertension in adults: diagnosis and management
KEYWORDS: blood, pressure, blood pressure, people, treatment, hypertension, committee, evidence, recommendations, recommendation, cardiovascular, disease, diabetes, guideline, step


Physicians Intercollegiate Stroke Working Party guideline recommends a lower blood pressure target for people after stroke. However, the national quality indicators used in primary care do not use a lower blood pressure target for people with cardiovascular disease (including stroke and transient ischaemic attack). Return to recommendation Choosing antihypertensive drug treatment for people with cardiovascular disease Recommendation 1.4.31 Why the committee made the recommendation New evidence in this area was not reviewed as part of the 2022 update. Instead, the evidence from previous versions of the guideline was reassessed to look at outcomes for people with cardiovascular disease. Only evidence up to 2010 was re-analysed, because the 2019 update did not review evidence for people with cardiovascular disease. There was no difference in clinically relevant outcomes between people with and without cardiovascular disease. Evidence was limited for people with stroke, transient ischaemic attack, or coronary artery disease. This evidence did not cover enough treatment comparisons to allow the committee to draw any firm conclusions. There are NICE guidelines on acute coronary syndromes and chronic heart failure, and these guidelines make recommendations on drug treatment that overlap with treatment for hypertension. To avoid confusion over the treatment pathway, the committee highlighted that these condition-specific recommendations should be applied first (for example, when prescribing an ACE inhibitor or an ARB for secondary prevention of myocardial infarction). How the recommendations might affect practice The recommendation reflects current practice for most types of cardiovascular disease. The committee were aware that, after a stroke, the thiazide-like diuretic indapamide is sometimes used first, rather than a calcium channel blocker. However, it is unclear how common this is. As people with cardiovascular disease are commonly prescribed more than 1 antihypertensive drug, any impact on prescribing would be limited. Return to recommendation Step 1 treatment Recommendations 1.4.32 to 1.4.39 Why the committee made the recommendations The committee reviewed the evidence for starting treatment for primary hypertension with a single antihypertensive medicine compared with starting with 2 antihypertensive medicines at once (dual therapy). Additionally, the committee reviewed the evidence on whether specific subgroups of people with hypertension might benefit from starting on dual therapy, for example people with type 2 diabetes, older people, or those of particular family origins. Some limited evidence from a single study showed that initial dual therapy may reduce cardiovascular events in people with hypertension and type 2 diabetes, but the committee members were disappointed
