Hypertension in adults: diagnosis and management
KEYWORDS: blood, pressure, blood pressure, people, treatment, hypertension, committee, evidence, recommendations, recommendation, cardiovascular, disease, diabetes, guideline, step


Some limited evidence from a single study showed that initial dual therapy may reduce cardiovascular events in people with hypertension and type 2 diabetes, but the committee members were disappointed that more comprehensive data was not available. The committee discussed the benefits of optimising treatment for hypertension early and agreed that this can substantially improve quality of life. However, there was not enough evidence to determine confidently the benefits or harms of starting treatment with dual therapy. In response to the lack of available evidence, the committee developed a recommendation for research on step 1 treatment to determine if particular subgroups would benefit from starting dual therapy, to inform future guidance. In the absence of compelling new evidence on step 1 dual therapy, the committee agreed that the previous recommendations for step 1 treatment should be retained (with minor changes for clarity), because they were based on robust clinical and cost-effectiveness evidence. One exception to this was the 2006 recommendation for considering beta- blockers in certain groups of younger people. The committee discussed this recommendation and agreed that beta-blockers are rarely used as step 1 antihypertensive treatment in current practice and there is no established relationship between beta- blocker use in primary hypertension and a reduction in cardiovascular events. For these reasons, the committee decided that the recommendation should not be retained. The committee noted that this is consistent with most international guidelines. This guideline also updates and replaces the section on blood pressure management from NICE's guideline on type 2 diabetes in adults. That guideline recommended that adults with type 2 diabetes of any age should start on an angiotensin-converting enzyme (ACE) inhibitor as step 1 treatment (except women with a possibility of becoming pregnant and people of Black African or African–Caribbean family origin). The committee discussed the evidence for this and agreed that it was sufficient to support and retain this recommendation. The committee agreed it should be broadened to include the choice of an ACE inhibitor or an angiotensin II receptor blocker (ARB; also referred to as A-type drugs), because they are now cost equivalent, and the committee also agreed they are clinically equivalent. For people of Black African or African–Caribbean family origin with type 2 diabetes, the previous recommendation was to offer step 1 dual therapy with an ACE inhibitor and either a diuretic (D-type drug) or a calcium channel blocker (CCB; C-type drug). However, these
