Hypertension in adults: diagnosis and management
KEYWORDS: blood, pressure, blood pressure, people, treatment, hypertension, committee, evidence, recommendations, recommendation, cardiovascular, disease, diabetes, guideline, step


the previous recommendation was to offer step 1 dual therapy with an ACE inhibitor and either a diuretic (D-type drug) or a calcium channel blocker (CCB; C-type drug). However, these recommendations were based on monotherapy studies and when the committee looked at this evidence alongside the new dual therapy evidence review, they concluded that it was insufficient to recommend starting dual therapy in any subgroup of people with type 2 diabetes. The committee noted that people with type 2 diabetes who are older or are of Black African or African–Caribbean family origin may not achieve their target blood pressure on ACE inhibitor or ARB monotherapy and may need to start step 2 drug therapy in the short term. How the recommendations might affect practice Overall, the recommendations for step 1 treatment reflect current practice for people who do not have type 2 diabetes. For people of Black African or African–Caribbean family origin who have type 2 diabetes, the recommendation to start antihypertensive monotherapy rather than dual therapy may result in an extra clinical appointment if the dose needs to be adjusted. However, it may also reduce potential harms from initial overtreatment of blood pressure. Return to recommendations Step 2 and 3 treatment Recommendations 1.4.40 to 1.4.45 Why the committee made the recommendations No evidence for step 2 or step 3 treatment was identified that was relevant to determining the best sequence for step 2 and step 3 antihypertensive treatment. Some of the studies available on drug treatments for hypertension were not included in this review because they were designed to inform step 1 treatment. Others did not reflect UK clinical practice. For details of these studies see evidence review F: step 2 and step 3 treatment. Based on evidence from the previous version of the guideline and their clinical expertise, the committee members agreed to retain the same choice of drugs from the 2011 guideline, which reflect current best practice. The committee agreed that, in the absence of evidence of which treatment(s) are most effective for step 2 or step 3, the recommendation should be to offer any of these treatments based on an individualised approach informed by risks and benefits of each treatment and the person with hypertension's preference. The committee noted that the changes to the step 1 recommendations for some people with type 2 diabetes do not necessitate a change in the step 2 recommendations since the
