Hypertension in adults: diagnosis and management
KEYWORDS: blood, pressure, blood pressure, people, treatment, hypertension, committee, evidence, recommendations, recommendation, cardiovascular, disease, diabetes, guideline, step


before offering treatment in people with severely raised blood pressure and no other symptoms of concern. The committee also agreed that checking blood pressure again within 7 days in people with no target organ damage would ensure that people with severe hypertension are followed up and offered suitable treatment. The committee agreed that further research is needed in this area, particularly for people with extreme hypertension (220/120 mmHg or higher) or emergency symptoms. The committee members developed a recommendation for research on same-day hospital specialist assessment to help inform future recommendations. How the recommendations might affect practice The emergency symptoms listed in the recommendation may lead to more referrals to hospital. However, people with emergency symptoms will benefit from urgent treatment because accelerated hypertension can be fatal if untreated. There may be some additional resource use from doing target organ damage tests more quickly and re-measuring blood pressure within 7 days. However, the number of people started on treatment immediately may be reduced because of undertaking investigations first. The population with severe hypertension is very small, and the proportion with severe hypertension and additional symptoms that suggest accelerated hypertension is even smaller; therefore, resource impact is unlikely to be substantial. Return to recommendations Context High blood pressure (hypertension) is one of the most important, treatable causes of premature morbidity and mortality in the world. It is a major risk factor for stroke, myocardial infarction, heart failure, chronic kidney disease, cognitive decline and premature death. In 2015, it was reported that high blood pressure affected more than 1 in 4 adults in England (31% of men; 26% of women) – around 13.5 million people – and contributed to 75,000 deaths. The clinical management of hypertension accounts for 12% of visits to primary care and up to £2.1 billion of healthcare expenditure. Managing the cardiovascular events caused by hypertension also consumes considerable resources. The guideline covers adults (over 18 years) with suspected or diagnosed hypertension, including those with type 2 diabetes. 2019 update Between 2010 and 2020, progress has been made to improve the diagnosis and management of hypertension: the population average blood pressure in England has fallen by about 3 mmHg systolic and the proportion of adults with untreated high blood pressure has decreased. However, the Public Health England Blood Pressure Action Plan called for further action to reduce the population average blood pressure by 5 mmHg through improved prevention, detection
