Kobayashietal.JournalofMedicalCaseReports (2016) 10:136
KEYWORDS: liver, tumor, metastasis, patients, crc, hepatectomy, hcc, segment, case, liver metastasis, fig, hepatitis, crlm, cancer, cirrhosis


the previouslyablatedlesioninsegment4of herliver(Fig.1). most common organ to which colorectal cancer (CRC) Thetumorwasirregularlyshapedandincontactwithher metastasizes and liver metastasis originating from CRC middle hepatic vein (MHV). Based on a three-phase CT has been reportedly observed in 15 to 30 % of patients study, the tumor showed neither early enhancement nor Although liver metastasis is less likely to occur in a cir- background liver through all phases. Furthermore, no rhotic/hepatitic liver than in a normal liver, it has been other tumor was detected in any phases of the three- reported that 8 to 10 % of patients with CRC with viral phase study. Based on these findings and her previous hepatitis developed liver metastasis . The number history of rectal cancer liver metastases, we considered of patients with CRC has been increasing and the segment 4 tumor to be a recurrent liver metastasis patients with hepatitis or cirrhosis are oftenencountered originating from rectal cancer. Because her liver function patients infected with the hepatitis virus has been A (5points),surgerywasundertaken.Duringthesurgery, decreasing . Thus, the coexistence of colorectal liver a small tumor was identified in segment 8, which could metastasis (CRLM) and hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC), not be diagnosed preoperatively. Taking her history into which usually occurs in an injured liver, is considered account,weconsideredthatthesegment8tumorwasalso common but is hardly ever seen in daily clinical practice. a recurrent CRLM. The segment 4 tumor was broadly in The impression that the coexistence of CRLM and HCC contact with her MHV and less distinguishable from the is rare is supported by the fact that such cases have been lesion previously treated by MCT. Thus we performed seldomreportedwithonly two casesreportedin PubMed segmentectomy 4 including MHV for the segment 4 indexedliterature.Furthermore,tothebestofour tumor. With regard to the segment 8 tumor, it was ex- knowledge, no cases with HCC, which developed during posed to the liver surface and well recognizable. Hence, the observational period after hepatectomy for CRLM, we considered applying MCT ablation to the segment 8 havebeenfoundintheworldwideEnglishliterature.Here tumor.However,thesegment4tumor,whichwasresected we present a case of HCC which developed during a at that time, might have been a local recurrence of the period between the first and second hepatectomy for re- segment 4 tumor previously treated by MCTablation. In peatedCRLM. other words, MCTablation might not have been effective enough or might have induced tumor implantation into Case presentation her liver even if the tumor was small and exposed to the A 65-year-old Japanese woman, who was known to
