Kobayashietal.JournalofMedicalCaseReports (2016) 10:136
KEYWORDS: liver, tumor, metastasis, patients, crc, hepatectomy, hcc, segment, case, liver metastasis, fig, hepatitis, crlm, cancer, cirrhosis


enough or might have induced tumor implantation into Case presentation her liver even if the tumor was small and exposed to the A 65-year-old Japanese woman, who was known to be liver surface. Thus we performed partial hepatectomy for infected with hepatitis C virus (HCV), underwent rectal segment 8 tumor; methods of hepatectomy were de- resection for advanced rectal cancer, which represented scribed accordingto the Brisbane 2000 systemofnomen- serosal invasion and lymph node metastasis. In spite of clatureofliveranatomyandresections. HCV infection, the results of her liver function test were Histologicalfindingsshowedamoderatelydifferentiated normal and she did not hope to receive antiviral therapy adenocarcinoma in the segment 4 tumor, confirming that because of socioeconomic reasons. At the age of 68, she the segment 4 tumor was a recurrent rectal cancer liver developed two CRLMs located in segments 4 and 6. She metastasis as diagnosed preoperatively (Fig. 2). The diag- received neoadjuvant chemotherapy, including oxali- nosis of recurrentCRLM wascorroborated by the immu- platin, leucovorin, and fluorouracil, and subsequently nohistochemistry that showed negative for cytokeratin 7 underwent surgery composed of microwave tissue co- and positive for cytokeratin 20, indicating that the seg- agulator (MCT) ablation for segment 4 tumor and seg- ment4tumor wasCRLM butnotintrahepaticcholangio- mentectomy 6. The segment 4 tumor was considerably carcinoma that often develops in cirrhotic liver. However, small with a diameter of 1 cm and it was exposed to the histologyofthesegment8tumorshowedfindingsofwell- liver surface; thus, we performed MCTablation. A histo- differentiatedHCC(Fig.2).AccordingtotheMetavirsys- logical examination of the resected S6 tumor revealed tem , we determined the inflammation and fibrosis adenocarcinoma and was confirmed to be CRLM but status of the non-tumoral background liver to be A1F4 not intrahepatic cholangiocarcinoma with negative cyto- (Fig.3).AstotheHCC, itwasclassifiedasearlystage(A) keratin 7 and positive cytokeratin 20 in immunohisto- of the Barcelona Clinic Liver Cancer staging system be- chemistry. Although she was diagnosed histologically as cause the tumor was solitary and 1 cm in size, the liver having a cirrhotic liver, by a microscopic examination function of the patient corresponded to Child-Pugh A, for background non-tumoral liver, antiviral treatment andperformancestatuscorrespondedto0. Kobayashietal.JournalofMedicalCaseReports (2016) 10:136 Page3of6 Fig.1Computedtomographyfindingsofthesegment4tumordevelopingadjacenttothelesionpreviouslytreatedwithablation.Anirregularly shapedtumor(whitearrows)wasobservedadjacenttothelesionpreviouslytreatedwithmicrowavetissuecoagulationablation(blackarrows). Anirregularlyshapedtumorwasbroadlyincontactwiththemiddlehepaticvain(whitearrowheads)andobviouslyseparatefromtheumbilical portionoftheportalvein(blackarrowhead) Although she had a cut surface abscess postoperatively, Discussion shewasdischargedfromhospital21daysafterthesurgery A recent report showed that liver metastasis risk was and is currently doing well 18 months after the second underestimated and it was even higher in patients with hepatectomy (Fig. 4). She is currently receiving interferon CRC with cirrhosis of the liver . In the
