Kobayashietal.JournalofMedicalCaseReports (2016) 10:136
KEYWORDS: liver, tumor, metastasis, patients, crc, hepatectomy, hcc, segment, case, liver metastasis, fig, hepatitis, crlm, cancer, cirrhosis


months after the second underestimated and it was even higher in patients with hepatectomy (Fig. 4). She is currently receiving interferon CRC with cirrhosis of the liver . In the report, how- andribavirintherapytoeliminateHCV(Fig.5). ever, neither diagnostic modalities for liver metastasis Fig.2Macroscopicfindingsofthesegment4and8tumors.Upperleft,segment4tumor.Anirregularshapedtumor(whitearrows)wasseen adjacenttothelesionpreviouslytreatedwithablation(whitearrowheads).Upperright,anirregularshapedtumorisoutlinedwithwhitedotted lineandpreviouslyablatedlesionwithwhiteline.Lowerleft,segment8tumor.Asmallwhitesphericaltumor(blackarrow)wasseenonthe surfaceofthespecimen.Lowerright,segment8tumorisoutlinedwithwhitedottedline Kobayashietal.JournalofMedicalCaseReports (2016) 10:136 Page4of6 Fig.3Histopathologicalfindingsofthetumors.Upperpart,histologicalfindingsofthesegment4tumor.Upperleft,astroma-richtumorwas seeninthecirrhoticliver(hematoxylinandeosinstain;originalmagnification,×40).Upperright,moderatedisorderofthetubuloglandularstructureswas observedandcellularpolaritywasnolongermaintained,suggestingthatsegment4tumorwascomposedofmoderatelydifferentiatedadenocarcinoma (hematoxylinandeosinstain;originalmagnification,×200).Lowerpart,histologicalfindingsofthesegment8tumor.Lowerleft,atumorwithlittle stromawasseeninthecirrhoticliver(lefthalfofthepicture;hematoxylinandeosinstain;originalmagnification,×200).Lowerright,structuralatypia wasmildandcellularpolaritywasrelativelymaintainedalthoughsizesofthenucleiwerevariedinthistumor.Thesegment8tumorwasdiagnosed aswell-differentiatedhepatocellularcarcinomabasedonthesefindings(hematoxylinandeosinstain;originalmagnification,×200) nor occurrence of HCC were specified. Namely there is occurrence of liver metastasis in diseased liver has not a possibility of misdiagnosing HCC as CRLM. Thus the been explainedclearly,it isconsidered thatpersistent in- idea has been gaining relatively firm evidence; therefore, flammation in hepatitic/cirrhotic liver is unfavorable for it is being accepted that CRLM is less likely to occur in the implantation of cancer cells, originating from extra- patients with hepatitis or cirrhosis than in patients with hepatic organs, in hepatic tissue [1–8]. If this hypothesis a normal liver [4–6]. Although the reason for the rare istrue,itcanbestatedthatthelessseveretheinflamma- tion is,themorelikely thatlivermetastasis willoccur. In this scenario, the presentcase showed normalliver func- tion test and histology of non-tumoral background liver represented A1 and F4 of Metavir system , suggest- ing that her inflammation is mild and less unfavorable for cancer cell implantation. However, mild but persist- ent inflammation and liver fibrosis certainly existed and contributed to carcinogenesis of HCC. Furthermore, some authors reported that only if hepatic function is preserved, would patients with an injured liver who underwent curative resection for CRC show better prog- nosis than those with an uninjured liver . In addition, with the progression of hepatectomy procedure and chemotherapy, the prognosis of patients with CRC has been improving even in patients with CRLM . Therefore, patients with hepatitis or cirrhosis with CRC Fig.4Histologicalfindingsofthenon-tumoralbackgroundliver. could gain long-term survival after curative treatment if Left,remarkabledisorderofthelobularstructurecausedbythe bridgingfibrosiswasobserved(hematoxylinandeosinstain;original hepatic function is well preserved. In this patient magnification,×40).Right,littleinterfacehepatitiswasseenand population, hence, management of background hepatic necro-inflammatory reaction was observed only slightly. Based disease is important as well as surveillance for CRC on these findings, we judged the condition of the non-tumoral recurrence to obtain further long-term survival. In the backgroundlivertobeA1F4accordingtotheMetavirsystem present case, antiviral therapy was not conducted after Kobayashietal.JournalofMedicalCaseReports (2016) 10:136 Page5of6 Fig.5Computedtomographyfindingsafterthesegment4segmentectomy.Althoughtheright(blackarrow)andleft(whitearrow)hepaticveins wererecognizable,themiddlehepaticveinwasnotobserved.Furthermore,liverparenchymarightandadjacenttotheumbilicalportionoftheportal vein(blackarrowhead)wasnotidentified.Thesefindingssuggestedthatsegmentectomy4includingthemiddlehepaticveinwasproperlyachieved the rectal resection although she was confirmed to be Conclusions infected with HCV. Furthermore, we recognized that the We present a case of HCC developing during a period background non-tumoral liver of the patient was cir- between the first and second hepatectomy for repeated rhotic at the
