Kobayashietal.JournalofMedicalCaseReports (2016) 10:136
KEYWORDS: liver, tumor, metastasis, patients, crc, hepatectomy, hcc, segment, case, liver metastasis, fig, hepatitis, crlm, cancer, cirrhosis


the We present a case of HCC developing during a period background non-tumoral liver of the patient was cir- between the first and second hepatectomy for repeated rhotic at the first hepatectomy; nevertheless, antiviral CRLM. With the experience of this case,we must realize therapy was not performed although she did not hope to that management of liver disease, including surveillance receive it. Consequently, she developed HCC. If viral of HCC occurrence and virus elimination, is markedly elimination was achieved after the first hepatectomy, important as well as surveillance of CRC recurrence in HCC may not have developed. The clinical course of the patientswith hepatitis orcirrhosiswithCRC. present case corroborates that it is very important to Abbreviations eliminate virus for patients with cirrhosis with HCV in CRC:colorectalcancer;CRLM:colorectallivermetastasis;CT:computed terms ofpreventingdevelopment ofHCCeven if hepatic tomography;HCC:hepatocellularcarcinoma;HCV:hepatitisCvirus; function is well preserved, and reemphasizes that MCT:microwavetissuecoagulator;MHV:middlehepaticvein. management of liver disease, including surveillance of Acknowledgements HCC occurrence, is important as well as surveillance Weacknowledgeallmedicalandnursingstaffwhohelpedincaringforour of CRC recurrence in patients with hepatitis or patient,aswellasDrShinjiTogoforhishelpinpreparingthemanuscript. cirrhosis with CRC. Wehadnofundingsourceforthisarticle. When a liver tumor is diagnosed in patients with Authors’contributions cirrhosis or hepatitis who have a history of CRC, specifi- AK,DM,andYMperformedsurgery.AK,CM,andYMtreatedthepatient cation of the diagnosis for liver tumor is very important earlypostoperatively.DMandMMtookchargeoftheout-patientclinicfor thispatient.AKandDMwrotethemanuscript.CM,YM,andMMrevisedthe because treatment strategy varies according to the diag- manuscriptforimportantintellectualcontent.Allauthorsreadandapproved nosis [7–9, 13, 15]. Recently, contrast-enhanced ultra- thefinalmanuscript. sound and/or contrast-enhanced magnetic resonance imaging have been reported to be superior to contrast- Consent Writteninformedconsentwasobtainedfromthepatientforpublicationof enhanced CT in terms of diagnostic ability for detection thiscasereportandanyaccompanyingimages.TheInstitutionalReview and discrimination of liver tumors . In the present Boardoftheauthors’institutionapprovedthismanuscriptforpublication.A case, therefore, these imaging studies should have been copyofthewrittenconsentisavailableforreviewbytheEditor-in-Chiefof thisjournal. performed in addition to CT for distinguishing between CRLM and HCC more clearly and detecting other Competinginterests lesions that could not be detected by CT, although Theauthorsdeclarethattheyhavenocompetinginterests. preoperative diagnosis of CRLM for CT-proven liver Received:7November2015Accepted:4May2016 tumors wasfortunatelycorrect. Kobayashietal.JournalofMedicalCaseReports (2016) 10:136 Page6of6
