Clinical Management of Dyslipidemia in Youth with Chronic Kidney Disease
KEYWORDS: disease, kidney, pubmed, ckd, renal, risk, chronic, children, dyslipidemia, youth, kidney disease, lipid, patients, dialysis, ldl-c


ABSTRACT Chronic kidney disease (CKD) is commonly associated with abnormal lipid metabolism which may contribute to the morbidity and premature mortality associated with impaired renal function. Dyslipidemia often occurs in the early phases and becomes progressively worse with disease severity and progression to end stage renal disease (ESRD). In this review, we discuss the clinical features, diagnosis, and management of dyslipidemia in children with renal disease, focusing primarily on nephrotic syndrome (NS) and ESRD. There are limited data on treatment of dyslipidemia, outcomes, and prevention of CVD in youth with these conditions to help inform clinical decision-making and define best practices. For complete coverage of all related areas of Endocrinology, please visit our on-line FREE web-text, WWW.ENDOTEXT.ORG . INTRODUCTION Chronic kidney disease (CKD) is characterized by a progressive decrease in renal function, divided into five stages ( Table 1 ). The National Institute of Diabetes and Digestive and Kidney Diseases (NIDDK) defines CKD as a glomerular filtration rate (GFR) persistently < 60 mL/min ( 1 ). Further decline in kidney function results in ESRD, with permanent and complete loss of renal function, necessitating either dialysis or renal transplantation. Due to a wide variety of common causes, including diabetes and hypertension, the prevalence of CKD is increasing ( 2 ). In individuals with CKD, CVD is the leading cause of death and dyslipidemia is recognized as a major risk factor ( 3 ). Mortality in up to half of individuals with CKD is the result of CVD ( 4 ). Table 1. CKD Stages View in own window Stage GFR 1 > 90 mL/min 2 60-90 mL/min 3A 45-59 mL/min 3B 30-44 mL/min 4 15-29 mL/min 5 < 15 mL/min Modified from Table 1 Hager et al ( 1 ). Nephrotic Syndrome (NS), clinically characterized by proteinuria, hypoalbuminemia, and edema, is one of the most common kidney diseases affecting youth. Injury to podocytes and glomeruli in NS is well described. Complications include acute injury of the kidney, systemic infection, and thromboembolism. Dyslipidemia is common and corresponds to the severity of proteinuria with or without CKD. In adults, risk of fatal and non-fatal MI is based upon the degree of proteinuria and the GFR. Despite the presence of dyslipidemia similar to that in adults, youth with CKD are often undertreated. This, in part, may reflect a lack of data regarding CVD risk in this population ( 5 ). In addition to traditional
