Clinical Management of Dyslipidemia in Youth with Chronic Kidney Disease
KEYWORDS: disease, kidney, pubmed, ckd, renal, risk, chronic, children, dyslipidemia, youth, kidney disease, lipid, patients, dialysis, ldl-c


in adults, youth with CKD are often undertreated. This, in part, may reflect a lack of data regarding CVD risk in this population ( 5 ). In addition to traditional risk factors, CVD disease in youth with ESRD appears to be directly related to the effects of renal impairment, exacerbated, in part, by medications necessary for treatment. Because mono and polygenic disorders affecting lipid and lipoprotein metabolism are common, some youth may also have an underlying predisposition to atherosclerosis in addition to the risk associated with renal failure – the impact of these on the risk of coronary artery disease and of congestive heart failure may well be substantially larger among younger patients ( 6 , 7 ). Early onset of risk factors in children with kidney disease provides a longer period of exposure, significantly increasing risk of premature CVD. Although unproven, it is likely that optimum management of risk factors, such as elevated cholesterol and blood pressure, especially when implemented at an early age, may result in substantial reduction in subsequent incidence of CVD-related events. It is important, therefore, that youth with ESRD undergo global risk factor assessment and that all risk factors be optimally managed. Based on randomized trials, data suggests that reduction of LDL-C concentrations may decrease the risk of CVD among individuals with renal failure who have average (or even below average) LDL-C concentrations ( 8 - 11 ). ETIOLOGY AND PATHOGENESIS OF DYSLIPIDEMIA IN KIDNEY DISEASE The pattern of dyslipidemia seen in CKD is typically characterized by hypertriglyceridemia (HTG), decreased HDL-C, variable changes in LDL-C, increase in non-HDL-C, and an increase in small dense LDL-C ( 12 ), as well as an increase in the apoB to apoA-I ratio. Elevations in Lp (a) are also common in CKD. However, elevations in Lp (a) generally occur in subgroups of individuals who express larger Lp (a) isoforms ( 13 ). HTG is present in early stages of renal disease and its origin is multifactorial, including impaired catabolism of VLDL and chylomicrons secondary to decreased lipoprotein lipase (LPL) activity. With the onset of uremia, inhibitors of LPL are increased, including apoC-III and pre-beta-HDL. A decrease in lecithin cholesterol ester transfer protein (LCAT), important for the maturation of HDL, and reduced expression of the apoA-I gene APOA1 , the main apolipoprotein of HDL, have also been reported. These changes in gene expression and protein availability lead to alterations in
