Clinical Management of Dyslipidemia in Youth with Chronic Kidney Disease
KEYWORDS: disease, kidney, pubmed, ckd, renal, risk, chronic, children, dyslipidemia, youth, kidney disease, lipid, patients, dialysis, ldl-c


and reduced expression of the apoA-I gene APOA1 , the main apolipoprotein of HDL, have also been reported. These changes in gene expression and protein availability lead to alterations in two key HDL functions: 1) reverse cholesterol transport; and 2) anti-oxidation ( 1 ). Individuals with NS often have elevated triglycerides (TG) and other atherogenic apoB-containing lipoproteins, including VLDL, IDL, LDL, and lipoprotein(a). A decrease in oncotic pressure may be contributory to increased production of lipoproteins by stimulating the synthesis of apoB. However, the mechanisms are not well understood. HDL-C levels are similar to those of healthy individuals. Despite normal levels, however, it is likely the efficiency of the HDL-related reverse cholesterol transport in NS is decreased. The elevation in TG is likely due to decreased LPL activity. There is also downregulation of glycosylphosphatidylinositol-anchored HDL-binding protein 1 (GPIHBP1), which serves to anchor LPL to heparin sulfate proteoglycans on endothelial cells. The increased levels of LDL-C seen in NS is believed to be the result of increased production through increased acyl-CoA cholesterol acyltransferase (ACAT) and HMG-CoA reductase activity and decreased clearance through decreased LDL-receptor activity. Increased activity of proprotein convertase subtilisin/kexin type 9 (PCSK9) has also been reported, leading to a decrease in the number of LDL receptors and a reduction in hepatic uptake ( 5 ). Table 2 - Lipid Patterns in Kidney Disease View in own window Lipid / Lipoprotein CKD 1-5 Nephrotic Syndrome Hemodialysis Peritoneal Dialysis Total Cholesterol Progressive increase ↑↑ ↔ ↓ ↑ TG Progressive increase ↑↑ ↑ ↑ HDL-C ↓ ↓ ↓ ↓ LDL-C Progressive increase ↑↑ ↔ ↓ ↑ Non-HDL cholesterol Progressive increase ↑↑ ↔ ↓ ↑ Lipoprotein (a) Progressive increase ↑↑ ↑ ↑↑ Modified from Mikolasevic et al ( 14 ). CLINICAL FEATURES Nephrotic Syndrome Elevated fractions of apoB-containing particles in NS can increase the risk for formation of atherosclerotic plaque, leading to CVD-related events, such as MI and stroke, and may contribute to the increased risk for thrombosis and other adverse events ( Table 3 ). Progressive loss of renal function and development of CKD further increases the risk of morbidity ( 5 ). Dyslipidemia may also contribute to glomerulosclerosis ( 15 ), further damaging the kidney (i.e., the lipid nephrotoxicity hypothesis). Excess accumulation of lipids, particularly in the interstitium and glomeruli ( 16 ), is accompanied by a pronounced inflammatory response, which appears to injure glomerular podocytes and mesangial cells. Such changes
