Clinical Management of Dyslipidemia in Youth with Chronic Kidney Disease
KEYWORDS: disease, kidney, pubmed, ckd, renal, risk, chronic, children, dyslipidemia, youth, kidney disease, lipid, patients, dialysis, ldl-c


). A waist to height ratio of >0.49 has also been shown to be associated with lower HDL-C, higher left ventricular mass index, TGs, and non-HDL cholesterol compared to lean controls ( 19 ). The prevalence of dyslipidemia was 61.5% among 356 East Asian pediatric patients < 20 years of age (median age 10.8 years; 246 males, 110 females) with CKD who participated in the K orea N cohort study for O utcomes in patients W ith Ped iatric C hronic K idney D isease (KNOW-PedCKD) ( 20 ). Twenty-five percent (25%) had elevated TC, 19% elevated LDL-C, 15.2% low HDL-C, and 15.2% elevated TG. The authors demonstrated that children with glomerulonephropathy and nephrotic range proteinuria exhibited increased risk for high TC; whereas increased BMI z-score, elevated proteinuria, hypocalcemia, and 1,25-dihydroxyvitamin D deficiency were associated with low HDL-C. Glomerular filtration rate stage 3b or higher and hyperphosphatemia were associated with increased the risk for HTG ( 20 ). Dialysis While dyslipidemia is common in ESRD, the need for chronic dialysis, either hemodialysis (HD) or continuous ambulatory peritoneal dialysis (CAPD), often results in further alteration in lipids and lipoproteins ( 21 , 22 ). Some studies demonstrate no significant differences in TC, LDL-C, HDL-C, TG, ApoA, ApoB, or Lp(a) serum levels between individuals receiving HD when compared to PD ( 23 ). However other studies reported important differences in lipoprotein concentrations and their composition in adults undergoing HD and CAPD. A more atherogenic profile was observed in the latter group, consisting mainly of lower concentrations of HDL-C with higher levels of TC, TG, LDL-C, ApoB and ApoE. CAPD patients showed significantly higher TG and LDL-C levels, with a different pattern of apoprotein profile characterized by lower ApoA-I levels and higher ApoE levels than controls. Similar differences in ApoA-I and ApoE were also seen between controls and HD patients, whereas in the hemodialysis group a significant increase in ApoB was also observed ( 24 ). There have been studies demonstrating different lipid patterns in children receiving dialysis. Children (aged 12.6 +/- 4.7 years) undergoing treatment with continuous ambulatory peritoneal dialysis/continuous cycling peritoneal dialysis (CAPD/CCPD) were found to have fasting mean levels of TGs (90%) and cholesterol (69%) above the 95 th percentile of published normal values prior to the start of dialysis. The authors found a high prevalence of hyperlipidemia at baseline with no significant change of serum lipid levels during 2
