Clinical Management of Dyslipidemia in Youth with Chronic Kidney Disease
KEYWORDS: disease, kidney, pubmed, ckd, renal, risk, chronic, children, dyslipidemia, youth, kidney disease, lipid, patients, dialysis, ldl-c


of published normal values prior to the start of dialysis. The authors found a high prevalence of hyperlipidemia at baseline with no significant change of serum lipid levels during 2 years of treatment with CAPD/CCPD. ( 25 ). Renal Transplantation Second only to infection, cardiovascular disease is a significant cause of mortality in pediatric renal transplant patients ( 26 ). Analysis of retrospective data from the CERTAIN registry (386-transplant recipients aged 0.5-25 years) showed the prevalence of dyslipidemia to be 95% before engraftment and 88% at 1-year following transplant ( 27 ). TC and LDL-C levels are considerably higher post-renal transplant compared to children undergoing hemodialysis ( 27 ). Risk factors include elevated pre-transplant serum cholesterol, years since renal transplant ( 28 ), and use of certain immunosuppressive medications ( 28 ). Immunosuppressive drugs, including prednisone, cyclosporine, and sirolimus, have been shown to be associated with dyslipidemia, whereas the use of tacrolimus and mycophenolic acid is associated with lower lipid parameters ( 27 , 28 , 29 ). TC and LDL-C in these children have not been shown to have direct association with age, sex, ethnicity, duration of ESRD, stage of chronic kidney disease, diabetes mellitus, or BMI ( 27 , 28 ). Reduced GFR is a risk factor for elevated TGs in this population ( 27 , 30 ). DIAGNOSIS Dyslipidemia in children with renal disease is the result of complex interactions of a variety of factors, including the primary disease process, use of medications such as corticosteroids, the presence of malnutrition or obesity, diet, and genetics. When present in NS or those who have undergone renal transplantation, dyslipidemia it is easily recognized; while often less obvious in those with chronic renal insufficiency or ESRD. Detection of dyslipidemia in the latter requires more careful analysis and knowledge of normal laboratory ranges for children. Current KDIGO clinical practice guidelines recommend an initial lipid profile in all newly diagnosed children with CKD, including those who require chronic dialysis therapy or kidney transplant therapy. After the initial lipid profile, annual testing is recommended ( 31 ). MANAGEMENT Since publication of the 2003 National Kidney Foundation-Kidney Disease Outcomes Quality Initiative (NKF-KDOQI) clinical guidelines for management of dyslipidemia in CKD, data from randomized controlled trials on statin therapy in adults with CKD KDIGO (Kidney Disease: Improving Global Outcomes or KDIGO) have helped inform management guidelines. Recommendations for treatment ( Table 4 and Table 5
