Clinical Management of Dyslipidemia in Youth with Chronic Kidney Disease
KEYWORDS: disease, kidney, pubmed, ckd, renal, risk, chronic, children, dyslipidemia, youth, kidney disease, lipid, patients, dialysis, ldl-c


trials on statin therapy in adults with CKD KDIGO (Kidney Disease: Improving Global Outcomes or KDIGO) have helped inform management guidelines. Recommendations for treatment ( Table 4 and Table 5 ) are based on risk for coronary heart disease ( 32 , 33 , 34 ). It should be recognized, however, that clinical recommendations ( Table 5 ) differ for adults as well as children. While all guidelines target CVD prevention, none specifically address treatment of lipid abnormalities to prevent deterioration of kidney function, especially in youth with NS ( 15 , 16 ). Table 4. Assessment of lipid status and treatment in children (< 18 years-of-age) with chronic kidney disease (CKD) View in own window Clinical Scenario Lipid Profile Statins ± Ezetimibe Management of HTG CKD, including those treated with chronic dialysis or kidney transplantation. Recommended at initial diagnosis and repeated annually. Not recommended. Therapeutic lifestyle changes are recommended. Lipid profile=TC, TG, HDL-C and LDL-C. Modified from: Wanner ( 32 ). Table 5. Lipid management guidelines for CKD in Children < 18 years-of-age View in own window KDIGO ACC/AHA 2014 ADA AACE Do not initiate. Prior AHA statement for high-risk patients (including CKD) recommends therapeutic lifestyle intervention; if >10 years-of-age and LDL-C remains >100 mg/dL despite therapeutic lifestyle recommendations, treat with statin. If patient has DM, consider statin use ≥10 years-of-age if, following changes in diet and lifestyle, LDL-C >160 or >130 mg/dL with multiple risk factors. Recommend pharmacotherapy for > 8 years-of-age if no response to therapeutic lifestyle, especially if LDL-C ≥ 190 or ≥ 160 mg/dL with additional risk factors. Adapted from Table 1 ; Sarnak ( 33 ). ACC/AHA, 2014 ADA, and AACE guidelines not CKD specific. Nephrotic Syndrome Treatment options for dyslipidemia in children with NS include lifestyle changes and pharmacologic agents. Little evidence exists on optimal lifestyle management in children with NS, and the majority of studies have included adult populations. Studies of soy-based vegetarian diets have shown promising results, but include limited subjects and these findings have not been confirmed ( 35 , 36 ). The addition of omega-3 fatty acids has demonstrated a small decrease in TG and postprandial chylomicron levels ( 37 , 38 ). There is also very limited data on pharmacologic treatment in youth compared with the adult population. Medications commonly used in adults include statins, bile acid sequestrants, and fibric acid derivatives. Most of the studies in youth
