Clinical Management of Dyslipidemia in Youth with Chronic Kidney Disease
KEYWORDS: disease, kidney, pubmed, ckd, renal, risk, chronic, children, dyslipidemia, youth, kidney disease, lipid, patients, dialysis, ldl-c


on pharmacologic treatment in youth compared with the adult population. Medications commonly used in adults include statins, bile acid sequestrants, and fibric acid derivatives. Most of the studies in youth have been limited to statins. These studies have shown reductions in TG and LDL-C levels but tend to be small in number and often lack a control group ( 5 ). The utility of lipid apheresis, a technique used to lower cholesterol in patients with homozygous familial hypercholesterolemia, has been assessed in youth with NS. A study of children who underwent lipid apheresis in combination with prednisone found reductions in both cholesterol and TG. Of the study group, 7/11 youth achieved a partial or complete remission of NS; and all remained in remission at their 10-year follow-up ( 39 ). However, as discussed in other chapters of Endotext, lipid apheresis is currently not preformed specifically for lipid management. At present, apheresis is only FDA approved for new onset focal segmental glomerulosclerosis in pediatric patients who are resistant to standard forms of treatment ( 40 ). Chronic Kidney Disease The American Heart Association (AHA) classifies youth with ESRD in the highest risk group and those with pre-dialysis CKD at moderate risk for development of CVD and its sequelae. It recommends therapeutic lifestyle changes (TLC) as the initial management strategy, with the goal of lowering LDL to ≤130 mg/dL and TG <400; with addition of pharmacological therapy if these goals are not met ( 41 ). In the SHARP trial, 9270 adult patients with CKD or ESRD were randomly divided into simvastatin plus ezetimibe, simvastatin, and placebo groups ( 42 ). The goal of the study was to look at primary prevent of a major atherosclerotic cardiac event. The patients were followed for a median of 4.9 years, and the simvastatin and ezetimibe group had significant risk reduction of a major atherosclerotic event. In contrast, the KDIGO 2013 clinical practice guidelines recommend assessment of fasting lipids annually, while discouraging the use of statin or statin/ezetimibe combination in youth <18 years with CKD ( 33 , 43 ). Boys >10 years-of-age and post-menarche girls with severely elevated LDL-C in the setting of a family history of premature coronary disease, diabetes, hypertension, smoking, and ESRD might be candidates for low dose statin use. However multi-drug regimens, even in youth with severely elevated LDL-C ( 43 ), is not recommended. In youth with fasting TG
