Clinical Management of Dyslipidemia in Youth with Chronic Kidney Disease
KEYWORDS: disease, kidney, pubmed, ckd, renal, risk, chronic, children, dyslipidemia, youth, kidney disease, lipid, patients, dialysis, ldl-c


should be used judiciously, if at all, in youth who are malnourished. The safety and efficacy of fibric acid and niacin have not been established in youth nor FDA approved for use in this population. Prescription omega-3-fatty acids appear to lower serum TGs in adults. The benefits, harms, and tolerability of such treatment in children is unproven, nor are there data to suggest preferential use of EPA vs combination EPA/DHA productions. Renal Transplantation TLC remains the first-line intervention for treatment of dyslipidemia in youth who undergo renal transplantation. The KDOQI clinical practice guidelines for nutrition in youth recommend that families receive intensive nutrition guidance to promote a heart-healthy diet and ≥60 minutes of active play time daily, along with limiting screen time (television + computer + video games) to ≤2 hours per day ( 56 ). KDIGO guidelines recommends against the use of statin or statin/ezetimibe combination in youth <18 years, although low dose statin should be considered in boys >10 years and post-menarche girls with severely elevated LDL-C in the setting of a family history of premature coronary disease, diabetes, hypertension, smoking, and ESRD ( 43 ). NHLBI and AHA both recommended considering pharmacologic therapy if LDL-C goals are not met with TLC alone. If statins are considered, caution needs to be exercised and low doses given concommitentlly with medications that utilize the CYP3A4 pathway, like cyclosporine, as they may increase serum concentration of the statin and risk of statin-induced rhabdomyolysis. There are no randomized trials for use of ezetimibe or bile acid sequestrants in pediatric renal transplant patients; and KDIGO does not recommend multi-drug regimens even in those with severely elevated LDL-C. The use of fibrates in adult renal transplant recipients with HTG has been accompanied by elevations in serum creatinine and also with reduced cyclosporine concentrations when used concomitantly ( 57 ) . It should be noted that the effect of cyclosporine is more complex than CYP3A4 inhibition alone (see chapter 18 of Endotext on medications which states, in part, “ Most statins are transported into the liver and other tissues by organic anion transporting polypeptides, particularly OATP1B1. Drugs, such as clarithromycin, ritonavir, indinavir, saquinavir, and cyclosporine that inhibit OATP1B1 can increase serum statin levels thereby increasing the risk of statin muscle toxicity. Fluvastatin is the statin that is least affected by OATP1B1 inhibitors. In fact, fluvastatin 40mg per day has been studied in adults receiving renal
