Multinodular Goiter
KEYWORDS: thyroid, goiter, patients, multinodular, iodine, therapy, tsh, rhtsh, multinodular goiter, volume, nodules, treatment, goiters, radioiodine, nodular


ABSTRACT Multinodular goiter (MNG) is the most common of all the disorders of the thyroid gland. MNG is the result of the genetic heterogeneity of follicular cells and apparent acquisition of new cellular qualities that become inheritable. Nodular goiter is most often detected simply as a mass in the neck, but sometimes an enlarging gland produces pressure symptoms. Hyperthyroidism develops in a large proportion of MNGs after a few decades, frequently after iodine excess. Diagnosis is based on the physical examination. Thyroid function test results are normal, or indicate subclinical or overt hyperthyroidism. Imaging procedures are useful to detect details such as distortion of the trachea, and to provide an estimation of the volume before and after therapy. From 4 to 17% of MNGs fulfill the criteria of malignant change, however, the majority of these lesions are not lethal. If a clinical and biochemically euthyroid MNG is small and produces no symptoms, treatment is controversial. T4 given to shrink the gland or to prevent further growth is effective in about one third of patients. If the clinically euthyroid goiter is unsightly, shows subclinical hyperthyroidism or is causing pressure symptoms, treatment with ¹³¹I preceded by recombinant human TSH is successful but causes hypothyroidism in varying degrees. This treatment can lead to 45-65% shrinkage of the MNG, even if in an intrathoracic position, with a relatively low cost, thus it is considered a good alternative to surgery. However, surgery is an acceptable option. The efficacy of T4 treatment after surgery, to prevent regrowth, is debatable although frequently usedt. For complete coverage of all related aeas of Endocrinology, please visit our on-line FREE web-text, WWW.ENDOTEXT.ORG . INTRODUCTION The normal thyroid gland is a fairly homogenous structure, but nodules often form within its substance. These nodules may be only the growth and fusion of localized colloid-filled follicles, or more or less discrete adenomas, or cysts. Nodules larger than 1 cm may be detected clinically by palpation. Careful examination discloses their presence in at least 4% of the general population. Nodules less than 1 cm in diameter not clinically detectable unless located on the surface of the gland, are much more frequent. The terms adenomatous goiter, nontoxic nodular goiter, and colloid nodular goiter are used interchangeably as descriptive terms when a multinodular goiter is found. INCIDENCE The incidence of goiter, diffuse and nodular, is very much dependent on the status of iodine intake of the
