Multinodular Goiter
KEYWORDS: thyroid, goiter, patients, multinodular, iodine, therapy, tsh, rhtsh, multinodular goiter, volume, nodules, treatment, goiters, radioiodine, nodular


interchangeably as descriptive terms when a multinodular goiter is found. INCIDENCE The incidence of goiter, diffuse and nodular, is very much dependent on the status of iodine intake of the population. In areas of iodine deficiency, goiter prevalence may be very high and especially in goiters of longstanding, multinodularity develops frequently ( Figure 17-1 ). The incidence of multinodular goiter in areas with sufficient iodine intake has been documented in several reports (1-10). In a comprehensive population survey of 2,749 persons in northern England, Tunbridge et al (1) found obvious goiters in 5.9% with a female/male ratio of 13:1. Single and multiple thyroid nodules were found in 0.8% of men and 5.3% of women, with an increased frequency in women over 45 years of age. Routine autopsy surveys and the use of sensitive imaging techniques produce a much higher incidence. In three reports nodularity was found in 30% to 50% of subjects in autopsy studies, and in 16% to 67% in prospective studies of randomly selected subjects on ultrasound (2). In Framingham the prevalence of multinodular goiter as found in a population study of 5234 persons over 60 years was 1% (3). Results from Singapore show a prevalence of 2.8% (4). In an evaluation in 2,829 subjects, living in southwestern Utah and Nevada (USA, between 31 and 38 years) of age, 23% had non-toxic goiter, including 18 single nodules, 3 cysts, 38 colloid goiters and 7 without a histological diagnosis. No mention was made of multinodular goiters, although some might have been present in the colloid and unidentified group (5). In general, in iodine sufficient countries the prevalence of multinodular goiter is not higher than 4% (6). In countries with previous deficiency that was corrected by universal salt iodination, elderly subjects may have an incidence of, approximately, 10% of nodular and multinodular goiter, attributed to lack of nutritional iodine in early adult life (7). ETIOLOGY The first comprehensive theory about the development of multinodular goiter was proposed by David Marine (8) and studied further by Selwyn Taylor (9), and can be considered one of the classics in this field. Nodular goiter may be the result of any chronic low-grade, intermittent stimulus to thyroid hyperplasia. Supporting evidence for this view is circumstantial. David Marine first developed the concept, that in response to iodide deficiency, the thyroid first goes through a period of hyperplasia as a consequence of the resulting TSH stimulation,
