Multinodular Goiter
KEYWORDS: thyroid, goiter, patients, multinodular, iodine, therapy, tsh, rhtsh, multinodular goiter, volume, nodules, treatment, goiters, radioiodine, nodular


circumstantial. David Marine first developed the concept, that in response to iodide deficiency, the thyroid first goes through a period of hyperplasia as a consequence of the resulting TSH stimulation, but eventually, possibly because of iodide repletion or a decreased requirement for thyroid hormone, enters a resting phase characterized by colloid storage and the histologic picture of a colloid goiter. Marine believed that repetition of these two phases of the cycle would eventually result in the formation of nontoxic multinodular goiter (8). Studies by Taylor of thyroid glands removed at surgery led him to believe that the initial lesion is diffuse hyperplasia, but that with time discrete nodules develop (9). By the time the goiter is well developed, serum TSH levels and TSH production rates are usually normal or even suppressed (10). For example, Dige-Petersen and Hummer evaluated basal and TRH-stimulated serum TSH levels in 15 patients with diffuse goiter and 47 patients with nodular goiter (11). They found impairment of TRH-induced TSH release in 27% of the patients with nodular goiter, suggesting thyroid autonomy, but in only 1 of the 15 with diffuse goiter. Smeulers et al (12), studied clinically euthyroid women with multinodular goiter and found that there was an inverse relationship between the increment of TSH after administration of TRH, and size of the thyroid gland ( Figure 17-1 ). It was also found that, while being still within the normal range, the mean serum T3 concentration of the group with impaired TSH secretion was significantly higher than the normal mean, whereas the mean value of serum T4 levels was not elevated (12). These and other results (13) are consistent with the hypothesis that a diffuse goiter may precede the development of nodules. They are also consistent with the clinical observation that, with time, autonomy may occur, with suppression of TSH release, even though such goiters were originally TSH dependent. Figure 17-1 Relationship of TSH (after 400 mg TRH i.v.) and thyroid weight (g) in 22 women with clinically euthyroid multinodular goiter (with permission ref. 12) Comprehensive reviews about insights into the evolution of multinodular goiter have been published by Studer and co-workers (14-16). An adapted summary of the major factors that are discussed is presented in Table 17-1 and will be referred to in the discussion that follows. Table 17-1. Factors that may be involved in the evolution of multinodular goiter. PRIMARY FACTORS Functional heterogeneity of
