Multinodular Goiter
KEYWORDS: thyroid, goiter, patients, multinodular, iodine, therapy, tsh, rhtsh, multinodular goiter, volume, nodules, treatment, goiters, radioiodine, nodular


Table 17-1 and will be referred to in the discussion that follows. Table 17-1. Factors that may be involved in the evolution of multinodular goiter. PRIMARY FACTORS Functional heterogeneity of normal follicular cells, most probably due to genetic and acquisition of new inheritable qualities by replicating epithelial cells. Gender (women) is an important factor. Subsequent functional and structural abnormalities in growing goiters. SECONDARY FACTORS Elevated TSH (induced by iodine deficiency, natural goitrogens, inborn errors of thyroid hormone synthesis) Smoking, stress, certain drugs Other thyroid-stimulating factors (IGF-1 and others) Endogenous factor (gender) PRIMARY FACTORS Genetic heterogeneity of normal follicular cells and acquisition of new inheritable qualities by replicating epithelial cells. ( Figure 17-2 ).It has been shown cells of many organs, including, the thyroid gland, are often polyclonal, rather than monoclonal of origin. Also from a functional aspect it appears that through developmental processes the thyroid epithelial cells forming a follicle are functionally polyclonal and possess widely differing qualities regarding the different biochemical steps leading to growth and to thyroid hormone synthesis like e.g. iodine uptake (and transport), thyroglobulin production and iodination, iodotyrosine coupling, endocytosis and dehalogenation. As a consequence there is some heterogeneity of growth and function within a thyroid and even within a follicle Studer et al (14-16) demonstrated the existence of monoclonal and polyclonal nodules in the same multinodular gland. They analyzed 25 nodules from 9 multinodular goiters and found 9 to be polyclonal and 16 monoclonal. Three goiters contained only polyclonal nodules and 3 contained only monoclonal nodules. In 3 goiters poly- and monoclonal nodules coexisted in the same gland (17). Figure 17-2 Heterogeneity of morphology and function in a human multinodular goiter. Autoradiographs of two different areas of typical multindular euthyroid human goiter excised after administration of radioiodine tracer to the patient. There are enormous differences of size, shape and function among the individual follicles of the same goiter. Note also that there is no correlation between the size or any other morphological hallmark of a single follicle and its iodine uptake. (with permission ref.15). Newly generated cells may acquire qualities not previously present in mother cells. These qualities could subsequently be passed on to further generations of cells. A possible example of this process is the acquired abnormal growth pattern that is reproduced when a tissue sample is transplanted into a nude mouse (16). Other examples are acquired variable responsiveness to TSH (13). These changes
