Multinodular Goiter
KEYWORDS: thyroid, goiter, patients, multinodular, iodine, therapy, tsh, rhtsh, multinodular goiter, volume, nodules, treatment, goiters, radioiodine, nodular


the acquired abnormal growth pattern that is reproduced when a tissue sample is transplanted into a nude mouse (16). Other examples are acquired variable responsiveness to TSH (13). These changes may be related to mutations in oncogenes which do not produce malignancy per se, but that can alter growth and function. An example of acquisition of genetic qualities is the identification in the last few years of constitutively activating somatic mutations not only in solitary toxic adenoma, but also in hyperfunctioning nodules of toxic multinodular goiters (18). So far these mutations in MNG have only been found in the TSH-receptor (TSHR) gene, and not in the Gs-alpha gene. Different somatic mutations are found in exon 9 and 10 of the TSHR gene and the majority of mutations that are present in toxic adenomas are also found in toxic nodules in multinodular goiter (19-21). Genes associated with multinodular goiter In contrast to sporadic goiters, caused by spontaneous recessive genomic variation, most cases of familial goiter present an autosomal dominant pattern of inheritance, indicating predominant genetic defects. Gene-gene interactions or various polygenic mechanisms (i.e. synergistic effects of several variants or polymorphisms) could increase the complexity of the pathogenesis of nontoxic goiter and offer an explanation for its genetic heterogeneity (22-26). A strong genetic predisposition is indicated by family and twin studies (27-29). Thus, children of parents with goiter have a significantly higher risk of developing goiter compared with children of nongoitrous parents (24). The high incidence in females and the higher concordance in monozygotic than in dizygotic twins also suggested a genetic predisposition (24). Moreover, there is preliminary evidence of a positive family history for thyroid diseases in those who have postoperative relapse of goiter, which can occur from months to years after surgery. Defects in genes that play an important role in thyroid physiology and thyroid hormone synthesis could predispose to the development of goiter, especially in case of borderline or overt iodine deficiency. Such defects could lead to dyshormonogenesis as an immediate response, thereby indirectly explaining the nodular transformation of the thyroid as late consequences of dyshormonogenesis, as a form of maladaptation (12). The genes that encode the proteins involved in thyroid hormone synthesis, such as the thyroglobulin-gene (TG-gene), the thyroid peroxidase-gene (TPO-gene), the sodium – iodide – symporter-gene (SLC5A5), the Pendred syndrome-gene (SLC26A4), the TSH receptor-gene (TSH-R-gene), the iodotyrosine deiodinase (DEHAL 1) and the thyroid oxidase 2 gene3 (DUOX2)
