Multinodular Goiter
KEYWORDS: thyroid, goiter, patients, multinodular, iodine, therapy, tsh, rhtsh, multinodular goiter, volume, nodules, treatment, goiters, radioiodine, nodular


thyroid peroxidase-gene (TPO-gene), the sodium – iodide – symporter-gene (SLC5A5), the Pendred syndrome-gene (SLC26A4), the TSH receptor-gene (TSH-R-gene), the iodotyrosine deiodinase (DEHAL 1) and the thyroid oxidase 2 gene3 (DUOX2) are convincing candidate genes in familial euthyroid goiter (30). Originally, several mutations in these genes were identified in patients with congenital hypothyroidism (30). However, in cases of less severe functional impairment, with can still be compensated, a contribution of variants of these genes in the etiology of nontoxic goiter is possible. Linkage studies A genome-wide linkage analysis has identified a candidate locus, MNG1 on chromosome 14q31, in a large Canadian family with 18 affected individuals (31). This locus was confirmed in a German family with recurrent euthyroid goiters (32). A dominant pattern of inheritance with high penetrance was assumed in both investigations. Moreover, a region on 14q31 between MNG1 and the TSH-R-gene was identified as a potential positional candidate region for nontoxic goiter (33). However, in an earlier study the TSH-R-gene was clearly excluded (31). Furthermore, an X-linked autosomal dominant pattern and linkage to a second locus MNG2 (Xp22) was identified in an Italian pedigree with nontoxic familial goiter (34). To identify further candidate regions, the first extended genome-wide linkage analysis was performed to detect susceptibility loci in 18 Danish, German and Slovakian euthyroid goiter families (35). Assuming genetic heterogeneity and a dominant pattern of inheritance, four novel candidate loci on chromosomes 2q, 3p, 7q and 8p (36) were identified . An individual contribution was attributable to four families for the 3p locus and to 1 family to each of the other loci, respectively. On the basis of the previously identified candidate regions and the established environmental factors, nontoxic goiter can consequently be defined as a complex disease. However, for this first time a more prevalent putative locus, present in 20% of the families investigated, was identified (35). The candidate region on 3p (37) suggests a dominant pattern of inheritance for goiter. However, whereas linkage studies are suitable for the detection of candidate genes with a strong effect it is possible to miss weak genetic defects of first-line candidate gene-variants or of novel genes by linkage studies. Moreover, it is conceivable that the sum of several weak genetic variations in different genomic regions could lead to goiter predisposition. Therefore, the widely accepted risk factors such as iodine deficiency, smoking, old age, and female gender are likely to interact with and
