Multinodular Goiter
KEYWORDS: thyroid, goiter, patients, multinodular, iodine, therapy, tsh, rhtsh, multinodular goiter, volume, nodules, treatment, goiters, radioiodine, nodular


different genomic regions could lead to goiter predisposition. Therefore, the widely accepted risk factors such as iodine deficiency, smoking, old age, and female gender are likely to interact with and / or trigger the genetic susceptibility (22). Mutagenesis leading to multinodular goiter Most goiters become nodular with time. ( Figure 17-3 ) From animal models of hyperplasia caused by iodine depletion (38) we have learned that besides an increase in functional activity a tremendous increase in thyroid cell number occurs. These two events likely induce a number of mutation events. It is known that thyroid hormone synthesis goes along with increased H2O2 production and free radical formation with may damage genomic DNA and cause mutations. Together with a higher spontaneous mutation rate, a higher replication rate will more often prevent mutation repair and increase the mutation load of the thyroid, thereby also randomly affecting genes essential for thyrocyte physiology. Mutations that confer a growth advantage (e.g. TSH-R mutations) very likely initiate focal growth. Hence, autonomously functioning thyroid nodules (AFTNs) are likely to develop from small cell clones that contain advantageous mutation as shown for the TSH-R in “hot” microscopic regions of euthyroid MNG (18). Epidemiologic studies, animal models and molecular/genetic data outline a general theory of nodular transformation. Based on the identification of somatic mutations and the predominant clonal origine of AFTNs and cold thyroid nodules (CTNs) the following sequence of events could lead to thyroid nodular transformation in three steps. First, iodine deficiency, nutritional goitrogens or autoimmunity cause diffuse thyroid hyperplasia (39-41). Secondly, at this stage of thyroid hyperplasia, increased proliferation together with a possible DNA damage due to H2O2 action causes a higher mutation load, i.e. a higher number of cells bearing mutations. Some of these spontaneous mutations confer constitutive activation of the cAMP cascade (e.g. TSH-R mutations) which stimulates growth and function. Finally, in a proliferating thyroid, growth factor expression (e.g. insulin-like growth factor 1 [IGF-1], transforming growth factor ß [TGF-ß], or epidermal growth factor [EGF]) is increased (42-51). As a result of growth factor co-stimulation most cells divide and form small clones. After increased growth factor expression ceases, small clones with activating mutations will further proliferate if they can achieve self-stimulation. They could thus form small foci, which could develop into thyroid nodules. This mechanism could explain AFTNs by advantageous mutations that both initiate growth and function of the affected thyroid cells as well as CTNs
