Multinodular Goiter
KEYWORDS: thyroid, goiter, patients, multinodular, iodine, therapy, tsh, rhtsh, multinodular goiter, volume, nodules, treatment, goiters, radioiodine, nodular


foci, which could develop into thyroid nodules. This mechanism could explain AFTNs by advantageous mutations that both initiate growth and function of the affected thyroid cells as well as CTNs by mutations that stimulate proliferation only. Moreover, nodular transformation of thyroid tissue due to TSH secreting pituitary adenomas, nodular transformation of thyroid tissue in Graves´ disease and in goiters of patients with acromegaly could follow a similar mechanism, because thyroid pathology in these patients is characterized by early thyroid hyperplasia. As an alternative to the increase of cells mass, and as illustrated by those individuals who do not develop a goiter when exposed to iodine deficiency, the thyroid might also adapt to iodine deficiency without extended hyperplasia. Although the mechanism that allows this adaptation is poorly understood, data from a mouse model suggests an increase of mRNA expression of TSH-R, NIS and TPO in response to iodine deficiency, which might be a sign of increased iodine turnover in the thyroid cell in iodine deficiency. Moreover, expansion of the thyroid microvasculature, caused by up regulation of vascular endothelial growth factor and other proangiogenic factors, could be an additional mechanism that might help the thyroid to adapt to iodine deficiency (52). SECONDARY FACTORS The secondary factors discussed below stimulate thyroid cell growth and / or function and, because of differences in cellular responsiveness that are presumed to exist, aggravate the expression of heterogeneity which leads to further growth and focal autonomic function of the thyroid gland. Local necrosis, cyst formation sometimes with bleeding and fibrosis may be the anatomical end stage of such processes ( Figure 17-3 ). Figure 17-3 Mild iodine deficiency associated or not with smoking, presence of natural goitrogenic, drugs, familial goiter, genetic markers and gender (women) will decrease the inhibition of serum T4 on the pituitary thyrotrophs. Increased TSH production will cause diffuse goiter followed by nodule formation. Finally, after decades of life, a large multinodular goiter is present with cystic areas, hemorrhage, fibrosis and calcium deposits. Iodine Deficiency Stimulation of new follicle generation seems to be necessary in the formation of simple goiter. ( Figure 17-3 ) Evidence accumulated from many studies indicates that iodine deficiency or impairment of iodine metabolism by the thyroid gland, perhaps due to congenital biochemical defects, may be an important mechanism leading to increases in TSH secretion (30,53). Since in experimental animals the level of iodine per se may modulate the response
