Multinodular Goiter
KEYWORDS: thyroid, goiter, patients, multinodular, iodine, therapy, tsh, rhtsh, multinodular goiter, volume, nodules, treatment, goiters, radioiodine, nodular


to congenital biochemical defects, may be an important mechanism leading to increases in TSH secretion (30,53). Since in experimental animals the level of iodine per se may modulate the response of thyroid cells to TSH, this is an additional mechanism by which relatively small increases in serum TSH level may cause substantial effects on thyroid growth in iodine-deficient areas (53). It was found that the thyroidal iodine clearance of patients with nontoxic nodular goiter was, on overage, higher than that in normal persons (Fig. 17-3). This finding was interpreted as a reflection of a suboptimal iodine intake by such patients. When data published from various major cities in Western Europe, regarding thyroid volume and iodine excretion are put together (54) and inverse relation is found between urinary iodine excretion and thyroid volume (Fig. 17-4). Physiologic stresses, such as pregnancy, may increase the need for iodine and require thyroid hypertrophy to increase iodine uptake that might otherwise satisfy minimal needs. An elevated renal clearance of iodine occurs during normal pregnancy (24). It has been suggested that in some patients with endemic goiter there are similar increases in renal iodine losses (53). Increased need for thyroxin during pregnancy may also lead to thyroid hypertrophy when iodine intake as limited. Iodide need in pregnancy is increased by increased iodide loss through the kidneys, but also because of significant transfer of thyroid hormone from the mother to the fetus (24). In areas of moderate iodine intake, thyroid volume increase is predominantly affected by a higher HCG serum concentration during the first trimester of pregnancy, and by a slightly elevated serum TSH level present at delivery (24). Finally mutations in the thyroglobulin gene may impair the efficiency of thyroid hormone synthesis and release, leading to a decreased rate of inhibition of TSH at pituitary level. The relatively high TSH released from the thyrotrophs will continuously stimulate the thyroid gland growth (55). Figure 17-4 Relationship between nontoxic goiter and thyroidal iodine clearance. Figure 17-5 Correlation between thyroid volume and urinary iodine excretion in normal population from various areas. Natural occurring goitrogens Patients occasionally have thyroid enlargement either because of goitrogenic substances in their diet or because of drugs that have been given for other conditions (53). Feeding rats with minute doses of a natural goitrogen over many months will result in the same kind of response. Similar results have been obtained using combinations of the three
