Multinodular Goiter
KEYWORDS: thyroid, goiter, patients, multinodular, iodine, therapy, tsh, rhtsh, multinodular goiter, volume, nodules, treatment, goiters, radioiodine, nodular


Feeding rats with minute doses of a natural goitrogen over many months will result in the same kind of response. Similar results have been obtained using combinations of the three most prevalent goitrogens contained in cabbage. The explanation for the effect of such substances is that the goitrogen is much more effective at the level of iodothyronine synthesis than at earlier steps in hormone production such as iodide trapping. Thus, the RAIU may be high, but with a block in hormone synthesis the stage would be set for the production of a goiter. This possibility remains to be proved in humans, but one might surmise that, if true, it would operate most effectively in a situation of borderline iodine supply. The goitrogen thiocyanate potentiates the effect of severe iodine deficiency in endemic areas of Africa (53). Several natural occurring goitrogens are listed in Table 17-2 . Note that excessive Nutritional use of seaweed (rich in iodine) may induce goiter. Moreover malnutrition (protein-caloric malnutrition) iron deficiency, selenium deficiency when associated with marginally low nutritional iodine may impair thyroid hormone synthesis and induce thyroid enlargement. Table 17-2 Natural goitrogens associated with Multinodular Goiter View in own window Goitrogens Agent Action Millet, soy beans Flavonoids Impairs thyroperoxidase Cassava, sweet potato, sorghum Cyanogenic glucosides metabolized to thiocyanates Inhibits iodine thyroidal uptake Babassu coconut Flavoniods Inhibits thyroperoxidase Cruciferous vegetables: Cabbage, cauliflower, Broccoli, turnips Glucosinolates Impairs iodine thyroidal uptake Seaweed (kelp) Iodine excess Inhibits release of thyroidal Hormones Malnutrition, Iron deficiency Vitamin A deficiency Iron deficiency Increases TSH stimulation Reduces heme-dependent thyroperoxidase thyroidal activity Selenium Selenium deficiency Accumulates peroxidase and cause deiodinase deficiency; impairs thyroid hormone synthesis Modified and adapted from Medeiros-Neto & Knobel, ref. 53 Inherited defects in thyroid hormone synthesis and resistance to thyroid hormone action Inherited goiter and congenital hypothyroidism were first described by Stanbury and associated (30) in two goitrous siblings with defective thyroperoxidase action resulting in impaired iodine organification. Both siblings were mentally retarded and had enormous multinodular goiters. In the next fifty years a number of genetic defects in every step of thyroid hormone synthesis have been described in detail. If not diagnosed at birth the impaired thyroid hormone synthesis would result in an elevated TSH secretion and diffuse goiter could progressively appears. Other factors might be of importance regarding goiter formation. The level of nutritional iodine seems to be quite important in patients with the defective sodium iodine symporter
