Multinodular Goiter
KEYWORDS: thyroid, goiter, patients, multinodular, iodine, therapy, tsh, rhtsh, multinodular goiter, volume, nodules, treatment, goiters, radioiodine, nodular


could progressively appears. Other factors might be of importance regarding goiter formation. The level of nutritional iodine seems to be quite important in patients with the defective sodium iodine symporter (NIS), thyroglobulin gene mutations and the defective dehalogenase system (DEHAL gene). If a relatively high intake of iodine is provided goiter formation may be slowed down to a certain extent. On the contrary in marginally low nutritional iodine intake goiter will progress to a very large size and nodules will appear (multinodular goiter). It has been proposed that mutations of certain genes involved in thyroid hormone synthesis that do not entirely affect the physiological action of the translated protein may cause goiter later on life and more frequently in women (55). Thus the variable phenotype resulting from genetically documented mutations may be quite variable depending on environmental factors (iodine). Individual adaptation to the defective protein, rapid hydrolysis of defective TG, serum level of TSH and response of the thyroid epithelial cells to the growth-promoting effect of TSH are other factors to be considered. It is conceivable that multinodular goiter could result from a defect in any step of thyroid hormone synthesis, and to resistance to thyroid hormone action. In both groups of defects in the thyroid hormone system serum TSH would be elevated and goiter would be the logical consequence of a prolonged stimulation to growth. In the context of other factor that might induce multinodular goiters the defective thyroid hormone system and resistance to thyroid hormone action are relatively rare conditions as compared to other factors. IOD Iodine organification defect; PIOD: Partial IOD;TIOD: Total IOD; RAI: radioactive iodine. Source: modified from “Genetic causes of dyshormonogenesis. Grasberger and Refetoff, 2011. Other Thyroid-Stimulating Factors Other substances that could be involved in stimulating thyroid enlargement are epidermal growth factor (EGF) and insulin-like growth factors (IGF). EGF stimulates the proliferation of thyrocytes from sheep, dogs, pigs, calves, and humans (42-51). While stimulating growth, EGF reduces trapping and organification of iodide, TSH receptor binding, and release of thyroglobulin, T3 and T4. On the other hand TSH may modulate EGF binding, to thyroid cell membranes and thyroid hormone may stimulate EGF production and EGF receptor number. In a study on adenomatous tissue, obtained from patients with multinodular goiter, it was found, by immunohistochemistry, that expression of EGF was increased (43). IGF-2 interacts with trophic hormones to stimulate cell proliferation and differentiation in a variety of
