Multinodular Goiter
KEYWORDS: thyroid, goiter, patients, multinodular, iodine, therapy, tsh, rhtsh, multinodular goiter, volume, nodules, treatment, goiters, radioiodine, nodular


with multinodular goiter, it was found, by immunohistochemistry, that expression of EGF was increased (43). IGF-2 interacts with trophic hormones to stimulate cell proliferation and differentiation in a variety of cell types. The interaction between TSH and IGF-2 is synergestic (44). Increased IGF-I expression may contribute to goiter formation. A similar synergistic effect may exist between IGF-I and TSH. This synergism on DNA synthesis is mediated by complex interactions including the secretion of one or more autocrine amplification factors. Non-functioning nodules in patients with multinodular goiter contain the same IGF-1 receptors that are present in the normal adjacent extra-nodular follicles but are expressed in higher concentrations. Fibroblast growth factor (FGF)-1, stimulates colloid accumulation in thyroids of rat s but only in the presence of TSH (43). Expression of FGF-1 and -2 and FGF-receptor-1 will be followed by thyroid hyperplasia and may play a role in development of multinodular goiter (49). Fancia et al (50) found that in goiters with aneuploid components growth rate was higher than when euploid components were present (51). Other factors promoting cell growth and differentiation have been identified in the past. These include cytokines, acetylcholine, norepinephrine, prostaglandins, substances of neural origin like vasoactive intestinal peptide, and substances of C-cell origin. It is however not known to what extent these compounds play a role in the genesis of multinodular goiter. The hypothesis that the development of thyroid autonomy is due to a gradual increase in the numbers of cells having relatively autonomous thyroid hormone synthesis is supported by the 27% prevalence of impaired TSH responses to TRH in patients with nodular goiter as opposed to such responses in only 1 of 15 patients with diffuse goiter (11). Such partial autonomy may appear only with time and could possibly be prevented by TSH-suppressive therapy. The fact that it is possible to induce hyperthyroidism in some patients with multinodular goiters by administration of iodide suggests that certain of the nodules in the multinodular gland are autonomous but unable under normal iodine intake to concentrate sufficient quantities of iodide to cause hyperthyroidism (53). Presumably iodide administration provides sufficient substrate for generation of excessive amounts of hormone, although it does not readily account for the long persistence of the hyperthyroidism in some of those cases. Thus, there may be several etiologic factors in simple and nodular goiter, and some of these factors may act synergistically. The end result is a collection
