Multinodular Goiter
KEYWORDS: thyroid, goiter, patients, multinodular, iodine, therapy, tsh, rhtsh, multinodular goiter, volume, nodules, treatment, goiters, radioiodine, nodular


some of those cases. Thus, there may be several etiologic factors in simple and nodular goiter, and some of these factors may act synergistically. The end result is a collection of heterogeneously functioning thyroid follicles, some of which may be autonomous and produce sufficient amounts of thyroid hormone to cause hyperthyroidism. PATHOLOGY Although it is rare to obtain pathological examination of thyroid glands in the early phase of development of multinodular goiters, such glands should show areas of hyperplasia with considerable variation in follicle size. The more typical specimen coming to pathologists is the goiter that has developed a nodular consistency. Such goiters characteristically present a variegated appearance, with the normal homogeneous parenchymal structure deformed by the presence of nodules ( Figure 17-6 ). The nodules may vary considerably in size (from a few millimeters to several centimeters); in outline (from sharp encapsulation in adenomas to poorly defined margination for ordinary nodules); and in architecture (from the solid follicular adenomas to the gelatinous, colloid-rich nodules or degenerative cystic structures). The graphic term “Puddingstone goiter” has been applied. Frequently the nodules have degenerated and a cyst has formed, with evidence of old or recent hemorrhage, and the cyst wall may have become calcified. Often there is extensive fibrosis, and calcium may also be deposited in these septae. Scattered between the nodules are areas of normal thyroid tissue, and often-focal areas of lymphocytic infiltration. Radioautography shows a variegated appearance, with RAI localized sometimes in the adenomas and sometimes in the paranodular tissue. Occasionally, most of the radioactivity is confined to a few nodules that seem to dominate the metabolic activity of the gland. Figure 17-6 (A) Cross section of multinodular goiter. (B) Cross radioautograph of The thyroid in part a. Observe the variation in 131I uptake indifferent areas. If careful sections are made of numerous areas, 4-17% of these glands removed at surgery will be found to harbor microscopic papillary carcinoma (56-60). The variable incidence can most likely be attributed to the different criteria used by the pathologists and the basis of selection of the patients for operation by their physicians. These factors are discussed below. NATURAL HISTORY OF THE DISEASE Multinodular goiter is probably a lifelong condition that has its inception in adolescence or at puberty. Minimal diffuse enlargement of the thyroid gland is found in many teenage boys and girls, and is almost a physiologic response to the complex structural
