Multinodular Goiter
KEYWORDS: thyroid, goiter, patients, multinodular, iodine, therapy, tsh, rhtsh, multinodular goiter, volume, nodules, treatment, goiters, radioiodine, nodular


in adolescence or at puberty. Minimal diffuse enlargement of the thyroid gland is found in many teenage boys and girls, and is almost a physiologic response to the complex structural and hormonal changes occurring at this time. It usually regresses, but occasionally (much more commonly in girls) it persists and undergoes further growth during pregnancy. This course of events has not been documented as well as might be desired in sporadic nodular goiter, but it is the usual evolution in areas where mild endemic goiter is found. Patients with multinodular goiter seek medical attention for many reasons. Perhaps most commonly they consult a physician because a lump has been discovered in the neck, or because a growth spurt has been observed in a goiter known to be present for a long time. Sometimes the increase in the size of the goiter will cause pressure symptoms, such as difficulty in swallowing, cough, respiratory distress, or the feeling of a lump in the throat. Rarely, an area of particularly asymmetrical enlargement may impinge upon or stretch the recurrent laryngeal nerve. Commonly the goiter is discovered by a physician in the course of an examination for some other condition. An important scenario is for the patient to seek medical attention because of cardiac irregularities or congestive heart failure, which proves to be the result of slowly developing thyrotoxicosis. (The issue is discussed more fully later in this chapter). Many times the goiter grows gradually for a period of a few too many years, and then becomes stable with little tendency for further growth. It is rare for any noteworthy spontaneous reduction in the size of the thyroid gland to occur, but patients often describe fluctuation in the size of the goiters and the symptoms they give. These are usually subjective occurrences, and more often than not the physician is unable to corroborate the changes that the patient describes. On the other hand, it could be that changes in blood flow through the enlarged gland account for the symptoms. Occasionally, a sudden increase in the size of the gland is associated with sharp pain and tenderness in one area. This event suggests hemorrhage into a nodular cyst of the goiter, which can be confirmed by ultrasound. Within 3-4 days the symptoms subside, and within 2-3 weeks the gland may revert to its previous dimensions. In such a situation, acute thyrotoxicosis may develop and subside
