Multinodular Goiter
KEYWORDS: thyroid, goiter, patients, multinodular, iodine, therapy, tsh, rhtsh, multinodular goiter, volume, nodules, treatment, goiters, radioiodine, nodular


by ultrasound. Within 3-4 days the symptoms subside, and within 2-3 weeks the gland may revert to its previous dimensions. In such a situation, acute thyrotoxicosis may develop and subside spontaneously. Rarely, if ever, do the patients become hypothyroid and if they do, the diagnosis is more probably Hashimoto´s thyroiditis than nodular goiter. In a study in clinically euthyroid subjects with multinodular goiter, 13 out of 22 had subnormal TSH release after TRH. (12) If the goiter is present for long time, thyrotoxicosis develops in a large number of patients. In a series collected many years ago at the Mayo Clinic, 60% of patients with MNG over 60 were thyrotoxic. The average duration of the goiter before the onset of thyrotoxicosis was 17 years; the longer the goiter had been present the greater was the tendency for thyrotoxicosis to develop. This condition appears to occur because with the passage of time, autonomous function of the nodules develops. In a study of patients with euthyroid multinodular goiter, thyroid function was autonomous in 64 and normal in 26. After a mean follow-up of 5.0 years (maximum 12 years) 18 patients with autonomous thyroid function became overtly hyperthyroid and in 6 patients with primarily normal thyroid function autonomy developed (25-26). Thyroid function tests is illustrated in a patient with multinodular goiter starting from complete euthyroidism on to overt thyrotoxicosis. Occasionally a single discrete nodule in the thyroid gland becomes sufficiently active to cause thyrotoxicosis and to suppress the activity of the rest of the gland. (see Chap13). If these patients are given thyroid hormone, continued function of nodules can be demonstrated by radioiodine scanning techniques. Thus, these nodules have become independent of pituitary control. When patients with euthyroid multinodular goiter are frequently tested, it appears that in some of them occasional transient increases of serum T3 and / or T4 are seen. The possibility that the abrupt development of hyperthyroidism may follow administration of large amounts of iodine to these patients was reviewed by Stanbury and collaboration (61). In several areas of the world previously iodine deficiency the introduction of iodine supplementation lead to an increase of hyperthyroidism (non-autoimmune) possibly by excessive thyroid hormone production by “hot” thyroid nodules. MULTINODULAR GOITER AND CANCER If surgical specimens of multinodular goiters are examined carefully, 4-17% are found to harbor a carcinoma (56-60, 62-64). The use of ultrasound-guided fine needle aspiration (FNA) for evaluating these patients
