Multinodular Goiter
KEYWORDS: thyroid, goiter, patients, multinodular, iodine, therapy, tsh, rhtsh, multinodular goiter, volume, nodules, treatment, goiters, radioiodine, nodular


If surgical specimens of multinodular goiters are examined carefully, 4-17% are found to harbor a carcinoma (56-60, 62-64). The use of ultrasound-guided fine needle aspiration (FNA) for evaluating these patients is not clearly defined. The biopsy of all the numerous nodules is impractical. Recently, a retrospective study with 134 patients showed a significant incidence (46,3%) of thyroid cancer in patients with multinodular goiter and benign FNA (65).These carcinomas vary widely in size and are typically of the papillary variety. Similar tumors are occasionally found in thyroid glands affected by Hashimoto´s thyroiditis and in otherwise normal glands. Bisi et al (59) reported that 13% of the glands resected in thyroid operations for any reason contained papillary adenocarcinoma. In Japan, routine autopsies of patients who were not suspected of having thyroid disease and who had no known irradiation experience, 17% were found to have small carcinomas when careful serial sections of the thyroid glands were done (62). If the figures of Bisi et al (59) were confirmed (63, 64) truly represent the prevalence of invasive carcinoma, one would certainly be forced to conclude that all multinodular goiters should be resected in order to prevent dissemination of malignant disease. However, it seems quite unlikely that all lesions that appear to satisfy the histological criteria for malignant neoplasia are potentially lethal. This view is strongly supported by the final report of the study on the significance of nodular goiter carried out in Framingham (see ref. 24). They followed for 15 years all 218 nontoxic thyroid nodules previously detected in a total population of approximately 5,000 persons. None of these lesions showed any clinical evidence of malignancy at the end of that time. Despite of the low-quality, the evidence suggests a lower prevalence of thyroid caner in multinodular goiter compared to single nodules, particularly in iodine-deficient areas (66, 67). A strong case can be made for the view that there is only minimal risk from carcinoma in multinodular goiter. The prevalence of clinical nodularity of the thyroid is at least 4%, or 40,000 per 1,000,000 populations. Use of a much higher figure can be justified by the autopsy studies described above. Despite the high frequency of nodular goiter, only 36-60 thyroid tumors appear per 1,000,000 persons each year or by analysis of reported statistics on thyroid surgical specimens (57-60). A recent national cancer survey in the United States found an incidence of 40 per 1,000,000.
