Multinodular Goiter
KEYWORDS: thyroid, goiter, patients, multinodular, iodine, therapy, tsh, rhtsh, multinodular goiter, volume, nodules, treatment, goiters, radioiodine, nodular


remarkable that only about 25 of these 1,600 hypothetical tumors would become apparent each year, or that only about 10 would prove fatal. Thus, there appears to be a gross discrepancy between the mortality form thyroid carcinoma and its reported frequency in surgical specimens of multinodular goiters. Reasonable arguments can be mustered in an effort to reconcile the information. Perhaps the most important single factor is selection. Persons with nodular goiter who come to operation are not representative of the general population but are patients with clinically significant thyroid disease who have been selected by their physicians for thyroid surgery. One of the factors controlling the selection process is the suspicion of malignant tumor. In fact, the selection process is especially good, as reflected by the high recovery of malignant thyroid tumors in patients operated on with this presumptive diagnosis. A second factor is that the histologic diagnosis of thyroid carcinoma may not correlate well with true invasiveness. It is impossible to prove this thesis, but pathologists agree that the criteria for judging malignancy are variable and that it is exceedingly difficult to predict with any degree of certainty the growth potential of a particular thyroid lesion. Other arguments may be used to defend a conservative therapeutic position. In the first place, the tumors that are usually found in multinodular goiters are papillary tumors, and their degree of invasiveness is low. Indeed, the survival rate for intrathyroid papillary carcinoma is only slightly less than that for normal persons of the same age and sex (69-74). Furthermore, prophylactic subtotal thyroidectomy is not a guarantee of protection from cancer arising in a nodular goiter, since the process is usually diffuse, and it may be assumed that abnormal tissue is left in the neck after operation. In fact, unless replacement therapy is given, partial thyroidectomy might be expected to induce a tremendous growth stimulus in the remaining gland (75-80). A further point is that thyroidectomy, even in the best of hands, carries its own risk and its own morbidity, with dimensions comparable to those of missing a small papillary carcinoma within a multinodular goiter (81-84). Obviously this last possibility does not apply when a focus of unusual induration or rapid growth rate is detected clinically. Diagnosis Many of the symptoms of multinodular goiter have already been described. They are chiefly due to the presence of an enlarging mass in the neck and its
