Multinodular Goiter
KEYWORDS: thyroid, goiter, patients, multinodular, iodine, therapy, tsh, rhtsh, multinodular goiter, volume, nodules, treatment, goiters, radioiodine, nodular


is of longstanding, showing little or no growth, absence of a dominant node, familial, while there is no neck irradiation in the past, especially in childhood, no hoarse voice, and no suspicious lymphnodes in the neck, there is little fear for carcinoma. Table 17-4 Clinical symptoms and investigations in the diagnosis of MNG Simptoms and signs Often family history of benign thyroid disease Slowly growing anterior neck mass Uni- or multinodularity on examination Enlargment during pregnancy Cosmetic complaints Asymmetry, tracheal deviation, and/or compression Rarelly upper airway obstruction, dyspnea, cough, and dysphagia Sudden transient pain or enlargement secondary to hemorrhage Gradually developing hyperthyroidism Superior vena cava obstruction syndrome (rare) Recurrent nerve palsy (rare) Horner´s syndrome (rare) Investigations TSH normal or decreased, normal free T4, and free T3, Serum Tg usually elevated Thyroid autoantibodies (TPO and Tg) usually negative Scintigraphy with solitary or multiple hot and/or cold areas Ultrasound finding of solitary or multiple nodules with varying echogenicity (nonhomogeneity) Computed tomography and MR imaging demonstrating solitary or multiple nodules with varying echogenicity Lung function testing may demonstrate impaired inspiratory capacity Fine-needle aspiration of solitary or dominant nodules – benign cytology Modified and adapted from Hegedus et al (24) Laboratory investigation The choice of tests to investigate the functional status of a patient with a Simple diffuse goiter or Multinodular goiter may differ depending on the geographic areas of the world. Recent surveys conducted in the American, European and Latin American Thyroid Associations have indicated that the North American thyroidologists are quite restrictive in the choice of laboratory tests. Most of the experts, however, would perform a serum TSH and serum Free T4 test. In other settings Total T4 and Total T3 are also included because of the preferential secretion of T3 over T4 in mild iodine deficiency (53). Antibodies against thyro-peroxidase (anti-TPO) and thyroglobulin (anti-TG) are measured, routinely, by most Europeans and Latin Americans thyroidologists. This seems to be relevant because thyroid auto antibodies are found approximately in 10% of the population and, consequently, autoimmunity may coexist with a goiter. Also diffuse or focal lymphocytic infiltration in an enlarged gland may represent chronic autoimmune thyroiditis. Although serum TG correlates with the iodine status and the size of the enlarged thyroid gland it has little or no value in the diagnosis of goiter. Diagnostic imaging Neck palpation is notoriously imprecise with regard to thyroid morphology and size estimation (85). Several imaging methods are
