Multinodular Goiter
KEYWORDS: thyroid, goiter, patients, multinodular, iodine, therapy, tsh, rhtsh, multinodular goiter, volume, nodules, treatment, goiters, radioiodine, nodular


has little or no value in the diagnosis of goiter. Diagnostic imaging Neck palpation is notoriously imprecise with regard to thyroid morphology and size estimation (85). Several imaging methods are available in most settings: scintilography (with radioiodine, technetium), ultrasonography, computed tomography scans, magnetic resonance imaging and, less frequently used, positron emission tomography (PET). In Table 17-5 it is listed the characteristics, advantages and disadvantages of these imaging methods. Ultrasonography of the thyroid The main reasons for the widespread use of thyroid sonography are availability (several portable models are widely available at a relatively affordable price), the low cost of the procedure (if performed in the office or in the thyroid clinic), limited discomfort for the patient, and the non ionizing nature of the method. Ultrasonography may detect non palpable nodules cysts, will estimate nodule and goiter size (volume), will monitor the changes following therapy and will guide the Fine Needle Aspiration Biopsy (FNAB). After the introduction of ultrasonography it has become clear that nodules in the thyroid gland are very prevalent, ranging from 17% to 60% if older people are included in the study (85-95). Hypoechogenicity, micro-calcifications, indistinct borders, increased nodular flow (visualized by DOPPLER) may have predictive value in distinguishing malignant from benign nodules (even in Multinodular Goiters). The possibility of measuring thyroid volume is another highly useful feature of ultrasonographic studies particularly after therapy with L-T4 or radioiodine ablation. The volume of the goiter is usually based on the ellipsoid method (length, width depth X pi/6). This has an observer coefficient of variation of more than 10%. When compared to CT planimetry the ellipsoid method underestimate the goiter volume by 20%. Ultrasonography can not evaluate a multinodular goiter that has partially migrated to the upper mediastinum. Ultrasound elastography can also provide information regarding malignant risk of thyroid nodules and multinodular goiter, however with questionable sensitivity (75%) and specificity (45,73%) (96). Scintigraphy (isotope imaging) It was used routinely in the past but at present has little place in the evaluation of a multinodular goiter (97-101). It is helpful in the determination of the functionality of the various nodules of a MNG. Thyroid scintigrams have been used through many years for measurement of the thyroid volume but compared to other methods is very inaccurate (24). Computed tomography (CT) and Magnetic resonance (MR) CT and MR provide high-resolution visualization of the goiter (Simple diffuse, multinodular). The major strength of CT and
