Multinodular Goiter
KEYWORDS: thyroid, goiter, patients, multinodular, iodine, therapy, tsh, rhtsh, multinodular goiter, volume, nodules, treatment, goiters, radioiodine, nodular


with subsequent compression of the subclavian system. Note the subcutaneous enlarged venous circulation (a). In the next panel (b), it is presented the scintilographic studies after a tracer dose of 131I before and (c) after stimulation by 0.45 mg of recombinant human TSH. (ref. 142.). Surgery for MNG As indicated by Fast et al (154) it is time to consider radioiodine treatment for MNG as an alternative to surgery. As indicated previously radioiodine (¹³¹I) is a simple, cost-effective and safe procedure with an impressive goiter reduction up to 65% of the original volume. Surgery of the MNG, however, is equally effective and the choice among the two procedures depends largely on their availability, clinical features, and last but not least the personal preference of the patient (and also the physician in charge). In many centers, specially in countries with large populations previously living in iodine deficiency, the number of patients with MNG, most of them, over 50 years old, are very common in the thyroid clinic daily routine. Therefore sending all those patients to surgery will inevitably, cause a logistic problem in terms of available surgical rooms, surgeons well trained in head and neck surgery, post surgical follow-up and all the costs involved. Moreover with the widespread use of ultrasonographic studies followed by Fine Needle Aspiration Biopsy (FNAB) the number of new cases of thyroid cancer has increased dramatically in the past few years. Obviously these patients will have precedence for a surgical therapy as compared with the patient with MNG. This situation is quite common in many countries where there is a long waiting list for a given patient to be selected for thyroid surgery. Frequently surgery of the thyroid due to a nodule harboring a papillary cancer in a relatively young subject has a definite preferential status over an elderly patient with a long standing MNG. The preferred operation for MNG is subtotal thyroidectomy. The frequency of complications due to surgical depends on several factors and well-trained and experienced surgeons will reduce the rates of such complications. Recurrence after goiter surgery is rare and the frequency of hypothyroidism is low. It is advisable to introduce L-T4 therapy after surgery in order to avoid goiter recurrence although this option is considered highly controversial. Laser Ablation Therapy A retrospective study that assessed clinical records of 1534 benign nodules in 1531 patients treated with image-guided laser ablation therapy (LAT) showed that
