Multinodular Goiter
KEYWORDS: thyroid, goiter, patients, multinodular, iodine, therapy, tsh, rhtsh, multinodular goiter, volume, nodules, treatment, goiters, radioiodine, nodular


is considered highly controversial. Laser Ablation Therapy A retrospective study that assessed clinical records of 1534 benign nodules in 1531 patients treated with image-guided laser ablation therapy (LAT) showed that LAT induced a clinical relevant nodule volume reduction that ranges from 48 to 96% (72±11%) twelve months after treatment (158). This picture was more significantly in mixed nodules (range 70-92%, 79±7%). Most of the nodules (83%) received a single LAT dose while 13% received two doses and 3% three doses, with a total energy delivery based on the initial volume. The symptoms improved from 10% to 49% of cases (p<0.001), while major (voice changes) and minor complications (hematomas, skin burn) were rare. Thus, LAT is considered clinically effective and well-tolerated as an alternative to surgery for benign thyroid lesions. To summarize: treatment of MNG with L-T4 suppressive doses is not accepted by many thyroidologists in spite of the fact that goiter reduction is achieved in one third of the patients and new nodules appearance is lower in the L-T4 treated patients.The results so far published using radioiodine preceded by rhTSH are quite encouraging . It is an excellent alternative when surgical teams are not available for all patients. LAT treatment should be performed only by experience operators. Finally, patients preference for a non- surgical alternative should always be taken into consideration. SUMMARY Perhaps the most common of all the disorders of the thyroid gland is multinodular goiter. Even in non-endemic regions it is clinically detected in about 4% of all adults beyond the age of 30. Pathologically it is much more frequent, the percentage incidence being roughly the same as the age of the group examined. The disease is much more common in women than in men. Multinodular goiter is thought to be the result of primarily two factors. The first factor is genetic heterogeneity of follicular cells with regard to function (i.e. thyroid hormone synthesis) and growth. The second factor is the acquisition of new qualities that were not present in mother cells and become inheritable during further replication. Mutations may occur in follicular cells leading to constitutively activated adenomas and to hyperthyroidism. These factors may lead to loss of anatomical and functional integrity of the follicles and of the gland as a whole. These processes ultimately lead to goiter formation and are accelerated by stimulatory factors. These stimulatory factors are basically an elevated serum TSH, brought about by
