Multinodular Goiter
KEYWORDS: thyroid, goiter, patients, multinodular, iodine, therapy, tsh, rhtsh, multinodular goiter, volume, nodules, treatment, goiters, radioiodine, nodular


the gland as a whole. These processes ultimately lead to goiter formation and are accelerated by stimulatory factors. These stimulatory factors are basically an elevated serum TSH, brought about by events such as iodine deficiency, inborn errors of thyroid hormone synthesis, goitrogens or local tissue growth-regulating factors. These basic and secondary factors may cause the thyroid to grow and gradually evolve into an organ containing hyperplastic islands of normal glandular elements, together with nodules and cysts of varied histologic pattern. Nodular goiter is most often detected simply as a mass in the neck, but at times an enlarging gland produces pressure symptoms on the trachea and the esophagus. Occasionally tenderness and a sudden increase in size herald hemorrhage into a cyst. Hyperthyroidism develops in a large proportion of these goiters after a few decades frequently after iodine excess. Rare complications are paralysis of the recurrent laryngeal nerve, and pressure on the superior sympathetic ganglion causes a Horner´s syndrome. The diagnosis is based on the physical examination. Thyroid function test results are normal or disclose subclinical or overt hyperthyroidism. Thyroid autoantibodies are usually absent or low, excluding Hashimoto´s thyroidits. Imaging procedures may reveal distortion of the trachea, calcified cysts, or impingement of the goiter on the esophagus. Sonographic studies, Scintilography (¹³¹I), CT and MRI are useful to detect details of the MNG and to provide an estimation of the volume before and after therapy. From 4 to 17% of multinodular thyroids removed at operation contain foci that on microscopic examination fulfill the criteria of malignant change. The infrequency of thyroid cancer as a cause of death clearly proves that the vast majority of these lesions are not lethal or even clinically active. One of the reasons for the high incidence of cancer in surgical specimens is that patients with multinodular goiters were often selected for surgery because of a concern for carcinoma. If a clinical and biochemically euthyroid multinodular goiter is small and produces no symptoms, treatment is controversial. T4 given in an effort to shrink the gland or to prevent further growth is effective in about one third of the patients. This therapy is more likely to be effective if begun at an early age while the goiter is still diffuse than in older patients in whom certain nodules may have already become autonomous. If the clinically euthyroid goiter is unsightly, shows subclinical hyperthyroidism or is causing, pressure symptoms, treatment
