Multinodular Goiter
KEYWORDS: thyroid, goiter, patients, multinodular, iodine, therapy, tsh, rhtsh, multinodular goiter, volume, nodules, treatment, goiters, radioiodine, nodular


diffuse than in older patients in whom certain nodules may have already become autonomous. If the clinically euthyroid goiter is unsightly, shows subclinical hyperthyroidism or is causing, pressure symptoms, treatment with ¹³¹I preceded by recombinant human TSH is successful in virtually all cases but causes hypothyroidism at varying degree. Surgery is an acceptable alternative. The efficacy of T4 treatment after surgery, to prevent regrowth, is frequently used albeit debatable. Overt toxic nodular goiter is usually treated with radioiodine. A gratifying reduction in the size of the goiter and control of the hyperthyroidism may be expected. Hypothyroidism often ensues. During the past few years the use of recombinant human TSH has been used to enhance the uptake of radioiodine and to provide a more homogenous distribution of the radionuclide. Results have been rewarding with a 45-65% shrinkage of the MNG, even with an intrathoracic position. A surge of high levels of serum Free T4, total T3 and serum TG is observed in the first weeks after therapy. Clinically hyperthyroid patients seem to have more unwanted signs and symptoms as compared to euthyroid patients. Hypothyroidism (permanent) is commonly observed at 6-12 months after rhTSH plus RAI treatment. Taking all into account, this modality of treatment of MNG has a relatively low cost and it is considered a good alternative to surgery that might not be available for all patients with MNG in many centers around the world. The term colloid is applied to glands composed of uniformly distended follicles appearing as a diffuse enlargement of the thyroid gland. The condition is found almost exclusively in young women. With time and due to a number of primary and secondary factors it may gradually develop into a multinodular goiter which becomes increasingly prominent as the decades pass. Appropriate therapy, if required, is the timely administration of thyroid hormone that may be continued for several years. An intrathoracic goiter is usually an acquired rather than a development abnormality. It may come about in embryonic life by a carrying downward into the thorax of the developing thyroid anlage, or in adult life by protrusion of an enlarging thyroid through the superior thoracic inlet into the yielding mediastinal spaces. These lesions may produce pressure symptoms and may also be associated with hyperthyroidism. If too large for treatment with ¹³¹I, the appropriate therapy is resection of the goiter through the neck, if possible. Attachment of the intrathoracic goiter
