Pituitary Gigantism
KEYWORDS: pubmed, pituitary, gigantism, growth, endocrinol, patients, metab, clin, endocrinol metab, acromegaly, excess, clin endocrinol, metab pubmed, treatment, hormone


ABSTRACT Pituitary gigantism in a child is an extraordinarily rare condition that results from excessive production of growth hormone. It can present as early as infancy or not until adolescence. It may be congenital or acquired, occurring as a sporadic condition or in the context of a known syndrome in which hypersecretion of GH is a feature. Conditions in which GH excess occurs include Neurofibromatosis Type 1, McCune-Albright syndrome, Multiple Endocrine Neoplasia Type 1, Carney Complex, Isolated Familial Somatotropinomas, and X-Linked Acrogigantism. Therapeutic modalities for the treatment of pituitary gigantism are the same as those for acromegaly (adult-onset GH excess) and include surgery, medication, and radiation. Great strides have been made in identification of the molecular genetic basis for pituitary gigantism, affording novel insights into the mechanisms underlying normal and abnormal growth. Etiologies, phenotypic features, and diagnostic and treatment considerations are reviewed in this chapter. For complete coverage of all related areas of Endocrinology, please visit our on-line FREE web-text, WWW.ENDOTEXT.ORG . ILLUSTRATIVE CASE A 13 year 6-month-old boy presents for evaluation of rapid growth. Parents report that he was always tall as a child, but they have noticed that he is now taller than most classmates. He developed signs of puberty (body odor, pubic hair) a year ago coincident with the onset of rapid growth. His parents are concerned and want to make sure “everything is normal”. He is asymptomatic other than periodic headaches that developed during the last year. He was born appropriate for gestational age (AGA) at term following an uncomplicated pregnancy. By 1 year of age he was noted to be tall for his age, but this was attributed to the tall stature of his parents. Father stands 6’2” and Mother is 5’8”. They are both healthy. He is an only child. Upon review of his medical record he has a growth velocity of 19 cm/year (7.5 in/year) over the last calendar year; last year at the PCP the height was 160 cm, which is at 82.7% (0.9SDS) He is currently at the 99.0% for height at 179 cm/70.5 inches (+2.36 SDS) thus confirming the rapid gain in height. (See attached growth curves. Figure 1 ) On physical examination he is tall, but proportionate. Visual field testing shows normal vision in all fields. Thyroid examination is normal. There are no areas of skin hyperpigmentation and no obvious skeletal abnormalities other than acral enlargement. Pubic hair is
