Pituitary Gigantism
KEYWORDS: pubmed, pituitary, gigantism, growth, endocrinol, patients, metab, clin, endocrinol metab, acromegaly, excess, clin endocrinol, metab pubmed, treatment, hormone


testing shows normal vision in all fields. Thyroid examination is normal. There are no areas of skin hyperpigmentation and no obvious skeletal abnormalities other than acral enlargement. Pubic hair is Tanner stage 3 and testicular volumes are 10 and 12 cc. Figure 1. Growth curves Bone Age is 14 years yielding a predicted adult height of 193.1 cm (76 inches) which, at +2.35 SDS, is above his family genetic height potential. A random serum GH concentration in the morning is 15 ng/ml with a corresponding IGF1 level of 720 ng/ml. (normal range for age and pubertal status in a male: 123-701 ng/ml). Because of the excessive growth and elevated IGF1, a GH suppression test was conducted. GH concentration 120 min after 75g of glucose administered orally was 4 ng/ml. An MRI of the brain was ordered. Approach Statural growth is a dynamic process that varies in children during development. Unlike adults who reach a final height greater than 2 SDS for their genetic, sex, and ethnic population of origin, the definition of gigantism in children must include a growth pattern that diverges from normal. This would include the child who exceeds expected growth curve (moving up from established percentiles) or has a growth velocity exceeding the normal range for sex, pubertal stage, and age. Once the growth rate is determined to be significantly greater than normal, establishing biochemical evidence of growth hormone hypersecretion is critical to the evaluation. Measuring IGF1 levels and assessing the suppressibility of GH following a glucose load are the most useful biochemical tests. Prompt MRI imaging evaluating size, invasiveness, and extrasellar extension of a pituitary adenoma is key. Since close to 50% of patients with pituitary gigantism have a discernable genetic cause, genetic counseling and testing are helpful in management. The case is continued at the end of the chapter. INTRODUCTION The association between gigantism and acromegaly was recognized as early as the late 1880’s ( 1 ), when it was noted that pituitary giants invariably developed acromegalic features such as progressive enlargement of the head, face, hands, and feet ( 2 ). (See Appendix) The major difference between these two conditions is that pituitary gigantism results from excessive GH production during the period of active skeletal growth whereas acromegaly results from GH excess ensuing after epiphyseal fusion. A further distinction relates to the overall incidence of these disorders. While acromegaly is uncommon, occurring at an
