Pituitary Gigantism
KEYWORDS: pubmed, pituitary, gigantism, growth, endocrinol, patients, metab, clin, endocrinol metab, acromegaly, excess, clin endocrinol, metab pubmed, treatment, hormone


skeletal growth whereas acromegaly results from GH excess ensuing after epiphyseal fusion. A further distinction relates to the overall incidence of these disorders. While acromegaly is uncommon, occurring at an estimated worldwide annual rate of 2.8-4 cases per million ( 3 ), pituitary gigantism is extremely rare, with an estimated incidence of 8 per million person-years and the total number of reported cases thus far numbering only in the hundreds. Despite these disparities, a degree of clinical overlap is evident by the observation that 10% of patients with acromegaly have tall stature ( 4 ), indicating that the onset of GH excess pre-dated epiphyseal fusion in many. GH hypersecretion may occur sporadically or within a constellation of abnormalities in the setting of several well- recognized syndromes. Conversely, a genetic predilection to the development of GH-secreting pituitary adenomas only may be present, as is the case in kindreds with isolated familial somatotropinomas. In recent years there has been increased recognition of the underlying molecular genetic abnormalities that lead to pituitary gigantism, one of which can be identified in approximately 50% of cases ( 5 ). Regardless of the underlying etiology, the clinical manifestations of chronic GH hypersecretion in childhood are indistinguishable, and the initial diagnostic evaluation standardized. The various categories and sources of GH excess along with their associated genetic abnormalities are discussed individually. IDIOPATHIC SPORADIC FORMS OF PITUITARY GIGANTISM Unlike in acromegalic adults, in whom discreet pituitary adenomas are present in the overwhelming majority ( 6 ), several different pathologic mechanisms underly childhood GH hypersecretion. These relate to the concept that pituitary gigantism represents a distinct entity, with different characteristics in terms of pituitary morphology and function. Supporting this view are reports of diffuse pituitary hyperplasia in the setting of early-onset gigantism in which congenital growth hormone releasing-hormone (GHRH) excess has been proposed as the inciting cause ( 7 ; 8 ). Additionally, the nearly ubiquitous finding of combined GH and prolactin over-secretion in nearly all cases of early childhood gigantism, a feature not universally present in acromegaly, suggests separate pathologic processes. This dual hormonal secretion has been attributed to the presence of mammo-somatotrophs ( 9 ; 10 ), which are rare in adults but predominate in fetal life. Even in cases of apparent pituitary microadenomas or macroadenomas arising during early childhood, this unique biochemical feature has been present ( 11 ; 12 ). In contrast, prolactin levels are usually
