Pituitary Gigantism
KEYWORDS: pubmed, pituitary, gigantism, growth, endocrinol, patients, metab, clin, endocrinol metab, acromegaly, excess, clin endocrinol, metab pubmed, treatment, hormone


in cases of apparent pituitary microadenomas or macroadenomas arising during early childhood, this unique biochemical feature has been present ( 11 ; 12 ). In contrast, prolactin levels are usually normal in cases of pituitary GH-secreting adenomas originating during adolescence, which may be thought of as existing within the spectrum of adult GH hypersecretion. Interestingly, a reversible transformation of pituitary somatotrophs into bi-hormonal mammo-somatotrophs when exposed to ectopic overproduction of GHRH has been observed, lending additional support to the concept that hypothalamic GHRH excess may play a pivotal role in the genesis of early-onset gigantism ( 13 ). GH-secreting tumors are all derived from PIT1-lineage cells. Those composed of somatotrophs may be densely granulated, resembling normal somatotrophs, or sparsely granulated with unusual fibrous bodies. As mentioned above, those composed of mammo-somatotrophs also produce prolactin whereas rare pluri-hormonal tumors composed of cells that resemble mammo-somatotrophs also produce TSH. Some pituitary neuroectodermal tumors (PitNETs) composed of immature PIT1-lineage cells that do not resemble differentiated somatotrophs, mammo-somatotrophs, lactotroph, or thyrotrophs may also cause GH excess. An unusual oncocytic PIT1-lineage tumor known as the acidophil stem cell tumor is predominantly a lactotroph tumor but may express GH. Immature PIT1-lineage cells that express variable amounts of hormones alone or in combination can also sometimes cause GH excess ( 14 ) An additional cause of sporadic pituitary gigantism linked to CNS pathology is that which occurs in the setting of a hypothalamic gangliocytoma or neurocytoma. These rare tumors, comprised of large hypothalamic-like ganglion cells, produce GHRH ( 15 ; 16 ) and are found in close proximity to pituitary growth hormone-secreting adenomas ( 17 ). Normalization of serum growth hormone levels following resection of the hypothalamic tumor in some patients further supports a central role for abnormal GHRH secretion in the development of gigantism or acromegaly in these cases ( 18 ). SYNDROMIC AND FAMILIAL FORMS OF PITUITARY GIGANTISM A second major category of childhood GH hypersecretion is that which occurs in the setting of a recognized syndrome. In these cases, gigantism may be the sole presenting feature or it may be detected during clinical follow-up for endocrine or nonendocrine problems. Alternatively, biochemical evidence of sub-clinical GH excess may be revealed through routine surveillance in a child known to be at risk for the development of gigantism. As is the case in sporadic GH hypersecretion, a variety of different morphologic abnormalities involving the pituitary gland may
