Pituitary Gigantism
KEYWORDS: pubmed, pituitary, gigantism, growth, endocrinol, patients, metab, clin, endocrinol metab, acromegaly, excess, clin endocrinol, metab pubmed, treatment, hormone


Beginning in the 1970’s, reports of gigantism occurring in young children with NF-1 have appeared in the medical literature ( 20 ). In these cases, excessive growth has been noted as early as 6 months of life ( 21 ). Neuroimaging in these patients typically reveals an optic glioma ( 22 ), usually with infiltration into the medial temporal lobe. However, growth hormone excess has frequently been reported to be a transient phenomenon in children with NF-1, raising questions as to the necessity of treatment ( 23 , 24 ). Several investigations aimed at identifying the precise etiology of the gigantism in these children have been conducted, but in all cases in which tumor tissue has been available, immunostaining for GH, GHRH, and somatostatin has been uniformly negative ( 25 ; 26 ). This, in conjunction with the known temporal lobe location of somatostatin-producing neurons, led to the hypothesis that GH excess in these patients was the result of a hypothalamic regulatory defect. Specifically, tumor infiltration of somatostatinergic pathways would presumably result in reduced somatostatin tone leading to overproduction of GHRH-mediated pituitary GH. Despite this plausible explanation, arginine-induced GH stimulation in a patient with gigantism in the setting of NF-1 showed an increase in GH secretion, contrary to the expected lack of response to arginine, which acts through somatostatin inhibition ( 27 ). Thus, the precise pathogenesis of gigantism in NF-1 remains unclear. Little information is available regarding the overall incidence of GH hypersecretion in patients with NF-1 and optic gliomas, although studies have suggested that it may occur in over 10% of affected patients, some of whom have concurrent central precocious puberty ( 28 ). Interestingly, all affected patients had a tumor involving the optic chiasm, without pituitary involvement. Optic pathway tumors are usually identified on magnetic resonance image scans as a contrast enhancing mass. ( 28 ). Interestingly, growth hormone excess has also been reported in children with sporadic optic pathway tumors without associated NF-1 ( 29 ). Figure 2 demonstrates the linear growth acceleration and figure 3 the café-au-lait pigmentation observed in a young boy with NF-1 and gigantism. Figure 2. Growth acceleration seen in neurofibromatosis and gigantism. Figure 3. Characteristic “coast of California” café au lait macules in a child with neurofibromatosis and gigantism. McCune-Albright Syndrome (MAS) MAS is a complex and heterogenous disorder in which GH excess typically arises in conjunction with additional endocrinopathies and
