Pituitary Gigantism
KEYWORDS: pubmed, pituitary, gigantism, growth, endocrinol, patients, metab, clin, endocrinol metab, acromegaly, excess, clin endocrinol, metab pubmed, treatment, hormone


macules in a child with neurofibromatosis and gigantism. McCune-Albright Syndrome (MAS) MAS is a complex and heterogenous disorder in which GH excess typically arises in conjunction with additional endocrinopathies and other abnormalities. In the classic form, MAS displays the triad of precocious puberty, café-au-lait skin pigmentation, and fibrous dysplasia of bone. It has long been recognized, however, that individuals with MAS have a propensity to develop several additional endocrine disorders including gigantism or acromegaly ( 30 ). Elucidation of the molecular genetic defect in MAS in the early 1990’s ( 31 ) illuminated the mechanism underlying the abnormal hormone secretion. Activating mutations of Gsα, the stimulatory subunit of the heterotrimeric G-protein complex involved in intracellular signaling, are the basis for nearly all of the clinical manifestations of MAS ( 32 ). These mutations, which typically involve substitution of arginine at the 201 position with cysteine or histidine, result in unregulated signal transduction leading to increased intracellular cAMP accumulation and downstream gene transcription. All affected individuals are mosaic for the mutation, which may make confirmation with a molecular diagnosis challenging. The precise timing of the mutation during embryologic life, which occurs in a post-zygotic cell line, will ultimately determine the extent of abnormal cells and severity of the resultant clinical phenotype. The incidence of GH excess in classic MAS has been reported to be 15-21% (33.34) and may be more common in males ( 34 ). However, enhanced recognition of the frequency of atypical or forme fruste variants of MAS have the potential to increase the estimated frequency. Indeed, several historical reports of extreme gigantism where fibrous bone dysplasia was also present strongly suggest a diagnosis of MAS in these individuals, a hypothesis confirmed by molecular genetic analysis in at least one case (35.36). Subclinical growth hormone excess has also been reported in MAS, in which the only clinical manifestation may be the presence of normal stature as an adult (rather than short stature) in the context of a history of untreated precocious puberty. Additional phenotypic features in this subgroup of patients with MAS include a higher incidence of vision and hearing deficits, a rise in serum GH following a TRH test, and hyperprolactinemia ( 37 ). Growth hormone excess in MAS is typically accompanied by skull base fibrous dysplasia and is notorious for increasing craniofacial morbidity and macrocephaly ( 38 ). Early diagnosis and treatment have been found to decrease
