Pituitary Gigantism
KEYWORDS: pubmed, pituitary, gigantism, growth, endocrinol, patients, metab, clin, endocrinol metab, acromegaly, excess, clin endocrinol, metab pubmed, treatment, hormone


MAS is typically accompanied by skull base fibrous dysplasia and is notorious for increasing craniofacial morbidity and macrocephaly ( 38 ). Early diagnosis and treatment have been found to decrease the risk of optic neuropathy in these patients ( 39 ). A variety of pituitary morphologic abnormalities are found on histology and imaging in MAS patients with GH hypersecretion ( 40 ), ranging from discrete pituitary adenomas ( 41 , 42 ) to diffuse pituitary hyperplasia ( 7 ), to no discernible radiographic abnormality ( 43 ). Of note is the fact that the Gsα mutation found in MAS is identical to that implicated in the pathogenesis of sporadic GH-secreting pituitary adenomas, where it results in the formation of the GSP oncogene. Up to 40% of somatotroph adenomas in adults contain either an Arg201 activating mutation, or a related point substitution of glutamine at position 227 ( 44 ). Interestingly, these sporadic tumors, as well as those from patients with MAS and acromegaly, display the Gsα mutation exclusively from the maternal allele, providing evidence that the GNAS1 gene is subject to imprinting ( 45 ). Figure 4 demonstrates an area of classic café au lait skin pigmentation that crosses midline and has serrated edges in a patient with MAS. Figure 4. Café au lait pigmentation in the typical “coast of Maine” configuration in an individual with McCune-Albright syndrome. Multiple Endocrine Neoplasia-Type I (MEN1) MEN1 is a familial cancer syndrome characterized by autosomal dominant inheritance and multi-endocrine gland involvement. Although significant clinical heterogeneity exists in terms of specific tumor combinations, the most frequent manifestations of MEN1 are parathyroid, pancreatic, and pituitary adenomas ( 46 ). The gene for MEN1, which had previously been mapped to chromosomal locus 11q13, encodes the 610 amino acid nuclear protein, menin ( 47 ). Many different molecular genetic abnormalities within the menin gene have been identified in kindreds with MEN1, including nonsense, missense, deletion, insertion, and donor-splice mutations ( 48 ); genotype/phenotype correlations have not been observed. In all cases of MEN1, the development of neoplasia is thought to arise from a defect in normal tumor suppression via a 2-hit hypothesis. The first hit represents inheritance of a germline MEN1 mutation, leading to a heterozygous loss of the MEN1 gene in every cell ( 49 ). As menin is believed to function as a tumor suppressor protein, the second hit involves a somatic MEN1 mutation in
