Pituitary Gigantism
KEYWORDS: pubmed, pituitary, gigantism, growth, endocrinol, patients, metab, clin, endocrinol metab, acromegaly, excess, clin endocrinol, metab pubmed, treatment, hormone


of the MEN1 gene in every cell ( 49 ). As menin is believed to function as a tumor suppressor protein, the second hit involves a somatic MEN1 mutation in one cell, with subsequent abnormal cellular transformation and clonal expansion. Indeed, somatic biallelic MEN1 mutations have been demonstrated to be present in at least 15% of sporadic pituitary adenomas, including somatotroph tumors ( 50 ). Anterior pituitary adenomas in individuals with known MEN1 have a reported prevalence of 10-60% and are thought to represent the first clinical manifestation of the disease in up to 25% of sporadic cases ( 51 ). Of these, the majority are prolactinomas, with GH-secreting adenomas developing in approximately 10% of individuals with MEN1 by age 40. The youngest reported case of gigantism in MEN1 occurred in a 5-year-old boy, who presented with growth acceleration and a GH-secreting mammo-somatotroph adenoma in the context of a family history of MEN1 ( 52 ). Molecular genetic analysis confirmed the germline and tumor tissue MEN1 mutations but failed to reveal an etiology for the accelerated presentation in this case. Nonetheless, current recommendations include screening for anterior pituitary hormone excess beginning at age 5 in all individuals with MEN1, as well as ascertaining MEN1 carrier status by germline mutation testing in several clinical situations ( 53 ). Interestingly, GH excess due to ectopic elaboration of GHRH from a pancreatic neuroendocrine tumor has also been reported in several individuals with MEN1 ( 54 ). Multiple Endocrine Neoplasia-Type 4 (MEN4) MEN4 is caused by germline mutations in the CDKN1B gene which encodes the putative tumor suppressor p27Kip1 ( 55 ). Affected patients are typically heterozygous for mutations in CDKN1B and exhibit a phenotype similar to that seen in MEN1. Because of the low number of individuals diagnosed with MEN4, screening protocols for patients and their family members have not yet been established ( 56 ). Carney Complex (CNC) Initially described in 1985 ( 57 ), CNC is a rare autosomal dominant disorder in which the cardinal features include multiple endocrine tumors, skin lentigines (spotty pigmentation), cardiac myxomas and neural sheath tumors. The condition shares characteristics with several other syndromes, including MEN1 (multiple endocrine tumors), MAS (endocrine hyperfunction and skin pigmentation) and Peutz-Jeghers syndrome (mucosal lentiginoses and gonadal tumors), but has a unique clinical and molecular genetic identity. Two distinct genetic abnormalities have been implicated in the pathogenesis of CNC. The first is
