Pituitary Gigantism
KEYWORDS: pubmed, pituitary, gigantism, growth, endocrinol, patients, metab, clin, endocrinol metab, acromegaly, excess, clin endocrinol, metab pubmed, treatment, hormone


syndrome (mucosal lentiginoses and gonadal tumors), but has a unique clinical and molecular genetic identity. Two distinct genetic abnormalities have been implicated in the pathogenesis of CNC. The first is found on 2p16 ( 58 ), although a specific candidate gene within this region has not been identified. The second involves mutations in the gene encoding the protein kinase A regulatory subunit (1α) (PRKAR1A) and explains 35-44% of both familial and sporadic cases of CNC ( 59 ). This protein, which is intricately involved in endocrine cell signaling pathways, is thought to function as a tumor suppressor. Supporting this theory has been the observation that tumors from patients with CNC (in which diminished levels of PRKAR1A are present) exhibit a 2-fold increase in cAMP responsiveness compared with control tumors ( 60 ).The identical mutation has also been found in some sporadic endocrine tumors. As with MEN1, a germline mutation is thought to be the inciting event for eventual development of the disease. The clinical presentation of CNC is extremely heterogeneous, as is the age at diagnosis. The development of GH excess is rare, occurring usually during the 3 rd and 4 th decades of life, and typically found in only 10% of patients at the time of presentation ( 61 ). Thus, annual screening for GH hypersecretion is recommended only in post pubertal patients. As in cases of gigantism/acromegaly in the setting of MAS, diffuse pituitary hyperplasia ( 62 ) and concomitant hyperprolactinemia ( 63 ) are frequently seen in individuals with CNC and GH excess. 3PA Association The constellation of paraganglioma, pheochromocytoma, and pituitary adenoma is termed 3PA Association and has been shown to be due to germline mutations in subunits of succinate dehydrogenase ( 56 ; 64 ). Growth hormone excess typically occurs in the 3 rd and 4 th decades of life ( 65 ). To date, no pediatric patients with pituitary gigantism in the setting of the 3PA phenotype have been reported. Familial Somatotropinomas It has long been recognized that isolated pituitary gigantism or acromegaly may occur in a familial pattern. This condition, “Familial Isolated Pituitary Adenomas” (FIPA), is defined as “the development of pituitary adenomas of any type in two or more members of a family in the absence of clinical and genetic evidence of other known syndromic diseases”. At least 46 different affected kindreds have been reported ( 66 ). Unlike in MEN1 and
