Pituitary Gigantism
KEYWORDS: pubmed, pituitary, gigantism, growth, endocrinol, patients, metab, clin, endocrinol metab, acromegaly, excess, clin endocrinol, metab pubmed, treatment, hormone


family in the absence of clinical and genetic evidence of other known syndromic diseases”. At least 46 different affected kindreds have been reported ( 66 ). Unlike in MEN1 and CNC, GH excess tends to arise early in life, with 70% of those with the disorder diagnosed before the 3 rd decade. Early childhood gigantism in this setting has also occurred, involving sisters with abnormal linear growth since age 5 ( 67 ) and a more virulent course than is seen in sporadic somatotropinomas has been suggested by a case series ( 68 ). Once assumed to represent a variant of MEN1, mutations within the menin gene as the etiology for FIPA were conclusively excluded ( 69 ; 70 ). However, the precise molecular genetic basis for the development of pituitary GH-secreting adenomas in the majority of affected families has eluded detection. Initial investigation revealed loss of heterozygosity and linkage to a 9.7 Mb region of 11q13, suggesting the presence of an additional putative tumor suppressor gene in this region, distinct from that involved in MEN1. Subsequent studies identified inactivating mutations in the gene encoding aryl hydrocarbon receptor interacting protein ( AIP ) at 11q13.3 in 15%-25% of families with FIPA ( 71 - 73 ) making it the most common genetic defect found in these kindreds. Although the mechanism by which these mutations cause pituitary adenomas is unknown, the resulting phenotype is characterized by early-onset and aggressive disease. In an amazing case of medical sleuthing, a germline AIP mutation identified in DNA from the preserved teeth of an 18 th century Irish giant was found to be an exact match for the mutation harbored by four contemporary Irish families with FIPA, indicating a common ancestor dating back more than 50 generations! Interestingly, a second potential locus for FIPA has been mapped to 2p12-16, very close to the region implicated in several kindreds with CNC ( 66 ). Additional molecular genetic analysis performed in these patients has included a search for germline mutations within the GHRH receptor gene, Gsα and Gi2α genes, all of which were normal. Similar to observations in MEN1, patients with FIPA have discreet pituitary adenomas, the majority of which are comprised solely of somatotrophs ( 75 ). However, prolactinomas, gonadotropinomas, and silent pituitary adenomas may occur in different members of the same kindred ( 76 ; 77 ) . Macroadenomas with invasion into the cavernous sinus
