Pituitary Gigantism
KEYWORDS: pubmed, pituitary, gigantism, growth, endocrinol, patients, metab, clin, endocrinol metab, acromegaly, excess, clin endocrinol, metab pubmed, treatment, hormone


). However, prolactinomas, gonadotropinomas, and silent pituitary adenomas may occur in different members of the same kindred ( 76 ; 77 ) . Macroadenomas with invasion into the cavernous sinus are common in the setting of FIPA, and treatment is notoriously difficult ( 77 ). X-Linked Acrogigantism An additional cause of familial gigantism and acromegaly is due to microduplication of Xq26.3 and termed X-linked acrogigantism (X-LAG). This genomic duplication was initially identified in 14 patients with gigantism and is associated with both sporadic and familial cases ( 78 ; 79 ). Of the four genes contained in the duplicated region, the growth hormone excess appears to result from an abnormality of GPR101, a gene that encodes for an orphan G-protein coupled receptor. This gene is markedly over-expressed in pituitary tissue from affected patients. The condition can result from either germline or somatic duplications in GPR101 and has a female predominance ( 80 , 81 ). That more girls than boys have X-LAG might be related to their greater number of X chromosomes. However, a potentially lethal effect of an Xq26.3 microduplication on hemizygous male embryos is also a proposed explanation ( 82 ). Mosaicism for GPR101 duplication resulting in X-LAG has also been reported in sporadic cases involving boys ( 83 ). Patients harboring the Xq26.3 microduplication exhibit a distinct phenotype characterized by strikingly early gigantism with a median age of onset of 12 months. In addition to hypersecretion of GH, elevated circulating GHRH and prolactin have also been noted ( 84 ). Both pituitary adenomas and pituitary hyperplasia have been seen among cases testing positive for X-LAG. This discovery highlights new biological processes that will undoubtedly lead to novel insights regarding the central regulation of human growth. A summary of the genetic abnormalities causing gigantism and their putative abnormalities is shown in figure 5 . Figure 5. Schematic of disorders leading to pituitary gigantism, genetic loci, and their putative targets. NF1: Neurofibromatosis type 1; XLAG: X-linked acrogigantism; MAS: McCune-Albright syndrome; CNC1: Carney complex type 1; FIPA: Familial isolated pituitary adenomatosis; MEN1: Multiple endocrine neoplasia syndrome type 1; MEN4: Multiple endocrine neoplasia syndrome type 4. The MEN syndromes display unrestrained cell replication due to lack of a tumor suppressor whereas the others affect the GH secretory pathway at the points shown. See text above for details. CLINICAL AND BIOCHEMICAL FEATURES OF GIGANTISM As would be predicted, linear growth acceleration is
