Pituitary Gigantism
KEYWORDS: pubmed, pituitary, gigantism, growth, endocrinol, patients, metab, clin, endocrinol metab, acromegaly, excess, clin endocrinol, metab pubmed, treatment, hormone


the others affect the GH secretory pathway at the points shown. See text above for details. CLINICAL AND BIOCHEMICAL FEATURES OF GIGANTISM As would be predicted, linear growth acceleration is the cardinal feature of excessive GH production in a child or adolescent. However, the excessive linear growth observed in young children with gigantism may be accompanied or even preceded by macrocephaly and or increased weight for height. ( 9 ; 11 ). In a large international study of patients with pituitary gigantism, the median onset of rapid growth was 13 years and occurred earlier in girls than in boys ( 85 ). Additional clinical features frequently encountered include frontal bossing, broad nasal bridge, prognathism, excessive sweating, voracious appetite, coarse facial features, and enlargement of the hands and feet. Bone age radiographs in these patients have been reported to be normal or advanced, even in the complete absence of sex steroid production. Figure 6 demonstrates the prognathism, coarse facial features and typical tall stature seen in a 12-year-old boy with gigantism, and Figure 7 illustrates enlargement of the hands in this same patient. Figure 6. Twelve-year-old boy with pituitary gigantism measuring 6’5” with his mother. Note the coarse facial features and prominent jaw. Figure 7. Enlarged hand of the same patient in comparison with the hand of an adult male with a height of 6’1”. The patient’s middle digit has a circumference of 9 centimeters. The most consistent biochemical abnormality observed in patients with gigantism is an elevated IGF-1, which is known to exhibit an excellent correlation with 24-hour GH secretion ( 86 ). As previously mentioned, hyperprolactinemia is extremely common in early-onset GH hypersecretion. Depending on the individual situation, the additional pituitary screening evaluation may be normal, indicative of hypopituitarism, or central precocious puberty. Concurrent endocrinopathies may also be present, particularly in patients with syndromes such as MAS or MEN1. Rarely, alterations in glucose tolerance brought about by GH excess may result in the development of overt diabetes, leading to transient diabetic ketoacidosis ( 87 - 89 ) which may even be the presenting feature in rare instances ( 90 ). An additional physiologic effect of GH excess that may have clinical significance is that of increased erythropoiesis, as demonstrated by a case of acromegaly-induced polycythemia vera that resolved following surgical resection of the GH-secreting adenoma ( 91 ). The importance of GH in the regulation of red blood cell
