Pituitary Gigantism
KEYWORDS: pubmed, pituitary, gigantism, growth, endocrinol, patients, metab, clin, endocrinol metab, acromegaly, excess, clin endocrinol, metab pubmed, treatment, hormone


by a case of acromegaly-induced polycythemia vera that resolved following surgical resection of the GH-secreting adenoma ( 91 ). The importance of GH in the regulation of red blood cell production has further been supported by the observation that pre- treatment hemoglobin concentrations in children with idiopathic growth hormone deficiency are lower than controls ( 92 ) DIAGNOSTIC EVALUATION OF GH EXCESS The gold standard for making the diagnosis of GH excess relies on the inability to suppress serum GH concentration following an oral glucose load. While the OGTT has been the diagnostic test of choice for many years, numeric guidelines for the expected degree of suppression in a normal individual have steadily decreased. This trend is the direct result of newer assays with an improved threshold of sensitivity for detection ( 93 ). A normal response to a standardized glucose bolus (1.75 gm/kg up to 75 grams) utilizing the newer IRMA/ICMA assays is a GH level below 1 ng/ml ( 94 ). However, given the observation that recurrence of GH excess may be detected in patients with a GH nadir less than 1 ng/ml, and that healthy subjects nearly always suppress to below 0.14 ng/ml, some investigators have suggested that the 1 ng/ml cut-off is too liberal ( 95 ). The nadir in serum GH is typically occurs within the first 2 hours of the test. Occasionally, 24-hour integrated GH assessment may be helpful in cases in which an equivocal response to OGTT is seen ( 96 ). Despite the development of highly sensitive GH assays, generalizability of results across institutions or regions is hampered by significant heterogeneity in the availability of reference preparations and methods used by specific laboratories ( 97 ). Depending on the individual circumstance, measurement of peripheral GHRH may also be indicated to investigate the possibility of ectopic GHRH secretion. Once biochemical evidence of GH excess has been demonstrated, MRI scanning of the H-P region is obviously the next step. Figure 8 illustrates the typical appearance of a GH-secreting pituitary macroadenoma in an adolescent with gigantism. Figure 8. Pituitary somatotroph macroadenoma in an adolescent with gigantism. A potential pitfall in the evaluation of gigantism in adolescents is the fact that significant elevations of IGF-1 may be present during normal puberty ( 98 ). Moreover, growth hormone response to an oral glucose load in normal children has been found to be gender and pubertal-stage specific, with
