Pituitary Gigantism
KEYWORDS: pubmed, pituitary, gigantism, growth, endocrinol, patients, metab, clin, endocrinol metab, acromegaly, excess, clin endocrinol, metab pubmed, treatment, hormone


be present during normal puberty ( 98 ). Moreover, growth hormone response to an oral glucose load in normal children has been found to be gender and pubertal-stage specific, with the highest nadir GH occurring in Tanner stage 2-3 girls ( 99 ). The effect of sex steroids on IGF-1 and GH suppression must also be considered when a diagnosis of gigantism is being considered in a child with concurrent precocious puberty, as may be the case in NF-1 or MAS. Adding to the possible diagnostic ambiguity is the fact that a significant percentage of normal tall adolescents fail to suppress serum GH in response to oral glucose testing ( 100 ). Therefore, both screening and definitive testing for GH excess should be performed in the context of high clinical suspicion, and IGF-1 levels interpreted according to age and pubertal stage-adjusted normal ranges (see figure 9 ). Figure 9. Schematic evaluation of patients with suspected pituitary gigantism TREATMENT No large-scale studies evaluating various therapeutic approaches to the treatment of GH excess in pediatric patients are available. Therefore, the optimal treatment of gigantism has traditionally been extrapolated from the adult literature as well as case reports or small series involving children. As is the case in adults, the three separate modalities available for the treatment of children and adolescents are surgery, radiation, and medical therapy. Of these, the greatest recent advances by far have occurred in the realm of pharmacologic agents, resulting in an exciting armamentarium of drugs promising truly enhanced efficacy and excellent safety. Regardless of the individual treatment strategy, the goals of therapy remain the same, namely the restoration of GH and IGF-1 levels to normal ( 101 ). Of all parameters investigated, GH levels themselves appear to correlate best with overall morbidity and mortality in acromegaly ( 102 ). Table 2 summarizes the current therapeutic options as they pertain to pediatric patients, each of which is discussed below. Table 2. Therapeutic Modalities in GH Excess in Pediatric Patients View in own window Modality Specific Options Current Indications Pediatric Experience Surgery Transphenoidal resection Pituitary microadenoma or macroadenoma Performed safely in children as young as 2 years old Radiation Conventional radiation Adjuvant to surgical or medical therapy Typically avoided if at all possible, but has been used as adjuvant therapy Stereotactic radiosurgery, ex: gamma knife Adjuvant therapy in patients with residual GH hypersecretion No experience with use in children Medical
