Pituitary Gigantism
KEYWORDS: pubmed, pituitary, gigantism, growth, endocrinol, patients, metab, clin, endocrinol metab, acromegaly, excess, clin endocrinol, metab pubmed, treatment, hormone


several month course of a somatostatin analogue ( 111 ). Radiation Although traditionally included as a therapeutic option, significant problems exist with the use of conventional radiotherapy in gigantism or acromegaly. These include a low level of efficacy, delayed normalization of GH levels, and a high incidence of hypopituitarism. In the setting of MAS, radiation therapy for GH hypersecretion may contribute to malignant transformation of dysplastic bone tissue ( 112 ). Additional concerns particularly relevant to children include potential adverse neurocognitive effects and the possible development of hypothalamic obesity, both of which have been linked to cranial irradiation in pediatric patients ( 112 ; 113 ). Therefore, radiation therapy would be considered a last resort. Improved precision and safety are observed with use of stereotactic radiosurgery in the form of the gamma knife technique, which has been successfully employed as adjuvant therapy in adults with acromegaly ( 112 ; 114 - 116 ). Medical Therapy Although most commonly considered adjunctive to surgery or radiation, a primary role for medical therapy has always existed for those patients with diffuse pituitary hyperplasia or severe bony deformities precluding a surgical approach. As tremendous improvements in the pharmacologic agents available for use in GH excess continues to evolve ( 117 ), the number of patients offered medical therapy as first-line treatment will surely expand. The three currently existing classes of drugs for suppression of GH and IGF-1 levels are reviewed below. SOMATOSTATIN ANALOGUES Ever since their development in the mid-1980’s, long-acting analogues of somatostatin have held a pivotal place in the medical treatment of GH excess. These agents act by binding to somatostatin receptors within somatotroph adenomas ( 118 ). By far the greatest experience in the United States has been with octreotide, which is typically administered subcutaneously in three divided doses daily. Short-term administration of octreotide decreases GH levels within one hour in > 90% of patients with acromegaly ( 119 ), while sustained use normalizes GH and IGF-1 levels in up to 65% of patients ( 120 ). Experience with the use of octreotide in children has been similarly favorable, where it has been beneficial in the treatment of sporadic as well as syndromic gigantism ( 121 ; 122 ). Continuous subcutaneous infusion of octreotide has also resulted in superior efficacy in controlling GH hypersecretion in a pubertal patient ( 123 ). Long-acting depot preparations of octreotide in the form of Sandostatin
