Pituitary Gigantism
KEYWORDS: pubmed, pituitary, gigantism, growth, endocrinol, patients, metab, clin, endocrinol metab, acromegaly, excess, clin endocrinol, metab pubmed, treatment, hormone


infusion of octreotide has also resulted in superior efficacy in controlling GH hypersecretion in a pubertal patient ( 123 ). Long-acting depot preparations of octreotide in the form of Sandostatin LAR and SR-lanreotide are also available, in which a slow release of drug is achieved through degradation of a polymer in which microspheres are encapsulated ( 124 ). This allows for monthly IM administration, resulting in a safety and efficacy profile that is comparable to or improved in contrast to traditional dosing ( 125 ). Both slow-release preparations have also been used in the treatment forms of GH excess due to ectopic GHRH secretion ( 126 ) and in MAS associated gigantism ( 127 - 129 ), and have been noted to have equivalent safety and efficacy ( 130 ). The development of novel somatostatin analogues has the potential to improve efficacy over existing agents ( 131 ). The major side effect of all the somatostatin analogues is an increased risk of biliary sludge and gallstones after sustained use, necessitating periodic ultrasound examinations in patients treated long-term ( 132 ). DOPAMINE AGONISTS Although rarely effective alone, dopamine agonists have a valuable role as adjunctive agents in the treatment of GH excess. Due to their suppressive effects on prolactin, these drugs are particularly advantageous when hyperprolactinemia is also present, as is often the case in childhood-onset gigantism. Both bromocriptine and the more potent dopamine agonists such as cabergoline have been administered to children in combination with octreotide long-term with no apparent adverse effects ( 128 ). GH RECEPTOR ANTAGONISTS The latest development in the realm of medical therapy has been the emergence of pegvisomant, a genetically engineered human GH analogue that acts as a highly selective GH antagonist ( 133 ). This is achieved through alterations in GH structure altering receptor binding compared to the native GH molecule ( 121 ), resulting in prevention of the normal extracellular dimerization of the growth hormone receptor. Administration of pegvisomant long-term to adults with acromegaly has been shown to result in normalization of serum IGF-1 levels in 97% of patients ( 134 ). Despite these extremely promising results, the implications of the nearly ubiquitous elevations in serum GH levels observed in conjunction with pegvisomant treatment initially created some concerns. Although early reports recounted an increase in tumor volume and abnormal liver enzymes in association with pegvisomant use ( 135 ; 136 ), long-term follow
