Pituitary Gigantism
KEYWORDS: pubmed, pituitary, gigantism, growth, endocrinol, patients, metab, clin, endocrinol metab, acromegaly, excess, clin endocrinol, metab pubmed, treatment, hormone


treatment initially created some concerns. Although early reports recounted an increase in tumor volume and abnormal liver enzymes in association with pegvisomant use ( 135 ; 136 ), long-term follow has demonstrated that these complications are rare and that efficacy is very good ( 137 ; 138 ). Combination therapy using pegvisomant along with a dopamine agonist or somatostatin analogue also appears promising ( 137 ). Thus far, preliminary experience with the use of pegvisomant alone or in combination with a somatostatin analogue for the treatment of gigantism in children also appears favorable ( 139 ). This approach resulted in successful normalization of IGFI levels in a 4 year old with NF-1 ( 140 ), a 12 year old with MAS ( 141 ), and a couple of children with persistent GH hypersecretion following surgical removal of a pituitary adenoma who had failed a somatostatin analogue ( 142 ; 143 ). Even more reassuring is a report of long-term (up to 3.5 years) treatment using pegvisomant in 3 children with gigantism, all of whom experienced a decline in growth velocity and resolution of acromegalic features ( 144 ). Treatment of Tall Stature Medical treatment of children and adolescents with tall stature was more common in the past ( 145 ), particularly for girls, but is now strongly discouraged except in exceptional cases. This is because of increased cultural acceptance of tall stature and recognition of side effects of treatment, which include reduced fertility ( 146 ) and increased prevalence of depression ( 147 ) not related to adult height. Depending on the absolute height and the degree of growth potential remaining, one of the goals in the treatment of gigantism may be prevention of further linear growth in these exceptional cases. When this is the case, acceleration of epiphyseal fusion can be achieved with exogenous sex steroids ( 145 ). Short-term administration of both high dose testosterone and estrogen have been utilized for this purpose in children with gigantism, resulting in significant improvements in terms of adult height ( 148 ; 149 ). However, such an approach would require great caution given reports of subfertility in women who were treated with high dose estrogen during adolescence with the goal of attenuating growth in the setting of constitutional tall stature ( 150 ; 151 ). CONCLUSION The differential diagnosis of pituitary gigantism includes a significant number of heterogeneous disorders exhibiting a
