Pituitary Gigantism
KEYWORDS: pubmed, pituitary, gigantism, growth, endocrinol, patients, metab, clin, endocrinol metab, acromegaly, excess, clin endocrinol, metab pubmed, treatment, hormone


attenuating growth in the setting of constitutional tall stature ( 150 ; 151 ). CONCLUSION The differential diagnosis of pituitary gigantism includes a significant number of heterogeneous disorders exhibiting a vast array of clinical and genetic features ( 66 ). In most cases, the history, physical examination and adjunctive biochemical, imaging, and/or molecular genetic testing will ultimately reveal the diagnosis. Albeit rare, pituitary gigantism affords the unique opportunity for a glimpse into the complex mechanisms of growth regulation. Thus, continued clinical and scientific investigation will enhance not only individual patient care, but also collective insight into the intricacies of the fundamental processes of human growth. CASE OUTCOME The MRI revealed a pituitary macroadenoma after which he underwent transsphenoidal surgery. Histopathological diagnosis was mammosomatotropic adenoma. Three months after surgery, IGF-1 normalized, nadir GH during OGTT suppressed to less than 1 ng/mL and no residual tumor was found on the MRI. Genetic testing identified a mutation in the AIP gene. This case points out the importance of early diagnosis of gigantism, as treatment delay increases long-term morbidity. KEY LEARNING POINTS Pituitary gigantism is rare but important condition resulting from excessive secretion of GH (and therefore IGF1) before fusion of epiphyseal growth plates leading to tall stature, acral enlargement, facial changes, headaches, and excessive sweating. Excessive linear growth is the cardinal feature of excessive GH production in children and adolescents who have open epiphyseal growth plates. There is a male preponderance (78%) in pituitary gigantism in contrast to the slight female predominance (54.5%) observed in acromegaly. Once growth hormone (GH) hypersecretion has been established, prompt studies to examine pituitary anatomy and define the etiology via family history and genetic testing should be performed. Normalization of GH and IGF-1 levels is the goal of therapy Because nearly 50% of patients with pituitary gigantism have a known underlying genetic cause, these patients should receive genetic counseling and testing for mutations. Somatotropinomas in pituitary gigantism are usually large (macroadenomas) and difficult to cure with surgery or medical therapy alone. Patients with large tumors and multiple surgeries and radiotherapy are often left with multiple pituitary hormone deficiencies. REFERENCES 1. Dana C. L. Giants and Gigantism Scribner' Magazine 17,1719-185 (1895) Giants and giantism - Digital Collections - National Library of Medicine (nih.gov) 2. Daughaday WH. Pituitary gigantism. Endocrinol Metab Clin North Am. 1992; 21 (3):633–647. [ PubMed : 1521516 ] 3. Etxabe J, Gaztambide S, Latorre P, Vazquez
