BMC Immunology
KEYWORDS: celiac, disease, mucosal, patients, culture, celiac disease, deposits, neg, treated, iga, ema, organ, neg neg, samples, organ culture


show that studies focusing on the toxic effects of gliadin in the organ culture system should be carried out with biopsy samples from short-term treated celiac disease patients who are likely still to have mucosal IgA deposits present. In addition to providing an explanation for the discrepancies in previous publications, the present study also enables further validation of the organ culture method. (page number not for citation purposes) BMC Immunology 2008, 9:6 Background to the organ culture system is totally independent of glia- Celiac disease is a gluten-induced autoimmune disease of din challenge and histological damage . the small intestine characterized by small-bowel mucosal villous atrophy with crypt hyperplasia and a profound Due to these discrepancies among previous studies con- inflammation in the mucosa. In addition to causing dam- cerning autoantibody secretion to the organ culture sys- age to the mucosa in genetically susceptible individuals, tem, our aim was to establish in both short- and long-term gluten also provokes the production of autoantibodies treated celiac disease patients whether the antibody secre- typically found in the sera of untreated celiac disease tion to culture supernatants is dependent on the duration patients. These autoantibodies recognize exclusively of patients' gluten-free diet (GFD). Furthermore, since in endomysial antigens now identified as transglutaminase 2 celiac disease the small-bowel mucosal extracellular TG2- (TG2). The autoantibodies are produced locally in the specific IgA deposits seem to disappear slowly after a glu- mucosa , and besides being detectable in patient sera, ten-free diet , we hypothesized that the autoantibody they are also deposited extracellularly in vivo in the secretion to supernatants is related to the existence of mucosa [3-7]. Furthermore, recent findings suggest that mucosal TG2-specific IgA deposits in the cultured small- these TG2-targeted mucosal IgA-autoantibody deposits bowel biopsy samples. are already present in the early phases of the disease proc- ess prior to manifest mucosal lesion and before Results autoantibodies appear in the serum [3-6]. After adoption Celiac autoantibodies of a gluten-free diet, serum autoantibodies disappear and In order to study the baseline serum autoantibody levels the small-bowel mucosa heals usually within one year . of study subjects, EmA and TG2 antibody (TG2-ab) titers At the time the autoantibodies have disappeared from the were measured. All five untreated celiac disease patients circulation, there may still be residual autoantibody involved had positive EmA (median titer 1:500, range 5– deposits present in the small-intestinal mucosa which will 4000) and
