BMC Immunology
KEYWORDS: celiac, disease, mucosal, patients, culture, celiac disease, deposits, neg, treated, iga, ema, organ, neg neg, samples, organ culture


untreated celiac disease patients circulation, there may still be residual autoantibody involved had positive EmA (median titer 1:500, range 5– deposits present in the small-intestinal mucosa which will 4000) and TG2-ab titers (median titer 58.1, range 4.7– also in due course disappear on a strict gluten-free diet 100) in serum. In contrast, all 20 treated celiac disease . patients and all six non-celiac controls had normal serum autoantibody levels. Furthermore, all celiac disease For over twenty years the human small-intestinal organ patients carried either the HLA DQ2 or the DQ8 haplo- culture method has been widely used in detecting the type. When the small-bowel biopsies from celiac disease toxic effects of wheat gliadin in celiac disease in vitro [1,9- patients were challenged in the organ culture system with 15]. In earlier studies the toxicity of gliadin has commonly peptic-tryptic digest of gliadin (PT-gliadin) for 48 hours, been demonstrated by an increased density of lamina pro- EmA was secreted to the culture supernatants in all five prial lymphocytes [11-13] and reduced epithelial cell untreated but in only 11 out of the 20 treated celiac cases height (ECH) in cultured biopsy samples from (Table 1). Moreover, no antibodies were found in super- untreated and treated celiac disease patients. However, natants from non-celiac controls (Table 1). when measuring endomysial autoantibody (EmA) secre- tion to culture supernatants from biopsies from treated When autoantibody secretion to culture supernatants was celiac patients, the results have been contradictory. investigated in relation to the duration of the gluten-free Picarelli and associates showed that in biopsies diet, EmA was detected in supernatants after PT-gliadin derived from treated celiac disease patients gliadin challenge in 10 out of 12 short-term (GFD 1–3 years) and induces secretion of EmA to culture supernatants. In con- in 1 out of 8 long-term (GFD 4–20 years) treated patient trast, some studies report that the secretion of EmA can biopsy samples (Table 2, Table 3). Since the duration of only be achieved in half of or even no exper- the gluten-free diet was insufficient to explain EmA secre- iments carried out with treated celiac patient biopsies. tion completely, we tested whether EmA presence in the And even further, it has been suggested that EmA secretion culture supernatants was dependent on pre-existing small- Table 1: Endomysial antibodies (EmA) in organ culture supernatants after 48 hours' in vitro PT-gliadin challenge in untreated and treated celiac disease patients and
