BMC Immunology
KEYWORDS: celiac, disease, mucosal, patients, culture, celiac disease, deposits, neg, treated, iga, ema, organ, neg neg, samples, organ culture


lamina proprial CD25+ cells were calcu- lated in cultured biopsy samples. In summary, it was found that these parameters were also dependent on the presence of mucosal IgA deposits. The ECH decreased and the density of CD25+ cells increased significantly only in the treated celiac disease patient biopsies with pre-existing IgA deposits (Figure 2 and 3). Discussion The results presented here show that gliadin toxicity, as measured by autoantibody secretion, decrease in ECH and increase in the density of lamina proprial CD25+ cells, can be demonstrated in the treated celiac disease patient organ culture system only if small-intestinal mucosal EFnigteurroec y2te cell height (ECH) after organ culture TG2-specific IgA autoantibody deposits are still present in Enterocyte cell height (ECH) after organ culture. the cultured biopsy samples. Patients with persisting Biopsy samples of treated celiac disease patients with and mucosal autoantibody deposits, normal small-bowel without mucosal IgA deposits and non-celiac control mucosal villous structure and negative serum autoanti- patients. Biopsies were cultured with medium only or with body levels are usually those who have been on a gluten- PT-gliadin for 24 hours. The median values (horizontal line) free diet for a short period of time. and P values are calculated for each group showing a statisti- cally significant decrease in ECH only in those treated celiac Our results explain the discrepancies reported in previous disease cases who had small-bowel mucosal IgA deposits in papers on EmA secretion in biopsies derived from treated the cultured biopsy samples. celiac disease patients. Vogelsang and colleagues (page number not for citation purposes) BMC Immunology 2008, 9:6 agreement with the results presented in the current study (Table 2). It remains to be elucidated how a gliadin challenge leads to EmA secretion in the organ culture system. Basically there are two different possibilities. Firstly, EmA could be actively secreted by plasma cells in the biopsy specimen . The inability of long-term treated patient biopsy sam- ples to secrete autoantibodies to the supernatant could be explained by the overall absence of plasma cells and helper T cells as well as the failure of memory B cells to become activated within the timeframe of the organ cul- ture . Secondly, the secretion of EmA to the culture supernatant might simply be due to detachment of the autoantibodies from the tissue deposits and their release TTFhi-gceeu ltrloset a3l number of mucosal lamina proprial CD25-positive The total number of mucosal lamina
