BMC Immunology
KEYWORDS: celiac, disease, mucosal, patients, culture, celiac disease, deposits, neg, treated, iga, ema, organ, neg neg, samples, organ culture


simply be due to detachment of the autoantibodies from the tissue deposits and their release TTFhi-gceeu ltrloset a3l number of mucosal lamina proprial CD25-positive The total number of mucosal lamina proprial CD25- into the supernatant. However, we observed no decrease positive T-cells. Cultured biopsy samples from treated in the intensity of the mucosal autoantibody deposits celiac disease patients with and without mucosal IgA deposits after the organ culture. We did nevertheless see changes in and non-celiac control patients. Biopsies were cultured ECH and the density of CD25+ cells, which speaks in either with medium only or with PT-gliadin for 24 hours. The favor of an active gliadin-induced process, this supporting median values (horizontal line) and P values are calculated for the first proposition. each group showing a statistically significant increase in CD25+ cells only in those treated celiac disease cases who Conclusion had small-bowel mucosal IgA deposits in the cultured biopsy Our results indicate that when studying the toxic effects of samples. gliadin in an organ culture setting, biopsy samples from short-term treated celiac disease patients who are likely still to have mucosal TG2-specific IgA deposits should be reported that EmA secretion after a 24-hour gliadin chal- used. Altogether, the current study provides a platform for lenge was achieved in only 2 out of 18 (11%) biopsy sam- further validation of the organ culture method. ples derived from celiac disease patients on a strict gluten- free diet with normal mucosal villous morphology. In Methods contrast, biopsies from 60% of patients with dietary Patients lapses and 92% of untreated celiacs with ongoing Small-bowel mucosal biopsies were taken from 20 treated mucosal inflammation responded to the challenge in patients suffering from celiac disease (median age 54 respect of EmA secretion. Similar results have been years, range 23–73 years, females 80%), five untreated obtained by Biagi and associates in a small-scale celiac patients (median age 48 years, range 43–71 years, study involving only seven treated celiac disease patients. females 100%) and six non-celiac control subjects suffer- EmA secretion to the culture supernatant could not be ing from dyspepsia (median age 53 years, range 24–70 stimulated after a 24-hour gliadin administration in any years, females 50%). In all celiac patients the diagnosis of the long-term (8–30 years) treated celiac patients with was initially based on the European Society of Pediatric normal mucosal architecture. Samples responding to the Gastroenterology and Nutrition criteria , meaning gliadin
