BMC Immunology
KEYWORDS: celiac, disease, mucosal, patients, culture, celiac disease, deposits, neg, treated, iga, ema, organ, neg neg, samples, organ culture


long-term (8–30 years) treated celiac patients with was initially based on the European Society of Pediatric normal mucosal architecture. Samples responding to the Gastroenterology and Nutrition criteria , meaning gliadin insult were derived from patients still evincing that they all had small-bowel mucosal villous atrophy mucosal damage despite a gluten-free diet. In the above- with crypt hyperplasia in the duodenum while consuming mentioned studies the treated patients unable to react to gluten. All treated celiac patients involved in the current gliadin as measured by EmA secretion were well and long- study had been on a strict gluten-free diet for at least one term treated and may be hypothesized not to have small- year (median duration of GFD three years, range 1–20 bowel IgA autoantibody deposits. This absence of years), and all, as well as the non-celiac controls, showed mucosal deposits could thus explain the discrepancy in normal small-bowel mucosal architecture. In contrast, all results. Furthermore, it has been shown that 24 hours of the untreated patients evinced subtotal villous atrophy gliadin treatment might not be a sufficient time to induce with crypt hyperplasia in the small-bowel mucosa. The EmA secretion, as shown by Picarelli and colleagues study protocol was accepted by the Ethical Committee of who demonstrated that a 48-hour culture period in the Tampere University Hospital and written informed con- presence of gliadin is needed to achieve EmA secretion in sent was obtained from all patients and controls. all treated celiac disease patient samples, this also being in (page number not for citation purposes) BMC Immunology 2008, 9:6 Small-bowel mucosal biopsies and organ culture system Small-bowel mucosal TG2-specific IgA deposits Altogether seven small-bowel mucosal biopsy samples The small-bowel mucosal TG2-targeted IgA deposits were were obtained from each patient during upper gastrointes- investigated before and after 24 hours of organ culture. In tinal endoscopy. Two samples were immediately snap- earlier studies it has been shown that these mucosal IgA frozen in liquid nitrogen with optimal cutting tempera- deposits are specifically targeted against TG2 in the small- ture compound (OCT, Tissue-Tek, Sakura Finetek Europe, bowel mucosa . In the studies in question, autoanti- Holland) and stored at -20°C until used. Further, two body specificity for TG2 was demonstrated by the fact that biopsies were immediately fixed in paraffin for investiga- IgA eluted from duodenal mucosa bound intensively to tion of the baseline small-bowel mucosal morphology. purified TG2 in ELISA and Western
