BMC Immunology
KEYWORDS: celiac, disease, mucosal, patients, culture, celiac disease, deposits, neg, treated, iga, ema, organ, neg neg, samples, organ culture


that biopsies were immediately fixed in paraffin for investiga- IgA eluted from duodenal mucosa bound intensively to tion of the baseline small-bowel mucosal morphology. purified TG2 in ELISA and Western blot . Similarly, a The remaining three biopsies were cultured for 24 or 48 human recombinant TG2 was capable of depositing hours at 37°C, either in the presence or absence of a pep- celiac-specific IgA in small-bowel sections from celiac dis- tic-tryptic digest of gliadin (1 mg/ml) prepared by a stand- ease patients . In addition, after removal of TG2 from ard protocol described elsewhere . the sections by a specific acid, both TG2 and IgA deposits disappeared from the mucosa . The organ culture method was implemented as originally described by Browning and Trier . Briefly, the biopsy To study the mucosal IgA deposits the 5-μm-thick unfixed samples were cultured in RPMI-1640 medium (Invitro- cryostat sections were stained using a two-color immun- gen-Gibco, Paisley, Scotland, UK) containing 15 % heat- ofluorescence method as previously described . The inactivated fetal bovine serum (Invitrogen-Gibco), 100 monoclonal primary antibody against TG2 (Clone CUB μg/ml streptomycin (Invitrogen-Gibco), 100 U/ml peni- 7402, NeoMarkers, Fremont, USA, 1:200) was used fol- cillin (Invitrogen-Gibco), 4 mM L-glutamine (Invitrogen- lowed by the rhodamine-conjugated antimouse immu- Gibco), 50 μg/ml insulin (Sigma-Aldrich Co, St. Louis, noglobulin antibody (Dako, A/S, Glostrup, Denmark Missouri, USA) and 10 mM HEPES buffer (Invitrogen- 1:120) and the fluorescein isothiocyanate-conjugated rab- Gibco). Duodenal specimens were placed villi upwards bit antibody against human IgA (Dako, 1:40). In on a sterile stainless-steel grid positioned over the untreated celiac disease a clear extracellular subepithelial medium in a central well of the organ culture dish (Fal- IgA deposition can be found below the basement mem- con, Becton Dickinson and Co, USA). After 24 or 48 brane along the villous and crypt epithelium and around hours' incubation, culture supernatants were collected mucosal vessels; this is in contrast to non-celiac normal and stored at -70°C until analysed. Free fluid was small-bowel samples, where IgA is detected only inside removed from the samples, whereafter they were snap-fro- plasma and epithelial cells . zen with OCT and stored at -20°C until processed for stainings. Determination of ECH and the number of CD25+ lymphocytes Celiac autoantibodies ECH was measured under a light microscope (Olympus EmA was detected in patients' serum and undiluted organ BX60, 40× magnification) after 24 hours' organ culture culture supernatants using an
