BMC Immunology
KEYWORDS: celiac, disease, mucosal, patients, culture, celiac disease, deposits, neg, treated, iga, ema, organ, neg neg, samples, organ culture


autoantibodies ECH was measured under a light microscope (Olympus EmA was detected in patients' serum and undiluted organ BX60, 40× magnification) after 24 hours' organ culture culture supernatants using an indirect immunofluores- with or without PT-gliadin challenge using the analySIS cence assay where human umbilical cord was used as anti- 3.0 program, (Soft Imaging System GmbH, Munster, Ger- gen . A serum dilution of 1:≥5 was considered positive. many). Altogether 30 enterocytes from three different villi Antibody titers for organ culture supernatants were graded of each specimen were analyzed and a mean ECH value according to the intensity of the staining as follows: nega- was calculated for each biopsy sample . tive (neg), weak positive (+) and strong positive (++, +++ or ++++). Samples were analyzed blindly without knowl- CD25-positive T cells were detected in the lamina propria edge of the patients' clinical background. of small-bowel mucosa from biopsy samples cultured for 24 hours with or without PT-gliadin. The 5-μm-thick cry- TG2-antibodies were measured by enzyme-linked immu- ostat sections were fixed in acetone and incubated with nosorbent assay (ELISA, Celikey®, Phadia, Freiburg, Ger- goat normal serum (Vector Laboratories Inc., Burlingame, many), according to manufacturer's instructions, both in USA), whereafter they were incubated with mouse mono- serum samples (diluted 1:100) and in undiluted culture clonal antibody, human anti-CD25 (Dako, 1:25) for one supernatants. In serum samples a unit value (U) ≥ 5U was hour and alexa-conjugated goat anti-mouse IgG (Invitro- considered positive. Since there is no cut-off value for gen, 1:1000) for 30 minutes. Washes with PBS were per- TG2-antibody in culture supernatants, the crude antibody formed between each antibody. The density of small- values are given only for comparison to EmA. bowel mucosal CD25-positive T-cells in the lamina propria was calculated and presented as number of cells in a total area of one mm2 of lamina propria . (page number not for citation purposes) BMC Immunology 2008, 9:6 HLA-typing References Celiac disease is strongly associated with the HLA gene 1. Picarelli A, Maiuri L, Frate A, Greco M, Auricchio S, Londei M: Pro- duction of antiendomysial antibodies after in-vitro gliadin region, since over 95% of celiac disease patients have challenge of small intestine biopsy samples from patients either HLA DQ2 or HLA DQ8 haplotype molecules with coeliac disease. Lancet 1996, 348:1065-1067. . HLA-DQ typing was performed in each patient 2. Marzari R, Sblattero D, Florian F, Tongiorgi E, Not T,
