Disorders of Growth Hormone in Childhood
KEYWORDS: growth, pubmed, hormone, pituitary, deficiency, growth hormone, journal, patients, igf-i, endocrinology, mutations, clinical, children, clinical endocrinology, height


ABSTRACT Growth is a fundamental process of childhood and growth disorders remain one of the commonest reasons for referral to a pediatric endocrinologist. Growth can be divided into four phases – fetal, infancy, childhood and the pubertal phase with different hormonal components influencing growth at each stage. The GH-IGF1 axis plays a major role in the childhood phase of growth with a significant role alongside sex steroids during puberty while in infancy thyroid hormone and nutrition are vital. Although an uncommon cause of short stature disorders of the GH-IGF1 axis are extremely important due to the effectiveness of recombinant human growth hormone therapy for the child with GH deficiency (GHD). Here we review the diagnosis of growth hormone deficiency through a combination of auxology, biochemistry, imaging, and genetic testing. Particular focus is given to the accuracy of IGF-1/BP3 for diagnosis as well as the known problems with GH stimulation tests and GH assays. Isolated GHD is caused by mutations in GH1, BTK, and RNPC3 while GHD seen as part of multiple pituitary hormone deficiency is known to be caused by mutations in a wide variety of genes. A variety of structural malformations of the brain can be associated with congenital GHD with the commonest being the presence of an ectopic posterior pituitary or Septo-optic dysplasia. Acquired GHD is rarer and caused by tumors, radiotherapy, hypophysitis, and traumatic brain injury. Treatment with recombinant human GH is highly efficacious in improving height in children with GH deficiency and extremely safe. Short stature disorders are, rarely, also caused by a variety of other disorders of the GH-IGF1 axis. Resistance to growth hormone is seen in Laron syndrome and in mutations in IGF1 and IGF1R while decreased bioavailability of IGF1 is seen in ALS deficiency and PAPPA2 deficiency. Treatment with recombinant human IGF1 (rhIGF1) is available for those with IGF-I deficiency caused by either Laron syndrome or IGF1 mutations. rhIGF1 is effective in improving height but treatment is less effective than the use of GH to treat GH deficiency. The role of IGF1 in pre-natal growth is highlighted by the phenotype of patients with IGF1R or IGF1 mutations where pre-natal growth is commonly impaired and children born small for gestational age. GH excess is much rarer than GH deficiency in childhood and can be caused by pituitary adenomas, optic nerve gliomas (seen predominantly with NF1), McCune Albright syndrome, or Carney complex. Treatment is with
