Disorders of Growth Hormone in Childhood
KEYWORDS: growth, pubmed, hormone, pituitary, deficiency, growth hormone, journal, patients, igf-i, endocrinology, mutations, clinical, children, clinical endocrinology, height


much rarer than GH deficiency in childhood and can be caused by pituitary adenomas, optic nerve gliomas (seen predominantly with NF1), McCune Albright syndrome, or Carney complex. Treatment is with surgery, somatostatin analogs, or GH receptor antagonists. For complete coverage of all related areas of Endocrinology, please visit our on-line FREE web-text, WWW.ENDOTEXT.ORG . CASE STUDY A 5-year-old girl was referred to her local community pediatrician by her health visitor with concerns about growth and poor calorie intake. Height at presentation was 91.5 cm (-4.1 SD) with weight 12.5 kg (-3.4 SD) and head circumference 48.8 cm (-2.5 SD). Her teeth were affected by multiple caries which made chewing hard foods painful and she therefore ate only soft foods. Development was reported to be normal and she was performing well in school. Her parents had noticed loud snoring and tonsils were enlarged on examination. She was born at term by vaginal delivery with a birth weight of 3.5kg and was the youngest of 6 children. The parents were consanguineous (first cousins) and there was a family history of short stature in distant cousins. Mother was 147 cm tall (-2.7 SD) and father 165.1 cm (-1.5 SD). There was a history of diabetes mellitus type 2, diabetic nephropathy and thalassemia in mother and the father had a history of recurrent kidney stones. On review in the endocrinology clinic prominent forehead, depressed nasal bridge and a high-pitched voice were noted. General investigations (detailed below) were normal; however, IGF-I and IGFBP-3 concentrations were low with high basal GH and peak GH concentrations (the latter >40µg/L). The combination of low IGF-I with raised GH concentrations suggested a diagnosis of GH insensitivity. In view of the history of snoring the patient was referred to an ENT surgeon who noted large prolapsing tonsils with mild apneic episodes on sleep study. Due to the propensity of IGF-I therapy to induce tonsillar hypertrophy, she underwent tonsillectomy. Treatment with recombinant human IGF-I was started at the age of 6 years and 1 month initially with 0.6 mg (38 mcg/kg/) BD, increasing after 1 week to 1.1 mg (70 mcg/kg) BD and then to 1.7 mg (108 mcg/kg) BD. There were no problems with hypoglycemia. Height velocity increased from 3.6 cm/year to 10.3 cm/year over the first year of treatment. Sequencing of the GH receptor identified a known intronic point (A>G) mutation between exons 6 and 7 in which leads
