Disorders of Growth Hormone in Childhood
KEYWORDS: growth, pubmed, hormone, pituitary, deficiency, growth hormone, journal, patients, igf-i, endocrinology, mutations, clinical, children, clinical endocrinology, height


). Although size at birth (and hence fetal growth) is profoundly affected by IGF-I deficiency during fetal life ( 3 ), the effects of congenital GH deficiency are much less marked with a mild reduction in birth size ( 4 ). Fetal Phase During the first year of life, growth declines from an initial velocity of around 25cm/year to around 10cm/year. Previously it has been thought that during this period growth hormone did not have a significant influence on growth however it is now clear that children with growth hormone deficiency display reduced height velocity from birth ( 5 ). In addition to growth hormone, thyroid hormone and adequate nutrition are vital for normal growth during infancy. Infancy Phase During the first two years of life there is a significant period of catch-up or catch-down growth so while size at birth is not well correlated with parental height, by two years of age the correlation between parental and child heights significantly improves ( 6 ). It has been hypothesized that this catch up growth is the result of a central mechanism which detects the difference between the actual and expected size and acts to increase growth velocity ( 7 ). No experimental evidence exists for this hypothesis. The second hypothesis on the origin of this catch up/down growth is that it arises from alterations in growth plate senescence. Catch down growth is associated with a reduction in the number of stem cell divisions within the growth plate while catch up growth would be due to a compensatory increase in the number of stem cell divisions within the growth plate ( 8 ). Childhood Phase There is a gradual transition from the infancy phase into the childhood phase of growth from 6 months to 3 years of age. Prepubertal growth velocity is relatively constant between 4-7 cm/year with the lowest growth velocity of life occurring immediately before the onset of puberty. During childhood growth is mainly controlled by the influence of the GH-IGF-I axis along with thyroid hormone. Pubertal Growth The final phase of growth is puberty – the period of transition from the pre-pubertal state to the full development of secondary sexual characteristics and achievement of final height. Puberty begins with the onset of activity within the hypothalamic-pituitary-gonadal axis leading to the production of androgens (in males) and estrogen (in females). In males the first sign of pubertal development is
