Disorders of Growth Hormone in Childhood
KEYWORDS: growth, pubmed, hormone, pituitary, deficiency, growth hormone, journal, patients, igf-i, endocrinology, mutations, clinical, children, clinical endocrinology, height


with the onset of activity within the hypothalamic-pituitary-gonadal axis leading to the production of androgens (in males) and estrogen (in females). In males the first sign of pubertal development is enlargement of the testes while in females it is development of breast buds. The production of androgens and estrogen is associated with an increase in activity within the GH-IGF-I axis. Administration of testosterone to boys increased both GH and IGF-I concentrations ( 9 ) but this effect is dependent upon aromatization as co-administration of an estrogen receptor antagonist ( 10 ) or administration of dihydrotestosterone ( 11 ) (the active form of testosterone that cannot be aromatized) does not lead to an increase in GH or IGF-I concentrations. In girls there is also an increase in IGF-I levels and GH secretion during puberty but the mechanisms underlying this are less clear. Administration of oral or transdermal estrogen induces a decline in serum IGF-I concentrations and a consequent increase in GH secretion ( 12 ). Fusion of the epiphyseal growth plates is induced by the activity of estrogen on ERα as patients with mutations in the genes encoding Erα ( 13 ) or aromatase enzyme ( 14 ) result in failure of fusion of the epiphyses and tall stature. This chapter will firstly discuss the physiology of the GH-IGF-I axis along with signal transduction of GH and IGF-I and then consider the diagnosis and treatment of growth hormone deficiency before discussing individual pathological conditions associated with both GH deficiency and GH excess. Disorders leading to GH deficiency have been divided into congenital and acquired. GH-IGF-I AXIS Physiology of the GH-IGF-I Axis Release of Growth Hormone Releasing Hormone (GHRH) from the hypothalamus regulates the secretion of GH from the anterior pituitary both by increasing GH1 gene transcription and by promoting the secretion of stored GH. GHRH release is pulsatile and influenced by somatostatin and Ghrelin. Ghrelin is a 28 amino acid peptide produced in the stomach ( 15 ) and acts via the GH secretagogue receptor (GHSR). The active hormone is the octanoylated form produced by Ghrelin O-acetyltransferase( 16 ) and is cleaved from the 117 amino acid preprohormone. In addition to the role in GH secretion Ghrelin also acts as an appetite stimulant ( 17 ) and stimulates the secretion of insulin ( 18 ), ACTH ( 19 ), and prolactin ( 19 ). In vivo the action of Ghrelin requires
