Disorders of Growth Hormone in Childhood
KEYWORDS: growth, pubmed, hormone, pituitary, deficiency, growth hormone, journal, patients, igf-i, endocrinology, mutations, clinical, children, clinical endocrinology, height


appetite stimulant ( 17 ) and stimulates the secretion of insulin ( 18 ), ACTH ( 19 ), and prolactin ( 19 ). In vivo the action of Ghrelin requires an intact GHRH system to influence GH secretion ( 20 ) but in vitro is capable of directly stimulating GH ( 15 ). Somatostatin is a peptide derived from pre-pro-somatostatin within neurons of the anterior periventricular nucleus which project to the median eminence. There are two main forms of somatostatin – 14 and 28 amino acid variants. It acts via the somatostatin receptors of which there are 5 subtypes (SSTR1-5). The anterior pituitary expresses SSTR1, 2, 3 and 5 ( 21 ). Somatostatin acts to decrease the secretion of GH by inhibiting GHRH secretion, directly inhibiting GH secretion in the anterior pituitary ( 22 ), antagonizing the activity of Ghrelin ( 20 ) as well as inhibiting its secretion ( 23 ). Somatostatin tone determines trough levels of GH and reductions in somatostatin tone are a major factor in determining the time of a pulse of GH. GH secretion is also stimulated by hypoglycemia and exercise. A summary of the factors influencing GH secretion is given in Figure 1 . GH is released from the somatotrophs of the anterior pituitary in a pulsatile manner with the pulses predominantly overnight, increasing in amplitude with age ( 24 ). The pulse amplitude is maximal in the pubertal years consistent with the raised IGF-I levels and growth velocity at this time ( 25 ). In males there is greater diurnal variation in peak amplitude, with higher peaks overnight and a lower baseline GH level compared to females. Overall GH production is higher in females. GH peak amplitude is linked to IGF-I concentrations while nadir GH is linked to waist-hip ratio ( 26 ). Growth Hormone and GH signal Transduction Growth Hormone (GH) is encoded by the GH1 gene located at chromosome 17q23.3 and is a 191 amino acid single chain polypeptide ( 27 ). There are 20 and 22kDa isoforms of GH generated by alternative splicing (the smaller isoform lacks amino acids 32-46) with the 20kDa accounting for around 10-20% of circulating GH ( 28 ). While GH1 is expressed within the anterior pituitary a 20kDa variant of GH is encoded by the GH2 gene but this is expressed in placenta and not in the pituitary ( 29 ). Figure 1. Physiology of
