Disorders of Growth Hormone in Childhood
KEYWORDS: growth, pubmed, hormone, pituitary, deficiency, growth hormone, journal, patients, igf-i, endocrinology, mutations, clinical, children, clinical endocrinology, height


pituitary a 20kDa variant of GH is encoded by the GH2 gene but this is expressed in placenta and not in the pituitary ( 29 ). Figure 1. Physiology of the GH-IGF-I Axis. Release of GHRH from the hypothalamus is under the control of somatostatin (inhibitory) and Ghrelin (stimulatory). Alterations in GHRH tone led to pulsatile release of GH from the anterior pituitary. GH has widespread effects on muscle, fat and in the growth plate. IGF-I is produced in liver and in local tissues in response to GH stimulation. Red lines indicate feedback loops. Figure reproduced and adapted from Butcher I Molecular and Metabolomic Mechanisms Affecting Growth in Children Born Small for Gestational Age PhD thesis University of Manchester 2013. In the circulation GH is bound to Growth Hormone Binding Protein (GHBP). GHBP is generated either by proteolysis cleavage of the extracellular domain of the growth hormone receptor (GHR) by metzincin metalloproteinase tumor necrosis factor-α converting enzyme ( 30 ) or by alternative splicing of the GHR ( 31 ). The 22kDa isoform of GH has the highest affinity for GHBP with the 20kDa and placental GH having a lower affinity ( 32 ). GHBP has a molecular mass of 60kDa and acts to prolong the half-life of GH with an increase from 11 minutes to 80 minutes ( 33 ). GHBP also acts to maintain the circulating pool of GH within the vasculature ( 34 ), reducing the ability of the circulating pool of GH to bind to peripheral GHRs. The actions of GH are mediated via the GHR, a 620 amino acid protein containing a 246-residue extracellular domain, a single24 amino acid transmembrane helix and a 350 amino acid intracellular domain. The GHR gene is located on chromosome 5p13 and contains 10 exons. The GHR exists in a pre-dimerized form on the cell surface. In contrast to previous models, it is now recognized that dimerization per se is insufficient to initiate signaling ( 35 ). GH binds to the GHR via two binding sites – initial binding is via the high affinity site 1 followed by binding to the low affinity binding site 2 ( 36 ). GH binding induces a conformational change in the dimerized GHR including rotation of one of the GHR subunits (see Figure 2 ). This results in locking together of the extracellular receptor-receptor interaction domain and repositioning of the box 1 motifs in
