Disorders of Growth Hormone in Childhood
KEYWORDS: growth, pubmed, hormone, pituitary, deficiency, growth hormone, journal, patients, igf-i, endocrinology, mutations, clinical, children, clinical endocrinology, height


rotation of one of the GHR subunits (see Figure 2 ). This results in locking together of the extracellular receptor-receptor interaction domain and repositioning of the box 1 motifs in the intracellular domain increasing the distance between them. In turn this leads to repositioning of tyrosine kinases, including JAK2 ( 37 ). This repositioning is crucial to JAK2 activation. In the inactive state two JAK2 molecules (each attached to one of two dimerized GHRs) are positioned so that the kinase domain of one JAK2 molecule interacts with the inhibitory pseudokinase domain of the other JAK2 molecule. After repositioning, due to the conformational change induced by GH binding, the inhibitory kinase-pseudokinase interaction is lost and the kinase domains of each JAK2 molecule interact with each other leading to JAK2 activation ( 38 ). Activation of the GHR results in JAK2 mediated phosphorylation of the signal transducers and activator of transcription proteins (STAT), including STAT1, STAT3, STAT5A and STAT5B. STAT5A and 5B are recruited to the phosphorylated GHR where their Src homology 2 (SH2) domain is phosphorylated by JAK2. STAT5A/B then homo- or heterodimers and translocate to the nucleus ( 37 , 39 ) (see Figure 3 ). Activation of STAT1 and STAT3 is also via phosphorylation by JAK2 but this does not require recruitment to the GHR. JAK2 also phosphorylates the Src homology domain of SHC (leading to activation of the mitogen activated protein kinase pathway) and the insulin receptor substrates (IRS-1, IRS-2 and IRS-3), which, in turn activate phosphatidylinositol-3 kinase and induces translocation of GLUT4 to the membrane. In addition to activation of JAK2, activation of the GHR also leads to direct activation of the Src family kinases, which are capable of activating the mitogen activated protein kinase pathway ( 40 ), and activation of protein kinase C via phospholipase C. Activation of protein kinase C stimulates lipogenesis, c-fos expression and increases intracellular calcium levels by activating type 1 calcium channels. Figure 2. Growth hormone binding to the extracellular domain of the growth hormone receptor reorients the pre-existing homodimer so that one growth hormone receptor subunit rotates relative to the other. This structural reorientation is transmitted through the transmembrane domain resulting in a repositioning of tyrosine kinases bound to the cytoplasmic domain of the receptors. The distance between the box 1 motifs increases between inactive and active states and this movement is fundamental to activation of JAK2. Phosphorylation of JAK2
