Disorders of Growth Hormone in Childhood
KEYWORDS: growth, pubmed, hormone, pituitary, deficiency, growth hormone, journal, patients, igf-i, endocrinology, mutations, clinical, children, clinical endocrinology, height


cytoplasmic domain of the receptors. The distance between the box 1 motifs increases between inactive and active states and this movement is fundamental to activation of JAK2. Phosphorylation of JAK2 in turn leads to phosphorylation of STAT molecules, activation of the MAPK cascade and activation of IRS-1. STAT5a and STAT5b homo/heterodimerize and translocate to the nucleus. Figure kindly supplied by Dr Andrew Brooks, Institute for Molecular Bioscience, The University of Queensland. GH signal transduction is regulated via several mechanisms: JAK2 is autoinhibitory with the pseudokinase domain inhibiting the catalytic domain ( 41 ), SHP1 binds to and dephosphorylates JAK2 in response to GH and GH also phosphorylates the transmembrane signal regulatory glycoprotein SIRPα1 which dephosphorylates JAK2 and the GHR. The net result of GH signal transduction is the transcription of a set of GH dependent genes and the production of IGF-I the combination of which mediates the actions of GH including effects on cell proliferation, bone density, glucose homeostasis and serum lipids. Insulin Like Growth Factors, Their Binding Proteins and Signal Transduction INSULIN LIKE GROWTH FACTORS The two insulin-like growth factors, IGF-I and IGF-II, are single chain polypeptide hormones sharing 50% homology with insulin. IGF-I is a 70 amino acid 7.5 kDa protein with four domains – A, B, C and D. The prohormone also contains a c-terminal peptide that is cleaved in the Golgi apparatus before secretion. IGF-II is a 67 amino acid peptide also with a molecular weight of 7.5 kDa. The mitogenic and, in part, the metabolic effects of GH are mediated via IGF-I rather than IGF-II. The IGFs circulate bound to the IGF binding proteins (IGFBPs), of which there are six classical high affinity IGFBPs. The IGFs form a ternary complex with an IGFBP and the Acid Labile Subunit (ALS), an 85kDa protein secreted by the liver. 99% of serum IGF-I is bound to a ternary complex which acts to prolong the half-life of IGF-I ( 42 ). IGF-I is produced in both the liver and in peripheral tissues and thus can act in an autocrine and paracrine manner. IGF RECEPTORS The IGF-1R is a transmembrane heterotetramer consisting of consisting of two extracellular α chains and two membrane-spanning β chains linked by several disulphide bonds ( 43 ). Ligand binding sites are present in the α subunits while the β subunits contain the juxtamembrane domain, tyrosine kinase domain and a carboxy terminal domain ( 44 ).
