Disorders of Growth Hormone in Childhood
KEYWORDS: growth, pubmed, hormone, pituitary, deficiency, growth hormone, journal, patients, igf-i, endocrinology, mutations, clinical, children, clinical endocrinology, height


43 ). Ligand binding sites are present in the α subunits while the β subunits contain the juxtamembrane domain, tyrosine kinase domain and a carboxy terminal domain ( 44 ). Ligand binding to the α subunit activates the intrinsic tyrosine kinase activity of the β subunit which leads to autophosphorylation of tyrosine kinases in the juxtamembrane, tyrosine kinase and carboxy terminal domains. This autophosphorylation provides docking sites for substrates including the insulin receptor substrates (IRS-1, -2, -3, -4) and Shc. IRS-1 and Shc recruit the growth factor receptor bound protein 2 that associates with son of sevenless to activate the MAPK pathway. IRS-1 also activates PI3K via its regulatory subunit, p85, leading to activation of AKT which phosphorylates BAD and activates mTOR leading to inhibition of apoptosis and stimulation of proliferation. A summary of IGF-I signal transduction is given in Figure 3 . Mouse studies have delineated the relative contribution to growth of the GH-IGF system – deletion of Igf1 or Igf2 results in a 40% reduction in birth weight with a reduction of 55% where Igf1r is deleted ( 45 ). Deletion of Igf1 with Igf1r or Igf2 leads to a 70% reduction in birth weight and death from respiratory distress at birth ( 45 ) whereas the Igf2r appears to negatively regulate growth as deletion of this gene results in an increase in size to 130% of wild type. IGF-I is produced in both the liver and in peripheral tissues and thus can act in an autocrine and paracrine manner. It appears that autocrine/paracrine IGF-I is more important for growth than liver derived IGF-I as a hepatic specific deletion of Igf1 in mouse resulted in no impairment of growth despite a 75% reduction in serum IGF-I concentrations ( 46 ) while a triple liver specific deletion of Igf1/Igfals/Igfbp3 resulted in a 97.5% reduction in circulating IGF-I concentrations with a 6% decrease in body length ( 47 ). Figure 3. IGF-I Signal Transduction. Binding of IGF-I leads to phosphorylation and activation of IRS-1 which, in turn, activates the PI3K and MAPK pathways. DIAGNOSIS OF GROWTH HORMONE DEFICIENCY IN CHILDHOOD The diagnosis of growth hormone deficiency in childhood is multifactorial process and includes 1) auxological assessment 2) biochemical tests of the GH-IGF-I axis and 3) radiological evaluation of the hypothalamus and pituitary (normally with MR imaging). Prior to evaluation of the GH-IGF-I axis in a short child other diagnosis such
