Disorders of Growth Hormone in Childhood
KEYWORDS: growth, pubmed, hormone, pituitary, deficiency, growth hormone, journal, patients, igf-i, endocrinology, mutations, clinical, children, clinical endocrinology, height


the GH-IGF-I axis and 3) radiological evaluation of the hypothalamus and pituitary (normally with MR imaging). Prior to evaluation of the GH-IGF-I axis in a short child other diagnosis such as familial short stature, hypothyroidism, Turner syndrome, chronic illness such as Crohn’s disease and skeletal dysplasias should be considered and evaluated appropriately. Patients to be evaluated for growth hormone deficiency include ( 48 , 49 ): 1. Severe short stature (defined height >3 SD below mean) 2. Height more than 1.5 SD below mid parental height 3. Height >2 SD below mean with height velocity over 1 year >1 SD below the mean for chronological age or a decrease of more than 0.5 SD in height over 1 year in children aged >2 years 4. In the absence of short stature – a height velocity more than 2 SD below mean over 1 year or >1.5 SD below mean sustained over 2 years 5. Signs indicative of an intracranial lesion or history of brain tumor, cranial irradiation, or other organic pituitary abnormality. 6. Radiological evidence of a pituitary abnormality 7. Signs and/or symptoms of neonatal GHD Etiology Disorders of GH can be divided into those that cause growth hormone deficiency or growth hormone excess. In childhood growth hormone deficiency is rare with an incidence of 1 in 4000 while the incidence of childhood GH excess is not known but only around 200 cases have been reported in the literature ( 50 ). Causes of GH deficiency are listed in Table 1 . Table 1. Causes of Growth Hormone Deficiency View in own window Cause Examples Idiopathic Genetic GHRHR mutations GH1 mutations Structural brain malformations Pituitary stalk interruption syndrome Rathke’s cyst Agenesis of corpus callosum Septo-optic dysplasia Holoprosencephaly Midline Tumors Craniopharyngioma Optic nerve Glioma Germinoma Pituitary adenoma Cranial Irradiation Traumatic Brain Injury Road Traffic Accident CNS infections Inflammation and Auto-immunity Sarcoidosis Langerhans Cell Histiocytosis Hypophysitis Psychosocial deprivation Clinical Presentation of GH Deficiency GH deficiency can present either in isolation (isolated GHD - IGHD) or in combination with other pituitary hormone insufficiencies (multiple pituitary hormone deficiency - MPHD). In the neonatal period MPHD typically presents with reduced penile size, episodes of hypoglycemia, and prolonged unconjugated hyperbilirubinemia. MPHD is associated with breech delivery, adverse incidents in pregnancy, and admission to the newborn intensive care unit ( 51 ). Children with severe growth hormone deficiency often appear young for their age and have midface
