Disorders of Growth Hormone in Childhood
KEYWORDS: growth, pubmed, hormone, pituitary, deficiency, growth hormone, journal, patients, igf-i, endocrinology, mutations, clinical, children, clinical endocrinology, height


adverse incidents in pregnancy, and admission to the newborn intensive care unit ( 51 ). Children with severe growth hormone deficiency often appear young for their age and have midface hypoplasia and increased truncal adiposity (see Figure 4 ). The major clinical feature of GH deficiency is growth failure; typically, this occurs after the first year of life but may be apparent earlier in severe GHD. The earliest manifestations are a reduction in height velocity followed by a reduction in height standard deviation score (SDS) adjusted for mean parental height SDS. The child’s height SDS will ultimately fall below -2SD with the time taken to achieve this depending on the severity and duration of GHD. Figure 4. Child with Laron syndrome. Short stature with typical facial appearance of GH insensitivity with midface hypoplasia, this finding is common to GH deficiency as well. Biochemical Assessment of the GH-IGF-I Axis Multiple assays have been developed to measure GH in serum. A consensus statement of the GH-IGF-I research society in 2000 recommended that assays used should use monoclonal antibodies to measure the 22kDa variant of human GH and that the reference preparation should be the WHO standard 88/624 (a recombinant human 22kDa GH at 3 IU = 1mg) ( 48 , 52 ). Growth Hormone Stimulation Tests and GH Profiles A number of growth hormone stimulation tests have been developed and can be divided into screening tests or definitive tests. Screening tests include exercise, fasting, levodopa, and clonidine and are characterized by low toxicity, ease of administration but low specificity. Definitive tests include the insulin tolerance test, glucagon, and arginine stimulation tests. Using the auxological criteria above a peak GH concentration below 10µg/L has traditionally been used to support the diagnosis of GHD. GHD is not a dichotomous state but exists as a continuum from severe GHD to normality and there is known to be an overlap in peak GH concentrations between normal children and those with GHD. For this reason, and due to the advent of more sensitive monoclonal antibodies based on the recombinant human GH reference standard, some units will use a more stringent cut-off for the diagnosis of GHD e.g., 7µg/L. Where the diagnosis is isolated idiopathic GHD two pharmacological tests are required. Only one provocative test of GH secretion is required in children with one or more of the following criteria: 1. Central nervous system pathology affecting the pituitary
