Disorders of Growth Hormone in Childhood
KEYWORDS: growth, pubmed, hormone, pituitary, deficiency, growth hormone, journal, patients, igf-i, endocrinology, mutations, clinical, children, clinical endocrinology, height


tests are required. Only one provocative test of GH secretion is required in children with one or more of the following criteria: 1. Central nervous system pathology affecting the pituitary or hypothalamus 2. A history of cranial irradiation 3. An identified pathological genetic variant known to be associated with GHD 4. Multiple pituitary hormone deficiency INSULIN TOLERANCE TEST The gold standard test is considered to be the Insulin Tolerance Test. This test relies upon an intravenous dose of insulin to induce hypoglycemia with a subsequent rise in GH expected as part of the counter regulatory response to hypoglycemia ( 53 ). Cortisol secretion also rises in response to hypoglycemia and thus this test also assesses the hypothalomo- pituitary-adrenal axis. The patient is required to fast overnight and, in the morning, a reliable intravenous line is inserted following which an insulin dose of 0.1units/kg is administered. The dose is reduced to 0.05 units/kg in children under 4 and where there is known or likely multiple pituitary hormone deficiency. This test is generally not recommended for infants and in this group the dose of insulin would be reduced further to 0.01units/kg. After administration of insulin there is careful bedside monitoring of blood glucose concentration and once the blood glucose has reached <2.6 mmol/L (47 mg/dL) the patient eats a high carbohydrate meal. Administration of 10% glucose at 2ml/kg may be required in order to restore adequate blood glucose concentrations. This should be prepared in advance of the start of the test along with an appropriate dose of IV hydrocortisone (this should be given after hypoglycemia where there is known adrenal insufficiency or where hypoglycemia is more severe or prolonged than expected). 50% dextrose is recommended by some for the correction of hypoglycemia during the test but administration of such hyperosmolar solutions has been associated with adverse outcome ( 54 ) including cerebral edema. Due to the risks associated with this test it should only ever be performed in a center with appropriate experience. GLUCAGON TEST The glucagon test is one of a number of safer alternative GH provocation tests. Intramuscular administration of glucagon leads to an increase in GH due to a rise in insulin levels compensating for the increase in serum glucose ( 55 ). Maximum GH peak occurs 2-3 hours after injection of glucagon. Although less common than with the insulin tolerance test hypoglycemia can occur with the glucagon stimulation
