Disorders of Growth Hormone in Childhood
KEYWORDS: growth, pubmed, hormone, pituitary, deficiency, growth hormone, journal, patients, igf-i, endocrinology, mutations, clinical, children, clinical endocrinology, height


glucose ( 55 ). Maximum GH peak occurs 2-3 hours after injection of glucagon. Although less common than with the insulin tolerance test hypoglycemia can occur with the glucagon stimulation test where there is an excessive insulin response. There should therefore be blood glucose monitoring throughout the test and a meal consumed at the end of the test. Nausea and vomiting are other common side effects. ARGININE STIMULATION TEST Arginine administration stimulates the release of GH by inhibiting somatostatin release. Following an overnight fast arginine is administered intravenously at 0.5g/kg (maximum dose 30g) over 30 minutes. Unlike glucagon or insulin, arginine does not directly cause hypoglycemia and thus the arginine stimulation test may be safer, particularly for those patients with predisposition to hypoglycemia. Examples of patients where an arginine test would be suitable where the insulin or glucagon-based tests would not be suitable include patients with diabetes and a history of seizures or children with disorders of cerebral glucose uptake (GLUT2 deficiency) where the patient should be continuously ketotic. Arginine can be combined with L-dopa or GHRH. For combined tests, particularly the arginine-GHRH test it is important to have a test specific cut off for the diagnosis of GHD as with a powerful stimulus of GH secretion a higher cut off is required (a normal peak GH response for arginine-GHRH has been defined at 19-120 µg/L( 56 )). GHRH can be used on its own as a provocative agent but is greatly affected by variations in somatostatin tone leading to a highly variable response. In addition, false negative tests may occur in children with hypothalamic damage. Oral agents used in GH stimulation tests include clonidine and L-Dopa. Both clonidine and L-Dopa act by increasing adrenergic tone to increase GHRH and decrease somatostatin levels. A fast of 6 hours is required prior to the test. Since clonidine is a drug used to lower blood pressure hypotension is a potential side effect. Drowsiness is also a frequent occurrence during this test. INTERPRETATION Significant problems exist with GH stimulation tests – peak GH varies according to the stimulus used ( 57 ), false positive results in normal pre-pubertal children are frequent ( 56 ), the tests have poor reproducibility and there is also variability in GH level with GH assay used ( 58 ). Peak GH is also reduced in obesity and for adults BMI specific cut-offs for the diagnosis of GHD have
