Disorders of Growth Hormone in Childhood
KEYWORDS: growth, pubmed, hormone, pituitary, deficiency, growth hormone, journal, patients, igf-i, endocrinology, mutations, clinical, children, clinical endocrinology, height


variability in GH level with GH assay used ( 58 ). Peak GH is also reduced in obesity and for adults BMI specific cut-offs for the diagnosis of GHD have been developed ( 59 ). Low GH levels to provocation tests frequently occur in the immediate peripubertal period. Given the known action of the sex steroids to augment endogenous GH secretion this has led some pediatric endocrinologists to prime children of peripubertal age but without clinical signs of puberty undergoing GH stimulation testing with exogenous sex steroids (diethylstilbestrol, ethinylestradiol and testosterone can be used). Around 50% of pediatric endocrinologists routinely use priming for GH stimulation tests( 60 ). Some endocrinologists will prime boys >9 years and girls >8 years others will prime only those with a delayed puberty >13-14 years in boys and > 11 or 12 years in girls. In one study by Marin et al( 61 ) where 61% of healthy prepubertal children failed to demonstrate a peak GH >7µg/L to three GH provocative tests (exercise, insulin and arginine) but after administration of estrogen 95% of these children demonstrated a peak GH >7 µg/L. Multiple other studies have confirmed this result in healthy peripubertal children with growth impairment ( 62 ). Thus, the argument in favor of priming is that it prevents false positive diagnoses of GHD in this group. The concerns about priming are that it only briefly augments the GH response which then returns to suboptimal levels which may be insufficient for normal growth. Thus priming may result in failure to treat children with transient peripubertal GH deficiency who would have benefitted from treatment ( 62 ). 24 hour or overnight 12-hour GH profiles with measurement of serum GH every 20 minutes have been proposed as an alternative assessment of GH secretion. The obvious disadvantages are the large number of samples required and costs, particularly of the overnight hospital admission. While a 24 hour GH profile has a high reproducibility there is also a large degree of inter individual variability limiting the usefulness of the procedure as a diagnostic test ( 63 ). A diagnosis of GH neurosecretory dysfunction can be made where the patient presents with signs/symptoms of GHD with low IGF-I concentration, a normal peak GH level to pharmacological stimulation but absence of spontaneous GH peaks on 24 hour serum GH profile ( 64 ). This diagnosis has not been identified in adults and
