Disorders of Growth Hormone in Childhood
KEYWORDS: growth, pubmed, hormone, pituitary, deficiency, growth hormone, journal, patients, igf-i, endocrinology, mutations, clinical, children, clinical endocrinology, height


peak GH level to pharmacological stimulation but absence of spontaneous GH peaks on 24 hour serum GH profile ( 64 ). This diagnosis has not been identified in adults and given the interindividual variability in 24-hour GH profiles caution should be made before coming to GH neurosecretory dysfunction as a diagnosis, particularly where there is no history of cranial irradiation. Measurement of IGF-I and/or IGFBP-3 IGF-I and IGFBP-3 are, unlike GH, present at relatively constant concentrations in serum throughout the day and can therefore be measured by a simple blood test without the need for pharmacological stimulation. IGF-I is suppressed in states of poor nutrition and both IGF-I and IGFBP-3 concentrations vary with age and pubertal stage, thus normative ranges taking into account age, Tanner stage, and BMI have been recommended ( 52 ). The majority of IGF-I exists bound in the ternary IGF-I/IGFBP-3/ALS complex (thus free IGF-I is very low and difficult to measure) and assays therefore require a step to remove the IGF binding proteins before measurement of total IGF-I. Incomplete removal of IGF-I can potentially lead to false low IGF-I concentrations. Both IGF-I and IGFBP-3 have a low sensitivity (~50%) with a high specificity (97%) ( 65 , 66 ) and thus are of limited value in isolation. They do, however, form a vital component of the assessment of a child for GHD combined with auxological, other biochemical and radiological data. Neuroimaging Identifying abnormalities of the hypothalamo-pituitary axis provides powerful evidence for the diagnosis of GH deficiency in the short child. The most common abnormality identified in congenital GHD is the so-called pituitary stalk interruption syndrome consisting of a variable combination of anterior pituitary hypoplasia, ectopic posterior pituitary, and thinning or interruption of the pituitary stalk ( 67 ). Loss of the vascular pituitary stalk increases the risk of MPHD 27-fold but required gadolinium-DTPA administration to reliably distinguish presence/absence of vascular stalk ( 68 ). Other potential findings in congenital GHD include 1. Septo-optic dysplasia – combination of absence of septum pellucidium, optic nerve hypoplasia and hypopituitarism. May be associated with an ectopic posterior pituitary and anterior pituitary hypoplasia. 2. Abnormalities of the corpus callosum – agenesis, corpus callosum cysts 3. Holoprosencephaly 4. Eye abnormalities – microphthalmia or anophthalmia ( GLI2 or OTX2 mutations) 5. Absent olfactory bulbs ( FGFR1, FRF8 and PROKR2 mutations) 6. Pituitary hyperplasia (seen in patients with PROP1 mutations) 7. Hypothalamic hamartoma (Pallister-Hall
