Disorders of Growth Hormone in Childhood
KEYWORDS: growth, pubmed, hormone, pituitary, deficiency, growth hormone, journal, patients, igf-i, endocrinology, mutations, clinical, children, clinical endocrinology, height


or anophthalmia ( GLI2 or OTX2 mutations) 5. Absent olfactory bulbs ( FGFR1, FRF8 and PROKR2 mutations) 6. Pituitary hyperplasia (seen in patients with PROP1 mutations) 7. Hypothalamic hamartoma (Pallister-Hall syndrome) 8. Empty sella 9. Absence of the internal carotid artery 10. Arnold-Chiari malformations 11. Arachnoid cysts 12. Syringomyelia In acquired GHD tumors affecting the hypothalamo-pituitary axis will frequently be identified – craniopharyngiomas, adenomas, and germinomas. Thickening of the pituitary stalk may be identified in Langerhans cell histiocytosis. As well as a role in the diagnosis of GH deficiency MR imaging can also help predict which patients will require re-testing of growth hormone status at the end of growth. Young adults with MRI abnormalities have an increased risk of persisting GHD into adulthood ( 69 ). GH Therapy All children diagnosed with GH deficiency should be treated with recombinant human growth hormone as soon as possible after the diagnosis is made. The aim of treatment is to normalize height – both to within the normal range for the population and to achieve a height within the child’s target range. GH is administered as a once daily subcutaneous injection in the evening. Starting dose is usually in the range of 25-35µg/kg/day with maximum dose being 50µg/kg/day. In children with more severe GHD (evidence by a lower peak GH level, more severe presentation, MRI abnormality) the response to GH is better and often height can be normalized with lower doses of GH e.g., 17-35 µg/kg/day ( 70 ). Prediction models (discussed below) are available and in GHD have been shown to reduce variability in response but do not improve height gain ( 71 ). Children receiving GH therapy should be seen every 3-6 months and the GH dose titrated to height velocity and height gain. Monitoring of IGF-I concentrations is recommended to avoid prolonged periods of supraphysiological IGF-I levels. In general, IGF-I should be measured at least annually but can be measured more frequently particularly where there has been a recent increase in dose. A reduction in dose would normally be considered were two consecutive IGF-I levels were above +2 SD. As a guide to dose adjustment a 20% alteration in dose leads, on average, to a 1 SD change in IGF-I concentration ( 72 ). Treatment is continued until the child is post-pubertal and growth is either completely ceased or is <2cm per year. A growth chart from a child with
