Disorders of Growth Hormone in Childhood
KEYWORDS: growth, pubmed, hormone, pituitary, deficiency, growth hormone, journal, patients, igf-i, endocrinology, mutations, clinical, children, clinical endocrinology, height


concentration ( 72 ). Treatment is continued until the child is post-pubertal and growth is either completely ceased or is <2cm per year. A growth chart from a child with congenital GHD treated with recombinant human GH therapy is shown in Figure 5 . Currently there is no single accepted definition of poor response to GH treatment with suggestions including change in height SDS <0.3 or 0.5 during the first year of treatment, change in height velocity <+3cm/year during 1 st year of treatment, change in height velocity <+1SD or a height velocity <-1 SD during the first year of therapy. Depending on the definition used 20-35% of patients display a poor response ( 73 ). It is important to discuss the possibility of a poor response with the family prior to staring therapy. Figure 5. Growth Chart from child with GH deficiency. GH therapy is started at age 4 with height SDS -3.7 SD. There is a sustained improvement in height velocity leading to a final height of +1.5 SD. Multiple long-acting preparations of growth hormone are at various stages of development ( 74 ). A phase three trial in adults with GHD have been completed and has demonstrated similar efficacy with a once weekly injection of a long-acting GH compared to conventional daily GH ( 75 ). Trials in children are currently ongoing. Prediction of Response to GH Therapy and the d3-Growth Hormone Receptor Polymorphism Initial work predicting the response to GH therapy was based on auxological and biochemical data, particularly from the Kabi International Growth Study (KIGS), a large surveillance study of over 62,000 patients treated with GH in childhood. Prediction models developed included models for idiopathic isolated GH deficiency ( 76 ) and early onset isolated GH deficiency ( 77 ). For the idiopathic isolated GH deficiency prediction model the model explained 61% of the variability on GH response. Factors included in the prediction model were peak GH during stimulation test, age at start of GH therapy, height SDS minus mean parental height SDS, growth hormone dose and weight SDS. Other prediction models derived from alternative datasets have also been produced for GHD ( 78 , 79 ). Around 50% of the European population are homo- or heterozygous for a polymorphism of the GHR that leads to deletion of exon 3 and 22 amino acid residues near the N-terminal. In 2004 it was reported that GH
