Disorders of Growth Hormone in Childhood
KEYWORDS: growth, pubmed, hormone, pituitary, deficiency, growth hormone, journal, patients, igf-i, endocrinology, mutations, clinical, children, clinical endocrinology, height


or heterozygous for a polymorphism of the GHR that leads to deletion of exon 3 and 22 amino acid residues near the N-terminal. In 2004 it was reported that GH signaling via the GHR with the d3 was increased and that children treated with GH under the SGA license or with idiopathic short stature showed an increased first year growth velocity where they were homo- or heterozygous for the d3 polymorphism ( 80 ). Since this original report there have been many studies assessing the effect on the d3 polymorphism on response to GH therapy in GH deficiency, Turner syndrome, SGA children and in children with idiopathic short stature. A meta-analysis of these studies in 2011 indicated that, compared to children homozygous for the full-length allele, children homozygous for the d3 polymorphism have an increase in 1 st year height velocity SDS of 0.14 SD and children heterozygous for the d3 polymorphism has an increase of 0.09 SD ( 81 ). Thus, it appears that the d3 polymorphism has a modest effect mediating the response to GH therapy. The PREDICT study was a large international observational study which assessed the contribution of single nucleotide polymorphisms in over 100 candidate genes to GH response in a cohort of children with GH deficiency or Turner syndrome ( 82 , 83 ). GH response was assessed by change in IGF-I concentrations over 1 month and by height velocity change over the first year of treatment. Carriage of 10 polymorphisms within 7 different genes, related in particular to cell signaling, were identified to be associated with change in IGF-I over the first month of GH treatment and height velocity over the first year of treatment. In addition to assessing association between genotype and response to GH therapy the PREDICT study also assessed the use of basal gene expression in peripheral blood mononuclear cells to predict GH response. There were 1188 genes where the expression level was associated with low response and 865 genes where expression level was associated with a high response to GH therapy ( 83 ). Network analysis of the human interactome associated with these genes indicated that glucocorticoid, estrogen, and insulin receptor signaling, and protein ubiquitination pathways were most represented by the genes where association was linked to high or low response to GH therapy. A recent genome wide association study examining GH responsiveness did not identify any significant SNPs in
