Disorders of Growth Hormone in Childhood
KEYWORDS: growth, pubmed, hormone, pituitary, deficiency, growth hormone, journal, patients, igf-i, endocrinology, mutations, clinical, children, clinical endocrinology, height


the genes where association was linked to high or low response to GH therapy. A recent genome wide association study examining GH responsiveness did not identify any significant SNPs in their primary analysis (the primary analysis utilized all diagnostic groups for GH treatment together) ( 84 ). They did identify 4 SNPs in a secondary analysis stratifying by diagnosis and limiting to European ancestry – the closest associate genes are UBE4B, LAPTM4B, COL1A1/NT5DC1 and CLEC7A/OLR1 ( 84 ) . INHERITED DISORDERS OF THE GH-IGF-I AXIS Genetic Disorders Causing Isolated Growth Hormone Deficiency Initial reports suggested that only around 12% of cases of isolated growth hormone deficiency were associated with abnormalities of the hypothalamus or pituitary on MR imaging ( 85 ). More recent studies have indicated that up to 26% of cases of isolated GHD are associated with MR abnormalities ( 86 ), particularly anterior pituitary hypoplasia and ectopic posterior pituitary. Within the remaining cohort of patients with IGHD an increasing number of genetic causes have been identified. IGHD TYPE 1 IGHD type 1a is inherited in an autosomal recessive manner and is due to homozygous deletions and nonsense mutations in the GH1 gene leading to a complete absence of the GH protein from serum. The clinical presentation is with severe growth hormone deficiency and growth failure from 6 months of life with height SDS >4.5 SD below mean. Typically patients respond well to initial therapy with GH but then develop anti-GH antibodies leading to a loss of efficacy ( 87 ). Treatment with IGF-I is an option for such patients. IGHD type 1b is also autosomal recessive and caused by mutations in the GH1 gene – either mis-sense, splice site or nonsense or by mutations within the GHRHR (the gene encoding the GHRH receptor). The clinical phenotype in IGHD type 1b is milder than that of IGHD 1a with the presence of low but detectable levels of GH to stimulation tests. These patients show a good response to treatment with GH without the development of anti-GH antibodies. The GHRHR is a 423 amino acid G-coupled protein receptor. It contains seven transmembrane domains encoded for by a 13-exon gene on chromosome 7p15. While human mutations leading to isolated GH deficiency have been found in the GHRHR gene, to date no such mutations have been identified in the gene encoding the ligand, GHRH. The initial link between a GHRHR mutation and
