Disorders of Growth Hormone in Childhood
KEYWORDS: growth, pubmed, hormone, pituitary, deficiency, growth hormone, journal, patients, igf-i, endocrinology, mutations, clinical, children, clinical endocrinology, height


have been found in the GHRHR gene, to date no such mutations have been identified in the gene encoding the ligand, GHRH. The initial link between a GHRHR mutation and impaired growth was in the little mouse, where Lin et al identified an amino acid substitution in codon 60 of the mouse GHRHR ( 88 ) . The substitution of glycine for aspartic acid (D60G) prevented the binding of GHRH to the mutant receptor. Subsequent to the identification of the mutation in mouse a nonsense mutation (p.E72X) was identified in two patients in a consanguineous family of Indian ethnic origin ( 89 ). Since this initial report multiple families have been reported and splice site mutations, missense mutations, nonsense mutations, microdeletions and one mutation in the promoter ( 90 ). The clinical phenotype of an individual with a GHRHR mutation is that of autosomal recessive inheritance of IGHD, anterior pituitary hypoplasia (defined as pituitary height more than 2 SD below mean), GH concentrations are either undetectable or very low in response to provocation tests and IGF-I/IGFBP-3 levels are low. In contrast to patients with GH1 mutations midface hypoplasia, neonatal hypoglycemia and microphallus are less common. Intelligence is normal and affected individuals are fertile. Expression of GHRHR is upregulated by the pituitary transcription factor POU1F1 and this results in somatotroph hypertrophy. Because of this effect on somatotrophs anterior pituitary hypoplasia is commonly seen on MR imaging but there have been reports of GHRHR mutations with normal pituitary morphology ( 91 ). IGHD TYPE 2 IGHD Type 2 is an autosomal dominant disorder caused by mutations in the GH1 gene. The severity of GH deficiency is highly variable. While the name of the condition suggests only GH is affected, in practice loss of other pituitary hormones has been reported and patient must be followed up to identify these additional hormone deficiencies. Loss of TSH, ACTH, prolactin and gonadotrophins have all been reported ( 92 ). IGHD type 2 is most commonly caused by mutations that affect splicing of GH1, particularly splicing of exon 3 ( 93 ). The most frequent mutations are within the first six bp of the exon 3 donor splice site ( 93 ) but mutations in the exon 3 splice enhancers and intron splice enhancers have also been reported ( 90 ). The exon 3 splice mutations lead to the exclusion of exon 3 and the production of
