Disorders of Growth Hormone in Childhood
KEYWORDS: growth, pubmed, hormone, pituitary, deficiency, growth hormone, journal, patients, igf-i, endocrinology, mutations, clinical, children, clinical endocrinology, height


3 splice enhancers and intron splice enhancers have also been reported ( 90 ). The exon 3 splice mutations lead to the exclusion of exon 3 and the production of a 17.5kDa isoform of GH lacking amino acids 31-71, responsible for connecting helix 1 and helix 2 of the mature GH molecule. This abnormal 17.5 kDa variant GH is retained within the endoplasmic reticulum, disrupts the Golgi apparatus and reduces the stability of the 22kDa GH isoform ( 94 ). In addition to GH trafficking of other hormones including ACTH is disrupted. A mouse model overexpressing the 17.5kDa isoform demonstrated anterior pituitary hypoplasia with invasion by activated macrophages. The loss of additional pituitary hormones is likely to result from the disrupted hormone trafficking as well as the pituitary inflammation and destruction. Children with IGHD type II may display anterior pituitary hypoplasia on MR imaging. Currently there is no specific treatment in man to ameliorate the effects of the 17.5kDa isoform. A small interfering RNA based therapy has been successful in the mouse model of IGHD type 2 ( 95 ) but the delivery system used involved inserting the short hairpin RNA as a transgene. Successful implementation of such a therapy in humans will require an alternative mode of delivery capable of crossing the blood-brain barrier. As well as the classical exon 3 splice site mutations IGHD type 2 is also caused by missense mutations. These have been reported to lead to impaired GH release ( 96 ) or to alter folding of GH ( 97 ). IGHD TYPE 3 IGHD Type 3 is of x-linked recessive inheritance and the males described were both immunoglobulin and GH deficient. A single patient has been reported with a mutation in the BTK gene (resulting in exon skipping) with x-linked agammaglobulinemia and GH deficiency ( 98 ). One family has been reported with isolated GHD caused by mutations in RNPC3 ( 99 ). The three affected sisters had compound heterozygous mutations in RNPC3 (p.P474T and p.R502X) and presented with classical severe isolated GHD with anterior pituitary hypoplasia on MR imaging. RNPC3 encodes a component of the minor spliceosome responsible for splicing of a small subset (<0.5%) of introns which are present in ~3% of human genes. Given that splicing is an essential basic process present in all tissues it is interesting that the phenotype seen is pituitary specific. The patients displayed relatively minor perturbations
