Disorders of Growth Hormone in Childhood
KEYWORDS: growth, pubmed, hormone, pituitary, deficiency, growth hormone, journal, patients, igf-i, endocrinology, mutations, clinical, children, clinical endocrinology, height


human genes. Given that splicing is an essential basic process present in all tissues it is interesting that the phenotype seen is pituitary specific. The patients displayed relatively minor perturbations in splicing which is hypothesized to be tolerated in most tissues, but not in the developing pituitary. Response to GH treatment is reported to be excellent ( 100 ). Genetic Disorders Leading to Abnormal Pituitary Development and Multiple Pituitary Hormone Deficiency Mutations in an increasing number of genes lead to loss of multiple pituitary hormones including growth hormone (summarized in Table 2). A brief summary of each is given below – for an extensive review of pituitary development and it’s genetic control see Bancalari et al ( 101 ). HESX1 The paired homeobox domain protein HESX1 is one of the earliest specific markers of the pituitary primordium and it acts as a transcriptional repressor. Mutations in HESX1 are associated with septo-optic dysplasia ( 102 ) and MPHD ( 103 , 104 ) which can be inherited in an autosomal recessive or autosomal dominant pattern. In addition to the MRI appearances associated with septo-optic dysplasia patients with HESX1 mutations can have an ectopic posterior pituitary ( 104 ). OTX2 The OTX2 homeobox gene is a homologue of the Drosophila orthodenticle protein. It is expressed early in gastrulation and is involved in development of the central nervous system and eye. In humans OTX2 mutations have been identified in patients with anophthalmia or microphthalmia with isolated GHD or MPHD ( 105 ). On MR imaging an ectopic posterior pituitary and small anterior pituitary have been associated with OTX2 mutations. SOX3 SOX3 is a single exon gene located on the X chromosome, is expressed widely throughout the ventral diencephalon and is involved in the development of Rathke’s pouch ( 106 ). In humans SOX3 duplications ( 107 ) or polyalanine expansion ( 108 , 109 ) have been associated with X-linked hypopituitarism with or without mental retardation. The pituitary phenotype is variable from isolated GHD to MPHD. MRI findings may include anterior pituitary hypoplasia, ectopic posterior pituitary, and corpus callosum abnormalities. PITX2 PITX2 is a homeodomain transcription factor expressed in the rostral brain and oral ectoderm during development and throughout the anterior pituitary in adult life. Axenfeld-Riegler syndrome is an autosomal dominant disorder characterized by ocular, dental and craniofacial abnormalities in addition to pituitary abnormalities. Mutations in PITX2 have been found in patients with
