Disorders of Growth Hormone in Childhood
KEYWORDS: growth, pubmed, hormone, pituitary, deficiency, growth hormone, journal, patients, igf-i, endocrinology, mutations, clinical, children, clinical endocrinology, height


adult life. Axenfeld-Riegler syndrome is an autosomal dominant disorder characterized by ocular, dental and craniofacial abnormalities in addition to pituitary abnormalities. Mutations in PITX2 have been found in patients with Axenfeld-Riegler syndrome and GH deficiency ( 110 ). LHX3 and LHX4 LHX3 and LHX4 encode LIM domain proteins expressed in Rathke’s pouch involved in transcriptional regulation. Homozygous loss of function mutations in LHX3 have been associated with hypopituitarism, sensorineural deafness and cervical abnormalities (rigid cervical spine and cervical spina bifida occulta) ( 111 , 112 ). The MRI appearance may be of a small or enlarged pituitary or a hypointense lesion compatible with a microadenoma. Mutations in LHX4 lead to a range of pituitary dysfunction from GHD to MPHD ( 113 ) with a pituitary phenotype including anterior pituitary hypoplasia, ectopic posterior pituitary and in one family there was pointed cerebellar tonsils suggestive of an Arnold Chiari Malformation ( 114 ). GLI2 GLI2 is a mediator of Sonic Hedgehog signal transduction and is expressed in the oral ectoderm and ventral diencephalon. Heterozygous mutations in GLI2 lead to a variable combination of holoprosencephaly and hypopituitarism ( 115 , 116 ). Other clinical findings may include a cleft lip/palate, postaxial polydactyly and anophthalmia. FGFR1, FGF8 and PROKR2 FGFR1, FGF8 and PROKR2 were previously known to be involved in the pathogenesis of Kallmann syndrome (hypogonadotropic hypogonadism with anosmia). Screening of a cohort of 103 patients with hypopituitarism identified mutations in these Kallmann syndrome genes in eight patients (FGFR1 n=3, FGF8 n=1, PROKR2 n=4) ( 117 ). An EPP was identified in one patient with an FGFR1 mutation and a hypoplastic anterior pituitary in one patient with a PROKR2 mutation. PROP1 Prophet of Pit-1 (PROP1) is a homeodomain transcription factor with expression limited to the anterior pituitary. It acts as a transcriptional repressor downregulating HESX1 and as an activator of POU1F1 . PROP1 mutations are associated with GH, prolactin, TSH and LH/FSH deficiency with rare cases of ACTH deficiency. PROP1 mutations are the commonest genetic cause of hereditary MPHD accounting for ~50% of familial cases ( 117 ). MRI findings include both small and large anterior pituitary glands and even extension of the pituitary to form a large suprasellar mass which waxes and wanes before involuting ( 118 ). Gonadotrophin deficiency in patients with PROP1 mutations is highly variable and can present with micropenis and cryptorchidism to delayed pubertal onset potentially indicating a role
