Disorders of Growth Hormone in Childhood
KEYWORDS: growth, pubmed, hormone, pituitary, deficiency, growth hormone, journal, patients, igf-i, endocrinology, mutations, clinical, children, clinical endocrinology, height


before involuting ( 118 ). Gonadotrophin deficiency in patients with PROP1 mutations is highly variable and can present with micropenis and cryptorchidism to delayed pubertal onset potentially indicating a role of PROP1 in maintenance of gonadotrophin function. POU1F1 The first genetic cause of multiple pituitary hormone deficiency, identified in 1992, was mutations in the POU1F1 transcription factor ( 119 ). It is essential for the development of somatotrophs, lactotrophs, and thyrotrophs, consequently mutations in POU1F1 lead to deficiency of GH, TSH and prolactin. Anterior pituitary size is most often small but can be normal with normal stalk and normally sited posterior pituitary. The hormone deficiencies can present at any time from birth to adolescence. IGSF1 Mutations in IGSF1 (immunoglobulin superfamily member 1) were identified initially as a cause of central hypothyroidism and macro-orchidism ( 120 ). IGSF1 is a membrane glycoprotein expressed in Rathke’s pouch. The identified mutations lead to aberrant protein trafficking and protein mislocalisation. In a small number of subjects mild or transient GHD has been identified ( 121 , 122 ). It is clear that the immunoglobulin superfamily of proteins may have a wider role in controlling pituitary hormone secretion with mutations in immunoglobulin superfamily member 10 associated with constitutional delay in growth and puberty ( 123 ). ARNT2 A single family with a homozygous frameshift loss of function mutation in ARNT2 has been described. The affected individuals demonstrated multiple pituitary hormone deficiency including diabetes insipidus along with post-natal microcephaly, frontal and temporal lobe hypoplasia, seizures, developmental delay, visual impairment and congenital abnormalities of the urinary tract ( 124 ). ARNT2 is a HLH transcription factor which is known to dimerize with SIM1, a known regulator of neuronal differentiation. TCF7L1 Transcription factor 7-like 1 is a regulator of WNT/β-catenin signaling and is expressed in the developing forebrain and pituitary. Two patients with heterozygous missense variants have been reported – one diagnosed with GHD and one with low IGF-I concentrations ( 124 ). MRI findings are listed in Table 2. In both families there were unaffected family members also carrying the variant. Given functional studies confirmed the deleterious nature of the variant this is likely to represent autosomal dominant inheritance with variable penetrance. RAX RAX encodes a transcription factor involved in eye and forebrain development. A child with a homozygous frameshift truncating mutation in RAX has been identified with a phenotype including anophthalmia, bilateral cleft lip and palate
