Disorders of Growth Hormone in Childhood
KEYWORDS: growth, pubmed, hormone, pituitary, deficiency, growth hormone, journal, patients, igf-i, endocrinology, mutations, clinical, children, clinical endocrinology, height


factor involved in eye and forebrain development. A child with a homozygous frameshift truncating mutation in RAX has been identified with a phenotype including anophthalmia, bilateral cleft lip and palate with congenital hypopituitarism ( 125 ). LAMB2 Laminin β2 is a basement membrane protein with autosomal recessive mutations associated with congenital nephrotic syndrome, ocular abnormalities and developmental delay. One patient has been reported with isolated growth hormone deficiency, optic nerve hypoplasia, and a small anterior pituitary in association with focal segmental glomerulosclerosis with a compound heterozygous missense mutation in LAMB2 ( 126 ). TBC1D32 TBC1 Domain Family member 32 is thought to be a ciliary protein and a cause of oral facial digital syndrome type IX ( 127 ). Two families with biallelic mutations in TBC1D32 and hypopituitarism have been reported ( 128 ). For the first family there were two affected siblings and they had panhypopituitarism with an absent anterior pituitary, ectopic posterior pituitary and retinal dystrophy while in a third family the affected proband had anterior pituitary hypoplasia, growth hormone deficiency and developmental delay ( 128 ). Facial dysmorphism was present with prominent forehead, low set posteriorly rotated ears, hypertelorism and a flat nasal bridge. Autosomal recessive mutations in another ciliopathy related gene IFT172 have been reported to cause GHD with an ectopic posterior pituitary ( 129 ). MAGEL2 and L1CAM MAGEL2 and L1CAM mutations have been identified in patients with a combination of hypopituitarism and arthrogryposis ( 130 ). MAGEL2 mutations cause Schaaf-Yang syndrome which is similar to Prader-Willi Syndrome with hypotonic, obesity, developmental delay, contractures and dysmorphism. GHD, diabetes insipidus and ACTH deficiency have been reported in 4 patients. In one patient with L1 syndrome due to a L1CAM mutation arthrogryposis was present with GHD. EIF2S3 EIF2S3 encodes a protein involved in the initiation of protein synthesis with mutations associated with developmental delay and microcephaly. In three patients’ mutations in EIF2S3 have been associated with GHD and central hypothyroidism ( 131 ). Inheritance is X-linked. FOXA2 FOXA2 is a transcription factor involved in pituitary and pancreatic B-cell development and de novo heterozygous mutations cause a phenotype of congenital hypopituitarism with congenital hyperinsulinism ( 132 ). OTHER MUTATIONS In addition to the above mutations in CDON ( 133 ) (nonsense heterozygous) , GPR161( 134 ) (homozygous missense) and ROBO1( 135 ) (heterozygous frameshift, nonsense and missense) have been associated with pituitary stalk interruption syndrome. Table 2. Genetic
