Disorders of Growth Hormone in Childhood
KEYWORDS: growth, pubmed, hormone, pituitary, deficiency, growth hormone, journal, patients, igf-i, endocrinology, mutations, clinical, children, clinical endocrinology, height


described a heterozygous glycine to aspartic acid substitution at amino acid 112 of the GH molecule resulting in impaired binding of the mutant GH to GHR. Reported mutations such as the R77C mutation ( 138 , 139 ) have also been found in normally statured relatives and functional work has failed to identify any difference between wild type and R77C GH on GHR binding, activation of the JAK/STAT pathway, secretion studies or ability to induce cell proliferation ( 140 , 141 ). The clinical scenario of normal to high GH concentrations with low IGF-I levels is not uncommon and a diagnosis of bioinactive GH should not be made unless a mutation is identified where there is a demonstration that the function of the variant GH is impaired. A homozygous missense mutation (C53S) in the GH1 gene was reported in a Serbian patient with height SDS of -3.6 at 9 years of age ( 142 ). Altered affinity for the GH receptor was demonstrated in functional studies, presumably due to alteration of the disulphide bond between Cys-53 and Cys-65 in the GH molecule. Laron Syndrome Laron syndrome, caused by loss of function mutations in the GHR gene( 143 ), was first described in 1966 ( 144 ). Since then more than 250 patients have been described in the literature with over 70 missense, nonsense, indels and splice mutations within the GHR gene ( 145 ). The majority of mutations describe are inherited in an autosomal recessive manner but autosomal dominant inheritance has been described in a small number of cases ( 146 ). Patients present with severe short stature having been born with normal birth size. The facial phenotype is similar to severe GH deficiency with frontal bossing and midface hypoplasia. Intellect, development and head circumference are normal. IGF-I, IGFBP-3 and ALS concentrations are low in serum with normal to raised baseline GH levels with raised peak stimulated GH level. Typical adult height is around -5 SD. Measurement of GHBP in serum is useful as, when markedly low, indicates absence of the extracellular component of the GHR. Since mutations can occur in the transmembrane or intracellular domains, the presence of GHBP in serum does not exclude a diagnosis of Laron syndrome. The standard diagnostic test is an IGF-I generation test. Specificity of this test is around 77-91% and when applied to a population with low prevalence of GH insensitivity the positive
