Disorders of Growth Hormone in Childhood
KEYWORDS: growth, pubmed, hormone, pituitary, deficiency, growth hormone, journal, patients, igf-i, endocrinology, mutations, clinical, children, clinical endocrinology, height


The standard diagnostic test is an IGF-I generation test. Specificity of this test is around 77-91% and when applied to a population with low prevalence of GH insensitivity the positive predictive value of the test is likely to be low ( 147 ). In addition, there is a limited normative data for the IGF-I generation test. Buckway at al reported the results of IGF-I generation tests in normal subjects and subjects with GH deficiency, Laron syndrome and idiopathic short stature ( 148 ). Sensitivity of the IGF-I generation test in this population (who all had the same E180 splice mutation in the GHR, was 77% (the cut off for a normal result on this test was an increase in IGF-I to >15ng/mL post-GH stimulation ( 149 )). Diagnosis of Laron syndrome therefore relies upon integration of clinical and biochemical findings and selecting patients for further genetic studies. Recombinant human IGF-I therapy provides limited benefit in improving height. In an observational study containing 28 patients with Laron syndrome the results of treatment with 120 mg/kg/day IGF-I for a mean duration of 5 years increased height SDS from -6.1 SD to -5.1 SD ( 150 ). In the first year of treatment there was a marked increase in height velocity from 2.8 to 8.7 cm but height velocity markedly decreased after the first year of treatment. In a separate report of 21 individuals with GH insensitivity – 5 of whom had Laron syndrome there was an increase in height SDS from baseline of +1.9 SD with treatment of 120 mcg/kg/day IGF-I for a mean of 10.5 years ( 151 ). The treatment effect is markedly lower than that of GH in children with severe congenital GH deficiency (an example of a growth chart of a child with Laron syndrome treated with IGF-I is given in Figure 6 ). While GH therapy stimulates both hepatic and local IGF-I production, subcutaneous injections of IGF-I do not simulate this local IGF-I production. In addition, GH therapy normalizes not only IGF-I levels but levels of IGFBP-3 and ALS whereas in GH insensitive subjects treated with IGF-I there is no increase in IGFBP-3 or ALS concentrations. Thus, it would be expected that the injected IGF-I would have a much lower half life than endogenous IGF-I. A combined therapy of IGF-I with IGFBP-3 disappointingly was less effective in improving height ( 152 ). Figure 6. Growth chart of
