Disorders of Growth Hormone in Childhood
KEYWORDS: growth, pubmed, hormone, pituitary, deficiency, growth hormone, journal, patients, igf-i, endocrinology, mutations, clinical, children, clinical endocrinology, height


a much lower half life than endogenous IGF-I. A combined therapy of IGF-I with IGFBP-3 disappointingly was less effective in improving height ( 152 ). Figure 6. Growth chart of girl with Laron syndrome treated with recombinant human IGF-I (Increlex) from age of 5.8 years when height SDS was -4.2 SD. There is an increase in height velocity over the first year of treatment which is reduced in subsequent years of therapy. Height SDS improves to -2.1 SD by 10.25 years but this has been associated with the onset of puberty at 9 years (treatment with the GnRH analogue Zoladex was introduced at 9.8 years). Current height lies within parental target range. M denotes maternal height and F denotes adjusted paternal height. STAT5b Mutations The signal transducers and activators of transcription (STAT) family contains seven proteins (STAT1, -2, -3, -4, -5a, -5b and -6). Mutations in STAT1( 153 ) and STAT3 are associated with immune deficiency and a mutation in STAT5b was described in a patient with growth hormone insensitivity and immune deficiency ( 154 ). The initial report was of a homozygous missense mutation in exon 15, encoding the critical SH2 domain leading to aberrant folding and aggregation of the protein. Six other mutations have been described including a nonsense mutation in exon 5 ( 155 ), two distinct nucleotide insertions ( 156 , 157 ) in exons 9 and 10 containing the DNA binding domain, a missense variant within the SH2 domain ( 158 ), a four nucleotide deletion in exon 5 ( 159 ) and a single nucleotide deletion in the Linker domain ( 160 ). Until recently all the mutations identified were homozygous and the disorder is predominantly inherited in an autosomal recessive manner but dominant negative mutations have now been reported ( 161 ). There is some evidence of a mild effect of the heterozygous state as height SDS in parents of affected children is consistently below mean height for the population with range from -0.3 SD to -2.8 SD. Birth weight appears to be within normal limits but postnatal height is severely impaired with height SDS range of -3 to -9.9 ( 158 ). Growth is comparable to children with Laron syndrome. Bone age and puberty is commonly delayed perhaps reflecting in part the chronic state of ill health. A prominent forehead, depressed nasal bridge and high-pitched voice are seen in some patients. The
