Disorders of Growth Hormone in Childhood
KEYWORDS: growth, pubmed, hormone, pituitary, deficiency, growth hormone, journal, patients, igf-i, endocrinology, mutations, clinical, children, clinical endocrinology, height


and puberty is commonly delayed perhaps reflecting in part the chronic state of ill health. A prominent forehead, depressed nasal bridge and high-pitched voice are seen in some patients. The biochemical findings are compatible with growth hormone insensitivity with normal to high basal growth hormone concentrations and a raised stimulated peak GH level. Of note, 1 subject had a low stimulated peak GH concentration of 6.6 mcg/. Serum IGF-I, IGFBP-3 and ALS concentrations were consistently low in all subjects, remaining low at end of an IGF-I stimulation test. Clinical differentiation of patients with STAT5b mutations form those with Laron syndrome can be made with the immunodeficiency. All but one of the reported cases has presented with chronic pulmonary disease, particularly lymphoid interstitial pneumonia, with the other child having severe hemorrhagic varicella. Two patients have died from their lung disease and a further patient has required lung transplantation. Patients with STAT5b mutations also have raised serum prolactin levels which can also be helpful with diagnosis. Acid Labile Subunit Deficiency The human IGFALS gene is located on chromosome 16p13.3 and ALS deficiency is inherited in an autosomal recessive pattern with homozygous and compound heterozygous mutations identified including missense, nonsense, deletions, duplications and insertions. The mutations are spread throughout the IGFALS gene which contains 2 exons and encodes a protein of 605 amino acids ( 162 ). The majority of the mutations are located in the 20 central leucine rich domains. The clinical phenotype, first described in 2004 ( 163 ), is of very low serum concentrations of IGF-I, IGFBP-3 and ALS with a moderate degree of short stature (-2 to -3SD). Limited data is available on size at birth but weight appears to be within the lower half of the normal range (-0.2 to -1.9 SD) with only one individual reported to be SGA with a birth weight of -2.2 SD. The data on birth length is even more limited but all individuals measured were within normal range at -1.5 to +1.0 SD. Data on height during childhood is more abundant and hemorrhagic it is clear that postnatal growth is affected in the majority of individuals carrying ALS mutations. Mean prepubertal height in 17 patients was reported as -2.61 SD (range -3.9 to -1.06 SD) with final adult height of -2.15 SD (range -0.5 to -4.2 SD). There is a preponderance of males in the literature (88% reported cases) which may represent
