Disorders of Growth Hormone in Childhood
KEYWORDS: growth, pubmed, hormone, pituitary, deficiency, growth hormone, journal, patients, igf-i, endocrinology, mutations, clinical, children, clinical endocrinology, height


to -1.06 SD) with final adult height of -2.15 SD (range -0.5 to -4.2 SD). There is a preponderance of males in the literature (88% reported cases) which may represent the increased likelihood of males with short stature to present to health care providers. In male’s pubertal onset is commonly delayed (6/11 with onset puberty >14 years and 3/11 onset >15 years). Serum IGF-I and IGFBP-3 standard deviation scores are very low (-3.3 to -11.2 SD for IGF-I and -3.6 to -18.5 for IGFBP-3), with undetectable ALS concentrations in all but one case ( 164 ). Levels of GH are increased with a mean peak GH of 46µg/L. The relatively modest growth impairment in ALS deficiency is likely to be due to the preservation of the local production and action of IGF-I with deficiency of hepatic derived IGF-I. The diagnosis should be suggested by the presence of very low concentrations of IGF-I and, in particular, IGFBP-3 in the presence of moderate growth impairment. Although measurement of ALS is not routinely available this would also be a useful diagnostic tool. Response to treatment with GH therapy has been poor and one child treated with recombinant human IGF-I did not improve height after 1 year of treatment. IGF-I Gene Mutations Deletions and mutations within the IGF1 gene are an extremely rare cause of GH insensitivity. The first patient was reported in 1996 ( 3 ) and there have been four subsequent affected families reported ( 165 - 168 ). The first patient described had a homozygous deletion of exons 3 and 5 of the IGF1 gene leading to frameshift and generation of a premature termination codon. He had undetectable levels of serum IGF-I with normal concentrations of IGFBP-3 and ALS with raised baseline and spontaneous GH peak levels. He was born small for gestational age at 1.4 kg at term and displayed profound post-natal growth impairment with sensorineural hearing loss, microcephaly and developmental delay. One subsequent report identified a similar phenotype of growth impairment, developmental delay, microcephaly and hearing impairment with a homozygous missense variant in exon 6 of IGF-1( 167 ). The patient also had low IGF-I concentrations and high GH levels. Subsequent studies have identified this variant in individuals with normal height and there may be an alternative cause for this child’s growth impairment. There have been two cases reported with similar phenotype of growth impairment, microcephaly and hearing impairment
