Disorders of Growth Hormone in Childhood
KEYWORDS: growth, pubmed, hormone, pituitary, deficiency, growth hormone, journal, patients, igf-i, endocrinology, mutations, clinical, children, clinical endocrinology, height


mediated decay ( 174 ), production of a truncated protein ( 170 ), altered trafficking( 171 ), reduced ligand binding ( 175 ) and altered tyrosine kinase activity ( 172 ). Serum IGF-I concentrations can be normal or raised but are generally ≥ +1 SD. Response to treatment with GH therapy is variable – of 5 patients reported no response was seen in two patients, an equivocal response seen in another two patients and only one patient responded well to therapy ( 169 ). GH dose ranged from 0.025 to 0.07 mg/kg/day with the best responder treated with the lowest dose of GH. The rationale behind GH therapy is that it increases hepatic and local production of IGF-I to improve growth. Where there is resistance to IGF-I it is not surprising that GH therapy is less effective. For most disorders clinicians the aim of GH therapy is to improve growth without generating IGF-I concentrations above the normal rage. For IGF1R mutations, given the IGF-I resistance, it may not be possible to achieve adequate growth without using high dose GH therapy with subsequent IGF-I concentrations above the normal reference range. The long-term effects of such therapy in this patient group are unknown and before embarking on such a strategy a careful discussion about the risks and benefits should be undertaken with the child/parents Prior to the identification of mutations within the IGF1R gene there were reports of patients with abnormalities of chromosome 15 including monosomy, ring chromosome and unbalanced translocations. Allelic loss of chromosome 15 was described to result in growth impairment ( 176 ) while trisomy of chromosome 15 results in overgrowth ( 177 ), given the location of IGF1R at chromosome 15q26 it was hypothesized that the growth alterations were due to a dosage effect on IGF1R. The clinical phenotype is highly variable depending on the chromosomal aberration e.g., 15q26 deletion is associated with congenital diaphragmatic hernia as well as growth impairment ( 178 ). Response to GH therapy appears better for patients with chromosome 15 abnormalities with a first-year increase in height SDS of 0.8-1.5 ( 179 ). Pregnancy-Associated Plasma Protein A2 Deficiency Pregnancy-associated plasma protein A2 is a metalloproteinase responsible for the cleavage of IGFBP-3 and IGFBP-5, an essential step in releasing IGF-I from the ternary complex and allowing it to bind to the IGF1R. Two families have been reported with loss of function mutations in PAPPA2
