Disorders of Growth Hormone in Childhood
KEYWORDS: growth, pubmed, hormone, pituitary, deficiency, growth hormone, journal, patients, igf-i, endocrinology, mutations, clinical, children, clinical endocrinology, height


an essential step in releasing IGF-I from the ternary complex and allowing it to bind to the IGF1R. Two families have been reported with loss of function mutations in PAPPA2 leading to growth impairment with increased concentrations of IGF-I, ALS, IGFBP-3 and IGFBP-5 and a resultant reduction in free IGF-I ( 180 ). GH concentrations are raised due to the reduced free IGF-I. Birth size is moderately reduced in some subjects and the degree of postnatal growth impairment is highly variable ranging from -3.8 SD to -1.0 SD. Other clinical features include mild microcephaly, small chins and long thin fingers. Treatment with rhIGF-I in one family demonstrated an increase in height SDS of +0.4 SD over 1 year of treatment ( 181 ) while in the second family treatment was discontinued due to headache in one of two siblings ( 182 ). ACQUIRED GH DEFICIENCY Tumors of the Hypothalamus or Pituitary CRANIOPHARYNGIOMA Craniopharyngiomas are non-glial intracranial tumors derived from malformed embryonal tissue thought to originate from ectodermal remnants of Rathke’s pouch or residual embryonal epithelium of the anterior pituitary ( 183 ). More than 70% of adamantinomatous craniopharyngiomas contain a mutation of the β-catenin gene ( 184 ). Although rare, craniopharyngiomas are the commonest childhood tumor affecting the hypothalamo-pituitary axis accounting for 55-90% of sellar and parasellar lesions in childhood ( 185 ). The incidence is 0.5-2 per million per year ( 186 ) with 30-50% of cases diagnosed in childhood. In contrast to adulthood where the commonest histological type of craniopharyngioma is papillary, in excess of 70% of childhood craniopharyngiomas are adamantinomatous and associated with cyst formation. Survival rates with craniopharyngiomas are excellent exceeding 90% at 10 years ( 187 ) after diagnosis but morbidity with visual defects, hypothalamic obesity, and pituitary hormone deficiency is high. Presentation is with a combination of symptoms of raised intracranial pressure, visual impairment, and endocrine deficits. Up to 87% of cases present with a least one pituitary hormone deficiency – the commonest being GH deficiency present in up to 75% of cases at diagnosis ( 188 ). The prevalence of GH deficiency rises after treatment to >90% of patients – with both surgical intervention and radiotherapy implicated in this increase in GH deficiency. Additional pituitary hormone deficits are common including diabetes insipidus which is present in 92% of cases ( 189 ). Therapy for craniopharyngiomas can include a combination of surgery, radiotherapy and
