Disorders of Growth Hormone in Childhood
KEYWORDS: growth, pubmed, hormone, pituitary, deficiency, growth hormone, journal, patients, igf-i, endocrinology, mutations, clinical, children, clinical endocrinology, height


Additional pituitary hormone deficits are common including diabetes insipidus which is present in 92% of cases ( 189 ). Therapy for craniopharyngiomas can include a combination of surgery, radiotherapy and intra-lesional chemotherapy. Surgery can be via the transcranial or transsphenoidal route. Where it is possible to remove the entire tumor without causing damage to the hypothalamus or optic nerves this is the treatment of choice. For larger tumors involving these structures controversy exists on whether the benefits of a complete resection, namely a reduction in the risk of recurrence/progression, are outweighed by the surgical morbidity particularly hypothalamic obesity, visual impairment, and adipsic diabetes insipidus ( 190 , 191 ). The alternative strategy is a limited surgical resection followed by adjuvant treatment with either conventional radiotherapy or proton beam therapy. Recurrence rates for complete resection are 15-46% ( 192 ), 70-90% for patients treated with surgical partial resection alone and 21% for patients treated with surgical resection and radiotherapy ( 193 ). There is good evidence to suggest that replacement GH therapy does not increase the risk of recurrence in craniopharyngioma ( 194 , 195 ) and that the gain in height is similar to that seen in congenital isolated GH deficiency. In one report the mean time between diagnosis and initiation of GH therapy was 2.3 years ( 194 ). A period of time after diagnosis, prior to the introduction of GH therapy, allows the completion of surgery and radiotherapy and a period of observation. Despite the reports on the overall safety of GH in craniopharyngioma rapid regrowth of the tumor after the initiation of GH therapy has been reported ( 196 ). PITUITARY ADENOMAS Pituitary adenomas are rare in childhood comprising only 3% of supratentorial tumors of childhood ( 197 ). Functioning adenomas are more common than non-functioning adenomas with the commonest being prolactinomas, followed by ACTH secreting adenomas then GH secreting adenomas. In one series of 41 patients with childhood onset adenomas, 29 (70%) were prolactinomas, 5 (12%) were ACTH secreting adenomas, one patient (2%) presented with a GH secreting adenoma and the remaining 6 patients (15%) presented with non-functioning adenomas ( 198 ). GH deficiency was present in four out of the 41 patients during childhood and 13 patients during follow up into adulthood. All patients who developed GH deficiency had a macroadenoma. In approximately 5% of cases pituitary adenomas are familial and this is known to
