Disorders of Growth Hormone in Childhood
KEYWORDS: growth, pubmed, hormone, pituitary, deficiency, growth hormone, journal, patients, igf-i, endocrinology, mutations, clinical, children, clinical endocrinology, height


13 patients during follow up into adulthood. All patients who developed GH deficiency had a macroadenoma. In approximately 5% of cases pituitary adenomas are familial and this is known to be caused by mutations in the genes encoding MENIN ( 199 ) and Aryl Hydrocarbon Receptor Interacting Protein ( 200 ). OPTIC PATHWAY GLIOMA Optic pathway gliomas are tumors of the pre-cortical visual pathway which may also involve the hypothalamus. In around 1 in 3 cases they are associated with neurofibromatosis type 1 ( 201 ). They commonly present with ophthalmological signs and symptoms with the main endocrine presentation being precocious puberty. In the majority of cases there is limited or no progression of the tumor and only monitoring is required. Surgery not recommended for most cases due to the possibility of post-operative visual impairment. Where required initial treatment is with chemotherapy with radiotherapy reserved for teenagers and younger children who have not responded to chemotherapy. Although effective with a 90% 10-year progression free survival radiotherapy is associated with an increased risk of worsening visual impairment, endocrine deficits, cerebrovascular disease, and neurocognitive deficits. GH deficiency in optic pathway gliomas can be present prior to radiotherapy but is much more common post radiotherapy. In one study of 68 children with optic pathway gliomas 19 developed GH deficiency, 15 of whom had received radiotherapy ( 202 ). In another study of 21 patients with optic pathway gliomas treated with radiotherapy only one patient had GH deficiency pre-radiotherapy while all patients had GH deficiency post radiotherapy ( 203 ). GH therapy is highly effective and restores adult height to within normal range ( 204 ). Optic pathway gliomas can be associated with GH excess, especially in NF1 syndrome related cases. LANGERHANS CELL HISTIOCYTOSIS Langerhans cell histiocytosis (LCH) is a rare disorder with a prevalence of ~4 per million children ( 205 ). It is a condition in which there is proliferation and accumulation of clonal dendritic cells (LCH cells) bearing an immunophenotype very close to that of the normal epidermal Langerhans cells of the skin ( 205 ). LCH cells can spread to nearly any site in the body, proliferate and lead to local inflammation and tissue destruction. The commonest pituitary hormone deficit in Langerhans cell histiocytosis is diabetes insipidus which develops in around 25% of childhood patients with LCH while GH deficiency is the second commonest endocrinopathy present in 9-12% of childhood
