Disorders of Growth Hormone in Childhood
KEYWORDS: growth, pubmed, hormone, pituitary, deficiency, growth hormone, journal, patients, igf-i, endocrinology, mutations, clinical, children, clinical endocrinology, height


in Langerhans cell histiocytosis is diabetes insipidus which develops in around 25% of childhood patients with LCH while GH deficiency is the second commonest endocrinopathy present in 9-12% of childhood LCH patients. Radiation Neuroendocrine abnormalities of the hypothalamo-pituitary axis evolve with time after radiation induced damage. The first, and sometimes only, hormone deficiency following radiation exposure of the HPA axis is growth hormone deficiency. The risk of GH deficiency is related to the total radiation dose, fraction size and time between fractions. Almost all children exposed to >30 Gy cranial irradiation will develop GH deficiency around 65% of those receiving <30 Gy develop GH deficiency by 5 years post radiotherapy ( 206 ). Isolated GH deficiency has also been reported in children exposed to 18-24 Gy as used prophylactically in acute lymphoblastic leukemia ( 207 ) and in children exposed to as little as 10 Gy as part of total body irradiation ( 208 ). The hypothalamus is thought to be the site of radiation induced damage to the HPA as when exposed to radiation <50 Gy hormone deficiencies remain common ~90% after 10 years ( 209 ) but in contrast delivery of radiation doses 500-1500 Gy to the pituitary alone result in lower rates of endocrinopathy – 40% 14 years after exposure ( 210 ). Additional evidence of the susceptibility of the hypothalamus to radiation induced damage comes from the high prevalence rates of hypothalamic dysfunction on dynamic endocrine tests observed after radiation exposure ( 211 ) and the presence of impaired GH secretion to stimuli acting through the hypothalamus with normal GH secretion to stimuli acting directly on the pituitary ( 212 ). Within the hypothalamic-pituitary axis there is differential sensitivity to radiation induced damage with the somatotrophic axis being the most vulnerable to damage, followed by GnRH-FSH/LH and then the CRH-ACTH and TRH-TSH axes which are the least sensitive to radiation induced damage ( 213 ). This sequence of loss of pituitary hormones in radiation induced damage is seen in both animal models ( 213 , 214 ) and in humans where lower doses of radiation (e.g. 18-30 Gy used in treatment of childhood leukemia and brain tumors) leads to isolated GHD( 215 ) whereas higher doses of radiation >60 Gy, used in the treatment of skull base tumors and nasopharyngeal carcinomas, leads to multiple pituitary hormone deficiency ( 216 , 217 ). Risk of pituitary hormone
