Disorders of Growth Hormone in Childhood
KEYWORDS: growth, pubmed, hormone, pituitary, deficiency, growth hormone, journal, patients, igf-i, endocrinology, mutations, clinical, children, clinical endocrinology, height


of radiation >60 Gy, used in the treatment of skull base tumors and nasopharyngeal carcinomas, leads to multiple pituitary hormone deficiency ( 216 , 217 ). Risk of pituitary hormone deficiency increases with time elapsed after radiation exposure in addition to the radiation dose – in one study around 50% of children treated with 27-32 Gy for a brain tumor were GHD after one year of treatment, with 85% GHD by 5 years post treatment and almost all GHD by 9 years post treatment ( 206 ). GH NEUROSECRETORY DYSFUNCTION One form of GHD particularly well described following radiation injury to the hypothalamic-pituitary axis is GH neurosecretory dysfunction ( 218 - 220 ). Neurosecretory dysfunction is characterized by normal responses to pharmacological stimuli of GH secretion but reduced spontaneous physiological GH secretion. GH neurosecretory function in seen most frequently with lower radiation doses of <24 Gy ( 220 ) and it appears that doses >27 Gy both spontaneous and pharmacologically stimulated GH responses are reduced ( 221 ). The possibility of GH neurosecretory dysfunction makes the diagnosis of GHD in children exposed to cranial irradiation challenging. The presence of normal IGF-I and IGFBP-3 concentrations in many children with radiation induced GH deficiency ( 222 - 225 ) (proven with multiple pharmacological stimulation tests) compounds these difficulties. For children with brain tumors that can exfoliate cells into the cerebrospinal fluid (e.g., ependymoma or medulloblastoma) radiotherapy is delivered to the spine in addition to cranial irradiation. Spinal irradiation has a profound effect on growth and leads to reduced height and disproportionate growth with decreased upper to lower segment ratio ( 226 ). Brauner et al compared children treated with craniospinal irradiation to those receiving cranial irradiation alone with height SDS being significantly lower in the craniospinal group at 1.46 SD compared to the cranial irradiation only group with a height SDS of -0.15 ( 221 ). Final height in adults who received craniospinal irradiation is also significantly lower than adults receiving cranial irradiation alone (-2.37 v -1.14 SD) ( 227 ). Lower age at radiation exposure is associated with a lower adult height SDS ( 227 ) with height loss from spinal irradiation estimated at 9 cm when exposed at 1 year, 7cm when exposed at 5 years and 5.5 cm when exposed at 10 years. Response to treatment with GH therapy is poorer in children with radiation induced GH deficiency than
