Disorders of Growth Hormone in Childhood
KEYWORDS: growth, pubmed, hormone, pituitary, deficiency, growth hormone, journal, patients, igf-i, endocrinology, mutations, clinical, children, clinical endocrinology, height


7cm when exposed at 5 years and 5.5 cm when exposed at 10 years. Response to treatment with GH therapy is poorer in children with radiation induced GH deficiency than in children with congenital GHD. For most patients with congenital GHD, GH therapy will lead to significant catch-up growth but in patients with radiation induced GH deficiency catch up growth is rare ( 228 , 229 ). However, while GH treatment does not appear to induce catch up growth it prevents a further decline in height SDS ( 228 , 230 ). The cause of the poorer response seen in patients with radiation induced GH deficiency are likely to be multifactorial including early puberty, delayed GH therapy, use of lower doses of GH and the direct effect of spinal irradiation. GH therapy in children who have previously received craniospinal radiotherapy does prevent further height loss but does so at the expense of further exaggerating the skeletal disproportion seen in these patients. There is extensive evidence linking the GH-IGF-I system to risk of cancer via several sources: 1. Up-regulating the activity of the GH-IGF-I axis in leads to increased development of tumors in animal models (for review see Yaker et al ( 231 )). 2. In vitro evidence of expression of GH, GHR and IGF-I/II by tumors and the ability GH and IGF-I to induce cancer cell proliferation and metastases (for review see Clayton et al ( 232 )) 3. Epidemiological evidence has linked higher serum IGF-I concentrations to cancer risk ( 233 - 236 ) 4. Increased risk colorectal and thyroid cancers in patients with acromegaly (a condition of chronic GH excess) ( 237 - 239 ) This evidence did lead to concerns about the risk of administration of GH therapy to patients with GH deficiency and a history of cancer. The majority of studies examining risk of recurrence in children with cancers treated with GH indicate that there is no increased risk of recurrence ( 240 - 244 ). One notable exception is the Childhood Cancer Survivor Study based in centers in North America where the standardized incidence ratio of second malignancy was elevated (2.1 at average follow up of 18 years) in the 361 individuals treated with GH ( 245 ). The majority of brain tumor recurrences occur during the first two years after completion of primary treatment and this has led to the recommendation that treatment with
