Disorders of Growth Hormone in Childhood
KEYWORDS: growth, pubmed, hormone, pituitary, deficiency, growth hormone, journal, patients, igf-i, endocrinology, mutations, clinical, children, clinical endocrinology, height


( 245 ). The majority of brain tumor recurrences occur during the first two years after completion of primary treatment and this has led to the recommendation that treatment with GH should be considered after this time point. This strategy prevents the association between early tumor recurrence and GH therapy by families but potentially denies children with tumor or radiation induced GH deficiency treatment for a considerable length of time. Children with brain tumors require monitoring of growth and consideration should be given to testing for GH deficiency in children with growth failure who have completed primary treatment. GH therapy should be carefully discussed with the family and oncologist where it is considered before 2 years post primary treatment. Trauma Traumatic brain injury is relatively common in childhood with ~180 children per 100,000 population sustaining a closed head injury each year. The proposed mechanism for traumatic brain injury induced hypopituitarism is that injury to the hypophyseal vessels which transverse the stalk leads to anterior pituitary ischemia and infarction. Postmortem studies of fatal closed head injuries identified hypothalamic lesions suggestive of infarction and ischemia in 43% of cases and pituitary lesions in 28% of cases ( 246 ). Although there have been multiple published case reports of anterior pituitary dysfunction in traumatic brain injury for many years ( 247 ) there has been a large increase in the number of systematic studies of pituitary function in survivors of traumatic brain injury since 2000. Several moderately sized studies of adult traumatic brain injury survivors have demonstrated risk of post-injury hypopituitarism. Deficiency of GH and gonadotrophins was more common than TSH or ACTH deficiency with 10-28% of patients being GH deficient and 8-30% of patients being gonadotrophin deficient ( 248 - 253 ). In the majority of these studies there has been no relationship between time post injury or injury severity and risk of pituitary dysfunction. Until 2006 the literature on childhood traumatic brain injury and hypopituitarism was limited to case reports (for review of the case reports see Acerini et al ( 254 )). The first report of pituitary function in children with traumatic brain injury studies a cohort of 55 patients (22 studied retrospectively and 30 studied prospectively) and identified 2 patients with low peak GH concentrations ( 255 ). Khadr et al reported a 39% rate of abnormalities of pituitary function tests in 33 childhood traumatic brain injury patients (
