Disorders of Growth Hormone in Childhood
KEYWORDS: growth, pubmed, hormone, pituitary, deficiency, growth hormone, journal, patients, igf-i, endocrinology, mutations, clinical, children, clinical endocrinology, height


patients with low peak GH concentrations ( 255 ). Khadr et al reported a 39% rate of abnormalities of pituitary function tests in 33 childhood traumatic brain injury patients ( 256 ). None of these were felt to be clinically significant. In this study 7 patients had a low peak GH concentration but 6 out of the 7 were thought to have peri-pubertal blunting of the GH response with one borderline post-pubertal GHD patient who declined further examination ( 256 ). Poomthavorn et al ( 257 ) described a cohort of 54 patients with childhood brain injury 4 of whom had known multiple pituitary hormone deficiency prior to the start of the study, in the 50 patients screened however, there were no patients identified with GH deficiency. The largest study of childhood traumatic brain injury and pituitary function is by Heather et al ( 258 ). It examined the pituitary function of 198 survivors of childhood traumatic brain injury. Importantly they used an integrated assessment of GH stimulation tests (including 2 nd test with priming where required), auxology and IGF-I concentrations in order to reach a diagnosis of GHD. While a low peak GH concentration (<5µg/L, used as the cut off for diagnosis of GHD in New Zealand at the time of the study) was identified in 16 patients, height SDS ranged from -0.9 SD to +3.6 SD and IGF-I concentrations were within normal limits for all subjects. For this study population had the diagnosis of GHD been based solely on a GH stimulation test and a cut off of 10µg/L for the diagnosis of GHD, 33% of patients would have been incorrectly diagnosed as GHD. The risk of hypopituitarism in childhood traumatic brain injury appears to be low and currently routine screening of pituitary function in this group is not justified outside the context of on-going research studies. Hypophysitis Hypophysitis is characterized by cellular infiltration and inflammation and can be classified as lymphocytic, xanthomatous, granulomatous, necrotizing, IgG4-related and mixed forms. Lymphocytic hypophysitis is the commonest type but overall the disease is extremely rare with an estimated incidence of 1 per 9 million population ( 259 ). Presentation is often with visual disturbance, headache and vomiting. MRI may identify a homogeneous enhancing sellar mass. In adults’ deficiency of TSH and ACTH are particularly common and diabetes insipidus is said to be rare ( 260 ). The limited pediatric case reports
