Disorders of Growth Hormone in Childhood
KEYWORDS: growth, pubmed, hormone, pituitary, deficiency, growth hormone, journal, patients, igf-i, endocrinology, mutations, clinical, children, clinical endocrinology, height


homogeneous enhancing sellar mass. In adults’ deficiency of TSH and ACTH are particularly common and diabetes insipidus is said to be rare ( 260 ). The limited pediatric case reports include several children with diabetes insipidus and it may be that the pattern of hormone insufficiency is influenced by age at presentation. Hypophysitis is more common in pregnant women but can also occur in non-pregnant women, men and in children ( 261 , 262 ). Definitive diagnosis is with histopathology while treatment includes hormone replacement therapy and surgery where the sellar mass compresses the optic chiasm. The medical treatment of choice is high dose glucocorticoid therapy but alternative reported therapies include azathioprine ( 263 ), methotrexate ( 264 ), cyclosporin A ( 265 ) and stereotactic radiation ( 266 ). GROWTH HORMONE EXCESS While short stature and GHD are common reasons to consult a pediatric endocrinologist, tall stature is a far less common reason to present to a pediatric endocrinologist. Within the group of patients presenting with tall stature in childhood the majority will have either familial tall stature or a genetic/syndromic cause for their tall stature (e.g., Beckwith Wiedemann syndrome, Sotos syndrome, Marfan Syndrome, Simpson-Golabi-Behmel syndrome). GH excess is an extremely rare disorder in pediatric practice. Causes of GH excess include GH secreting pituitary micro or macroadenomas, ectopic GHRH production and genetic abnormalities affecting GH secretion (McCune Albright syndrome and Carney complex). The commonest symptom of GH excess in childhood is rapid growth. In a series of 15 childhood patients (6 female) with GH secreting adenomas reported by Takumi eta al ( 267 ) all the patients presented with rapid growth although 3 also had visual signs/symptoms, 3 amenorrhea, 2 headaches, 1 with hypogonadism and 1 with precocious puberty. Microadenomas were present in 4/15 patients. Acromegalic features such as soft tissue growth of the hands and feet, mandibular overgrowth with prognathism, forehead protrusion and deepening of voice can also occur. The presence of acromegalic features in likely to be linked to the timing of onset (more common with onset in adolescence) and the presence of hypogonadism. Additional clinical features include excessive sweating, carpal tunnel syndrome, lethargy, arthropathy, impaired glucose tolerance and hypertension. Although rare in childhood, hypertension and glucose intolerance are seen in approximately 15% of adolescents presenting with GH excess ( 268 ). The diagnosis of GH excess is based on the clinical features and auxology in combination
