Disorders of Growth Hormone in Childhood
KEYWORDS: growth, pubmed, hormone, pituitary, deficiency, growth hormone, journal, patients, igf-i, endocrinology, mutations, clinical, children, clinical endocrinology, height


intolerance are seen in approximately 15% of adolescents presenting with GH excess ( 268 ). The diagnosis of GH excess is based on the clinical features and auxology in combination with biochemical evidence. Measurement of IGF-I concentration is useful but the reference range used must be specific for the gender, age and pubertal stage of the child. As IGF-I concentrations rise during puberty a precocious puberty will lead to a raised growth velocity with a serum IGF-I concentration which may be raised for age and gender will not be raised for pubertal stage. Due to the variability of GH levels throughout the day assessment of growth hormone levels is either via an oral glucose tolerance test for GH suppression or a GH day curve. The oral glucose tolerance test for GH suppression is essentially identical to a standard oral glucose tolerance test but with measurement of glucose, insulin and GH at 0, 60, 90, 120 and 150 minutes. A normal response is suppression of GH levels to ≤ 0.4 mcg/L ( 269 ). Some centers will undertake a GH day curve – measurement of at least 5 separate GH levels over 12 hours, however, given that adolescence is the age at which there is maximal physiological GH secretion and the lack of GH day curve normative data in adolescence interpretation of this test can be challenging. Benign GH secreting adenomas are the most common cause of GH excess. Mutations in the genes encoding GPR101 (causing X-linked acrogigantism), MENIN ( 270 ), aryl hydrocarbon receptor interacting protein ( 200 ) and p27 ( 271 ) are known to predispose to the development of pituitary adenomas. Overall, most GH secreting adenomas are sporadic but the proportion with a genetic basis is likely to be higher in childhood. Transsphenoidal surgery is the treatment of choice for patients with microadenomas, macroadenomas without cavernous sinus or bone extension or where the tumor is causing symptoms from compression ( 272 ). Surgical removal is expected to lead to a biochemical cure in 75-95% of patients, with lower probability of cure in patients with macroadenomas. There are three classes of medical treatments for GH excess: 1. Dopamine agonists – cabergoline, bromocriptine 2. Somatostatin analogues – octreotide, pasireotide, lanreotide 3. GH receptor antagonists - pegvisomant Medical therapy can be used either where there is failure of surgical therapy, where the tumor is not amenable to surgery or prior
