Disorders of Growth Hormone in Childhood
KEYWORDS: growth, pubmed, hormone, pituitary, deficiency, growth hormone, journal, patients, igf-i, endocrinology, mutations, clinical, children, clinical endocrinology, height


lanreotide 3. GH receptor antagonists - pegvisomant Medical therapy can be used either where there is failure of surgical therapy, where the tumor is not amenable to surgery or prior to surgery/radiotherapy. Dopamine agonists are the only oral therapy available. Of the dopamine agonists available, only cabergoline has shown efficacy ( 273 ) in acromegalic patients and as monotherapy achieves a biochemical cure in a minority of patients ( 274 ). Cabergoline is most useful either in tumors which co-secrete prolactin as well as GH or in combination with another therapeutic agent. The somatostatin analogues are effective in both reducing GH and IGF-I levels as well as reducing tumor size. Long acting, once monthly preparations of the somatostatin analogues represent the mainstay of therapy. Somatostatin analogues achieve biochemical resolution in up to 70% of patients ( 275 ) and tumor shrinkage (mean size reduction of 50%) in 75% of patients ( 276 ). Pegvisomant is the only GH receptor antagonist therapy available and is the most effective therapy at achieving a biochemical cure but in a small proportion (~2%) leads to tumor growth. Radiotherapy is generally reserved as a third line treatment due to the long-time taken to achieve maximum effect (up to 10 years ( 277 )) and risks of hypopituitarism (up to 50% by 5 years post radiotherapy), visual problems and late effects of cerebrovascular disease and second tumors. Given the rarity of GH secreting tumors in childhood close liaison with an adult endocrinologist experienced in the management of acromegaly is recommended for a pediatric endocrinologist when faces with such a patient. McCune Albright Syndrome McCune Albright syndrome is disorder characterized by the clinical triad of polyostotic fibrous dysplasia, café au lait skin hyperpigmentation and gonadotrophin independent precocious puberty. It is caused by postzygotic activating mutations of GNAS which encodes a stimulatory subunit of G protein, G s α ( 278 ). GHRH receptor is a G protein coupled receptor and thus McCune Albright syndrome can lead to autonomous GH hypersecretion from the pituitary by activating the signal transduction pathway downstream of this receptor. In a cohort of 58 children and adults with McCune Albright syndrome Akintoye et al ( 279 ) identified 12 patients (21%) with GH excess including 6 (4 female, 2 male) who were <16 years. IGF-I concentrations in 10/12 were >2.5 SD above mean but in 2 patients surprisingly they were low at -2.5
