Disorders of Growth Hormone in Childhood
KEYWORDS: growth, pubmed, hormone, pituitary, deficiency, growth hormone, journal, patients, igf-i, endocrinology, mutations, clinical, children, clinical endocrinology, height


excess including 6 (4 female, 2 male) who were <16 years. IGF-I concentrations in 10/12 were >2.5 SD above mean but in 2 patients surprisingly they were low at -2.5 and -0.2 SD. This may be due to the cyclical nature of the hormone hypersecretion in McCune Albright syndrome. MR imaging identified microadenomas in 4 patients and no tumor visible in the remaining patients. Clinical diagnosis of GH excess remains difficult as the facial changes can be masked or mistaken for the development of fibrous dysplastic changes in bone and the precocious puberty can mask the GH induced growth excess. The presence of a normal final height in a patient with precocious puberty indicates the potential presence of GH excess ( 279 ). Co-secretion of prolactin is common and the majority of patients have hyperprolactinemia. Due to bone thickening and fibrous dysplasia surgery is not usually an option for treatment and radiotherapy is contra-indicated because of the potential for sarcomatous change in fibrous dysplasia. Of the 11 patients with MAS associated acromegaly 6 were treated with cabergoline and then octreotide. Although 5/6 responded to cabergoline treatment with a reduction in IGF-I concentrations none normalized their IGF-I concentration and a combination of cabergoline and octreotide normalized IGF-I concentrations in 4/6 patients. In a crossover trial of somatostatin analogue therapy and Pegvisomant in McCune Albright induced GH excess pegvisomant was effective in normalizing IGF-I concentrations in 4/5 patients while somatostatin therapy was effective in 3/5 patients ( 280 ). Carney Complex The Carney complex is an autosomal dominant disorder characterized by skin pigmentary abnormalities, myxomas, endocrine tumors or overactivity, and schwannomas. It is known to be caused by loss of function mutations in the PRKAR1A gene which encodes the regulatory subunit of protein kinase A ( 281 ). Dissociation of the regulatory subunits from the catalytic subunits of protein kinase A leads to activation of signal transduction. Under normal circumstances this dissociation is triggered by cAMP. Carney complex associated mutations lead to loss of the regulatory subunit and increased activity of protein kinase A associated signal transduction. GH secreting adenomas are reported in 10% of patients with carney complex but these are rare before puberty ( 282 ). Mild abnormalities in GH, IGF-I and prolactin levels are present in up to 79% of patients and there probably a long period of sommatomammotroph cell hypertrophy and mild hypersecretion prior to the development of
