Disorders of Growth Hormone in Childhood
KEYWORDS: growth, pubmed, hormone, pituitary, deficiency, growth hormone, journal, patients, igf-i, endocrinology, mutations, clinical, children, clinical endocrinology, height


IGF-I and prolactin levels are present in up to 79% of patients and there probably a long period of sommatomammotroph cell hypertrophy and mild hypersecretion prior to the development of true GH excess ( 283 ). Histology of Carney complex associated GH tumors is distinct and includes the presence of multifocal tumors, somatomammotroph hypertrophy and the secretion of multiple hormones from the tumor ( 284 ). CONCLUSIONS Growth disorders are one of the most common reasons for referral to a pediatric endocrinologist. GH deficiency can be effectively treated with recombinant human growth hormone but controversy still exists over the diagnosis of GH deficiency in childhood, particularly in relation to priming of GH stimulation tests. Over the past decade there has been a great expansion in our knowledge of the genetic causes underlying the congenital disorders causing hypopituitarism and GH deficiency but this has not yet led to any new therapies. While extremely rare in pediatric practice GH excess is an important diagnosis to consider in the tall child/adolescent and management should be undertaken in conjunction with an adult endocrinologist. Important Concepts GH signal transduction is not induced by GHR dimerization but by a conformational change in the predimerized GHR leading to repositioning of the BOX1 motifs The diagnosis of growth hormone deficiency is made by combining information from auxology, biochemistry, and neuroimaging. In addition to GH deficiency and Laron syndrome there are now additional disorders of the GH-IGF-I axis – Stat5b deficiency, ALS deficiency, haploinsufficiency, and mutations in IGF1R and mutations in the IGF-I gene. There is an expanding number of genes where mutations lead to a disturbance of pituitary gland formation and pituitary hormone deficiency, however in the majority of patients with congenital hypopituitarism the genetic etiology remains unknown. Consider genetic screening in patients where there are multiple affected individuals in the family and in children where they have associated eye abnormalities. Response to growth hormone therapy is generally very good in patients with congenital GH deficiency where a final adult height within parental target range should be expected. In contrast, in patients with radiation induced GH deficiency, GH treatment is less effective and acts mainly to prevent further height loss. Recombinant human IGF-I is available for treating children with GH insensitivity. While first year height velocity often improves significantly the long-term effects on height are less effective than in children with congenital GH deficiency treated with growth hormone.
