AIDS and HPA Axis
KEYWORDS: pubmed, patients, glucocorticoid, aids, glucocorticoids, hiv, free, pmc, free article, article, pmc free, syndrome, article pubmed, aids patients, antiretroviral


ABSTRACT The Acquired Immunodeficiency Syndrome (AIDS), caused by infection with the Human Immunodeficiency Virus Type-1 (HIV), is characterized by profound immunosuppression, particularly of the innate, and T-helper (Th) 1-directed immunity. AIDS causes multisystem dysfunction, including impairment of the hypothalamic-pituitary-adrenal (HPA) axis, a major system coordinating the resting state and the adaptive response to stress. This neuroendocrine axis consists of three components: the hypothalamus, the pituitary gland, and the adrenal cortex with its end-effector molecules, the glucocorticoids. AIDS/HIV influence the HPA axis directly, through modulation of the host immune activity and alterations of the cellular biological pathways via HIV-encoded proteins, as well as indirectly, through immunodeficiency-associated opportunistic infections and various side effects of the therapeutic compounds employed, including those used in the highly active antiretroviral therapy (HAART). In this chapter, the interaction between AIDS/HIV and the HPA axis is reviewed and discussed. For complete coverage of all related areas of Endocrinology, please visit our on-line FREE web-text, WWW.ENDOTEXT.ORG . INTRODUCTION Patients with Acquired Immunodeficiency Syndrome (AIDS), caused by infection with the Human Immunodeficiency Virus Type-1 (HIV), develop profound immunosuppression, particularly of their innate and T-helper (Th) 1-directed cellular immunity ( 1 ). These patients may also present with dysfunction of many organ systems, including the hypothalamic-pituitary-adrenal (HPA) axis ( 2 ). During the last 25 years, numerous reports have provided evidence for alterations of the HPA axis and its influence on target tissues in HIV-infected patients ( Table 1 ). Indeed, AIDS has been associated with adrenalitis caused by opportunistic infections, adrenal dysfunction secondary to neoplastic infiltration into the adrenal cortices, and changes related to circulating cytokines and other bioactive molecules known to influence functions of the HPA axis ( 3 ). Glucocorticoid hormones secreted from the adrenal cortex act as end-effectors of the HPA axis and have strong anti-inflammatory effects ( 4 ). Thus, these hormones were considered for reversing HIV-mediated depletion of circulating CD4+ lymphocytes and slowing progression to AIDS, as well as to subside complications associated with HIV infection ( 5 ) ( Table 2 ). Table 1. Impact of HIV infection on the HPA Axis/Glucocorticoid/GR Signaling System View in own window Manifestations Virus-mediated Treatment-mediated Adrenalitis (Common) and adrenal insufficiency (Rare) √ Pituitary (corticotroph) dysfunction √ GR affinity-dependent generalized glucocorticoid resistance √? Modulation of glucocorticoid metabolism √ √ Modulation of GR activity √ √ AIDS-related insulin resistance/lipodystrophy syndrome √ √ Fatigue/muscle wasting √? Table 2. Conditions/Manifestations in which
