AIDS and HPA Axis
KEYWORDS: pubmed, patients, glucocorticoid, aids, glucocorticoids, hiv, free, pmc, free article, article, pmc free, syndrome, article pubmed, aids patients, antiretroviral


generalized glucocorticoid resistance √? Modulation of glucocorticoid metabolism √ √ Modulation of GR activity √ √ AIDS-related insulin resistance/lipodystrophy syndrome √ √ Fatigue/muscle wasting √? Table 2. Conditions/Manifestations in which Glucocorticoid Treatment is Considered in HIV-Infected Patients View in own window Conditions/manifestations Types of conditions/manifestations AIDS-related lymphoma (Hodgkin and non-Hodgkin) Complication HIV-associated nephropathy Complication Kaposi sarcoma* Complication Appetite loss/fatigue Complication Opportunistic infections (mycobacterium tuberculosis, cryptococcus) Complication HIV-associated immune reconstitution inflammatory syndrome Complication Slowing of AIDS progression (increase of CD4+ counts) Direct effect on HIV replication * Acceleration of Kaposi sarcoma by glucocorticoids ( 110 ) Although development of HIV vaccines targeting components of the viral particles is still challenging, establishment and clinical introduction of the highly active antiretroviral therapy (HAART) that employs combinatory use of the three different types of antiretroviral drugs, such as nucleoside and non-nucleoside analogues acting as reverse transcriptase inhibitors, non-peptidic viral protease inhibitors (PIs) and the compounds blocking entry of HIV to CD4+ lymphocytes, efficiently suppress HIV replication in infected patients and have dramatically improved clinical course and life expectancy of AIDS patients ( 6 - 9 ). However, the prolongation of lives with long-term use of the above antiretroviral agents have generated novel morbidities and complications, which influence the patients’ quality of life and add new risk factors for premature death. Central among them is the quite common AIDS-related insulin resistance and lipodystrophy syndrome (ARIRLS), which is characterized by a striking phenotype and marked metabolic disturbances that are reminiscent of Cushing syndrome ( 10 ). In agreement with above-indicated clinical background, acquired alterations in the sensitivity of tissues to glucocorticoids were originally hypothesized in AIDS patients, and this concept was further extended to other nuclear receptor (NR) family proteins. In addition, some PIs inhibit the cytochrome p450 enzyme CYP3A4, which is necessary to metabolize glucocorticoids into inactive forms ( 11 ). Thus, the pharmacologic action of glucocorticoids used in the AIDS patients treated with these compounds is pronounced due to slowing of their metabolism, and “iatrogenic” Cushing syndrome is subsequently developed in these patients ( 12 ). AIDS patients frequently develop several different types of malignancies, such as lymphoma and Kaposi sarcoma, in part due to profound destruction of host immune system by HIV ( 13 , 14 ). Glucocorticoids are among the central compounds for the treatment of the patients harboring these malignancies ( 13 , 15 ). Glucocorticoids are also pivotal for the
