AIDS and HPA Axis
KEYWORDS: pubmed, patients, glucocorticoid, aids, glucocorticoids, hiv, free, pmc, free article, article, pmc free, syndrome, article pubmed, aids patients, antiretroviral


13 , 14 ). Glucocorticoids are among the central compounds for the treatment of the patients harboring these malignancies ( 13 , 15 ). Glucocorticoids are also pivotal for the treatment of HIV-associated nephropathy, which is observed in about 10% of AIDS patients ( 16 ). Use of glucocorticoids is further considered for the patients with HIV-associated tuberculosis and other opportunistic infections as part of the immunoadjuvant therapy ( 17 , 18 ). In this chapter, we will explain known interactions between HIV infection and the HPA axis, particularly focusing on glucocorticoid hormones. We also present our understanding on some emerging concepts of such interactions, and discuss their possible mechanisms and relevance to HIV pathogenesis. HPA AXIS AND GLUCOCORTICOID ACTIONS Humans face unforeseen short- and long-term environmental changes called “stressors”, which can be external (e.g. excessive heat or cold, food deprivation, trauma and invasion by pathogens) or internal (e.g. hurtful memories, splachnic injuries, neoplasia’s) ( 19 - 22 ). To adapt to these changes, humans have the stress-responsive system, which senses such stressors through various peripheral sensory organs, processes them in the central nervous system (CNS), and adjusts the CNS and peripheral organ activities ( 19 - 22 ). The hypothalamic-pituitary-adrenal (HPA) axis with its end-effectors glucocorticoids is one of the two arms of this regulatory system, together with the locus caeruleus/norepinephrine-autonomic system and their end-effectors, norepinephrine and epinephrine ( 19 , 21 , 22 ). At baseline, activity of the HPA axis and circulating glucocorticoid levels are in a typical diurnal rhythm, reaching their zenith in the early morning and their nadir in the late evening in diurnal animals including humans through input from a circadian rhythm center, the suprachiasmatic nucleus (SCN), and they participate in the maintenance of internal homeostasis ( 20 , 23 , 24 ). Upon exposure to stressors, the HPA axis is liberated from this regular circadian rhythm, and is strongly activated to modulate many biological activities including those of the CNS, intermediary metabolism, immunity and reproduction via highly elevated circulating glucocorticoids ( 4 , 19 - 25 ). However, this stress-induced activation of the HPA axis may also exert an array of adverse effects when its response is not properly tailored to the stressful stimuli ( 25 ). For example, acute hyper-activation of the HPA axis has been associated with development of post-traumatic stress disorder, while chronic activation of the HPA axis, and consequently
