AIDS and HPA Axis
KEYWORDS: pubmed, patients, glucocorticoid, aids, glucocorticoids, hiv, free, pmc, free article, article, pmc free, syndrome, article pubmed, aids patients, antiretroviral


stimuli ( 25 ). For example, acute hyper-activation of the HPA axis has been associated with development of post-traumatic stress disorder, while chronic activation of the HPA axis, and consequently prolonged elevation of serum glucocorticoid levels, induce visceral-type obesity and insulin resistance/dyslipidemia, which are represented as metabolic syndrome ( 19 , 21 - 25 ). The HPA axis consists of the hypothalamic PVN parvocellular corticotropin-releasing hormone (CRH)- and arginine vasopressin (AVP)-secreting neurons, the corticotrophs of the pituitary gland, and the adrenal gland cortex ( 3 , 21 - 24 ) ( Figure 1A ). The PVN neurons release CRH and AVP into the hypophyseal portal system located under the median eminence of the hypothalamus in response to stimulatory signals from higher brain regulatory centers ( 3 , 21 - 24 ). Secreted CRH and AVP reach the pituitary gland and synergistically stimulate secretion of the adrenocorticotropic hormone (ACTH) from corticotrophs ( 19 , 21 - 24 , 26 ). ACTH released into systemic circulation finally stimulates both production and secretion of glucocorticoids (cortisol in humans and corticosterone in rodents) from the zona fasciculata of the adrenal cortex ( 25 ). Secreted glucocorticoids modulate activity of virtually all organs and tissues to adjust their functions. In addition, these hormones suppress higher regulatory centers of the HPA axis, the PVN and the pituitary gland, ultimately forming a closed negative feedback loop that aims to reset the activated HPA axis and restore its homeostasis ( 19 ). Figure 1. The HPA axis and intracellular actions of GR Organization of the HPA Axis The HPA axis consists of 3 components: the PVN of hypothalamus, the anterior pituitary gland and the adrenal cortex. Neurons residing in PVN produce CRH and AVP and release them into the pituitary portal vein under the control of upper centers, including the central circadian rhythm center, hypothalamic suprachiasmatic nucleus (SCN). Released CRH and AVP stimulate secretion of ACTH from corticotrophs of the anterior pituitary gland. ACTH then stimulates the production and secretion of glucocorticoids (cortisol in humans and corticosterone in rodents) from adrenocortical cells located in zona fasciculata of the adrenal gland. Circulating glucocorticoids suppress upper regulatory centers including PVN and pituitary gland, forming a closed regulatory loop. Intracellular Actions of GR In the absence of glucocorticoids, GR resides in the cytoplasm forming a heterocomplex with several heat shock proteins (HSP). Upon binding to glucocorticoids, GR releases HSPs and translocates
