AIDS and HPA Axis
KEYWORDS: pubmed, patients, glucocorticoid, aids, glucocorticoids, hiv, free, pmc, free article, article, pmc free, syndrome, article pubmed, aids patients, antiretroviral


of GR In the absence of glucocorticoids, GR resides in the cytoplasm forming a heterocomplex with several heat shock proteins (HSP). Upon binding to glucocorticoids, GR releases HSPs and translocates into the nucleus. In the nucleus, GR directly binds its specific sequence called glucocorticoid response elements (GREs) located in the promoter/enhancer region of glucocorticoid-responsive genes as a homodimer, and stimulates transcription by attracting many transcriptional cofactors and the RNA polymerase II complex. GR also modulates transcriptional activity of other transcription factors through physical protein-protein interaction without associating directly to DNA. After regulating transcription of glucocorticoid-responsive genes, GR moves back into the cytoplasm with help of the nuclear export system and returns to its ligand friendly condition by reforming a heterocomplex with HSPs. This complex regulatory system for the GR intracellular activity is sensitive to many inputs from other intracellular regulatory systems in order to adjust net GR actions upon local needs. [modified from ( 27 )] Infection of pathogens including HIV potently activates the HPA axis and induces subsequent secretion of glucocorticoids from the adrenal cortex ( 28 , 29 ). Pathogens generally stimulate central part of this regulatory system (e.g., brain hypothalamus and pituitary corticotrophs) directly with their structural and genetic components, and indirectly with cytokines and inflammatory mediators, such as the tumor necrosis factor α (TNFα), interleukin (IL)-1 and IL-6, secreted from activated immune cells and/or infected tissues ( 30 ). Secreted glucocorticoids in turn subside inflammation, functioning as a counter regulatory mechanism for otherwise overshooting immune response ( 31 ). Glucocorticoids do this mainly by suppressing release of humoral inflammatory mediators, granulocyte migration, cellular immunity and production of Th1 cytokines, such as IL-12, TNFα and the interferon (IFN) γ, while they stimulate humoral immunity and secretion of Th2-inducing anti-inflammatory cytokines, including IL-4, IL-10 and the transforming growth factor β ( 4 , 32 , 33 ). Glucocorticoids exert profound influences on many physiologic functions by virtue of their diverse roles in growth, development, and maintenance of cardiovascular, metabolic and immune homeostasis ( 4 , 34 , 35 ). Excess amounts of glucocorticoids have strong effects on intermediary metabolism, developing insulin resistance/overt diabetes mellitus and hyperlipidemia (especially triglycerides and free fatty acids) through modulation of their broad target regulatory systems/molecules ( 4 ). As glucocorticoids possess potent anti-inflammatory and immunosuppressive activities, they are used as invaluable therapeutic means in inflammatory and autoimmune diseases ( 36 ). In addition,
