AIDS and HPA Axis
KEYWORDS: pubmed, patients, glucocorticoid, aids, glucocorticoids, hiv, free, pmc, free article, article, pmc free, syndrome, article pubmed, aids patients, antiretroviral


regulatory systems/molecules ( 4 ). As glucocorticoids possess potent anti-inflammatory and immunosuppressive activities, they are used as invaluable therapeutic means in inflammatory and autoimmune diseases ( 36 ). In addition, glucocorticoids are central components of the anti-cancer treatment especially for hematologic malignancies, such as leukemia and lymphoma ( 4 ). Glucocorticoids exert their effects on their target cells through the glucocorticoid receptor (GR), a ligand-specific and -dependent transcription factor, ubiquitously expressed in almost all tissues and cells ( 21 - 24 , 28 ). There are two 3’ splicing variants, GRα and GRβ, through alternative use of a different terminal exon termed 9α or 9β. GRα is the classic glucocorticoid receptor, which binds glucocorticoids and transactivates or transrepresses glucocorticoid-responsive genes ( 37 ). GRα shuttles between the cytoplasm and the nucleus; Binding of glucocorticoids to GRα causes it to dissociate from the cytoplasmic hetero-oligomer containing heat shock proteins and to translocate into the nucleus through the nuclear pore ( 28 ) ( Figure 1B ). Ligand-bound and nucleus-translocated GRα binds as a homo-dimer to specific DNA sequences called glucocorticoid response elements (GREs) located in the promoter/enhancer regions of glucocorticoid-responsive genes to modulate their transcription ( 28 ). On the other hand, GRβ does not bind glucocorticoids and functions as a dominant negative inhibitor of GRα on GRE-containing glucocorticoid-responsive promoters, together with its intrinsic transcriptional activity on the genes not related to glucocorticoid transcriptional activity ( 37 , 38 ). However, its physiologic and pathophysiologic roles have not been fully determined as yet ( 37 ). The GRE-bound GR (hereafter for GRα) attracts to the promoter regions of glucocorticoid-responsive genes numerous “coactivator complexes”, including those with histone acetyltransferase (HAT) activity, such as the NR coactivator [p160, p300/CREB-binding protein (CBP) and p300/CBP-associated factor (p/CAF)] complex, the SWI/SNF and the vitamin D receptor-interacting protein/thyroid hormone receptor-associated protein (DRIP/TRAP) chromatin-remodeling complexes ( 39 ). Among them, p160-type NR coactivators bind first to the ligand-activated and DNA-bound GR through their coactivator LxxLL motifs, and attract other coactivators and chromatin modulatory complexes including p300/CBP to the promoter/enhancer region of glucocorticoid-responsive genes. Through these proteins and protein complexes, GR alters chromatin structure and facilitates access of other transcription factors, RNA polymerase II and its ancillary factors to the promoter region of glucocorticoid-responsive genes, and ultimately changes their transcription rates ( 28 ). In addition to these protein molecules, recent research identified that several long non-protein-coding RNA molecules,
