AIDS and HPA Axis
KEYWORDS: pubmed, patients, glucocorticoid, aids, glucocorticoids, hiv, free, pmc, free article, article, pmc free, syndrome, article pubmed, aids patients, antiretroviral


the promoter region of glucocorticoid-responsive genes, and ultimately changes their transcription rates ( 28 ). In addition to these protein molecules, recent research identified that several long non-protein-coding RNA molecules, such as the steroid receptor RNA coactivator (SRA) and the growth arrest-specific 5 (Gas5), regulate the transcriptional activity of GR ( 40 , 41 ). Complexity of the GR-signaling system residing in glucocorticoid target organs/tissues suggests that it provides potential regulatory “windows” to the GR-induced transcriptional network, which further indicates that glucocorticoid activity is under the tight regulation of numerous factors to adjust its activity upon local needs ( 25 , 28 ) ( Figure 1B ). This peripheral modulation of the glucocorticoid-signaling system is referred to as “sensitivity of tissues to glucocorticoids”, which determines effectiveness of circulating glucocorticoids in local tissues ( 30 ). Depending on its directions -decreased or increased-, it is categorized into two subgroups; resistance and hypersensitivity. Both states may be generalized or tissue-specific, as well as congenital or acquired. The generalized, congenital form of glucocorticoid resistance, namely the familial/sporadic glucocorticoid resistance syndrome or Chrousos syndrome, was described and established approximately 30 years ago ( 42 - 45 ). It is characterized by partial, relatively well-compensated resistance of all tissues to glucocorticoids and is mostly caused by inactivating mutations in the GR gene ( 42 - 45 ). On the other hand, tissue-specific, acquired forms of glucocorticoid resistance/hypersensitivity have been inferred but not fully confirmed or elucidated ( 46 ). Such states may be limited to certain tissues, as for instance leukocytes or adipocytes, and present with the manifestations associated with deficiency or excess glucocorticoids specific to respective tissues ( 25 ). Allergic, inflammatory or autoimmune diseases, such as glucocorticoid resistant asthma, Crohn’s disease, rheumatoid arthritis and systemic lupus erythematosus, may be glucocorticoid resistant states found in the components of the immune system ( 25 , 46 ). Conditions associated with chronic deprivation of energy resources, such as severe lean and anorexia nervosa, are considered as glucocorticoid resistance specific in the liver, fat and/or muscles, in part through activation of several kinases including the AMP-activated protein kinase and subsequent cytoplasmic segregation of a newly-identified GR coactivator, the CREB-regulated transcription coactivator 2 and/or induction of the repressive molecules, such as the RNA corepressor Gas5 ( 41 , 46 - 49 ). In contrast, the conditions associated with excess energy resources, such as central obesity-associated insulin resistance, hyperlipidemia
