AIDS and HPA Axis
KEYWORDS: pubmed, patients, glucocorticoid, aids, glucocorticoids, hiv, free, pmc, free article, article, pmc free, syndrome, article pubmed, aids patients, antiretroviral


molecules, such as the RNA corepressor Gas5 ( 41 , 46 - 49 ). In contrast, the conditions associated with excess energy resources, such as central obesity-associated insulin resistance, hyperlipidemia and hypertension, may be glucocorticoid hypersensitivity states in adipose and/or vascular tissues ( 46 ). INTERACTION OF THE HPA AXIS AND HIV INFECTION Pathologic Conditions Associated with the Adrenal Glands in AIDS Patients The adrenal gland is one of the organs frequently found damaged by HIV infection at autopsy, mostly caused by the opportunistic infection of other pathogens due to immunodeficiency of AIDS patients ( 50 - 52 ). Incidence of adrenalitis has significantly dropped recently, because the immune function of AIDS patients is much better preserved and the incidence of opportunistic infection has been dramatically reduced due to introduction of HAART ( 53 ). Pathologic findings of AIDS-associated adrenalitis are intra-adrenal inflammatory lesions with or without necrosis, thrombosis, and/or fibrosis, as well as metastases of Kaposi sarcoma. Cytomegalovirus adrenalitis is the most common cause of the adrenal insufficiency seen in AIDS patients ( 51 , 52 ), while cryptococcus, mycobacteria, histoplasma, Toxoplasma gondii, and Pneumocystis carinii also affect the adrenal glands ( 50 , 53 , 54 ). Pathologic findings vary from mild focal inflammation to extensive hemorrhagic necrosis. Although several cases with extensive adrenal necrosis and profound adrenal dysfunction have been reported ( 55 - 57 ), infectious adrenalitis does not usually cause clinical adrenal insufficiency in most of the AIDS patients ( 2 ). Indeed, 17% of 74 hospitalized AIDS patients demonstrated abnormal response of serum cortisol against ACTH injection in one early study, whereas only 4% of these patients developed adrenal insufficiency ( 58 ). However, a report on 60 advanced AIDS patients with less than 50 cells/μl of peripheral CD4+ lymphocyte counts demonstrated that over 25% of these patients had abnormally low and high levels of respectively serum cortisol and plasma ACTH, reduced excretion of urinary free cortisol and/or blunted response of serum cortisol to exogenous ACTH ( 59 ). Thirty-eight (63.3%) patients had cytomegalovirus antigenemia. Furthermore, 16 out of the 36 patients followed up for at least one year developed overt adrenal insufficiency and half of them were treated with corticosteroid replacement. In conclusion, pathologic findings of the adrenal glands are frequently encountered at autopsy, yet these are mild and are not associated with overt primary adrenal insufficiency in the majority of cases. Presence
