AIDS and HPA Axis
KEYWORDS: pubmed, patients, glucocorticoid, aids, glucocorticoids, hiv, free, pmc, free article, article, pmc free, syndrome, article pubmed, aids patients, antiretroviral


pathologic findings of the adrenal glands are frequently encountered at autopsy, yet these are mild and are not associated with overt primary adrenal insufficiency in the majority of cases. Presence of adrenal insufficiency, and hence, glucocorticoid replacement therapy should be considered in some end-stage AIDS patients with special caution. Indeed, one fatal case with severe adrenal insufficiency due to cytomegalovirus infection even under the treatment with pharmacologic doses of glucocorticoids was reported ( 60 ). Change of the HPA Axis/Pituitary Gland in AIDS Patients Because the adrenal glands are frequently affected in AIDS patients and common manifestations of these patients, such as weakness, fatigue and body weight loss, mimic those of adrenal insufficiency, many studies have examined basal and/or reserve activity of the HPA axis ( 2 , 61 - 63 ). A majority of publications indicates that basal levels of serum cortisol and plasma ACTH are normal or slightly elevated and their circadian rhythm is preserved in AIDS patients ( 54 , 64 - 68 ). Elevations of serum cortisol have been reported both in the early stages of AIDS and in severely affected, terminal patients ( 63 , 69 , 70 ). Twenty four-hour urinary free cortisol excretion was increased depending on severity of the AIDS-associated manifestations ( 71 ). The adrenocortical reserve capacity evaluated with a standard ACTH stimulation test is preserved in the majority of patients, while it is reduced in advanced cases ( 59 ). In a large study of 350 patients with HIV infection, 30.9% of participants displayed serum cortisol levels below 100 µg/L with a median value of 55.48 µg/L (11.36-99.96 µg/L); however, only 16.3% of participants had stimulated serum cortisol levels below 180 µg/L with median of 118 µg/L (19.43-179.62) ( 60 ). Importantly, the authors found a high prevalence of hypocortisolism among HIV patients, especially in those who had been on ART for a longer time ( 72 ). Secretion of ACTH in response to CRH is blunted, especially in terminal-stage AIDS patients ( 62 , 63 , 73 , 74 ). Altered profiles of circulating cytokines are suggested as a cause of low responsiveness of the pituitary gland to CRH ( 62 ). Significant blunting of the ACTH response in AIDS patients was also reported in the cold immersion stress test ( 66 ). Focal to widespread necrosis and/or fibrosis of the anterior pituitary gland was observed at autopsy in
