AIDS and HPA Axis
KEYWORDS: pubmed, patients, glucocorticoid, aids, glucocorticoids, hiv, free, pmc, free article, article, pmc free, syndrome, article pubmed, aids patients, antiretroviral


AIDS patients was also reported in the cold immersion stress test ( 66 ). Focal to widespread necrosis and/or fibrosis of the anterior pituitary gland was observed at autopsy in 10 out of the 88 AIDS patients; 5 showed apparent signs of cytomegalovirus infection in the absence of apparent inflammatory reaction, and one demonstrated severe cryptococcus infection ( 75 ). Based on the above evidence, it appears that the function of the pituitary gland (corticotrophs) for secretion of ACTH is generally preserved in AIDS patients. Hyponatremia and hypovolemia observed in AIDS patients at the end-stage of their disease is likely to be a result of the adrenal insufficiency due to dysfunction of the adrenal gland caused by specific adrenal lesions, such as infectious adrenalitis or neoplastic infiltration ( 51 ). GLUCOCORTICOIDS IN THE TREATMENT OF AIDS PATIENTS Protease Inhibitor-Mediated Inhibition of Glucocorticoid Metabolism and Development of Iatrogenic Cushing Syndrome PIs, which inhibit activity of the viral-encoded protease and are widely used as part of HAART, act as inhibitors of one of the cytochrome P450 (CYP) enzymes, CYP3A4, which is necessary for metabolizing glucocorticoids into inactive forms in the liver ( 11 ). Ritonavir is the strongest suppressor of CYP3A4-mediated 6β-hydroxylation of steroids, while indinavir and nelfinavir are moderate suppressors and saquinavir is the weakest ( 11 ). All these PIs cause full-blown Cushing syndrome in AIDS patients treated even with inhaled or intranasal synthetic glucocorticoids (e.g., fluticasone, budesonide, mometasone and belclomethasone) by extremely reducing their metabolic clearance ( 12 , 76 - 82 ). Duration of the glucocorticoid-PI co-administration prior to the development of iatrogenic Cushing syndrome is highly valuable, from 10 days to 5 years (mean: 7.1 years), while mean doses of administered glucocorticoids (e.g., fluticasone) are around 200-800 μg/day (mean: 400μg/day) in adults ( 12 ). Thus, glucocorticoids, even applied topically, should be used with caution in the patients treated with PIs. Changing ritonavir to other PIs or use of different classes of anti-viral drugs may help reducing this characteristic side effect. Other Therapeutic Compounds That Potentially Affect Glucocorticoid Metabolism in AIDS Patients Some other medications used for the treatment of AIDS patients are known to affect glucocorticoid metabolism and contribute to the development of adrenal insufficiency or Cushing syndrome. Ketoconazole, an anti-fungal compound frequently used for fungal skin infections especially in immunocompromised patients, such as those with HIV infection and those on chemotherapy, can suppress steroidogenesis by
