AIDS and HPA Axis
KEYWORDS: pubmed, patients, glucocorticoid, aids, glucocorticoids, hiv, free, pmc, free article, article, pmc free, syndrome, article pubmed, aids patients, antiretroviral


Cushing syndrome. Ketoconazole, an anti-fungal compound frequently used for fungal skin infections especially in immunocompromised patients, such as those with HIV infection and those on chemotherapy, can suppress steroidogenesis by inhibiting the steroidogenic enzymes P450 side-chain cleavage enzyme and 17β-hydroxylase, and cause cortisol deficiency ( 83 , 84 ). This effect of ketoconazole is not observed in other family compounds, such as fluconazole and itraconazole, and imidazole derivatives. Phenytoin and rifampicin, which are respectively an anticonvulsant and an antibiotic used for the treatment of tuberculosis, can accelerate cortisol metabolism, and thus, potentially cause adrenal insufficiency particularly in AIDS patients with reduced adrenal reserve ( 53 ). Megestrol acetate, a progesterone derivative also known as 17α-acetoxy-6-dehydro-6-methylprogesterone, is often used with its relatively high doses to boost appetite and to induce weight gain in AIDS patients with cachexia ( 85 ). This compound has some glucocorticoid actions, therefore, causes glucocorticoid excess and subsequent adrenal insufficiency upon its withdrawal or under stress ( 86 ). Potential Use of Glucocorticoids for Slowing AIDS Progression and Treatment of AIDS Complications Current therapeutic regimens, including HAART, have enabled us to control viremia and viral replication in HIV-infected patients, and thus, have expanded their life expectancy significantly ( 6 , 8 ). However, these therapeutic regimens are expensive and their adherence rates are sometimes low ( 87 - 89 ). In addition, compounds used for the treatment of AIDS often have chronic toxic side effects, such as the characteristic AIDS-related insulin resistance and lipodystrophy syndrome (ARIRLS), which will be discussed in a later section, as well as mitochondrial toxicity, lactic acidosis, hepatotoxicity and cardiomyopathy ( 90 ). Thus, other antiretroviral agents have been developed, including inhibitors of viral integrase, host CXCR4 and CCR5, and fusion of HIV to CD4+ lymphocytes ( 91 ). In addition to these compounds that directly interfere with viral activities, immunosuppressive agents, such as glucocorticoids and cyclosporine A, have been tested in HIV-infected patients, as these agents may suppress HIV-mediated immune activation, which is one of the major factors for AIDS progression and reduction of peripheral CD4+ lymphocytes ( 5 , 92 - 95 ); The synthetic glucocorticoid prednisone at 0.3-0.5 mg/kg/day successfully increases peripheral CD4+ lymphocyte counts and prevents their reduction for up to 10 years ( 5 , 96 ). It also suppresses circulating levels of TNFα and IL-6, known indicators of HIV-mediated host immune activation and possible causative agents for
