AIDS and HPA Axis
KEYWORDS: pubmed, patients, glucocorticoid, aids, glucocorticoids, hiv, free, pmc, free article, article, pmc free, syndrome, article pubmed, aids patients, antiretroviral


up to 10 years ( 5 , 96 ). It also suppresses circulating levels of TNFα and IL-6, known indicators of HIV-mediated host immune activation and possible causative agents for AIDS-associated wasting syndrome ( 92 , 97 , 98 ). These cytokines may also participate in HIV replication by potentiating Tat-mediated activation of the HIV long terminal repeat (LTR) promoter via stimulation of the nuclear factor-κB (NF-κB) ( 99 ). This beneficial effect of glucocorticoids is more obvious in patients whose immune system is less damaged ( 5 , 95 ). Glucocorticoids do not alter peripheral viral load in the patients who have already been treated with antiretroviral drugs, and thus, have low viral load before initiation of therapy ( 5 , 94 , 95 ). However, one case report indicated that high doses of prednisone (100 mg for 9 consecutive days) demonstrated extremely strong suppression on the circulating virus titer of the patient infected with multi-drug-resistant HIV ( 100 ). The synthetic glucocorticoid dexamethasone inhibits elimination of CD4+ lymphocytes by macrophages isolated from HIV-infected patients in vitro ( 101 ). Glucocorticoids reduce circulating mature monocytes in monkeys (sooty magabey) infected with the simian immunodeficiency virus, a model virus of HIV used in animal studies ( 102 ). These monocytes act as the HIV reservoirs due to their ability to transfer the virus to CD4+ lymphocytes and their relatively long life ( 103 ). Furthermore, reduced diurnal amplitude of circulating cortisol in HIV-infected patients is correlated with their greater T cell immune activation, which is a known risk factor for immunologic and clinical progression of AIDS ( 104 ). This evidence suggests that healthy diurnal cortisol production is beneficial for slowing down the AIDS progression. Thus, at treatment-naïve or equivalent states, glucocorticoids appear to inhibit viral replication by suppressing HIV-mediated inflammation, subsequent production of inflammatory cytokines and viral transmission from monocytes to CD4+ lymphocytes. However, glucocorticoids are also risk factors for AIDS-associated complications, including sarcopenia, osteoporosis and/or osteonecrosis of the hip, and are reported to accelerate development of human herpes virus-8 (HHV8)-associated Kaposi sarcoma in the patients with pleural tuberculosis, interstitial pneumonia and glomerulonephritis ( 105 - 113 ). Indeed, HHV8 encodes the latency-associated nuclear antigen (LANA), which functions as a coactivator of GR through direct physical interaction ( 114 ). Glucocorticoids are also risk factors for elective hip surgery (total hip arthroplasty and resurfacing), and may be a potential
