AIDS and HPA Axis
KEYWORDS: pubmed, patients, glucocorticoid, aids, glucocorticoids, hiv, free, pmc, free article, article, pmc free, syndrome, article pubmed, aids patients, antiretroviral


a coactivator of GR through direct physical interaction ( 114 ). Glucocorticoids are also risk factors for elective hip surgery (total hip arthroplasty and resurfacing), and may be a potential factor for the development of CD8 encephalitis in HIV-infected patients ( 111 , 115 ). Thus, the therapeutic use of glucocorticoids in AIDS patients appears to be quite limited by several factors, particularly in the era of improved HAART, which can control viral replication with less side effects. Selective glucocorticoids or other non-steroidal compounds, with immunosuppressive actions but not metabolic side effects, might be beneficial in the treatment of AIDS patients. Indeed, some of such compounds (e.g., Compound Abbott-Ligand (AL)-438, ZK216348 and the hydroxyl phenyl aziridine precursor analogue Compound A) are under investigation for their selective glucocorticoid effects ( 116 ) (please see Endotext chapter in the Adrenal Diseases and Function section entitled “Glucocorticoid Receptor”). In addition to the effect on circulating CD4+ lymphocyte counts, glucocorticoids act as central components in the treatment regimens for HIV-associated lymphoma (such as Hodgkin and non-Hodgkin lymphoma and latter’s subtypes Burkitt lymphoma and plasmablastic lymphoma), multi-centric, HHV8-associated Castleman’s disease (also known as giant or angiofollicular lymph node hyperplasia, lymphoid hamartoma, angiofollicular lymph node hyperplasia) and HIV-associated nephropathy ( 13 , 16 , 117 - 120 ). Glucocorticoids are also used to subside some complications of opportunistic infections, such as those by Pneumocystis carinii and mycobacteria (pleuritis and pericarditis), and those associated with immune reconstitution inflammatory syndrome (IRIS), which sometimes happens in AIDS patients upon recovery of their immune system with antiretroviral treatment ( 121 - 124 ). One clinical study examining the beneficial effects of glucocorticoids for the treatment of AIDS-associated cryptococcal meningitis was performed ( 18 ). Moreover, a recent double-blind, placebo-controlled, cross-over study investigated the effects of a single low-dose administration of hydrocortisone (10 mg oral) on cognition in 36 HIV-infected women ( 125 ). The authors found that this low dose had beneficial effects in verbal learning and delayed memory, working memory, visuospatial abilities and behavioral inhibition ( 125 ). Further larger studies are clearly needed to verify these promising results. Finally, glucocorticoids are prescribed empirically for AIDS patients to treat their fatigue and appetite loss ( 126 - 130 ). Adverse Effects of the Contraceptive Medroxyprogesterone Acetate for Increasing the Chance of HIV Infection through GR Activation It is important for the HIV endemic area whether contraceptives increase/reduce the chance
