AIDS and HPA Axis
KEYWORDS: pubmed, patients, glucocorticoid, aids, glucocorticoids, hiv, free, pmc, free article, article, pmc free, syndrome, article pubmed, aids patients, antiretroviral


Adverse Effects of the Contraceptive Medroxyprogesterone Acetate for Increasing the Chance of HIV Infection through GR Activation It is important for the HIV endemic area whether contraceptives increase/reduce the chance of HIV infection, therefore several clinical studies were previously performed to address this possibility ( 131 ). These compounds, regularly mixtures of progestins and estrogens, stimulate the progesterone (PR) and estrogen receptor for mimicking the hormonal profiles of pregnancy ( 132 ). There are 2 types of contraceptives with regard to their routes of administration; injection and oral intake ( 131 ). Recent studies revealed that one of the injectable contraceptives, medroxyprogesterone acetate (MPA), a compound widely used in sub-Saharan Africa, increases a chance of HIV infection particularly in young women with high exposure to this virus ( 131 ). Subsequent research revealed that MPA can bind GR in addition to PR with high affinity in contrast to other progestins, such as progesterone and norethisterone acetate, and strongly suppresses inflammatory response in endocervical cells by activating local GR ( 131 , 133 ). Moreover, medroxyprogesterone acetate was found to increase HIV-1 replication in human peripheral blood mononuclear cells through mechanisms involving the glucocorticoid receptor, increased CD4/CD8 ratios and CCR5 levels ( 134 ). Further, this compound enhances Vpr-mediated apoptosis of human CD4+ lymphocytes by cooperating with GR, which further affects clinical course of HIV-infected patients ( 133 ). GLUCOCORTICOIDS RESISTANCE/HYPERSENSITIVITY ASSOCIATED WITH AIDS PATIENTS Glucocorticoid Resistance with Reduced GR Affinity to its Ligands Norbiato et al. reported a distinct subgroup of AIDS patients who showed apparent adrenal insufficiency with fatigue, weakness, body weight loss, hypotension, and skin and mucosal hyperpigmentation associated with markedly elevated levels of serum cortisol and moderately increased levels of plasma ACTH ( 135 ). In these patients, affinity of the GR to its ligand was markedly decreased in peripheral leukocytes with concurrent elevations of receptor numbers, suggesting that the apparent adrenal insufficiency seen in these patients might be caused by decreased sensitivity of peripheral tissues to glucocorticoids. This research group estimated that up to 17% of AIDS patients are likely to have altered GR actions ( 136 ). Pathologic mechanism(s) underlying this characteristic condition with markedly reduced receptor affinity has(have) not been elucidated as yet. A similar glucocorticoid resistance state associated with reduced receptor affinity was previously reported in glucocorticoid resistant asthma patients. In the latter patients, the affinity change is limited to immune tissues, such
