AIDS and HPA Axis
KEYWORDS: pubmed, patients, glucocorticoid, aids, glucocorticoids, hiv, free, pmc, free article, article, pmc free, syndrome, article pubmed, aids patients, antiretroviral


similar glucocorticoid resistance state associated with reduced receptor affinity was previously reported in glucocorticoid resistant asthma patients. In the latter patients, the affinity change is limited to immune tissues, such as peripheral leukocytes, and is progressively reverted to normal when cells are incubated ex vivo ( 137 ). Since incubation of patients’ peripheral lymphocytes with IL-2 and IL-4 preserves the decrease in receptor affinity ( 137 , 138 ), and since elevation of these cytokine levels is generally observed in asthma patients ( 139 ), it is likely that cytokine-related mechanisms are involved in the development/maintenance of the receptor affinity change observed in AIDS patients. It was subsequently reported that glucocorticoid resistant asthma was also associated with increased expression of the GRβ isoform, suggesting that this splicing variant receptor might participate in the pathogenesis of the glucocorticoid resistance of AIDS patients as well ( 140 ). Because many kinases and other molecules important for the cytokine and growth factor signaling potentially modulate GR activity ( 28 , 30 ), and cytomegalovirus alters GR transcriptional activity by phosphorylating this receptor through activation of the extracellular signal-regulated kinases ( 141 ), it is possible that some of such molecules might also contribute to the alteration of the receptor affinity in AIDS patients. The exact prevalence of this glucocorticoid resistance associated with reduced receptor affinity observed in AIDS patients is not known. Although similar patients were reported by another group just after appearance of the initial cases ( 142 ), very few reports followed subsequently, suggesting that this characteristic AIDS-related pathologic condition may be rare and/or associated with some special condition of AIDS patients, which may be disappeared after introduction of HAART. In this instance, severe uncontrollable immune dysregulation and/or inflammation by HIV observed at an early and/or specific period may be required for developing this characteristic phenotype. AIDS-Related Insulin Resistance and Lipodystrophy Syndrome (ARIRLS): A Complex Pathologic Condition to Which Dysregulation of the Glucocorticoid/GR Signaling System Contributes In late ’90s, an acquired form of lipodystrophy, which partially mimics the clinical presentation of Cushing syndrome, was reported in AIDS patients ( 10 , 143 - 146 ). The patients had a characteristic redistribution of their adipose tissue, with an enlargement of their dorsocervical fat pad (“buffalo hump”), axial fat pads (bilateral symmetric lipomatosis), lipomastia, and expansion in their abdominal girth ("Crix-belly" or "protease paunch") [lipohypertrophy in trunk and abdomen]. Since these manifestations are
