AIDS and HPA Axis
KEYWORDS: pubmed, patients, glucocorticoid, aids, glucocorticoids, hiv, free, pmc, free article, article, pmc free, syndrome, article pubmed, aids patients, antiretroviral


fat pad (“buffalo hump”), axial fat pads (bilateral symmetric lipomatosis), lipomastia, and expansion in their abdominal girth ("Crix-belly" or "protease paunch") [lipohypertrophy in trunk and abdomen]. Since these manifestations are reminiscent of the typical phenotype of chronic glucocorticoid excess or Cushing syndrome, this condition was initially referred as a pseudo-Cushing state, a term reserved for obese, depressive or alcoholic patients with biochemical hypercortisolism who are frequently hard to differentiate from true Cushing syndrome ( 31 ). In addition to these initial characteristic manifestations, some patients develop lipoatrophy in face, buttocks and limbs ( 147 ). Furthermore, they frequently demonstrate metabolic complications, such as severe insulin resistance, hyperlipidemia and hepatic steatosis, similar to some of the congenital lipodystrophy syndromes ( 29 , 46 , 147 ). Taken together, this AIDS-related characteristic syndrome has 3 major components in its manifestations, lipohypertrophy, lipoatrophy and metabolic complication, such as insulin resistance and dyslipidemia. Pathologic causes of ARIRLS are not known, but appear to be multifactorial. ARIRLS patients demonstrate manifestations shared with or district from those of other lipodystrophies unrelated to HIV infection, suggesting that it is caused by the pathologic mechanisms somewhat different from the latter conditions ( 148 ). Alteration of the HPA axis and/or the glucocorticoid/GR signaling system appear(s) to be involved in the development of certain part of this syndrome, as we will discuss below. Factors Contributing to the Development of ARIRLS ANTIRETROVIRAL DRUGS Protease Inhibitors (PIs) Possible mechanisms contributing to this characteristic syndrome are listed in Table 3 and summarized in Figure 2 . As several previous reports indicated, one of the earlier suggestions was that the syndrome was outcome of adverse effects of antiretroviral drugs including PIs, nucleoside reverse transcriptase inhibitors (NRTIs) and/or non-nucleoside reverse transcriptase inhibitors (NNRTIs) ( 147 , 149 ). PIs interfere with viral replication by efficiently inhibiting the activity of the viral-encoded protease, which normally digests the Gag-Pol p160 kDa precursor protein, producing several polypeptide fragments with distinct functions ( 149 , 150 ). NRTIs and NNRTIs, on the other hand, inhibit viral replication by suppressing the activity of the reverse transcriptase also encoded by HIV ( 149 ). The effects of various antiretroviral drugs on the development of lipodystrophy and metabolic complications are listed in Table 4 . Since prototype drugs were significantly associated with the development of ARIRLS, new compounds with less association were subsequently developed. Figure 2. Major proposed mechanisms in the
