AIDS and HPA Axis
KEYWORDS: pubmed, patients, glucocorticoid, aids, glucocorticoids, hiv, free, pmc, free article, article, pmc free, syndrome, article pubmed, aids patients, antiretroviral


from induction of the endoplasmic reticulum stress or inhibition of the proteosomes ( 159 , 160 ). NRTIs and NNRTIs In addition to PIs, these classes of antiretroviral drugs are also associated strongly with development of ARIRLS. Among them, thymidine NRTI (tNRTI) stavudine and zidovudine cause severe lipoatrophy in AIDS patients, thus they were removed from the list of the first-line antiretroviral compounds in Western countries ( 161 ). These compounds demonstrate mitochondrial toxicity by inhibiting the mitochondrial DNA polymerase γ, facilitating generation of the reactive oxygen species in adipose tissues and possibly causing lipoatrophy in AIDS patients ( 147 ). Although weak, NNRTIs, such as efavirenz and nevirapine, also have an activity to develop lipodystrophy and dyslipidemia ( 147 ). Modulation of NR Activity by Antiretroviral Drugs In addition to above-indicated potential actions of antiretroviral drugs on the development of ARIRLS, some of these compounds can modulate the transcriptional activity of several NRs, such as the pregnane X receptor (PXR), constitutive androstane receptor (CAR), liver X receptors (LXRs) and the estrogen receptor α (ERα), and directly stimulate their transcriptional activity. Interestingly, these antiretroviral drugs were demonstrated to act potentially as ligands for the receptors in in silico structural analysis on the ligand-binding pocket of these receptors ( 154 ). PXR and CAR act as xenobiotic sensing receptors and induce drug metabolizing enzymes with broad ligand specificity for many chemical compounds, and several PIs can stimulate CYP3A4 and CYP2B6 promoter activity through activation of these receptors ( 154 ). Activation of PXR, either by its known ligands or transgenic expression of PXR, increases production of glucocorticoids in the adrenal glands by stimulating expression of the steroidogenic enzymes, such as CYP11A, CYP11B1, CYP11B2 and 3β-hydroxysteroid dehydrogenase, and develops Cushingoid manifestations in rodents ( 162 ), suggesting that PIs may increase cortisol production and participate in the development of ARIRLS indirectly through activation of PXR. Furthermore, PIs (ritonavir, atazanavir and darunavir) and maraviroc (CCR5 antagonist) activate the transcriptional activity of LXRα and/or LXRβ, while NNRTIs (tenofovir and efavirenz) stimulate ERα (but not ERβ) ( 154 ). Since LXRs are the receptors for regulating cholesterol/fatty acid metabolism and insulin actions, activation of these receptors by antiretroviral drugs may underlie pathophysiology of ARIRLS ( 163 ). In addition, LXRs and ERα cooperate with GR for expression of glucocorticoid-responsive genes, thus it is likely that these antiretroviral drugs enhance glucocorticoid actions indirectly through stimulating these
