AIDS and HPA Axis
KEYWORDS: pubmed, patients, glucocorticoid, aids, glucocorticoids, hiv, free, pmc, free article, article, pmc free, syndrome, article pubmed, aids patients, antiretroviral


163 ). In addition, LXRs and ERα cooperate with GR for expression of glucocorticoid-responsive genes, thus it is likely that these antiretroviral drugs enhance glucocorticoid actions indirectly through stimulating these NRs ( 164 , 165 ). VIRAL FACTORS Although antiretroviral drugs are generally accepted for causing ARIRLS, a small percentage of HIV-infected patients develop characteristic features of this syndrome prior to their introduction; HIV-infected patients who are not receiving antiretroviral therapy often have lipid abnormality, including elevated triglyceride levels, a high proportion of small and dense LDL particles, and low HDL cholesterol levels, similar to ARIRLS patients ( 166 ). Furthermore, different classes of chemical compounds that target different components of HIV/adipocyte biological pathways can develop similar ARIRLS manifestations in AIDS patients ( 147 ). These pieces of evidence thus suggest that the HIV infection itself could nonspecifically, -in part via inflammatory cytokine elevations and stress induced cortisol hypersecretion-, induce an insulin resistant phenotype ( 31 ). Pro-inflammatory cytokines, such as TNFα, IL-1 and IL-6, which are released from the HIV-infected macrophages localized in adipose tissues, do cause resistance to insulin and fat accumulation in neighboring adipocytes ( 158 ). In addition, these cytokines indirectly activate GR in adipose tissues by stimulating expression of the 11β-hydroxysteroid dehydrogenase-1 (11βHSD1), which converts inactive cortisone into active cortisol ( 167 ). Moreover, increased expression of GR is also reported in subcutaneous fat of zidovudine-treated AIDS patients ( 168 ). In this context, antiretroviral drugs might just exacerbate already present, smoldering insulin resistance and lipodystrophy, not expressed because of the known malnutrition of sick AIDS patients and the absence of sufficient calories to build visceral and other fat deposits ( 10 , 30 , 169 ). As manifestations of the sickness syndrome subside with treatment, the emaciated patient goes through refeeding with body weight gain of mostly fat, tilting the ratio of fat to lean body mass upward, further worsening insulin resistance. HIV, in its 9.8 kb genomic information, encodes and produces 3 precursor proteins, the Gag, RNA polymerase and envelope polypeptides, whose processed products are the reverse transcriptase, protease, integrase, matrix, and capsid, as well as 6 accessory proteins, Tat, Rev, Nef, Vif, Vpr and Vpu ( 170 ) ( Figure 3 ). Some of these polypeptides are virion-associated proteins incorporated in the viral particle and others are expressed in host cells where they direct viral replication and gene expression and several host
