AIDS and HPA Axis
KEYWORDS: pubmed, patients, glucocorticoid, aids, glucocorticoids, hiv, free, pmc, free article, article, pmc free, syndrome, article pubmed, aids patients, antiretroviral


Some of these polypeptides are virion-associated proteins incorporated in the viral particle and others are expressed in host cells where they direct viral replication and gene expression and several host cell functions. Since infection with HIV has a dramatic impact on host target cells, it is quite possible that some of these viral proteins modulate host cell glucose and lipid metabolism by changing the activity of GR in local tissues, such as in adipose tissue, skeletal muscles and liver, and participate in the development of ARIRLS. Indeed, there are several pieces of evidence indicating that AIDS patients have altered tissue sensitivity to glucocorticoids. First of all, they all develop reduction of innate and Th1-directed cellular immunity. Levels of plasma IL-2, IL-12 and IFN-γ, which direct cellular immunity, are suppressed in AIDS patients, while levels of IL-4 are increased ( 171 , 172 ). All changes can be induced by exogenously introduced glucocorticoids and are seen in hypercortisolemic patients with classic Cushing syndrome ( 173 ). AIDS patients also frequently present with muscle wasting and myopathy, as well as dyslipidemia and visceral obesity-related insulin resistance ( 174 - 176 ). Therefore, some unknown viral factor(s) might modulate tissue sensitivity to glucocorticoids in AIDS patients in a tissue-specific fashion, sparing their HPA axis preserving normal negative feedback sensitivity to glucocorticoids. Figure 3. Lineralized structure of the HIV genome and localization of vpr and tat coding region (shown in black boxes). HIV, in its 9.8 kb genomic information, encodes and produces 3 precursor proteins, the Gag ( gag ), RNA polymerase ( pol ) and envelope polypeptides ( env ), whose processed products are the reverse transcriptase, protease, integrase, matrix, and capsid, as well as 6 accessory proteins, Tat, Rev, Nef, Vif, Vpr and Vpu. LTR: long terminal repeat [modified from ( 170 , 177 )] In agreement with these reported findings, one of the HIV proteins, Vpr, which is a 96-amino acid virion-associated accessory protein with multiple functions, including influencing transcriptional activity and having a cell cycle-arresting effect, increases the action of GR by several fold, functioning as a potent GR coactivator ( 178 ). The GR coactivator activity of Vpr is biologically evident in the suppression of IL-12 production from monocytes and the expression of activated NF-κB ligand (RANKL) in lymphocytes ( 179 , 180 ). Similar to host p160 type coactivators, Vpr contains one LxxLL coactivator motif through which it
