AIDS and HPA Axis
KEYWORDS: pubmed, patients, glucocorticoid, aids, glucocorticoids, hiv, free, pmc, free article, article, pmc free, syndrome, article pubmed, aids patients, antiretroviral


and the expression of activated NF-κB ligand (RANKL) in lymphocytes ( 179 , 180 ). Similar to host p160 type coactivators, Vpr contains one LxxLL coactivator motif through which it binds to the ligand-activated and promoter-bound GR ( 178 ). GR-bound Vpr then attracts p300/CBP, and ultimately potentiates the transcriptional activity of GR by acting as a molecular adaptor between GR and p300/CBP ( 177 , 181 ) ( Figure 4 ). p300/CBP are HAT coactivators also known as integrators or regulatory “platforms” for many signal transduction cascades by providing docking sites for many transcription factors, including NRs, CRE-binding protein (CREB), activator protein-1 (AP-1), NF-κB and the signal transducers and activators of transcription (STATs) ( 182 ) ( Figure 4 ). Vpr easily penetrates the cell membrane to exert its biologic effects ( 183 , 184 ), thus its effects may be extended to tissues not infected with HIV. Figure 4. Linearized Vpr, Tat and p300 molecules and their mutual interaction domains. Vpr interacts with cellular molecules, such as NR, p300/CBP coactivators and 14-3-3, while Tat is physically associated with pTEFb elongation factor through its component Cyclin T1. Tat also binds p300/CBP and p160 type coactivators. Numerous transcription factors, transcriptional regulators and viral molecules bind the transcriptional coactivator p300. Binding sites of p160 NR coactivators and Vpr overlap with each other and they both bind NRs and p300/CBP. Thus, Vpr mimics the host p160 NR coactivators and enhances NR transcriptional activity. p300 facilitates attraction of transcription factors, cofactors and general transcription complexes by loosening the histone/DNA interaction through acetylation of histone tails by its histone acetyltransferase (HAT) domain. [modified from ( 29 , 30 )]. CREB: CRE-binding protein, HAT: histone acetyltransferase, NF-κB: nuclear factor-κB, NR: nuclear hormone receptor, p/CAF: p300/CBP-associating factor, pTEFb: positive-acting transcription elongation factor b, Rb: retinoblastoma protein, SF-1: steroidogenic factor-1, STAT2: signal transducer and activator of transcription 2, TFIIB: transcription factor IIB. Another HIV accessory protein, Tat, the most potent transactivator of the HIV long terminal repeat promoter, also moderately potentiates GR-induced transcriptional activity, possibly through accumulation of the positive-acting transcription elongation factor b (pTEFb) complex, that is comprised by the cyclin-dependent kinase 9 and its partner molecule cyclin T, on glucocorticoid responsive promoters ( 185 ) ( Figure 4 ). Because Tat, like Vpr, also circulates in blood and exerts its actions as an auto/paracrine or endocrine factor by penetrating the cell membrane ( 186 ),
