AIDS and HPA Axis
KEYWORDS: pubmed, patients, glucocorticoid, aids, glucocorticoids, hiv, free, pmc, free article, article, pmc free, syndrome, article pubmed, aids patients, antiretroviral


( Figure 4 ). Because Tat, like Vpr, also circulates in blood and exerts its actions as an auto/paracrine or endocrine factor by penetrating the cell membrane ( 186 ), it is possible that Tat modulates tissue sensitivity to glucocorticoids irrespectively of a cell’s infection by HIV. Concomitantly with Vpr, Tat may induce tissue hypersensitivity to glucocorticoids that might contribute to viral proliferation indirectly, by suppressing local immune system activity and by altering the host’s metabolic balance, with both functions being governed by glucocorticoids ( 30 , 46 ). Vpr reduces tissue sensitivity to insulin not only through potentiating the actions of glucocorticoids, but also by modulating insulin’s transcriptional activity via interaction with the protein of the 14-3-3 family, which participates in the cell cycle arrest activity of Vpr ( 29 , 187 ). Insulin uses the forkhead transcription factors (FoxOs) to control gene induction; baseline unphosphorylated FoxOs are active, reside in the nucleus, and bind to their responsive sequences in the promoter region of insulin-responsive genes; in contrast, insulin activates Akt kinase, which phosphorylates specific serine and threonine residues of FoxOs rendering it inactive ( 188 ). Indeed, once FoxOs are phosphorylated at specific residues, they lose their transcriptional activity, by binding with 14-3-3 through phosphorylated residues and subsequently segregated into the cytoplasm ( 188 ). We found that Vpr moderately inhibited insulin-induced translocation of FoxO3a into the cytoplasm through inhibiting its association with 14-3-3 ( 187 ). Thus, Vpr may participate in the induction of insulin resistance by interfering with the insulin signaling through FoxOs/14-3-3 ( 29 , 151 , 177 ). We further found that Vpr-mediated insulin resistance might be compounded by the ability of the viral protein to interfere with the signal transduction of PPARγ ( 183 ). Indeed, Vpr suppresses the c - Cbl associating protein (CAP) mRNA expression in pre-adipocyte cells and associated with the PPAR-binding site located in the promoter region of this gene. CAP is predominantly expressed in insulin-sensitive tissues and positively regulates insulin action, directly associating with both the insulin receptor and the c- Cbl proto-oncogene product ( 189 ). Vpr delivered either by exogenous expression or as a peptide added to media suppresses PPARγ agonist-induced adipocyte differentiation ( 183 ). Thus, circulating Vpr, or alternatively Vpr produced as a consequence of direct infection of adipocytes, may suppress differentiation of preadipocytes by acting as a corepressor of PPARγ-mediated gene transcription (
