AIDS and HPA Axis
KEYWORDS: pubmed, patients, glucocorticoid, aids, glucocorticoids, hiv, free, pmc, free article, article, pmc free, syndrome, article pubmed, aids patients, antiretroviral


Thus, circulating Vpr, or alternatively Vpr produced as a consequence of direct infection of adipocytes, may suppress differentiation of preadipocytes by acting as a corepressor of PPARγ-mediated gene transcription ( 29 , 183 , 190 ). We further found that Vpr regulates the transcriptional activity of PPARβ/δ as well, and alters cellular energy metabolism organized by mitochondria ( 191 ). Vpr disturbs the insulin signaling and induces hepatic steatosis by disrupting the transcriptional program of PPARs in the liver and adipose tissue in the animal models, such as the transgenic mice expressing Vpr specifically in these organ and tissue and the mice inoculated with the pump that continuously releases the synthetic Vpr peptide into circulation ( 192 ). Moreover, Vpr was demonstrated to induce fatty liver in mice via LXRα and PPARα dysregulation ( 193 ). Taken together, based on these pieces of evidence, Vpr may be a key factor for the development of lipodystrophy, insulin resistance and hyperlipidemia observed in HIV-infected patients through modulation of the GR/PPARs/LXR and FoxOs/14-3-3 activities. HOST FACTORS Several host factors may influence susceptibility and manifestation of ARIRLS. Variant alleles of APOC3 , APOE contribute to an unfavorable lipid profile in patients with HIV infection, while application of antiretroviral therapy further worsens it ( 194 ). Another study identified that APOE polymorphism is also associated with the dyslipidemia seen in AIDS patients treated with PIs ( 195 ). One recent study demonstrated that polymorphisms of the genes involved in apoptosis and adipocyte metabolism are significantly related to the development of ARIRLS ( 196 ). Among the polymorphisms examined, ApoC3-455 variant is associated with lipoatrophy, while two variants of the adrenergic receptor β2 influence fat accumulation in ARIRLS patients ( 196 ). A polymorphism in the TNFα gene promoter is associated with development of lipodystrophy in one study, while this association was not confirmed in larger studies ( 194 ). Stavudine-induced lipoatrophy is associated with the HLA-B100*4001 allele among the genetic variants of HLA-A, HLA-B HLA-C, HLA-DRB1, HLA-DQB1 and HLA-DPB1 ( 190 ). A newly identified polymorphism ( Tth111 I) in the GR gene is negatively associated with the development of some manifestations of ARIRLS in the African-American population ( 197 ). Finally, toxicity of antiretroviral drugs depends on their metabolism in each patient, which is partly determined genetically ( 196 ). Summary for ARIRLS Above pieces of evidence indicate that ARIRLS is most likely caused
