Myocardial ischaemia
KEYWORDS: wave, myocardial, ischaemia, segment, patients, changes, waves, infarction, myocardial ischaemia, depression, myocardial infarction, wave inversion, ventricular, inversion, segment depression


waves, these changes are not always readily appreciated without comparison with a previous electrocardiogram. Flattened T waves are often seen in patients with myocardial ischaemia, but they are very non-specific. T wave inversion T wave inversion can be normal It occurs in leads III, aVR, and V1 (and in V2, but only in association with T wave inversion in lead V1) Myocardial ischaemia may also give rise to T wave inversion, but it must be remembered that inverted T waves are normal in leads III, aVR, and V1 in association with a predominantly negative QRS complex. T waves that are deep and symmetrically inverted (arrowhead) strongly suggest myocardial ischaemia. In some patients with partial thickness ischaemia the T waves show a biphasic pattern. This occurs particularly in the anterior chest leads and is an acute phenomenon. Biphasic T wave changes usually evolve and are often followed by symmetrical T wave inversion. These changes occur in patients with unstable or crescendo angina and strongly suggest myocardial ischaemia. ST segment depression Typically, myocardial ischaemia gives rise to ST segment depression. The normal ST segment usually blends with the T wave smoothly, making it difficult to determine where the ST segment ends and the T wave starts. One of the first and most subtle changes in the ST segment is flattening of the segment, resulting in a more obvious angle between the ST segment and T wave. More obvious changes comprise ST segment depression that is usually planar (horizontal) or downsloping. Whereas horizontal ST depression strongly suggests ischaemia, downsloping changes are less specific as they are also found in association with left ventricular hypertrophy and in patients taking digoxin. The degree of ST segment depression in any given lead is related to the size of the R wave. Thus, ST segment depression is usually most obvious in leads V4 to V6 of the 12 lead electrocardiogram. Moreover, because the height of the R wave varies with respiration, the degree of ST depression in any one lead may vary from beat to beat. ST segment depression is usually not as marked in the inferior leads because here the R waves tend to be smaller. Substantial (⩾2 mm) and widespread (⩾2 leads) ST depression is a grave prognostic finding as it implies widespread myocardial ischaemia from extensive coronary artery disease. ST segment depression may be transient, and its resolution with treatment is reassuring. Modern equipment
