Myocardial ischaemia
KEYWORDS: wave, myocardial, ischaemia, segment, patients, changes, waves, infarction, myocardial ischaemia, depression, myocardial infarction, wave inversion, ventricular, inversion, segment depression


a grave prognostic finding as it implies widespread myocardial ischaemia from extensive coronary artery disease. ST segment depression may be transient, and its resolution with treatment is reassuring. Modern equipment allows continuous ST segment monitoring. Serial changes in the electrocardiogram over a few hours or days, especially when the changes are associated with recurrent chest pain, are extremely helpful in confirming the presence of ischaemic heart disease; serial changes confer a worse prognosis, indicating the need for increased drug treatment or revascularisation interventions. ST segment elevation Transient ST segment elevation in patients with chest pain is a feature of ischaemia and is usually seen in vasospastic (variant or Prinzmetal's) angina. A proportion of these patients, however, will have substantial proximal coronary artery stenosis. When ST segment elevation has occurred and 3/18 resolved it may be followed by deep T wave inversion even in the absence of enzyme evidence of myocardial damage. In patients with previous Q wave myocardial infarction the hallmark of new ischaemia is often ST segment elevation. This is thought to be associated with a wall motion abnormality, or bulging of the infarcted segment. It rarely indicates reinfarction in the same territory. When an electrocardiogram shows persistent T wave inversion accompanying the changes of a previous acute myocardial infarction, ischaemia in the same territory may cause “normalisation” of the T waves (return to an upright position). Alternatively, further ischaemia may make the T wave inversion more pronounced. Arrhythmias associated with acute myocardial ischaemia or infarction Ventricular myocardial ischaemia may be arrhythmogenic, and extrasystoles are common. It used to be thought that frequent extrasystoles of multifocal origin, bigeminy, couplets, or extrasystoles that fell on the T wave (R on T) conferred a bad prognosis in the early hours of myocardial infarction and predicted the onset of ventricular fibrillation. Clinical trials have clearly shown, however, that their suppression by antiarrhythmic drugs had no effect on the frequency of subsequent ventricular fibrillation. Short runs of ventricular tachycardia are a bad prognostic sign and should probably be treated Ventricular fibrillation is the commonest unheralded fatal arrhythmia in the first 24 hours of acute myocardial infarction. The prognosis depends almost entirely on the patient's proximity to skilled medical help when the arrhythmia occurs. Cardiac arrest from ventricular fibrillation outside hospital is associated with a long term survival of about 10%, compared with an initial survival of 90% when cardiac arrest occurs after admission
