Myocardial ischaemia
KEYWORDS: wave, myocardial, ischaemia, segment, patients, changes, waves, infarction, myocardial ischaemia, depression, myocardial infarction, wave inversion, ventricular, inversion, segment depression


Cardiac arrest from ventricular fibrillation outside hospital is associated with a long term survival of about 10%, compared with an initial survival of 90% when cardiac arrest occurs after admission to a coronary care unit. Studies have shown that the key factor in prognosis is the speed with which electrical defibrillation is delivered. Tachycardias of supraventricular origin, with the exception of atrial fibrillation, are uncommon after myocardial infarction. Atrial fibrillation occurs in about 10% of patients and is more common in those with heart failure, diabetes, and valvular heart disease. It may be transient or persistent and is often a marker of haemodynamic instability 4/18 Heart block The artery supplying the atrioventricular node is usually a branch of the right coronary artery; less commonly it originates from the left circumflex artery. In patients with proximal occlusion of the right coronary artery causing an inferior infarction, the atrioventricular node's arterial supply may be compromised resulting in various degrees of heart block. Atrioventricular block may be severe at first but usually improves over subsequent days. Complete atrioventricular block usually gives way to second degree and then first degree block. Although temporary transvenous cardiac pacing may be necessary for patients who are haemodynamically compromised, it is not mandatory in stable patients. When complete atrioventricular block occurs in association with acute anterior myocardial infarction, transvenous cardiac pacing is recommended Profound bradycardia or atrioventricular block resulting from ischaemia may provoke an escape rhythm. Such rhythms are the result of spontaneous activity from a subsidiary pacemaker located within the atria, atrioventricular junction, or ventricles. An atrioventricular junction escape beat has a normal QRS complex morphology, with a rate of 40-60 beats/min. A ventricular escape rhythm is broad complex and generally slower (15-40 beats/min).
