Chapter 3: Prevalence and Incidence of Type 2 Diabetes and Prediabetes
KEYWORDS: diabetes, age, prevalence, fpg, years, total, undiagnosed, age years, diagnosed, non-hispanic, health, based, glucose, undiagnosed diabetes, total diabetes


3–1 CHAPTER 3 PREVALENCE AND INCIDENCE OF TYPE 2 DIABETES AND PREDIABETES Catherine C. Cowie, PhD, MPH, Sarah Stark Casagrande, PhD, and Linda S. Geiss, MA Dr. Catherine C. Cowie is Senior Advisor and Director of the Diabetes Epidemiology Program, National Institute of Diabetes and Digestive and Kidney Diseases, National Institutes of Health, Bethesda, MD. Dr. Sarah Stark Casagrande is Senior Research Analyst at Social & Scientific Systems, Inc., Silver Spring, MD. Ms. Linda S. Geiss is Team Leader, Diabetes Surveillance, Centers for Disease Control and Prevention, Atlanta, GA. Received in final form April 5, 2018. SUMMARY Diabetes is a common condition in the United States and worldwide, associated with multiple complications and early mortality that result in costly use of health resources and lost productivity. This chapter reviews the prevalence and incidence of type 2 diabetes in terms of diagnosed and undiagnosed diabetes, as well as prediabetes. Variations in estimates are illustrated by age, sex, race/ethnicity, and over time. Data come primarily from analyses of two national health surveys: the National Health Interview Surveys (NHIS) 2011–2015, which include only an interview; and the National Health and Nutrition Examination Surveys (NHANES) 2011–2014, which include an interview and blood draw to detect undiagnosed diabetes by glycosylated hemoglobin (A1c), fasting plasma glucose (FPG), and/or 2-hour plasma glucose (2-hour PG) from an oral glucose tolerance test. While these data do not distinguish type 1 from type 2 diabetes, an estimated 90%–95% are from persons with type 2 diabetes. Data from the literature are used to describe type 2 diabetes in adolescents, Hispanic and Asian subgroups, and American Indians. Crude overall prevalence of diagnosed diabetes based on the NHIS 2011–2015 was 9.5% in adults age ≥20 years, translating to 21.8 million in the U.S. civilian noninstitutionalized population. Prevalence increased with age, ranging from 0.5% in youth age 12–19 years to about 20% in those age ≥65 years. Age-standardized prevalence was somewhat higher in adult men than women. Age- and sex-stan­ dardized prevalence was highest in non-Hispanic American Indian/Alaska Native adults (19.1%) and lowest in non-Hispanic whites (8.2%), with prevalences between these in non-Hispanic blacks, all Hispanics, and non-Hispanic Asians. Variability in prevalence was found across Hispanic and Asian subgroups. Prevalence of validated type 2 diabetes in adolescents age 10–19 years based on the SEARCH for Diabetes in Youth Study was 0.46 per 1,000 in 2009, which varied by age, sex, and race/ethnicity. Crude overall
