Chapter 3: Prevalence and Incidence of Type 2 Diabetes and Prediabetes
KEYWORDS: diabetes, age, prevalence, fpg, years, total, undiagnosed, age years, diagnosed, non-hispanic, health, based, glucose, undiagnosed diabetes, total diabetes


36.9% (83.6 million) by A1c/FPG/2-hour PG. Prevalence of prediabetes rose with age. Standardized prevalence was significantly higher in men than women; and prevalences were higher in non-Hispanic blacks, all Hispanics, and Mexican Americans compared to non-Hispanic whites and non-Hispanic Asians. Prediabetes prevalence was fairly constant during 1999–2006, but significantly increased during 2007–2010. Diabetes remains a very prevalent condition, especially in American Indians, non-Hispanic blacks, and Hispanic groups. The long-term trend showing a persistent rise in occurrence, though a slowing in more recent years, needs continued surveillance. The fact that one-quarter to one-third of diabetes is undiagnosed and that another third of the total population has prediabetes emphasizes the impor­ tance of sustained monitoring and improvements in health care delivery. INTRODUCTION Diabetes is one of the most common chronic diseases in the United States and worldwide, associated with the myriad complications presented throughout this compendium, resulting in increased disability, physician office visits and hospitalization rates, premature mortality, and costs amounting to $327 billion in 2017 due to health care and lost productivity (1). Understanding the magnitude of diabetes occurrence in the U.S. population, and in subgroups in which there is a particularly high burden, is the foundation for facilitating further research on risk factor and intervention investigations, as well as health care planning. This chapter reviews the prevalence and incidence of type 2 diabetes in terms of diagnosed, undiagnosed, and total diabetes; prediabetes; and total dysglycemia. Variations in estimates are illustrated by age, sex, and race/ ethnicity, with additional focus on certain Hispanic and Asian subgroups. Type 2 diabetes in adolescents is also presented. The different criteria for detecting undiagnosed diabetes (glycosylated hemoglobin [A1c], fasting plasma glucose [FPG], and 2-hour plasma glucose [2-hour PG] from an oral glucose tolerance test [OGTT]) are compared. Prevalence of diagnosed diabetes is also compared across two national health surveys frequently used in its reporting. Trends over time in these estimates are shown by demographic factors and by county. The national health survey data do not distinguish between type 1 and type 2 diabetes with precision, as antibody and C-peptide data at the time of diabetes diagnosis are not available; data are not validated by physician diagnosis. The vast majority (90%–95%) of diabetes in these surveys, however, is estimated to be type 2 (2). Some data from other sources that are presented from the scientific literature have validated type 2 diabetes based on physician report. For
