Chapter 3: Prevalence and Incidence of Type 2 Diabetes and Prediabetes
KEYWORDS: diabetes, age, prevalence, fpg, years, total, undiagnosed, age years, diagnosed, non-hispanic, health, based, glucose, undiagnosed diabetes, total diabetes


however, is estimated to be type 2 (2). Some data from other sources that are presented from the scientific literature have validated type 2 diabetes based on physician report. For a detailed discussion on classification of diabetes, please refer to Chapter 1 Classification and Diagnosis of Diabetes. DATA SOURCES AND LIMITATIONS Two national health surveys with publicly accessible data were analyzed for Diabetes in America, 3rd edition, and are the main data sources for this chapter. Published studies from the scientific literature are also described to fill in data gaps; details of these studies are described in the main text. NATIONAL HEALTH INTERVIEW SURVEY The National Health Interview Survey (NHIS) is a cross-sectional household interview survey of a representative sample of the U.S. civilian, noninstitutionalized population that has been conducted annually since 1957 to obtain data on the health of the nation. Because of the technical and logistical problems, the survey does not include institutionalized persons in long-term care facilities, those on active duty with the Armed Forces, persons incarcerated in the prison system, and U.S. nationals living in foreign countries. The NHIS sample is drawn from households in each State and the District of Columbia using a stratified, multistage, probability sample design. The NHIS design and methods have been described (3). The data used for the analyses from the NHIS in this chapter are from 2011– 2015. Non-Hispanic blacks, Hispanics, non-Hispanic Asians, and older persons age ≥65 years were oversampled to obtain more precise estimates for these groups. During 2011–2015, approximately 33,000–37,000 individuals age ≥18 years and 12,000–14,000 age <18 years were sampled. Response rates during 2011–2015 ranged from 55.2% to 74.6% and were adjusted for nonresponse (4). Interview sample weights were applied to provide representative estimates of the U.S. civilian noninstitutionalized population, and variance estimation accounted for the complex survey design. The NHIS personal household interview includes a core questionnaire that remains largely unchanged over successive years, enabling trends analysis and data pooling to increase sample size, and a supplemental questionnaire about current health topics. In the core questionnaire, persons are asked about the presence or absence of specific chronic conditions. To identify people with diagnosed diabetes, respondents were asked “(Other than during pregnancy for females), Have you ever been told by a doctor or other health professional that you have diabetes or sugar diabetes?” If the response was Prevalence and Incidence of Type 2 Diabetes and Prediabetes
