Chapter 3: Prevalence and Incidence of Type 2 Diabetes and Prediabetes
KEYWORDS: diabetes, age, prevalence, fpg, years, total, undiagnosed, age years, diagnosed, non-hispanic, health, based, glucose, undiagnosed diabetes, total diabetes


ever been told by a doctor or other health professional that you have diabetes or sugar diabetes?” If the response was Prevalence and Incidence of Type 2 Diabetes and Prediabetes 3–3 “yes,” the person was classified as having diagnosed diabetes. All other data were self-reported, including race/ethnicity. Self-reported physician-diagnosed diabetes may under- or overestimate true prevalence of diagnosed diabetes; several reports, however, have found self- report to have high validity (5,6,7). Since diabetes was only based on interview information, some persons were classified as not having diabetes when in fact they had undiagnosed diabetes; as much as one-quarter to more than one-third of all diabetes may be undiagnosed (8). It is not possible to differentiate type of diabetes with precision in the NHIS based on available data, and there was no attempt to do so in this chapter; however, the vast majority (90%–95%) of diagnosed diabetes is estimated to be type 2 (2). NATIONAL HEALTH AND NUTRITION EXAMINATION SURVEY The National Health and Nutrition Examination Survey (NHANES) is an ongoing cross-sectional, stratified, multistage, probability sample of the U.S. civilian, noninstitutionalized population. It is the only national health survey with both interview and physical examination components to ascertain health conditions. Currently, the NHANES samples approximately 5,000 individuals of all ages from households in 15 locations of the United States each year. Certain groups, such as minority, elderly, and adolescent populations are oversampled to provide more precise estimates in these groups. In-home interviews are followed by physical examinations and laboratory tests in mobile examination centers. For 2011– 2014, the most recent years available at the time of analysis for Diabetes in America, response rates of the screened sample were 71%–73% for the interview and 69%–70% for the examination (9). Nonresponse adjustment is applied to yield representative estimates. Data are released in 2-year cycles. Survey design and methods have been described (10). The NHANES identifies race/ethnicity based on self-report in the interview. Diagnosed diabetes is ascertained in the interview based on an affirmative response to “(Other than during pregnancy, if female) . . . Have you ever been told by a doctor or other health professional that you have diabetes or sugar diabetes?” In persons without diagnosed diabetes, undiagnosed diabetes was determined by measurement of A1c ≥6.5% (≥48 mmol/mol) in those with a physical examination, or by FPG ≥126 mg/dL (≥7.0 mmol/L) in those randomly assigned to the morning sample who fasted 8–<24
