Chapter 3: Prevalence and Incidence of Type 2 Diabetes and Prediabetes
KEYWORDS: diabetes, age, prevalence, fpg, years, total, undiagnosed, age years, diagnosed, non-hispanic, health, based, glucose, undiagnosed diabetes, total diabetes


measurement of A1c ≥6.5% (≥48 mmol/mol) in those with a physical examination, or by FPG ≥126 mg/dL (≥7.0 mmol/L) in those randomly assigned to the morning sample who fasted 8–<24 hours, or by a 2-hour PG ≥200 mg/dL (≥11.1 mmol/L) from an OGTT with a 75 gram oral glucose challenge (Trutol) and a venipuncture 2 hours (±15 minutes) later in those in the morning sample. In persons without diagnosed or undiagnosed diabetes, prediabetes was defined by A1c 5.7%–6.4% (39–46 mmol/mol), FPG 100–125 mg/dL (5.6–6.9 mmol/L), or 2-hour PG 140–199 mg/dL (7.8–11.0 mmol/L). These criteria cutpoints are recommended by the American Diabetes Association (ADA) (11). Pregnant women were included; only one woman was found to have undiagnosed diabetes based on elevated A1c and 2-hour PG, and she may have had gestational diabetes. NHANES-recommended glucose corrections were used (12,13,14,15,16,17). Sample weighted estimates included interview weights for diagnosed diabetes; examination weights for undiagnosed diabetes and prediabetes identified by A1c; and fasting or OGTT weights for undiagnosed diabetes, prediabetes, or no diabetes identified by FPG or 2-hour PG; this procedure maximizes the use of survey information and sample sizes. Variance estimation accounted for the complex survey design. Undiagnosed diabetes was defined either by two markers of elevated A1c or FPG or by three markers of elevated A1c or FPG or 2-hour PG, in order to provide a comprehensive assessment of diabetes in the U.S. civilian noninstitutionalized population. Both definitions were also used for assessing the magnitude of prediabetes prevalence. The use of any of the three criteria is recommended by the ADA (11). A1c and FPG are more frequently used in clinical practice to assess diabetes/prediabetes because of ease of measurement and less burden and time/ cost for physicians and patients. While less frequently used in clinical practice, 2-hour PG from an OGTT also detects additional undiagnosed diabetes, which adds to overall diabetes prevalence (18). Diagnosed diabetes and undiagnosed diabetes were combined to estimate total diabetes in the general population. In addition, the proportion of diabetes that was undiagnosed is reported, using the total diabetic population as a denominator. Estimates of self-reported prediabetes prevalence are not provided in this chapter, although the NHANES queries participants on whether they were ever told they have prediabetes, impaired fasting glucose (IFG), impaired glucose tolerance, borderline diabetes, or higher than normal glucose but not high enough to be called diabetes or sugar diabetes. Only a small proportion of
