Chapter 3: Prevalence and Incidence of Type 2 Diabetes and Prediabetes
KEYWORDS: diabetes, age, prevalence, fpg, years, total, undiagnosed, age years, diagnosed, non-hispanic, health, based, glucose, undiagnosed diabetes, total diabetes


impaired fasting glucose (IFG), impaired glucose tolerance, borderline diabetes, or higher than normal glucose but not high enough to be called diabetes or sugar diabetes. Only a small proportion of individuals are aware of having prediabetes; among those testing positive for prediabetes by FPG or a 2-hour PG in the NHANES 2005–2006, only 7.3% self- reported having been told (19). Defining prediabetes based on elevated A1c, FPG, or 2-hour PG levels captures the condition as currently defined. The NHANES is unique for national surveys because of its examination component that allows undiagnosed diabetes to be ascertained, in addition to collecting self-reported physician- diagnosed diabetes. As mentioned for the NHIS in the previous section, although self-reported diagnosed diabetes may not represent true prevalence, literature has shown such reports to have high validity. Detection of undiagnosed diabetes in the NHANES is based on a single blood sample assessment for A1c and plasma glucose and does not include a repeat blood draw and assessment for confirmation, as recommended by the ADA (11), which could lead to overestimation of undiagnosed diabetes prevalence since it is not confirmed (20,21). The NHANES does not distinguish 3–4 DIABETES IN AMERICA, 3rd Edition type 1 from type 2 diabetes; however, as described above, almost all is expected to be type 2. ANALYTIC CONSIDERATIONS IN USING THE NHIS AND NHANES Both the NHIS and NHANES use complex survey designs that oversample certain groups of the U.S. population to provide more precise estimates in these groups, requiring sample weighting of prevalence estimates. Absolute numbers of individuals with diabetes were calculated from weighted prevalence estimates applied to the respective NHIS and NHANES samples, to represent millions of the U.S. civilian noninstitutionalized population. Standard errors were estimated using SUDAAN (Release 11.0.0) (22), which accounts for the clustered sample design. Relative standard errors (RSEs) are noted in the figures and appendices, if estimates had limited statistical precision due to small sample sizes. Estimates with RSE >30%–50% should be considered with caution, and those with an RSE >50% have been suppressed. Standard errors and 95% confidence intervals (CI) for estimates have also been provided. All comparisons of interest were tested for statistical significance using large sample t-tests based on a level of p<0.05. Estimated prediabetes prevalence in the NHANES was somewhat lower in some older age groups based on the A1c/ FPG/2-hour PG definition compared to the A1c/FPG definition. This occurred from a combination
