Chapter 3: Prevalence and Incidence of Type 2 Diabetes and Prediabetes
KEYWORDS: diabetes, age, prevalence, fpg, years, total, undiagnosed, age years, diagnosed, non-hispanic, health, based, glucose, undiagnosed diabetes, total diabetes


prediabetes prevalence in the NHANES was somewhat lower in some older age groups based on the A1c/ FPG/2-hour PG definition compared to the A1c/FPG definition. This occurred from a combination of two reasons: the first due to some sample persons being classified as having prediabetes by A1c/FPG, but having diabetes by OGTT, making them ineligible to have prediabetes using the three-marker definition, and the second due to comparing two somewhat different subsamples (fasting vs. OGTT subsamples). In addition, estimates of Total Diabetes and Total Dysglycemia may not reflect the sum of their parts due, first, to rounding, and second, to small differences in the fasting and OGTT subsamples used to estimate the various components. PREVALENCE OF DIAGNOSED DIABETES OVERALL Data from the NHIS 2011–2015 were analyzed for Diabetes in America to present prevalence of diagnosed diabetes. Crude overall prevalence of diagnosed diabetes was 9.5% for adults age ≥20 years, translating to 21.8 million (95% CI 21.3–22.3 million) adults with diagnosed diabetes in the U.S. civilian noninstitutionalized population (Appendix 3.1). PREVALENCE BY AGE Crude prevalence of diagnosed diabetes during 2011–2015 increased significantly with age but plateaued in older age groups. Prevalence was 0.5% in youth age 12–19 years and was 2.6% in adults age 20–44 years, rising to 21.5% in those age 65–74 years, which was similar to prevalence in adults age ≥75 years (19.9%), although the difference was statistically significant (Figure 3.1, Appendix 3.1). Prevalence was 20.8% in all adults age ≥65 years. Prevalence estimates of diagnosed diabetes in youth based on data from the NHIS contain a mixture of both type 1 and type 2 diabetes. The SEARCH for Diabetes in Youth study aims to describe the magnitude of diabetes, separately for type 1 and type 2, in youth age <20 years. SEARCH data were collected from four geographic areas (Colorado [from all 64 counties], Ohio [from eight counties], South Carolina [from all 46 counties], and Washington state [from five counties]) and one managed health care plan located in California (Kaiser Permanente Southern California health plan in seven coun- ties), with additional data from selected American Indian reservations in Arizona and New Mexico. Networks of pediatric and adult endocrinologists and other clini- cians, hospitals, and health plans in the study areas were used. Data from identi- fied patients were validated by verifying the diagnosis and type of diabetes with a physician. As reported by Dabelea et al. (23), overall
