Chapter 3: Prevalence and Incidence of Type 2 Diabetes and Prediabetes
KEYWORDS: diabetes, age, prevalence, fpg, years, total, undiagnosed, age years, diagnosed, non-hispanic, health, based, glucose, undiagnosed diabetes, total diabetes


2-HOUR PG CRITERIA An analysis of NHANES 2003–2006 data compared A1c, FPG, and 2-hour PG in their ability to detect undiagnosed diabetes in adults age ≥20 years (18). Among all adults classified as having undiagnosed diabetes based on at least one of these criteria, all three criteria simultaneously classified 23% as having undiagnosed diabetes. The A1c criteria diagnosed the smallest percent (30%) of the undiagnosed diabetic group. In contrast, the 2-hour PG diagnosed 90% of those with undiagnosed diabetes. A substantial proportion, 47% of undiagnosed diabetes, was detected only by the 2-hour PG, but not by the A1c or FPG. In addition, 19% of undiagnosed diabetes was diagnosed by both FPG and 2-hour PG, but not by A1c. Most people who were diagnosed by A1c were also diagnosed by FPG or 2-hour PG (Figure 3.21) (18). Table 3.2 likewise shows that prevalences of undiagnosed diabetes by age differed according to whether diabetes was detected by A1c, FPG, or 2-hour PG (18). Prevalences of undiagnosed diabetes rose with age for all methods of detection. However, both FPG and 2-hour PG detected more undiagnosed diabetes in older age groups than A1c, particularly 2-hour PG. For prediabetes, both FPG and 2-hour PG detected more prediabetes. A 2-hour PG was particularly sensitive at detecting prediabetes at oldest ages (age ≥75 years) compared to younger ages. Prevalences of undiagnosed diabetes were higher but not statistically significantly in men than women for each of the three different criteria (Table 3.2) (18). FPG detected a somewhat higher relative proportion of undiagnosed diabetes in men compared to women than the other methods. Prevalences of prediabetes followed the same trends by sex, except that prevalence of IFG was significantly higher in men than women. Compared to non-Hispanic whites, A1c detected about twice as much undiagnosed diabetes in non-Hispanic blacks and almost three times as much undiagnosed diabetes in Mexican Americans (Table 3.2) (18). For the other glycemic measures, the relative differences by race/ethnicity were much less. For prediabetes, prevalence by A1c was at least twice as high in non-Hispanic blacks compared to non-Hispanic whites and Mexican Americans; prevalences were similar by race/ethnicity for the other measures. Studies have shown that A1c levels may vary with race/ethnicity independently of glycemia. Even at similar FPG and 2-hour PG levels, it has been shown that African Americans and Hispanic/Latino heritage groups may have higher A1c levels than non-Hispanic whites (30,31). Some other
