Vaterian
KEYWORDS: yes, cancer, ofthe, siblings, fpc, negative, yes yes, carcinoma, case, periampullary, ampulla, occurrence, cases, family, vaterian


a phenotypic expression ofadele- * _ terious gene and not a chance occurrence. The odds 4 _ FIGS . . _^ 4AandB. PhotomicrographsofCase2. PAN = pancreas;AMP = ampulla ofVater. (A): original magnification by 2.5. (B): original magnificationby 10. against two siblings out of 11 developing pancreatic MN;-X | ca4ncer in the same year, in the absence of a genetic factor, is 100,000,000:1. Cancer of the ampulla of Vater is even more rare, and the odds are even greater against two siblings developing the disease. Previous authors have associated periampullary cancerwith FPC and GS.3" Vaterian cancer, like other malignancieswithlimited numbers available for study, has not undergone careful epidemiologic review. The influence ofgenetics on this neoplasm has been given little attention with regard to its pathogenesis. Geneticists understandably have con- centrated their studies on unifactorial disorders that occur more frequently in the population. This neo- plasm, in the absence ofan identifiable single-gene de- termined etiology, should be considered multifactorial in origin. Such multifactorial disorders are presumedto result largely from the additive effect of a number of FIGS. 3A and B. A. CAT ofCase 2. B. ERCP of Patient 2. CBD factors, somegeneticandothersenvironmental.7 Avari- =commonbileduct;PD = pancreaticduct. ety ofaneuploid states, single-gene disorders, and other AUSTIN AND OTHERS Ann.Surg.-June1988 TABLE2.HLA Typing youngersisterdiscussedinthisreportdiedofampullary or periampullary cancer. Four of the remaining eight Case 1 . Case2 have expired ofcirrhosis, diphtheria, blood poisoning, All A2 and a cerebrovascular accident. Only one of the four A33 A3 living siblings has exhibited interest and agreed to a B8 B44 DRI D35 screening and follow-up studies. One proband worked DR7 DRI in a flour mill and the other was a crane operator. No DR5 significant environmental or unusual lifestyle circum- stanceswerediscoverable from interviewswith multiple family members; hence this unique occurrence cannot polygenic conditions may predispose to malignancy, al- be accounted forby any known environmental factors. thoughtheexactmolecularmechanismsarerarelyclear. Inthecancerfamilysyndromeapattern ofmalignan- The complexity and importance ofhost factors in such cies emerges, although every individual does not neces- tumorsbecome increasingly importantandareverydif- sarily have the same neoplasm. Familial tumors share ficultto discern. several cardinal features: (1) they tend to occur at an The most attractive hypothesis for the simultaneous earlier age, often 12-15 years before sporadic cases ap- occurrence ofthis unusual phenomenon is that it is a pear; (2) there isan increased incidence ofsynchronous variant ofFPC or GS. It is difficult forthe surgeon and andmetachronouslesions; (3)theymaybe multicentric pathologist to differentiate between carcinoma arising and/orbilateralwherepairedorgansexist;(4)thereisan from
