65 year old with chest pain during dialysis
KEYWORDS: omi, concordant, chest pain, depression, ste, chest, patient, changes, pain, iii, waves, supraventricular, cath lab, cath, inappropriate


A 65 year old with history of CABG and end stage renal disease developed sudden chest pain and diaphoresis during routine dialysis, and was given three nitro sprays and then sent to the emergency department. On arrival, heart rate was 145 and BP 75/50. There’s a wide complex tachycardia which is regular (so not AF) and without preceding P waves (so not sinus tach). There is an LBBB appearance in the precordial leads, but the limb leads have rS complexes in I/aVL rather than monophasic R waves – making it non-specific intraventricular conduction delay (IVCD). There are no obvious features of hyperkalemia. Instead, there’s fast septal depolarization in V1-3 suggesting supraventricular origin. With the abnormal depolarization there’s expected discordant repolarization abnormalities producing diffuse ST depression with reciprocal STE in aVR. But there’s unexpected concordant STE in III. Bottom line: unstable non-sinus tachy-arrhythmia: cardiovert and reassess. The patient spontaneously cardioverted and systolic BP increased to the 90s, but had ongoing chest pain. Repeat ECG: Sinus rhythm with PVC, first degree AV block, and same QRS morphology as during tachy-arrhythmia – confirming it was supraventricular. There is still ongoing inappropriate concordant ST elevation III and reciprocal ST depression I/aVL, as well as mild concordant ST depression in V2 – indicating superimposed primary ischemic changes from inferior +/- posterior OMI. Cath lab was activated. The patient was immediately taken to cath lab. There was a 95% left circumflex occlusion which was stented. First troponin I was 80 ng/L, which rose to 500, then 2,000 and then a peak of 8,000 ng/L. Follow up ECG showed resolution of the primary ischemic ST changes, and subtle infero-posterior reperfusion T wave inversion compared with baseline: Take home If a patient is unstable from a WCT and the differential is narrowed to VT vs SVT with aberrancy, then the treatment is immediate cardioversion regardless Tachy-arrhythmias can cause secondary ST/T changes due to supply/demand mismatch that can be reassessed after cardioversion Inappropriate concordant STE can identify OMI in both LBBB and IVCD First troponin is an unreliable marker of OMI in acute chest pain and can’t differentiate chronic myocardial injury and demand ischemia from Type 1 MI (ACS) OMI or NOMI
