Open Access Case
KEYWORDS: herbal, liver, liver injury, injury, supplements, case, use, tea, patient, hepatitis, herbal tea, hili, using, patients, antibody


Open Access Case Report DOI: Herbal Supplement-Induced Liver Injury: A Case Report Haidar Khan 1 , Jonathan Vincent M. Reyes 1 , Tasur Seen 2 , Branden Irefej 1 , Saad Ahmad 1 Review began [DATE] Review ended [DATE] Khan et al. This is an open access article distributed under the terms of the Creative Corresponding author: Haidar Khan, Commons Attribution License CC-BY 4.0., which permits unrestricted use, distribution, and reproduction in any medium, provided the original author and source are credited. Abstract We present the case of a 45-year-old woman who arrived at the emergency department complaining of sudden epigastric pain. An inpatient evaluation revealed no evidence of viral or immunologic infection. Additionally, imaging did not elicit a clear cause for the patient’s symptoms. Further examination revealed that the patient had recently begun using a herbal tea and that symptoms had completely resolved after discontinuation. Though rare, hepatotoxicity secondary to herbal supplement ingestion, or herbal supplement-induced liver injury, or HILI, should be considered in all patients presenting with abnormal liver function tests. Categories: Internal Medicine, Gastroenterology Keywords: herbal-induced liver injury (hili), liver damage, herbal medications, drug-induced liver injury (dili), hepatitis, herbal supplements Introduction Herbal supplements have seen an increase in acceptance among Western countries recently as an alternative to prescribed medication. Due to a lack of regulations regarding their manufacturing and marketing, supplements are often erroneously perceived by the public as having little to no side effects. Though rare, this misconception has led to herbal supplement-induced liver injury (HILI) in susceptible individuals. HILI is a rare but often overlooked cause of liver disease. It should be taken into consideration after an extensive workup fails to produce a definitive diagnosis for an unspecified liver injury. Case Presentation A 45-year-old woman presented with one day of severe epigastric pain and nausea. She had a past medical history of hypothyroidism, and her only medication was levothyroxine. The patient denied drug or alcohol use, recent travel, and a history of blood transfusions. Of note, she began drinking herbal tea daily for three days before experiencing symptoms to "improve immunity." The exam was notable for a non-tender abdomen and a lack of jaundice and organomegaly. Laboratory values were significant for elevated bilirubin (total 1.9 mg/dL and direct 1.2 mg/dL), alkaline phosphatase (145 IU/L), aspartate aminotransferase (1463 IU/L), alanine transaminase (940 IU/L), gamma-glutamyl transpeptidase (215 IU/L), and lactate dehydrogenase (818 IU/L). The Hepatitis B surface
