Open Access Case
KEYWORDS: herbal, liver, liver injury, injury, supplements, case, use, tea, patient, hepatitis, herbal tea, hili, using, patients, antibody


mg/dL and direct 1.2 mg/dL), alkaline phosphatase (145 IU/L), aspartate aminotransferase (1463 IU/L), alanine transaminase (940 IU/L), gamma-glutamyl transpeptidase (215 IU/L), and lactate dehydrogenase (818 IU/L). The Hepatitis B surface antibody was reactive, but the hepatitis B surface antigen, E antigen, core antibody, hepatitis C antibody, and hepatitis A antibodies were non-reactive. Ceruloplasmin, antinuclear antibody, anti-smooth muscle antibody, and iron panel were within normal limits. Ultrasound of the right upper quadrant was significant for stone and sludge with a 5 mm gallbladder wall. Magnetic resonance cholangiopancreatography (MRCP) revealed cholelithiasis without cholecystitis. The patient was observed without further intervention, and transaminases and bilirubin started decreasing on the third day of admission and decreased until discharge on the fifth day. Further investigation revealed 23 different ingredients in the herbal tea, most notably reishi mushroom (Ganoderma lucidum), aloe vera (Aloe barbadensis), and Siberian ginseng (Eleutherococcus senticosus). She did not drink the tea during her bilirubin, transaminases, and alkaline phosphatase had all normalized. Discussion It is estimated that roughly one-third of Americans take herbal supplements . Due to their categorization as supplements, they are not as closely regulated as traditional pharmaceuticals, despite heavy marketing various supplements are limited by the unreliability of ingredient labeling, dosing, and possible contamination. Aloe vera is a "likely but rare cause of clinically apparent liver injury," with about 12 case reports published since 2005 . Yuen MF et al. and Wanmuang HT et al. identified acute liver injuries in otherwise healthy patients who began using reishi mushrooms . Lastly, Enioutina EY et al. examined reports of patients concurrently using Siberian ginseng along with other hepatically cleared prescribed medications and developing acute liver injury . The article suggests ginseng may inhibit various cytochromes, though the data remain equivocal. How to cite this article Khan H, Reyes J M, Seen T, et al. (January 11, 2023) Herbal Supplement-Induced Liver Injury: A Case Report. Cureus 15(1): e33663. DOI Conclusions A diagnosis of HILI requires an effective inquiry into any herbs or supplements a patient may be taking, as patients may be hesitant to provide this information. This case shows the value of further inquiry into supplement use once common causes of acute liver injury are ruled out. In this case, the patient was using an herbal tea with known hepatotoxic ingredients and had definitive improvement after cessation of use. It is imperative for clinicians to familiarize themselves with herbal supplements to better
