Aortic Branch Aneurysms - Cardiovascular Disorders - Merck Manual Professional Edition
KEYWORDS: aneurysms, artery, aortic, branch, aortic branch, abdominal, risk, rupture, occur, location, branch aneurysms, repair, aneurysm, cause, hepatic


Aneurysms may occur in any major aortic branch; such aneurysms are much less common than abdominal or thoracic aortic aneurysms. Symptoms vary depending on the location and artery affected but may include pain in areas where the aneurysm compresses nearby structures. Diagnosis is made by ultrasound, CT angiography, or MRI. Treatment is endovascular stent grafting or surgery. (See also Overview of Aortic Aneurysms, Abdominal Aortic Aneurysms, and Thoracic Aortic Aneurysms.) Risk factors for aneurysms of aortic branch arteries include Atherosclerosis Hypertension Cigarette smoking Older age Localized infection can cause mycotic aneurysms. Subclavian artery aneurysms sometimes occur in patients with cervical ribs or thoracic outlet compression syndrome. Aneurysms of the arteries of the splanchnic circulation are uncommon. About 60% occur in the splenic artery, 20% in the hepatic artery, 5.5% in the superior mesenteric artery (1). Splenic artery aneurysms are more common in females than males (4:1). Causes include medial fibromuscular dysplasia, portal hypertension, multiple pregnancies, penetrating or blunt abdominal trauma, pancreatitis, and infection. Hepatic artery aneurysms occur in more males than females (2:1). They may result from previous abdominal trauma, illicit IV drug use, medial degeneration of the arterial wall, or periarterial inflammation. Renal artery aneurysms may dissect or rupture, causing acute occlusion. Superior mesenteric artery aneurysms occur equally in males and females. Causes include fibromuscular dysplasia, cystic medial necrosis, and trauma. Symptoms and Signs of Aortic Branch Aneurysms Many aortic branch aneurysms are asymptomatic. Symptoms (when they occur) vary depending on the location and artery affected. Subclavian aneurysms can cause local pain, a pulsating sensation, venous thrombosis or edema (due to compression of adjacent veins), distal ischemic symptoms, transient ischemic attacks, stroke, hoarseness (due to compression of the recurrent laryngeal nerve), or impaired motor and sensory function (due to compression of the brachial plexus). Splenic artery aneurysm may cause left upper quadrant abdominal pain. Hepatic artery aneurysm may cause right upper quadrant pain and jaundice. Superior mesenteric aneurysms may cause generalized abdominal pain and ischemic colitis. Regardless of location, mycotic or inflammatory aneurysms may cause local pain and sequelae of systemic infection (eg, fever, malaise, weight loss). Diagnosis of Aortic Branch Aneurysms Ultrasound, CT scan, or magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) With the routine availability of axial diagnostic imaging, many aneurysms are diagnosed before rupture. Calcified asymptomatic or occult aneurysms may be seen on radiographs or other imaging tests done for other reasons. Ultrasound, CT angiography, or MRI is typically
