Aortic Branch Aneurysms - Cardiovascular Disorders - Merck Manual Professional Edition
KEYWORDS: aneurysms, artery, aortic, branch, aortic branch, abdominal, risk, rupture, occur, location, branch aneurysms, repair, aneurysm, cause, hepatic


aneurysms are diagnosed before rupture. Calcified asymptomatic or occult aneurysms may be seen on radiographs or other imaging tests done for other reasons. Ultrasound, CT angiography, or MRI is typically used to detect or confirm aortic branch aneurysms. Conventional angiography is typically reserved for treatment or to evaluate distal organ perfusion. Treatment of Aortic Branch Aneurysms Open repair or sometimes endovascular stent grafting Treatment is surgical removal and replacement with a graft. Endovascular repair is an option for some patients. The decision to repair asymptomatic aneurysms is based on risk of rupture, extent and location of the aneurysm, and perioperative risk. Surgery for subclavian artery aneurysms may involve removal of a cervical rib (if present) before repair and replacement. For splanchnic aneurysms, risk of rupture and death is as high as 10% and is particularly high for women of childbearing age and for patients with hepatic aneurysms (> 35%) (1). Elective repair of splanchnic aneurysms is therefore indicated for Aneurysms > 2 cm in diameter Aneurysms in pregnant women or women of childbearing age Symptomatic aneurysms in any age group Hepatic aneurysms For splenic aneurysms, repair may consist of ligation without arterial reconstruction or aneurysm exclusion and vascular reconstruction. Depending on location of the aneurysm, splenectomy may be necessary. Treatment of mycotic aneurysms is aggressive antibiotic therapy directed at the specific pathogen. Generally, these aneurysms must also be surgically repaired. Key Points Aortic branch aneurysms are rarer than abdominal or thoracic aortic aneurysms. Many are incidentally discovered and often asymptomatic. When symptoms occur, they vary depending on the location and artery affected. Diagnosis is often first suspected based on an incidental radiograph finding, and confirmed using ultrasound and CT. Treat with elective surgical repair and antibiotics in the case of mycotic aneurysms. In general, indications for elective surgery are based on risk of rupture, extent and location of the aneurysm, and perioperative risk. Pregnant women or women of child- bearing age with splanchnic aneurysms and patients with hepatic aneurysms should be operated on electively because of the high risk of rupture.
