Since January 2020 Elsevier has created a COVID-19 resource centre with
KEYWORDS: pneumonia, respiratory, acute, tract, infections, respiratory tract, patients, common, aureus, infection, viral, bacterial, admission, pneumoniae, cases


and influenza A in elderly patients inflammation. For optimal gas exchange, the respiratory debilitated by other illnesses. Although viruses are the epithelium, and extensive blood flow. Inherent in this be alert to the possibilityof primary bacterial pathogens structure is an enormous immunological burden. The or perhaps bacterial super-infection following an initial 11000–15000litersof airinhaleddailycontainamyriad viral illness. High fever, prominent constitutional symp- ofpathogens,pollutants,andallergens.Inthenormallung, toms,oraprolongedillnessareimportantpointerstoward many inhaled microbes are trapped in the mucus layer a bacterial etiology necessitating antimicrobial therapy. coating the nasal epithelium and upper respiratory tract. Some common URTIs are described in the following Oncetrapped,theycanbetransportedbyciliarymotionto paragraphs. RespiratoryInfections,Acute 557 AcuteCoryza(CommonCold) and facial pain or pressure that is worse when bending forward.Avarietyoforganisms maycauseacutesinusitis The common cold is a symptom complex characterized including viruses. In adults Haemophilus influenza, Morex- by nasal congestion, sneezing, rhinorrhoea, pharyngitis, allacatarrhalis,andStreptococcuspneumoniaaccountfor80% andcough.Over200differentviralagentsincludingcor- of acute bacterial sinusitis. Anaerobic bacteria are also onaviruses, respiratory syncytial viruses, parainfluenza, implicated. Acute sinusitis is generally treated with andinfluenzavirusesareknowntocausecoryzaalthough 10–14days of oral antimicrobial therapy with adjunctive rhinovirus is the most common etiological agent. Trans- treatmentsintheformofnasaldecongestantsandsimple mission is by hand–nose–hand inoculation or by droplet analgesia.Therapyshouldbebasedonknowledgeoflocal spread; the incubation period is typically 48 to 72hours. patterns of antibiotic resistance, spectrum of activity Theillnessmaylastforupto1weekbutinupto25%of against the most common pathogens (including those patients, it persists for 2weeks. Immunity is short-lived thatareresistanttopenicillinsandmacrolides),andphar- andvirus-specific;mostadultswillsufferbetween2and4 macodynamic potency (Benningeretal., 2006). Complica- coryzal illnesses annually. Children tend to have more tionsofacutesinusitisincludefacialcellulitis,osteomyelitis, frequent colds (6–8 per year) and cigarette smokers also intracranial abscess formation, meningitis, and cavernous have more frequent viral URTIs. Physical findings are sinusthrombosis. generally confined to the upper respiratory tract and include nasal mucosal edema and pharyngeal erythema. Therapy is principally supportive and includes bed rest, AcuteEpiglottitis paracetamol (0.5–1g, 4–6hourly)for systemic symptoms Acute swelling and inflammation of the epiglottis and and fever and nasal decongestants in some cases. The aryepiglottic folds is a life-threatening condition usually benefitsofvitaminCtherapyremainunproven(Douglas caused by virulent strains of Haemophilus influenza type etal.,2004;Sasazukietal.,2006).Similarly,datasupporting B. Death may occur from upper airway occlusion and thewideuseoftheplantextract,echinacea,incoryzaare asphyxiation. It is most common in children aged lacking . Complications of coryza are 2–3yearsbutcanalsooccurinadults.Theillnessusually predominantlyduetosecondarybacterialinfectionssuch startswithfeverandsorethroatprogressingrapidlywith as sinusitis (0.5% of cases), otitis media (2% of cases), voice changes, drooling, stridor, and respiratory distress. bronchitis,andpneumonia. course, and underlying diabetes mellitus have been AcutePharyngitis showntocorrelatewith theneedforairwayintervention (Katori and Tsukuda, 2005). Direct visualization of the Pharyngitismayoccuraspartofthecommoncoldorasa epiglottis may reveal an edematous, erythematous epi- separateillness.Etiologicalagentsincludevirusesbutalso glottis projecting over the back of the tongue. Laryngo- bacteria such as group A
