Since January 2020 Elsevier has created a COVID-19 resource centre with
KEYWORDS: pneumonia, respiratory, acute, tract, infections, respiratory tract, patients, common, aureus, infection, viral, bacterial, admission, pneumoniae, cases


and Tsukuda, 2005). Direct visualization of the Pharyngitismayoccuraspartofthecommoncoldorasa epiglottis may reveal an edematous, erythematous epi- separateillness.Etiologicalagentsincludevirusesbutalso glottis projecting over the back of the tongue. Laryngo- bacteria such as group A beta hemolytic streptococci, scopic blade examination should be avoided because of Mycoplasma pneumoniae, and Chlamydiae pneumoniae. The theriskofprecipitatingtotalairwayobstruction.Alateral patient presents with sore throat and there is erythema cervicalX-ray may showepiglottic swelling (thumbprint of the pharynx often accompanied by tonsillar enlarge- sign). Blood cultures followed by prompt antibiotic ment. Epstein-Barr virus often affects the pharynx therapywithampicillinandchloramphenicol,orathird- in infectious mononucleosis and there may be asso- generation cephalosporin and skilled invasive airway ciatedlymphadenopathyandsplenomegaly.Abloodfilm management, are the cornerstones of treatment. Orotra- demonstrates atypical monocytes with positive hetero- cheal or nasal tracheal intubation is usually done under phile antibody testing. Streptococcal pharyngitis may be generalanesthesiaproceedingtotracheostomyiftracheal complicated byglomerulonephritisor(rarely)rheumatic intubation is not possible. The role of corticosteroids fever. With recent advancements in rapid streptococcal in the management of acute epiglottitis has not been antigentesting,throatculturecanbereservedforpatients established. inwhomsymptoms donotimproveover timeorwhodo notrespondtoantibiotics(Vincentetal.,2004).Antibiotic Croup treatmentwithoralpenicillinmayreducethedurationof illness and prevent suppurative complications such as Croup(acutelaryngotracheobronchitis)isusuallycaused pharyngealabscess. by viruses such as respiratory syncytial virus, influenza A and B, rhinoviruses, adenovirus, and measles. It com- monlyoccursbetween3monthsand3yearsofagewitha AcuteSinusitis peakincidenceinthesecondyearoflife.Patientsusually Infectionofthesinusescausesnasalcongestion,purulent present with a barking cough and dyspnea following an nasal discharge, maxillary tooth discomfort, hyposmia, upper respiratory tract infection. Supportive treatment 558 RespiratoryInfections,Acute with inhalation of steam is widely used despite little primarycare clinicians and emergencydepartment phy- evidence . Systemic corticosteroids sicians.Cough with orwithoutpurulent sputum in asso- havereducedtheseverityofcroup,dramaticallyreduced ciation with URTI symptoms suggest the diagnosis of the need for endotracheal intubation, reduced the need acutebronchitisinanotherwisehealthypatient.Bronchi- for hospital admission and subsequent length of hospi- tis may present in a manner very similar to pneumonia tal stay, and reduced the duration of illness (Fitzgerald, differingonlybytheabsenceofsignsofconsolidationon 2006). chestexaminationandabsentchestX-rayfindings.Respi- ratory viruses appear to be the most common cause of acute bronchitis; however, the organism responsible is Influenza rarelyidentifiedinclinicalpracticebecauseviralcultures Influenza is an acute systemic viral illness characterized and serologic assays are not routinely performed. Influ- by pyrexia, malaise, myalgia, headache,nasal congestion, enza A and B, coronavirus, rhinovirus, herpes simplex, andharshunproductivecough,whichmaylastforseveral parainfluenza, and respiratory syncytial virus have all days. Itiscausedbyagroup of RNAmyxoviruses (com- been implicated. Acute bronchitis is a self-limited respi- monly types A and B) that are capable of undergoing ratorydisorder,andwhenthecoughpersistsformorethan frequent spontaneous changes in their hemagglutinin 3weeks,otherdiagnosesmustbeconsidered.Inthepres- and neuraminidase surface antigens referred to as ‘anti- ence ofunderlyingchronic pulmonarydiseasethemani- genic drift’ if associated with minor outbreaks or festations and etiologic agents
