Since January 2020 Elsevier has created a COVID-19 resource centre with
KEYWORDS: pneumonia, respiratory, acute, tract, infections, respiratory tract, patients, common, aureus, infection, viral, bacterial, admission, pneumoniae, cases


deaths in the elderly are related to pneumonia(CAP) pneumonia pneumonia although this is often the terminal illness in Strep.pneumoniae(60%) Gramnegativebacteria(50%) patients with serious concomitant disease. In the outpa- Haemophilusinfluenza(10%) Staph.aureus(20%) tientsetting,mortalityratesforpneumoniaremainlow,in Mycoplasmapneumoniae(10%) Strep.pneumoniae(15%) therange oflessthan1–5%. Inpatients requiringhospi- Viral(10%) Anaerobesandfungi(10%) talization,themortalityrateapproaches12%overall,but Staph.aureus(3%) Others(5%) increases in specific populations such as those with bac- Legionellapneumophilia(2%) Others,e.g.,Chlamydia teremiaandthosefromnursinghomesettings.Pneumonia pneumoniae(5%) necessitatingintensivecareadmissionhasamortalityrate approaching40%overall. Classificationofpneumonia Investigations Pneumoniacanbeclassifiedaccordingtothesiteaffected. Patients with mild pneumonia are usually treated in the It can be localized, affecting just one lobe or segment outpatient setting and require less investigations than (lobar), or diffuse, affecting lobules and bronchi and those with more severe pneumonia. The main objectives pneumonia is seen in previously healthy people while pneumoniaaretoobtainradiologicalconfirmationofthe bronchopneumonia is more common in the elderly or diagnosis, to exclude other conditions that mimic pneu- those with underlying lung disease. Pneumonia is also monia,toobtainamicrobiologicaldiagnosis,toassessthe classified according to etiology, for example, bacterial, severity of the pneumonia, and to identify the develop- viral,fungal,atypical,chemical,radiation,andallergic. ment of complications. These investigations should A further classification in widespread clinical use is includethefollowing: basedontheoriginalsourceofinfection. CAPisdefined . Chest X-rays confirm the diagnosis by demonstrating as acute pulmonary parenchymal infection in a person areas of consolidation and may help detect complica- whohasnotbeenhospitalizedinthepreceding14daysor tions such as lung abscess or parapneumonic effusion. is not a resident in a nursing home or long-term care Examples of chest X-ray changes in pneumonia are facility. Hospital-acquired (nosocomial) pneumonia is showninFigure1. defined as pneumonia occurring 48hours after hospital . Sputum Gram stain and culture may help identify a admission. It is estimated to occur in 1% of all patients causativeorganismbutpriorantibiotictherapyandcon- admitted to the hospital and carries a mortality rate taminationbyoropharyngealfloramaylimittheiruse. approaching33%.Upto60%ofpatientsintheintensive . Blood cultures should be performed in all cases of care setting develop pneumonia while being ventilated pneumonia necessitating hospital admission. They are and this form of pneumonia is referred to as ventilator- positiveinabout30%ofcasesofpneumococcalpneu- associated pneumonia (VAP). The spectra of causative moniaandin15%ofcasesofpneumoniaoverall. organisms in CAP and nosocomial pneumonia are . Serologicaltestingmayallowaretrospectivediagnosis showninTable1. of the infecting organism if a rising titer is found between acute and convalescent samples. This is most Clinicalfeatures useful for certain viruses and ‘atypical pneumonia’ Patientswithpneumoniamaypresentwithaconstellation organismssuchasMycoplasmapneumoniae. ofsymptomsandsigns.Feverorhypothermiaispresentin about 40–50% of cases. Other symptoms include rigors Severe CAP is considered as pneumonia requiring (15%), pleuritic pain (30%), and new cough with or intensivecare unit (ICU) admission.However, nogener- withoutpurulent sputum(80%).Examination may reveal allyaccepteddefinition of severe pneumonia is available auscultatorycrackles(80%),signsofconsolidation(30%), and criteria for ICU admission remain undetermined. tachypnea(45–70%),andtachycardia(50%).Thesesymp- Eachcasemustbeassessedindividually.TheBritishTho- tomsandsignsmaybemaskedorabsentintheelderly. racicSociety(BTS)criteriaforseverepneumoniainclude
