Aneurysm and dissection of the aorta - Cardiology Explained - NCBI Bookshelf
KEYWORDS: aortic, dissection, figure, aorta, marfan, type, arteries, valve, ascending, lumen, chest, lincoln, useful, aneurysm, examination


NCBI Bookshelf. A service of the National Library of Medicine, National Institutes of Health. Ashley EA, Niebauer J. Cardiology Explained. London: Remedica; 2004. Chapter 12 Aneurysm and dissection of the aorta Aortic aneurysm Aneurysms of the thoracic aorta (see Figure 1) are not as common as those affecting the abdominal portion, but carry a higher risk of rupture. Both share the same primary cause: atherosclerosis. In the past, ascending aortic aneurysms were typically caused by syphilis, but nowadays hypertension or Marfan's syndrome are more likely to be responsible. Symptoms result from the acute painful tear felt as central chest pain, which radiates to the back, and from the compression of surrounding structures: Figure 1 A typical aneurysm of the thoracic aorta at surgery. dysphagia (esophagus) dyspnea (bronchi; pericardial effusion) upper thorax/neck swelling (superior vena cava) Standard radiology and echocardiography can be useful in monitoring the progression of aneurysms. Computed tomography (CT) is the gold standard and should be carried out annually in patients with known disease that does not yet require surgery or percutaneous placement of an aortic prosthesis/stents. However, magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) is increasingly being used. Management The central feature of management is rigorous control of blood pressure (BP). Therapy should include a β-blocker and be aimed at keeping systolic pressure <120 mm Hg. Marfan's syndrome Described by Bernard Marfan in 1896, this autosomal dominant single-gene disorder results from a mutation of the fibrillin gene on chromosome 15. The key clinical features are: arachnodactyly (long spindly fingers) high-arched palate pectus excavatum an armspan greater than height upward lens dislocation aortic root dilatation and aortic incompetence mitral valve prolapse Abraham Lincoln 1/4 Abraham Lincoln was both tall (6 ft 4 in) and thin (160–180 lb). He had long arms and legs, and large, narrow hands and feet. Contemporary descriptions of his appearance indicate that he was stoop-shouldered, loose-jointed, and walked with a shuffling gait. In addition, he wore eyeglasses to correct a visual problem. It is not surprising then that many have concluded that he suffered from Marfan's syndrome. Certainly, he shared a great-great- grandfather with a man who had a confirmed diagnosis of Marfan's. In fact, this observation, reported by Dr Harold Schwartz in 1959, was the beginning of a mystery that has taxed historians and doctors ever since. However, Lincoln showed few other signs of Marfan's. He had visual problems, but examination of his eyeglasses reveals he
