Aneurysm and dissection of the aorta - Cardiology Explained - NCBI Bookshelf
KEYWORDS: aortic, dissection, figure, aorta, marfan, type, arteries, valve, ascending, lumen, chest, lincoln, useful, aneurysm, examination


surgical emergency because of the high risk of proximal extension, rupture, and sudden death. If a type A dissection is confirmed by CT or MRI, the patient should be operated on immediately. The highly specialized repair operation can involve replacement of the aortic root with a vascular graft, reimplantation of the coronary arteries, and resuspension of the aortic valve. In some cases it may be necesssary to replace the valve. Figure 3 Classification of dissection. In contrast, type B dissection is managed medically by aggressive antihypertensive treatment. In the acute situation, the systolic BP should be lowered to <110 mm Hg using intravenous (IV) β- blockade (eg, labetalol). Beta-blockade, as well as reducing the BP, reduces the BP's rate of rise and for this reason it is preferred to sodium nitroprusside as the first-line IV agent. If β-blockers are contraindicated then rate-limiting calcium-channel blockers, such as diltiazem or verapamil, can be used. Dissection typically presents with a severe tearing central chest pain that radiates to the back. A patient with such a history should be referred urgently to a specialist center since the ascending aorta might be involved. Immediate investigations include: CT or MRI scan (see Figures 4 and 5, previous page) transesophageal echo to assess possible aortic regurgitation (see Figure 6, previous page) transthoracic echo for pericardial effusion preoperatively, coronary artery disease must be ruled out by coronary angiography Figure 4 Computed tomography scans showing dissection of the aorta. Figure 5 Magnetic resonance images showing separation of the dissected membrane. AA: ascending aorta; F: false lumen; I: intimal flap; P: pulmonary artery; S: subclavian artery; T: true lumen. Figure 6 Transesophageal echocardiograms showing separation of the dissecting membrane. AV: aortic valve; F: false lumen; I: intimal flap; LA: left atrium; T: true lumen. A physical examination can prove useful diagnostically, but should not delay the above emergency investigations. It should include: measurement of the BP in both arms (unequal BP is a sign, though not a reliable sign) documentation of all peripheral pulses (lack of peripheral pulses may be the only sign if the dissection spares the ascending aorta) close attention to heart sounds (aortic regurgitation and tamponade are possible with proximal extension) neurologic examination (hemiplegia or paraplegia can result from occlusion of the carotid arteries and anterior spinal arteries, respectively) Other potentially useful investigations are: assessment of renal function, including urine microscopy and catheterization for accurate measurement of
