REVIEW
KEYWORDS: oats, celiac, disease, celiac disease, pure, canada, diet, oat, individuals, gluten-free, canadian, gluten, individuals celiac, gluten-free diet, consumption


de la maladie cœliaque, en consultation avec Santé Canada, le and labelling of pure oats. These strategies have led to the production ministère de l’Agriculture et de l’Agroalimentaire du Canada et l’Agence of pure, uncontaminated oats for the first time in Canada. Oats and canadienne d’inspection des aliments, a établi des exigences pour cultiv- oat products that are safe for consumption by individuals with celiac er, traiter et étiqueter l’avoine pure ainsi que pour en évaluer la pureté. disease and dermatitis herpetiformis are now commercially available Pour la première fois au Canada, ces stratégies ont permis la production in Canada. d’avoine pure et non contaminée. L’avoine et les produits de l’avoine qui peuvent être consommés en toute sécurité par les personnes atteintes de Key Words: Celiac disease; Gluten-free diet; Oats; Position la maladie cœliaque et la dermatite herpétiforme sont désormais en vente statement au Canada. Celiac disease (gluten-sensitive enteropathy) is a perma- Oats are a good source of vitamins and minerals, and con- nent intolerance to specific storage proteins in wheat tain approximately twice the protein content of rice. The (gliadin), barley (hordein) and rye (secalin), which are collec- starch in oats (composed of amylose and amylopectin) is easily tively called ‘gluten’ (1). Ingestion of gluten causes damage to digested. Oat oil (6% to 8% by weight) is largely polyunsatu- the small intestinal mucosa by an autoimmune mechanism in rated. Oats are rich in soluble dietary fibre, which may help genetically susceptible individuals. This can lead to a variety of reduce low-density lipoprotein cholesterol in hypercholes- symptoms and nutritional deficiencies. The treatment of celiac terolemic individuals. Oat groats also contain unique antioxi- disease is a strict, life-long adherence to a gluten-free diet. dants (avenanthramides). The bran in oats can have a Ensuring that the foods and beverages are free of gluten beneficial laxation effect. In the past, oats (avenin) were remains a challenge for patients on such a diet. In a recent sur- believed to be toxic to individuals with celiac disease and were vey of a large number of Canadian individuals with celiac dis- not allowed in the gluten-free diet. However, recent evidence ease, 85% of respondents reported difficulty in finding gluten-free has shown that oats are safe for consumption by most individ- foods, especially gluten-free foods of good quality (2,3). uals with celiac disease. Availability of oats will not only e-mail Received for publication December 11, 2006. Accepted
