REVIEW
KEYWORDS: oats, celiac, disease, celiac disease, pure, canada, diet, oat, individuals, gluten-free, canadian, gluten, individuals celiac, gluten-free diet, consumption


consumption by most individ- foods, especially gluten-free foods of good quality (2,3). uals with celiac disease. Availability of oats will not only e-mail Received for publication December 11, 2006. Accepted January 18, 2007 Can J Gastroenterol Vol 21 No 10 October 2007 ©2007 Pulsus Group Inc. All rights reserved 649 Rashid et al improve the nutritional value of a gluten-free diet but will also uncontaminated oats. Patients should be warned of this increase palatability, expand food choices and may improve possibility. They should discontinue the oats and Commercially available oats in North America are variably 5.The physician or a dietitian should review the diet to contaminated with gluten-containing grains (6,7). Contamination ensure that the patient is not consuming foods that can occur on the farm, during the growing cycle or during stor- contain gluten. age, cleaning, transportation or processing (8). There was a 6.Screening with an immunoglobulin A-tissue need to develop strategies that would provide oats that are transglutaminase or immunoglubulin A-endomysial pure and uncontaminated, making them safe for consumption antibody may not identify the rare patient who reacts to by individuals with celiac disease and dermatitis herpetiformis. oats. These tests are not sufficiently sensitive for detecting The Professional Advisory Board of the Canadian Celiac ‘mild’ dietary indiscretions, especially over a short period of challenge; ie, less than 100 mg to 1000mg of gluten the literature on the safety of oats in celiac disease (9-27) and per day. A positive endomysial antibody or tissue developed the following position statement on oats (28): transglutaminase will help confirm oats sensitivity but a negative one will not exclude oats sensitivity. “The safety of oats in individuals with celiac disease has been extensively investigated. Clinical evidence 7.It is worthwhile to rechallenge patients if they wish to confirms that consumption of pure, uncontaminated try oats again. Development of symptoms at the time of oats is safe in the amount of 50to 70grams per day (1/2- the second challenge would strongly suggest intolerance 3/4 cup dry rolled oats) by adults and 20 to 25 grams per to oats. Extensive patient research suggests intolerance day (1/4 cup dry rolled oats) by children with celiac dis- to oats occurs but is rare. The mechanism for this is ease. Studies looking at the consumption of oats over unknown. studies looking at safety of oats in celiac disease have Food Canada and the Canadian Food Inspection Agency involved a small
