REVIEW
KEYWORDS: oats, celiac, disease, celiac disease, pure, canada, diet, oat, individuals, gluten-free, canadian, gluten, individuals celiac, gluten-free diet, consumption


Studies looking at the consumption of oats over unknown. studies looking at safety of oats in celiac disease have Food Canada and the Canadian Food Inspection Agency involved a small number of subjects, the oats used were (CFIA), requirements for growing, processing, and purity test- pure, free of gluten contamination and the amount ing and labelling have been established. The Canadian Celiac allowed per day was also limited. Association has adopted the grade of Foundation #1 (grown by In Canada, pure and uncontaminated* oats are now Select Seed Growers) as the standard for seed to be used for being produced. Individuals with celiac disease who patients with celiac disease, because this grade only permits wish to add oats or oat products to their diet must ensure 0 to 1 wheat, barley, rye or triticale seed/kg of oat groats that the oats they are eating are free from gluten con- (approximately 30,000 to 40,000 oat groats/kg) to be present. tamination. The actual number of groats/kg depends on the kernel weight A small number of individuals with celiac disease of the seeds, which is a reflection of both genetic and environ- may not tolerate even pure, uncontaminated oats. To mental factors. Pedigreed Foundation seed is a very good meas- ensure that persons with celiac disease are not intolerant ure of oat purity because CFIA inspectors carefully examine up with the physician is advised when introducing oats seed testing laboratories monitor the purity of the harvested to a gluten-free diet. grain before deciding if it meets Foundation #1 classification. The Canadian Celiac Association will continue to Seeds produced in this dedicated system can be delivered to a monitor the scientific developments in the area of oats dedicated Hazard Analysis Critical Control Points certified oat in celiac disease and will keep its members updated. processing facility and made into product. The rolled oats or *These oats will meet or exceed the purity standards of the oat flour made into products from these oats are then eval- Foundation #1 as defined by the Canada Seeds Act” (29). uated for gluten content using an R5-ELISA test (30,31). This test will detect gluten contamination with as little as 3 ppm. The following guidelines are recommended when starting One wheat seed per kilogram of oats will contribute approxi- oats in the diet of a patient with celiac disease: mately 1 ppm to 2 ppm of gluten/kg in a
