REVIEW
KEYWORDS: oats, celiac, disease, celiac disease, pure, canada, diet, oat, individuals, gluten-free, canadian, gluten, individuals celiac, gluten-free diet, consumption


One wheat seed per kilogram of oats will contribute approxi- oats in the diet of a patient with celiac disease: mately 1 ppm to 2 ppm of gluten/kg in a thoroughly mixed 1.The patient’s celiac disease should be well controlled on (essential) oat flour. This degree of contamination will not be a gluten-free diet and the patient should have no detected even with the R5-ELISA test and is well below the gastrointestinal complaints. 20 ppm maximum allowed in gluten-free foods by the CFIA and Health Canada. 2.It is recommended that adults receive no more than To produce pure, uncontaminated oats, the manufacturer 50g to 70g (1/2to 3/4cup) of dry rolled oats daily and must have a dedicated system, including fields, harvesting, pro- children receive no more than 20gto 25g (1/4cup) of duction, storage, transportation, manufacturing equipment and pure, uncontaminated oats daily. a production plant. Growers and processors able to meet these 3.The fibre content of an oat-containing diet is often requirements were contacted. The CFIA and Health Canada higher than the typical gluten-free diet. When adding were consulted to establish their support and labelling require- oats to the diet, individuals may experience a change in ments. The oat food manufacturers will ensure that the pure stool pattern or mild gastrointestinal symptoms, oats they use and sell are grown and processed in the prescribed including abdominal bloating and flatulence. These dedicated manner and the oats and products pass ‘track and symptoms should resolve within a few days. trace procedures’. The pure oats that are sold as rolled oats, oat 4.There are case reports of individuals with celiac disease groats or whole oat flour, or the products that are made from relapsing with the consumption of pure these oats must have passed a CFIA field inspection (visual and 650 Can J Gastroenterol Vol 21 No 10 October 2007 Safety of oats in celiac disease chemical), a registered seed analysis to qualify for the province of Quebec, has produced and marketed oats that Foundation #1 rating and an R5-ELISA test in a Hazard meet the required purity standards. These oats are now avail- Analysis Critical Control Points certified food processing facil- able to consumers as rolled oats, oat flour and whole oat ker- ity. The Canadian Celiac Association is working on the nels (groats). It is expected that other Canadian companies development of a special trademark that would identify these will also start
