Chapter 38: Prevention of Type 2 Diabetes
KEYWORDS: diabetes, prevention, lifestyle, group, study, risk, diabetes prevention, intervention, incidence, type, type diabetes, glucose, weight, metformin, trial


38–1 Received in final form December 3, 2017. CHAPTER 38 PREVENTION OF TYPE 2 DIABETES William C. Knowler, MD, DrPH, Jill P. Crandall, MD, Jean-Louis Chiasson, MD, and David M. Nathan, MD Dr. William C. Knowler is Chief, Diabetes Epidemiology and Clinical Research Section, National Institute of Diabetes and Digestive and Kidney Diseases, National Institutes of Health, Phoenix, AZ. Dr. Jill P. Crandall is Professor of Medicine and Chief of Endocrinology, Albert Einstein College of Medicine, Bronx, NY. Dr. Jean-Louis Chiasson is Professor of Medicine and Endocrinologist, Division of Endocrinology, Cardiometabolic Axis, University of Montreal Research Centre, University of Montreal, Montreal, Canada. Dr. David M. Nathan is Director, Diabetes Center and Clinical Research Center, Massachusetts General Hospital, and Professor of Medicine, Harvard Medical School, Boston, MA. SUMMARY This chapter reviews randomized clinical trials of the prevention of type 2 diabetes, from small early trials of drugs available in the 1960s to more recent studies, some very large, of additional drugs and of lifestyle interventions designed to produce weight loss and increase physical activity. Most studies show that type 2 diabetes can be prevented or delayed to varying extents by a variety of drugs used to treat type 2 diabetes and by lifestyle interventions. Whether these interventions affect only hyperglycemia during the time the inter­ ventions are provided or also affect other health outcomes, such as mortality rates and the development of diabetes complications, is largely unknown. INTRODUCTION The ability to prevent or delay type 2 diabetes by modifying some of its risk factors has been hypothesized for several decades, as reviewed in the 1980s and 1990s (1,2). The long and often gradual time-course of increasing glycemia prior to the diagnosis of diabetes suggested that interventions during this phase preceding diabetes might be effective. For example, obesity and sedentary behavior are potentially modifiable through behavioral intervention. Although the dietary components (as opposed to total caloric intake) that increase risk of type 2 diabetes are controversial, dietary interventions focusing on reducing calories from fat to achieve weight loss (3,4) and increasing dietary fiber (4) have been successful. In addition, diabetes drugs might prevent or slow increases in glycemia, thus preventing the onset of diabetes. More recently, drugs or surgery directed at weight loss, rather than glycemia per se, have been used to prevent type 2 diabetes. A small number of randomized comparative effectiveness trials have been aimed at determining the most effective
