Chapter 38: Prevention of Type 2 Diabetes
KEYWORDS: diabetes, prevention, lifestyle, group, study, risk, diabetes prevention, intervention, incidence, type, type diabetes, glucose, weight, metformin, trial


loss, rather than glycemia per se, have been used to prevent type 2 diabetes. A small number of randomized comparative effectiveness trials have been aimed at determining the most effective interventions for preventing or delaying type 2 diabetes, usually in adults at particularly high risk of devel­ oping diabetes. Some randomized controlled trials (RCTs) tested lifestyle weight-loss interventions; some used drugs; and some used both. All reported benefit, to varying degrees, of most interventions, although the extent to which studies without beneficial effects have not been published is unknown. Three key ques­ tions remain: (1) How should persons be selected for intervention? (2) What is the preferred intervention or combination of interventions for specified populations or individuals? (3) Are there long-term benefits beyond preventing or delaying progression of hyperglycemia to diabetes diagnostic levels? Virtually all prevention research has targeted “high-risk” persons rather than the general population. This has been done for the practical reason of having adequate power to test interventions with sample sizes and follow times that were affordable. Most RCTs have enrolled persons with impaired glucose tolerance (IGT) during an oral glucose tolerance test (OGTT). Other high-risk characteristics have included overweight or obesity and elevated fasting plasma glucose (FPG). It would be logistically easier to screen for high-risk persons with FPG than with the OGTT required for identifying IGT, yet the authors are aware of only one major RCT that used FPG as its major eligibility criterion (5) and none that recruited high-risk persons based on glycosylated hemoglobin (A1c) or nonglycemic risk factors alone. This chapter reviews RCTs with type 2 diabetes as a primary or secondary outcome or with other outcomes associated with diabetes. Most reported as their primary outcome the development of diabetes defined by the FPG and OGTT. Some weight-loss studies reported diabetes as a secondary outcome, either as diagnosed clinically outside the study or by measures of glycemia performed in the study. A few such RCTs assessed other health outcomes, such as diabetes microvascular complications, cardiovascular disease (CVD), disability, mortality, or health care costs. It is, of course, these outcomes that are of major concern to individuals and health care systems. There are also potential benefits of intervention(s) aimed at diabetes preven­ tion among those persons who develop diabetes despite the intervention (as many do). It is conceivable that their diabetes may have a less aggressive course because of long-lasting intervention effects, such as
