Chapter 38: Prevention of Type 2 Diabetes
KEYWORDS: diabetes, prevention, lifestyle, group, study, risk, diabetes prevention, intervention, incidence, type, type diabetes, glucose, weight, metformin, trial


those persons who develop diabetes despite the intervention (as many do). It is conceivable that their diabetes may have a less aggressive course because of long-lasting intervention effects, such as 38–2 DIABETES IN AMERICA, 3rd Edition improved beta cell function, lower body weight, and lower levels of microvascular or macrovascular risk factors. Major challenges, however, have been noted in implementing the results of RCTs in clinical practice, i.e., outside the setting of RCTs in which relatively motivated persons are enrolled and more resources are generally available than in practice. In addition to the problem of limited resources, implementation programs are difficult to evaluate because randomized comparison groups are usually absent. Such programs, therefore, are usually evaluated by methods other than RCTs. In this chapter, RCTs that seek to prevent or delay type 2 diabetes using behavioral or drug interventions are reviewed and discussed. This is an update of parts of a review article by some of the authors published in 2008 (6). This review does not include all relevant RCTs, but attempts to include those with the most historical interest and those having the greatest impact on the field. The role of genetics in type 2 diabetes prevention and of treatment effects on long-term outcomes beyond diabetes itself are also discussed. Nonrandomized prevention activities, bariatric surgery, the economic aspects of diabetes prevention, physiologic studies of the potential mechanisms of diabetes prevention, or RCTs that aim to prevent or delay type 1 diabetes (reviewed in Chapter 37 Prevention of Type 1 Diabetes) are outside the scope of this chapter. HISTORY OF PREVENTION RCTS: RESULTS WITH TYPE 2 DIABETES AS THE PRIMARY OR SECONDARY OUTCOME The history of RCTs in diabetes prevention began in the 1960s and extends to the present. It can be broadly divided into three phases: (1) early small trials of drugs used in treating diabetes; (2) RCTs of life­ style (primarily weight loss) interventions, alone or in combination with or compared with drug intervention; and (3) more recent, larger sized RCTs of drug inter­ ventions. All trials enrolled adults with risk factors for diabetes, primarily IGT, rather than representatives of the population at large. The early studies enrolled persons identified as being at risk based on some level of post-challenge hyperglycemia. The later drug studies compared drugs with placebo, each combined with a lifestyle intervention because of previously demon­ strated benefits of lifestyle intervention. The lifestyle interventions in
