Chapter 38: Prevention of Type 2 Diabetes
KEYWORDS: diabetes, prevention, lifestyle, group, study, risk, diabetes prevention, intervention, incidence, type, type diabetes, glucose, weight, metformin, trial


drugs, some degree of lifestyle interven­ tion was given to all study subjects, but its nature was generally poorly described in publications. ‡ Hazard ratio (HR) is the ratio of incidence rates (in cases/person-year of follow-up). Cumulative incidence rate ratio (CIRR) is the ratio of cumulative incidence rates over the duration of the main study (excluding extended follow-up). Cumulative incidence rate difference (CIRD) is the difference in cumulative incidence rates over the duration of the main study. Most studies did not report all three of these effect measures. When studies reported effects as rate reductions, they were converted to rate ratios for this table for uniformity. If 95% CIs were not given, p-values are shown if reported. § Follow-up after the main study or major outcomes other than diabetes in the main study. See text for details and references. SOURCE: References are listed within the table. Prevention of Type 2 Diabetes 38–5 If these criteria were not met, but at least one of the following values was found—1-hour glucose ≥8.9 mmol/L (160 mg/dL), 2-hour glucose ≥6.7 mmol/L (120 mg/dL), or 3-hour glucose ≥4.7 mmol/L (85 mg/dL)—subjects met the glycemic eligibility criteria, which here for simplicity are termed “IGT” (10). This complex definition of IGT is also difficult to compare with definitions used subse­ quently. Study participants received dietary advice to limit their carbohydrate and lipid intake and, if overweight, their total energy intake. They were also randomly assigned to tolbutamide (0.5 mg three times per day), matching placebo, or neither drug nor placebo. Although the original report from this RCT was widely interpreted as showing prevention by tolbutamide, that conclu­ sion was not based on the currently adopted “intention-to-treat” principle, i.e., analysis by assigned treatment group regardless of adherence. The study was originally reported based on an analysis of a very small number, 23, of those thought to have continued taking tolbut­ amide throughout, among whom none developed diabetes. When analyzed by intention-to-treat, the 10-year cumulative incidence of diabetes was 10% in men assigned tolbutamide treatment and 13% in the two groups assigned placebo or no drug (incidence rate ratio 0.8, 95% CI 0.3–2.0) (10). None of these pioneering studies established whether diabetes could be prevented or delayed, and their findings were inconclusive, owing to their small sample sizes, limited measures of adher­ ence, and small number of drugs available for testing diabetes prevention. Whether pharmacologic prevention of type 2
