Chapter 38: Prevention of Type 2 Diabetes
KEYWORDS: diabetes, prevention, lifestyle, group, study, risk, diabetes prevention, intervention, incidence, type, type diabetes, glucose, weight, metformin, trial


findings were inconclusive, owing to their small sample sizes, limited measures of adher­ ence, and small number of drugs available for testing diabetes prevention. Whether pharmacologic prevention of type 2 diabetes was possible remained unknown until the 2000s. DA QING RCT OF LIFESTYLE MODIFICATION (1997) Several subsequent RCTs formally tested the hypothesis that amelioration of recognized risk factors for type 2 diabetes, namely lifestyle modification directed at weight loss and/or increased physical activity or exercise, could prevent or delay type 2 diabetes. The Da Qing study was a cluster-randomized clinical trial evaluating four combinations of diet and exercise interventions given for 6 years (11). Interventions were randomly assigned according to which of 33 clinics the participants attended and included a program of dietary modification, exercise, or both. The 577 participants had IGT by 1985 World Health Organization (WHO) criteria (12) and were followed for 6 years in the initial phase. The dietary interven­ tion focused on increased consumption of vegetables and reduced consumption of alcohol and simple carbohydrates. Overweight individuals (body mass index [BMI] ≥25 kg/m2) were also advised to limit energy intake. Participants in the exercise-only group were instructed to increase their daily activity by the equiva­ lent of at least 20 minutes of brisk walking. The diet plus exercise group received both interventions, and patients who attended usual-care clinics served as a control group. The 6-year cumulative incidence of diabetes was high in all groups: 44% in the diet-only group, 41% in the exercise-only group, 46% in the diet plus exercise group, and 68% in the control group. The relation­ ship between the amount of weight lost and diabetes incidence was inconsistent, and all three interventions were similarly effective in preventing diabetes. After the 6-year intervention period, active treatment and formal follow-up were discontinued. Follow-up data were obtained by examination and record review 23 years after randomization. The four randomized groups were collapsed into a comparison of the one group with neither intervention (8 clusters) with the pooled three groups with diet, exercise, or both interventions (25 clusters). Annual incidence rates were lower during long- term follow-up than during the treatment period, likely due to less frequent glucose tolerance testing or earlier development of diabetes in the persons at highest risk. Over the entire 23-year period, diabetes incidence rates in the combined interven­ tion groups (diet, exercise, or both) were 0.55 (95% CI 0.40–0.76) times the inci­ dence
