Chapter 38: Prevention of Type 2 Diabetes
KEYWORDS: diabetes, prevention, lifestyle, group, study, risk, diabetes prevention, intervention, incidence, type, type diabetes, glucose, weight, metformin, trial


at highest risk. Over the entire 23-year period, diabetes incidence rates in the combined interven­ tion groups (diet, exercise, or both) were 0.55 (95% CI 0.40–0.76) times the inci­ dence rate in the control group (13). RCTS WITH ORLISTAT (2000; 2004) Because overweight and obesity are major risk factors for type 2 diabetes, drugs that affect weight, but do not have a known direct effect on plasma glucose concentration, were hypothesized to prevent diabetes development. Several RCTs have been performed in obese adults using orlistat, an intestinal lipase inhibitor used for weight loss. Three such trials were discussed in a pooled analysis (14). Compared with placebo, orlistat was reported to reduce 2-year cumulative diabetes incidence by 61% (7.6% in the placebo group vs. 3.0% in the orlistat group) among those with IGT at random­ ization. Owing to orlistat’s gastrointestinal side effects, however, only 69% of the subjects completed the 2-year follow-up and outcome assessment. Thus, an inten­ tion-to-treat analysis, in which outcome data are analyzed on nearly all study subjects regardless of adherence, was not possible. A subsequent 4-year RCT of orlistat, the Xendos study, reported a 37% reduction in diabetes incidence (15). As with earlier orlistat studies, a low percentage of participants completed the trial (52% of the orlistat group and 34% of the placebo group), making it difficult to interpret the results or reliably estimate the effects of the drug. Although orlistat may be benefi­ cial in those who can tolerate it, the high discontinuation rate owing to side effects limits its widespread use for diabetes prevention. FINNISH DIABETES PREVENTION STUDY (2001) The Finnish Diabetes Prevention Study (DPS) (4) was a randomized study of 522 overweight or obese, middle-aged adults with IGT according to the 1985 WHO criteria (12). Mean age was 55 years, and mean BMI was 31 kg/m2. The lifestyle intervention included dietary and exercise components. The weight- loss goal was ≥5% of baseline weight. To achieve this target, participants were instructed to reduce fat intake and 38–6 DIABETES IN AMERICA, 3rd Edition increase consumption of fiber, whole grains, vegetables and low-fat dairy prod­ ucts. The exercise component involved moderate-intensity exercise for at least 30 minutes per day. Seven treatment goals were decreased fat consumption, changed quality of dietary fat, increased vegetable consumption, decreased sugar consumption, decreased salt consump­ tion, decreased alcohol consumption, and increased exercise. Results were reported following the inten­ tion-to-treat principle, with end-of-study
