Chapter 38: Prevention of Type 2 Diabetes
KEYWORDS: diabetes, prevention, lifestyle, group, study, risk, diabetes prevention, intervention, incidence, type, type diabetes, glucose, weight, metformin, trial


quality of dietary fat, increased vegetable consumption, decreased sugar consumption, decreased salt consump­ tion, decreased alcohol consumption, and increased exercise. Results were reported following the inten­ tion-to-treat principle, with end-of-study data available for 92% of the study cohort. The intervention and control groups lost an average of 4.2 kg and 0.8 kg in the first year of the study. Compared with the control group, the intervention group had a 58% reduction in diabetes incidence, from 78 to 32 cases per 1,000 person- years, during the whole study (which averaged 4 years per person). Although this study was not designed to assess the individual contributions of the diet and exercise components, participants who achieved more of the lifestyle goals had greater reductions in diabetes incidence. After cessation of the intervention, the reduction in the incidence of diabetes persisted during 9 additional years of follow-up (for 13 years after random­ ization). During the total follow-up, the adjusted hazard ratio (HR) for diabetes (intervention group vs. control group) was 0.61 (95% CI 0.48–0.79) (16). The corresponding hazard ratio during the post-intervention follow-up was 0.67 (95% CI 0.48–0.95). Adherence to the lifestyle intervention during the intervention phase was associated with risk reduction during follow-up. That some risk reduction in the former intervention group persisted when no further intervention was provided suggests that active provision of the inter­ vention may not be necessary for some long-term benefit to occur. It is not known whether the original 58% risk reduction would have persisted had the intensive intervention been maintained. U.S. DIABETES PREVENTION PROGRAM (2002) The U.S. Diabetes Prevention Program (DPP) was a large and comprehensive prevention RCT (3). The DPP enrolled 3,234 nondiabetic, overweight or obese, mostly middle-aged adults with IGT and FPG values of 95–<126 mg/dL (5.3–<7.0 mmol/L). Eligibility in the American Indian centers was based on IGT and FPG <126 mg/dL. Participants were randomized with equal probability to an intensive lifestyle intervention, metformin (850 mg twice per day), or placebo. The metformin and placebo groups received printed material containing standard lifestyle recommendations. The DPP preferentially enrolled individuals from racial/ethnic and age groups at particularly high risk of developing type 2 diabetes: overall, 45% of participants were from high-risk ethnic groups (African Americans, Hispanic Americans, American Indians, and Asian Americans), and 20% were age 60–85 years at baseline. Mean BMI at baseline was 34 kg/m2. The DPP intensive lifestyle intervention was intended to achieve a
