Chapter 38: Prevention of Type 2 Diabetes
KEYWORDS: diabetes, prevention, lifestyle, group, study, risk, diabetes prevention, intervention, incidence, type, type diabetes, glucose, weight, metformin, trial


American Indians, and Asian Americans), and 20% were age 60–85 years at baseline. Mean BMI at baseline was 34 kg/m2. The DPP intensive lifestyle intervention was intended to achieve a 7% loss in body weight over 24 weeks. Participants were instructed in individual behavioral modi­ fication counseling sessions to perform 150 minutes moderate-intensity physical activity (such as brisk walking) per week and to eat a low-fat, reduced-calorie diet. After the initial 24-week period of counseling, monthly individual or group sessions were conducted to help maintain weight loss and activity levels. The life­ style-intervention group achieved a mean weight loss of 7% (an average of 7.0 kg) within the first year and had an overall mean weight loss of 5.6% (an average of 5.6 kg) during follow-up (mean duration 2.8 years); the physical activity goals were met by 74% of lifestyle intervention partici­ pants in the first 24 weeks of the study. The double-masked phase of the trial was stopped in 2001, approximately 1 year before the planned end-date, on the advice of the independent data and safety monitoring board because of the clear benefits of metformin and lifestyle intervention on development of diabetes. The lifestyle intervention was associated with a 58% reduction (95% CI 48%–66%) in the incidence of diabetes, based on annual OGTTs and mid-year FPG levels, compared with placebo plus standard lifestyle recommendations (3). The diag­ nosis of diabetes had to be confirmed with repeat testing. Of note, 93% of the surviving three-arm study cohort attended a scheduled visit within 5 months of the early stopping date. Early stopping of the trial for efficacy, as was done in several other RCTs described below, may compli­ cate estimation of treatment effects, as described later in this chapter. Changes in physical activity and diet (primarily, a reduced calorie intake from fat) predicted weight loss, and weight loss, in turn, was associated with a reduced risk of developing type 2 diabetes. Weight loss was the predominant predictor of reduced diabetes incidence, with a 16% reduction in risk per kilogram of weight lost (17). These findings suggest that interventions to reduce diabetes risk in overweight or obese individuals should primarily aim to induce weight loss. However, among 495 lifestyle participants not meeting the weight loss goal, diabetes risk was 44% lower in the 329 who met the physical activity goal than among the 166 who did not (17). The effectiveness of the
