Chapter 38: Prevention of Type 2 Diabetes
KEYWORDS: diabetes, prevention, lifestyle, group, study, risk, diabetes prevention, intervention, incidence, type, type diabetes, glucose, weight, metformin, trial


the weight loss goal, diabetes risk was 44% lower in the 329 who met the physical activity goal than among the 166 who did not (17). The effectiveness of the DPP life­ style intervention was similar in all ethnic groups and both sexes and was greatest in older participants (age 60–85 years) (3). In the metformin arm, adherence to study drug was high, with 70%–80% of participants taking at least 80% of their twice per day metformin, based on pill counts, during the trial (3). Assignment to metformin reduced the risk of developing diabetes by 31% compared with placebo during the mean follow-up of 2.8 years. An average 1.7 kg weight loss was reported in the metformin group compared with a 0.3 kg weight gain in the placebo group. In secondary analyses, 64% of the beneficial effect of metformin on diabetes risk was attributed to weight loss (18). Favorable changes in insulin sensitivity and in secretion of proinsulin also contributed to the decreased diabetes risk seen in metformin-treated patients (19). Prevention of Type 2 Diabetes 38–7 The large size of the DPP allowed exam­ ination of heterogeneity of subgroups in terms of diabetes incidence and treatment effects. Despite the racial/ethnic diversity of participants, there were no significant differences by race/ethnicity either in diabetes risk or in the preventive effects of metformin or lifestyle modification. Other well-known diabetes risk factors, including BMI and fasting and postload plasma glucose in the OGTT, predicted diabetes in the DPP. There were generally no signif­ icant subgroup interactions, on a hazard rate ratio scale, based on these and other predictors with the effects of lifestyle intervention compared with placebo, i.e., the lifestyle intervention was uniformly effective in terms of reducing diabetes hazard ratios across all subgroups, with one exception. That exception was a statistically significant interaction (p<0.05) of baseline 2-hour glucose in the OGTT with the effect of the lifestyle intervention compared with placebo. The diabetes risk reduction was greatest in those with lower 2-hour glucose concentrations. Because the lifestyle intervention effect was uniform across most subgroups on a hazard ratio scale, the absolute risk reduction by lifestyle intervention was greater in those with higher levels of risk factors. This is illustrated by FPG, a diabetes risk factor that did not have a significant interaction with the lifestyle intervention on the hazard ratio scale. Compared with placebo, the lifestyle intervention reduced diabetes incidence rates by
