Chapter 38: Prevention of Type 2 Diabetes
KEYWORDS: diabetes, prevention, lifestyle, group, study, risk, diabetes prevention, intervention, incidence, type, type diabetes, glucose, weight, metformin, trial


diabetes risk factor that did not have a significant interaction with the lifestyle intervention on the hazard ratio scale. Compared with placebo, the lifestyle intervention reduced diabetes incidence rates by 55% in those with baseline FPG 95–109 mg/dL (5.3–6.1 mmol/L) and by 63% in those with baseline FPG 110–125 mg/dL (6.1–6.9 mmol/L), i.e., there was no significant FPG-by-treatment inter­ action on the hazard ratio scale. Yet the incidence rate difference (absolute effect) was much greater in the higher (22.3 - 8.8 = 13.5 cases/100 person-years) than in the lower FPG group (6.4 - 2.9 = 3.5 cases/100 person-years). Thus, the life­ style intervention led to a much greater absolute reduction in diabetes incidence in those entering the trial with higher FPG. In general, the interventions prevented more cases of diabetes per person in those with greater levels of risk factors at baseline, arguing for the value of the high- risk approach to diabetes prevention. There were two statistically significant interactions with the preventive effect of metformin compared with placebo; metformin was significantly more effec­ tive in those with greater baseline BMI and greater FPG concentrations (3). These interactions of baseline variables with intervention effects came from secondary analyses of many baseline variables. Therefore, they should not be considered definitive, and implications for who should be offered different preventative interven­ tions should be made cautiously. Following the initial DPP report, a secondary analysis of history of gesta­ tional diabetes was reported. Women reporting a history of gestational diabetes were compared with women who had given birth at least once but had no history of gestational diabetes. The women with prior gestational diabetes had an especially high risk of developing diabetes in the DPP, with a strong benefit with metformin (50% reduction in inci­ dence compared with placebo) compared with an insignificant 14% reduction in parous women without a history of gesta­ tional diabetes. The lifestyle intervention was similarly effective in those with a history of gestational diabetes (53% reduc­ tion compared with placebo) or without such a history (49% reduction) (20). In addition to the 3,234 participants randomly assigned to the placebo, metformin, or lifestyle interventions, 585 were randomly assigned troglitazone, a drug in the thiazolidenedione class. Recruitment to this group and participants’ ongoing treatment were terminated before DPP recruitment was completed owing to concern over possible hepatotoxic effects (21). During the average of 0.9 years before it was discontinued in
