Chapter 38: Prevention of Type 2 Diabetes
KEYWORDS: diabetes, prevention, lifestyle, group, study, risk, diabetes prevention, intervention, incidence, type, type diabetes, glucose, weight, metformin, trial


and participants’ ongoing treatment were terminated before DPP recruitment was completed owing to concern over possible hepatotoxic effects (21). During the average of 0.9 years before it was discontinued in the DPP, troglitazone reduced the incidence of diabetes by 75% compared with placebo— the largest risk reduction of all the DPP interventions among the subset of partici­ pants randomized during the period when troglitazone was being used in the DPP. Whether the reduction in incidence would have persisted, had troglitazone therapy been continued, is unknown. Other RCTs of thiazolidinediones have shown preven­ tive effects (see below). DPP results were unmasked and published (3). Following a drug washout period (22), all participants were offered a group-implemented lifestyle inter­ vention, because it had been the most effective treatment. Placebo was discon­ tinued, and unmasked metformin was continued as a study intervention in the original metformin group during long- term follow-up, known as the Diabetes Prevention Program Outcomes Study (DPPOS) (23). Eighty-eight percent of the surviving DPP cohort enrolled in DPPOS. During the DPPOS, annual diabetes inci­ dence rates in the former placebo and metformin groups fell to equal those in the former lifestyle group, but the cumulative incidence of diabetes remained lowest in the former lifestyle group. During a mean follow-up of 15 years since DPP random­ ization, diabetes incidence was reduced by 27% in the lifestyle intervention group (HR 0.73, 95% CI 0.65–0.83, p<0.0001) and by 18% in the metformin group (HR 0.82, 95% CI 0.72–0.93, p=0.001) compared with the placebo group, with declining between-group differences over time. At year 15, the cumulative incidences of diabetes were 55% in the lifestyle group, 56% in the metformin group, and 62% in the placebo group (24). Some of the strong diabetes risk factors persisted during the DPPOS. For example, over 10 years since randomization, women with a history of gestational diabetes assigned to placebo had a 48% higher risk of developing diabetes compared with women without a history of gestational diabetes who reported at least one delivery. In women with a history of gestational diabetes, the lifestyle and metformin interventions reduced progres­ sion to diabetes compared with placebo by 35% and 40%, respectively. Among the women without a history of gesta­ tional diabetes, the lifestyle intervention reduced the progression to diabetes by 38–8 DIABETES IN AMERICA, 3rd Edition 30%, and metformin did not significantly reduce the progression to diabetes (25). Glycemic eligibility criteria
