Chapter 38: Prevention of Type 2 Diabetes
KEYWORDS: diabetes, prevention, lifestyle, group, study, risk, diabetes prevention, intervention, incidence, type, type diabetes, glucose, weight, metformin, trial


the lifestyle intervention reduced the progression to diabetes by 38–8 DIABETES IN AMERICA, 3rd Edition 30%, and metformin did not significantly reduce the progression to diabetes (25). Glycemic eligibility criteria for the DPP were based on fasting and 2-hour post­ load plasma glucose. A1c was measured but not used in determining eligibility. Even among these high-risk individuals, baseline A1c was an additional strong predictor of diabetes. After excluding the few participants with A1c ≥6.5% (48 mmol/mol) at study entry, treatment effects were evaluated in a post hoc secondary analysis with an alternate diabetes definition of A1c ≥6.5%. Metformin and lifestyle interventions were both effective, compared with placebo, in preventing this outcome, and their effects did not differ significantly from each other (26). TROGLITAZONE IN PREVENTION OF DIABETES STUDY OF WOMEN WITH PREVIOUS GESTATIONAL DIABETES (2002) The Troglitazone in Prevention of Diabetes (TRIPOD) study was an RCT of troglitazone compared with placebo in 266 nondiabetic Hispanic women with previous gestational diabetes, about 70% of whom had IGT at entry into the trial. Troglitazone reduced the development of diabetes by 55% over 2.5 years (27). As in the DPP, the drug was discontinued before planned study-end because of safety concerns. The preventive effect of troglitazone was suggested to be mediated by improved insulin sensitivity reducing demand for insulin secretion, thus protecting the beta cells. During an 8-month follow-up after troglitazone was discontinued, seven new cases of diabetes developed: six in the former placebo group and one in the former troglitazone group. This large difference, albeit in a small number of cases, was interpreted as showing a persistent beneficial effect of the drug following its discontinuation. ACARBOSE IN THE STUDY TO PREVENT NON-INSULIN-DEPENDENT DIABETES MELLITUS (2002) The Study to Prevent Non-Insulin- Dependent Diabetes Mellitus (STOP-NIDDM) RCT examined the effect of the alpha-glucosidase inhibitor acar­ bose to prevent diabetes in a high-risk cohort (28). The rationale for use of acar­ bose in diabetes prevention was based on its effect to lower postprandial hypergly­ cemia, which is characteristic of IGT. Mild postprandial hyperglycemia was hypoth­ esized to be sufficient to induce glucose toxicity, further impair insulin secretion and action, and thus contribute to the progression of IGT to overt diabetes (29). A total of 1,429 subjects with IGT and IFG (5.6–7.7 mmol/L or 101–139 mg/dL) were enrolled in the trial and randomized in a double-blind fashion to acarbose grad­ ually titrated to 100 mg three
