Chapter 38: Prevention of Type 2 Diabetes
KEYWORDS: diabetes, prevention, lifestyle, group, study, risk, diabetes prevention, intervention, incidence, type, type diabetes, glucose, weight, metformin, trial


subjects with IGT and IFG (5.6–7.7 mmol/L or 101–139 mg/dL) were enrolled in the trial and randomized in a double-blind fashion to acarbose grad­ ually titrated to 100 mg three times per day with meal or identical placebo (28). Incident diabetes was defined by plasma glucose ≥11.1 mmol/L (200 mg/dL) at 2 hours in a 75 g OGTT. Over a 3.3-year follow-up period, acarbose was associated with a 25% reduction in the incidence of diabetes. Although weight loss contributed to the decreased risk of diabetes, acarbose treatment remained effective after adjustment for age, sex, and BMI. Furthermore, acarbose was associated with reversion of IGT to normal glucose tolerance (HR 1.42, 95% CI 1.24–1.62). Approximately one-quarter of the cohort (including 31% of the acarbose group) did not complete the study, leading to some uncertainty in the estimate of the acarbose effect. The high drop-out rate in acarbose-treated patients was attributed to its known gastrointestinal side effects (flatulence, diarrhea, and abdominal cramps) that may limit its applicability for diabetes prevention in general practice. The STOP-NIDDM trial was also notable for studying treatment effects beyond the development of diabetes, as discussed in the section Extended Follow-Up for Outcomes Beyond Hyperglycemia. LIFESTYLE INTERVENTION IN JAPANESE MEN WITH IGT (2005) Japanese men with IGT (by criteria approx­ imating the WHO criteria) were recruited at health screening examinations. The mean BMI was 24 kg/m2. They were randomly assigned in an approximate 4:1 ratio to a standard intervention group (n=356) or to an intensive lifestyle inter­ vention group (n=102) aimed at achieving and maintaining weight loss. The cumu­ lative incidence of diabetes over 4 years of follow-up, determined by at least two consecutive FPG concentrations of ≥140 mg/dL (7.8 mmol/L), was 67% lower in the intensive lifestyle intervention group (p=0.04) (30). Though the observation is in line with the other lifestyle intervention trials, it is difficult to compare with other studies because it used different criteria: FPG <140 mg/dL instead of <126 mg/dL as an inclusion criterion and FPG ≥140 mg/dL on two consecutive occasions to confirm the diagnosis of diabetes. INDIAN DIABETES PREVENTION PROGRAMME (2006) The Indian Diabetes Prevention Programme (IDPP) extended the previous studies by (a) enrolling 531 Asian Indians who were younger and had lower BMI, on average, then volunteers in the previous studies and (b) testing a lifestyle interven­ tion and metformin as in the U.S. DPP, but adding a group in which
