Chapter 38: Prevention of Type 2 Diabetes
KEYWORDS: diabetes, prevention, lifestyle, group, study, risk, diabetes prevention, intervention, incidence, type, type diabetes, glucose, weight, metformin, trial


0.12–0.48), the greatest relative risk reduction of any subgroup presented. There was no risk reduction among the subjects with isolated IFG (i.e., IFG with normal 2-hour glucose), although the effect estimate was very imprecise in this lower-risk group that experienced only 22 outcome events. This trial, therefore, showed that other glycemic measures, such as elevated A1c or IGT, refine the high-risk characteristics of people initially identified through FPG. These results support suggestions that A1c could be used to identify persons for prevention interventions (40) or to further stratify risk among persons selected by other criteria (26). This RCT also confirms that intervention effects are hard to establish or nonexistent in persons without multiple risk factors. Data are still lacking on type 2 diabetes prevention in persons with elevated A1c but without elevated fasting or postload glucose concentrations. SEQUEL SECONDARY ANALYSIS OF A STUDY OF PHENTERMINE- TOPIRAMATE FOR WEIGHT LOSS (2012) SEQUEL was an extension of a subset of centers and participants in the CONQUER RCT of combinations of phentermine and topiramate (at two dose levels compared with placebo) for weight loss (41). The incidence of diabetes was evaluated in a subgroup of 475 subjects with prediabetes and/or the metabolic syndrome at base­ line. After 108 weeks of follow-up since randomization, the lower and higher combination doses were associated with 70% and 79% reductions in diabetes incidence (HR 0.30 and 0.21, confidence intervals not given), respectively. The risk reduction was associated with the amount of weight loss achieved. This study showed that drugs for diabetes prevention may not need to be restricted to those directly influencing hyperglycemia, insulin secretion, or insulin sensitivity, but may be effective through weight loss. Some limitations make interpretation difficult. SEQUEL was a secondary analysis of a subset of participants in the CONQUER weight loss study, and it is not clear how this subset represents all those randomized in the original RCT. The problem common to pharmacologic weight loss studies, loss to follow-up, was not well described. A strategy of carrying forward the last observation was used to impute a substantial fraction of values, but there was not a clear descrip­ tion of the frequency of missing data or the characteristics of participants with missing outcome data. Loss to follow-up in such studies is not likely to be random but rather due to frustration with lack of weight loss, weight regain, or drug side effects. AN RCT
