Chapter 38: Prevention of Type 2 Diabetes
KEYWORDS: diabetes, prevention, lifestyle, group, study, risk, diabetes prevention, intervention, incidence, type, type diabetes, glucose, weight, metformin, trial


case-control studies would also predict diabetes incidence in the nondiabetic, but high-risk, participants in the DPP. The study also tested for genotype-by-treat­ ment interactions in effects on diabetes hazard rates. Such an interaction indi­ cates that the effect of a treatment, for example in comparison with the placebo group, differs according to genotype. Equivalently, it indicates that the effect of the genotype differs by treatment group. Lack of significant interaction is consistent with the hypothesis that the effect of a treatment is independent of genotype. Shortly after variants in the TCF7L2 gene were found to associate with type 2 diabetes (44), the finding was replicated in the DPP (45). The high-risk variants in this gene predicted the development of diabetes in the DPP placebo group, an effect diminished by metformin and abol­ ished by lifestyle intervention. Although the genotype-by-treatment interactions were not statistically significant, both interventions appeared to be more effective in the participants carrying the high-risk genotypes. Subsequently, many other diabetes-susceptibility genes have been typed in the DPP. In general, their ability to predict diabetes has been confirmed, and the treatment effects are at least as great in the participants carrying more susceptibility variants (46). Therefore, far from indicating inevitability of developing diabetes, high-risk geno­ types may identify persons most likely to benefit from diabetes prevention inter­ ventions, in that interventions may lower their risk to approximate that of those with low-risk genotypes. In the DPP, several single nucleotide polymorphisms (SNPs) had significant interactions with metformin treatment on incidence rates of diabetes (47). One of the findings replicated a report from the Rotterdam Study, a population-based cohort study in the Netherlands, that a variant in the SLC47A1 gene that encodes the multidrug and toxin extrusion 1 trans­ porter protein (MATE1) is associated with response to metformin (48). In the DPP, a genetic risk score was created from 17 genetic variants previously reported to associate with insulin sensitivity. This score was associated with estimated insulin sensitivity at baseline in the DPP, but the lifestyle and metformin interventions improved insulin sensitivity regardless of the degree of genetic susceptibility estimated from this risk score (49). In the STOP-NIDDM trial, a number of candidate gene polymorphisms were evaluated in a subgroup of 770 subjects. Women carrying the combination of the G-allele of SNP +45 and the T-allele of SNP +276 of the adiponectin gene had an especially high risk of developing diabetes (odds
