Chapter 38: Prevention of Type 2 Diabetes
KEYWORDS: diabetes, prevention, lifestyle, group, study, risk, diabetes prevention, intervention, incidence, type, type diabetes, glucose, weight, metformin, trial


subjects. Women carrying the combination of the G-allele of SNP +45 and the T-allele of SNP +276 of the adiponectin gene had an especially high risk of developing diabetes (odds ratio 22.2, 95% CI 2.7–183.3) (50). This high risk was neutralized by acarbose. Three other genotypes were associated with an increased effect of acarbose on the prevention of diabetes: SNPs of the peroxisome proliferator-activated receptor (PPAR)-delta gene, Gly482Ser of the PPAR-gamma coactivator (PGC-1)-alpha gene, and Pro12Ala of the PPAR-gamma gene (51). The 3’ UTR (untranslated region) of the leptin receptor gene and the combination of the G-allele of SNP +45 and the T-allele of SNP +276 of the adiponectin gene were associated with increased weight loss (50,52). Finally, the Gly250Ala SNP of the hepatic lipase gene was associated with an increased risk of diabetes and a reduction in the conversion of IGT to normal glucose tolerance (53). None of 19 SNPs associated with diabetes in other populations predicted develop­ ment of diabetes in the Finnish DPS, nor did a genetic risk score composed of these SNPs predict diabetes or modify the preventive effect of the lifestyle inter­ vention (54). It is unclear whether the lack of diabetes prediction by the genetic risk score in this study was owing to the smaller sample size of 522 compared with many other genetics studies or to other factors distinguishing these Finnish study participants. In summary, in prevention of type 2 diabetes, the beneficial effects of lifestyle interventions and of some medicines overcome genetic risk. More discussion of genetic susceptibility for type 2 diabetes is provided in Chapter 14 Genetics of Type 2 Diabetes. 38–12 DIABETES IN AMERICA, 3rd Edition EXTENDED FOLLOW-UP FOR OUTCOMES BEYOND HYPERGLYCEMIA Diabetes is defined by measures of hyper­ glycemia, but it is also associated with many adverse health conditions, including microvascular and macrovascular disease, neuropathy, depression, and some forms of cancer. The RCTs discussed in the preceding sections were highly successful in showing that type 2 diabetes, defined solely and conventionally on the basis of glycemia, can be prevented or delayed, but most were not designed to evaluate these other health outcomes. Thus, the overall impact of the interventions on health is less clear. For example, if the effect of an intervention is to prevent or delay progression from just below a diagnostic threshold to barely crossing it, has the intervention improved long-term health? This is difficult to evaluate
