Chapter 38: Prevention of Type 2 Diabetes
KEYWORDS: diabetes, prevention, lifestyle, group, study, risk, diabetes prevention, intervention, incidence, type, type diabetes, glucose, weight, metformin, trial


of an intervention is to prevent or delay progression from just below a diagnostic threshold to barely crossing it, has the intervention improved long-term health? This is difficult to evaluate because (a) the measures of health that should be evaluated are many and (b) the time and resources required to measure them in RCTs may be prohibitive. Therefore, evidence of benefits of preventive inter­ ventions beyond glycemia is limited. One of the first hints came from one of the early trials, that in Malmöhus, Sweden (9,10) described in the section Early U.K. and Swedish Prevention Studies Using Drugs (1979–1982). Although there was no significant effect of tolbutamide on diabetes incidence, by intention-to-treat analysis, long-term mortality rates were ascertained after the end of the trial. The all-cause mortality rate ratio (drug compared with placebo or no drug) was 0.66 (95% CI 0.39–1.10) and the ischemic heart disease mortality rate ratio was 0.42 (95% CI 0.16–1.12) (10). While these effects were not statistically significant in this small RCT, they were among the first to suggest that drug treatment of IGT might have health benefits beyond reducing hyperglycemia from progressing to diabetes. The results also do not support the widely held notion that the first generation sulfonylureas might be cardiotoxic in patients with diabetes. More evidence came from the STOP- NIDDM trial. In this study, treatment with acarbose was associated with a 49% reduction in cardiovascular events (15 vs. 32 subjects; HR 0.51, 95% CI 0.01–0.95, p=0.03) (55). Although statistically signif­ icant, these results should be interpreted with caution due to the small number of events. Additional evidence of potential CVD benefits of acarbose includes its effect to slow progression of carotid intimal medial thickness, a measure of subclinical atherosclerosis, which was measured in a subset of the cohort (n=132) (56). Beneficial effects on several CVD risk factors (waist circumference, blood pressure, and plasma triglycerides) were also reported (55). However, the ACE trial, conducted in 6,255 individuals with IGT and coronary heart disease, failed to demonstrate any reduction of CVD events (for the primary five-point major adverse cardiovascular events outcome, HR 0.98, 95% CI 0.86–1.11, p=0.73) during an average of 5 years of follow-up (43). This more recent evidence does not support a substantive role for acarbose in secondary prevention of cardiovascular events in the current era of CVD risk reduction with statins (used by 93% of participants), renin-angiotensin-aldosterone system (RAAS) blockers (used
