Chapter 38: Prevention of Type 2 Diabetes
KEYWORDS: diabetes, prevention, lifestyle, group, study, risk, diabetes prevention, intervention, incidence, type, type diabetes, glucose, weight, metformin, trial


outcomes of diabetes and its complications (23,24). Many CVD risk factors were more favorable in the lifestyle intervention group than in the metformin and placebo groups (24), although cardiovascular event rates have not been reported as of December 2017. After an average of 15 years since randomization, DPP partic­ ipants were evaluated for a composite microvascular/neuropathy outcome defined by the average prevalence of diabetic retinopathy assessed by central grading of retinal photographs, nephropathy assessed by albuminuria or estimated glomerular filtration rate, and neuropathy assessed by light touch sensation (24). There were no significant Prevention of Type 2 Diabetes 38–13 treatment effects overall, but significant sex-by-treatment interactions, such that in women, but not men, the composite prevalence of complications was approximately 22% lower in the lifestyle intervention group than in the placebo or metformin treatment groups. Those who had not developed diabetes had a 28% lower prevalence of complications than those who had developed diabetes. To what extent any long-term benefits of diabetes prevention interventions on outcomes are related purely to their glycemic effects as opposed to glyce­ mia-independent effects, such as on blood pressure, lipids, inflammation, and coagulation, is unknown. DISCUSSION The RCTs of type 2 diabetes prevention conducted in Bedford and Whitehall (U.K.) and Malmöhus County (Sweden) set the stage for subsequent, more definitive RCTs. None of these three early RCTs showed a significant prevention effect when analyzed by intention to treat. While this could have been owing to lack of effect of the drugs used, other possible explanations for the findings are small sample sizes, lack of reinforcement and monitoring of drug-taking behavior, and the inclusion of many individuals at rela­ tively low risk for diabetes. For example, it was estimated that only 18% of partic­ ipants in the Malmöhus trial would have met current definitions of IGT, with most of the rest having normal glucose regula­ tion (10). Therefore, they would have lower estimated diabetes risk than participants in most of the other RCTs. The first major RCTs of lifestyle weight loss interventions were the Da Qing (11), Finnish DPS (4), and the DPP (3). While there were modest benefits in the Da Qing, the lifestyle intervention in both the DPS and DPP reduced diabetes incidence by 58%. Subsequent studies of diabetes prevention in Japan (5) and India (31) confirmed the benefit of lifestyle-modifi­ cation programs. Even with quite modest weight losses (0–2 kg), risk reductions of
