Chapter 38: Prevention of Type 2 Diabetes
KEYWORDS: diabetes, prevention, lifestyle, group, study, risk, diabetes prevention, intervention, incidence, type, type diabetes, glucose, weight, metformin, trial


58%. Subsequent studies of diabetes prevention in Japan (5) and India (31) confirmed the benefit of lifestyle-modifi­ cation programs. Even with quite modest weight losses (0–2 kg), risk reductions of 67% and 28% were achieved in the Japanese and Indian studies, respectively. The differences in study design and participant characteristics make direct comparisons difficult, but these findings support the effectiveness of lifestyle modi­ fication across a broad range of ethnic groups and cultures. Further, although conducted in only one country, the U.S. DPP participants represented a broad range of race/ethnicity, with all groups having similar absolute incidence rates of diabetes and preventive effects of lifestyle intervention. Many drugs to prevent or delay type 2 diabetes have been tested in RCTs. The greatest risk reductions (approximately 60%–75%) were achieved with the thiazo­ lidinedione drugs troglitazone (21,27), rosiglitazone (34), and pioglitazone (39). Troglitazone is no longer available because of its liver toxicity. All thiazolidinediones have worrisome side effects, including edema, bone loss, and sustained weight gain. Further, concerns about bladder cancer, fractures, and CVD (59) have dampened enthusiasm for this class of drug, for either prevention or treatment of diabetes. However, some initial reports of safety problems with thiazolidinedione have not been replicated. On August 1, 2017, based on review of RCTs, the U.S. Food and Drug Administration (FDA) reported an updated review of rosiglitazone safety concluding that risk of death, heart attack, and stroke were not clearly different between rosiglitazone and metformin plus placebo (60). On December 11, 2017, however, the FDA reported an updated review of pioglita­ zone safety, reaffirming earlier warnings that pioglitazone may be linked to an increased risk of bladder cancer (61). The alpha-glucosidase inhibitors, both acarbose and voglibose, reduced the risk of progression of prediabetes to diabetes, but in contrast to thiazolidinediones, have excellent safety profiles. Their gastroin­ testinal side effects can be minimized by starting with a low dose and gradually increasing it. Metformin, although less effective than the thiazolidinediones in reducing diabetes incidence, causes modest weight loss that is sustained for at least 10 years (23,24) and reduced diabetes incidence by 31% compared with placebo during 3 years in the DPP (3) with lesser risk reductions in long- term follow-up (23,24). The IDPP also reported reductions in diabetes risk with 250 mg of metformin administered two times daily (lower than the 850 mg twice per day used in the DPP) (31). The CANOE trial
