Chapter 38: Prevention of Type 2 Diabetes
KEYWORDS: diabetes, prevention, lifestyle, group, study, risk, diabetes prevention, intervention, incidence, type, type diabetes, glucose, weight, metformin, trial


reported reductions in diabetes risk with 250 mg of metformin administered two times daily (lower than the 850 mg twice per day used in the DPP) (31). The CANOE trial showed preventive effects of metformin and rosiglitazone given together in low doses used to minimize adverse effects (38). The excellent safety record, long experience with metformin in the treatment of diabetes, and its low cost make metformin an attractive option for diabetes prevention, although it is contra­ indicated in persons with advanced kidney disease. Direct comparison of the effects of different drugs with each other or with weight loss is difficult, however, because most trials tested only one intervention, and the trials differed in eligibility criteria, outcome assessment, drug dosage, lifestyle intervention intensity, and treat­ ment of the comparison group. In the DPP, a direct comparison of lifestyle and metformin, lifestyle was more effective, but in the IDPP, metformin, weight loss intervention, and both in combination had similar effects (31). During long- term follow-up of the DPP, during which time metformin was continued in the originally randomized group and lifestyle intervention was offered to the entire cohort, metformin and lifestyle resulted in similar cumulative incidence rates of diabetes after 15 years (56% in the metformin group and 55% in the original lifestyle group), compared with 62% in the placebo group (24). It is unknown whether this waning of the superior results of life­ style would have been avoided had the 38–14 DIABETES IN AMERICA, 3rd Edition difference in intensity of the lifestyle inter­ vention between the treatment groups been maintained. Weight-loss agents have been studied in small numbers of individuals at increased risk of diabetes. Orlistat, an intestinal lipase inhibitor, reduced the development of diabetes in obese people with IGT (14,15). The effect of this drug on diabetes might be attributable to weight loss, which was greater than that achieved with lifestyle change alone. Low completion rates, however, suggest that this therapy has limited acceptability and make the estimates of the size of treatment effects unreliable. Several methods have been used to impute missing weight data for subjects who drop out of weight loss studies. None is satisfactory, however (62,63). The major problem is that drop­ ping out of a weight loss trial is likely to be related to lack of success with weight loss or maintenance; hence, data are not missing at random, and commonly used methods, such as
