Chapter 38: Prevention of Type 2 Diabetes
KEYWORDS: diabetes, prevention, lifestyle, group, study, risk, diabetes prevention, intervention, incidence, type, type diabetes, glucose, weight, metformin, trial


weight loss trial is likely to be related to lack of success with weight loss or maintenance; hence, data are not missing at random, and commonly used methods, such as analysis of “completers only” or “last observation carried forward,” may be seriously biased. Several RCTs reporting large treatment effects were terminated earlier than planned for efficacy. This practice, often justified on ethical grounds, potentially leads to overestimation of treatment effects (64,65). This fact, along with heterogeneity among trials in the nature of the interventions and the participants, makes meta-analysis and summarizing these trials difficult. Clearly, there is a need for more effec­ tive interventions, because even the best interventions studied in RCTs were considerably less than 100% effective. Better interventions could include more effective drugs with acceptable side effects or more effective approaches to weight loss and improving physical activity and fitness. It might be more effective to start prevention much earlier than has been done in RCTs so far, i.e., when abnormalities leading to diabetes may be more reversible than they are in persons with IGT. Starting earlier in the disease process has similar logistic obstacles as population-based prevention, i.e., providing interventions to populations at large regardless of level of diabetes risk. RCTs for either situation (early interven­ tion in high-risk persons or population interventions) would be prohibitively long and expensive. Population approaches to diabetes prevention will usually require evaluation methods other than RCTs. Further, whether implementing treatment to prevent diabetes is more efficacious in preventing important health outcomes (e.g., microvascular complications) than a strategy of active case finding and aggres­ sive treatment of established diabetes has not been established. It remains unclear who should be offered diabetes prevention interventions, because evidence for prevention comes from trials conducted only in adults at high risk of diabetes to enhance power to detect meaningful treatment effects. Most type 2 diabetes prevention trials have enrolled only persons with IGT. Other predictors of type 2 diabetes, such as BMI, FPG, A1c, genotype, or diabetes risk scores based on questionnaires and medical history, might also be used instead of IGT to identify persons for RCTs or prevention services (26,66). Despite abundant evidence that these and other factors predict type 2 diabetes, evidence is lacking that intervention will reduce diabetes incidence in persons selected solely by such criteria or among popu­ lations without identified risk factors. Such evidence is critical for widespread implementation, however, because
