Chapter 38: Prevention of Type 2 Diabetes
KEYWORDS: diabetes, prevention, lifestyle, group, study, risk, diabetes prevention, intervention, incidence, type, type diabetes, glucose, weight, metformin, trial


that intervention will reduce diabetes incidence in persons selected solely by such criteria or among popu­ lations without identified risk factors. Such evidence is critical for widespread implementation, however, because the OGTT required for identification of IGT is cumbersome, poorly reproducible, and not routinely performed in most settings. Offering prevention interventions to high- risk persons first requires identification of such persons. Using current definitions of prediabetes based, in part, on IGT, implies that most people with prediabetes remain unknown, unless widespread testing with OGTTs is implemented. In the absence of such routine testing, only 11% of adults in the United States with prediabetes (defined by American Diabetes Association criteria for FPG or A1c) are estimated to be aware of their condition (67). Widespread implemen­ tation of diabetes prevention activities, therefore, depends on efforts to identify persons with prediabetes by current definitions, using simpler predictive tests, or population-based interventions. Widespread screening for prediabetes by current definitions using FPG or A1c is advocated by many but is not widely practiced and controversial owing to cost, inconvenience, and scarcity of direct evidence for long-term health benefit. As discussed above, most of the RCTs of diabetes prevention have enrolled adults with IGT, with or without other risk factors such as IFG, overweight or obesity, CVD risk factors, or CVD. Two RCTs enrolled sufficient numbers of persons with isolated IFG (i.e., persons who did not have IGT) to evaluate prevention in such persons, who would be much easier to detect. In DREAM, 14% of participants at entry had isolated IFG, 57.5% had isolated IGT, and 28.5% had both IFG and IGT (34). Rosiglitazone reduced diabetes incidence in all three subgroups, and there was no significant difference in its effect among these groups. In fact, the point estimate for the incidence ratio was lowest (i.e., greatest effect) among those with isolated IFG (HR 0.30, 95% CI 0.19–0.49), but with the widest confidence interval because this was the smallest subgroup. In a Japanese study, by contrast, participants with IFG were enrolled without regard to 2-hour plasma glucose or A1c, except that diabetes was excluded by an OGTT (5). Lifestyle intervention was successful overall (44% incidence rate reduction, HR 0.56), but it was even more effective in subsets at higher baseline risk, for example incidence rates were reduced by 76% (HR 0.24) in those with A1c ≥6.0%. Although a number of genetic variants affect type 2 diabetes susceptibility,
