Chapter 38: Prevention of Type 2 Diabetes
KEYWORDS: diabetes, prevention, lifestyle, group, study, risk, diabetes prevention, intervention, incidence, type, type diabetes, glucose, weight, metformin, trial


at higher baseline risk, for example incidence rates were reduced by 76% (HR 0.24) in those with A1c ≥6.0%. Although a number of genetic variants affect type 2 diabetes susceptibility, they add little to readily obtained clinical measures in short-term disease predic­ tion, and persons at greatest genetic risk benefit at least as much from preventive interventions as those at lower genetic risk (45,46,47). Current knowledge does not indicate a need to test genetic suscepti­ bility in selecting individuals for prevention or prescribing the optimal interventions, Prevention of Type 2 Diabetes 38–15 although evidence suggests that some interventions may be more effective in those with greater estimated genetic susceptibility to type 2 diabetes (45,46) or that some genotypes predict response to metformin (47,48). The role for genotyping is likely to increase with results of further research, especially pharmacogenetic research, i.e., in which the choice of drugs may be optimized with knowledge of gene variants that affect drug action or tolerability. Good methods are available for preventing type 2 diabetes in high-risk persons, but in addition to improving these interventions, it is important to determine which indi­ viduals can benefit the most from them. Currently, the best strategy for selecting individuals for diabetes prevention inter­ ventions is unclear. A major factor limiting the evidence from RCTs is that baseline risk of type 2 diabetes determines study power, which depends on numbers of events occurring in the trial. Providing evidence for effective interventions in low-risk persons is likely not feasible because of the size and duration of RCTs needed to attain adequate power. On the other hand, if interventions were benefi­ cial in persons of low or average risk and could be delivered economically, more cases of diabetes might be prevented or delayed by targeting large numbers of lower-risk persons. This leads to the consideration of preventive measures applied to populations rather than targeted to high-risk individuals. Following publication of results from the DPP and the other lifestyle intervention RCTs, many “implementation” activities have been described. Many of these studies were small, short-duration (1 year or less) RCTs, so they reported outcomes of weight loss or other diabetes risk factors, but not of the incidence of diabetes itself. These RCTs consistently produced weight loss, the magnitude of which was associated with measures of adherence to the programs, such as session attendance, as reported (68) or reviewed elsewhere (69,70,71). The YMCA program has
