Chapter 38: Prevention of Type 2 Diabetes
KEYWORDS: diabetes, prevention, lifestyle, group, study, risk, diabetes prevention, intervention, incidence, type, type diabetes, glucose, weight, metformin, trial


weight loss, the magnitude of which was associated with measures of adherence to the programs, such as session attendance, as reported (68) or reviewed elsewhere (69,70,71). The YMCA program has been especially influential. Its curriculum based on the DPP was evaluated in an individual-based RCT from 2008 to 2010. The intervention arm resulted in mean weight loss during 1 year of 2.3 kg more than in the standard care group; mean weight loss was 5.3 kg more in participants attending at least nine lessons in the intervention (72). This chapter does not review the extensive literature on behavioral, drug, or surgical weight loss interventions that were not focused on diabetes or its risk factors. It is likely, however, that any successful weight-loss intervention will also reduce risk of type 2 diabetes, albeit balanced by side effects, risks, and costs specific to the intervention. A review of 44 trials testing DPP-based lifestyle interventions concluded that the interventions achieved not only weight loss but also improved cardiometabolic risk factors (73). Widespread implementation of the find­ ings of the major RCTs, however, does not require further RCTs. RCTs are suitable (and ideal) for evaluating the efficacy of an intervention when the efficacy is not already known. By contrast, implemen­ tation of RCT findings is in the realm of providing services that may be difficult to evaluate (74), but they may not need formal evaluation because they are presumed to be safe and effective. When treatment or preventive methods are integrated into routine practice, they are not routinely evaluated formally. There are, however, a variety of methods other than individual-based RCTs that can be used to evaluate implemented programs, as discussed by Ackermann et al. (75,76). They can range from cluster randomized trials to “natural experiments” in which the health effects of environmental or political changes are evaluated—either by pre-post comparisons or comparisons with other locations where such changes were not made. While such methods lack the rigor and internal validity of RCTs, they are necessary for evaluation of large-scale changes. Because of the widespread acceptance that lifestyle interventions can prevent or delay the onset of type 2 diabetes, although to varying degrees depending on intervention intensity and characteristics of the persons receiving them (66), a challenge is how to provide interventions to the large numbers of people who might benefit. An early example of such a program is the Montana Cardiovascular Disease and
