Chapter 38: Prevention of Type 2 Diabetes
KEYWORDS: diabetes, prevention, lifestyle, group, study, risk, diabetes prevention, intervention, incidence, type, type diabetes, glucose, weight, metformin, trial


(66), a challenge is how to provide interventions to the large numbers of people who might benefit. An early example of such a program is the Montana Cardiovascular Disease and Diabetes Prevention Program. This was a service program, rather than an RCT, that produced weight loss in adults at high risk of diabetes (77). Another such program was the Special Diabetes Program for Indians conducted by the U.S. Indian Health Service (78). The program provided preventive service without a comparison group, so quanti­ fying its effectiveness was difficult (74). As discussed, however, rigorous evalua­ tion is not always necessary or possible when established findings are imple­ mented in practice. U.S. government programs that encourage diabetes prevention interven­ tions have been established. The National Diabetes Prevention Program—or National DPP—is a partnership of public and private organizations working to reduce the growing problem of predia­ betes and type 2 diabetes. The partners work to make it easier for people with prediabetes to participate in evidence- based, affordable, and high-quality lifestyle change programs to reduce their risk of type 2 diabetes and improve their overall health. The program provides information about diabetes and diabetes prevention and sources of programs avail­ able by location (79). The U.S. Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services (CMS) recognized the value and potential cost savings of lifestyle interventions for diabetes prevention. This was based on a determination by the Chief Actuary of the CMS that the program developed by the YMCA of the USA Diabetes Prevention Program (Y-USA DPP) would either reduce spending without reducing quality of care or improve quality of care without increasing spending. Medicare will pay for individual-based lifestyle interventions patterned after the DPP to its beneficia­ ries who are overweight or obese and do not have diabetes, but meet criteria for “prediabetes” based on A1c, FPG, or 2-hour plasma glucose in an OGTT (80). 38–16 DIABETES IN AMERICA, 3rd Edition This has the potential to extend individu­ al-based interventions on a much larger scale than done previously. Widespread implementation may require changes at a community or societal level rather than interventions directed at individuals. This area is beyond the scope of this chapter, but it is discussed else­ where (81,82). An example is changing tax policy to discourage consumption of nonessential energy-dense food and sugar-sweetened beverages. An evaluation of household food purchase before and after implementation of a tax on these food items indicated
