Chapter 38: Prevention of Type 2 Diabetes
KEYWORDS: diabetes, prevention, lifestyle, group, study, risk, diabetes prevention, intervention, incidence, type, type diabetes, glucose, weight, metformin, trial


tax policy to discourage consumption of nonessential energy-dense food and sugar-sweetened beverages. An evaluation of household food purchase before and after implementation of a tax on these food items indicated an average 5.1% reduction of purchases of taxed items (83). Because the tax was implemented nationally, there was no comparison group. No data were presented on effects on weight or other health measures. While it is widely hypothesized that changes in food policy and the built environment (e.g., encouraging personal energy expenditure rather than motor vehicles for transportation) will reduce obesity and type 2 diabetes (84), there is limited direct evidence that they will do so. By contrast with implementation of lifestyle interventions, little has been published on implementation of pharma­ cological preventive interventions, largely owing to the lack of approval of medicines for diabetes prevention by regulatory agencies, such as the FDA. A pharma­ coepidemiologic analysis of more than 1 million persons covered by insurance revealed that of those identified as being at high risk for diabetes, less than 4% were prescribed metformin over a 3-year period (85). The cost of identifying potentially large fractions of the population as being at moderate to high risk of developing diabetes and then providing effective interventions must be taken into account. Considering these potentially large costs, the ultimate benefit of prevention on human health and the cost-benefit need to be established. The DPPOS has demonstrated potential cost savings of prevention to date (with metformin) (86). Other critical questions about diabetes prevention—some answered and some not—are listed in Table 38.2. TABLE 38.2. What Can Diabetes Prevention Activities Accomplish? OUTCOME CAN THIS OUTCOME BE ACCOMPLISHED? SUMMARY OF EVIDENCE Prevent or delay diabetes defined by glucose criteria in high- risk persons Yes Many trials Reduce diabetes incidence to near zero for many years (ideal “prevention”) No All trials had substantially high diabetes incidence even with the most effective interventions Prevent or delay diabetes in children or adults at average risk Unknown No clinical trial evidence Prevent or delay diabetes by population-level intervention Unknown No clinical trial evidence Prevent complications of diabetes Mixed results Limited, but inconsistent, evidence of prevention of retinopathy Prevent other diabetes-associated illnesses, such as cancer Unknown No clinical trial evidence Reduce mortality rates Unknown Limited, but inconsistent, evidence of reduction of mortality rates Reduce costs Unknown One study suggests cost-savings with metformin and cost- effectiveness with lifestyle intervention. SOURCE: Original table constructed
