Chapter 38: Prevention of Type 2 Diabetes
KEYWORDS: diabetes, prevention, lifestyle, group, study, risk, diabetes prevention, intervention, incidence, type, type diabetes, glucose, weight, metformin, trial


rates Unknown Limited, but inconsistent, evidence of reduction of mortality rates Reduce costs Unknown One study suggests cost-savings with metformin and cost- effectiveness with lifestyle intervention. SOURCE: Original table constructed by W. C. Knowler, J. P. Crandall, J. L. Chiasson, and D. M. Nathan CONCLUSIONS Many different interventions are partially successful in preventing or delaying the onset of diabetes in nondiabetic adults who are at higher-than-average risk of diabetes by virtue of having impaired glucose regulation (IFG or IGT) and being overweight or obese. The largest preventive effects have been seen with weight loss through lifestyle interventions and by treatment with thiazolidinedione drugs, such as troglitazone, rosiglitazone, or pioglitazone. These drugs, however, are not in widespread use, either for prevention or treatment of type 2 diabetes, because of adverse effects and cost. Although costs for the drugs have fallen, there still may be substantial costs to prescribing the drugs and monitoring their safety. Metformin, a less effective but safer drug that has had the longest experience in an RCT (DPP/DPPOS), is generally recommended for prevention and treatment of type 2 diabetes. The most commonly recommended preven­ tive therapy, and perhaps the safest and with the most additional benefits, is weight loss through lifestyle intervention. As beneficial as some of the preventive interventions are, none are completely effective in that diabetes still develops in most participants, all selected because of their high risk, in RCTs when follow-up is extended. More effective interventions are still needed. Evidence for prevention of type 2 diabetes in persons of average risk, i.e., representing the general population of nondiabetic adults, or in children, is lacking. The long-term benefits on nonglycemic outcomes are less certain. Most of the prevention RCTs have been too small and too short to evaluate long-term diabetes complications. Early studies suggested a reduction in CVD. More recently, the Prevention of Type 2 Diabetes 38–17 Da Qing and DPP RCTs suggested benefits of lifestyle intervention on micro­ vascular complications or mortality, but only in women. Of note, although the Look AHEAD (Action for Health in Diabetes) RCT of lifestyle intervention in adults with type 2 diabetes showed no benefit on cardiovascular events, it led to a reduction in incidence of advanced nephropathy, but also only in women (87). Reasons for the apparent sex differences in prevention of long-term complications, despite lack of sex differences in diabetes prevention, are not known. There is still a
