Bookshelf_NBK1144
KEYWORDS: deletion, individuals, genetic, syndrome, imprinting, angelman, angelman syndrome, analysis, testing, chromosome, risk, pathogenic, upd, diagnosis, seizures


NLM Citation: Dagli AI, Mathews J, Williams CA. Angelman Syndrome. 1998 Sep 15 [Updated 2025 May 1]. In: Adam MP, Bick S, Mirzaa GM, et ® Washington, Seattle; 1993-2026. Bookshelf URL: Angelman Syndrome 1 2 3 Created: September 15, 1998; Revised: May 1, 2025. Summary Clinical characteristics Angelman syndrome (AS) is characterized by severe developmental delay or intellectual disability, severe speech impairment, gait ataxia and/or tremulousness of the limbs, and unique behavior with an apparent happy demeanor that includes frequent laughing, smiling, and excitability. Microcephaly and seizures are also AS do not become manifest until after age one year. Diagnosis/testing The diagnosis of AS is established in a proband who meets the consensus clinical diagnostic criteria and/or who has findings on molecular genetic testing that suggest deficient expression or function of the maternally inherited UBE3A allele. Analysis of parent-specific DNA methylation imprints in the 15q11.2-q13 chromosome region detects approximately 80% of individuals with AS, including those with a deletion, uniparental disomy, or an imprinting defect; fewer than 1% of individuals have a cytogenetically visible chromosome rearrangement (e.g., translocation or inversion). UBE3A sequence analysis detects pathogenic variants in an additional approximately 11% of individuals. Therefore, molecular genetic testing (methylation analysis and UBE3A sequence analysis) identifies alterations in approximately 90% of individuals. The remaining 10% of individuals with classic phenotypic features of AS have the disorder as a result of an as-yet unidentified genetic mechanism. Management Treatment of manifestations: Anti-seizure medication for seizures. Accommodation for hypermotoric behaviors and disruptive nighttime wakefulness. Behavior modification can be effective for disruptive or self-injurious behaviors. Physical therapy, occupational therapy, and speech therapy with an emphasis on nonverbal methods of communication, including augmentative communication aids (e.g., picture cards, communication boards) and signing. Individualization and flexibility in school settings. Routine management of gastroesophageal r eflux, 2 GeneReviews ® feeding difficulties, constipation, and strabismus. Thoraco-lumbar jackets and/or surgical intervention for scoliosis. Bracing or surgery as needed for subluxed or pronated ankles or tight Achilles tendons. Surveillance: Monitor for new seizures and/or changes in seizures, developmental progress, behavior issues, mobility, motor skills, gastroesophageal reflux, constipation, and feeding issues at each visit. Evaluation of older children for obesity associated with an excessive appetite. Annual clinical examination for scoliosis; ophthalmology examination in the first year if strabismus is present; ophthalmology exam at age two years with follow up per ophthalmologist; clinical examination for scoliosis annually. Agents/circumstances to avoid: Overtreatment with sedating medications
