Bookshelf_NBK1144
KEYWORDS: deletion, individuals, genetic, syndrome, imprinting, angelman, angelman syndrome, analysis, testing, chromosome, risk, pathogenic, upd, diagnosis, seizures


symptomatic individual who has not had any prior molecular genetic testing: 4 GeneReviews ® Figure 1. Individuals depicted have a genetically confirmed diagnosis of Angelman syndrome. Happy expression and an unstable gait accompanied by uplifted arms are commonly observed. At times, the facial appearance can suggest the diagnosis, but usually facial features are not distinctive. • DNA methylation analysis is typically the first test ordered. Individuals with AS caused by a 5- to 7-Mb deletion of 15q11.2-q13, UPD, or an imprinting defect have only an unmethylated (i.e., "paternal") contribution (i.e., an abnormal parent-specific DNA methylation imprint). DNA methylation analysis identifies approximately 80% of individuals with AS. Note: Most commercially available DNA methylation analysis tests cannot distinguish between AS resulting from a 15q11.2-q13 deletion, UPD, or an imprinting defect. Further testing is required to identify the underlying molecular mechanism (see Genetic Counseling). If DNA methylation analysis is normal: • Single-gene testing. Sequence analysis of UBE3A is performed first to detect missense, nonsense, and splice site variants and small intragenic deletions/insertions. Note: Depending on the sequencing method used, single-exon, multiexon, or whole-gene deletions/duplications may not be detected. If no variant is detected by the sequencing method used, the next step is to perform gene-targeted deletion/duplication analysis to detect exon and whole-gene deletions or duplications. Angelman Syndrome 5 • A multigene panel that includes UBE3A (e.g., most epilepsy, autism, and intellectual deficiency multigene panels) and other genes of interest (see Differential Diagnosis) is most likely to identify the genetic cause of the condition while limiting identification of pathogenic variants and variants of uncertain significan ce in genes that do not explain the underlying phenotype. Note: (1) The genes included in the panel and the diagnostic sensitivity of the testing used for each gene vary by laboratory and are likely to change over time. (2) Some multigene panels may include genes not associated with the condition discussed in this GeneReview. (3) In some laboratories, panel options may include a custom laboratory-designed panel and/or custom phenotype-focused exome analysis that includes genes specified by the clinician. (4) Methods used in a panel may include sequence analysis, deletion/duplication analysis, and/or other non- sequencing-based tests. genetic tests can be found here. • More comprehensive genomic testing (when available) including exome sequencing, genome sequencing, and mitochondrial sequencing may be considered if DNA methylation and UBE3A analysis (and/or use of a multigene panel) fails to confirm a diagnosis in an
