Bookshelf_NBK1144
KEYWORDS: deletion, individuals, genetic, syndrome, imprinting, angelman, angelman syndrome, analysis, testing, chromosome, risk, pathogenic, upd, diagnosis, seizures


is available primarily through research laboratories. 6. Beygo et al 7. FISH analysis with the D15S10 and/or the SNRPN probe can identify the common 15q11.2-q13 deletion, but typically this deletion is not detected by routine cytogenetic analysis. 8. CMA has a slightly higher sensitivity for 15q11.2-q13 deletions than FISH and will provide detailed information regarding size of the deletion. CMA also can identify deletions and duplications in other regions of the genome. 9. SNP-based chromosomal microarray can identify UPD, but not UPD due to heterodisomy. 10. UPD is detected using polymorphic DNA markers, which requires a DNA sample from the affected individual and both parents. 11. Gene-targeted deletion/duplication analysis detects deletions or duplications in intragenic or other targeted regions. Methods used may include a range of techniques such as quantitative PCR, long-range PCR, MLPA, and a gene-targeted microarray designed to detect single-exon deletions or duplications. 12. Although 3% of all individuals with AS have imprinting center defects, <10% will have detectable small deletions in the imprinting center. 13. Sequence analysis detects variants that are benign, likely benign, of uncertain significance (VUS), likely pathogenic, or pathogenic. Variants may include missense, nonsense, and splice site variants and small intragenic deletions/insertions; typically, exon or whole- gene deletions/duplications are not detected. Since UBE3A is imprinted, demonstration of paternal inheritance of a VUS will 14. CMA usually detects large 15q11.2-q13 deletions, but in rare instances has detected UBE3A multiexon or whole-gene deletions. Possible explanations for the failure to detect AS-causing genetic abnormalities in approximately 10% of individuals with clinically diagnosed AS: • Incorrect clinical diagnosis • Undetected pathogenic variants in the regulatory region(s) of UBE3A • Other unidentified mechanisms or gene(s) involved in UBE3A function Clinical Characteristics Clinical Description Angelman syndrome (AS) is characterized by severe developmental delay and intellectual disability, severe speech impairment, gait ataxia and/or tremulousness of the limbs, and a unique behavior with an apparent happy demeanor that includes frequent laughing, smiling, and excitability. Microcephaly and seizures are also AS do not become manifest until after age one year. Angelman Syndrome 7 Table 2. Angelman Syndrome: Frequency of Select Features Feature % of Persons with Feature Comment Seizures 90% Many seizure types; nonconvulsive status epilepticus in 20% Nonepileptic myoclonus 20% More common in adults Sleep problems 80%-90% Frequent awakening, dyssomnias, irregular sleep-wake cycles Hypermotoric activity, oral exploration, frequent smiling & laughter, Behavioral features 100% aggression, anxiety, autism spectrum traits Motor delay /
