Bookshelf_NBK1144
KEYWORDS: deletion, individuals, genetic, syndrome, imprinting, angelman, angelman syndrome, analysis, testing, chromosome, risk, pathogenic, upd, diagnosis, seizures


hypotonia, and/or myoclonic movements [Elia 2009, Worden et al 2018]. Nonepileptic myoclonus (NEM), also termed cortical myoclonus, should be distinguished from true seizures that have an EEG signature. NEM can include jerking, tic-like, or twitching movements without obvious alteration in awareness and with no epileptiform EEG changes. NEM typically occurs in teenagers and young adults [Pollack et al 2018]. Sleep problems are common in individuals with AS and include frequent and early awakening, dyssomnias (difficulties initiating or maintaining sleep), fragmented and irregular sleep-wake cycles, disruptive night behaviors such as periods of laughter, and sleep-related seizures [Pelc et al 2008, Spruyt et al 2018]. Sleep 8 GeneReviews ® difficulties are further influenced by constipation, gastroesophageal reflux disease, and scoliosis [Bindels-de Heus et al 2020]. Sleep related issues may improve with age, though some individuals continue to require co- sleeping [Walz et al 2005, Dosier et al 2017]. Given the comorbidity of behavior issues, seizures, and sleep problems, management largely focuses on behavior modification, epileptic control, medication, and improving sleep hygiene to approach these issues. Behavioral features include frequent laughter and smiling, apparent happy demeanor, excitability, often with hand-flapping movements, and hypermotoric behavior. Some infants have an apparent happy affect with excessive chortling or paroxysms of laughter. Infants and toddlers may have seemingly ceaseless activity, constantly keeping their hands or toys in their mouth, and/or moving from object to object. After infancy, exploratory play tends to be by oral manipulation and chewing. Essentially all young children with AS have a component of hyperactivity. Males and females appear equally affected. Laughter can be an appropriate response to a humorous situation, but more often appears in response to a nonspecific event (mental or physical stimulus) or possible expression of anxiety. Aggressive and self-injurious behaviors can occur, including pinching, grabbing, biting, slapping, and hitting. These behaviors often represent attention seeking and frustration due to difficulty with communication, rather than ill intent [Arron et al 2011, Sadhwani et al 2019]. Individuals with AS experience the full spectrum of emotions, develop meaningful relationships with family and friends, and participate in household, recreational, and other activities. Certain behaviors may suggest a diagnosis of autism spectrum disorder (e.g., fascination with water and crinkly items such as certain papers and plastics, increased sensitivity to heat, abnormal food-related behaviors) but social engagement is typically good. Stereotypic behaviors such as lining up of toys or fascination with spinning objects or flashing lights
