Bookshelf_NBK1144
KEYWORDS: deletion, individuals, genetic, syndrome, imprinting, angelman, angelman syndrome, analysis, testing, chromosome, risk, pathogenic, upd, diagnosis, seizures


plastics, increased sensitivity to heat, abnormal food-related behaviors) but social engagement is typically good. Stereotypic behaviors such as lining up of toys or fascination with spinning objects or flashing lights rarely occur. Some individuals with AS have good response to ABA (applied behavior analysis) therapy [Walz & Baranek 2006, Moss & Howlin 2009, Summers 2012]. The behavior profile generally continues into the adult years. Particularly challenging in teenage and adult years include frustration in communicating wants and preferences, seeking sensory stimulation and social attention, and avoidance of undesired situations [Larson et al 2015]. Motor development and tremor. Tremulous movements can be noted prior to age 12 months and are associated AS may first be suspected in a toddler because of delayed gross motor milestones and hypotonia. Mildly impaired children may walk fairly normally or have minimal toe-walking or prancing gait, at times accompanied by leaning forward. Being placed in a standing position can result in anxiety or rigidity. The average age of walking is between 2.5 and six years [Lossie et al 2001]. In a recent study of 100 children with AS, those with the 15q11.2-q13 deletion achieved walking on average by 58 months and those without the deletion by age 41 months [Bindels-de Heus et al 2020]. Children who are significantly affected have a jerky, robot-like, stiff gait, with legs kept wide based and arms uplifted and flexed with pronated forearms. Frequently voluntary movements appear irregular. On the mild end they can present as slight jerkiness to uncoordinated coarse movements on the severe end of the spectrum. These movements can prevent reaching for objects, feeding, and walking. Failure to achieve independent walking may be a result of instability resulting from tremor, epilepsy, vision issues, abnormal muscle tone, or balance problems. Ten percent of children are nonambulatory [Clayton-Smith 1993]. Language impairment and cognitive delay are severe. Although formal psychometric testing appears to indicate developmental achievement at around the 24-30 month range, developmental testing is challenging due to language impairment and hypermotoric and attention-deficit behaviors [Peters et al 2004]. Cognitive abilities may be higher than what is captured on testing, but delays are still likely in the severe range. Individuals with the 15q11.2-q13 deletion usually demonstrate the most severe cognitive delays across all domains. Angelman Syndrome 9 Appropriate and consistent use of one or two words is rare. Babies and young infants have decreased cooing and babbling. At age ten to
