Bookshelf_NBK1144
KEYWORDS: deletion, individuals, genetic, syndrome, imprinting, angelman, angelman syndrome, analysis, testing, chromosome, risk, pathogenic, upd, diagnosis, seizures


fovea) in individuals with AS, hypopigmentation can be found in individuals without the 15q11.2-q13 deletion and OCA2 may not be the sole explanation. Standard treatments are used for strabismus including glasses, patching, and surgery when appropriate. Hypermotoric activities can make adherence challenging. Approximately 30% require strabismus surgery with overall successful outcomes [Ye et al 2019]. Astigmatism is the most common refractive error. Keratoconus can occur and may be secondary to persistent eye rubbing or gouging behaviors or other causes. Additional ocular findings include myopia, hyperopia, nystagmus, optic nerve atrophy or optic disk pallor, retinochoroidal atrophy, ptosis, and amblyopia [Michieletto et al 2011]. Orthopedics. Scoliosis can develop in adolescence and becomes more common with advancing age [Giroud et al 2015, Larson et al 2015]. Approximately 10%-20% of children develop scoliosis. At least 30%-50% of adults have scoliosis that is typically thoracic. Increased lumbar lordosis is reported in 20%-25% of adults [Sachdeva et al 2016, Prasad et al 2018]. Scoliosis can limit mobility and is treated with bracing to prevent progression. Surgical correction may be necessary for individuals with severe scoliosis. Additional orthopedic complications include hip dysplasia and low bone mineral density. Osteopenia appears to be more common in those treated with anti-seizure medication [Coppola et al 2007, Larson et al 2015]. Pubertal development is generally normal in individuals with AS. Larson et al reported early menarche in 17% and late menarche in 27%. Hormonal changes during puberty can affect both behavior and epilepsy. Fertility appears to be normal and procreation appears possible for both males and females. Discussion with a gynecologist is appropriate to explore options to regulate menses [Kaskowitz et al 2016]. Lossie & Driscoll reported transmission of a 15q11.2-q13 deletion to a fetus by a mother with AS. Growth. Length, weight, and head circumference at birth are usually normal. Average height during childhood in individuals with AS is lower than in the general population, but most have a normal final adult height. Individuals with AS have an increased weight-to-height ratio, which is more frequently reported in individuals without the 15q11.2-q13 deletion [Mertz et al 2014, Carson et al 2019, Bindels-de Heus et al 2020]. decreased ambulation), and difficult behaviors may continue throughout adulthood, as well as other described the same risk as the general population. Independent living is not possible for adults with AS. Many live at home or in home-like placements. Life span data are not available, but
