Bookshelf_NBK1144
KEYWORDS: deletion, individuals, genetic, syndrome, imprinting, angelman, angelman syndrome, analysis, testing, chromosome, risk, pathogenic, upd, diagnosis, seizures


3). Prevalence The population prevalence of AS is estimated at 1:12,000-1:24,000 [Mertz et al 2013]. Genetically Related (Allelic) Disorders Prader-Willi syndrome (PWS) is caused by an absence of expression of imprinted genes in the paternally contributed 15q11.2-q13 region. Although PWS and Angelman syndrome (AS) are clinically distinct in older younger than age two years. Interstitial duplications of 15q11.2-q13 on the maternally derived chromosome cause a disorder clinically distinct from AS and PWS. Individuals with dup15q11.2-q13 do not have facial dysmorphism but have mild to moderately severe learning deficits and may have behaviors in the autism spectrum. See 15q Duplication Syndrome and Related Disorders. Differential Diagnosis Infants with Angelman syndrome (AS) commonly present with nonspecific psychomotor delay and/or seizures; therefore, the differential diagnosis is broad and nonspecific, encompassing such entities as cerebral palsy, static encephalopathy, or mitochondrial encephalomyopathy. The tremulousness and jerky limb movements seen in most infants with AS may help distinguish AS from these conditions. AS-mimicking conditions have been reviewed [Tan et al 2014] and many of these, as well as additional disorders to consider in the differential diagnosis, are listed in Table 3. 12 GeneReviews ® Figure 2. Schematic drawing of chromosome region 15q11.2-q13 indicating the breakpoint regions BP1-BP6. Low copy repeat elements are located within these breakpoint regions (see text for details). Approximately 90% of chromosome deletions resulting in Angelman syndrome initiate at BP1 or BP2 and terminate in region BP3 (class I and class II). Approximately 10% of deletions are larger, typically spanning from BP1 to BP5, rarely beyond BP5. Genes that are not imprinted and thus biparentally expressed are noted by the open circles. The two critical imprinting center (IC) elements, the AS-SRO and the PWS-SRO, are drawn as open boxes. Th e gene SNRUF-SNRPN, drawn as a shaded box, has some overlap with the PWS-SRO. The SNURF-SNRPN sense/UBE3A antisense transcript is labeled UBE3A-AS. Angelman Syndrome 13 Figure 3. The pedigree illustrates imprinting inheritance in Angelman syndrome (AS). Inheritance of a deleterious UBE3A pathogenic variant from the male (top left, I-1) has no effect on the two children (II-2, II-4) who inherit his pathogenic variant because the mutated UBE3A has already been inactivated in his germ cells (i.e., by imprinting) and because each of these children also inherited a normally activated UBE3A from their mother (I-2). (Note: Only one active UBE3A allele is required for normal brain functioning.) If his carrier daughter (II-2) transmits the
