Bookshelf_NBK1144
KEYWORDS: deletion, individuals, genetic, syndrome, imprinting, angelman, angelman syndrome, analysis, testing, chromosome, risk, pathogenic, upd, diagnosis, seizures


with developmental concern. 4. Widely spaced eyes, broad eyebrows with a medial flare, low-hanging columella, prominent or pointed chin, open-mouth expression, and uplifted earlobes with a central depression Some chromosome disorders may mimic features of AS including Phelan-McDermid syndrome (22q13.3 deletion), Koolen-de Vries syndrome (associated with either a 17q21.31 deletion or a heterozygous intragenic KANSL1 pathogenic variant), 1q21.1 recurrent microdeletion, and others. These disorders are characterized by nondysmorphic facial features, language and intellectual impairment, and (in some individuals) happy or excitable behaviors. Note: Infants with AS who present with feeding difficulties and hypotonia may be misdiagnosed as having Prader-Willi syndrome if a 15q11.2-q13 deletion, detected by chromosomal microarray or FISH, was not proven by DNA methylation analysis to be of maternal origin (see Genetically Related Disorders). Management No clinical practice guidelines for Angelman syndrome (AS) have been published. Evaluations Following Initial Diagnosis To establish the extent of disease and needs in an individual diagnosed with AS, the evaluations summarized in Table 4 (if not performed as part of the evaluation that led to the diagnosis) are recommended. Table 4. Recommended Evaluations Following Initial Diagnosis in Individuals with Angelman Syndrome System/Concern Evaluation Comment Neurologic Neurologic eval To incl brain MR, EEG To incl: • Motor, adaptive, cognitive, & nonverbal language ability Development Developmental & behavioral assessment • Language ability & need for special communication devices & behavior • Eval for early intervention / special education • Screening for behavior concerns incl sleep disturbances Gastrointestinal/ Gastroenterology / nutrition / feeding To incl eval for gastroesophageal reflux & nutritional status Feeding team eval Ophthalmology Ophthalmology exam To assess for strabismus, evidence of ocular albinism, visual acuity 16 GeneReviews ® Table 4. continued from previous page. System/Concern Evaluation Comment To incl assessment of: • Gross motor & fine motor skills • Scoliosis & gait impairment (e.g., extent of foot pronation or ankle subluxation; tight Achilles tendons) & extent of Orthopedics / physical medicine & Musculoskeletal hypotonia rehabilitation / PT/OT eval • Mobility, activities of daily living, & need for adaptive devices • Need for PT (to improve gross motor skills) &/or OT (to improve fine motor skills) • Need for orthopedic referral To obtain a pedigree & inform affected persons & their families re Genetic counseling By genetics professionals 1 nature, MOI, & implications of AS in order to facilitate medical & personal decision making Assess need for: • Community or online resources Family
