Bookshelf_NBK1144
KEYWORDS: deletion, individuals, genetic, syndrome, imprinting, angelman, angelman syndrome, analysis, testing, chromosome, risk, pathogenic, upd, diagnosis, seizures


assessment of mobility, self-help skills Gastrointestinal Monitor for gastroesophageal reflux & constipation. • Measurement of growth parameters Nutrition/ • Eval of nutritional status Feeding • Eval of older children for obesity In 1st yr if strabismus is present; general Eyes Ophthalmology exam eval by age 2 yrs; follow up per ophthalmologist Scoliosis Clinical exam Annually OT = occupational therapy; PT = physical therapy Agents/Circumstances to Avoid Overtreatment • Children with AS are at risk for medication overtreatment because their movement abnormalities can be mistaken for seizures and because EEG abnormalities can persist even when seizures are controlled. Angelman Syndrome 19 • The behavioral phenotype of AS includes hyperexcitability, hypermotoric behaviors, and deficits in social communication. These limitations place affected individuals at risk for social disruptions. On occasion, ® the use of risperidone (Risperdal ) or other atypical antipsychotic drugs provides some but often limited benefit. When such drugs are needed, care must be taken to avoid oversedation and other side effects. Evaluation of Relatives at Risk See Genetic Counseling for issues related to testing of at-risk relatives for genetic counseling purposes. Therapies Under Investigation an attempt to augment DNA methylation pathways and possibly increase expression of the paternal UBE3A [Peters et al 2010]. An ongoing study using oral gaboxadol, a highly selective GABA receptor agonist, has not yet shown clear benefit [Bird et al 2021]. A study of oral levodopa/carbidopa did not show significant benefit in AS [Tan et al 2018]. Two clinical trials are currently evaluating antisense oligonucleotide-mediated enhancement of UBE3A expression: one trial is sponsored by Hoffmann‐La Roche (molecule RO7248824; NCT04428281) and the other is sponsored by GeneTX Biotherapeutics (molecule GTX-102; NCT04259281). Search ClinicalTrials.gov in the US and EU Clinical Trials Register in Europe for access to information on clinical studies for a wide range of diseases and conditions. Genetic Counseling Genetic counseling is the process of providing individuals and families with information on the nature, mode(s) of inheritance, and implications of genetic disorders to help them make informed medical and personal decisions. Th e following section deals with genetic risk assessment and the use of family history and genetic testing to clarify genetic status for family members; it is not meant to address all personal, cultural, or ethical issues that may arise or to substitute for consultation with a genetics professional. —ED. Mode of Inheritance Individuals with Angelman syndrome (AS) typically represent simplex cases (i.e., a single
