Bookshelf_NBK1144
KEYWORDS: deletion, individuals, genetic, syndrome, imprinting, angelman, angelman syndrome, analysis, testing, chromosome, risk, pathogenic, upd, diagnosis, seizures


ethical issues that may arise or to substitute for consultation with a genetics professional. —ED. Mode of Inheritance Individuals with Angelman syndrome (AS) typically represent simplex cases (i.e., a single affected family member) and have the disorder as the result of a de novo genetic alteration associated with a very low recurrence risk (e.g., deletion of the maternally inherited 15q11.2-q13 region). Less commonly, an individual with AS has the disorder as the result of a genetic alteration associated with an imprinting pattern of autosomal dominant inheritance (e.g., a pathogenic variant in UBE3A) or variable recurrence risk (e.g., an unbalanced chromosome translocation). Reliable recurrence risk assessment therefore requires identification of the underlying genetic mechanism in the proband and confirmation of the genetic status of the parents. Risk to Family Members Parents of a proband. The parents of a proband are unaffected. Sibs of a proband. The risk to the sibs of an individual with AS depends on the genetic mechanism of AS in the proband and the genetic status of the parents: • If the proband does not have a UBE3A pathogenic variant and the DNA methylation pattern is characteristic for absence of the maternal contribution, the underlying genetic mechanism (i.e., deletion of the maternally inherited 15q11.2-q13 region, uniparental disomy [UPD] of the paternal chromosome region 15q11.2-q13, or an imprinting defect of the maternal chromosome 15q11.2-q13 region) should be determined for genetic counseling purposes; recommended testing for the proband is as follows: 20 GeneReviews ® ⚬ 15q11.2-q13 deletion analysis (by chromosomal microarray or other methods) should be performed first. ⚬ If a 15q11.2-q13 deletion is not detected and the microarray (or other method used to detect copy number variants) does not identify segmental or whole-chromosome isodisomy, analysis of DNA polymorphisms on chromosome 15 can be used to rule out a whole-chromosome heterodisomy (to the authors' knowledge, this type of heterodisomy has not been reported in AS, although it is relatively common in Prader-Willi syndrome [Fridman & Koiffmann 2000]). ⚬ If UPD is not detected, the presumption is that an imprinting defect is present; additional studies can then determine if there is a deletion in the imprinting center. • Once the underlying genetic mechanism has been established in the proband, the genetic status of the parents can be assessed. • Recommendations for parental testing (based on the genetic mechanism in the proband) and corresponding recurrence risks to sibs are summarized in Table
