Bookshelf_NBK1144
KEYWORDS: deletion, individuals, genetic, syndrome, imprinting, angelman, angelman syndrome, analysis, testing, chromosome, risk, pathogenic, upd, diagnosis, seizures


applicable; UPD = uniparental disomy 1. Based on terminology by Jiang et al 2. Maternal germline mosaicism for large 15q11.2-q13 deletions has been reported [Sánchez et al 2014, Tang et al 2019]. 3. Torisu et al , Kuroda et al 4. Risk figure is based on the lack of recurrence among all known cases of UPD in AS with normal chromosomes, the experience with UPD in other disorders, & theoretic consideration regarding the mechanism of UPD. 5. Harpey et al , Bramswig et al 6. Theoretically, the mother could have germline mosaicism for the imprinting center deletion; to the authors' knowledge, this has not yet been reported. 7. There is a single report of a pair of sibs with AS who had a 1-1.5-Mb inversion separating the two imprinting center elements, but no imprinting center deletion [Buiting et al 2001, Williams et al 2010] 8. Maternal somatic/germline mosaicism for a UBE3A pathogenic variant has been reported [Hosoki et al 2005]. Offspring of a proband. To date, only one individual with AS has been reported to have reproduced [Lossie & Driscoll 1999]. The risk to offspring should be determined in the context of formal genetic counseling. Other family members • If a UBE3A pathogenic variant, imprinting center deletion, or structural chromosome rearrangement has been identified in the mother (or father in the case of UPD and Robertsonian translocations) of a proband, the sibs of the parent with the predisposing genetic alteration should be offered genetic counseling and the option of genetic testing. • If a proband's mother is heterozygous for a known imprinting center deletion or UBE3A pathogenic variant, the mother's sibs are also at risk of having the imprinting center deletion or the UBE3A pathogenic variant. Each child of the unaffected heterozygous sister is at a 50% risk of having AS. Unaffected maternal uncles of the proband who are heterozygous are not at risk of having affected children, but are at risk of having affected grandchildren through their unaffected daughters who inherited the imprinting center deletion or UBE3A pathogenic variant from them. Related Genetic Counseling Issues Family planning • The optimal time for determination of genetic risk and discussion of the availability of prenatal/ preimplantation genetic testing is before pregnancy. • It is appropriate to offer genetic counseling (including discussion of potential risks to offspring and reproductive options) to young adults who are at risk of having children with AS.
