Bookshelf_NBK1144
KEYWORDS: deletion, individuals, genetic, syndrome, imprinting, angelman, angelman syndrome, analysis, testing, chromosome, risk, pathogenic, upd, diagnosis, seizures


• It is appropriate to offer genetic counseling (including discussion of potential risks to offspring and reproductive options) to young adults who are at risk of having children with AS. DNA banking. Because it is likely that testing methodology and our understanding of genes, pathogenic mechanisms, and diseases will improve in the future, consideration should be given to banking DNA from probands in whom a molecular diagnosis has not been confirmed (i.e., the causative pathogenic mechanism is unknown). For more information, see Huang et al . Prenatal Testing and Preimplantation Genetic Testing Prenatal testing and preimplantation genetic testing for high-risk pregnancies require prior identification of the underlying genetic mechanism in the proband. 22 GeneReviews ® High risk. Prenatal detection of all the known molecular genetic alterations (i.e., molecular classes Ia, Ib, IIa, IIb, IIIa, IIIb, IV; see Table 7) in the 15q11.2-q13 region that give rise to AS is possible through DNA and/or chromosome/FISH analysis of fetal cells obtained by chorionic villus sampling (CVS) or amniocentesis. DNA methylation analysis (for 5- to 7-Mb deletion of 15q11.2-q13, UPD, and imprinting center defects) on fetal DNA methylation analysis prefer to use amniocytes because of the relative hypomethylation of cells derived from the placenta. FISH analysis, imprinting center deletion analysis, and sequence analysis of UBE3A should be technically possible using fetal cells obtained by CVS [Beygo et al 2019]. Prenatal testing should be undertaken only after the genetic mechanism in the index case has been established and the couple has been counseled regarding recurrence risk, as the risks and the type of molecular genetic testing used vary according to the type of molecular defect in the proband (see Establishing the Diagnosis). • Parents with normal chromosomes who have had one child with AS caused by either 15q11.2-q13 deletion or UPD have a low recurrence risk but may be offered prenatal testing for reassurance. • Parents who have had one child with AS caused by a UBE3A pathogenic variant should be offered prenatal testing even if the mother does not have a UBE3A pathogenic variant because of the possibility of maternal germline mosaicism. • Prenatal testing for an inherited translocation involving chromosome 15 is relevant because of the increased recurrence risk. FISH analysis and parent-of-origin (DNA methylation and/or polymorphism) studies should be considered if an inherited translocation involving chromosome 15 is present. Low risk. For low-risk pregnancies with no family history of AS, AS
