Bookshelf_NBK1144
KEYWORDS: deletion, individuals, genetic, syndrome, imprinting, angelman, angelman syndrome, analysis, testing, chromosome, risk, pathogenic, upd, diagnosis, seizures


parent-of-origin (DNA methylation and/or polymorphism) studies should be considered if an inherited translocation involving chromosome 15 is present. Low risk. For low-risk pregnancies with no family history of AS, AS needs to be considered in the following instances: • If a 15q11.2-q13 deletion is suspected on cytogenetic studies from CVS or amniocentesis, FISH analysis or chromosomal microarray analysis (CMA) is indicated to confirm the deletion. If the 15q11.2-q13 deletion is confirmed, parent-of-origin studies [Beygo et al 2019] can be performed to determine if the 15q11.2-q13 deletion is maternally derived (fetus has AS) or paternally derived (fetus has Prader-Willi syndrome [PWS]). • If trisomy 15 or mosaic trisomy 15 is detected on CVS, and if subsequent amniocentesis reveals 46 chromosomes, the possibility of trisomy rescue leading to AS (paternal UPD) or PWS (maternal UPD) through the loss of a parental chromosome 15 must be considered. In this instance, parent-of-origin (DNA) studies on amniocytes can be performed. • If a de novo translocation involving chromosome 15 or a supernumerary chromosome 15 marker is detected, FISH analysis or CMA and parent-of-origin studies should be considered to evaluate for a possible 15q11.2-q13 deletion (of variable size) or UPD. Preimplantation genetic testing (PGT) may be an option for families in which the underlying mechanism has been identified in the proband to be a UBE3A pathogenic variant or an imprinting center deletion. (The relative hypomethylation of the early embryo makes PGT problematic for DNA methylation testing.) Other Assisted reproductive technology (ART). In vitro fertilization (IVF) and intracytoplasmic sperm injection (ICSI) have been demonstrated to increase the chance of certain imprinting disorders (e.g., Beckwith- Wiedemann syndrome) in offspring. A 2018 report detected one occurrence of AS caused by an imprinting error in 949 pregnancies analyzed for AS following IVF. Although the researchers hypothesized that there may be an increased risk in IVF of imprinting errors, the study was limited by its small sample size and number of participating prenatal centers [Johnson et al 2018]. Additional studies have demonstrated no significant association between AS and IVF or ICSI [Vermeiden & Bernardus 2013, Hattori et al 2019]. Angelman Syndrome 23 Fertility. Research from the Netherlands and Germany demonstrates an association between fertility issues and the incidence of AS. The percent of couples who experienced fertility issues before having a child with AS ranged from 19% to 25%. A positive association with fertility issues and AS was not identified in
