Reproduction&Fertility(2026)7RAF250208
KEYWORDS: immune, reproductive, cells, pregnancy, colleagues, fertility, inflammation, inflammatory, tissue, testis, reproduction, implantation, etal, maternal, fetal


where they undergo complex biochemical through infection, dysregulated immunity, or chronic maturation required to acquire their full fertilization inflammation, can drive infertility, reproductive competence. In contrast to the testis, the epididymis disorders (e.g. endometriosis, polycystic ovary constitutes a more immunoreactive mucosal tissue, and syndrome, and epididymo-orchitis), and adverse immuneregulationbecomesmoreregionallystructured pregnancy outcomes. and adapted to the unique needs of maturing spermatozoa . The epididymal epithelium This Reproduction & Fertility special collection brings formsselectivebarriersandsecretesimmunomodulatory together contributions from leading experts in the field, factors that shape a distinct luminal environment for examining and updating our knowledge about the sperm maturation. Additionally, connective septal complex interplay between the immune system and structures compartmentalize the epididymal duct into series published in Reproduction & Fertility, it remains while not as elaborate as the blood–testis barrier, anevolvingforum–welcomingfurtherperspectivesthat tightly regulates access to the lumen. In this dynamic can deepen and enrich the ongoing conversation on system, epithelial cells actively calibrate the luminal reproductive immunology. milieu in a region-specific manner (Voisin et al. 2019, Rodriguez et al. 2025). – Along the epithelium, adense network of immune cells, Sanctuary and surveillance immune i.e. mononuclear phagocytes, establishes an strategies in reproduction in males immunological ‘bottleneck’ that promotes tolerance to sperm and restricts pathogen ascent; distally, where Steady-state – immune privilege and pathogens enter the organs, dendritic cells and lymphocytes cluster near vascular and lymphatic entry regionalized regulation sites to form a surveillance checkpoint. Together, these The male reproductive tract embodies a fundamental multilayeredstructuralandcellularmechanismsenable immunological paradox: spermatozoa, which express the epididymis to balance sperm maturation with antigens that arise during puberty – long after central immune defence. In recent years, intensive research immune tolerance has been established, require has generated a growing number of insights into how specialized immune environments to avoid the immune system maintains this delicate equilibrium. autoimmune reactions while still responding quickly to In this collection, Christiane Pleuger, Rukmali infectionandinflammation.Thisisparticularlyrequired Wijayarathna, and colleagues assemble these puzzle withinthe testis andepididymis. pieces into a forward-looking review that weaves CPleugeretal. Reproduction&Fertility(2026)7RAF250208 together recent discoveries in epithelial signalling, between antimicrobial defence and tolerance to barrier biology, and immune cell specialization and allogeneic spermatozoa, implantation of a function. By ‘stitching together’ the emerging pieces of semi-allogeneic embryo, and support of fetal the puzzle, they provide an integrated framework for development. These demands fluctuate across the understanding how regional immune regulation menstrual cycle and pregnancy, making immune cells safeguardsfertility while preserving hostdefence. integral regulators of
