Acoramidis for treating transthyretin amyloidosis with cardiomyopathy
KEYWORDS: acoramidis, nhs, tafamidis, nice, guidance, available, treatment, cardiomyopathy, recommendations, care, amyloidosis, price, transthyretin, transthyretin amyloidosis, england


schedule is available in the summary of product characteristics for acoramidis. Price 2.3 The list price of acoramidis is £8,547.60 for 120 x 356-mg tablets (excluding VAT; company submission). 2.4 The company has a commercial arrangement. This makes acoramidis available to the NHS with a discount. The size of the discount is commercial in confidence. Sustainability 2.5 For information, the Carbon Reduction Plan for UK carbon emissions is published on Bayer's webpage on sustainability. 3 Implementation 3.1 Section 7 of the National Institute for Health and Care Excellence (Constitution and Functions) and the Health and Social Care Information Centre (Functions) Regulations 2013 requires integrated care boards, NHS England and, with respect to their public health functions, local authorities to comply with the recommendations in this evaluation within 90 days of its date of publication. Because acoramidis has been recommended through the cost-comparison process, NHS England and integrated care boards have agreed to provide funding to implement this guidance 30 days after publication. 3.2 The Welsh ministers have issued directions to the NHS in Wales on implementing NICE technology appraisal guidance. When a NICE technology appraisal guidance recommends the use of a drug or treatment, or other technology, the NHS in Wales must usually provide funding and resources for it within 60 days of the first publication of the final draft guidance. 3.3 When NICE recommends a treatment 'as an option', the NHS must make sure it is available within the period set out in the paragraphs above. This means that, if a patient has transthyretin amyloidosis with cardiomyopathy and the healthcare professional responsible for their care thinks that acoramidis is the right treatment, it should be available for use, in line with NICE's recommendations.
