Aortic Dissection
KEYWORDS: aortic, dissection, aortic dissection, aorta, patients, blood, dissections, type, acute, repair, artery, pain, surgery, pressure, regurgitation


Aortic dissection is the surging of blood through a tear in the aortic intima with separation of the intima and media and creation of a false lumen (channel). The intimal tear may be a primary event or secondary to hemorrhage within the media. The dissection may occur anywhere along the aorta and extend proximally or distally into other arteries. Hypertension is an important contributor. Symptoms and signs include abrupt onset of tearing chest or back pain, and dissection may result in aortic regurgitation and compromised circulation in branch arteries. Diagnosis is by imaging tests (eg, transesophageal echocardiography, CT angiography, MRI, contrast aortography). Treatment involves strict blood pressure control and serial imaging to monitor progression of dissection. Surgical repair of the aorta and placement of a synthetic graft are needed for ascending aortic dissection and for certain descending aortic dissections. Endovascular stent grafts are an option for selected patients with descending dissections, especially when dissection involves the descending thoracic aorta. Patients who are Black, male, or older, and patients with hypertension are especially at risk for aortic dissection (1, 2). Peak incidence occurs at age 50 to 65 years in the general population and at age 20 to 40 years for patients with congenital connective tissue disorders (eg, Marfan syndrome, Ehlers-Danlos syndrome). 1/12 Aortic Dissection 3D MODEL Classification of aortic dissection Aortic dissections are classified anatomically. The DeBakey classification system is most widely used (3): Type I (Majority of dissections): These dissections start in the ascending aorta and extend at least to the aortic arch and sometimes beyond. Type II: These dissections start in and are confined to the ascending aorta (proximal to the brachiocephalic or innominate artery). Type III: These dissections start in the descending thoracic aorta just beyond the origin of the left subclavian artery and extend distally or, less commonly, proximally. Type IIIa dissections originate distal to the left subclavian artery and are confined to the thoracic aorta. Type IIIb dissections originate distal to the left subclavian artery and extend below the diaphragm. The Stanford system is simpler: Type A: These dissections involve the ascending aorta. Type B: These dissections are confined to the descending thoracic aorta (distal to the left subclavian artery). 2/12 Thoracic Aortic Dissection (Stanford Type B) IMAGE © 2017 ELLIOT K. FISHMAN, MD. Although dissection may originate anywhere along the aorta, it occurs most commonly at areas of greatest hydraulic stress, which are the
