Aortic Dissection
KEYWORDS: aortic, dissection, aortic dissection, aorta, patients, blood, dissections, type, acute, repair, artery, pain, surgery, pressure, regurgitation


Type B) IMAGE © 2017 ELLIOT K. FISHMAN, MD. Although dissection may originate anywhere along the aorta, it occurs most commonly at areas of greatest hydraulic stress, which are the Right lateral wall of the ascending aorta (within 5 cm of the aortic valve) Proximal segment of the descending aorta (just beyond the origin of the left subclavian artery) Rarely, dissection is confined to individual arteries (eg, coronary or carotid arteries), typically in pregnant or postpartum women. Etiology of Aortic Dissection Aortic dissections often occur in patients with preexisting degeneration of the aortic media. Causes and risk factors include connective tissue disorders, atherosclerotic disease, systemic rheumatic diseases, 3/12 and injury (see table Conditions Contributing to Aortic Dissection). TABLE Conditions Contributing to Aortic Dissection Category Examples Cocaine Dyslipidemia Atherosclerotic risk factors Hypertension Smoking Bicuspid aortic valve Coarctation of the aorta Cystic medial necrosis Ehlers-Danlos syndrome Connective tissue disorders, congenital or hereditary Loeys-Dietz syndrome Marfan syndrome Turner syndrome Familial thoracic aortic aneurysm Aortic catheterization Iatrogenic Aortic valve surgery Behçet disease Systemic rheumatic diseases Giant cell arteritis Takayasu arteritis Trauma Deceleration injuries Atherosclerotic risk factors, notably hypertension, contribute in more than two-thirds of patients. After rupture of the intima, which is a primary event in some patients and secondary to hemorrhage within the media in others, blood flows into the media, creating a false channel that extends distally or, less commonly, proximally along the artery. Pathophysiology of Aortic Dissection The pathophysiologic sequence of aortic dissections involves Aortic wall inflammation 4/12 Apoptosis of vascular smooth muscle cells Degeneration of aortic media Elastin disruption Vessel dissection Dissections may communicate back with the true aortic lumen through intimal rupture at a distal site, maintaining systemic blood flow. Serious consequences of aortic dissection are common and include Compromise of the blood supply of arteries that branch off the aorta (including coronary arteries) Aortic valvular dilation and regurgitation Heart failure Fatal rupture of the aorta through the adventitia into the pericardium, right atrium, or left pleural space Acute dissections and those present < 2 weeks are most likely to cause these complications. Risk decreases at ≥ 2 weeks if evidence indicates thrombosis of the false lumen and loss of communication between the true and false lumina. Variants of dissection are thought to be precursors of classic aortic dissection. Variants of aortic dissection include Separation of the intima and media by intramural hematoma without a clear intimal tear or
