Aortic Dissection
KEYWORDS: aortic, dissection, aortic dissection, aorta, patients, blood, dissections, type, acute, repair, artery, pain, surgery, pressure, regurgitation


dissection are thought to be precursors of classic aortic dissection. Variants of aortic dissection include Separation of the intima and media by intramural hematoma without a clear intimal tear or flap Intimal tear and bulge without a hematoma or false lumen Dissection or hematoma caused by ulceration of atherosclerotic plaque 5/12 Overview of Aortic Dissection Hide Details Aortic Dissection ( by Osmosis ( is licensed under CC-BY-SA 4.0 ( Symptoms and Signs of Aortic Dissection Typically in aortic dissection, excruciating precordial or interscapular pain, often described as tearing or ripping, occurs abruptly (1). The pain frequently migrates from the original location as the dissection extends along the aorta. Up to 20% of patients present with syncope due to severe pain, aortic baroreceptor activation, extracranial cerebral artery obstruction, or cardiac tamponade. Hypotension and tachycardia could indicate active bleeding. Occasionally, patients present with symptoms of malperfusion (ischemia due to the obstruction resulting from dissection), such as stroke, myocardial infarction, intestinal infarction, renal insufficiency, paraparesis, or paraplegia, due to interruption of the blood supply to a particular vascular bed, including the spinal cord, brain, heart, kidneys, intestine, or extremities. The interruption in blood supply is most often due to acute distal arterial obstruction by the false lumen. Approximately 20 to 30% of patients have partial or complete deficits of major arterial pulses, which may wax and wane (1). Limb blood pressures may differ, sometimes by > 30 mm Hg; this finding suggests a poor prognosis. A murmur of aortic regurgitation is often heard in patients with proximal dissection. Peripheral signs of aortic regurgitation may be present. Rarely, heart failure results from severe acute aortic regurgitation. Cardiac tamponade may cause pulsus paradoxus and jugular venous distention. Leakage of blood or inflammatory serous fluid into the left pleural space may lead to signs of pleural effusion. Occlusion of a limb artery may cause signs of peripheral ischemia or neuropathy. 6/12 Renal artery occlusion may cause oliguria or anuria. Pearls & Pitfalls Approximately 20 to 30% of patients with aortic dissection have pulse deficits. Symptoms and signs reference 1. Pape LA, Awais M, Woznicki EM, et al. Presentation, Diagnosis, and Outcomes of Acute Aortic Dissection: 17-Year Trends From the International Registry of Acute Aortic Dissection. J Am Coll Cardiol 2015;66(4):350-358. doi:10.1016/j.jacc.2015.05.029 Diagnosis of Aortic Dissection Transesophageal echocardiography (TEE), CT angiography (CTA), or magnetic resonance angiography (MRA) Aortic dissection must be considered in any patient with chest
