Aortic Dissection
KEYWORDS: aortic, dissection, aortic dissection, aorta, patients, blood, dissections, type, acute, repair, artery, pain, surgery, pressure, regurgitation


creatine kinase-MB and troponin levels may help distinguish aortic dissection from myocardial infarction, except when dissection causes myocardial infarction. Routine laboratory tests may detect slight leukocytosis and anemia if blood has leaked from the aorta. Increased lactate dehydrogenase may be a nonspecific sign of celiac or mesenteric arterial trunk involvement. A cardiothoracic surgeon should be consulted early during the diagnostic evaluation. Diagnosis reference 1. Expert Panel on Cardiac Imaging, Kicska GA, Hurwitz Koweek LM, et al. ACR Appropriateness Criteria® Suspected Acute Aortic Syndrome. J Am Coll Radiol 2021;18(11S):S474-S481. doi:10.1016/j.jacr.2021.09.004 Treatment of Aortic Dissection Beta-blockers and other medications to control blood pressure Usually endovascular repair or open surgical repair Patients who do not immediately die of aortic dissection should be admitted to an intensive care unit with intra-arterial blood pressure monitoring and an indwelling urethral catheter to monitor urine output. Blood should be typed and cross-matched for 4 to 6 units of packed red blood cells when surgery is likely. Patients who are hemodynamically unstable should be intubated. Medical management Medications to decrease arterial pressure, arterial shear stress, ventricular contractility, and pain are started immediately to maintain systolic blood pressure at ≤ 120 mm Hg (or the lowest level compatible 9/12 with adequate cerebral, coronary, and renal perfusion) and to maintain a target heart rate of 60 to 80 beats per minute. A beta-blocker is usually the first-line medication for heart rate and blood pressure control. Options include Metoprolol tartrate IV Esmolol IV Labetalol (an alpha- and beta-adrenergic blocker) IV Alternatively, nondihydropyridine calcium channel blockers (eg, verapamil, diltiazem) can be used to control blood pressure and heart rate in patients who do not tolerate beta-blockers. If systolic blood pressure remains > 110 mm Hg despite use of beta-blockers or nondihydropyridine calcium channel blockers, nitroprusside can be given in a constant IV infusion, titrated as necessary to control blood pressure. Nitroprusside should not be given without a beta-blocker or nondihydropyridine calcium channel blocker because reflex sympathetic activation in response to vasodilation can increase ventricular inotropy and aortic shear stress, worsening the dissection. Pearls & Pitfalls To manage blood pressure in aortic dissection, do not use a vasodilator (eg, nitroprusside) without a beta-blocker or nondihydropyridine calcium channel blocker because the vasodilator causes reflex sympathetic activation, which increases aortic shear stress. Surgical repair For a dissection of the descending aorta, a trial of medical therapy alone is appropriate for an uncomplicated, stable dissection confined
