Aortic Dissection
KEYWORDS: aortic, dissection, aortic dissection, aorta, patients, blood, dissections, type, acute, repair, artery, pain, surgery, pressure, regurgitation


sympathetic activation, which increases aortic shear stress. Surgical repair For a dissection of the descending aorta, a trial of medical therapy alone is appropriate for an uncomplicated, stable dissection confined to the descending aorta (type B). Endovascular repair is warranted in patients with complications (malperfusion, meaning ischemia due to obstruction secondary to the dissection; persistent hypertension and pain; rapidly enlarging aortic diameter; extension of the dissection; and rupture). Surgery is also best for acute distal dissections in patients with Marfan syndrome. For ascending aorta dissections, surgery is virtually always indicated due to the risk of life-threatening complications. Surgery usually involves open repair and replacement, although endovascular therapy can be used in certain circumstances when patients are not candidates for open repair. The extent of repair depends upon the reason for repair and the anatomic nature of the dissection. The goal of surgery is to obliterate entry into the false channel and reconstitute the aorta with a synthetic graft. If present, severe aortic regurgitation must be treated by resuspending the aortic leaflets or replacing the valve. Surgical outcomes are best with early, aggressive intervention. Mortality rates are approximately 20% (1). Predictors of poor outcome include Hypotension 10/12 Renal failure Age > 70 years Abrupt onset of chest pain Pulse deficit ST-segment elevation on ECG Stent grafts that seal entry to the false lumen and improve patency of the true lumen, balloon fenestration (in which an opening is made in the dissection flap that separates the true and false lumina), or both may be less invasive alternatives for patients with type B dissection if peripheral ischemic complications develop. Some endovascular devices (Gore Ascending Stent Graft) are available for compassionate use in patients with type A dissections who have contraindications to open surgical repair. Complications of surgery include death, stroke (due to emboli), paraplegia (due to spinal cord ischemia), acute renal failure (especially if dissection includes renal arteries) and endoleak (leakage of blood back into the aneurysmal sac). The most important late sequellae include redissection, formation of localized aneurysms in the weakened aorta, and progressive aortic regurgitation. These complications may require surgical or endovascular repair. Long-term management All patients, including those treated by surgery or endovascular methods, are given long-term antihypertensive therapy, usually including beta-blockers, nondihydropyridine calcium channel blockers, and angiotensin-converting enzyme (ACE) inhibitors. Almost any combination of antihypertensives is acceptable; exceptions are those that act mainly by vasodilation (eg, hydralazine, minoxidil) and
