Bookshelf_NBK604176
KEYWORDS: syndrome, individuals, pathogenic, genetic, variant, developmental, disorder, reported, mitter, testing, pathogenic variant, risk, disability, variants, feeding


novo FOXG1 pathogenic variant. There is, however, a recurrence risk to sibs based on the possibility of parental germline mosaicism. Given this risk, prenatal and preimplantation genetic testing may be considered. GeneReview Scope FOXG1 Syndrome: GeneReview Scope Genetic Alteration Comment Intragenic FOXG1 pathogenic variants & deletions Topic of this GeneReview Whole-gene FOXG1 duplications Not addressed in this GeneReview (See Genetically Related Disorders.) Contiguous gene duplications/deletions involving FOXG1 Diagnosis Suggestive Findings FOXG1 syndrome should be considered in probands with the following clinical and brain MRI findings. Clinical findings • Severe developmental delay; absent speech development in most individuals • Severe intellectual disability • Generalized hypotonia of infancy • Infant feeding difficulties and poor weight gain • Hyperkinetic/dyskinetic movement disorder • Epilepsy with a wide range of seizure types including infantile spasms, focal, complex focal, generalized tonic, atonic, myoclonic, and Lennox-Gastaut syndrome • Spasticity • Neurobehavioral/psychiatric manifestations including motor stereotypies, impairment of social interaction, abnormal sleep patterns, unexplained episodes of crying, restlessness, and bruxism • Gastroesophageal reflux and recurrent aspiration • Microcephaly (congenital or postnatal onset) • Short stature in about 50% of individuals • Strabismus and cortical visual impairment Brain MRI findings • Corpus callosum anomalies with filiform thinning of the rostrum • Thickening of the fornices • Simplified gyral pattern • Enlargement of the inner cerebrospinal fluid spaces • Hypoplasia of the basal ganglia FOXG1 Syndrome 3 • Hypoplasia of the frontal lobes Establishing the Diagnosis The diagnosis of FOXG1 syndrome is established in a proband with suggestive clinical and/or neuroimaging findings and a heterozygous pathogenic (or likely pathogenic) variant in FOXG1 identified by molecular genetic testing (see Table 1). Note: (1) Per American College of Medical Genetics and Genomics / Association for Molecular Pathology variant interpretation guidelines, the terms "pathogenic variant" and "likely pathogenic variant" are synonymous [Richards et al 2015]. Reference to "pathogenic variants" in this GeneReview is understood to include likely pathogenic variants. (2) Identification of a heterozygous FOXG1 variant of uncertain significance does not establish or rule out the diagnosis. Molecular genetic testing in a child with developmental delay or an older individual with intellectual disability may begin with exome sequencing (see Option 1) or a multigene panel (see Option 2). Note: Single-gene testing (sequence analysis of FOXG1, followed by gene-targeted deletion/duplication analysis) is rarely useful and typically NOT recommended. Option 1 Comprehensive genomic testing does not require the clinician to determine which gene(s) are likely
