Bookshelf_NBK604176
KEYWORDS: syndrome, individuals, pathogenic, genetic, variant, developmental, disorder, reported, mitter, testing, pathogenic variant, risk, disability, variants, feeding


of FOXG1, followed by gene-targeted deletion/duplication analysis) is rarely useful and typically NOT recommended. Option 1 Comprehensive genomic testing does not require the clinician to determine which gene(s) are likely involved. Exome sequencing is most commonly used and yields results similar to an intellectual disability multigene panel, with the additional advantage that exome sequencing includes genes recently identified as causing intellectual disability, whereas some multigene panels may not. To date, the majority of FOXG1 pathogenic variants reported (e.g., missense, nonsense) are within the coding region and are likely to be identified on exome sequencing. Genome sequencing is also possible. ordering genomic testing can be found here. Option 2 An intellectual disability multigene panel that includes FOXG1 and other genes of interest (see Differentia l Diagnosis) may be considered to identify the genetic cause of the condition while limiting identification of pathogenic variants and variants of uncertain significance in genes that do not explain the underlying phenotype. Note: (1) The genes included in the panel and the diagnostic sensitivity of the testing used for each gene vary by laboratory and are likely to change over time. (2) Some multigene panels may include genes not associated with the condition discussed in this GeneReview. Of note, given the rarity of FOXG1 syndrome, some panels for intellectual disability may not include this gene. (3) In some laboratories, panel options may include a custom laboratory-designed panel and/or custom phenotype-focused exome analysis that includes genes specified by the clinician. (4) Methods used in a panel may include sequence analysis, deletion/duplication analysis, and/or other non-sequencing-based tests. tests can be found here. 4 GeneReviews ® Table 1. Molecular Genetic Testing Used in FOXG1 Syndrome Proportion of Pathogenic Variants 2 Gene 1 Method Identified by Method Sequence analysis 3 >95% 4 FOXG1 Gene-targeted deletion/duplication <5% 4, 6, 7 analysis 5 1. See Table A. Genes and Databases for chromosome locus and protein. 2. See Molecular Genetics for information on variants detected in this gene. 3. Sequence analysis detects variants that are benign, likely benign, of uncertain significance, likely pathogenic, or pathogenic. Variants may include missense, nonsense, and splice site variants and small intragenic deletions/insertions; typically, exon or whole-gene 4. Data derived from the subscription-based professional view of Human Gene Mutation Database [Stenson et al 2020] 5. Gene-targeted deletion/duplication analysis detects intragenic deletions or duplications. Methods used may include a range of techniques such as quantitative PCR, long-range PCR, multiplex
