Bookshelf_NBK604176
KEYWORDS: syndrome, individuals, pathogenic, genetic, variant, developmental, disorder, reported, mitter, testing, pathogenic variant, risk, disability, variants, feeding


no specific dysmorphic features have been observed. If present, dysmorphic features are nonspecific. Neuroimaging. Corpus callosum anomalies and simplified gyral pattern are characteristic of FOXG1 syndrome [Kortüm et al 2011, Vegas et al 2018], especially a marked, filiform thinning of the rostrum of the corpus callosum. The combination of corpus callosum anomaly with simplified gyral pattern and hyperplasia of the fornices was observed in about 50% of individuals and is highly characteristic of, possibly pathognomonic for, FOXG1 syndrome [Pringsheim et al 2019]. Neuroimaging also showed enlargement of inner cerebrospinal fl uid spaces, hypoplasia of basal ganglia, and hypoplasia of the frontal lobes [Kortüm et al 2011, Pringsheim et al 2019]. While these MRI findings are characteristic, they may be unrecognized, especially thickening of the fornices. This feature was first described in 2019 [Pringsheim et al 2019]. More severe neuroimaging anomalies normal [Pringsheim et al 2019]. Prognosis. Data on the long-term course of individuals with FOXG1 syndrome is scarce. However, FOXG1 syndrome appears to be a stable encephalopathy; loss of motor or language skills is rare and there is no evidence for a progressive, neurodegenerative course. It is unknown whether life span in individuals with FOXG1 FOXG1 Syndrome 7 syndrome is abnormal. One reported individual is alive at age 32 years [Mitter et al 2018], demonstrating that survival into adulthood is possible. Since many adults with disabilities have not undergone advanced genetic testing, it is likely that adults with this condition are underrecognized and underreported. Genotype-Phenotype Correlations Several reports have indicated a genotype-phenotype association. Individuals with truncating pathogenic variants or intragenic deletions show more severe clinical phenotypes than those with missense pathogenic variants [Kortüm et al 2011, Mitter et al 2018, Brimble et al 2023]. Th e most severe clinical phenotypes were observed in individuals with a frameshift or nonsense pathogenic variant in the N-terminal domain and the forkhead domain, except conserved site 1. In contrast, milder phenotypes were associated with missense pathogenic variants in the forkhead conserved site 1 [Mitter et al 2018]. Simplified gyral pattern occurred significantly more frequently in individuals with pathogenic frameshift and nonsense variants in the N-terminal domain [Pringsheim et al 2019]. For most of the neuroimaging anomalies, no genotype-phenotype correlations were discernible [Pringsheim et al 2019]. Of note, three unrelated individuals who developed Lennox-Gastaut syndrome all had a missense pathogenic variant affecting amino acid 187 [Mitter et al 2018]. Penetrance To date, no individuals (e.g.,
