Bookshelf_NBK604176
KEYWORDS: syndrome, individuals, pathogenic, genetic, variant, developmental, disorder, reported, mitter, testing, pathogenic variant, risk, disability, variants, feeding


2019]. Of note, three unrelated individuals who developed Lennox-Gastaut syndrome all had a missense pathogenic variant affecting amino acid 187 [Mitter et al 2018]. Penetrance To date, no individuals (e.g., parent) with a pathogenic variant have been reported to be non-penetrant. Thu s, penetrance is expected to be complete. Nomenclature FOXG1 syndrome was designated "congenital variant of Rett syndrome" in early descriptions. Kortüm et al observed that this designation was misleading because "while many features do overlap with Rett syndrome, several features beyond the congenital onset differ as well." Features of FOXG1 syndrome that distinguish the disorder from Rett syndrome include distinctive neuroimaging abnormalities, the presence of a hyperkinetic/dyskinetic movement disorder, and the lack of regression. Prevalence To date, no data on the prevalence of FOXG1 syndrome is available. The two largest cohorts described included 83 and 122 individuals [Mitter et al 2018, Brimble et al 2023], but it is likely that individuals included in Mitter et al participated in the patient registry and were reported in Brimble et al . According to the International FOXG1 Foundation, a US-based parental support group, approximately 1,000 people have been diagnosed worldwide. Genetically Related (Allelic) Disorders FOXG1 whole-gene duplication. The clinical characteristics of FOXG1 duplication overlap with those associated with FOXG1 deletions / intragenic pathogenic variants, but there are also clear differences. In general, individuals with FOXG1 duplications have milder developmental delay than those with FOXG1 deletions / intragenic pathogenic variants. Onset of seizures is usually earlier; many individuals have infantile spasms that respond well to hormonal treatment. Head circumference and neuroimaging in individuals with FOXG1 duplication is usually normal [Brunetti-Pierri et al 2011, Seltzer et al 2014, Wong et al 2019]. A study comparing key characteristics of epilepsy and development after age three years in individuals with FOXG1-related disorders found that individuals with deletions / intragenic pathogenic variants showed older mean age of epilepsy diagnosis, higher current number of anti-seizure medication, worse ambulation, and worse functional 8 GeneReviews ® hand use compared to those with FOXG1 duplications [Seltzer et al 2014]. Verbal language and social skills were impaired equally in both groups. Contiguous gene duplications. Several individuals with FOXG1 duplications have larger contiguous duplications of 14q12. Some of these individuals have dysmorphic facial features. Contiguous gene deletions. Deletions encompassing FOXG1 and adjacent genes (e.g., PRKD1 and NOVA1) have been reported in individuals with facial dysmorphisms (including prominent metopic suture, epicanthal folds, bulbous
