Bookshelf_NBK604176
KEYWORDS: syndrome, individuals, pathogenic, genetic, variant, developmental, disorder, reported, mitter, testing, pathogenic variant, risk, disability, variants, feeding


Surveillance To monitor existing manifestations, the individual's response to supportive care, and the emergence of new manifestations, the evaluations summarized in Table 6 are recommended. Table 6. FOXG1 Syndrome: Recommended Surveillance System/Concern Evaluation Frequency Development Monitor developmental progress & educational needs. • Monitor those w/seizures as clinically indicated. Neurologic • Assess for new manifestations such as seizures, changes in tone, & movement disorders. Neurobehavioral Assess for irritability &/or sleep issues. At each visit • Measurement of growth parameters Feeding/ • Eval of nutritional status & safety of oral intake Gastrointestinal • Assessment for gastroesophageal reflux Respiratory Monitor for evidence of aspiration, respiratory insufficiency. Musculoskeletal Physical medicine, OT/PT assessment of mobility, self-help skills FOXG1 Syndrome 13 Table 6. continued from previous page. System/Concern Evaluation Frequency Monitor for strabismus. Per treating ophthalmologist(s) Ophthalmologic involvement Assess need for low vision services. Gastrointestinal Monitor for constipation. 1 Assess family need for social work support (e.g., palliative/respite At each visit care, home nursing, other local resources), care coordination, or Family/Community follow-up genetic counseling if new questions arise (e.g., family planning). OT = occupational therapy; PT = physical therapy 1. Incidence of constipation has not been reported in individuals with FOXG1 syndrome; however, constipation is a common issue in most neurodevelopmental disorders. Evaluation of Relatives at Risk See Genetic Counseling for issues related to testing of at-risk relatives for genetic counseling purposes. Therapies Under Investigation Search ClinicalTrials.gov in the US and EU Clinical Trials Register in Europe for access to information on clinical studies for a wide range of diseases and conditions. Note: There may not be clinical trials for this disorder. Genetic Counseling Genetic counseling is the process of providing individuals and families with information on the nature, mode(s) of inheritance, and implications of genetic disorders to help them make informed medical and personal decisions. Th e following section deals with genetic risk assessment and the use of family history and genetic testing to clarify genetic status for family members; it is not meant to address all personal, cultural, or ethical issues that may arise or to substitute for consultation with a genetics professional. —ED. Mode of Inheritance FOXG1 syndrome is an autosomal dominant disorder typically caused by a de novo pathogenic variant. Risk to Family Members Parents of a proband • Most probands reported to date with FOXG1 syndrome whose parents have undergone molecular genetic testing have the disorder as a result of a
