Bookshelf_NBK604176
KEYWORDS: syndrome, individuals, pathogenic, genetic, variant, developmental, disorder, reported, mitter, testing, pathogenic variant, risk, disability, variants, feeding


Family Members Parents of a proband • Most probands reported to date with FOXG1 syndrome whose parents have undergone molecular genetic testing have the disorder as a result of a de novo FOXG1 pathogenic variant. • Rarely, a proband with FOXG1 syndrome has the disorder as the result of a FOXG1 pathogenic variant inherited from an unaffected, mosaic parent [Diebold et al 2014, Papandreou et al 2016]. • Molecular genetic testing is recommended for the parents of the proband to evaluate their genetic status and inform recurrence risk assessment. • If the pathogenic variant identified in the proband is not identified in either parent and parental identity testing has confirmed biological maternity and paternity, the following possibilities should be considered: ⚬ The proband has a de novo pathogenic variant. ⚬ The proband inherited a pathogenic variant from a parent with germline (or somatic and germline) mosaicism. Note: Testing of parental leukocyte DNA may not detect all instances of somatic mosaicism and will not detect a pathogenic variant that is present in the germ (gonadal) cells only. 14 GeneReviews ® Sibs of a proband. The risk to the sibs of the proband depends on the genetic status of the proband's parents: • If a parent of the proband is known to have the FOXG1 pathogenic variant identified in the proband, the risk to the sibs of inheriting the variant is 50%. • If the FOXG1 pathogenic variant identified in the proband cannot be detected in the leukocyte DNA of either parent, the recurrence risk to sibs is slightly greater than that of the general population because of the possibility of parental germline mosaicism [Diebold et al 2014, Papandreou et al 2016]. Seltzer et al described sib recurrence due to presumed parental mosaicism in two families. Offspring of a proband • Individuals with FOXG1 syndrome are not known to reproduce; however, many are not yet of reproductive age. • Each child of an individual with FOXG1 syndrome has a 50% chance of inheriting the FOXG1 pathogenic variant. Other family members. Given that most probands with FOXG1 syndrome reported to date have the disorder as a result of a de novo FOXG1 pathogenic variant, the risk to other family members is presumed to be low. Related Genetic Counseling Issues Family planning • The optimal time for determination of genetic risk and discussion of the availability of prenatal/ preimplantation genetic testing is before pregnancy.
