Bookshelf_NBK604176
KEYWORDS: syndrome, individuals, pathogenic, genetic, variant, developmental, disorder, reported, mitter, testing, pathogenic variant, risk, disability, variants, feeding


be low. Related Genetic Counseling Issues Family planning • The optimal time for determination of genetic risk and discussion of the availability of prenatal/ preimplantation genetic testing is before pregnancy. • It is appropriate to offer genetic counseling (including discussion of potential risks to offspring and reproductive options) to parents of affected individuals. Prenatal Testing and Preimplantation Genetic Testing Risk to future pregnancies is presumed to be low, as the proband most likely has a de novo FOXG1 pathogenic variant. There is, however, a recurrence risk to sibs based on the possibility of parental germline mosaicism. Given this risk, prenatal and preimplantation genetic testing may be considered. Differences in perspective may exist among medical professionals and within families regarding the use of prenatal and preimplantation genetic testing. While most health care professionals would consider use of prenatal and preimplantation genetic testing to be a personal decision, discussion of these issues may be helpful. Resources GeneReviews staff has selected the following disease-specific and/or umbrella support organizations and/or registries for the benefit of individuals with this disorder and their families. GeneReviews is not responsible for the • FOXG1 Research Foundation foxg1research.org • International FOXG1 Foundation Email: foxg1.org • Global FOXG1 Patient Registry FOXG1 Syndrome 15 The FOXG1 syndrome patient registry is an online international platform available in English, French, German, Spanish, and Mandarin. FOXG1 Patient Data Center Molecular Genetics Information in the Molecular Genetics and OMIM tables may differ from that elsewhere in the GeneReview: tables may contain more recent information. —ED. Table A. FOXG1 Syndrome: Genes and Databases Gene Chromosome Locus Protein Locus-Spec ific HGMD ClinVar Databases FOXG1 14q12 Forkhead box protein RettBASE FOXG1 FOXG1 G1 Data are compiled from the following standard references: gene from HGNC; chromosome locus from OMIM; protein from UniProt. Table B. OMIM Entries for FOXG1 Syndrome (View All in OMIM) 164874 FORKHEAD BOX G1; FOXG1 613454 RETT SYNDROME, CONGENITAL VARIANT Molecular Pathogenesis FOXG1 is composed of one coding exon and belongs to the forkhead family of genes. FOXG1 encodes forkhead box protein G1 (FOXG1), a transcription repressor expressed in fetal and adult brain. It is essential for the development of the forebrain (telencephalon) and for structures deriving from the telencephalon, including the cerebral cortex, hippocampus, and basal ganglia in mice. FOXG1 affects the early phase of cortical development by regulating progenitor cell proliferation and differentiation in the neocortex and is considered a key promoter of neocortical
