Bookshelf_NBK604176
KEYWORDS: syndrome, individuals, pathogenic, genetic, variant, developmental, disorder, reported, mitter, testing, pathogenic variant, risk, disability, variants, feeding


basal ganglia in mice. FOXG1 affects the early phase of cortical development by regulating progenitor cell proliferation and differentiation in the neocortex and is considered a key promoter of neocortical lamination. FOXG1 has a critical role in the formation of the postnatal and adult hippocampal dentate gyrus and in interneuron development. These functional characteristics of FOXG1 do not explain the hyperkinetic/dyskinetic movement disorder, and dysplasia of predominantly the frontal part of the corpus callosum [Mitter et al 2018, Wong et al 2019]. Mechanism of disease causation. Intragenic deletions and truncating variants result in loss of function of the protein. This likely holds true to a lesser extent for pathogenic missense variants. Note: The pathomechanism of FOXG1 duplication (see Genetically Related Disorders) is not understood. In vitro and animal studies have shown that overexpression of FOXG1 leads to dendrite elongation, whereas knockdown or knockout of FOXG1 leads to reduced axon and dendrite length, as well as dendrite branching and spine densities [Wong et al 2019]. FOXG1-specific laboratory technical considerations. See ClinGen Rett and Angelman-like Disorders Expert Panel Specifications to the ACMG/AMP Variant Interpretation Guidelines for FOXG1 Version 5.0.0. Chapter Notes Acknowledgments KB and MS thank all our colleagues who worked with us in our FOXG1 syndrome projects. These studies would not have been possible without the invaluable cooperation of the patients and their families. 16 GeneReviews ® This work was supported by funding from the Niedersächsisches Ministerium für Wissenschaft und Kultur, grant no. 74ZN1284 (to KB). Revision History • 1 May 2025 (aa) Revision: ClinGen variant interpretation guidelines • 6 June 2024 (sw) Review posted live • 13 November 2023 (kb) Original submission
