open access to scientific and medical research
KEYWORDS: respiratory, microbiome, infections, viral, microbiota, tract, studies, respiratory microbiome, respiratory tract, infection, children, research, bacterial, early, tcpdf


Open Access Full Text Article REVIEW Oral Cavity Microbiome Impact on Respiratory Infections Among Children Alexandra Mihaela Crestez1,2, Aurel Nechita1,2, Miruna Patricia Daineanu1,2, Camelia Busila1,2, Alin Laurentiu Tatu 2–4,*, Marius Anton Ionescu5, Jose Dario Martinez6,*, Mihaela Debita 7,8 *These authors contributed equally to this work Correspondence: Camelia Busila; Miruna Patricia Daineanu, Email ; Background: The respiratory system, traditionally considered antiseptic, harbors a diverse and dynamic bacterial microbiome. Recent advancements in microbiome research have revealed its significant influence on both innate and adaptive immunity, particularly in the context of respiratory infections in children. This article also provides an overview of the types of bacteria that commonly affect the respiratory system, including Streptococcus pneumoniae, Moraxella catarrhalis and Haemophilus influenzae. These bacteria are prevalent in pediatric populations and significantly contribute to the development and severity of respiratory tract infections (RTIs). Purpose: This review aims to evaluate the impact of the oral cavity and upper respiratory microbiome on the susceptibility and severity of respiratory infections in pediatric populations. We specifically focus on how early colonization patterns of bacteria such as Moraxella and Streptococcus contribute to the development of respiratory tract infections in children from birth through adolescence. research exploring the role of the upper respiratory microbiome in pediatric populations, with a specific focus on children aged birth to 18 years. Emphasis was placed on microbial characterization, the modulation of immune responses in respiratory tract infections, and the potential therapeutic applications of microbiome-targeted interventions. Results: The findings suggest that the composition and disruption of the upper respiratory microbiome significantly influence clinical outcomes in children with respiratory infections. Notably, dysbiosis in the microbiome has been linked to increased susceptibility to Conclusion: Understanding the impact of oral cavity and upper respiratory microbiome could lead to improved management and prevention strategies for respiratory infections in children. This review underscores the potential of microbiome modulation, including the use of probiotics as a therapeutic approach to enhance clinical outcomes in pediatric respiratory infections. Keywords: microbiome, children, immunity, respiratory infections Introduction The collection of microorganisms found in a particular habitat, or “ecological niche”, is known as the microbiota; this term is similar to the earlier concept of bacterial flora. The entire ecological niche under consideration is represented by the microbiome in its broadest sense. This comprises both environment-influencing elements (cellular proteases, immune cells, etc). and inhabitant microorganisms (bacteria, viruses, parasites, and fungi). Traditional techniques for identifying microbiota relied heavily on time-consuming
