open access to scientific and medical research
KEYWORDS: respiratory, microbiome, infections, viral, microbiota, tract, studies, respiratory microbiome, respiratory tract, infection, children, research, bacterial, early, tcpdf


its broadest sense. This comprises both environment-influencing elements (cellular proteases, immune cells, etc). and inhabitant microorganisms (bacteria, viruses, parasites, and fungi). Traditional techniques for identifying microbiota relied heavily on time-consuming and insensitive cultivation methods. The last ten years have seen the amplification and sequencing of DNA encoding bacterial 16S RNA, which has enabled researchers to study the Received: 6 June 2024 © 2024 Crestez et al. This work is published and licensed by Dove Medical Press Limited. The full terms of this license are available at Published: 9 October 2024 work you hereby accept the Terms. Non-commercial uses of the work are permitted without any further permission from Dove Medical Press Limited, provided the work is properly attributed. For permission for commercial use of this work, please see paragraphs 4.2 and 5 of our Terms ( Crestez et al Dovepress microbiota of skin bacteria, tracts, or organs in both quantitative and qualitative ways.1 This has also allowed researchers to define the microbiome because of the increased sensitivity of detection compared to culture methods.2 With the emergence of high-speed sequencing technologies throughput, or the so-called “new generation” sequencing (Next Generation Sequencing [NGS]), capable of producing a considerable amount of data per sample, an enormous number of studies from the Human Microbiome Project (HMP) have led to significant advancements in describing the different human microbiome. However, many questions about these microbiome still remain unanswered, especially with respect to their potential wealth.3 Some authors consider that there are up to 104 bacteria on the surface or in our body, ten times more than the number of our own cells. These data nevertheless remain controversial, going so far as to decrease by a factor of 10, according to the most recent studies.5 Like all the microbiota described in humans, the composition is better defined, and its physiological role. In particular, it is assumed that it participates in host’s defense.5 The microbiome of airways, whether upper or lower, could act as a true biological barrier, contributing to maintaining normal respiratory functions and protecting the individual from colonization or invasion by external pathogens.6 We will present and discuss our view on the respiratory microbiome in relation to viral respiratory infections in this paper. Because there is limited research on the respiratory mycobiome and virome (fungal and viral microbiome, respectively), we will concentrate on the data related to the bacterial microbiome. Materials and Methods We conducted a
