open access to scientific and medical research
KEYWORDS: respiratory, microbiome, infections, viral, microbiota, tract, studies, respiratory microbiome, respiratory tract, infection, children, research, bacterial, early, tcpdf


Powered by TCPDF (www.tcpdf.org) Dovepress Crestez et al incorporated both quantitative synthesis (where applicable) and qualitative narrative synthesis to describe patterns, correlations, and potential mechanisms. In selecting key species reported in the articles, we considered the frequency and consistency of these species’ occurrence across the various studies reviewed. Although complex statistical methods, such as correlation coefficients or network analyses, were not applied, we based the selection of key species on a consensus among the included studies, emphasizing those species repeatedly mentioned as significantly impacting respiratory health in children. This approach was supplemented by a qualitative analysis to assess the relevance of these species concerning our study’s objectives, ensuring they are representative of the pediatric population analyzed and the respiratory pathologies discussed. Limitations We acknowledged the limitations of the review process, including potential biases in study selection, variations in study designs, and differences in microbial analysis techniques. Characteristics of the Respiratory Microbiome in Healthy People The analysis of a large-scale studies has provided important information about the structure and composition of the microbiome in healthy subjects across different ecological niches (Figure 1).7 These studies, which also focus on the respiratory microbiome, have made it possible to distinguish two types of microbiome: “central” and “satellite”. The central respiratory microbiome (known as “core” microbiome) is composed of bacterial species that are consistently present in more than 95% of the sampled sites and are shared among healthy individuals.8 Figure 1 Key Microbial Community Members in Health and during RTI for Each Respiratory Niche. Notes: Reproduced from de Steenhuijsen Piters WAA, Binkowska J, Bogaert D. Early Life Microbiota and Respiratory Tract Infections. Cell Host Microbe. 2020;28(2):223–232, with permission from Elsevier.9. DovePress Powered by TCPDF (www.tcpdf.org) Crestez et al Dovepress This microbiome comprises microbial genes and metabolic pathways that enable stable physiology. It should be noted that the central microbiome differs constitutively according to factors such as age, sex, social and/or ethnic origin of the individuals, but it remains influenced by environmental and/or extrinsic factors such as long-treatment courses or diet.10 The mode of childbirth is a fundamental factor influencing the variation (both quantitative and qualitative) of this respiratory microbiome at birth . Infants born via caesarean section have respiratory microbiome profiles dominated by Staphylococcus aureus for a longer time, unlike children born vaginally, whose central respiratory microbiome evolves more quickly towards a more complex profile, including genera such as Moraxella, Corynebacterium or Dolosigranulum. This mature
