open access to scientific and medical research
KEYWORDS: respiratory, microbiome, infections, viral, microbiota, tract, studies, respiratory microbiome, respiratory tract, infection, children, research, bacterial, early, tcpdf


for a longer time, unlike children born vaginally, whose central respiratory microbiome evolves more quickly towards a more complex profile, including genera such as Moraxella, Corynebacterium or Dolosigranulum. This mature profile offers better protection against respiratory infections. It is also reinforced by breastfeeding. Additionally, the nasopharyngeal microbiome of preterm infants appears to be more heterogeneous than that of full-term infants.11 Although the composition of the microbiome varies considerably during the first year of life, the profiles of central bacteria gradually converge, very early, towards a mature profile by the age of two months, and remain stable thereafter. In contrast to the central microbiome, the peripheral microbiome, called “satellite” microbiome, corresponds to the remaining 5% and is subject to rapid and reversible variations during various physio-pathological alterations.12 Early Respiratory Microbiota Composition, Growth and RTIs in Children Numerous longitudinal (birth) studies have shown a correlation between early respiratory microbiota and susceptibility to the timing of microbiota colonization events may be partially responsible for the increased vulnerability to RTIs. One such event is the increasing loss of passive immunity caused by declining IgG levels.14 It is important to remember that these are not exclusive occurrences, and it is possible for declining maternal immunity to combine with infant-specific immunological and microbiota-mediated effects. The timing of colonization episodes appears to be crucial for the link between RTI susceptibility and microbiota development. The early presence of Moraxella spp. has been shown to trigger an inflammatory immune response of the respiratory mucosa and secondary wheezing. Accordingly, a greater chance of early lower respiratory tract infections (LRTIs) was linked to early Streptococcus enrichment (~9 weeks).13 It should be highlighted that, in addition to the date of colonization, these associations are made at the species or strain level, as evidenced by the variations in respiratory tract infection risk for those colonized in early childhood by Moraxella lincolnii or catarrhalis.7 Studies have shown that carrying certain infections, including S. pneumoniae, is a risk factor for RTIs, even beyond the role of commensals that may have immunomodulatory effects.15 In the past, H. influenzae and S. pneumoniae were closely linked to serious diseases such as bacterial pneumonia. Though these pathogens have a well- established and crucial function during overt bacterial RTIs, new research indicates that they may also be responsible for a broader variety of illness phenotypes, including intercurrent wheezing and bronchiolitis, which are typically thought to have a viral origin.4 Figure
