open access to scientific and medical research
KEYWORDS: respiratory, microbiome, infections, viral, microbiota, tract, studies, respiratory microbiome, respiratory tract, infection, children, research, bacterial, early, tcpdf


research indicates that they may also be responsible for a broader variety of illness phenotypes, including intercurrent wheezing and bronchiolitis, which are typically thought to have a viral origin.4 Figure 1 illustrates how the anatomical niche affects the bacterial community’s makeup in the respiratory system. While a number of recent studies have demonstrated that a fetus is exposed to its mother’s microbiome throughout pregnancy, there is a chance that viable Micrococcus spp. is only sparsely dispersed in the fetal gut. Most of the newborn’s microbiome is acquired at birth; these bacteria are mostly derived from the mother. Crucially, throughout the perinatal and neonatal stages, host and environmental variables have a major influence on these microbial maturation patterns. The upper respiratory tract (URT) microbiota in children varies greatly depending on the delivery method; in infants delivered vaginally, Corynebacterium/Dolosigranulum spp. are typically abundant early and for a prolonged period of time, whereas in infants delivered by cesarean section, S. aureus persists, and anaerobes such as Prevotella, Veillonella, and Porphyromonas spp. emerge. Feeding technique also influences the microbiome, showing similarities between vaginal birth and communities supported by breastfeeding. There can be similarities between the makeup of the microbiota after vaginal delivery and nursing.16,17 Being exposed to congested situations, like attending daycare and having younger siblings, is another important factor that influences the microbiota’s composition and growth in the URT.18 These components, which are also established risk factors for the development of RTIs, might be explained by the related microbiological variables. Some observations have been made, including an early enrichment of Moraxella and 314 P e d i a t r i c H e a l t h , M e d i c i n e a n d T herapeutics 2024:15 DovePress Powered by TCPDF (www.tcpdf.org) Dovepress Crestez et al an increase in the number of Haemophilus species.12 Isolating many variables that affect the microbiota’s composition is difficult because of their intimate relationships. For example, women who have had C-sections are more likely to experience early cessation of nursing.17 Furthermore, the composition of the bacteria in breast milk appears to be strongly impacted by the manner of birth, making it difficult to emphasise the research on their separate effects.19 The components of the lower respiratory tract (LRT) microbiota have not received much attention in research, which is very difficult considering the low bacterial density and restricted accessibility of this niche, particularly
