open access to scientific and medical research
KEYWORDS: respiratory, microbiome, infections, viral, microbiota, tract, studies, respiratory microbiome, respiratory tract, infection, children, research, bacterial, early, tcpdf


genes, which enhances their motility (chemotaxis, flagella), as well as their ability to regulate transcription or metabolism, in comparison to bacteria found in the microbiome of “healthy” patients. The hypothesis that there is a process of metabolically based selection of bacteria that may adapt to a changing environment within an open microbiome is supported by these comparative metatranscriptomics data. These bacterial species would be able to travel into the lower airways and create immunomodulatory compounds that would restrict the host’s reaction to viral infection, especially by altering the mucociliary clearance. Therefore, these bacteria may have a significant effect on the therapeutic state, whether positive or negative, of hosts that are infected.25 A less explored role could be related to the existence of endosymbiotic bacteria at the level of the face or oral cavity, in connection with the presence of Demodex folliculorum and dental changes.26–29 A specific immunological tolerance fostered by a microbiome might prevent tissue damage from the heightened inflammatory response in the event of a recognised respiratory disease exacerbated by a viral infection. In a study, the authors were able to show the significance of a healthy respiratory microbiome on an organism’s ability to withstand the influenza virus using a mouse model. They achieved this by using mice that were known to be more sensitive to influenza infections than wild mice of the same genotype bred in a non-sterile natural setting (ie, greater weight loss, poorer survival rate, etc). These mice were called SPF (Specific Pathogen Free) mice. The colonization of commensal bacteria in the upper respiratory tract of the SPF mouse model allowed for a significant reduction in lung changes associated with infections. DovePress Powered by TCPDF (www.tcpdf.org) Crestez et al Dovepress Figure 2 Impact of the Respiratory Microbiota before, during, and after RTIs (A). Prior to the first RTI episodes at the age of 4 months, the respiratory microbiota already shows distinct microbial maturation patterns related to consecutive RTI susceptibility (B). Notes: Reproduced from de Steenhuijsen Piters WAA, Binkowska J, Bogaert D. Early Life Microbiota and Respiratory Tract Infections. Cell Host Microbe. 2020;28(2):223–232, with permission from Elsevier.9. By altering the monocyte response phenotype and generating an activation phenotype of less destructive macro- phages, this colonization decreased the lethality of influenza infection.13 Additionally, mice treated with a combination of antibiotics, “naturally” denaturing their microbiome, exhibited greater morbidity when infected with the 2009 pandemic 316 P e d i
