open access to scientific and medical research
KEYWORDS: respiratory, microbiome, infections, viral, microbiota, tract, studies, respiratory microbiome, respiratory tract, infection, children, research, bacterial, early, tcpdf


lethality of influenza infection.13 Additionally, mice treated with a combination of antibiotics, “naturally” denaturing their microbiome, exhibited greater morbidity when infected with the 2009 pandemic 316 P e d i a t r i c H e a l t h , M e d i c i n e a n d T herapeutics 2024:15 DovePress Powered by TCPDF (www.tcpdf.org) Dovepress Crestez et al Figure 3 Distribution of scientific publications concerning microbiome by anatomical site. (A) Distribution of publications according to ecological niche. (B) Distribution of publications according to the different bacterial, viral and mycotic microbiome. A (H1N1) virus, resulting in considerable oxygen desaturation and weight loss. Two characteristics were linked to the severity of these injuries: (1) a decrease in dendritic cell migratory capability, which is necessary for a successful immune response; and (2) a reduction in the number of tissue-specific T lymphocyte cells, which helps to sustain a high local viral load over time.30,31 DovePress Powered by TCPDF (www.tcpdf.org) Crestez et al Dovepress Oral probiotic therapy dramatically improved the immune response of antibiotic-treated animals, enabling the improved activation of TLR-7 and NFB pathways.32 In this manner, viral clearance is aided by signaling, which is involved in the identification of single-stranded viral RNA. All of the information gathered from animal studies points to a potential connection between a weakened local immune response and the pathophysiology of influenza virus infection in a host with a modified microbiome. On the other hand, maintaining both a suitable response to the influenza virus and an efficient innate response is made feasible by the presence of an “integrous” microbiome.33 lipopolysaccharides (LPS) administered to a healthy host with an ”altered” microbiome could successfully reestablish an effective adaptive immune response in an experimental setting using a mouse model. According to the mechanistic concept, leukocytes are stimulated both locally and systemically by the microbiome, which also activates several molecular pattern recognition receptors produced by pathogens (Pathogen-Associated Molecular Patterns, or PAMPs).34,35 The impact of the microbiome in the pathogenesis of viral respiratory infections is therefore strongly suspected. By analogy with therapies of the gastrointestinal tract, it seems possible to modulate the respiratory microbiome. A mouse model was developed with direct administration of Escherichia coli into the airway tract. These inoculations showed a beneficial effect on local inflammation, which is strongly involved in the pathogenesis of respiratory infections, thus rhamnosus (administered orally, far from the respiratory sphere) on
