open access to scientific and medical research
KEYWORDS: respiratory, microbiome, infections, viral, microbiota, tract, studies, respiratory microbiome, respiratory tract, infection, children, research, bacterial, early, tcpdf


tract. These inoculations showed a beneficial effect on local inflammation, which is strongly involved in the pathogenesis of respiratory infections, thus rhamnosus (administered orally, far from the respiratory sphere) on the number and severity of cystic fibrosis exacerbations.37 Although requiring validation by cohort studies of sufficient size, the benefit of therapeutic modification of the respiratory microbiome in the context of chronic respiratory diseases seems strongly suggested by these studies. However, few studies are focused on the modification of the respiratory microbiome in the context of acute viral infections. Some authors have nevertheless shown that the temporary relief of airway inflammation through the administration of bacterial antigens could be a treatment approach for influenza virus infections.34 In a murine model, it has also been shown that animals pretreated with aerosols of bacterial lysates containing LPS presented a faster and more efficient inflammatory response in obtaining viral clearance during a subsequent viral infection. The induced response by LPS reduced tissue damage linked to viral infection, improving the survival of infected animals.5 These data, however, remain contested in the specific context of influenza virus infection. In fact, it is admitted that the inflammation generated by the already studied for the management of severe sepsis, the control of the inflammatory response is only of interest in the early phase of the disease. A large part of the difficulty in controlling inflammation during influenza infection is thus linked to the fact that it varies over time, from early to late stages of the disease.38 Similarly, the activation of TLR-2, 6 and 9 by means of pretreatment with synthetic agonists made it possible to reduce the viral titer measured in infections by parainfluenza viruses in respiratory samples without helping to reduce symptoms of bronchial hyperreactivity.39 Finally, the administration of inactivated toxins of E. coli has demonstrated its effectiveness in providing protection against RSV infection and influenza viruses, as well as the administration of L. rhamnosus before contact with RSV.23,35 These lactobacilli would help protect against excess inflammation during the infection, modifying both the production of numerous pro-inflammatory mediators (interferon and interleukins) and activation of dendritic cells via the expression of CD103 and CD11b.40 Microbiota-Mediated Mechanism During RTIs It was discovered that nicotine exposure in mice only affected the balance of the microbial population when the pathogen S. pneumoniae was present. In this case, the concurrent viral infection might also be considered the “second hit”. In line
