open access to scientific and medical research
KEYWORDS: respiratory, microbiome, infections, viral, microbiota, tract, studies, respiratory microbiome, respiratory tract, infection, children, research, bacterial, early, tcpdf


self- reinforcing loop in which particular microbial communities may sustain or foster an environment that is pro- inflammatory, thereby allowing pathogen breakouts. A vicious cycle is about to begin when these pathogens trigger an additional pro-inflammatory cascade. (Figure 2). Research on children who are prone to asthma, among other populations, indicates that the hypopharyngeal microbiota composition (Veillonella, Prevotella, and Gemella spp. at birth) is linked to a pro-inflammatory profile in the respiratory system and asthma diagnosis at six years old. This new study expands on earlier research that found a pro-inflammatory immunological reaction in the airways of asthma-prone newborns at one month of age, associated with M. catarrhalis and H. influenzae.20 Nevertheless, further research is required to determine the precise causal linkages behind these findings. Epigenetic imprinting is a conceivable mechanism by which microbial and immunological disturbances during early life might potentially modify physiological activities of the respiratory tract later. According to in vitro studies and molecular epidemiological research, RSV infection at an early age does cause histone and DNA methylation variations in a number of immune-altering genes connected to asthma. Additionally, as shown for gut commensals, beneficial microorganisms may modify the human epigenome by producing short-chain fatty acids (SCFAs). An in vitro investiga- tion that showed that SCFAs generated from the nasal mucosa following exposure to C. accolens suppressed the development of S. pneumoniae indicated the importance of these SCFAs for the respiratory tract.21 There is a link between the presence of bacteria such as Haemophilus and Moraxella in the lower airways of children with bronchial asthma, where bacteria such as Bacteroidetes, Actinobacteria and Firmicutes should be predominant, and the development of bronchial hyperresponsiveness and bronchoconstriction. This process can be accentuated by respiratory allergens, air pollutants, antibiotic consumption and antacid medication. This creates dysbiosis in both the gut and the lung that bidirectionally affects the gut-lung axis, resulting in hypersensitivity and hyperresponsiveness to respiratory allergens and foods.41 Use in Biomarkers It was quickly envisioned to use the microbiome as a risk marker for the occurrence of severe respiratory infection. Indeed, even before the concept of the microbiome was described, it had been observed that the detection and subsequent increase in the proportion of certain bacterial species (Pseudomonas aeruginosa, for example) in the respiratory tract signaled a negative turning point in the progression of the disease in patients with cystic fibrosis.42 Knowledge of an individual’s microbiome could make it possible
