open access to scientific and medical research
KEYWORDS: respiratory, microbiome, infections, viral, microbiota, tract, studies, respiratory microbiome, respiratory tract, infection, children, research, bacterial, early, tcpdf


example) in the respiratory tract signaled a negative turning point in the progression of the disease in patients with cystic fibrosis.42 Knowledge of an individual’s microbiome could make it possible to predict their level of risk concerning bacterial or viral respiratory attacks. Even though data is still limited, it has recently been described that nasal carriage of Pneumococcus was statistically positively correlated with Metapneumovirus seropositivity in children.43 Therefore, DovePress Powered by TCPDF (www.tcpdf.org) Crestez et al Dovepress after verification in a cellular model, authors concluded the involvement of this bacterium in the susceptibility of an organism, in this case, a child, to infection by Metapneumovirus. In a published article, our team studied the microbiome of children with influenza infections of varying severity. We were able to highlight, in children infected with the influenza A or B virus, that several OTUs (S. aureus, Prevotella, Lachnospiracea incertae sedis, Streptobacillus, Porphyromonas, Granulicatella, Veillonella, Fusobacterium and Haemophilus spp). were present, from the start of the disease, in different S. aureus, all these OTUs were found in more abundant quantities in patients progressing towards severe cases of influenza, from the initial sample.44 The detection of these OTUs together with that of the influenza virus could lead to offering appropriate support at the start of the infection. The initial orientation of patients, optimized due to the existence or absence of an identified risk of respiratory complications, would improve their management. A multicenter study, started in 2017, will make it possible to confirm the reality of this difference and especially the usefulness of such a biomarker for managing children with the flu. The microbiome could therefore serve, ultimately, as a prognostic marker by helping to take into account the early management of at-risk patients. Although no causal relationship between the characteristics of the nasopharyngeal microbiome and the response to viral infections can be deduced from these studies, the data currently available nevertheless suggests that studying the microbiome could make it possible to obtain a predictive factor for the clinical consequences of this infection. The use of microbiome characteristics in the management of infected patients could therefore be considered. Conversely, a modification of the bacterial microbiome, through vaccination or other administration, could have consequences on infectious diseases, whether or not they are part of a strategy for vaccine prevention.7,23 Future Perspectives The traditional “one pathogen-one disease” model has begun to give way to an ecosystem- wide explanation of
