open access to scientific and medical research
KEYWORDS: respiratory, microbiome, infections, viral, microbiota, tract, studies, respiratory microbiome, respiratory tract, infection, children, research, bacterial, early, tcpdf


or not they are part of a strategy for vaccine prevention.7,23 Future Perspectives The traditional “one pathogen-one disease” model has begun to give way to an ecosystem- wide explanation of RTI pathogenesis within the past few years. This hypothesis explains how immunity is modulated by microbe-host interac- tions and how resilience and susceptibility to RTIs are related. Current research has contributed to redefining a preventive, diagnostic, and treatment approaches in addition to deepening our understanding of the pathophysiology of RTIs.6 Additionally, real-time genetic analysis has been utilized to identify the microbiological cause of bacterial respiratory infection while also facilitating the identification of genes associated with bacterial resistance. This has allowed for the administration of customized antibiotics at the early stages of illness. The use of Neisseria lactamica to “replace” and stop the spread of the Meningococcal is one example of how this information may also result in innovative biotherapeutic techniques. While these initial instances are encouraging, more work has to be done to understand the basic mechanisms behind a stable balance between the host, microorganisms, and the external environment. We suggest using methodologies combining systems biology and model systems to achieve this.43 Even if it is crucial to identify correlations among the structure and the function of the microbiota and health outcomes at different phases of RTI pathogenesis, there are still a lot of unproven causal connections that should be taken into consideration. Some answers to such issues may be provided by using current developments in genetics and engineering. Microbiome interactions may be evaluated using gain or loss-of-function tests with genetically modified versions of model organisms in conjunction with next-generation sequencing methods.32 Moreover, sophisticated laboratory simulations, such as airway organoids, could be utilized to investigate microbe interactions in different environments. Gene-editing methods may be applied in vivo in animal models and organoid systems to modify the tissue host or the genome. Notwithstanding these developments, we think human challenge studies have potential since in vivo and in vitro models are by definition less complicated than human physiology and environmental variation.12 Unlike observational research, these investigations shed light on the dynamics of the microbiota surrounding pathogen acquisition and permit the modification of individual factors, including assessing vaccine interactions or co- colonizing bacteria or viruses.12 Similar to the field of vaccination, which has recently adopted a “systems science” approach, an analogous multi-omics approach may potentially be helpful in understanding the genesis of RTIs.
