Guidelines for the Management of High Blood Cholesterol
KEYWORDS: risk, ldl-c, ascvd, patients, statin, therapy, cholesterol, pubmed, levels, cardiovascular, events, high, statin therapy, guidelines, statins


ABSTRACT The LDL-C hypothesis holds that high blood LDL-C levels are a major risk factor for atherosclerosis cardiovascular disease (ASCVD) and lowering LDL-C levels will reduce the risk for ASCVD. This hypothesis is based on epidemiological evidence that both within and between populations higher LDL-C levels increase the risk for ASCVD, and conversely, randomized clinical trials (RCTs) demonstrating that lowering LDL-C levels will reduce ASCVD risk. LDL-C levels can be reduced by both lifestyle interventions and cholesterol-lowering drugs. Widely used LDL-C lowering drugs are statins, ezetimibe, bempedoic acid, and proprotein convertase subtilisin/kexin type 9 (PCSK9) inhibitors. In this chapter we discuss the information provided in the two major guidelines on how to select and treat patients to lower LDL-C levels; the 2018 AHA/ACC/Multi-Society report and the European Society of Cardiology (ESC), the European Atherosclerosis Society (EAS), and representatives from other European organizations guidelines published in 2020. Additionally, we discuss the key principles that clinicians should utilize when deciding who to treat and how aggressively to treat hypercholesterolemia to lower the risk of ASCVD. Specifically, 1) the sooner one initiates LDL-C lowering therapy the greater the benefit, 2) the greater the decrease in LDL-C the greater the benefit, 3) the higher the LDL-C level the greater the benefit, and 4) the higher the absolute risk of ASCVD the greater the benefit. Following these general principles will help clinicians make informed decisions in deciding on their approach to lowering LDL-C levels and will facilitate discussions with patients on the benefits and risks of treatment. These decisions need to balance the benefits of treatment vs. the potential side effects and cost and the preferences of individual patients. For complete coverage of all related areas of Endocrinology, please visit our on-line FREE web-text, WWW.ENDOTEXT.ORG . INTRODUCTION Atherosclerotic cardiovascular disease (ASCVD) remains the foremost cause of death among chronic diseases. An aging population combined with an atherogenic lifestyle increases the risk of ASCVD. Even so, mortality from ASCVD has been declining in most developed countries. This decline comes from improvements in preventive measures and better clinical interventions. One of the most important advances in the cardiovascular field resulted from identifying risk factors for ASCVD. Risk factors directly or indirectly promote atherosclerosis, or they otherwise predispose to vascular events. The major risk factors are cigarette smoking, dyslipidemia, hypertension, hyperglycemia, and advancing age. Dyslipidemia consists of elevations of atherogenic lipoproteins (LDL, VLDL, Lp(a), and remnants) and low
