Guidelines for the Management of High Blood Cholesterol
KEYWORDS: risk, ldl-c, ascvd, patients, statin, therapy, cholesterol, pubmed, levels, cardiovascular, events, high, statin therapy, guidelines, statins


to vascular events. The major risk factors are cigarette smoking, dyslipidemia, hypertension, hyperglycemia, and advancing age. Dyslipidemia consists of elevations of atherogenic lipoproteins (LDL, VLDL, Lp(a), and remnants) and low levels of HDL. Advancing age counts as a risk factor because it reflects the impact of all risk factors over the lifespan. Several other factors, called risk enhancing factors, associate with higher risk for ASCVD ( 1 ). Lifestyle factors (for example, overnutrition and physical inactivity) contribute importantly to both major and enhancing risk factors. Hereditary factors undoubtedly contribute to the identifiable risk factors; but genetic influences also affect ASCVD risk through other ways not yet understood ( 2 ). THE CHOLESTEROL HYPOTHESIS AND CHOLESTEROL-LOWERING THERAPY There is now indisputable evidence that elevated serum cholesterol levels increase the risk of ASCVD. The first evidence for a connection between serum cholesterol levels and atherosclerosis came from studies in laboratory animals ( 3 ). Feeding cholesterol to various animal species raises serum cholesterol and causes deposition of cholesterol in the arterial wall ( 3 ). The latter recapitulates the early stages of human atherosclerosis. Subsequently, in humans, severe hereditary hypercholesterolemia was observed to cause premature atherosclerosis and ASCVD ( 3 ). Later, population surveys uncovered a positive association between serum cholesterol levels and ASCVD ( 4 , 5 ). Finally, clinical trials with cholesterol-lowering agents documented that lowering serum cholesterol levels reduces the risk for ASCVD ( 6 ). These findings have convincing proven the cholesterol hypothesis . Moreover, the relationship between cholesterol levels and ASCVD risk is bidirectional; raising cholesterol levels increases risk, whereas reducing levels decreases risk ( Figure 1 ). Figure 1. The Cholesterol Hypothesis. Between the years 1955 and 1985, many epidemiologic studies showed a positive relation between cholesterol levels and atherosclerotic cardiovascular disease (ASCVD) events. Over the next 30 years, a host of randomized controlled clinical trials have demonstrated that lowering cholesterol levels will reduce the risk for ASCVD. This bidirectional relationship between cholesterol levels and ASCVD provides ample support for the cholesterol hypothesis. Epidemiological Evidence A relationship between cholesterol levels and ASCVD risk is observed in both developing and developed countries ( 4 , 5 ). Populations with the lowest cholesterol levels and LDL-C levels have the lowest rates of ASCVD. Within populations, individuals with the lowest serum cholesterol or LDL-C levels carry the least risk. In other words, “the lower, the better” for cholesterol levels
