Guidelines for the Management of High Blood Cholesterol
KEYWORDS: risk, ldl-c, ascvd, patients, statin, therapy, cholesterol, pubmed, levels, cardiovascular, events, high, statin therapy, guidelines, statins


the lowest rates of ASCVD. Within populations, individuals with the lowest serum cholesterol or LDL-C levels carry the least risk. In other words, “the lower, the better” for cholesterol levels holds, both between populations and for individuals within specific populations. Pre-Statin Clinical Trial Evidence Several earlier randomized controlled trials (RCTs) tested whether reducing cholesterol levels through diet, bile acid sequestrants, or ileal exclusion operation reduced ASCVD events. A summary of the results of these trials is shown in table 1 ( 4 ). Table 1. Summary of Pre-Statin Clinical Trials of Cholesterol-Lowering Therapy View in own window Intervention No. trials No. treated Person-years Mean cholesterol reduction (%) CHD incidence (% change) CHD Mortality (%change) Surgery 1 421 4,084 22 -43 -30 Sequestrants 3 1,992 14,491 9 -21 -32 Diet 6 1,200 6,356 11 -24 -21 This table is derived from National Cholesterol Education Program Adult Treatment Panel III ( 4 ) Statins and Clinical Trial Evidence Statins were discovered in the 1970s by Endo of Japan ( 7 ). Seven statins have been approved for use in clinical practice by the FDA and they are now generic (for a detailed discussion of statins see the Endotext chapter on Cholesterol Lowering Drugs ( 8 )). Statins inhibit HMG-CoA reductase decreasing cholesterol synthesis and increasing hepatic LDL receptors resulting in a decrease in LDL-C levels. Over the past three decades, a series of RCTs have been carried out that documents the efficacy and safety of statin therapy. In these RCTs, statin therapy has been shown to significantly reduce morbidity and mortality from ASCVD. Although individual RCTs produced significant results, the strongest evidence of benefit comes from meta-analysis. i.e., by combining data from all the trials ( 6 ). Meta-analysis has shown that for every mmol/L (39 mg/dL) reduction in LDL-C with statin therapy there is an approximate 22% reduction in ASCVD events ( 6 , 9 - 12 ). Another report ( 13 ) showed that an almost identical relationship holds when several different kinds of LDL-lowering therapy were analyzed together. This response appears to be consistent throughout all levels of LDL-C. Individual statins vary in their intensity of cholesterol-lowering at a given dose ( 1 , 8 ) ( Table 2 ). For example, per mg per day, rosuvastatin is twice as efficacious as atorvastatin, which in turn is twice as efficacious as simvastatin. Statins are best classified according to percentage
