Guidelines for the Management of High Blood Cholesterol
KEYWORDS: risk, ldl-c, ascvd, patients, statin, therapy, cholesterol, pubmed, levels, cardiovascular, events, high, statin therapy, guidelines, statins


LDL-C lowering ( 15 ). A clinical trial ( 16 ) demonstrated that adding ezetimibe to moderate intensity statins in very high-risk patients with ASCVD is beneficial showing that combination therapy reduced risk of cardiovascular events more than a statin alone ( 16 ). In this trial, the higher the risk, the greater was risk reduction ( 17 ). Ezetimibe is a generic drug and relatively inexpensive. Proprotein convertase subtilisin/kexin type 9 (PCSK9) promotes degradation of LDL receptors and raises LDL-C levels ( 8 ). Inhibition of PCSK9 increases the number of hepatic LDL receptors and markedly lowers LDL-C concentrations (50-60% decrease) ( 8 , 18 ). Studies have shown that PCSK9 inhibitors reduce risk in ASCVD patients at very high risk when combined with statins ( 19 , 20 ). PCSK9 inhibitors are relatively expensive drugs. Bempedoic acid is an adenosine triphosphate-citrate lyase (ACL) inhibitor and thereby inhibits cholesterol synthesis leading to an increase in LDL receptor activity ( 8 , 21 ). Bempedoic acid typically lowers LDL-C by 15-25% ( 8 , 21 ). A RCT has demonstrated that bempedoic acid reduces ASCVD in statin intolerant patients ( 22 ). Bempedoic acid is not generic and therefore is relatively expensive. For additional information on cholesterol and triglyceride lowering drugs see the chapters in Endotext that address these topics ( 8 , 23 ). PRIOR U.S. GUIDELINES FOR CHOLESTEROL MANAGEMENT National Cholesterol Education Program (NCEP) The early guidelines for cholesterol management in the United States have been those developed by the NECP. This program was sponsored by the National Heart, Lung and Blood Institute (NHLBI) and included many health-related organizations in the United States ( 24 ). Between 1987 and 2004, three major Adult Treatment Panel (ATP) reports ( 4 , 25 , 26 ) and one update were published ( 27 ) ( Table 3 ). Over time the guidelines recommended more stringent LDL-C goals as the results of RCTs were published and added non-HDL-C levels as a goal. Table 3. National Cholesterol Education Program’s Adult Treatment Panel (ATP) Reports View in own window Guideline ATP I ATP II ATP III ATP III Update Year 1987 1994 2001 2004 Thrust Primary prevention Secondary prevention High-risk primary prevention Very high risk Drugs Bile acid resins Nicotinic acid Fibrates Same as ATPI +Statins Same as ATP II Same as ATP III Major Targets LDL-C; HDL-C LDL-C; HDL-C LDL-C; Non-HDL-C LDL-C;
