Guidelines for the Management of High Blood Cholesterol
KEYWORDS: risk, ldl-c, ascvd, patients, statin, therapy, cholesterol, pubmed, levels, cardiovascular, events, high, statin therapy, guidelines, statins


high risk Drugs Bile acid resins Nicotinic acid Fibrates Same as ATPI +Statins Same as ATP II Same as ATP III Major Targets LDL-C; HDL-C LDL-C; HDL-C LDL-C; Non-HDL-C LDL-C; Non-HDL-C LDL-C goal (mg/dL) Low risk <190 Moderate risk <160 High risk < 130 Low risk <160 Moderate risk <130 High risk <100 Low risk <160 Moderate risk <130 Moderately high risk <130 High risk < 100 Low risk <160 Moderate risk <130 Moderately high risk <130 High risk < 100 Very high risk < 70 Transfer of NHLBI Guidelines to American Heart Association (AHA) and the American College of Cardiology (ACC) In 2013, NHLBI made the decision to remove treatment guidelines from its agenda. This was done even though it had almost finished writing prevention guidelines. These included guidelines for high blood cholesterol, high blood pressure, obesity, and nutrition. Late in this process, the guideline process was transferred to the American Heart Association (AHA) and American College of Cardiology (ACC). Then in 2013 the NHLBI guidelines for high blood cholesterol were modified to fit the criteria for guideline development required by AHA/ACC. The 2013 cholesterol guidelines ( 28 ) adhered closely to the Institute of Medicine (National Academy of Medicine) recommendations for evidence-based guidelines ( 29 ). These recommendations advocated priority to randomized controlled trials (RCTs) as the foundation of evidence-based medicine. The NHLBI cholesterol committee carried out an extensive review of the literature and limited recommendations based largely on RCTs. Most acceptable RCTs had utilized statin therapy in middle-aged people. Therefore, the 2013 report committee did not include detailed recommendations for younger or older adults. Recommendations were largely limited to the age range 40-75 years. High-intensity statin therapy was recommended for patients with established ASCVD. For primary prevention, risk was stratified by use of a pool cohort equation (PCE), which was derived from five large population studies in the United States ( 30 ). The PCE was an extension of the Framingham Heart Study risk equations. 10-year risk for ASCVD was based on the following risk factors: age, gender, cigarette smoking, blood pressure, total cholesterol, HDL cholesterol, and presence or absence of diabetes. Although the PCE was validated in another large study ( 31 ), it has been criticized by some investigators as being imprecise for many individuals or specific groups ( 32 - 36 ). For primary prevention, an effort was made to determine what level 10-year
