Guidelines for the Management of High Blood Cholesterol
KEYWORDS: risk, ldl-c, ascvd, patients, statin, therapy, cholesterol, pubmed, levels, cardiovascular, events, high, statin therapy, guidelines, statins


criticized by some investigators as being imprecise for many individuals or specific groups ( 32 - 36 ). For primary prevention, an effort was made to determine what level 10-year risk is associated with efficacy of reduction of ASCVD from statin RCTs. It was determined that statins are effective for risk reduction when 10-year risk for ASCVD is ≥ 7.5%. Most primary prevention trials employed moderate intensity statins, so these were recommended for most patients; but in one RCT ( 37 ), a high-intensity statin appeared to produce greater risk reduction than found with moderate-intensity statins. So high-intensity statins were considered a favorable option in patients at higher 10-year risk. Notably LDL-C goals were not emphasized. It was recognized that these recommendations may not be optimal for all patients; therefore, consideration should be given to any extenuating circumstances that could modify the translation of RCTs directly into clinical care. A clinician patient risk discussion thus was advocated for all patients to consider the pros and cons of statin therapy. There are many guidelines discussing the management of LDL-C, but the 2 major guidelines are the 2018 AHA/ACC/Multi-Society report ( 1 ) and the European Society of Cardiology (ESC), the European Atherosclerosis Society (EAS), and representatives from other European organizations guidelines published in 2020 ( 38 ). In this chapter these two guidelines will be discussed. 2018 AHA/ACC/MULTI-SOCIETY REPORT 2013 cholesterol guidelines were revised by AHA/ACC in collaboration with multiple other societies concerned with preventive medicine ( 1 ). These guidelines extended those published in 2013. They expanded recommendations to include children, adolescents, young adults (20-39 years), and older patients (> 75 years). Although RCTs may be lacking in these categories, epidemiology and clinical studies indicate that high blood cholesterol is an important risk factor for future ASCVD in these age ranges. From the evidence acquired over many years related to the cholesterol hypothesis, it is reasonable to craft recommendations based on the totality of the evidence. These guidelines proposed a top 10 list of recommendations to highlight the key points. These key points will be examined. Lifestyle Intervention 1) In all individuals emphasize a heart healthy lifestyle across the life-course. There is widespread agreement in the cardiovascular field that lifestyle factors contribute to the risk for ASCVD. These factors include cigarette smoking, sedentary life habits, obesity, and an unhealthy eating pattern. The ACC/AHA strongly recommends that a healthy lifestyle be
