Guidelines for the Management of High Blood Cholesterol
KEYWORDS: risk, ldl-c, ascvd, patients, statin, therapy, cholesterol, pubmed, levels, cardiovascular, events, high, statin therapy, guidelines, statins


factors contribute to the risk for ASCVD. These factors include cigarette smoking, sedentary life habits, obesity, and an unhealthy eating pattern. The ACC/AHA strongly recommends that a healthy lifestyle be adopted throughout life. These recommendations are strongly supported by 2018 cholesterol guidelines. They are the foundation for cardiovascular prevention and should receive appropriate attention in clinical practice ( 39 ). For a detailed discussion of the effect of diet on lipid levels and atherosclerosis see the Endotext chapter The Effect of Diet on Cardiovascular Disease and Lipid and Lipoprotein Levels ( 40 ). Secondary Prevention 2) In patients with clinical ASCVD reduce LDL-C with high-intensity statin or maximally tolerated statins to decrease ASCVD risk. The goal of therapy is to reduce LDL-C by 50% or greater. If necessary to achieve this goal consider adding ezetimibe to moderate statin therapy. The strongest evidence for efficacy of statin therapy is a meta-analysis of RTCs carried out in patients with established ASCVD. As previously mentioned, the best fit line comparing percent ASCVD versus LDL-C in secondary prevention studies demonstrates that for every mmol/L (39mg/dL) reduction in LDL-C the risk for ASCVD is decreased by approximately 22% ( 9 ). High intensity statins typically reduce LDL-C by 50% or more; this percentage reduction occurs regardless of baseline levels of LDL-C. This explains why the guidelines set a goal for LDL-C secondary prevention to be a ≥ 50% reduction in levels. There are two options to achieve such reductions. RCTs give priority to the use of high-intensity statins. But, if high-intensity statins are not tolerated, similar LDL-C lowering can be attained by combining a moderate-intensity statin with ezetimibe ( 15 , 16 ). The RACING trial, a randomized trial that compared rosuvastatin 10 mg plus ezetimibe 10 mg vs. rosuvastatin 20 mg, demonstrated a similar effect on ASCVD events ( 41 ). An approach to lowering LDL-C in patients with ASCVD is shown in Figure 2 . Figure 2. Secondary Prevention in Patients with Clinical ASCVD ( 1 ). VERY HIGH-RISK PATIENTS WITH ASCVD 3) In very high-risk patients with ASCVD first use a maximally tolerated statin +/- ezetimibe to achieve an LDL-C goal of < 70mg/dL (<1.8mMol/L). If this goal is not achieved consider adding a PCSK9 inhibitor. 2018 guidelines defined very high risk of future ASCVD events as a history of multiple ASCVD events or one major event plus multiple high-risk conditions (
