Guidelines for the Management of High Blood Cholesterol
KEYWORDS: risk, ldl-c, ascvd, patients, statin, therapy, cholesterol, pubmed, levels, cardiovascular, events, high, statin therapy, guidelines, statins


adding a PCSK9 inhibitor. 2018 guidelines defined very high risk of future ASCVD events as a history of multiple ASCVD events or one major event plus multiple high-risk conditions ( Table 4 ). This definition is based in large part on subgroup analysis of the IMPROVE-IT trial ( 16 , 17 ). Table 4. Very High Risk of Future ASCVD Events ( 1 ) View in own window Major ASCVD Events Recent ACS (within the past 12 months) History of MI (other than recent acute coronary syndrome event listed above) History of ischemic stroke Symptomatic peripheral arterial disease (history of claudication with ABI <0.85, or previous revascularization or amputation) High Risk Conditions Age ≥65 y Heterozygous familial hypercholesterolemia History of prior coronary artery bypass surgery or percutaneous coronary intervention outside of the major ASCVD event(s) Diabetes mellitus Hypertension CKD (eGFR 15-59 mL/min/1.73 m 2 ) Current smoking Persistently elevated LDL-C (LDL-C ≥100 mg/dL [≥2.6 mmol/L]) despite maximally tolerated statin therapy and ezetimibe History of congestive heart failure ABI indicates ankle-brachial index; CKD indicates chronic kidney disease. Recent RCTs have demonstrated that the addition of non-statins to statin therapy can enhance risk reduction. These RCTs (and their add-on drugs) were IMPROVE-IT (ezetimibe) ( 16 ), FOURIER (evolocumab) ( 19 ), and ODYSSEY OUTCOMES (alirocumab) ( 20 ). All RCTs were carried out in patients at very high-risk. For IMPROVE-IT, addition of ezetimibe to statin therapy produced an additional 6% reduction in ASCVD events. In this trial, baseline LDL-C on moderate-intensity statin alone averaged about 70 mg/dL; in spite of this low level, further LDL lowering with addition of ezetimibe enhanced risk reduction. RCTs with the two PCSK9 inhibitors (evolocumab and alirocumab) restricted recruitment to patients having LDL-C ≥ 70 mg/dL on maximally tolerated statin + ezetimibe. In these RCTs, the duration of therapy was only about 3 years. A marked additional LDL lowering was achieved. In both trials, the risk for ASCVD events was reduced by 15%. 2018 guidelines allow consideration of PCSK9 inhibitor as an add-on drug if patients are at very high risk for future ASCVD events and have an LDL-C ≥ 70 mg/dL (or non-HDL-C > 100mg/dL) during treatment with maximally tolerated statin plus ezetimibe ( Figure 3 ). This latter threshold LDL-C was chosen because it was a recruitment criterion for PCSK9 inhibitor therapy in reported RTCs ( 19 , 20 ) An important question about the
