Guidelines for the Management of High Blood Cholesterol
KEYWORDS: risk, ldl-c, ascvd, patients, statin, therapy, cholesterol, pubmed, levels, cardiovascular, events, high, statin therapy, guidelines, statins


). This latter threshold LDL-C was chosen because it was a recruitment criterion for PCSK9 inhibitor therapy in reported RTCs ( 19 , 20 ) An important question about the use of PCSK9 inhibitors is whether they are cost-effective. When they first became available, they were marketed at a very high cost, which was widely considered to be excessive. More recently, the cost of these drugs has declined considerably, and one can anticipate that the price will continue to decrease. An analysis of cost-effectiveness has shown that at current prices in very high-risk patients PCSK9 inhibitors can be cost-effective ( 42 ). Another analysis ( 43 ) of approximately 1 million patients with ASCVD in the Veterans Affairs system indicate that approximately 10% of patients will be classified as very high risk and having LDL-C ≥ 70 mg/dL while taking maximal statin therapy plus ezetimibe. These later patients are potential candidates for PCSK9 inhibitors. Figure 3. Secondary Prevention in Patients with Very High-Risk ASCVD ( 1 ). Primary Prevention SEVERE PRIMARY HYPERCHOLESTEROLEMIA 1. In patients with severe primary hypercholesterolemia (LDL-C greater than 190mg/dL (>4.9mMol/L)) without concomitant ASCVD begin high-intensity statin therapy (or moderate intensity statin + ezetimibe) to achieve an LDL-C goal of < 100mg/dL; if this goal is not achieved consider adding a PCSK9 inhibitor in selected patients at higher risk. Measurement of 10-year risk for ASCVD is not necessary. Patients with severe hypercholesterolemia are known to be at relatively high risk for developing ASCVD ( 44 , 45 ). In view of massive evidence that elevated LDL-C promotes atherosclerosis and predisposes to ASCVD, it stands to reason that such patients deserve intensive treatment with LDL-lowering drugs. RCTs with cholesterol-lowering drugs demonstrate benefit of statin therapy in patients with severe hypercholesterolemia ( 46 , 47 ). It is not necessary to calculate 10-year risk in such patients. Moreover, patients who have extreme elevations of LDL-C (e.g., heterozygous familial hypercholesterolemia) may be candidates for PCSK9 inhibitors if LDL-C cannot be lowered sufficiently with maximal statin therapy plus ezetimibe. PATIENTS WITH DIABETES 2. In patients with diabetes mellitus aged 40 to 75 years with an LDL-C ≥70 mg/dL (≥1.8 mmol/L), without concomitant ASCVD, begin moderate-intensity statin therapy. For older patients (≥ 50 years), consider using high-intensity statin therapy (or moderate intensity statin plus ezetimibe) to achieve a reduction in LDL-C of ≥ 50%. Measurement of 10-year risk for ASCVD is not
