Guidelines for the Management of High Blood Cholesterol
KEYWORDS: risk, ldl-c, ascvd, patients, statin, therapy, cholesterol, pubmed, levels, cardiovascular, events, high, statin therapy, guidelines, statins


FACTORS 4) Initiation of primary prevention should begin with a clinician-patient risk discussion. This discussion is necessary to put a patient’s total risk status in perspective. The risk discussion should always begin with a review of the critical importance of lifestyle intervention. This is true for all age groups. Beyond the issue of lifestyle, the discussion can further consider the potential benefit of a cholesterol-lowering drug, especially statin therapy. When the latter may be beneficial, the provider should next review major risk factors and estimated 10-year risk for ASCVD derived from the pooled cohort equation (PCE) risk calculator ( 49 ) ( https://tools.acc.org/ASCVD-Risk-Estimator-Plus/#!/calculate/estimate/ ). Estimation of lifetime risk is also useful, particularly in younger individuals who often have a low 10-year risk but a high lifetime risk. All major risk factors (e.g., cigarette smoking, elevated blood pressure, LDL-C, hemoglobin A1C [if indicated]), should be discussed. In patients 40-75 years, the 10-year risk estimate is most useful. In these patients, four categories of 10-year risk for ASCVD are recognized: low risk (<5%); borderline risk (5-7.4%); intermediate risk (7.5-19.9%), and high risk (≥ 20%). Estimates of lifetime risk for patients 20-39 years also are available ( https://www.acc.org/guidelines/hubs/blood-cholesterol or https://qrisk.org/lifetime/index.php ) and should be obtained in younger individuals. Three other components of the risk discussion are: risk enhancing factors (see #8), possible measurement of coronary artery calcium (CAC) (see #9), and a review of extenuating life circumstances (issues of cost and safety considerations, as well as patient motivation and preferences). The decision to initiate statin therapy should be shared between the clinician and patient. All of these factors deserve a full discussion in view of the fact that statin therapy represents a lifetime commitment to taking a cholesterol-lowering drug. Patients should also recognize that atherosclerosis begins early in life and progresses overtime before manifesting as clinical disease. The cumulative LDL-C levels (“LDL-C years”) strongly influence the timing of clinical manifestations ( figure 4 ). In patients with high LDL-C levels (homozygous and heterozygous familial hypercholesterolemia) ASCVD can occur early in life whereas in patients with loss of function mutations in PCSK9 and low LDL-C level have a reduced occurrence of ASCVD. Figure 4. Relationship between cumulative LDL-C exposure, age, and the development of the clinical manifestations of ASCVD. Figure from reference ( 50 ). Additionally, patients should be appraised of comparisons of the reduction in ASCVD events in individuals with genetic variations resulting
