Guidelines for the Management of High Blood Cholesterol
KEYWORDS: risk, ldl-c, ascvd, patients, statin, therapy, cholesterol, pubmed, levels, cardiovascular, events, high, statin therapy, guidelines, statins


the clinical manifestations of ASCVD. Figure from reference ( 50 ). Additionally, patients should be appraised of comparisons of the reduction in ASCVD events in individuals with genetic variations resulting in life-long reductions in LDL-C levels vs. individuals treated with statins to lower LDL-C later in life. Variants in the HMG-CoA reductase, NPC1L1, PCSK9, ATP citrate lyase, and LDL receptor genes result in a lifelong decrease in LDL-C and a 10mg/dL decrease in LDL-C with any of these genetic variants was associated with a 16-18% decrease in ASCVD events ( 51 ). As noted above, a 39mg/dL decrease in LDL-C in the statin trials resulted in a 22% decrease in ASCVD events. Thus, a life-long decrease in LDL-C levels results in a decrease in ASCVD events that is three to four times as great as that seen with short-term LDL-C lowering with drugs later in life suggesting that the sooner the LDL-C level is lowered the better the prevention of cardiovascular events. 5) In adults 40 to 75 years of age without diabetes and LDL-C ≥70 mg/dL (≥1.8 mmol/L), RTC's show that moderate intensity statin therapy is efficacious when 10-year risk for developing ASCVD is ≥ 7.5%. Therefore, initiating statin therapy should be considered in the risk discussion. A 10-year risk ≥ 7.5% does not mandate statin therapy but indicates that moderate-intensity statins can reduce risk by 30-40% with a minimum of side effects ( 52 ). This fact alone can justify moderate intensity statin therapy, but only if other considerations noted above (#6) are taken into account in the risk discussion. An approach to lipid lowering in primary prevention patients is shown in figure 5 . Figure 5. Approach to Primary Prevention in Patients without LDL-C >190mg/dl or Diabetes ( 1 ). 6) Determine presence of risk-enhancing factors in adults 40 to 75 years of age to inform the decision regarding initiation of statin therapy. If risk assessment based on PCE is equivocal or ambiguous, the presence of risk enhancing factors in patients at intermediate risk (10-year risk 7.5 to 19.9%), can tip the balance in favor of statin therapy. Risk enhancing factors are shown in Table 6 . 7) IF A DECISION ABOUT STATIN THERAPY IS UNCERTAIN IN ADULTS 40 TO 75 YEARS OF AGE WITHOUT DIABETES MELLITUS, WITH LDL-C LEVELS ≥ 70 MG/DL, AND WITH A 10 YEAR ASCVD RISK OF ≥ 7.5% TO 19.9% (INTERMEDIATE RISK)
