Guidelines for the Management of High Blood Cholesterol
KEYWORDS: risk, ldl-c, ascvd, patients, statin, therapy, cholesterol, pubmed, levels, cardiovascular, events, high, statin therapy, guidelines, statins


ADULTS 40 TO 75 YEARS OF AGE WITHOUT DIABETES MELLITUS, WITH LDL-C LEVELS ≥ 70 MG/DL, AND WITH A 10 YEAR ASCVD RISK OF ≥ 7.5% TO 19.9% (INTERMEDIATE RISK) CONSIDER MEASURING Coronary Artery Calcium (CAC). CAC measurements are a safe and inexpensive method to assess severity of coronary atherosclerosis. CAC scores generally reflect lifetime exposure to coronary risk factors and therefore in young individuals (men < 40 years of age; women < 50 years of age) the long-term predictive value is limited because the CAC score is often 0. Studies show that CAC accumulation is a strong predictor of probability of ASCVD events ( 53 ). A CAC core of zero generally is accompanied by few if any ASCVD events over the subsequent decade. Reevaluation in 5-10 years is indicated. A CAC score of 1-100 Agatston units is associated with relatively low rates of ASCVD, both in middle-aged and older patients. In contrast, a CAC >100 Agatston units carries a risk well into the statin-benefit zone. CAC > 300-400 is equivalent to clinical ASCVD. Data such as these led to the following recommendation of 2018 guidelines for patients at intermediate risk by PCE. a. If CAC is zero, treatment with statin therapy may be withheld or delayed, except in cigarette smokers, those with diabetes mellitus, those with a strong family history of premature ASCVD, and possibly chronic inflammatory conditions such as HIV. b. A CAC score of 1 to 99 Agatston units favors statin therapy in intermediate-risk patients ≥55 years of age, whereas benefit in 40-54 years is marginal (note this focuses on 10-year risk and a CAC score in this range in a younger individual is predictive of an increased long-term risk ( 54 )). c. A CAC score ≥100 Agatston units (or ≥75th percentile), strongly favors statin therapy, unless otherwise countermanded by clinician–patient risk discussion. Monitoring 8) Assess adherence and percentage response to LDL-C lowering medications and/or lifestyle changes with repeat lipid measurement 4 to 12 weeks after statin initiation or dose adjustment and every 3-12 months as needed. Remember that the LDL-C goal for patients with ASCVD or severe hypercholesterolemia is a ≥ 50% reduction in LDL-C. For most such patients, this goal can be achieved by high-intensity statin therapy + ezetimibe. In ASCVD patients at very high risk, the goal is an LDL-C lowering >50% and an LDL-C < 70 mg/dL. To achieve these goals,
