Guidelines for the Management of High Blood Cholesterol
KEYWORDS: risk, ldl-c, ascvd, patients, statin, therapy, cholesterol, pubmed, levels, cardiovascular, events, high, statin therapy, guidelines, statins


by high-intensity statin therapy + ezetimibe. In ASCVD patients at very high risk, the goal is an LDL-C lowering >50% and an LDL-C < 70 mg/dL. To achieve these goals, it may be necessary to combine a PCSK9 inhibitor with maximal statin therapy + ezetimibe. For statin therapy in primary prevention, the goal is a lowering of ≥ 35%. This goal can be achieved in most patients with a moderate intensity statin + ezetimibe. 2018 guidelines did not set a precise on-treatment LDL-C target of therapy, but instead, offer percent reductions as goals of therapy. Baseline levels of LDL-C can be obtained either by chart review or withholding statin therapy for about two weeks. In addition, on-treatment LDL-C can provide useful information about efficacy of treatment ( Figure 6 ). This figure shows expected LDL-C levels for 50% or 35% reductions at different baseline levels of LDL-C. For example, in secondary prevention, an on-treatment LDL-C of <70 mg/dL can be considered adequate treatment regardless of baseline LDL-C. On-treatment levels in the range of 70-100 mg/dL are adequate if baseline-LDL C is known to be in the range of 140- 200 mg/dL; if there is uncertainty about baseline levels, reevaluation of statin adherence and reinforcement of treatment regimen is needed. For optimal treatment, on-treatment levels in this range warrant consideration of adding ezetimibe to maximal statin therapy. If on treatment LDL-C is ≥ 100 mg/dL, the treatment regimen is probably inadequate, and intensification of therapy is needed. For primary prevention, the LDL-C goal is a reduction ≥ 35%, and a similar scheme for evaluating efficacy of therapy can be used. Figure 6. Predicted on-treatment LDL-C compared to baseline LDL-C and suggested actions for each category of on-treatment LDL-C in secondary and primary prevention. Other Issues OTHER AGE GROUPS 2018 guidelines offered suggestions for management of high blood cholesterol in children, adolescents, young adults (20-39 years), and elderly patients > 75 years. There is no strong RCT evidence to underline cholesterol management in these populations. Instead, treatment suggestions depend largely on epidemiologic data. Lifestyle intervention is a primary method for cholesterol treatment in these age groups. However, under certain circumstances LDL-lowering drugs may be indicated. This is particularly the case for patients with familial hypercholesterolemia or similar forms of very high LDL-C. In young adults, particularly those with other risk factors, LDL lowering drug therapy (statin or ezetimibe) may be reasonable when
