Guidelines for the Management of High Blood Cholesterol
KEYWORDS: risk, ldl-c, ascvd, patients, statin, therapy, cholesterol, pubmed, levels, cardiovascular, events, high, statin therapy, guidelines, statins


with familial hypercholesterolemia or similar forms of very high LDL-C. In young adults, particularly those with other risk factors, LDL lowering drug therapy (statin or ezetimibe) may be reasonable when LDL-C levels are in the range of 160-189 mg/dL or if the lifetime risk is high. Older adults who have concomitant risk factors are potential candidates for initiation of statins or continuation of existing statin therapy. In all cases, clinical estimation of risk status is critical in a decision to initiate statins. For details on the approach to treating hypercholesterolemia in older adults see the Endotext chapter entitled “Management of Dyslipidemia in the Elderly” ( 55 ). For details on the approach to treating hypercholesterolemia children and adolescence see the Endotext section on Pediatric Lipidology. STATIN NON-ADHERENCE In spite of proven benefit of statin therapy in high-risk patients, there is a relatively high prevalence of nonadherence to the prescribed drug ( 56 ). Some studies suggest that up to 50% of patients discontinue use of prescribed statins over the long run ( 57 - 60 ). This finding creates a major challenge to the health care system for prevention of ASCVD. Table 7 lists several factors that may contribute to a high prevalence of nonadherence. Table 7. Factors Associated with Statin Nonadherence View in own window Healthcare system factors Accompanying medical care costs Lack of medical oversight and follow-up (provider therapeutic inertia) Provider concern for side effects Patient factors Uncertainty of benefit Lack of health consciousness Lack of motivation Lack of perceived benefit Perceived side effects Nocebo effects Myalgias Myopathy “Brain fog” Misattributed symptoms or syndromes (arthritis, spondylosis, neuropathy, insomnia, mental confusion and memory loss, fibromyalgia, gastrointestinal symptoms, liver dysfunction, cataract; cancer). When a decision is made to initiate statin therapy, the presumption is that statins are a lifetime treatment. Their use is similar to other medications, such as antihypertensive drugs, which are expected to be taken for the rest of one’s life. Such treatments imply indefinite participation in the healthcare system. This means regular ongoing visits to a prescribing clinic. Even for those with medical insurance there are usually co-pays for the visit, not to mention the cost of transportation to and from the clinic. All of these cost-related issues can be an impediment to long-term statin usage. Provider therapeutic inertia ( 56 ) can result from lack of provider education, excessive workload, and concerns about statin side effects.
