Guidelines for the Management of High Blood Cholesterol
KEYWORDS: risk, ldl-c, ascvd, patients, statin, therapy, cholesterol, pubmed, levels, cardiovascular, events, high, statin therapy, guidelines, statins


issues can be an impediment to long-term statin usage. Provider therapeutic inertia ( 56 ) can result from lack of provider education, excessive workload, and concerns about statin side effects. From the patient’s point of view, common issues are lack of understanding of the potential benefits of therapy and lack of health consciousness and motivation. A related problem is the expectation of side effects because of preconditioning by information received from the news media, package inserts, Internet, family, and friends. This expectation can discourage individuals from continuation of statin therapy (nocebo effect) ( 61 ). The most common symptoms attributed to statin therapy are muscle pain and tenderness (myalgias) ( 8 ). A complaint of statin intolerance is registered in about 5-15% of patients. If myalgias attributed to statins are due to actual pathological changes, the character of the changes is yet to be determined. In almost all cases, serum creatine kinase (CK) levels are not increased. Still, in rare cases, especially when blood levels of statins are raised, severe myopathy (rhabdomyolysis) can occur. This proves that statins can be myotoxic. Table 8 lists conditions associated with statin-induced severe myopathy ( 62 , 63 ). In most such cases, severe myopathy is reversible. If the cause can be identified and eliminated, a statin can be cautiously reinstituted. Alternatively, a non-statin LDL-lowering drug (e.g., ezetimibe, bempedoic acid, or PCSK9 inhibitor) can be substituted for the offending statin ( 8 , 64 ). For a detailed discussion of statin side effects and the management of patients with statin intolerance see the Endotext chapter on cholesterol lowering drugs ( 8 ). Table 8. Factors Associated with Statin - Induced Rhabdomyolysis View in own window Advanced age (>80 y) Small body frame and fragility Female sex Asian ethnicity Pre-existing neuromuscular condition Known history of myopathy or family history of myopathy syndrome Pre-existing liver disease, kidney disease, hypothyroidism Certain rare genetic polymorphisms High-dose statin Postoperative periods Excessive alcohol intake Drug interactions (gemfibrozil, antipsychotics, amiodarone, verapamil, cyclosporine, macrolide antibiotics, azole antifungals, protease inhibitors) EUROPEAN GUIDELINES FOR CHOLESTEROL MANAGEMENT The most influential of European guidelines for management of cholesterol and dyslipidemia are those developed by the European Society of Cardiology (ESC), the European Atherosclerosis Society (EAS), and representatives from other European organizations ( 65 ). A task force appointed by these organizations have published an update on dyslipidemia management ( 38 ). The recommendations of this report
