Guidelines for the Management of High Blood Cholesterol
KEYWORDS: risk, ldl-c, ascvd, patients, statin, therapy, cholesterol, pubmed, levels, cardiovascular, events, high, statin therapy, guidelines, statins


representatives from other European organizations ( 65 ). A task force appointed by these organizations have published an update on dyslipidemia management ( 38 ). The recommendations of this report resemble in many ways those of the 2018 AHA/ACC guidelines ( 1 ). But notable differences can be identified for specific recommendations. A review of these differences may help to identify gaps in knowledge needed to format best recommendations. In the following, recommendations proposed by AHA/ACC and by ESC/EAS will be compared. These comparisons should illuminate areas of uncertainty where more information is needed for definitive recommendations. At the same time, it is important to emphasize that in many critical areas the two sets of guidelines are in strong agreement. These will be noted first. Agreement Between AHA/ACC and ESC/EAS Guidelines There is agreement that elevated LDL-C is the major atherogenic lipoprotein and that LDL-C is the primary target of treatment. Likewise, both guidelines agree that the intensity of LDL-C lowering therapy should depend on absolute risk to patients. In other words, patients who have the highest risk should receive the most intensive cholesterol reduction. Both guidelines emphasize therapeutic lifestyle intervention as the foundation of risk reduction, both for elevated cholesterol and for other risk factors. The highest risk patients are those with ASCVD and are potential candidates for combined drug therapy for LDL-C lowering. For primary prevention, the intensity of treatment depends on absolute risk as determined by population-based algorithms. For drug therapy, statins are first-line treatment, but in highest risk patients, consideration can be given to adding non-statin drugs (e.g., ezetimibe and PCSK9 inhibitors). Beyond population-based algorithms for primary prevention, measurement of other dyslipidemia markers, or other higher risk conditions can be used as risk- enhancing factors to modify intensity of lipid-lowering therapy. Differences Between AHA/ACC and ESC/EAS Guidelines DEFINITION OF VERY HIGH RISK This definition is important because it sets the stage for considering intensive LDL-C lowering and the use of combined drug therapy for LDL-C lowering. AHA/ACC defines very high risk as a history of multiple ASCVD events or of one event + multiple high-risk conditions. This limits the definition of very high risk to the highest risk patients among those with ASCVD. In contrast, ESC/EAS considers all patients with clinical ASCVD or ASCVD on imaging as very high risk. Additionally, ESC/EAS allows extension of the definition to highest risk patients in primary prevention, that is,
