Guidelines for the Management of High Blood Cholesterol
KEYWORDS: risk, ldl-c, ascvd, patients, statin, therapy, cholesterol, pubmed, levels, cardiovascular, events, high, statin therapy, guidelines, statins


SCORE algorithm based on risk for ASCVD mortality in European populations. Both PCE and SCORE are used to define “statin eligibility” for primary prevention. A study suggests that more people are “eligible” for statin therapy using PCE compared to SCORE ( 66 ). If this finding can be confirmed, it suggests that ESC/EAS guidelines are less aggressive for reducing LDL-C in lower risk individuals (compared to AHA/ACC guidelines). In contrast, ESC/EAS appears to be more aggressive in use of non-statins for LDL lowering in higher risk patients than is AHA/ACC. RISK ENHANCING FACTORS AHA/ACC proposed that several risk enhancing factors favor the decision to use statin therapy in patients at intermediate risk. The European guidelines provide a similar list of factors that should be considered in determining risk and modifying the SCORE result. Notable among risk enhancing factors were apolipoprotein B (apoB) and lipoprotein (a) (Lp[a]). SUBCLINICAL ATHEROSCLEROSIS AHA/ACC propose that CAC measurement can assist in deciding whether to use statin therapy in patients at intermediate risk. AHA/ACC in particular noted that the absence of CAC justifies delaying statin therapy. No other modalities of measurement of subclinical atherosclerosis were advocated by AHA/ACC. In contrast, ESC/EAS supported use of both CAC and carotid or femoral plaque burden on ultrasonography to determine risk. These guidelines suggest that the finding of substantial subclinical atherosclerosis in any arterial bed elevates a patient’s risk to the category of established ASCVD and can justify adding non-statin therapy to statins in such patients. GUIDELINE SPECIFICITY AHA/ACC guidelines place great emphasis on data from RCTs to justify its recommendations. However, RTC’s related to specific questions typically are limited in number. AHA/ACC recommendations are highly codified and kept to a minimum. ESC/EAS in contrast bases its recommendations both on clinical trials and other types of evidence. It explores available evidence in greater detail, and many of its recommendations are more nuanced. This approach to guideline development has its advantages and disadvantages. For example, it gives the reader a broader base of information to assist in clinical decisions. On the other hand, many of its recommendations are made outside of an RCT-evidence base. Without doubt, cholesterol management in all age and gender groups with various risk factor profiles is complex. The ESC/EAS attempts to provide a rationale for management of this complexity. The AHA/ACC, on the other hand, simplifies management as much as possible; it is written specifically for the
