Guidelines for the Management of High Blood Cholesterol
KEYWORDS: risk, ldl-c, ascvd, patients, statin, therapy, cholesterol, pubmed, levels, cardiovascular, events, high, statin therapy, guidelines, statins


The ESC/EAS attempts to provide a rationale for management of this complexity. The AHA/ACC, on the other hand, simplifies management as much as possible; it is written specifically for the general practitioner, and leaves the complexities of management to a lipid specialist. ESC/EAS delves into the complexities in more detail so that its recommendations are applicable to both the general practitioner and specialist. IMPORTANT CHANGES SINCE THESE GUIDELINES WERE PUBLISHED Risk Calculators PREVENT RISK CACULATOR In the US there is a new risk calculator called PREVENT ( 67 ). The PREVENT risk calculator is based on a much larger and more contemporary sample than the pooled cohort equation (PCE) risk calculator ( 68 ). Prevent is based on data from more than 6 million individuals from 46 datasets, including both population research studies and health system electronic medical records. In contrast, PCE was derived from approximately 25,000 individuals from 5 research datasets. There are several notable differences between the PREVENT and PCE risk calculators. 1) PREVENT calculates risk in patients age 30-79 whereas PCE calculates risk in patients age 40-75. 2) The PCE calculator uses age, gender, white or African American, total cholesterol, HDL-C, systolic BP, whether on treatment for BP, whether diabetic, and whether smoker as the variables to calculate risk. PREVENT uses age, gender, total cholesterol, HDL-C, systolic BP, BMI, eGFR, whether on BP or lipid lowering medications (i.e., statins), whether diabetic, and whether a current smoker to calculate risk. In addition, PREVENT allows for the use of optional variables, HbA1c, urine albumin/creatinine ratio, and Zip Code (for estimating social deprivation index) for further personalization of risk assessment. Note that PREVENT does not use race or ethnicity but does include variables related to glucose metabolism, renal disease, and obesity and can be used in patients taking statins . 3) The main result for the PCE calculator is the 10-year risk of cardiovascular disease. The main result of the PREVENT calculator is both the 10-year and 30-year risk (if <60 years of age) of cardiovascular disease, ASCVD only, and heart failure only. It should be noted that fewer patients will be identified as eligible for statin therapy using the PREVENT calculator compared to the PCE calculator. A study found that 18.8% of patients eligible for statin therapy using the PCE calculator would not be identified using the PREVENT calculator ( 69 ). Another study found that using the PREVENT
