Guidelines for the Management of High Blood Cholesterol
KEYWORDS: risk, ldl-c, ascvd, patients, statin, therapy, cholesterol, pubmed, levels, cardiovascular, events, high, statin therapy, guidelines, statins


that 18.8% of patients eligible for statin therapy using the PCE calculator would not be identified using the PREVENT calculator ( 69 ). Another study found that using the PREVENT calculator would reclassify approximately half of US adults to lower risk categories compared to the PCE calculator ( 70 ). Additionally, studies have shown that the mean estimated 10-year ASCVD risk is approximately 50% lower with the PREVENT calculator compared to the PCE calculator ( 71 , 72 ). The current recommendations for treatment were based on the PCE risk estimates and thus, there are concerns that using the PREVENT calculator may result in not treating as many patients. New AHA/ACC guidelines are being developed, and it is possible that the new recommendations will be adjusted to compensate for the differences in the risk calculated using the PCE and PREVENT calculators. Some experts recommend using the PCE calculator when deciding on treatment if one is following the current AHA/ACC guidelines. SCORE2 RISK CALCULATOR The SCORE risk calculator was developed in 2003 to determine the 10-year cardiovascular mortality in healthy individuals ( 73 ). In 2021 SCORE was replaced by SCORE2, which updated the risk prediction algorithms and in instead of determining cardiovascular mortality determines cardiovascular disease which includes cardiovascular mortality and non-fatal myocardial function and stroke endpoints ( 74 ). The prediction model in SCORE2 was based on 45 cohorts with 677,684 individuals from 13 countries. In addition, SCORE2-OP estimates cardiovascular risk in individuals greater than 70 years of age or older and SCORE2-Diabetes estimates cardiovascular risk in patients with type 2 diabetes ( 75 , 76 ) ( https://www.escardio.org/Education/ESC-Prevention-of-CVD-Programme/Risk-assessment/esc-cvd-risk-calculation-app ) The variables used in SCORE2 to calculate risk are age ( 40 - 69 ), sex, smoking, systolic BP, total cholesterol, HDL-C, and whether they live in a low, moderate, high, or very high-risk region (see below). SCORE2 provides an estimate of the 10-year risk of cardiovascular disease. Low-risk countries: Belgium, Denmark, France, Israel, Luxembourg, Norway, Spain, Switzerland, the Netherlands, and the United Kingdom (UK). Moderate-risk countries: Austria, Cyprus, Finland, Germany, Greece, Iceland, Ireland, Italy, Malta, Portugal, San Marino, Slovenia, and Sweden. High-risk countries: Albania, Bosnia and Herzegovina, Croatia, Czech Republic, Estonia, Hungary, Kazakhstan, Poland, Slovakia, and Turkey. Very high-risk countries: Algeria, Armenia, Azerbaijan, Belarus, Bulgaria, Egypt, Georgia, Kyrgyzstan, Latvia, Lebanon, Libya, Lithuania, Montenegro, Morocco, Republic of Moldova, Romania, Russian Federation, Serbia, Syria, The Former Yugoslav Republic (Macedonia), Tunisia,
