Guidelines for the Management of High Blood Cholesterol
KEYWORDS: risk, ldl-c, ascvd, patients, statin, therapy, cholesterol, pubmed, levels, cardiovascular, events, high, statin therapy, guidelines, statins


high-risk countries: Algeria, Armenia, Azerbaijan, Belarus, Bulgaria, Egypt, Georgia, Kyrgyzstan, Latvia, Lebanon, Libya, Lithuania, Montenegro, Morocco, Republic of Moldova, Romania, Russian Federation, Serbia, Syria, The Former Yugoslav Republic (Macedonia), Tunisia, Ukraine, and Uzbekistan. In individuals 70 years of age or older one should use the SCORE2-OP calculator and for individuals with type 2 diabetes one should use the SCORE2-Diabetes calculator. SCORE2-OP uses the same variables as SCORE2, but SCORE2-Diabetes includes HbA1c, age at diagnosis of diabetes, and eGFR. Both provide an estimate of the 10-year risk of cardiovascular disease. In conjunction with the development of SCORE2 the European Society of Cardiology developed guidelines for healthy individuals ( 77 ). The conversion of 10-year risk to CVD risk categories for healthy individuals is shown in Table 12 and LDL-C goals for these CVD risk categories are shown in table 13 . Note that the use of very high risk and high risk is not equivalent to the use of these terms in the ESC/EAS lipid guidelines discussed above. Table 12. Cardiovascular Disease Risk Categories Based on SCORE2 and SCORE2-OP in Healthy Individuals View in own window <50 years 50–69 years ≥70 years Low-to-moderate CVD risk : risk factor treatment generally not recommended <2.5% <5% <7.5% High CVD risk : risk factor treatment should be considered 2.5 to <7.5% 5 to <10% 7.5 to <15% Very high CVD risk : risk factor treatment generally recommended ≥7.5% ≥10% ≥15% Table 13. LDL-C Goal Less Than 100mg/dL View in own window Age Low-to-moderate CVD risk High CVD risk Very high CVD risk < 50 Usually not indicated Consider Recommended 50-69 Usually not indicated Consider Recommended >70 Usually not indicated Consider Recommended In all age groups, consideration of risk modifiers, lifetime CVD risk, treatment benefit, comorbidities, frailty, and patient preferences may further guide treatment decisions. KEY PRINCIPLES There are certain key principles that clinicians should utilize when deciding who to treat and how aggressively to treat hypercholesterolemia. Understanding these principles will allow clinicians to help their patients decide on the best approach to LDL-C lowering. The Sooner the Better It is widely recognized that atherosclerosis begins early in life and slowly progresses ultimately resulting in clinical manifestations later in life ( 78 ). Several studies have demonstrated the presence of atherosclerosis in young individuals ( 79 - 83 ). The extent of the atherosclerotic lesions correlates positively with total cholesterol and LDL-C and negatively with
