Guidelines for the Management of High Blood Cholesterol
KEYWORDS: risk, ldl-c, ascvd, patients, statin, therapy, cholesterol, pubmed, levels, cardiovascular, events, high, statin therapy, guidelines, statins


have demonstrated the presence of atherosclerosis in young individuals ( 79 - 83 ). The extent of the atherosclerotic lesions correlates positively with total cholesterol and LDL-C and negatively with HDL-C levels ( 79 , 80 , 83 - 90 ). These studies clearly demonstrate that atherosclerosis begins early in life with the prevalence increasing with age and the extent and onset of lesions is influenced by total cholesterol and LDL-C levels. Moreover, an increased total cholesterol early in life also predicted an increased risk of developing cardiovascular disease later in life ( 91 - 93 ). Genetic studies have further illustrated the key role of exposure to total cholesterol and LDL-C in determining the time when clinical manifestations of ASCVD occur. In patients with homozygous familial hypercholesterolemia (FH), LDL-C are markedly elevated, and cardiovascular events can occur early in life. Greater than 50% of untreated patients with homozygous FH develop clinically significant ASCVD by the age of 30 and cardiovascular events can occur before age 10 in some patients ( 45 ). In patients with heterozygous FH LDL-C levels are elevated but not to the levels seen with homozygous FH and cardiovascular events occur later in life but still at a relatively younger age. Untreated males with heterozygous FH have a 50% risk for a fatal or non-fatal myocardial infarction by 50 years of age whereas untreated females have a 30% chance by age 60 ( 45 ). Conversely, individuals with genetic variants in PCSK9, HMG-CoA reductase, LDL receptor, NPC1L1, or ATP citrate lyase that lead to a decrease in LDL-C levels have a reduced risk of developing cardiovascular events ( 50 , 51 ). The relationship between genetic disorders that alter LDL-C levels and the time to develop clinical cardiovascular events is illustrated in figure 4 . The figure clearly illustrates that the age when one clinically manifests ASCVD depends on the level of LDL-C. With very high LDL-C levels clinical events occur early in life and with low LDL-C levels events will occur at an older age leading to the concept of LDL years. Of major importance is that the reduction in ASCVD events is much greater in individuals with lifelong decreases in LDL-C compared to the reductions in ASCVD events seen with statin treatment ( Table 14 ). A lifelong 10mg/dL decrease in LDL-C due to polymorphisms in genes that affect LDL-C is associated with a
