Guidelines for the Management of High Blood Cholesterol
KEYWORDS: risk, ldl-c, ascvd, patients, statin, therapy, cholesterol, pubmed, levels, cardiovascular, events, high, statin therapy, guidelines, statins


results in a greater decrease in LDL-C levels compared to moderate statin therapy. Moreover, intensive therapy also results in a greater decrease in ASCVD events ( 10 ). 3) Adding ezetimibe to statin therapy resulted in a lower LDL-C than statin therapy alone and furthermore decreased ASCVD events ( 16 ). 4) Adding a PCSK9 inhibitor to statin therapy decreases LDL-C levels and results in a greater reduction in ASCVD events than statins alone ( 19 , 20 ). Taken together these studies clearly demonstrate that the lower the LDL-C level the greater the decrease in ASCVD events. However, there may be a threshold where further lowering of LDL-C does not result in further benefits. In the ODYSSEY trial using the PCSK9 inhibitor alirocumab, the decrease in ASCVD events was similar in patients with an LDL-C less than 25mg/dL and those with an LDL-C between 25-50mg/dL ( 94 ). Future studies are required to define if there is a threshold where further LDL-C lowering is not beneficial. Clinicians need to balance the benefits of more aggressively lowering LDL-C levels with the risks and costs of high dose or additional drug therapy. Both statins and ezetimibe are generic drugs and very inexpensive. Thus, in many patients the use of the combination of a statin (either high intensity or moderate intensity) and ezetimibe will maximize the decrease in LDL-C and more effectively reduce ASCVD events, with minimal risk and at low cost. In contrast, PCSK9 inhibitors and bempedoic acid are relatively expensive and clinicians will need to balance the benefits and the increased costs. The Higher the LDL-C the Greater the Benefit The percent decrease in LDL-C levels that occurs with statin treatment or the use of other LDL-C lowering drugs is similar regardless of the baseline LDL-C level. However, the absolute decrease in LDL-C will be greater if the starting LDL-C is higher. As discussed earlier, the Cholesterol Treatment Trialists demonstrated that the relative risk reduction in cardiovascular events per 39mg/dL (1mmol/L) decrease in LDL-C is similar in patients with a low or high baseline LDL-C level. Thus, as shown in table 15 the treatment of patients with high baseline LDL-C levels will result in greater decreases in ASCVD events. A meta-analysis of 34 trials with 270,288 individuals found that LDL-C lowering was associated with a progressively greater relative risk reduction in ASCVD events in patients with increased baseline LDL-C levels
