Guidelines for the Management of High Blood Cholesterol
KEYWORDS: risk, ldl-c, ascvd, patients, statin, therapy, cholesterol, pubmed, levels, cardiovascular, events, high, statin therapy, guidelines, statins


events Genetic lipid disorders High polygenic risk score Following these general principles will help clinicians make informed decisions in deciding on their approach to lowering LDL-C levels and will facilitate discussions with patients on the benefits and risks of treatment. For an in-depth discussion of these key principles see the following references ( 98 , 99 ). SUMMARY Advances in the drug therapy of elevated cholesterol levels offer great potential for reducing both new-onset ASCVD and recurrent ASCVD events in those with established disease. This benefit can be enhanced by judicious use of lifestyle intervention. But among drugs, statins are first-line therapy. They are generally safe and inexpensive. They have been shown to reduce ASCVD events in both secondary and primary prevention. Ezetimibe has about half the LDL-lowering efficacy of statins; it too is generally safe and is a relatively inexpensive genetic drug. Ezetimibe can be used as an add-on drug to moderate intensity statins, especially for those who do not tolerate a high-intensity statin or in combination with high intensity statins to markedly decrease LDL-C levels. PCSK9 inhibitors are powerful LDL-lowering drugs, and they appear to be safe. The major drawback is cost. If the cost of these inhibitors can be reduced, they too have the potential for wide usage, especially in patients who are “statin intolerant”. Bempedoic acid has been shown to reduce ASCVD events in statin intolerant patients and in combination with ezetimibe can result in significant decreases in LDL-C levels. A major challenge for use of cholesterol-lowering drugs is the problem of long-term non-adherence. ACKNOWLEDGEMENTS Dr. Scott Grundy who recently died was the original author of this chapter and this chapter is an update of his chapter. This chapter is dedicated to Dr. Grundy who has been an inspiration to lipidologists worldwide. This work was supported by grants from the Northern California Institute for Research and Education. REFERENCES 1. Grundy SM, Stone NJ, Bailey AL, Beam C, Birtcher KK, Blumenthal RS, Braun LT, de Ferranti S, Faiella-Tommasino J, Forman DE, Goldberg R, Heidenreich PA, Hlatky MA, Jones DW, Lloyd-Jones D, Lopez-Pajares N, Ndumele CE, Orringer CE, Peralta CA, Saseen JJ, Smith SC, Sperling L, Virani SS, Yeboah J. 2018 AHA/ACC/AACVPR/AAPA/ABC/ACPM/ADA/AGS/APhA/ASPC/NLA/PCNA Guideline on the Management of Blood Cholesterol: Executive Summary: A Report of the American College of Cardiology/American Heart Association Task Force on Clinical Practice Guidelines. Circulation 2019; 139:e1082-e1143 [ PMC free article : PMC7403606 ] [
