Nutrients 2013, 5, 4553-4565; doi:
KEYWORDS: gfd, nutritional, children, foods, diet, gluten-free, intake, fiber, dietary, content, gluten, gfps, iron, compared, protein


Nutrients 2013, 5, 4553-4565; doi: OPEN ACCESS nutrients ISSN 2072-6643 www.mdpi.com/journal/nutrients Review Gluten-Free Diet in Children: An Approach to a Nutritionally Adequate and Balanced Diet Francesca Penagini *, Dario Dilillo, Fabio Meneghin, Chiara Mameli, Valentina Fabiano and Gian Vincenzo Zuccotti E-Mails: (D.D.); (F.M.); (C.M.); (V.F.); (G.V.Z.) * Author to whom correspondence should be addressed; E-Mail: ; Tel.: +0039-0239-042-268; Fax: +0039-0239-042-254. Received: 25 October 2013; in revised form: 4 November 2013 / Accepted: 7 November 2013 / Published: 18 November 2013 Abstract: Gluten-free diet (GFD) is the cornerstone treatment for celiac disease (CD). GFD implies a strict and lifelong elimination from the diet of gluten, the storage protein found in wheat, barley, rye and hybrids of these grains, such as kamut and triticale. The absence of gluten in natural and processed foods, despite being the key aspect of GFD, may lead to nutritional consequences, such as deficits and imbalances. The nutritional adequacy of GFD is particularly important in children, this the age being of maximal energy and nutrient requirements for growth, development and activity. In recent years, attention has focused on the nutritional quality of gluten-free products (GFPs) available in the market. It is well recognized that GFPs are considered of lower quality and poorer nutritional value compared to the gluten-containing counterparts. The present review focuses on the nutritional adequacy of GFD at the pediatric age, with the aim being to increase awareness of the potential complications associated with this diet, to identify strategies in order to avoid them and to promote a healthier diet and lifestyle in children with CD. Keywords: celiac disease; gluten-free diet; children; nutritional complications; balanced diet Nutrients 2013, 5 4554 1. Introduction Celiac disease (CD) is a chronic systemic autoimmune disorder caused by a permanent intolerance to gluten proteins in genetically susceptible individuals. Gluten is a general term used to describe a mixture of storage proteins, including prolamins, hordeins and secalins found in wheat, barley and rye, respectively. These proteins may exert a toxic effect on intestinal mucosa in genetically susceptible individuals by triggering an immune-mediated response, responsible for the typical villous atrophy and lymphocyte infiltrate in small intestine mucosa seen in CD. In fact, these proteins contain epitopes that undergo deamidation, an important process for the binding of the CD associated human leukocyte antigen (HLA) DQ2/DQ8 haplotypes with T-lymphocytes, activating an autoimmune response [1–3]. A lifelong strict gluten-free diet (GFD) is the only available treatment
