Nutrients 2013, 5, 4553-4565; doi:
KEYWORDS: gfd, nutritional, children, foods, diet, gluten-free, intake, fiber, dietary, content, gluten, gfps, iron, compared, protein


nutritional complications are likely to be caused by the poor nutritional quality of the GFPs mentioned above and by the incorrect alimentary choices of CD patients. The most common nutritional deficiencies encountered in adults with CD, at diagnosis and during GFD, are described in Table 2. Table 2. Common nutrient deficiencies in adults with celiac disease (CD) at diagnosis and after Gluten-free diet (GFD). Modified from Cynthia Kupper . Common Nutrient Deficiencies in Subjects with Celiac Disease At Diagnosis GFD GFD Products Long-Term GFD Calorie/protein Fiber Fiber Fiber Fiber Iron Iron Iron Calcium Calcium Vitamin D Vitamin D Magnesium Magnesium Zinc Folate, niacin, vitamin Folate, niacin, vitamin Folate, niacin, vitamin Folate, niacin, vitamin B12 B12 B12 B12 Riboflavin Riboflavin Riboflavin Riboflavin Numerous studies focus their attention specifically on the nutrient intakes of CD children and adolescents on GFD. Mariani et al. studied the nutritional habits of 47 adolescents (aged 10–20 years) affected by CD, by means of a three-day alimentary diary. A comparison with the Italian and American recommended daily allowance (RDAs) was done for the intakes of macronutrients, fiber, iron and calcium. The results showed that CD subjects followed a high-protein and high-lipid diet with low intakes of carbohydrates, iron, calcium and fiber compared to the recommended daily intakes. Furthermore, Hopman et al. studied the nutrient intake of 37 adolescents with CD (aged 13–16 years) following a strict GFD and compared the intakes with a control group in the same age category. In the CD group, the intake of saturated fat was significantly higher than recommended by both the American and Dutch RDAs; the intake of fiber and iron was significantly lower than recommended. Furthermore, the comparison between the two groups showed that the intake of fiber and iron was lower in the CD group compared to controls (p < 0.05). Öhlund et al. conducted a study in 2010 on 30 children aged 4–17 years with CD and on GFD, using a five-day food record. High intakes of saturated fat and sucrose and low intakes of dietary fiber, vitamin D and magnesium compared to recommendations (New Nordic Nutrition Recommendations, 2004) was observed. Nutrients 2013, 5 4557 An elegantly conducted study by Zuccotti et al. compared the dietary intake of CD children on GFD to a group of healthy children (healthy controls, HC) and evaluated the contribution of commercially available GFPs on the observed nutritional intake . The study showed
