Nutrients 2013, 5, 4553-4565; doi:
KEYWORDS: gfd, nutritional, children, foods, diet, gluten-free, intake, fiber, dietary, content, gluten, gfps, iron, compared, protein


children with CD, after introduction of GFD, may initially gain excessive weight and only thereafter start to show catch-up growth and normalization of weight. Even though the effect of GFD on body weight and BMI remains a controversial issue, it remains fundamental for pediatricians to be aware of the possible nutritional consequences of GFD for which early recognition can be crucial in the prevention of obesity-related complications. 4. Dietary Advices for a Nutritionally Adequate and Balanced Diet in Children with Celiac Disease 4.1. Education and Compliance The first step towards a balanced diet starts from early education on CD and GFD, possibly provided by a skilled dietitian and/or by a physician with expert knowledge in CD. The diet is complicated and can be overwhelming if not presented using a thorough and proactive approach. Early education is fundamental to promote adherence to GFD. In fact, studies focusing on compliance to GFD indicate that adherence is compromised by a number of factors, including a lack of education and on determinants of the adherence of GFD in children with CD, baseline education was one of the main determinant factors influencing compliance, suggesting the importance for frequent reinforcement and an accurate explanation of dietary recommendations . 4.2. Dietary Intake In CD children on GFD, the recommended distribution of daily calorie intake for a healthy and balanced diet does not differ from that recommended to the general population. According to the dietary reference intake values (DRI), the total daily dietary calories should be ideally obtained as 55% from complex and simple carbohydrates, 15% from dietary protein and 25%–30% or less from lipids. The intake of unsaturated fat (monounsaturated and polyunsaturated) should be preferred. Monounsaturated and polyunsaturated fatty acids should provide more than 15% and 10% of total calories, respectively. They are found in foods, such as vegetable oils, nuts, seeds and fish high in lipid content, such as salmon, trout and herring. Thus, it is important to inform and recommend children with CD on the ideal distribution of the daily calorie intake. Nutrients 2013, 5 4559 4.3. Gluten-Free Foods It is advisable to prefer consumption of naturally GF foods, since it has been shown that they are more balanced and complete under both the macro- and micro-nutrient point of view. In fact, these foods are considered to have a higher nutritional value in terms of energy provision, lipid composition and vitamin content as opposed to
