Nutrients 2013, 5, 4553-4565; doi:
KEYWORDS: gfd, nutritional, children, foods, diet, gluten-free, intake, fiber, dietary, content, gluten, gfps, iron, compared, protein


Under the nutritional point of view, oats represent a good source of iron, dietary fiber, thiamin and zinc and, in addition, have a good palatability . A study conducted by Størsund et al. in CD children suggests that oats may improve the nutritional value of GFD and, in view of the good palatability, may also help increase compliance . Recently, Lee et al. demonstrated that adding three servings of gluten-free alternative grains, including oats, positively impacts the nutrient profile (fiber, thiamin, riboflavin, niacin, folate and iron) of the grain portion of the gluten-free diet . 4.6. Vitamins and Minerals Meat, fish, fruit and vegetables are an important natural source of vitamins, minerals and trace elements. In view of the possible micronutrient deficiencies associated with GFPs, an appropriate consumption of these foods should be advised in children with CD. In particular, fruit and vegetables are low in energy and rich in vitamins and minerals; moreover, they contain phytochemicals and antioxidant compounds that exert a protective effect against diseases associated with oxidative damage . The intake of at least five portions of fruit and vegetables a day should be recommended in children with CD. Minerals (calcium, phosphorus, sodium, potassium, chloride and magnesium) and trace elements (iron, zinc and selenium) are also contained in a significant amount in pseudo-cereals, in which the content can be twice as high as in other cereals. For example, in teff, iron and calcium contents (11–33 mg/100 g and 100–150 mg/100 g, respectively) are higher than those of wheat, barley, sorghum and rice. 4.7. Nutritional Follow-Up Continuous long-term follow-up is crucial to promote adherence to GFD and for early identification of nutritional deficiencies and/or metabolic imbalances. Ideally, a skilled dietitian with knowledge in CD and GFD should be an integral part of the healthcare team. A child’s nutritional status should be Nutrients 2013, 5 4561 accurately assessed at diagnosis and at each follow-up, which ideally should be performed at six months post commencement of GFD and then annually, post-diagnosis. The evaluation of nutritional status should start from a thorough and accurate dietary history and include the assessment of anthropometric parameters (weight, height and body mass index). Adherence to GFD should be assessed, and information on how to safely broaden food choices and interpret food labeling should be given. Early identification and correction of nutritional deficiencies should be regularly addressed. Table 4 summarizes the key points of nutritional follow-up
