Nutrients 2013, 5, 4553-4565; doi:
KEYWORDS: gfd, nutritional, children, foods, diet, gluten-free, intake, fiber, dietary, content, gluten, gfps, iron, compared, protein


broaden food choices and interpret food labeling should be given. Early identification and correction of nutritional deficiencies should be regularly addressed. Table 4 summarizes the key points of nutritional follow-up in children with CD. Table 4. Recommended timing for nutritional follow-up. BMI: body mass index. Nutritional Follow-Up When? How? Accurate dietary history Diagnosis Evaluation of nutritional status 6 months post commencement of GFD Anthropometric parameters, (weight, height, BMI) Annually post diagnosis Physical examination (attention to signs of malnutrition) Figure 1. Schematic representation of proposed approach to a nutritionally adequate and balanced gluten-free diet. Nutrients 2013, 5 4562 5. Conclusions Gluten-free diet, the only available treatment for CD, if not carried out with attention, may paradoxically lead to nutritional imbalances, which should be avoided, particularly at the pediatric age, the phase of maximal growth and development. Increasing awareness on the possible nutritional deficiencies associated with GFD may help healthcare professionals and families tackle the issue by starting from early education on GFD and clear dietary advice on how to choose the most appropriate gluten-free foods. Figure 1 summarizes, by means of a schematic representation, a proposed approach towards a nutritionally adequate and balanced gluten-free diet. Further studies on the technological and nutritional properties of the alternative cereals as wheat replacements are needed to confirm their role in improving the intake of protein, iron, calcium and fiber and reducing nutritional deficiencies in children with CD. Their role in the economic burden of the diet and their effect on compliance should also be further investigated. Furthermore, a promising field for gluten-free diet is food biotechnologies. By means of this science, it would be worth considering genetically modifying the amino acid sequence of gluten storage proteins, in order to make them free of those domains high in prolines and glutamines, which are responsible for the toxicity. Conflicts of Interest The authors declare no conflict of interest.
