RESEARCH ARTICLE
KEYWORDS: rtri, poc, hiv, study, testing, laboratory, results, recent, central, test, infection, central laboratory, rita, recency, participants


distribution, and reproduction in any medium, provided the Agreement between POC and laboratory RTRI was 96.5%, with a Kappa of 0.812 original author and source are credited. (95% CI: 0.704–0.920). The POC-RTRI results indicated numerically more recent Data availability statement: De-identified and infections than laboratory-RTRI (30 vs 27), with three POC-RTRI false positives aggregated study data are publicly available resulting in reduced sensitivity 85.0% for the POC-RTRI compared to 100.0% sensi- within the Dryad data repository. DOI: 10.5061/ tivity for the laboratory-RTRI against the RITA reference standard. FGD participants dryad.k98sf7mnf. (n = 28) agreed that POC RTRI was feasible and acceptable with adequate training, Funding: The recency program was financially supported by the President’s Emergency Plan human resources, client counselling, and quality assurance measures. for AIDS Relief (PEPFAR) through the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) Conclusion under the terms of a cooperative agreement with CIDRZ (NU2GGH001920). The findings There was strong concordance between POC- and laboratory-RTRI results. The and conclusions in this report are those of the findings support the feasibility of implementing RTRI at POC by non-laboratory health author(s) and do not necessarily represent the official position of CDC. Competing interests: None to declare. Introduction Despite increasing availability of HIV testing service (HTS) globally, important gaps remain in ensuring all people living with HIV (PLHIV) know their HIV status, partic- ularly in high prevalence countries in sub-Saharan Africa (SSA). In Zambia, results from the most recent population-based HIV/AIDS impact assessment (ZamPHIA), completed in 2021, revealed that approximately 11% of PLHIV are unaware of their HIV status . These data suggest a need for scale up of varied, innovative, and evidence-based HTS platforms such as index testing. While index testing has been a successful strategy for newly diagnosing PLHIV, the current practice of engaging sex- ual and needle-sharing contacts of persons living with, or at high risk of, HIV without regard to HIV viremia or the phase of infection (i.e., chronic versus acute and early HIV infection [AEHI]), may be insufficient, in and of itself, to increase program gains . Indeed, AEHI has complicated efforts to achieve HIV epidemic control through high replication of viruses with increased infectivity , disproportionately contributing to onward HIV transmission, particularly during the first 6 months after HIV acquisition . Yet, AEHI is hard to identify in real-world program settings where availability of viral load (VL) or combination antigen/ antibody testing at the
