RESEARCH ARTICLE
KEYWORDS: rtri, poc, hiv, study, testing, laboratory, results, recent, central, test, infection, central laboratory, rita, recency, participants


first 6 months after HIV acquisition . Yet, AEHI is hard to identify in real-world program settings where availability of viral load (VL) or combination antigen/ antibody testing at the point-of-care (POC) is limited for this purpose . In the absence of these POC technologies and other tools developing new assays that can reliably differentiate between individuals with recent HIV infection (i.e., occurring within 6–12 months of HIV acquisition, including AEHI) and those with more chronic infection (i.e., occurring after 12 months from acquisi- tion). Such tests, called tests for recent infection, cannot be used to diagnose AEHI, but may still have utility in national HIV surveillance programs intended to identify geographic areas of potentially ongoing, and increased, HIV transmission to inform a test (Sedia Biosciences, Oregon, USA), is a POC rapid test for recent infection PLOS One | May 4, 2026 2 / 16 (RTRI) developed by the U.S. Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) to differentiate, under research condi- tions, people with long-term HIV infection from those with seroconversion in the last 6–12 months . Results from these tests are often used in combination with one or more of VL, CD4 + count, ART history, plasma antiretroviral metabolites, and/or clinical evaluation for AIDS-defining illnesses as part of a recent infection testing algorithm (RITA) to assess HIV recent infection status. In Zambia, the Asanté RTRI is utilized as part of national surveillance, and test results are not integrated into patient- level care. Under the Zambian surveillance protocol, newly diagnosed PLHIV receive an RTRI and VL test conducted at a central laboratory and deidentified results are used in aggregate to identify geographies with a potential for increased or ongoing HIV transmission (i.e., “hotspots”). In principle, at a programmatic level, identification of such geographies allows for focusing prevention resources on high-transmission geographical areas to potentially interrupt active transmission. However, the utility of the RTRI for this purpose remains an area of ongoing debate as it is unclear whether it accurately classifies individuals as having recent HIV acquisition when used in isolation, thereby limiting the potential of the test [9–11]. Multiple studies have assessed the accuracy of RTRI classification, compared to other laboratory-based assays have not yet received U.S. Food and Drug Administration (FDA) approval . In theory, adoption of RTRI at the POC and specialized laboratory personnel. However, no published studies from sub-Saharan Africa (SSA) have examined the effects of
