RESEARCH ARTICLE
KEYWORDS: rtri, poc, hiv, study, testing, laboratory, results, recent, central, test, infection, central laboratory, rita, recency, participants


Drug Administration (FDA) approval . In theory, adoption of RTRI at the POC and specialized laboratory personnel. However, no published studies from sub-Saharan Africa (SSA) have examined the effects of the Asanté RTRI when used at the POC by non-laboratory healthcare workers on testing accuracy, reliability, or site-level operations. In this study, we sought to assess the operational feasibility and reliability of the Asanté RTRI when used by non- laboratory healthcare workers at the POC, and to evaluate the frequency of discrepant results by RTRI testing setting (i.e., POC versus centralized laboratory). Using additional laboratory results, including VL testing, we also evaluated the field performance of the Asanté RTRI when used in the central laboratory and at the POC compared to the program reference standard used in Zambia, the central laboratory-based RITA. Lastly, through focus group discussions (FGDs) with front- line healthcare workers (HCW), we sought to assess the feasibility of implementing Asanté RTRI at the POC in Zambian health facilities. Methods Study design This is the laboratory evaluation component of an implementation research study called REACHZ (Recency Enhanced Algorithm for Controlling HIV in Zambia) designed to describe the effects of integrating RTRI testing at the POC on the performance of routine index testing within Zambia’s PEPFAR-supported national HIV program. The laboratory evaluation presented here incorporates both quantitative and qualitative components using a convergent, parallel mixed methods approach. For the quantitative component, we assessed field performance of the Asanté RTRI when deployed at the POC compared to testing done at a central laboratory and compared both to the RITA as the reference standard. For the quali- tative component, we conducted FGDs with HCWs and other stakeholders to evaluate the feasibility of POC-RTRI testing according to empirically supported frameworks [14–16]. Study setting and population The REACHZ study was conducted at two high-volume first-level Ministry of Health (MOH) hospitals supported by CDC/ PEPFAR (i.e., sites A and B) in the heart of urban Lusaka, Zambia between 20 May 2021—10 March 2022. The study population included adults (≥18 years of age) presenting as new to HIV care who consented to having an additional blood sample taken for recency and viral load testing. PLOS One | May 4, 2026 3 / 16 Study procedures Potential participants included all individuals accessing routine HTS and newly diagnosed with HIV at a study clinic. These potential participants were invited by study staff to take part in the
