RESEARCH ARTICLE
KEYWORDS: rtri, poc, hiv, study, testing, laboratory, results, recent, central, test, infection, central laboratory, rita, recency, participants


Potential participants included all individuals accessing routine HTS and newly diagnosed with HIV at a study clinic. These potential participants were invited by study staff to take part in the study. Two study peer-educators sensitized potential participants about the study and referred interested individuals to trained research assistants for informed consent proce- dures. After obtaining written informed consent, study enrolment procedures were conducted, including completion of a locator form, enrolment demographic case reporting form, and biobehavioral survey. Study staff conducted all study- The PI and study laboratory specialist trained four facility-based non-laboratory HCWs on how to perform and interpret the Asanté RTRI at the POC and how to use quality control specimens on new test kits to assure their performance. The PI and laboratory specialist also employed proficiency panels to assess tester competency using materials from the national surveillance program to mirror routine testing conditions. Finally, the study trained one MOH phlebotomist at each site to collect one venous blood sample from each participant for confirmatory RTRI and VL testing per the national RITA done at the Centre for Infectious Disease Research in Zambia (CIDRZ) Central Laboratory in Lusaka (henceforth referred to as the “central laboratory”) (see Test procedures below). Results from all POC and central laboratory testing were returned to study staff and participants at scheduled study follow-up visits. Laboratory and test procedures The Asanté is a lateral flow assay with three lines per test strip, including control (C), HIV-positive serostatus verification (V), and long-term (LT) lines that help distinguish recent from long-term infection , and can be read qualitatively by visual strip inspection. Trained facility-based non-laboratory HCWs performed the Asanté RTRI at the POC at the two study sites. To allow RTRI result confirmation and VL testing, an additional 5 ml blood sample was collected from each participant. In this way, blood samples were tested twice on the Asanté RTRI, once at the facility and a second time at the central laboratory. Testers recorded all observed lines by drawing the observed lines on a picture replica of the test on a structured study form. This allowed documentation of test strip line interpretation, since the absence of the LT line indi- cates a recent result and may lead to incorrect classification. The lines drawn on the picture were verified to ensure they corresponded to the result documented through regular quality control (QC) record reviews done by the research assis-
