RESEARCH ARTICLE
KEYWORDS: rtri, poc, hiv, study, testing, laboratory, results, recent, central, test, infection, central laboratory, rita, recency, participants


incorrect classification. The lines drawn on the picture were verified to ensure they corresponded to the result documented through regular quality control (QC) record reviews done by the research assis- tants and study laboratory specialist during supportive supervision visits. Results from the POC RTRI were recorded at the site and not released to the participant until confirmation from the central laboratory was obtained. In cases of discrepant results, the central laboratory classification was used as the gold standard. Proficiency testing of the testers to assess tester competency was performed as part of study start up training. Given the short time frame for study implementation and interruptions due to COVID-19, study testers did not participate in the routine semi-annual proficiency testing under the recency surveillance program after the initial proficiency testing. A combination of in-person site visits, study record reviews, and tele-monitoring were used to regularly assess testing quality throughout the study period. The study laboratory specialist conducted in-person supportive supervision visits at each study site at least twice weekly. The aim of supportive supervision visits was to review site records for QC, resolve any outstanding QC queries, provide logistical support, and collect process data to assess the quality of study imple- mentation and adherence to study standard operating procedures. QC reviews were guided by a study QC checklist and reported on a QC log, both of which were contained in each participant file. The QC checklist listed all the study proce- dures and records expected according to the study protocol. The QC log captured information about the QC query includ- ing the dates of review and resolution, description of the query and its resolution and initials of the reviewer and resolver. Telemonitoring was done daily for the purposes of taking corrective action and clarifying faint band lines on the RTRI tests. Telemonitoring for RTRI test interpretation and adjudication involved the RTRI tester photographing test strips using a standard protocol (i.e., within the specified test reading time – 20 minutes, using a white background and natural light). PLOS One | May 4, 2026 4 / 16 Photographs were uploaded to a secure, encrypted study virtual platform restricted to study personnel. The study labora- 24 hours. A band was confirmed present if both reviewers confirmed visibility of noticeable bands and absent if either reviewer deemed it unnoticeable. In cases of disagreement, a third reviewer – a trained laboratory technologist from the CIDRZ
