RESEARCH ARTICLE
KEYWORDS: rtri, poc, hiv, study, testing, laboratory, results, recent, central, test, infection, central laboratory, rita, recency, participants


both reviewers confirmed visibility of noticeable bands and absent if either reviewer deemed it unnoticeable. In cases of disagreement, a third reviewer – a trained laboratory technologist from the CIDRZ central laboratory – provided final interpretation. Any observed band, even if faint, was recorded as present and the sample was considered as long-term for the purposes of this study. The VLs were quantified for all samples with a recent RTRI result (as determined by the central laboratory RTRI) and a subset of samples with a long-term RTRI using the Aptima® HIV-1 Quant Assay on the Hologic Panther platform (Marl- borough, Massachusetts, USA). A trained central laboratory technician performed VL testing and conducted internal QC procedures according to established central laboratory standard operating procedures. VL results were used in combina- tion with Asanté RTRI results to classify the samples according to national RITA definitions (below). A recent result on the RTRI accompanied by a suppressed viral load was considered as a false-recent result and counted as long-term. Case definitions for recent and long-term HIV infection We classified the duration of HIV infection according to the national RITA in Zambia, and classified an individual as having RITA-recent infection if they did not disclose prior HIV diagnosis or ART exposure, had evidence of recent HIV acquisition on the Asanté RTRI, and had a VL ≥ 1,000 copies/ml. A RITA long-term HIV infection was defined based on a long-term result on the Asanté RTRI, irrespective of VL. RITA long-term status was also assigned to a person living with HIV if they had evidence of recent HIV acquisition on the Asanté RTRI but were subsequently found to have a VL < 1,000 copies/ ml. VL results are included in the case definition to improve the accuracy of recent infection classification per the national RITA. Qualitative data collection and analysis We conducted focus group discussions (FGDs) with frontline HCWs involved in voluntary HIV counselling and testing, provider-initiated testing and counseling, index testing, recency testing, and/or ART initiation at the two study sites to describe implementation and health system issues that might affect the feasibility of Asanté RTRI testing at the POC. cers, HIV testing service counselors, and laboratory technicians. FGD participants included a consecutive sample of 4–9 eligible MOH HCWs who responded to an open invitation to join the FGD at each site. Eligible FGD participants were ≥18 years of age, a professional or community HCW,
