RESEARCH ARTICLE
KEYWORDS: rtri, poc, hiv, study, testing, laboratory, results, recent, central, test, infection, central laboratory, rita, recency, participants


4–9 eligible MOH HCWs who responded to an open invitation to join the FGD at each site. Eligible FGD participants were ≥18 years of age, a professional or community HCW, and involved with HTS or other form of HIV service delivery at a study site. Following informed consent, two trained female FGD qualitative researchers conducted audio-recorded FGDs using a semi-structured discussion guide. The FGD guide explored provider implementation experiences in line with the study objectives and informed by Proctor’s Implementation Outcomes Framework . We transcribed and translated FGD audio-recordings into English in one step incorporating expanded field notes. Guided by Proctor’s Framework and using thematic analysis, we focused largely on feasibility and acceptability. These steps included familiarization, coding, generating initial themes, reviewing and developing themes, refining, defining and naming themes and reporting. Feasibility was defined as the extent to which POC RTRI testing could be successfully used within routine health facility settings [14–16]. We also focused on assessing provider’s reactions to RTRI testing (accept- ability), provider’s use of the test and the extent to which providers thought the RTRI testing could be delivered in light of available resources (appropriateness), and provider’s capacity to deliver the tests as intended (implementation) . Data analysis begun by familiarization with the FGD transcripts. Coding was conducted through a combination of deductive approaches based on the a priori themes described above, as well as inductively to capture additional themes highlighted by the providers. Data management was done in NVivo QSR™ (Queensland, Australia). After two transcripts had been coded, the research team met to hold team discussions and review key emerging themes to ensure there was consensus PLOS One | May 4, 2026 5 / 16 with the coding framework before applying the codes broadly across all the transcripts . Key findings relating to the research question are presented below with supporting evidence in extracted quotes. Sample size considerations and quantitative data analysis For this descriptive implementation research study that did not involve a priori hypothesis testing, we did not specify a sample size. Rather, we estimated a feasible enrollment target based on routine HIV testing data at our proposed study sites for the duration of the planned study. As such, we estimated that we could approach a total of 50 clients newly iden- tified with HIV per week across both study sites, of whom approximately 50% would meet study eligibility criteria, leaving an estimated recruitment
