RESEARCH ARTICLE
KEYWORDS: rtri, poc, hiv, study, testing, laboratory, results, recent, central, test, infection, central laboratory, rita, recency, participants


approach a total of 50 clients newly iden- tified with HIV per week across both study sites, of whom approximately 50% would meet study eligibility criteria, leaving an estimated recruitment target of 600 over the 24-week planned study period. Due to unforeseen challenges emerging period, leaving us with a project study enrollment of about 300 participants. We used descriptive statistics to summarize study participant characteristics. We then assessed Asanté™ HIV-1 Rapid Recency® Assay performance at the POC compared to the central laboratory by comparing the classifications of recent and long-term infections in each setting using as our reference standard the recency classification from the central laboratory-based RITA, which is the program reference standard used in Zambia. We also calculated the Cohen’s Kappa statistic to estimate agreement between the Asanté™ HIV-1 Rapid Recency® Assay performed by non-laboratory HCWs tion, Texas, USA). Ethics the Declaration of Helsinki. This activity was reviewed by CDC, deemed research not involving human subjects, and was conducted consistent with applicable federal law and CDC policy. Results Overview For the quantitative component, we invited a total of 393 of 1,224 (32.1%) people newly diagnosed with HIV at the two study sites during the study period for study participation. Of these, 344 (87.5%) were found study eligible and 321 (93.3%) enrolled. Of the 23 (6.7%) who were eligible but did not enroll, 14 (60.9%) stated that they did not have enough time to participate, 6 (26.1%) refused informed consent, 2 (8.7%) were not interested in study participation, and 1 (4.3%) did not complete study enrollment procedures. For this analysis, we included 317 of 321 (98.8%) participants after exclud- ing 4 (1.2%) participants—all of whom had a negative HIV-positive serostatus verification (V) line at both POC and central laboratory (or in one case, just at the central laboratory). We assessed Asanté RTRI test performance characteristics in a subset of 245 (76.3%) participants with complete VL data (Fig 1). Performance of the RTRI HIV diagnostic verification line (positive verification line) among confirmed HIV- seropositive specimens by the national HIV diagnostic testing algorithm A total of 321 plasma specimens from persons diagnosed with HIV infection using the serial national diagnostic testing algorithm were also tested by the Asanté RTRI. All 321 samples (100%) were tested at both the facility and the central laboratory, having been received at the central laboratory with complete sample information. For 321 (100%) of these tests, visible control
