RESEARCH ARTICLE
KEYWORDS: rtri, poc, hiv, study, testing, laboratory, results, recent, central, test, infection, central laboratory, rita, recency, participants


laboratory, com- pared to the RITA used in Zambia as a reference standard (N = 245). Note: RTRI – rapid test for recent infection, POC – point of care, ROC – receiver-operator curve, CL – central laboratory. Table 3. Rapid test for recent infection classification characteristics by test setting com- pared to the Zambia national program recent infection testing algorithm as the reference standard. Test setting Sensitivity Specificity Correctly classified (compared to RITA) (compared to RITA) CL 100.0% 93.4% 94.0% POC 85.0% 94.7% 94.0% Note: CL – central laboratory, POC – point-of-care, RITA- recent infection testing algorithm. Table 4. Characteristics of healthcare worker focus group participants (N = 28). Characteristics Count n (%) Sex Female 15 (53.6) Male 13 (46.4) Site A 14 (50.0) B 14 (50.0) Healthcare worker cadre Peer treatment supporter/ community health worker 17 (60.7) Nurse 6 (21.4) Clinical Officer 2 (7.1) HTS Counselor 2 (7.1) Laboratory Technician 1 (3.6) PLOS One | May 4, 2026 10 / 16 “Another problem that used to be there…was when a person asks you where they got the virus from. Because [they would say], ‘[the] last time when I tested I was found to be negative and this time I have been found positive’. They ask those questions and now you are trying by all means to help your client so that they can come to terms with their ehhh status. So recency has been found to help [us] give an answer to clients that have such questions.” (Site B, Peers). Initial resistance to POC implementation of the RTRI among providers was driven by a lack of understanding of how the service would fit into their regular activities. Training changed their knowledge and beliefs about the RTRI, which improved their satisfaction with the practice. Thus, healthcare workers highlighted the importance of training and supervision to ensure the sustained adoption and accurate use of the RTRI at POC. “Just around the facility, we have capable people who can teach others on good skills [for recency testing]. So, we have deliberately said we will be doing in-house training where we don’t have to call an outsider to come and… take them through the skills. And so that [way] we have done [RTRI testing] within ourselves and then it is helping.” (Site B Healthcare Provider) Appropriateness Due to the increased number of samples required from the participating clients, the providers highlighted the importance
