RESEARCH ARTICLE
KEYWORDS: rtri, poc, hiv, study, testing, laboratory, results, recent, central, test, infection, central laboratory, rita, recency, participants


testing] within ourselves and then it is helping.” (Site B Healthcare Provider) Appropriateness Due to the increased number of samples required from the participating clients, the providers highlighted the importance of sensitizing clients on the additional samples, time and processes needed for the various required tests at the time of establishing HIV care. This sensitization was needed to improve the suitabil- ity of POC RTRI testing for routine clinical practice. “The challenge was the bleeding of the client because of that additional one sample that we were collecting, they were complaining to say why we were collecting so many bottles, in as much as we might try to explain that there is a care worker) Providers reported a good level of compatibility between the test and other HIV testing services being offered at their “When starting [recency testing], I thought that they just wanted to disturb our brains, but after we knew how recency works we realized that it helps us a lot and that’s why the [number of] positives are increasing.” (Site B, Peers). Despite the RTRI being perceived as being aligned with existing facility structures, systems, and procedures, potential implementation of POC testing would need to consider additional supports and resources. In particular, there was an identified need for more human resources due to the additional steps occurring outside of routine HIV testing, as well as training in areas such as contact elicitation for index testing. “Our workload has increased because it means more registers coming in, it means more clients coming in, and clients have increased and our workload has also increased, and yet we are still the same number of human resources.” (Site A Clinician) PLOS One | May 4, 2026 11 / 16 will not have proper skills maybe on [contact] elicitation, they will not manage to…bring out all the their sexual con- tacts.” (Site B, Healthcare provider) Implementation A perpetual challenge cited was that facility infrastructure and workflow was not conducive to optimizing privacy during HIV and recency result reporting. “So, for example, I am in this building, and I am found positive, okay, so recency will not happen there as a result I have to trek to here in my confusion. Should it happen to say we need some lab tests then I will have to trek back to the lab. After results are out again, I have to trek back here…”. (Site
