RESEARCH ARTICLE
KEYWORDS: rtri, poc, hiv, study, testing, laboratory, results, recent, central, test, infection, central laboratory, rita, recency, participants


happen to say we need some lab tests then I will have to trek back to the lab. After results are out again, I have to trek back here…”. (Site A, Healthcare worker) In addition, resources for strengthening RTRI result reporting systems at the facility would also need to be factored into future implementation considerations. “Just to say that this program has been implemented very well except at a certain point where we had some challenges with documentation. …So, that was corrected and this time we are doing very well.” (Site A Clinician) Programmatic considerations for scaling POC RTRI Resource allocation for POC RTRI will have to balance the utility of testing at the POC as part of national surveillance efforts against the costs of implementation. Programmatic considerations for expanding POC RTRI are summarized in Table 5. Table 5. Program considerations for POC RTRI scale up. Area Consideration Recommendations RTRI assay Relatively high rates of false positive recency Utilize RTRI results as part of a RITA performance results on the RTRI Discordant Challenges with test band interpretation Implement QC measures early into RTRI results implementation to avoid discrepancies; Implement automated test strip reader to ensure interpretation accuracy Result return Will be challenging to perform the RTRI at the Consider social harms that may occur and reporting POC and not return results or integrate into as a result of returning test results to patient records clients; study counselling approaches for safely reporting recency results to clients POC Quality Routine QC, refresher training, proficiency pan- Incorporate RTRI QC into the broader control (QC) els, and monitoring of site performance would QC for the national HIV testing program be needed, particularly in the initial stages of facility-wide rollout Utility Relatively high rates of false recent results Consider using RTRI results along with VL (and potentially other tests) as part of a robust RITA, which may decrease the utility of POC RTRI on its own Note: RTRI – rapid test for recent infection, RITA – recent infection testing algorithm, POC – point of care. PLOS One | May 4, 2026 12 / 16 Discussion done by specialized laboratory workers and found that 96% of the time results at the POC agreed with those from the central laboratory. These quantitative results fit with our qualitative findings suggesting that it is feasible for healthcare workers to conduct the RTRI at the POC in routine HIV care
