RESEARCH ARTICLE
KEYWORDS: rtri, poc, hiv, study, testing, laboratory, results, recent, central, test, infection, central laboratory, rita, recency, participants


the central laboratory. These quantitative results fit with our qualitative findings suggesting that it is feasible for healthcare workers to conduct the RTRI at the POC in routine HIV care settings in urban Zambia provided the proper training, quality changes in the prevalence of recent infection in specific populations and geographies, it could be leveraged to channel HIV prevention interventions to the people and places at greatest risk for ongoing HIV acquisition and onward transmis- sion [19–21]. Transitioning Asanté RTRI implementation from central laboratories to the POC, where it was designed for use, could help reduce sample courier costs, decongest central laboratories, shorten aggregate result reporting times to be decentralized to the POC. prevention engaging specific populations. In our study, we observed that 43% of participants with a recent RTRI had a suppressed VL. While reportedly HIV undiagnosed and ART naïve at the time of study enrollment, these individuals may have been aware of their HIV status and already on ART at the time of presenting as “new” to HIV care . Such high rates (15–90%) of false positive recency results have been observed in other countries and pose a challenge for accu- rately estimating HIV incidence and other cascade indicators . Given these challenges, the Asanté RTRI may best other RITA measures, such as an accompanying VL, may limit the utility of its implementation at the POC. While it was not the main study aim, we did identify a few instances (about 1% of participants) where the Asanté RTRI results were discrepant with the national HIV diagnostic algorithm. The inclusion of a third diagnostic test in national algo- rithms, as recently adopted in Zambia, can help improve the quality of HIV testing in the national program. We observed a higher median VL among PLHIV with long-term infection than those with recent infection. More research is needed to determine the VL thresholds and durations that encourage the development of highly avid antibodies for detection by RTRI assays. HIV viremia is an important predictor of HIV transmission risk, particularly early in infection, and, thus, focusing HIV services on individuals with viremia and their partners, irrespective of recency status, can be important for achieving epidemic control . As VL testing at the time of HIV care entry scales up in high-burden settings, it will allow better population-level monitoring of VL and identification of individuals with high VLs who contribute disproportionately to trans-
