RESEARCH ARTICLE
KEYWORDS: rtri, poc, hiv, study, testing, laboratory, results, recent, central, test, infection, central laboratory, rita, recency, participants


time of HIV care entry scales up in high-burden settings, it will allow better population-level monitoring of VL and identification of individuals with high VLs who contribute disproportionately to trans- mission. As baseline VL becomes more available in HIV treatment programs, further research will be needed to under- stand the added value offered by RTRI testing beyond baseline VL testing for recency surveillance and potential “hotspot” identification. We complemented our quantitative evaluation of POC Asanté RTRI performance by speaking with non-laboratory HCW end users who implemented the RTRI at POC. Facility healthcare workers did not report encountering major burden from adding recency testing to their daily duties, although they did acknowledge an increase in client volumes and paperwork. human resources to conduct testing. In addition, they believed the Asanté RTRI could be implemented with fidelity and sustained in the health system through continuous on-site training and supportive supervision. This would also support maximal adoption by end users and integration with other HIV testing services. Overall, they felt the addition of POC RTRI was acceptable and appropriate for their practice setting with the support provided by the study and could be acceptable and appropriate under routine operational conditions in Lusaka, Zambia with sustained additional human resources, coun- selling for clients, and other programmatic inputs and supports. PLOS One | May 4, 2026 13 / 16 The Zambian national HIV recent infection surveillance program utilizes data from Asanté RTRI testing done at central laboratories to inform a targeted public health response at sites with a high percentage of RITA recent results in a given district. The operational issues encountered in this study around visual test band interpretation and the high false positive rate for RTRI results compared to the RITA suggest that POC deployment of the Asanté RTRI on its own has limited utility, even when appropriate laboratory QC systems are in place. If used as part of the national RITA, however, POC RTRI testing could have a role if the intrinsic limitations of the RTRI assay—and its implications for the positive predictive value of the assay—are taken into account . Adopting POC Asanté RTRI testing programmatically may prove challenging to withhold RTRI results from individuals, as is done in the national program currently, creating an environment of mistrust about the test specifically, and the recency program more broadly [28–30]. Thus, any consideration of Asanté RTRI testing at the POC should first
