RESEARCH ARTICLE
KEYWORDS: rtri, poc, hiv, study, testing, laboratory, results, recent, central, test, infection, central laboratory, rita, recency, participants


program currently, creating an environment of mistrust about the test specifically, and the recency program more broadly [28–30]. Thus, any consideration of Asanté RTRI testing at the POC should first prompt additional stakeholder consultation, particularly with the communities and populations affected, and careful policy maker consideration to ensure safe result reporting without creating undue social harms. We acknowledge several study limitations. First, we had a relatively small sample of participants with recent infection, limiting power for statistical comparisons and external validity. However, we report 95% confidence intervals, accounting for these limited observations from a statistical significance perspective, and acknowledge that our results may not hold outside sub-Saharan Africa or urban settings like Lusaka, Zambia. Second, there is increasing evidence that a substantial portion of individuals presenting as new to HIV care have been in HIV care previously , which may dilute the target population for recency testing with individuals with chronic HIV infection who have been in care previously. This artifact is reflected in the “real world” analysis undertaken here. However, we have done a sensitivity analysis excluding PLHIV found to have a suppressed baseline viral load that showed improved classification accuracy for the POC RTRI com- pared to the RITA when these individuals were considered. Finally, we conducted this study at only two pilot sites in urban Lusaka, which both received support from PEPFAR and implementing partners, so these results may not be generalizable to less well-resourced settings in sub-Saharan Africa, such as hard-to-reach rural areas. In conclusion, the Asanté RTRI can be performed reliably at the POC and is acceptable to non-laboratory healthcare adopted alongside a VL test as part of a RITA to reduce instances of misclassification. Ultimately, the greatest benefit of the Asanté RTRI will come from its integration into HIV surveillance programs that rapidly leverage quality-assured RITA results for geographically prioritized and differentiated HIV prevention activities. Supporting information S1 File. Supplementary tables and figures. (DOCX) Acknowledgments We are grateful to the study participants, the study teams involved in survey adaptation and collecting and monitoring data Disclaimer: The findings and conclusions in this report are those of the author(s) and do not necessarily represent the official position of CDC. Author contributions Conceptualization: Shilpa S. Iyer, Peter Minchella, Theodora Savory - van Huis, Carolyn Bolton, Michael E. Herce. Data curation: Shilpa S. Iyer, Jake M. Pry, Herbert Kapesa, Misinzo Moono, Chilambwe Mwila, Christiana Frimpong, Mirriam Nanyangwe, Lumbani
