Junctional tachycardias
KEYWORDS: atrioventricular, pathway, tachycardia, accessory, re-entrant, accessory pathway, atrial, re-entrant tachycardia, complex, qrs, conduction, impulse, ventricular, ventricles, wave


Any tachyarrhythmia arising from the atria or the atrioventricular junction is a supraventricular tachycardia. In clinical practice, however, the term supraventricular tachycardia is reserved for atrial tachycardias and arrhythmias arising from the region of the atrioventricular junction as a result of a re-entry mechanism (junctional tachycardias). The most common junctional tachycardias are atrioventricular nodal re-entrant tachycardia and atrioventricular re-entrant tachycardia. Atrioventricular nodal re-entrant tachycardia This is the most common cause of paroxysmal regular narrow complex tachycardia. Affected individuals are usually young and healthy with no organic heart disease. Mechanism In atrioventricular nodal re-entrant tachycardia there are two functionally and anatomically different distinct pathways in the atrioventricular node, with different conduction velocities and different refractory periods. They share a final common pathway through the lower part of the atrioventricular node and bundle of His. One pathway is relatively fast and has a long refractory period; the other through the fast pathway and depolarises the ventricles. The impulse also travels down the slow pathway but terminates because the final common pathway is refractory. The slow pathway has a short refractory period and recovers first. An atrioventricular nodal re- entrant tachycardia is initiated, for example, if a premature atrial beat occurs at the critical moment when the fast pathway is still refractory. The impulse is conducted through the slow pathway and is then propagated in a retrograde fashion up the fast pathway, which has by now recovered from its refractory period. Thus a re-entry through the circuit is created. This type of “slow-fast” re-entry circuit is found in 90% of patients with atrioventricular nodal re- entrant tachycardia. Most of the rest have a fast-slow circuit, in which the re-entrant tachycardia is initiated by a premature ventricular contraction, and the impulse travels retrogradely up the slow pathway. This uncommon form of atrioventricular nodal re-entrant tachycardia is often sustained for very long periods and is then known as permanent junctional re-entrant tachycardia and is recognised by a long RP1 interval. Electrocardiographic findings During sinus rhythm the electrocardiogram is normal. During the tachycardia the rhythm is regular, with narrow QRS complexes and a rate of 130-250 beats/min. Atrial conduction proceeds in a retrograde fashion producing inverted P waves in leads II, III, and aVF. However, since atrial and ventricular depolarisation often occurs simultaneously, the P waves are frequently buried in the QRS complex and may be totally obscured. A P wave may be seen distorting the
