Junctional tachycardias
KEYWORDS: atrioventricular, pathway, tachycardia, accessory, re-entrant, accessory pathway, atrial, re-entrant tachycardia, complex, qrs, conduction, impulse, ventricular, ventricles, wave


atrial and ventricular depolarisation often occurs simultaneously, the P waves are frequently buried in the QRS complex and may be totally obscured. A P wave may be seen distorting the last part of the QRS complex giving rise to a “pseudo” S wave in the inferior leads and a “pseudo” R wave in V1. Fast-slow atrioventricular nodal re-entrant tachycardia is known as long RP1 tachycardia, and it may be difficult to distinguish from an atrial tachycardia In the relatively uncommon fast-slow atrioventricular nodal re-entrant tachycardia, atrial depolarisation lags behind depolarisation of the ventricles, and inverted P waves may follow the T wave and precede the next QRS complex. Clinical presentation Episodes of atrioventricular nodal re-entrant tachycardia may begin at any age. They tend to start and stop abruptly and can occur spontaneously or be precipitated by simple movements. They can last a few seconds, several hours, or days. The frequency of episodes can vary between several a day, or one episode in a lifetime. Most patients have only mild symptoms, such as palpitations or the sensation that their heart is beating rapidly. More severe symptoms include dizziness, dyspnoea, weakness, neck pulsation, and central chest pain. Some patients report polyuria. Symptoms are commonest in patients with a very rapid heart rate and pre-existing heart disease Atrioventricular re-entrant tachycardia Atrioventricular re-entrant tachycardias occur as a result of an anatomically distinct atrioventricular connection. This accessory conduction pathway allows the atrial impulse to bypass the atrioventricular node and activate the ventricles prematurely (ventricular pre-excitation). The presence of the accessory pathway allows a re-entry circuit to form and paroxysmal atrioventricular re-entrant tachycardias to occur. The commonest kind of atrioventricular re-entrant tachycardia occurs as part of the Wolff-Parkinson-White syndrome Wolff-Parkinson-White syndrome In this syndrome an accessory pathway (the bundle of Kent) connects the atria directly to the ventricles. It results from a failure of complete separation of the atria and ventricles during fetal development. The pathway can be situated anywhere around the groove between the atria and ventricles, and in 10% of cases more than one accessory pathway exists. The accessory pathway allows the formation of a re-entry circuit, which may give rise to either a narrow or a broad complex tachycardia, depending on whether the atrioventricular node or the accessory pathway is used for antegrade conduction. Electrocardiographic features 3/14 In sinus rhythm the atrial impulse conducts over the accessory pathway without the delay encountered with
