Junctional tachycardias
KEYWORDS: atrioventricular, pathway, tachycardia, accessory, re-entrant, accessory pathway, atrial, re-entrant tachycardia, complex, qrs, conduction, impulse, ventricular, ventricles, wave


atrioventricular node or the accessory pathway is used for antegrade conduction. Electrocardiographic features 3/14 In sinus rhythm the atrial impulse conducts over the accessory pathway without the delay encountered with atrioventricular nodal conduction. It is transmitted rapidly to the ventricular myocardium, and consequently the PR interval is short. However, because the impulse enters non- specialised myocardium, ventricular depolarisation progresses slowly at first, distorting the early part of the R wave and producing the characteristic delta wave on the electrocardiogram. This slow depolarisation is then rapidly overtaken by depolarisation propagated by the normal conduction system, and the rest of the QRS complex appears relatively normal. Classification of Wolff-Parkinson-White syndrome Type A (dominant R wave in V1 lead) may be confused with: Right bundle branch block Right ventricular hypertrophy Posterior myocardial infarction Type B (negative QRS complex in V1 lead) may be confused with: Left bundle branch block Anterior myocardial infarction Commonly, the accessory pathway is concealed—that is, it is capable of conducting only in a retrograde fashion, from ventricles to atria. During sinus rhythm pre-excitation does not occur and the electrocardiogram is normal. Traditionally the Wolff-Parkinson-White syndrome has been classified into two types according to the electrocardiographic morphology of the precordial leads. In type A, the delta wave and QRS complex are predominantly upright in the precordial leads. The dominant R wave in lead V1 may be misinterpreted as right bundle branch block. In type B, the delta wave and QRS complex are predominantly negative in leads V1 and V2 and positive in the other precordial leads, resembling left bundle branch block. Mechanism of tachycardia formation Orthodromic atrioventricular re-entrant tachycardias account for most tachycardias in the Wolff- Parkinson-White syndrome. A premature atrial impulse is conducted down the atrioventricular node 4/14 to the ventricles and then in a retrograde fashion via the accessory pathway back to the atria. The impulse then circles repeatedly between the atria and ventricles, producing a narrow complex tachycardia. Since atrial depolarisation lags behind ventricular depolarisation, P waves follow the QRS complexes. The delta wave is not observed during the tachycardia, and the QRS complex is of normal duration. The rate is usually 140-250 beats/min. Antidromic atrioventricular re-entrant tachycardia is relatively uncommon, occurring in about 10% of patients with the Wolff-Parkinson-White syndrome. The accessory pathway allows antegrade conduction, and thus the impulse is conducted from the atria to the ventricles via the accessory pathway. Depolarisation is propagated through
