Junctional tachycardias
KEYWORDS: atrioventricular, pathway, tachycardia, accessory, re-entrant, accessory pathway, atrial, re-entrant tachycardia, complex, qrs, conduction, impulse, ventricular, ventricles, wave


with the Wolff-Parkinson-White syndrome. The accessory pathway allows antegrade conduction, and thus the impulse is conducted from the atria to the ventricles via the accessory pathway. Depolarisation is propagated through non-specialised myocardium, and the resulting QRS complex is broad and bizarre. The impulse then travels in a retrograde fashion via the atrioventricular node back to the atria. Orthodromic atrioventricular re-entrant tachycardia occurs with antegrade conduction through the atrioventricular nodeAntidromic atrioventricular re-entrant tachycardia occurs with retrograde conduction through the atrioventricular node Atrial fibrillation In patients without an accessory pathway the atrioventricular node protects the ventricles from the rapid atrial activity that occurs during atrial fibrillation. In the Wolff-Parkinson-White syndrome the atrial impulses can be conducted via the accessory pathway, causing ventricular pre-excitation and producing broad QRS complexes with delta waves. Occasionally an impulse will be conducted via the atrioventricular node and produce a normal QRS complex. The electrocardiogram has a characteristic appearance, showing a rapid, completely irregular broad complex tachycardia but with occasional narrow complexes. In some patients the accessory pathway allows very rapid conduction, and consequently very fast ventricular rates (in excess of 300 beats/min) may be seen, with the associated risk of deterioration into ventricular fibrillation Clinical presentation 5/14 The Wolff-Parkinson-White syndrome is sometimes an incidental electrocardiographic finding, but often patients present with tachyarrhythmias. Episodes tend to be more common in young people but may come and go through life. Patients may first present when they are old. When rapid arrhythmias occur in association with atrial fibrillation, patients may present with heart failure or hypotension. Drugs that block the atrioventricular node—for example, digoxin, verapamil, and adenosine—may be dangerous in this situation and should be avoided. These drugs decrease the refractoriness of accessory connections and increase the frequency of conduction, resulting in a rapid ventricular response, which may precipitate ventricular fibrillation.
