Guidelines
KEYWORDS: patients, risk, crc, surveillance, cancer, years, evidence, age, grade, strength, pathogenic, recommendation, grade evidence, low, strength recommendation


Guidelines Guidelines for the management of hereditary colorectal cancer from the British Society of Gastroenterology (BSG)/Association of Coloproctology of Great Britain and Ireland (ACPGBI)/ United Kingdom Cancer Genetics Group (UKCGG) Kevin J Monahan ,1,2 Nicola Bradshaw,3 Sunil Dolwani,4 Bianca Desouza,5 Malcolm G Dunlop,6 James E East,7,8 Mohammad Ilyas,9 Asha Kaur,10 Fiona Lalloo,11 Andrew Latchford,12 Matthew D Rutter ,13,14 Ian Tomlinson ,15,16 Huw J W Thomas,1,2 James Hill,11 Hereditary CRC guidelines eDelphi consensus group ► Additional material is AbsTrACT having a family history of a first-d egree relative published online only. To view Heritable factors account for approximately 35% of (FDR) or second degree relative (SDR) with CRC.2 please visit the journal online colorectal cancer (CRC) risk, and almost 30% of the While highly penetrant syndromes such as Lynch (http:// dx. doi. org/ 10. 1136/ gutjnl- 2019- 319915). population in the UK have a family history of CRC. syndrome (LS), familial adenomatous polyposis (FAP) The quantification of an individual’s lifetime risk of and other polyposis syndromes account for account For numbered affiliations see end of article. molecular data, and depends on accurate phenotypic in genetic diagnosis, improvements in endoscopic assessment and genetic diagnosis. In turn this may surgical control, and medical and lifestyle interven- Correspondence to Dr Kevin J Monahan, Family facilitate targeted risk-r educing interventions, including tions provide opportunities for CRC prevention and k. monahan@ imperial. ac. uk cancer prevention. This guideline is an update from the evidence- based framework for the optimal manage- Received 20 September 2019 2010 British Society of Gastroenterology/Association of ment of hereditary CRC for clinicians involved in Revised 25 October 2019 Coloproctology of Great Britain and Ireland (BSG/ACPGBI) their management, including gastroenterologists, Published Online First 28 November 2019 is concerned specifically with people who have increased ogists. This guideline was commissioned by the those with Lynch syndrome, polyposis or a family history of of the British Society of Gastroenterology (BSG), CRC. On this occasion we invited the UK Cancer Genetics via the colorectal section, and a guideline chair Group (UKCGG), a subgroup within the British Society selected. It is an update of the previous iteration of Genetic Medicine (BSGM), as a partner to BSG and of the BSG/Association of Coloproctology of Great ACPGBI in the multidisciplinary guideline development Britain and Ireland (ACPGBI) guideline published process. We also invited external review through the in 2010 and developed in accordance with the BSG Delphi process by members
