Guidelines
KEYWORDS: patients, risk, crc, surveillance, cancer, years, evidence, age, grade, strength, pathogenic, recommendation, grade evidence, low, strength recommendation


multidisciplinary guideline development Britain and Ireland (ACPGBI) guideline published process. We also invited external review through the in 2010 and developed in accordance with the BSG Delphi process by members of the public as well as National Institute for Health and Care Excellence the steering committees of the European Hereditary (NICE)- compliant guideline process. Tumour Group (EHTG) and the European Society of The Guideline Development Group (GDG), Gastrointestinal Endoscopy (ESGE). A systematic review which included gastroenterologists from the BSG, of 10 189 publications was undertaken to develop 67 clinical geneticists from United Kingdom Cancer evidence and expert opinion-b ased recommendations Genetics Group (UKCGG), colorectal surgeons for the management of hereditary CRC risk. Ten research from the ACPGBI, a pathologist, a genetic coun- management of people at hereditary CRC risk. ensure wide-r anging expertise across all relevant disciplines. Members of the GDG, and participants in the eDelphi process, completed a Declaration ObjeCTive of Conflict of Interests (COI) form which was © Author(s) (or their To provide a clear strategy for the management of reviewed and vetted by the BSG. employer(s)) 2020. Re- use permitted under CC BY- NC. No people at hereditary risk of colorectal cancer (CRC), A scoping meeting was held on 13 October 2017, commercial re- use. See rights which includes diagnosis, endoscopic management, and in advance of this meeting the GDG was asked and permissions. Published prevention and surgical care. to develop key priorities and questions. by BMJ. The GDG determined that the primary measure To cite: Monahan KJ, Aims And meThOds of effectiveness of any intervention was a reduc- Bradshaw N, Dolwani S, et al. An estimated 35% of CRC is due to heritable factors,1 tion of the lifetime risk of CRC, and the following Gut 2020;69:411–444. with approximately 29% of the UK population secondary outcome measures: Monahan KJ, et al. Gut 2020;69:411–444. doi: 411 Guidelines i. Reduction in the incidence of advanced adenomas at were also scrutinised. After each round of Delphi, and before the colonoscopy guideline was finalised, the search was repeated and any important ii. Prevention of CRC studies published since the initial evidence search were incorporated. iii. Reduced morbidity related to CRC, or morbidity secondary A modified electronic Delphi process6 was used to develop and to complications of surveillance and treatment refine statements. Initial draft statements formulated by the writing iv. Improved identification of hereditary CRC syndromes committee were reviewed by the GDG
