Guidelines
KEYWORDS: patients, risk, crc, surveillance, cancer, years, evidence, age, grade, strength, pathogenic, recommendation, grade evidence, low, strength recommendation


develop and to complications of surveillance and treatment refine statements. Initial draft statements formulated by the writing iv. Improved identification of hereditary CRC syndromes committee were reviewed by the GDG to allow for modification v. Improved pathways from diagnosis to treatment in suscep- and to identify additional references. After a preliminary discus- tible populations. sion, formal anonymous voting rounds were undertaken using We sought a consistent approach in our assessment of the rela- SurveyMonkey. Each statement was scored by each member of the tive effectiveness of interventions. In principle we agreed that GDG using a five-p oint scale. We also invited key national and surveillance should only be offered to individuals who remain international opinion leaders from the UKCGG steering group, at higher risk of developing CRC than the general population. ACPGBI, BSG, the European Hereditary Tumour Group (EHTG) As CRC risk is not always clearly defined, as a surrogate we and the European Society of Gastrointestinal Endoscopy (ESGE) accepted that advanced adenoma yield on surveillance should be to participate in the modified Delphi process. We included addi- approximately double that in susceptible populations compared tional patient and public involvement in the Delphi process by with the average risk population. inviting participants through the national charities Bowel Cancer A relative threshold for genetic testing was agreed for people UK and Lynch Syndrome UK. Consensus required at least 80% with a 10% or greater probability of having a germline patho- agreement, and consensus of over 70% was accepted if the GDG genic variant in a cancer susceptibility gene in accordance with felt a statement was required for clinical practice. Where consensus previous UK guidelines.3 4 However the GDG agreed that the was not reached, feedback from the GDG members was dissemi- arbitrary nature of this threshold meant that it could be modified nated after each round to allow members to reconsider their orig- in cases where objective risk assessment was difficult to attain, inal position.7 Where appropriate, revisions to statements were and clinicians had sufficient clinical suspicion of risk. made and a further voting round was undertaken in second and Key questions we sought to cover included the following: third rounds. A final (fourth) round of voting for statements where 1. Which aspects of the previous guidelines require updating? consensus had not been reached for 11 statements was performed 2. What is the lifetime CRC risk and optimal surveillance for within
