Guidelines
KEYWORDS: patients, risk, crc, surveillance, cancer, years, evidence, age, grade, strength, pathogenic, recommendation, grade evidence, low, strength recommendation


Which aspects of the previous guidelines require updating? consensus had not been reached for 11 statements was performed 2. What is the lifetime CRC risk and optimal surveillance for within the GDG only. those with a family history of CRC (where LS and polyposis Surveillance and molecular testing recommendations are syndromes have been excluded)? summarised in table 1 and table 2 respectively. The GDG also 3. What is the diagnostic yield of genetic testing and/or sur- developed 10 research recommendations (online supplementary veillance for high-r isk populations? file 1) which were prioritised by electronic voting. 4. What is the optimal gastrointestinal (GI) surveillance for pa- The GRADE (Grading of Recommendations, Assessment, tients at hereditary risk GI cancer? Development and Evaluations) tool8 was used to evaluate the 5. What is the impact of high-q uality endoscopy in patients strength of evidence and the strength of recommendations made with known or suspected hereditary cancer syndromes? (see executive summary). The GRADE system specifically sepa- 6. Should we develop gene- or gender- specific guidelines for rates the strength of evidence from the strength of a recom- surveillance? mendation. While the strength of a recommendation may often 7. What is the optimal diagnostic assessment and surveillance reflect the evidence base, the GRADE system allows for occa- interval for ‘Lynch- like’ syndrome patients? sions where this is not the case—for example, where it seems 8. How can we improve recognition, diagnosis and treatment good sense to make a recommendation despite the absence of patients at hereditary risk of CRC? of high- quality scientific evidence such as a large randomised 9. Which diagnostic genetic tests should we offer serrated controlled trial (RCT). polyposis syndrome (SPS), multiple colorectal adenoma (MCRA) and early onset CRC (EOCRC) patients (if any)? 10. When should colonoscopic surveillance for familial risk exeCuTive summAry Of key reCOmmendATiOns patients stop, because it is no longer necessary, or because service provision, communication and management principles the patient should be referred for surgery? ► We recommend that the moderate risk category of family 11. Which are the optimal surgical approaches in patients with history of CRC (FHCC) is the minimum threshold for hereditary CRC syndromes? referral from primary care (GRADE of evidence: very low; 12. What is the evidence for chemoprophylaxis in patients who Strength of recommendation: strong) are at hereditary risk of CRC? ► We recommend that individuals with a FHCC, which meets on hereditary risk
