Guidelines
KEYWORDS: patients, risk, crc, surveillance, cancer, years, evidence, age, grade, strength, pathogenic, recommendation, grade evidence, low, strength recommendation


the evidence for chemoprophylaxis in patients who Strength of recommendation: strong) are at hereditary risk of CRC? ► We recommend that individuals with a FHCC, which meets on hereditary risk of CRC? clinic in secondary or tertiary care (GRADE of evidence: 14. What information do we need to share with our patients at low; Strength of recommendation: weak) inherited risk of GI cancer? ► We recommend that patients should be referred to a specialist Twenty-t hree PICOs (Patients, Interventions, Controls and service which includes access to constitutional genetic testing Outcomes) were developed which considered these questions. in the presence of either deficient mismatch repair (MMR) The Appraisal of Guidelines for Research and Evaluation (with no evidence of MLH1 promoter methylation or BRAF (AGREE II) instrument provided a methodological framework.5 V600E), or polyposis. (GRADE of evidence: low; Strength A literature search was commissioned externally, with search of recommendation: strong) care Consortium, which returned 10 189 publications. Returned guidance for patients with very rare conditions such as abstracts were reviewed for relevance. Additional references were polymerase proofreading associated polyposis (PPAP), or obtained by cross- referencing and by recommendation from the NTHL1- associated polyposis (NAP); therefore, we suggest GDG. Relevant published national and international guidelines patients with these syndromes should be referred to 412 Monahan KJ, et al. Gut 2020;69:411–444. doi: Guidelines Table 1 Summary of surveillance recommendations Age to commence indication for surveillance Category modality (years) interval Family history of CRC Average risk National screening National screening age As defined by national screening Moderate risk Colonoscopy 55 Post- polypectomy guidelines High risk* Colonoscopy 40 5 yearly until age 75 years Lynch syndrome MMR gene pathogenic variant carriers MLH1 and MSH2 gene carriers Colonoscopy 25 2 yearly until age 75 years MSH6 and PMS2 gene carriers Colonoscopy 35 2 yearly until age 75 years Lynch- like syndrome Individuals with deficient MMR tumours without Colonoscopy 25 2 yearly until age 75 years hypermethylation/BRAF pathogenic variant and no pathogenic constitutional pathogenic variant in MMR genes, and no evidence of biallelic somatic MMR gene inactivation (and their unaffected FDRs) . Serrated polyposis syndrome Affected individuals Colonoscopy From age of diagnosis 1–2 yearly until age 75 years FDRs of affected individuals Colonoscopy 40 (or 10 years earlier 5 yearly until age 75 years than the index case) Multiple colorectal adenomas 10 or more adenomas without constitutive pathogenic Colonoscopy From age of diagnosis 1–2 yearly until age 75
