Guidelines
KEYWORDS: patients, risk, crc, surveillance, cancer, years, evidence, age, grade, strength, pathogenic, recommendation, grade evidence, low, strength recommendation


which confirm the presence of a minimum risk receive specialist knowledge and are aware of patient/ of 10 adenomas or serrated lesions in a FDR. (GRADE of support organisations and discussion with regard to lifestyle evidence: low; Strength of recommendation: strong) and participation in research projects. (GRADE of evidence: ► We recommend that patients with a moderate familial CRC very low; Strength of recommendation: strong) risk should have a one- off colonoscopy at age 55 years. Monahan KJ, et al. Gut 2020;69:411–444. doi: 413 Guidelines Table 2 Molecular testing strategies in hereditary colorectal cancer (CRC) somatic or risk category constitutive testing eligibility Test Family history of CRC Somatic Moderate- risk or high- risk family history dMMR/pMMR Constitutive Amsterdam criteria112 families where MMR testing is not possible Panel testing of affected individuals or unaffected testing CRC Somatic Universal testing dMMR/pMMR and subsequent testing as defined by NICE DG27 guideline5 7 8 18 112 Early onset CRC Constitutive Diagnosis of CRC at 30 years and under Panel testing determined by MMR status (EOCRC) Lynch- like syndrome Somatic dMMR tumours without hypermethylation/BRAF pathogenic variant and no Somatic testing panel constitutional pathogenic variant in MMR genes Serrated polyposis Constitutive/ Diagnosis of exclusion Exclude known predisposition syndromes syndrome somatic Multiple colorectal Constitutive MCRAs under 60 years of age with ≥10 adenomas, or patients over 60 years Gene panel testing adenoma (MCRAs) of age with ≥20 adenomas, or ≥10 with a family history of multiple adenomas or CRC (GRADE of evidence: moderate; Strength of recommenda- detection rate and comfort score. (GRADE of evidence: low; tion: strong) Strength of recommendation: strong) ► We recommend that subsequent colonoscopic surveillance ► We suggest high-q uality, high- definition white light endos- should be performed as determined by post-p olypectomy copy as the preferred modality for colonoscopy surveillance. surveillance guidelines. (GRADE of evidence: moderate; Chromoendoscopy (virtual or dye- based) does not offer a Strength of recommendation: strong) clear advantage over high definition white light examina- ► We suggest that in high- risk families (a cluster of 3× FDRs tion for colonoscopic surveillance, apart from in the context with CRC across >1 generation) a 5 yearly colonoscopy of determining the multiple polyp phenotype. (GRADE of should be performed from age 40 years until age 75 years. evidence: moderate; Strength of recommendation: weak) (GRADE of evidence: moderate; Strength of recommenda- ► We suggest a repeat colonoscopy performed by an expert tion: weak) endoscopist
