Guidelines
KEYWORDS: patients, risk, crc, surveillance, cancer, years, evidence, age, grade, strength, pathogenic, recommendation, grade evidence, low, strength recommendation


until age 75 years. evidence: moderate; Strength of recommendation: weak) (GRADE of evidence: moderate; Strength of recommenda- ► We suggest a repeat colonoscopy performed by an expert tion: weak) endoscopist is indicated in the event of a previously failed colonoscopy, with efforts made to both improve patient Prevention and lifestyle modification in familial CrC experience and to ensure procedure completion, given the ► We recommend that individuals with LS should be advised advantages of colonoscopic surveillance. If colonoscopy is that regular use of daily aspirin reduces CRC risk. (GRADE not possible then consider CT colonography. (GRADE of of evidence: moderate; Strength of recommendation: strong) evidence: low; Strength of recommendation: weak) ► We suggest that people with LS should be offered research ► We suggest that if the bowel preparation for colonoscopy is inadequate or if the examination is incomplete then a repeat opportunities to take aspirin daily at different dosages. If colorectal surveillance procedure should be arranged within they decline research participation they may be advised on 3 months. (GRADE of evidence: low; Strength of recom- their choices regarding dose of aspirin, risks and benefits of mendation: weak) long- term aspirin use and ensure their medical practitioner is aware of their intake. (GRADE of evidence: low; Strength ► There is insufficient evidence to recommend other methods of surveillance for those with familial CRC risk such as FIT of recommendation: weak) (faecal immunochemical test), MR or CT colonography. ► There is insufficient evidence of the benefit of chemo- (GRADE of evidence: low; Strength of recommendation: prophylaxis in polyposis syndromes. (GRADE of evidence: strong) moderate; Strength of recommendation: strong) ► We suggest that individuals at increased familial risk of CRC should be strongly encouraged not to smoke, to maintain a Lynch syndrome (Ls) normal body mass index (BMI), to moderate their consump- ► We recommend that for all people when first diagnosed tion of red and processed meat, and to exercise regularly. with CRC, testing using immunohistochemistry (IHC) for (GRADE of evidence: low; Strength of recommendation: MMR proteins or microsatellite instability is used to identify tumours with deficient DNA MMR, and to guide further weak) sequential testing for LS. (GRADE of evidence: moderate; Quality and advanced endoscopic imaging in colonoscopic Strength of recommendation: strong) surveillance ► We recommend that colonoscopic surveillance should be ► We recommend that colonoscopy is the gold standard performed at a 2 yearly interval for all LS patients.
