Guidelines
KEYWORDS: patients, risk, crc, surveillance, cancer, years, evidence, age, grade, strength, pathogenic, recommendation, grade evidence, low, strength recommendation


recommendation: strong) surveillance ► We recommend that colonoscopic surveillance should be ► We recommend that colonoscopy is the gold standard performed at a 2 yearly interval for all LS patients. (GRADE diagnostic and preventative method of surveillance for of evidence: moderate; Strength of recommendation: strong) people with hereditary risk of CRC. (GRADE of evidence: ► We recommend that age of onset of surveillance colonos- moderate; Strength of recommendation: strong) copy should be stratified according to the LS- associated ► We recommend that all surveillance colonoscopies are gene. We recommend colonoscopy from age 25 years for performed by endoscopists who consistently achieve BSG MLH1 and MSH2 mutation carriers and 35 years for MSH6 colonoscopy KPI (key performance indicators) minimum and PMS2 mutation carriers. There are insufficient data to standards, specifically caecal intubation rate, adenoma/polyp support stratifying age of onset of surveillance by gender. 414 Monahan KJ, et al. Gut 2020;69:411–444. doi: Guidelines (GRADE of evidence: moderate; Strength of recommenda- serrated polyposis syndrome (sPs) tion: strong) ► We recommend a diagnosis of SPS should be made in ► We suggest that for LS patients with MLH1 or MSH2 muta- accordance with the new WHO 2019 criteria for SPS. Since tions who develop colon cancer or colonic neoplasia not causative gene pathogenic variants for SPS have not been amenable to endoscopic control, the decision to perform identified, a definitive diagnosis of SPS should be phenotype- segmental versus total/near total colectomy should balance driven. (GRADE of evidence: moderate; Strength of recom- the risks of metachronous cancer, the functional conse- mendation: strong) quences of surgery, the patient’s age and patient’s wishes. ► Other intestinal polyposis syndromes may present with (GRADE of evidence: Moderate; Strength of recommenda- serrated lesions. If (i) the patient is under 50 or (ii) there tion: strong) are multiple affected individuals within kindred or (iii) there ► We recommend that for LS patients with MSH6 or PMS2 is dysplasia within any of the polyps, then we suggest that mutations there is insufficient evidence for oncological other polyposis syndromes should be excluded by gene panel benefit of extended colectomy over segmental resection. testing before making a definitive diagnosis of SPS. (GRADE (GRADE of evidence: low; Strength of recommendation: of evidence: very low; Strength of recommendation: weak) strong) ► We recommend the cumulative number of serrated polyps ► We suggest that when abdominal-p erineal excision can be from all endoscopic examinations should be used
