Guidelines
KEYWORDS: patients, risk, crc, surveillance, cancer, years, evidence, age, grade, strength, pathogenic, recommendation, grade evidence, low, strength recommendation


of recommendation: weak) strong) ► We recommend the cumulative number of serrated polyps ► We suggest that when abdominal-p erineal excision can be from all endoscopic examinations should be used when avoided, a standard low anterior resection is a reasonable applying the WHO 2019 diagnostic criteria for SPS. option to treat rectal cancers in LS patients, even though (GRADE of evidence: moderate; Strength of recommenda- the residual colon is at high- risk of metachronous neoplasia. tion: strong) (GRADE of evidence: low; Strength of recommendation: ► We recommend that patients with SPS should have colono- scopic surveillance yearly once the colon has been cleared weak) of all lesions >5 mm in size. If no polyps ≥10 mm in size ► We recommend that gastric, small bowel, or pancreatic are identified at subsequent surveillance examinations the surveillance in LS patients is only performed in the context interval can be extended to 2 yearly. (GRADE of evidence: of a clinical trial. (GRADE of evidence: low; Strength of moderate; Strength of recommendation: strong) recommendation: strong) ► We recommend screening for Helicobacter pylori in patients ► We recommend all FDRs of patients with SPS on the basis of the new WHO 2019 SPS criteria, one or two should be with LS and subsequent eradication therapy if indicated. offered an index colonoscopic screening examination at age (GRADE of evidence: low; Strength of recommendation: 40 years or 10 years before the diagnosis of the index case. strong) (GRADE of evidence: moderate; Strength of recommenda- tion: strong) Lynch-like syndrome (LLs) ► We suggest all FDRs of SPS patients have a surveillance exam- ► We recommend that deficient MMR tumours without hyper- ination every 5 years unless polyp burden indicates an exam- methylation/BRAF mutation and without a germline patho- ination is required earlier according to post-p olypectomy genic variant in MMR genes should undergo somatic tumour surveillance guidelines. (GRADE of evidence: low; Strength testing with a CRC gene panel. (GRADE of evidence: low; of recommendation: strong) Strength of recommendation: strong) ► We recommend that if double somatic MMR pathogenic multiple colorectal adenoma (mCrA) patients variants are identified, manage proband and their FDRs ► We suggest an individualised approach to germline testing based on the FHCC. (GRADE of evidence: low; Strength of of patients with MCRA (defined as having 10 or more recommendation: strong) metachronous adenomas). Consider this testing for: ► We suggest that if no or one somatic mutations
