Guidelines
KEYWORDS: patients, risk, crc, surveillance, cancer, years, evidence, age, grade, strength, pathogenic, recommendation, grade evidence, low, strength recommendation


Strength of of patients with MCRA (defined as having 10 or more recommendation: strong) metachronous adenomas). Consider this testing for: ► We suggest that if no or one somatic mutations are identi- – Patients under 60 years of age with lifetime total of ≥10 fied, the proband and their FDRs should be managed as per adenomas; or LS. (GRADE of evidence: low; Strength of recommendation: – Patients from 60 years of age with lifetime total of: weak) – ≥20 adenomas, or – ≥10 adenomas and a FHCC or polyposis early onset CrC (eOCrC) (GRADE of evidence: low; Strength of recommendation: ► We recommend that in patients under 30 years of age with weak) dMMR CRC, an LS constitutional panel test should be ► We suggest that patients with a finding of 10 or more polyps performed, followed by tumour testing for somatic testing if (adenomas or serrated lesions) should, at their next colo- constitutional testing is negative. (GRADE of evidence: low; noscopy, have a high- quality colonoscopic assessment with Strength of recommendation: strong) pancolonic dye spray in order to define accurately the ► We recommend that in patients under 30 years of age with multiple polyp phenotype. (GRADE of evidence: very low; pMMR CRC, a constitutional CRC multiple gene panel test Strength of recommendation: weak) should be performed. (GRADE of evidence: low; Strength of ► We suggest that the endoscopic management of patients with recommendation: strong) 10 or more metachronous adenomas, without MUTYH or ► We suggest that people diagnosed with CRC under age APC gene mutations, should be individualised according 50 years, where hereditary CRC syndromes have been to phenotype. (GRADE of evidence: very low; Strength of excluded, undergo standard post- CRC surveillance for 3 recommendation: weak) years, then continue 5 yearly colonoscopic surveillance ► We suggest annual colonoscopic surveillance for patients until the age they are eligible for national screening. with 10 or more metachronous adenomas after the colon has (GRADE of evidence: low; Strength of recommendation: been cleared of all lesions >5 mm in size. If no polyps 10 mm weak) or greater in size are identified at subsequent surveillance Monahan KJ, et al. Gut 2020;69:411–444. doi: 415 Guidelines examinations the interval can be extended to 2 yearly. ► We recommend the role of elective surgery for intra- (GRADE of evidence: very low; Strength of recommenda- abdominal desmoids should be restricted to treating tion: weak) secondary effects
