Guidelines
KEYWORDS: patients, risk, crc, surveillance, cancer, years, evidence, age, grade, strength, pathogenic, recommendation, grade evidence, low, strength recommendation


yearly. ► We recommend the role of elective surgery for intra- (GRADE of evidence: very low; Strength of recommenda- abdominal desmoids should be restricted to treating tion: weak) secondary effects of the desmoid disease, and this surgery should be performed in expert centres. (GRADE of evidence: familial adenomatous polyposis (fAP) low; Strength of recommendation: strong) ► We recommend that colonic surveillance should normally commence age 12–14 years in those confirmed to have FAP muTyh-associated polyposis (mAP) on predictive genetic testing. (GRADE of evidence: low; ► We recommend that colorectal surveillance is commenced in Strength of recommendation: strong) MAP commencing age 18–20 years. If surgery is not under- ► We suggest that for those with FAP, intervals between taken then annual surveillance is suggested. (GRADE of surveillance colonoscopy may be individualised depending evidence: moderate; Strength of recommendation: strong) on colonic phenotype every 1–3 years. (GRADE of evidence: ► We recommend that for monoallelic MUTYH pathogenic low; Strength of recommendation: weak) variant carriers, the risk of CRC is not sufficiently different ► We suggest that colonoscopy screening is performed for to population risk to meet thresholds for screening and individuals who have an FDR with a clinical diagnosis of routine colonoscopy is not recommended. (GRADE of FAP (ie, “at- risk”) and in whom an APC mutation has not evidence: moderate; Strength of recommendation: strong) been identified, starting at age 12–14 years, and should ► We suggest that upper GI surveillance should be considered continue on 5 yearly surveillance until either a clinical diag- starting at the age of 35 years in MAP. We recommend that nosis is made and they are then managed as FAP, or they the surveillance interval is determined as outlined for FAP. reach the age at which they can enrol in national screening. (GRADE of evidence: low; Strength of recommendation: (GRADE of evidence: very low; Strength of recommenda- weak). tion: weak) ► We recommend upper GI surveillance for FAP patients Peutz-jeghers syndrome (Pjs) starting at age 25 years. (GRADE of evidence: low; Strength ► We suggest that in an asymptomatic patient with PJS, GI of recommendation: strong) surveillance by upper GI endoscopy, colonoscopy and video ► We suggest that for those considered at risk, where predic- capsule endoscopy commence at age 8 years. We recommend tive genetic testing is not possible, screening with upper GI that small bowel surveillance should continue 3 yearly. If endoscopy is not routinely
