Guidelines
KEYWORDS: patients, risk, crc, surveillance, cancer, years, evidence, age, grade, strength, pathogenic, recommendation, grade evidence, low, strength recommendation


commence at age 8 years. We recommend tive genetic testing is not possible, screening with upper GI that small bowel surveillance should continue 3 yearly. If endoscopy is not routinely recommended but should be baseline colonoscopy and oesophago-g astro-d uodenoscopy on colorectal phenotype. (GRADE of evidence: very low; 18 years; however, if polyps are found at baseline examina- Strength of recommendation: weak) tion, then they should be repeated 3 yearly. Earlier investi- ► We suggest that patients with congenital hypertrophy gation of the GI tract should be performed in symptomatic retinal pigmentation epithelium (CHRPE) be referred for patients. (GRADE of evidence: low; Strength of recommen- a specialist ophthalmic review. Patients with bilateral and dation: weak) multiple CHRPE lesions should be referred for screening ► We suggest elective polypectomy to prevent polyp related for FAP and considered for genetic testing and colonoscopy. complications. Small bowel polyps greater than 1.5–2 cm (GRADE of evidence: low; Strength of recommendation: in size (or smaller if symptomatic) should be considered for weak) elective resection to prevent intussusception. (GRADE of evidence: low; Strength of recommendation: weak) fAP: surgery, and desmoid disease ► We recommend that for patients with FAP who are under- juvenile polyposis syndrome (jPs) going colonoscopic surveillance, relative indications for ► We suggest colonoscopic surveillance should commence surgery are: polyps >10 mm in diameter, high grade dysplasia from the age of 15 years or earlier if symptomatic. The within polyps and a significant increase in polyp burden surveillance interval should be 1–3 yearly, personalised between screening examinations. (GRADE of evidence: low; according to colorectal phenotype. (GRADE of evidence: Strength of recommendation: strong) low; Strength of recommendation: weak) ► We recommend that absolute indications for immediate ► We suggest that for those with a confirmed clinical or genetic colorectal surgery in FAP include: documented or suspected diagnosis, upper GI endoscopic surveillance should start at cancer or significant symptoms attributable to the polyposis. the age of 18 years for SMAD4 mutation carriers and 25 (GRADE of evidence: low; Strength of recommendation: years for BMPR1A mutation carriers and those without an strong) identified constitutional. The surveillance interval should be ► We suggest that FAP patients should be counselled about the 1–3 yearly, personalised according to upper GI tract pheno- risk of postoperative desmoid disease formation. (GRADE of type. (GRADE of evidence: low; Strength of recommenda- evidence: low; Strength of recommendation: weak) tion: weak) genotypes or family history
