Guidelines
KEYWORDS: patients, risk, crc, surveillance, cancer, years, evidence, age, grade, strength, pathogenic, recommendation, grade evidence, low, strength recommendation


tract pheno- risk of postoperative desmoid disease formation. (GRADE of type. (GRADE of evidence: low; Strength of recommenda- evidence: low; Strength of recommendation: weak) tion: weak) genotypes or family history of desmoid disease which may nosis of JPS and in whom a mutation has not been identified, be predictive of desmoid formation. (GRADE of evidence: screening of the upper GI tract is not required routinely but very low; Strength of recommendation: weak) should be initiated if/when a clinical diagnosis is made on the ► We suggest that sulindac in combination with high-d ose basis of colonic phenotype. It may, however, be considered selective oestrogen receptor modulators may be effective in if there is a family history suggestive of hereditary haemor- FAP patients with intra-a bdominal desmoids and desmoids rhagic telangiectasia (HHT), even in the absence of colonic located at the abdominal wall. (GRADE of evidence: low; polyps. (GRADE of evidence: low; Strength of recommen- Strength of recommendation: weak) dation: weak) 416 Monahan KJ, et al. Gut 2020;69:411–444. doi: Guidelines ► We suggest that patients with SMAD4 pathogenic variant incidence and mortality in individuals with FAP and LS.10 Regis- should be evaluated for HHT, and that those at risk of, tries of high- risk patients should be linked to robust quality or with a confirmed diagnosis of, HHT are best managed assurance mechanisms for interventions, such as colonoscopy, in conjunction with a specialist HHT centre. (GRADE of with effective recall mechanisms in place to ensure high- risk evidence: low; Strength of recommendation: weak) individuals receive surveillance procedures on schedule. ► Patients with JPS and a microdeletion involving BMPR1A and Awareness of hereditary conditions may be inadequate, PTEN are at risk of the clinical manifestations of both JPS and resulting in an inconsistent approach to the management of PTEN-h amartoma tumour syndrome (PHTS). We suggest that these individuals.9 11 Many patients do not have personalised they should be referred to their local genetics centre for further management strategies and there is a failure to provide adequate advice and to coordinate their surveillance needs. (GRADE of follow- up.12 13 Patient advocacy organisations recommend evidence: low; Strength of recommendation: weak) improvements in the detection of pre- cancerous polyps, early diagnosis of CRC, and personalised treatment options for LS serviCe PrOvisiOn, COmmuniCATiOn And individuals, who should be seen by a team of specialists.14 The mAnAGemenT PrinCiPLes We recommend that moderate risk of FHCC is the
