Guidelines
KEYWORDS: patients, risk, crc, surveillance, cancer, years, evidence, age, grade, strength, pathogenic, recommendation, grade evidence, low, strength recommendation


treatment options for LS serviCe PrOvisiOn, COmmuniCATiOn And individuals, who should be seen by a team of specialists.14 The mAnAGemenT PrinCiPLes We recommend that moderate risk of FHCC is the minimum increasingly relevant across the cancer multidisciplinary teams, threshold for referral from primary care with improving access to constitutional genetic testing.15 Genetic (GRADE of evidence: very low; Strength of recommendation: testing and/or counselling may resolve uncertainty about personal strong) and familial cancer risk and provide information to guide and Consensus reached: 100% agreement. personalise decisions about future health care in anyone with We recommend that individuals with an FHCC, which meets an FHCC.16 17 It has been recommended that a dedicated clin- clinic in secondary or tertiary care. colorectal multidisciplinary team (MDT) to oversee service (GRADE of evidence: low; Strength of recommendation: weak) coordination and to ensure patient pathways.9 18 The establish- Consensus reached: 82% agreement. ment of these champions will be another critical component in We recommend that patients should be referred to a specialist establishing equity of care. We recommend the establishment of service which includes access to constitutional genetic testing family cancer specialist services by CRC teams in secondary care in the presence of defective MMR (with no evidence of MLH1 to ensure local pathways for patients at hereditary risk of CRC, promoter methylation or BRAF V600E), or polyposis. and which can arrange testing of relatives for MMR status. This (GRADE of evidence: low; Strength of recommendation: service should be supported by commissioners and incorporate strong) a multidisciplinary approach involving geneticists, gastroenter- There are insufficient clinical data to develop specific guid- ologists and colorectal surgeons with links between secondary ance for patients with very rare conditions such as polymerase and tertiary care. Adherence to surveillance recommendations proofreading associated polyposis (PPAP), or NTHL1 associ- should be monitored at least annually. We suggest a minimum ated polyposis (NAP), therefore patients with these syndromes standard of ≥90% compliance. Non- compliant cases should should be referred to multidisciplinary expert centres for clin- be reviewed to determine whether reason for deviation from ical management. surveillance recommendations was clearly documented and clin- (GRADE of evidence: low; Strength of recommendation: weak) ically appropriate. Thus patients with a family history of CRC to facilitate their care, and processes to monitor the quality of the service. (GRADE of evidence: low; Strength of recommendation: fAmiLy hisTOry Of CrC (fhCC) strong) definitions and terminology Consensus reached: 100% agreement.
