Guidelines
KEYWORDS: patients, risk, crc, surveillance, cancer, years, evidence, age, grade, strength, pathogenic, recommendation, grade evidence, low, strength recommendation


care, and processes to monitor the quality of the service. (GRADE of evidence: low; Strength of recommendation: fAmiLy hisTOry Of CrC (fhCC) strong) definitions and terminology Consensus reached: 100% agreement. A substantial proportion of the UK population have an FHCC We recommend that individuals at increased familial CRC without evidence of an inherited CRC syndrome. These individ- risk receive specialist knowledge and are aware of patient/ uals have a moderately increased relative risk (RR) of CRC (2–6 support organisations and discussion with regard to lifestyle fold) compared with the general population.19 Lifetime CRC and participation in research projects. risk may be inferred from the age of onset of CRC in affected (GRADE of evidence: very low; Strength of recommendation: relatives, and familial aggregation, that is, the number of family strong) members affected with CRC. Consensus reached: 95% agreement This section refers to asymptomatic patients referred for People at hereditary CRC risk require coordinated, timely and optimal management of a family history of either CRC or high- quality care to reduce their cancer risk and should have multiple polyps. The GDG agreed three categories of familial access to a full range of management options that minimise the risk (in the absence of known hereditary CRC syndromes) which risk of morbidity and mortality.9 A structured referral pathway were determined according to lifetime CRC risk and the diag- may ensure better inter- specialty communication and timely, nostic yield of colorectal surveillance (box 1). Familial clusters efficient management of hereditary risk from primary through to (or aggregations) are of affected family members with CRC tertiary care provision. It also facilitates an audit trail and subse- who are FDRs of each other. The individual referred for assess- quent monitoring of performance. Patients should have access ment should be an FDR of at least one affected member of such to a full range of management options that minimise the risk of families. morbidity and mortality.9 Patients with average risk include those without an FHCC, Moreover, studies consistently report that high quality or with an FHCC which does not significantly increase their screening and surveillance services result in a reduction of CRC lifetime CRC risk, that is, below the level of the moderate risk Monahan KJ, et al. Gut 2020;69:411–444. doi: 417 Guidelines (GRADE of evidence: Moderate; Strength of recommendation: box 1 Categories of risk in patients with a family history strong) of colorectal cancer (fhCC) Consensus
