Guidelines
KEYWORDS: patients, risk, crc, surveillance, cancer, years, evidence, age, grade, strength, pathogenic, recommendation, grade evidence, low, strength recommendation


al. Gut 2020;69:411–444. doi: 417 Guidelines (GRADE of evidence: Moderate; Strength of recommendation: box 1 Categories of risk in patients with a family history strong) of colorectal cancer (fhCC) Consensus reached: 82% agreement. We recommend that a reported family history of polyposis Categories of risk – fhCC should be verified by review of histopathology and/or endos- ► Average risk: No FHCC, or a FHCC which does not fulfil copy reports which confirm the presence of a minimum of 10 moderate or high-r isk categories. adenomas or serrated lesions in an FDR. ► Moderate risk FHCC: (GRADE of evidence: low; Strength of recommendation: – One FDR diagnosed with CRC under 50 years, or strong) – Two FDRs (in first degree kinship) diagnosed with CRC at Consensus reached: 90% agreement. any age, of whom the patient under assessment is an FDR Histopathological confirmation of CRC alters management of of at least one affected individual. familial CRC surveillance in 20% of UK patients through verifi- ► High risk FHCC: Families with a cluster of at least three cation of a diagnosis of CRC, multiple adenomas or other rele- affected FDRs with CRC diagnosed at any age, across at least vant features.20 Similarly review of endoscopy reports may assist two generations, of whom the patient under assessment is in identification of patients with suspected familial risk such as an FDR of at least one affected individual. those with polyposis syndromes. CRC, colorectal cancer; FDR, first degree relative. When LS and Lynch-l ike tumours are excluded in families, their lifetime risk of CRC decreases. To quantify familial CRC risks associated with MMR deficient (dMMR) or MMR profi- cient (pMMR) tumours, a UK group analysed 2941 population- population. For the average risk populations surveillance may based cases of CRC.21 CRC risks in FDRs were strongly be effectively managed via national bowel cancer screening associated with dMMR tumours, early-o nset disease and more programmes. Those people in moderate- or high- risk catego- than one affected FDR. ries require additional surveillance above and beyond national In a study by Bapat et al of 3143 CRC patients, dMMR screening however (figure 1). tumours were associated with increasing numbers of FDRs with CRC (p=0.002); this association disappeared, however, when Assessment of tumours in the affected relatives of those with dMMR cases meeting Amsterdam criteria were removed from the an fhCC analysis.22 We recommend that for all patients referred from primary
