Guidelines
KEYWORDS: patients, risk, crc, surveillance, cancer, years, evidence, age, grade, strength, pathogenic, recommendation, grade evidence, low, strength recommendation


of tumours in the affected relatives of those with dMMR cases meeting Amsterdam criteria were removed from the an fhCC analysis.22 We recommend that for all patients referred from primary care A multicentre international registry based study23 assessed for assessment for an FHCC, MMR status should be assessed in MMR status in 33 496 FDRs of 4853 cases of CRC. In compar- tumour tissue from a close affected family member. ison with the FDRs of pMMR CRC cases the FDRs of CRC figure 1 Management of people with a family history of colorectal cancer. BSG, British Society of Gastroenterology; CRC, colorectal cancer; FHCC, family history of colorectal cancer; FDR, first degree relative; MMR, mismatch repair. 418 Monahan KJ, et al. Gut 2020;69:411–444. doi: Guidelines cases with suspected ‘Lynch-l ike’ syndrome and with LS had a cohort. This may be related to lower ages of familial risk popu- higher risk of CRC, but not those with dMMR non- LS. There lations studied, and that many of the studies pre-d ate improve- was a greater risk of CRC in FDRs if CRC cases were diagnosed ments in colonoscopic quality standards. under 50 years of age, or if the tumours had clinicopathological There is some observational evidence that colonoscopic features suggestive of LS. surveillance mitigates this increased risk. In a German case- control study of CRC patients with an FHCC, those who had surveillance for colorectal neoplasia in those with a had a prior colonoscopy had a lower CRC risk that individuals moderate risk fhCC without a family history who had not undergone colonoscopy. In We recommend that patients with a moderate familial CRC risk the E3N French prospective study of 92 078 women, 692 CRCs should have a one- off colonoscopy at the age of 55 years. were diagnosed after a median follow-u p of 15.4 years31 ; women (GRADE of evidence: moderate; Strength of recommendation: with FHCC who had not had a previous colonoscopy had a 80% strong) higher CRC risk than those without FHCC. In women who had Consensus reached: 85% agreement. had a previous colonoscopy, CRC risk was similar in women We recommend that subsequent colonoscopic surveillance with and without FHCC. should be performed as determined by post-p olypectomy surveillance guidelines. Age and risk of AAs in those with an fhCC (GRADE of evidence: moderate; Strength of recommendation: Projected annual transition rates from advanced adenomas to strong) CRC strongly
