Guidelines
KEYWORDS: patients, risk, crc, surveillance, cancer, years, evidence, age, grade, strength, pathogenic, recommendation, grade evidence, low, strength recommendation


surveillance guidelines. Age and risk of AAs in those with an fhCC (GRADE of evidence: moderate; Strength of recommendation: Projected annual transition rates from advanced adenomas to strong) CRC strongly increase with age, with annual transition rates Consensus reached: 95% agreement. increasing from 2.6% in patients in their 50 s to >5% in their An important question is whether the adenoma detection rate 80s.28 In an influential prospective study from 199432 FDRs of in those with an FHCC is higher than the detection rate in the CRC patients had a risk of CRC at the age of 40 years equivalent general population. Most CRCs develop from adenomas and to that of the average risk population aged 50 years. Notably, “advanced” adenomas (AAs, defined as either an adenoma size this historical study did not exclude patients with LS, and the of at least 10 mm, villous architecture of at least 25%, or high increased risk conferred was predominantly in individuals with grade dysplasia24) are considered to be the precursors of CRC. an affected FDR diagnosed under of 45 years. The term “advanced neoplasia” (AN) refers to the identification Age is a strong predictor for adenomas and AAs in both of either AAs or CRC. familial risk individuals and controls in a series of observational The effectiveness and requirement for familial risk surveil- studies. The incidence of AAs in patients aged 40–49 years in a lance may be best determined by comparing the long- term surveillance cohort is equivalent to the general population,27 33 CRC risk of a defined cohort of at- risk patients not undergoing although the age of diagnosis of CRC in the affected FDR is not surveillance with that of the general population. Theoretical a predictor of risk of AAs. While adenomas but not AAs are more relative risks of CRC <2 may be dominated by other genetic or common in these studies, this may reflect the natural history of environmental effects (and may require complex and validated the adenoma to carcinoma sequence, whereby patients derive risk modelling tools to determine suitability for surveillance).25 more benefit from surveillance colonoscopy from the age of 50 Where long-t erm CRC data are not available, the findings at onwards, due to resection of AAs. surveillance may be used as a surrogate means to determine the The subdivision of FHCC risk into those with 2× FDRs who need for post- polypectomy surveillance, although
