Guidelines
KEYWORDS: patients, risk, crc, surveillance, cancer, years, evidence, age, grade, strength, pathogenic, recommendation, grade evidence, low, strength recommendation


of AAs. surveillance may be used as a surrogate means to determine the The subdivision of FHCC risk into those with 2× FDRs who need for post- polypectomy surveillance, although this method were affected over or under 60 years of age is not associated is inferior. In this context, that surveillance procedure may not with any difference in the diagnostic yield on colonoscopic have been warranted where the AA yield on that surveillance was surveillance.34 Although this age criterion was used in previous less than doubled compared with a comparable yield in a control iterations of this guideline35 to subdivide into “low-m oderate” population. and “high- moderate”risk, no evidence was identified to support There is a low prevalence of CRC in studies of surveillance in this differentiation. familial risk populations. There are limited data suggesting that Several studies of cohorts of patients with moderate FHCC metachronous CRC risk may be higher in patients at moderate have demonstrated a negligible incidence in AAs in colonoscopic familial risk versus population risk.26 As AAs are strongly asso- surveillance before the age of 50 years, but an increased risk ciated with CRC development, AAs may be considered a proxy after this age.36–41 There is little evidence in case-c ontrol series for CRC risk. In studies of patients with a moderate familial risk of significant differences in AA incidence between patients with there is considerable heterogeneity in the prevalence of AA with one FDR diagnosed under the age of 50 years, and those families a typical prevalence of between 8% and 10%; approximately with a cluster of two FDRs diagnosed at any age. double that of those without a family history (online supple- The prevalence of AAs under the age of 50 years is not mentary tables 1-G RADE table 1). There is evidence from obser- significantly increased in patients under surveillance for FHCC vational studies that the diagnostic yield of colonoscopy has compared with the average risk population. This supports increased in familial CRC risk cohorts over the past two decades, commencing colonoscopic surveillance at the age of 50–55 years consistent with improvements in endoscopic technique, equip- for those at moderate familial risk. As the incidence of CRC is ment and quality assurance.27 increasing in younger patients, this age recommendation may In the German bowel cancer screening population (an average need to be reviewed in future guideline iterations—pending risk population) the prevalence of AAs
