Guidelines
KEYWORDS: patients, risk, crc, surveillance, cancer, years, evidence, age, grade, strength, pathogenic, recommendation, grade evidence, low, strength recommendation


in younger patients, this age recommendation may In the German bowel cancer screening population (an average need to be reviewed in future guideline iterations—pending risk population) the prevalence of AAs measured between 2003 further relevant data specifically in those with a FHCC. and 2012 increased from 7.4% to 9.0% among men, and from 4.4% to 5.2% among women.28 29 In meta- analysis,30 the prev- alence of adenomas is significantly higher in individuals with surveillance in patients with a moderate familial risk of CrC an FHCC than in controls (OR 1.7, 95% CI 1.4 to 3.5). Many To exclude LS in those with an FHCC, a close affected relative’s observational control studies of surveillance colonoscopy for tumour should undergo MMR tumour testing. A pathology familial risk report a lower prevalence of AAs in the average risk review of the relative’s tumour should also be undertaken to population compared with the data from this German screening ensure that there is no evidence of multiple polyps. After this risk Monahan KJ, et al. Gut 2020;69:411–444. doi: 419 Guidelines assessment a decision about colonoscopic intervention should be AAs in LS individuals versus FCC- X individuals. However on considered. follow- up there were no incident cancers in the FCC- X group The risk of AAs in surveillance colonoscopy (ie, after index/ versus 4.4% CRC in Lynch patients, indicating lower risk of screening procedure) is largely determined by the presence of interval CRC in FCC- X despite equivalent AA risk. advanced neoplasia at the index procedure. In a prospective pooled cohort study of 1585 patients from London, with well-o rganised recall of high and moderate risk X if they fulfilled the original Amsterdam criteria and late onset families, AAs and cancer were more common in families who (LOFCC) if they fulfilled the Amsterdam criteria apart from not fulfilled Amsterdam criteria compared with those at moderate having a cancer diagnosed aged under 50. The results for FCC risk (on initial colonoscopy 5.7% and 0.9%, respectively).42 In type X and LOFCC were very similar. At baseline, 22 prevalent families with moderate risk, advanced pathology was particu- asymptomatic CRCs were diagnosed, 120 (7.6%) individuals larly uncommon under the age of 45 (1.1% and 0%) and on had high- risk adenomas and 225 (14.2%) simple adenomas. On follow- up colonoscopy if AAs were absent initially (1.7% and follow- up high- risk adenomas were detected in 92 (8.7%) and 0.1%). With
