Guidelines
KEYWORDS: patients, risk, crc, surveillance, cancer, years, evidence, age, grade, strength, pathogenic, recommendation, grade evidence, low, strength recommendation


adenomas and 225 (14.2%) simple adenomas. On follow- up colonoscopy if AAs were absent initially (1.7% and follow- up high- risk adenomas were detected in 92 (8.7%) and 0.1%). With colonoscopic surveillance the incidence of CRC multiple adenomas were detected in 20 (1.9%) individuals, from was substantially lower (80% in families with moderate risk approximately 35 years of age onwards. Again the presence of (p=0.00004) and 43% in families with LS (p=0.06)) than the AA at index colonoscopy was predictive of advanced neoplasia expected incidence in the absence of surveillance. at subsequent procedures—33% of patients with an AA at index Registry data from other populations also suggest a benefit in colonoscopy had an AA or cancer on follow- up. selected moderate familial risk populations undergoing surveil- This study by Mesher et al37 indicated patients at high familial lance colonoscopy. These studies also confirm an association of CRC risk should be managed similarly with 5 yearly colonos- AAs at the index procedure with advanced neoplasia in subse- copies undertaken from between 30 and 40 years of age with quent surveillance procedures (GRADE online supplementary more intensive surveillance in individuals developing multiple or tables 1- GRADE table 1). In a Swedish moderate familial risk high- risk adenomas. cohort43 the risk of future AAs was associated with the preva- Amsterdam criteria families, where MMR testing of a CRC lence of advanced lesions at the screening colonoscopy (multi- from an affected individual is not possible, may be offered variate analysis OR 5.22, 9% CI 2.3 to 9.94). It is of interest surveillance as per LS. However such patients should be reviewed that adenomas and advanced lesions were not associated with by a specialist service who may consider alternative testing strat- the same risk factors: family history was predictive of advanced egies such as panel testing of affected individuals, or unaffected adenomas but not adenomas at the index screening colonoscopy. testing. The FACTS (Familial CRC Surveillance) randomised controlled trial compared intervals of surveillance in familial CRC.44 Indi- viduals aged between 45 and 65 years with moderate familial PrevenTiOn And LifesTyLe mOdifiCATiOn in fAmiLiAL CRC risk, where LS had been largely excluded, were randomly CrC assigned to either a colonoscopy at 6 years or a colonoscopy at We recommend that individuals with LS should be advised that 3 and 6 years. Intention-t o- treat analysis showed no significant regular use of daily aspirin reduces CRC risk.
