Guidelines
KEYWORDS: patients, risk, crc, surveillance, cancer, years, evidence, age, grade, strength, pathogenic, recommendation, grade evidence, low, strength recommendation


at We recommend that individuals with LS should be advised that 3 and 6 years. Intention-t o- treat analysis showed no significant regular use of daily aspirin reduces CRC risk. difference in the proportion of patients with AAs (the primary (GRADE of evidence: moderate; Strength of recommendation: outcome measure) at the first follow- up examination at 6 years strong) (6.9%) versus 3 years (3.5%). The presence of AAs at the index Consensus reached: 90% agreement. colonoscopy was the only significant predictor for the presence Long- term data from the CAPP2 RCT suggests that aspirin of AAs at first follow-u p (OR 5.2, 95% CI 1.6 to 16.87). Thus reduces this risk by approximately half as compared with a 6 yearly interval was non- inferior to a 3 yearly surveillance placebo.47 The benefits of regular aspirin intake take at least interval, with the exception being that an AA at index colonos- 3 to 5 years to become evident. Taking aspirin for less than 2 copy predicts further advanced neoplasia at 3 years. years’ duration does not seem to confer any benefit in reducing the incidence of cancer, or increasing survival in patients with LS.47 48 surveillance for colorectal neoplasia in those with a high We recommend that people with LS should be offered research familial risk of CrC opportunities to take aspirin daily at different dosages. If they We suggest that in high- risk families (a cluster of 3× FDRs decline research participation they may be advised on their with CRC across >1 generation) a 5 yearly colonoscopy should choices regarding dose of aspirin, risks and benefits of long-t erm be performed from the age of 40 years until the age of 75. aspirin use and ensure their medical practitioner is aware of (GRADE of evidence: low; Strength of recommendation: weak) their intake. Consensus reached: 86% agreement. (GRADE of evidence: low; Strength of recommendation: Families who fulfil Amsterdam criteria but who do not have strong) evidence of dMMR do not share the same cancer incidence as Consensus reached: 90% agreement. families with LS (ie, hereditary MMR deficiency).45 46 Relatives There is uncertainty about the optimum dosage of aspirin to in such families were found to have a lower incidence of CRC recommended to individuals with LS. There is some evidence than those in families with LS, and incidence was not increased that long- term intake of daily 600 mg aspirin can
