Guidelines
KEYWORDS: patients, risk, crc, surveillance, cancer, years, evidence, age, grade, strength, pathogenic, recommendation, grade evidence, low, strength recommendation


recommended to individuals with LS. There is some evidence than those in families with LS, and incidence was not increased that long- term intake of daily 600 mg aspirin can reduce the risk for other cancers. These families should not be described or of all cancers including CRC in LS from the CAPP2 randomised counselled as having LS. To facilitate distinguishing these enti- control trial.47 There is no other high quality evidence for any ties, the designation of “familial CRC type X” was suggested other dose of aspirin/ length of treatment but there are studies by Lindor et al to describe this type of familial aggregation of ongoing (CAPP3 trial49) which aim to identify optimum dosage. CRC.45 Evidence for the optimum dose will inform awareness and In a prospective surveillance study of a high familial risk popu- education among health professionals to mitigate the reluctance lation32 there was no significant difference in the prevalence of to prescribe higher doses of aspirin within primary care.50 In the 420 Monahan KJ, et al. Gut 2020;69:411–444. doi: Guidelines interim clinicians may consider 150 mg aspirin in the context of QuALiTy And AdvAnCed endOsCOPiC imAGinG in BMI above 25 kg/m2. We recommend that colonoscopy is the gold standard diag- There is insufficient evidence of the benefit of chemoprophy- nostic and preventative method of surveillance for people with laxis in polyposis syndromes. a hereditary risk of CRC. (GRADE of evidence: moderate; Strength of recommendation: (GRADE of evidence: moderate; Strength of recommendation: strong) strong) Consensus reached: 100% agreement. Consensus reached: 100% agreement. Non- steroidal anti-i nflammatory drugs (NSAIDs) have We recommend that all surveillance colonoscopies are been the most commonly studied chemoprophylaxis agents in performed by endoscopists who consistently achieve BSG colo- patients with FAP, predominantly for lower GI tract disease, noscopy KPI minimum standards, specifically caecal intubation with some RCTs. Aspirin and tiracoxib have been found to be rate, adenoma/polyp detection rate and comfort score. ineffective,51–53 although sulindac, celecoxib and rofecoxib have (GRADE of evidence: low; Strength of recommendation: been demonstrated to reduce adenoma burden in the short strong) term.54–57 A number of small series provide further support for Consensus reached: 94% agreement. these drugs and have also shown benefit from topical indometh- We suggest a repeat colonoscopy performed by an expert acin.58 However long- term cancer prevention as an end point endoscopist is indicated in the event of a previously failed colo- has not
