Guidelines
KEYWORDS: patients, risk, crc, surveillance, cancer, years, evidence, age, grade, strength, pathogenic, recommendation, grade evidence, low, strength recommendation


a repeat colonoscopy performed by an expert acin.58 However long- term cancer prevention as an end point endoscopist is indicated in the event of a previously failed colo- has not been adequately addressed.59 60 In the largest cohort of noscopy, with efforts made to both improve patient experience 54 patients, published in abstract form, 10% developed cancer and to ensure procedure completion, given the advantages of while on chemoprophylaxis.61 colonoscopic surveillance. If colonoscopy is not possible then consider CT colonography. Other classes of agents have also been assessed, such as omega (GRADE of evidence: low; Strength of recommendation: weak) 3 fish oils, but again the results are only short term with reduc- tion in polyp size and number as the main endpoint.62 Consensus reached: 90% agreement. We suggest that if the bowel preparation for colonoscopy is Celecoxib and the combination of sulindac and erlotinib have been reported as being beneficial63 64 for those with FAP inadequate or if the examination is incomplete then a repeat colorectal surveillance procedure should be arranged within 3 and advanced duodenal disease; this was a short- term study months. using polyp number and size as the primary endpoint. A (GRADE of evidence: moderate; Strength of recommendation: cohort study reported outcomes of the use of Eviendep, which was observed to reduce polyp number and size.65 However, weak) Consensus reached: 95% agreement. no studies have demonstrated an effect on duodenal cancer We suggest high-q uality, high- definition white light endos- prevention in FAP. copy as the preferred modality for colonoscopy surveillance. Cyclooxygenase-2 (COX-2) expression may be increased in Chromoendoscopy (virtual or dye-b ased) does not offer a clear JPS.66 67 There exists a theoretical potential benefit in the use of advantage over high definition white light examination for colo- selective COX-2 inhibitors in JPS or PJS,66–68 but to date there noscopic surveillance, apart from in the context of determining are no trials demonstrating efficacy. the multiple polyp phenotype. We recommend that individuals at increased familial risk (GRADE of evidence: moderate; Strength of recommendation: of CRC should be strongly encouraged not to smoke, to main- weak) tain a normal BMI, to moderate their consumption of red and Consensus reached: 89% agreement. processed meat, and to exercise regularly. High quality colonoscopy has been recognised as a core (GRADE of evidence: low; Strength of recommendation: element of successful cancer prevention in sporadic patients.84 moderate) There are limited data that this
