Guidelines
KEYWORDS: patients, risk, crc, surveillance, cancer, years, evidence, age, grade, strength, pathogenic, recommendation, grade evidence, low, strength recommendation


cost- effectiveness of universal diagnostic testing for LS enhanced through the use of pancolonic dye spray.105 was published in 2017.18 We recommend the use of colonos- In summary, a high quality, high definition white light colono- copic biopsies as the preferred source material for tumour MMR scopic examination, by an endoscopist who meets all colonos- testing.114 copy KPIs, seems adequate for LS and high familial risk patients, with the exception of those with multiple polyps where chromo- endoscopy may help define the phenotype. Colonoscopic surveillance and Ls We recommend that colonoscopic surveillance should be non-invasive surveillance methods for people with fhCC performed at a 2 yearly interval for all LS patients. There is insufficient evidence to recommend other methods of (GRADE of evidence: moderate; Strength of recommendation: surveillance for those with familial CRC risk such as FIT, MR strong) or CT colonography Consensus reached: 85% agreement. (GRADE of evidence: low; Strength of recommendation: Surveillance colonoscopy in LS does not completely eradi- strong) cate the risk of CRC, with the well-r ecognised phenomenon of Consensus reached: 95% agreement. interval cancers related to multiple factors including adherence In meta- analysis of 12 published studies of patients at increased and timeliness of colonoscopy. However, the optimal interval for risk of CRC (predominantly familial risk), the average sensitivity surveillance colonoscopy is yet to be established. of FIT for advanced neoplasia was 48% (95% CI 39% to 57%) The literature around colonoscopic surveillance is mixed with and the average specificity was 93%.106 A subgroup analysis of few studies reporting on recognised key performance indicators patients with familial risk only was performed, and the sensi- including adenoma detection rate, or caecal intubation rate or tivity for CRC was 86% and for advanced neoplasia 46%. Thus, compliance with the screening interval. A study in the UK identi- the detection of CRC, AAs would be missed by surveillance with affect compliance with LS surveillance intervals.115 In this study FIT alone. variable colonoscopy quality indicators were highlighted with a 422 Monahan KJ, et al. Gut 2020;69:411–444. doi: Guidelines caecal intubation rate was 92%, and approximately 10% had surveillance. The surveillance interval is determined by tumour inadequate bowel preparation. In a retrospective, two centre biology and the accelerated pathway of carcinogenesis in LS.127 Dutch study 31 interval CRCs were diagnosed in 29 patients There are no data to suggest that the speed of carcinogenesis in with LS, within 2 years
