Guidelines
KEYWORDS: patients, risk, crc, surveillance, cancer, years, evidence, age, grade, strength, pathogenic, recommendation, grade evidence, low, strength recommendation


475 variant is likely to account for the lower risk of interval CRC on observation years. The previously described genotype dependent Monahan KJ, et al. Gut 2020;69:411–444. doi: 423 Guidelines figure 2 Gene- specific management of Lynch syndrome. MMR, mismatch repair. penetrance was confirmed; of note the number of PMS2 carriers ii. Survival from metachronous CRC in this cohort is small. iii. Functional consequences and quality of life (QoL) following Further studies are required to further stratify risk for MSH6 surgery and PMS2 pathogenic variant carriers. Until such data are avail- This decision regarding which operation is preferable should be able, based on the current sparse literature it appears reasonable made on the basis of individual patient factors and preferences, to defer initiation of surveillance for these patients. The current with special emphasis on the risk of metachronous CRC, age and literature is sufficiently robust to recommend that MSH6 and the preparedness of the patient to continue colonoscopic surveil- PMS2 pathogenic variant carriers should have different ages of lance. High-q uality patient information and shared decision- onset for colorectal surveillance (figure 2). making between patient and surgeon will facilitate this decision. surgery in Ls patients with CrC risk of metachronous cancer We suggest that for LS patients with MLH1 or MSH2 mutations Parry et al found the cumulative risk of metachronous CRC to who develop colon cancer or colonic neoplasia not amenable be 16% at 10 years, 41% at 20 years and 62% at 30 years after to endoscopic control, the decision to perform segmental versus segmental colectomy. In contrast none of 50 subjects who had total/near total colectomy should balance the risks of meta- extensive colectomy developed metachronous CRC. They calcu- chronous cancer, the functional consequences of surgery, the lated that the risk of metachronous CRC was reduced by 31% patient’s age and patient’s wishes. for every 10 cm of large bowel removed. Kalady et al reported (GRADE of evidence: Moderate; Strength of recommendation: 296 patients (253 with segmental colectomy and 43 with total Strong) colectomy/ileorectal anastomosis). Of the 253 segmental colec- Consensus reached: 100% agreement. We recommend that for tomy patients, 55 patients (25%) developed a second CRC at a LS patients with MSH6 or PMS2 mutations there is insufficient median of 69 months after index surgery. Stages of the meta- evidence for oncological benefit of extended colectomy over chronous cancers were I-16, II-18, III-12, and IV-2. By
