Guidelines
KEYWORDS: patients, risk, crc, surveillance, cancer, years, evidence, age, grade, strength, pathogenic, recommendation, grade evidence, low, strength recommendation


is insufficient median of 69 months after index surgery. Stages of the meta- evidence for oncological benefit of extended colectomy over chronous cancers were I-16, II-18, III-12, and IV-2. By compar- segmental resection. ison, four of 38 patients (11%) who underwent total colectomy (GRADE of evidence: low; Strength of recommendation: developed subsequent high- risk adenomas and only three (8%) strong) developed metachronous cancer.135 Consensus reached: 89% agreement. A Finnish study reported the cumulative risk of subsequent When abdominal-p erineal excision can be avoided, a CRC to be 20% within 10 years and 47% within 25 years after standard low anterior resection is a reasonable option standard resection and 4% and 9% after extended surgery.136 A to treat rectal cancers in LS patients, even though the further study showed metachronous CRC in 6.3% of pathogenic residual colon is at high risk of metachronous neoplasia. variant carriers treated with total/subtotal colectomy compared (GRADE of evidence: low; Strength of recommendation: weak) with 27% treated by segmental colectomy.137 In meta- analysis Consensus reached: 88% agreement. much of the excess risk of metachronous CRC appears to be in The decision to perform a total/subtotal colectomy or carriers of pathogenic variants in the MLH1 and MSH2 patho- segmental colectomy involves consideration of: genic carriers, with insufficient data to suggest excess risk in i. The risk of metachronous CRC MSH6 or PMS2 variant carriers.138 424 Monahan KJ, et al. Gut 2020;69:411–444. doi: Guidelines survival from metachronous cancer an advanced stage. Overall 17 of 33 patients (51.5%) developed Moller et al in an international collaborative study found the high- risk adenoma or cancer after proctectomy.144 cumulative incidence of metachronous CRC was 36% from 40 to 70 years. Five and 10 year crude survival after colectomy for meta- upper Gi, pancreatic and small bowel risk management in Ls chronous CRC was 94% and 91%, respectively, with no signifi- We recommend that gastric, small bowel, or pancreatic surveil- cant difference between the pathogenic variants of the different lance in LS patients is only performed in the context of a clinical genes.119 trial. Natarajan et al found no significant difference in survival time (GRADE of evidence: low; Strength of recommendation: between patients undergoing extended colectomy and limited strong) resection in patients with LS.139 The potential health effects in Consensus reached: 100% agreement. terms of life expectancy for patients undergoing subtotal colec- We recommend screening for H pylori in patients with LS
