Guidelines
KEYWORDS: patients, risk, crc, surveillance, cancer, years, evidence, age, grade, strength, pathogenic, recommendation, grade evidence, low, strength recommendation


3.5% to to compare segmental colectomy and total abdominal colec- 10.8%) for MLH1, 7.7% (95% CI 1.9% to 13.6%) for MSH2, tomy with ileorectal anastomosis.142 Quality-a djusted life years and 5.3% (95% CI 0.0% to 13.1%) for MSH6. No gastric (QALYs) were calculated based on utility states for patients cancers were observed in PMS2 pathogenic variant carriers. The based on the colectomy they received. Multiple sensitivity anal- study also reported a 5 year overall survival rate of 61% (95% yses were planned to examine the impact of each assumption CI 33% to 81%) for LS-a ssociated gastric cancer. This compares on model results. For young (30- year-o ld) patients with LS, favourably with the prognosis in unselected patients with resect- mean survival was slightly better with total colectomy than with able gastric cancer, who have been reported to have an overall segmental resection (34.8 vs 35.5 years). When QALYs were 5 year survival of 10–30%.147 considered, the two strategies were approximately equivalent, A Finnish study reported the characteristics of 62 gastric with QALYs per patient of 21.5 for segmental colectomy and cancers that occurred in 570 family members from the Finnish 21.2 for total colectomy. They suggested that with advancing HNPCC registry. There was an overrepresentation of intestinal age, segmental colectomy becomes a more favourable strategy. gastric cancers, which was found in 79% of cases, with only The decision regarding which operation is preferable should 13% of cases being diffuse gastric cancers. As the development be made on the basis of individual patient factors and prefer- of intestinal gastric cancers is thought to be closely associated ences, with special emphasis on the risk of metachronous CRC, with H. pylori- associated chronic gastritis, the authors investi- age and the preparedness of the patient to continue colonoscopic gated whether atrophic gastritis and H. pylori infection could surveillance. be markers of gastric cancer risk in patients with LS. Twenty percent of the LS- associated gastric cancers were H. pylori posi- tive. The median age at diagnosis was 56 years.147 Patients presenting with rectal cancer Renkonen- Sinisalo et al assessed the diagnostic yield of A standard low anterior resection or abdominal perineal resec- upper endoscopy in a series of 73 MMR pathogenic variants tion is a reasonable option to treat rectal cancers in LS patients, carriers (median age 47 years).148 The authors found no early even though the residual colon is at high risk
