Guidelines
KEYWORDS: patients, risk, crc, surveillance, cancer, years, evidence, age, grade, strength, pathogenic, recommendation, grade evidence, low, strength recommendation


is a reasonable option to treat rectal cancers in LS patients, carriers (median age 47 years).148 The authors found no early even though the residual colon is at high risk of metachronous gastric cancers or premalignant lesions (diagnostic yield 0). A neoplasia. A retrospective study of 79 LS patients with rectal single screened- detected small bowel cancer was identified: an cancer who had undergone proctectomy found a cumulative risk advanced stage duodenal cancer. No additional studies eval- of metachronous colon cancer to be 19% at 10 years, 47% at uating the benefit of gastric surveillance in LS were identified 20 years, and 69% at 30 years after surgical resection.143 Kalady from the literature. et al followed 50 HNPCC patients with a primary diagnosis The cumulative lifetime risk of gastric cancer is relatively low. of rectal cancer treated by proctectomy. Forty-e ight high- risk Aspirin chemoprophylaxis may reduce the risk of all LS-a sso- adenomas developed in 13 patients (39.4%) and five patients ciated cancers in patients with LS. In conclusion, there is no (15.2%) developed metachronous adenocarcinoma at a median convincing evidence to support the utility of gastric surveillance of 6 years (range 3.5–16) after proctectomy, including three at in patients with LS. Monahan KJ, et al. Gut 2020;69:411–444. doi: 425 Guidelines small bowel cancer The absolute lifetime risk of small bowel cancer in patients The cumulative lifetime risk of developing small bowel cancer with LS is 4.2%; this risk is likely to be most significant for has been estimated to be 4.2% in patients with constitutional MLH1 pathogenic variant carriers. LS- related small bowel MLH1 and MSH2 pathogenic variants.149 Small bowel cancers cancers have been demonstrated to have a better prognosis than have rarely been reported in patients with constitutional MSH6 sporadic small bowel cancers. Aspirin chemoprophylaxis has and PMS2 pathogenic variants. A recent study has reported gene- been demonstrated to significantly reduce the risk of all LS-a s- specific prospective cumulative cancer risks (up to the age of 75 sociated cancers in patients with LS. Video capsule endoscopy years) for duodenal carcinoma in 3119 patients with LS. The risk has been used to successfully identify small bowel tumours in of duodenal carcinoma was reported to be the highest for MLH1 patients with LS. However, there have been a limited number of pathogenic variant carriers (6.5%, 95% CI 1.7% to 10.2% for studies and the diagnostic yield has been
