Guidelines
KEYWORDS: patients, risk, crc, surveillance, cancer, years, evidence, age, grade, strength, pathogenic, recommendation, grade evidence, low, strength recommendation


lesions. There is a significant morbidity Potential aetiologies and mortality associated with pancreatic surgery. Studies have shown that up 70% of patients with LLS have double (biallelic) somatic pathogenic variants in the MMR genes.163–165 In a study of 25 LLS cases with unexplained immunohisto- LynCh-Like syndrOme chemical absence of the MLH1 or MSH2 protein, Mesenkamp We recommend that deficient MMR tumours without hyper- et al identified biallelic somatic pathogenic variants (one patho- methylation/BRAF pathogenic variant and no pathogenic consti- genic sequence variant and loss of heterozygosity) in 13 cases tutional pathogenic variant in MMR genes should undergo (52%; 8/18 in MLH1 and 5/7 in MSH2).165 Other studies have somatic tumour testing with a CRC gene panel. subsequently confirmed the presence of a high proportion of (GRADE of evidence: low; Strength of recommendation: biallelic somatic pathogenic variant LLS cases. In a study of 36 strong) LLS cases, Geurts-G iele et al found double somatic pathogenic Consensus reached: 100% agreement. variants in 21 cases (58%; 16/21 in MLH1 and 5/12 in MSH2).166 We recommend that if double somatic MMR pathogenic vari- In a study of 32 LLS cases, Haraldsdottir et al identified double ants are identified, manage proband and their FDRs based on somatic pathogenic variants in 22 cases (69%; seven for MLH1, the FHCC. 11 for MSH2, three for MSH6 and one for PMS2).164 (GRADE of evidence: low; Strength of recommendation: Biallelic somatic pathogenic variants may be in the form of strong) point pathogenic variants coupled with loss of heterozygosity, or Consensus reached: 95% agreement. another point pathogenic variant. Double variant somatic patho- We suggest that if no or one somatic pathogenic variant is genic variants are likely to be in trans (one on each allele), and identified, the proband and their FDRs should be managed as therefore if identified provide a potential explanation for the per LS. tumour MMR deficiency in patients with LLS. A recent study (GRADE of evidence: low; Strength of recommendation: weak) has shown that a significant proportion of LLS cases may also Consensus reached: 100% agreement. be explained by false positive screening results, caused by an LLS describes a subgroup of patients with CRC or other incorrect interpretation of MMR immunohistochemistry (IHC) LS- related tumours that manifest MMR deficiency (microsatel- results. The authors found discordant findings on IHC and MSI lite instability (MSI) and/or loss of MMR protein expression) in six out 32 LLS cases (19%).164
