Guidelines
KEYWORDS: patients, risk, crc, surveillance, cancer, years, evidence, age, grade, strength, pathogenic, recommendation, grade evidence, low, strength recommendation


biallelic somatic pathogenic for FDRs of CRC cases with LLS.161 This population- based study variants to unidentifiable constitutional pathogenic variants in examined the risk of CRC in the FDRs of CRC cases with LLS, MMR genes. This is likely to explain the intermediate cancer LS and sporadic pMMR tumours. The authors found the highest risks, which have been reported for the FDRs of LLS cases, and risk of CRC for the FDRs of the LS cases (standardised inci- has implications for the clinical management of LLS families. dence ratio (SIR) for LS 6.04, 95% CI 3.58 to 9.5), an interme- Thus double somatic pathogenic variants in the MMR diate risk for the FDRs of LLS cases (SIR for LLS 2.12, 95% CI genes may explain up to 70% of LLS cases. Therefore, tumour 1.16 to 3.56), and the lowest risks for the FDRs of sporadic sequencing of the DNA MMR genes should be undertaken in pMMR CRC cases (SIR for sporadic 0.48, 95% CI 0.27 to 0.79; LLS cases, as this would help guide genetic counselling and the p<0.001). management recommendations for LLS cases and their FDRs In a large family cohort study, Win et al subsequently (figure 3). If double somatic pathogenic variants are identified, confirmed that FDRs of LLS cases have a higher CRC risk we would recommend that these patients and their FDRs be compared FDRs of sporadic pMMR CRC cases, but a lower risk managed based on the FHCC, and not as LS. However, if no compared with FDRs of LS cases .23 Compared with FDRs of somatic pathogenic variants or only one somatic pathogenic sporadic pMMR CRC cases, a higher risk of CRC was estimated variant or loss of heterozygosity of one allele is identified we Monahan KJ, et al. Gut 2020;69:411–444. doi: 427 Guidelines figure 3 Management of Lynch- like syndrome. CRC, colorectal cancer; FDRs, first degree relatives; FHCC, family history of colorectal cancer, MMR, mismatch repair. would recommend that these cases and the FDRs be managed as In a prospective cohort, panel testing of 25 cancer predis- potential LS cases and follow colorectal surveillance guidelines position genes (APC, ATM, BARD1, BMPR1A, BRCA1, BRCA2, for LS. This is based on the possibility that these cases could have BRIP1, CDH1, CDK4, CDKN2A, CHEK2, EPCAM, MLH1, LS due to an unidentifiable constitutional pathogenic variant MSH2, MSH6, MUTYH, NBN, PALB2, PMS2, PTEN, RAD51C, in an MMR gene.
