Guidelines
KEYWORDS: patients, risk, crc, surveillance, cancer, years, evidence, age, grade, strength, pathogenic, recommendation, grade evidence, low, strength recommendation


MSH6 and two PMS2), 10 in APC, eight syndromes are excluded from CRC cohorts there is no evidence in MUTYH (seven biallelic pathogenic variants) and two in that metachronous CRC risk is significantly different from the SMAD4. Three patients were found to carry pathogenic variants sporadic population. Nevertheless, it may not be appropriate to in other cancer predisposition genes (one TP53, one BRCA1 and discharge EOCRC cases from surveillance after 3 years in the one CHEK2).174 absence of published surveillance outcome data. Thus, it may be uations underwent research- based next generation sequencing until they are eligible for national screening in patients where LS (NGS) using a multigene panel. This identified constitutional and polyposis have been excluded. cancer predisposition pathogenic variants in six other patients (one PMS2, one MSH6, one MUTYH, one POLE, one APC and one TP53). In total, 85 patients (20%; 85/430) with early serrATed POLyPOsis syndrOme onset- CRC were found to carry a pathogenic variant in a consti- tutional cancer predisposition gene. However, only 79 were in definition genes associated with bowel cancer. LS was the most common ► 2019 Updated WHO clinical criteria for the diagnosis of genetic diagnosis (58/85; 68%). Seventeen patients with a serrated polyposis178 constitutional MMR pathogenic variant had a dMMR tumour, Criterion 1 37 patients had a tumour with unknown MMR status and four (7%) patients had a pMMR tumour.174 ► At least 5 serrated lesions/polyps proximal to the rectum all being ≥ 5 mm in size, with 2 or more ≥ 10 mm in size Criterion 2 in conclusion ► More than 20 serrated lesions/polyps of any size distributed ► The prevalence of cancer predisposition gene pathogenic throughout the large bowel, with at least 5 proximal to the variants in patients with early onset CRC (age <50) has been rectum reported to range from approximately 15% to 20%. LS is the most common genetic diagnosis, accounts for up to 68% Any histological subtype of serrated lesion/polyp (hyperplastic polyp, sessile serrated lesion without or with dysplasia, traditional serrated of cancer predisposition pathogenic variants in patients with adenoma, and unclassified serrated adenoma) is included in the final early onset CRC (age <50 years), and the vast majority will polyp count. The polyp count is cumulative over multiple colonoscopies have dMMR tumours. ► In patients with pMMR tumours, the most common genetic diagnosis diagnosis is an adenomatous polyposis syndrome (FAP and We recommend a
