Guidelines
KEYWORDS: patients, risk, crc, surveillance, cancer, years, evidence, age, grade, strength, pathogenic, recommendation, grade evidence, low, strength recommendation


is cumulative over multiple colonoscopies have dMMR tumours. ► In patients with pMMR tumours, the most common genetic diagnosis diagnosis is an adenomatous polyposis syndrome (FAP and We recommend a diagnosis of SPS should be made in accordance MAP), and the prevalence of associated constitutional patho- with the new WHO 2019 criteria for SPS. Since causative gene genic variants has been reported to reach the 10% threshold pathogenic variants for SPS have not been identified, a defini- for patients diagnosed with CRC below the age of 30. tive diagnosis of SPS should be phenotype-d riven. ► In patients with pMMR tumours between the age of 30 and (GRADE of evidence: moderate; Strength of recommendation: 50 years at diagnosis of CRC, a genetic diagnosis may be strong) suspected on the basis of FHCC or other clinical parame- Consensus reached: 95% agreement. ters. Altering the threshold for genetic testing in this patient Other intestinal polyposis syndromes may present with cohort also needs to be balanced between clinical need serrated lesions. If (i) the patient is under 50 or (ii) there are and the ethical and logistical considerations of population multiple affected individuals within a kindred or (iii) there testing. is dysplasia within any of the polyps, then other polyposis syndromes should be excluded by gene panel testing before Colonoscopic surveillance in eOCrC making a definitive diagnosis of SPS. We suggest that people diagnosed with CRC under the age of 50 (GRADE of evidence: very low; Strength of recommendation: years, where hereditary CRC syndromes have been excluded, weak) undergo standard post- CRC surveillance for 3 years, then Consensus reached: 90% agreement. continue 5 yearly colonoscopic surveillance until the age they We recommend the cumulative number of serrated polyps are eligible for national screening. from all endoscopic examinations should be used when applying (GRADE of evidence: low; Strength of recommendation: weak) the WHO 2019 diagnostic criteria for SPS. Consensus reached: 80% agreement. We recommend the cumulative number of serrated polyps The risk of metachronous CRC is highest during the 36 months from all endoscopic examinations should be used when applying after surgery; subsequently this risk decreases.175 The most the WHO 2019 diagnostic criteria for SPS. plausible explanation is that many early, apparently metachro- (GRADE of evidence: moderate; Strength of recommendation: nous cancers are actually due to prevalent cancers or advanced strong) Monahan KJ, et al. Gut 2020;69:411–444. doi: 429 Guidelines Consensus reached: 94% agreement.
