Guidelines
KEYWORDS: patients, risk, crc, surveillance, cancer, years, evidence, age, grade, strength, pathogenic, recommendation, grade evidence, low, strength recommendation


of evidence: moderate; Strength of recommendation: nous cancers are actually due to prevalent cancers or advanced strong) Monahan KJ, et al. Gut 2020;69:411–444. doi: 429 Guidelines Consensus reached: 94% agreement. Consensus reached: 94% agreement. SPS most probably comprises a phenotypically and genetically Colonoscopic surveillance is currently recommended following heterogeneous group of diseases. The phenotypic criteria for a detection and resection for adenomas in the colorectum due to an diagnosis of SPS have recently been revised by the WHO in 2019 increased risk of advanced adenomas and CRC in such patients; to include the following: (1) at least five serrated polyps prox- however, there is another major pathway to CRC “serrated imal to the rectum, all >5 mm in size with at least two >10 mm pathway” which accounts for 15–30% of CRC and has serrated in size; (2) at least 20 serrated polyps (of any size) with at least lesions as cancer precursors. SPS is common in bowel cancer five located proximal to the rectum.178 Fulfilment of either crite- screening programmes which use guaiac faecal occult blood test rion is sufficient for a diagnosis of SPS. Importantly, the previous (gFOBT) or FIT as a screening test, with estimates of SPS prev- WHO 2010 criterion 2, which required the presence of just one alence ranging from 1:150 to 1:300.187 188 A recent Spanish FIT serrated lesion in a patient who has an FDR with SPS, has been based cohort followed up all their patients with proximal serrated removed. Given that the prevalence of serrated lesions in the polyps, tripling the number of additional cases of SPS, for a final Western population may be up to 39%, most of which will be prevalence of 1:100.189 Therefore, especially when using FIT in sporadic, the chances of a false positive diagnosis using this crite- bowel cancer screening, colonoscopists should be alert to a diag- rion were high. nosis of SPS. The prevalence of SPS in the West is generally considered to The BSG position statement on serrated polyps in the colon and be around 1:3000 in screening populations. This may change as rectum recommended 1–2 yearly surveillance for patients meeting awareness of the condition among clinicians increases. Egoavil et the WHO criteria for serrated polyposis syndrome.190 This recom- al179 found that patients with multiple serrated polyps but failing mendation was on the basis that in early cohorts future risk of CRC to fulfil the
