Guidelines
KEYWORDS: patients, risk, crc, surveillance, cancer, years, evidence, age, grade, strength, pathogenic, recommendation, grade evidence, low, strength recommendation


was equiva- associated polyposis, hereditary mixed polyposis syndrome, lent to patients who met the WHO definition of SPS, and that attenuated FAP). Most, but not all, of the tumours arising in SPS their FDRs had a comparable risk of CRC.179 follow the serrated neoplasia pathway characterised by microsat- ellite instability (due to MLH1 promoter methylation) and BRAF Colonoscopic surveillance in unaffected fdrs of patients with pathogenic variant.183 This raises the possibility of accelerated sPs tumorigenesis as well as phenotypic overlap with LS. Recently, We recommend all FDRs of patients with SPS on the basis of the constitutional truncating pathogenic variant in RNF43 patho- new WHO 2019 SPS criteria 1 or 2 should be offered an index genic variant has been identified and shown to segregate with colonoscopic screening examination at the age of 40 years or 10 phenotype in one kindred with SPS.184 185 The same pathogenic years before the diagnosis of the index case. variant was also identified in two patients in a separate study. (GRADE of evidence: moderate; Strength of recommendation: In the absence of a single causative gene (and the possibility strong) that some forms of SPS may be polygenic in nature), the diag- Consensus reached: 89% agreement. nosis of SPS should be phenotype- driven. Given the overlap We suggest all FDRs of serrated polyposis patients have a with other well-d efined syndromes, these should be excluded surveillance examination every 5 years unless polyp burden in all patients in whom a diagnosis of SPS is made. A specific indicates an examination is required earlier according to post- gene panel for SPS may include testing for RNF43 and GREM1; polypectomy surveillance guidelines. however the frequency of these pathogenic variants is too low to (GRADE of evidence: low; Strength of recommendation: recommend routinely.186 strong) Consensus reached: 84% agreement. SPS may be a familial condition with between 1.3% and 7.7% Colonoscopic surveillance in sPs of index cases having an FDR who meets the original WHO We recommend that patients with SPS should have colonos- criteria 1 or 3 for 195 196SPS. A further 14.3%–24.4% of FDRs copic surveillance yearly once the colon has been cleared of ALL meet original WHO criterion two for SPS. Current guidelines lesions >5 mm in size. If no polyps ≥10 mm in size are identi- recommend a one-o ff screening examination of all FDRs to fied at subsequent surveillance examinations the interval can be detect
