Guidelines
KEYWORDS: patients, risk, crc, surveillance, cancer, years, evidence, age, grade, strength, pathogenic, recommendation, grade evidence, low, strength recommendation


size. If no polyps ≥10 mm in size are identi- recommend a one-o ff screening examination of all FDRs to fied at subsequent surveillance examinations the interval can be detect these familial SPS cases; however, the majority of FDR extended to 2 yearly will not meet the original WHO criteria for SPS after this initial (GRADE of evidence: moderate; Strength of recommendation: examination. The risk of CRC for FDRs of SPS patients is esti- strong) mated to be substantially elevated above that of the general 430 Monahan KJ, et al. Gut 2020;69:411–444. doi: Guidelines population by three- to fivefold.179 197 198 This risk may also or APC gene mutations, should be individualised according to apply to those with multiple serrated polyps not meeting WHO phenotype. criteria for SPS. It is unclear how this risk is distributed in the (GRADE of evidence: very low; Strength of recommendation: SPS FDR population. weak) In three series the mean or median age at diagnosis for CRC Consensus reached: 91% agreement. in FDRs of SPS patients ranged from 55 to 62. CRC was very We suggest annual colonoscopic surveillance for patients rare in those aged less than 40 years with the youngest case being with 10 or more metachronous adenomas after the colon has aged 25. Authors have recommended a screening examination been cleared of all lesions >5mm in size. If no polyps 10mm or starting at 35 or between 40 and 50 for FDRs of SPS cases, or greater in size are identified at subsequent surveillance exam- starting 5–10 years before the index case179 195–197 inations the interval can be extended to 2 yearly. In a follow-u p study of 78 patients, those who did not meet (GRADE of evidence: very low; Strength of recommendation: any WHO criteria for SPS seem to have low risk for subsequent weak) polyp or advanced neoplasia development; however, those who Consensus reached: 80% agreement. meet WHO criteria 2 do seem to develop polyps with five of Patients with multiple adenomas but without classical familial 14 patients developing three or more adenomas and two others adenomatous polyposis are frequently encountered in clinical of the 14 developing a serrated lesion ≥10 mm in size.196 High practice. Approximately 1.1% of patients undergoing colonos- rates of polyps in patients who met WHO 2 criteria were also copy in the English bowel cancer screening programme have seen by Hazewinkel et al.195 Therefore a
