Guidelines
KEYWORDS: patients, risk, crc, surveillance, cancer, years, evidence, age, grade, strength, pathogenic, recommendation, grade evidence, low, strength recommendation


in MMR more polyps in total of which 50% are serrated) but who do not genes. Thus an unbiased multi-g ene panel test approach may be meet the 2019 WHO criteria for SPS might be considered for associated with a higher diagnostic yield. similar surveillance approaches for FDRs. In a study of 7225 individuals with MCRA and oligopolyposis, The risk of CRC in FDRs of SPS patients is sufficiently elevated pathogenic variants in APC or common European founder patho- that they should be offered colonoscopic screening and regular genic biallelic variants in MUTYH were identified in 87/970 (9%) surveillance. individuals with 10–19 adenomas and 559/3253 (17%) individ- uals with 20–99 adenomas.201 There was an incremental increase in the odds of a pathogenic variant with an increasing number muLTiPLe COLOreCTAL AdenOmAs of adenomas and earlier age at adenoma diagnosis, particularly We suggest an individualised approach to germline testing of under the age of 50 years. patients with MCRA (defined as having 10 or more metachro- In addition to APC and MUTYH there is an evolving range of nous adenomas). Consider this testing for: other multiple adenoma susceptibility genes including NTHL1, ► Patients under 60 years of age with lifetime total of ≥10 GREM1, POLE, POLD1 and MSH3. Spier et al in 2015 demon- adenomas;or strated POLE pathogenic variants in 1.5% of individuals with ► Patients from 60 years of age with lifetime total of: greater than 20 synchronous or 40 metachronous adenomas – ≥20 adenomas, or although this percentage increased with a family history.202 – ≥10 adenomas and an FHCC or polyposis There is also some evidence of polygenic risk contributing to (GRADE of evidence: low; Strength of recommendation: weak) this attenuated polyposis phenotype.203 Consensus reached: 91% agreement. In summary, it is advisable to consider a diagnosis of a highly We suggest that patients with a finding of 10 or more polyps penetrant syndrome in patients with multiple adenomas. A (adenomas or serrated lesions) should, at their next colonos- nuanced approach to patient selection for constitutive testing copy, have a high-q uality colonoscopic assessment with panco- should incorporate patient age and personal and family history. lonic dye spray in order to accurately define the multiple polyp With regard to colonoscopic surveillance in the multiple phenotype. adenoma patient population, the GDG suggests constitutional (GRADE of evidence: very low; Strength of recommendation: gene testing to rule out known hereditary syndromes. Subse- weak) quently
