Guidelines
KEYWORDS: patients, risk, crc, surveillance, cancer, years, evidence, age, grade, strength, pathogenic, recommendation, grade evidence, low, strength recommendation


in the multiple phenotype. adenoma patient population, the GDG suggests constitutional (GRADE of evidence: very low; Strength of recommendation: gene testing to rule out known hereditary syndromes. Subse- weak) quently an individualised approach should be taken depending Consensus reached: 89% agreement. on adenoma size and number, with the goal of clearance of We suggest that the endoscopic management of patients colorectal adenomas >5 mm in size. However, surgical resection with 10 or more metachronous adenomas, without MUTYH should be considered where surveillance is not feasible. Monahan KJ, et al. Gut 2020;69:411–444. doi: 431 Guidelines In patients with 10–99 adenomas without APC or MUTYH 3–10% in those that were identified by registry initiated surveil- attenuated polyposis, with both an upper GI (21% with duodenal reduced CRC associated mortality.212 213 adenomas) and colorectal phenotype.204 In a study of 83 patients Colonoscopic surveillance enables assessment of adenoma also of 10–99 adenomas without APC or MUTYH pathogenic burden and distribution, which can guide the timing of and type of variants from the UK and Holland, the upper GI phenotype prophylactic surgery required. Previous guidelines recommended was reported in a minority of patients (9.6%), all of whom had the use of flexible sigmoidoscopy. However, most endoscopic Spigelman I or II disease (ie, early stage).205 procedures are performed under general anaesthesia in children For FDRs of MCRA patients, clinicians may consider a colo- and young teenagers; therefore a full colonoscopy is recommended noscopic assessment of risk at the time of referral, and/or a in an affected patient, to better determine their phenotype, as repeat assessment at age 50 years. This is in order that patients polyp distribution is not uniform and the rectum and sigmoid may who may be at risk of high penetrance cancer predisposition be normal despite the presence of more proximal adenomas. It is syndromes may be effectively identified (for example, the chil- not recommended therefore for flexible sigmoidoscopy to be used dren of individuals with unidentified mosaic pathogenic variants routinely in screening/surveillance in FAP. of the APC gene206). However the GDG did not reach consensus Current guidelines advocate annual endoscopic assessment. on this recommendation, and recommend that multicentre There is no evidence for accelerated carcinogenesis in FAP and outcome data in these patients be collected and published to help the rather scant data that are available do not indicate a rapid guide future recommendations. increase in polyp number in teenagers/young adults.214 Therefore
