Guidelines
KEYWORDS: patients, risk, crc, surveillance, cancer, years, evidence, age, grade, strength, pathogenic, recommendation, grade evidence, low, strength recommendation


patients be collected and published to help the rather scant data that are available do not indicate a rapid guide future recommendations. increase in polyp number in teenagers/young adults.214 Therefore it does not seem logical to mandate an annual assessment for all affected patients, particularly given that there is significant vari- fAmiLiAL AdenOmATOus POLyPOsis ability in colonic phenotype. Those with an attenuated phenotype FAP is defined by the presence of pathogenic variants in the APC (<100 adenomas) may not require such frequent colonoscopic gene with a prevalence of about 1/8500. It is a dominantly inher- surveillance as those with a classical phenotype (>100 adenomas). ited multisystem cancer predisposition syndrome with a char- In addition, if an individual only has adenomas of 1–2 mm their acteristic phenotype characterised by colorectal and upper GI surveillance could perhaps be longer than those with larger polyps, polyposis. for example, 8–9 mm. Personalising surveillance interval according to phenotype, 1–3 yearly would appear safe as long as families are Colorectal surveillance in fAP not lost to follow-u p and this would concord with current paedi- We recommend that colonic surveillance should normally atric guidelines.208 Extending the interval, however, should be for commence at the age of 12–14 years in those confirmed to have those with an attenuated phenotype, in the setting of good quality FAP on predictive genetic testing. colonoscopy with robust systems in place to ensure appropriate (GRADE of evidence: low; Strength of recommendation: recall. strong) There are a few patients with a particularly attenuated pheno- Consensus reached: 100% agreement. type. In this group, primary endoscopic management by surveil- We suggest that for those with FAP, intervals between surveil- lance and polypectomy may be considered either to defer surgery lance colonoscopy may be individualised depending on colonic or possibly to avoid the need for surgery altogether. However, phenotype every 1–3 years. there are no robust data to support this approach. (GRADE of evidence: low; Strength of recommendation: weak) At risk patients, where predictive genetic testing is not Consensus reached: 94% agreement. possible, should be screened by colonoscopy every 5 years from We suggest that colonoscopy screening is performed for indi- the age of 12–14 years. If adenomas are identified, the patient “at- risk”) and in whom an APC mutation has not been identi- the colonic phenotype as described above. If no phenotype has fied, starting at the age of 12–14 years, and should continue on
