Guidelines
KEYWORDS: patients, risk, crc, surveillance, cancer, years, evidence, age, grade, strength, pathogenic, recommendation, grade evidence, low, strength recommendation


whom an APC mutation has not been identi- the colonic phenotype as described above. If no phenotype has fied, starting at the age of 12–14 years, and should continue on been observed by the age of 50 years, FAP is unlikely and so the 5 yearly surveillance until either a clinical diagnosis is made patient could be discharged from routine colonoscopic screening and they are then managed as FAP, or they reach the age at to have continued screening under the auspices of the national which they can enrol in national screening. bowel cancer screening programme. (GRADE of evidence: very low; Strength of recommendation: weak) Consensus reached: 95% agreement. Upper GI surveillance in patients affected with FAP Current international guidelines207 208 recommend starting We recommend upper GI surveillance for FAP patients starting colonoscopy surveillance or screening at the age of 12–14 years, at the age of 25 years. after diagnostic genetic testing has been performed in at-r isk (GRADE of evidence: low; Strength of recommendation: children. There are no new data to recommend any change strong) to this recommendation of age at which to start. The risk of Consensus reached: 90% agreement. CRC under the age of 20 years is very small and under 15 years We suggest that for those considered at risk, where predictive extremely rare.207 In patients with FAP-r elated symptoms such genetic testing is not possible, screening with upper GI endos- as rectal bleeding, diarrhoea or mucous discharge should lead copy is not routinely recommended but should be started if/ tutional pathogenic variant at codon 1309, which is associated phenotype. with a greater risk of a more severe colonic phenotype. (GRADE of evidence: very low; Strength of recommendation: Colonoscopic surveillance has been shown to lead to a reduc- weak) tion in CRC and CRC- associated mortality. Data detailing the Consensus reached: 89% agreement. results of polyposis registries have shown that in symptomatic Lifetime risk of duodenal polyposis approaches 100% in patients the incidence of CRC was 50–70% compared with FAP.215 The absolute lifetime risk of developing duodenal cancer 432 Monahan KJ, et al. Gut 2020;69:411–444. doi: Guidelines in centres dealing with a large cohorts of patients with FAP. It Table 3 Staging the duodenum and ampulla and recommended OGD would be most prudent for patients being considered for endo- surveillance intervals scopic therapy for duodenal disease to be referred to their local 1 2 3 the
