Guidelines
KEYWORDS: patients, risk, crc, surveillance, cancer, years, evidence, age, grade, strength, pathogenic, recommendation, grade evidence, low, strength recommendation


and recommended OGD would be most prudent for patients being considered for endo- surveillance intervals scopic therapy for duodenal disease to be referred to their local 1 2 3 the appropriateness of endoscopic and surgical intervention can be performed. Number of polyps 1–4 5–20 >20 The data regarding endoscopic management of ampullary Polyp size (mm) 1–4 5–10 >10 disease are rather scant. However, it appears to be less safe with Histological type Tubular Tubulovillous Villous risk of haemorrhage, pancreatitis and perforation, morbidity Degree of dysplasia Mild Moderate Severe rates up to 45%225 and with high rates of recurrence, up to OGD, oesophago- gastro- duodenoscopy. 58%.227 It cannot be routinely recommended. Referral to a specialist hepato- pancreatico- biliary (HPB) centre should be Total points spigelman stage recommended follow- up interval made for those in whom endoscopic ampullectomy is being 0 0 5 years considered. 1–4 I 5 years Gastric lesions are also common in adult patients with FAP. 5–6 II 3 years Fundic gland polyps (FGPs) are seen in up to 80% of patients 7–8 III Annual and consider endoscopic therapy with FAP228 and although there is some debate they are likely 9–12 IV 6–12 months and consider endoscopic or to be an entirely benign entity without malignant potential. surgical therapy Gastric adenomas are being seen more commonly, as indeed is gastric cancer. Although historically gastric cancer risk was not normal ampulla minor polyposis major polyposis thought to be elevated in patients with FAP, there are reports that Ampulla size n/a Less than 1 cm More than 1 cm gastric adenomas and cancer are becoming an important clinical Villous histology n/a None Present problem.229 230 There are no data published regarding outcomes Degree of dysplasia n/a Mild Moderate or severe of endoscopic therapy for gastric adenomas in FAP. Referral to a Recommended 5 yearly 3 yearly Annual specialist centre for assessment and management seems prudent surveillance given the lack of evidence and absence of consensus guidelines. Congenital hypertrophy retinal pigmentation epithelium in FAP is estimated to be around 5%.216 Because of this, surveil- We suggest that patients with congenital hypertrophy retinal lance has been recommended and survival benefit for those pigmentation epithelium (CHRPE) be referred for a specialist diagnosed with duodenal cancer by surveillance compared with ophthalmic review. Patients with bilateral and multiple CHRPE those who presented symptomatically has been demonstrated.217 lesions should be referred for screening for FAP and considered
