Guidelines
KEYWORDS: patients, risk, crc, surveillance, cancer, years, evidence, age, grade, strength, pathogenic, recommendation, grade evidence, low, strength recommendation


cancer by surveillance compared with ophthalmic review. Patients with bilateral and multiple CHRPE those who presented symptomatically has been demonstrated.217 lesions should be referred for screening for FAP and considered The Spigelman classification (table 3) is the system that is most for genetic testing and colonoscopy. widely used for staging non-a mpullary duodenal disease2182; it (GRADE of evidence: low; Strength of recommendation: weak) has been shown to correlate with cancer risk219 and is recom- Consensus reached: 100% agreement. mended to determine surveillance intervals.207 There is debate Up to two thirds of patients with FAP have CHRPE identi- about how to incorporate ampullary disease in this classifica- fied at ophthalmoscopy,231 compared with a prevalence in the tion system. A staging system for ampullary disease has been general population of 1–4%. CHRPE lesions associated with proposed,220 which in one series correlated to the develop- FAP are most often multiple, bilateral (in 86% of cases) and ment of ampullary cancer.221 A surveillance interval determined oval or pisciform in shape. Multiple retinal lesions have a very by the combination of these staging systems may be the most high specificity as a phenotypic marker for FAP.232 Referral for helpful and reliably replicated clinical means of managing a specialist ophthalmic review will assist in characterising those duodenal surveillance (see figure 1). A duodenoscope is required with lesions which need to be considered for screening for FAP. to reliably assess and/or biopsy the periampullary region and Such patients should be referred to a specialist centre for consid- ampulla itself. Although there are reports of chromoendos- eration of screening for FAP by genetic testing and thereafter copy increasing duodenal adenoma detection,222 223 its utility in colonoscopy, age 12–14 years, or at time of diagnosis if diag- clinical practice is not established. It may increase the number nosed at an older age. of adenomas detected but there remains no evidence that dye spray increases the pick-u p of larger, more clinically meaningful lesions.223 There are no data to suggest that it alters the need fAP And surGery for endoscopic or surgical intervention. The concern is that it We recommend that for patients with FAP who are undergoing may increase the pick-u p of small lesions and may artificially colonoscopic surveillance, relative indications for surgery are “upstage” the duodenal disease but without reflecting a higher polyps >10 mm in diameter, high grade dysplasia within polyps cancer risk, compared with white
