Guidelines
KEYWORDS: patients, risk, crc, surveillance, cancer, years, evidence, age, grade, strength, pathogenic, recommendation, grade evidence, low, strength recommendation


surveillance, relative indications for surgery are “upstage” the duodenal disease but without reflecting a higher polyps >10 mm in diameter, high grade dysplasia within polyps cancer risk, compared with white light endoscopy. Recent data and a significant increase in polyp burden between screening suggest that it is polyp size and the presence of high- grade examinations. dysplasia that are the most important predictors of cancer risk, (GRADE of evidence: low; Strength of recommendation: polyp multiplicity.224 It should be noted that the Spigelman clas- strong) sification system was developed and validated using white light Consensus reached: 82% agreement. endoscopy, without high definition. For most patients the choice of surgery will be between total The role of endoscopic therapy in the duodenum and colectomy with ileorectal anastomosis (IRA) and proctocolec- ampullary is not well established. It has an acceptable safety tomy and ileal pouch anal anastomosis (IPAA). The choice of profile225 226; however, there are no long- term data to demon- surgery will depend on rectal polyp number, size and presence of strate it reduces cancer risk or indeed prevents or delays the need high- grade dysplasia, genotype and the functional consequences for prophylactic surgery. Nevertheless, it is widely performed of the surgical procedure. IPAA should also be considered Monahan KJ, et al. Gut 2020;69:411–444. doi: 433 Guidelines for those patients who are likely to be poorly compliant with 53% IPAA). Bowel frequency, nocturnal defaecation and use of follow- up surveillance. incontinence pads were significantly less in the ileorectal group, Total proctocolectomy with end ileostomy can be considered although faecal urgency was reduced with the ileal pouch. for patients with poor sphincter function, incontinence, distal There was no significant difference between the techniques in rectal cancer, cancers requiring radiation, or for those who desire terms of sexual dysfunction, dietary restriction or postoperative to avoid the functional consequences of an ileoanal pouch. complications. In patients with FAP, colon cancer will inevitably develop if the The fecundity of women with FAP before operation and colon is not removed. Total colectomy will prevent colon cancer after colectomy with ileorectal anastomosis has been reported in FAP patients. Prophylactic surgery can usually be planned at a to be similar to that of the general population. However, time which is suitable to the patient, based on the risk of cancer fecundity dropped to 54 per cent following proctocolectomy as assessed colonoscopically. The timing and choice of surgical with
