Guidelines
KEYWORDS: patients, risk, crc, surveillance, cancer, years, evidence, age, grade, strength, pathogenic, recommendation, grade evidence, low, strength recommendation


which is suitable to the patient, based on the risk of cancer fecundity dropped to 54 per cent following proctocolectomy as assessed colonoscopically. The timing and choice of surgical with ileal pouch- anal anastomosis. It is recommended that the procedure should take into account the educational, social, significant reduction in female fecundity after IPAA should be family planning and emotional development of the patient and communicated to young women with FAP before surgery.240 their reliability for attending follow-u p evaluations. The risk of developing postoperative fertility problems is not Indications for surgery include polyps >10 mm diameter, associated significantly with the type of surgery, indication for polyps with high- grade dysplasia, and marked increases in polyp surgery, complications or other comorbid conditions. Postop- number between examinations. Symptoms from polyps should erative fertility problems appear to be more common among be rare in those undergoing regular screening and surgery should women who had their first surgical procedure at a younger be performed before symptoms from polyps develop. age.241 Total colectomy with ileorectal anastomosis (TAC-I RA) can be Indications for rectal excision following IRA include: the offered to patients with relative rectal sparing (<20 polyps) if all rectal adenomas are <5 mm in diameter and any polyps >5 mm development of rectal cancer, polyps >10 mm diameter, polyps can be endoscopically removed. However, flexibility with regard with high- grade dysplasia, and marked increases in polyp to a threshold polyp number should be employed with the advent number between examinations. When conversion of an IRA to of high- definition or chromo- endoscopic techniques. IPAA is required, functional outcomes appear similar to primary The decision to retain the rectum is made based on future IPAA procedures. Complication rates and pouch failure rates rectal cancer risk, polyposis phenotype in the rectum, functional are reported to be similar, but conversion to IPAA will not be considerations and the genotype. possible in a small percentage of patients.242 Bülow et al evaluated 776 patients who had IRA, including Proctocolectomy with IPAA is the treatment of choice in the 576 before the ileoanal pouch era, and 200 after the ileoanal presence of: rectal cancer, a large rectal polyp burden (>20 pouch became available in these centres.233 The cumulative risk synchronous adenomas, adenoma with high- grade dysplasia, of rectal cancer by Kaplan-M eier analysis was 10% in the pre- large (>10 mm) adenomas) or a severe phenotype (>1000 pouch era
