Guidelines
KEYWORDS: patients, risk, crc, surveillance, cancer, years, evidence, age, grade, strength, pathogenic, recommendation, grade evidence, low, strength recommendation


year of treatment.252 Response was defined predictive of desmoid formation. as stable size or regression of desmoid size between two CT or (GRADE of evidence: low; Strength of recommendation: weak) MRI scans. Of the 134 patients included, half had a confirmed Consensus reached: 78% agreement. diagnosis of FAP. Eighty-f ive per cent of patients showed regres- We suggest that sulindac in combination with high- dose selec- sion or had stable desmoid size. The mean time to reach at least tive oestrogen receptor modulators may be effective in FAP stable size was 14.9±9.1 months. After regression or stabilisa- patients with intra-a bdominal desmoids and desmoids located tion, medication was tapered in 60% of the treated patients with at the abdominal wall. only one long- term recurrence after >10 years. (GRADE of evidence: very low; Strength of recommendation: In patients with progressive intra-a bdominal desmoid disease weak) that does not respond to this treatment, chemotherapy (eg, doxo- Consensus reached: 100% agreement. rubicine and dacarbazine or methotrexate and vinblastine)253 254 We recommend the role of elective surgery for intra- abdominal or radiation therapy is indicated. Surgery should be reserved for secondary effects of the desmoids should be restricted to treating secondary effects of the desmoid disease. desmoid disease, and this surgery should be performed in expert centres. (GRADE of evidence: low; Strength of recommendation: MUTYH-AssOCiATed POLyPOsis strong) Colorectal surveillance in mAP Consensus reached: 95% agreement. We recommend that colorectal surveillance is commenced in Desmoid tumours will develop in around 15% of patients with MAP starting at the age of 18–20 years. If surgery is not under- FAP. Risk factors include abdominal surgery, positive family history taken then annual surveillance is suggested. for desmoids and site of the pathogenic variant.248 249 In individ- (GRADE of evidence: low; Strength of recommendation: uals with APC pathogenic variants in the desmoid region 3' to strong) codon 1399, abdominal surgery was associated with a 65% risk of Consensus reached: 83% agreement. developing mesenteric desmoids.249 As desmoids can cause signifi- We recommend that for monoallelic MUTYH pathogenic cant complications and pose a low risk of death, genotypes predic- variant carriers, the risk of CRC is not sufficiently different to tive of desmoid formation and family history of desmoids should population risk to meet thresholds for screening, and routine be determined for all patients before colectomy. Identification of colonoscopy is not recommended. at-r isk patients will enable appropriate counselling and
