Guidelines
KEYWORDS: patients, risk, crc, surveillance, cancer, years, evidence, age, grade, strength, pathogenic, recommendation, grade evidence, low, strength recommendation


population risk to meet thresholds for screening, and routine be determined for all patients before colectomy. Identification of colonoscopy is not recommended. at-r isk patients will enable appropriate counselling and consent (GRADE of evidence: moderate; Strength of recommendation: before surgery and allow informed decision about the timing of strong) surgery. This decision should sensibly balance the risk of malig- Consensus reached: 94% agreement. nancy with the risk of mesenteric desmoid disease. MAP is a recessively inherited cancer and polyposis predispo- Some desmoid tumours spontaneously stop growing, some sition syndrome caused by pathogenic variants in the MUTYH regress and others remorselessly increase in size. In a small base- excision repair gene, with significant phenotypic overlap proportion, this increase may be rapid and uncontrollable. There with FAP. It is classically said to be associated with a more attenu- are no proven predictors of growth pattern. ated phenotype than FAP but there is significant phenotypic vari- The distinction between intra- and extra-a bdominal desmoids ation. Past guidelines have suggested that colonoscopy should is important. Abdominal wall desmoids cause pain (variable) commence at the age of 18–20 years, on the basis that CRC in and mass effect. Intra- abdominal lesions, in addition, are at risk MAP is rare below the age of 30 years207 and be performed up of causing secondary effects: ureteric and small bowel obstruc- to 2 yearly, as the colonic phenotype is usually more attenuated. tion, fistula formation or small bowel ischaemia. The quality of This attenuated phenotype also lead the authors to comment data on which to make decisions about treatment of abdominal that endoscopic management may suffice if there is an attenu- wall and intra- abdominal desmoid disease is limited and largely ated phenotype. consists of small, non- controlled studies. As such, the treatment CRC in MAP is more likely to be right sided and synchro- of patients with desmoid tumours remains controversial. For nous.255 256 A cumulative CRC risk of 63% at 60 years has been abdominal wall lesions, there is an expanding role of percuta- reported.257 The median age of CRC seems dependent on the neous ablative treatments and in some institutions ablation has underlying genotype.256 MAP accounts for up to 29% of those become the primary treatment.250 patients with 10–100 adenomas but also up to 29% of those with Church et al251 combined symptoms (pain, restriction, hospi- a classical phenotype (100–1000 adenomas). Biallelic pathogenic talisation and
