Guidelines
KEYWORDS: patients, risk, crc, surveillance, cancer, years, evidence, age, grade, strength, pathogenic, recommendation, grade evidence, low, strength recommendation


treatment.250 patients with 10–100 adenomas but also up to 29% of those with Church et al251 combined symptoms (pain, restriction, hospi- a classical phenotype (100–1000 adenomas). Biallelic pathogenic talisation and sensation of a mass) with size and growth rate in variants have also been reported in patients with <10 adenomas a proposed staging system for intra- abdominal desmoid disease. and also in patients with CRC but no adenomas.258–260 There are Decisions about treatment are partly based on size and symp- further data to suggest that CRC risk in MAP may not correlate toms, but are more often determined by secondary effects of to adenoma number.257 the desmoid on the urinary and GI tract. Following diagnosis, Colonoscopy surveillance may not be effective in MAP and it if no secondary effects are present, serial imaging with CT or has been postulated that there may be accelerated carcinogen- MRI scanning every 6–12 months depending on growth rate esis. Nieuwenhuis and colleagues reported that of those who is reasonable. Radiological screening at 12 months following presented with a polyposis phenotype but without CRC, 9% Monahan KJ, et al. Gut 2020;69:411–444. doi: 435 Guidelines developed CRC during 5 years of surveillance. If the presenta- ► Any number of PJ polyps detected in one individual who has tion was with CRC, then they observed a 5 year metachronous a family history of PJS in a close relative cancer risk of 11%.257 In light of these data, annual colonos- ► Characteristic mucocutaneous pigmentation in an individual copy would appear appropriate if colonoscopy surveillance is who has a family history of PJS in a close relative pursued, but it appears that surgery may be the more appro- ► Any number of PJ polyps in an individual who also has char- priate management strategy, balanced against age, co- morbidity acteristic mucocutaneous pigmentation and expected functional outcome. ► A pathogenic variant in STK11. The risk of Gi tract cancer in Pjs Upper GI surveillance in patients affected with MAP GI tract carcinogenesis in PJS is controversial. The malignant We suggest that upper GI surveillance should be considered in potential of the PJS polyp is unclear. A hamartoma–adenoma– MAP, starting at the age of 35 years. We recommend that the carcinoma sequence has been proposed but robust supporting surveillance interval is determined as outlined for FAP. data are lacking. There are data suggesting that the PJS polyp is (GRADE of evidence:
