Guidelines
KEYWORDS: patients, risk, crc, surveillance, cancer, years, evidence, age, grade, strength, pathogenic, recommendation, grade evidence, low, strength recommendation


sequence has been proposed but robust supporting surveillance interval is determined as outlined for FAP. data are lacking. There are data suggesting that the PJS polyp is (GRADE of evidence: low; Strength of recommendation: weak) non- neoplastic, including descriptions of polyclonality and the Consensus reached: 94% agreement. rarity of dysplasia in PJS polyps.266 The data regarding the upper GI tract phenotype in MAP is It is widely accepted that there is an increased risk of malig- far less extensive than in FAP. It is generally suggested that the two conditions should be managed in a similar manner.207 261 nancy in PJS. However, the risk is difficult to quantify, with the majority of the literature being small cohort studies with inherent Duodenal adenomas have been reported in 17–34% of those with MAP.262 263 The median age at which duodenal adenomas bias, potentially leading to overestimation of risk. A meta- are diagnosed has been reported as 50 years.262 The lifetime analysis has been performed by Hearle et al creating a cohort of 419 patients with PJS.267 This offers the most comprehensive risk of developing duodenal cancer is estimated to be around 4%.263 Two patients were diagnosed with duodenal or ampul- data for cancer risk with a luminal GI cancer risk of 1%, 9%, 15%, 33% and 57% at 30, 40, 50, 60 and 70 years, respectively. lary cancer in one series, age 83 and 63 years, respectively; both More recent data, although from a smaller cohort, support the were diagnosed at index upper GI endoscopy but no cancer arose in patients who were on a surveillance programme.262 proposition that GI cancers are less of a clinical problem and that pancreatic and breast cancers are the most commonly diagnosed Polyps appear to progress through the development of villous malignancies in PJS.266 features and increasing size in this series, rather than progression in number or dysplasia.262 Certainly the phenotype does appear to be different and polyp multiplicity in MAP does not seem to Gi surveillance and Pjs be observed in the same manner as it is in FAP. There appears to We suggest that in an asymptomatic patient with PJS, GI surveil- be scientific evidence to suggest that MAP duodenal polyps may lance by upper GI endoscopy, colonoscopy and VCE commence behave differently to those in FAP. A higher burden of somatic at the age of 8 years. We recommend that small bowel surveil-
