Guidelines
KEYWORDS: patients, risk, crc, surveillance, cancer, years, evidence, age, grade, strength, pathogenic, recommendation, grade evidence, low, strength recommendation


upper GI endoscopy, colonoscopy and VCE commence behave differently to those in FAP. A higher burden of somatic at the age of 8 years. We recommend that small bowel surveil- pathogenic variants in MAP duodenal adenomas is reported, lance should continue 3 yearly. If baseline colonoscopy and compared with FAP, despite a lower Spigelman stage disease. It OGD are normal, then they can be safely deferred until the age is postulated that this may reflect an increased cancer risk in of 18 years; however, if polyps are found at baseline examina- the context of apparently less severe benign disease264; however, tion, then they should be repeated 3 yearly. Earlier investigation long- term data to support this hypothesis are lacking. of the GI tract should be performed in symptomatic patients. Because of the reduced frequency of duodenal adenomas, (GRADE of evidence: low; Strength of recommendation: weak) compared with FAP and the later onset of duodenal adenomas, it Consensus reached: 82% agreement. has been suggested that starting upper GI endoscopic surveillance Small bowel polyps resulting in intussusception is the major could be deferred until the age of 35 years.262 In the absence of clinical problem affecting children with PJS. The cumula- more robust data, determining surveillance intervals according tive intussusception risk is estimated at 50–68% during child- to duodenal and ampullary staging, as has been recommended in hood,268 269 with 15–30% requiring surgery before the age of FAP, appears to be a pragmatic approach. 10 years with a median age of the first intussusception of 10–16 There are few data regarding gastric lesions in MAP. FGPs years. These data include patients who preceded routine small have been reported in 6% of a cohort with MAP and gastric bowel surveillance. They also combine patients with an estab- adenomas in 3%.263 This would suggest that gastric polyposis is lished diagnosis of PJS undergoing surveillance, with those not seen less commonly than in FAP. In the same series gastric cancer under surveillance in whom the diagnosis of PJS was made at was observed but the incidence was not statistically different to presentation with an intussusception. The recommendation to the risk for the general population. Further data regarding the start small bowel surveillance at the age of 8 years, and earlier if gastric phenotype are required to determine risk and how best symptomatic, is based on these data.270 to manage such lesions. Gastroscopy and colonoscopy are
