Guidelines
KEYWORDS: patients, risk, crc, surveillance, cancer, years, evidence, age, grade, strength, pathogenic, recommendation, grade evidence, low, strength recommendation


of 8 years, and earlier if gastric phenotype are required to determine risk and how best symptomatic, is based on these data.270 to manage such lesions. Gastroscopy and colonoscopy are the preferred investiga- tion to assess the upper GI tract and colon, respectively. Barium PeuTz-jeGhers syndrOme follow through has been replaced by VCE and MRI enterog- PJS is an autosomal dominant genetic disorder characterised raphy, both of which are better tolerated by patients, have a by the development of benign hamartomatous polyps in the GI similar accuracy in detecting clinically significant polyps (>1 cm) tract and hyperpigmented macules on the lips and oral mucosa and avoid the need for repeated ionising radiation.271–276 VCE (which fade with age). The prevalence of PJS is between 1/8300 and MR enterography may be complimentary. While VCE may and 1/29 000 and most patients have pathogenic variants in the be better at detecting smaller polyps, MRI enterography is better STK11 (also called LKB1) gene. at localisation and accurate sizing. Diagnostic criteria265: A diagnosis of PJS in an individual may Double balloon enteroscopy (DBE) should not recommended be made when any one of the following is present: as a surveillance tool as it is technically challenging, limited by ► Two or more histologically confirmed PJ polyps size of the abdomen and requires both oral and rectal approaches; 436 Monahan KJ, et al. Gut 2020;69:411–444. doi: Guidelines therefore a general anaesthetic is required to reliably visualise on small series, with inherent bias. Such cohorts have reported the whole length of the small bowel. The main role of DBE is CRC in 14–22% of patients280 281 with a reported lifetime CRC therapeutic, for targeted polypectomy. risk of 39–68%.281 282 CRC in childhood is not a clinically signif- icant problem. The mean age of CRC in two of the larger studies was 44 years.280 282 role of endoscopic polypectomy in Pjs The risk of CRC is undoubtedly elevated, and the current We suggest elective polypectomy to prevent polyp related consensus is that colonoscopic surveillance is required, with the complications. Small bowel polyps >1.5–2 cm in size (or smaller aim of preventing or detecting early cancers. Colonoscopy and if symptomatic) should be considered for elective resection to polypectomy also has the potential to prevent polyp-r elated prevent intussusception. morbidity (bleeding, anaemia or abdominal pain). There are few (GRADE of evidence: low; Strength of recommendation: weak) data regarding the outcomes of
