Guidelines
KEYWORDS: patients, risk, crc, surveillance, cancer, years, evidence, age, grade, strength, pathogenic, recommendation, grade evidence, low, strength recommendation


the potential to prevent polyp-r elated prevent intussusception. morbidity (bleeding, anaemia or abdominal pain). There are few (GRADE of evidence: low; Strength of recommendation: weak) data regarding the outcomes of surveillance in JPS. In one of the Consensus reached: 88% agreement. largest cohorts, colonoscopy was safe. Two patients developed Polypectomy at surveillance is recommended in PJS. It is not CRC on surveillance—one in the setting of carpeting of polyps, clear whether this approach modifies cancer risk and indeed, given and the other arose following what was almost certainly an incom- plete colonoscopy in the mid 1970s.280 role for polypectomy therefore is to prevent polyp-r elated compli- For those with a confirmed genetic diagnosis of JPS, or individ- cations. Prevention of anaemia and bleeding, however, is difficult uals with a clinical diagnosis of JPS in whom molecular genetic to quantify and there are no data regarding this. Intussusception is test results were uninformative, colonoscopic surveillance can be accumulative risk of 50–68% in childhood.268 269 delayed until the age of 15 years if asymptomatic. There are no data to guide the most appropriate interval for Existing guidelines suggest intervening in small bowel polyps which are 1.5–2 cm, earlier if symptomatic.270 This is supported colonoscopy surveillance in JPS. There are no data to support accelerated carcinogenesis in JPS. A personalised approach with by data which report a median polyp size of 35 mm (15–60 mm) in cases of confirmed intussusception.269 In addition, in a cohort the surveillance interval (1–3 yearly) based on individual colonic in whom routine surveillance was performed, with intervention phenotype appears to be a pragmatic approach and is in line with planned as outlined above, no patient required emergency surgery recent paediatric polyposis guidelines.279 Colonic resection may be for intussusception during 683 patient- years follow- up.266 considered for those with a polyp burden not manageable endo- Options to remove a PJS polyp include endoscopy, surgery or scopically. For those unaffected individuals from families with a is superior to another and choice will be dependent on patient (eg, seem adequate. If normal, the interval to be reviewed if a JPS age, past abdominal surgery), polyp factors (size, location and phenotype is found or other sporadic polyps are identified. multiplicity) and local availability of techniques. For those who undergo surgery for small bowel polyps, intraoperative enteros- upper Gi surveillance and jPs copy and a “clean sweep” is recommended and has been demon-
