Guidelines
KEYWORDS: patients, risk, crc, surveillance, cancer, years, evidence, age, grade, strength, pathogenic, recommendation, grade evidence, low, strength recommendation


availability of techniques. For those who undergo surgery for small bowel polyps, intraoperative enteros- upper Gi surveillance and jPs copy and a “clean sweep” is recommended and has been demon- We suggest that for those with a confirmed clinical or genetic strated to reduce the need for subsequent laparotomy.277 Polyp diagnosis, upper GI endoscopic surveillance should start at the clearance by intraoperative enteroscopy in the PJS may be effective age of 18 years for SMAD4 pathogenic variant carriers and the in the long term.277 278 age of 25 years for BMPR1A pathogenic variant carriers and those without an identified mutation. The surveillance interval juveniLe POLyPOsis syndrOme should be 1–3 yearly, personalised according to upper GI tract JPS is an autosomal dominant condition characterised by predis- phenotype. position to hamartomatous polyps in the GI tract. The preva- (GRADE of evidence: low; Strength of recommendation: weak) lence is between 1/100 000 and 1/160 000, with the following Consensus reached: 83% agreement. diagnostic criteria279: We suggest that for those with an FDR with a clinical diag- ► >5 juvenile polyps in the colon or rectum nosis of JPS and in whom a mutation has not been identified, ► Juvenile polyps in other parts of the GI tract screening of the upper GI tract is not required routinely but ► Any number of juvenile polyps and a positive family history should be initiated if/when a clinical diagnosis is made on the ► A pathogenic variant in SMAD4 or BMPR1A. basis of colonic phenotype. It may however be considered if About 40% of families have mutations in SMAD4 and a further there is a family history suggestive of hereditary haemorrhagic 40% in BMPR1A. Some patients have large chromosomal dele- telangiectasia (HHT), even in the absence of colonic polyps. tions encompassing both PTEN and BMPR1A genes. There is a (GRADE of evidence: low; Strength of recommendation: weak) requirement to develop an evidence base for the personalised Consensus reached: 83% agreement. management of JPS- related cancers, which is beyond the scope Upper GI endoscopy is not required in those unaffected indi- of this guideline. viduals in whom the diagnosis in the family is clinical without a confirmed molecular diagnosis. It is clear that the colon is the jPs and colorectal surveillance site most likely to be affected in JPS and therefore any upper GI We suggest colonoscopic surveillance should commence from tract assessment can be deferred until
