Guidelines
KEYWORDS: patients, risk, crc, surveillance, cancer, years, evidence, age, grade, strength, pathogenic, recommendation, grade evidence, low, strength recommendation


jPs and colorectal surveillance site most likely to be affected in JPS and therefore any upper GI We suggest colonoscopic surveillance should commence from tract assessment can be deferred until a colonic phenotype of JPS the age of 15 years or earlier if symptomatic. The surveil- has been established in that individual. lance interval should be 1–3 yearly, personalised according to There is a paucity of data evaluating the upper tract in colorectal phenotype. JPS. Historical series report the incidence of gastric polyps (GRADE of evidence: low; Strength of recommendation: weak) between 65% and 83% and duodenal polyps between 14% and Consensus reached: 85% agreement. 33%.283 284 More recently, 28/41 patients had neither macro- The polyps in JPS are thought to have the potential for malig- scopic nor microscopic features of upper GI tract polyps and nant transformation with dysplasia present in 8% of resected 13/41 had confirmed histological upper GI tract involvement at a polyps in one series.280 The risk of CRC is ill-d efined, being based median age of 33 years.285 In this cohort five patients underwent Monahan KJ, et al. Gut 2020;69:411–444. doi: 437 Guidelines OGD before the age of 15 years and three had changes consis- suppressor PTEN. These are associated with macrocephaly, tent with JPS, but none had dysplasia. In another series, gastro- dysmorphism, developmental delay and an increased risk of duodenal polyps were seen in 37%; in this cohort none of the six extra- intestinal cancers and possibly intestinal cancers. BMPR1A patients who had upper GI endoscopy before the age of 18 years is located in the same chromosomal region as PTEN and dele- had gastroduodenal polyps.280 tions involving both genes have been reported. Microdeletions time risk of gastric cancer in JPS. There were two gastric cancers are numerous case reports suggesting that if the pathogenic in a cohort of 44 patients with JPS (median age 56 years)280 variant (microdeletion) is found in both genes, these patients and a further two (age not specified) in a cohort of 56 patients may present with a severe form of JPS with onset in early child- who appear to have been mostly JPS but some of whom had hood and may also have an increased risk of the extra-i ntestinal phenotypic features overlapping with Cowden syndrome.286 In manifestations of PHTS.293–295 another series, 3/42 patients had either high grade dysplasia or cancer in the stomach285 and a further
