Guidelines
KEYWORDS: patients, risk, crc, surveillance, cancer, years, evidence, age, grade, strength, pathogenic, recommendation, grade evidence, low, strength recommendation


members of the guideline tions. Up to 76% of patients with JPS due to SMAD4 mutations development group (GDG) and edited by the lead author. The guideline development have features of HHT.290 Thoracic aortic disease and mitral process was contributed by all members of the GDG as outlined in the methods valve dysfunction have also been reported.280 290 Aortopathy has section. been described in 38% of patients with a SMAD4 mutation, irre- funding This study was funded by of British Society of Gastroenterology. Prof. spective of the JPS phenotype.291 James East was funded by the National Institute for Health Research (NIHR) Oxford Biomedical Research Centre (BRC). The views expressed are those of the author(s) Patients may lack overt clinical symptoms of HHT but are at risk of asymptomatic arteriovenous malformation (AVMs) which Competing interests KJM: Medical advisory board of Bowel Cancer UK, Lynch can result in life threatening complications. Patients with a SMAD4 Syndrome UK. JH and FL: FAP trial (now closed) with funding awarded to NHS pathogenic variant are probably best managed in conjunction with trust research facility. JE: Advisory board Lumendi, Boston Scientific; Speaker fees HHT patients. The recent British Thoracic Society guidelines on Consultancy: Norgine. pulmonary AVMs may act as a useful resource.292 Patient consent for publication Not required. Provenance and peer review Commissioned; externally peer reviewed. PTEN-hamartoma syndrome overlap and additional investigations data availability statement All data relevant to the study are included in the indicated in a patient with microdeletions involving BMPR1A article. Patients with JPS and a microdeletion involving BMPR1A and Open access This is an open access article distributed in accordance with the permits others to distribute, remix, adapt, build upon this work non- commercially, PTEN- hamartoma tumour syndrome (PHTS). We suggest that and license their derivative works on different terms, provided the original work is they should be referred to their local genetics centre for further properly cited, appropriate credit is given, any changes made indicated, and the use advice and to coordinate their surveillance needs. is non- commercial. See: http:// creativecommons. org/ licenses/ by- nc/ 4. 0/. (GRADE of evidence: low; Strength of recommendation: weak) OrCid ids Consensus reached: 89% agreement. Kevin J Monahan http:// orcid. org/ 0000- 0002- 7918- 4003 PHTS encompasses four major clinically distinct syndromes Matthew D Rutter http:// orcid. org/ 0000- 0001- 9507- 0295 associated with constitutional pathogenic variants in the tumour Ian Tomlinson http:// orcid. org/
