Welc-Falęciaketal.BMCInfectiousDiseases (2018) 18:227
KEYWORDS: patients, tick-borne, borrelia, spp, infection, infections, pathogens, phagocytophilum, study, poland, humans, blood, hiv-positive, positive, gene


microbial pathogens, including Borrelia, Anaplasma, or B. divergens (Spain, ). In a few instances, Babesia and Rickettsia . Additionally, new tick-borne babesiosis was observed either in asplenic, HIV-positive pathogens, Candidatus Neoehrlichia mikurensis (CNM) patients , or its symptoms appeared only after and Borrelia myiamotoi, have been observed in ticks as splenectomy . In HIV-infected humans a long-term well as in humans in Europe, e.g. Poland [7–9]. So far in chronic phase of infection lasting several months despite Europe,fromthewiderangeoftick-bornepathogens,only treatment was observed with relapses which required Borrelia, Babesia and Rickettsia infections have been de- blood transfusions because of the high parasitemia (8.5% tectedinHIV-infectedhumans[10–14]. ofinfected redblood cells,iRBC;). Borrelia burgdorferi spirochetes comprise the etio- Tick-borne rickettsiosis is caused by intracellular bac- logical agent of Lyme disease, the most common tick- teria belonging to the spotted fever group (SFG) of the borne disease in the USA and Europe . The most Rickettsiaceae family. The main clinical manifestations of commonclinicalsymptomoftheearlyphaseofinfection a rickettsial syndrome in humans are fever, rash, and es- is erythema migrans(EM). In the course of disseminated charatthesiteofthetickbite(‘tachenoire’).Isolated infection, spirochetes penetrate into body tissues, espe- cases of Mediterranean spotted fever (MSF), caused cially skin, central nervous system, joints and heart. Bor- mainly by R. conorii and R. monacensis, have been re- relia burgdorferi sensu stricto is the sole causative agent ported in HIV-infected humans . In some cases, of Lyme disease in North America . In Europe, at primaryHIVinfectioncanmimicMSFpresentation. least five species are considered to be pathogenic for The studies on the occurrence and diversity of tick- humans (B. afzelii, B. garinii, B burgdorferi, B. spielma- borne infections in HIV-infected individuals have been nii, B. bavariensis), resulting in much higher than in the few, and the subject has been relatively neglected when United States of America variety of clinical symptoms of compared with other infections associated with HIV. Lyme disease . Borreliosis is a rare co-infection in Non-specific symptoms of tick-borne diseases poses a HIV-positive patients, and till now, it has only few cases challengeinclinicalcareandmayleadtomisdiagnosis,es- have been reported [10–12, 16–18]. Most cases were di- pecially in HIV-positive patients, who often present with been confirmed in patients from the Netherlands and promisedpatients,prolongedprepatentperiodswithasig- Sweden . Until now it remains unclear whether nificant delay of antibody production may occur, and the HIV-positive persons are at increased risk of acquiring resultsofaserologicaltestmaybemisinterpreted. or atypical course of tick-born infections and studies in The purpose of this study was to investigate
