Welc-Falęciaketal.BMCInfectiousDiseases (2018) 18:227
KEYWORDS: patients, tick-borne, borrelia, spp, infection, infections, pathogens, phagocytophilum, study, poland, humans, blood, hiv-positive, positive, gene


may occur, and the HIV-positive persons are at increased risk of acquiring resultsofaserologicaltestmaybemisinterpreted. or atypical course of tick-born infections and studies in The purpose of this study was to investigate the preva- this area are scarce. However it could be expected that lence and risk for tick-borne infection in HIV-1-infected HIV-1 and Borrelia co-infection is more common than individuals in Poland, where tick-borne diseases are en- it has been described so far . Diagnosing of Lyme demic. To the best of our knowledge, this is the first mo- disease using serology- based methods in HIV-positive lecular study on the occurrence of the most frequent patients is believed to be complicated due to their re- pathogens transmitted by ticks (Borrelia spp., Babesia duced positive predictive value of serology . Cur- spp., Rickettsia spp., A. phagocytophilum, Candidatus rently, thanks to the improvement of the effectiveness of Neoehrlichiaspp.)inHIV-1-infectedhumans. treatment, the majority of HIV positive patients has a significant improvement in the immune system function andconsequentlythepositivepredictive value(PPV)risk Methods for serological tests is significantly lower. Moreover, false Bloodsamples/selectionofpatients positive serologic findings are described in patients with The retrospective study was conducted on HIV-positive neurological infections with other spirochetes such as patients who had no history of tick bite and no clinical Treponemapallidum. manifestation characteristic for tick-borne diseases. In Babesiosis is a tick-borne disease caused in humans by 2013, blood samples were collected from 148 patients USA and B. divergens in Europe (isolated cases of infec- Hospital for Infectious Diseases in Warsaw. Written in- tion with B. microti and B. venetorum have been noted). formed consent was obtained from all patients and the Furthermore, transfusion-transmitted babesiosis has study protocol followed ethical guidelines of the 2013 been recognized, and a few congenital human cases due Declaration of Helsinki. The study was approved by the to B. microti have been documented [21–23]. Babesiosis InternalReviewBoardoftheWarsawMedicalUniversity in HIV-infected individuals was observed to date in the (no. AKBE/24/16). All ethical approvals for the study United States of America [24–29], and one case was havebeenobtainedaccordingtoPolishregulations. Welc-Falęciaketal.BMCInfectiousDiseases (2018) 18:227 Page3of7 DNAisolationandPCRamplification Newsequences Genomic DNA was isolated from whole blood using the NewnucleotidesequenceshavebeendepositedinGenBank DNeasy Blood and Tissue kit (Qiagen, Crawley, United with the accession numbers: MG570466 for groESL of A. Kingdom). Detection of tick-borne pathogens was per- phgocytophilumandMG570467forflaBofB.garinii. formed by amplification and sequencing of different loci: (1) the flagellin gene (flaB) and the 16S rRNA gene for Results Borrelia spp. ; (2) the glycerophosphodiester
