Welc-Falęciaketal.BMCInfectiousDiseases (2018) 18:227
KEYWORDS: patients, tick-borne, borrelia, spp, infection, infections, pathogens, phagocytophilum, study, poland, humans, blood, hiv-positive, positive, gene


pathogens was per- phgocytophilumandMG570467forflaBofB.garinii. formed by amplification and sequencing of different loci: (1) the flagellin gene (flaB) and the 16S rRNA gene for Results Borrelia spp. ; (2) the glycerophosphodiester In total 148 blood samples from asymptomatic HIV- phosphodiesterase (glpQ) gene for B. myiamotoi ; (3) positive patients were included, predominantly male the 18S rRNA gene of Babesia spp. ; (4) the citrate (140 patients, 95%) with mean age of 33 years. The me- synthase (gltA) gene for Rickettsia spp. ; (5) the 16S dian lymphocyte CD4+ T cell count was 465/μl with rRNAgeneandgroESLheatshockoperonforA.phagocy- 19% of patients with less than 300/μl. Most of these pa- tophilum, as well as Ca. Neoehrlichia spp. . Nega- tients(82%;n=121)were onHAART. tive controls were performed in the absence of template Among the 148 studied blood samples two cases (1. DNA. Anaplasma phagocytophilum, Ca. Neoehrlichia 4%)ofinfection withtick-bornepathogenwerereported. mikurensis, Borrelia afzelii, B. garinii and B. myiamotoi DNA extracted from blood of positive patients diagnosed Patient1.A31-year-old manfromGeorgia,diagnosed in AmerLab Ltd. Diagnostic Laboratory of Parasitic with HIVin2011and HCVin2009. Laboratorytests Diseases and Zoonotic Infections, Babesia microti King showedelevated liverenzyme levels,plasmaHIV RNA CollegestrainDNAisolatedfromBALB/cmicebloodand levelsof6938copies/mland aCD4+Tcellcount of RickettsiahelveticaDNAobtainedfrominfectedtickwere 534/μl.Thepatientwas hospitalizedin2013duetoin- used as positive controls. Amplicons were visualized with fectionoftheurinarytractandin2014becauseofheart MidoriGreenstain(NipponGeneticsEuropeGmbH)fol- arrhythmianotconfirmedinECG.Thepatienthad no lowingelectrophoresisin2%agarosegels.Ampliconswere historyoftickbiteandnoclinicalmanifestationcharac- purified and sequenced by a private company (Genomed teristic fortick-bornediseases. S.A.,Poland)inbothdirections. ThePCRanalysisrevealedthepresenceofA.phagocyto- Phylogeneticanalysis philum-specific 540 bp fragment of the 16S rRNA gene ObtainednucleotidesequenceswereanalyzedusingBLAST- and the 1200 bp fragment of the groESL heat shock op- NCBI and MEGA v. 7.0 software for sequence align- eron.SequencinganalysisofthePCRproductsusingboth ment, species typing and phylogenetic relationships. After setsofprimersshowedahighlevelofhomology(<99.8%) testingthedataforthebestsubstitutionmodel,phylogenetic with A. phagocytophilum strains pathogenic for humans trees were obtained using Maximum Likelihood as the tree and animals (Fig. 1). The tests revealed the presence of construction method and Tamura 92+I parameter algo- specific IgM and IgG antibodies against A. phagocytophi- rithm as a distance method. For comparison, sequences of lum using indirect immunofluorescence assay (IFA). The Anaplasma spp. obtained from GenBank (www.ncbi.nlm. DNAs presence of Borrelia spp., Babesia spp., Rickettsia nih.gov) were implemented in the sequence alignment. The spp. and CNM was not confirmed. The results of a sero- stability of inferred phylogenies was assessed by bootstrap logical testfortheabove-mentioned tick-bornepathogens analysisof1000randomlygeneratedsampletrees. (excludingCNMandB.myiamotoi)werealsonegative. Serologicaltests Patient2.25-year-oldman,diagnosedwithHIVin2013. All patient serum samples were analyzed for antibodies ThepatienthadbeenusingHAARTsince2013.Labora- against tick-borne pathogens by using: (i) Borrelia IgM torytestsshowedlymphocyteCD4+Tcellcountof424/ and IgG ELISA tests (Biomedica Laboratories, Vienna, μl,plasmaHIVRNAloadwasundetectable.Routine Austria) (ii) Western Blot: recomLine Borrelia IgM and laboratorytestsshowednosignsofanyinfection.Hewas recomLine Borrelia IgG (Microgen, Neuried,
