Welc-Falęciaketal.BMCInfectiousDiseases (2018) 18:227
KEYWORDS: patients, tick-borne, borrelia, spp, infection, infections, pathogens, phagocytophilum, study, poland, humans, blood, hiv-positive, positive, gene


tick-borne pathogens by using: (i) Borrelia IgM torytestsshowedlymphocyteCD4+Tcellcountof424/ and IgG ELISA tests (Biomedica Laboratories, Vienna, μl,plasmaHIVRNAloadwasundetectable.Routine Austria) (ii) Western Blot: recomLine Borrelia IgM and laboratorytestsshowednosignsofanyinfection.Hewas recomLine Borrelia IgG (Microgen, Neuried, Germany) diagnosedandtreatedwithsyphilistwice.Hehadnohis- for Borrelia burgdorferi s.l.; (iii) Ehrlichia chaffeensis and toryoftickbites,rash,erythemamigransorothersigns Anaplasma phagocytophilum IFA IgM Antibody Kit ofearlyorlate-stageLymeborreliosis. (Fuller Laboratories, California, the USA) for Anaplasma phagocytophilum; (iv) Babesia microti IFA IgM and IgG A 357 bp fragment of Borrelia 16S rRNA gene was antibodykits(FullerLaboratories,California,theUSA)for amplified from the patient’s blood by PCR. The partial Babesia spp.; (v) Spotted Fever Rickettsia IgG EIA anti- flaB fragment (600 bp) was also amplified since the 16S body kit (Fuller Laboratories, California, the USA) for rRNA gene is too conserved for analysis of Borrelia gen- Rickettsia spp. with the manufacturer’s cut-off levels and etic heterogeneity. Alignment and BLAST-NCBI ana- interpretationcriteria. lyses of 16S rRNA and flaB gene fragments revealed the Welc-Falęciaketal.BMCInfectiousDiseases (2018) 18:227 Page4of7 Fig.1PhylogenetictreeoftheAnaplasmaisolatestudiedinthecurrentworkandchosenisolatesfromGenBankbasedonthefragmentofthe groESLheatshockoperon.Numbersatthenodesofthetreeindicatebootstrapvalues(1000replicates) presence of B. garinii identical to isolates obtained from diagnosisiscomplicatedduetoreducedpositivepredictive Ixodes ricinus in Poland (flaB: HM345898) and the value, a method where the microorganism detected dir- Czech Republic (flaB: JN828685), as well as from ticks ectlymightbe ofgreat value .Hence, we conducted a in Spain (16S rRNA: DQ147793) and Russia (16S rRNA: retrospective, molecular study to ascertain the prevalence KY346891). and incidence of tick-borne infections in HIV-infected ambiguous: for IgM antibodies, ELISA test was 13.5 endemic area for I. ricinus ticks. The diagnostic methods BBU/ml (not confirmed by WB: Op.), for IgG antibodies of tick-borne diseases used in this study are compatible the test results were indeterminate (ELISA: 9 BBU/ml; with recommendation of Polish Society of Epidemiology WB: 6p.). The DNAs presence of A. phagocytophilum, andInfectiousDiseases. Babesia spp., Rickettsia spp. and CNM was not con- Theresultsofourstudyrevealedthefirstcaseofapatient firmed. The results of a serological test for the above- co-infected with HIVand A. phagocytophilum – the agent mentioned tick-borne pathogens (excluding CNM and of human granulocytic anaplasmosis (HGA). The patient B.myiamotoi)werealso negative. had no history of tick bite or clinical manifestation of ana- plasmosis. It is well known that the early symptoms of Discussion HGA are nonspecific, often mimicking a viral infection, as Till now studies investigating the epidemiology of tick- well asthat almost a quarter of patientswith proven HGA bornepathogeninfectionhavefocusedonhealthyindivid- doesnotreportexposuretoticks.However,theclinical ualswithnormalimmunologicalfunctionandlivinginen- rangeofHGA spans from asymptomaticinfectionsto fatal demic regions or clinical findings among hospitalized diseases. Most published casereportsindicatethatHGAis patients. In HIV-positive patients, where a serological a mild, self-limited illness that resolves without
