Welc-Falęciaketal.BMCInfectiousDiseases (2018) 18:227
KEYWORDS: patients, tick-borne, borrelia, spp, infection, infections, pathogens, phagocytophilum, study, poland, humans, blood, hiv-positive, positive, gene


rangeofHGA spans from asymptomaticinfectionsto fatal demic regions or clinical findings among hospitalized diseases. Most published casereportsindicatethatHGAis patients. In HIV-positive patients, where a serological a mild, self-limited illness that resolves without antibiotic Welc-Falęciaketal.BMCInfectiousDiseases (2018) 18:227 Page5of7 treatment . Asymptomatic infection with A. phagocyto- facialpalsy.LittleisknownaboutthecourseofLyme philum may occur frequently, as suggested in a seroepide- neuroboreliosis in HIV patients, and the mechanism by miologic study in which 30% of hunters in tick-endemic which impaired immunity in HIV infection might influ- area seroconverted without symptoms . Serious oppor- ence the course of disease in Lyme neuroboreliosis still tunistic infections can occur in immunocompromised pa- needstobeclarified.Animalmodelshaveshownthatlym- tients during the course of HGA and fatal cases of herpes phocytesTCD4+facilitateclearanceofB.burgdorferi simplexorCandidaalbicansesophagitis,aswellasinvasive andimmunodeficiencyleadstohigherspirocheteburdens pulmonary aspergillosis, are described [46–48]. Most pa- and higher infectivity of these bacteria . In HIV posi- tientswithHGApresentwithnon-specificchangesinrou- tive patients, the relatively higher HIV viral load in cere- tine hematological and chemistry blood tests, e.g. brospinal fluid compared with plasma in the course of B. leucopenia,thrombocytopeniaandmildtomoderateevalu- burgdorferi infection was observed . Our patient had ationofhepatictransaminaseactivities,whichhasbeenalso no signs of early or late-stage Lyme borreliosis. However, noted in our patient 1. However, it is difficult to define Borreliagariniinfection,themainagentofneuroborrelio- clearly whether observed elevated liver enzyme levels is sis in Europe , was confirmed by a positive PCR for causedbyHGAorHCVinfection. the 16S rRNA and flaB genefragment. Inour patient, the HGA can be laboratory-confirmed by examination of antibiotictreatmentofsyphiliscouldhaveapositiveeffect peripheral blood smear, PCR or isolation of A. phagocyto- onB.burgdorferiinfection. philum inHL-60 promyelocytic leukemia cell cultures in- There is a well-known cross-reactivity between the Borre- oculated with acute phase blood during an early stage of lia and Treponema spirochetes and false positive serologic infection as well as by serological tests (IFA) (3–6 weeks findingsaredescribedinpatientswithneurologicalinfections afterinfection)whichcanbe confirmedbyPCR.Our with other spirochetes such asT. pallidum . In our laboratory results of molecular and serological tests ful- case,theresultsofaserologicaltestwereindeterminate.Pa- filled the criteria for confirmation of anaplasmosis and tientswithsyphilisandborreliosismaypresentwithidentical Anaplasma-specific antibodies can persist for months or serologicalcriteriatodifferentiatebetweenthetwo.The years in the absence of any clinical signs of infection. frequency of antibody detection in serum depends on the Thus, changes in antibody titers cannot be used as moni- typeofantigenusedinthediagnostictest.B.burgdorferi torsofeffectivetreatmentorrecovery. s.l. and T. pallidum are spirochaetes which share antigens, Molecular analyses have indicated that some strains/ such as the 41-kDa flagellin and the 60-kDa bacterial anti- genetic variants of A. phagocytophilum that are patho- gen.Anti-flagellinserumantibodycanbedetectedin87%of genic for humans and domestic animals, circulate widely patients infected by B. burgdorferi and 75%
