HEALTHCARE COST AND Agency for Healthcare
KEYWORDS: gerd, percent, diagnosis, hospital, esophageal, hospitalizations, health, primary, hcup, gerd diagnosis, symptoms, primary gerd, esophagus, disorders, esophageal disorders


2005. GERD-related procedures Table 4 presents inpatient anti-reflux surgery estimates in 1998 and 2005 for patients with a primary GERD diagnosis. The most common GERD anti-reflux surgery is Nissen fundoplication, where the upper part of the stomach is wrapped, or plicated, around the inferior part of the esophagus, restoring the function of the lower esophageal sphincter. This is performed by laparoscopy. In general, Nissen fundoplication decreased by 27 percent from 1998 to 2005 for patients with a primary GERD diagnosis, perhaps due to a shift from inpatient surgery to outpatient surgery. Recently, a more advanced technique, endoluminal treatment, uses endoscopy and is often performed on an outpatient basis. We cannot ascertain if the decline in Nissen fundoplication was due to a shift to outpatient endoluminal treatment. We also examined GERD inpatient anti-reflux surgeries by age and sex. The surgery estimates for both men and women decreased from 1998 to 2005, with a greater rate of decline among men, at -35 percent. For adults age 18 and older, the number of surgeries decreased. Among those patients, the age group 35–44 had the steepest rate of decline, -57 percent. However, children age 2–17 had a 108 percent increase in anti-reflux surgeries, and infants (age 0–1) had a 109 percent increase. Data Source The estimates in this Statistical Brief are based upon data from the HCUP 1998 and 2005 Nationwide Inpatient Sample (NIS). Supplemental sources included data from the U.S. Census Bureau, Population Division, Annual Estimates of the Population for the United States, Regions, and Divisions and U.S. Census Bureau, Current Population Reports. Definitions (DRGs) The principal diagnosis is that condition established after study to be chiefly responsible for the patient’s admission to the hospital. Secondary diagnoses are concomitant conditions that coexist at the time of admission or that develop during the stay. All-listed diagnoses include the principal diagnosis plus these additional secondary conditions. assigns numeric codes to diagnoses. There are about 12,000 ICD-9-CM diagnosis codes. CCS categorizes ICD-9-CM diagnoses into 260 clinically meaningful categories.6 This "clinical grouper" makes it easier to quickly understand patterns of diagnoses and procedures. In this brief, we identified GERD with the following ICD-9-CM diagnosis codes: 530.81 Esophageal reflux 530.11 Reflux esophagitis We then excluded the cases with mental retardation or infantile cerebral palsy with the following ICD-9- CM diagnosis codes: 343.9 Infantile cerebral palsy, unspecified 343 Infantile cerebral palsy 343.8 Other specified infantile cerebral palsy 317 Mild
