HEALTHCARE COST AND Agency for Healthcare
KEYWORDS: gerd, percent, diagnosis, hospital, esophageal, hospitalizations, health, primary, hcup, gerd diagnosis, symptoms, primary gerd, esophagus, disorders, esophageal disorders


using HCUP Cost-to-Charge Ratios based on hospital accounting reports from the Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services (CMS).7 Costs will tend to reflect all HCUP States. Hospital charges reflect the amount the hospital charged for the entire hospital stay and reported to the nearest hundred. Region Region is one of the four regions defined by the U.S. Census Bureau: – Northeast: Maine, New Hampshire, Vermont, Massachusetts, Rhode Island, Connecticut, New York, New Jersey, and Pennsylvania – Midwest: Ohio, Indiana, Illinois, Michigan, Wisconsin, Minnesota, Iowa, Missouri, North Dakota, South Dakota, Nebraska, and Kansas – South: Delaware, Maryland, District of Columbia, Virginia, West Virginia, North Carolina, South Carolina, Georgia, Florida, Kentucky, Tennessee, Alabama, Mississippi, Arkansas, Louisiana, Oklahoma, and Texas – West: Montana, Idaho, Wyoming, Colorado, New Mexico, Arizona, Utah, Nevada, Washington, Oregon, California, Alaska, and Hawaii Admission source Admission source indicates where the patient was located prior to admission to the hospital. Emergency admission indicates the patient was admitted to the hospital through the emergency department. 7 HCUP Cost-to-Charge Ratio Files (CCR). Healthcare Cost and Utilization Project (HCUP). 2001–2003. U.S. Agency for Admission from another hospital indicates the patient was admitted to this hospital from another short- more specialized services that the originating hospital could not provide. Admission from long-term care facility indicates the patient was admitted from a long-term facility such as a nursing home. About HCUP Sponsored by the Agency for Healthcare Research and Quality (AHRQ), HCUP includes the largest all- Partnership that brings together the data collection efforts of many organizations—such as State data national information resource. For more information about HCUP, visit www.hcup-us.ahrq.gov. HCUP would not be possible without the contributions of the following data collection Partners from across the United States: Arizona Department of Health Services Arkansas Department of Health & Human Services California Office of Statewide Health Planning & Development Colorado Health & Hospital Association Florida Agency for Health Care Administration Georgia GHA: An Association of Hospitals & Health Systems Hawaii Health Information Corporation Illinois Health Care Cost Containment Council and Department of Public Health Indiana Hospital & Health Association Iowa Hospital Association Kansas Hospital Association Kentucky Cabinet for Health and Family Services Maryland Health Services Cost Review Commission Massachusetts Division of Health Care Finance and Policy Michigan Health & Hospital Association Minnesota Hospital Association Missouri Hospital Industry Data Institute Nebraska Hospital Association New Hampshire Department of Health & Human Services New Jersey Department of Health
