HEALTHCARE COST AND Agency for Healthcare
KEYWORDS: gerd, percent, diagnosis, hospital, esophageal, hospitalizations, health, primary, hcup, gerd diagnosis, symptoms, primary gerd, esophagus, disorders, esophageal disorders


Policy Michigan Health & Hospital Association Minnesota Hospital Association Missouri Hospital Industry Data Institute Nebraska Hospital Association New Hampshire Department of Health & Human Services New Jersey Department of Health & Senior Services New York State Department of Health North Carolina Department of Health and Human Services Ohio Hospital Association Oklahoma Health Care Information Center for Health Statistics Oregon Association of Hospitals and Health Systems Rhode Island Department of Health South Carolina State Budget & Control Board South Dakota Association of Healthcare Organizations Tennessee Hospital Association Texas Department of State Health Services Utah Department of Health Vermont Association of Hospitals and Health Systems Virginia Health Information Washington State Department of Health West Virginia Health Care Authority Wisconsin Department of Health & Family Services For additional HCUP statistics, visit HCUPnet, our interactive query system, at www.hcup.ahrq.gov. About the NIS The HCUP Nationwide Inpatient Sample (NIS) is a nationwide database of hospital inpatient stays. The NIS is nationally representative of all community hospitals (i.e., short-term, non-Federal, non-rehabilitation payer. It is drawn from a sampling frame that contains hospitals comprising about 90 percent of all discharges in the United States. The vast size of the NIS allows the study of topics at both the national and regional levels for specific subgroups of patients. In addition, NIS data are standardized across years to facilitate ease of use. For More Information For a detailed description of HCUP and more information on the design of the NIS and methods to calculate estimates, please refer to the following publications: Steiner, C., Elixhauser, A., Schnaier, J. The Healthcare Cost and Utilization Project: An Overview. Design of the HCUP Nationwide Inpatient Sample, 2005. Online. June 13, 2007. U.S. Agency for Healthcare Research and Quality. Houchens, R., Elixhauser, A. Final Report on Calculating Nationwide Inpatient Sample (NIS) Variances, 2001. HCUP Methods Series Report #2003-2. Online. June 2005 (revised June 6, 2005). U.S. Agency for Healthcare Research and Quality. Houchens RL, Elixhauser A. Using the HCUP Nationwide Inpatient Sample to Estimate Trends. (Updated for 1988-2004). HCUP Methods Series Report #2006-05 Online. August 18, 2006. U.S. Agency for Healthcare Research and Quality. Suggested Citation Zhao, Y., and Encinosa, W. Gastroesophageal Reflux Disease (GERD) Hospitalizations in 1998 and 2005. HCUP Statistical Brief #44. January 2008. Agency for Healthcare Research and Quality, Rockville, MD. * * * AHRQ welcomes questions and comments from readers of this publication who are interested in States. We also
