A man in his 30s with epigastric pain and chest pressure
KEYWORDS: ecg, lead, omi, initial, initial ecg, leads, acute, avl, today, iii, think, patient, elevation, acute omi, j-point


ECG in today’s case. Today’s Initial ECG: For an otherwise presumably healthy 30-year old man — there are some unusual findings in ECG #1. These include the following: A fairly marked sinus arrhythmia with bradycardia, and almost the pattern of “group” beating in the long lead rhythm strip. P wave amplitude is reduced in virtually all leads — with comparable small size of the upright P waves in lead I as in lead II, making me question whether this truly is a sinus rhythm? — vs a low atrial rhythm? — vs the possibility of LA-LL Reversal. The above said — this is not necessarily an abnormal rhythm in a young adult. A 4-component rSR’s’ complex in lead V1. This is not a simple incomplete RBBB pattern, which should only consist of 3 components without a terminal s’ deflection. A slender, but unusually deep Q wave in lead III (that is over 5 mm deep). Narrow Q waves are also seen in leads aVF and V6. Prominent J-point notching in leads I and aVL. These look a bit unusual, because we are not accustomed to seeing such deep S waves in these high-lateral leads. That said — this notching is usually a benign feature of repolarization variants, especially when associated with no more than modest ST elevation associated with an upward concavity (ie, “smiley” configuration), as seen here. From the perspective of a patient presenting to the ED with abdominal pain radiating to the chest — I found the flat (shelf-like) ST depression in lead aVF to be the most concerning feature in this tracing. J-point depression with a downsloping ST segment and biphasic T wave in lead III would have added to my concern if this ST-T wave picture in lead III was not the exact mirror-image opposite of what I perceived to be a benign picture of prominent J-point with smooth, upsloping ST elevation in lead aVL. Finally, though not more than minimally depressed — the flattened ST segment in lead V6 could be complementary to the ST depression seen in lead III. Putting It All Together: I thought the initial ECG in today’s case was not “normal” for a man in his 30s. I did not think this initial tracing represented an acute OMI — because of the benign-looking appearance of J-point notching with upward sloping ST elevation in leads I, aVL. I wondered if some of
