Dyslipidemia in Patients with Diabetes
KEYWORDS: patients, diabetes, levels, risk, pubmed, cardiovascular, ldl-c, therapy, trial, statin, ascvd, group, patients diabetes, events, type


ABSTRACT Atherosclerotic cardiovascular disease (ASCVD) is a major cause of morbidity and mortality in both men and women with T1DM and T2DM. In patients with T1DM in good glycemic control, the lipid profile is very similar to the general population. In contrast, in patients with T2DM, even with good glycemic control, there are frequently lipid abnormalities (elevated TG and non-HDL-C, decreased HDL-C, and an increase in small dense LDL). In both T1DM and T2DM, poor glycemic control increases TG levels and decreases HDL-C levels with modest effects on LDL-C levels. Extensive studies have demonstrated that statins decrease ASCVD in patients with diabetes. Treatment with high doses of potent statins reduces ASCVD events to a greater extent than low dose statin therapy. Adding fibrates or niacin to statin therapy has not been shown to further decrease ASCVD events. In contrast, studies have shown that the combination of a statin and ezetimibe or a statin and a PCSK9 inhibitor result in a greater decrease in ASCVD events than statins alone. Studies have suggested that EPA, an omega-3-fatty acid, when added to statins also reduces ASCVD events but this result is controversial. In statin intolerant patients with T2DM bempedoic acid decreases ASCVD events. Current recommendations state that most patients with diabetes should be on statin therapy. In certain patients with diabetes ezetimibe, PCSK9 inhibitors, and bempedoic acid can play a role in reducing ASCVD. For complete coverage of all related areas of Endocrinology, please visit our on-line FREE web-text, WWW.ENDOTEXT.ORG . INTRODUCTION Atherosclerotic cardiovascular disease (ASCVD) is a major cause of morbidity and mortality in both men and women with diabetes ( 1 - 5 ). In addition to coronary disease, ASCVD includes stroke and peripheral arterial disease (PAD). PAD is common in diabetes, may be the first presentation of ASCVD and should be recognized as needing aggressive treatment of risk factors. The risk of ASCVD is increased approximately 2-fold in men and 3-4-fold in women ( 2 - 4 , 6 , 7 ). In the Framingham study, the annual rate of ASCVD was similar in men and women with diabetes, emphasizing that woman with diabetes need as aggressive preventive treatment as men with diabetes ( 2 , 6 ). In addition, several but not all studies, have shown that patients with diabetes with no history of ASCVD have a similar risk of having a myocardial infarction as non-diabetic patients who have
