Dyslipidemia in Patients with Diabetes
KEYWORDS: patients, diabetes, levels, risk, pubmed, cardiovascular, ldl-c, therapy, trial, statin, ascvd, group, patients diabetes, events, type


both T1DM and T2DM the deleterious impact is greater in patients with T2DM ( 19 ). Lastly, in patients with both T1DM and T2DM the presence of renal disease increases the risk of ASCVD ( 4 , 14 ). Of note is that the risk of developing ASCVD events in patients with diabetes has decreased recently, most likely due to better lipid and blood pressure control, which again reinforces the need to aggressively treat these risk factors in patients with diabetes ( 5 , 7 , 20 ). ROLE OF RISK FACTORS IN ASCVD Numerous studies have demonstrated that the traditional risk factors for ASCVD play an important role in patients with diabetes ( 2 , 4 , 5 , 110 ). Patients with diabetes without other risk factors have a relatively low risk of ASCVD (in most studies higher than similar non-diabetic patients), whereas the increasing prevalence of other risk factors markedly increases the risk of developing ASCVD ( 2 ). The major reversible traditional risk factors are hypertension, cigarette smoking, and lipid abnormalities ( 2 , 4 , 5 , 14 , 111 ). Other risk factors include obesity (particularly visceral obesity), insulin resistance, small dense LDL, elevated TG, low HDL-C, procoagulant state (increased PAI-1, fibrinogen), family history of early ASCVD, homocysteine, Lp (a), renal disease, albuminuria, and inflammation (C-reactive protein, SAA, cytokines) ( 2 , 4 , 5 , 110 , 111 ). In the last decade, it has become clear that to reduce the risk of ASCVD in patients with diabetes, one will not only need to improve glycemic control but also address these other cardiovascular risk factors. In the remainder of this chapter, I will focus on the dyslipidemia that occurs in patients with diabetes. ROLE OF LIPIDS IN ASCVD As in non-diabetic populations, epidemiological studies have shown that increased LDL-C and non-HDL-C levels and decreased HDL-C levels are associated with an increased risk of ASCVD in patients with diabetes ( 2 , 4 , 110 , 111 ). In the UKPDS cohort LDL-C levels were the strongest predictor of coronary artery disease ( 112 ). While it is universally accepted that elevated levels of LDL-C and non-HDL-C cause atherosclerosis and ASCVD the role of HDL-C is uncertain. Genetic studies and studies of drugs that raise HDL-C have not supported low HDL-C levels as a causative factor for atherosclerosis ( 113 ). Rather it is
