Dyslipidemia in Patients with Diabetes
KEYWORDS: patients, diabetes, levels, risk, pubmed, cardiovascular, ldl-c, therapy, trial, statin, ascvd, group, patients diabetes, events, type


window T1DM Lipid profile is similar to controls if glycemic control is good T2DM Increased TG, VLDL, IDL, and non-HDL-C. Decreased HDL-C. Normal LDL-C but increase in small dense LDL, LDL particle number, and apolipoprotein B. Poor glycemic control Increased TG, VLDL, IDL, and non-HDL-C. Decreased HDL-C. Modest increase in LDL-C with increase in small dense LDL, LDL particle number, and apolipoprotein B. EFFECT OF GLUCOSE LOWERING DRUGS ON LIPIDS Some therapies used to improve glycemic control may have an impact on lipid levels above and beyond their effects on glucose metabolism. In reviewing the literature, it is often very difficult to separate improvements in glycemic control vs. direct effects of drugs. Additionally, many of the changes induced by drug therapy result in only small changes in LDL-C, HDL-C, and TG levels, are variable from study to study, and are of questionable clinical significance. Insulin, sulfonylureas, meglinitides, DPP4 inhibitors, and alpha-glucosidase inhibitors do not appear to markedly alter fasting lipid profiles other than by improving glucose control (there are data indicating that DPP4 inhibitors and acarbose decrease postprandial triglyceride excursions, but they do not markedly alter fasting lipid levels) ( 131 ). In contrast, metformin, thiazolidinediones, GLP1 receptor agonists, bromocriptine-QR, and SGLT2 inhibitors have effects independent of glycemic control on serum lipid levels ( table 2 ). Metformin may decrease serum TG levels and LDL-C levels without altering HDL-C levels ( 131 ). In a meta-analysis of 37 trials with 2,891 patients, metformin decreased TG by 11.4mg/dL when compared with control treatment (p=0.003) ( 132 ). In an analysis of 24 trials with 1,867 patients, metformin decreased LDL-C by 8.4mg/dL compared to control treatment (p<0.001) ( 132 ). In contrast, metformin did not significantly alter HDL-C levels ( 132 ). It should be noted that in the Diabetes Prevention Program 3,234 individuals with impaired glucose metabolism were randomized to placebo, intensive lifestyle, or metformin therapy. In the metformin therapy group no significant changes were noted in TG, LDL-C, or HDL-C levels compared to the placebo group ( 133 ). Thus, metformin may have small effects on lipid levels. The effect of thiazolidinediones depends on which agent is used. Rosiglitazone increases serum LDL-C levels, increases HDL-C levels, and only decreases serum TG if the baseline TG levels are high ( 131 ). In contrast, pioglitazone has less impact on LDL-C levels, but increases HDL-C levels, and decreases TG ( 131 ).
