Dyslipidemia in Patients with Diabetes
KEYWORDS: patients, diabetes, levels, risk, pubmed, cardiovascular, ldl-c, therapy, trial, statin, ascvd, group, patients diabetes, events, type


TG if the baseline TG levels are high ( 131 ). In contrast, pioglitazone has less impact on LDL-C levels, but increases HDL-C levels, and decreases TG ( 131 ). In the PROactive study, a large randomized cardiovascular outcome study, pioglitazone decreased TG levels by approximately 10%, increased HDL-C levels by approximately 10%, and increased LDL-C by 1-4% ( 134 ). It should be noted that reductions in the small dense LDL subfraction and an increase in the large buoyant LDL subfraction are seen with both thiazolidinediones ( 131 ). In a randomized head-to-head trial, it was shown that pioglitazone decreased TG levels and increased serum HDL-C levels to a greater degree than rosiglitazone treatment ( 135 , 136 ). Additionally, pioglitazone increased LDL-C levels less than rosiglitazone. In contrast to the differences in lipid parameters, both rosiglitazone and pioglitazone decreased A1c and C-reactive protein to a similar extent. The mechanism by which pioglitazone induces more favorable changes in lipid levels than rosiglitazone despite similar changes in glucose levels is unclear, but differential actions of ligands for nuclear hormone receptors are well described. Treatment with SGLT2 inhibitors results in a small increase in LDL-C and HDL-C levels ( 131 ). In a meta-analysis of 48 randomized controlled trials SGLT2 inhibitors significantly increased LDL-C (3.8mg/dL, p < 0.00001), HDL-C (2.3mg/dL, p < 0.00001), and decreased TG levels (8.8mg/dL, p < 0.00001) ( 137 ). The mechanism for these increases in LDL and HDL cholesterol is unknown but could be due to a decrease in plasma volume. The decrease in TG levels could be secondary to weight loss. Bromocriptine-QR (Cycloset) treatment decreases TG levels but has no significant effect on LDL-C or HDL-C levels ( 138 , 139 ). The decrease in TG levels is thought to be due to a decrease in hepatic TG synthesis, likely due to a decrease in adipose tissue lipolysis resulting in decreased blood free fatty acid levels and reduced delivery of fatty acids to the liver for TG synthesis ( 140 ). Colesevelam, a bile acid sequestrant that is approved for glucose lowering, lowers LDL-C levels by 15-20% and has only a modest effect on HDL-C levels ( 101 , 141 ). The effect of bile acid sequestrants on TG levels varies ( 141 ). In patients with normal TG levels, bile acid sequestrants increase TG levels by a small amount. However, as baseline TG levels
