Dyslipidemia in Patients with Diabetes
KEYWORDS: patients, diabetes, levels, risk, pubmed, cardiovascular, ldl-c, therapy, trial, statin, ascvd, group, patients diabetes, events, type


acid sequestrants on TG levels varies ( 141 ). In patients with normal TG levels, bile acid sequestrants increase TG levels by a small amount. However, as baseline TG levels increase, the effect of bile acid sequestrants on TG levels becomes greater, and can result in substantial increases in TG levels ( 141 ). In patients with TG > 500mg/dL the use of bile acid sequestrants is contraindicated ( 141 ). Finally, GLP-1 receptor agonists can favorably affect the lipid profile by inducing weight loss (decreasing TG and very modestly decreasing LDL-C levels) ( 131 ). In a review by Nauck and colleagues it was noted that GLP-1 receptor agonists lowered TG levels by 18 to 62mg/dL depending upon the specific GLP-1 receptor agonist while decreasing LDL-C by 3-8mg/dL and increasing HDL-C by less than 1mg/dL ( 142 ). Additionally, GLP-1 receptor agonists reduce postprandial TG by reducing circulating chylomicrons by decreasing intestinal lipoprotein production ( 131 , 142 ). DPP4 inhibitors have a similar effect on postprandial TG levels as GLP-1 receptor agonists while having minimal effects on fasting lipid levels ( 142 ). In the SURPASS trials, tirzepatide studies TG levels were consistently decreased by 13-25% ( 83 , 143 ). In most studies with the exception of SURPASS 5, HDL cholesterol levels increased by 3-11% ( 83 , 143 ). Total cholesterol and LDL cholesterol levels were modestly decreased in most studies ( 83 , 143 ). Not unexpectedly given the decrease in TG levels small LDL particles were decreased. For details see the Endotext chapter Oral and Injectable (Non-Insulin) Pharmacological Agents for the Treatment of Type 2 Diabetes ( 83 ). Table 2. Effect of Glucose Lowering Drugs on Lipid Levels View in own window Metformin Modestly decrease TG and LDL-C Sulfonylureas No effect DPP4 inhibitors Decrease postprandial TG GLP1 analogues Decrease fasting and postprandial TG, modestly decrease LDL-C Tirzepatide Decrease TG, modestly decrease LDL-C, increase HDL-C Acarbose Decrease postprandial TG Pioglitazone Rosiglitazone Decrease TG and increase HDL-C. Small increase LDL-C but a decrease in small dense LDL SGLT2 inhibitors Small increase in LDL-C and HDL-C Colesevelam Decrease LDL-C. May increase TG Bromocriptine-QR Decrease TG Insulin No effect PATHOPHYSIOLOGY OF THE DYSLIPIDEMIA OF DIABETES Figure 1. Pathophysiology of the Dyslipidemia of Diabetes. Multiple mechanisms account for the dyslipidemia seen in patients with T2DM, which are affected both by the level of glucose control and by factors
