Dyslipidemia in Patients with Diabetes
KEYWORDS: patients, diabetes, levels, risk, pubmed, cardiovascular, ldl-c, therapy, trial, statin, ascvd, group, patients diabetes, events, type


insulin on carbohydrate metabolism the liver remains sensitive to the effects of insulin stimulating lipid synthesis. Additionally, in the presence of hyperglycemia, glucose can induce another transcription factor, carbohydrate responsive element binding protein (ChREBP), which also stimulates the transcription of the enzymes required for fatty acid synthesis. The third source of fatty acids is the uptake of TG rich lipoproteins by the liver. Studies have shown an increase in intestinal fatty acid synthesis and the enhanced secretion of chylomicrons in animal models of T2DM. This increase in chylomicrons leads to the increased delivery of fatty acids to the liver. The increase in hepatic fatty acids produced by these three pathways results in an increase in the synthesis of TG in the liver and the protection of Apo B-100 from degradation resulting in the increased formation and secretion of VLDL. Finally, insulin stimulates the post translational degradation of Apo B-100 in the liver and a decrease in insulin activity in patients with T2DM also allows for the enhanced survival of Apo B-100 promoting increased VLDL formation. DECREASED DEGRADATION OF TRIGLYCERIDE RICH LIPOPROTEINS While the overproduction of triglyceride rich lipoproteins by the liver and intestine are important contributors to the elevations in serum TG levels in patients with T2DM, there are also abnormalities in the metabolism of these TG rich lipoproteins. First, there is a modest decrease in lipoprotein lipase activity, the key enzyme that metabolizes TG rich lipoproteins. The expression of lipoprotein lipase is stimulated by insulin and decreased insulin activity in patients with T2DM results in a decrease in lipoprotein lipase, which plays a key role in the hydrolysis of the TG carried in chylomicrons and VLDL. Additionally, patients with T2DM have an increase in Apo C-III levels, a key regulator of TG rich lipoprotein clearance. Glucose stimulates and insulin suppresses Apo C-III expression; thus, diabetes with hyperglycemia and either insulin deficiency or insulin resistance contribute to an increase in Apo C-III. Apo C-III is an inhibitor of lipoprotein lipase activity and thereby reduces the clearance of TG rich lipoproteins. In addition, Apo C-III also inhibits the cellular uptake of lipoproteins. Studies have shown that loss of function mutations in Apo C-III lead to lower serum TG levels and a reduced risk of ASCVD ( 147 , 148 ). Interestingly, inhibition of Apo C-III expression results in a decrease in serum TG levels even in patients deficient in lipoprotein lipase,
