Dyslipidemia in Patients with Diabetes
KEYWORDS: patients, diabetes, levels, risk, pubmed, cardiovascular, ldl-c, therapy, trial, statin, ascvd, group, patients diabetes, events, type


affect lipid and lipoprotein metabolism. As noted above the expression of lipoprotein lipase is stimulated by insulin. If insulin activity is very low the expression of lipoprotein lipase is severely suppressed and the metabolism of TG rich lipoproteins is markedly impaired. This leads to the delayed clearance of both chylomicrons and VLDL and elevations of TG rich lipoproteins. Additionally, insulinopenia results in a marked increase in lipolysis in adipose tissue, leading to the release of free fatty acids into the circulation. This increase in serum fatty acids results in the increased delivery of fatty acids to the liver, enhanced TG synthesis in the liver, and the increased production and secretion of VLDL. Whereas patients with T1DM who are well controlled and not obese or overweight typically have normal serum lipid profiles, if their control deteriorates, they will develop hypertriglyceridemia. In patients with T2DM deterioration of glycemic control will further exacerbate their underlying dyslipidemia resulting in greater increases in TG levels. If the synthesis of new VLDL is increased sufficiently this can result in an increase in LDL-C levels. HDL-C levels may decrease due to the formation of small HDL that are more susceptible to accelerated clearance. Improvements in glycemic control can markedly lower TG levels and may increase serum HDL-C levels. In patients with poorly controlled diabetes improvements in glycemic control may also lower LDL-C levels. Role of Obesity and Inflammation Most patients with T2DM and many patients with T1D are obese or overweight. Obesity is a pro-inflammatory state due to the macrophages that infiltrate adipose tissue. The cytokines produced by these macrophages and the adipokines that are produced by fat cells also alter lipid metabolism ( 151 , 152 ). The pro-inflammatory cytokines, TNF and IL-1, decrease the expression of lipoprotein lipase and increase the expression of angiopoietin like protein 4, an inhibitor of lipoprotein lipase. Together these changes decrease lipoprotein lipase activity, thereby delaying the clearance of TG rich lipoproteins. In addition, pro-inflammatory cytokines stimulate lipolysis in adipocytes increasing circulating free fatty acid levels, which will provide substrate for hepatic TG synthesis. In the liver, pro-inflammatory cytokines stimulate de novo fatty acid and TG synthesis. These alterations will lead to the increased production and secretion of VLDL. Thus, increases in the levels of pro-inflammatory cytokines will stimulate the production of TG rich lipoproteins and delay the clearance of TG rich lipoproteins, which together will contribute to the increase
