Dyslipidemia in Patients with Diabetes
KEYWORDS: patients, diabetes, levels, risk, pubmed, cardiovascular, ldl-c, therapy, trial, statin, ascvd, group, patients diabetes, events, type


particular note, the subjects did not have any evidence of clinical atherosclerosis (myocardial disease, stroke, peripheral vascular disease) at entry and hence this study is a primary prevention trial. Inclusion criteria included LDL-C levels less than 160mg/dL and TG levels less than 600mg/dL. It is important to recognize that the average LDL-C in this trial was approximately 118mg/dL, indicating relatively low LDL-C levels. A total of 2,838 T2DM subjects were randomized to either placebo or atorvastatin 10mg a day. Atorvastatin therapy resulted in a 40% decrease in LDL-C levels with over 80% of patients achieving LDL-C levels less than 100mg/dL. Most importantly, atorvastatin therapy resulted in a 37% reduction in cardiovascular events. In addition, strokes were reduced by 48% and coronary revascularization by 31%. As seen in the HPS, subjects with relatively low LDL-C levels (LDL <120mg/dL) benefited to a similar extent as subjects with higher LDL-C levels (>120mg/dL). HPS and CARDS, in combination with the other statin trials, provide conclusive evidence that statin therapy will reduce cardiovascular events in patients with diabetes. Importantly, the benefits of statin therapy are seen in patients with diabetes in both primary and secondary prevention trials. Effect of Aggressive LDL-C Lowering with Statins Studies have compared reductions of LDL-C to approximately 100mg/dL to more aggressive reductions in LDL-C on atheroma volume. The Reversal Trial studied 502 symptomatic coronary artery disease patients with an average LDL-C of 150mg/dL ( 167 ). Approximately 19% of the patients in this trial had diabetes. Patients were randomized to moderate LDL lowering therapy with pravastatin 40mg per day or to aggressive lipid lowering with atorvastatin 80mg per day. As expected, LDL-C levels were considerably lower in the atorvastatin treated group (pravastatin LDL= 110mg/dL vs. atorvastatin LDL= 79mg/dL). Most importantly, when one analyzed the change in atheroma volume determined after 18 months of therapy using intravascular ultrasound, the group treated aggressively with atorvastatin had a much lower progression rate than the group treated with pravastatin. Compared with baseline values, patients treated with atorvastatin had no change in atheroma burden (there was a very slight regression of lesions), whereas patients treated with pravastatin showed progression of lesions. When one compares the extent of the reduction in LDL-C to the change in atheroma volume, a 50% reduction in LDL (LDL-C levels of approximately 75mg/dL) resulted in the absence of lesion progression. This study suggests that lowering the LDL-C to levels well below
