Dyslipidemia in Patients with Diabetes
KEYWORDS: patients, diabetes, levels, risk, pubmed, cardiovascular, ldl-c, therapy, trial, statin, ascvd, group, patients diabetes, events, type


cardiovascular events was reduced by 22% in the group treated with atorvastatin 80mg (p<0.001). In the patients with diabetes events were reduced by 25% in the high dose statin group. Finally, the IDEAL trial was a randomized study that compared atorvastatin 80mg vs. simvastatin 20-40mg in 8,888 patients with a history of ASCVD ( 174 ). Approximately 12% of the patients had diabetes. As expected, LDL-C levels were reduced to a greater extent in the atorvastatin treated group than the simvastatin treated group (approximately 81mg/dL vs. 104mg/dL). Once again, the greater reduction in LDL-C levels was associated with a greater reduction in cardiovascular events. Specifically, major coronary events defined as coronary death, nonfatal MI, or cardiac arrest was reduced by 11% (p=0.07), while nonfatal acute MI were reduced by 17% (p=0.02). Combining the results of the Heart Protection Study, CARDS, Reversal, Saturn, Asteroid, Prove-It, TNT, and IDEAL leads one to the conclusion that aggressive lowering of LDL-C with statin therapy will be beneficial and suggests that in high-risk patients lowering the LDL to levels well below 100mg/dL is desirable. Moreover, the Cholesterol Treatment Trialists reviewed five trials with 39,612 subjects that were designed to determine the effect of usual vs. aggressive reductions in LDL-C ( 175 ). They reported that intensive control (approximately a 19mg/dL difference in LDL-C) resulted in a 15% decrease in major vascular events, a 13% reduction in coronary death or non-fatal MI, a 19% decrease in coronary revascularization, and a 16% decrease in strokes. As will be discussed below treatment guidelines reflect the results of these studies. Additionally, as described in detail below, studies of the addition of either ezetimibe or PCSK9 inhibitors to statins further demonstrates that aggressive lowering of LDL-C levels further reduces cardiovascular events. FIBRATES The beneficial effect of monotherapy with fibrates (e.g., gemfibrozil, fenofibrate) on ASCVD in patients with diabetes is shown in Table 3 . The results of these randomized trials suggest that monotherapy with this class of drug might reduce cardiovascular events in patients with diabetes, but the data is not very robust. The largest trial was the Field Trial ( 176 ). In this trial, 9,795 patients with T2DM between the ages of 50 and 75 not taking statin therapy were randomized to fenofibrate or placebo and followed for approximately 5 years. Fenofibrate therapy resulted in a 12% decrease in LDL-C, a 29% decrease in TG, and a 5%
