Dyslipidemia in Patients with Diabetes
KEYWORDS: patients, diabetes, levels, risk, pubmed, cardiovascular, ldl-c, therapy, trial, statin, ascvd, group, patients diabetes, events, type


therapy were randomized to fenofibrate or placebo and followed for approximately 5 years. Fenofibrate therapy resulted in a 12% decrease in LDL-C, a 29% decrease in TG, and a 5% increase in HDL-C levels. The primary outcome was coronary events (coronary heart disease death and non-fatal MI), which were reduced by 11% in the fenofibrate group but did not reach statistical significance (p= 0.16). However, there was a 24% decrease in non-fatal MI in the fenofibrate treated group (p=0.01) and a non-significant increase in coronary heart disease mortality. Total ASCVD events (coronary events plus stroke and coronary or carotid revascularization) were reduced 11% (p=0.035). These beneficial effects of fenofibrate therapy on ASCVD were observed in patients without a previous history of ASCVD. In patients with a previous history of ASCVD no benefits were observed. Additionally, the beneficial effect of fenofibrate therapy was seen only in those subjects less than 65 years of age. The beneficial effects of fenofibrate in this study may have been muted by the increased use of statins in the placebo group, which reduced the differences in lipid levels between the placebo and fenofibrate groups. If one adjusted for the addition of lipid-lowering therapy, fenofibrate reduced the risk of coronary heart disease events by 19% (p=0.01) and of total ASCVD events by 15% (p=0.004). Thus, while the results of this large trial are intriguing they do not clearly show a benefit of fibrate therapy reducing ASCVD events. The number of patients with diabetes in the other fibrate trials are relatively small ( table 3 ). While the results of the monotherapy fibrate trials have been very heterogeneous it should be noted that fibrate trials in patients with elevated TG levels have reported a greater reduction of cardiovascular events ( 177 ). Additionally, subgroup analysis of several fibrate trials has also suggested that the benefit of fibrates was greatest in patients with elevated TG levels ( 177 , 178 ). The mechanism by which fibrates may reduce cardiovascular events is unclear. These drugs lower serum TG levels and increase HDL-C, but it should be recognized that the beneficial effects of fibrates could be due to other actions of these drugs. Specifically, these drugs activate the nuclear hormone receptor PPAR alpha, which is present in the cells that comprise the atherosclerotic lesions, and it is possible that these compounds directly affect lesion formation and development. In addition, fibrates are
