Dyslipidemia in Patients with Diabetes
KEYWORDS: patients, diabetes, levels, risk, pubmed, cardiovascular, ldl-c, therapy, trial, statin, ascvd, group, patients diabetes, events, type


fasting TG was 271 mg/dL, HDL-C 33 mg/dL, and LDL-C 78 mg/dL. Compared with placebo, pemafibrate decreased TG by 26.2%, while HDL-C increased 5.1% and LDL-C increased 12.3%. Notably non-HDL-C levels were unchanged and Apo B levels increased 4.8%. The primary endpoint was similar in the pemafibrate and placebo group (HR 1.03; 95% CI 0.91 to 1.15). The increase in LDL-C and Apo B levels likely account for the failure to reduce cardiovascular events. Taken together the ACCORD study and the PROINENT trial indicate that the addition of fibrate therapy to statin therapy will not result in a reduction in cardiovascular events in patients with diabetes. STATIN + NIACIN The AIM-HIGH trial was designed to determine if the addition of Niaspan to aggressive statin therapy would result in a further reduction in cardiovascular events in patients with pre-existing ASCVD ( 193 ). In this trial 3,314 patients were randomized to Niaspan vs. placebo. Approximately 33% of the patients had diabetes. On trial, LDL-C levels were in the 60-70mg/dL range in both groups. As expected, HDL-C levels were increased in the Niaspan treated group (approximately 44mg/dL vs. 38mg/dL), while TG were decreased (approximately 121mg/dL vs. 155mg/dL). However, there were no differences in the primary endpoint between the control and Niaspan treated groups (Primary endpoint consisted of the first event of death from coronary heart disease, nonfatal MI, ischemic stroke, hospitalization for an acute coronary syndrome, or symptom-driven coronary or cerebral revascularization). There were also no differences in secondary endpoints except for a possible increase in strokes in the Niaspan treated group. The addition of Niaspan to statin therapy did not result in a significant increase in either muscle or liver toxicity. Thus, this study does not provide support for the addition of niacin to statins. However, it should be recognized that this was a relatively small study and a considerable number of patients stopped taking the Niaspan during the course of the study (25.4% of patients discontinued Niaspan therapy). In addition, most of the patients included in this study did not have a lipid profile that one would typically consider treating with niacin therapy. In the subset of patients with TG > 198mg/dL and HDL-C < 33mg/dL niacin showed a trend towards benefit (hazard ratio 0.74; p=0.073), suggesting that if the appropriate patient population was studied the results may have been positive ( 194 ). HPS 2 Thrive also studied the
