Dyslipidemia in Patients with Diabetes
KEYWORDS: patients, diabetes, levels, risk, pubmed, cardiovascular, ldl-c, therapy, trial, statin, ascvd, group, patients diabetes, events, type


mm3 with placebo and 5.8 mm3 with evolocumab (P < .001). There was a linear relationship between achieved LDL-C and change in PAV (i.e., the lower the LDL-C the greater the regression in atheroma volume down to an LDL-C of 20mg/dL). Additionally, evolocumab induced plaque regression in a greater percentage of patients than placebo (64.3% vs 47.3%; P < .001 for PAV and 61.5% vs 48.9%; P < .001 for TAV). The results in the patients with diabetes were similar to the non-diabetic patients. Taken together these trials demonstrate that further lowering LDL-C levels with PCSK9 monoclonal antibodies in patients taking statins will have beneficial effects on ASCVD outcomes. A study of the effect of inclisiran on ASCVD endpoints is currently in progress. The results of the ezetimibe and PCSK9 trials have several important implications. First, it demonstrates that combination therapy may have benefits above and beyond statin therapy alone. Second, it provides further support for the hypothesis that lowering LDL per se will reduce cardiovascular events. Third, it suggests that lowering LDL levels to much lower levels than usual will have significant benefits. These results have implications for determining goals of therapy. STATINS + LOW DOSE OMEGA-3-FATTY ACIDS ORIGIN was a double-blind study in 12,536 patients at high risk for ASCVD who had impaired fasting glucose, impaired glucose tolerance, or diabetes ( 207 ). Patients were randomized to receive a 1-gram capsule containing at least 900mg of ethyl esters of omega-3 fatty acids (EPA 465mg and DHA 375mg) or placebo for approximately 6 years. Greater than 50% of the patients were on statin therapy. The primary outcome was death from cardiovascular causes. TG levels were reduced by 14.5mg/dL in the group receiving omega-3-fatty acids compared to the placebo group (P<0.001), without a significant effect on other lipids. The incidence of the primary outcome was not significantly decreased among patients receiving omega-3-fatty acids as compared with those receiving placebo. The use of omega-3-fatty acids also had no significant effect on the rates of major vascular events, death from any cause, or death from arrhythmia. A Study of Cardiovascular Events in Diabetes (ASCEND ) was a randomized, placebo controlled, double blind trial of 1-gram omega-3-fattys acids (400mg EPA and 300mg DHA ethyl esters) vs. olive oil placebo in 15,480 patients with diabetes without a history of ASCVD (primary prevention trial) ( 208 ). Approximately 75% of patients were on statin therapy.
