Dyslipidemia in Patients with Diabetes
KEYWORDS: patients, diabetes, levels, risk, pubmed, cardiovascular, ldl-c, therapy, trial, statin, ascvd, group, patients diabetes, events, type


TG (<150, ≥150 to <200, and ≥200 mg/dL). Moreover, the cardiovascular benefits of EPA appeared to occur irrespective of the attained TG level at 1 year (≥150 or <150 mg/dL), suggesting that the cardiovascular risk reduction was not associated with attainment of a normal TG levels. An increase in hospitalization for atrial fibrillation or flutter (3.1% vs. 2.1%, P=0.004) occurred in the EPA group. In addition, serious bleeding events occurred in 2.7% of the patients in the EPA group and in 2.1% in the placebo group (P=0.06). There were no fatal bleeding events in either group and the rates of hemorrhagic stroke, serious central nervous system bleeding, and serious gastrointestinal bleeding were not significantly higher in the EPA group. These results demonstrate that EPA treatment reduces ASCVD events. Of note the reduction in TG levels is relatively modest and would not be expected to result in the magnitude of the decrease in ASCVD observed in the JELIS and REDUCE-IT trials. Other actions of EPA, such as decreasing platelet function, anti-inflammation, decreasing lipid oxidation, stabilizing membranes, etc. could account for or contribute to the reduction in cardiovascular events ( 213 ). It is likely that the beneficial effects of EPA seen in the JELIS and REDUCE-IT trials are multifactorial. The Statin Residual Risk Reduction with Epanova in High Risk Patients with Hypertriglyceridemia (STRENGTH) trial was a randomized, placebo controlled, double blind trial of 4 grams per day of omega-3-fatty acids (Epanova) (carboxylic acid formulation of EPA and DHA) vs. placebo (corn oil) in 13,000 patients on statins with hypertriglyceridemia (180-500mg/dL), optimal LDL-C levels (< 100mg/dL or on maximal statin therapy), low HDL-C (<42mg/dL in men and < 47mg/dL in women), and either ASCVD or high risk for ASCVD ( 214 ). The primary outcome was major atherosclerotic cardiovascular events (cardiovascular death, MI, stroke, coronary revascularization or hospitalization for unstable angina). The primary end point occurred in 785 patients (12.0%) treated with omega-3 CA vs 795 (12.2%) treated with corn oil (HR, 0.99: [95% CI, 0.90-1.09]; P = .84) ( 215 ). Thus, in contrast to EPA alone this omega-3-fatty acid formulation failed to show benefits despite reducing TG levels (18% decrease) to a similar degree as in the REDUCE-IT trial. Whether EPA has special properties that resulted in the reduction in cardiovascular events in the REDUCE-IT trial or there were flaws in the trial design (the use of mineral oil as
