Dyslipidemia in Patients with Diabetes
KEYWORDS: patients, diabetes, levels, risk, pubmed, cardiovascular, ldl-c, therapy, trial, statin, ascvd, group, patients diabetes, events, type


all patients with diabetes. A focus on a Mediterranean style diet or Dietary Approaches to Stop Hypertension (DASH) diet should be encouraged. In patients with elevated TG levels glycemic control is beneficial and dietary changes and lifestyle changes including weight loss and abstinence from alcohol should be undertaken. Secondary disorders and medications that raise TG levels should be evaluated. Optimize glycemic control to improve TG and HDL-C levels. The recommendations for lipid lowering therapy are shown in table 4 . If one follows these recommendations almost all patients with diabetes over the age of 40 will be on statin therapy and many under the age of 40 will also be treated with statins. The addition of ezetimibe should be considered to further lower LDL-C levels in high-risk primary prevention patients. In very high-risk patients with ASCVD if the LDL-C level on statin therapy is greater than 70mg/dL the use of ezetimibe or a PCSK9 inhibitor should be considered. The use of fibrates or niacin with statins were generally not recommended as there is no evidence of benefit. However, in patients with ASCVD or other cardiovascular risk factors on a statin with controlled LDL-C but elevated TG levels (135-499mg/dL) the addition of icosapent ethyl can be considered. Finally, in patients with fasting TG levels greater than 500mg/dL an evaluation for secondary causes of hypertriglyceridemia should be initiated and consideration of drug therapy to reduce the risk of pancreatitis. Table 4. ADA Recommendations for Lipid Lowering Therapy View in own window Primary Prevention Age 20-39: With additional risk factors may be reasonable to initiate statin therapy Age 40-75: Use moderate-intensity statin therapy* in addition to lifestyle therapy Age 40-75: If at higher cardiovascular risk, including those with one or more ASCVD risk factors, it is recommended to use high intensity statin therapy to reduce LDL cholesterol by >50% and to target an LDL-C <70 mg/dL Age 40-75: If at higher cardiovascular risk, especially those with multiple ASCVD risk factors and an LDL-C >70 mg/dL, it may be reasonable to add ezetimibe or a PCSK9 inhibitor to maximum tolerated statin therapy Age > 75: Initiating moderate intensity statin therapy is reasonable after discussion and in patient already on statin therapy it is reasonable to continue statin therapy Secondary Prevention All ages: High intensity statin therapy**/maximally tolerated stain For people with diabetes and ASCVD, treatment with high intensity statin therapy is recommended to target
