Dyslipidemia in Patients with Diabetes
KEYWORDS: patients, diabetes, levels, risk, pubmed, cardiovascular, ldl-c, therapy, trial, statin, ascvd, group, patients diabetes, events, type


to continue statin therapy Secondary Prevention All ages: High intensity statin therapy**/maximally tolerated stain For people with diabetes and ASCVD, treatment with high intensity statin therapy is recommended to target an LDL-C reduction of >50% and an LDL-C l goal of <55 mg/dL. Addition of ezetimibe or a PCSK9 inhibitor is recommended if this goal is not achieved * Moderate intensity statin- atorvastatin 10-20mg, rosuvastatin 5-10mg, simvastatin 20-40mg, pravastatin 40-80mg, lovastatin 40mg, Fluvastatin XL 80mg, pitavastatin 3-4mg. ** High Intensity statin- atorvastatin 40-80mg, rosuvastatin 20-40mg. American College of Cardiology and American Heart Association Guidelines The 2018 American College of Cardiology and American Heart Association (ACC/AHA) guidelines recommend the following ( 220 ). “In patients 40 to 75 years of age with diabetes mellitus and LDL-C ≥70 mg/dL (≥1.8 mmol/L), start moderate-intensity statin therapy without calculating 10-year ASCVD risk. In patients with diabetes mellitus at higher risk, especially those with multiple risk factors or those 50 to 75 years of age, it is reasonable to use a high-intensity statin to reduce the LDL-C level by ≥50%.” In patients with diabetes and ASCVD they recommend “In patients with clinical ASCVD, reduce LDL-C with high-intensity statin therapy or maximally tolerated statin therapy. The more LDL-C is reduced on statin therapy, the greater will be subsequent risk reduction. Use a maximally tolerated statin to lower LDLC levels by ≥50%. In very high-risk ASCVD, use an LDL-C threshold of 70 mg/dL (1.8 mmol/L) to consider addition of non-statins to statin therapy. Very high-risk includes a history of multiple major ASCVD events or 1 major ASCVD event and multiple high-risk conditions. In very high-risk ASCVD patients, it is reasonable to add ezetimibe to maximally tolerated statin therapy when the LDL-C level remains ≥70 mg/dL (≥1.8 mmol/L). In patients at very high risk whose LDL-C level remains ≥70 mg/dL (≥1.8 mmol/L) on maximally tolerated statin and ezetimibe therapy, adding a PCSK9 inhibitor is reasonable, although the long-term safety (>3 years) is uncertain and cost effectiveness is low at mid-2018 list prices.” With regards to testing they recommend “Assess adherence and percentage response to LDL-C–lowering medications and lifestyle changes with repeat lipid measurement 4 to 12 weeks after statin initiation or dose adjustment, repeated every 3 to 12 months as needed”. Finally, there are several diabetes specific risk enhancers that are independent of other risk factors that should be considered in deciding the risk of cardiovascular events in
