Dyslipidemia in Patients with Diabetes
KEYWORDS: patients, diabetes, levels, risk, pubmed, cardiovascular, ldl-c, therapy, trial, statin, ascvd, group, patients diabetes, events, type


months as needed”. Finally, there are several diabetes specific risk enhancers that are independent of other risk factors that should be considered in deciding the risk of cardiovascular events in a patient with diabetes ( Table 5 ). Table 5. Diabetes Specific Risk Enhancers That are Independent of Other Risk Factors in Diabetes View in own window Long duration (≥10 years for type 2 diabetes mellitus or ≥20 years for type 1 diabetes mellitus Albuminuria ≥30 mcg of albumin/mg creatinine eGFR <60 mL/min/1.73 m2 Retinopathy Neuropathy ABI <0.9 ABI indicates ankle-brachial index. American Association of Clinical Endocrinologists/American College of Endocrinology Guidelines The American Association of Clinical Endocrinologists and American College of Endocrinology guidelines consider individuals with T2DM to be at high, very high, or extreme risk for ASCVD ( 221 , 222 ). Patients with T1DM and a duration of diabetes of more than 15 years or two or more risk factors, poorly controlled A1c, or insulin resistance with metabolic syndrome should be considered to have an equivalent risk to patients with T2DM ( 221 ). The recommended treatment goals are shown in Table 6 . Table 6. ASCVD Risk Categories and Treatment Goals View in own window Risk Category Risk Factors/10-year risk LDL-C mg/dL Non-HDL-C mg/dL Apo B mg/dL TG mg/dL Extreme Risk Diabetes and clinical ASCVD <55 <80 <70 <150 Very High Risk Diabetes with one or more risk factors <70 <100 <80 <150 High Risk Diabetes and no other risk factors <100 <130 <90 <150 European Society of Cardiology and European Atherosclerosis Society Guidelines The European Society of Cardiology (ESC) and European Atherosclerosis Society (EAS) has 2019 guidelines for the treatment of lipids in patients with diabetes ( 223 ). These guidelines classify patients with diabetes as very high risk, high risk, or moderate risk ( table 7 ). The recommended goals of therapy based on risk classification are shown in table 8 . As with other guidelines intensification of statin therapy should be considered before the introduction of combination therapy. If the goal is not reached, statin combination with ezetimibe should be considered next. Table 7. ESC/EAS Classification of Risk in Patients with Diabetes View in own window Very High Risk- target organ damage, or at least three major risk factors, or early onset of T1DM of long duration (>20 years) High Risk- without target organ damage, with DM duration >10 years or another additional risk
