Dyslipidemia in Patients with Diabetes
KEYWORDS: patients, diabetes, levels, risk, pubmed, cardiovascular, ldl-c, therapy, trial, statin, ascvd, group, patients diabetes, events, type


The approach I use is to combine these recommendations ( Tables 10 and 11 ). In patients with diabetes who have pre-existing ASCVD I initiate intensive statin therapy. I prefer LDL or non-HDL-C goals over percent reduction goals. Given the extensive data showing that the lower the LDL-C the greater the reduction in cardiovascular events most secondary prevention patients would benefit from the addition of ezetimibe to maximize LDL-C lowering without markedly increasing costs ( 226 ). In patients with diabetes 40-75 years of age without pre-existing ASCVD I calculate the 10-year risk of developing ASCVD ( http://www.cvriskcalculator.com/ ) and identify risk enhancing factors ( Table 5 ) and other factors that increase risk that are not included in the calculator (for example family history, inflammatory disorders, etc.). I initiate intensive statin therapy if the 10-year risk is > 7.5% or if there are multiple risk factors/risk enhancers. I initiate moderate statin therapy if the risk is < 7.5% without multiple risk factors/enhancers. Four to twelve weeks after initiating statin therapy I obtain a lipid panel to determine if the LDL and non-HDL-C levels are at goal. In patients with pre-existing ASCVD or multiple risk factors/risk enhancers (i.e., very high-risk patients) my goal is an LDL-C < 55mg/dL and a non-HDL-C < 80mg/dL. In patients that are at high-risk the goal my goal is an LDL-C < 70mg/dL and a non-HDL-C < 100mg/dL. In patients with moderate risk an LDL-C goal of < 100mg/dL and a non-HDL c < 130mg/dL is appropriate. If the levels are not at goal, I first adjust the statin dose until the patient is taking the maximally tolerated statin dose and then consider adding additional medications. In patients with diabetes who are less than 40 years of age I initiate statin therapy if the patient has overt ASCVD, long standing diabetes, or risk factors/risk enhancers for ASCVD and the LDL and non-HDL-C levels are not at goal. In these younger patients I also calculate the life time risk of ASCVD events to start a discussion of beginning early therapy given the abundance of data indicating that initiating LDL-C lowering therapy early has great potential in markedly lowering ASCVD risk ( 226 , 227 ). In patients over 75 years of age with a reasonable life expectancy I begin moderate statin therapy and adjust based on response. When there is difficulty classifying a patient’s risk, I
