Dyslipidemia in Patients with Diabetes
KEYWORDS: patients, diabetes, levels, risk, pubmed, cardiovascular, ldl-c, therapy, trial, statin, ascvd, group, patients diabetes, events, type


patients over 75 years of age with a reasonable life expectancy I begin moderate statin therapy and adjust based on response. When there is difficulty classifying a patient’s risk, I will obtain a coronary calcium score and use the score to help stratify the patient’s risk. In all cases the benefits and risks of lipid lowering therapy needs to be discussed with patients and the patient’s personnel preferences taken into account. Table 10. ASCVD Risk Categories and Treatment Goals View in own window Risk Category Risk Factors/10-year risk LDL-C mg/dL Non-HDL-C mg/dL Very High Risk Diabetes and clinical ASCVD, multiple risk factors, 10-year risk > 20% <55 <85 High Risk Diabetes with one or more risk factors, 10-year risk >7.5% to <20% <70 <100 Moderate Risk Diabetes and no other risk factors. 10-year risk <7.5% <100 <130 Table 11. Drug Therapy According to Risk Category that is Typically Required View in own window Very High Risk Intensive statin therapy + ezetimibe. Add PCSK9 if not close to goal High Risk Intensive statin therapy. Add ezetimibe if not at goal Moderate Risk Moderate statin therapy. Increase to intensive statin therapy if not at goal TREATMENT OF LIPID ABNORMALITIES IN PATIENT WITH DIABETES Life Style Changes and Weight Loss Initial treatment of lipid disorders should focus on lifestyle changes. There is little debate that exercise is beneficial and that all patients with diabetes should, if possible, exercise for at least 150 minutes per week (for example 30 minutes 5 times per week). Exercise will decrease serum TG levels and increase HDL-C levels (an increase in HDL-C requires vigorous exercise) ( 124 ). Exercise increases fitness and improves insulin resistance even with limited weight loss; reductions in obesity are even more beneficial. It should be noted that many patients with diabetes may have substantial barriers to participating in exercise programs, such as comorbidities that limit exercise tolerance, risk of hypoglycemia, and presence of microvascular complications (visual impairment, neuropathy) that make exercise difficult. Diet is debated to a greater extent and for detailed information on nutrition therapy for adults with diabetes see the consensus report by the American Diabetes Association ( 228 ). Everyone agrees that weight loss in obese patients is essential ( 124 ). But how this can be achieved is hotly debated with many different "experts" advocating different dietary approaches. The wide diversity of approach is likely due to the failure
