Dyslipidemia in Patients with Diabetes
KEYWORDS: patients, diabetes, levels, risk, pubmed, cardiovascular, ldl-c, therapy, trial, statin, ascvd, group, patients diabetes, events, type


Diet on Cardiovascular Disease and Lipid and Lipoprotein Levels” ( 229 ). While it is widely accepted that lifestyle changes will decrease ASCVD events it should be recognized that the Look Ahead trial failed to demonstrate a reduction in ASCVD events ( 230 ). In this trial, over 5,000 overweight or obese patients with T2DM were randomized to either an intensive lifestyle intervention group that promoted weight loss through decreased caloric intake and increased physical activity or to a group that received diabetes support and education (control group). After a median follow-up of 9.6 years there was no difference in cardiovascular events (hazard ratio in the intervention group, 0.95; 95% CI 0.83 to 1.09; P=0.51). A major limitation of this study was that while the weight difference between groups was impressive during the first year of the trial, over time the differences greatly narrowed such that at the end of the trial the intensive group had a 6.0% weight loss while the control group had a 3.5% weight loss. This very modest weight difference demonstrates the difficulty in sustaining long term lifestyle changes. Thus, while weight loss and diet therapy are likely to be beneficial in reducing cardiovascular events, in clinical practice they are seldom sufficient because long-term life style changes are very difficult for most patients to maintain. In contrast to the failure of lifestyle therapy in the Look Ahead trial to reduce cardiovascular events, the PREDIMED trial employing a Mediterranean diet (increased monounsaturated fats) did reduce the incidence of major ASCVD events ( 231 , 232 ). In this multicenter trial center trial, carried out in Spain, over 7,000 patients at high risk for developing ASCVD were randomized to three diets (primary prevention trial). A Mediterranean diet supplemented with extra-virgin olive oil, a Mediterranean diet supplemented with mixed nuts, or a control diet. Approximately 50% of the patients in this trial had T2DM. In the patients assigned to the Mediterranean diets there was 29% decrease in the primary end point (MI, stroke, and death from ASCVD). Subgroup analysis demonstrated that the Mediterranean diet was equally beneficial in patients with and without diabetes. The Mediterranean diet resulted in only a small but significant increase in HDL-C levels and a small decrease in both LDL-C and TG levels, suggesting that the beneficial effects were not mediated by changes in lipids ( 233 ). The CORDIOPREV study was a single center
