Dyslipidemia in Patients with Diabetes
KEYWORDS: patients, diabetes, levels, risk, pubmed, cardiovascular, ldl-c, therapy, trial, statin, ascvd, group, patients diabetes, events, type


small decrease in both LDL-C and TG levels, suggesting that the beneficial effects were not mediated by changes in lipids ( 233 ). The CORDIOPREV study was a single center randomized trial that compared a Mediterranean diet to a low-fat diet in 1,002 patients with ASCVD ( 234 ). Approximately 50% of the patients had diabetes. The Mediterranean diet contained a minimum of 35% of the calories as fat (22% monounsaturated fatty acids, 6% polyunsaturated fatty acids, and <10% saturated fat), 15% proteins, and a maximum of 50% carbohydrates while the low-fat diet contained less than 30% of total fat (<10% saturated fat, 12–14% monounsaturated fatty acids, and 6–8% polyunsaturated fatty acids), 15% protein, and a minimum of 55% carbohydrates. The risk of an ASCVD event was reduced by approximately 25-30% in the Mediterranean diet group. Whether these diets differed in their effects on fasting lipid levels is unknown. Finally, another secondary prevention trial of a Mediterranean diet has also demonstrated a reduction in cardiovascular events. The Lyon Diet Heart Study randomized 584 patients who had a MI within 6 months to a Mediterranean type diet vs usual diet ( 235 , 236 ). There was a marked reduction in events in the group of patients randomized to the Mediterranean diet (cardiac death and nonfatal MI rate was 4.07 per 100 patient years in the control diet vs. 1.24 in the Mediterranean diet; p<0.0001). Unfortunately, there is no indication of the number of patients with diabetes in the Lyon Diet Heart Study or whether patients with diabetes responded similar to the entire group. Lipid levels were similar in both groups in this trial ( 235 ). The results of these three randomized trials indicate that we should be encouraging our patients to follow a Mediterranean type diet. It is likely that the beneficial effects of the Mediterranean diet on ASCVD is mediated by multiple mechanisms with alterations in lipid levels making only a minor contribution. For additional information on the effect of diets on lipid levels and ASCVD see the chapter entitled “The Effect of Diet on Cardiovascular Disease and Lipid and Lipoprotein Levels” in the Lipids and Lipoproteins section of Endotext ( 229 ). Bariatric surgery can have profound effects on weight and can result in marked improvements in lipid profiles with a decrease in TG and LDL-C and an increase in HDL-C ( 124 , 229 ) Additionally,
