Dyslipidemia in Patients with Diabetes
KEYWORDS: patients, diabetes, levels, risk, pubmed, cardiovascular, ldl-c, therapy, trial, statin, ascvd, group, patients diabetes, events, type


effects on weight and can result in marked improvements in lipid profiles with a decrease in TG and LDL-C and an increase in HDL-C ( 124 , 229 ) Additionally, observational studies have shown a decrease in cardiovascular events following bariatric surgery in patients with and without diabetes ( 237 - 241 ). For additional information see the chapter entitled “Obesity and Dyslipidemia” ( 124 ). Ethanol and simple sugars, in particular fructose, increase serum TG levels in susceptible patients. In patients with hypertriglyceridemia efforts should be made to reduce the intake of ethanol, simple sugars, and fructose ( 229 ). Lastly, in the past some "experts" advocated the addition of fish oil supplements to reduce cardiovascular events. However, both the Origin Trial and the ASCEND Trial did not demonstrate that fish oil supplements were beneficial in patients with T2DM or patients at high risk for the development of T2DM ( 207 , 208 ). It should be recognized that higher doses of fish oil are required to lower serum triglyceride levels (~ 3-4 grams of DHA/EPA per day) and are useful in treating patients with high TG levels ( 242 ). Most studies of fish oil supplements in patients with diabetes have demonstrated that this is a safe approach and that worsening of glycemic control does not occur in patients with diabetes treated with fish oil supplements ( 242 ). Additionally, in some patient's high dose fish oil increases LDL-C levels, particularly when serum TG levels are very high ( 242 ). For additional information on fish oil see the chapter on Triglyceride Lowering Drugs ( 209 ). Drug Therapy The effect of statins, fibrates, niacin, ezetimibe, omega-3-fatty acids, bile acid sequestrants, bempedoic acid, and PCSK9 inhibitors on lipid levels in patients with diabetes is virtually identical to that seen in non-diabetic patients ( Table 12 ). Below we will highlight issues particularly relevant to the use of these drugs in patients with diabetes. For detailed information on lipid lowering drugs see the chapters on Triglyceride Lowering Drugs and Cholesterol Lowering Drugs ( 141 , 209 ). STATINS Statins are easy to use and generally well tolerated by patients with diabetes. However, statins can adversely affect glucose homeostasis. In patients without diabetes the risk of developing diabetes is increased by approximately 10% with higher doses of statin causing a greater risk than more moderate doses ( 243 , 244
