Dyslipidemia in Patients with Diabetes
KEYWORDS: patients, diabetes, levels, risk, pubmed, cardiovascular, ldl-c, therapy, trial, statin, ascvd, group, patients diabetes, events, type


participants on placebo ( 252 ). As expected, fenofibrate therapy acutely increased plasma creatinine levels and decreased eGFR but over the long term, the increase in plasma creatinine was decreased in the fenofibrate group compared to the placebo group (14% decrease; p=0.01). Similarly, there was a slower annual decrease in eGFR in the fenofibrate group (1.19 vs 2.03 mL/min/1.73m 2 annually, p < 0.001). The effect of fenofibrate on kidney function was greater in those with higher TG and lower HDL levels. End-stage renal disease, dialysis, renal transplant, and renal death were similar in the fenofibrate and placebo groups, but the incidence was low. In the ACCORD-LIPID trial the post-randomization incidence of microalbuminuria was 38.2% in the fenofibrate group and 41.6% in the placebo group (p=0.01) and post-randomization incidence of macroalbumuria was 10.5% in the fibrate group and 12.3% in the placebo group (p=0.04) indicating a modest reduction in the development of proteinuria in patients treated with fenofibrate ( 189 ). There was no significant difference in the incidence of end-stage renal disease or need for dialysis between the fenofibrate group and the placebo group. These studies suggest that fibrates may have a beneficial effect on diabetic kidney disease. One should recognize that reducing proteinuria is a surrogate marker and may not indicate a reduction in the development of end stage renal disease. The mechanisms accounting for decreased in proteinuria are unknown. Amputations In the FIELD study the risks of first amputation were decreased by 36% (p=0.02) and minor amputation events without known large-vessel disease by 47% (p=0.027) in the fenofibrate treated group ( 253 ). The reduction in amputations was independent of glucose control or dyslipidemia. No difference between the risks of major amputations was seen in the placebo and fenofibrate groups. The basis for this reduction in amputations is unknown. Do Fibrates have an Independent Effect on Microvascular Disease? Multiple studies cited above have now shown that fenofibrate decreases retinopathy, nephropathy, and amputation in the absence of large vessel disease. The effects are independent of blood glucose control. Given that there also was no effect of fenofibrate on cardiovascular (macrovascular) disease, these results may suggest that fenofibrate has an independent effect on microvascular disease. Further studies are warranted, but these results should be taken into account when considering treatment of marked hypertriglyceridemia in patients with diabetes. BILE ACID SEQUESTRANTS Bile acid sequestrants are relatively difficult to take due
