NLM Citation: LiverTox: Clinical and Research Information on Drug-
KEYWORDS: ambrisentan, liver, injury, liver injury, receptor, pulmonary, endothelin, endothelin receptor, bosentan, use, associated, cases, elevations, serum, arterial hypertension


Induced Liver Injury [Internet]. Bethesda (MD): National Institute of Diabetes and Digestive and Kidney Diseases; 2012-. Ambrisentan. [Updated 2017 Sep 30]. Bookshelf URL: Ambrisentan Updated: September 30, 2017. OVERVIEW Introduction Ambrisentan is an endothelin receptor antagonist used in the therapy of pulmonary arterial hypertension (PAH). Ambrisentan has been associated with a low rate of serum enzyme elevations during therapy, but has yet to be implicated in cases of clinically apparent acute liver injury. Background Ambrisentan (am" bri sen' tan) is a selective inhibitor of the endothelin receptor type A (ETA) and has little activity against ETB in the doses used in humans. Inhibition of the ETA receptor disrupts the intracellular pathways that lead to vasoconstriction, thus causing vasodilation. Because this receptor is found in highest concentration in the lungs, ambrisentan primarily causes vasodilation in the pulmonary vasculature and decreases pulmonary vascular pressure. In prospective, randomized controlled trials, ambrisentan was effective with idiopathic PAH. Ambrisentan was the second endothelin receptor antagonist to be approved in the United States (2007) and it remains in active use. The current indications are for symptomatic pulmonary arterial hypertension, classified as WHO group 1 (idiopathic). Use of ambrisentan in other forms of PAH (due to heart failure, thromboembolic disease, or pulmonary disease) should be considered experimental as its efficacy in these forms of PAH has not been adequately shown. Because of the potential for teratogenicity, ambrisentan is available only as a part of a monitoring program in which documentation of adequate methods for birth control are required. Ambrisentan is available in tablets of 5 and 10 mg under the brand name Letairis and the recommended dose is 5 to 10 mg once daily. Common side effects include headaches, dizziness, edema, flushing, rhinitis and dyspepsia. Hepatotoxicity Ambrisentan is associated with a low rate of serum aminotransferase elevations (0% to 3%) that in clinical trials was similar to the rate in placebo recipients. These elevations are usually mild (rarely above 3 times ULN), transient and not associated with symptoms. For these reasons, monthly monitoring of serum aminotransferase levels is no longer routinely recommended during ambrisentan therapy. There have also been no published reports of clinically apparent liver injury with jaundice associated with ambrisentan, but it has had limited general use. Other endothelin receptor antagonists (bosentan, sitaxsentan) have been linked to cases of acute liver injury, some of which have been severe. The onset of illness was usually within
