NLM Citation: LiverTox: Clinical and Research Information on Drug-
KEYWORDS: ambrisentan, liver, injury, liver injury, receptor, pulmonary, endothelin, endothelin receptor, bosentan, use, associated, cases, elevations, serum, arterial hypertension


general use. Other endothelin receptor antagonists (bosentan, sitaxsentan) have been linked to cases of acute liver injury, some of which have been severe. The onset of illness was usually within 1 to 6 months of starting bosentan and the enzyme pattern was typically hepatocellular or mixed. Immunoallergic features were usually not present and autoantibodies absent or present in low titer. Sitaxsentan 2 LiverTox was linked to several cases of fatal acute liver failure, for which reason it was not approved in the United States and was later withdrawn from use elsewhere. Ambrisentan has not been linked to similar cases and its chemical structure is sufficiently different to suggest lack of cross sensitivity to this complication. Likelihood score: E (unlikely cause of clinically apparent liver injury). Mechanism of Injury The mechanism by which ambrisentan might cause liver injury is not known. Ambrisentan is metabolized by the cytochrome P450 system (CYP 2C9 and 3A4), which may lead to production of a toxic intermediate and can also cause drug-drug interactions, particularly with cyclosporine A. One reason why ambrisentan may have less potential for causing liver injury than does bosentan is that its total daily dosage is much less, 5 to 10 mg daily rather than 62.5 to 125 mg. Outcome and Management The serum enzyme elevations associated with ambrisentan use have been mild-to-moderate and self-limited in course, often resolving despite drug continuation. Most patients who have had serum enzyme elevations while taking bosentan have tolerated switching to ambrisentan, but in at least one case report there was recurrence of liver injury, indicating that patients switched from one endothelin-1 receptor antagonist to another should be monitored at least for the first several months after switching. Drug Class: Pulmonary Arterial Hypertension Agents Other Drugs in the Subclass, Endothelin Receptor Antagonists: Bosentan, Macitentan PRODUCT INFORMATION REPRESENTATIVE TRADE NAMES Ambrisentan – Letairis® DRUG CLASS Pulmonary Arterial Hypertension Agents COMPLETE LABELING Product labeling at DailyMed, National Library of Medicine, NIH Ambrisentan 3 CHEMICAL FORMULA AND STRUCTURE DRUG CAS REGISTRY NUMBER MOLECULAR FORMULA STRUCTURE Ambrisentan 177036-94-1 C22-H22-N2-O4 \
