1530 BRITISHMEDICALJOURNAL VOLUME 281 6 DECEMBER 1980
KEYWORDS: liver, renal, damage, drug, oxyphenisatin, chronic, function, tests, jaundice, showed, muscle damage, disease, days, muscle, laxative


1530 BRITISHMEDICALJOURNAL VOLUME 281 6 DECEMBER 1980 lymphocytes, polymorphonuclear leucocytes, plasma cells, and occasional although the liver was enlarged. Haematology was normal (erythrocyte eosinophils. The cortical infiltrations were often around the glomerular sedimentation rate 44 mm in the first hour). Liver function tests showed vascular pole and one or two aggregations ofmacrophages were noted in gross abnormalities (table). Tests for hepatitis-associated surface antigen theadventitiaofsmallinterlobulararteries.Earlydiffusediabeticglomerulo- andlupus erythematosus cellswerenegative, andforantinuclearfactorand sclerosis was present. Immunofluorescence to IgG, IgA, fibrin, and C3 smooth-muscleantibodystronglypositive;non-organ-specificmitochondrial was found in glomerular capillary walls and mesangial regions. The antibody and other organ-specific antibodies were not detected. Liver appearances suggested that a granulomatous arteritis was developing in biopsy showed a prominent chronic inflamnmatory infiltrate in the portal additiontointerstitialnephritis. areas, some destruction oflobulararchitecture,andmildpatchy, piecemeal Clofibrate wasdiscontinuedandtherashfadedovertwodays. Theurine necrosis. The chronic inflammatory cells were mainly lymphocytes with a output was always greater than 800 ml/24 h,butdespiteappropriate fluid, few plasma cells and eosinophils. Reticulin staining showed increased electrolyte, and insulin treatment the blood urea concentration rose over fibrosis. Thepicturewas consistentwithchronicactivehepatitis. five days to 56 mmol/l (337 mg/100 ml). It then fell, without dialysis, to Repeat liver function tests 10 days later (table) showed a definite im- 6-5 mmol/l (39 mg/100 ml) nine days later, with a daily diuresis of5-7 1. provement. Although withdrawing the drug caused some improvement, in Three weeks after admission creatinine clearance was 85 ml/min and the view ofthe severity ofchanges shown by liver biopsy she was started on urinewasproteinfree. prednisolone 10 mg by mouth three times daily on day 11 before being discharged home. One month after admission she was feeling well, the jaundice had disappeared, and no other abnormality was detected. Liver Comment function tests showed continuing improvement, and the prednisolone dosagewasgraduallyreduced. All described cases of an adverse effect of clofibrate on renal function'14 had pre-existing chronic renal failure and were associated either with myalgia and muscle damage' or with severe vomiting Resultsofliverfunction tests causing salt and water depletion.4 Innoneofthem were renal biopsy findings reported. Inthe present case renal function returned almost to normal on withdrawal ofclofibrate and there was no evidence of admi O s n sion 1 A 0 f d t a e y r s 1 A m f o t n er th muscle damage or of vomiting and hypovolaemia. The principal featureoftherenalbiopsyspecimenwasinterstitialnephritisalthough Se ( r I u U/ m 1) gl ( u n t o a r m m a a
