“This book attempts to organize the knowledge collected by those
KEYWORDS: cells, transcription, gene, complex, cell, protein, proteins, factors, expression, receptor, autoimmune, mrna, rnap, il-, immune


who have extensively studied autoimmune diseases (ADs) into a comprehensive overview of how the immune system, governed by its own complex yet limited pathways, turns against self targeting distinct tissues in different conditions according to a balance de- termined by the genetic predisposition of the host, its gender, en- vironmental circumstances and other co-factors that modify the outcomes of a similar pathological process (...). This book strikes a great balance at the experimental and trans- lational intersection in presenting cutting edge views of ADs in the broader context of autoimmunology”. [From the Preface] The CREA Collection of “Universidad del Rosario” offers to the medical community and related areas, texts on translational autoimmunity, by which new and relevant biomedical discoveries are applied to autoimmune diseases, in their prediction, diagnosis improvement, treatment, prognosis, and prevention. edisdeB ot hcneB morF YTINUMMIOTUA Juan-Manuel Anaya Yehuda Shoenfeld Adriana Rojas-Villarraga Roger A. Levy Ricard Cervera -Editors- dlefneohS aduheY | ayanA leunaM-nauJ yveL .A regoR | agarralliV-sajoR anairdA arevreC draciR -srotidE- AUTOIMMUNITY From Bench to Bedside AUTOIMMUNITY From Bench to Bedside EDITORS immunogenetics of autoimmune diseases. He focuses his research on the identification of common physiopathological mechanisms of these diseases. He has authored more than 200 scientific articles and served as Senior Editor of major books and journals in the field of rheumatology and autoimmunity. Professor Anaya is a member of several scientific societies including the National Academy of Medicine of Colombia. affiliated with the Sackler Faculty of Medicine at Tel-Aviv University in Israel. Professor Shoenfeld is the Incumbent of the Laura Schwarz-Kipp Chair for Research focuses on autoimmune and rheumatic diseases. He has published more than 1,700 papers in the most highly reputed journals and authored and edited autoimmunity and is the founder and editor of the IMAJ (Israel Medical Association Journal) as well as the founder and editor of “Autoimmunity Reviews” and Co-Editor of “Journal of Autoimmunity.” He has organized over 20 international congresses on autoimmunity. Professor Shoenfeld received the EULAR prize in 2005, the gold medal from the Slovak Society of Physicians for his contribution to Israel – Slovakia collaboration , and the Nelson’s Prize for a long list of students who have become heads of departments and institutes. immunogenetics of autoimmune diseases as well as rheumatological musculoskeletal imagenology. She has published more than 50 scientific articles in her research fields of interest and in clinical epidemiology. Professor Rojas-Villarraga also leads the Translational Medicine
