“This book attempts to organize the knowledge collected by those
KEYWORDS: cells, transcription, gene, complex, cell, protein, proteins, factors, expression, receptor, autoimmune, mrna, rnap, il-, immune


the influence of accidentally acquired suggests that the identification of commonalities among infections and other environmental conditions that modulate distinct aspects of AD may provide insights about salient the switch even between identical twins from a dormant mechanisms that are necessary and perhaps sufficient for predisposition to full blown pathology. autoimmunity to occur. Consequently, this information may suggest treatments endowed with broader efficacy. The third section, following a more canonical pattern present individual pathology for those who need specific It should be emphasized that autoimmunity is not alone information since, in spite of the commonalities included among immune-mediated disorders and evidence suggests in tautology of autoimmunity, peculiarities remain that that other diseases may follow similar principles; cancer affect the diagnosis, prognosis and treatment of individual rejection during immunotherapy may represent a facet of diseases till more basic principles will be uncovered. The autoimmune “tumoritis”. In addition, allograft rejection in its final two sections dwell with innovative therapies and chronic and acute form, graft versus host disease and some laboratory and diagnostic tools that remain the ultimate aspects of acute and chronic infection may follow similar goal for any clinical investigation and consequently are of principles although the triggering mechanism may differ. We interest to any responsible basic scientist attentive to the refer to such converging mechanisms leading to immune- welfare of the recipient of his efforts: the patient. mediated tissue specific destruction as the “immunologic constant of rejection”. This book clearly attempts to present This book strikes, therefore, a great balance at the a balanced overview of the causality and phenomenology experimental and translational intersection in presenting associated with ADs providing a comprehensive view of cutting edge views of ADs in the broader context of basic immunologic principles in the first 13 chapters. autoimmunology. Chief Research Officer, Sidra Medical and Research Centre, Doha Qatar. I Introduction to immunology and molecular biology noitceS GENE EXPRESSION AND REGULATION Sandra Ramírez-Clavijo Gladis Montoya-Ortíz BASIC ELEMENTS OF lation; activation of protein factors which participate in GENE EXPRESSION different stages and can also be targets on signaling path- ways; maturation and transportation of end products so Life exists due to the emergence of molecules that store and they can acquire their functional structures and reach the transmit genetic information. Most of them are common to sites where they carry out their function (inside or outside all living beings as are several of the mechanisms that
