“This book attempts to organize the knowledge collected by those
KEYWORDS: cells, transcription, gene, complex, cell, protein, proteins, factors, expression, receptor, autoimmune, mrna, rnap, il-, immune


the transmit genetic information. Most of them are common to sites where they carry out their function (inside or outside all living beings as are several of the mechanisms that in- the cells) through the recognition of signals inscribed in tervene to allow the flow of information. Replication is one the products of these mechanisms. Finally, some epigen- example of these mechanisms and, through it, cells obtain etic properties of the genome that are important for gene a semi-conserved copy of all the genetic material during expression will be discussed. These include the position of the S phase of the cell cycle. This process only occurs in the gene in the chromosome and nucleus, the degree of cells involved in cell division events. Other mechanisms are chromatin condensation, and the multifractal characteris- transcription, which consists of reading the genetic ma- tics of the genome. The latter property has recently been terial fragments to produce different types of RNAs, and associated with gene regulation and genomic stability. translation, in which RNA and ribosomes synthesize pro- teins. Living beings store genetic information in the form of single- or double-strand RNA or DNA nucleic acids. There- GENE STRUCTURE fore, the flow of genetic information between one cell and its progeny is guaranteed through replication while the flow of The human genome has three billion pairs of bases of genetic information inside the cell is transmitted by reading which only 1.5% is coding: the DNA used to synthesize the information contained in genes through transcription proteins or different types of RNA such as ribosomal RNA and translation mechanisms. These three mechanisms are (rRNA), transference RNA (tRNA), and messenger RNA strongly regulated and are activated or inactivated by signals (mRNA). These pairs of bases are DNA fragments that form detected and interpreted by cells, thus leading to the genera- structural reading units of genetic information called genes. tion of a response with the participation of thousands of mol- Moreover, the human genome contains 20,000 genes ecules that the cell signaling pathways consist of. This chap- and even though the functions of every one of them are ter focuses on gene expression and its regulation including not known, they are recognized as DNA fragments with transcription and translation processes. Once the concept promoter and coding regions which can be transcribed. of the gene and its structure are defined, the sequential The promoter region is indispensable for
