“This book attempts to organize the knowledge collected by those
KEYWORDS: cells, transcription, gene, complex, cell, protein, proteins, factors, expression, receptor, autoimmune, mrna, rnap, il-, immune


and translation processes. Once the concept promoter and coding regions which can be transcribed. of the gene and its structure are defined, the sequential The promoter region is indispensable for transcription stages of transcription, translation, and the molecules in- because it guides the positioning of the transcriptional volved will be described. Moreover, the fact that gene ex- machinery. The region transcribed contains sequences pression is regulated during the entire process and is car- of coding nucleotides called exons, non-coding regions ried out through diverse mechanisms must be highlighted. known as introns, and 5’UTR and 3’UTR regions with regula- Some examples of these mechanisms are: remodeling of tory functions. The initiator element (Inr) –site where tran- molecules which serve as a template such as in the case of scription begins– is found between the promoter and the DNA in transcription and messenger RNA (mRNA) in trans- transcribed region. The non-encoding 5’UTR region is found SILENCER INSULATOR ENHANCER Core promoter INR TATA DPE +1 CRE SRE PROXIMAL PROMOTER ELEMENTS noigeR gnillortnoC sucoL )RCL( 4 Section I. Introduction to immunology and molecular biology DISTAL PROMOTER ELEMENTS Figure 1. Eukaryotic promoter gene structure. There are two regions in the promoter. The first one is the core or basal promoter which con- sists of the TATA box located upstream of the transcriptional start site +1, the initiator element (INR) and the downstream promoter element (DPE). The second region consists of the upstream promoter elements, which are proximal and distal DNA sequences and provide a control point for gene transcription regulation. Modified from (17). between the initiator and the first exon, which is then fol- elements acting in cis and are generally recognized by their lowed by the first intron. Thereafter, exons and introns are association with transcription factors acting in trans. These interspersed and after the last exon, there is a non-coding factors locally modify the chromatin structure to assem- 3’UTR sequence containing the signal sequence to add the ble the transcriptional complex if they are activators, or to polynucleotide A tail (poly A) to the 3’end mRNA (Figure 1). block the approach of this complex to the transcription ini- Promoter. This regulatory region has variable lengths tiation site if they are repressors. and contains both specific and consensus sequences At this point, it is important to define the transcription common to several promoters. Consensus sequences can factors (TF) which are protein or lipid molecules
