“This book attempts to organize the knowledge collected by those
KEYWORDS: cells, transcription, gene, complex, cell, protein, proteins, factors, expression, receptor, autoimmune, mrna, rnap, il-, immune


both specific and consensus sequences At this point, it is important to define the transcription common to several promoters. Consensus sequences can factors (TF) which are protein or lipid molecules with re- keep genes in permanent activity and specific sequences gions in their structure that constitute functional domains regulate gene expression in response to different signals. for the DNA interaction and/or other proteins and also These sequences are denominated proximal elements for transcription activation or repression. Furthermore, when they are close to the transcription initiation site and TF recognize and bind to specific nucleotide sequences in distal elements when they are located at distances that are the DNA. However, genes can have different nucleotide se- greater than 1 Kb. Examples of proximal elements are TATA, quences in their promoters: a large percentage have some CAT, SRE, CRE, AP1, and Sp1 boxes. The basic elements consensus sequences such as TATA and CAT boxes, but necessary for a promoter to be functional are the TATA box different elements which provide specificity to genes are located -25bp upstream from the transcription start site, the found in proximal and distal regions. Therefore, alterations Initiator (Inr) that includes the start site located at +1bp, and in the structure or function of TFs modify the gene expres- the promoter element (DPE) located +30bp downstream from sion which is under their regulation; even variations of a the Inr. Distal elements also regulate gene expression and are single nucleotide (SNP) in gene sequences codifying for TF located at variable distances. Some of them are: the locus con- and promoter elements have been associated with the de- trolling region (LCR) that regulates gene families expressed velopment of diseases. only during embryonic development such as homeotic genes; the isolator element, which is a sequence acting as a border between regions of transcriptionally active euchromatin or GENE EXPRESSION inactive heterochromatin. For instance, one isolator element that has been described in β-globin genes separates orodate Gene expression is determined by reading gene informa- receptor genes on one side from the folate receptor genes tion during the transcription and translation processes. on the other. The last distal elements to mention are the en- The product of transcription is mRNA and the product of hancer and the silencer that promote or block transcription translation is a protein. Not all genes encode proteins which respectively. These act at long distances and in different posi- means
