“This book attempts to organize the knowledge collected by those
KEYWORDS: cells, transcription, gene, complex, cell, protein, proteins, factors, expression, receptor, autoimmune, mrna, rnap, il-, immune


hancer and the silencer that promote or block transcription translation is a protein. Not all genes encode proteins which respectively. These act at long distances and in different posi- means that they can be transcribed but their mRNA is not tions and directions in relation to the gene. translated. Both processes are carried out in consecutive The sequences mentioned above are part of the DNA stages making it difficult to establish the boundary be- Gene expression and regulation. Chapter 1 5 BOX 1. Some aspects of promoter gene regions and Autoimmune Diseases Promoter regions of genes associated with Autoimmune can affect differential binding of TFs on target sequenc- Diseases (ADs) have been the target of recent investiga- es (Table 1). Regarding this matter, Maurano et al. did a tion due to their important role in gene regulation. In study of DNase I sensitive sites in 349 cells and tissue these regions, any variation could represent differences samples through whole genome mapping (GWAS). This in gene expression patterns between healthy and sick study identified 3,899,693 positions that were hyper- individuals. Several studies have focused on the poten- sensitive to DNase I. Many of these were located and tial role of Single Nucleotide Polymorphisms (SNPs) in concentrated in gene regulatory regions associated the development of ADs. Even though the results from with Reumathoid Arthritis (RA), Multiple Sclerosis (MS), most studies have not been evaluated at a functional Systemic Lupus Erythematosus (SLE), and Type 1 Dia- level, the location of SNPs can provide important clues betes (T1D). Interestingly, sequence variants common about their potential roles. Thus, further research on to those diseases were systematically and specifically SNPs located in the promoter region of genes associ- enriched in the recognition sequences of TF involved in ated with autoimmunity should be done because they the regulation of physiological processes. GENE EXPRESSION AND REGULATION Signal Transduction Pathways Chromatin Chromatin remodeling remodeling proteins Transcription factors Complex protein miRNA mRNA DNA Transcription RNA rRNA mRNA Translation PROTEIN GEN tRNA miRNA asRNA miRNA Degradation Degradation Maturation Maturation NUCLEUS Transport Transport CYTOPLASM Figure 2: Pathways for gene expression regulation. There are many events associated with control of gene expression which are integrated into the following groups: events associated with RNA and protein molecules, epigenetic mechanisms, and signal transduction pathways. All of them can act at different times and sites during transcriptional or translational processes. Before transcription starts, the promoter is
