“This book attempts to organize the knowledge collected by those
KEYWORDS: cells, transcription, gene, complex, cell, protein, proteins, factors, expression, receptor, autoimmune, mrna, rnap, il-, immune


and protein molecules, epigenetic mechanisms, and signal transduction pathways. All of them can act at different times and sites during transcriptional or translational processes. Before transcription starts, the promoter is recognized by transcription factors targeted by signal transduction pathways. The transcription factors recruit chromatin remodeling complexes into the promoter which relaxes (open state allowing transcriptional activity) or condenses (closed state repressing the transcriptional process) the chro- matin structure. Also, small RNAs such as miRNA can prevent the transcription. The transcription product is RNA, and it is processed by protein complexes in order to obtain mature RNA. Those RNAs remain there. However, those playing a role in the cytoplasm are transported through a nuclear envelope. Before translation starts, the RNA may be targeted by small RNAs or protein complexes in order to promote or block protein synthesis. Also, RNA stability is regulated: it is degraded or kept within the cytoplasm. Proteins are the translation products and the target for structural modifications by other protein complexes. Those changes are required in order to achieve their functional structure, transport them to the locations where they interact, or degrade them. All these steps are regulated by mechanisms responding to signals produced outside or inside of the cells. These constitute large networks of cellular communication regulating gene expression. 6 Section I. Introduction to immunology and molecular biology tween them. Moreover, each one includes multiple protein nation, spatial structures or cis sequences are recognized complexes in which subunits are recruited as the process to stop the reading machinery. There are three types of advances or, instead, are released and replaced by others genes which codify RNAs or proteins. Type-I genes encode once they fulfill their function. Transcription, translation, and rRNA (28S, 18S, and 5,8S) and are transcribed by RNAP I their regulatory mechanisms require a permanent recogni- holoenzyme. Type-II genes encode mRNA, hnRNA, snRNA, tion of molecular structures, interactions and associations miRNA, and telRNA and are transcribed by RNAP II. Final- between compounds, and the identification of signals that ly, Type-III genes encode tRNA, snRNA, and 5S rRNA and constitute true communication codes (Figure 2). are transcribed by RNAP III holoenzyme. The three RNAP complexes consist of different subunits and are accom- TRANSCRIPTION panied by general transcription factors specific to each complex. In all of these types of genes, the promoter is Transcription is a process in which the fragment of ge- the axis where protein
