“This book attempts to organize the knowledge collected by those
KEYWORDS: cells, transcription, gene, complex, cell, protein, proteins, factors, expression, receptor, autoimmune, mrna, rnap, il-, immune


transcription factors specific to each complex. In all of these types of genes, the promoter is Transcription is a process in which the fragment of ge- the axis where protein complexes arrive, assemble, and netic information with a structure or DNA template is also accompany RNAP during the beginning of transcrip- read in order to synthesize RNA molecules. The phases of tion. RNAP provides the site of assembly for the complexes transcription are: pre-initiation, initiation, promoter clear- which are in charge of the continuity of the process and of ance, elongation, and termination. All of them include the modifying the growing RNA molecule. Nevertheless, RNA participation of protein complexes the components of modification is different for each type of RNA. For example, which are assembled and disassembled as the process to obtain mature mRNA (the template used in protein syn- advances. Most of the mechanisms which regulate the thesis), co-transcriptional modifications such as capping, flow of genetic information act in the period prior to the splicing, cleavage, and poly (A) addition must be made. reading process, where signals and molecules must come Transcription details of type II genes transcribed by together to assemble the pre-initiation complexes that will RNAP II are the ones that are best understood so far. Even be modified to form the initiation complexes. Furthermore, though some miRNA can also be transcribed by RNAP III, different factors facilitate, review the process, and keep they have promoters with structures that are different the machinery active during elongation and, during termi- from those described above. Note that RNAP II is a holo- P-TEFb P-TEFb P P P P P DSIF P P P P DSIF P P P P DSIF P NELF NELF Elongin RNAP II RNAP II RNAP II CAP CAP ELL TFIIH TFIIS TFIIS TFIIS P TFIIS NELF CAP Initiation Promoter Pausing Productive clearance elongation Figure 3. The C-terminal repeat domain (CTD) from the holoenzyme RNAP II. The RNAP II enzyme is in charge of reading gene sequences and synthesizes RNA molecules. This holoenzyme is composed of 60 polypeptides. The largest RNAP II subunit - Rpb1 - has a C-terminal repeat domain (CTD), which is an unusual peptide extension. The CTD consists of multiple heptad repeats (consensus Tyr1-Ser2-Pro3-Thr4- Ser5-Pro6-Ser7) varying in number from 26 in yeast to 52 in vertebrates. The CTD serves as a flexible binding scaffold for numerous nuclear factors at different steps during the
