“This book attempts to organize the knowledge collected by those
KEYWORDS: cells, transcription, gene, complex, cell, protein, proteins, factors, expression, receptor, autoimmune, mrna, rnap, il-, immune


Tyr1-Ser2-Pro3-Thr4- Ser5-Pro6-Ser7) varying in number from 26 in yeast to 52 in vertebrates. The CTD serves as a flexible binding scaffold for numerous nuclear factors at different steps during the transcription process. These interactions depend on the phosphorylation patterns within the CTD. Thus, CTD is phosphorylated on Ser5 and Ser7 by CDK7, which stimulates RNAP II polymerase activity and thus, allows transcription to begin. After- wards, CDK9 and p-TEFb phosphorylate Ser2 which leads to promoter clearance and the recruitment of capping enzyme into the vicinity of nascent mRNA. Subsequently, NELF binds to CTD and stops the transcription while splicing factors are recruited into the primary transcript. DSIF immediately interacts with CTD as an anti-terminator factor to continue the transcription. Next, phosphate groups on Ser5 and Ser7 are gradually removed by phosphatases such as Rtr1and Ssu72. At this point, Elongin and ELL complexes bind to RNAP II to promote the elongation. Also, phosphorylated Ser2 serves to recruit 3’ processing complexes involved in polyadenylation and cleavage mechanisms. As RNAP II is finishing the process, Fcp1 dephosphorylates Ser2 to regenerate unphosphorylated RNAP II which can be recycled for another transcription round. Modified from (25). Gene expression and regulation. Chapter 1 7 enzyme made up of 60 polypeptides with an approximate complex that connects enhancers and silencers with RNAP weight of 3-million daltons (MDa). It is organized in 12 sub- II before elongation. Additionally, Cdk9 and cyclin T are units denominated Rpb1-Rpb12 and a core that consists subunits of the positive transcription elongation factor b of Rpb1, Rpb2, Rpb3, Rpb6, and Rpb11. Moreover, the car- (P-TEFb). Cyclin T recognizes a sequence rich in histidine boxyl terminal end (CTD) of the Rpb1 subunit has a domain on CTD. On one hand, phosphorylation on Ser2 by Cdk7, of 7 amino acids (Tyr1, Ser2, Pro3, Thr4, Ser5, Pro6, Ser7) Cdk8, and Cdk9 favors the recruitment of factors facili- YSPTSPS which is repeated 22 times in yeasts, 44 in mice, tating continuity of transcription and splicing. On the other, and 55 in human cells (Figure 3). However, the sequence dephosphorylation of the CTD domain is mediated by Ser2 can have subtle differences between repeated segments specific phosphatase (FCP1) and Ser5-selective phospha- and ends in a 10 amino acid sequence. Therefore, CTD is tase (SCP1) with the participation of TFIIH. FCP1 is a factor an interaction site for multiple factors including factors that is also involved in the modulation
