“This book attempts to organize the knowledge collected by those
KEYWORDS: cells, transcription, gene, complex, cell, protein, proteins, factors, expression, receptor, autoimmune, mrna, rnap, il-, immune


sequence. Therefore, CTD is tase (SCP1) with the participation of TFIIH. FCP1 is a factor an interaction site for multiple factors including factors that is also involved in the modulation of transcriptional that promote chromatin remodeling. pauses and RNA processing. It interacts with the DRB-sen- Other functions of CTD are: guarantee the processing sitivity-inducing factor (DSIF) and RNA polymerase-associ- of the RNAP complex, avoid early termination, modify the ated factor 1 (PAF1) and is inhibited by proteins from the new RNA co-transcriptionally, and promote elongation. The capping complex (Figure 3). CTD’s binding site to different complexes is called a “dock- ing” domain and the large combination of complexes that binds to this domain constitutes the CTD code, which deter- PRE-INITIATION mines the recruitment and release of proteins at the appro- The first phase of transcription is pre-initiation, which con- priate moment during transcription. Furthermore, during a sists of formation of the pre-initiation complex (PIC) on the transcription cycle, the CTD structure is modified by phos- promoter of the gene. PIC is composed of general and spe- phorylation and dephosphorylation on both Ser2 and Ser5. cific transcription factors, coactivators, and the RNAP com- However, it must remain hypophosphorylated during initia- plex. Its assembly is stimulated when an activator binds to tion and hyperphosphorylated during promoter clearance one of the promoter sequences thus generating a spatial and elongation, but it must be dephosphorylated in order structure recognizable to coactivators located in the same to be recycled. region. This region also recruits ATP-dependent complexes The CTD domain can be phosphorylated at different to produce chromatin relaxation. transcription stages by three main kinases: Cdk7, Cdk8, and Therefore, these changes provide the space necessary Cdk9 and is dephosphorylated by phosphatases. The Cdk7/ for the arrival of basal factors including TFIIA, TFIIB, TFIID, Kin28 complex is a TFIIH subunit that phosphorylates the TFIIE, TFIIF, TFIIH, and the RNAP II complex. PIC formation CTD on Ser5, which is essential to recruit Set1 and enzymes is nucleated by the TATA binding protein (TBP), which is a participating in cap formation and promoter clearance reg- TFIID subunit. In the absence of the TATA box, another ulation. Cdk8 is associated with the Srb/mediator, which is a TFIID subunit can bind to another element of the promoter and support PIC formation. Afterwards, TFIIB binds to and surrounds the DNA-TBP complex, and its N-terminal domain extends to the transcription start site and
