“This book attempts to organize the knowledge collected by those
KEYWORDS: cells, transcription, gene, complex, cell, protein, proteins, factors, expression, receptor, autoimmune, mrna, rnap, il-, immune


and After the bonding of 20 to 40 ribonucleotides, CTD is belongs to Superfamily II which consists of ATP-dependent dephosphorylated on Ser5 by Rtr1 and Ssu72 phospha- helicases containing iron-sulphur cluster domains. There- tases. In contrast, it is phosphorylated on Ser2 by CDK9. fore, TFIIH facilitates promoter melting during initiation These changes produce the release of general transcrip- and regulates the transition from initiation to elongation tion factors from the RNAP II complex which will remain on by Cdk7-catalysed phosphorylation of RNAP II CTD in its the promoter thus serving as a scaffold for the formation Ser5 residue. The presence of mediator complexes during of the other RNAP II Initiation Complex (IC) (figure 5). PIC formation has been described in some promoters. It has been noted that some Ser5 must remain phos- The mediator complex, which is composed of at least 24 phorylated along with Ser2 to allow promoter clearance, subunits and has a mass greater than 1 MDa, acts as a which consists of the movement of the transcriptional ma- general transcription factor. It integrates regulating signals chinery away from the promoter. The stability of the com- from enhancers and silencers, associates with the hypo- plex increases when TFIIB is released and TFIIF remains in phosphorylated RNAP II complex, and stimulates the TFIIH it thus producing a pause or termination of the process. kinase activity. ELONGATION INITIATION Elongation is a very important step for the integration Initiation occurs after PIC formation when the reading ma- and coordination of multiple events such as RNA syn- chinery is assembled and two initiating nucleoside triphos- thesis which guarantees the process of the reading, in- phates (NTPs) are linked according to the DNA sequence hibition of premature transcription termination, and and, thus, lead to the formation of the first phosphodiester prevention of errors during the process. Other import- bond. When RNAP II is assembled on the promoter, the ant events are related to RNA maturation. The binding TFIIH Cdk7 subunit phosphorylates Ser5 on CTD and in- of other proteins to the RNAP II complex generates the duces the activation of the XPB helicase function. Activa- transcription elongation complex (TEC) (figure 6), which tion of XPB produces the single DNA strand that stimulates is composed of two protein families classified as active RNAP II polymerase activity which marks the beginning of (TFIIF, Elongins, ELL, DSIF, NELF, CSB, FCP1, TFIIS, Spt6, TRANSCRIPTION INITIATION COMPLEX (IC)
