“This book attempts to organize the knowledge collected by those
KEYWORDS: cells, transcription, gene, complex, cell, protein, proteins, factors, expression, receptor, autoimmune, mrna, rnap, il-, immune


binds to the TFIID and TFIIH subunits. TFIIF lessens pausing and stim- DSIF/RNAP II complex and halts transcription to allow the ulates the rate of RNAP II. At the same time, TFIIH contrib- assembly of factors participating in 5’- capping, matura- utes to stabilizing the RNAP II complex, releasing TEC from tion and transport of mRNA. P-TEFb, in turn, accompanies the promoter, and keeping TEC close to the promoter. RNAP II during its displacement along the gene, lessens the Other active proteins belong to the Elongin SIII complex, pause mediated by NELF through phosphorylation of Ser2- which consist of subunits A, B, and C, prevents RNAP II CDT and DSIF (Spt5) thus allowing dissociation of the NELF from being paused or stopped, and promotes its advance complex and enabling the elongation process to continue. along the DNA. Subunits B and C also participate in the The protein CSB is a DNA dependent ATPase which ubiquitination-dependent mechanism and are able to binds directly to the RNAP II complex and modulates stop the transcription process when DNA mutations are TFIIS activity. It also participates in transcription-coupled detected. The eleven-nineteen lysine-rich leukemia (ELL) repair (TCR) and nucleotide excision repair (NER) systems. complex belongs to a three-member family composed of Furthermore, it has been found that the NER system is ELL1, ELL2, and ELL3 and acts as an antitermination factor defective in patients with premature aging syndrome or during the elongation. Another active protein is DSIF, a het- Cockayne Syndrome (CS) in whom CSB mutations have erodimeric complex with Spt1 and Spt5 subunits that binds been identified. Finally, the TFIIS complex restores the tran- directly to RNAP II and pauses transcription in the pres- scription process after a pause, improves the efficiency of ence of 5, 6-dichloro-1-β-D-ribofuranosylbenzimidazole. It the process, and increases the rate of synthesis after it has also acts along with NELF to prevent a premature termina- been reduced during the pause. It is physically associated tion and interacts with several factors such as TFIIF, TFIIS, with Spt5 and contributes to the “proofreading” activity of CSB, chromatin modeling factors including Spt6, FACT, the RNAP II complex. CHD1, and the PAF complex. Subunit Spt5 also interacts with mRNA stability and maturity factors. It also favors 10 Section I. Introduction to immunology and molecular biology BOX 2. Gene transcription elongation step regarding autoimmune phenotype Regarding participation of molecules in the elongation Aire is unable
