“This book attempts to organize the knowledge collected by those
KEYWORDS: cells, transcription, gene, complex, cell, protein, proteins, factors, expression, receptor, autoimmune, mrna, rnap, il-, immune


also favors 10 Section I. Introduction to immunology and molecular biology BOX 2. Gene transcription elongation step regarding autoimmune phenotype Regarding participation of molecules in the elongation Aire is unable to interact with positive transcription step during the gene transcription process, a recent elongation factor b (P-TEFb) through a transcription study found evidence of the involvement of the tran- activation domain accessory (TAD). This interaction is scription factor (Aire) in this specific step. Although Aire important because it allows Aire to increase the levels has been reported to interact with a large number of of RNAP II, particularly on the gene body and the 3’- proteins involved in transcription, its mechanism of end, but not in promoter regions. Additionally, it also action has remained elusive. Recently, an isoform variant allows enhanced mRNA splicing of genes regulated of this factor which is transcriptionally inactive was found by this transcription factor. This is possible due to the in a patient with autoimmune-polyendocrinopathy- Ser2 phosphorylation of CTD. Dissection of this mecha- candidiasis-ectodermal dystrophy (APECED). This variant nism mediated by P-TEFb and Aire is very interesting in is characterized by the loss of its extreme C-terminus the context of central tolerance and the prevention of and it is noteworthy that in the absence of this region, responses against itself. CO-TRANSCRIPTIONAL EVENTS Protein complexes approach the primary transcript for mechanism’s fidelity and contributes to RNAP II stability. maturing process, achieve the functional structure and The capped end of the mRNA is protected from exonucle- regulate its permanence inside the cell and its export ases and is recognized by specific proteins belonging to the outside the nucleus as elongation progresses in a co- splicing, transport, and translational machineries. Once the transcriptional manner. Modifications vary among types capping structure has been synthesized, the FCP1 enzyme of RNA (e.g., modifications of mRNA include capping, ad- helps to remove the enzymes participating in its assembly. dition of polynucleotides of Adenine to form the poly A tail, 3’ cleavage, and splicing) and always follow this order. CTD is the platform on which most of these events are 3’cleavage and poly (A) addition coordinated and its phosphorylation status determines Cleavage occurs on dinucleotide GU at the 3’ end of the structural conformations promoting association or pre-mRNA. Pre-mRNA is released from TEC and followed dissociation of complexes as needed. by the addition of a variable length fragment called poly A In yeasts,
