“This book attempts to organize the knowledge collected by those
KEYWORDS: cells, transcription, gene, complex, cell, protein, proteins, factors, expression, receptor, autoimmune, mrna, rnap, il-, immune


conformations promoting association or pre-mRNA. Pre-mRNA is released from TEC and followed dissociation of complexes as needed. by the addition of a variable length fragment called poly A In yeasts, a model with 26 repetitions of the CTD hep- tail. Meanwhile, RNAP II continues transcribing several kilo tapeptide revealed the formation of a left-handed beta bases ahead of the GU, thus forming an RNA strand that spiral structure which is stabilized by phosphorylation on will be degraded. Poly A polymerase builds the poly A tail Ser2 and is not compatible with phosphorylation on Ser5. (about 200–300 nucleotides long) and the poly A binding This structure favors the assembly of pre-mRNA modi- protein (PAB) catalyzes its union with the 3’ end of mRNA, fying complexes. which is guided by the recognition of a AAUAAA signal pres- ent in the primary transcript (approximately 10-30 bp away from DNA dinucleotide CA) where the cleavage takes place. Capping Cleavage factors CFI and CFII cut the 3’ end of pre-mRNA, Pre-mRNA is the raw material for the maturation process which requires the localization of the cleavage poly ade- where it is transformed into a functional mRNA for trans- nylation stimulating factor (CPSF) in the AAUAAA pre-mRNA lation. The capping reaction occurs after the newly syn- sequence and the binding of cleavage stimulation factor thesized pre-mRNA has a length of approximately 20–30 (CstF) to a pre-mRNA sequence rich in GU. Note that CPSF is bases. At that point, RNAP II pauses, and three proteins a TFIID subunit recruited during PIC formation which shows approach the 5’ end of the pre-mRNA. The first protein is a connection between transcription initiation and termina- the 5 –triphosphatase that converts the 5’ triphosphate tion processes. nucleotide into diphosphate. This is followed by the fusion of one GMP catalyzed by guanylyltransferase. Afterwards, a methyltransferase adds a methyl group to the N7 of Splicing GMP while the first and sometimes second nucleotides of Splicing consists of the selective elimination of fragments the primary transcript are methylated in their 2′-hydroxyl (primarily introns) from pre-mRNA, which is an essential step groups to complete the capping structure. The capping in the expression of multiple genes. The cell machinery that process depends on the presence of Ser5 phospho rylated splices pre-mRNAs uses information at the splice junctions CDT and on the interaction between capping enzymes to determine where to cut and where to rejoin the mRNA.
