“This book attempts to organize the knowledge collected by those
KEYWORDS: cells, transcription, gene, complex, cell, protein, proteins, factors, expression, receptor, autoimmune, mrna, rnap, il-, immune


Ser5 phospho rylated splices pre-mRNAs uses information at the splice junctions CDT and on the interaction between capping enzymes to determine where to cut and where to rejoin the mRNA. and DSIF. There is a checkpoint that verifies the capping The elimination of exons, through which different mRNAs Gene expression and regulation. Chapter 1 11 are obtained and are translated into protein isoforms, is associated with BPS- SF1/mBBP complex (Figure 7). After less common and is called alternative splicing. Exons are this, U2AF recruits U2 to the intron’s central region, ESE, and relatively short sequences (typically, 50–250 base pairs it, in turn, associates with SR and constitutes the U4, U6, and in length) separated by larger sequences called introns U5 binding platform. At this point, U1 and U4 abandon the (typically, hundreds to thousands or more base pairs in complex, followed by the formation of a loop and activation length), which account for approximately >90% of the pri- of U6 ribozyme function which cuts the 5’ and 3’ ends of mary transcript. The complex responsible for this process the intron, thus producing the release of the intron in order is called spliceosome and it consists of more than 100 to bind the exons. During the intron’s cutting process, U5 core proteins and five small nuclear RNAs (snRNA) (U1, U2, keeps the exons together. Finally, the exons are ligated and U4, U5, and U6). The spliceosome is recruited in the pres- the spliceosome is disassembled. Splicing is regulated by ence of hyperphosphorylated CTD and requires additional cis-elements (ESE, ESS, ISS, and ISE) and trans-acting factors regulatory proteins to perform its functions. Some of these (SR proteins, hnRNP, and unknown factors), and occurs with regulatory proteins have ATP- dependent helicase activity very high accuracy. and others belong to the serine/arginine-rich (SR) family of proteins which bind to the ESE element next to the 3’ end exon. Moreover, core splicing signals are three sites in TERMINATION every intron: the 5’ splice site (5’ss: 5’A/C AG - GU A/C AGU Termination leads to RNA release and disassembly of the 3’), the 3’ splice site with the polypyrimidine (Y) sequence reading machinery. RNAP I and RNAP II have a common (3’ss: 5’YYYYYYYYYYYYN C/U AG-G G/U3’), and the branch termination factor: TTF2 which is independent from CTD point sequence (BPS). and has a mechanism which is not well understood. TTF2 The process starts when U1 binds
