“This book attempts to organize the knowledge collected by those
KEYWORDS: cells, transcription, gene, complex, cell, protein, proteins, factors, expression, receptor, autoimmune, mrna, rnap, il-, immune


and the branch termination factor: TTF2 which is independent from CTD point sequence (BPS). and has a mechanism which is not well understood. TTF2 The process starts when U1 binds to the 5’ss (U1 bears is also associated with RNAP II surveillance activity and nu- a complementary sequence to 5’ss) and is followed by clear export. the binding of U6. At the same time, U2AF joins the 3’ss Once the mRNA is synthesized and checked, the exo- sequence and SF1/mBBP is recruited in BPS. Later, U2 is some complex with 3’-5’ exorribonuclease activity elimi- U2 SR hnRNP U1 snRNP A ISE ISS 3’ss ESE ESS 5’ss ISS ISE Branch site NUCLEUS CYTOPLASM Figure 7. Alternative splicing mechanism. Two alternative splicing pathways where the middle exon is either included or excluded are shown. The consensus motifs of 3’ and 5’ ss are indicated as the branch point adenosine. The regulator cis-elements (ESE, ESS, ISS, and ISE) and trans-acting splicing factors (SR proteins and hnRNP) are marked. Modified from (30). 12 Section I. Introduction to immunology and molecular biology BOX 3. Alternative splicing and its relationship with Autoimmune Disease The alternative-splicing mechanism has been exten- increases susceptibility to T1D. Furthermore, interleu- sively studied in the context of AD and involves multiple kin receptor 7 (IL7R) transcripts are another important genes that are important in the development of these case where alternative splicing is related to ADs. This diseases. Alternative splicing may result from muta- gene has a non-synonymous SNP (rs6897932, allele T tions in the regulatory elements (cis and trans) which or C) located in exon 6 which is associated with multiple may directly cause the development of the disease, sclerosis (MS). The presence of allele C in patients with influence its severit,y or modify its susceptibility. One MS increases the loss of exon 6 and this loss has been specific example is the CTLA4 gene transcripts (mol- related to decreased expression of the trans-membrane ecule critical for the negative regulation of T cell form and an increase in the soluble form. Moreover, this proliferation). There are two variants of the gene pro- condition appears to compromise the signal transduc- duced by splicing, a trans-membrane (exon 1-4) form tion downstream, thus affecting the survival and pro- and a soluble (exon 3 is lost) form. The former has been liferation of T cells mediated by this receptor and the involved in protection mechanisms
