“This book attempts to organize the knowledge collected by those
KEYWORDS: cells, transcription, gene, complex, cell, protein, proteins, factors, expression, receptor, autoimmune, mrna, rnap, il-, immune


the survival and pro- and a soluble (exon 3 is lost) form. The former has been liferation of T cells mediated by this receptor and the involved in protection mechanisms for T1D. In this con- appropriate function of these cells in patients with MS. text, the allele associated with susceptibility (+49 A/G) Other molecules in autoimmunity that suffer significant produces decreased levels of the soluble form, which alternative splicing are summarized in Table II. nates the mRNA carrying alterations. An exportin complex is necessary. Afterwards, the larger 60S ribosomal subunit is of the mRNA called transcription/export (TREX) partici- added to the structure, thus forming the 80S ribosome and pates in mRNA transport to the cytoplasm and it is also marking the beginning of translation. During translation and associated with elongation. the ribosome moves along the mRNA while the protein is synthesized until it identifies the stop codon which produc- TRANSLATION es the disassembly of the ribosomal units and the release of the protein. Translation is the process in which the information contained The ribosome has three interaction sites: the first one, in the genes is transformed into proteins. The information which is called A site, is where the aminoacyl tRNA enters expressed in the language of nucleotides (nucleic acids) is and the codon-anticodon is recognized, the next is the translated into the language of amino acids (proteins). In peptidyl site (P site) where the peptide bond is catalyzed, eukaryote cells, translation takes place in the cytoplasm, and the last one is where the deacetyl tRNA without amino hence implying an additional regulation point in comparison acid is before it leaves the ribosome (E site). to prokaryote cells because, in the case of eukaryote cells, it is necessary to export the molecules which will be used in protein synthesis such as mRNA, rRNA, and tRNA from the PRE-INITIATION nucleus to the cytoplasm. The central organelle of transla- Prokaryote cells have a specific sequence that is 3 to 9 tion is the ribosome, which has enzymatic properties that nucleotides in length (UAAGGAGG) in 5’UTR mRNA called guarantee a balance between precision and rate of protein Shine–Dalgarno, which is complementary to the 3’ end of synthesis. Ribosomes have two main functions: facilitate the ribosome’s minor 16S rRNA subunit. Their interaction the correct interpretation of the genetic code and form the results in the formation of a duplex and the bond between peptide bonds.
