“This book attempts to organize the knowledge collected by those
KEYWORDS: cells, transcription, gene, complex, cell, protein, proteins, factors, expression, receptor, autoimmune, mrna, rnap, il-, immune


ribosome’s minor 16S rRNA subunit. Their interaction the correct interpretation of the genetic code and form the results in the formation of a duplex and the bond between peptide bonds. The ribosome is the site where information the ribosome’s minor subunit and the mRNA. Thereafter, contained in the mRNA is read and interpreted according to the duplex is destabilized and the subunit is displaced to the rule established by the genetic code in which three ribo- where it finds the start codon. A similar sequence has not nucleotides are equivalent to one amino acid. Inside the ri- been described in eukaryotes. Rather, eukaryotic initia- bosomes, each amino acid provided by tRNAs is assembled tion factors (eIFs) have been found to facilitate the bond and the peptide bond is formed. All the elements required of the minor ribosomal subunit (40S) and the pre-initia- during translation must be present in the cytoplasm includ- tion complex slides to the start codon. However, it has ing: tRNAs carrying amino acids, ribosomal subunits, the been reported that some mRNAs carry internal sequenc- mRNA template, and translation factors. Prior to ribosome es called internal ribosome entry sites (IRESs) which are in assembly, the formation of the pre-initiation complex (PIC) charge of recruiting PIC to the start codon, thus starting a upstream from the start codon on the mRNA’s 5UTR region capping-independent translation. Some of them corre- (figure 8) and the complex in charge of finding the AUG initia- spond to viral mRNA. In eukaryotes, PIC weighs 48S. It is tion codon which determines the open reading frame (ORF) initially located on the mRNA’s 5’- UTR capped region and Gene expression and regulation. Chapter 1 13 Multifactor Complex A B C (MFC) P Ternary complex P elF5 PABP (TC) 4E 4G + m’G AUG (A)n + elF2 elF2 elF1 elF5 elF1 elF3 elF3 elF2 4A P elF4F 4B ATP mRNA activation D ADP elF1 elF5 elF5 elF1 elF5 40S elF1A elF3 + elF1 elF3 elF1A elF2 elF3 PABP 40S elF2 (A)n AAAAAAA 4G 40S 4E 4B AUG 43S 4A Multifactor Complex m’G (MFC) PABP PABP (A)n AAAAAAA 4G (A)n AAAAAAA 4G elF1 elF5 4E mRNA activation 4E elF1A elF2 elF3 F 4B AUG E 4B 40S 4A elF1 elF5 ATP ADP 4A m’G elF2 elF3 m’G elF1A AUG AUG recognition Pre-initiation complex 40S (PIC) 48S elF2 * GTP elF2 * GDP + P i 60s Initiation complex
