“This book attempts to organize the knowledge collected by those
KEYWORDS: cells, transcription, gene, complex, cell, protein, proteins, factors, expression, receptor, autoimmune, mrna, rnap, il-, immune


elF1 elF5 ATP ADP 4A m’G elF2 elF3 m’G elF1A AUG AUG recognition Pre-initiation complex 40S (PIC) 48S elF2 * GTP elF2 * GDP + P i 60s Initiation complex (IC) elFs 1, 3, 5 G PABP Translation (A)n AAAAAAA 4G 60s elongation 80S 4E 40s elF5B+ GDP + P i 4B elF1A 4A m’G AUG Figure 8. Eukaryotic Translation pathways. Many complexes are assembled in order to initiate the translational process. First of all, (A) mRNA is activated by eIF4F complex binding (eIF4E-eIF4G-eIF4A) to the cap and PABP to the poly (A) tail thus encircling the mRNA. Second, the ternary complex (TC) (B) and the multifactor complexes (MFC) (C) are assembled with the ribosomal subunit 40S to organize the 43S com- plex (D). Then, the active mRNA is associated with the 43S complex and they form the initiation translational complex PIC (48S) (E). Next, PIC moves along the mRNA in the 5’ to 3’ direction to where it finds the start codon AUG (F). When the PIC reaches this point, there is a perfect match between the start codon and its Met-tRNAi anticodon, which then produces the GTP hydrolysis of the eIF2-GTPMet-tRNAi. At the same time, eIF5B mediates the binding of the 60S ribosomal subunit to the PIC to allow ribosome 80S assembly. Therefore, the initiation translation complex (IC) consists of 80S ribosome, mRNA, aminoacyl tRNAs, and initiation translation factors (G). Modified from (28). moves along the mRNA through a scanning mechanism and promotes mRNA circling to form a ‘‘closed loop’’ which until it reaches the start codon (AUG). The assembly of this facilitates the reinitiation of translation by the ribosomal complex is guided by the eIF4F, eIF4A, and eIF4B factors units released during the termination of a cycle (Figure 8a). present in the capping complex while the protein binding Moreover, the eIF4F factor is comprised of eIF4A (a helicase, poly A (PABP) guides the approach of the 3’end to the same the activity of which is enhanced by eIF4B), eIF4E (cap-bind- capping complex. This leads to the formation of a loop and ing protein), and eIF4G (a scaffold for eIF4E and eIF4A that the closure of the 5’and 3’ ends. PABP interacts with eIF4G also binds eIF3). The factors, eIFs 4A, 4B, and 4F, relax the 14 Section I. Introduction to immunology and molecular biology region proximal to the capping and promote the bonding of NA which carries
