“This book attempts to organize the knowledge collected by those
KEYWORDS: cells, transcription, gene, complex, cell, protein, proteins, factors, expression, receptor, autoimmune, mrna, rnap, il-, immune


factors, eIFs 4A, 4B, and 4F, relax the 14 Section I. Introduction to immunology and molecular biology region proximal to the capping and promote the bonding of NA which carries the next amino acid. In addition, the eIF1A a 43S complex in order to form PIC 48S. Prior to this, in order factor binds to the minor subunit at the beginning and par- to form 43S complexes, the multifactor complexes (MFCs) ticipates in the recruitment of TC. It also accompanies the and ternary complexes (TCs) are organized. Unlike capping, 48S complex during scanning and temporarily occupies the formation of TCi (TC containing the metionil-tRNA, the the A site in the ribosome. first residue in all eukariotic proteins) occurs through the association between eIF2 and GTP-Met-tRNAi, which is always the first to be located within the ribosome and to ELONGATION carry the initiator methionine (Figure 8b). Other GTP-amino- Once the ribosome is assembled, a second GTP-aminoa- acyl-tRNAs are bound to the elongation factor in eukaryotes cyl-tRNA reaches the A site and the peptide bond is formed (eEF1A) to form other TCs. Subsequently, eIF1, eIF3 and eIF5 in the P site between the first two amino acids, which are bind to TC in order to form the MFC (figure 8c). Meanwhile, catalyzed by peptidyl transferase. The first tRNA without eIF5 binds to the 40S ribosomal subunit and recruits it to the amino acid remains located on the E site in order to exit the multifactor complex (MFC). As a result, the 43S complex the ribosome during the next movement. Furthermore, is formed (figure 8d). Finally, the 43S complex is recruited elongation consists of synchronized movements of the into 5’UTR next to the capping, thus completing PIC 48S ribosome and tRNAs, through which tRNAs are shuttled (figure 8e). Afterwards, PIC 48S moves along the mRNA in through A, P, and E sites until they exit the ribosome. The ri- direction 5’ to 3’ to where it finds the start codon flanked by bosome selects the amino acid that must enter from a pool the GCC(A/G) CCAUGG sequence in eukaryotes (Figure 8f). of 40 different aminoacyl-tRNAs and the correct codon-an- ticodon pairing induces changes in the ribosomal struc- ture which contribute to its subsequent displacement on INITIATION the mRNA. TCs are accompanied by eEF1A and their entry A perfect match between the start codon and its Met-tRNAi into the ribosome is facilitated by the
