“This book attempts to organize the knowledge collected by those
KEYWORDS: cells, transcription, gene, complex, cell, protein, proteins, factors, expression, receptor, autoimmune, mrna, rnap, il-, immune


displacement on INITIATION the mRNA. TCs are accompanied by eEF1A and their entry A perfect match between the start codon and its Met-tRNAi into the ribosome is facilitated by the ribosome GTPase ac- anticodon produces hydrolysis of the GTP in the eIF2-GT- tivity. GTP hydrolysis causes a dramatic change in eEF1A PMet-tRNAi and, at the same time, eIF5B mediates the structure which decreases its affinity for aminoacyl-tRNA bond of the 60S ribosomal subunit. This process leads to and leads to its dissociation from aminoacyl-tRNA, thus al- the assembly of the functional 80S ribosome or initiation lowing the accommodation of the aminoacyl tRNA on the A complex (IC) and the release of eIF2-GDP+Pi, eIF1, eIF3, and site and the synthesis of the peptide bond. The eEF2 cat- eIF5 factors (Figure 8g). Some mRNAs have a secondary alyzes a rapid and coordinated movement which leads to structure on the 5’UTR region and require ATP helicase the translocation of the tRNA from the A site to the P site. activity to increase the bond of the 43S complex. During Several antibiotics such as amino glycosides, macrolides, the assembly of ribosomes, the Met-tRNAi remains on the and tetracyclines target the prokaryotic ribosome and alter P site and the A site is available to receive the aminoacyl-tR- the elongation rate and accuracy. BOX 4 Post-transcriptional regulation in Autoimmune Diseases An important proinflammatory cytokine implicated in is the TIA-1-related protein (TIAR protein). TIA-1 and autoimmunity is tumor necrosis factor alpha (TNF-α). TIAR are structurally and functionally homologues Its transcript contains an AU-rich element (ARE) at and they are also regulators of translational TNF-α the 3 ‘UTR region which interacts with several binding expression. Furthermore, translational silencing is proteins. These regulate mRNA transportation, rate also done through a mechanism that involves the of decay and the translation efficiency of the TNF-α dependent signaling pathway of Mitogen Activated transcript. In addition to the mRNA stability given by Protein Kinase (MAPK2). Recently, no report of pos- capping and polyadenilation processes, the protein sible associations between TNF-α protein synthesis regulation synthesis of TNF-α has also been associat- and autoimmune diseases has been done. However ed with the presence of ARE sequences by the binding the mRNA of TNF-α, like other proteins, is actively reg- the T Cell intracellular antigen (TIA)-1 protein to these ulated through micro RNA (miRNA) molecules which elements. TIA-1 has a negative regulatory effect since control multiple
