“This book attempts to organize the knowledge collected by those
KEYWORDS: cells, transcription, gene, complex, cell, protein, proteins, factors, expression, receptor, autoimmune, mrna, rnap, il-, immune


proteins, is actively reg- the T Cell intracellular antigen (TIA)-1 protein to these ulated through micro RNA (miRNA) molecules which elements. TIA-1 has a negative regulatory effect since control multiple transcripts in cytoplasm. Regarding some studies have shown that mutants lacking this this, there is a recent study showing that in patients molecule have increased protein synthesis with no with RA, miRNA 146a was positively correlated with change in the mRNA level. Another silencer of TNF-α TNF-α production (1) Gene expression and regulation. Chapter 1 15 TERMINATION eukaryotes. Hence, gene expression regulation contem- This takes place when the stop codon is recognized by the plates all the previously mentioned events and these events ribosome, thus generating a modification of the ribosome are integrated into the following topics: events associated structure which halts translation, induces peptide release, with RNA and protein molecules, epigenetic mechanisms, and disassembly of the ribosome’s components and elon- and signal transduction pathways. They can act at different gation factors to start another translation cycle. There moments during transcription or translation depending on are eRF1 and eRF3 factors which participate in the termi- how the process is analyzed. nation process and it is unknown if GTP hydrolysis will be required at this point. In addition, evidence suggests that the EVENTS ASSOCIATED WITH RNA interaction between PABP, eRF1 and eRF3 factors stimulates AND PROTEINS the activity of IC and the bond with the 60S subunit. The abundance, location, and activity of RNA and proteins must be regulated to make the cell function well. The abundance is GENE EXPRESSION REGULATION regulated through a balance between synthesis and degra- dation rates and the mean lifetime of molecules. The location Genes can have two states depending on whether their depends on the efficiency and reliability of the transportation information is being read or not. Moreover, a gene is said systems which work mainly by recognizing signals present in to be active when it is transcribed and inactive when it is the molecules which need to be transported. This activity is not; hence, the product of the transcription of some genes regulated by the acquisition of the functional structure through can be translated until the protein sequence is complete. protein folding, modifications after the synthesis process, and Furthermore, it was observed that some genes are con- the interaction and association with other compounds. tinually expressed while there are others with spatiotem- porally regulated
