“This book attempts to organize the knowledge collected by those
KEYWORDS: cells, transcription, gene, complex, cell, protein, proteins, factors, expression, receptor, autoimmune, mrna, rnap, il-, immune


the synthesis process, and Furthermore, it was observed that some genes are con- the interaction and association with other compounds. tinually expressed while there are others with spatiotem- porally regulated expression. This leads us to think about the presence of gene expression regulation systems. The RATE OF SYNTHESIS first studies related to gene expression regulation were The RNA synthesis rate depends on what the cell needs. The focused on the mechanisms of transcriptional activation highest rate belongs to rRNA. Synthesis of this takes place and positive control, whereas transcriptional repression in the nucleolus which is a region in the nucleus enriched and negative control was less studied. Thus, the promot- with proteins which allow the transcriptional machinery to er was the center of several studies that concentrated on be assembled. This rate of synthesis is regulated by the sig- cis proximal and distal sequences and also on transcrip- nals present in the promoter, the availability of transcription tion factors which recognize promoters and have a trans- factors, the epigenetic program, the chromatin structure, acting action. However, in recent years, studies have shown and the position of the gene in the nucleus and the chro- that transcriptional repression mediated by chromatin mosome. In addition, the presence of the proximal (TATA, structure and repressor proteins is a common regulatory SRE, CRE, etc.) or distal (enhancer, isolator, silencer, RCL) mechanism in mammals. This mechanism has generated cis elements is specific for each gene. These elements are new approaches to understanding gene activation as a susceptible to being recognized by transcription factors. relief of repression by the nucleosomal structure of the Transcription factors are proteins which bind to the pro- chromatin. moter prior to the RNAP II. They bind to the promoter by These mechanisms are at a different level from the gene recognizing specific elements and are classified into general itself. They are called epigenetic regulation and include chro- and specific factors. General transcription factors are those matin remodeling through changes in DNA and histones as present in almost all types of cells while the expression of well as regulation by miRNAs and asRNA. Furthermore, it the specific factors is restricted in both time and cell type. was observed that the amount of protein far exceeds the Transcription factors have at least three functional do- number of genes described. All these facts suggest that mains in their structure: for DNA binding, for protein-pro-
