“This book attempts to organize the knowledge collected by those
KEYWORDS: cells, transcription, gene, complex, cell, protein, proteins, factors, expression, receptor, autoimmune, mrna, rnap, il-, immune


protein far exceeds the Transcription factors have at least three functional do- number of genes described. All these facts suggest that mains in their structure: for DNA binding, for protein-pro- there is a very efficient regulation system in gene expres- tein interaction, and for transcription activation (TAD) or sion within cells and also strategies to generate a diversity repression (TRD). All of them can be the activation target of of proteins. Regarding the variety of proteins, alternative signal transduction pathways which modify their structure splicing has been postulated as the mechanism generating through post-translational processes such as phosphory- the majority of mRNA diversity from one gene. However, lation and dephosphorylation. The DNA-binding domains other mechanisms include the beginning of an alternative have tridimensional structures such as the zinc finger, transcription. For example, the microphtalmia factor gene the leucine zipper, the helix-turn-helix (HTH), and the he- (MITF) has several transcription initiation sites located be- lix-loop-helix (HLH) structures. Their association is weak tween the TATA box and the first exon, thus generating dif- and occurs through 20 contact points by the recognition of ferent mRNA isoforms which are translated. Other mech- short and specific sequences with high DNA-Protein struc- anisms are alternative polyadenylation, gene fusion, and tural complementarity, which provides stability and speci- trans-splicing. These processes are not usually in superior ficity. The protein-protein interaction domains, in turn, are 16 Section I. Introduction to immunology and molecular biology BOX 5 Transcription Factors related to Autoimmune phenotype Gene expression is one of the main processes involved lists some TFs involved with ADs. For example, NF-κB in the development of ADs because it can be regulated is known to be involved in the regulation of innate and by different mechanisms and strategies. One important adaptive immune response. Alterations in its function element in this regulatory process is transcription fac- have been associated with rheumatoid arthritis (RA), tors (TFs) and their binding to corresponding target se- psoriasis, inflammatory bowel disease, autoimmune quences. In fact, there are genes coding for TFs such as thyroiditis (AITD), multiple sclerosis (MS), and Type 1 Di- Aire, FoxP3, NF-κB, STAT4, and even steroid hormone abetes (T1D). For a more extensive information on this receptors within genes associated with ADs. Table I topic, see (14) important for the dimers and complex formation. An exam- have already shown a larger network of pathways to reg- ple of this is the SRF-SRF complex.
