“This book attempts to organize the knowledge collected by those
KEYWORDS: cells, transcription, gene, complex, cell, protein, proteins, factors, expression, receptor, autoimmune, mrna, rnap, il-, immune


I topic, see (14) important for the dimers and complex formation. An exam- have already shown a larger network of pathways to reg- ple of this is the SRF-SRF complex. This dimer binds to the ulate the splicing process. For example, a trans-splicing serum response element (SRE) and recruits other proteins event between distal genes has been described, and it re- in order to form complexes of higher molecular weight that sults from the fusion between primary transcripts leading consist of subunits (PIC, IC and RNAP II). Activation domains to the combination of exons from different genes. have rich regions in glutamines and prolines, whereas re- Nitrogenated bases on tRNA, in turn, undergo cova- pression domains have lysines. The transcription factors lent modifications which lead to the formation of loops regulate the initiation transcription rate by facilitating the and double-chain fragments, the acquisition of a trefoil entry of RNAP complexes, which may stay in order to keep shape structure, and the addition of an amino acid to its the promoters permanently open and have a higher tran- 3’ end. In contrast, the rRNA undergoes several cleavages scription rate. This is the case for rRNA genes. in its primary transcript to obtain the 5S, 5.8S, and 28S During translation, microRNAs can bind to the 3’UTR rRNAs. This is followed by the addition of 49 ribonucleo- and block the process when the ‘‘closed loop’’ is formed proteins to form the 60S subunit, and the binding of 33 via PABP. However, this structure also facilitates PIC and ribonucleoproteins with the 18S rRNA to form the 40S IC assembly and the reading of the same mRNA strand subunit. Finally, proteins, which are the final product of by several ribosomes at the same time (polyribosomes). translation, are covalently modified by transferring phos- Additionally, the poly A tail blocks the RNA helicase phate, methyl, acetyl, glycosyl, and ubiquitin groups, activity of eIF5B, which stimulates the binding of the tail etc., to its structure. Several enzymes participate in this to the ribosome’s major subunit and the release of the dynamic and reversible process. For example, kinases IC ribosome. The presence of IRES sequences on the transfer phosphate groups, while phosphatases eliminate mRNA of certain viruses such as Hepatitis C virus (HCV) them. The combination of these modifications regulates promotes the assembly of ribosomes and the beginning protein activity, stability, and degradation. Moreover, of 5’cap-independent translation as well
