“This book attempts to organize the knowledge collected by those
KEYWORDS: cells, transcription, gene, complex, cell, protein, proteins, factors, expression, receptor, autoimmune, mrna, rnap, il-, immune


Hepatitis C virus (HCV) them. The combination of these modifications regulates promotes the assembly of ribosomes and the beginning protein activity, stability, and degradation. Moreover, of 5’cap-independent translation as well as increasing the most of these modifications are also regulated by compo- efficiency of the process. nents of the signaling pathways. MATURATION TRANSPORTATION Maturation processes of primary transcripts are different RNAs, in eukaryotes, must be transported to the cyto- for each type of RNA. Even though some of the mRNA mod- plasm where they carry out their function in protein syn- ification has been mentioned, we will emphasize splicing thesis. Regions of the RNA are exposed and recognized by regulation and the modifications of other RNA types. Alter- adapter proteins such as Nab2, which interacts with Mex67 native splicing of pre-mRNA is a major contributor to pro- to form a complex recognized by the Mex67-Mtr2 recep- teomic diversity and regulation of gene expression. Diver- tor (TAP-p15 or NXF1-Nxt1 in higher eukaryotes) (Figure 9). sity is acquired by generating mRNA isoforms containing Then, it is guided toward the nuclear pore complex (NPC), different combinations of exons which will be translated where it will be transported to the cytoplasm through the into multiple protein isoforms. Splicing is tightly regulated FG-nucleoporins lining the central channel. Hence, protein in different tissues and developmental stages, and its dis- transportation is regulated by the exposure of peptide sig- ruption can lead to human diseases. Several studies are nals present in the structure. For example, proteins from focused on determining a set of rules or ‘‘code’’ to predict the nucleus have an NLS signal (Pro, Pro, Lys, Lys Lys, Arg, the splicing pattern for any primary transcript, and they Lys, Val) recognized by nuclear importins, which mediate Gene expression and regulation. Chapter 1 17 transportation through the nuclear pore. In contrast, pro- stay in the cytoplasm. This depends on the peptide signals in teins from the peroxisome have the Ser, Lys, Leu peptides. their structure recognized by proteins named chaperons be- Additionally, proteins synthesized in free ribosomes are longing to transportation systems which ensure the correct transported to the mitochondria, nucleus, peroxisome or location of the proteins. Ribosomes that adhere to the rough BOX 6 Post-translational modifications of autoantigens in autoimmunity Post-translational modifications in autoantigens are of arginine residue, to convert them into citrulline. This closely related to autoantibody production. A recent reaction is catalyzed by the
