“This book attempts to organize the knowledge collected by those
KEYWORDS: cells, transcription, gene, complex, cell, protein, proteins, factors, expression, receptor, autoimmune, mrna, rnap, il-, immune


of autoantigens in autoimmunity Post-translational modifications in autoantigens are of arginine residue, to convert them into citrulline. This closely related to autoantibody production. A recent reaction is catalyzed by the peptidylarginine deiminase example of this issue is the discovery of 20 different (PAD) enzyme. This mechanism has been extensive- protein isoforms from U1 small nuclear ribonucleopro- ly involved in RA and MS and in citrullinated antibody tein 68K (U1-68K), which is the main autoantigen target generation. Moreover, four proteins found in joints for autoantibodies. This protein is very diversified in are recognized as autoantigens and are also targets its molecular weight, which seems to be a reflection of of anti-citrulline: fibrinogen / fibrin, vimentin, collagen different phosphorylation states. One particular iso- type II, and α-enolase. Thus, environmental factors such form, 66.5 KDa, is higher in patients with RA and SLE as exposure to cigarette smoke have been associated which suggests the importance of differential phos- with the development of citrullinated proteins and an- phorylation states in the generation of specific AD auto- ti-citrulline antibody production in RA patients. In Table antibodies. Another important modification is the citrul- III, the main post-translational modifications of autoan- lination of autoantigens, which consists of deimidation tigens which have been associated with ADs are listed. Transcription Htb1K123R Rad6/Bre1 Ub Ub CPF Mex 67 Swd2 RNAP II AAAAAAA Nab2 Glc7 Yra1 Nab2 Yra1 Npl3 Mex 67 Swd2 Npl3-P Npl3 WT Mex 67 NUCLEUS CYTOPLASM Figure 9. The mRNA transport mechanism. The mRNA transportation to the cytoplasm is guaranteed by adapter proteins (Nab2-Mex67– Yra1), which bind to mRNA through recognized regions on RNA. In eukaryotes, a receptor made up of the Mex67-Mtr2 proteins is located in the nuclear pore complex which recognizes the Nab2-Mex67–Yra1- mRNA complex and then transports it to the cytoplasm. Modified from (29). 18 Section I. Introduction to immunology and molecular biology BOX 7 Cell traffic of autoimmune mediators Newly made proteins are sorted within several cell from the endoplasmic reticulum. Recent studies have compartments and this mechanism is the major shown that this protein is induced in inflammatory regulatory process in terms of their functionality. In lesions, during inflammation and in autoimmunity. order to have a biological function, proteins have to Interestingly, GRP94 antibodies have been detected reach their correct place in the cell. Many proteins in patients with SLE, RA and myasthenia gravis (MG). may go through alterations regarding their mobili- Another
