“This book attempts to organize the knowledge collected by those
KEYWORDS: cells, transcription, gene, complex, cell, protein, proteins, factors, expression, receptor, autoimmune, mrna, rnap, il-, immune


antibodies have been detected reach their correct place in the cell. Many proteins in patients with SLE, RA and myasthenia gravis (MG). may go through alterations regarding their mobili- Another striking example in this context are the mol- zation capability within the cell and these alterations ecules of the major histocompatibility complex class could eventually be associated with ADs. For instance, I (MHC I). The density of these molecules on the cell there is evidence of alterations on the mechanism of surface determines some immune responses. Their TNF-α secretion in macrophages that has been very passage through the trans Golgi network (TGN) is well dissected. In addition, two other proteins relat- accompanied by CD99 protein. During this passage, ed to this topic are toll-like receptors 7 and 9 (TLR7 there is a physical association between the two mol- and TLR9). These are intracellular receptors involved ecules which then go to the transport step (through in innate immune response to nucleotides derived vesicles). Note that CD99 binds to p230, an important from both host and pathogen cells; therefore, they protein for vesicular trafficking from TGN to cell mem- are relevant in ADs. The mechanism that allows the brane. Recently, patients with SS were found to have regulation of these molecules is their retention within an isoform of this protein which is produced by alter- the endoplasmic reticulum when cells are in a rest- native splicing of its extreme amino-terminus. This ing state. Such sequestration is done through the isoform was also detected in the TGN. However, the action of three proteins: glucose-regulated protein 94 implications of these results in autoimmune patholo- (GRP94), protein A associated with the TLR4 (PRAT4A), gy and vesicular trafficking are unknown. Taken all to- and UNC93B1. GRP94 is a stress response protein gether, these results suggest a possible compromise of intracellular trafficking in patients with ADs. endoplasmic reticulum (RER) synthesize proteins which with chymotryptic, tryptic, and caspase type proteolyt- remain in the membrane or in the RER matrix. These pro- ic activity. The 19S subunit also participates in transcrip- teins are then located in the plasma membranes, in lyso- tion regulation by providing energy for the complex for- somes, or in transportation vesicles for storage or secre- mation composed of SAGA acetyltransferase and the tion. Note that chaperons mediate transportation systems transcription initiation factor. The energy is supplied by to guarantee correct localization of the proteins. subunits
