“This book attempts to organize the knowledge collected by those
KEYWORDS: cells, transcription, gene, complex, cell, protein, proteins, factors, expression, receptor, autoimmune, mrna, rnap, il-, immune


mation composed of SAGA acetyltransferase and the tion. Note that chaperons mediate transportation systems transcription initiation factor. The energy is supplied by to guarantee correct localization of the proteins. subunits containing six AAA-type (Rpt1-6) ATPases and two non-ATPases (Rpn1-2). Subunit 19S also interacts with a complex that is named facilitates chromatin transcription DEGRADATION complex (FACT) to reorganize histones during elongation Some mRNAs and proteins have high cellular permanence in the transcription process. and others are rapidly degraded. The mRNAs with a long poly A tail have greater permanence and, generally, are de- EPIGENETIC MECHANISMS graded by exoribonucleases. Studies in Xenopus oocytes have found that the length of the poly A tail depends on Epigenetic regulation of gene expression is mediated by the balance between the cytoplasmic synthesis mediated mechanisms which modify access to the region containing by GLD2 polymerase and the degradation carried out by the promoter or the start codon which is not related to cis PRNA ribonuclease. Note that, in addition to other ways, signal sequences. This regulation is associated with DNA proteins can be degraded in the lysosome or by ubi- methylation, histone modification, chromatin remodeling, quitination signals recognized by the proteasome or by formation of double-strand structures between ncRNA autophagy. Almost all require the recognition of degra- complementary regions, and genome organization. The dation signals which act as markers on the proteins. For DNA is packed around nucleosomal units which are made example, histone degradation is mainly regulated by the up of octamers of histone proteins named H2A, H2B, H3, ubiquitination system through ubiquitin peptides that and H4. These are separated by an H1 molecule. For tran- can be attached in their PEST domain for recognition scription, the DNA must be accessible, which means that and degradation by proteasomes. The proteasome is the chromatin must be in a relaxed state. Modulation of made up of a 19S regulatory subunit and a 20S subunit the condensation state is done through protein complex- Gene expression and regulation. Chapter 1 19 BOX 8 mRNA TNF-α regulation and stability mRNA stability in the cytoplasm is a critical point lin molecule (TTP). Recently, MAPK phosphatase-1 during protein production. It is not surprising that (MKP-1) has been shown to be a negative regulator several regulatory sequences could be located on all inflammatory response that controls the half-lives the transcripts in order to protect them from pos- of several cytokines including TNF-α, IL-10,
