“This book attempts to organize the knowledge collected by those
KEYWORDS: cells, transcription, gene, complex, cell, protein, proteins, factors, expression, receptor, autoimmune, mrna, rnap, il-, immune


regulator several regulatory sequences could be located on all inflammatory response that controls the half-lives the transcripts in order to protect them from pos- of several cytokines including TNF-α, IL-10, and IL-6 sible degradation. A clear example of this regula- mRNAs through association with AUF1. Other mole- tory mechanism has been described for TNF-α. In cules involved in TNF-mRNA stabilization and related addition to the mRNA translation efficiency of TNF-α to ARE sequences are HeL-N1, HuR and AUF1. The transcripts mediated by ARE sequences, several decay constitutive element (CDE) is another element studies have shown the relationship between mRNA in the 3 ‘UTR, which could be repressing the expres- TNF-α stability and these kinds of motifs. Studies in sion of TNF-α by reducing its half-life. Other cytokines CD3-stimulated lymphocytes showed that the mRNA and growth factors are also regulated through asso- of TNF-α is labile, while co-stimulation with CD3 and ciations with ARE sequences. In an autoimmune con- CD28 makes it more stable. Moreover, this ARE se- dition, all these elements and mechanisms related to quence is also important for mRNA TNF-α stability cytokine mRNA stability could be extremely import- and may be dependent on or independent of MAP ant during inflammatory processes. kinases but strictly dependent on the Tristetrapro- es which modify the amino terminus end of the histones, DNA METHYLATION thus making them release DNA fragments locally. Nucleo- DNA methylation occurs on CpG dinucleotides located somes are not completely removed during transcription. on the promoters to prevent their recognition by tran- As a result, the relaxation of the structure allows the tran- scriptional factors and inhibit the transcription process. scriptional complex to circle the nucleosome as it reads Methylation of miRNA gene promoters has been fre- the DNA template. Although epigenetic mechanisms will quently observed in tumor cells, e.g., the miR-124a pro- be discussed thoroughly in the chapter on epigenetics and moter is hypermethylated in colon cancer cell lines but autoimmune diseases, we will describe the main epigenetic not in normal tissue. mechanisms in the context of this section. BOX 9 Chromatin remodeling and autoimmunity The mosaic of autoimmunity refers to the multifacto- This molecule is responsible for ectopic induction of rial origin and diversity of expression of autoimmune peripheral tissue antigens (PTAs) in the thymus (tis- diseases. The term implies that many different com- sue-restricted antigens (TRAs) in medullary thymic binations of factors involved in autoimmunity pro-
