“This book attempts to organize the knowledge collected by those
KEYWORDS: cells, transcription, gene, complex, cell, protein, proteins, factors, expression, receptor, autoimmune, mrna, rnap, il-, immune


autoimmune peripheral tissue antigens (PTAs) in the thymus (tis- diseases. The term implies that many different com- sue-restricted antigens (TRAs) in medullary thymic binations of factors involved in autoimmunity pro- epithelial cells) and thus plays an essential role by duce variations representing a broad spectrum of fostering immune tolerance. The mechanism by which diseases. Among the factors described to date, one, this molecule may regulate thousands of genes is the epigenetic component, has been highlighted and through specific recognition of the amino terminal tail the interest in it has increased in recent years. Par- of histone 3 (H3) by its PHD1 domain. Therefore, Aire ticularly, the process of chromatin remodeling during directly interacts with nucleosomes and preferentially gene transcription is important in the development with chromatin regions depleted of H3K4me3, and this of the autoimmune phenotype. An example of the recognition of H3 tails contributes significantly to inter- chromatin structure and ADs will be discussed later action stability. However, Aire’s H3 tail binding activity with reference to the MHCII. is necessary but not sufficient for Aire gene regulation There is evidence that the autoimmune regula- encoding PTAs. tor (Aire), regulates gene expression in this context. 20 Section I. Introduction to immunology and molecular biology BOX 10 DNA methylation and Autoimmune Diseases Epigenetic mechanisms play an important role in plasmic form (CD5-E1B) is present, there is no trans- the understanding of the molecular mechanisms location of complete CD5 form to cell membrane, involved in the autoimmune phenotype. Moreover, thus producing alterations in the negative regulation DNA methylation actively participates in the devel- of this molecule in BCR. Note that the balance be- opment of autoimmune processes, particularly in tween cytoplasmic and membrane forms is regulat- the case of Systemic Lupus Erythematosus (SLE). ed by an epigenetic process. SLE patients have a de- This is a B cell disease which produces a variety of methylated promoter region of cytoplasmic isoform autoantibodies directed against surface, cytoplas- unlike control individuals. Therefore, as a result of mic, and nuclear antigens. One of the abnormalities this demethylation, CD5-E1B mRNA is transcribed in these cells is the reduced expression of the CD5 at the expense of the CD5-E1A mRNA transcription molecule on the B cell surface. Complete CD5 form which explains the altered signaling on B cells. This (membrane, CD5-E1A) is supposed to be involved in could, in turn, promote the activation and expansion modulation of the
