“This book attempts to organize the knowledge collected by those
KEYWORDS: cells, transcription, gene, complex, cell, protein, proteins, factors, expression, receptor, autoimmune, mrna, rnap, il-, immune


CD5 form which explains the altered signaling on B cells. This (membrane, CD5-E1A) is supposed to be involved in could, in turn, promote the activation and expansion modulation of the signaling from the B cell receptor of autor eactive B cells in SLE patients. (BCR) and the autoreactivity control. When the cyto- MODIFICATION OF HISTONES ATP-dependent chromatin Remodeling Histones can be the object of covalent modifications such Homothallic switching deficient/sucrose nonfermenting as methylation, acetylation, ubiquitination, phosphoryla- (SWI/SNF) complex is an ATP-dependent complex recruited tion, isomerization in proline, ADP ribosilation, and citruli- by activator molecules on gene promoters and it also binds nation. They can also be degraded due to the action of pro- to TFIIS. It acts mainly in the elongation phase of transcrip- teolytic pathways. Altogether, these changes constitute the tion. In addition, the ATPase chromo-ATPase/helicase-DNA so-called “histone- code,” which acts as a signal for recogni- binding domain (CHD1) remodels nucleosomes during tion and interaction with regulatory proteins and epigenetic elongation and termination, interacts with the Set-2, SWI/ modifiers. These modifiers may have specific interaction SNF, Paf, DSIF, and FACT complexes that follow it, and has domains, for example, a bromo-domain recognizes acetyl- a chromo-domain which binds to methylated histones. An- ated lysine. Moreover, acetylated histones in lysine residues other ATP-dependent chromatin remodeling complex is the destabilize internucleosomal interactions and the bond ISWI protein family (imitation switch). However, their compo- between histones and DNA. Note that these modifications nents can vary as well as their actions during transcription. are reversible. For example, lysine acetylation mediated by The Isw1a complex composed of Isw1p and Ioc3p (Isw one acetyltransferases (HATs) is associated with gene activa- complex) negatively affects nucleosome positioning during tion and its action can be reversed by histone deacetylase transcription initiation. The Isw1b complex, in turn, which (HDACs) proteins, which eliminate lysine acetyl groups. His- consists of Isw1p, Ioc2p, and Ioc4p, regulates and links the tone hypoacetylation is associated with gene repression. transcription elongation and termination phases with mRNA maturity. Isw1p preferentially recognizes di and trimethylat- ed H3-K4 which contribute to its recruitment on RNAP II. CHROMATIN REMODELING Chromatin remodeling consists of the modification of chromatin condensation states affecting DNA accessibil- Chromatin remodeling by histone chaperone proteins ity, especially in the promoter regions. This remodeling is A general remodeling complex, FACT, is an hSpt16 heterodi- the product of interaction between remodeling complexes mer and also a specific structure recognition
