“This book attempts to organize the knowledge collected by those
KEYWORDS: cells, transcription, gene, complex, cell, protein, proteins, factors, expression, receptor, autoimmune, mrna, rnap, il-, immune


in the promoter regions. This remodeling is A general remodeling complex, FACT, is an hSpt16 heterodi- the product of interaction between remodeling complexes mer and also a specific structure recognition protein-1 (HMG- such as SWI/ PAF and the combination of DNA methylation box protein SSRP1). Several of its subunits have been iden- with histone methylation and acetylation. Furthermore, two tified as part of the components of DNA polymerase alpha chromatin regions can be distinguished: a more condensed which interacts with DSIF, Spt6, PAF, Chd1, and histones. heterochromatin that is transcriptionally inactive and a less Recruitment of FACT to promoters is achieved through the condensed euchromatin with transcriptional activity. The intervention of heat shock chaperone proteins of the Hsp HP1 protein has a chromo-domain which binds to H3K9me. family which destabilize the nucleosome through the selec- Both are heterochromatin markers in most eukaryotes and tive removal of an H2A/H2B dimer. Hence, this allows RNAP act as a dynamic platform to recruit factors in processes II to surround the nucleosome to transcribe the DNA rolled such as cell-type switching, sister chromatid cohesion, RNAi, around it; this activity is mediated by direct H2A/H2B nucleo- and transcriptional gene silencing. some-FACT-dimer interactions. Moreover, Spt6 interacts with Gene expression and regulation. Chapter 1 21 RNAP II, DSIF, TFIIS, PAF, FACT, and H3 histone to promote as- expression. For example, genes located in the centromeric sembly of the nucleosome when transcription takes place. region or close to it are inactive, and telomeric genes may be lost due to telomere shortening. In addition, centromeres are specialized regions at the center of chromosomes that ORGANIZATION OF THE GENOME are compounded of heterochromatin, which plays a crit- Genomic architecture is not collinear; instead, it is cross- ical role in the accurate segregation of duplicated chro- linked and modular. Moreover, several sequences are mosomes during cell division. In contrast, telomeres are multifunctional because they are used for multiple tran- regions located at the termini of linear chromosomes and scripts and also as regulatory regions. Inside the nuclei, the consist of repeated DNA sequences (TTAGGG) and differ- genome is spatially organized within chromosomes, and ent telomere binding proteins. Telomere shortening refers there are genes occupying preferential positions relative to to incomplete replication of chromosomal ends during cell each other and to various nuclear and nucleolar landmarks. division (S phase) which results in the loss of a small frac- There are intra- and
