“This book attempts to organize the knowledge collected by those
KEYWORDS: cells, transcription, gene, complex, cell, protein, proteins, factors, expression, receptor, autoimmune, mrna, rnap, il-, immune


of chromosomal ends during cell each other and to various nuclear and nucleolar landmarks. division (S phase) which results in the loss of a small frac- There are intra- and inter-chromosomal communications tion of telomeric DNA. This may be used as a marker to between different genomic regions which appear to play determine the biological age of cells, tissues, organs, and important roles in genome expression, function, and regula- probably humans. Moreover, telomerase enzymes syn- tion. Some evidence of gene expression regulation mediat- thesize telomere DNA and preserve telomere length and ed by genome organization is described below. function, but they are absent in most cells. Telomerase can be found in cell types such as stem cells, embryonic cells, Transcriptional factories: these are regions of the genome germline cells, lymphocytes, and tumor cells. On average, with high transcription rates and high concentration of tran- telomeres are longer in naïve cells than in memory T cells, scription factors and RNAP subunits. These subunits have and are longer in CD28+ than in more differentiated CD28- a tissue-specific tridimensional self-organization for regu- CD8+ T cells. In contrast, the leukocyte and PBMC telomeres lating gene expression. Actin can collaborate in the orga- are short. Telomere shortening has also been described in nization of factories, and it is implicated in several nuclear association with a number of immune related diseases and processes such as chromatin remodeling, transcription, and as a risk factor for some type of tumors. It has been reported mRNA export. It is also required for the action of all three that patients with rheumatoid arthritis and diabetes mellitus RNA polymerases during transcription in vivo and in vitro. (type 1 and type 2) display significantly shortened telomeres Transcription factories may be attached to a type of nucle- in leukocytes or PBMC compared to age-matched healthy ar actin scaffold. In genes transcribed by RNAP II, regulating controls. This topic will be addressed in depth in the chapter regions such as LCR and enhancers, which are located close on immunosenescence. together in transcriptional factory regions, can act on genes far from their chromosomal location. Multifractal analysis genomic: The human genome is one of the most complex molecular structures because it pres- Position in the genome: the gene position in the chromo- ents mosaicisms between coding and non-coding sequenc- some and nucleus is also important for determining gene es. The human genome has highly regionalized structures
