“This book attempts to organize the knowledge collected by those
KEYWORDS: cells, transcription, gene, complex, cell, protein, proteins, factors, expression, receptor, autoimmune, mrna, rnap, il-, immune


the gene position in the chromo- ents mosaicisms between coding and non-coding sequenc- some and nucleus is also important for determining gene es. The human genome has highly regionalized structures BOX 11 Long-range interaction in MHC Class II Complex With respect to deregulation of gene expression of gene expression by the interaction between transcrip- associated with ADs, transcriptional factories, which are tional regulatory elements. Furthermore, the transcrip- involved in long-distance transcription regulation, are tional cofactor CIITA (class II transactivator) functions as closely linked to chromatin organization. An interesting an adapter molecule for several chromatin-remodeling example of this is related to the major histocompatibil- factors and for the general transcriptional machinery. ity complex region (MHC) on chromosome 6. The gene This factor is the master regulator of gene expression in transcription located in this region is finely regulated by the MHC class II (MHCII) region. Transcription of DRB1 simultaneous regulation of several genes (Figure 10). In and DQA1 genes can be favored by interchromosom- vitro studies have shown that MRC5 cells (human fibro- al interaction between transcriptional machinery from blasts) are stimulated with interferon gamma (INFγ) and each gene and the intergenic region, XL2. Such interac- form large chromatin loops on the surface of chromo- tion may be effective only in cells expressing MHCII. At some territories, which correspond to specific regions of the same time, this is dependent on the presence of the simultaneous multi-gene transcription. This promotes a CIITA-RXF complex, which forms a loop that would favor functional and coordinated compartmentalized control simultaneous transcription of both genes. 22 Section I. Introduction to immunology and molecular biology XL9 DQA1 DRB1 X A L TI C I C TCFATIIC DQA1 DRB1 A T IIC CTCF A T IIC RFX-CREB-NF-Y Complex Figure 10. Schematic representation of HLA-DRB1 and HLA-DQA1 and the XL9 region interchromosomal interaction. In an active state, the CCCTC binding factor (CTCF) and class II transactivator (CIITA) are positioned near proximal promoter regions of HLA-DRB1 and HLA-DQA1 genes which are interacting with the XL9 region. One or both genes can interact with the XL9 region and thus be transcribed alone or at the same time respectively. Modified from (5). which consist of a complex pattern for gene structure and thus many mRNAs have antisense transcripts. With the expression regulation. In order to analyze the fractal charac- discovery of several non-coding RNA (ncRNA) species, reg- teristics of the human genome, fractal
