“This book attempts to organize the knowledge collected by those
KEYWORDS: cells, transcription, gene, complex, cell, protein, proteins, factors, expression, receptor, autoimmune, mrna, rnap, il-, immune


many mRNAs have antisense transcripts. With the expression regulation. In order to analyze the fractal charac- discovery of several non-coding RNA (ncRNA) species, reg- teristics of the human genome, fractal methodologies were ulation systems of gene expression based on RNA began used. These methodologies are derived from an approach to be elucidated. The control provided by non-coding RNA focused on the degree of fragmentation (or irregularity) ex- regulates the compound’s stability, modifies its structure, isting in nature. Therefore, the fractal nature of the human contributes to transcription initiation and translation tem- genome was studied using several sets. Each set produces a poral-spatially and tissue specifically, modulates chromatin fractal dimension translated into a continuous spectrum of organization, regulates alternative splicing, controls sub cel- exponents, called a singularity spectrum. Then, the degree of lular localization of proteins, and regulates heat shock sens- allows the genetic information content to be measured. from ~22 bp for miRNAs to ~18 kb for XIST (X-inactive-specific Hence, multifractal analysis of chromosomal fragments, transcript) and to ~108 kb for AIR (antisense IGF2R RNA) chromosomes, and chromosomal regions reveals the pres- ncRNAs. Size variation and diversity of events in which ncRNAs ence of repetition units such as the Alu sequences, which participate could exceed the protein regulation system in confer fractal characteristics on the genome. This is the quantity. The best-known RNA-dependent regulation systems reason chromosomes can be classified as having low (4, X, are those mediated by snRNAs: non-coding RNA (ncRNAs), 13, 5,18,3, 6, Y, 8, 2, 11), medium (21, 14, 9, 10, 7, 12, 1, 20, small nucleosomal RNA (snoRNA), and microRNAs (miRNAs). 15), or high (16, 22, 17) fractality. Regions with low fractali- miRNAs are a family of small ribo-oligonucleotides which ty are related to low genome stability while those with high constitute the main group of post-transcriptional gene mosome 19 presents the highest fractality (Figure 11). regulate cell proliferation, apoptosis, and differentiation and intervene in cell processes such as signal transduc- RNA systems: RNA mapping techniques show that, in the tion, metabolism, and mRNA useful life. Moreover, genes nucleus, there are more non-polyadenylated and non- encoding for miRNA have been located in cancerous cells in coding snRNA than mRNAs. These snRNAs are identified as regions with fragilities or with a high rate of chromosomal ‘transcripts of unknown function (TUF) and are denoted aberrations and often cause a loss of function. A cluster by the ENCODE
