“This book attempts to organize the knowledge collected by those
KEYWORDS: cells, transcription, gene, complex, cell, protein, proteins, factors, expression, receptor, autoimmune, mrna, rnap, il-, immune


with fragilities or with a high rate of chromosomal ‘transcripts of unknown function (TUF) and are denoted aberrations and often cause a loss of function. A cluster by the ENCODE consortium. Several transcriptional units of miRNA genes was described on human chromosome overlap and are denominated as sense and antisense, 19 (C19MC) among repeated Alu sequences. Some were Gene expression and regulation. Chapter 1 23 Figure 11. Summary diagram: a conceptual non linear model for the human genome. From left to right multifractality increases. A. Multi- fractality profile from 9,379 chromosome fragments (from 0.79 to 1.56). B. Number of chromosome fragments per Range of multifractality (RM). Upper C. Alu profile of the content from 9,379 chromosome fragments. Lower C. Analyses of molecular parameters: Alu content per range of multifractality degree (ΔDq). D. Analyses of molecular parameters: Long interspersed element (LINE), Mammalian wild- interspersed repeat (MIR), Medium reiterated element (MER) and Long terminal repeat (LTR) contents per RM. E. Distributions by gene function, gene family, and gene length: Gene functional distributions per RM. These distributions are strongly significant up to 80% of the ranges. F. Distri- butions by gene function, gene family, and gene length: Percentage of gene families per RM Gene families. G. Multifractal classification for the human chromosomes: Discrimination method based on multifractal formalism in a distribution of two-dimensional points, R2 ~0.967, p <0.05. On top: hierarchical clustering for the averaged multifractal parameters by chromosome between -20 and 20 Dq (color scale bar is in- dicated). Minimum similarities are indicated near nodes and the asterisks show the only two exceptions found. Abbreviations: CA: Carbonic anhydrase, CD: differentiation cluster, GPR: G protein-coupled receptors, KCN: potassium channels, OR: olfactory receptor, RPS: ribosomal proteins, SLC: solute carrier, SNORA: small nucleolar RNA, USP: ubiquitin-specific peptidases, ZNF: Zinc fingers, C2H2-type. Reproduced with permission from (19). located in intronic regions and others, in exonic regions. response. Its loss in mice results in increased granulocyte Thirty percent of the genes are believed to be regu lated progenitor cells, hyper mature granulocytes that are hy- by miRNAs. In the immune system, several processes persensitive to activation stimuli, and increased antifungal regu lated by miRNAs have been described: ablation of the activity. In psoriasis, a chronic inflammatory cutaneous dis- miRNA machinery as well as the loss of function of some ease, over-expression of miRNA-203 and a reduction of its molecules contribute to the formation of certain compo- target
