“This book attempts to organize the knowledge collected by those
KEYWORDS: cells, transcription, gene, complex, cell, protein, proteins, factors, expression, receptor, autoimmune, mrna, rnap, il-, immune


dis- miRNA machinery as well as the loss of function of some ease, over-expression of miRNA-203 and a reduction of its molecules contribute to the formation of certain compo- target gene – the suppressor of cytokine signaling 3 (SOCS- nents and are associated with the development of auto- 3) – was found in psoriatic plaques. SOCS-3 participates in immunity and cancer. For example, miR-223 controls gen- the inflammatory response and in some functions of kerat- eration and activation of granulocytes in the inflammatory inocytes. A good example of RNA system regulation of gene 24 Section I. Introduction to immunology and molecular biology expression is the tumor-suppressor gene called phospha- differentiation, cell death, senescence, or accomplishment tase and tensin homolog (PTEN). PTEN is a negative regu- of cell functions within a tissue. lator of the PI3K-Akt pathway and is epigenetically silenced The signals can have different molecular structures or in several cancers. Also, PTEN is an indispensable regulator sizes, especially those that are hydrophilic or hydrophobic of B cell homeostasis. PTEN expression is post-transcrip- in nature, and have specific mechanisms to transmit infor- tionally regulated by the action of a PTEN pseudogene mation within the cell. Likewise, signals can also be physical, (PTENpg1). This is a long, noncoding RNA (lncRNA) that magnetic, electric, etc. Hydrophobic signal molecules such sequesters numerous PTEN-targeting miRNAs by acting as as vitamin D, thyroid and steroid hormones, retinoids, and a miRNA sponge (Figure 12). eicosanoids can cross the plasma membrane and bind to receptor molecules at the cytoplasm or inside the nucleus. SIGNAL TRANSDUCTION PATHWAYS These signal molecules are associated with long-lasting responses due to their high blood permanence. Receptors Cells are in constant communication with the extracellular for these compounds have interaction domains with the medium. Cells are able to detect and interpret extracel- ligand, the DNA, and transcription activation or repression lular signals that regulate the expression of target genes processes, thus conferring the characteristics of transcrip- through mechanisms which vary from posttranslational tion factors on these receptors. modification of proteins leading to their activation, inhibi- Hydrophilic signal molecules such as neurotransmitters, tion, or degradation to the activation or repression of ge- protein hormones, glycoprotein hormones, and local chem- netic programs. There is permanent cell signaling among ical mediators, require the presence of a receptor molecule nearby and distant cells belonging to the same individual in the plasma membrane. These signal molecules mediate in
