“This book attempts to organize the knowledge collected by those
KEYWORDS: cells, transcription, gene, complex, cell, protein, proteins, factors, expression, receptor, autoimmune, mrna, rnap, il-, immune


cell signaling among ical mediators, require the presence of a receptor molecule nearby and distant cells belonging to the same individual in the plasma membrane. These signal molecules mediate in whom signals coming from different sources can induce short-duration responses and have low blood permanence. cell responses. These responses include activation or in- Their ligand-receptor complex may be endocytosed or not, activation of genetic programs which lead to proliferation, the ligand may be destroyed, and the receptor can be recy- Figure 12. Schematic representation of A 3’ Exon 4 Exon 3 Exon 32’ Exon3 1’ α isoform transcriptional and post-transcriptional reg- ulation of PTEN by its pseudogene. (A) There are three PTENpg1 asRNA isoforms: α (blue), 3’ Exon 4 Exon 3 Exon 2 Exon 1 β isoform β (green) and unspliced isoform (cyan). The last one is located in the nucleus. (B) Moreo- 3’ Exon 4 Exon 33’ Exon 32’ Exon3 1’ Unspliced isoform ver, the PTEN pg1 has a sense noncoding RNA (red). (C) The α isoform functions in trans, binds to the PTEN promoter, and epi- B PTENpg1 sense 3’ genetically represses PTEN transcription by the DNA methyltransferase 3A (DNMT3A) and Enhancer of Zeste (EZH2), which are G repressor proteins that have been recruited into the PTEN promoter. In addition, the unspliced isoform also represses PTEN gene expression. (D) In contrast, the β isoform, miRNA asRNA, interacts with sense RNA PTENpg1 C 5’ UTR 3’ UTR through an asRNA-sRNA by pairing inter- PTEN F action. This causes the lack of a poly A tail α EZH2 within the PTENpg1 sense and a decrease DNMT in its stability. E) Furthermore, the exporta- β tion of PTENpg1 sense to the cytoplasm is D facilitated by the interaction with asRNA β β E transcripts. Finally, the sense RNA PTENpg1 has a sponge activity within the cytoplasm. (F-G) It captures the microRNA which binds NUCLEUS the PTEN mRNA (G) and decreases PTEN protein output. Modified from (10). CYTOPLASM Chromosome 5’ RNAPII Chromosome 10 Gene expression and regulation. Chapter 1 25 cled or destroyed. Note that hydrophilic molecules act on tics such as adhesion, migration, and survival can also be G-coupled receptors, ion channels, or tyrosine kinase recep- modulated. Receptors associated with ion channels, in turn, tors. When the ligand-receptor bond occurs, it can undergo modulate the transportation of substances between the modifications in its structure which lead to cascading molec- extracellular medium
