“This book attempts to organize the knowledge collected by those
KEYWORDS: cells, transcription, gene, complex, cell, protein, proteins, factors, expression, receptor, autoimmune, mrna, rnap, il-, immune


Lin M, Kung H, Transcriptional and epigenetic The human genome: a multifractal analysis. BMC Genomics. regulation of human microRNAs. Cancer Lett. 2013; 331:1-10. 2011; 12:506-23. 32. Žumer K, Plemenitaš A, Saksela K, Peterlin BM. Patient muta- 20. Nagai K, Arito M, Takakuwa Y, Ooka S, Sato T, Kurokawa MS, Oka- tion in AIRE disrupts P-TEFb binding and target gene transcrip- moto K, Uchida T, Suematsu N, Kato T. Altered posttranslation- tion. Nucleic Acid Res. 2011; 39: 7908-19. al modification on U1 small nuclear ribonucleoprotein 68k in INNATE IMMUNE SYSTEM Beatriz Aristizábal Ángel González INTRODUCTION host-invader pathogen enters, a signaling cascade is initi- ated which enhances the immune response and activates The innate immune response is the first mechanism for specific mechanisms (3-5). This natural immune response is host defense found in all multicellular organisms. The designed to: a) prevent infection, b) eliminate invader patho- innate immune system is more ancient than the acquired gens, and c) stimulate the acquired immune response. or adaptive immune response, and it has developed and evolved to protect the host from the surrounding envi- ronment in which a variety of toxins and infectious agents COMPONENTS OF THE INNATE including bacteria, fungi, viruses and parasites are found (1). IMMUNE SYSTEM The immune system is complex and is divided in two categories: i) the innate or nonspecific immunity, which con- The innate immune system includes physical and anatomi- sists of the activation and participation of preexistent mech- cal barriers as well as effector cells, antimicrobial peptides, anisms including the natural barriers (skin and mucosa) and soluble mediators, and cell receptors (Table 1). Skin and secretions; and ii) the adaptive or specific immunity, which mucosa provide an effective immune barrier between the is targeted against a previously recognized specific micro- internal and external environment. Skin acts as not only organism or antigen. Thus, when a given pathogen is new a physical barrier but also a chemical shield. The most to the host, it is initially recognized by the innate immune external layer of epidermis mainly consists of keratinocytes, system and then the adaptive immune response is activated which are tightly linked by desmosomes and embedded (2). Innate immunity is the host’s first line of defense and is in a layer of extracellular matrix proteins. Keratinocytes intended to prevent infection and attack the invading patho- not only act as a physical barrier but also express pattern gens.This nonspecific mechanism
