“This book attempts to organize the knowledge collected by those
KEYWORDS: cells, transcription, gene, complex, cell, protein, proteins, factors, expression, receptor, autoimmune, mrna, rnap, il-, immune


IFN-α Involved in resistance to viral infection IFN-γ Involved in resistance to intracellular pathogen infection and activation of macrophages IL-12 Stimulates IFN-γ production by NK cells and T lymphocytes IL-15 Stimulates NK cell proliferation IL-10 Regulates and controls the inflammation process TGF-β Regulates and controls the inflammation process Seric proteins Complement system Opsonization, destruction of pathogens, and T lymphocyte activation Collectins Opsonization of pathogens and complement activation C reactive protein Opsonization of pathogens and complement activation Coagulation system Localization of damage or infected tissue Cellular receptors TLRs Recognize a variety of microbial components NLRs Sense bacterial components present in the cytoplasm CLRs Recognize sugar moieties of bacteria and fungi RLRs Sense viral RNA Table 1. Components of the innate immune system. TNF: Tumor necrosis factor; IFN: interferon; IL: interleukin; TGF: transforming growth factor; TLR: Toll-like receptor; NLR: Nod-like receptor; CLR: C-type lectin receptor; RLR: RIG-I-like receptor. A malfunction in the epidermis can lead to an in- occur as a consequence of epidermal dysfunction through adequate host response to a pathogen or a persistent pattern recognition receptors. inflammatory state. Atopic dermatitis is the most common Epithelial cells in the gastrointestinal and respiratory inflammatory skin disorder. It is characterized by abnor- mucosa have cilia, an extension of the cell surface which malities in the skin barrier structures (i.e., stratum corne- has the ability to move back and forth and thus keep the um and tight junctions), a robust TH2 response to envi- mucosa clear of mucus, dust, and possible invading microor- ronmental antigens, defects in innate immunity, and an ganisms. In addition, intraepithelial lymphocytes are located altered microbiome. Many of these abnormalities may in the skin and mucosal epithelium.These lymphocytes are Innate immune system. Chapter 2 33 predominantly gamma/delta T lymphocytes (LT-γδ), which of the pulmonary blood vessels flow. Alveoli are connected to are involved in host defense through cytokine produc- each other by multiple holes within the septae, the so-called tion, phagocyte activation and, destruction of infected and pores of Kohn. Immune cells recruited to the surface of alveoli tumoral cells. There is a subpopulation of B lymphocytes can migrate through these pores (17). (LB-1) in this compartment that secretes immunoglobulin M (IgM), which are also known as natural antibodies.These natural antibodies protect against microbial pathogens IMMUNOLOGICAL CONTROL OF ALVEOLAR through recognition of highly conserved epitopes and also INTEGRITY: SURFACTANT exert homeostatic functions (2,10,11). Surfactant is a compound mixture of phospholipids
