“This book attempts to organize the knowledge collected by those
KEYWORDS: cells, transcription, gene, complex, cell, protein, proteins, factors, expression, receptor, autoimmune, mrna, rnap, il-, immune


antibodies protect against microbial pathogens IMMUNOLOGICAL CONTROL OF ALVEOLAR through recognition of highly conserved epitopes and also INTEGRITY: SURFACTANT exert homeostatic functions (2,10,11). Surfactant is a compound mixture of phospholipids (90%) STRUCTURE and proteins (10%). An important physical effect of the thin OF AND IMMUNOLOGICAL surfactant layer is that it compresses cells lying under its sur- THREAT TO THE AIRWAYS face very flat. In the conducting airways, surfactant surface forces transport particulate matter from the rigid surface (gel The human respiratory apparatus consists of nose, orophar- phase) of the surfactant layer into the more liquid underly- ynx, larynx, conducting airways, and the respiratory surface. ing sol phase, which is in direct contact with the mucocilliary Despite containing a volume of approximately 5 L, the total border of the epithelium. The presence of particles in the sol respiratory surface of the lung exceeds 120 m2 (12), which is phase facilitates their mucocilliary transportation (18). more than 60 times the body surface. This is due to the pres- Surfactant contains four types of proteins (SP-A to SP-D) of ence of millions of small alveoli, spheroid sacs at the terminal which three have important immunological functions. Among end of the conducting airways that provide an extremely thin them are the binding of bacterial lipopolysaccharide to or the epithelium. This is optimized for the diffusion of respiratory direct absorption of surfactant proteins into the surface of gases. A recent re-estimation of the total number of alveoli in pathogens. Surface binding of surfactant proteins can lead to the human lung represent 480 million units with a remarkably pathogen aggregation and direct killing or the increase of the narrow size distribution that is around 4.2*106 /ml. This is phagocytosis and killing activity of attached immune cells. In equal to an alveolar radius of approximately 100 ml (13). There addition, surfactant proteins can also interfere with dendritic is continuous intense confrontation between the extensive cell (DC) maturation or inhibit T cell proliferation and thus have surface of the respiratory tract and noxious airborne threats an immunoregulatory function. Absence of surfactant proteins and potentially pathogenic microorganisms. As a result, the leads to the deviation of a protective T-helper 1 (Th1) towards a mucosal tissue in the nasal passages and oropharynx is always non-protective Th2 response during pulmonary hypersensitive colonized by a multitude of bacteria. reactions against Aspergillus antigens (19). An effective system of surveillance and cleaning has evolved
