“This book attempts to organize the knowledge collected by those
KEYWORDS: cells, transcription, gene, complex, cell, protein, proteins, factors, expression, receptor, autoimmune, mrna, rnap, il-, immune


and oropharynx is always non-protective Th2 response during pulmonary hypersensitive colonized by a multitude of bacteria. reactions against Aspergillus antigens (19). An effective system of surveillance and cleaning has evolved in order to constantly monitor and maintain the sterility of the EFFECTOR MOLECULES AND MICROBICIDAL lung. This system is characterized by a unique design for the MECHANISMS OF INNATE IMMUNITY conducting airways and alveoli. Starting in the nose, a coarse filter consisting of hair and mucus will obstruct the entry of There are several chemical and enzymatic compounds material exceeding a certain size limit. Combined with a rapid capable of inhibiting and destroying microbial pathogens. sneezing reflex, potentially hazardous or allergenic material These include: lysozyme, which is present in the saliva, tears, will immediately be removed from the airways or trapped in and nasal secretions and is able to affect microbial growth; the mucus. Despite being very sticky and viscous, the mucus hydrochloric acid and digestive proteins such as pancreatin also contains many antibiotic factors such as antimicrob ial and peptidase in the gastrointestinal tract, which destroy peptides or oxidizing enzymes (14). Thus, mucus not only con- microbial pathogens; and fatty and bile acids, transferrin, stitutes a physical trap but also has considerable antibiotic lactoferrin and fibronectin that can control the growth of the properties. Specialized epithelial cells containing a ciliated sur- host’s normal microbiota as well as the entrance of micro- face line the airways. The design of an alveolus directly reflects bial pathogens through the mucosa (4,20). its main function in the respiratory surface. It is covered by two Plasma proteins include the secreted PRRs: MBL and types of alveolar epithelial cells (AECs), type I and type II. Type I CRP. These molecules recognize carbohydrates which are AECs provide the thin respiratory surface of an alveolus. Type acting as opsonins. In addition, these PRRs may bind and II AECs are almost round in appearance and contain the so- activate complement factors such as C1q thus enhancing called lamellar bodies. They are storage sites for surfactant, the inflammatory response (21,22). a thin liquid film that is constantly produced by type II AECs The coagulation system, in addition to its role in con- (15). This film covers the entire surface of the alveolus and has trolling bleeding and clotting formation during a tissue i mportant functions for the biology of the lung. AECs II are con- injury, is also involved
