“This book attempts to organize the knowledge collected by those
KEYWORDS: cells, transcription, gene, complex, cell, protein, proteins, factors, expression, receptor, autoimmune, mrna, rnap, il-, immune


of the alveolus and has trolling bleeding and clotting formation during a tissue i mportant functions for the biology of the lung. AECs II are con- injury, is also involved in the innate immune response by sidered precursors for type I AECs and can replace them at preventing microbial dissemination. Fibrinogen, one of the sites of alveolar damage (16). Individual alveoli are separated coagulation system components, can sense microorgan- from each other by thin septae, within which the capillaries isms and act as an opsonin (21). 34 Section I. Introduction to immunology and molecular biology Complement is considered one of the most important (41-43). There are three coding region single nucleotide enzymatic systems involved in the innate immune response polymorphisms (SNPs) at codons 52, 54 and 57, termed the (See chapter 4). This enzymatic system is activated three C, B, and D alleles respectively (44). All of these SNPs are lo- different ways. Some of the components of this system act cated in the collagen-like domain (all are located close to the as opsonins or anaphylatoxins that enhance the immune N-terminus side of the kink and produce aberrant proteins) response (23). . The frequency of these alleles varies depending on eth- Activation of the innate immune system is initiated nicities. While all three alleles are observed in Caucasians, by soluble pattern recognition molecules, which may be alleles C and D are very rare in Asians (45,46). expressed on innate immune cells, bound to the extracel- Most MBL deficiency is due to the heterozygosity of lular matrix, or circulate in the blood as soluble molecules. these SNPs and results in a wide range of MBL blood con- One such soluble pattern recognition molecule is MBL, centrations from undetectable to as high as 10 µg/ml (45, which is primarily synthesized in the liver and secreted to 47). Some aberrant MBLs were found to be dysfunctional circulation (24,25). Small amounts of MBL are also synthe- in activating the lectin complement pathway. Mechanisms sized in the kidney, thymus, tonsils, small intestine, and for this lack of complement pathway activation are related vagina, where mRNA has been detected (25-27). to reduced ligand binding due to decreased oligomerization MBL protein has also been found in other organs such and decreased activation of MASPs due to impaired associ- as the skin, brain, and lung although its mRNA has not been ation with mutant MBL (48,49). detected in
