“This book attempts to organize the knowledge collected by those
KEYWORDS: cells, transcription, gene, complex, cell, protein, proteins, factors, expression, receptor, autoimmune, mrna, rnap, il-, immune


organs such and decreased activation of MASPs due to impaired associ- as the skin, brain, and lung although its mRNA has not been ation with mutant MBL (48,49). detected in those areas (24-29). In the lung, MBL is found in MBL-deficient hosts may present with systemic infec- the bronchial alveolar lavage of healthy individuals and also tion involving multiple organs, including blood (bacteremia), on the smooth muscle in airways following infection (28,30). and uncontrolled inflammation due to cytokine storm. Such In the skin and the brain, MBL is observed only following infec tion and subsequent cytokine release may establish an burn and trauma injury respectively (28,29,31). autocrine loop with further escalating complications. MBL functions as an opsonin and activates the comple- ment through the lectin complement pathway. The lectin OTHER EFFECTOR MICROBICIDAL pathway is also activated by ficolins, which are structurally MECHANISMS similar to MBL and circulate in the blood. The lectin path- way requires activation of MBL-associated serine proteases OXYGEN-DEPENDENT MECHANISMS: REACTIVE OXYGEN SPECIES (ROS) (MASPs) (24,28,31-34). There are two genes and five MASP gene products. Reactive oxygen species (ROS) and reactive oxygen interme- MASP-1, MASP-3, and MAp44 (or MAP-1) are the alternative diates (ROI) are produced by mammalian cells, particularly splice products of the MASP-1/3 gene while MASP-2 and phagocytes, as a reaction against several microbial patho- MAp19 (or sMAP) are the alternative splice products of the gens (50). These molecules are generated by activation of the MASP-2 gene (35). MASPs form complexes with MBL (35, enzymatic complex nicotinamide adenine dinucleotide phos- 36), and MBL binding to carbohydrate ligands is thought phate (NADPH) oxidase (NOX2) and include superoxide anion to induce conformational changes that enhance proteolyt- (O-), hydrogen peroxide (HO), hydroxyl radical (•OH), per- 2 2 2 ic activities in the associated MASP. MASP-1 and MASP-2 oxynitrite (ONOO-),hypochlorous acid (-OCl), etc. (50). Both have been shown to activate the alternative pathway and ROS and ROI are known to play diverse roles in inflammation, the lectin complement pathway (37–40). host defense, and homeostasis. Chronic granulomatous dis- MBL deficiency increases susceptibility to infection by ease (CGD) is an inherited condition in which a deficiency of reduced opsono-phagocytic activity and a reduced activa- NOX2 results in the inability of phagocytes to generate micro- tion of the lectin complement pathway. The MBL deficiency bicidal superoxide anion and its metabolites. Thus, patients may manifest as disseminated intravascular coagulation with CGD have recurrent, life-threatening
