“This book attempts to organize the knowledge collected by those
KEYWORDS: cells, transcription, gene, complex, cell, protein, proteins, factors, expression, receptor, autoimmune, mrna, rnap, il-, immune


generate micro- tion of the lectin complement pathway. The MBL deficiency bicidal superoxide anion and its metabolites. Thus, patients may manifest as disseminated intravascular coagulation with CGD have recurrent, life-threatening bacterial and fungal and organ failure with infection. infections as well as chronic inflammatory diseases due to Successful innate immune protection is achieved dysregulated inflammatory pathways (51). through two steps. First, identifying targets, such as patho- gens and abnormal tissues and cells. Second, by orches- OXYGEN-INDEPENDENT MECHANISMS trating humoral and cell effectors to neutralize and elimi- nate the identified targets. In this sense, MBL contributes to Innate cells, mainly phagocytes, are equipped with an enzy- both immunity from pathogens and maintenance of tissue matic arsenal capable of destroying several microorgan- integrity and homeostasis. isms. These enzymes include proteases, cationic proteins, lysozyme, elastases, capthesin G, defensins, etc., all of which MBL DEFICIENCY exhibit microbicidal activities (52-55). In addition, antimicro- bial peptides and other mechanisms involving reactive nitro- MBL deficiency can be caused by inherited gene defects, gen intermediates (RNI) and DNA extracellular traps have which have been identified in 5%–30% of the population. been described and will be discussed below. MBL deficiency is a common primary immunodeficiency Innate immune system. Chapter 2 35 ANTIMICROBIAL PEPTIDES (AMPS) factor (GM-CSF), interferons, IL-8, C5a, and LPS. Once formed, AMPs are host defense peptides secreted mainly by innate extracellular traps are capable of binding to and killing micro- and epithelial cells including keratinocytes. Their antimicro- bial pathogens. As was mentioned, these DNA traps may be bial activity is broadly based especially against fungi, bacte- involved in the development of autoimmune and chronic in- ria, and viruses (20). About 1700 AMPs have been described flammatory diseases (65) (See chapter 13). so far.They are found constitutively or can be induced after activation of the host cells through several PRRs during an EFFECTOR CELLS OF INNATE IMMUNITY infection or injury (6). Additionally, these AMPs are involved in other cell processes including cell migration, prolifera- Cell components encompass phagocytic cells, epithelial and tion, differentiation, cytokine production, angiogenesis, and endothelial cells, natural killer cells, innate lymphoid cells, wound healing, along with other functions (6). Several fami- and platelets (Figure 1). Phagocytic cells consist of granulo- lies of AMPs have been described. cytes (i.e., neutrophils, eosinophils, basophils, and mast cells), Cathelicidin or LL-37 is released by neutrophils and epi- monocytes/macrophages, and dendritic cells.These cells par- thelial cells. This AMP has the
