“This book attempts to organize the knowledge collected by those
KEYWORDS: cells, transcription, gene, complex, cell, protein, proteins, factors, expression, receptor, autoimmune, mrna, rnap, il-, immune


described. cytes (i.e., neutrophils, eosinophils, basophils, and mast cells), Cathelicidin or LL-37 is released by neutrophils and epi- monocytes/macrophages, and dendritic cells.These cells par- thelial cells. This AMP has the ability to kill Gram-negative ticipate in not only the phagocytosis but also the inflamma- and Gram-positive bacteria, fungi, and viruses. It induces an tory process. “The majority of cell components expresses immune response which triggers inflammatory cell recruit- PRRs on the cell surface, and they are able to secrete cyto- ment and cytokine release by host cells (6). Of note, LL-37 kines: thus exhibiting microbicidal mechanisms”. These cells is induced by vitamin D3, and the absence of this vitamin is with effector mechanisms of innate immunity are modulated associated with the development of certain infectious dis- by both the innate and acquired immune systems (66,67). eases (20,56-59). Defensins include α- and β-defensins. α-defensins (hαD- GRANULOCYTES 1, -2, -3, -4) are stored in the azurophil granules of neutro- phils, and HαD-5 and -6 are synthesized by the Paneth cells Granulocytes are effector cells that predominate during the in the gastrointestinal tract (60). β-defensins (hβD-1, -2, -3) early or acute phase of the innate immune response. The are produced mainly by keratinocytes. Defensins also exhibit main function of these cells is to identify, ingest, and destroy antimicrobial activity, and like cethelicidins, they are chemo- microbial pathogens through receptors, oxidative mecha- tactic and induce cytokine and chemokine synthesis (6,61,62). nisms, and enzymes including lysozyme, collagenase, and Other AMPs include dermicidin and psoriasin, which elastase, etc. This group of cells is composed of neutrophils, also show antimicrobial activities. Alterations in the AMP eosinophils, basophils and mast cells (53,68). expres sion are related to atopic dermatitis and psoriasis (6). NEUTROPHILS NITRIC OXIDE (NO) These cells are most abundant and effective during the inflam- Nitric oxide (NO) is considered to be one of the most important mation and phagocytosis processes. Neutrophils (PMN) are RNI and is produced by an oxidative mechanism involving the characterized as being the first cell line that is recruited at the catabolism of L-arginine (63). NO production by the enzymatic inflammation site after chemotactic stimuli. These stimuli in- action of inducible nitric oxide synthase (iNOS) represents one clude the complement factors such as the C5a factor, chemok- of the major microbicidal mechanisms that phagocytic cells ines such as IL-8, and leukotrienes (L) including the L-B4, which use against several pathogens (64). In
