“This book attempts to organize the knowledge collected by those
KEYWORDS: cells, transcription, gene, complex, cell, protein, proteins, factors, expression, receptor, autoimmune, mrna, rnap, il-, immune


as the C5a factor, chemok- of the major microbicidal mechanisms that phagocytic cells ines such as IL-8, and leukotrienes (L) including the L-B4, which use against several pathogens (64). In turn, iNOS can be in- exerts a paracrine and autocrine function on other neutro- duced by several stimuli, including IFN-γ, TNF-α, and LPS, and is phils. All these substances that allow migration to the injury expressed by immune cells such as macrophages, neutrophils, site are recognized by specific receptors or PRRs.These phago- dendritic cells, and NK cells (63). Like ROS, NO may be involved cytes possess Fc or complement receptors (RFc or CR) that in inflammation and its regulation process. recognize the immunoglobulin Fc fractions or complement factors respectively. This allows the phagocytosis of tagged (opsonized) microorganisms by antibodies (mainly IgG) or EXTRACELLULAR TRAPS complement (mainly C3b or iC3b). Moreover, neutrophils have Extracellular DNA traps are part of innate immunity and are stored an enzymatic arsenal capable of exerting a lytic effect associated with infectious processes and allergic and autoim- on microbial pathogens or inducing microbicidal systems mune diseases. These structures are generated by different through oxygen-dependent and -independent mechanisms leukocytes including neutrophils, eosinophils, monocytes, and (53,55,68,69) in their granules. In addition to proinflammatory mast cells.They are called NETs, EETs, METs, and MCETs re- cytokines, the hematopoietic growth factors, granulocyte col- spectively. Extracellular traps are composed of DNA, histones, ony-stimulating factor (G-CSF), and granulocyte-macrophage and the content of the intracellular granules such as elastase, colony-stimulating factor (GM-CSF) are critical for recruitment myeloperoxidase (MPO), cathelicidins, tryptase, cationic pro- and activation of PMNs (70). Three different PMN subsets teins, and major basic protein, etc. These traps are induced by have been described in mice based on their cytokine and the action of the granulocyte/macrophage-colony stimulating chemokine production as well as on the toll-like receptor (TLR) 36 Section I. Introduction to immunology and molecular biology Blood Monocyte Neutrophils lymphocyte ELAM-1 ICAM-1 Migration and chemotaxis Fever IL-1, IL-6 Platelets TNF TGF-β SSNNCC IL-8 IL-1 IL-8 MCP Macrophage IL-10 LB IFN-γ Complement LT Inflamed tissue Cortisol IL-1 TNF IL-18 IL-12 IFN-α IFN-γ IL-15 Stroma NK Antigen Acute phase IL-8 proteins IL-1, TNF Hepatocyte Figure 1. Effector mechanisms of the innate immune response: The innate immune response involves a set of cells that produce cytokines/ chemokines that participate in phagocytosis, inflammation, and the synthesis of acute phase proteins. EOSINOPHILS and surface antigen expression and macrophage activation.
