“This book attempts to organize the knowledge collected by those
KEYWORDS: cells, transcription, gene, complex, cell, protein, proteins, factors, expression, receptor, autoimmune, mrna, rnap, il-, immune


response involves a set of cells that produce cytokines/ chemokines that participate in phagocytosis, inflammation, and the synthesis of acute phase proteins. EOSINOPHILS and surface antigen expression and macrophage activation. Normal PMNs (PMN-N) which are CD49d- and CD11b- express These granulocytes are present in the respiratory, gastrointes- TLR2, TLR4, TLR9, and have no cytokine/chemokine produc- tinal, and urinary tract, and they are less abundant than neu- tion or effect on macrophage activation. PMN-I subsets which trophils. Their effector function is mediated by degranulation are CD49+ and CD11b- and express TLR2, TLR4, TLR5, TLR8, and release of histamine, cationic proteins, major basic pro- produce IL-12 and CCL3 and activate type-1 macrophages or tein, sulfatases, and chemotactic factors such as leukotrienes classically activated macrophages. PMN-II subsets, which are and prostaglandins. The degranulation process is mediated by CD49- and CD11b+, express TLR2, TLR4, TLR7, and TLR9, pro- the IgE or other chemotactic factors, including the IL-5. The duce IL-10 and CCL2 and activate macrophages alternatively main function of these cells is to destroy microbial pathogens, (71). Two additional populations have been described based mainly parasites, but they also play an important role in the on the expression of the surface marker Gr-1 (Gr-1 high and allergic processes together with mast cells (74). Gr-1 medium) (72). More recently, a subset of mature neutro- phils which express the surface markers CD11c brigth, CD62L BASOPHILS AND MAST CELLS dim, CD11b bright, and CD16 bright have been identified in humans. Apparently, this circulating population of myeloid These cells are not phagocytic in nature and have several cells is capable of suppressing T cell proliferation (73). Once receptors including IgE receptors. The proportion of baso- PMNs have completed their tasks, they die by apoptosis, neto- phils in circulation is lower than the proportion of other sis or necrosis (see Chapter 13). The latter process can cause granulocytes. Mast cells are located in tissues, mainly in tissue damage through the release of their granule contents, mucosa, and their granules contain heparin, serotonin, and thus prolonging the inflammatory reactions (72). histamine. They may also release a variety of cytokines that Innate immune system. Chapter 2 37 DENDRITIC CELLS (DCS) enhance the inflammatory process, especially during the early events. These cells are involved in allergic and viral DCs are considered to be professional antigen-presenting processes. Mast cells are present mainly in the connective cells (APC). They reside in and patrol the
