“This book attempts to organize the knowledge collected by those
KEYWORDS: cells, transcription, gene, complex, cell, protein, proteins, factors, expression, receptor, autoimmune, mrna, rnap, il-, immune


are involved in allergic and viral DCs are considered to be professional antigen-presenting processes. Mast cells are present mainly in the connective cells (APC). They reside in and patrol the skin and muco- tissue. They expressTLR-1, -2, -4, and -6, complement recep- sal surfaces, thus playing an important role in the innate tors (CR), mannose receptor (MR) in their cell membrane immune system with subsequent activation of T cell re- and release TNF-α, IL-8, platelet activator factor, proteases, sponses to provide a cell-mediated immunity against mi- antimicrobial peptides (catelicidin LL-37 and defensins), and crobial pathogens. Antigen uptake occurs through dif- other inflammatory mediators (75-79). ferent mechanisms including phagocytosis, endocytosis, picnocystosis, and macropicnocytosis. DCs have the ability to transport and carry the antigens from peripheral to pri- MONOCYTES/MACROPHAGES mary lymphatic nodes where the antigen presentation takes Monocyte/macrophages together with DC are considered place. These APC lead to the processing and presentation of important actors in both innate and adaptive immunity. antigens via major histocompatibility complex (MHC) class II Monocytes circulate in peripheral blood and have the abil- molecules, thus bridging the innate and acquired immune ity to not only migrate to the inflammatory site but also response (83). Additionally, DCs participate in the induction exhibit the plasticity to transform themselves into tissue of peripheral immunological tolerance, regulate the types macrophages (80). Once in the tissue, these cells are named of T cell immune responses, and function as effector cells macrophages and have different functions: i) they are phago- in innate immunity against several microbial pathogens. cytic and exhibit a microbicidal mechanism through oxygen These diverse functions depend on the diversity of DC sub- -dependent and-independent mechanism; ii) they are able sets (83). In fact, there are various subsets of DCs including to present antigens and activate lymphocytes; iii) once acti- immature DCs (imDCs) and precursors (pre-DCs). vated, they release and stimulate cytokine secretion; iv) they imDCs display different phenotypes and functions modulate the immune response; v) they participate in tissue and are produced from hematopoietic stem cells (HSC) reorganization after the inflammation process has ceased within the bone marrow. Thus, CD34+ HSC differentiate through production of extracellular matrix proteins (i.e., colla- into common lymphoid progenitors (CLP) and common gen and elastase) and matrix metalloproteinases; and vi) they myeloid progenitors (CMP). CD34+ CMP differentiate into produce cytotoxic factors involved in the immunity against CD34+CLA+ and CD34+CLA-, which, in turn, differentiate tumors (80).
