“This book attempts to organize the knowledge collected by those
KEYWORDS: cells, transcription, gene, complex, cell, protein, proteins, factors, expression, receptor, autoimmune, mrna, rnap, il-, immune


and matrix metalloproteinases; and vi) they myeloid progenitors (CMP). CD34+ CMP differentiate into produce cytotoxic factors involved in the immunity against CD34+CLA+ and CD34+CLA-, which, in turn, differentiate tumors (80). Based on the biological function, there are three into CD11c+CD1a+ and CD11c+CD1a-imDCs respectively populations of macrophages: i) classically activated macro- (84). CD11c+CD1a+imDCs migrate to the skin epidermis phages or type 1-activated macrophages; ii) alternatively ac- and become Langerhans cells while CD11c+CD1a-imDCs tivated macrophages; and iii) type 2-activated macrophages migrate to the skin dermis and other tissues and become (81). Type 1-activated macrophages are usually stimulated by interstitial imDCs (85). IFN-γ or TNF-α in combination with microbial products such There are two types of pre-DCs: monocytes (pre-DC1) as LPS and are considered effector cells in the Th1 immune and plasmacytoid cells (pre-DC2). Pre-DC1 expresses the response. Once activated, type 1 macrophages up-regulate myeloid antigens (CD11b, CD11c, CD13, CD14, and CD33), expression and production of pro-inflammatory cytokines CD1a-d, and mannose receptor. it also produces IL-12 and and chemokines [TNF-α, IL-23/IL-12, IL-6, IL-1, IP-10, macro- induces a Th1 pattern and cytotoxic T lymphocyte responses. phage inflammatory protein 1 alpha (MIP-1α), and monocyte Pre-DC2 expresses specific markers for lymphocyte lineage. chemoattractant protein 1 (MCP-1)], major histocompatibili- It also produces IL-10 and induces a Th2 profile and CD8+T ty complex (MHC) class II, and co-stimulatory molecules and suppressor cells (83). Functionally, imDCs are involved in the enhance their ability to kill microbial pathogens through NO antigen presentation while pre-DCs participate directly as ef- and ROS production (81,82). The alternatively activated mac- fector cells in innate immunity to microbial pathogens. rophages are stimulated mainly by IL-4 and glucocorticoids, and once activated, they synthetize IL-10, IL-8, MIP1β, MCP-1, INNATE LYMPHOID CELLS (ILC) and RANTES.They also produce high levels of fibronectin and other extracellular matrix, as well as arginase. These are ILCs have been identified as new members of the lym- involved in polyamine and proline synthesis which, in turn, phoid linage that are involved in regulating tissue homeo- induces cell growth and collagen formation and thus partici- stasis and inflammation. These cells do not express a T cell ganisms (81,82). The type 2-activated macrophages are stim- markers associated with other immune cell lineages (86). ulated after recognition of IgG complex and TLR ligands. Once These cells are divided in three subsets: i) Group I, ILCs, FcγRs recognize their ligands IgG complex), macrophages which is made up of
