“This book attempts to organize the knowledge collected by those
KEYWORDS: cells, transcription, gene, complex, cell, protein, proteins, factors, expression, receptor, autoimmune, mrna, rnap, il-, immune


of IgG complex and TLR ligands. Once These cells are divided in three subsets: i) Group I, ILCs, FcγRs recognize their ligands IgG complex), macrophages which is made up of ILC1 and NK cells. Both of these pro- become activated and produce IL-10, TNF-α, and IL-6. These duce proinflammatory and type 1 cytokines and induce cyto- cells do not produce arginase but induce T cells to produce toxicity through the expression of perforin and granzymes. IL-4 (81,82). ii) Group II, which consists of ILCs2, is characterized by the 38 Section I. Introduction to immunology and molecular biology production of type-2 cytokines and is present in the mesen- infected by viruses) or malignant cells in which expression teric fat-associated lymph clusters, mesenteric lymph nodes, of MHC molecules has decreased, is altered or abolished. spleen, liver, intestines, and Peyers’ patches. Group II plays a NK cells have the ability to distinguish the normal host cells role in the antihelminthic response and allergic lung inflam- through the killer cell immunoglobulin-like receptor (KIR) and mation. iii) Group III, is composed of ILCs3 and lymphoid tis- CD94-NKG2A inhibitory receptors which recognize the MHC sue-inducer (LTi) cells. ILCs3 express the NK cell activating re- class I expressed on the surface of these normal cells (88,87). ceptor NKp46 but lack cytotoxic effects and do not produce The binding of these receptors inhibits lysis and cytokine type-1 cytokines. These ILC3 cells reside in mucosal tissue and secretion by NK cells (89). In addition, NK cells have granules appear to play a crucial role in mediating the delicate balance with perforins and granzymes that act on target cells inducing between symbiotic microbiota and the intestinal immune lysis or apoptosis and also express PRRs including TLR-2, -3, system. LTI cells produce IL-17 and IL-22 and express mole- -4, -5, -7, and -8 (90,91). Once activated, NK cells secrete IFN-γ, cules required for the development of lymphoid tissue. Sub- TNF-α growth factors, IL-5, IL-10, IL-13, and chemokines (92-94). sequently they appear to be involved in the generation of lymph nodes and Peyers’ patches (86). Note that disruption EPITHELIAL AND ENDOTHELIAL CELLS of the intestinal homeostasis maintained by these ILC cells is associated with the development of inflammatory bowel dis- In addition to acting as a physical barrier, epithelial and en- eases such as Crohn’s disease and ulcerative colitis (86). dothelial cells express PRRs on their surface that recognize pathogen-associated molecular patterns
