“This book attempts to organize the knowledge collected by those
KEYWORDS: cells, transcription, gene, complex, cell, protein, proteins, factors, expression, receptor, autoimmune, mrna, rnap, il-, immune


to acting as a physical barrier, epithelial and en- eases such as Crohn’s disease and ulcerative colitis (86). dothelial cells express PRRs on their surface that recognize pathogen-associated molecular patterns (PAMPs) from mi- croorganisms; secrete proinflammatory cytokines including NATURAL KILLER (NK) CELLS IL-1, IL-6, and IL-8; and release antimicrobial peptides (8). NK cells exhibit an immunomodulatory role in the cell-medi- Epithelial cells, mainly alveolar epithelial cells, are the most ated immune responses due their cytotoxic activity. They are studied innate immunity component so far. In addition to also involved in antimicrobial defense and in the immuno- providing an anatomic barrier that separates the organism logical surveillance by controlling tumoral growth and main- from the external environment, alveolar epithelium serves taining the immunological homeostasis (Figure 2). These cells as a defense mechanism against potential inhaled patho- employ a strategy known as “negative recognition.” While a T gens (58). This alveolar epithelium consists of two cell types: or B cell is activated after recognition of an antigen via MHC, alveolar type I and alveolar type II cells.The former is ~95% NK cells are activated when the antigen cannot be recognized of the alveolar epithelium and expresses TLR-4, a receptor the same way (87,88). NK cell receptors are “inhibitory recep- for lipopolysaccharides (LPS). It produces pro-inflammatory tors” in nature due to the fact that they keep the lytic activ- cytokines such as TNF-α, IL-6 and IL-1β in response to LPS ity of these cells suppressed since they detect the presence stimulation (57). Type II alveolar cells are~5% of the alveolar of MHC antigens. These cells detect infected cells (mainly epithelium and produce cytokines and chemokines including Interaction of NK cell with Interaction of NK Interaction of NK with infected cell target cell in the presence of with normal cells. that loss expresion of MHC-1 antibodies against MHC-I - Receptor Inhibitor Receptor activator + Ab anti-MHCI + Death MHC I Ligand Death MHC I Virus infected cells. Non MHC-I Healthy cell expression. Healthy cell Survival of healthy cells Death of virus infected cells, Ab-anti MHC-I prevents the interaction Inhibitor of MHC-I between inhibitor receptor and MHC-I Figure 2. Recognition mechanisms and cellular innate immune response: functional characteristics of NK cells. NK cells trigger their activa- tion once virus-infected or tumor cells suppress the expression of MHC molecules through the interaction of inhibitor or activator receptors with their respective ligands. Innate immune system. Chapter 2
