“This book attempts to organize the knowledge collected by those
KEYWORDS: cells, transcription, gene, complex, cell, protein, proteins, factors, expression, receptor, autoimmune, mrna, rnap, il-, immune


activa- tion once virus-infected or tumor cells suppress the expression of MHC molecules through the interaction of inhibitor or activator receptors with their respective ligands. Innate immune system. Chapter 2 39 TNF-α, IL-6, IL-1β, MCP-1, growth related oncogene alpha though peptidoglycan recognition proteins (PGLYRPs) are (GRO-α), and GM-CSF, etc.,in response to various stimuli such not included in this classification, they are also recognized as as bacteria and viruses. Moreover, these cells also produce PRRs and are thought to be important for bacterial infections. surfactant proteins which enhance chemotaxis and phago- cystosis (58). Both type I and type II alveolar epithelial cells PRRS AND THE EPIDERMAL CHEMICAL BARRIER are important players in the innate immune response. In addition to establishing a formidable physical barrier, keratinocytes are the major producers of antimicrobial PLATELETS peptides (AMPs). AMPs serve as a chemical defense against Platelets are recognized by their participation in the coag- cutaneous pathogens and are increasingly recognized ulation process, control of bleeding, and defense against for their effects on wound repair. The classical human infectious agents (95,96). These cells express PRRs on their AMPs are LL-37 (a cathelicidin) and the β-defensin family. surface and produce cytokines and chemotactic molecules A number of other proteins produced by keratinocytes– to recruit leukocytes at the inflammatory site. Platelets including ribonucleases (RNases), S100 family proteins (e.g., interact with leukocytes and endothelial cells through the S100A7, S100A8, and S100A9), dermcidin, and regenerat- expression of the adhesion molecule, P-selectin, which ing islet-derived protein 3a (REG3a)– are also recognized media tes proinflammatory events (95). for their antimicrobial properties (99,100). Human kerati- nocytes constitutively express human β-defensin (HBD) 1, whereas HBD2, HBD3, and LL-37 are produced in response CHARACTERISTICS OF THE INNATE to inflammatory cytokines or PRR signaling (18,101,102). RNase7 has extensive antimicrobial properties and is con- IMMUNE SYSTEM AND stitutively expressed by human keratinocytes, but this is ITS RECOGNITION MECHANISMS further enhanced by inflammation or bacterial exposure (103). Psoriasin (S100A7) is produced by differentiated ke- Innate immune response is characterized by its ability to dis- ratinocytes and is most highly expressed around hair fol- tinguish structural components from microbial pathogens, licles and sebaceous units. Its expression is enhanced by which are present only in these microorganisms and are IL-1, TNF-α, IL-17A, and IL-22 and repressed by IL-4 and his- absent in the normal host cells. This recognition process is tamine (104,105). Keratinocytes also express S100A8 and mediated by a
