“This book attempts to organize the knowledge collected by those
KEYWORDS: cells, transcription, gene, complex, cell, protein, proteins, factors, expression, receptor, autoimmune, mrna, rnap, il-, immune


TNF-α, IL-17A, and IL-22 and repressed by IL-4 and his- absent in the normal host cells. This recognition process is tamine (104,105). Keratinocytes also express S100A8 and mediated by a variety of proteins present in the host cells S100A9, which can exist as monomers or heterodimers such as the PRRs, which have already been mentioned (3,96). (calpro- tectin) (106). Dermcidin is constitutively produced PRRs are germ-line encoded and do not show variability in by eccrine sweat glands with extensive antimicrobial activ- comparison to the receptors involved in adaptive immunity. ity (107). Its proinflammatory actions induce the epider- This characteristic indicates that innate immunity may iden- mal production of cytokines and chemokines (62). REG3a tify clusters of microorganisms while adaptive immunity may is produced in response to wounding or IL-17A exposure distinguish between different antigens from one microor- and, not surprisingly, is highly expressed in psoriatic skin le- ganism, which indicates that innate immunity is not specific. sions (100). Lastly, filaggrin is proteolytically cleaved into the Another characteristic is that the innate immune response hygroscopic amino acids, urocanic acid, and pyrrolidone does not generate immunological memory after the recogni- carboxylic acid, which are referred to as natural moisturiz- tion of the pathogen while adaptive immunity does (3). PRRs ing factors. This is an example of an alteration in the physi- are evolutionarily conserved receptors that detect relatively cal barrier that directly affects the chemical barrier. invariant molecular patterns found in most microbial agents, In addition to their antimicrobial activities, AMPs have the PAMPs. PRRs not only recognize PAMPs from invading been found to play a role in physical barrier repair. The pathogens but also have the ability to sense inflammatory novel AMP REG3a enhances wound repair, at least in part, components, also called damage-associated molecular pat- by inducing keratinocyte proliferation and differentiation terns (DAMPs), released from damaged cells. PRRs include (100). Not surprisingly, a number of PRRs are induced in TLRs, NOD-like receptors (NLRs), C-type lectin receptors response to wounding. For example, the expression of (CLRs), and RIG-I-like receptors (RLRs) (97). Nonetheless, in CD14 and TLR2 rise along the edge of the wound after an spite of the microbial recognition by innate cells, several mi- injury to the skin (108). This expression is dependent on croorganisms have developed evasion mechanisms to avoid the CYP27B1 enzyme, which converts 25-hydroxyvitamin recognition by these receptors. D to the active 1.25 dihydroxy vitamin D form.
