“This book attempts to organize the knowledge collected by those
KEYWORDS: cells, transcription, gene, complex, cell, protein, proteins, factors, expression, receptor, autoimmune, mrna, rnap, il-, immune


expression is dependent on croorganisms have developed evasion mechanisms to avoid the CYP27B1 enzyme, which converts 25-hydroxyvitamin recognition by these receptors. D to the active 1.25 dihydroxy vitamin D form. This high- lights a role for vitamin D in innate immune responses ob- PATTERN RECOGNITION RECEPTORS served at sites of wounding and suggests that therapeutic approaches that increase vitamin D levels might enhance PRRs have been divided into 4 subclasses: TLRs, NOD-like the host’s innate immune response and help repair wounds. receptors (NLRs), retinoic acid–inducible gene (RIG)–like re- PRRs are located on the surface and/or in the cytoplasm ceptors (RLRs), and C-type lectin receptors (CLRs) (98). Al- of virtually all nucleated cells. Nonetheless, there is a small 40 Section I. Introduction to immunology and molecular biology PRR PAMP RECOGNITION FUNCTION TLRs Expressed on cell surface Lipopetides, LPS, flagellin, LTA, OxLDL, Induce synthesis and secretion of cytokines TLR-1, -2, -4, -5, -6 β-amyloid Expressed on cytoplasm dsRNA, ssRNA, CpG DNA Induce synthesis and secretion of cytokines TLR-3, -7, -8, -9, -10 CLRs Expressed on cell surface Dectin-1 β-glucan Phagocytosis and cell activation Dectin-2 Mannose, α-mannan Phagocytosis and cell activation MR N-linked mannan Phagocytosis and cell activation DC-SIGN Mannan Phagocytosis and cell activation Gal-3 β-mannosides Complement activation, lysis, and opsonization Secreted Collectins Mannan Complement activation, lysis, and opsonization MBL Microbial carbohydrates Complement activation, lysis, and opsonization Ficollins-1, -2, -3 Oligosaccharides Opsonization SP-A, -D NLRs NODs Peptidoglycans and DAMPs Induce synthesis and secretion of cytokines NLRPs RLRs RLRs dsRNA Induce synthesis and secretion of IFN and viral clearance Table 2. Pattern recognition receptors, their ligands and functions. TLR: Toll-like receptor; NLR: Nod-like receptor; CLR: C-type lectin receptor; RLR: RIG-I-like receptor; MR: Mannose receptor; DC-SIGN: Dendritic cell-specific intercellular adhesion molecule-3-grabbing non-integrin; Gal: Galectin; MBL: Mannose-binding lectin; SP: Surfactant protein; CRP: C-reactive protein; PTX3: Pentraxin 3; LPS: Lipopolysaccharide; LTA: lipoteicoic acid; OxLDL: oxidized low density lipoprotein; dsRNA: double-stranded RNA; ssRNA: single-stranded RNA; DAMPs: Damage-associated molecular patterns. group of PRR molecules that can be secreted and act as a TIR domain-containing adaptor proteins. Several adaptor pro- bridge between the microbial or cell target and host cells. teins that participate in TLR-mediated mechanisms have been PRRs include the TLRs, CLRs, NLRs, and RLRs (Table 2). described.These molecules include the myeloid differentiation primary-response protein 88 (MyD88), Toll/interleukin-1 recep- tor (TIR) domain-containing adaptor protein (TIRAP), MyD88- TOLL-LIKE RECEPTORS adaptor-like protein (Mal), TIR domain-containing adaptor-in- To date, 10 TLRs have
