“This book attempts to organize the knowledge collected by those
KEYWORDS: cells, transcription, gene, complex, cell, protein, proteins, factors, expression, receptor, autoimmune, mrna, rnap, il-, immune


include the myeloid differentiation primary-response protein 88 (MyD88), Toll/interleukin-1 recep- tor (TIR) domain-containing adaptor protein (TIRAP), MyD88- TOLL-LIKE RECEPTORS adaptor-like protein (Mal), TIR domain-containing adaptor-in- To date, 10 TLRs have been identified in humans (TLR1-10) cluding interferon-β (TRIF), and TRIF-related adaptor molecule and 12 in mice (TLR1-9 and TLR11-13) (109,110) (see Chapter (TRAM). These adaptors mediate the activation of transcription 3). TLRs 1, 2, 4, 5, and 6 are expressed on the cell surface, while factors such as the nuclear factor- κB (NF- κB) and the interfer- TLRs 3, 7, 8, 9, and 10 are found at the cytoplasm level. The on regulatory factor (IRF), which, in turn, induce the expression main interactions of TLRs and their ligands are the following: of inflammatory and anti-inflammatory cytokine and chemok- TLR1/TLR2 recognize triacylated lipopetides, TLR3 binds dou- ine genes (111,112). Note that TLR polymorphisms have been ble-strand (dsRNA), TLR4 recognizes LPS, TLR5 binds flagellin, said to be associated with an increased risk of developing viral TLR2/TLR6 bind diacylated lipopetides and lipoteichoic acid and fungal infections (113,114). (LTA), TLR4/TLR6 recognize oxidized lipids (OxLDL) and β-amy- loid, TLR7 and TLR8 sense single-strand (ssRNA), and TLR9 rec- C-TYPE LECTIN RECEPTORS (CLRS) ognizes unmethylated CpG DNA and hemozoin (110) (Table 2). TLRs are composed of 1) a leucin-rich repeat (LRR) CLRs are considered the other major PRR family. These domain that is usually involved in ligand binding and microbial PRRs recognize not only sugar moieties from bacteria and sensing and 2) a cytoplasmic domain known as the Toll/inter- fungi but also molecules associated with dead or dying cells leukin-1 receptor (TIR). Thus, after a TLR binds to its ligand, an (97). This family consists of two groups, those present on the activation process is initiated through a signaling pathway via cell membrane and the soluble forms, which are secreted Innate immune system. Chapter 2 41 mainly by immune cells. Membrane CLRs include Dectin- class of pathogens. PAMPs include a variety of molecules 1, which recognizes β-glucans present in the fungal cells; recognized mainly by PRRs. The most characteristic PAMP Dectin-2, which recognizes both high-mannose structures molecules are: LPS, an endotoxin found in the Gram nega- and α-mannan; mannose receptors (MR) that recognize tive bacterial membranes, lipoteichoic acid from Gram pos- N-linked mannan; DC-SIGN (a receptor on the dendritic itive bacteria, bacterial flagellin, peptidoglycan, ssRNA and cells), which also recognizes mannan; and galectin-3, which dsRNA from viruses,
