“This book attempts to organize the knowledge collected by those
KEYWORDS: cells, transcription, gene, complex, cell, protein, proteins, factors, expression, receptor, autoimmune, mrna, rnap, il-, immune


acid from Gram pos- N-linked mannan; DC-SIGN (a receptor on the dendritic itive bacteria, bacterial flagellin, peptidoglycan, ssRNA and cells), which also recognizes mannan; and galectin-3, which dsRNA from viruses, unmethylated DNA (CpG motifs), man- recognizes β-mannosides (115). It is noteworthy that several nose present on yeast surfaces, and β-glucans present on of these membrane CLRs, including Dectin-1, DC-SIGN and the fungal cell wall, etc. (3) (Table 2). galectin-3, have been identified as TLR2 co-receptors (115). DAMAGE-ASSOCIATED MOLECULAR PATTERNS (DAMPS) The soluble CLRs are divided into two groups as follows: i) Collectins. These PRRs are proteins that are structurally Besides recognition of microbial PAMPs, the immune system similar to collagen. They bind carbohydrates present on the has the ability to sense other signals associated with infec- microbial cell wall. These soluble molecules act as opsonins, tion or tissue damage, including host components released and in addition, they induce lysis of target cells and act as che- from infected, damaged, or necrotic cells, which, in turn, are moattracting molecules for leukocytes through complement able to activate and amplify the immune response. These activation. Collectins include MBL, which recognizes mannan, components are called damage-associated molecular pat- surfactant proteins (SP) that sense oligosaccharides, and terns (DAMPS) or alarmins. These inflammatory compo- ficollins 1, 2 and 3 that bind microbial carbohydrates (3). nents liberated from damaged cells include nucleic acids, ii) Pentraxins. These proteins are highly conserved intracellular proteins, extracellular matrix components, through evolution and are characterized as having a domain oxidized lipids, crystals such as uric acids, silica, β-amyloid, with five subunits of 200 aminoacids searching the C-terminal and cholesterol (97,117). One of the differences between region. This group of CLRs includes C-reactive protein (CRP), PMAPs and DAMPs is that the former stimulate the synthesis serum amyloid P component, and pentraxin 3 (PTX3). These of pro-IL-1β, but not its secretion while the latter stimulates soluble molecules are secreted by macrophages and DC the assembly of inflammasome with subsequent activation after activation via TLRs and proinflammatory cytokines (116). of caspase-1. This, in turn, cleaves pro-IL-1β into IL-1β thus allowing its secretion (117). Sensing these endogenous li- gands by the corresponding PRRs induce persistent inflam- NOD-LIKE RECEPTORS (NLRS) mation, a phenomenon associated with the development of The nucleotide-binding oligomerization domain (NOD) recep- chronic inflammatory and autoimmune diseases (97). tors (NLRs) are intracellular PRRs that sense bacterial compo- nents including peptidoglycans, which are directly introduced into
