“This book attempts to organize the knowledge collected by those
KEYWORDS: cells, transcription, gene, complex, cell, protein, proteins, factors, expression, receptor, autoimmune, mrna, rnap, il-, immune


of The nucleotide-binding oligomerization domain (NOD) recep- chronic inflammatory and autoimmune diseases (97). tors (NLRs) are intracellular PRRs that sense bacterial compo- nents including peptidoglycans, which are directly introduced into the cytoplasm (3,4,96). NLRs include several family mem- INFLAMMATION bers such as NODs (NOD 1-4), NLRPs (NLRP 1-14), and IPAF. AND INFLAMMASOME These molecules are regulators of immunity in response to a variety of pathogens (117). NLRs in concur with the AIM2 pro- INFLAMMATION tein, the adaptor protein ASC, and caspase-1 constitute the inflammasome (97). NOD expression is regulated by IFN-γ Inflammation is a nonspecific mechanism generated by and TNF-α, and polymorphisms in NOD2 gene influence the the host in response to an infectious, physical, or chemical risk of acquiring Crohn’s disease (79). injury with recruitment of peripheral blood leukocytes and plasma proteins to the site of injury or tissue damage. In this process, there is an increase in both blood flow and RIG-LIKE RECEPTORS (RLRS) vascular permeability, mainly in the vascular endothelial at Retinoic acid inducible gen-I (RIG)-like receptor (RLRs) is an the local level. Vascular permeability is a consequence of intracellular protein able to sense viral dsRNA during viral the endothelial cell retraction to allow the transmigration replication. RIG-I consists of two N-terminal caspase recruit- of leukocytes and the ingress of plasmatic proteins such as ment domains (CARD) and a RNA helicase domain. After complement, coagulation factors, and antibodies, etc. (118). interaction with its ligand, this receptor induces the produc- After an injury, there is tissue damage with the release tion of antiviral cytokines such as IFNs and thus modulates of components by epithelial or endothelial cells as well as by the anti-viral immune response (3,4,117,96). cells present in that tissue such as mast cells or ILCs. These substances include histamine, leukotrienes, extracellular matrix components, and pro-inflammatory cytokines and PATHOGEN–ASSOCIATED MOLECULAR PATTERNS (PAMPS) chemokines, all of which have the ability to induce chemo- PAMPs are polysaccharides and polynucleotides in nature taxis and cell adhesion molecule (CAM) expression in both and they are shared by several groups of pathogens. These endothelium and leucocytes. These CAMs include selectins, molecules are conserved at the molecular level within a integrins, immunoglobuline-like superfamily molecules and 42 Section I. Introduction to immunology and molecular biology cadherins. Expression of these CAMs allows interaction the inflammation process, and they participate in the inter- between leukocytes and endothelium and the subsequent actions of the cells involved in
