“This book attempts to organize the knowledge collected by those
KEYWORDS: cells, transcription, gene, complex, cell, protein, proteins, factors, expression, receptor, autoimmune, mrna, rnap, il-, immune


biology cadherins. Expression of these CAMs allows interaction the inflammation process, and they participate in the inter- between leukocytes and endothelium and the subsequent actions of the cells involved in not only the innate immune leukocyte transmigration at the site of the injury. In the response but also the establishment of acquired immunity. latter process, cells are guided by chemoattractant stim- Proinflammatory cytokines participate during the activation uli (Figure 3). The cell migration process is complex and and effector phases of the innate immune response. These depends on cell type as well as on the differentiation and cytokines include TNF-α, IL-1, and type I IFNs. Nonetheless, acti vation state of the cells (118). As was mentioned, the first other cytokines are also important during the establishment cells recruited at the site of the injury are neutrophils. They of the innate immune response (Table 3). Functions and are also the most abundant during the first hours or days of characteristics of these cytokines are extensively described the inflammation process followed by mononuclear cells. If in Chapter 9. the inflammatory reaction cannot be resolved, this process may become chronic with other implications for the host. INFLAMMASOME During the inflammation process, there is another im- portant event known as phagocytosis. Phagocytosis is consid- Inflammasome is a complex of proteins consisting of ered one of the most important processes during the innate caspase-1, ASC (a CARD-containing adaptor), and NLRs. Once immune response. Once phagocytes arrive at the infectious these are activated, they cleave the pro-IL-1β and pro-IL-18 site, they ingest microbial pathogens in vacuoles called pha- with subsequent maturation and secretion of these cytokines. gosomes. Here, after activation, these microorganisms are Inflammasome activation is required for many inflammato- destroyed and then presented to lymphocytes via MHC. The ry processes. In addition to the initial recognition of PAMPs microbicidal mechanisms included are, therefore, oxygen-de- or DAMPS by TLRs or CLRs, recognition by intracytoplasmic pendent and -independent as described previously (5,119). NLRs is necessary. Inflammasome may be also activated by The phagocytic process is mediated by the cytoskeleton ROS, lysosomal damage, and cytosolic K+ efflux at the intra- of the phagocytic cells as well as by endocytic and signaling cellular level (110,117). Several members of the NLR family are receptors (96). These receptors, mainly PRRs present on cell involved in the assembly of inflammasome. These molecules surfaces, bind microbial PAMPs, and this interaction usually include NLRP3,
