“This book attempts to organize the knowledge collected by those
KEYWORDS: cells, transcription, gene, complex, cell, protein, proteins, factors, expression, receptor, autoimmune, mrna, rnap, il-, immune


NLR family are receptors (96). These receptors, mainly PRRs present on cell involved in the assembly of inflammasome. These molecules surfaces, bind microbial PAMPs, and this interaction usually include NLRP3, NLRP1, NLRP6, and IPAF (NLRC4). Moreover, generates an intracellular signal which, in turn, allows the the AIM2 protein, a non-NLR that is identified as a PYHIN (pyrin synthesis and release of proinflammatory cytokines and and HIN domain-containing protein) family member, is also in- other effector molecules (3). volved in the inflammasome activation (117). Proinflammatory cytokines play an important role during Figure 3. Recruiting phagocytes into the inflammation site and phagocy- tosis. Phagocyte recruitment involves several phases including: i) marginaliza- tion, which decrease leukocyte traffic with a subsequent endothelium ap- proach; ii)adhesion, a process that de- pends on adhesion expression in both Adhesion Diapedesis endothelium and phagocyte cells and thus facilitates adhesion of the leuko- cytes to the endothelium; iii) diapede- Margination sis, this process involves the extravasa- tions or passage of leukocytes through the endothelium to the infected t issue or inflammation site; iv) chemo- Chemotaxis taxis, gradients of chemotactic stimuli (mainly chemokines and anaphylatox- ins) allow leukocytes to reach the site of infection; and v) once at the site of infection, phagocytes can sense micro- bial pathogens or immune complexes Phagocytosis through patter recognition receptors (PRRs) present on their own surface and start the phagocytosis process. Innate immune system. Chapter 2 43 CYTOKINE CELLULAR SOURCE FUNCTION Activates endothelial cells and neutrophils TNF-α Macrophages and T cells Induces fever and synthesis of acute phase proteins Activate NK cells Type I Interferons (IFN-α, IFN-β) Macrophages and fibroblasts Induce expression of MHC-I Activates endothelial cells and neutrophils IL-1 Macrophages and endothelial cells Induces fever and synthesis of acute phase proteins Induces synthesis of acute phase proteins IL-6 Macrophages, endothelial and T cells Induces proliferation of B cells and antibody production Induce proliferation of B cells IL-10 Macrophages and Th2 cells Inhibits proinflammatory cytokine production and MHC-II expression Activates NK and T cells Induces synthesis of IFN-γ IL-12 Macrophages and dendritic cells Increases cytolytic activity Induces differentiation of T cells toward Th1 cells IL-15 Macrophages Induces NK and T cell proliferation Activates NK and T cells IL-18 Macrophages Induces IFN-g synthesis Chemokines Macrophages, endothelial and T cells Induce chemotaxis and cell activation Table 3. Cytokines of innate immunity. NK: natural killer; MHC: major histocompatibility complex.
