Pericarditis
KEYWORDS: pericarditis, pericardial, cardiac, acute, constrictive pericarditis, tamponade, constrictive, effusion, patients, pressure, cause, acute pericarditis, usually, ventricular, fluid


sound (pericardial knock), often best heard during inspiration. This sound is due to abrupt slowing of diastolic ventricular filling by the rigid pericardium. AUDIO Diastolic Knock Ventricular systolic function (based on ejection fraction) is usually preserved. Prolonged elevation of pulmonary venous pressure results in dyspnea (particularly during exertion) and orthopnea. Fatigue may be severe. Distention of neck veins with a rise in venous pressure during inspiration (Kussmaul sign) is present; it is absent in tamponade. Pulsus paradoxus is rare and is usually less severe than in tamponade. Lungs are not congested unless severe left ventricular constriction develops. Diagnosis of Pericarditis Electrocardiography (ECG) and chest radiograph Echocardiography Tests to identify cause (eg, pericardial fluid aspiration, pericardial biopsy) ECG and chest radiograph are done. Echocardiography is done to check for effusion, cardiac filling abnormalities that may suggest cardiac tamponade, and wall motion abnormalities characteristic of myocardial involvement. Blood tests may detect leukocytosis and elevated markers of inflammation (eg, C-reactive protein, erythrocyte sedimentation rate), which may be used to guide duration of therapy. Acute pericarditis The diagnosis is based on the presence of the following clinical findings and ECG abnormalities (1); these findings are not present in all cases. Characteristic chest pain Pericardial rub ECG abnormalities Pericardial effusion Serial ECGs may be needed to show abnormalities. The ECG in acute pericarditis may show abnormalities confined to ST and PR segments and T waves, usually in most leads. (ECG changes in lead aVR are generally in the opposite direction of other leads.) Unlike MI, acute pericarditis does not cause 8/21 reciprocal depression in ST segments (except in leads aVR and V1), and there are no pathologic Q waves. ECG changes in pericarditis can occur in 4 stages although not all stages are present in all cases. Stage 1: ST segments show upward concave elevation; the PR segments may be depressed (see figure Acute Pericarditis: Stage 1 ECG). Stage 2: ST segments return to baseline; T waves flatten. Stage 3: T waves are inverted throughout the ECG; T wave–inversion occurs after the ST segment has returned to baseline and thus differs from the pattern of acute ischemia or MI. Stage 4: T wave changes resolve. Echocardiography in acute pericarditis typically shows an effusion, which helps confirm the diagnosis, except in patients with purely fibrinous acute pericarditis in whom echocardiography is often normal. Findings indicating myocardial involvement include new focal or diffuse left ventricular dysfunction. Cardiac
