Pericarditis
KEYWORDS: pericarditis, pericardial, cardiac, acute, constrictive pericarditis, tamponade, constrictive, effusion, patients, pressure, cause, acute pericarditis, usually, ventricular, fluid


confirm the diagnosis, except in patients with purely fibrinous acute pericarditis in whom echocardiography is often normal. Findings indicating myocardial involvement include new focal or diffuse left ventricular dysfunction. Cardiac MRI can detect the presence, severity, and acuity of pericardial inflammation but is generally not required to diagnose acute pericarditis. MRI can identify extension of inflammation into the subjacent myocardium (myopericarditis), which occurs in up to 15 to 24% of cases. Unlike perimyocarditis (isolated or prevalent myocarditis), there is no identified adverse long-term outcome (2). Acute Pericarditis: Stage 1 ECG J points, except aVR and V , are elevated. T waves are essentially normal. ST segments show 1 upward concave elevation. PR segments, except aVR and V , are depressed. PR deviations are 1 commonly absent in one limb lead (here, aVL). Because the pain of pericarditis may resemble that of acute MI or pulmonary infarction, additional tests (eg, serum cardiac biomarker measurement, lung scan) may be required if the history and ECG findings are atypical for pericarditis. Troponin is often elevated in acute pericarditis due to epicardial 9/21 inflammation, so it cannot discriminate between pericarditis, acute infarction, and pulmonary embolism. Very high levels of troponin may indicate myopericarditis. The CK-MB (creatine kinase muscle band isoenzyme) level, which is less sensitive than the troponin level, is usually normal in acute pericarditis unless myocarditis is also present. Postpericardiotomy and post-MI syndromes may be difficult to identify and must be distinguished from recent MI, pulmonary embolism, and pericardial infection after surgery. Pain, friction rub, and fever appearing 2 weeks to several months after surgery and a rapid response to aspirin, nonsteroidal anti- inflammatory drugs (NSAIDs), colchicine, or corticosteroids aids diagnosis. Pericardial effusion Diagnosis is suggested by clinical findings but often is suspected only after finding an enlarged cardiac silhouette on chest radiograph. On ECG, QRS voltage is often decreased, and sinus rhythm remains in most patients. With large, chronic effusions, the ECG may show electrical alternans (ie, P, QRS, or T wave amplitude increases and decreases on alternate beats). Electrical alternans is associated with variation in cardiac position (swinging heart). Chest Radiograph of a Patient with Pericardial Effusion IMAGE © 2017 ELLIOT K. FISHMAN, MD. Echocardiography estimates the volume of pericardial fluid; identifies cardiac tamponade, sometimes acute myocarditis, and/or heart failure; and may suggest the cause of pericarditis. Although CT can detect a pericardial effusion (often incidentally on a scan done for
