Pericarditis
KEYWORDS: pericarditis, pericardial, cardiac, acute, constrictive pericarditis, tamponade, constrictive, effusion, patients, pressure, cause, acute pericarditis, usually, ventricular, fluid


identifies cardiac tamponade, sometimes acute myocarditis, and/or heart failure; and may suggest the cause of pericarditis. Although CT can detect a pericardial effusion (often incidentally on a scan done for other conditions), it may overestimate its size and is not a first-line test to evaluate possible pericardial effusion. Patients with a normal ECG, small (< 1 cm on echocardiogram, or 100 mL) effusion, and no suspicious findings from the history and examination may be observed with serial examination and echocardiography. Other patients must be evaluated further to determine etiology. 10/21 Constrictive pericarditis Diagnosis may be suspected based on clinical, ECG, chest x-ray, and Doppler echocardiography findings, but cardiac catheterization and CT (or MRI) are often required. Rarely, right heart biopsy is needed to exclude restrictive cardiomyopathy. ECG changes are nonspecific. QRS voltage is usually low. T waves are usually nonspecifically abnormal. Atrial fibrillation occurs in about one third of patients; atrial flutter is less common. Lateral chest x-ray often shows pericardial calcification best, but the finding is nonspecific. Chest Radiograph of a Patient with Constrictive Pericarditis IMAGE © 2017 ELLIOT K. FISHMAN, MD. Echocardiography also is nonspecific. When the right and left ventricular filling pressures are equally elevated, Doppler echocardiography helps distinguish constrictive pericarditis from restrictive cardiomyopathy. During inspiration, mitral diastolic flow velocity usually falls > 25% in constrictive pericarditis but < 15% in restrictive cardiomyopathy. In constrictive pericarditis, inspiratory tricuspid flow velocity increases more than it normally does, but it does not do so in restrictive cardiomyopathy. Determining tissue velocities at the mitral annulus may be helpful when excessively high left atrial pressure blunts respiratory variation in transvalvular velocities. Mitral annular velocities (especially at the septal location) increase in constrictive pericarditis; they decrease in restrictive cardiomyopathy. Presence of a septal bounce (shift of the interventricular septum towards the left ventricle during inspiration and away from the left ventricle during expiration) and hepatic vein expiratory diastolic flow reversal (which occurs due to a dissociation of intracardiac and intrathoracic pressures and enhanced ventricular interaction) can also be visible in constrictive pericarditis. 11/21 Respiration-related ventricular septal shift, preserved or increased medial annular velocity, and hepatic vein expiratory diastolic flow reversal collectively are referred to as the Mayo criteria, but each factor is independently associated with constrictive pericarditis (3). Cardiac catheterization, right and left sided, is done if clinical and echocardiographic findings suggest constrictive pericarditis. Cardiac catheterization helps confirm and quantify the abnormal
