Pericarditis
KEYWORDS: pericarditis, pericardial, cardiac, acute, constrictive pericarditis, tamponade, constrictive, effusion, patients, pressure, cause, acute pericarditis, usually, ventricular, fluid


independently associated with constrictive pericarditis (3). Cardiac catheterization, right and left sided, is done if clinical and echocardiographic findings suggest constrictive pericarditis. Cardiac catheterization helps confirm and quantify the abnormal hemodynamics that define constrictive pericarditis: Mean pulmonary artery occlusion pressure (pulmonary capillary wedge pressure), pulmonary artery diastolic pressure, right ventricular end-diastolic pressure, and mean right atrial pressure are roughly equal, all at about 10 to 30 mm Hg. The pulmonary artery and right ventricular systolic pressures are normal or modestly elevated, so that pulse pressures are small. In the atrial pressure curve, x and y descents are typically accentuated. In the ventricular pressure curve, a diastolic dip occurs at the time of rapid ventricular filling. During peak inspiration, right ventricular pressure increases when left ventricular pressure is lowest (sometimes called mirror-image discordance, suggesting increased ventricular interdependence). Because ventricular filling is restricted, ventricular pressure tracings show a sudden dip followed by a plateau (resembling a square root sign) in early diastole. Measuring these changes requires simultaneous right and left heart cardiac catheterization, using separate transducers. These hemodynamic changes almost always occur with significant constrictive pericarditis but may be masked during hypovolemia. Right ventricular systolic pressure of > 50 mm Hg often occurs in restrictive cardiomyopathy but less often in constrictive pericarditis. When the pulmonary artery occlusion pressure equals the right atrial mean pressure and an early diastolic dip in the ventricular pressure curve occurs with large x and y waves in the right atrial curve, either disorder may be present. CT or MRI can identify pericardial thickening > 5 mm. Pericardial thickening > 4-mm, with typical hemodynamic changes (assessed by echocardiography and catheterization), can confirm constrictive pericarditis (2). When no pericardial thickening or fluid is seen, the diagnosis of restrictive cardiomyopathy is favored but not proved. A normal pericardial thickness does not exclude constrictive pericarditis. Increased T2-weighted short TI inversion recovery (STIR) signal and late gadolinium enhancement on cardiac MRI can document active inflammation and resolution of constriction in response to anti- inflammatory therapy, whereas their absence suggests chronic constrictive pericarditis that is unlikely to be responsive to medical therapy. The degree of late gadolinium enhancement of the pericardium may be especially helpful in identifying patients in whom constriction will reverse or resolve. Cardiac tamponade Low voltage and electrical alternans on the ECG suggest cardiac tamponade, but these findings lack sensitivity and specificity (4). When tamponade is suspected, echocardiography is done
