Pericarditis
KEYWORDS: pericarditis, pericardial, cardiac, acute, constrictive pericarditis, tamponade, constrictive, effusion, patients, pressure, cause, acute pericarditis, usually, ventricular, fluid


or resolve. Cardiac tamponade Low voltage and electrical alternans on the ECG suggest cardiac tamponade, but these findings lack sensitivity and specificity (4). When tamponade is suspected, echocardiography is done unless even a brief delay might be life threatening. Then pericardiocentesis is done immediately for diagnosis and treatment. Echocardiographic findings that support tamponade include the following (5): Respiratory variation of transvalvular and venous flows Compression or collapse of right cardiac chambers in the presence of a pericardial effusion Inferior vena caval plethora (decrease in the proximal vena caval diameter by < 50% during deep inspiration) However, cardiac tamponade is primarily a clinical diagnosis. Pearls & Pitfalls Significant cardiac tamponade is a clinical diagnosis; echocardiographic findings alone are not an indication for pericardiocentesis. If tamponade is suspected but not yet confirmed (eg, by clinical findings and echocardiography), right heart (Swan-Ganz) catheterization may be done. In cardiac tamponade: 13/21 There is no early diastolic dip in the ventricular pressure record. Diastolic pressures are elevated (about 10 to 30 mm Hg) and equal in all cardiac chambers and in the pulmonary artery. In the atrial pressure curve, x descent is preserved and y descent is lost. In contrast, in severe congestive states due to dilated cardiomyopathy, pulmonary artery occlusion or left ventricular diastolic pressure usually exceeds right atrial mean pressure and right ventricular diastolic pressure by ≥ 4 mm Hg. Right heart catheterization should be considered particularly when draining an effusion, not only to confirm tamponade, but also to uncover possible constrictive pericarditis with effusion. Diagnosis of cause After pericarditis is diagnosed, tests to determine etiology and the effect on cardiac function are done. In a young, previously healthy adult who presents with a viral infection and acute pericarditis, an extensive evaluation is usually unnecessary. Differentiating viral from idiopathic pericarditis is difficult, can involve extensive testing, and generally of little practical importance. In other cases, a biopsy of pericardial tissue or aspiration of pericardial fluid may be needed to establish a diagnosis. Acid-fast stains and cultures of pericardial fluid are essential if tuberculosis (TB) is considered possible (TB pericarditis can be aggressive and can worsen rapidly with corticosteroid therapy). Samples are examined for malignant cells. Persistent (usually > 3 months) or progressive effusion, particularly when the etiology is uncertain, also warrants pericardiocentesis. The choice between needle pericardiocentesis and surgical drainage depends on institutional resources and physician experience, the etiology of the effusion, the
