Pericarditis
KEYWORDS: pericarditis, pericardial, cardiac, acute, constrictive pericarditis, tamponade, constrictive, effusion, patients, pressure, cause, acute pericarditis, usually, ventricular, fluid


by transthoracic echocardiogram. Am J Cardiol 111(7):1062–1066, 2013. doi:10.1016/j.amjcard.2012.11.064 5. Klein AL, Abbara S, Agler DA, et al: American Society of Echocardiography clinical recommendations for multimodality cardiovascular imaging of patients with pericardial disease: endorsed by the Society for Cardiovascular Magnetic Resonance and Society of Cardiovascular Computed Tomography. J Am Soc Echocardiogr 26(9):965–1012.e15, 2013. doi: 10.1016/j.echo.2013.06.023 Treatment of Pericarditis Nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs (NSAIDs), colchicine, and, infrequently, corticosteroids for pain and inflammation. Pericardiocentesis for tamponade and some large effusions Sometimes intrapericardial medications (eg, triamcinolone) Sometimes pericardial resection for constrictive pericarditis, particularly when symptomatic Treatment of underlying cause (eg, cancer) Treatment guidelines are available from the Task Force for the Diagnosis and Management of Pericardial Diseases of the European Society of Cardiology (1). Hospitalization is warranted for some patients with an initial episode of acute pericarditis, particularly those with moderate or large effusions or with high-risk features, such as elevated temperature, subacute onset, immunosuppression, recent trauma, oral anticoagulant therapy, failure to respond to an initial course of aspirin or NSAIDs, and myopericarditis. Hospitalization is needed to determine etiology and to observe for the development of cardiac tamponade. Close, early follow-up is important in patients who are not hospitalized. Possible causative medications (eg, anticoagulants, procainamide, phenytoin) are stopped. For cardiac tamponade, immediate pericardiocentesis (see figure Pericardiocentesis) is done; removal of even a small volume of fluid may be lifesaving. Pericardiocentesis Except in emergencies (eg, cardiac tamponade), pericardiocentesis, a potentially lethal procedure, should be done using echocardiographic guidance in a cardiac catheterization laboratory and should be supervised by a cardiologist or thoracic surgeon if possible. Resuscitation equipment must be at hand. IV sedation (eg, morphine 0.1 mg/kg or fentanyl 25 to 50 microgram plus midazolam 3 to 5 mg) is desirable. The patient should be recumbent, with the head elevated 30° from the horizontal. Under aseptic conditions, the skin and subcutaneous tissues are infiltrated with lidocaine. A 75-mm short-beveled, 16-gauge needle is attached via a 3-way stopcock to a 30- or 50-mL syringe. The pericardium may be entered via the right or left xiphocostal angle or from the tip of the xiphoid process with the needle directed inward, upward, and close to the chest wall. The needle is advanced with constant suction applied to the syringe. Echocardiography may be used to guide the needle as agitated saline is injected through it. Echocardiography is also increasingly used to identify the optimal puncture site and the needle
