Pericarditis
KEYWORDS: pericarditis, pericardial, cardiac, acute, constrictive pericarditis, tamponade, constrictive, effusion, patients, pressure, cause, acute pericarditis, usually, ventricular, fluid


syringe. Echocardiography may be used to guide the needle as agitated saline is injected through it. Echocardiography is also increasingly used to identify the optimal puncture site and the needle trajectory. Once in place, the needle should be clamped next to the skin to prevent it from entering further than necessary and possibly puncturing the heart or injuring a coronary vessel. ECG monitoring is essential for detecting arrhythmias produced when the myocardium is touched or punctured. As a rule, right atrial pressure and pulmonary artery occlusion pressure (pulmonary capillary wedge pressure) are monitored. Fluid is withdrawn until intrapericardial pressure falls below right atrial pressure, usually to subatmospheric levels. If continued drainage is needed, a plastic catheter may be passed through the needle into the pericardium and the needle withdrawn. The catheter may be removed when drainage is less than 25–50 mL/24 hours (usually 2–4 days). 17/21 Pain can usually be controlled with colchicine (eg, 0.5 or 0.6 to 1.0 or 1.2 mg), aspirin (325 to 650 mg orally every 4 to 6 hours), or other NSAIDs (eg, ibuprofen 600 to 800 mg orally every 6 to 8 hours) (1). A proton pump inhibitor should be considered to improve the gastric tolerability of NSAIDs. The intensity of therapy is dictated by the patient’s distress. Severe pain may require opioids. Risk of recurrence may be decreased with NSAID treatment if the duration of treatment is 3 to 4 weeks, but this approach has not been studied adequately. Colchicine 0.5 or 0.6 mg to 1 or 1.2 mg orally once a day for 3 months as an adjunct significantly decreases the recurrence rate and symptom persistence in patients with a first episode of acute pericarditis and is increasingly being used as first-line therapy (2). Although most mild cases of idiopathic and viral pericarditis respond well within a week, the optimal duration of treatment is unclear. Typically, patients should be treated at least until any effusion and evidence of inflammation (eg, elevated erythrocyte sedimentation rate or C-reactive protein levels) have resolved. Corticosteroids (eg, prednisone 60 to 80 mg orally once a day for 1 week, followed by rapid tapering of the dose) may be used in patients with specific indications (eg, systemic rheumatic disease, autoimmune or uremic pericarditis, failure to respond to colchicine or NSAIDs) but are not given routinely because they enhance viral multiplication and recurrence is common when the dosage is tapered;
