Pericarditis
KEYWORDS: pericarditis, pericardial, cardiac, acute, constrictive pericarditis, tamponade, constrictive, effusion, patients, pressure, cause, acute pericarditis, usually, ventricular, fluid


autoimmune or uremic pericarditis, failure to respond to colchicine or NSAIDs) but are not given routinely because they enhance viral multiplication and recurrence is common when the dosage is tapered; colchicine may be particularly useful during the corticosteroid taper. An alternative approach that may have a lower rate of recurrence is the use of prednisone at a lower dose (0.2 to 0.5 mg/kg 18/21 orally once a day) for 2 to 4 weeks followed by a slow taper over approximately 3 months. Tuberculous and pyogenic pericarditis should be excluded before corticosteroid therapy is initiated. Intrapericardial 2 instillation of triamcinolone 300 mg/m avoids systemic adverse effects and is highly effective but is typically reserved for patients with recurrent or refractory disease. Anticoagulants are usually contraindicated in acute pericarditis because they may cause intrapericardial bleeding and even fatal tamponade; however, they can be given in early pericarditis complicating acute MI. Uncommonly (eg, with chronic constrictive pericarditis), pericardial resection is required. Painful recurrences of acute pericarditis may respond to NSAIDs and/or colchicine 0.5 mg orally twice a day for 6 to 12 months with a gradual taper. If these medications do not suffice, corticosteroids may be tried, presuming the cause is not infectious. Refractory cases have been treated with interleukin-1 receptor antagonists (eg, anakinra, canakinumab, rilonacept [3]); however, infection should be ruled out first. Infections are treated with specific antimicrobials. Complete drainage is often necessary. In postpericardiotomy syndrome, post-MI syndrome, or idiopathic pericarditis, antibiotics are not indicated. An NSAID at full doses may control pain and effusion. When required to control pain, fever, and effusion, prednisone (eg, 20 to 60 mg orally once a day) may be given for 3 to 4 days. If the response is satisfactory, the dose is gradually reduced, and the medication may be stopped in 7 to 14 days. But sometimes many months of treatment are needed. Beginning on postoperative day 3, colchicine 1 mg orally once a day for 30 days, after a 2-mg load may reduce the incidence of postpericardiotomy syndrome after cardiac surgery. Aspirin should be used when pericarditis occurs in patients with an acute myocardial infarction. For pericarditis due to rheumatic fever, another systemic rheumatic disease, or tumor, therapy is directed at the underlying process. For pericardial effusion due to trauma, surgery is sometimes required to repair the injury and remove blood from the pericardium. Pericarditis due to uremia may respond to increased frequency
