Pericarditis
KEYWORDS: pericarditis, pericardial, cardiac, acute, constrictive pericarditis, tamponade, constrictive, effusion, patients, pressure, cause, acute pericarditis, usually, ventricular, fluid


process. For pericardial effusion due to trauma, surgery is sometimes required to repair the injury and remove blood from the pericardium. Pericarditis due to uremia may respond to increased frequency of hemodialysis, aspiration, or systemic or intrapericardial corticosteroids. Intrapericardial triamcinolone may be useful. Chronic effusions are best treated by treating the cause, if known. Recurrent or persistent symptomatic effusions may be treated with balloon pericardiotomy or a surgical pericardial window (4). Asymptomatic effusions of unknown cause may require only observation. Congestion in chronic constrictive pericarditis may be alleviated with salt restriction and diuretics. Digoxin is indicated only if atrial arrhythmias or ventricular systolic dysfunction is present. Patients with symptomatic constrictive pericarditis (eg, with dyspnea, unexplained weight gain, a new or increased pleural effusion, or ascites) and those with markers of chronic constriction (eg, cachexia, atrial fibrillation, hepatic dysfunction, pericardial calcification) usually require pericardial resection. However, patients with mild symptoms (because they derive little benefit), heavy calcification, or extensive myocardial damage may be poor surgical candidates. 19/21 The mortality rate for pericardial resection may approach 40% in patients with New York Heart Association (NYHA) functional class IV (see table New York Heart Association Classification of Heart Failure). Patients who have constrictive pericarditis due to irradiation or a systemic rheumatic disease are especially likely to have severe myocardial damage and may not benefit from pericardial resection. Patients with newly diagnosed constrictive pericarditis who are hemodynamically stable and without evidence of chronic constriction may be given a 3-month trial of anti-inflammatory medications, rather than pericardiectomy. Patients with pericardial inflammation on MRI may also benefit from a trial of pharmacotherapy first, rather than pericardiectomy. Measures that minimize the risk of developing constrictive pericarditis include the following (5): Timely guideline-based treatment of acute and recurrent pericarditis Complete drainage of infected pericardial effusions In patients undergoing pericardiotomy, prophylactic colchicine and drainage of postpericardiotomy pericardial effusions Treatment references 1. Adler Y, Charron P, Imazio M, et al: 2015 ESC Guidelines for the diagnosis and management of pericardial diseases: The Task Force for the Diagnosis and Management of Pericardial Diseases of the European Society of Cardiology (ESC). Endorsed by: The European Association for Cardio- Thoracic Surgery (EACTS). Eur Heart J 36(42):2921–2964, 2015. doi:10.1093/eurheartj/ehv318 2. Imazio M, Brucato A, Cemin R, et al: A randomized trial of colchicine for acute pericarditis. N Engl J Med 369(16):1522–1528, 2013. doi:10.1056/NEJMoa1208536 3. Abadie BQ, Cremer PC: Interleukin-1 Antagonists for the Treatment of
