Dynamic Effects of Acid on Barrett’s Esophagus
KEYWORDS: acid, cid, villin, cell, expression, culture, proliferation, villin expression, fig, exposure, cell proliferation, cells, tissue, esophagus, using


Dynamic Effects of Acid on Barrett’s Esophagus An Ex Vivo Proliferation and Differentiation Model R.C. Fitzgerald, M.B. Omary, and G. Triadafilopoulos Gastroenterology Division, Stanford, California 94305 Abstract risk for the development of adenocarcinoma of the esophagus and gastric cardia (6, 7). These cancers, which were previously Barrett’s esophagus (BE), or specialized intestinal metapla- considered rare, have increased in incidence by 74% over the sia, is a premalignant heterogeneous epithelium associated past two decades, a rate exceeding that of any other cancer (7). with reflux and an increased risk for adenocarcinoma. Since Adenocarcinoma in BE does not arise de novo but is thought acid is a major component of refluxate, we investigated its to follow a multistep process in which the metaplastic epithe- effects ex vivo on cell differentiation as determined by villin lium sequentially develops low-grade dysplasia, high-grade expression; and on cell proliferation, as determined by triti- dysplasia, early adenocarcinoma, and eventually invasive can- ated thymidine incorporation and proliferating cell nuclear cer (8). antigen expression. To mimic known physiological condi- Epidemiological evidence suggests that patients with BE tions, endoscopic biopsies of normal esophagus, BE, and have greater exposure times to gastric acid than patients with duodenum were exposed, in organ culture, to acidified me- esophagitis or normal controls, suggesting a significant role for dia (pH 3–5) either continuously, or as a 1-h pulse and com- acid reflux in the development and subsequent malignant pro- pared with exposure to pH 7.4 for up to 24 h. Before culture, gression of BE (9–11). However, there is little direct evidence villin expression was noted in 25% of BE samples, and in- for such a role of acid in BE (12, 13), and the mechanism(s) by creased after 6 or 24 h of continuous acid to 50% or 83% of which acid reflux might affect the neoplastic progression of BE BE samples, respectively. Increased villin expression corre- are not understood (5). Furthermore, acid suppressive therapy lated with ultrastructural maturation of the brush border. has not yet been proven to be effective in the treatment of BE, In contrast, an acid-pulse followed by culture at pH 7.4, did nor in the prevention of adenocarcinoma (14–16). not alter villin expression in BE. Moreover, continuous acid Factors responsible for the multistep neoplastic progres- exposure blocked cell proliferation in BE, whereas, an acid- sion of cancer would be expected to variously affect Barrett’s pulse enhanced cell proliferation, as
