Dynamic Effects of Acid on Barrett’s Esophagus
KEYWORDS: acid, cid, villin, cell, expression, culture, proliferation, villin expression, fig, exposure, cell proliferation, cells, tissue, esophagus, using


responsible for the multistep neoplastic progres- exposure blocked cell proliferation in BE, whereas, an acid- sion of cancer would be expected to variously affect Barrett’s pulse enhanced cell proliferation, as compared to pH 7.4. epithelium given its heterogeneous nature. For any given pa- Based on our ex vivo findings, we propose a model in which tient, BE is heterogeneous on many levels: histopathologically the diverse patterns of acid exposure in vivo may contribute in terms of the degree of dysplasia and adenocarcinoma, on a to the observed heterogeneity and unpredictable progres- cellular level in terms of cell differentiation (17, 18), and at a sion to neoplasia of BE. (J. Clin. Invest. 1996:2120–2128.) molecular level as noted for differences in activation of the src Key words: intestinal metaplasia • gastroesophageal reflux • oncogene (19) and DNA content (3). This heterogeneity has villin • brush border far reaching implications in terms of cancer surveillance for these patients. Multiple serial biopsies must be taken in order Introduction to screen for potential areas of dysplasia or carcinoma and even with this approach it is possible to miss a small, focal area Barrett’s esophagus (BE)1 is a commonly noted condition in of severe dysplasia or adenocarcinoma (20). To add to the humans, whereby normal squamous esophageal epithelium be- complexity of BE, even in the absence of dysplasia, different comes replaced by metaplastic intestine-like epithelium con- areas of BE from a given patient exhibit variable degrees of taining goblet cells (1–5). This specialized intestinal metaplasia differentiation as manifested by variability in the expression of is noted in (cid:122) 10% of patients suffering from gastroesophageal the microvillus actin binding protein villin (18), or variability reflux disease and is associated with nearly a 30-fold increased in src tyrosine kinase specific activity (19). The pattern of re- flux disease, and hence acid exposure of BE, is also very heter- ogeneous. For example, reflux events are influenced by pos- ture (21), have a circadian pattern and the amount of reflux Address correspondence to G. Triadafilopoulos, M.D., Chief, Gas- that occurs in any one individual varies from day to day (22). tem, 3801 Miranda Avenue, Palo Alto, CA 94304. Phone: 415-493- longed (22), and dual pH probe recording demonstrates differ- 5000 x64498; FAX: 415-852-3259. ent patterns of acid exposure at a given level of the esophagus Received for publication 16 May 1996 and accepted in revised form at a given moment
