Dynamic Effects of Acid on Barrett’s Esophagus
KEYWORDS: acid, cid, villin, cell, expression, culture, proliferation, villin expression, fig, exposure, cell proliferation, cells, tissue, esophagus, using


by the Here, we demonstrate that acid variably influences cell dif- manufacturer (Pierce Chemical Co., Rockford, IL). Proteins were ferentiation and proliferation in BE, depending on the pattern separated using 10% SDS-polyacrylamide gel electrophoresis then of exposure to low pH. Based on our findings, we propose a transferred to nitrocellulose membranes (0.45 (cid:109)m; Schleicher & model in which the diverse patterns of acid exposure in vivo Schuell Inc., Keene, NH) in transfer buffer containing 12.5 mM Tris- may lead to variable differentiation and proliferation pheno- HCl (pH 8.3), 100 mM glycine, and 20% methanol (40 V, 12 h, 4(cid:56)C). types within BE. As a consequence, the dynamic effect of acid Following transfer, membranes were blocked for 2 h in MT buffer may contribute to the observed heterogeneity and unpredict- (5% dry non-fat milk in PBS containing 0.2% Tween 20), then for 1 h able progression to dysplasia seen in BE. (22(cid:56)C) in primary antibody (1:5000 dilution for anti-villin, and 1:1000 dilution for anti-moesin). Membranes were washed in MT buffer and then incubated with peroxidase-conjugated secondary antibody (1:1,000 Methods dilution) for 1 h at 22(cid:56)C. After washing in MT buffer for 1 h, bands were visualized using an enhanced chemiluminescence system (Am- Patient and tissue collection. Endoscopic mucosal samples from esoph- ersham Corporation, Amersham, UK). Villin expression was gener- agus, BE, and duodenum were obtained from patients with previ- ally all or none and therefore was scored as 0 (cid:53) non detectable, 1 (cid:53) ously documented BE undergoing endoscopy for cancer surveillance present. at the Palo Alto Veterans Affairs Medical Center and Stanford Uni- Histopathology and electron microscopy. Paraffin embedded sec- versity Hospital. Biopsies were collected under a protocol that was tions of the endoscopic biopsies were independently analyzed by a approved by the Medical Committee for the Protection of Human pathologist unaware of the molecular findings. Standard histopatho- Subjects. All mucosal samples were divided into two parts using a ra- logic classifications were used to confirm the presence of BE and to zor blade. One part was formalin fixed and subsequently analyzed mi- assess the degree of dysplasia (36, 37). Only BE biopsy specimens croscopically by an independent histopathologist, and the second part with incomplete intestinal metaplasia, as defined by a specialized (in- was placed immediately in supplemented medium (see below) and testinalized) surface and pit epithelium with goblet cells on hematox- used for the experiments described. ylin/eosin and Alcian
