Dynamic Effects of Acid on Barrett’s Esophagus
KEYWORDS: acid, cid, villin, cell, expression, culture, proliferation, villin expression, fig, exposure, cell proliferation, cells, tissue, esophagus, using


a specialized (in- was placed immediately in supplemented medium (see below) and testinalized) surface and pit epithelium with goblet cells on hematox- used for the experiments described. ylin/eosin and Alcian blue stains, were included in the study (38). For Organ culture. Organ culture was performed essentially as de- histopathological examination after organ culture, paraffin embed- scribed (33). Briefly, mucosal biopsies were cut in half using aseptic ded sections were prepared and stained with hematoxylin and eosin technique and randomly assigned to acid or control groups in order to according to a standard protocol. For electron microscopy, biopsies avoid sampling bias. The biopsies were placed on a sterilized stainless were oriented with their mucosal side up, and then fixed using 2% steel grid within a 35-mm Petri dish so that culture medium (3 ml) just glutaraldehyde in PBS (30 min, 4(cid:56)C). After rinsing, tissues were post- covered the surface of the biopsy. The Petri dishes were placed on fixed in 1% OsO (4(cid:56)C, 45 min), rinsed, dehydrated, and embedded in racks in a sterile sealed jar (Torsion Balance Company, Clifton, NJ) Epon. Ultrathin sections were cut, collected on grids, and then and perfused with 95% O2, 5% CO, and then cultured at 37(cid:56)C. The stained with 1% uranyl acetate and lead citrate before examination jar was gassed before incubation and regassed each time it was (18). In order to quantitate the number of microvilli in acid treated opened. For all experiments, we used Medium 199 supplemented versus non-acid–treated sections of BE, three grids were examined with 10% heat-inactivated fetal calf serum, 1 (cid:109)g/ml of insulin (34), from each group. The person performing the analysis, (RCF), was un- streptomycin (500 U/ml), and penicillin 250 U/ml. For acidic culture aware of which experimental group the grid being examined repre- conditions, the medium was acidified with 0.1 M HCl ((cid:122) 20% vol/vol) sented. Eight microscopic fields ((cid:51) 7,100) were counted from each to achieve the desired pH then filtered using a 0.45-(cid:109)m Millipore fil- grid, from which the mean(cid:54)SE was generated for statistical analysis. ter. In all experiments, a volume of distilled water ((cid:122) 20% vol/vol) Immunohistochemistry. Tissue sections were deparaffinized, and was added to the control nonacidified media to achieve an osmolality then rehydrated with PBS (pH 7.2). For staining with PCNA, sections equal to that of the acid-treated media (300 mosmol/kg). In order to were incubated with 1:100 monoclonal anti-PCNA (Sigma) for
