Dynamic Effects of Acid on Barrett’s Esophagus
KEYWORDS: acid, cid, villin, cell, expression, culture, proliferation, villin expression, fig, exposure, cell proliferation, cells, tissue, esophagus, using


rehydrated with PBS (pH 7.2). For staining with PCNA, sections equal to that of the acid-treated media (300 mosmol/kg). In order to were incubated with 1:100 monoclonal anti-PCNA (Sigma) for 1 h confirm tissue viability after organ culture, lactate dehydrogenase (22(cid:56)C). After washing, peroxidase-conjugated goat anti-mouse IgG (LDH) assays were performed (35) using an aliquot of tissue culture (1:100) was added and visualization was performed using the 3,3(cid:57)- medium taken at the end of the culture period and an LDH assay kit diaminobenzidine method (Vector Laboratories Inc, Burlingame, (Sigma Chemical Company, St. Louis, MO). Biopsy samples homoge- CA). Sections were counterstained lightly with hematoxylin. Photo- nized in media with Triton X-100 and then sonicated, before measur- graphs were taken using Ektachrome Kodak Elite 400 color slide ing the LDH of the media, were used as positive controls. Control tissues film, which was then scanned to generate prints. were processed at the same pH as the experimental samples to adjust Scoring of PCNA immunolocalization. PCNA labeling of BE sec- for pH sensitivity of the assay. The absorbance values (at 490 nm) tions was assessed in two zones: the lumenal surface and the gland were expressed as a percentage of the positive control, and adjusted cells as previously described (39). At least 50 surface cells were for protein content of the biopsy. counted from each of three representative areas for each patient; and Antibodies. A rabbit anti-chicken villin antibody, provided by P. similarly, at least six glands in each biopsy section were assessed. Dynamic Effects of Acid on Barrett’s Esophagus 2121 mean score of the percentage of positive cells was generated from the tein (42). As shown in Fig. 1, moesin expression was reduced in patients studied. both BE and duodenum at pH extremes (i.e., 5 (cid:46) pH (cid:46) 9). Cell proliferation assays. All endoscopic biopsies were weighed Given that villin expression in BE was maximal at pH 3.5, and then processed immediately for organ culture. Using an organ organ culture experiments comparing pH 7.4 with pH 3.5 cul- culture system as described above, 1 (cid:109)Ci/ml [3H]thymidine (Dupont- ture conditions were performed for a series of biopsies from 12 New England Nuclear, Wilmington, DE) was added to the culture patients over a 6- and 24-h time period. The cumulative data medium followed by 6, 12 or 24 h incubations. For the acid-pulse ex- from these patients (Fig. 2 A) demonstrated that before
