Dynamic Effects of Acid on Barrett’s Esophagus
KEYWORDS: acid, cid, villin, cell, expression, culture, proliferation, villin expression, fig, exposure, cell proliferation, cells, tissue, esophagus, using


6- and 24-h time period. The cumulative data medium followed by 6, 12 or 24 h incubations. For the acid-pulse ex- from these patients (Fig. 2 A) demonstrated that before cul- periments, [3H]thymidine was added to the culture media with or without acid for the 1-h pulse. Fresh media (pH 7.4) and [3H]thymi- ture 25% of BE samples express villin, similar to our previous dine were then added for an additional 24 h. At the end of the incuba- results (18). After exposure to acid (pH 3.5), villin expression tion, the explants were lifted from the grid and rinsed thoroughly with increased to 50% and 82% of BE samples after 6 and 24 cul- unlabeled culture media to remove unincorporated radioactivity. The ture h, respectively (P (cid:44) 0.05) (Fig. 2 A). In contrast, villin ex- tissue sections were then homogenized, passed through a 19-G nee- pression in the control group (i.e., pH 7.4) did not change sig- dle, and processed using a cell harvester (Skatron, Tranby, Norway). nificantly over 24 h (Fig. 2 A). As expected, 100% of duodenal The incorporated radioactivity was measured and expressed as cpm/ samples expressed villin at time 0, and there was no significant mg tissue (40). change in villin expression over 24 h at pH 7.4 (Fig. 2 B). How- Statistical analysis. Statistical evaluation was performed on a Mac- ever, 6 h or 24 h culture of duodenal biopsies in acid media intosh computer using the Student’s paired t-test and two-tailed t-test (pH 3.5) resulted in significant reduction of villin expression (41) and a Microsoft Excel software package. All results were ex- pressed as the mean(cid:54)SE and were representative of pooled data from at least three patients in each group. Results Villin expression in BE is increased after culture in continuous acid. In order to determine the effect of pH on cell differenti- ation, we performed organ culture experiments in media that was titrated to a pH range of 1–12, and then assessed villin ex- pression as a marker of intestinal cell differentiation. After 24 h of explant culture, induction of villin expression was noted in BE samples incubated at a pH range of 3–5, and found to be maximal at pH 3.5 (Fig. 1). Villin expression was not detected in BE explants grown at pH (cid:44) 2.5 (data not shown). In con- trast, villin expression in the duodenum was reduced at pH ex-
