Dynamic Effects of Acid on Barrett’s Esophagus
KEYWORDS: acid, cid, villin, cell, expression, culture, proliferation, villin expression, fig, exposure, cell proliferation, cells, tissue, esophagus, using


1). Villin expression was not detected in BE explants grown at pH (cid:44) 2.5 (data not shown). In con- trast, villin expression in the duodenum was reduced at pH ex- tremes (i.e., (cid:44) 5 or (cid:46) 9) (Fig. 1, compare lanes 5, 7 with lanes 3, 9 and 11). The observed increase in villin expression upon exposure of BE explants to acid is specific, in that it was not observed in moesin (Fig. 1) which is another microvillus pro- Figure 1. Effect of pH on villin expression in BE and duodenal biop- sies. Endoscopic biopsies were cultured using an organ culture system at various pH levels for 24 h (as described in Methods). After culture, using 25 (cid:109)g of protein per lane, immunoblotting was performed using Figure 2. Cumulative results of villin expression, assessed by immu- anti-villin and anti-moesin antibodies. This representative immuno- noblotting, in BE and duodenal biopsies cultured for up to 24 h with blot (1 patient out of 3) demonstrates increased villin expression at no acid (pH 7.4) vs. acid (pH 3.5) in an organ culture system. (A) Cu- acidic pH (top) in Barrett’s esophagus (B) compared with duodenum mulative data from BE (12 patients). (B) Data from duodenum (3 pa- (D). Moesin expression, used as a control, in the same patient biop- tients). Both panels show percentage patients ((cid:54)1 SEM) expressing sies (bottom) demonstrates the specificity of the increase of villin ex- villin. *P (cid:44) 0.05 for comparison between acid-treated and non acid- pression in BE at acidic pH. treated samples at the same time point. 2122 Fitzgerald et al. Dynamic Effects of Acid on Barrett’s Esophagus 2123 (Fig. 2 B). As expected, normal esophagus did not express vil- esophageal biopsies (Fig. 4 C). The unique finding, however, lin under any of the conditions studied and moesin expression was that after a short period of acid exposure (1 h), followed of duodenal cultures was not significantly altered under similar by restitution to neutral pH, BE tissue proliferated roughly conditions (not shown). sixfold faster than either normal esophagus or duodenum (P (cid:44) Tissue viability is maintained in organ culture. In order to 0.01, Fig. 4 B). Furthermore, acid-pulsed BE proliferated assess tissue viability after organ culture and pH manipulation faster than BE tissue cultured continuously at pH 7.4 over a of the media, lactate dehydrogenase (LDH) release and tissue 24-h period (P (cid:44) 0.05, Fig. 4 D).
