Dynamic Effects of Acid on Barrett’s Esophagus
KEYWORDS: acid, cid, villin, cell, expression, culture, proliferation, villin expression, fig, exposure, cell proliferation, cells, tissue, esophagus, using


pH manipulation faster than BE tissue cultured continuously at pH 7.4 over a of the media, lactate dehydrogenase (LDH) release and tissue 24-h period (P (cid:44) 0.05, Fig. 4 D). In contrast proliferation of integrity as determined by light microscopy were examined. duodenal samples was reduced regardless of the duration of For all samples, the results showed that there was no signifi- the acid exposure (Fig. 4 B, C). The hyperproliferative re- cant LDH release compared to the Triton X extracted, posi- sponse of BE after an acid pulse is highlighted in Fig. 4 D, tive controls (normal esophagus, BE and duodenum explants which combines proliferation data from Fig. 4 A–C for all the from a representative patient cultured at pH 3.5, and 7.4, re- culture conditions examined in BE. leased (cid:44) 7.2% LDH compared with the positive control, data Since [3H]thymidine incorporation is a measure of total not shown). Light microscopy of hematoxylin and eosin DNA synthesis and does not discriminate between cellular stained sections (Fig. 3 A) revealed that tissue architecture was compartments, we examined the specific cell populations of well maintained for all tissues cultured in neutral or acidic (pH BE that manifested increased proliferation by PCNA staining 3.5) conditions. There was some surface debris, blunting of villi (46) after organ culture for 24 h in continuous acid, pulsed and interstitial edema with decreased cellularity of the lamina acid, or pH 7.4. A marked cell proliferation difference was propria seen in the duodenal samples (Fig. 3) after culture at noted between continuous acid versus acid-pulsed BE cul- low pH. These findings have been observed after intestinal or- tures, similar to that observed in the thymidine incorporation gan culture even without manipulation of the media pH, and experiments (Fig. 5). Specifically, PCNA staining was seen in a the tissue has been shown to be viable by BrdU incorporation mean of 10% of gland cells at pH 7.4 (control) which de- and protein synthesis (43). creased to a mean of 4% of gland cells after chronic acid expo- Villin expression in acid-treated BE is correlated with matu- sure (Fig. 5 A). In contrast, after a short acid-pulse PCNA ration of the brush border. In order to further confirm tissue staining increased dramatically to 35% (P (cid:44) 0.05) in BE viability and assess whether the increase in villin expression in glands compared to pH 7.4, and also increased to 12%
