Dynamic Effects of Acid on Barrett’s Esophagus
KEYWORDS: acid, cid, villin, cell, expression, culture, proliferation, villin expression, fig, exposure, cell proliferation, cells, tissue, esophagus, using


staining increased dramatically to 35% (P (cid:44) 0.05) in BE viability and assess whether the increase in villin expression in glands compared to pH 7.4, and also increased to 12% of sur- acid-treated BE correlates with microvilli formation, we com- face cells (P (cid:44) 0.05 compared to surface cells at pH 7.4) pared acid-treated and non-acid–treated BE samples (n (cid:53) 3 in (Fig. 5 A). each group), at the ultrastructural level. Our results demon- strated that there were significantly more microvilli after cul- Discussion ture at pH 3.5, compared with pH 7.4. There were 12.9(cid:54)1.09 microvilli (mean(cid:54)SE) in the acid treated group, compared Our ex vivo experiments demonstrate for the first time that with 5.25(cid:54)0.62 microvilli in the non-acid–treated group (P (cid:44) acid affects cell proliferation and differentiation in BE, and 0.001). Furthermore, the brush border appeared more mature that such an effect is dynamic depending on the pattern of acid in the acid-treated group with long, fairly uniform microvilli on exposure. Continuous acid exposure results in increased villin the apical surface (Fig. 3 B). Multiple non-electron dense in- expression and reduced cell proliferation, thereby suggesting a tracellular vacuoles were also noted in the acid-treated sec- differentiated phenotype. In contrast, after a short acid-pulse tions. These were in contrast to the stippled or homogeneous proliferation is dramatically increased suggesting a relatively mucous granules seen in mucous, pseudoabsorptive and goblet undifferentiated phenotype. These findings may be significant cells in the non-acid–treated tissues. The identity of these vac- in terms of the heterogeneity and the variable risk of neoplas- uoles is unclear but may represent granules that have released tic progression within an area of BE. their mucin in response to acid exposure (17). Significance of an acid-induced increase in villin expression The effect of acid on cell proliferation is dynamic. We then in BE. We previously showed that, before organ culture, the used [3H]thymidine incorporation and PCNA expression to highly heterogeneous Barrett’s epithelium expresses easily de- examine cell proliferation in response to either continuous tectable villin in (cid:122) 35% of randomly obtained endoscopic bi- acid exposure or a short acid-pulse (pH 3.5). As shown in Fig. opsies from BE patients (18). In the 12 new patients that we 4 (A–C) tritiated thymidine uptake was greatest in the BE studied here, villin expression was noted in 25% of the patients samples, under all pH conditions, as compared with esophagus (Fig. 2) and
