Dynamic Effects of Acid on Barrett’s Esophagus
KEYWORDS: acid, cid, villin, cell, expression, culture, proliferation, villin expression, fig, exposure, cell proliferation, cells, tissue, esophagus, using


thymidine uptake was greatest in the BE studied here, villin expression was noted in 25% of the patients samples, under all pH conditions, as compared with esophagus (Fig. 2) and induction of villin expression in BE in response to and duodenum (P (cid:44) 0.05). This is in accordance with previous acid was shown to be greatest after 24 h of culture at a pH of studies (39, 44, 45) which have demonstrated that at pH 7.4 BE 3.5 (Fig. 1, longer culture periods were not studied). The rela- has a higher proliferative index ex vivo than squamous esoph- tively short time frame within which acid-induced villin expres- ageal epithelium for example. In contrast, continuous acid ex- sion increased in BE, is not surprising in view of in vivo pulse posure reduced cell proliferation in all tissue types, although labeling experiments that have shown that villin turnover BE continued to proliferate slightly faster than duodenal or within the brush border occurs with a half-life of about 6 h Figure 3. Morphological changes of BE and duodenum biopsy specimens after 24 h of organ culture at pH 7.4 (no acid) or pH 3.5 (acid). Follow- ing organ culture samples for histopathology were placed immediately in formalin, then sectioned and stained with hematoxylin and eosin (see Methods). The top 3 panels (A) are stained sections (20(cid:51)) of normal esophagus, Barrett’s esophagus and duodenum after 24 h culture with no acid vs. acid; in which tissue integrity is shown to be intact. (B) The corresponding electron micrograph ((cid:51)7,000) appearance of BE after 24 h culture with or without acid. A more mature brush border is seen in the acid-treated tissue. 2124 Fitzgerald et al. pression as a result of continuous acid exposure is unlikely to result purely from a sampling bias. In addition we observed a similar dramatic induction of villin expression in several epi- thelial cultured cell lines (not shown). Villin expression per se does not result in a brush border unless the protein expression reaches a critical level. For ex- ample, it has been shown previously that in the course of en- terocytic migration and differentiation from the crypt towards the villus, the amount of villin dramatically increases and is concurrent with the appearance of brush border microvilli (48, 49). Furthermore, transfection experiments have indicated that high levels of villin expression are required before numer- ous, long microvillar structures are seen (30,
