Dynamic Effects of Acid on Barrett’s Esophagus
KEYWORDS: acid, cid, villin, cell, expression, culture, proliferation, villin expression, fig, exposure, cell proliferation, cells, tissue, esophagus, using


the appearance of brush border microvilli (48, 49). Furthermore, transfection experiments have indicated that high levels of villin expression are required before numer- ous, long microvillar structures are seen (30, 50). In this study we demonstrated that the unique induction of villin expression in response to acid does reach a level sufficient to be corre- lated with the existence of a fairly mature brush border (Fig. 3 B). In contrast, villin expression in the duodenum is reduced after acid exposure (Figs. 1 A and 2 B), which is in accordance with the observation that the small intestinal brush border is lost after exposure to acetic acid (51). This may in part be at- tributed to the loss of the unstirred mucous layer and substan- tial secretion of bicarbonate ions in an ex vivo system. For ex- ample, the duodenum in contrast to the esophageal epithelium depends upon these protective mechanisms in order to main- tain an intracellular pH balance (52). The functional significance of microvilli formation, other than increasing the surface area (53), is unclear. The only other physiological situation in which microvilli are induced in re- sponse to acid is in H(cid:49)-secreting parietal cells (54, 55). The mechanism for the formation of these microvilli is debated, but there is evidence that as a result of lumenal HCl and the acti- vation of ion transport, there may be osmotic swelling and hence changes in the cytoskeleton (56). It is conceivable that there may be a similar mechanism for microvilli formation in BE. Additional similarity between the findings of this study and the gastric epithelium, comes from indirect evidence which suggests that acid may be important in cell differentia- tion and proliferation in the stomach. For example, subcutane- ous administration of omeprazole to infant rats at a dose suffi- cient to cause achlorhydria, increased cell proliferation and decreased cell differentiation (57). The altered cell differentia- tion was characterized by a reduction in mature pepsinogen- Figure 4. Cell proliferation under different pH conditions. Endo- producing cells and a delay in the expression of cathepsin, both scopic biopsies of normal esophagus (E), Barrett’s esophagus (B) and markers of terminal differentiation in gastric mucosa (57). duodenum (D) were weighed, and then cultured in the presence of tri- The hyperproliferative response of BE to an acid pulse. tiated thymidine (1 (cid:109)Ci/ml) with either no acid (pH 7.4), (A, n (cid:53) 8), for a 1 hour
