Dynamic Effects of Acid on Barrett’s Esophagus
KEYWORDS: acid, cid, villin, cell, expression, culture, proliferation, villin expression, fig, exposure, cell proliferation, cells, tissue, esophagus, using


presence of tri- The hyperproliferative response of BE to an acid pulse. tiated thymidine (1 (cid:109)Ci/ml) with either no acid (pH 7.4), (A, n (cid:53) 8), for a 1 hour acid-pulse (pH 3.5) followed by pH 7.4, (B, n (cid:53) 4), or with With regard to cell proliferation markers, [3H]thymidine up- continuous acid (pH 3.5), (C, n (cid:53) 4). At 2, 3, 12, and 24 h time points take and PCNA expression were evaluated. Although [3H]thy- samples were washed and homogenized, the DNA extracted using a midine uptake during the S-phase of the cell cycle is a sensitive cell harvester, and tritiated thymidine incorporation into DNA as- method for evaluating cell proliferation, it does not differenti- sessed by a scintillation counter (see Methods). Each graph demon- ate between different cellular types as found in a complex bi- strates cpm/mg tissue after the various culture periods. BE prolifer- opsy explant (58). For this reason PCNA expression was also ates more than E and D under all conditions, but particularly after an analyzed immunohistochemically. To that end several studies acid-pulse. (D) Combines the data for BE only, from (A), (B) and previously demonstrated that PCNA expression is increased in (C), to emphasize the augmented cell proliferation after an acid-pulse BE compared with other glandular epithelia not associated in this tissue. *P values are time 2 compared with 24 h, and also apply with malignancy, such as gastric type Barrett’s (39, 59). How- to proliferation after a pulse of acid compared to no acid at 24 h. ever, the proliferative response of BE to acid has not been evaluated previously. Our results support a reciprocal relationship between cell (47). A possible bias in our study is the intrinsically patchy ex- differentiation and proliferation. While continuous acid re- pression of villin in BE and hence a difficulty in demonstrating duced cell proliferation, cells proliferated at an increased rate a real change in villin expression. However, with a patient sam- after a brief acid-pulse, and in contrast to the effect of continu- ple size of 12, we feel that the dramatic increase in villin ex- ous acid exposure, this pulse was not correlated with an in- Dynamic Effects of Acid on Barrett’s Esophagus 2125 Figure 5. Cell proliferation in glandular and surface cell compartments of BE under different pH conditions as determined by proliferating cell nuclear antigen (PCNA) expression. Following 24 h organ culture with
