Dynamic Effects of Acid on Barrett’s Esophagus
KEYWORDS: acid, cid, villin, cell, expression, culture, proliferation, villin expression, fig, exposure, cell proliferation, cells, tissue, esophagus, using


5. Cell proliferation in glandular and surface cell compartments of BE under different pH conditions as determined by proliferating cell nuclear antigen (PCNA) expression. Following 24 h organ culture with either no acid (pH 7.4), a 1 h pulse of acid (pH 3.5) followed by pH 7.4, or continuous acid (pH 3.5) PCNA expression was assessed by immunohistochemistry using anti-PCNA antibody on paraffin embedded sections (see Methods). A percentage of PCNA-positive nuclei were calculated for gland and surface cells (see Methods). (A) demonstrates the% PCNA-positive cells in the glands and at the surface for the three culture conditions. BE cells proliferate most after an acid-pulse. *P (cid:44) 0.05 for gland cells treated with a pulse of acid compared with gland cells cultured with no acid or continuous acid. (cid:49)P (cid:44) 0.05 for surface cells in a similar comparison. (B) Shows PCNA staining (positive nuclei stain brown) for representative BE glands in each of the three culture conditions. crease in villin expression as assessed by immunoblotting (data tracellular pH mediated by the Na/H exchanger (63). Further, not shown). This result suggests that the acid-pulse induced tumorigenic Chinese hamster embryo fibroblast cell lines dis- rapidly proliferating cells of BE may be relatively undifferenti- play a slightly higher basal pH than their nontumorigenic ated. We chose a short acid-pulse in order to mimic the physio- counterparts (64), suggesting that alterations in intracellular logical effect of short reflux episodes and in light of previous pH can contribute to the acquisition of altered growth proper- data showing that a 30-min infusion of hydrochloric acid in the ties. Hence, after an acid-pulse, cells that accumulate at G0/G1 normal esophagus of dogs triggered cell proliferation at 16–24 h may enter the S phase in a synchronous fashion. after the acid-pulse (60). Previous studies have shown that re- An in vivo model for the dynamic effect of acid on cell pro- duced intracellular pH induces changes in the cell cycle and liferation and differentiation in BE. Extrapolating our data to hence influences cell proliferation. Specifically, extracellular the situation in vivo, one model that can be envisioned is that HCl may lower intracellular pH (61, 62) and hence cause cell variable patterns of acid exposure in BE may contribute to the cycle arrest at the G0/G1 stage. Cells subsequently become complex, heterogeneous epithelium seen in BE with a conse- stimulated to enter the S phase as a result of
