Dynamic Effects of Acid on Barrett’s Esophagus
KEYWORDS: acid, cid, villin, cell, expression, culture, proliferation, villin expression, fig, exposure, cell proliferation, cells, tissue, esophagus, using


to the cycle arrest at the G0/G1 stage. Cells subsequently become complex, heterogeneous epithelium seen in BE with a conse- stimulated to enter the S phase as a result of a small rise in in- quent variable risk of neoplastic progression (Fig. 6). As such, 2126 Fitzgerald et al. lar and structural heterogeneity seen in BE patients. Addi- tional studies will be needed to examine the mechanism for the hyperproliferative response of BE to an acid-pulse, and to as- sess whether the different acid-induced proliferation states play a role in the potential subsequent development of dyspla- sia and adenocarcinoma. One possible therapeutic implication of our proposed model is that acid suppressive therapy needs to be powerful and continuous enough to completely abolish any acid-pulses and effectively inhibit cell proliferation thus al- lowing for a more differentiated state in BE epithelia. Such an implication could be tested by comparing the levels of hetero- geneity in villin expression in BE patients who are under com- plete acid suppression, using acid pump inhibitors, with pa- tients who are not completely acid suppressed. It is, however, important to emphasize that other components of gastroduo- denal refluxate, such as bile salts or other gastric juice contents, need to be evaluated in terms of their potentially confounding effects. Acknowledgments We are very grateful to Paul Matsudaira and Heinz Furthmayr for providing the necessary antibodies. We thank Nafisa Ghori for per- forming the electron microscopy, Kris Morrow for preparing the fig- ures and Jon Kosek for reviewing the histopathology. R.C. Fitzgerald is a Fellow of the Association for International Cancer research (AICR). This work was supported by TAP pharmaceuticals (G. Triada- Figure 6. A hypothetical model for the variable effect of acid on Bar- filopoulos), Veterans Administration Career Development and Merit rett’s epithelium in vivo. The effect of prolonged acid exposure Awards (M.B. Omary) and Digestive Disease Center grant DK38707. (square) and multiple acid-pulses (triangle) on cell proliferation and differentiation are compared to the baseline condition of no acid ex-
