Cardiac Catheterization
KEYWORDS: cardiac, right, heart, catheterization, coronary, contrast, pulmonary, artery, left, heart catheterization, ventricular, oxygen, patients, pressure, valve


Cardiac catheterization is the passage of a catheter through peripheral arteries or veins into cardiac chambers, the pulmonary artery, and coronary arteries and veins. Cardiac catheterization can be used to do various tests, including Angiography Detection and quantification of shunts Endomyocardial biopsy Intravascular ultrasonography (IVUS) Measurement of cardiac output (CO) Measurements of myocardial metabolism These tests define coronary artery anatomy, cardiac anatomy, cardiac function, and pulmonary arterial hemodynamics to establish diagnoses and help clinicians select treatment. Cardiac catheterization is also the basis for several therapeutic interventions (see Percutaneous coronary intervention in Treatment of Coronary Artery Disease). Procedure for Cardiac Catheterization Many but not all preprocedure protocols require patients to fast for 4 to 6 hours before cardiac catheterization. Most patients do not require overnight hospitalization unless a therapeutic intervention is also done. Left heart catheterization Left heart catheterization is most commonly used to assess Coronary artery anatomy and presence of coronary artery disease Left heart catheterization is also used to assess 1/14 Aortic blood pressure Aortic valve function Left ventricular pressure and function Mitral valve function Systemic vascular resistance Left heart catheterization is done via femoral, subclavian, radial, or brachial artery puncture, with a catheter passed into the coronary artery ostia and/or across the aortic valve into the left ventricle (LV). Catheterization of the left atrium (LA) and LV is occasionally done using transseptal perforation during right heart catheterization. Right heart catheterization Right heart catheterization is commonly used to measure Right atrial pressure Right ventricular pressure Pulmonary artery pressure Pulmonary artery occlusion pressure (PAOP—see figure Diagram of the Cardiac Cycle) The most frequent indications for right heart catheterization are to assess hemodynamics, diagnose pulmonary hypertension, guide therapy, and assess need for cardiac transplantation or mechanical cardiac support (eg, a ventricular assist device). PAOP approximates left atrial and left ventricular end-diastolic pressure. In seriously ill patients, PAOP helps assess volume status and, with simultaneous measurements of cardiac output, can help guide therapy. Right heart catheterization is also useful for assessing cardiac filling pressures, pulmonary vascular resistance, tricuspid or pulmonic valve function, intracardiac shunts, and right ventricular pressure. Right heart pressure measurements may help in the diagnosis of cardiomyopathy, constrictive pericarditis, and cardiac tamponade when noninvasive testing is nondiagnostic, and it is an essential part of the assessment for cardiac transplantation or mechanical cardiac support (eg, use of a ventricular assist device). The procedure is done via femoral, subclavian, internal jugular, or
