Cardiac Catheterization
KEYWORDS: cardiac, right, heart, catheterization, coronary, contrast, pulmonary, artery, left, heart catheterization, ventricular, oxygen, patients, pressure, valve


an essential part of the assessment for cardiac transplantation or mechanical cardiac support (eg, use of a ventricular assist device). The procedure is done via femoral, subclavian, internal jugular, or antecubital vein puncture. A catheter is passed into the right atrium, through the tricuspid valve, into the right ventricle, and across the pulmonary valve into the pulmonary artery. Selective catheterization of the coronary sinus can also be done. Hemodynamic assessment via right heart catheterization during exercise is increasingly being done as part of the workup for dyspnea of uncertain etiology. The test can be done at the same time as cardiopulmonary exercise testing, called invasive cardiopulmonary exercise testing. This is considered the standard for diagnosis of cardiac limitation to exercise but is currently available at relatively few 2/14 centers. An exercise right heart catheterization should be considered in patients at intermediate pretest probability for heart failure with preserved ejection fraction if the diagnosis is uncertain after an initial evaluation. An increase in the PAOP > 25 mm Hg confirms the diagnosis when patients have signs and symptoms of heart failure irrespective of left ventricular ejection fraction. 3/14 Diagram of the Cardiac Cycle, Showing Pressure Curves of the Cardiac Chambers, Heart Sounds, Jugular Pulse Wave, and the ECG The phases of the cardiac cycle are atrial systole (a), isometric contraction (b), maximal ejection (c), reduced ejection (d), protodiastolic phase (e), isometric relaxation (f), rapid inflow (g), and diastasis, or slow LV filling (h). For illustrative purposes, time intervals between valvular events have been modified, and the z point has been prolonged. In the jugular venous pulse tracing, the A wave represents atrial contraction at end-diastole, C wave is the carotid artery impulse or bulging of the tricuspid valve into the right atrium in early systole, V wave is the increase in pressure and volume of right atrial filling in late systole and early diastole, X and X' descents represent movement of the lower part of the right atrium toward the ventricle with X' at end-systole, and the Y descent is tricuspid valve opening and ventricular filling in diastole. AO = aortic valve opening; AC = aortic valve closing; LV = left ventricle; LA = left atrium; RV = right ventricle; RA = right atrium; MO = mitral valve opening. 4/14 5/14 Specific Tests During Cardiac Catheterization Angiography Injection of radiopaque contrast agent into coronary or pulmonary arteries, the aorta, and cardiac
