Cardiac Catheterization
KEYWORDS: cardiac, right, heart, catheterization, coronary, contrast, pulmonary, artery, left, heart catheterization, ventricular, oxygen, patients, pressure, valve


= right atrium; MO = mitral valve opening. 4/14 5/14 Specific Tests During Cardiac Catheterization Angiography Injection of radiopaque contrast agent into coronary or pulmonary arteries, the aorta, and cardiac chambers is useful in certain circumstances. Digital subtraction angiography is used for nonmoving arteries and for chamber cineangiography. Coronary angiography via left heart catheterization is used to evaluate coronary artery anatomy in various clinical situations, as in patients with suspected coronary atherosclerotic or congenital disease, valvular disorders before valvular replacement, or unexplained heart failure. Coronary Angiography IMAGE ASTIER/BSIP/SCIENCE PHOTO LIBRARY Pulmonary angiography via right heart catheterization can be used to diagnose pulmonary embolism. Intraluminal filling defects or arterial cutoffs are diagnostic. Radiopaque contrast agent is usually selectively injected into one or both pulmonary arteries and their segments. Computed tomographic pulmonary angiography (CTPA) has largely replaced right heart catheterization for diagnosis of acute pulmonary embolism. Pulmonary angiography via right heart catheterization remains commonly used to determine a management plan for suspected chronic thromboembolic disease. Aortic angiography via left heart catheterization is used to assess aortic regurgitation, coarctation, patent ductus arteriosus, and dissection. 6/14 Ventriculography (LV Gram) IMAGE PETER MENZEL/SCIENCE PHOTO LIBRARY Ventriculography is used to visualize ventricular wall motion and ventricular outflow tracts, including subvalvular, valvular, and supravalvular regions. It is also used to estimate severity of mitral valve regurgitation and determine its pathophysiology. After left ventricular mass and volume are determined from single planar or biplanar ventricular angiograms, end-systolic and end-diastolic volumes and ejection fraction can be calculated. Coronary artery flow measurements Coronary angiography shows the presence and degree of stenosis but not the functional significance of the lesion (ie, how much blood flows across the stenosis) or whether a specific lesion is likely to be the cause of symptoms. Extremely thin guidewires with pressure sensors or Doppler flow sensors are available. Data from these sensors can be used to estimate coronary artery blood flow, which is expressed as fractional flow reserve (FFR). FFR is the ratio of maximal flow through the stenotic area to normal maximal flow obtained during hyperemia (most commonly with adenosine); an FFR of < 0.75 to 0.8 is considered abnormal. Newer techniques of measuring coronary blood flow, including instantaneous wave-free ratio (iFR) and diastolic hyperemia-free ratio (DFR), have been developed. These techniques have the advantage of not requiring hyperemia. Both iFR and DFR measure gradients across a stenosis during a period in diastole; an iFR
