Cardiac Catheterization
KEYWORDS: cardiac, right, heart, catheterization, coronary, contrast, pulmonary, artery, left, heart catheterization, ventricular, oxygen, patients, pressure, valve


ratio (DFR), have been developed. These techniques have the advantage of not requiring hyperemia. Both iFR and DFR measure gradients across a stenosis during a period in diastole; an iFR or DFR of ≤ 0.89 is considered abnormal (1, 2). These flow estimates correlate well with the need for intervention and long-term outcome; patients with lesions with FFR > 0.8, iFR > 0.89, or DFR > 0.89 do not seem to benefit from placement of a stent. These flow measurements are most useful with intermediate lesions (40 to 70% stenosis) and with multiple lesions (to identify those that are clinically most significant). Intravascular ultrasonography (IVUS) 7/14 Miniature ultrasound transducers on the end of coronary artery catheters can produce images of coronary vessel lumina and walls and delineate blood flow. Intravascular ultrasonography is being increasingly used at the same time as coronary angiography in several clinical situations, including to guide optimal stent placement during percutaneous coronary intervention, detect cardiac allograft vasculopathy after heart transplantation, and identify coronary artery dissections. Optical coherence tomography (OCT) Optical coherence tomography is an optical analog of intracoronary ultrasound imaging that measures the amplitude of backscattered light to determine the temperature of coronary plaques and can help determine whether lesions are at high risk of future rupture (leading to acute coronary syndromes). Unlike in IVUS, injection of contrast is required to obtain images. The indications and appropriate use for OCT versus IVUS are currently uncertain. Tests for cardiac shunts Measuring blood oxygen content at successive levels in the heart and great vessels can help determine the presence, direction, and volume of central shunts. The maximal normal difference in oxygen content between structures is as follows: The pulmonary artery and right ventricle: 0.5 mL/dL (0.5 vol%) The right ventricle and right atrium: 0.9 mL/dL (0.9 vol%) The right atrium and superior vena cava: 1.9 mL/dL (1.9 vol%) If the blood oxygen content in a chamber exceeds that of the more proximal chamber by more than these values, a left-to-right shunt at that level is probable. Right-to-left shunts are strongly suspected when LA, LV, or arterial oxygen saturation is low (≤ 92%) and does not improve when pure oxygen (fractional inspirational O2 = 1.0) is given. Left heart or arterial desaturation plus increased oxygen content in blood samples drawn beyond the shunt site on the right side of circulation suggests a bidirectional shunt. Measurement of cardiac output and flow
