Cardiac Catheterization
KEYWORDS: cardiac, right, heart, catheterization, coronary, contrast, pulmonary, artery, left, heart catheterization, ventricular, oxygen, patients, pressure, valve


arterial desaturation plus increased oxygen content in blood samples drawn beyond the shunt site on the right side of circulation suggests a bidirectional shunt. Measurement of cardiac output and flow Cardiac output (CO) is the volume of blood ejected by the heart per minute (normal at rest: 4 to 8 L/minute). Techniques (see table Cardiac Output Equations) used to calculate CO include Fick cardiac output technique Indicator-dilution technique Thermodilution technique TABLE Cardiac Output Equations Fick technique 8/14 Numerator is oxygen consumption (O2 absorbed by lungs in mL/minute). Indicator-dilution technique Denominator is the sum of contrast agent concentrations (C) at each time interval (t). Thermodilution technique TB – TI is the difference between body and injectate temperatures; injectate is usually dextrose or saline. Denominator is the sum of changes in temperature at each time interval (t). SaO2 = arterial oxygen saturation (%); SvO2 = mixed venous oxygen saturation (%), measured in the pulmonary artery. With the Fick technique, CO is proportional to oxygen consumption divided by arteriovenous oxygen difference. Dilution techniques rely on the assumption that after an indicator is injected into the circulation, it appears and disappears proportionately to CO. 2 Usually, CO is expressed in relation to body surface area (BSA) as the cardiac index (CI) in L/minute/m (ie, CI = CO/BSA—see table Normal Values for Cardiac Index and Related Measures). BSA is calculated using DuBois height (ht)–weight (wt) equation: TABLE Normal Values for Cardiac Index and Related Measurements Measurement Normal Value SD 2 Oxygen uptake 143 mL/minute/m * 14.3 Arteriovenous oxygen 4.1 dL 0.6 difference 2 Cardiac index 3.5 L/minute/m 0.7 2 Stroke index 46 mL/beat/m 8.1 -5 Total systemic resistance 1130 dynes-second-cm 178 9/14 Measurement Normal Value SD Total pulmonary -5 205 dynes-second-cm 51 resistance Pulmonary arteriolar -5 67 dynes-second-cm 23 resistance * Varies with body mass index. SD = standard deviation. Adapted from Barratt-Boyes BG, Wood EH: Cardiac output and related measurements and pressure values in the right heart and associated vessels, together with an analysis of the hemodynamic response to the inhalation of high oxygen mixtures in healthy subjects. Journal of Laboratory and Clinical Medicine 51:72–90, 1958. CLINICAL CALCULATORS Cardiac Output MultiCalc CLINICAL CALCULATORS Cardiac Output CLINICAL CALCULATORS Body Surface Area (Du Bois Method) Endomyocardial biopsy Endomyocardial biopsy helps assess transplant rejection and myocardial disorders due to infection or infiltrative diseases. The biopsy catheter (bioptome) can be passed into either ventricle, usually the right. Three
