Cardiac Catheterization
KEYWORDS: cardiac, right, heart, catheterization, coronary, contrast, pulmonary, artery, left, heart catheterization, ventricular, oxygen, patients, pressure, valve


biopsy Endomyocardial biopsy helps assess transplant rejection and myocardial disorders due to infection or infiltrative diseases. The biopsy catheter (bioptome) can be passed into either ventricle, usually the right. Three to 5 samples of myocardial tissue are removed from the septal endocardium. The main complication of endomyocardial biopsy, cardiac perforation, occurs in 0.3 to 0.5% of patients; it may cause hemopericardium leading to cardiac tamponade. Injury to the tricuspid valve and supporting chordae may also occur and can lead to tricuspid regurgitation. Contraindications to Cardiac Catheterization Relative contraindications to cardiac catheterization include Acute kidney injury Chronic kidney disease Coagulopathy Fever Radiopaque contrast agent allergies in patients who have not been appropriately premedicated Systemic infection Uncontrolled arrhythmia Uncontrolled hypertension Uncompensated heart failure Relative contraindications balance the urgency of the procedure (eg, in an acute myocardial infarction vs an elective case) and the severity of the contraindicating disorder. Periprocedural management of anticoagulants or antiplatelet drugs is individualized based on the type of procedure (ie, arterial vs venous access), the urgency of the procedure, the indication for the drug, and the patient's risk of bleeding. Catheterization laboratories frequently have policies for the periprocedural management of these drugs. Complications of Cardiac Catheterization The incidence of complications after cardiac catheterizations ranges from 0.8 to 8%, depending on patient factors, technical factors, and the experience of the operator. Patient factors that increase risk of complications include Chronic kidney disease Chronic obstructive pulmonary disease (COPD) Diabetes Heart failure Increasing age Peripheral arterial disease Valvular heart disease 11/14 Most complications are minor and can be easily treated. Serious complications (eg, cardiac arrest, anaphylactic reactions, shock, seizures, renal toxicity) are rare. Mortality rate is 0.1 to 0.2%. Myocardial infarction (0.1%) and stroke (0.1%) may result in significant morbidity. Incidence of stroke is higher in patients > 80 years. In general, complications involve The contrast agent Effects of the catheter The access site Contrast agent complications Injection of radiopaque contrast agent produces a transient sense of warmth throughout the body in many patients. Tachycardia, a slight fall in systemic pressure, an increase in cardiac output, nausea, vomiting, and coughing may occur. Rarely, bradycardia occurs when a large amount of a contrast agent is injected; asking the patient to cough often restores normal rhythm. More serious reactions (see also Radiographic Contrast Agents and Contrast Reactions) include Allergic-type contrast reactions Contrast-induced kidney injury Allergic-type reactions to radiographic contrast include urticaria and conjunctivitis,
