Cardiac Catheterization
KEYWORDS: cardiac, right, heart, catheterization, coronary, contrast, pulmonary, artery, left, heart catheterization, ventricular, oxygen, patients, pressure, valve


restores normal rhythm. More serious reactions (see also Radiographic Contrast Agents and Contrast Reactions) include Allergic-type contrast reactions Contrast-induced kidney injury Allergic-type reactions to radiographic contrast include urticaria and conjunctivitis, which usually respond to diphenhydramine 50 mg IV. Anaphylaxis and anaphylactoid reactions with bronchospasm, laryngeal edema, and dyspnea are rare reactions with an approximate frequency of about 1/5000 tests (1). These reactions should be treated immediately with epinephrine. Patients with a history of allergic reaction to contrast may be premedicated with oral prednisone (or parenteral hydrocortisone if the study is urgent) and diphenhydramine. Contrast-induced kidney injury is defined as impairment of renal function (either a 25% increase in serum creatinine from baseline or a 0.5 mg/dL [44 micromole/L] increase in absolute value) within 24 to 48 hours of IV contrast administration judged to be caused by contrast rather than alternative causes. For patients at risk, use of lowest possible dose of low-osmolar or iso-osmolar contrast, avoidance of multiple contrast studies within a short period of time, and infusion of a total 10 to 15 mL/kg normal saline IV beginning 4 to 6 hours before angiography and 6 to 12 hours afterward reduces this risk substantially. In patients at risk of impaired renal function, assess serum creatinine 48 hours after injection of contrast. Contrast agent complications reference 1. Wang CL, Cohan RH, Ellis JH, et al: Frequency, outcome, and appropriateness of treatment of nonionic iodinated contrast media reactions. AJR Am J Roentgenol 191:409–415, 2008. doi: 10.2214/AJR.07.3421 Catheter-related complications 12/14 If the catheter tip contacts the ventricular endocardium, ventricular arrhythmias commonly occur, but ventricular fibrillation is rare. If it occurs, direct current cardioversion (DC cardioversion) is administered immediately. Disruption of an atherosclerotic plaque by the catheter can release a shower of atheroemboli. Emboli from the aorta may cause stroke or nephropathy. Emboli from proximal to distal coronary arteries may cause myocardial infarction. Coronary artery dissection is also possible. Access site complications Access site complications include Bleeding Hematoma Pseudoaneurysm Arteriovenous (AV) fistula Limb ischemia Bleeding from the access site may occur and usually resolves with compression. Mild bruises and small hematomas are common and do not require specific investigation or treatment. A large or enlarging lump should be investigated using ultrasonography to distinguish hematoma from pseudoaneurysm. A bruit at the site (with or without pain) suggests an AV fistula, which can be diagnosed using ultrasonography. Hematomas usually resolve with time and do not
