Case report
KEYWORDS: mmol, mmol mmol, acidosis, admission, patient, severe, metabolic, case, ska, hagma, ketoacidosis, intravenous, day, showed, glycol


Case report Starvation ketoacidosis and refeeding syndrome Angela Heulwen Boal , Maurizio Panarelli, Caroline Millar Department of Clinical SUMMARY Collateral history from his daughter was obtained Biochemistry, NHS Greater Starvation ketoacidosis (SKA) is a rarer cause of and she believed he had been eating and drinking Glasgow and Clyde, Glasgow, ketoacidosis. Most patients will only have a mild normally and he had no alcohol in his home. She UK acidosis, but if exacerbated by stress can result in noted there were no additional medications taken a severe acidosis. We describe a 66- year- old man from his dosette box, and there were no cleaning Correspondence to admitted with reduced consciousness and found to fluids out of cupboards to suggest self-p oisoning Dr Angela Heulwen Boal; angela. boal@ ggc. scot. nhs. uk have a severe metabolic acidosis with raised anion and he had no prior history of intentional overdose. gap. His body mass index (BMI) was noted to be within She reported no significant family history. Accepted 21 November 2021 the healthy range at 23 kg/m2; however, it was last documented 1 year previously at 28 kg/m2 with no clear INVESTIGATIONS timeframe of weight loss. While his acidosis improved Biochemical investigations are shown in table 1. with intravenous fluids, he subsequently developed Initial venous blood gas showed HAGMA (anion severe electrolyte imbalance consistent with refeeding gap >35.7 mmol/L) and serum osmolality was during his admission. Awareness of SKA as a cause for raised 323 mOsm/Kg. Other investigations of note high anion gap metabolic acidosis is important and showed random glucose was 10.2 mmol/L, HbA1c knowledge of management including intravenous fluids, 42 mmol/mol (indicating pre- diabetes), lactate 2.3 thiamine, dietetic input and electrolyte replacement is mmol/L, urea 10.5 mmol/L, C-R eactive Protein vital. (CRP) 18 mg/L and leucocytosis 28×109 g/L (refer- ence range: 4–10×109 g/L) with 87% neutrophils. A new transaminitis was found with peak Alanine aminotransferase (ALT) 219 U/L, Aspartate amino- BACKGROUND transferase (AST) 232 U/L with no evidence of A high anion gap metabolic acidosis (HAGMA) biochemical obstruction. Adjusted calcium was can be caused by a variety of metabolic changes initially 2.34 mmol/L and fell to 1.97 mmol/L 7 including uraemia, lactic acidosis and ingestion of hours in to admission. Due to HAGMA and devel- substances such as ethylene glycol, methanol, salicy- oping hypocalcaemia, ethylene glycol and methanol lates, isoniazid and ketoacidosis. There are multiple were analysed and subsequently not
