Case report
KEYWORDS: mmol, mmol mmol, acidosis, admission, patient, severe, metabolic, case, ska, hagma, ketoacidosis, intravenous, day, showed, glycol


Due to HAGMA and devel- substances such as ethylene glycol, methanol, salicy- oping hypocalcaemia, ethylene glycol and methanol lates, isoniazid and ketoacidosis. There are multiple were analysed and subsequently not detected. He metabolic acidoses which can result in accumula- was found to have raised beta- hydroxybutyrate tion of ketone bodies in the blood stream which can level of 8.85 mmol/L. cause a diagnostic challenge to the clinician. Star- Chest X- ray showed no obvious abnormality and vation ketoacidosis (SKA) is one of these metabolic CT head showed no cerebral aetiology. acidoses, and there are case reports of low carbohy- drate diet ketoacidosis.1 2 DIFFERENTIAL DIAGNOSIS Causes of HAGMA were considered and excluded CASE PRESENTATION as able. The patient’s blood toxicology was nega- A 66- year-o ld man was admitted as a stand-b y to tive for ethanol and substances including salicylate, accident and emergency with worsening confu- paracetamol, ethylene glycol and methanol. Urea sion and reduced responsiveness over the past was only mildly elevated excluding uraemia. Lactate 24 hours. He had last been seen 3 days ago and was borderline raised but not the main driving cause family reported no concerns. His medical history of the acidosis. The patient had not been prescribed included previous severe major depression and metformin, iron, isoniazid or sodium glucose psychosis, stroke, acute cholecystitis and psoriasis. co- transporter-2 inhibitors. Random glucose was His long-t erm treatment included lithium, lurasi- initially 10 mmol/L and patient had previously done, omeprazole, simvastatin, aspirin, sertraline, likely type 2 diabetes in 2018 which appeared lactulose and bisoprolol. to have been reversed with lifestyle changes and On presentation, he was initially febrile in the HbA1c 5 months prior to admission was 38 mmol/ ambulance (38.3°C) which resolved with no therapy mol. Later on admission, HbA1c was 42 mmol/mol. on arrival to hospital 36.1°C. Other observations C peptide was performed which was 1599 pmol/L included sinus tachycardia (heart rate 130–150 although this measurement was of limited relevance © BMJ Publishing Group beats per minute), blood pressure 145/75 mm Hg, since current protocol would indicate C peptide Limited 2021. No commercial re- use. See rights and respiratory rate 17 breaths per minute and oxygen measurement in patients with diabetes for >3 years. permissions. Published by BMJ. saturations 97% while breathing air. Apart from Our working diagnoses became SKA or late tachycardia, cardiac, respiratory and abdominal adult presentation of inborn error of metabolism. To
