Case report
KEYWORDS: mmol, mmol mmol, acidosis, admission, patient, severe, metabolic, case, ska, hagma, ketoacidosis, intravenous, day, showed, glycol


*Reference range applies to bloods taken 12±1 hour after dose ND, not detected; NA, not available his nutritional intake prior to admission. Urinary organic acids intake. He was started on thiamine and a dietetic plan created were sent to an external laboratory with a 14- day turnaround with gradual increase in intake due to the potential refeeding time. Later, results showed moderate-s evere ketonuria with no risk. Using the Malnutrition Universal Screening Tool (MUST) other abnormal metabolites. 1,2- Propanediol was also present was difficult initially as the patient was unclear about the timing which is used as a solvent in many pharmaceutical formulations of his weight loss but it highlighted that he was at least medium and was of no clinical significance. or high risk of malnutrition. While his nutrition and electrolyte imbalance were being TREATMENT treated, his CRP began to rise to a peak of 334 mg/L and subse- He was treated with intravenous fluids—initially 0.9% saline quent CT thorax, abdomen, pelvis showed evidence of acute switched to predominantly 5% dextrose. His acidosis settled and calculous cholecystitis and possible element of pancreatitis. Lung GCS slowly returned to 15. Given the hypocalcaemia and unclear findings were most likely in keeping with poor inspiration but cause of HAGMA, fomepizole intravenously was given until could not exclude concurrent infection or aspiration. Amylase negative toxicology for ethylene glycol was confirmed. Ethylene remained within reference range. Repeat chest X- ray showed no glycol is measured in an external laboratory with the assay avail- focal lung abnormality. Percutaneous ultrasound guided drainage able from Monday to Friday 9 am–5 pm and weekend mornings. of gallbladder found turbid foul smelling fluid with heavy Klieb- It was arranged to be run the following morning and results were sella oxytoca and Escherichia coli. He was treated with intrave- available within 24 hours of admission. Intravenous calcium was nous antibiotics and taken over by the surgical team. administered to correct his moderate hypocalcaemia. DISCUSSION OUTCOME AND FOLLOW-UP We describe a middle-a ged man presenting with reduced Two days after admission, the patient developed a severe electro- consciousness due to severe acidosis who subsequently devel- lyte imbalance with potassium dropping to a low of 2.4 mmol/L, oped severe electrolyte disturbance as an inpatient. The phosphate 0.28 mmol/L and magnesium remained within normal patient initially had a HAGMA associated with ketosis and this limits. These electrolytes were replaced with intravenous potas- improved
