Case report
KEYWORDS: mmol, mmol mmol, acidosis, admission, patient, severe, metabolic, case, ska, hagma, ketoacidosis, intravenous, day, showed, glycol


an inpatient. The phosphate 0.28 mmol/L and magnesium remained within normal patient initially had a HAGMA associated with ketosis and this limits. These electrolytes were replaced with intravenous potas- improved with intravenous fluids. On day 2 of admission, severe sium chloride and sodium glycerophosphate. hypokalaemia and hypophosphataemia were found requiring Dietetic review revealed his BMI was 23.3 kg/m2 at admission; intravenous replacement. It was noted while his BMI was within last measurement was in March 2020 where BMI was 28 kg/m2 the healthy range at 23 kg/m2, 1 year previously he had a docu- showing an 11.6% wt loss with no clear timeframe of weight mented BMI of 28 kg/m2. loss established. Dietetic review suggested daily intake of 1560– The diagnosis of SKA was based on the improvement of his 1950 kcal/day and 65–98 g/day of protein would be his optimum acidosis with intravenous fluids and his anion gap fell from >35.7 2 Boal AH, et al. BMJ Case Rep 2021;14:e245065. doi: Case report mmol/L to 24.9 mmol/L within 7 hours of admission. We also nutritional rehabilitation diet as he was at a high refeeding risk.14 excluded other causes of metabolic acidoses including diabetic This coupled with his weight loss, therefore strengthened our ketoacidosis and alcohol ketoacidosis given his raised beta- diagnosis of SKA and subsequent refeeding syndrome. hydroxybutyrate levels. In addition, during admission the Our patient described had a severe metabolic acidosis likely patient then developed severe electrolyte disturbance consistent owing to SKA and exacerbated by stress. While a less common with refeeding syndrome. cause of HAGMA, SKA should always be considered in a patient There are few case reports of SKA associated with severe with HAGMA and/or ketosis. MUST score or similar assessment metabolic acidosis. In healthy individuals, short- term starving should be carried out to help identify patients with malnutrition, results in mild ketosis. Low insulin levels promote lipolysis and at risk of malnutrition or obese and correct observations and/or delivery of fatty acids to the liver which undergo beta oxidation dietetic input can be carried out. and form ketone bodies. In experimental studies acidoses have been mild and beta-h ydroxybutyrate levels have been maximal Contributors AHB helped in research and manuscript preparation, MP helped in (5–12 mmol/L) after several weeks of total fasting.3–5 However manuscript preparation and review. a number of factors including stress may exacerbate the severity Funding The authors have not declared a specific
