Intravascular lithotripsy to treat calcified coronary arteries during percutaneous coronary
KEYWORDS: coronary, procedure, lithotripsy, stent, intravascular, intravascular lithotripsy, artery, calcified, percutaneous, calcification, committee, balloon, coronary artery, evidence, intervention


intervention 1 Recommendations 1.1 Use intravascular lithotripsy as an option to treat calcified coronary arteries during percutaneous coronary intervention with standard arrangements in place for clinical governance, consent and audit. 1.2 Clinicians should enter details about everyone having the procedure onto the National Institute for Cardiovascular Outcomes Research (NICOR) database and review local clinical outcomes. Why the committee made these recommendations There is good-quality evidence that this procedure is effective and safe. The evidence shows that calcification is reduced and blood vessel diameter is increased after this procedure, meaning a stent can be more easily inserted. People having this procedure already have a high risk of cardiovascular complications, but there is no evidence that intravascular lithotripsy increases this risk. This procedure is widely used and established in clinical practice. 2 The condition, current treatments and procedure The condition 2.1 Coronary artery calcification (intimal and medial calcifications) increases the complexity of percutaneous treatment strategies in coronary interventions. It contributes to: • arterial wall stiffness • suboptimal stent delivery and expansion • in-stent restenosis • high rates of stent thrombosis • the need for subsequent target lesion revascularisation after endovascular interventions. Current treatments 2.2 Standard endovascular treatment options for modifying calcium or plaque during percutaneous coronary intervention (PCI) include balloon angioplasty using standard or high-pressure non-compliant balloons; cutting or scoring balloons; and stenting with or without coronary atherectomy (such as rotational, orbital or laser atherectomy). These treatments aim to allow optimal stent expansion and achieve maximal luminal gain. But they may sometimes lead to localised wall injury, balloon rupture or the risk of coronary vessel dissections or perforation. Intravascular lithotripsy is another endovascular treatment option for PCI. Unmet need 2.3 Addressing calcified coronary lesions during PCI presents a significant challenge. Calcified plaques can hinder stent deployment and expansion, increasing the risk of complications such as arterial dissection or inadequate stent expansion. Existing options for managing heavily calcified coronary arteries during PCI such as balloon angioplasty may not be effective in fracturing severe calcifications. By using sonic waves to fracture calcium deposits, intravascular lithotripsy may be an efficient approach to managing calcified coronary arteries and may lead to better stent placement and improved patient outcomes. The procedure 2.4 In this procedure, intravascular lithotripsy is administered to the calcified coronary artery before the stent is placed during PCI. 2.5 A percutaneous guidewire is passed through a catheter inserted from the radial or femoral artery
