Intravascular lithotripsy to treat calcified coronary arteries during percutaneous coronary
KEYWORDS: coronary, procedure, lithotripsy, stent, intravascular, intravascular lithotripsy, artery, calcified, percutaneous, calcification, committee, balloon, coronary artery, evidence, intervention


is administered to the calcified coronary artery before the stent is placed during PCI. 2.5 A percutaneous guidewire is passed through a catheter inserted from the radial or femoral artery into the coronary artery. Then, an intravascular lithotripsy catheter with embedded emitters enclosed in an integrated angioplasty balloon is passed and connected to an external generator with a cable. The catheter is advanced to the target lesion guided by X-ray imaging of radio-opaque markers on the catheter. The balloon is then inflated with a saline and contrast solution to ensure contact with the vessel wall. The lithotripsy cycle is then started. For every cycle, the catheter emits localised, high-energy, pulsatile, unfocused, circumferential, sonic, pressure waves (lasting microseconds). These waves pass through the inflated balloon into the wall of the coronary artery. As the waves travel into the wall and the connective tissue, they disrupt calcium deposits (both intimal and medial) by micro-fracturing the calcified lesions. The balloon is then deflated to allow blood supply to return to the heart. 2.6 The cycle can be repeated until the lesion has expanded enough to allow optimal stent placement or the total pulses available are used. 3 Committee considerations The evidence 3.1 NICE did a rapid review of the published literature on the efficacy and safety of this procedure. This comprised a comprehensive literature search and detailed review of the evidence from 14 sources, which was discussed by the committee. The evidence included is based on about 8,300 people from 2 systematic reviews and meta-analyses, 1 small randomised controlled trial, 2 pooled analyses of prospective studies, 5 prospective studies, 2 retrospective cohort studies and 2 case reports. It is presented in the summary of key evidence section in the interventional procedures overview. Other relevant literature is in the appendix of the overview. 3.2 The professional experts and the committee considered the key efficacy outcomes to be: improved quality of life, reduced major cardiovascular events and coronary artery patency. 3.3 The professional experts and the committee considered the key safety outcomes to be: potential risk of coronary rupture and myocardial infarction. 3.4 Patient commentary was sought but none was received. Committee comments 3.5 The committee noted that: • the incidence of coronary artery calcification in people having percutaneous coronary intervention is increasing • the importance of calcification is more recognised • CT coronary angiography may show the presence of calcification so intravascular lithotripsy can
