BrftiishJoumalofPhannacology(1995)114. 1179-1184 B 1995Stockton Press Allrightsreserved0007-1188/95 $9.00 S
KEYWORDS: nanc, hydroquinone, relaxations, hydroxocobalamin, nitrergic, canine, stimulation, figure, gsno, snap, effect, cysno, icj, induced, activity


nitrergic transmission has been demonstrated through- 1993; Liu et al., 1994; Barbier & Lefebvre, 1994) and to out the whole gastrointestinal tract (for reviews see: Sanders mimic NANC hyperpolarizations in canine colon (Thornbury & Ward, 1992; Stark & Szurszewski, 1992). At present the et al., 1991) and rat gastric fundus (Kitamura et al., role of NO in NANC neurotransmission has been well- 1993). established, but the exact chemical identity of the nitrergic In order to investigate whether the inhibitory NANC neurotransmitter remains controversial. It was reported that neurotransmitter is NO or an S-nitrosothiol, we recently drugs like hydroquinone, pyrogallol and LY 83583, which act studied the effect of L-cysteine, shown to discriminate as free radical scavengers or superoxide anion generators, between NO and S-nitrosothiols , and had a differential effect on relaxations induced by authentic the effect of pyrogallol on the nitrergic neurotransmitter in NO compared to those induced by NANC nerve stimulation the canine ileocolonic junction (ICJ), both in organ baths in the bovine retractor penis muscle (Gillespie & Sheng, and in a bioassay set-up (Boeckxstaens etal., 1994). In organ 1990), the rat gastric fundus and mouse anococcygeus (Bar- baths, pyrogallol and L-cysteine inhibited the NO-induced bier & Lefebvre, 1994; Hobbs et al., 1991). Furthermore, in but not the NANC nerve-induced relaxations. It was the rat anococcygeus muscle, hydroxocobalamin, which is hypothesized that this differential effect was due to their thought to act as a NO scavenger, clearly inhibited relaxa- pharmacological inactivity at the neuromuscular junction, tions to NO but only those to low frequency stimulation of since in bioassay superfusion experiments, both agents the NANC nerves . It was inhibited the biological activity of the nitrergic neurotrans- therefore hypothesized that the inhibitory nitrergic NANC mitter released in response to NANC nerve stimulation to neurotransmitter is not free NO but rather a superoxide- the same extent as the biological activity of authentic NO resistant, NO-releasing molecule, such as a S-nitrosothiol. . In contrast, responses to S- S-nitrosothiols have indeed been shown to relax vascular nitrosothiols were not affected, indicating that the inhibitory nitrergic NANC neurotransmitter is free NO rather than a S-nitrosothiol. 'Author for correspondence. To investigate further whether the nitrergic neurotransmit- 1180 J.G. DeMan etal Similarity between NOandNANC ter is NO or a S-nitrosothiol, we studied the effect of the tangular waves, 25mA, 9V) were delivered by a Grass nitrosothiols S-nitroso-L-cysteine (CysNO), S-nitroso- stimulator and a direct current
