BrftiishJoumalofPhannacology(1995)114. 1179-1184 B 1995Stockton Press Allrightsreserved0007-1188/95 $9.00 S
KEYWORDS: nanc, hydroquinone, relaxations, hydroxocobalamin, nitrergic, canine, stimulation, figure, gsno, snap, effect, cysno, icj, induced, activity


might actually release a nitrosothiol, from which NO is Figure 6 Concentration-dependent effect of(a) hydroquinone (hat- liberated either spontaneously or after contact with the effectorcell (Kowaluk & Fung, 1990; Mathews & Kerr, 1993) ched columns, 1Ogm; solid columns, 30pM; cross hatched columns, and subsequently detected by the bioassay tissue. However, 1I001M) and (b) hydroxocobalamin (hatched columns 0.3 g1m; solid columns, 1 jAM; cross hatched columns, 3 jM) on the biological the biological activity ofCysNO, SNAP orGSNO, even after activity of the vasorelaxant nitrergic factor, released in response to they superfused the ileocolonic junction, was not affected by NANC nerve stimulation (8-16Hz, 2ms) ofthecanine ICJ, and on pyrogallol or L-cysteine providing the activity of nitroglycerin (GTN, 1Opmol). Results are expressed evidence against this possibility. Furthermore, it has to be as percentage decrease of the noradrenaline'(0.1 JM)-induced con- emphasized that in the organ bath, exogenous NO is directly traction and shown as mean±s.e.mean for n=4-7 experiments. injected into the bathing fluid that contains the inhibitor *P<0.05 is considered as significantly different from control; under study, whereas this inhibitor has to move into the Student's t test for paired observations. neuromuscularjunction to block the biological activity ofthe endogenous neurotransmitter. This difference is not present in the bioassay, resulting in an identical pharmacological profile for NO and the nitrergic neurotransmitter, illustrating generally polarized substances (Kowaluk & Fung, 1990), are that the differential effect of pyrogallol, L-cysteine, hydro- unlikely to permeate cell membranes whereas free NO is a quinone and hydroxocobalamin in the organ baths results highly permeable gas which can diffuse rapidly across cell from their reduced activity at the neuromuscular junction. membranes. Such a reduced activity may be due to high tissue activity of Although in the organ baths the pharmacological profile of superoxide dismutase, which was recently shown to protect exogenous NO is not identical to that of the endogenous effectively the nitrergic neurotransmitter in the rat anococ- mitter released by the inhibitory NANC nerves is free NO. 1994). As reported earlier , the In conclusion, we have illustrated that the pharmacological differential effect of pyrogallol and L-cysteine on NO- and profile ofCysNO, SNAP and GSNO differs from that ofthe NANC nerve-induced relaxations studied in organ baths, can nitrergic neurotransmitter in the canine ileocolonic junction. be explained by inactivity of these substances at the site of Although NO and the nitrergic neurotransmitter were the neuromuscularjunction. Although these superoxide anion differently affected by
