REVIEW
KEYWORDS: doi, epilepsy, gut, etal, brain, microbiota, patients, axis, treatment, diet, intestinal, bacteroidetes, seizures, refractory, gaba


generalized epilepsy, combined statistical differences in fecal microbial composition between generalized and focal epilepsy, and unknown epilepsy (22). epileptic patients and healthy people, as well as between According to its responsiveness to antiepileptic drugs, epilepsy epileptic patientsbeforeand afterKDtreatment,andinanimal can be divided into drug-sensitive and refractory epilepsy. function through a variety of pathways and systems, including of epilepsy determines the lack of a specific animal model thecentralnervous system(CNS),thehypothalamic–pituitary– reflecting all of its characteristics. Classical animal models of adrenal (HPA) axis, immune and inflammatory systems, and epilepsy include the following categories. The maximal neuromodulators, and could therefore also be involved in electroshock model and pentylenetetrazol (PTZ) models are epilepsy (Figure 1). Remodeling intestinal microbiota through classical ones that simulate acute epilepsy (23). The kindling individualized diet, probiotics, antibiotics, and even fecal model simulates the characteristics of progressive development microbiota transplantation (FMT) may become the future and long-term recurrence through repeated electrical and standard treatment of refractory epilepsy. Herein, we review chemical stimulation of the thalamus, amygdala, hippocampus, FIGURE1| Themicrobiota–gut–brainaxisinepilepsy.Badgutmicrobiotacouldupregulatetheproductionofepilepsy-promotingmetabolites,thesecretionof inflammatoryfactors,andsoon,whichleadtoabnormalGABA/glutamateratioandtheninducetheepilepsy.Chronicstressmaybeatriggerforthisprocess. Healthygutmicrobiotacouldproducegoodmetabolites,suchasSCFAsandserotonin,whichcouldinhibittheoccurrenceofepilepsy.HPAaxis,entericnervous system,andvagusnervoussystemarealsoinvolvedintheinteractionbetweengutmicrobiotaandepilepsy.ACTH,Adrenocorticotropichormone;AED,Antiepileptic drug;CRF,Corticotrophin-releasingfactor;HPA,Hypothalamic–pituitary–adrenal;GABA,g-aminobutyricacid;KD,Ketogenicdiet;MAMP,Microbe-associated molecularpattern;SCFA,Short-chainfattyacid;PRR,Patternrecognitionreceptor. FrontiersinImmunology | www.frontiersin.org 2 October2021 | Volume12 | Article742449 Dingetal. Gut–BrainAxisandEpilepsy and other regions, while continuous stimulation could induce healthy people remains constant, temporal and spatial statusepilepticus.TheWAG/Rijratmodelisusedforthestudy differences still exist. GM influences human health by of hereditary absence epilepsy (24). In addition, animal models regulating the metabolism and the host immune response. It ofepilepsywithaspecialetiologycanbepreparedbymicrobial has been reported that the species of GM in individuals with infection, trauma, ischemia, and hypoxia. Chemical kindling neuropsychiatric and neurodegenerative disorders differ from models induced by li-pilocarpine (25) or kainic acid (26, 27), those in healthy people, but there are few reports on the amygdala electrical kindling models (28), and genetic models correlation between epilepsy and GM (34). With the wide havebeenusedtoconstructanimalmodelsofrefractoryepilepsy spread of 16S/18S rDNA sequencing, recent studies have (29).Thesemodelsareimportantforexploringthepathogenesis reported that individuals with refractory epilepsy show altered of intractable epilepsy and screening and identifying new GMcomposition(34).Weelaborateontherelationshipbetween antiepilepticdrugs. the GM and epilepsy in humans and murine and discuss the dietaryinterventionforepilepsyviamodulationofGM. 3.1 Human Microbiota and Epilepsy 3 THE CLOSE RELATIONSHIP BETWEEN Only a few population-based studies revealed GM differences INTESTINAL MICROBIOTA AND EPILEPSY between the epilepsy group and healthy controls (HC) in a relatively limited sample size (Table 1) (10–15). Xie et al. Themicrobiota,awidevarietyofmicroorganismspopulatingthe compared the GM of 14 patients with refractory epilepsy and gut,including50bacterialphyla,is10timesmoreabundantthan 30 HCs and found a higher GM diversity in HCs (15). At the the somatic and germ line
