REVIEW
KEYWORDS: doi, epilepsy, gut, etal, brain, microbiota, patients, axis, treatment, diet, intestinal, bacteroidetes, seizures, refractory, gaba


pathways elevated in design, age, diet, and living environment, efforts are needed to the DR group compared to the DS group (12). Gong et al. conduct larger sample analyses based on reasonably investigated GM structure and composition in an exploratory controlledvariables. cohort(epilepsypatients,n=55;HC,n=46)andvalidatedthe 3.2 Murine Microbiota and Epilepsy GMasabiomarkerforepilepsyinavalidationcohort(epilepsy patients, n = 13; HCs, n = 10) (10). A much lower GM alpha- ThesusceptibilitytoPTZ-inducedepilepsywasincreasedinrats diversity was observed in patients than in HCs (10). with2,4,6-trinitro-benzene-sulfonicacid(TNBS)-inducedcolitis Actinobacteria and Verrucomicrobia increased and (41). In a mouse model of PTZ-induced seizures, intestinal Proteobacteria decreased at the phylum level, while at the inflammation increases convulsive activity and decreases the genus level, Prevotella_9, Blautia, and Bifidobacterium effectiveness of antiepileptic drugs. Further, alleviation of increased in patients with epilepsy (10). They further intestinal inflammation has a specific antiepileptic effect (8). In constructed a random forest model based on the GM and addition, a reversible inflammatory response characterized by verified its value as a biomarker to discriminate epilepsy from microglial activation and an increase in tumor necrosis factor HCsordrug-resistantepilepsy(DRE)vs.drug-sensitiveepilepsy alpha (TNFa) was observed in the hippocampus of TNBS- (DSE)(10).Safaketal.performedacontrastanalysisofthefecal treated rats, suggesting that gut inflammation may increase microbiome between idiopathic focal epilepsy (n = 30) and the CNS excitability by inducing CNS inflammation (41); however, HCgroup(n=10),findingthatProteobacteriaandFusobacteria, theunderlyingmechanismisstillunknown.Medel-Matusetal. which could cause autoimmune diseases, were significantly revealedthatchronicstresscanfacilitateseizuredevelopmentby higher in the idiopathic focal epilepsy group than in the HC perturbingtheGM(42).GMtransplantationfromstressdonors group, and Bacteroidetes and Actinobacteria, which have a to sham-stressed subjects increased seizure kindling rate and positive effect on the immune system, were significantly lower duration after kindling of the basolateral amygdala, while the (11). This study indicated the possible roles of autoimmune proconvulsant effects of chronic stress were prevented by GM mechanisms and inflammation in the etiology of epilepsy. transplantationfromshamstressdonors(42).InWAG/Rijrats, However, they did not perform a GM diversity analysis. Lee ageneticmodelofabsenceepilepsy,GMwasalteredwithalower et al. conducted a study on the GM of eight children with Bacteroidetes/Firmicutesratioattheageof1monthandbefore intractable epilepsy and 32 HCs (13). Microbiota richness was the onset of epilepsy, and a further reduced Bacteroidetes/ lower in the epilepsy group than in the HC group (13). Firmicutes ratio with a large number of absence seizures was Actinobacteria was higher in the epilepsy group than in HCs, observed at 4months (16). Short-chain fatty acids (SCFAs) are whereasBacteroideteswaslower(13).Theyidentified17and18 messengersbetweenthegutandbrain,andbutyratehasananti- speciesofbacteriastronglyrelatedtoepilepsyandtheHCgroup, epilepticeffectinrats(43).SCFAswerereducedinWAG/Rijrats respectively(13).Enterococcusfaecium,Bifidobacteriumlongum, (16).Furthermore,FMTalteredthenumberofabsenceseizures andEggerthellalentawerethestrongestpotentialbiomarkersin in rats with concomitant GM remodeling (16). This model theintractableepilepsygroup(13).TheyalsosuggestedtheABC suggests that the GM is involved in the initiation and transporter as
