REVIEW
KEYWORDS: doi, epilepsy, gut, etal, brain, microbiota, patients, axis, treatment, diet, intestinal, bacteroidetes, seizures, refractory, gaba


are whereasBacteroideteswaslower(13).Theyidentified17and18 messengersbetweenthegutandbrain,andbutyratehasananti- speciesofbacteriastronglyrelatedtoepilepsyandtheHCgroup, epilepticeffectinrats(43).SCFAswerereducedinWAG/Rijrats respectively(13).Enterococcusfaecium,Bifidobacteriumlongum, (16).Furthermore,FMTalteredthenumberofabsenceseizures andEggerthellalentawerethestrongestpotentialbiomarkersin in rats with concomitant GM remodeling (16). This model theintractableepilepsygroup(13).TheyalsosuggestedtheABC suggests that the GM is involved in the initiation and transporter as a functional biomarker of intractable epilepsy, maintenance of hereditary absence seizures. In conclusion, consistentwiththeresultsofPengetal.(12,13).Forty-fouradult both human and murine studies have shown that the GM is epilepsy patientswereclassifiedintotheDRE(n=23)andDSE closelyrelatedtotheoccurrenceofmultipletypesofepilepsy. groups(n=21)ina2021study(14).Alpha-andbeta-diversity analyses showed no significant differences between patients in 3.3 Dietary Intervention for Epilepsy via thesetwogroups,butGMcomposition differenceswererelated Modulation of GM to patients’ response to epileptic drugs, magnetic resonance Diet is a major factor in shaping GM composition (44, 45). imaging (MRI), and electroencephalogram (EEG) (14). Zmora et al. concluded in their review that nutrients in food FrontiersinImmunology | www.frontiersin.org 4 October2021 | Volume12 | Article742449 Dingetal. Gut–BrainAxisandEpilepsy couldshapetheGMinavarietyofways:(1)directlyinteractand GABA(58)whichcouldbesecretedbycertainLactobacillusand regulate microorganisms, (2) indirectly by influencing host Bifidobacteriumstrains(59).KDalsopromotestheproductionof metabolism, and (3) by passively introducing microbiota (46). fatty acids, particularly PUFAs, which may activate peroxisome Researchers analyzed fecal microbiota by applying next- proliferator-activated receptors that regulate anti-inflammatory, generation sequencing technology and classified enterotypes antioxidant,andmitochondrialgenes,leadingtoenhancedenergy into Bacteroides, Prevotella, and Enterobacteriaceae, which reserves, synaptic function stabilization, and hyperexcitability could be correlated with dietary habits (47). Long-term intake restriction(60). of animal protein and fat was beneficial to the growth of the KDinducesGMalterationanditisthereforeinvolvedinthis enriched Prevotella (48). A classic Western diet (rich in fats or suggest that KD may play a protective role in epilepsy patients proteins) results in the reduction of beneficial butyrate- byadjustingtheGM(Table2)(15,17–19).Xieetal.performed producing bacteria, Bifidobacteria, and Eubacterium. Most of successiveKDtherapyfor≥1weekin14infantswithrefractory 50). Dietary protein is an essential source of nitrogen for GM largely alleviated. Proteobacteria and Cronobacter decreased, growth, but high-protein diets are related to high levels of and Prevotella and Bifidobacterium significantly increased after harmful metabolites in feces, cancer, and inflammatory bowel KDtreatment(15).Zhangetal.furtherexploredthechangesin disease(50,51).GMcompositioncanbeadjustedbyalteringthe GMafterKDinchildren(n=20)andlinkedthesechangestothe proportion of dietary fiber, protein, and fat (52). Therefore, a differentialefficacyofKDtreatment(17).Aloweralpha-diversity healthydietandlifestylearebothimportantinGMformation. of the GM was observed after 6 months of KD (17). The KD indeed has a role in reducing the frequency of seizures, abundance ratio of Bacteroidetes significantly increased, while especially in refractory epilepsy; however, the underlying that of Firmicutes and Actinobacteria significantly decreased mechanisms need to be further elucidated. The existing during KD intervention (17). Bacteroides can regulate the mechanisms mainly involve neurotransmitters, brain energy secretion of 6–17 interleukins in dendritic cells, which are metabolism, oxidative stress, and ion channels (53, 54). KD can connected with seizures and can break down dietary fiber into induce GABA synthesis by
