REVIEW
KEYWORDS: doi, epilepsy, gut, etal, brain, microbiota, patients, axis, treatment, diet, intestinal, bacteroidetes, seizures, refractory, gaba


withadecreasedpopulation ofTandBcellsand response to KD than in those with an adequate response (19). areducedcytokineproduction(70).Further,theGMappearsas In these four studies, the epileptic symptoms were alleviated to one of the most important factors for the maturation of differentdegreesafterKDtreatment,andGMcompositionand microglial cells, as well as the astrocyte activation (71), which functionchangedtosomeextentafterKDtreatment. is age- and sex-dependent (72). The GM regulates innate Olsonetal.studiedtwomousemodelsofrefractoryepilepsy immunity, adaptive immunity, and inflammatory mechanisms andfoundthatKDcouldincreasetheGABA/glutamateratioin tomodulatethedevelopmentofepilepsy. thecoloniclumen,serum,andhippocampusbymodulatingkey bacterial species, resulting in seizure reduction (20). This is the 4.1.2 Gut Barrier and Blood–Brain Barrier firststudytoverifytheroleofGMintheantiseizureeffectsofKD The intestinal mucosal barrier and blood–brain barrier (BBB) treatment in a mouse model. The protective effect of KD was worktogethertopreventGManditssecretionsfromenteringthe abrogated inGF or Abx-treated SPF mice, while recolonization brain. “Leaky gut” syndrome is characterized by increased with KD-associated bacteria restored the epilepsy protection of intestinal permeability, which allows bacteria, toxic metabolites, KDtreatmenttonormallevels(20).Thisphenomenonsuggests and small molecules to translocate into the bloodstream (73). the essential role of the GM in the epileptic protective Undergutinflammation,bacteriacandirectlyreleasefactorsinto mechanism mediated by KD. Further, this study revealed the thesystemiccirculation,whichactivatesperipheralimmunecells, possible underlying cellular and molecular pathways by which altersBBBintegrityandthustransportrates,andcaneveninduce specific GM interact with each other to modulate peripheral “leaky brain” (74). Stress can increase intestinal mucosal metabolites and then impact the levels of hippocampal permeability, and lipopolysaccharidesandothercytokinesin the neurotransmitters (20). In a recent animal study, the lumen enter the blood circulation stimulating toll-like receptors, abundance of Firmicutes was increased, and Acetatifactor, producing inflammatory cytokines that could increase BBB Anaerotaenia, Escherichia, Flintibacter, Oscillibacter, and permeabilityanddamagethebrain(75,76). Erysipelatoclostridium werehigherintheKDgroupthaninthe NDgroup.TheGMwithincreasedabundancewasrelatedtothe 4.1.3 Neuroimmunity productionofSCFAsandGABA(21).AlthoughKDhasspecific Astrocytesarethemostabundantglialcellsinthebrainandhavea value in the treatment of epilepsy and neurodegenerative varietyoffunctions,includingregulatingtheintegrityoftheBBB,the diseases, it increases the risk of glucose and lipid metabolism recycling of neurotransmitters, and participating in immune disorders. The glucose intolerance and lipid accumulation responses(77).Microglialcellsaretheresidentmacrophagesofthe inducedbyKDarecloselyrelatedtothesourceandproportion CNS,mediatingtheinnateimmuneresponse(78).Microgliawitha offat in the diet, which could be associated with alterations in larger, less ramified, amoeboid morphology can promote GMcomposition(65). inflammation, neuronal activity regulation, phagocytic neuron TherearestillsomequestionsonthemechanismwherebyKD clearance, and chronic seizures (79). Microglia and astrocytes are couldprotectepilepticpatientsfromseizures.Forexample,how involvedinthepathogenesisofepilepsybyreleasingexcesscytokines doesmodulationofbacterialspeciesaffectchangesinmembrane (67),andinteractwitheachother:microgliacanmodulateastrocytes’ potential of hippocampal neurons? Is modulation of GABA/ phenotype and function (80), while mouse microglia can regulate glutamatelevelsthemainpathway?Howcanchangesinbacterial astrocytes’behaviorthrough,forexample,VEGF-B,whichpromotes species modulate GABA/glutamate levels? These questions the pathogenic response and inflammatory response of astrocytes, shouldbethesubjectoffutureresearch. and TGF-a, which promotes the opposite (81). Gut microbes metabolize dietary tryptophan into aryl hydrocarbon receptor agonists and interact with its receptor to control microglial activationandTGF-aandVEGF-Bexpression,therebymodulating 4 MECHANISM OF THE CORRELATION OF astrocyte pathogenic activity (81, 82). Inflammatory cytokines and MICROBIOTA–GUT–BRAIN AXIS chemokines released by astrocytes
