REVIEW
KEYWORDS: doi, epilepsy, gut, etal, brain, microbiota, patients, axis, treatment, diet, intestinal, bacteroidetes, seizures, refractory, gaba


agonists and interact with its receptor to control microglial activationandTGF-aandVEGF-Bexpression,therebymodulating 4 MECHANISM OF THE CORRELATION OF astrocyte pathogenic activity (81, 82). Inflammatory cytokines and MICROBIOTA–GUT–BRAIN AXIS chemokines released by astrocytes enhance microglial activities, AND EPILEPSY including migration, phagocytosis of apoptotic cells, and synaptic pruning(83).Theinteractionbetweenastrocytesandmicroglialeads 4.1 Immune and Inflammation Pathways to increased pro-inflammatory cytokine production and BBB The pathogenesis of epilepsy is linked to neuroimmunity and permeability, which results in the infiltration of peripheral blood neuroinflammation (66). Accumulating evidence has demonstrated immune cellsandcytokines intotheCNS,andsubsequentchronic thatimmuneandinflammatorypathwaysinthebrain–gutaxismay neuroinflammation (84). GF and antibiotic-treated (Abx-treated) beinvolvedinthepathogenesisofepilepsy.Microgliaandastrocytes animals have also altered microglial morphology and defects in FrontiersinImmunology | www.frontiersin.org 6 October2021 | Volume12 | Article742449 Dingetal. Gut–BrainAxisandEpilepsy maturation,activation,anddifferentiation,resultinginaninadequate sensory relay nucleus of the vagus nerve in the brainstem, immuneresponsetoavarietyofpathogens,whichcouldberepaired suggesting that gut stimulation can modulate brain activity via after GM recolonization, which suggests that intestinal microbial the autonomic nervous system (103). Vagus nerve stimulation diversityiscriticalformicroglialandCNSfunction(85).Inaddition (VNS)hasbecomeanormaltherapyforepilepsysincebeingfirst toglialcellsresidingintheCNS,peripheralimmunecells,suchasT reported in 1988 (104). Ressler et al. reported that electrical cells and monocytes invading the brain tissue, are also involved in stimulation of vagal afferent fibers could modify brain epilepsy’s morbidity. Monocytes can differentiate into macrophages concentrations of serotonin, GABA, and glutamate, thus and invade the brain, where they differentiate into “microglia-like explaining its use in epilepsy (105). VN goes through all cells”andcontributetoepilepsy(86).Astheorganwiththelargest intestinal layers, except the epithelial one, so it cannot directly population of immune cells, the gut is likely to play a role in this interact with the GM (106). Enteroendocrine cells (EECs) can process,buttheexactmechanismrequiresfurtherinvestigation. detect signals released from the luminal microbiota through The GM can induce epilepsy through the innate immune different receptors. Previously, gut endocrine cells and the pathway. BBB permeability increases throughout the life of GF cranial nerve were thought to communicate only through micerelatedtothedecreasedexpressionofoccludinandclaudin- hormones (107); however, Kaelberer et al. found that EECs 5 proteins in the endothelium (87). GM dysbiosis decreases named neuropod cells could synapse with vagal neurons to claudin production and increases the permeability of the transduce gut luminal signals to connect the intestinal lumen to intestinal lining, leading to the escape of microorganisms, the brainstem using glutamate as a neurotransmitter (107). The metabolites, and toxins from the intestinal lumen (88). GM discoveryofneuropodcellsprovidesastrongtheoreticalsupport dysbiosis also reduces SCFAs, which increases BBB forthetreatmentofneurologicaldiseasesbyregulatingtheGM. permeability and promotes neuroinflammation (89). If these two barriers are broken, the immune cells and factors released 4.3 Enteroendocrine Signaling and by the microbiota enter the brain and induce
