REVIEW
KEYWORDS: doi, epilepsy, gut, etal, brain, microbiota, patients, axis, treatment, diet, intestinal, bacteroidetes, seizures, refractory, gaba


forthetreatmentofneurologicaldiseasesbyregulatingtheGM. permeability and promotes neuroinflammation (89). If these two barriers are broken, the immune cells and factors released 4.3 Enteroendocrine Signaling and by the microbiota enter the brain and induce seizures. Microbial Metabolites: Neurotransmitters Peptidoglycan (PGN) is a component of the bacterial cell wall and Short-Chain Fatty Acids thatmainlyexistsinthehuman intestinaltract(90). PGN,asa driver of chronic encephalitis, has also been detected in brain 4.3.1 Enteroendocrine Signaling microglia (90). Chronic inflammation, such as sclerosis-related and Neurotransmitters temporallobeepilepsy,isalsoacauseofepilepsy(91).Therefore, Neurotransmitter imbalance is closely related to epilepsy. weconcludethatPGNmaytranslocatefromtheguttotheCNS Neurotransmitter imbalance exists in epileptic foci, such as GABA bypromotinggutleakageand brainleakage, leadingtochronic with hypoactivity and glutamate with hyperactivity, dopamine inflammationandcontributingtotheoccurrenceofepilepsy. and norepinephrine (NE) with hyperactivity, and serotonin with The GM also contributes to epilepsy generation by inducing hypoactivity(108).Inthegastrointestinaltract,neurotransmitterscan adaptiveimmunity.TheGMcaninduceimmunecellstoproduce besecreteddirectlybytheGMorproducedbygastrointestinalcells cytokines that enter the brain through the intestinal mucosa and underthestimulationofGMmetabolites.DifferentGMcanproduce BBBandactivatebrainimmunecellstoparticipateintheimmune differentneurotransmitters(Enterococcusspp.,Streptococcusspp.,and response.Thelpercell17(Th17)cellsareaproinflammatoryCD4+ Escherichia spp. produce serotonin; Lactobacillus spp. and Tcellsubtypeandkeycomponentsofadaptiveimmunity(92).IL- Bifidobacterium spp. produce GABA, Escherichia spp. and Bacillus 17isacytokineproducedbyTh17cells,whichcanbemodulatedby spp. produce NE and dopamine). The various neurotransmitters specific GM phyla, such as Bacteroidetes (92, 93). As recently produced by the GM can pass through the intestinal mucosa but shown, both in the CSF and in the peripheral blood of patients rarely through the BBB, with the exception of GABA (109). In withepilepsy,IL-17levelswerehigherthanincontrols,andhighly hippocampalinjury,orepilepticstatus,GABAproducedbyGMcan correlated with the frequency and severity of seizures (94–97). lead to an imbalance between the GABA and glutamate systems, Therefore, the GM can influence the occurrence of epilepsy by causingseizures.Sunetal.showedthattherelativeabundanceofthe mediating IL-17. GM metabolites, such as SCFAs, can affect the genera Coprococcus, Ruminococcus, and Turicibacter was positively synthesis and secretion of immunoglobulins by regulating B correlatedwith glutamateandglutamine levels (110).TheGMcan lymphocyte differentiation (98, 99). The absence of commensal affect the glutamine–glutamate–GABA cycle, produce microbiota downregulates IgA and IgG1, and upregulates IgE, neurotransmitters, and mediate the expression of GABA and whichleadstoincreasedsusceptibilitytodiseases(100,101). NMDA receptors in specific brain regions (hippocampus, Therefore,GMcaninduceanimmuneresponsethroughthegut– amygdala, and locus coeruleus) (111). A. mucinophilia and brainaxis,whichleadstoepileptogenesis.However,onlyafewstudies Parabacteroides colonization couldalter the level ofamino acids in have directlyfocusedon therelationshipbetweenthe gut,immune theserumandgutlumentomodulatethelevelsofseizure-associated responses,andepilepsy,andmanyissuesremaintobeexplored. neurotransmitters, such as GABA and glutamate, in the hippocampus, thus providing protective anti-seizure effects in 4.2 Nervous System mice (20, 112). Enterochromaffin cells (ECs) produce Oneofthemostimportantpathwaysfortransmittinginformation approximately 90% of 5-hydroxytryptamine (5-HT) (113). In GF betweenthebrainandthegutisviaautonomicnervefibers(102). mice,certainintestinalmicrobiota,suchasspore-formingclostridia OralinoculationofCampylobacterjejunitoamousemodelleads taxa, can promote 5-HT biosynthesis in the gut by upregulating toincreasedc-fos expressioninthesensorygangliaandprimary colonictryptophanhydroxylase1,arate-limitingenzymefor5-HT FrontiersinImmunology | www.frontiersin.org 7 October2021 | Volume12 | Article742449 Dingetal. Gut–BrainAxisandEpilepsy production (114, 115). Previous studies have shown that patients corticotrophin-releasing factor, adrenocorticotropic
