REVIEW
KEYWORDS: doi, epilepsy, gut, etal, brain, microbiota, patients, axis, treatment, diet, intestinal, bacteroidetes, seizures, refractory, gaba


the gut by upregulating toincreasedc-fos expressioninthesensorygangliaandprimary colonictryptophanhydroxylase1,arate-limitingenzymefor5-HT FrontiersinImmunology | www.frontiersin.org 7 October2021 | Volume12 | Article742449 Dingetal. Gut–BrainAxisandEpilepsy production (114, 115). Previous studies have shown that patients corticotrophin-releasing factor, adrenocorticotropic hormone, with temporal lobe epilepsy have a 5-HT deficiency. A drug and subsequent release of glucocorticoids (e.g., cortisol, combination that increases 5-HT, such as selective serotonin corticosterone, deoxycorticosterone, and corticotrophin) and reuptake inhibitors, may improve seizure control in patients with catecholamine downstream pathways (131). The HPA axis is epilepsy(116).The5-HTdecreaseinducedbyreserpineappearsto regulatedeitherbythenegativefeedbackofglucocorticoidsorby increasesusceptibilitytominimalelectroshockseizuresinrats(117). input from numerous different brain regions, including the However,changesinintestinal5-HTlevelscouldnotdirectlyaffect prefrontalcortex,hippocampus,amygdala,andthebednucleus thebrain,as5-HTcannotcrosstheBBB(118).Chemotherapeutic of the stria terminalis (132). Different hormones may have drugs often cause nausea and vomiting, caused by the release of different effects; for example, most deoxycorticosterones are large amounts of 5-HT in the intestine and the subsequent anticonvulsants, whereas corticotropin-releasing hormone and activation of vagal afferents (119). 5-HT released by ECs may corticosterone could induce seizure activity (133, 134). Despite have a potential impact on brain–gut axis signal transduction by the correlation between the HPA axis and GM, the specific regulatingintestinalvagalafferentactivity(120)andinflammatory mechanismhasnotbeenelucidated(135).Chronicstresscould responses(121).Alterationsin5-HTsignalingareassociatedwith upregulate glucocorticoids, which could enhance glutamatergic irritable bowel syndrome (122). Therefore, we speculate that a signalingandinduceseizures(136).GMcanaffectthefunction change in 5-HT levels in the intestine may be related to epilepsy, of the hypothalamus by changing circulating cytokine levels or but there is no evidence to support this. N-acetyl aspartic acid other pathways, thereby regulating the HPA axis (137). Stress (NAA) levels are reduced in patients with epilepsy, and in the responses in both SPF and GF mice suggest that the GM epilepticsucklingpigmodel,Austinetal.foundthatlowNAAlevels modulates stress-dependent pituitary and adrenal activation wereassociatedwithfecalRuminococcus,andthisprocessmaybe and alters the expression of genes regulating the corticotropin- mediatedbyserumcortisol(123).NEhasadoubleeffectonepilepsy releasinghormonepathwayinthecolon(138).Wehypothesized onsetdependingonitsamount,NEatlowdoseshaspro-epileptic thatchronicstressmayaffecttheHPAaxisthroughtheGMand effects, while high doses could inhibit epilepsy (124). Dopamine, promote epilepsy; however, the specific relationship among the serotonin,andacetylcholinearecloselycorrelatedwithepilepsyand HPAaxis,GM,andepilepsystillneedstobefurtherinvestigated. could indirectly affect brain function through the enteric nervous system,thevagusnervoussystem,andbyregulatingtheexpression ofperipheralreceptors(125). 5 BRAIN–GUT AXIS AS POTENTIAL DIAGNOSTIC AND THERAPEUTIC 4.3.2 SCFAs SCFAs, including acetate, propionate, and butyrate, can be TARGET FOR EPILEPSY produced by some gut bacteria (mainly Bacteroides and 5.1 The GM Perspective in Differential Firmicutes) through the fermentation of insoluble dietary fibers (126). SCFAs play an essential role in microglial Diagnosis of Epilepsy maturation, the gut–brain nervous system, BBB permeability, The GM differences between healthy people and patients with and stress responses through direct or indirect pathways, all different types of epilepsy make it a potential biomarker for closely related to epilepsy (127). As
