REVIEW
KEYWORDS: doi, epilepsy, gut, etal, brain, microbiota, patients, axis, treatment, diet, intestinal, bacteroidetes, seizures, refractory, gaba


healthy people and patients with and stress responses through direct or indirect pathways, all different types of epilepsy make it a potential biomarker for closely related to epilepsy (127). As mentioned earlier, SCFAs differential diagnosis, prognosis, and treatment monitoring in werereducedinWAG/Rijrats,andbutyratehadananti-absence epilepsy. Fecal microbiota may not accurately reflect GM seizure effect (16). The protective effects and mechanisms of situation because of possible pollution, and although different SCFAs in epilepsy were further studied in a PTZ- colonoscopy is more accurate than fecal GM, its invasiveness induced epileptic mouse model (8, 128, 129). Sodium butyrate limitsitsclinicalapplication. Inaddition,theGMisaffectedby may exhibit antiepileptic effects in PTZ-induced epileptic mice age,diet,livingenvironment,andother factors,thesample size by alleviating intestinal inflammation and oxidative stress (8). in these studies was small, and there were some contradictory Butyrate also ameliorates mitochondrial dysfunction and results. Therefore, theGMneedstobefurtherstudiedinlarger protects brain tissue from oxidative stress and neuronal patientsamplesandunderstrictlycontrolledvariables. apoptosis through the Keap/Nrf2/HO-1 pathway, thereby 5.2 The Value of the Brain–Gut Axis in the increasing seizure threshold and reducing seizure intensity Treatment of Epilepsy (129). Propionate treatment may alleviate seizure intensity and prolong the incubation period of seizures by reducing ModulationoftheGMmaybeapotentialtherapeuticapproach mitochondrial damage, hippocampal apoptosis, and for intractable epilepsy. On the one hand, regulation of GM neurological deficits (128). These studies show that SCFAs are could reduce the occurrence of seizures by adjusting the reducedinepilepsymodelsandtheirprotectiveeffectonepilepsy mechanisms related to epilepsy. On the other hand, drugs can throughdifferentmechanisms. beconvertedintometabolitesbyGMthroughdirectorindirect waystoexerttherapeuticefficacyorcausetoxicsideeffects(139). 4.4 The HPA Axis For DRE patients, adjusting the composition of the gut Stress can promote the induction of epilepsy, and epileptic microbiome may promote drug metabolism and absorption patients have higher glucocorticoid levels (130). The HPA axis and increase their responsiveness to antiepileptic drugs. In this is central to stress responses, including the secretion of section, we will review the effects of dietary intervention, FrontiersinImmunology | www.frontiersin.org 8 October2021 | Volume12 | Article742449 Dingetal. Gut–BrainAxisandEpilepsy antibiotics,probiotics,prebiotics,synbiotics,antiepilepticdrugs, monounsaturated fatty acids and polyphenols, which have andfecaltransplantationonepilepsy(Figure2). beneficial effects on inflammation, cardiovascular disease, and oxidativestatusofthebody(147).MMKDcanregulatetheGM 5.2.1 Dietary Intervention of patients with mild cognitive impairment, especially fungal Diet, especially KD, could regulate the occurrence of epilepsy by flora (146). A 12-month KD based on olive oil could alleviate shapingGMasdiscussedindetailinSection3.KDisahigh-fat,low- symptoms in 83.1% of patients with refractory epilepsy, carbohydrate,andadequateproteindietusedsince1921inpatients comparable to the effect of a traditional KD treatment (147). withrefractoryepilepsy(140).KDalsohaspositiveeffectsonother However, there is no comparative study between MMKD and neurologicaldiseases,suchasmultiplesclerosis,Parkinson’sdisease, traditional KD on the efficacy and side effects on refractory Alzheimer’sdisease,andmigraine(141–143).Theclassicratiooffat epilepsy.Atpresent,mostKDsareindividualizedmodifiedKDs to
