REVIEW
KEYWORDS: doi, epilepsy, gut, etal, brain, microbiota, patients, axis, treatment, diet, intestinal, bacteroidetes, seizures, refractory, gaba


frequency by isapromisingdietwithfewersideeffects. interfering with the intestinal flora and the gut–brain axis (163). Dietary intervention is an effective and perspective way to However,certainantibioticscanalsoinduceepilepsy;forexample, controlepilepsy,andfurtherresearchonthebacterial–gut–brain lactam antibiotics, including penicillin, cephalosporins, and axiswouldcontributetodevelopthemoreeffectivedietotherapy. carbapenems,aremostlikelytocauseseizures(164).Unsubstituted penicillin, like fourth-generation cephalosporins, imipenem, and 5.2.2 Probiotics/Prebiotics/Synbiotics ciprofloxacinincombinationwithrenaldysfunction,brainlesions, Probioticsarelivingmicroorganismsthat,attheappropriatedose,are andepilepsycouldleadtoanincreasedriskofsymptomaticseizures. beneficialtothehosthealth(155).Mostcommonprobioticsinclude Therefore,serumlevelsandEEGshouldbecloselymonitoredwhen Bifidobacterium and Lactobacillus (156). In 2020, the International usingantibioticsinthesepatients(165).Antibioticapplicationexerts ScientificAssociationforProbioticsandPrebioticsdefinedprebiotics short-orlong-termeffectsonGMcompositioninbothhumansand asa“substrateselectivelyutilizedbyhostmicroorganismsconferringa animals(162).Althoughsomeantibioticscandisruptthebalanceof comprising live microorganisms and substrate(s) selectively utilized abundanceofbeneficialmicroorganismsandplayapositiverolein by host microorganisms that confers a health benefit on the host” theGM(162).DifferentantibioticsleadtodifferentpatternsofGM consisting of two subsets: synergistic synbiotic (the prebiotic is alteration; for example, macrolides induce the reduction of selectivelyutilizedbytheco-administeredlivemicroorganisms)and Actinobacteria(mainlyBifidobacteria)(166,167),oralvancomycin complementary synbiotic (each component works independently) reduces Firmicutes and increases Proteobacteria (168), whereas (157).Inaprospectivestudy,thefrequencyofseizureswasreduced penicillin only has a weak effect on the human microbiota (168). by≥50%in28.9%ofDREpatientstreatedwithaprobioticmixturefor The extent of amoxicillin-induced epilepsy is not parallel to GM 4months,and76.9%oftheseimprovedpatientsmaintainedalower changes,whichiscontradictorytothehypothesisthatGMactsasa seizure frequency 4 months after discontinuation (158). This study bridge in antibiotic-induced epilepsy. However, the influence of indicatedthatadjuvantprobioticsreducedthefrequencyofseizures antibiotics on GM is also related to the initial GM composition and could be used as a complementary treatment to antiepileptic (169) and habits of the host (170). In the future, multi-center therapy(158).InthePTZ-inducedchemicalkindlingmousemodel, cooperation is needed to further clarify the specific effects and theprobioticsupplementationgroupdidnotshowfullkindling,and mechanismsofvariousantibioticsonepilepsy. GABAincreasedinmousebraintissue,whichindicatedthatprobiotic supplementation could substantially reduce seizure severity 5.2.4 Antiepileptic Drugs and GM (159).When treating PTZ-induced seizures in mice with KD, The GM contains a rich variety of drug-metabolizing enzymes synbiotics or Lactobacillus fermentum MSK 408 could reduce the that influence their pharmacology, resulting in interpersonal sideeffectsofKDwithoutdisturbingitsantiepilepticeffects(21,160). differences in drug efficacy and toxicity (171). For example, BothKDandMSK408increaseGABAmetabolismbyregulatingthe clonazepamisananticonvulsantandanti-anxietydrugreduced GM (160). Several SCFAs, such as propionate and butyrate, have and metabolized by the GM, resulting in drug toxicity (172). antiepilepticeffects.AfteramonthofinterventionwiththeclassicKD, Non-antibiotic drugs alter the GM to some extent. In a large the total SCFAs were significantly reduced, especially acetate, study involving the effects of 1,197 non-antibiotic drugs on 40 propionate, and butyrate, which may be due to a reduction in the GM,24%ofthedrugswithhumantargetsinhibitedthegrowth intake of fermentable carbohydrates or a reduction in fermenting of ≥1 strain in vitro (173). Antiepileptic drugs, such as bacteriabyKD(161).SynbioticscanleadtoGMenrichmentassociated carbamazepine, valproic acid, and lamotrigine affect GM withSCFAs(21).MSK408couldinfluenceSCFAsandrestoreserum composition (174, 175). Valproic acid treatment during lipidprofileandtightjunctionproteinmRNAexpressioninthegutand pregnancy in mice resulted in altered fecal microbiota (176, brainindependentlybymodulatingtheGM(160). 177), with increased Firmicutes and decreased Bacteroidetes Thesestudiesarepreliminaryobservationsofsupplementary (178), which may be associated with ASD-like behavior in probiotics in the treatment of DRE, and further theoretical offspring (176, 177). Lamotrigine might decrease the growth of validation
