Hyperthyroidism in Aging
KEYWORDS: thyroid, hyperthyroidism, pubmed, patients, disease, treatment, tsh, older, therapy, subclinical, graves, radioiodine, endocrinol, risk, serum


ABSTRACT Hyperthyroidism in older people is a serious clinical condition that is associated with significant morbidity. It may be difficult to diagnose due to the confounding effects of drugs and acute or chronic illnesses on the interpretation of thyroid function tests. In addition, there is a relative paucity of typical hyperadrenergic symptoms in older patients with hyperthyroidism, who instead may present with unexplained weight loss, neurocognitive changes, or cardiovascular effects. Of particular concern is the elevated risk of atrial fibrillation and cardiovascular complications in this age group. There is increasing evidence that even mild (subclinical) hyperthyroidism in the elderly is associated with these risks. Graves’ Disease and toxic multinodular goiter are the most common etiologies of hyperthyroidism in the elderly, although other causes of hyperthyroidism also occur. The use of amiodarone or administration of iodinated contrast agents can also lead to hyperthyroidism and are commonly prescribed to older patients. Radioiodine or thionamide therapy are typically used to treat hyperthyroidism in older patients. Treatment decisions must be individualized, taking into account projected lifespan, comorbidities, and side effects of therapy. For complete coverage of all related areas of Endocrinology, please visit our on-line FREE web-text, WWW.ENDOTEXT.ORG . PREVALENCE OF HYPERTHYROIDISM IN AGING Hyperthyroidism is a common disorder ( 1 ); a population-based survey in the United States revealed a prevalence of hyperthyroidism of 1.3%, with no difference between men and women ( 2 ). This prevalence decreases to 0.4% if one excludes patients with known thyroid disease and those taking thyroid hormone preparations, indicating that many cases of hyperthyroidism are due to overtreatment with thyroid hormone. A number of studies have reported the prevalence of hyperthyroidism specifically in older populations. Prevalence rates vary depending on whether patients taking thyroid hormone are included, but most surveys report that 1–3% of subjects over the age of 60-65 years have hyperthyroidism ( 2 - 6 ). If one excludes patients taking thyroid hormone, prevalence rates of hyperthyroidism appear similar in younger and older populations ( 2 ). CLINICAL CONSEQUENCES OF HYPERTHYROIDISM Classical symptoms and signs of hyperthyroidism are shown in Table 1 ( 1 ). While these may be present in older subjects, the clinical picture is often different in this age group ( 7 , 8 , 9 ). Older patients may present with “apathetic” hyperthyroidism, in which more typical symptoms and signs reflecting sympathetic activation such as tremor and hyperactivity are absent (
