Hyperthyroidism in Aging
KEYWORDS: thyroid, hyperthyroidism, pubmed, patients, disease, treatment, tsh, older, therapy, subclinical, graves, radioiodine, endocrinol, risk, serum


, 8 , 9 ). Older patients may present with “apathetic” hyperthyroidism, in which more typical symptoms and signs reflecting sympathetic activation such as tremor and hyperactivity are absent ( 10 , 11 ). Instead, cardiovascular symptoms and signs often predominate. Other findings more common in older patients include fatigue, anorexia, weight loss, apathy, agitation, or cognitive decline ( 10 , 11 ). The diagnosis should also be considered in the presence of other symptoms and signs considered “non-specific” in nature, such as muscle weakness, persistent vomiting, hypercalcemia, and worsening osteoporosis. Table 1. Symptoms and Signs in Hyperthyroidism View in own window Symptoms Signs 1. Weight loss 2. Sweating/heat intolerance 3. Nervousness/agitation 4. Tiredness 5. Muscle weakness 6. Tremor 7. Palpitation 8. Shortness of breath 1. Tremor 2. Hyperactivity 3. Proximal myopathy 4. Sinus tachycardia 5. Atrial fibrillation/atrial dysrhythmias 6. Systolic hypertension 7. Goiter 8. Lid lag/lid retraction 9. Ophthalmopathy* 10. Pretibial myxedema* 11. Thyroid acropachy* * specific for Graves’ Disease Mortality, Frailty, and Cardiovascular Complications Cardiovascular complications of hyperthyroidism are common in older patients and may be a cause of significant morbidity and mortality ( 1 , 12 ). Studies have reported increased all-cause and cardiovascular mortality, increased frailty, and increased risks of atrial fibrillation, arterial embolism, acute myocardial infarction, heart failure, venous thromboembolism, and stroke in older hyperthyroid patients, compared to euthyroid controls or younger patients with hyperthyroidism ( 13 - 20 ). Risks are higher in untreated or undertreated groups, with a direct association between the duration of suppressed TSH levels and mortality in both untreated and treated patients ( 15 ). Risks decrease with treatment, regardless of treatment modality ( 21 , 22 ). All-cause and cardiovascular mortality are also increased in treated hypothyroid patients with suppressed TSH levels, highlighting the importance of avoiding overtreatment ( 23 ). In addition to classical findings of sinus tachycardia and systolic hypertension, atrial fibrillation complicates hyperthyroidism in about 15% of cases ( 24 ), which is at least three times more common than in the euthyroid population. The incidence of this complication rises with age, so it is observed more frequently in the elderly ( 25 ). Development of atrial fibrillation may lead to deteriorating cardiac status, especially in the presence of pre-existing heart disease, and it may also be associated with embolic complications, especially cerebral embolism ( 26 ). These probably contribute significantly to the increased cardiovascular and
