Hyperthyroidism in Aging
KEYWORDS: thyroid, hyperthyroidism, pubmed, patients, disease, treatment, tsh, older, therapy, subclinical, graves, radioiodine, endocrinol, risk, serum


the presence of pre-existing heart disease, and it may also be associated with embolic complications, especially cerebral embolism ( 26 ). These probably contribute significantly to the increased cardiovascular and cerebrovascular mortality described above. Furthermore, the likelihood of spontaneous restoration of sinus rhythm in those with atrial fibrillation complicating hyperthyroidism lessens with age, probably reflecting the presence of underlying ischemic, hypertensive or valvular heart disease ( 27 ). In view of these cardiovascular manifestations/complications, the diagnosis of hyperthyroidism should be suspected in all subjects presenting with atrial fibrillation, worsening heart failure, systolic hypertension and deteriorating ischemic heart disease. Bone Metabolism Overt hyperthyroidism is associated with increased bone turnover, reduction in bone mineral density, and alterations in cortical bone architecture ( 28 ). Meta-analysis ( 29 ) has shown that this influence is especially marked in estrogen deficient postmenopausal women. Treatment of hyperthyroidism results in an improvement in bone mineral density and cortical architecture, but recovery may be incomplete ( 28 ). Large-scale epidemiological studies ( 30 , 31 ) have revealed associations between a history of thyrotoxicosis and risk of fracture of the femur. Cognition Alterations in mood and cognitive function are common in overt hyperthyroidism and usually improve with therapy. These alterations can include anxiety and depression, and cognitive decrements in attention, concentration, and executive function ( 32 ). A recent study investigated over 65,000 older patients (mean age 68 years) in a primary care practice and found that endogenous or exogenous hyperthyroidism was significantly associated with a diagnosis of a cognitive disorder ( 33 ). DIAGNOSIS OF HYPERTHYROIDISM It is essential that a clinical suspicion of hyperthyroidism is confirmed by biochemical testing before further investigation or treatment is contemplated ( 1 ). The single most important biochemical test is measurement of serum TSH. If the serum TSH concentration is within the normal range, then a diagnosis of thyrotoxicosis is effectively ruled out. Exceptions are rare TSH-dependent causes of hyperthyroidism, such as pituitary TSH-secreting tumors and syndromes of thyroid hormone resistance, although these diagnoses are typically associated with a modest rise in TSH with raised serum thyroid hormones, as opposed to raised TSH in conjunction with low thyroid hormone levels in typical hypothyroidism. A diagnosis of hyperthyroidism should be confirmed biochemically by measurement of serum free thyroxine (fT4) (and T3 if fT4 is in the high/normal range and T3-toxicosis is suspected). Analysis of large U.S. population-based normative data suggests
