Hyperthyroidism in Aging
KEYWORDS: thyroid, hyperthyroidism, pubmed, patients, disease, treatment, tsh, older, therapy, subclinical, graves, radioiodine, endocrinol, risk, serum


confirmed biochemically by measurement of serum free thyroxine (fT4) (and T3 if fT4 is in the high/normal range and T3-toxicosis is suspected). Analysis of large U.S. population-based normative data suggests that there is a slight increase in the upper limit of normal TSH levels with aging, but the lower limit of normal TSH levels remains relatively unchanged ( 34 ). Therefore, in a healthy older patient, a low or suppressed TSH level suggests hyperthyroidism. However, “non-thyroidal” illnesses and drug therapies that alter tests of thyroid function are more common with increasing age. These effects typically lead to reduced peripheral conversion of T4 to T3 and reduction in serum T3 concentrations. Serum TSH may be unaffected by illness, although reduction in TSH is commonly seen, as is modest elevation in TSH during the recovery phase of illness ( 35 ). Therefore, in an acutely or chronically ill older patient, interpretation of a low TSH level must be done with caution, as low serum TSH, especially if detectable, often reflects a “non-thyroidal” illness or therapy with a wide variety of drugs ( 36 ) ( Table 2 ). Table 2. Effect of Drugs on Tests of Thyroid Function View in own window Drug Serum T4 Serum T3 Serum TSH Dopamine ↓, → ↓, → ↓ Glucocorticoids ↓, → ↓, → ↓ Estrogens ↑ total T4 ↑ total T3 → Anticonvulsants ↓, → ↓, → → Acetylsalicylic acid ↑, → ↑, → ↓ → Amiodarone ↑ ↓ variable Heparin ↑, → ↑, → ↓, → Fenclofenac ↓, → ↓, → → Anabolic steroids ↓total T4 ↓total T3 → In most cases of hyperthyroidism, a typical biochemical picture of elevated free T4 and T3 with undetectable TSH will be observed. In some cases, a biochemical diagnosis of “T3-toxicosis” is evident, characterized by elevation of serum T3 in the absence of a rise in T4. This is typically observed in mild cases of toxic nodular hyperthyroidism and early in the course of Graves’ hyperthyroidism. In some instances, a rise in T3 is absent despite elevation in free T4 and suppression of TSH in a patient thought to have hyperthyroidism. This may reflect the presence of another “non-thyroidal” illness. Biotin is a B vitamin that is commonly used as an over-the-counter supplement. Recent reports have indicated that high doses of biotin can interfere in vitro with assays for TSH, thyroid hormones, and TSH receptor antibodies, leading
