Hyperthyroidism in Aging
KEYWORDS: thyroid, hyperthyroidism, pubmed, patients, disease, treatment, tsh, older, therapy, subclinical, graves, radioiodine, endocrinol, risk, serum


commonly used as an over-the-counter supplement. Recent reports have indicated that high doses of biotin can interfere in vitro with assays for TSH, thyroid hormones, and TSH receptor antibodies, leading to erroneous diagnoses of hyperthyroidism and Graves Disease. Patients should be queried regarding biotin intake and should refrain from taking the supplement for several days prior to laboratory testing for thyroid dysfunction ( 37 ). CAUSES OF THYROTOXICOSIS Graves’ Disease and Toxic Nodular Hyperthyroidism In iodine replete parts of the world, Graves’ disease is the most common endogenous cause of hyperthyroidism. In older people, however, toxic nodular hyperthyroidism becomes an important cause ( 1 , 31 ). In all age groups, toxic nodular hyperthyroidism is more common in areas of the world that are relatively iodine deficient ( 38 ). The natural history of goiter is of progression from the presence of diffuse thyroid enlargement to development of one or more nodules and eventual autonomous function of one or more of these nodules resulting in hyperthyroidism. This natural history is typically long so an older patient presenting with hyperthyroidism often describes the presence of a goiter for many years. A relatively rare cause is the presence of a single toxic adenoma - a benign tumor exhibiting autonomous secretion of thyroid hormones ( 38 ). The development of autonomous function in a nodular goiter is first evidenced by suppression of serum TSH with normal serum concentrations of thyroid hormones (“subclinical” hyperthyroidism - see below), followed by elevation of serum T3 and free T4. The diagnosis of Graves’ disease may be evident by the presence of diffuse goiter and ophthalmopathy, whereas toxic nodular hyperthyroidism is characterized by the presence of a nodular goiter on examination of the neck. However, the thyroid might be nonpalpable in about 30% of cases of Graves’ disease or toxic nodular hyperthyroidism. If the cause of thyrotoxicosis is not obvious, further investigation may be warranted. The presence of thyroid autoantibodies (to thyroid peroxidase - TPO and/or thyroglobulin) is suggestive (but not diagnostic of) Graves’ disease; TSH receptor antibodies are more specific for the diagnosis. Such antibodies are positive in 90% of Graves’ Disease cases and are usually negative in cases of toxic nodular hyperthyroidism. If TSH receptor antibodies are positive in the presence of a nodular goiter, both conditions may co-exist. Radioisotope scanning, using technetium-99m or iodine-123, typically shows a diffuse pattern of uptake in Graves’ disease, in
