Hyperthyroidism in Aging
KEYWORDS: thyroid, hyperthyroidism, pubmed, patients, disease, treatment, tsh, older, therapy, subclinical, graves, radioiodine, endocrinol, risk, serum


are positive in the presence of a nodular goiter, both conditions may co-exist. Radioisotope scanning, using technetium-99m or iodine-123, typically shows a diffuse pattern of uptake in Graves’ disease, in contrast to the presence of multiple “hot” nodules with surrounding thyroid tissue not demonstrating any uptake in cases of toxic nodular hyperthyroidism. Occasionally, a single “hot” nodule, with absent uptake elsewhere in the thyroid is observed. This finding suggests the presence of a toxic nodular adenoma. Recent advances in color duplex sonography and ultrasound elastography may further improve diagnostic accuracy of ultrasound in hyperthyroidism ( 39 ). Figure 1. Radionuclide imaging of the thyroid illustrating hot nodules in toxic nodular hyperthyroidism (right) which contrasts with a diffuse uptake in Graves’ Disease (left). Other Causes of Thyrotoxicosis Although Graves’ disease and toxic nodular goiter are by far the most common causes of hyperthyroidism in older patients, it is important to consider other diagnoses. As in other age groups, an older patient may develop transient thyroid hormone excess secondary to a temporary thyroiditis, i.e. destruction of the thyroid with release of pre-formed thyroid hormones ( 32 ). Subacute thyroiditis should be suspected if the patient complains of sore throat or neck tenderness, typically associated with symptoms of a viral illness or an upper respiratory tract infection. The diagnosis is confirmed by the finding of a raised erythrocyte sedimentation rate (ESR) and absent or very low uptake of iodine-123. Treatment with antithyroid drugs or radioiodine is inappropriate, because it is ineffective and because the condition resolves spontaneously (usually after a self-limiting period of hypothyroidism). Silent thyroiditis has a similar clinical course as subacute thyroiditis, but the gland is not tender and there is no increased ESR. Both subacute and silent thyroiditis can occur in older patients, although the peak age range for these two conditions is among younger patients ( 40 ). Iodine-induced hyperthyroidism should be considered in patients with a history of iodine ingestion (e.g. over the counter iodine containing compounds) or after administration of iodine containing radiographic contrast agents ( 41 ). The diagnosis can be confirmed by the finding of low iodine uptake. This condition remits spontaneously and radioiodine therapy is contraindicated. This diagnosis is more common in older patients, who are more likely to receive iodinated contrast agents and to have underlying multinodular goiters that predispose them to iodine-induced thyrotoxicosis but the overall risk of hyperthyroidism following iodine containing
