Hyperthyroidism in Aging
KEYWORDS: thyroid, hyperthyroidism, pubmed, patients, disease, treatment, tsh, older, therapy, subclinical, graves, radioiodine, endocrinol, risk, serum


who are more likely to receive iodinated contrast agents and to have underlying multinodular goiters that predispose them to iodine-induced thyrotoxicosis but the overall risk of hyperthyroidism following iodine containing contrast agents is low ( 42 , 43 ). The diagnosis of thyroid dysfunction should be considered in an older patient prescribed the antiarrhythmic agent amiodarone. This drug is widely used in the older age group for control of dysrhythmias, particularly those associated with poor left ventricular function. Amiodarone is an iodine-containing compound that affects the results of tests of thyroid function, even in those who are euthyroid ( 41 , 44 ). Typically, amiodarone, through its effect on peripheral conversion of T4 to T3, results in modest reduction in serum concentrations of T3 (often to below the normal range) and modest elevation in serum T4 (often to above the normal range). TSH is typically slightly elevated early after commencement of treatment and normalizes later in euthyroid patients. Therefore, beginning 2-3 months after amiodarone is started, the serum TSH level is an accurate indication of thyroid function. Although amiodarone results in overt thyroid dysfunction in 5-10% of cases, it is important not to over-interpret mildly abnormal results of tests of thyroid function. Thyrotoxicosis should only be diagnosed in the presence of significant elevation of free T4, together with elevation in serum T3 and suppression of TSH; sometimes serum T3 is at the upper range of normal rather than elevated, probably because of associated “non-thyroidal” illness in this age group, together with the block of T4 to T3 conversion seen with amiodarone. Immune checkpoint inhibitors have become standard of care for many solid tumors and have a high incidence of immune-related adverse events. The most common is thyroid dysfunction, with up to half of patients developing either overt or subclinical thyrotoxicosis within weeks of starting treatment ( 45 - 47 ). Thyrotoxicosis is usually transient, leading to either euthyroidism or hypothyroidism. Due to the high incidence of thyrotoxicosis, patients receiving immune checkpoint inhibitor therapy should be monitored with frequent thyroid function testing. Symptomatic thyrotoxicosis is treated with beta-blockers. With the onset of the COVID-19 pandemic, reports emerged of patients developing subacute thyroiditis or Graves’ Disease following SARS-CoV-2 infection or vaccination ( 48 , 49 ). However, large population-based cohort studies have failed to find increased risk of thyroid dysfunction compared to patients with no recent infection or vaccination ( 50 -
