Hyperthyroidism in Aging
KEYWORDS: thyroid, hyperthyroidism, pubmed, patients, disease, treatment, tsh, older, therapy, subclinical, graves, radioiodine, endocrinol, risk, serum


48 , 49 ). However, large population-based cohort studies have failed to find increased risk of thyroid dysfunction compared to patients with no recent infection or vaccination ( 50 - 52 ). Finally, it should be noted that exogenous thyrotoxicosis due to excessive doses of thyroid hormone in the treatment of hypothyroidism is quite common. Studies indicate 40-50% of older subjects taking thyroid hormone had low TSH levels, indicating excess thyroid hormone doses ( 53 , 54 ). Other studies have reported that thyroid hormone use increased approximately 2-fold in the UK and the U.S. in recent years, with decreasing TSH thresholds for initiating treatment ( 55 , 56 ). Of concern, 90% of treated subjects remained on L-T4 for > 5 years, and 16% had low or suppressed TSH levels, indicating excessive doses ( 55 ). Thyroid hormone use was higher in women, older individuals, and non-Hispanic whites ( 56 ). These reports clearly indicate that thyroid hormone is being over-prescribed, with high risks of overtreatment and potential clinical consequences, particularly in older subjects who may have underlying cardiac issues or osteoporosis. TREATMENT OF THYROTOXICOSIS There are three main treatment options for Graves Disease and toxic nodular thyroid disease: antithyroid drugs, radioactive iodine, and thyroid surgery. Each of these options has risks and benefits that depend on patient characteristics, and treatment should be individualized, taking into account patient preferences ( 41 , 57 ). Antithyroid Drugs The thionamides – methimazole (or its precursor carbimazole) and propylthiouracil (PTU) - represent the mainstay of drug treatment of thyrotoxicosis ( 1 , 41 ). These drugs inhibit the oxidation and organification of iodide and block T4 and T3 synthesis. They represent the most effective and rapid means of reducing circulating thyroid hormone concentrations. They can be used in several ways: short-term in preparation of the patient for definitive treatment with radioiodine or surgery, medium term in the hope of inducing remission in cases of thyrotoxicosis due to Graves’ disease, or long-term for control of clinical and biochemical thyroid hormone excess. A typical starting dose of methimazole is 20-30 mg per day as a single daily dose. In contrast, PTU is given in divided doses, the equivalent to methimazole 20 mg being 200mg. Higher doses are rarely required, since high doses have not been shown to be more effective in restoring euthyroidism ( 58 , 59 ). Since compliance is better and side
