Hyperthyroidism in Aging
KEYWORDS: thyroid, hyperthyroidism, pubmed, patients, disease, treatment, tsh, older, therapy, subclinical, graves, radioiodine, endocrinol, risk, serum


Higher doses are rarely required, since high doses have not been shown to be more effective in restoring euthyroidism ( 58 , 59 ). Since compliance is better and side effects are less frequent, methimazole or carbimazole are considered the drugs of choice, in preference to PTU ( 41 ). Serum free T4 should be checked 4-6 weeks after beginning therapy and the thionamide dose adjusted accordingly. Of note, serum TSH levels may remain suppressed for months, and should not be used to titrate thionamide doses until TSH become detectable. In most cases the thionamide dose can be lowered to a maintenance dose after a few months. The majority of patients require a methimazole maintenance dose of 5-10 mg daily once normal fT4 levels are achieved (propylthiouracil 50-100mg daily in divided doses). Larger dose requirements are suggestive of poor compliance. Drug side effects are relatively uncommon, but it is essential that all patients be warned (preferably in writing) of the potential risk of agranulocytosis so that they present urgently for a full blood count if they develop a fever or sore throat. Agranulocytosis often, but not always, occurs in the first few weeks after beginning thionamide therapy and is probably more common in those taking higher doses ( 41 ). Other serious side effects can occur, notably antineutrophil cytoplasmic antibody-associated-vasculitis (typically associated with PTU), hepatitis, or pancreatitis ( 41 , 59 ), although these are rare. These serious complications, together with agranulocytosis, represent absolute contraindications to further use of thionamides. More common and less serious side effects such as pruritic rash can usually be managed conservatively, although sometimes a change in drug therapy from one thionamide to another is required. ANTITHYROID DRUGS AND GRAVES’ DISEASE In general, remission rates following thionamide discontinuation in Graves’ Disease are less than 50%, nonetheless, there is some evidence that the remission rate may be higher in the older age group, probably reflecting the presence of milder disease. If the objective is to achieve remission or “cure” of Graves’ disease, then thionamide treatment should be prescribed for at least 12-18 months, since shorter courses are associated with a lower rate of remission ( 41 ). Recent studies indicate that relapse rates are high after 12-18 months if TRAB levels are still detectable and are significant even with negative TRAB levels. Poor prognostic features for achieving long-term remission (established in younger age groups) include male sex,
