Hyperthyroidism in Aging
KEYWORDS: thyroid, hyperthyroidism, pubmed, patients, disease, treatment, tsh, older, therapy, subclinical, graves, radioiodine, endocrinol, risk, serum


months if TRAB levels are still detectable and are significant even with negative TRAB levels. Poor prognostic features for achieving long-term remission (established in younger age groups) include male sex, the presence of a large goiter, and biochemically severe disease at diagnosis. Most relapses of Graves’ thyrotoxicosis occur 3-6 months after thionamide withdrawal, but relapses years later are not uncommon. Although standard recommendations for treating Graves’ disease with thionamides include a 12-18 month course of therapy, recent studies suggest that long term thionamide therapy (at least 5 years) is safe and efficacious ( 60 - 62 ). This option may be particularly useful in older patients with limited life expectancies and comorbidities ( 61 ). Updated guidelines for treating hyperthyroidism now include the option for long-term thionamide therapy ( 41 ). ANTITHYROID DRUGS AND TOXIC NODULAR HYPERTHYROIDISM Time-limited courses of thionamides virtually never result in remission or cure of thyrotoxicosis secondary to toxic nodular goiter, although some spontaneous fluctuation in the severity of the disease is seen. Thionamides may thus be used short-term (as above) to induce euthyroidism prior to definitive treatment, but a time-limited course should not be prescribed in the hope of inducing cure. Recent studies show that long-term thionamide therapy is safe and efficacious in toxic nodular hyperthyroidism ( 62 , 63 ). Once biochemical control has been achieved, biochemical monitoring every 3-6 months is desirable. Beta-Adrenergic Blocking Agents and Other Adjunctive Therapies Beta adrenergic blockers are useful adjuncts to thionamides in the management of thyrotoxicosis. In cases of thyroiditis or mild cases of hyperthyroidism proceeding to radioiodine, they may be the only treatment required. Beta adrenergic blockers act promptly to reduce symptoms and signs of tremor and to improve tachycardia and associated palpitations ( 41 ). Such agents should be used cautiously in elderly subjects with heart failure (although a beneficial effect often results because of amelioration of some of the cardiovascular effects of excess thyroid hormone) and in those with asthma or chronic obstructive pulmonary disease. Propranolol has been widely used in thyrotoxic subjects but requires multiple daily dosing; longer acting beta adrenergic blockers such as atenolol (50-100mg daily) may therefore be preferred. Other adjunctive therapies include salicylates for relief of local pain and tenderness in cases of subacute thyroiditis; occasionally glucocorticoids such as prednisolone are required short-term. Anticoagulation with coumarin derivatives such as warfarin should be considered in elderly subjects with thyrotoxicosis complicated by
