Hyperthyroidism in Aging
KEYWORDS: thyroid, hyperthyroidism, pubmed, patients, disease, treatment, tsh, older, therapy, subclinical, graves, radioiodine, endocrinol, risk, serum


in cases of subacute thyroiditis; occasionally glucocorticoids such as prednisolone are required short-term. Anticoagulation with coumarin derivatives such as warfarin should be considered in elderly subjects with thyrotoxicosis complicated by atrial fibrillation. This is driven by evidence for embolic complications. There have been no controlled trials of the use of anticoagulants in thyrotoxic atrial fibrillation, but overwhelming evidence of their efficacy in other settings argues in favor of their use in this situation, unless contraindications exist. Therapy to restore sinus rhythm should be considered but not until the patient has been rendered euthyroid. Restoration of sinus rhythm is more likely in those whose atrial fibrillation is of short duration and in those without underlying heart disease ( 24 ). Radioiodine Therapy Radioiodine (I-131) is a reasonable therapy in older hyperthyroid subjects, as it can be administered by mouth in the outpatient setting and is associated with few side effects. Some patients notice sore throat or neck tenderness (reflecting radiation thyroiditis), but this is usually mild and transient. Its long-term efficacy is well established ( 41 ). Reports of potential risks of secondary cancers following radioactive iodine therapy for hyperthyroidism have been inconsistent, but long-term risks appear modest and are likely to be of less importance in older subjects ( 64 , 65 ). There are few, if any, contraindications to radioiodine therapy apart from inability to comply with local radiation protection regulations. Such compliance may be difficult to achieve in hospital or nursing home residents, those with urinary incontinence, and those with significant mental impairment. In such cases, long-term thionamide therapy is often the best practical option. A relative contraindication to the use of radioiodine in cases of Graves’ thyrotoxicosis is the presence of moderate or severe ophthalmopathy. There is a slightly increased risk of development or worsening of pre-existing thyroid eye disease in those treated with radioiodine compared with thionamides or surgery ( 41 ). Problematic eye disease is more likely in those with pre-existing ophthalmopathy, in smokers, and in those with severe biochemical disease. A course of glucocorticoid abolishes the increased risk of ophthalmopathy in those receiving radioiodine. Typical doses of prednisone are 0.4-0.5 mg/kg/day starting 1-3 days following I-131 therapy and continued for one month, with gradual tapering over the next two months. Recent data suggest that a lower dose of prednisone of 0.2 mg/kg/day for 6 weeks may be equally efficacious ( 66 ). In those
