Hyperthyroidism in Aging
KEYWORDS: thyroid, hyperthyroidism, pubmed, patients, disease, treatment, tsh, older, therapy, subclinical, graves, radioiodine, endocrinol, risk, serum


tapering over the next two months. Recent data suggest that a lower dose of prednisone of 0.2 mg/kg/day for 6 weeks may be equally efficacious ( 66 ). In those with severe clinical and biochemical hyperthyroidism, it is desirable to restore euthyroidism before proceeding to radioiodine therapy. There is a theoretical risk of inducing “thyroid storm” due to thyroid destruction and release of pre-formed thyroid hormones following radioiodine administration, together with the need to stop thionamide therapy temporarily at the time of treatment. In mild cases (judged both clinically and biochemically), such pre-treatment with thionamides may be unnecessary and radioiodine may be given as initial therapy or after short-term preparation with beta-adrenergic blockers. RADIOIODINE DOSING Many studies have attempted to define optimal radioiodine doses in the hope of inducing euthyroidism and avoiding iatrogenic hypothyroidism in hyperthyroid patients ( 41 ). Older literature suggested that cases of toxic nodular hyperthyroidism require larger doses of radioiodine to induce euthyroidism than cases of Graves’ disease. It is clear, however, that measures of thyroid size or isotope uptake/turnover generally do not allow effective “dose titration”. Furthermore, the dose of radioiodine required to cure toxic nodular hyperthyroidism is not different from that required in Graves’ disease in the majority of cases. In some subjects with large goiter, higher initial doses or multiple treatments are required. Some thyroid centers utilize a dosimetry protocol for Graves’ Disease and toxic nodular thyroid disease, targeting specific absorbed doses of I-131 ( 67 ). This approach appears to have similar success rates as a fixed dose approach but leads to lower radioactive iodine exposure for many patients. However, this approach is cumbersome and requires multiple visits to the nuclear medicine department. Many large thyroid centers thus avoid attempts at radioiodine dose titration and administer empirical doses. The dose of radioiodine administered varies between centers and is determined in part by radiation protection restrictions that vary considerably around the world. Typically, a dose of radioiodine is chosen which can be administered in the outpatient setting and which results in cure of hyperthyroidism in the majority after a single dose. In iodine-replete parts of the world such as the US and UK, a standard dose of radioiodine is 10-15 mCi or 400-600 MBq. In a UK series ( 68 ) a dose of this size resulted in cure of thyrotoxicosis in more than two thirds, at a cost of early hypothyroidism in
