Hyperthyroidism in Aging
KEYWORDS: thyroid, hyperthyroidism, pubmed, patients, disease, treatment, tsh, older, therapy, subclinical, graves, radioiodine, endocrinol, risk, serum


MBq. In a UK series ( 68 ) a dose of this size resulted in cure of thyrotoxicosis in more than two thirds, at a cost of early hypothyroidism in 50%. Some centers administer larger doses to those with large goiter or to men, in view of evidence of relative radioresistance in these groups. There is also evidence that use of thionamides, especially PTU, before and/or after radioiodine treatment also induces relative radioresistance ( 41 ). It has been suggested that large doses should be administered routinely to elderly subjects, particularly those with cardiovascular disease or complications, to be certain of rapid restoration of euthyroidism. This view is reinforced by evidence that effective cure as indicated by the development of hypothyroidism requiring thyroxine replacement therapy is associated with a reduction in vascular mortality (compared with those not rendered hypothyroid) ( 13 ) and more likely conversion to sinus rhythm in those with AF ( 25 ). FOLLOW-UP AFTER RADIOIODINE THERAPY Radioactive iodine may take weeks to months to result in a cure of hyperthyroidism. Thionamide therapy should be withdrawn 3-7 days before radioiodine (to allow iodine uptake into the thyroid) and should be restarted after a similar period post-treatment if the elderly subject has severe disease, incomplete biochemical control, significant complications (e.g. atrial fibrillation), or has return of symptoms in the short period of thionamide withdrawal before radioiodine therapy. After therapy, clinical and biochemical assessment should be carried out every 4-6 weeks for the first few months so that thionamide doses may be adjusted and hypothyroidism identified. A transient rise in serum TSH may be seen in the first few months after radioiodine and does not necessarily indicate permanent hypothyroidism, but more marked biochemical or symptomatic hypothyroidism usually indicates the need for life-long T4 therapy. Persistence of biochemical hyperthyroidism 6 months after radioiodine therapy usually indicates the need for re-dosing. Unless small empirical doses are administered, the vast majority of patients with either toxic nodular hyperthyroidism or Graves’ disease are rendered euthyroid (off all treatment) or hypothyroid (on T4) with one, two or (uncommonly) three doses ( 68 , 69 ). Long-term, patients treated with radioiodine require biochemical follow-up for detection of hypothyroidism. Such follow-up is essential since the incidence of hypothyroidism is significant even many years after radioiodine and eventually up to 90% of those treated in this way become hypothyroid ( 41 ). Hypothyroidism rates may be slightly
