Hyperthyroidism in Aging
KEYWORDS: thyroid, hyperthyroidism, pubmed, patients, disease, treatment, tsh, older, therapy, subclinical, graves, radioiodine, endocrinol, risk, serum


of hypothyroidism is significant even many years after radioiodine and eventually up to 90% of those treated in this way become hypothyroid ( 41 ). Hypothyroidism rates may be slightly lower in those with toxic nodular hyperthyroidism ( 68 , 70 ) because of relative sparing of normal thyroid tissue through concentration of isotope in “hot” autonomous nodules. Surgical Treatment of Thyrotoxicosis Surgical treatment of thyrotoxicosis is a viable option in selected patients, and if experienced thyroid surgeons are available ( 41 ). However, there is a higher risk of complications of anesthetic and surgery in older subjects, which limits its utility in this population. If surgery is contemplated, it is essential that clinical and biochemical euthyroidism are restored beforehand. This requires therapy with thionamides, ideally for 2-3 months prior to surgery, sometimes in conjunction with pre-operative preparation with beta-adrenergic blockers or Lugol’s iodine. Thorough preparation is essential in order to avoid thyroid storm or cardiovascular complications post-operatively. There is on-going debate regarding the most appropriate surgical approach for treatment of hyperthyroidism. Many centers advocate total thyroidectomy for Graves’ hyperthyroidism, since partial thyroidectomy is associated with significant rates of recurrence ( 41 ). In expert hands surgical complication rates are low with either procedure. Complications include bleeding into the neck, hypoparathyroidism, and damage to recurrent laryngeal nerves, although a recent study showed a very low risk of permanent hypoparathyroidism in older patients undergoing total thyroidectomy ( 71 ). Hypothyroidism is inevitable after total thyroidectomy but is also common after partial thyroidectomy. Life-long follow-up (as with cases treated with radioiodine) is essential for detection of hypothyroidism (and recurrence of hyperthyroidism) after partial thyroidectomy. Cases of toxic nodular hyperthyroidism may be treated by thyroid lobectomy or excision of a single hot nodule. Such an approach has the theoretical advantage of avoidance of hypothyroidism, as well as improvement in cosmetic appearance in those with large goiter. It should be noted, however, that reduction in nodule/goiter size is also evident after radioiodine therapy, albeit after several months. Surgery may be considered appropriate if toxic nodular goiter is associated with obstructive symptoms or if there is concern about the presence of co-existent malignancy in the goiter/nodules. Recent reports have also described successful treatment of nodular hyperthyroidism with radiofrequency ablation, which may be an attractive option in older patients, as surgery can be avoided ( 72 ). Treatment of Amiodarone-Induced Thyrotoxicosis (AIT) AIT is a cause
