Hyperthyroidism in Aging
KEYWORDS: thyroid, hyperthyroidism, pubmed, patients, disease, treatment, tsh, older, therapy, subclinical, graves, radioiodine, endocrinol, risk, serum


hyperthyroidism with radiofrequency ablation, which may be an attractive option in older patients, as surgery can be avoided ( 72 ). Treatment of Amiodarone-Induced Thyrotoxicosis (AIT) AIT is a cause of significant morbidity/mortality in patients with underlying cardiac disease ( 41 ). AIT can be diagnosed many months after amiodarone has been discontinued, since it persists in the body for long periods of time. It can be a life-threatening diagnosis, since it worsens arrhythmias and cardiac function in patients who already have compromised cardiovascular systems. There are two types of AIT. Type 1 AIT occurs in patients with pre-existing thyroid abnormalities such as nontoxic multinodular goiters or subclinical Graves’ Disease. This type is thought to be due to iodine overload, since amiodarone is 37% iodine by weight. Type 2 AIT is a destructive thyroiditis that causes thyrotoxicosis by the release of pre-formed thyroid hormone, which can be prolonged. Some experts report that these two types can be distinguished by measurement of serum interleukin-6 (raised in destructive thyroiditis) or by ultrasonographic definition of thyroid vascularity ( 41 ). These tests are not, however, routinely available, and it is increasingly recognized that these varieties may co-exist. Serum TSH receptor antibodies (TRAbs) are occasionally positive in patients with AIT but can be present with Type 2 AIT and do not necessarily indicate Graves’ Disease ( 73 ). In general, thionamide therapy should be considered first line treatment of Type 1 AIT. High dose glucocorticoids are considered first-line therapy for Type 2 AIT. In practice, it can be difficult to distinguish Type 1 from Type 2 AIT, and in severe acute cases, both thionamides and prednisone are sometimes started simultaneously. Type 2 AIT responds more quickly to glucocorticoids than Type 1 AIT responds to methimazole, so a rapid response to therapy is an indirect indicator of Type 2 AIT. Perchlorate may be a helpful adjunct therapy, although it is not commercially available in the U.S. Withdrawal of amiodarone is often not possible because of the serious nature of underlying dysrhythmias leading to amiodarone treatment, although it should be carefully considered. In any case, the long half-life of the drug (around 50 days) determines that any effect of amiodarone withdrawal is slow. Because of the iodine content of the drug, radioiodine therapy is typically not feasible until at least 6 months after amiodarone withdrawal. Several groups have described surgical treatment of AIT, with a recent
