Hyperthyroidism in Aging
KEYWORDS: thyroid, hyperthyroidism, pubmed, patients, disease, treatment, tsh, older, therapy, subclinical, graves, radioiodine, endocrinol, risk, serum


iodine content of the drug, radioiodine therapy is typically not feasible until at least 6 months after amiodarone withdrawal. Several groups have described surgical treatment of AIT, with a recent report suggesting that patients treated with thyroidectomy had lower 5-year cardiovascular and 10-year all-cause mortality, compared to medically treated AIT patients ( 74 ). Restoration of euthyroidism with thionamides is preferable pre-operatively, although this is not always possible in emergent situations. SUBCLINICAL HYPERTHYROIDISM “Subclinical” hyperthyroidism is a biochemical diagnosis characterized by a low serum TSH with normal serum thyroid hormone concentrations ( 75 ). Many of the subjects included in the studies quoted at the beginning of this chapter had subclinical, rather than overt, hyperthyroidism, as subclinical hyperthyroidism is more common than overt disease. There is significant variation in the reported prevalence of subclinical hyperthyroidism in older people, with typically quoted prevalences of 0.7 – 2%. As with overt hyperthyroidism, prevalence rates are lower if one excludes subjects taking thyroid hormone preparations. The prevalence of endogenous subclinical hyperthyroidism in a population depends on age, gender, and iodine intake. The most common cause of suppression of TSH in the general population is exogenous thyroid hormone therapy, typically levothyroxine (LT4). Population surveys have shown that approximately one quarter of those prescribed LT4 long-term display reduction in TSH suggestive of mild over-treatment; (this is deliberate in the relatively small number of patients with a history of thyroid cancer). A recent study showed that over 40% of patients over the age of 64 years treated with levothyroxine had low TSH levels, indicating overtreatment ( 53 ). In patients not receiving exogenous thyroid hormone therapy, the differential diagnoses of a low or undetectable TSH includes nonthyroidal illness, medications, assay interference due to biotin ingestion or other factors, and rare cases of hypopituitarism ( 75 ). Once these have been excluded, nodular goiter is the next most common cause of low serum TSH in this age group. In subjects with a nodular goiter, either detectable clinically or evident on isotope imaging, suppression of serum TSH represents the earliest biochemical marker of thyroid autonomy and onset of hyperthyroidism. Other causes of endogenous subclinical hyperthyroidism in the elderly include Graves’ Disease, subacute thyroiditis, and silent thyroiditis, as in younger patients, although these are less common. Diagnostic evaluation is similar to that for overt hyperthyroidism detailed above. The natural history of endogenous subclinical hyperthyroidism is variable and depends on
