Hyperthyroidism in Aging
KEYWORDS: thyroid, hyperthyroidism, pubmed, patients, disease, treatment, tsh, older, therapy, subclinical, graves, radioiodine, endocrinol, risk, serum


younger patients, although these are less common. Diagnostic evaluation is similar to that for overt hyperthyroidism detailed above. The natural history of endogenous subclinical hyperthyroidism is variable and depends on the underlying cause. Most patients have stable subclinical hyperthyroidism over years, but a sizable minority either progress to overt hyperthyroidism or normalize their thyroid function ( 75 ). A low but detectable TSH has less pathophysiological significance than a completely suppressed TSH, in terms of clinical consequences and progression rates. In addition, endogenous subclinical hyperthyroidism is probably of greater significance than exogenous, since the former is associated with higher serum T3 concentrations. Subclinical hyperthyroidism may be associated with symptoms or decreased quality of life ( 75 ), and there is a growing body of evidence that low serum TSH is associated with adverse effects, particularly on heart, bone, and brain, and increased all-cause and cardiovascular mortality, especially in older subjects. In patients with underlying cardiovascular disease, subclinical hyperthyroidism with suppressed TSH levels is associated with sinus tachycardia, premature atrial and ventricular beats, atrial fibrillation, and diastolic dysfunction ( 75 ). An important study of the Framingham population in the US ( 76 ) first revealed a 3-fold increased incidence of atrial fibrillation in subjects aged over 60 with serum TSH of less than 0.1 mU/L, compared with those with normal serum TSH. The likelihood of developing atrial fibrillation was also increased, but less markedly, in those with low but detectable TSH. Similar findings have been reported in a meta-analysis of 13 studies since this initial observation ( 20 ). Recent studies have also reported that subclinical hyperthyroidism is associated with increased mortality and cardiovascular events in subjects 65 years and older ( 15 , 21 ). A meta-analysis of individual-level data from 52,674 participants pooled from 10 cohort studies concluded that subclinical hyperthyroidism confers a 24% increased risk of overall mortality and 29% increased risk of cardiovascular mortality ( 77 ). Some of these studies, including the meta-analysis, have also examined non-fatal cardiovascular events in subclinical hyperthyroidism, with similar increased risks ( 77 - 80 ). Data indicate that subclinical hyperthyroid subjects appear to be at particular risk for the development of heart failure ( 77 , 81 , 82 ), especially older subjects and those with lower TSH levels. The duration of TSH suppression and absence of treatment has been associated with mortality ( 75 ). Adverse effects of
