Hyperthyroidism in Aging
KEYWORDS: thyroid, hyperthyroidism, pubmed, patients, disease, treatment, tsh, older, therapy, subclinical, graves, radioiodine, endocrinol, risk, serum


), especially older subjects and those with lower TSH levels. The duration of TSH suppression and absence of treatment has been associated with mortality ( 75 ). Adverse effects of subclinical hyperthyroidism on bone may occur. Recent meta-analyses of prospective cohorts reported that older subjects with subclinical hyperthyroidism had increased rates of bone loss at the femoral neck ( 83 ), as well as increased rates of hip fracture, clinical spine fracture, nonspine fracture, and any fracture ( 84 ), especially if the TSH was less than 0.1 mU/L. There is evidence for improvement in bone metabolism or bone mineral density after treatment of endogenous subclinical hyperthyroidism ( 85 ). Finally, in hypothyroid subjects who were started on LT4 and followed for a mean of 7 years, the number of 6-month periods with low TSH levels increased the risk of hip and major osteoporotic fractures in post-menopausal women ( 86 ). This further illustrates the importance of avoiding overtreatment in hypothyroidism. Data on the association between subclinical hyperthyroidism and cognitive impairment is less clear. Some studies and meta-analyses reported an increased risk of dementia in subclinical hyperthyroid subjects ( 87 , 88 ), especially if the TSH was suppressed ( 89 ). Reports on associations between subclinical hyperthyroidism and rates of depression or anxiety have been variable, with some studies indicating no association in older subjects ( 41 , 90 ), while others report increased rates of depressive symptoms in subclinical hyperthyroidism ( 91 ). On the other hand, a recent individual participant meta-analysis of over 75,000 participants (mean baseline age 57-93 years) found no associations between subclinical hyperthyroidism and cognitive function, cognitive decline, or incident dementia ( 92 ). Concerns about effects of mild thyroid hormone excess upon heart and bone, cognitive function, and mortality, have led to a trend towards treatment of this condition. In those taking exogenous thyroid hormones, management is relatively straightforward, namely reduction in prescribed dose and re-checking of serum TSH 6-8 weeks later. For those not taking T4, treatment options are similar to those for overt hyperthyroidism ( 75 ). Analysis of large datasets indicate that prolonged periods of undertreatment confer increased risks ( 15 , 21 ). Based on this, consensus guidelines recommend that older subjects and those with AF or other vascular risk factors should be treated ( 41 ). A recent study randomized older patients (at least 65 years of age)
