Archives of Disease in Childhood, 1989, 64, 551-556
KEYWORDS: bullosa, oesophageal, epidermolysis, dysphagia, patients, years, oesophagus, recessive, dystrophica, epidermolysis bullosa, age, stricture, dilatation, case, type


Archives of Disease in Childhood, 1989, 64, 551-556 Management of oesophageal stenosis epidermolysis in bullosa dystrophica I B KERN,* M EISENBERG,t AND S WILLIS* Australia SUMMARY Seven patients with epidermolysis bullosa dystrophica and chronic and recurrent oesophageal lesions such as spasm, strictures, and complete occlusion were studied. Dysphagia could be curedwith drugs ifit was caused by bullae formation orspasm. Ifoesophageal strictures were present, endoscopy and bouginage with corticosteroid prophylaxis during the quiescent phase ofthe disease was a safe and useful procedure. We have also given corticosteroids, which reduced the oedema caused by bullae formation and oral phenytoin, which reduced epithelial detachment by inhibiting collagenase activity. Verapamil counteracted oesophageal spasm and pureed food during periods of dysphagia reduced blistering of the upper oesophagus. Epidermolysis bullosa dystrophica is a group of are usually present at birth and they quickly spread hereditary mechanobullous disorders affecting both to affect the skin and mouth. Healing is slow, with the skin and gastrointestinal mucosa (table). In the chronic scarring that leads to digital fusion (syn- recessive type,traumaisfollowedbyaseparationof dactyly) and flexion contractures ofthe fingers and skin at the dermoepidermal junction and at the toes. The mucosa of the mouth, pharynx, and lamina propria ofthe mucous membrane, probably oesophagusisoftenaffected. Oesophagealproblems because of an increase in mutant collagenase develop insidiously and are caused bybullae forma- activity.1 The recessive type can be further sub- tion, ulceration, and oedema, whichultimately lead divided into two forms, localised and generalised, to stricture formation that may in turn cause on the electron microscopic appearance of the der- complete oesophageal obstruction with regurgita- moepidermal junction in non-blistered skin. In the tion ofblood stained secretions. localised form there are recognisable anchoring In the dominant form of epidermolysis bullosa fibrils below the basement membrane, but they are dystrophica the skin disease is milder, but patients attenuatedinappearanceandsparse. Inthegeneral- may develop tight webs in the upper oesophagus. ised form (which is clinically more severe) the These develop several years later than in the anchoring fibrils are absent.2 recessive type. Intherecessivetypethebullouslesionsoftheskin In this paper we describe our experiences over a Table Ultrastructuralabnormalitiesinepidermolysisbullosadystrophicawithoesophagealdisease Disease Specificstructuraldefect Clinicalsigns Recessiveepidermolysis bullosa dystrophica: Separation belowbasal lamina Generalised Absence ofanchoringfibrilsandcollagenolysis Oesophagealstricturealwaysfound Localised Variabledecrease ofanchoringfibrilsand Oesophagealstrictureandwebsoften collagenolysis seen Dominantepidermolysis bullosa dystrophica: Separation belowbasallamina Cockayne-Tauraine Anchoringfibrilsdecreasedandabnormalinskin thatblisterseasily Albopapular Anchoringfibrilsabnormalanddecreasedinall Oesophagealwebs skinareas 552 Kern, Eisenberg, and Willis period of 17 years with the medical and surgical years. At the age of 12 he again developed management ofpatients with epidermolysis
