Archives of Disease in Childhood, 1989, 64, 551-556
KEYWORDS: bullosa, oesophageal, epidermolysis, dysphagia, patients, years, oesophagus, recessive, dystrophica, epidermolysis bullosa, age, stricture, dilatation, case, type


Anchoringfibrilsabnormalanddecreasedinall Oesophagealwebs skinareas 552 Kern, Eisenberg, and Willis period of 17 years with the medical and surgical years. At the age of 12 he again developed management ofpatients with epidermolysis bullosa dysphagia and required two dilatations one week dystrophica who also have serious oesophageal apart. complications. We describe seven cases to illustrate theclinicalcourseoftheoesophageallesionsandthe Case3 responsetotreatment. Sixpatientshadtherecessive A girl aged 8 had the localised recessive type type (four localised and two generalised), and one diagnosedattheageof4months,andwasstartedon had the dominant type. Cineoesophagograms were oral phenytoin at the age of 2. At the age of 3 she carriedoutinallpatientswithparticularattentionto presented with episodes of distressing nocturnal the posterior pharynx and upper oesophagus to dysphagia that lasted about 90 minutes each and avoid missing the oesophageal webs that indicate a ended with a haematemesis. On admission her more favourable prognosis. Radiological follow up haemoglobin concentration was 60 g/l and she studies provided new information with aetiological required transfusion. A cineradiograph showed a and therapeutic implications. tight stenosis in the upper third of the oesophagus (fig 1). Thiswasdilatedto22Gaftertreatmentwith Case reports prednisone. She required another dilatation three months later. LOCALISED RECESSIVE EPIDERMOLYSIS BULLOSA At 4 years of age she again developed recurrent DYSTROPHICA dysphagia, usually at night, which was not relieved by a course of steroids. Radiographically she had a Case 1 tight stricture of the mid oesophagus (fig 2). This Aboyaged 17wasdiagnosedashavingthelocalised was fully dilated to 28 G in two stages four months recessive typeatbirth. Afterthefirstweekoflifehe apart; although this relieved the dysphagia during had extensive oral ulceration requiring nasogastric the day it did little to reduce the frequency of the feeding. At the age of 1 year he developed acute nocturnal episodes. It was thought on clinical dysphagia, and acineoesophagogram showed a thin grounds that these were partly the result of dis- web at the cricopharangeal level. Endoscopy with turbed oesophageal motility and spasmprecipitated steroid prophylaxis was carried out with great by nocturnal gastro-oesophageal reflux, although difficultybecauseofmicrostomiaandoralulceration reflux could not be shown by scintigraphy. The though the stricture was easily dilated to 20 G with reported ability of calcium channel blockers to Chevalier Jackson rubber bougies.3 After seven inhibit the contractions in normal human oesopha- months he again developed dysphagia and required gus and relieve the symptoms of nutcracker further dilatation, which was performed in two oesophagus prompted us to use oral verapamil in stages. He wasthen given oral phenytoin, which he our patient, beginning with a single
