Archives of Disease in Childhood, 1989, 64, 551-556
KEYWORDS: bullosa, oesophageal, epidermolysis, dysphagia, patients, years, oesophagus, recessive, dystrophica, epidermolysis bullosa, age, stricture, dilatation, case, type


nutcracker further dilatation, which was performed in two oesophagus prompted us to use oral verapamil in stages. He wasthen given oral phenytoin, which he our patient, beginning with a single nightly dose of was still taking at the time ofwriting. 40mg; hernocturnaldysphagiaceasedimmediately, Herequirednofurtherdilatations untiltheageof confirming that her symptoms were the result of 11 when he developed acute obstruction secondary oesophagealspasm. Shehadtwofurtherepisodesof to impaction offood. Two similar episodes ofacute acute obstruction when she was 6 and 8 years old, obstruction occurred at the ages of 12 and 15 years, both of which needed endoscopy and dilatation. and both required oesophagoscopy and dilatation. Case 4 Case2 A 9 year old girl had the localised recessive type Aboyaged 14wasdiagnosed ashavingthelocalised diagnosed when she was 2 days old. At the age of4 recessive type at 3 weeks of age; at the age of 10 monthsshedevelopeddysphagiawhenfedsemisolid monthshewasstartedonoralphenytoin. Attheage food. Inthenextsevenmonthsshehadtwoepisodes of 2 years he had a haematemesis, and a barium when she vomited casts of oesophageal mucosa. swallow examination showed extensive mucosal These were followed by prolonged complete dys- ulceration in his mid oesophagus. His symptoms phagia that responded to treatment with predni- responded to a short course ofsteroids. sone. At the age of 6 he developed chronic dysphagia She remained asymptomatic until she was 6 years thatworsenedoveraperiodofthreemonthsdespite old, when her dysphagia recurred. Radiological repeatedcoursesofsteroids. Bariumstudiesshowed examination of the oesophagus showed a mid a tight stricture in the mid oesophagus. He under- oesophageal stricture and she was admitted to went dilatation to 27 G and was able to drink the hospital for treatment with corticosteroids and same day. He required another dilatation two oesophageal dilatation. Shewasdrinkingand eating months later and remained free ofsymptoms forsix a soft diet one day after operation. Management of oesophageal stenosis in epidermnolysis bullosa dystrophica 553 Fig1 Longstrictureofcervicaloesophagusina3yearold Fig2 Shortstrictureofmidoesophagusina4yearold girlwithseveredysphagia. patientwithpersistentbullouslesionsoftheoesophagus. GENERALISED RECESSIVE EPIDERMOLYSIS BULLOSA weeks in hospital during the first two years of life DYSTROPHICA with recurrent skin infections, chest infections, chronicanaemia, andfailuretothrive. Attheageof Case S 31/2yearsshehaddysphagia, whichwasattributedto Agirl aged4yearswasfirstdiagnosed ashavingthe oropharangeal ulceration as barium studies had generalised recessive type at the age of 21/2 years been reported as normal. One year later her whenshewasfirstseenatthishospital. Shespent67 dysphagia worsened so that she had to be main- 554 Kern, Eisenberg, and Willis tainedonasemiliquiddiet. Attheageof4yearsshe losa dystrophica is the most serious complication was admitted to hospital because her general after the first year of life. Barium studies of the condition had deteriorated
