Archives of Disease in Childhood, 1989, 64, 551-556
KEYWORDS: bullosa, oesophageal, epidermolysis, dysphagia, patients, years, oesophagus, recessive, dystrophica, epidermolysis bullosa, age, stricture, dilatation, case, type


Willis tainedonasemiliquiddiet. Attheageof4yearsshe losa dystrophica is the most serious complication was admitted to hospital because her general after the first year of life. Barium studies of the condition had deteriorated and there was radio- oesophagus in the early stages show non-specific logical evidence ofatightoesophageal stricture just inflammatory changes-mucosal oedema, super- abovethecarina.Treatmentwithcorticosteroidsdid ficialulceration, and areasofinconstantspasm.4As notimprovethedysphagiasooesophagealdilatation diffuse inflammatory changes progress to scarring, was carried out under general anaethesia. The motility disturbances become more pronounced. stricturewasdilatedto 18Gwithoutanydifficulties. Oesophageal trauma leads to stricture formation, Postoperatively she initially made a good recovery, which occurs most commonly in the upper third her condition was stable, and she drank a small (50%) followed by the lower third (25%). Once amount ofwater. Five hours later she drank 300ml strictures have formed they are permanent, and the of milk, and nine hours later suddenly collapsed, patientsareatriskofdevelopingcompleteocclusion became pulseless, apnoeic, and died in spite of of the lumen of the oesophagus by a food bolus attempts atresuscitation. Atnecropsy aperforation trapped at the site of the stricture. Oesophageal of the lower oesophagus was found with a large stenosis and obstruction may therefore eventually amount of gastric contents within the peritoneal become the central problem for these patients, and cavity, and her heart was enlarged. leadtoseveremalnutrition, refractoryanaemia, and (as in case 5) to aspiration pneumonitis. In all our patients, when there were symptoms of Case 6 severe obstruction, we often found it difficult to A boy aged 5 was diagnosed as having the general- knowwhethertheobstructionwascausedbybullae, ised recessive type at birth. He was started on spasm, orstricture; radiological examination during treatment with oral phenytoin at the age of4 years the acute perioddid notalways helptodifferentiate 10months. Hehadsevereoralulcerationandtongue betweenthem.Treatmentatthisstagewastherefore tethering that caused chronic dysphagia. He was symptomaticand aimed atdecreasingthe formation of oesophageal bullae and preventing aspiration of subcricopharyngeal web was diagnosed on food and secretions. All our patients with the oesophagogram. Six months later his dysphagia recessive type had moderate to severe malnutrition increased for two weeks. A tight, long stricture in and case 3 had profound anaemia as a result of the upper oesophagus was dilated with difficulty to blood loss. High doses of corticosteroids (predni- 20 G. After the experience with case 5 distal sone2 5mg/kgortheequivalentgivenintravenously oesophagoscopy was not attempted. The stricture as hydrocortisone) were effective in decreasing was electively dilated again six weeks laterto 27 G. dysphagia, usually within 48 hours. Doses of steroids were gradually reduced over a two week
