Archives of Disease in Childhood, 1989, 64, 551-556
KEYWORDS: bullosa, oesophageal, epidermolysis, dysphagia, patients, years, oesophagus, recessive, dystrophica, epidermolysis bullosa, age, stricture, dilatation, case, type


as hydrocortisone) were effective in decreasing was electively dilated again six weeks laterto 27 G. dysphagia, usually within 48 hours. Doses of steroids were gradually reduced over a two week DOMINANT EPIDERMOLYSIS BULLOSA DYSTROPHICA period after the symptoms had subsided. Oesopha- geal dilatation was undertaken when the dysphagia Case 7 failed to respond to medical treatment. In all our Agirlaged14wasbornwithbullouslesionsaffecting patients with chronic dysphagia, dilatation was all four limbs but the dominant form ofthe disease carried out only when the skin disease was suffi- was only diagnosed at the age of 18 months. From ciently quiescent. the ageof8yearsshe haddysphagiacausedbysolid We have performed 23 oesophageal dilatations in foodthatincreasedoverthenexttwoyearsuntilshe seven patients with epidermolysis bullosa dystro- could only swallow pureed food. At the age of 10 phica. Four were for acute obstructive symptoms years she had an episode of aspiration pneumonia. (case 1), which required immediate intervention, Radiologicalexamination oftheoesophagusshowed and 19 were for increasingly incapacitating a cricopharyngeal web. dysphagia caused by stricture formation. All the At the age of 11 she had an acute obstruction at patients with the recessive type were taking pheny- the level of C6 by a bolus of meat, which passed toin, which was maintained at a plasma concentra- spontaneously. Because of these complications she tion of 10 ,ug/ml. Clearly the drug has proved to be This was accomplished without difficulties but had it seems to be most beneficial in young patients at to be repeated three times in the next three years. the time of the onset of their oesophageal symptoms. It was clear from our results that Discussion phenytoin was less effective when given at the time ofdilatation of strictures. Oesophageal disease in recessive epidermolysis bul- The dilatations were performed through a rigid Management of oesophageal stenosis in epidermolysis bullosa dystrophica 555 oesophagoscope using Chevalier Jackson rubber become a serious problem.15 Harmel used a re- tipped dilators. The general anaesthetic technique versed gastric tube constructed from the greater has been described previously.8 9 Induction was by curvature of the stomach in one patient.'6 These inhalation, either by mask or head box, and the operations should be reserved for patients with endotracheal tube was held in place throughout the extensive mucosal lesions or those in whom dilata- whole procedure. There were no tracheal problems tion has caused mucosal injury and aggravated the postoperatively. The deathofcase 5 resultedfroma dysphagia. Although colonic interposition has been cardiac arrest due to rupture
