Archives of Disease in Childhood, 1989, 64, 551-556
KEYWORDS: bullosa, oesophageal, epidermolysis, dysphagia, patients, years, oesophagus, recessive, dystrophica, epidermolysis bullosa, age, stricture, dilatation, case, type


procedure. There were no tracheal problems tion has caused mucosal injury and aggravated the postoperatively. The deathofcase 5 resultedfroma dysphagia. Although colonic interposition has been cardiac arrest due to rupture of the weakened used successfully to relieve dysphagia in these oesophagus. The incidence of perforation of the patients it is an operation with considerable oesophagus during endoscopy is low, and this morbidity-for example, anastomotic leaks and usually manifests itself by shock, dyspnoea, and strictures that require further dilatation and cause chest or abdominal pain. The management is inconvenience by lengthening the hospital stay. operativeandusuallysuccessful.10Inthispatientthe There is also a risk of cancer in the bypassed cardiac arrest was caused by the added shock of oesophagusthatcannotbeseeneitherradiologically peritonitis on a diseased mycardium. After this we or endoscopically. modified our technique in patients with generalised The aim of this paper was to report our experi- disease, and only dilated the stricture, making no ence with the medical management of oesophageal attempt to visualise the distal oesophagus. With the lesions in patients with epidermolysis bullosa dys- exception ofthatcasetherewerenoothercomplica- trophica. Treatment inthe acute stage was aimed at tions. All patients were on full oral feeding by the decreasing bullae formation by treatment with high next morning and were fit for discharge that day. doses of prednisone. Motility disturbances were Postoperatively as much normal solid diet as could effectively managed with verapamil. Our report be tolerated was encouraged to help maintain the clearly showed that dilatation of acute and chronic dilatation. strictures was successful and rewarding for our One child experienced episodes of oesophageal patientswith incapacitatingdysphagia. We feel that spasm that were precipitated by gastro-oesophageal this procedure has animportant roleinthe manage- reflux and that responded immediately to oral ment of such children, and compares favourably verapamil."1 This drug, a calcium channel blocker, with colonic interposition. is a potent inhibitor of oesophageal spasm and has brought reliefto this patient for the past two years. The natural history ofoesophageal disease in our References patients was stricture formation beginning at about l Bauer EA. Recessive dystrophic epidermolysis bullosa: evi- the age of 2 years that required several dilatations denceofanalteredcollagenaseinfibroblastcultures. ProcNatl over a period ofmonths, followed by a fewyears of AcadSci USA 1977;74:4646-50. quiescence that was possibly due to treatment with 2 Eady RAJ. Diagnosing epidermolysis bullosa. BrJ Dermatol 1983;108:621-6. phenytoin. Disturbances of oesophageal motility 3 KatzJ,GryboskiJ,RosenbaumHM.Dysphagiainchildrenwith occurred in all patients, but in case 4 they were a epidermolysisbullosa. Gastroenterology 1967;52:259-62.
