Mitral Valve Prolapse (MVP)
KEYWORDS: mitral, valve, mitral valve, prolapse, valve prolapse, regurgitation, patients, click, mvp, associated, mitral regurgitation, cardiac, myxomatous, atrial, valve leaflets


Mitral valve prolapse (MVP) is a billowing of mitral valve leaflets into the left atrium during systole. The most common cause is idiopathic myxomatous degeneration. MVP is usually benign, but complications include mitral regurgitation, endocarditis, and chordal rupture. MVP is usually asymptomatic in the absence of significant regurgitation, although there are reports that some patients experience chest pain, dyspnea, dizziness, and palpitations. Signs include a crisp mid-systolic click, followed by a late systolic murmur if regurgitation is present. Diagnosis is by physical examination and echocardiography. Prognosis is excellent in the absence of significant regurgitation, but chordal rupture and endocarditis may occur. No specific treatment is necessary unless significant mitral regurgitation is present. (See also Overview of Cardiac Valvular Disorders.) Mitral valve prolapse is common; prevalence is 2.4% in otherwise normal populations, depending on the echocardiographic criteria used (1). Females and males are affected equally; onset usually follows the adolescent growth spurt. Etiology of Mitral Valve Prolapse Mitral valve prolapse is most often caused by: Myxomatous degeneration of the mitral valve leaflets and chordae tendineae In myxomatous degeneration, the fibrous collagen layer of the valve thins and mucoid (myxomatous) material accumulates. The chordae become longer and thinner and the valve leaflets enlarge and become rubbery. These changes result in floppy valve leaflets that can balloon back (prolapse) into the left atrium when the left ventricle contracts. Rupture of a degenerate chorda can allow part of the valve leaflet to flail into the atrium, which typically causes severe regurgitation. Degeneration is usually idiopathic, although it may be inherited in an autosomal dominant or, rarely, in an X-linked recessive fashion. Myxomatous degeneration may also be caused by connective tissue or systemic rheumatic diseases (eg, Marfan syndrome, Ehlers-Danlos syndrome, adult polycystic kidney disease, osteogenesis imperfecta, pseudoxanthoma elasticum, systemic lupus erythematosus, polyarteritis nodosa) and muscular dystrophies. MVP is more common among patients with Graves disease, hypomastia, von Willebrand disease, sickle cell disease, and rheumatic heart disease. Myxomatous degeneration less commonly affects the aortic or tricuspid valve, resulting in aortic or tricuspid prolapse. Mitral annular disjunction (MAD) is partial detachment of the mitral annulus from adjacent ventricular myocardium during systole, allowing for hypermobility of the mitral valve. MAD is strongly associated with mitral valve prolapse and ventricular arrhythmias. Identification of MAD can alter the surgical technique used for mitral valve repair. Mitral regurgitation (MR) due to mitral valve prolapse may occur in patients with apparently normal
