Mitral Valve Prolapse (MVP)
KEYWORDS: mitral, valve, mitral valve, prolapse, valve prolapse, regurgitation, patients, click, mvp, associated, mitral regurgitation, cardiac, myxomatous, atrial, valve leaflets


ventricular arrhythmias. Identification of MAD can alter the surgical technique used for mitral valve repair. Mitral regurgitation (MR) due to mitral valve prolapse may occur in patients with apparently normal mitral valve leaflets (ie, nonmyxomatous) due to ischemic papillary muscle dysfunction or rheumatic chordal rupture. Transient MVP may occur when intravascular volume decreases significantly, as occurs in severe dehydration or sometimes during pregnancy (when the woman is recumbent and the gravid uterus compresses the inferior vena cava, reducing venous return). Complications Mitral regurgitation is the most common complication of mitral valve prolapse. MR may be acute (due to ruptured chordae tendineae causing flail mitral valve leaflets) or chronic. Sequelae of MVP with MR include heart failure, infective endocarditis, and atrial fibrillation with thromboembolism. Whether MVP causes stroke or endocarditis independent of MR and atrial fibrillation is unclear. Ventricular ectopy commonly occurs in mitral valve prolapse. Severe ventricular arrhythmias or high ectopic burden occurs in < 10% of cases and is associated with sudden cardiac death (1). Features associated with severe arrhythmias include severe myxomatous change of the valve leaflets, severe mitral regurgitation, myocardial fibrosis, and MAD (2). MAD is repaired surgically, not by transcatheter edge-to-edge repair (TEER). Symptoms and Signs of Mitral Valve Prolapse Most patients with mitral valve prolapse are asymptomatic. Some experience nonspecific symptoms (eg, chest pain, dyspnea, palpitations, dizziness, near syncope, migraines, anxiety) thought to be due to associated abnormalities in adrenergic signaling and sensitivity rather than to mitral valve pathology. In some patients, emotional stress precipitates palpitations, which may be a symptom of benign arrhythmias (atrial premature beats, paroxysmal atrial tachycardia, ventricular premature beats, complex ventricular ectopy). Occasionally, patients present with mitral regurgitation. Rarely, patients present with endocarditis (eg, with fever, weight loss, thromboembolic phenomena) or stroke. Sudden death occurs in < 1%, most often in patients with ruptured or otherwise abnormal chordae tendineae and/or flail mitral valve leaflets. Death due to a ventricular arrhythmia is thought to be rare, but a significant fraction of patients with sudden cardiac death have no associated structural cardiac abnormality (1, 2). Other physical findings associated with but not diagnostic of MVP include hypomastia, pectus excavatum, hypokyphosis (eg, straight back syndrome), and a narrow anteroposterior chest diameter. Auscultation Crisp mid-systolic click Typically, mitral valve prolapse causes no visible or palpable cardiac signs. MVP alone often causes a crisp mid-systolic click as the subvalvular apparatus abruptly tightens. The click is heard
