Mitral Valve Prolapse (MVP)
KEYWORDS: mitral, valve, mitral valve, prolapse, valve prolapse, regurgitation, patients, click, mvp, associated, mitral regurgitation, cardiac, myxomatous, atrial, valve leaflets


click Typically, mitral valve prolapse causes no visible or palpable cardiac signs. MVP alone often causes a crisp mid-systolic click as the subvalvular apparatus abruptly tightens. The click is heard best with the diaphragm of the stethoscope over the left apex when the patient is in the left lateral decubitus position. MVP with MR causes a click with a late-systolic MR murmur. The click moves closer to the first heart sound (S1) with maneuvers that decrease left ventricle (LV) size (eg, sitting, standing, Valsalva maneuver); the same maneuvers cause an MR murmur to appear or become louder and last longer. These effects occur because decreasing LV size causes papillary muscles and chordae tendineae to pull together more centrally beneath the valve, resulting in quicker, more forceful prolapse with earlier, more severe regurgitation. Conversely, squatting or isometric handgrip delays the S1 click and shortens the MR murmur. The systolic click may be confused with the click of congenital aortic stenosis; the latter may be distinguished because it occurs very early in systole and does not move with postural or LV volume changes. Other findings include a systolic honk or whoop, thought to be caused by valvular leaflet vibration; these findings are usually transient and may vary with respiratory phase. An early diastolic opening snap caused by return of the prolapsed valve to its normal position is rarely heard. In some patients, especially children, the findings of MVP may be more noticeable after exertion. Diagnosis of Mitral Valve Prolapse Diagnosis of mitral valve prolapse is suggested clinically and confirmed by echocardiography. Thickened (≥ 5 mm), redundant mitral valve leaflets are thought to indicate more extensive myxomatous degeneration and greater risk of endocarditis and mitral regurgitation. Mitral annular disjunction is diagnosed echocardiographically when frame by frame analysis of the posterolateral annulus in the transthoracic parasternal long axis view reveals systolic separation of the annulus and ventricular myocardium by a few millimeters up to a centimeter. Mitral annular disjunction is associated with increased risk of sudden death from arrhythmia, and ambulatory cardiac rhythm monitoring is recommended. Treatment of Mitral Valve Prolapse Usually none Sometimes beta-blockers Mitral valve prolapse does not usually require treatment. Beta-blockers (eg, atenolol, propranolol) and calcium channel blockers (eg, verapamil) decrease symptoms due to associated ectopy but there is no evidence that they improve prognosis. Treatment of atrial fibrillation may be required. Treatment of mitral regurgitation depends on severity and associated
