Clinical Infectious Diseases
KEYWORDS: oral, therapy, doi, patients, treatment, cuti, antibiotics, switch, trials, oral therapy, urinary, duration, versus, pyelonephritis, antibiotic


IDSA GUIDELINES T Clinical Practice Guideline by Infectious Diseases Society of P America (IDSA): 2025 Guideline on Management and I Treatment of Complicated Urinary Tract InfeRctions: Timing of Intravenous to Oral Antibiotics TCransition for Complicated UTI S U Barbara W. Trautner,1 Nicolás W. Cortés-Penfield,2 Kalpana Gupta,3 Elizabeth B. Hirsch,4 Molly Horstman,5 Gregory J. Moran,6 Richard NColgan,7 John C. O’Horo,8 Muhammad S. Ashraf,9 Shannon Connolly,10 Dimitri Drekonja,11 Larissa Grigoryan,12 Angela Huttner,13 Gweneth B. Lazenby,14 Lindsay Nicolle,1A5 Anthony Schaeffer,16 Sigal Yawetz,17 Valéry Lavergne,18,19 M D E 5Center for InnovatioTns in Quality, Effectiveness, and Safety, Michael E. DeBakey VA Medical P E C A —————————————————————————————————————————— Corresponding author: Email: © The Author(s) 2025. Published by Oxford University Press on behalf of Infectious Diseases Society of translation rights for reprints. All other permissions can be obtained through our RightsLink service via the Permissions link on the article page on our site—for further information please contact . DOI: Downloaded from by guest on May 14Departments of Obstetrics and Gynecology and Medicine Division of Infectious Diseases, P I R Arlington, VA, USA S In patients who are being treated parenterally for cUTI, are clinically improving, can take U an oral medication and for whom an oral option is available, should parenteral therapy be transitioned to oral rather than continued for the complete duration of therapy? N Recommendations A I. In patients with complicated UTI (including acute pyelonephritis) treated initially with M parenteral therapy who are clinically improving, able to take oral medication, and for whom an effective oral option is available, we suggest transitioning to oral antibiotics rather than continuing parenteral therapy for the remaining treatment duration (conditional D recommendation, low certainty of the evidence) E Comments: T • This recommendation places a high value on reducing avoidable intravenous catheter- P related adverse events, costs, and resources, as well as taking into account practical aspEects of antibiotic administration. • The trials supporting this recommendation mostly excluded patients with indwelling C urinary catheters, sepsis or septic shock, immunocompromised states, severe renal insufficiency, and functional or structural abnormalities of the urinary tract. Some C patients in these subpopulations may need an individualized plan of therapy. A• An effective antimicrobial agent means that the antibiotic achieves therapeutic levels in the urine and relevant tissue and is active against the causative pathogen. • Refer to Figure 1.2 for a stepwise assessment of the intravenous to oral switch and the duration of
