Clinical Infectious Diseases
KEYWORDS: oral, therapy, doi, patients, treatment, cuti, antibiotics, switch, trials, oral therapy, urinary, duration, versus, pyelonephritis, antibiotic


urine and relevant tissue and is active against the causative pathogen. • Refer to Figure 1.2 for a stepwise assessment of the intravenous to oral switch and the duration of antibiotic therapy. II. In patients presenting with complicated UTI (including acute pyelonephritis) and associated Gram-negative bacteremia treated initially with parenteral therapy who are clinically improving, able to take oral medication, and for whom an effective oral option is available, we suggest transitioning to oral antibiotics rather than continuing parenteral DOI: 2 Downloaded from by guest on May therapy for the remaining treatment duration (conditional recommendation, very low certainty of the evidence). Comments: T • The trials supporting this recommendation mostly included patients who were afebrile, hemodynamically stable, and had achieved source control (relief of any uPrinary obstruction) before transitioning to oral antibiotics. I • An effective antimicrobial agent for bacteremic patients means thRat the antibiotic achieves therapeutic levels in the bloodstream, urine, and relevant tissue and is active C against the causative pathogen. • Refer to Figure 1.2 for a stepwise assessment of the intravenous to oral switch and the S duration of antibiotic therapy. U N A M D E T P E C C A DOI: 3 Downloaded from by guest on May INTRODUCTION Antibiotic therapy is typically given for the shortest effective duration, and administered orally rather than intravenously when appropriate, in order to minimize adverse events related to therapy. An increasing number of clinical trials support early IV treatment with transition to oral therapy T for infectious syndromes.1,2 From a pharmacological point of view, antibiotic efficacy depends on P the levels of the antibiotic obtained in serum and tissue, not the route of administration.2 In practice, providers often switch from intravenous to oral antibiotics during theI course of therapy for complicated UTI, once a patient is improving. We sought evidenRce about whether such transition impacts clinical outcomes of cUTI treatment versus continuing intravenous therapy. We C also looked for information from clinical trials to guide the timing of this switch and appropriate circumstances for switching to the oral route. S From a practical perspective, an IV to oral switch, if equUivalent in terms of outcomes, would be desirable because switching can reduce the need for intravenous access, complications from N intravenous devices, nursing time and effort to administer the medication, volume of fluid and sodium given to the patient, duration of hospitalization, healthcare costs, and inconvenience
