Clinical Infectious Diseases
KEYWORDS: oral, therapy, doi, patients, treatment, cuti, antibiotics, switch, trials, oral therapy, urinary, duration, versus, pyelonephritis, antibiotic


access, complications from N intravenous devices, nursing time and effort to administer the medication, volume of fluid and sodium given to the patient, duration of hospitalization, healthcare costs, and inconvenience to the A patient. M Some patients with cUTI can be managed entirely with oral antibiotics in the outpatient setting. for cUTI.” Also see Table 1.2 Dosing of oral antibiotics for complicated UTI. D E SUMMARY OF THE EVIDENCE T Our systematic review of the literature, from January 2000 up to September 2024, identified four P randomized, controlled trials (RCT) comparing transitioning to oral therapy to continuing parenteral tEherapy for the total duration of antimicrobial therapy for adults with complicated UTI (So-Ngern 2023, Monmaturapoj 2012, Malaisri 2017, and Concia 2006).3-6 C Studied population: These four trials included 186 adult inpatients and outpatients from Asia and C Europe, mostly female (82%). Although all enrolled patients had a presumptive or confirmed Adiagnosis of cUTI, the definition of cUTI varied between trials. Three trials included only patients with acute pyelonephritis,3,4 while the third included only patients with cUTI associated with confirmed or presumed sepsis.5 The Malaisri 2017 trial excluded bacteremic patients with UTI,3 while bacteremia was present in 32% (n=15) of the patients in Concia 20065, 21% (n=17) of the patients in Monmaturapoj 20124, and 14% (n=3) of the patients in So-Ngern 2023.6 The Malaisri 2017 trial3 and So-Ngerm 20236 only included patients with UTI caused by extended spectrum beta lactamase (ESBL)-producing organisms, while the 2 other trials included UTI caused by all significant uropathogens.4,5 The oral agents studied were fluoroquinolones (levofloxacin, prulifloxacin, and sitafloxacin) and cephalosporins (cefditoren pivoxil), which were compared to DOI: 4 Downloaded from by guest on May either ertapenem, piperacillin-tazobactam, or ceftriaxone. The IV to oral switch was performed on day three or four of antibiotic therapy in patients whose clinical symptoms and laboratory parameters were improving and who could take oral medications. In three studies patients were no longer febrile at the time of switch, while the third study did not specify. T Pregnant and lactating women, as well as patients with sepsis or septic shock, immunosuppression, P severe renal impairment, recurrent UTI within one month, structural abnormalities of the urinary tract (not further defined), or indwelling urinary catheters were excluded fIrom most of these studies. R Studied comparison: The included trials compared transitioning to oCral therapy against continuing parenteral antibiotics for the total duration of antimicrobial therapy.3-6
