Clinical Infectious Diseases
KEYWORDS: oral, therapy, doi, patients, treatment, cuti, antibiotics, switch, trials, oral therapy, urinary, duration, versus, pyelonephritis, antibiotic


catheters were excluded fIrom most of these studies. R Studied comparison: The included trials compared transitioning to oCral therapy against continuing parenteral antibiotics for the total duration of antimicrobial therapy.3-6 Three studies used oral S fluoroquinolones, and the total duration of therapy varied from 10 to 14 days. In these trials the patients enrolled had an effective oral option, meaning tUhat the drug in the oral switch arm had good oral bioavailability, was excreted in the urine, and was active against the causative pathogen. N Three of the four studies screened for susceptibility to antibiotic given in the oral arm, while one did not but was published before fluoroquinolone resistance became widespread.5 A Although neither cefditoren pivoxil, prulifloxacin or sitafloxacin are currently available in North M America, these trials have relevant information that bears on the IV to oral switch question and thus were included. Sitafloxacin and prulifloxacin are broad-spectrum oral fluoroquinolones, active against many Gram-positive, Gram-negative, and anaerobic bacteria, including strains D resistant to other fluoroquinolones. Cefditoren pivoxil is a broad-spectrum, oral, third-generation cephalosporin. CefditorenE has a high volume of distribution, and 20-30% of the drug is excreted unchanged in the urine. The antimicrobial therapy varied among studies: (1) IV ceftriaxone T followed by oral cefditoren pivoxil versus IV ceftriaxone;4 (2) IV carbapenems followed by oral sitafloxacin versPus IV ertapenem;3 (3) IV empirical antibiotics followed by oral prulifloxacin versus IV ertapenem6, and (3) IV levofloxacin followed by oral levofloxacin versus IV E piperacillin-tazobactam, and in both arms patients also received amikacin for at least 3 days.5 See the suCpplementary material (Characteristics of the studies). SCtudy design and risk of bias: All studies were judged at “unclear” risk of selection bias due to either: 1) lack of reporting of the method used to generate randomization, or 2) randomization of A such a small sample that meaningful comparison of groups at baseline was not possible; therefore, whether randomization was successful at balancing important characteristics was unclear. Three trials were open-label studies, meaning that participants, healthcare workers, and outcome assessors were not blinded to the treatment arms.3,5 Unblinded studies can affect the outcomes that and interpreted, thus potentially introducing detection and/or performance bias. All four studies were funded by industry, potentially introducing bias due to financial conflict of interest. See the supplementary material (Cochrane Risk of Bias). DOI: 5 Downloaded from by guest on May Studied outcomes: The only patient-important outcome considered
