Clinical Infectious Diseases
KEYWORDS: oral, therapy, doi, patients, treatment, cuti, antibiotics, switch, trials, oral therapy, urinary, duration, versus, pyelonephritis, antibiotic


bias due to financial conflict of interest. See the supplementary material (Cochrane Risk of Bias). DOI: 5 Downloaded from by guest on May Studied outcomes: The only patient-important outcome considered critical for decision-making catheter associated adverse events, and non-serious adverse events. No studies reported readmission rate or microbiological cure. T P I BENEFITS, HARMS, AND CERTAINTY OF THE EVIDENCE (COE) R Benefits and harms: Overall, transitioning from IV to oral therapy in the course of treatment for C may lead to potentially fewer intravenous catheter-related harms. S The evidence suggests that transition to oral therapy in paUtients with cUTI does not reduce clinical cure at EOT or TOC (risk difference or RD: 1.8%; 95%CI: -3.6% to 7.2%/ relative risk or RR: N 1.02; 95% CI: 0.96 to 1.08; low CoE) as compared to patients continued on parenteral therapy for the full duration of treatment. A Transition to oral therapy may not increase recurrence of infection (RD: -2.0%; 95%CI: -2.9% to M 6.1% / RR: 0.33; 95% CI: 0.04 to 3.05; low CoE), but this estimate is imprecise due to very few events and small sample size. In the one study examining duDration of hospitalization ,5 transition to oral therapy might have reduced length of hospital stay (median 10.9 versus 17.2 days; absolute reduction of E 6.3 days, 95% CI: 11.8 to 0.8 days fewer; very low CoE). This evidence is very uncertain due to imprecision (small sTample size of 47 patients), risk of bias due to unblinded study design, and indirectness or lack of generalizability (i.e. the length of hospitalization reported in this study was P directly influenced by the route of administration of antimicrobials since all patients received is very likely to shorten the duration of hospitalizations if receipt of IV antibiotics will delay C hospital discharge. C Despite the available evidence being very uncertain, transition to oral therapy may reduce IV Acatheter related adverse events (RD: -4.9%; 95%CI: -11.5% to 1.7% / RR: 0.20; 95% CI: 0.01 to 4.04; very low CoE). Each day of IV catheterization confers risks of adverse events related to the catheter. However, as IV treatment of cUTI is typically 7 days in duration or less, a switch between 3-7 days to oral therapy may not have appreciable benefit in terms of avoiding adverse events of catheterization in the individual patient. However, benefits may be realized in prevention of adverse events (such as infections)
