Clinical Infectious Diseases
KEYWORDS: oral, therapy, doi, patients, treatment, cuti, antibiotics, switch, trials, oral therapy, urinary, duration, versus, pyelonephritis, antibiotic


may not have appreciable benefit in terms of avoiding adverse events of catheterization in the individual patient. However, benefits may be realized in prevention of adverse events (such as infections) over a larger number of patients. An IV to oral switch can also reduce the volume of fluid and sodium given to the patient, but these outcomes were not studied in the included trials. DOI: 6 Downloaded from by guest on May Transition to oral therapy may have little to no effect on serious adverse events (RD: -0.8%; 95%CI: -1.9% to 6.3% / RR: 0.65; 95%CI 0.11 to 3.88; low CoE) and on non-serious adverse events (RD: 1.0%; 95%CI: -2.1% to 16.7%/ RR: 1.35; 95% CI: 0.27 to 6.67; very low CoE). Imprecision due to few events and small sample size make these assessments uncertain. T Certainty of Evidence: The panel recognized that transitioning to oral antimicrobial treatment may P provide the same potential benefits as continuing parenteral therapy (no reduction in clinical efficacy and no increase in recurrence of infection), may reduce length of hospiItalization in certain benefit of which was judged by the panel to be small, especially with shorter duration of therapy). C The panel agreed the overall certainty of evidence for transitioning to oral antimicrobial treatment compared to continuing parenteral therapy for the duration oSf treatment is low, mainly due to concerns with the risk of bias and imprecision in the estimates. However, IV to oral switch is U common practice. See the supplementary material (Evidence Profile Table). N OTHER SUPPORTING EVIDENCE A Supporting evidence from trials studying similar treatment strategies: Two additional trials M evaluated similar treatment strategies aimed at restricting the use of parenteral therapy in pre- selected populations. One of these trials looked at early switch versus very early switch (single dose IV), while the other lookDed at oral therapy throughout versus early switch. The very early switch trial was in women with uncomplicated pyelonephritis and compared the efficacy of a single dose of IV ceftriaxEone followed by oral cefixime to standard treatment of IV ceftriaxone while awaiting culture results. Clinical response on day three or four of therapy was excellent and T comparable between the two strategies .7 Another trial compared oral sitafloxacin therapy (througPhout the course) to parenteral ceftriaxone with early transition to oral cephalosporins for 7-14 days in adults with complicated UTI or pyelonephritis. Oral therapy from E the start
