Clinical Infectious Diseases
KEYWORDS: oral, therapy, doi, patients, treatment, cuti, antibiotics, switch, trials, oral therapy, urinary, duration, versus, pyelonephritis, antibiotic


in both arms at 30-35 days post end of therapy.9 Likewise, an oral switch study U in 51 adults with cUTI (mostly pyelonephritis) who were switched to oral fosfomycin versus oral N fosfomycin versus beta-lactam antibiotics for bacteremic cUTI, 61 patients in the IV fosfomycin cure endpoint.11 Of note, oral fosfomycin is not appropriate as an initial empiric treatment for cUTI, due to inadequate levels in tissuMe/bloodstream. Additionally, an observational cohort study of patients with gram-negative bacteremia from cUTI found that switch to oral fluoroquinolone or TMP/SMX had similar rates of rec urrence within 60 days as completion of the full course of D therapy intravenously.12 E Supporting evidence from pediatric population: Two prior systematic reviews touched on this topic, although neither directly addressed the question in an adult patient population. A Cochrane T review of routes of administration of antibiotics for severe UTI, published in 2007, included 15 P studies, of which 9 focused on children, and 1 on pregnant women.13 Only three of the six studies in adults wEere published after 2000. Studies were small and heterogeneous; only six addressed a specific comparison of switch (IV to oral) versus continuing IV therapy for the duration of C treatment. Overall, no evidence was found that one route of antibiotic administration was less effective for the treatment of cUTI. However, patients who could not tolerate oral therapy were C excluded from these trials. Voloumanou et al. published a systematic review in 2008 of early Aswitch to oral versus intravenous therapy or late switch for patients hospitalized with pyelonephritis.14 Of these eight studies, only two enrolled adults (rather than a pediatric population; both were conducted prior to 2000). Early switch was defined as occurring on days 1- 4 of therapy; late switch was after 7-10 days of therapy. The antibiotics studied in these two trials were gentamicin, ceftriaxone, and cefixime. Overall, early switch to oral therapy was as effective scarring in a pediatric population. While the populations included in these meta-analyses are not directly generalizable to the adult population, the concept that outcomes did not differ with route of administration is relevant. DOI: 8 Downloaded from by guest on May SPECIAL POPULATIONS AND SPECIAL SITUATIONS Presence of bacteremia As our systematic review of the literature identified only four randomized, controlled trials of IV T to oral antibiotic switch, this small number of trials did not permit post-hoc analyses. Across these four
