Clinical Infectious Diseases
KEYWORDS: oral, therapy, doi, patients, treatment, cuti, antibiotics, switch, trials, oral therapy, urinary, duration, versus, pyelonephritis, antibiotic


for IV to oral switch as women, with the caveat that an oral drug should be chosen that can penetrate the prostate in men with febrile cUTI. The panel is not aware of a validated approach to determine whether the prostate is involved in men with febrile UTI, so choosing a treatment that does penetrate the prostate is reasonable. Classes of UTI-relevant antimicrobials that have adequate prostatic penetration include fluoroquinolones and sulfonamides.22 Some beta-lactam antibiotics have poor penetration into the prostate and prostatic does not appear to reach therapeutic levels in prostatic fluid and should not be used to treat acute DOI: 9 Downloaded from by guest on May or chronic bacterial prostatitis.23,24 Evidence for effectiveness of oral fosfomycin as a treatment for acute bacterial prostatitis is sparse.25 Resistant pathogens T The four trials mainly focused on transitioning from IV to PO when the oral therapy was considered to be effective for the infecting organism. Therefore, it is importPant to consider resistance rates to antibiotics among pathogens isolated in these trials. In the 2006 Concia study, I no information was provided on resistance, but resistance to the two agents tested (piperacillin- R tazobactam and levofloxacin) was not high at the time of that study.5 In the 2017 Malaisri trial of sitafloxacin versus ertapenem, a urine culture with an ESBL-produCcing E. coli was required for enrollment.3 All causative organisms isolated in the enrolled patients in this trial from Thailand S were susceptible to carbapenems, and 94% were susceptible to sitafloxacin; only 25% were susceptible to ciprofloxacin or levofloxacin. Similarly, patUients enrolled in the So-Ngern 2023 trial (prulifloxacin versus ertapenem) had to present with a UTI caused by an ESBL-producing N organism which was susceptible to both studied drugs (with 76% of them being susceptible to ciprofloxacin and 100% to carbapenems).6 The Monmaturapoj (2012) trial, also in Thailand, A excluded patients with ESBL-producing E. coli or Pseudomonas aeruginosa, and having an organism susceptible to the study drugs (ceftriaxone and cefditoren pivoxil) was a requirement for M inclusion.4 In this study, 32% of E. coli strains were resistant to standard fluoroquinolones. In summary, 3 of these 4 trials provided effective therapy in both arms of the trial, supporting that IV to oral switch generally requireDs use of oral agent to which the causative pathogen is sensitive. E PHARMACOLOGIC ISSUES AND POTENTIAL CHOICES FOR ORAL SWITCH T Consider the following criteria when choosing an
