Clinical Infectious Diseases
KEYWORDS: oral, therapy, doi, patients, treatment, cuti, antibiotics, switch, trials, oral therapy, urinary, duration, versus, pyelonephritis, antibiotic


generally requireDs use of oral agent to which the causative pathogen is sensitive. E PHARMACOLOGIC ISSUES AND POTENTIAL CHOICES FOR ORAL SWITCH T Consider the following criteria when choosing an oral route of therapy for cUTI: (1) patient is P clinically improving, (2) if applicable, source control has been achieved, (3) the patient can absorb E oral antibiotics, (4) an oral regimen is available for the target pathogen that achieves adequate levelsC where needed (e.g., bloodstream if bacteremia present), and (5) there are no patient-level psychosocial or economic factors that would favor the IV route.1 From a pharmacological point of C view, the extent of tissue penetration is not necessarily determined by the route of delivery. Instead, an oral dose should be chosen that will achieve levels in plasma similar to those achieved through A the IV route, which may require a higher oral dose. Gastrointestinal disorders that could preclude IV to oral switch include malabsorption, short bowel syndrome, ileus, severe diarrhea, motility disorders, vomiting, delayed gastric emptying, or reduced gut perfusion due to shock .2 Care should also be taken to avoid concomitant administration of certain medications, such as supplements (calcium, iron, magnesium) or sucralfate, that can reduce bioavailability of certain antibiotics (e.g. fluoroquinolones); some antibiotics’ absorption may also be affected by food. DOI: 10 Downloaded from by guest on May Nitrofurantoin and oral fosfomycin are generally not appropriate choices for cUTI and/or suspected bacteremia due to inadequate levels in tissue/bloodstream. Oral fosfomycin has been used in small studies to treat cUTI (including pyelonephritis), but its effectiveness needs to be confirmed in a larger study.10,26 Oral fosfomycin has been used to treat chronic bacterial prostatitis but has not formally been evaluated in acute or chronic bacterial prostatitis trials.27 T P Patients with severe renal insufficiency may have either delayed clearance of some antibiotics or heightened clearance due to renal replacement therapy. Consultation with a phIarmacist would be advisable in patients with severe renal insufficiency when planning aRn IV to oral switch for treatment of cUTI. C Ideally, the choice of oral step-down therapy can be guided by susceptibility testing of the S causative pathogen, but often the organism has not been identified. Oral switch therapy in such cases is usually guided by the suspected urinary organiUsm(s) and the patient’s response to the empirical agent given. In other words, if the patient has improved while on ceftriaxone, switching N to
