Clinical Infectious Diseases
KEYWORDS: oral, therapy, doi, patients, treatment, cuti, antibiotics, switch, trials, oral therapy, urinary, duration, versus, pyelonephritis, antibiotic


in adults; however, while it produced comparable D higher with ceftibuten versus norfloxacin. E T OTHER CONSPIDERATIONS E Stewardship considerations C Transitioning to oral therapy may permit earlier discharge, reducing potential exposure to nosocomially-acquired pathogens such as C. difficile, and may avoid placement of a central or C midline catheter, reducing the likelihood of central-line (or midline) associated bloodstream Ainfection. Evidence is not sufficient to mandate an IV to oral switch from a stewardship perspective. Patients’ values and preferences The route of administration of antibiotics for cUTI needs to be individualized by patient preference. Our patient representatives commented that side effects of some oral antibiotics can be worse than the side effects of some IV antibiotics, and that responses are individualized. DOI: 13 Downloaded from by guest on May Preference for receiving treatment at home and the perceived ease of taking oral antibiotics favor oral treatment. IV devices can be painful and limit mobility. Although some patients (and physicians) erroneously believe that IV antibiotics may be better or stronger, patients are likely to prefer oral antibiotics if efficacy is equivalent to that of IV antibiotics. 58-60 T Consultation with patient representatives participating in this guideline further supported that P treatment (whatever the route of administration) should mainly focus on achieving clinical cure without increasing the risk of recurrence of infection and readmission to hospIital. Reducing the length of hospitalization and facilitating ease of administration were consRidered important, but the route of administration alone was not a driving factor in their decision-making process. C Costs, Resources, Feasibility and Equity S While no specific studies evaluate the cost effectiveness of transitioning to oral therapy rather than U continuing parenteral therapy for cUTI, the costs of administering oral antibiotics are significantly lower than either outpatient parenteral antibiotic theNrapy (OPAT) or inpatient administration of IV therapy. OPAT is associated with decreased costs compared to prolonging hospitalization for administration of those agents,61 but OPAT A costs are significantly higher than oral therapy in several infections.62 Switching to oral antibiotics for bone and joint infections rather than OPAT M can provide reductions in length of stay and costs.63 In endocarditis, transitioning to oral therapy was also associated with a reduction in IV catheter complications.64 Thus, the panel judged that moderate to large savings favor transitioning to oral therapy rather than continuing parenteral D therapy for the completion of the treatment for cUTI. E The panel could
