Clinical Infectious Diseases
KEYWORDS: oral, therapy, doi, patients, treatment, cuti, antibiotics, switch, trials, oral therapy, urinary, duration, versus, pyelonephritis, antibiotic


panel judged that moderate to large savings favor transitioning to oral therapy rather than continuing parenteral D therapy for the completion of the treatment for cUTI. E The panel could not identify a scenario in which transitioning to oral therapy would not be more feasible or would noTt increase equity as compared to continuing parenteral treatment (either in hospital or through OPAT). P E CONCLUSIONS AND RESEARCH NEEDS C The guideline panel suggests transitioning to oral antimicrobial treatment rather than continuing C parenteral therapy in most patients with cUTI, including acute pyelonephritis, for those who are Aclinically improving, can take an oral medication, and for whom an effective oral option is available. The panel notes that a majority of the patients included in the studies supporting this recommendation were female and without indwelling urinary catheters. The oral antibiotics in three of the four studies were fluoroquinolones (including two not available in the United States, sitafloxacin and prulifloxacin). The evidence base included patients with both pyelonephritis and cUTI, although these are different infectious entities. For patients with Gram-negative bacteremia associated with cUTI, the panel suggests transitioning to oral therapy in patients who are clinically improving, have adequate source control, who can take an oral medication, and for whom an oral option is available. Source control in this context DOI: 14 Downloaded from by guest on May primarily meant relief of urinary obstructions; patients with abscesses in the genitourinary tract were generally not included in these trials. Further clinical trials are needed to confirm the efficacy of the widely used strategy of giving one dose of an IV antimicrobial agent to patients with acute pyelonephritis, in addition to a course of T oral antibiotics, in comparison to treating entirely with oral antibiotics. Very little is known about P shorter course therapy for cUTI that does not involve fluoroquinolones, and fluoroquinolone therapy is becoming increasingly less relevant for cUTI as resistance rates incrIease. R Additional research into the safety of transitioning to oral therapy for certain subpopulations at higher risk of treatment failure or complications, such as patients witCh indwelling urinary catheters, sepsis or septic shock, immunocompromised status, severe renal insufficiency, and functional or S structural abnormalities of the urinary tract is needed to ascertain whether this transition is safe and effective in these scenarios. U References N 1. Davar K, Clark D, Centor RM, et al. Can tAhe Future of ID Escape
