Dec 1994
KEYWORDS: omeprazole, patients, acid, symptoms, prokinetic, gastric, drugs, esophagitis, agents, gerd, severe erosive, therapy, maintenance, erosive, reflux


Dec 1994 Treatment of Gastroesophageal Reflux Disease (GERD) Symptoms due to esophageal reflux are common; intermittent mild symptoms of heartburn occur in more than one third of healthy individuals at least once a month. The spectrum of disease associated with reflux spans from mild symptoms, not requiring treatment to severe erosive reflux esophagitis requir- ing intensive aggressive investigation and treat- ment. This article focuses on the management of this problem in adults in the primary care setting. What non-pharmacologic techniques are helpful in GERD? Elimination of agents that increase acid, such as coffee; cause ulceration, such as NSAIDS; delay gastric emptying, such as narcotics or fatty foods; or decrease lower esophageal sphincter pressure, How should one manage the patient such as cigarettes, alcohol and many drugs. Weight loss and elevation of the head of the bed on with symptoms of heartburn? 15 cm blocks can be helpful. (see algorithm) Most patients with heartburn do not seek medical What drugs decrease lower esophageal sphincter pressure and respond to intermittent courses of antacid therapy. worsen GERD? For those patients with persistent symptoms, sup- Anticholinergic drugs, antispasmodic drugs, many pression of acid secretion with cimetidine or other anti-histamine and antiemetic drugs, tricyclic anti- H -blocker for a 6 week trial is effective in control- depressants, phenothiazine neuroleptics, nitrates ling the symptoms in 60 to 70 percent of patients and calcium channel blockers. If possible these with mild to moderate esophagitis.1 For patients should be reduced in dose or discontinued. who do not respond to an H2-blocker a prokinetic drug can be tried (see Table). Table: Drugs proven effective in management of GERD Drug Trade Names Mechanism of Action Dose Daily Cost antacids Many liquid and Neutralization of acid 30 ml QID $1.08 tablet forms alginic acid Gaviscon Neutralization of acid and 10 ml QID $0.60 compound Maxeran, Reglan protective barrier 2 tab QID $0.80 H 2 -blockers Letter 1 Reduction of gastric acid secretion by Letter 1 $0.27 to $1.71 competitive antagonism of H 2 receptors Letter 1 cisapride Prokinetic, increased rate of 10 mg QID $2.48 metoclopramide Prepulsid gastric empting, increased 20 mg BID lower esophageal sphincter pressure 10 mg QID $0.26 Irreversible inhibitor of gastric H+K+ omeprazole Losec ATP ase (the proton pump) Inhibits both 2 0 m g d a i l y $ 2 . 3 0 basal and stimulated acid secretion 3 Are prokinetic agents useful? The prokinetic
