Dec 1994
KEYWORDS: omeprazole, patients, acid, symptoms, prokinetic, gastric, drugs, esophagitis, agents, gerd, severe erosive, therapy, maintenance, erosive, reflux


proton pump) Inhibits both 2 0 m g d a i l y $ 2 . 3 0 basal and stimulated acid secretion 3 Are prokinetic agents useful? The prokinetic agents metoclopramide and cisapride are of Those who relapse off medication frequently require similar effectiveness to H -blockers. A prokinetic drug plus long-term omeprazole maintenance therapy under the an H -blocker improves the response but the combination is supervision of an endoscopist.3 not as effective as omeprozole. Because of their cost What are the concems about long-term and/or safety profile prokinetic agents are seldom indicat- omeprazole therapy? ed for maintenance therapy. Daily omeprazole dosing causes chronic hypochlorhy- What is the treatment of choice in the dria with the following potential complications: gastric patient with severe erosive esophagitis? bacterial overgrowth with the risk of gram negative H -blockers are only effective in about 30% of patients with aspiration pneumonia, decreased vitamin B absorp- 2 12 severe erosive esophagitis, demonstrated by endoscopy. tion,4 benign gastric polyps and other gastric pathology5. Omeprazole 20 to 40 mg per day for eight weeks provides The patients most likely at risk of complications are the potent acid suppression necessary to achieve a healing those who have a genetic deficiency of the active rate of over 80% of these difficult patients.2 Omeprazole is enzyme (CYP 2C19) responsible for metabolizing not licensed for use in children; dosage and safety have not omeprazole (about 5% of Caucasians and 20% of been established. A dosage and safety study in children is Orientals).6 These individuals, who can only be identi- centrations of omeprazole whichare >10 times higher What should be done in the refractory than other patients taking omeprazole.7 patient and in the patients who relapse? Because of these concerns the patient must be involved A small number of refractory patients require higher doses in any decision concerning long-term omeprazole of omeprazole for up to 12 weeks to achieve healing. maintenance therapy, and the maintenance dose should be reduced to the minimum dose that will pre- vent relapses. Algoritm: Conclusion Reflux symptoms despite elimination of precipitating factors GERD symptoms should be treated with antacids or H - blockers as much as possible. In refractory cases intermittent daily omeprazole is effective. Long term omeprazole is indi- cated in relapsing severe erosive esophagitis, but must be prescribed with caution until more is known about antacids cimetidine 400 mg BID for 6-8 weeks alginic
