World Journal of
KEYWORDS: esophageal, diverticulum, esophagus, dysphagia, mid-esophageal, spasm, endoscopic, esophageal spasm, diverticula, patient, diffuse, diffuse esophageal, treatment, normal, liu


World Journal of W J G E Gastrointestinal Endoscopy Submit a Manuscript: World J Gastrointest Endosc 2025 November 16; 17(11): 111770 DOI: ISSN 1948-5190 (online) CASE REPORT Endoscopic treatment for dysphagia caused by mid-esophageal diverticulum and diffuse esophageal spasm: A case report Xin-Ru Liu, Xue-Zhi Chen, Ming-Wei Fan, Shu-Hui Zhang, Ning Shi, Cheng-Xia Liu, Yan Chen, Xue-Min Wang Specialty type: Gastroenterology Xin-Ru Liu, Xue-Zhi Chen, Ming-Wei Fan, Shu-Hui Zhang, Ning Shi, Yan Chen, Xue-Min Wang, and hepatology Shandong Province, China Provenance and peer review: Unsolicited article; Externally peer reviewed. Co-first authors: Xin-Ru Liu and Xue-Zhi Chen. Peer-review model: Single blind Peer-review report’s classification Scientific Quality: Grade B, Grade B, Grade C Novelty: Grade A, Grade B, Grade C Abstract Creativity or Innovation: Grade A, BACKGROUND Grade B, Grade B A mid-esophageal diverticulum is an outpouching located in the midsection of Scientific Significance: Grade B, the esophagus, posterior to the bifurcation of the right and left bronchi. The condi- Grade B, Grade C tion is characterized by an outward protrusion of the inner esophageal wall. Mid- interventions may offer a novel approach for the alleviation of dysphagia asso- Revised: August 22, 2025 CASE SUMMARY We present a case of a 74-year-old woman with dysphagia, diagnosed with mid- esophageal diverticulum and diffuse esophageal spasm. Due to her physical con- dition, submucosal tunneling endoscopic septum division (STESD) was initially Processing time: 128 Days and 16.6 performed for the diverticulum. One month later, the esophageal spasm was Hours treated using per-oral endoscopic myotomy (POEM). This combined treatment significantly improved her dysphagia, and she was discharged. CONCLUSION STESD and POEM are effective and safe for the treatment of dysphagia caused by mid-esophageal diverticula with diffuse esophageal spasm. Key Words: Mid-esophageal diverticulum; Diffuse esophageal spasm; Submucosal tun- neling endoscopic septum division; Per-oral endoscopic myotomy; Case report WJGE 1 November 16, 2025 Volume 17 Issue 11 Liu XR et al. Endoscopic treatment for dysphagia ©The Author(s) 2025. Published by Baishideng Publishing Group Inc. All rights reserved. Core Tip: A rare case of mid-esophageal diverticulum with diffuse esophageal spasm is described. The case highlights the importance of considering diffuse esophageal spasm when treating mid-esophageal diverticulum. Diagnostic tools such as upper gastrointestinal pan-glucosamine contrast, esophageal manometry, chest computed tomography, and gastroscopy can be helpful. Submucosal tunneling endoscopic septum division + per-oral endoscopic myotomy is an effective treatment approach for this condition. Citation: Liu XR, Chen XZ, Fan MW, Zhang
