World Journal of
KEYWORDS: esophageal, diverticulum, esophagus, dysphagia, mid-esophageal, spasm, endoscopic, esophageal spasm, diverticula, patient, diffuse, diffuse esophageal, treatment, normal, liu


and gastroscopy can be helpful. Submucosal tunneling endoscopic septum division + per-oral endoscopic myotomy is an effective treatment approach for this condition. Citation: Liu XR, Chen XZ, Fan MW, Zhang SH, Shi N, Liu CX, Chen Y, Wang XM. Endoscopic treatment for dysphagia caused by mid-esophageal diverticulum and diffuse esophageal spasm: A case report. World J Gastrointest Endosc 2025; 17(11): 111770 URL: DOI: INTRODUCTION Dysphagia is classified into oropharyngeal and esophageal types based on where it occurs. Esophageal dysphagia can be caused by mechanical issues, such as tumors or diverticula, or kinetic problems, such as achalasia. Esophageal diver- ticulum, a rare benign condition, involves the formation of a pouch in the esophageal wall. It is categorized by location into pharyngo-esophageal (Zenker's), mid-esophageal (paratracheal), and supra-diaphragmatic diverticula. Mid- esophageal diverticula are relatively uncommon, comprising approximately 10% to 20% of all esophageal diverticula. They are more prevalent in developing countries, where they predominantly affect middle-aged and elderly individuals These diverticula are frequently associated with inflammatory processes and adhesions. Asymptomatic Larger, symptomatic diverticula may need surgery. Surgical options include open and minimally invasive procedures such as submucosal tunneling endoscopic septum division (STESD), which is associated with lower recurrence and complication rates. Diffuse esophageal spasm, characterized by uncoordinated contractions, may be associated with impaired neuroinhibitory mechanisms, increased muscle thickness, and issues linked to relaxation of the gastroeso- phageal junction. It can be treated with medication, endoscopy, and surgery, with peroral endoscopic myotomy (POEM) being a well-established option for esophageal dyskinesia. Supradiaphragmatic diverticula are thought to result from congenital developmental abnormalities or esophageal motility disorders, and frequently co-occur with diffuse esophageal spasm. Mid-esophageal diverticula are commonly associated with inflammation and adhesions. However, Kaye observed, when using a perfused catheter manometric system, that diffuse esophageal spasm can also manifest within the mid-esophageal diverticulum. The present report describes a case of dysphagia caused by esophageal diverticulum and spasm, which was successfully treated with STESD and POEM, demonstrating the safety and effectiveness of this combined endoscopic approach. CASE PRESENTATION Chief complaints History of present illness Approximately one year before, she had begun experiencing dysphagia of unknown etiology, which was accompanied by nausea and vomiting. History of past illness The patient reported a history of good health. Personal and family history The patient denied any familial history of similar illnesses. Physical examination On physical examination, the vital signs were as follows: Body temperature, 36 °C; blood pressure, 18.8/12.3 kPa;
