World Journal of
KEYWORDS: esophageal, diverticulum, esophagus, dysphagia, mid-esophageal, spasm, endoscopic, esophageal spasm, diverticula, patient, diffuse, diffuse esophageal, treatment, normal, liu


family history The patient denied any familial history of similar illnesses. Physical examination On physical examination, the vital signs were as follows: Body temperature, 36 °C; blood pressure, 18.8/12.3 kPa; heart rate, 68 beats per minute; respiratory rate, 19 breaths per minute. No abdominal tenderness or palpable mass was observed, nor was there palpable enlargement of superficial lymph nodes throughout the body. WJGE 2 November 16, 2025 Volume 17 Issue 11 Liu XR et al. Endoscopic treatment for dysphagia Laboratory examinations No abnormalities were found in routine blood and biochemical tests. The levels of serum tumor markers were normal. Imaging examinations A CT scan revealed a right-sided cystic bulge in the middle esophagus, identified as an esophageal diverticulum, accompanied by localized thickening of the lower esophagus (Figure 1). Upper gastrointestinal contrast imaging showed the presence of a 3.0 cm × 3.0 cm cystic shadow in the mid esophagus connected to the esophageal lumen, associated with barium movement (Figure 2A). Gastroscopy confirmed a large esophageal diverticulum and slight tension in the lower and middle esophagus (Figure 3), leading to a diagnosis of mid-esophageal diverticulum with diffuse esophageal spasm. After discussing the condition with the patient and her family, ultrasonographic gastroscopy was used to assess the thickness of the diverticulum wall, and STESD was subsequently performed to treat the diverticulum. After surgery, the patient received gastric protection, pain relief, anti-infection treatment, cardiac monitoring, oxygen, and rehydration. Three days later, a contrast test revealed a saccular pouch on the right side of the esophagus, with a rigid wall (Figure 2B) and narrowing of the lumen in the lower esophagus. The patient's swallowing difficulties improved, allowing a semi-liquid diet. upper gastrointestinal angiogram revealed a 2.1 cm × 2.6 cm cystic shadow on the right side of the middle esophagus, with string-like changes and narrowing of the lumen of the lower and middle esophagus (Figure 2C). Esophageal manometry indicated normal peristalsis (Figure 4). We then performed POEM for diffuse esophageal spasm. FINAL DIAGNOSIS Combined with the patient’s medical history, the final diagnosis was a mid-esophageal diverticulum with diffuse esophageal spasm. TREATMENT Postoperatively, the patient recovered well. The STESD procedure (Figure 5): The patient, under tracheal intubation and intravenous anesthesia, was positioned on her side. A large esophageal diverticulum, 30 cm from the incisors, and measuring 3 cm × 5 cm, was identified. The diverticulum had a small opening and smooth mucosa, and while there was
