World Journal of
KEYWORDS: esophageal, diverticulum, esophagus, dysphagia, mid-esophageal, spasm, endoscopic, esophageal spasm, diverticula, patient, diffuse, diffuse esophageal, treatment, normal, liu


large esophageal diverticulum, 30 cm from the incisors, and measuring 3 cm × 5 cm, was identified. The diverticulum had a small opening and smooth mucosa, and while there was some resistance to entry, the fallout sensation was minimal. A submucosal injection of saline and indigo carmine was administered 3 cm above the diverticulum to facilitate tunnel creation. The submucosa was carefully peeled back, and the muscle at the crest of the diverticulum was incised to its base. Upon re-entry, the diverticular opening appeared flaccid and was closed using 13 titanium clips. A 55 cm gastrointestinal decompression tube was then inserted. The POEM procedure (Figure 6): The patient was positioned on her left side and underwent tracheal intubation with intravenous anesthesia. A large esophageal diverticulum was observed 30 cm from the incisors. The angle of the diverticulum was reduced, accompanied by a large opening. A narrowing ring was noted 30-36 cm from the incisors that caused resistance to scope entry. Indigo carmine saline was injected submucosally 30 cm from the incisors (opposite to the diverticulum), followed by mucosal incision to form a tunnel. The circumferential and longitudinal muscles were incised from 30 cm to 2 cm above the cardia, and the wound was closed with 5 harmonic clips. Upon re-entry, the lumen of the esophagus was enlarged, enabling smooth passage of the endoscope and preventing resistance to stenosis. No change in the cardia was observed when the mirror was flipped, and the dentate line was clearly visible. OUTCOME AND FOLLOW-UP By six months, there was no return of the patient's dysphagia symptoms, as confirmed by phone follow-ups, and her quality of life was significantly improved. DISCUSSION Dysphagia is classified into oropharyngeal and esophageal types. This report describes a case of esophageal dysphagia, caused by mechanical and kinetic issues. Esophageal diverticulum is a rare benign condition. Mid-segment diverticula, often linked with peripheral inflammation and adhesions, tend to be more common in the Chinese population. Supradiaphragmatic diverticula are believed to result from abnormal esophageal motility with 80%-100% of cases that diffuse esophageal spasm can also manifest in conjunction with mid-esophageal diverticula. Nevertheless, the co- occurrence of mid-esophageal diverticula and diffuse esophageal spasm is frequently underrecognized. For instance, a case report published in the journal of Endoscopy described the effectiveness of ESD utilizing metal clips for treating mid-esophageal diverticula. However, esophageal manometry was not performed to evaluate esophageal motility WJGE 3 November 16,
