World Journal of
KEYWORDS: esophageal, diverticulum, esophagus, dysphagia, mid-esophageal, spasm, endoscopic, esophageal spasm, diverticula, patient, diffuse, diffuse esophageal, treatment, normal, liu


the journal of Endoscopy described the effectiveness of ESD utilizing metal clips for treating mid-esophageal diverticula. However, esophageal manometry was not performed to evaluate esophageal motility WJGE 3 November 16, 2025 Volume 17 Issue 11 Liu XR et al. Endoscopic treatment for dysphagia Figure 1 Computed tomography image of the whole abdomen. The cystic bulge on the right side of the middle esophagus was considered an esophageal diverticulum, and local thickening of the lower esophagus was observed. Figure 2 Upper gastrointestinal pan-glucosamine contrast. A: A cystic shadow is visible on the right side of the middle esophagus, measuring approximately 3.0 cm × 3.0 cm. This was connected to the lumen of the esophagus, and barium could be seen entering and exiting the esophagus; B: A saccular pouching exophthalmos is visible on the right side of the esophagus, with rigidity of the esophageal wall and narrowing of the lumen in the lower part of the esophagus; C: A cystic shadow measuring approximately 2.1 cm × 2.6 cm was seen in the right side of the middle esophagus. String-like changes in the body of the esophagus were visible, accompanied by narrowing of the lumen in the lower and middle esophagus. Figure 3 Gastroscopy. A: A large diverticulum was seen in the esophagus; B: Slight tension in the lower and middle esophagus. function, potentially not identifying esophageal motility disorders. In the present case, we identified a diverticulum in the mid-esophageal region, performed esophageal manometry, followed by subsequent POME surgery, which successfully alleviated the patient's dysphagia symptoms. WJGE 4 November 16, 2025 Volume 17 Issue 11 Liu XR et al. Endoscopic treatment for dysphagia Figure 4 Esophageal manometry. A: Static pressure: At rest, the upper esophageal sphincter pressure was low (8 mmHg in this patient, normal value 33-180 mmHg) and the low esophageal sphincter pressure was normal (27 mmHg in this patient, normal value 10-45 mmHg); B: 5 mL wet swallow: While normal 4s integrated relaxation pressure and normal distal contractile integral suggest normal peristalsis in the body of the esophagus, an interruption of the contraction wave on the 20 mmHg isobaric line with a defect length greater than 5 cm (6.5 cm) suggests segmental contraction; this swallow was ineffective; C: 5 mL wet pharynx: Normal 4s integrated relaxation pressure, normal distal contractile integral, distal latency, and maximal interruptions are in the normal range, suggesting normal esophageal motility; D: Comprehensive analysis: The patient performed
