World Journal of
KEYWORDS: esophageal, diverticulum, esophagus, dysphagia, mid-esophageal, spasm, endoscopic, esophageal spasm, diverticula, patient, diffuse, diffuse esophageal, treatment, normal, liu


pharynx: Normal 4s integrated relaxation pressure, normal distal contractile integral, distal latency, and maximal interruptions are in the normal range, suggesting normal esophageal motility; D: Comprehensive analysis: The patient performed 10 5-mL wet swallows, with 6 (60%) normal contractions (450 mmHg.s.cm < distal contractile integral < 8000 mmHg.s.cm) and 6 (60%) ineffective swallows (including 2 peristaltic failures, 2 weak contractions, and 2 fragmentary contractions). This suggests an indeterminate ineffective esophageal motility. Performed 3 multiple rapid swallows, with the distal contractile integral after performing multiple rapid swallows being less than the mean distal contractile integral of a single swallow, suggesting poor esophageal contractile reserve function. Asymptomatic esophageal diverticula require no treatment, while severe cases are typically treated with invasive procedures such as diverticulotomy, which carry risks of trauma, recurrence, and complications. STESD, developed by Li et al, offers a minimally invasive alternative. The procedure involves submucosal tunneling to preserve mucosal integrity and minimize complications such as perforation and mediastinitis. In contrast to conventional methods, STESD enables a more thorough incision of the interstitial ridge, reducing the likelihood of recurrence. STESD has been shown to be both safe and effective for treating diverticula but its benefits for esophageal dyskinesia remain under- researched. POEM is a well-established treatment for esophageal dyskinesia and is now also used for treating mid-esophageal and supradiaphragmatic diverticula. While the extension of myotomy to the lower esophageal sphincter in patients with combined conditions alleviates symptoms, there are limited data on its long-term effectiveness and outcomes long- term outcomes. WJGE 5 November 16, 2025 Volume 17 Issue 11 Liu XR et al. Endoscopic treatment for dysphagia Figure 5 The submucosal tunneling endoscopic septum division surgical procedure. A and B: Ultrasonic gastroscopy of the layers of the diverticulum; C: Giant esophageal diverticulum; D: Construction of the tunnel; E: Incision of the muscle; F: Closure of the wound with titanium clips. Figure 6 The per-oral endoscopic myotomy surgical procedure. A: Ultrasonic gastroscopy of the layers of the esophagus; B: Construction of a tunnel; C: Incision of the muscle; D: Closure of the wound with titanium clips. WJGE 6 November 16, 2025 Volume 17 Issue 11 Liu XR et al. Endoscopic treatment for dysphagia The present patient was hospitalized with dysphagia and diagnosed with mid-esophageal diverticulum and diffuse esophageal spasm. It is essential to distinguish this condition from achalasia, esophageal cancer, and non-esophageal diseases. The primary diagnostic modalities include esophageal manometry, gastroscopy, and
