Sexual Dysfunction in Diabetes
KEYWORDS: men, diabetes, sexual, pubmed, dysfunction, erectile, testosterone, patients, erectile dysfunction, study, function, treatment, type, men diabetes, women


ABSTRACT Diabetes is an increasingly prevalent problem that has been associated very strongly with sexual problems in both men and women. Diabetes has numerous end organ effects and also exerts a substantial psychological toll which may predispose diabetic people to sexual problems. Erectile Dysfunction (ED) is common in men with diabetes; these men tend to present with more severe and refractory ED compared to non-diabetic peers. While ED is the best-established diabetes-related sexual dysfunction, ejaculatory and sexual desires issues may also occur in men with diabetes. Women with diabetes are also at risk for sexual dysfunction. Sexual health inquiry is an important aspect of diabetes care. Importantly, lifestyle change and close management of diabetes has been associated with improvements in sexual function. For complete coverage of all related areas of Endocrinology, please visit our on-line FREE web-text, WWW.ENDOTEXT.ORG . INTRODUCTION Diabetes mellitus (DM) may lead to disruption of normal sexual function in both men and women via diabetic-induced end organ damage and psychological stress. There is a strong association between diabetes and erectile dysfunction (ED) in men; ED is the best studied sexual dysfunction but the sexual health ramifications of diabetes extend well beyond erectile pathophysiology. In the Endotext chapter on Male Endocrinology “ Medical and Surgical Therapy of Erectile Dysfunction ”, Shindel, et al review the pathophysiology, work-up, and treatments for erectile dysfunction of any cause. In this chapter, we will focus specifically on sexual dysfunction in people with diabetes, with particular emphasis on practical information for clinicians. EPIDEMIOLOGY Sexual dysfunction is a common problem that is particularly prevalent in men and women with diabetes. The presence of sexual dysfunction in type I diabetes has been associated with markedly lower quality of life and psychological distress ( 1 ). While, the incidence of sexual problems increases with age (particularly in men but also in women), this is driven primarily by comorbid conditions associated with aging. Examples include smoking, heart disease, high blood pressure, high cholesterol, and diabetes ( 2 ). The prevalence of ED in men with diabetes is approximately three and a half times higher than in the general population ( 3 , 4 ). ED may also be the presenting symptom for DM and may predict later neurologic sequelae ( 5 ). PATHOGENESIS The pathophysiology of ED in DM is multifactorial, consisting of both vascular, hormonal, and neurologic insults ( 6 ). Diabetic neuropathy may impair autonomic
