Sexual Dysfunction in Diabetes
KEYWORDS: men, diabetes, sexual, pubmed, dysfunction, erectile, testosterone, patients, erectile dysfunction, study, function, treatment, type, men diabetes, women


neurologic sequelae ( 5 ). PATHOGENESIS The pathophysiology of ED in DM is multifactorial, consisting of both vascular, hormonal, and neurologic insults ( 6 ). Diabetic neuropathy may impair autonomic and somatic nerve processes essential for erections. Diabetes is also associated with impaired relaxation of cavernosal smooth muscle due to endothelial-derived nitric oxide induced by glycosylation products ( 7 - 8 ). A variety of serum markers (e.g., E-selectin, Interleukin-10, reactive oxygen species) have been linked to diabetes-related ED. The clinical utility of these remains ambiguous but they may have future utility as biomarkers for incipient ED pending further study ( 9 ). New evidence has suggested that men with diabetes may also be at increased risk of low serum testosterone levels ( 10 , 11 ). The etiology of low T in diabetic men remains unclear but may be secondary to a decline in the levels of pituitary hormones responsible for stimulating testicular production of testosterone ( 12 ). Low levels of testosterone may lead to a decline in sexual desire and, directly or indirectly, to ED ( 13 ). Men with diabetes should be screened for the presence of low testosterone by checking serum total testosterone. Sex hormone binding globulin and albumin may also be tested to permit assessment for free and bioavailable testosterone ( 14 ). The clinical utility of free and bioavailable testosterone remains controversial. The most recent guidelines on testosterone issued by the American Urological Association do not recommend use of free or bioavailable testosterone in clinical decision making ( 10 ). The most recent Endocrine Society Guideline states that free/bioavailable testosterone may be worth assessing (via equilibrium dialysis or an accurate estimator) in men with symptoms and low-normal total testosterone ( 14 ). Testing for hypogonadism should be performed in the morning hours (between 8 and 11 AM) when serum testosterone is highest ( 14 ). The appropriate assay and biochemical cut-off values for “low” testosterone are controversial; generally speaking, symptoms of hypogonadism are progressively more common in men with total testosterone levels less than 320 ng/dL and free testosterone levels lower than 64 pg/mL ( 15 ). When assessing a patient with a single report of low testosterone, providers should consider confirmatory testing to include repeat testosterone as well as pituitary hormones (FSH, LH, and prolactin) to rule out central causes of hypogonadism ( 10 , 14 ). Only those patients with biochemically
