Sexual Dysfunction in Diabetes
KEYWORDS: men, diabetes, sexual, pubmed, dysfunction, erectile, testosterone, patients, erectile dysfunction, study, function, treatment, type, men diabetes, women


to include repeat testosterone as well as pituitary hormones (FSH, LH, and prolactin) to rule out central causes of hypogonadism ( 10 , 14 ). Only those patients with biochemically low testosterone AND symptoms potentially referable to hypogonadism (decreased libido, ED, fatigue, decreased bone mineral density, depressed mood, etc.) in which alternative etiologies for symptoms are not readily apparent should be considered for treatment ( 14 ). TREATMENT OF ED WITH PHOSPHODIESTERASE TYPE 5 INHIBITORS (PDE5I) The treatment of ED in general was revolutionized by the introduction of the PDE5 inhibitor (PDE5I) class of medications. The first of PDE5I to obtain United States Food and Drug Administration (FDA) approval was of sildenafil (Viagra®), followed by vardenafil (Levitra®/Staxyn®), tadalafil (Cialis®), and avanafil (Stendra®). All PDE5I are dependent on function of the NO/cGMP pathway. Sexual stimulation provokes the release of nitric oxide (NO) from cavernous nerves and endothelial cells. NO leads to activation of guanylate cyclase, which catalyzes the transformation of GTP to cyclic guanosine monophosphate (cGMP). By a variety of downstream mechanisms, cGMP triggers decreased intracellular calcium with subsequent relaxation of actin/myosin cross bridges and penile smooth muscle relaxation. cGMP is deactivated by conversion to 5 prime guanosine monophosphate, a process mediated by phosphodiesterase type 5 (PDE5)- the predominant functional PDE type found in the penis ( 16 ). PDE5I block the inactivation of cGMP, leading to persistently elevated levels of cGMP and continued smooth muscle relaxation ( 16 ). Since the release of NO is mediated by both neuronal and endothelial Nitric Oxide Synthase (NOS), neuropathy and endothelial disease (as may occur with diabetes) blunts the efficacy of PDE5I. This is confirmed clinically as men with diabetes have a poorer response overall to PDE5I than men with ED of other etiologies. A prospective, multi-center, randomized, controlled, double-blinded (RCDB) trial of vardenafil in men with diabetes was carried out by Goldstein, et al ( 17 ). The study consisted of 430 men with chronic ED, a hemoglobin A1c (HbA1c) of <12%, and no other serious confounding causes of ED (e.g., radical pelvic surgery, spinal cord injury, etc.). Additionally, patients were excluded if they had unstable coronary disease or other contraindications to PDE5I use. The patients were evaluated using the erectile function (EF) domain of the 15 item International Index of Erectile Function (IIEF), 2 diary questions regarding the patient’s ability to penetrate (SEP2) and have successful intercourse (SEP3), and a global
