Sexual Dysfunction in Diabetes
KEYWORDS: men, diabetes, sexual, pubmed, dysfunction, erectile, testosterone, patients, erectile dysfunction, study, function, treatment, type, men diabetes, women


(EF) domain of the 15 item International Index of Erectile Function (IIEF), 2 diary questions regarding the patient’s ability to penetrate (SEP2) and have successful intercourse (SEP3), and a global assessment question (GAQ) about whether or not the treatment had improved their erections. There were statistically and clinically significant improvements in all of the evaluated endpoints, with most of the improvements demonstrating a dose-relation. With 20 mg of vardenafil, the EF score was 19 (out of a total possible of 25) and 54% of men were able to complete intercourse, with an overall responder rate (as measured by the GAQ) of 72%. The effect was attenuated in patients with severe underlying ED but improvement remained significant. There was no correlation noted between different strata of HgA1c levels. The drug was well-tolerated with few patients discontinuing the study due to adverse side-effects. A similar RCDB trial of tadalafil in men with diabetes was performed by Saenz de Tejada, et al ( 18 ). A total of 191 patients completed this study; evaluated parameters were very similar to the vardenafil study above. Exclusion criteria were also similar to the vardenafil study, except that patient with hypertension and hypercholesterolemia were also excluded in the tadalafil study. As in the vardenafil study, statistically and clinically significant improvements were noted in all of the evaluated parameters for men using tadalafil, regardless of severity of underlying DM or level of HgA1c, with an overall responder rate (as assessed by GAQ) of 64% by those using 20 mg. The drug was also well-tolerated with few discontinuations. A unique study from Denmark attempted to assess the “real-life” use of sildenafil in men with diabetes and ED in terms of how many patients wanted to try an agent, how many were eligible to do so, and how efficacious the medicine was ( 19 ). Examining a population of 326 men seen in an outpatient diabetes clinic, 192 (59%) self-reported ED and 187 of these were over 40 years old. Of these 187 patients, 79 (42%) were excluded because of medical or pharmacologic contraindications to sildenafil use. A further 63 patients either declined to participate in the study or did not respond. This left 45 patients for the study (23% of those patients with self-reported ED). Of these, 10 dropped out due to lack of sexual partner and 2 others without recorded reason. Sixty-one percent of the remaining patients self-titrated
