Sexual Dysfunction in Diabetes
KEYWORDS: men, diabetes, sexual, pubmed, dysfunction, erectile, testosterone, patients, erectile dysfunction, study, function, treatment, type, men diabetes, women


1 have demonstrated enhancement of erectile function and preservation of penile tissue health when treated with either vardenafil or SK-3530 (a novel PDE5I that has not yet been approved for routine in humans) ( 21 , 22 ). A preliminary study of routine dose sildenafil vs. placebo for 4 weeks in 292 men with type 2 diabetes and ED revealed some improvements in blood tests used to measure oxidative stress in men treated with sildenafil. Unfortunately, there were some differences between the placebo and sildenafil group at baseline and there were no significant erectile function differences after the 4-week course of daily treatment was completed ( 23 ). Another study in 20 men with type 2 diabetes but no ED indicated that treatment with sildenafil 25 mg three times a day led to improved vascular function and a decline in blood markers for various types of inflammation and oxidative stress. The ultimate clinical relevance of these findings is unclear ( 24 ). These encouraging preliminary results will require further assessment before the routine use of PDE5I for reversal of tissue damage can be recommended routinely. A degree of caution is required since, despite a series of encouraging pre-clinical animal studies, routine dose PDE5I for the management of ED related to pelvic surgery has not been proven beneficial for recovery of spontaneous erection responses ( 25 , 26 ). TREATMENT OF ED WITH OTHER MODALITIES Direct administration of vasodilators to the erectile tissue of the penis is a well-established modality for management of ED dating back more than three decades. Commonly used agents include papaverine, phentolamine, and prostaglandin E-1 (PgE1) ( 27 ). These agents are often used as combinations (e.g., bimix or trimix) to reduce the adverse effects of each specific agent. Only PgE-1 has received formal FDA approval for management of ED. Intracavernosal PgE1 injection therapy in men with diabetes and ED was evaluated in a large, multicenter trial by Heaton, et al ( 28 ). Over 300 men entered the trial; 83% completed the titration period and proceeding to home use. Of those patients using the medication at home, 79% required 30 micrograms/dose or less, and 72% remained satisfied with the initial dose during the follow-up period (6 months). There were 2 instances of priapism (sustained erection of greater than 4 hours unaccompanied by sexual stimuli) neither of which required intervention, 1 patient developed a penile nodule, and
