Sexual Dysfunction in Diabetes
KEYWORDS: men, diabetes, sexual, pubmed, dysfunction, erectile, testosterone, patients, erectile dysfunction, study, function, treatment, type, men diabetes, women


months). There were 2 instances of priapism (sustained erection of greater than 4 hours unaccompanied by sexual stimuli) neither of which required intervention, 1 patient developed a penile nodule, and 24% of patients reported penile pain with injection; the pain led to patient drop-out in 5% of the treatment group. A smaller, more recent study with longer follow-up (10 years) found that men with diabetes and ED using penile injections tended to shift towards decreased frequency of use but preferred stronger agents (mixtures of alprostadil with papaverine and/or phentolamine), with men with type 1 diabetes and ED stabilizing their doses within 5 years and men with type 2 diabetes and ED stabilizing within 9-10 years ( 29 ). Prostaglandin may also be administered via an intraurethral route; the Medicated Urethral Suppository for Erections (MUSE®) is a urethral prostaglandin suppository. This treatment has FDA approval and has been used with some success by men with ED. Side effects include urethral burning, pain, and irritation of the sexual partner’s mucous membranes ( 30 ). In patients for whom injection or intraurethral therapy does not work vacuum erection devices (VED) may be useful. There is a paucity of data specifically evaluating the use of VED in men with diabetes and ED but the drop-out rate for patients is generally quite high, even for patients who are able to achieve a rigid erection with the device. One subset analysis found that despite a good response (i.e., firm erection) using VED, only 50% of those couples found the treatment to be satisfactory. This may be due to difficult operating the device and/or a feeling that it is a cumbersome interruption of sexual activity. Possible local side effects include petechiae (small red dots from broken capillaries), a feeling of having a cold penis, and abnormal sensation of ejaculation ( 31 ). Many men also report that their erectile rigidity is sub-optimal with the VED. PENILE PROSTHETICS Penile prostheses are an excellent option for diabetic men with ED refractory to medical management and/or those who cannot tolerate medical management of ED. Prosthesis surgery is irreversible in that the corporal tissue is permanently altered; if the prosthesis is removed without replacement complete ED will almost certainly result. While a variety of exotic materials, flaps, and grafts have been used in the past, most contemporary prostheses are either hollow silicone cylinders that are inflated with saline via pump action
