Sexual Dysfunction in Diabetes
KEYWORDS: men, diabetes, sexual, pubmed, dysfunction, erectile, testosterone, patients, erectile dysfunction, study, function, treatment, type, men diabetes, women


a variety of exotic materials, flaps, and grafts have been used in the past, most contemporary prostheses are either hollow silicone cylinders that are inflated with saline via pump action or semi-rigid rods ( 32 , 33 ). Of all modalities for management of ED, prostheses have the highest satisfaction rates, with 2 large studies demonstrating greater than 95% satisfaction ( 34 , 35 ). While this high rate of satisfaction is encouraging it must be understood that the population of men who are motivated enough to undergo surgery for erectile function may not be representative of the larger population of ED patients. Although some studies suggest that elevated HbA1c levels may predict a higher rate of infections in men with diabetes having penile prosthesis surgery, more recent studies refute this ( 36 ). A large study from Wilson, et al demonstrated that neither diabetic status nor preoperative HgA1c were risk factors for prosthesis infection. A more recent study confirmed that elevated HbA1c is not a risk factor for infection; however, short-term poor glucose control (defined as morning fast glucose levels >200 ng/ml) was associated with more complications ( 37 , 38 ). EXPERIMENTAL THERAPIES FOR ED Low-intensity shock wave therapy (LiESWT) has attracted great interest over the past decade as a novel treatment modality for ED. A number of randomized controlled studies in the general ED population have suggested modest but significant short-term benefit with minimal to no side effect profile ( 39 ). A pooled analysis from 5 double-blind, sham-controlled trials of LiESWT reported on 61 men with diabetes and ED responsive to PDE5I and another 48 men with diabetes and ED NOT responsive to PDe5I. Clinically significant improvements in erectile function were noted in 80%, 77%, and 66% of the PDe5I responsive treated patients at 1-, 6-, and 12-months post therapy. Importantly, over half (55%) of treated men who had been non-responders to PDE5I were able to achieve erection sufficient for penetration with PDE5I post-treatment ( 40 ). These encouraging data merit further research, preferably in a dedicated study of men with diabetes-related ED. Despite encouraging preliminary data this therapy remains experimental and is currently not recommended outside a clinical trial setting conducted at no or minimal cost to patients ( 26 ). TREATMENT OF LOW TESTOSTERONE LEVELS Although there is some controversy over what constitutes a true "low" testosterone level and the best way to measure
