Sexual Dysfunction in Diabetes
KEYWORDS: men, diabetes, sexual, pubmed, dysfunction, erectile, testosterone, patients, erectile dysfunction, study, function, treatment, type, men diabetes, women


cost to patients ( 26 ). TREATMENT OF LOW TESTOSTERONE LEVELS Although there is some controversy over what constitutes a true "low" testosterone level and the best way to measure it, some studies have indicated that men with low levels of testosterone and symptoms consistent with low testosterone (e.g., decreased libido, decreased energy, depression, anxiety, fatigue, weight gain) may benefit from testosterone replacement therapy. The general efficacy of testosterone in improving sexual function (particularly sexual desire and response to PDE5I in cases of initial failure to respond) in appropriately selected patients has been established ( 41 ). In addition to improving sexual symptoms in these men, testosterone supplementation may have beneficial effects with respect to lean body mass and insulin sensitivity in diabetic men with hypogonadism ( 42 , 43 ). A recent small RCDB indicated that 40 weeks of testosterone supplementation did not produce a significant improvement in either sexual desire or erectile dysfunction for obese men with type 2 diabetes ( 44 ). A more nuanced finding in a larger population suggested that the testosterone supplementation provides benefit for men with sexual dysfunction and severe testosterone deficiency (defined here as less than 8 nmol/L, approximately 230 ng/dL) who are treated such that trough levels approach 15 nmol/L (approximately 432 ng/dL) ( 45 ). A number of different testosterone formulations are available, including intramuscular injections, transdermal creams/gels, buccal tablets, and subcutaneous depots (see the Male Reproduction Section of Endotext for a complete discussion of testosterone replacement therapy). EJACULATORY DYSFUNCTION Men with diabetes may have sexual disorders other than erectile dysfunction. Examples include diminished sexual desire, lack of ejaculation with sexual climax (anejaculation or retrograde ejaculation), and premature ejaculation. Successful antegrade ejaculation depends on the coordination of three neurologic events: seminal emission, bladder neck closure, and contraction of the muscles of the pelvic floor (e.g., bulbocavernosus, ischiocavernous, etc.) ( 46 ). In diabetes, derangements of the nerves controlling closure of the connection between the bladder and urethra may disrupt normal ejaculation. In this situation ejaculate is deposited in the innermost portion of the urethra but the connection between the bladder and urethra does not close. Since the bladder neck is open, some or all of the ejaculate may leak backwards into the bladder during the muscle contractions that normally expel the semen from the penis. In the most severe cases there may be total lack of seminal emission. Either of
