Sexual Dysfunction in Diabetes
KEYWORDS: men, diabetes, sexual, pubmed, dysfunction, erectile, testosterone, patients, erectile dysfunction, study, function, treatment, type, men diabetes, women


into the bladder during the muscle contractions that normally expel the semen from the penis. In the most severe cases there may be total lack of seminal emission. Either of these conditions will impact fertility. It may also be a source of psychological disturbance to the man; indeed, some men report that they are not able to fully enjoy orgasm in the absence of ejaculation. From a fertility standpoint, sperm may be retrieved from post-ejaculate urine and then used for artificial insemination. Alternative strategies to overcome retrograde ejaculation generally focus on attempts to help the bladder neck close. A variety of pharmacologic agents have also been used, including anticholinergics, antihistamines, and alpha-adrenergics ( 47 , 48 ). Evidence for efficacy of these interventions in management of retrograde/anejaculation is scant. FEMALE SEXUAL DYSFUNCTION Our understanding of the medical and physiological aspects of female sexual function is poor relative to our understanding of men's sexual physiology and function. It is recognized that diabetes can be detrimental to female sexuality in a multifactorial manner, including both psychologic and physiologic dimensions ( 49 , 50 ). In much of the published literature “Female Sexual Dysfunction” is treated as unitary diagnosis in and of itself. It is more appropriate to consider that this overarching term encompasses several specific (and overlapping) concerns related to sexual function. The International Society for the Study of Women’s Sexual Health describes: ( 51 ) 1. Hypoactive Sexual Desire Disorder (HSDD, decreased interest in sex and/or receptivity to sexual initiation by a partner) 2. Female Sexual Arousal Disorder, which can be sub-divided into Female Cognitive Arousal Disorder (difficulty with maintaining mental/emotional arousal responses) and Female Genital Arousal Disorder (difficulty with maintaining genital arousal responses). 3. Persistent Genital Arousal Disorder (unwanted and intrusive feelings of genital arousal) 4. Female Orgasm Disorder (compromise of orgasm frequency or intensity). There are similarities between the molecular processes that mediate both male and female genital engorgement with arousal although the tissue effects of course differ (e.g., vasocongestion of erectile tissues leads to penile erection in men and vaginal engorgement/transudate in women) ( 52 ). Caruso et al ( 53 ) undertook a RCDB trial of 100 mg sildenafil in type 1 diabetic women with sexual dysfunction. Of the 28 women who completed the trial, significant improvement was seen in both subjective and objective parameters. Subjectively, arousal, orgasm, and dyspareunia were all improved in those taking sildenafil
