Sexual Dysfunction in Diabetes
KEYWORDS: men, diabetes, sexual, pubmed, dysfunction, erectile, testosterone, patients, erectile dysfunction, study, function, treatment, type, men diabetes, women


Of the 28 women who completed the trial, significant improvement was seen in both subjective and objective parameters. Subjectively, arousal, orgasm, and dyspareunia were all improved in those taking sildenafil in comparison to baseline and those taking placebo. Color Doppler ultrasonography was performed on the clitoral arteries, revealing an increase in blood flow in these women. The clinical utility of ultrasonography in the evaluation of women with sexual dysfunction is unclear; these results should be interpreted with caution. THE IMPORTANCE OF MANAGING LIFESTYLE FACTORS IN TREATING SEXUAL PROBLEMS IN DIABETES As with most aspects of diabetes care, routine exercise, careful monitoring of glucose levels, and usage of appropriate therapies to prevent hyperglycemia are key to preventing progression of diabetes-induced sexual problems. Weight management and dietary prudence are also critical in the management of diabetes. There is evidence to suggest weight loss may reverse erectile dysfunction in some men. In a study of 65 obese men with ED and the Metabolic Syndrome (MetS, obesity with at abnormalities of blood pressure, abnormal glucose level/diabetes, and abnormal cholesterol levels), eating a "Mediterranean diet" (emphasizing fresh fruit and vegetables) for two years led to normalization of erectile function (as determined by an International Index of Erectile function score greater than 22) in 13 of 35 men compared to 2 of 30 men in the group that did not have dietary manipulation ( 54 ). A similar study in women with sexual dysfunction and MetS showed a significant improvement in mean sexual function (mean increase on the Female Sexual Function Index from 19.7 to 26.1 in the treatment group vs. no change from baseline in the control group). Also noted in both of these studies were improvements in serum insulin and glucose level in men and women who consumed a “Mediterranean” diet ( 55 ). A multi-center randomized controlled trial of intensive lifestyle intervention in obese women with type 2 diabetes confirmed that women who had the intervention were: 1) more likely to remain sexually active at one year (83% versus 64% for the intervention versus control group, respectively), 2) improve specific domains of sexual function, and 3) to obtain composite scores on the Female Sexual Function Index that were consistent with low risk for sexual dysfunction (28% of intervention patients versus 11% of controls) ( 56 ). CONCLUSION Sexual dysfunctions are common in people with diabetes and may arise from a variety of vascular,
