The Measurement of Lipids, Lipoproteins, Apolipoproteins, Fatty Acids, and Sterols, and Next Generation Sequencing for the Diagnosis and Treatment of Lipid Disorders
KEYWORDS: cholesterol, risk, patients, hdl, values, cvd, levels, fatty, lipoprotein, lipid, acids, acid, disease, plasma, ldl-c


evidence of CVD, diabetes and is over age 40 years, an LDL-C > 190 mg/dL, or has a 10 year CVD risk > 7.5%, he/she is a candidate for lifestyle and statin therapy (6). The guidelines panel recommended ruling out secondary causes of elevated LDL-C, which include increased dietary intake of saturated fat, trans fats, weight gain, hypothyroidism, biliary obstruction, nephrotic syndrome, obesity, as well as of diuretics, cyclosporin, glucocorticoids, and amiodorone. They also recommended ruling out secondary causes of elevated TG and decreased HDL-C which include obesity, diabetes, hypothyroidism, kidney disease, high sugar intake, excessive alcohol intake, oral estrogens, glucocorticoids, protease inhibitors, retinoic acid, anabolic steroids, sirolimus, raloxifene, tamoxifen, beta blockers (except carvedilol), or thiazides (6). Before consideration of drug therapy, the panel recommended that patients be placed on a low-saturated fat (< 7% of calories), low cholesterol (< 200 mg/day), low trans fat, low sugar diet. Calorie restriction in overweight and obese patients (BMI > 30 kg/m 2 , waist size > 40 inches in men and > 35 inches in women) and a regular exercise program (> 40 minutes 4 times/week) was recommended. They indicated that replacement of beef, pork, and lamb, with poultry and fish, and replacement of butter with soft margarine would be beneficial for LDL-C lowering. For cooking oil use the panel recommended canola oil or olive oil, and for salads they recommended use of canola, soybean, or olive oil and vinegar. Vegetables, fruits, and whole grains were also recommended, as was avoidance of foods and beverages high in sugar or high fructose corn syrup. The panel also recommended that men consume < 2 alcoholic drinks/day and women < 1 drink per day (7). Moreover the cornerstone of CVD prevention is lifestyle modification (7). It should be pointed out that the above standard guidelines were not designed to diagnose and treat lipid disorders, but to make recommendations for the use of lifestyle modification and cholesterol modifying medications for overall CVD risk reduction. Moreover the current guidelines have omitted prior recommendations for target LDL-C levels of < 70 mg/dL in CVD patients and < 100 mg/dL in patients at high risk of developing CVD (6). These recommendations are not consistent with the prior recommendations (1,4), or current recommendations of the National Lipid Association, the European Atherosclerosis Society, or the International Atherosclerosis which do include the targets of therapy for LDL-C as per the prior recommendations
