The Measurement of Lipids, Lipoproteins, Apolipoproteins, Fatty Acids, and Sterols, and Next Generation Sequencing for the Diagnosis and Treatment of Lipid Disorders
KEYWORDS: cholesterol, risk, patients, hdl, values, cvd, levels, fatty, lipoprotein, lipid, acids, acid, disease, plasma, ldl-c


or current recommendations of the National Lipid Association, the European Atherosclerosis Society, or the International Atherosclerosis which do include the targets of therapy for LDL-C as per the prior recommendations (8-11). The current guidelines are likely to be amended soon to again include target LDL-C values. Another clear weakness of the current cholesterol guidelines is the lack of recommendations with regard to type and frequency of laboratory testing. Our purpose in this chapter is to review the current status of the measurements of lipids, lipoproteins, apolipoproteins, fatty acids, and sterols, as well as the use of next generation DNA sequencing for the diagnosis and management of lipid disorders. MEASUREMENT OF LIPIDS The measurement of plasma or serum cholesterol and triglycerides was greatly improved with the development of standardized automated high throughput enzymatic analyses, which achieved within and between run coefficients of variation of < 5% (12). These assays have been widely used since the 1980s, and have been standardized via the Center for Disease Control's Lipid Standardization program originally initiated by the National Heart, Lung, and Blood Institute for the Lipid Research Clinics Primary Prevention Trial. Our assays are standardized through the Centers for Disease Control Lipid Standardization Program. In a population analysis of 235,347 subjects from Boston Heart Diagnostics (52% female, median age 58 years) sampled in the fasting state without known CVD and not on lipid lowering medication the 1st, 5th, 25th, 50th, 75th, 95th, and 99th percentile values for total cholesterol in mg/dL were 104, 124, 158, 186, 217, 268, and 313, while for fasting triglycerides these values in mg/dL were 40, 52, 80, 111, 160, 285, and 477, respectively. Therefore in our population about 1/3 have total cholesterol values > 200 mg/dL and about 15% have total triglyceride values > 200 mg/dL. LIPOPROTEIN MEASUREMENTS Early studies separated lipoproteins by electrophoresis, with chylomicrons migrating at the origin, LDL migrating at the β position, very low density lipoproteins (VLDL) at the preβ position, remnant lipoproteins migrating between the preβ and β position, and HDL migrating at the α position. Barr, Russ, and Eder of New York were the first to document that CHD patients had increases in β and preβ migrating lipoproteins, and decreases in α migrating lipoproteins as compared to control subjects (13). Fredrickson, Levy, and Lees at the National Institutes of Health developed an entire diagnosis and treatment system for lipoprotein disorders based on the measurement
