The Measurement of Lipids, Lipoproteins, Apolipoproteins, Fatty Acids, and Sterols, and Next Generation Sequencing for the Diagnosis and Treatment of Lipid Disorders
KEYWORDS: cholesterol, risk, patients, hdl, values, cvd, levels, fatty, lipoprotein, lipid, acids, acid, disease, plasma, ldl-c


as compared to control subjects (13). Fredrickson, Levy, and Lees at the National Institutes of Health developed an entire diagnosis and treatment system for lipoprotein disorders based on the measurement of cholesterol and triglyceride and the semi-quantitative determination of plasma lipoproteins by paper electrophoresis with lipid staining (14). This system had five types of hyperlipoproteinemia: type I (elevated chylomicrons), type IIA (elevated LDL), type IIB (elevations of both LDL and VLDL), type III (elevations of lipoproteins migrating between VLDL and LDL, dysbetalipoproteinemia or elevated remnant lipoproteins), type IV (elevated VLDL), and type V (elevated chylomicrons and VLDL) (13). It was recognized that patients with type II, III, and IV hyperlipoproteinemia were at increased risk of developing CVD, while those with types I and V were at increased risk of developing pancreatitus (14). This methodology had the disadvantage of being semi-quantitative, and ignoring HDL and Lp(a). This terminology is no longer used, and was discarded in favor of direct assessment of lipoproteins, and because of the observation that elevated VLDL, LDL or both could be observed in the same kindred as in familial combined hyperlipidemia (15,16). Goldstein and colleagues at the University of Washington studied 500 survivors of myocardial infarction and their families and documented that about 15% had familial combined hyperlipidemia (elevations of either total cholesterol, total triglycerides, or both), about 15% had familial hypertriglyceridemia, and about 1% had familial hypercholesterolemia (15,16). At that time neither HDL-C or Lp(a) were measured. Lipoprotein Assessment by Ultracentrifugation Cholesterol, triglyceride, phospholipids, and proteins (known as apolipoproteins) are carried in plasma on generally spherical lipoprotein particles. Lipoproteins carry phospholipid, free cholesterol, and apolipoproteins on the surface, and triglyceride and cholsteryl ester in their core. Lipoproteins were originally characterized by DeLalla and Gofman of the University of California, Berkeley using an analytical ultracentrifuge, and later by Havel, Bragdon, and Eder of the National Institutes of Health using a preparative ultracentrifuge (17,18). Triglyceride-rich lipoproteins of intestinal origin or chylomicrons were classified as having a density of < 0.94 g/ml, and were subsequently found to be very triglyceride-rich, with some phospholipid and cholesterol, and to contain apolipoprotein (apo) B-48. This protein comprises the first 48% of the form of apoB-100 made in the liver. ApoB-48 is produced only in the intestine at a rate of 1-2 mg/kg/day. It is produced by novel mRNA editing. In normal subjects chylomicrons rapidly undergo lipolysis to form chylomicron remnants which remain
