The Measurement of Lipids, Lipoproteins, Apolipoproteins, Fatty Acids, and Sterols, and Next Generation Sequencing for the Diagnosis and Treatment of Lipid Disorders
KEYWORDS: cholesterol, risk, patients, hdl, values, cvd, levels, fatty, lipoprotein, lipid, acids, acid, disease, plasma, ldl-c


is about 3 mg/kg/day. ApoA-I has a residence time of about 4 days while for apoA-II this value is about 4.5 days. The catabolism of HDL proteins is enhanced in the setting of hypertriglyceridemia. HDL was further divided into large HDL also known as HDL 2 (density 1.063-1.125 g/ml) and small HDL or HDL 3 (density 1.125-1.21 g/ml). HDL 1 turned out to be Lp(a), whose density is intermediate between small dense LDL and HDL 2 . Gofman and colleagues in Berkeley documented that CHD patients had significantly higher LDL and small dense LDL and significantly lower HDL and large HDL than controls based on the use of the analytical ultracentrifuge (19). The isolation of lipoprotein by sequential ultracentrifugation is cumbersome and labor-intensive, and was found to be associated with substantial particle alteration and loss of lipoprotein constituents. Therefore this method is currently only used for research purposes. Isolation of plasma lipoproteins using single spin gradient ultracentrifugation was developed by Chapman and colleagues in Paris (20). This methodology was further refined by Patsch and colleagues and by Chung and Segrest at the University of Alabama (21-23). The latter method using vertical rotor ultracentrifugation was optimized to allow for the measurement of cholesterol concentrations by automated enzymatic methods across the entire lipoprotein spectrum, and this is known as the vertical auto profile or (VAP). It provides a measure of cholesterol concentrations in the twenty lipoprotein fractions in the VLDL, LDL, and HDL density regions, as well as an estimate of Lp(a) cholesterol (24-26). However this latter estimate is not very precise. Doctors until recently could order this VAP profile from Atherotech, a laboratory in Alabama; however this laboratory recently terminated its business. Moreover since this methodology was introduced, very little research has been done with this method to document its clinical utility versus standard methods. Lipoprotein Assessment by Gradient Gel Electrophoresis and Ion Mobility Another method of assessing lipoproteins has been through the use of gradient gel electrophoresis followed by specific staining to identify LDL and HDL particles of various sizes. These methods were pioneered by Anderson, Krauss, Austin and colleagues of the Donner Laboratory at the University of California, Berkeley (27,28). Patients with CHD were shown to have increased amounts of small dense LDL (28). Physicians were able to order this testing on their patients in the past through Berkeley Heart Laboratory of California; however this laboratory was acquired by
