The Measurement of Lipids, Lipoproteins, Apolipoproteins, Fatty Acids, and Sterols, and Next Generation Sequencing for the Diagnosis and Treatment of Lipid Disorders
KEYWORDS: cholesterol, risk, patients, hdl, values, cvd, levels, fatty, lipoprotein, lipid, acids, acid, disease, plasma, ldl-c


of small dense LDL (28). Physicians were able to order this testing on their patients in the past through Berkeley Heart Laboratory of California; however this laboratory was acquired by Quest Diagnostics, and they no longer offer this testing. Patients with a preponderance of small dense LDL and small dense HDL often have elevated triglycerides, and their levels can be reduced by triglyceride lowering (29-31). An ion mobility method using gas phase differential electrophoretic macromolecular separation was developed for assessing LDL and HDL particle size over a range of 17 to 540 angstroms (32). However according to Krauss neither the ion mobility or the gradient gel methods have clearly been shown to add information above and beyond standard measurements with regard to LDL particles and CVD risk assessment in large prospective studies (33). Despite these findings, the ion mobility method is offered to healthcare providers by Quest Diagnostics. In addition a one dimensional high resolution gradient gel electrophoresis method was also developed by Li and Schaefer for examining HDL particles, but this method was never applied to large scale studies (34). Two-dimensional gel electrophoresis separates lipoprotein particles by size in the vertical dimension and by charge in the horizontal dimension. This method was first developed to assess HDL particles in the laboratory of Christopher Fielding at the University of California, San Francisco. (35,). They were the first to report the presence of very small preβ migrating HDL particles in human plasma. Subsequently Kane and colleagues, along with other laboratories, noted that these particles were increased in patients with CVD (35,). Two dimensional gel electrophoresis of HDL particle was further optimized by Asztalos and Roheim at Louisiana State University in New Orleans, and later by Asztalos and Schaefer at Tufts University in Boston (37-46). Like the prior methods the isolation of HDL particles does not require ultracentrifugation or column chromatography, and this method had the benefit of using specific apoA-I antibodies for immunoblotting to detect the individual HDL particles and assess their relative concentration. Moreover Asztalos and colleagues defined the functions of these particles. They showed that the very small discoidal preβ-1 HDL particles pick up free cholesterol from cells via the ATP binding cassette A1 (ABCA1) transporter to become small discoidal α-4 HDL, and potentially larger discoidal HDL particles by particle fusion (38). Discoidal HDL particles are converted to medium spherical α-3 HDL and larger particles by the esterification of
