The Measurement of Lipids, Lipoproteins, Apolipoproteins, Fatty Acids, and Sterols, and Next Generation Sequencing for the Diagnosis and Treatment of Lipid Disorders
KEYWORDS: cholesterol, risk, patients, hdl, values, cvd, levels, fatty, lipoprotein, lipid, acids, acid, disease, plasma, ldl-c


discoidal α-4 HDL, and potentially larger discoidal HDL particles by particle fusion (38). Discoidal HDL particles are converted to medium spherical α-3 HDL and larger particles by the esterification of free cholesterol via the enzyme lecithin:cholesterol acyltransferase (LCAT) and the addition of apoA-II. These particles are further converted to large and very large spherical α-2 and α-1 HDL by the actions of cholesteryl ester transfer protein (CETP). CETP transfers cholesteryl ester from HDL to triglyceride-rich lipoproteins in exchange for triglyceride. Very large α-1 HDL particles are preferential donors of cholesterol to the liver, and the constituents of these particles can recycle back to form very small discoidal particles and can re-enter the HDL cycle, or be catabolized directly by the kidney or liver (38,39). The concentrations of apoA-I in HDL particles in the general population and in CHD patients have been extensively assessed by Asztalos and colleagues at Tufts University in Boston (40-42). CVD patients have significant increases in apoA-I levels in very small preβ-1 HDL and significant decreases in apoA-I in large and very large α-2 and α-1 HDL (40-42). In the Framingham Offspring Study it was documented that for every 1 mg/dL increase in the apoA-I level in very large α-1 HDL there was a 26% reduction in CVD risk (40). These data indicate that they often have decreased conversion of the smaller particles to the larger particles, as well as excess removal of cholesteryl ester from the larger particles to triglyceride-rich lipoproteins via CETP (39-43). Moreover in the prospective Veterans Affairs HDL Intervention Trial (VA HIT) decreased apoA-I levels in large α migrating HDL particles and increased apoA-I levels in very small preβ-1 HDL were associated with an increased CHD risk (42). Optimization of these HDL particles with the simvastatin/niacin combination was associated with regression of coronary atherosclerosis (44). Moreover HDL particle analysis can be used for the diagnosis of homozygous and heterozygous apoA-I deficiency (lack of apoA-I containing HDL particles), Tangier disease (usually only preβ-1 HDL particles), lecithin:cholesterol acyltransferase deficiency (mainly only preβ-I and α-4 HDL particles), hepatic lipase deficiency (increased α-1 HDL and decreased α-2 HDL) and cholesteryl ester transfer protein deficency (presence of very large abnormal α migrating HDL particles) (45-48). HDL particle analysis by high resolution gel electrophoresis can be obtained commercially through Boston Heart Laboratory of Framingham, Massachusetts. In a recent population analysis of 35,794 subjects at Boston Heart Diagnostics using newer
