The Measurement of Lipids, Lipoproteins, Apolipoproteins, Fatty Acids, and Sterols, and Next Generation Sequencing for the Diagnosis and Treatment of Lipid Disorders
KEYWORDS: cholesterol, risk, patients, hdl, values, cvd, levels, fatty, lipoprotein, lipid, acids, acid, disease, plasma, ldl-c


This method provides for an assessment of the concentration of VLDL, LDL, and HDL particles in nmoles/L. Currently the method is most widely used to assess total LDL particle number, and patients with CHD have elevated levels of this parameter as compared to control subjects (49-51). This parameter can be used to predict CVD, and can be favorably altered by a variety of lipid lowering agents, especially statins. It has been documented that this analysis is superior to LDL-C (49-51). This testing in the past could be obtained commercially through Liposcience Laboratories of Raleigh, North Carolina, and can now be obtained through LabCorp, a large United States reference laboratory. In our population based on LDL-P measurements in 51,158 subjects sampled in the fasting state and without CVD or on lipid lowering medications the 1st, 5th, 25th, 50th, 75th, 95th, and 99th percentile values in nmoles/L were 376, 596, 947, 1247, 1591, 2195, and 2711. A high risk value has been classified as > 1600 nmoles/L and an optimal value < 1000 nmoles/L, corresponding approximately to the 75th and 25th percentile values in our population, as well as in other populations (49-51). Lipoprotein Assessment Using Precipitation Methods The previously described methods are all carried out in advanced lipid testing laboratories. Laboratories worldwide precipitate and remove lipoproteins containing apoB (chylomicrons, chylomicron remnants, VLDL, LDL, and Lp(a), leaving HDL behind, so that its cholesterol content can be measured by automated enzymatic analysis. This technique was first developed by Burstein and colleagues in Paris and then in New York in 1969 and 1970 using a variety of polyanions including heparin sodium and magnesium chloride (52-54). The methodology was standardized by the Lipid Research Clinics program supported by the National Institutes of Heath using heparin magnesium chloride, and also was evaluated by Warnick and Albers of the University of Washington (55,56). Warnick and colleagues also optimized the dextran sulfate magnesium precipitation technique (57). Miller and Miller of London were among the first to document that CHD patients had significantly lower HDL-C levels than controls (58). This finding was subsequently verified in many prospective studies including the Framingham Heart Study (59). Schaefer and colleagues at the National Institutes of Health documented that subjects with significant hypertriglyceridemia (types I, IIB, III, IV, and V hyperlipoproteinemia), had marked decreases in HDL-C (60). Genest, Schaefer and colleagues at Tufts University in Boston studied the families of 500 patients with
