The Measurement of Lipids, Lipoproteins, Apolipoproteins, Fatty Acids, and Sterols, and Next Generation Sequencing for the Diagnosis and Treatment of Lipid Disorders
KEYWORDS: cholesterol, risk, patients, hdl, values, cvd, levels, fatty, lipoprotein, lipid, acids, acid, disease, plasma, ldl-c


(types I, IIB, III, IV, and V hyperlipoproteinemia), had marked decreases in HDL-C (60). Genest, Schaefer and colleagues at Tufts University in Boston studied the families of 500 patients with premature CHD and documented that 19% of families had elevated Lp(a), 15% had dyslipidemia (elevated triglycerides and decreased HDL cholesterol), 14% had combined hyperlipidemia, 4% had isolated low HDL, and 1% had familial hypercholesterolemia (61). Beginning in the 1980s, laboratories began developing methods for the direct measurement of LDL-C and HDL-C. McNamara and Schaefer developed an immunoseparation method for measuring direct LDL-C requiring sample pre-treatment with antibodies in collaboration with the Genzyme Corporation of Cambridge, MA (62). However this method was cumbersome and expensive. Laboratories in Japan then developed direct homogeneous LDL-C and HDL-C assays using a variety of precipitation techniques that did not require sample pre-treatment (63,64). These newer direct assays are now widely used throughout the world. We have tested both the direct LDL-C and HDL-C assays being marketed by Roche in the United States and developed by Kyowa Medex of Japan (65). Other Japanese assay companies have also developed direct online homogeneous LDL-C and HDL-C assays. We have compared the results obtained with the Roche assays and those obtained by the dextran method for HDL-C and the calculated LDL-C method in participants in the Framingham Offspring Study, and have noted very comparable results (correlation r 2 values of = 0.97 for both methods) with similar absolute values (65). The value of the newer methodology is that it does not require manual pretreatment of the sample, and allows for the immediate direct measurement of HDL-C and LDL-C on a high throughput analyzer. Recently we have compared calculated LDL-C with direct LDL-C in 228,142 subjects using samples obtained after an overnight fast from subjects not on lipid lowering medication and without CVD. Median direct LDL C values in mg/dL were 111, while median calculated LDL-C values in these same subjects was 105 mg/dL. Results from the two methods were highly correlated (r=0.98), but calculated LDL-C values were significantly lower, representing a 5% underestimation bias. These data indicate that calculated values for LDL-C are not an accurate measure of true values. Moreover calculated LDL-C becomes increasingly inaccurate as serum triglyceride levels rise, especially over 250 mg/dL. For direct LDL-C in mg/dL the 1st, 5th, 25th, 50th, 75th, 95th, and 99th percentile values in our population were 44, 60, 87, 111,
