The Measurement of Lipids, Lipoproteins, Apolipoproteins, Fatty Acids, and Sterols, and Next Generation Sequencing for the Diagnosis and Treatment of Lipid Disorders
KEYWORDS: cholesterol, risk, patients, hdl, values, cvd, levels, fatty, lipoprotein, lipid, acids, acid, disease, plasma, ldl-c


with increased CVD risk. In addition significant reductions in this parameter can be achieved with statin therapy or the combination of a statin and ezetimibe. Lipoprotein Subfraction Assessment by Precipitation Methods Gidez, Miller, Burstein, Eder, and colleagues in New York developed a combined heparin precipitation method and dextran precipitation to measure HDL cholesterol and HDL 3 cholesterol, allowing for the calculation of HDL 2 cholesterol (67). Using this methodology it was documented that CHD patients had significantly lower HDL cholesterol levels, especially lower large HDL 2 cholesterol levels, than control subjects (67). More recently Hirano and colleagues in Japan using the same principles have developed an even more simplified procedure for measuring the cholesterol concentration in HDL cholesterol and HDL 3 cholesterol, and then calculating HDL 2 cholesterol by difference (68). This latter test will be available in the future for automated analyzers without pretreatment from the Denka-Seiken Company of Niigata, Japan. Hirano and Ito of Japan have developed an assay for small dense LDL cholesterol, and a value of > 40 mg/dl has been associated with increased CHD risk (69-71). An optimal value for small dense LDL cholesterol is < 20 mg/dl, and these particles can be effectively lowered with statin therapy (72). A newer assay has been developed for sdLDL-C that does not require pre-treatment of the plasma or serum sample (73). This assay has been applied to samples from both the ARIC and Multi-Ethnic Study of Atherosclerosis (MESA) studies and has been found to be significantly better than LDL-C in prospective CVD risk prediction (74,75). In MESA it was also found to be superior to total and small LDL-P assessment in CVD risk prediction (75). In both ARIC and MESA, the 75th percentile value for sdLDL-C was about 50 mg/dL, while in the Framingham Offspring Study it was about 40 mg/dL, reflecting population differences (71,74,75). In our own population studies in 222,738 subjects for sdLDL-C in mg/dL the 1st, 5th, 25th, 50th, 75th, 95th, and 99th percentile values in our population were 9, 12, 19, 25, 36, 62 and 86. Therefore our 75th percentile value was 36 mg/dL, and in our view a value > 40 mg/dL is associated with increased CVD risk. In our view sdLDL-C will become part of standard CVD risk assessment, and efforts to optimize this parameter with lifestyle modification and if necessary statin therapy are indicated. About 30% of our population had
