The Measurement of Lipids, Lipoproteins, Apolipoproteins, Fatty Acids, and Sterols, and Next Generation Sequencing for the Diagnosis and Treatment of Lipid Disorders
KEYWORDS: cholesterol, risk, patients, hdl, values, cvd, levels, fatty, lipoprotein, lipid, acids, acid, disease, plasma, ldl-c


will become part of standard CVD risk assessment, and efforts to optimize this parameter with lifestyle modification and if necessary statin therapy are indicated. About 30% of our population had optimal values < 20 mg/dL. One of the reason sdLDL-C levels may superior to total cholesterol and LDL-C is that sdLDL apoB-100 is catabolized with a residence time of about 3.0 days versus 1.5 days for large buoyant LDL. This longer residence time may allow more sdLDL to be become modified and taken by macrophage scavenger receptors in the artery wall, promoting atherosclerosis. Moreover while LDL-C is very highly correlated with total cholesterol (r=0.92), in the same population sdLDL-C was not as strongly correlated (r=0.71). Remnant lipoprotein particles have long been considered to also be atherogenic. An antibody based precipitation assay for measuring cholesterol in remnant lipoproteins was developed by Nakajima and associates of Japan (76). Using this assay an elevated level of remnant lipoprotein cholesterol > 30 mg/dl was associated with dysbetalipoproteinemia, and a value > 10 mg/dL was associated with an increased risk of CVD, especially in women (76-78). Remnant lipoprotein cholesterol are increased in diabetic subjects, and their values increase significantly in the post-prandial state (79,80). Their values can be readily reduced by statin therapy (81). Newer direct on-line homogeneous assay have recently become available from the Denka-Seiken Company of Niigata, Japan and are now being tested in propspective epidemiologic studies. Seman and Schaefer developed an assay for assessing Lp(a) cholesterol using lectin affinity in collaboration with the Genzyme Corporation, and an elevated value of > 10 mg/dl was associated with coronary heart disease (CHD) (82,83). Guadagno and colleagues developed an Lp(a) particle assay using electrophoresis followed by immunoblotting, but this assay has never been clinically validated (84). However, in our view neither of these assays has clinical utility because of lack of sensitivity. We recommend measuring Lp(a) by immunoassay (see below). Lipoprotein(a) Measurements Immunoassays for Lp(a) are now widely available and have been reasonably well standardized, mainly by the laboratory of Dr. Santica Marcovina of the Northwest Research Clinics Laboratory of the University of Washington in Seattle, WA. The first immunoassay for Lp(a) was developed by Albers and colleagues (85). Subsequently it was learned that lipoprotein(a) consists of an LDL-like particle to which apolipoprotein(a) is covalently linked to apoB-100 (85). The LDL-like moiety is composed of a central core of cholesteryl esters and triglycerides surrounded by
