The Measurement of Lipids, Lipoproteins, Apolipoproteins, Fatty Acids, and Sterols, and Next Generation Sequencing for the Diagnosis and Treatment of Lipid Disorders
KEYWORDS: cholesterol, risk, patients, hdl, values, cvd, levels, fatty, lipoprotein, lipid, acids, acid, disease, plasma, ldl-c


of the women and about 20% of the men in our population had Lp(a) values > 50 mg/dL. The Europeans have recommended the use of statins to optimize LDL-C levels in those at high CVD risk, especially those with elevated Lp(a) levels. In addition this group recommended the use of niacin at 2 grams/day to lower Lp(a) levels. It should be noted that post-menopausal women with CVD that got significant benefit from oral hormonal replacement were those with elevated Lp(a) values (92). No such benefit was associated with the 21% Lp(a) lowering with niacin 2 grams/day observed in the Atherothrombosis Intervention in Metabolic Syndrome with Low HDL/High Triglyceride and Impact on Global Health Outcomes (AIM-HIGH) study (93). However these investigators did report on subjects with elevated Lp(a) values in this study. Recently it has been shown that inhibitors of proprotein convertase subtilisin kexin type 9 (PCSK9), which prevent breakdown of the LDL receptor, can not only lower LDL-C by more than 50%, but also lower Lp(a) by about 35%, and reduce CVD risk on top of statin therapy by about 50% (94-96). Therefore PCSK9 inhibitors are a therapeutic option in CVD patients with elevated Lp(a) values. Measurement of Apolipoprotein A-I and B Most studies indicate that HDL-C serves as a better predictor of risk than does total serum apoA-I, as we have shown in the Framingham Offspring Study (66). Low values (25th percentile) for apoA-I for men are < 120 mg/dL, while for women such values are < 140 mg/dL. In many studies including those of Dr. Allan Sniderman of Montreal elevated levels of total apoB are a better predictor of CVD risk than is total cholesterol or calculated LDL-C (96-100). A high risk total serum apoB value has been classified as > 120 mg/dL, while an optimal value is < 80 mg/dL, representing about the 80th and 33rd percentiles in our population analysis of 251,522 subjects. In this population sampled in the fasting state and without CVD and not on lipid lowering medication the 1st, 5th, 25th, 50th, 75th, 95th, and 99th percentile values for apoB in mg/dL were 43, 55, 75, 91, 110, 143, and 172, respectively. In our view apoB values > 120 mg/dL associated increased CVD risk and values < 40 mg/dL are consistent with some form of hypobetalipoproteinemia, while undetectable values indicate the presence of abetalipoproteinemia. ApoB is the integral protein found in chylomicron and
