The Measurement of Lipids, Lipoproteins, Apolipoproteins, Fatty Acids, and Sterols, and Next Generation Sequencing for the Diagnosis and Treatment of Lipid Disorders
KEYWORDS: cholesterol, risk, patients, hdl, values, cvd, levels, fatty, lipoprotein, lipid, acids, acid, disease, plasma, ldl-c


risk and values < 40 mg/dL are consistent with some form of hypobetalipoproteinemia, while undetectable values indicate the presence of abetalipoproteinemia. ApoB is the integral protein found in chylomicron and their remnants, VLDL, LDL, and Lp(a). However apoB-48, the form of apoB made in the intestine, only contributes a very small amount to total apoB (approximately 0.5 to 2.0 mg/dl), and therefore can be ignored in terms of total plasma measurements which are usually about 100 fold higher (101,102) In our analysis from Framingham the total cholesterol/HDL cholesterol ratio provided identical information to that provided by the apoB/apoA-I ratio (96). A more recent study indicated that total serum apoB did increase the C statistic significantly for CVD risk prediction in the Framingham Offspring Study from 0.72 to 0.73 as compared to a model using standard risk factors (100). However this increase in our view is clinically not very significant. PLASMA FATTY ACID MEASUREMENTS Fatty acids are essential to heart health, and are chains of carbons (usually 14 - 22) with hydrogens attached. There are three fatty acids attached to glycerol to form triglycerides. Triglycerides are stored in fat cells, and are the major form in which energy is stored in the body. There are two fatty acids attached to phospholipids, which form bilayers that comprise all the cell membranes in the body. Embedded in these membranes are protein receptors, transporters, and ion channels critical for maintaining cell function. There is one fatty acid attached to cholesterol to form cholesteryl esters. About 70% of plasma or serum cholesterol is in the esterified form, and this form of cholesterol is found in the core of lipoprotein particles along with triglycerides and fat soluble vitamins. Phospholipids and apolipoproteins form the surface of lipoprotein particles. The type of fatty acids attached to triglycerides, phospholipids, and cholesteryl esters are mainly determined by dietary intake (103). Plasma fatty acids obtained from subjects in the fasting state are a better measure of overall dietary fatty acid changes than are red blood cell fatty acids (103). Using red blood cell fatty acids has the disadvantage of not reflecting recent dietary changes, but only those changes in omega-3 fatty acids over a 3 month period, rather than the past 3-4 weeks. Moreover red blood cell fatty acids are not good measures of the intake of saturated fat, monounsaturated fat, polyunsaturated fat, or trans fats. It should be noted that
