The Measurement of Lipids, Lipoproteins, Apolipoproteins, Fatty Acids, and Sterols, and Next Generation Sequencing for the Diagnosis and Treatment of Lipid Disorders
KEYWORDS: cholesterol, risk, patients, hdl, values, cvd, levels, fatty, lipoprotein, lipid, acids, acid, disease, plasma, ldl-c


3-4 weeks. Moreover red blood cell fatty acids are not good measures of the intake of saturated fat, monounsaturated fat, polyunsaturated fat, or trans fats. It should be noted that only the essential fatty acids linoleic acid (18:2n6) and α-linolenic acid (18:3n3) cannot be made in the body and must be obtained from the diet. All other fatty acids can also be synthesized in the body. In the case of other omega-6 and omega-3 fatty acids, they can be formed from their precursor fatty acid. Linoleic acid is converted to arachidonic acid, while α-linolenic acid is converted to eicosapentaenoic acid and further to docosahexaenoic acid; however the efficiency of these latter conversions appears to be limited and quite variable among individuals. Fatty acids have been classified as saturated if they have no double bonds, and the major saturated fatty acids in the diet and the bloodstream are palmitic acid (16:0) and stearic acid (18:0), along with smaller amounts of myristic acid (14:0). The sum of these three fatty acids in fasting plasma divided by the percentages of all measured fatty acids can serve as a guide to saturated fat intake (103). Foods rich in saturated fatty acids are beef, pork, and lamb meat, dairy products including butter, cheese, and whole milk, as well as lard, tallow, coconut oil, and palm oil (103). Saturated fatty acids can also be produced in the body. They are solid at room temperature, and generally comprise about 30-33% of plasma fatty acids. In membranes these fatty acids decrease membrane fluidity, resulting in less LDL receptor recycling and activity, and higher levels of low density lipoprotein cholesterol (LDL-C) in the bloodstream (104). Therefore these fatty acids in the diet and the bloodstream are associated with increased CVD risk. In our population based on 110,010 subjects sampled in the fasting state, the 25th, 50th, and 75th percentile values for the sum of myristic, palmitic, and stearic plasma fatty acids in % were 29.9, 31.4, and 33.0, respectively. We have therefore classified a saturated fatty acid index value > 33% as elevated and associated with increased CVD risk, while an optimal value is < 30%, and is associated with decreased CVD risk. Having a high saturated fat index in our view indicates that the patient needs to choose poultry without skin, fish, low fat dairy products, and very lean cuts of meats, and replace butter with vegetable oil
