The Measurement of Lipids, Lipoproteins, Apolipoproteins, Fatty Acids, and Sterols, and Next Generation Sequencing for the Diagnosis and Treatment of Lipid Disorders
KEYWORDS: cholesterol, risk, patients, hdl, values, cvd, levels, fatty, lipoprotein, lipid, acids, acid, disease, plasma, ldl-c


in our view indicates that the patient needs to choose poultry without skin, fish, low fat dairy products, and very lean cuts of meats, and replace butter with vegetable oil or tub margarine, and whole milk with low fat or skimmed milk. When foods rich in saturated fatty acids are replaced in part by vegetable oils there is lowering of total cholesterol and low density lipoprotein cholesterol (LDL-C) due to enhance LDL clearance, decreased plasma saturated fatty acids, and a reduction in CVD risk (105-111). Moreover when dietary saturated fatty acids were reduced to < 6% of calories in the Women's Health Initiative there was significant CVD risk reduction (112). Another class of fatty acids is the trans fatty acids. These fatty acids are formed when oils rich in monounsaturated and omega-6 polyunsaturated fatty acids are hydrogenated by repeated heating to high temperatures and then cooling. During this process the double bonds are either removed or converted to trans double bonds where the hydrogens are on opposite sides of the carbon chain instead of in the natural cis position where the double bonds are on the same side of the carbon chain. This results in a straightening of the carbon chain and a decrease in membrane fluidity (103). The major trans fatty acids in the blood stream are palmitelaidic (16:1n9t) and elaidic (18:1n9t) acids, and these are the trans fatty acids that comprise the trans fatty index, divided by the total fatty acids. These fatty acids have one double bonds in the trans form at the 9th carbon position. They act like saturated fatty acids in that they are solid at room temperature. Dietary trans fatty acids raise LDL-C relative to monounsaturated or polyunsaturated fatty acids, by decreasing cellular LDL receptor activity and LDL clearance (103,113). They also lower HDL-C levels, by enhancing HDL apoA-I clearance. In our population of 110,010 subjects sampled in the fasting state the 25th, 50th, and 75th percentile values for the sum of palmitelaidic and elaidic acids in % were 0.36, 0.42, and 0.50. We have classified a trans fatty acid index of > 0.80% as elevated, and such values have only been observed in 2.6% of our population. In our view such values increases CVD risk, and patients with such values should restrict their dietary intake of fried foods, foods containing hydrogenated fats, shortening, stick margarine, and replace these foods with vegetable oils or
