The Measurement of Lipids, Lipoproteins, Apolipoproteins, Fatty Acids, and Sterols, and Next Generation Sequencing for the Diagnosis and Treatment of Lipid Disorders
KEYWORDS: cholesterol, risk, patients, hdl, values, cvd, levels, fatty, lipoprotein, lipid, acids, acid, disease, plasma, ldl-c


CVD risk, and patients with such values should restrict their dietary intake of fried foods, foods containing hydrogenated fats, shortening, stick margarine, and replace these foods with vegetable oils or trans fat free tub margarine. Elevated plasma trans fatty acids have been associated with an increased risk of developing CVD, and trans fatty acids are almost entirely obtained from the diet. Trans fatty acids are at low concentration in plasma because they are rapidly cleared from the circulation (113). Fatty acids have been classified as monounsaturated if they have one double bond. The major monounsaturated fatty acids in the diet and in the bloodstream are oleic acid (18:1n9) and palmitoleic (16:1n7), which we measure. Oleic acid has a double bond at the 9th carbon from the omega or methyl end of the carbon chain, while palmitoleic acid has one at the 7th carbon position. Monounsaturated fatty acids are liquid at room temperature, and comprise about 20% of plasma fatty acids. These fatty acids can be produced in the body. They are found in foods of animal origin, as well as in vegetables like avocados, and in vegetable oils, especially olive oil and canola oil. Monounsaturated fatty acids, especially oleic acid, can also be made in the body. Double bonds in fatty acids improve membrane fluidity relative to saturated fatty acids because they cause a 37 degree kink in the carbon chain (103). Therefore their presence in cell membranes results in improved membrane fluidity and LDL receptor recycling and activity, lower LDL-C levels, and decreased CVD risk (103). A European dietary trial documented that a Mediterranean diet enriched in either olive oil (1 liter/week) or 30 grams/day of nuts (walnuts, hazelnuts, and almonds) reduced CVD risk by about 30% relative to a low fat diet (110). These changes were associated with significant increases in plasma oleic acid in the olive oil group, and significant increases in alpha linolenic acid in the nut group (111). In our population of 110,010 subjects sampled in the fasting state the 25th, 50th, and 75th percentile values for the sum of oleic and palmitoleic acids in % were 18.7, 20.8, and 23.1, respectively. We have classified a monounsaturated fatty acid index of < 19% as being decreased, and associated with increased CVD risk, while a value > 22% has been classifed as optimal and associated with decreased CVD risk. Having a low monounsaturated fat index indicates
