The Measurement of Lipids, Lipoproteins, Apolipoproteins, Fatty Acids, and Sterols, and Next Generation Sequencing for the Diagnosis and Treatment of Lipid Disorders
KEYWORDS: cholesterol, risk, patients, hdl, values, cvd, levels, fatty, lipoprotein, lipid, acids, acid, disease, plasma, ldl-c


decreased, and associated with increased CVD risk, while a value > 22% has been classifed as optimal and associated with decreased CVD risk. Having a low monounsaturated fat index indicates that the patient should increase their intake of olive oil and or canola oil in salads or use more of these oils in cooking. Fatty acids have been classified as polyunsaturated if they have two or more double bonds. There are two types of polyunsaturated fatty acids, the omega-6 fatty acids, and the omega-3 fatty acids. The major omega-6 fatty acid in the diet and in the bloodstream is linoleic acid (LA, 18:2n6), which has two double bonds at the 6th and 9th carbon position. LA is the major fatty acid found in most vegetable oils including soybean, corn, safflower, and sunflower oils. LA is one of the essential fatty acids because the body cannot place a double bond at the n6 or omega-6 position of the carbon chain of fatty acids (1). LA must be obtained from the diet. In the body linoleic acid can be readily converted to arachidonic acid (AA, 20:4n6), which has four double bonds at the 6th, 9th, 12, and 15th carbon positions. Arachidonic acid is another major plasma fatty acid, and AA can also be obtained from the diet. AA has been reported to enhance the immune response, and in this regard may increase risk for auto-immune disease (103). Another omega-6 fatty acids that we measure is dihomogammalinolenic acid (20:3n6) which has three double bonds which have the same positions the first three for AA. This fatty acid has been reported to have anti-inflammatory and anti-thrombotic effects. In large intervention trials where vegetable oils rich in LA such as corn oil and soybean oil were used to replace saturated fatty acids in the diet, there was lowering of lower total cholesterol levels and up to 50% reductions in CVD risk and mortality as documented in the Veterans Affairs Domiciliary Study, the Oslo Diet Heart Trial, and the Finnish Mental Hospital Study (104-109). Omega-6 fatty acids are liquid at room temperature, and confer increased membrane fluidity (103). In our population of 110,010 subjects sampled in the fasting state the 25th, 50th, and 75th percentile values for the sum of oleic, palmitoleic, and dihomogammalinolenic acids in % were 39.2, 42.6, and 45.5, respectively. We have classified an omega-6 fatty acid index as < 41% as being
