The Measurement of Lipids, Lipoproteins, Apolipoproteins, Fatty Acids, and Sterols, and Next Generation Sequencing for the Diagnosis and Treatment of Lipid Disorders
KEYWORDS: cholesterol, risk, patients, hdl, values, cvd, levels, fatty, lipoprotein, lipid, acids, acid, disease, plasma, ldl-c


for the sum of oleic, palmitoleic, and dihomogammalinolenic acids in % were 39.2, 42.6, and 45.5, respectively. We have classified an omega-6 fatty acid index as < 41% as being decreased, and a value > 46% as being increased, but because omega-6 fatty acid intake is already quite high in the United States, we have not made specific recommendations for therapy with regard to these values. The unsaturated/saturated ratio is the sum of all beneficial monounsaturated and polyunsaturated fatty acids (oleic acid, palmitoleic acid, linoleic acid, arachidonic acid, dihomogammalinolenic acid, α-linolenic acid, eicosapentaenoic acid, docosapentaenoic acid, and docosahexaenoic acid) divided by the sum of all detrimental saturated and trans fatty acids (myristic acid, palmitic acid, stearic acid, palmitelaidic acid, and elaidic acid). In our population of 110,010 subjects sampled in the fasting state the 25th, 50th, and 75th percentile values for the unsaturated/saturated fat ratio were 1.99, 2.15, and 2.29, respectively. Having an unsaturated/saturated ratio index < 2.0 increases CVD risk, and indicates that the patient should increase their intake of vegetables, vegetable fats and oils (nuts, seeds, canola, soybean or other oils) and fish or fish oil and restrict their intake of animal and dairy fats (fatty meats, cheese, butter, dairy products, and ice cream), while an optimal value is > 2.25 (103). Omega-3 fatty acids are the other major type of polyunsaturated fatty acid. There are four major omega-3 fatty acids in the diet and in the bloodstream: alpha linolenic acid (ALA, 18:3n3), eicosapentaenoic acid (EPA, 20:5n3), docosapentaenoic acid (DPA, 22:5n3) and docosahexaenoic acid (DHA, 22:6n3). ALA has three double bonds at the 3rd, 6th, and 9th carbon positions, while EPA and DPA have five double bonds at the 3rd, 6th, 9th, 12th, and 15th carbon positions, and DHA has six double bonds at the 3rd, 6th, 9th, 12th, 15th, and 18th carbon positions. Flaxseeds, chia seeds, walnuts, as well as flaxseed oil, canola oil and soybean oil all contain considerable amounts of ALA. In addition to LA, ALA is an essential fatty acid and must obtained from the diet since the body cannot place a double bond at either the 3rd or 6th carbon positions (103). ALA is liquid at room temperature and comprises about 1% of plasma fatty acids. In the Lyon Diet Heart Study when CVD patients were given a Mediterranean diet along with a margarine enriched in ALA (2 serving/day), there was a substantial
