The Measurement of Lipids, Lipoproteins, Apolipoproteins, Fatty Acids, and Sterols, and Next Generation Sequencing for the Diagnosis and Treatment of Lipid Disorders
KEYWORDS: cholesterol, risk, patients, hdl, values, cvd, levels, fatty, lipoprotein, lipid, acids, acid, disease, plasma, ldl-c


plasma fatty acids. In the Lyon Diet Heart Study when CVD patients were given a Mediterranean diet along with a margarine enriched in ALA (2 serving/day), there was a substantial reduction in CVD mortality as compared to patients who received the usual French diet (114). This reduction in risk was related to significant increases in plasma ALA levels in the intervention group. Some ALA can be converted to EPA and DHA in the body, but most of the EPA and DHA must be obtained from the diet in the form of fish or fish oil. EPA and DHA are liquid at room temperature, and comprise about 3% of plasma fatty acids. EPA and DHA act in the liver to reduce triglyceride and very low density lipoprotein apoB-100 production (103). In addition both EPA and DHA have been reported to decrease inflammation in cells (103). Most over the counter fish oil capsules contain up to 50% EPA and DHA. In order to significantly lower triglyceride levels requires about 6 over the counter fish oil capsules/day or about four prescription fish oil capsules/day (115). These latter capsules are specially formulated to contain about 70-80% of their content as either EPA plus DHA, or DHA only, and have been approved for triglyceride lowering using 4 capsules/day in patients with fasting triglyceride values > 500 mg/dL (115). Two over the counter fish oil capsules/day, one concentrated fish oil capsule/day, or two capsules containing almost solely EPA, have all been shown to decrease CVD morbidity, and in some cases mortality, as shown in the Diet and Reinfarction Trial, the GISSI study, and the Japan EPA Lipid Intervention Trial (JELIS) (116-122). In the latter trial getting plasma EPA levels to > 150 μg/L was associated with very significant CVD risk reduction, especially in patients with dyslipidemia (triglycerides > 150 mg/dL and HDL-C < 40 mg/dL) (119-122). Capsules containing just EPA do not raise LDL-C levels, in contrast to capsules containing both EPA and DHA. The Omega-3 Fatty Acid Index represents the sum of plasma EPA and DHA percentages divided by total fatty acids (103). In our population of 110,010 subjects sampled in the fasting state the 25th, 50th, and 75th percentile values for the sum of divided by total fatty acids in % were 2.23, 2.95, and 4.19, respectively. Having an omega 3 fat index of < 1.85% increases CVD risk, and indicates that the patient
