The Measurement of Lipids, Lipoproteins, Apolipoproteins, Fatty Acids, and Sterols, and Next Generation Sequencing for the Diagnosis and Treatment of Lipid Disorders
KEYWORDS: cholesterol, risk, patients, hdl, values, cvd, levels, fatty, lipoprotein, lipid, acids, acid, disease, plasma, ldl-c


increasing dietary omega-3 fatty acids using fish or fish oil capsules have all been shown to reduce CVD risk (105-122). Knowing precise plasma fatty acid percentages and concentrations allows healthcare providers to make specific dietary recommendations based on current guidelines. While the focus for some doctors is just the omega-3 fatty acids, current guidelines also focus on restricting saturated fats and removing all trans fats from the diet (7,124). Therefore measuring plasma fatty acids serves as a useful guide for dietary assessment and recommendations (103). MEASUREMENTS OF PLASMA STEROLS Another useful measurement is the determination of plasma non cholesterol sterols by gas liquid chromatography/mass spectrometry after lipid extraction (125). One can then assess levels of lathosterol and desmosterol (markers of cholesterol production) and levels of β-sitosterol, campesterol, and cholestanol (markers of cholesterol absorption). The values of these sterols can be reported relative to total serum cholesterol as 100 x μmol per mmol of total cholesterol or in absolute concentration in mg/L. Plasma levels of lathosterol has been documented to be excellent marker of cholesterol synthesis, while levels of β-sitosterol and campesterol have been documented to be excellent markers of cholesterol absorption (126,127). In addition desmosterol is another marker of cholesterol synthesis, with approximately 80% of cholesterol synthesis being via lathosterol and 20% via desmosterol (128). It should be noted that desmosterol levels are also determined by the rate of conversion of desmosterol to cholesterol via the enzyme 24-dehydrocholesterol reductase (DCHR24) (129). Therefore elevated desmosterol values relative to cholesterol are mainly a reflection of tissue desmosterol accumulation. Using the methods outlined above we and others have documented that elevated plasma markers of cholesterol absorption, especially beta-sitosterol and campesterol, have been associated with cardiovascular disease (130-134). Moreover we and others have documented that elevated markers of cholesterol synthesis, especially lathosterol, are associated with insulin resistance, obesity, and familial combined hyperlipidemia, the most common genetic cause of elevated low density lipoprotein (LDL) cholesterol and triglycerides (61,135-137). In addition we and others have observed that statins significantly lower markers of cholesterol synthesis, especially lathosterol, and increase markers of cholesterol absorption, while ezetimibe has the opposite effect (138-142).The statin/ezetimibe combination is the most effective way to lower LDL cholesterol levels by inhibiting both cholesterol synthesis and cholesterol absorption (141,142). Importantly while statin therapy has been shown to significantly lower CVD risk, it has also been reported that patients with heart disease on simvastatin got no
