The Measurement of Lipids, Lipoproteins, Apolipoproteins, Fatty Acids, and Sterols, and Next Generation Sequencing for the Diagnosis and Treatment of Lipid Disorders
KEYWORDS: cholesterol, risk, patients, hdl, values, cvd, levels, fatty, lipoprotein, lipid, acids, acid, disease, plasma, ldl-c


were 79, 100, and 128 μmol x 100/mmol of TC. We have not classified cholestanol levels. The 95 th percentile value in our population was 210 μmol x 100/mmol of TC. Moreover the 99th percentile for the absolute concentration of cholestanol was 5.4 mg/L, and we have classified values of > 10.0 mg/L as being markedly elevated and consistent with cerebrotendinous xanthomatosis (CTX). Very high levels of cholestanol in both relative and absolute absolute terms are associated with CTX, a disease associated with tendinous xanthomas, moderately elevated cholesterol levels, and cholestanol deposits in tendons and in the brain, which can lead to seizures and severe neurologic impairment. The optimal therapy for this condition is the use of the bile acid chenodeoxycholic acid 250 mg orally three times daily. These patients have a defect in converting cholesterol to chenodeoxycholic acid, one of the major bile acids, due to defects in sterol 27 hydroxylase gene. This defect results in the buildup of the intermediate sterol cholestanol. By giving them chenodeoxycholate the production of cholestanol is suppressed, and the progression of their disease can be halted (150-153). In our analyses since January of 2013 we have detected 78 individuals out of 325,543 subjects tested that had cholestanol values consistent with CTX; therefore the disease is rare, but may be more common than previously thought, with an estimated 50,000 cases in the United States. STATIN ASSOCIATED MUSCLE SYMPTOMS AND MYOPATHY New onset muscle aches and pains in patients placed on statin therapy are quite common (about 15%) (154-159). The mechanisms for this phenomenon based on muscle biopsies are mitochondrial dysfunction, attenuated energy production, enhanced muscle degradation, and depletion of co-enzyme Q10. These findings are most apparent in patients receiving 40 - 80 mg/day of either simvastatin or atorvastatin, which are the most lipophilic statins. Most of these patients have normal creatine kinase (CK) levels and they are known as having statin associated muscle pains (SAMS) (154-159). About 1% of patients placed on statins will develop significant muscle pain and marked elevations in CK levels, known as statin induced myopathy (160). Very rarely patients will develop marked muscle breakdown known as rhabdomyolysis, associated with very high serum CK levels, dark urine, and sometimes even kidney failure, and death. Based on two large trials with simvastatin, the risk of statin induced myopathy (muscle pain and CK levels at least 3 fold higher than the upper limits
