The Measurement of Lipids, Lipoproteins, Apolipoproteins, Fatty Acids, and Sterols, and Next Generation Sequencing for the Diagnosis and Treatment of Lipid Disorders
KEYWORDS: cholesterol, risk, patients, hdl, values, cvd, levels, fatty, lipoprotein, lipid, acids, acid, disease, plasma, ldl-c


failure, and death. Based on two large trials with simvastatin, the risk of statin induced myopathy (muscle pain and CK levels at least 3 fold higher than the upper limits of normal on treatment with normal levels at baseline) was about 1% in those with the normal solute carrier organic anion transporter ( SLCO1B1) T/T genotype. This risk was 4.5 fold increased for those who carried the T/C genotype (about 24% of the population), and 17.0 fold increased for those with the C/C genotype (about 2% of the population) (160). The defect was shown to be due to an amino acid substitution (Val174Ala) in the organic anion transporter 1B1 that takes up statins in the liver. Individuals with this variant have less efficient liver uptake of statins, higher blood levels, and a greater chance of increased statin delivery to muscle cells, especially for the lipophilic statins. This relationship between SLCO1B1 genotype and statin associated muscle symptoms with or without CK elevation was also observed for high dose simvastatin and atorvastatin, but not for the water soluble pravastatin (161,162). Moreoever patients with underlying muscle disorders may be particularly prone to statin-induced myopathy (163). Other risk factors for statin induced myopathy documented in the large trials were: age > 65 years of age (2.2 fold increased risk), being female (1.8 fold increased risk), having an estimated glomerular filtration rate of < 60 mL/min/1.73 m 2 (2.5 fold increased risk), the use of a calcium channel blocker (1.7 fold increased risk) and the use of amiodarone (6.4 fold increased risk) (160). Therefore a 68 year old woman with a SLCO1B1 T/C genotype, and an estimated glomerular filtration rate (eGFR) of 50 mL/min/1.73 m 2 would have an estimated risk of statin induced myopathy of about 45%. Other known risk factors for SAM and statin induced myopathy include hypothyroidism and deficiencies of vitamin D and co-enzyme Q10. Patients who have the SLCO1B1 T/C or C/C genotype are at high risk for statin induced myopathy. In such patients it is particularly important to also rule out hypothyroidism, vitamin D deficiency, and co-enzyme Q deficiency, since such conditions have also been associated with statin induced myopathy. If these are present, one should treat accordingly. Doing this may be particularly important in women, those over 65 years of age, those with an eGFR < 60 mL/min/1.73 m 2 , as well as those on calcium channel blockers
