The Measurement of Lipids, Lipoproteins, Apolipoproteins, Fatty Acids, and Sterols, and Next Generation Sequencing for the Diagnosis and Treatment of Lipid Disorders
KEYWORDS: cholesterol, risk, patients, hdl, values, cvd, levels, fatty, lipoprotein, lipid, acids, acid, disease, plasma, ldl-c


may be particularly important in women, those over 65 years of age, those with an eGFR < 60 mL/min/1.73 m 2 , as well as those on calcium channel blockers and amiodorone. Since patients with CVD, LDL-C > 190 mg/dL, and and/or a 10 year CVD risk of > 7.5% are candidates for statin therapy, it is important to assess the risk in such subjects of statin-induced myopathy or muscle symptoms. Therefore in addition to SLCO1B1 genotyping it is also important to assess for the other risk factors mentioned above. Moreover the use of water soluble statins such as pravastatin or rosuvastatin at lower doses is generally well tolerated in high risk patients. NEXT GENERATION DNA SEQUENCING FOR THE MOLECULAR DIAGNOSIS OF LIPID DISORDERS The first two steps in the process of making the diagnosis of lipid disorders is to get complete measurements of lipid, lipoproteins, and plasma sterols as reviewed previously. The next step is to rule out secondary causes of lipid abnormalities as previously reviewed. It should be noted that common familial lipid disorders associated with premature CVD do not require DNA sequencing. These disorders include: Lp(a) excess, familial combined hyperlipidemia, familial dyslipidemia, and familial hypoalphalipoproteinemia (61). The third step is to determine if any of the following are present: fasting LDL-C values > 190 mg/dL, fasting triglyceride values > 1,000 mg/dL, HDL-C values < 20 mg/dL, VLDL-C or remnant cholesterol levels > 50 mg/dL and a VLDL-C/TG ratio > 0.5, desmosterol values > 10 mg/L, β-sitosterol values > 15 mg/L, campesterol levels > 20 mg/L, cholestanol levels > 10 mg/L, or evidence of cholesterol ester storage disease with moderate lipid abnormalities and evidence of liver disease (CESD). Thereafter next generation DNA sequencing is critically important for the definitive diagnosis of various lipid disorders of including familial hypercholesterolemia (FH), dysbetalipoproteinemia (DBL), phytosterolemia, CTX, desmosterolosis, and as well as diagnosis of the causes of significant statin induced muscle problems or myopathy (164). This testing allows for the formulation of the best personalized, targeted and effective treatments of: 1) FH using lifestyle modification, statins, ezetimibe, colesevelam, and if necessary proprotein convertase subtilisin/kexin type 9 (PCSK9) inhibitors for the prevention of cardiovascular disease (CVD), 2) DBL with lifestyle modification, statins, fibrates, and niacin for CVD prevention, 3) phytosterolemia with lifestyle modification and ezetimibe for CVD prevention, 4) CTX with chenodeoxycholate for prevention of neurologic disease, 5) desmosterolosis with statin therapy for
