The Measurement of Lipids, Lipoproteins, Apolipoproteins, Fatty Acids, and Sterols, and Next Generation Sequencing for the Diagnosis and Treatment of Lipid Disorders
KEYWORDS: cholesterol, risk, patients, hdl, values, cvd, levels, fatty, lipoprotein, lipid, acids, acid, disease, plasma, ldl-c


and gender adjusted norms (usually > 190 mg/dL), while off cholesterol lowering medication. In FH families about 50% of the parents, siblings, and offspring of the affected patient will also have an elevated LDL-C value, although occasionally an autosomal recessive form is observed (171). FH has also been associated with human cholesterol 7alpha-hydroxylase deficiency in one kindred (172). FH heterozygotes in the untreated state generally develop CVD prior to age 60 years (average age of onset 45 years in men, and 55 years in women). Most patients with FH are heterozygous for mutations at the following five different gene loci in order of frequency: LDLR, APOB, PCSK9, LDLRAP1, and STAP1 (164). These patients can generally be well-managed with statins, ezetimibe, and if necessary colesevelam, and a PCSK9 inhibitor (93-95,173-175). Some rare patients (about 1:300,000 to 1:1,000,000 in the general population) are more severely affected and have LDL-C levels > 500 mg/dL off medications, and may have homozygous or compound heterozygous FH. In such patients it is especially important to identify the genetic defect in order to treat them properly. Most of these patients are unresponsive or minimally responsive to statin therapy. Such patients may also be unresponsive to PCSK9 inhibitors if they lack LDL receptors (null mutations) or their LDL receptors are totally dysfunctional. In the untreated state these patients often develop CHD prior to age 20 years, and disease detection can be optimized with the use of computed tomographic angiography (176,177). These patients may respond to statins, ezetimibe, PCSK9 inhibitors, mipomersan, lomitapide, but sometimes can only be treated with LDL apheresis (178-180). For patients with elevated LDL-C > 190 mg/dL without mutations in the LDLR, APOB, PCSK9, LDLRAP1, or STAP1, APOE, ABCG5, ABCG8, or LIPA genes , and a high polygenic score for elevated LDL-C, the standard therapy is identifying and treating any secondary cause of elevated LDL-C or statin induced myopathy, lifestyle modification as recommended by the ACC/AHA, and intensive statin therapy (2-4). The goals of therapy are LDL-C < 130 mg/dL in all patients, < 100 mg/dL in patients with a 10 year CVD risk > 7.5% based on the ACC/AHA risk calculator (3), and < 70 mg/dL in patients with established CVD as per the recent National Lipid Association guidelines (45). In some patients ezetimibe may have to be added to their regimen, and or colesevelam. Patients with CVD who are unable to tolerate statins or
