The Measurement of Lipids, Lipoproteins, Apolipoproteins, Fatty Acids, and Sterols, and Next Generation Sequencing for the Diagnosis and Treatment of Lipid Disorders
KEYWORDS: cholesterol, risk, patients, hdl, values, cvd, levels, fatty, lipoprotein, lipid, acids, acid, disease, plasma, ldl-c


National Lipid Association guidelines (45). In some patients ezetimibe may have to be added to their regimen, and or colesevelam. Patients with CVD who are unable to tolerate statins or do not get to their LDL-C goal with the above therapies may be candidates for PCSK9 inhibitors. Dysbetalipoproteinemia (DBL) Sometimes patients will have markedly elevated fasting total cholesterol and triglyceride levels, and their direct LDL-C values may not be elevated. These patients often have very high levels of cholesterol in very low density lipoproteins (VLDL) with VLDL-C levels > 100 mg/dL, and a ratio of VLDL-C/total triglyceride of > 0.3 (180). Laboratories that measure direct LDL-C can help make this diagnosis, because by calculation one can obtain a direct measure of VLDL-C as well. Such patients may have tubo-eruptive xanthomas on their elbows and hands, as well as arcus and premature CVD. They have DBL due to defects in apoE or have apoE deficiency (181,183). Many of them are homozygous for the apoE2/2 variant, but also may have another familial lipoprotein disorder such as familial combined hyperlipidemia. DBL patients have a defect in removing both VLDL and chylomicron remnant particles from their bloodstream (182). These patients are very responsive to medical therapy. The standard therapy is identifying and treating any secondary cause of elevated LDL-C or statin induced myopathy, lifestyle modification as recommended by the ACC/AHA, fenofibrate, and statin treatment. Niacin is also very effective in these patients. The goal of therapy is to get their VLDL-C levels to < 50 mg/dL. Phytosterolemia Some patients will present with significantly elevated LDL-C levels due to defects in ABCG5 and ABCG8 (147-149). Normally almost all the cholesterol and other sterols inside the intestines enter the intestinal cell via the transporter Niemann Pick C1-like protein 1, and then the intestinal cell regulates its sterol content by sending about 50% of the cholesterol and > 90% of β-sitosterol and campesterol via the ABCG5 and ABCG8 transporters back into the intestinal lumen for excretion from the body in the feces. Patients with phytosterolemia with defects in ABCG5 and ABCG8 overabsorb both cholesterol and the plant sterols β-sitosterol and campesterol in the intestine, and therefore have elevated levels of these constituents in the bloodstream, often leading to tendonous xanthomas and premature CVD. These patients have very high absolute plasma concentrations of β-sitosterol (> 15.0 mg/L) and campesterol (>20.0 mg/L). These patients are very responsive to ezetimibe
