The Measurement of Lipids, Lipoproteins, Apolipoproteins, Fatty Acids, and Sterols, and Next Generation Sequencing for the Diagnosis and Treatment of Lipid Disorders
KEYWORDS: cholesterol, risk, patients, hdl, values, cvd, levels, fatty, lipoprotein, lipid, acids, acid, disease, plasma, ldl-c


to tendonous xanthomas and premature CVD. These patients have very high absolute plasma concentrations of β-sitosterol (> 15.0 mg/L) and campesterol (>20.0 mg/L). These patients are very responsive to ezetimibe therapy (149). Cerebrotendinous Xanthomatosis These patients have very high plasma levels of cholestanol (> 10 mg/L) and generally present with tendinous xanthomas and only moderately elevated LDL-C. They may suffer from neurologic problems, and if undiagnosed, they will develop severe ataxia by the third or fourth decade of life. They have defects in CYP27A1 (sterol 27 hydroxylase) gene and have an inability to form the bile acid chenodeoxycholate. If these patients are diagnosed and treated, one can prevent the development of the severe neurologic disease. These patients with very high plasma levels of cholestanol (> 10 mg/L) present with tendinous xanthomas and only moderately elevated LDL-C. The standard therapy is identifying and treating any secondary cause of elevated LDL-C or statin induced myopathy, lifestyle modification as recommended by the ACC/AHA, and therapy with chenodeoxycholate 250 mg orally three times daily to prevent the development of neurologic problems (150-153). Desmosterolosis These patients have very high plasma levels of desmosterol because of defects in the DHCR24 (24-dehydrocholesterol reductase) gene, causing a decreased ability to convert desmosterol to cholesterol. They may develop significant neurologic disease and cognitive dysfunction quite early in life if undiagnosed. These patients have plasma levels of desmosterol > 10 mg/L due to a decreased ability to convert desmosterol to cholesterol. The standard therapy is identifying and treating any secondary cause of elevated LDL-C or statin induced myopathy, lifestyle modification as recommended by the ACC/AHA, and therapy with a statin to decrease desmosterol production in order to prevent the development of neurologic problems (129,144,145). Cholesterol Ester Storage Disease (CESD) Patients with CESD or lysosomal acid lipase deficiency often present with more modest elevations in fasting serum LDL-C (> 160 mg/dL) as well as serum triglycerides (TG > 150 mg/dL). They often also have low levels of HDL-C (< 40 mg/dL in men and < 50 mg/dL in women). Based on their values they look like patients with familial combined hyperlipidemia, except that they have enlarged livers and elevated liver transaminases (> 120 U/L). They also have a deficiency of lysosomal acid lipase activity in their plasma, which can be measured (184-186). These patients have defects in lipase A (LIPA), the lysosomal acid lipase (also known as cholesterol ester hydrolase), the
