The Measurement of Lipids, Lipoproteins, Apolipoproteins, Fatty Acids, and Sterols, and Next Generation Sequencing for the Diagnosis and Treatment of Lipid Disorders
KEYWORDS: cholesterol, risk, patients, hdl, values, cvd, levels, fatty, lipoprotein, lipid, acids, acid, disease, plasma, ldl-c


acid lipase activity in their plasma, which can be measured (184-186). These patients have defects in lipase A (LIPA), the lysosomal acid lipase (also known as cholesterol ester hydrolase), the enzyme that breaks down cholesterol and triglycerides in the liver and other tissues. Enzyme replacement can prevent the liver failure that can develop in these patients. Patients with CESD or lysosomal acid lipase deficiency due to defects in the LIPA gene, have marked cholesteryl ester deposition in the livers, and will often develop liver failure if they do not receive appropriate enzyme replacement therapy (Sebelipase alfa, available from Synageva, Lexington, MA) (184-186). Marked Hypertriglyceridemia Patients with fasting triglycerides > 1,000 mg/dL are at increased for developing recurrent pancreatitus. Such patients generally have defects in one of the following genes: LPL, GPIHBP1, APOA5 , APOC3, or APOC2 (164). Occasionally they will have a very high genetic triglyceride risk score based on SNP analysis as previously mentioned (164). These patients usually respond very well to restriction of dietary fat and sugar, as well as treatment with fenofibrate and high dose omega-3 fatty acids. They may occasionally require statin therapy to optimize their LDL-C levels once their fasting triglyceride levels are < 400 mg/dL (187). Marked HDL Deficiency In the absence of marked hypertriglyceridemia, liver disease, uncontrolled diabetes, or increased inflammation, or patients receiving testosterone injections, most patients with HDL-C levels < 40 mg/dL have either familial combined hyperlipidemia, familial dyslipidemia, or familial hypoalphalipoproteinemia (61). It is well know that patients with dyslipidemia have high residual CVD risk, and these are the patients that have been shown to get significant benefit on top of statin therapy from either EPA in the JELIS Trial, with fenofibrate in the ACCORD trial in diabetic subjects, or with niacin in the AIM study in CVD patients (120,188,189). Such patients do not require a molecular diagnosis. However patients with HDL-C levels < 20 mg/dL, usually have familial apoA-I deficiency, an apoA-I variant, Tangier disease, or LCAT deficiency due to defects in the APOAI, ABCA1, or LCAT genes (45-48,164,165). Occasionally they may have a very high genetic score for low HDL-C (164). Patients with undetectable plasma apoA-I levels due to defects in the APOAI gene usually develop xanthomas and premature CVD, and are best treated by optimizing all other CVD risk factors (45,165). Patient with apoA-I variants have a very heterogeneous clinical picture, but their treatment is similar as
