The Measurement of Lipids, Lipoproteins, Apolipoproteins, Fatty Acids, and Sterols, and Next Generation Sequencing for the Diagnosis and Treatment of Lipid Disorders
KEYWORDS: cholesterol, risk, patients, hdl, values, cvd, levels, fatty, lipoprotein, lipid, acids, acid, disease, plasma, ldl-c


premature CVD, and are best treated by optimizing all other CVD risk factors (45,165). Patient with apoA-I variants have a very heterogeneous clinical picture, but their treatment is similar as for apoA-I deficiency. Patients with homozygous or compound heterozygous Tangier disease due to ABCA1 defects have cholesteryl ester deposition in many tissues in the body including their nerve sheaths, tonsils, liver, and spleen (165). Such patients often have peripheral neuropathy and hepatosplenomegaly. Tangier patients with marked splenomegaly often have anemia and very low LDL-C levels, and generally do not develop premature CVD. In contrast such patients without marked splenomegaly and without anemia, usually have normal LDL-C levels, and they generally do develop premature CVD. These latter patients are best treated by optimizing their LDL-C levels with statin therapy and if necessary the addition of ezetimibe (46,165). Finally patients with LCAT deficiency generally present with marked corneal opacification, splenomegaly, and anemia (48,165). These patients usually have very low LDL-C levels, and do not develop premature CVD, but they do develop kidney failure usually in the 4th or 5th decades of life (165). In the future such patients will hopefully be treated with enzyme replacement therapy to prevent their kidney disease. CONCLUSIONS Standard lipid analysis often misses the excess CVD risk associated with elevated small dense LDL-C and Lp(a) levels, and decreases in large HDL particles. Therefore the measurement of these parameters is useful for assessing CVD risk. Common familial lipid disorders associated with premature CVD include Lp(a) excess, combined hyperlipidemia, and dyslipidemia. Plasma fatty acid analysis is important in order to assess for the adequacy of omega-3 fatty acid intake, and whether there are excess levels of saturated and trans fatty acids in order to provide personalized dietary recommendations. Ruling out the presence of diabetes, thyroid, liver, and kidney disease is also critical in the diagnosis and management of lipid disorders, as is a good history, especially with regard to the use of medications and supplements. Measuring plasma sterols is critical in evaluating causes of elevated very low density lipoprotein (VLDL-C > 30 mg/dL) and/or LDL-C (> 160 mg/dL) which includes familial combined hyperlipidemia (elevated lathosterol), familial hypercholesterolemia (normal sterols), dysbetalipoproteinemia (moderate increases in β-sitosterol), phytosterolemia (very high β-sitosterol), and cerebrotendinous xanthomatosis (very high cholestanol). The measurement of apolipoprotein (apo) A-I in HDL particles by gel electrophoresis is important assessing CVD risk, HDL functionality, and for the diagnosis of marked HDL
