The Measurement of Lipids, Lipoproteins, Apolipoproteins, Fatty Acids, and Sterols, and Next Generation Sequencing for the Diagnosis and Treatment of Lipid Disorders
KEYWORDS: cholesterol, risk, patients, hdl, values, cvd, levels, fatty, lipoprotein, lipid, acids, acid, disease, plasma, ldl-c


xanthomatosis (very high cholestanol). The measurement of apolipoprotein (apo) A-I in HDL particles by gel electrophoresis is important assessing CVD risk, HDL functionality, and for the diagnosis of marked HDL deficiency states (HDL-C < 20 mg/dL due to apoA-I deficiency and variants, Tangier disease, and lecithin:cholesteryl acyltransferase (LCAT) deficiency. The measurement of apoB is important for the diagnosis of abetalipoproteinemia and hypobetalipoproteinemia. The definitive diagnosis of the above mentioned disorders along with causes of markedly elevated triglycerides (> 1,000 mg/dL) requires next generation DNA sequencing of the appropriate and relevant genes for these disorders in order to provide a definitive molecular diagnosis often necessary to formulate optimal therapy strategies. Acknowledgements and Potential Conflicts of Interest Drs. Schaefer, Diffenderfer, Polisecki, and Mehan are employees of Boston Heart Diagnostics, Dr. Asztalos is a consultant to Boston Heart Diagnostics. Drs. Asztalos, Schaefer, and Diffenderfer are also employees of Tufts University. None of the other co-authors have conflicts of interest. Boston Heart Diagnostics is a reference laboratory that offers many of the tests reviewed in this chapter. REFERENCES Expert Panel. Executive summary of the third report of the National Cholesterol Education Program (NCEP) Expert Panel on Detection, Evaluation, and Treatment of High Blood Cholesterol in Adults (Adult Treatment Panel III) J Am Med Assoc 2001;285:2486-2497. FriedewaldWT, Levy RI, Fredrickson Estimation of the concentration of low-density lipoprotein cholesterol in plasma, without use of the preparative ultracentrifuge. Clin Chem. 1972;18:499-502. McNamara JR, Cohn JS, Wilson PW,Schaefer EJ. Calculated values for low-density lipoprotein cholesterol in the assessment of lipid abnormalities and coronary disease risk. Clin Chem. 1990;36:36-42. Grundy SM, Cleeman JI, Merz CN, Brewer HB Jr, Clark LT, Hunninghake DB, Pasternak RC, Smith SC Jr, Stone NJ; National Heart, Lung, andBlood Institute; American College of Cardiology Foundation; American Heart Association. Implications of recent clinical trials for the National Cholesterol Education Program Adult Treatment Panel III guidelines. Circulation. 2004;110:227-39. GoffDC Jr, Lloyd-Jones DM, Bennett G, Coady S, D'Agostino RB, Gibbons R, Greenland P, Lackland DT, Levy D, O'Donnell CJ, Robinson JG, Schwartz JS, Shero ST, Smith SC Jr, Sorlie P, Stone NJ, Wilson PW, Jordan HS, Nevo L, Wnek J, Anderson JL, Halperin JL, Albert NM, Bozkurt B, Brindis RG, Curtis LH, DeMets D, Hochman JS, Kovacs RJ, Ohman EM, Pressler SJ, Sellke FW, Shen WK, Smith SC Jr, Tomaselli GF; American College of Cardiology/American Heart Association Task Force on Practice Guidelines. 2013 ACC/AHA guideline on the assessment
