NLM Citation: LiverTox: Clinical and Research Information on Drug-
KEYWORDS: anthrax, raxibacumab, obiltoxaximab, animal, treatment, pmid, pubmed, monoclonal, pubmed pmid, studies, antibody, use, human, prevention, inhalation anthrax


Induced Liver Injury [Internet]. Bethesda (MD): National Institute of Diabetes and Digestive and Kidney Diseases; 2012-. Anthrax Antitoxins. [Updated 2017 Mar 27]. Bookshelf URL: Anthrax Antitoxins Updated: March 27, 2017. OVERVIEW Introduction High titers of antibody to infectious bacteria and viruses can be used to both prevent and treat infectious diseases. In particular, antitoxins have been shown to be beneficial in several forms of severe acute infections such as diphtheria, rabies and anthrax. The recent use of active anthrax spores as a bioweapon, particularly in acts of terror, has renewed research efforts to develop potent, rapidly active means of prevention and treatment of anthrax after purposeful or accidental exposure. Several monoclonal antibodies to anthrax antigens have been developed as part of research efforts in bioterrorism, of which two are commercially available: raxibacumab (2012) and obiltoxaximab (2016). These two agents were approved for use based upon the so called “Animal Rule”, which allows FDA approval based upon efficacy as shown in animal models of severe infectious diseases and upon safety data developed in healthy volunteers. Both monoclonal antibodies have had limited use in humans, but neither has been associated with serum enzyme elevations or with instances of clinically apparent liver injury during the limited preclinical safety evaluation in healthy volunteers. Updated information on prevention and treatment of anthrax is available from the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention on their website: OVERVIEW Introduction Obiltoxaximab is a chimeric monoclonal antibody to the protective antigen of B. anthracis that is used to prevent and treat inhalation anthrax. Obiltoxaximab has had limited use in humans, but has not been associated with serum enzyme elevations during therapy or with instances of clinically apparent liver injury. Background Obiltoxaximab (oh" bil tox ax i mab) is a human-mouse chimeric monoclonal antibody to the Bacillus anthrax protective antigen that is the major immunogenic antigen produced by the bacterial infection. The binding of obiltoxaximab to the anthrax protective antigen blocks the binding of the bacterial toxin to host cells. In several animal models of inhalation anthrax, obiltoxaximab ameliorated the course of the disease and, if given before the onset of signs and symptoms, prevented clinically apparent disease. Obiltoxaximab was approved for use in the United States in 2016 for the prevention and treatment of inhalation anthrax. The approval was based upon the efficacy of obiltoxaximab in animal models of anthrax and on data on safety and pharmacokinetics in healthy
