NLM Citation: LiverTox: Clinical and Research Information on Drug-
KEYWORDS: anthrax, raxibacumab, obiltoxaximab, animal, treatment, pmid, pubmed, monoclonal, pubmed pmid, studies, antibody, use, human, prevention, inhalation anthrax


the prevention and treatment of inhalation anthrax. The approval was based upon the efficacy of obiltoxaximab in animal models of anthrax and on data on safety and pharmacokinetics in healthy human volunteers. Human anthrax is exceedingly rare, but has occurred in the United States as a result of acts of terrorism. Obiltoxaximab is available in single use vials of 600 mg in 6 mL (100 mg/mL) under the brand name 2 LiverTox Anthim. The recommended dose is 16 mg/kg by slow (90 minute) intravenous infusion in adults and children above 40 kg in weight. Side effects were assessed in studies done in several hundred healthy adult volunteers. While described as “generally well tolerated” adverse events included headache, itching, rash, urticaria and local infusion and hypersensitivity reactions including anaphylaxis. Premedication with diphenhydramine (an antihistamine) is recommended. Hepatotoxicity In human volunteer studies, obiltoxaximab was associated with local infusion and general hypersensitivity hepatotoxicity associated with administration of obiltoxaximab. Likelihood score: E (unlikely cause of liver injury, but it has had very limited use in humans). Mechanism of Injury Obiltoxaximab is a monoclonal antibody and is unlikely to be inherently hepatotoxic. Recombinant proteins are often metabolized in the cells on which they act but are also metabolized in the liver, largely to small peptides and amino acids which may be reused to synthesize proteins and are unlikely to be toxic or immunogenic. Drug Class: Antiinfective Agents, Antitoxins; Monoclonal Antibodies OVERVIEW Introduction Raxibacumab is a human monoclonal antibody to the protective antigen of B. anthracis that is used to prevent and treat inhalation anthrax. Raxibacumab has had limited use in humans, but has not been associated with serum enzyme elevations during therapy or with instances of clinically apparent liver injury. Background Raxibacumab (rax" ee bak' ue mab) is a human monoclonal IgG1 antibody to the Bacillus anthrax protective antigen, a major component of the lethal toxin of anthrax. The binding of raxibacumab to the anthrax protective antigen blocks the binding of the bacterial toxin to host cells. In several animal models of inhalation anthrax, raxibacumab ameliorated the course of the disease and, if given before the onset of signs and symptoms, prevented clinically apparent disease. Raxibacumab was approved for use in the United States in 2012 for the prevention and treatment (combined with appropriate antibiotics) of inhalation anthrax. The approval was based upon the efficacy of raxibacumab in animal models of anthrax and on data
