NLM Citation: LiverTox: Clinical and Research Information on Drug-
KEYWORDS: anthrax, raxibacumab, obiltoxaximab, animal, treatment, pmid, pubmed, monoclonal, pubmed pmid, studies, antibody, use, human, prevention, inhalation anthrax


2012 for the prevention and treatment (combined with appropriate antibiotics) of inhalation anthrax. The approval was based upon the efficacy of raxibacumab in animal models of anthrax and on data on safety and pharmacokinetics in healthy human volunteers. Human anthrax is exceeding rare, but has occurred in the United States as a result of acts of terrorism. Raxibacumab is available in single use vials of 1700 mg in 34 mL (50 mg/mL) under the brand name Raxibacumab. The recommended dose is 40 mg/kg by slow (135 minute) intravenous infusion in adults and children above 40 kg in weight. Side effects were assessed in studies done in several hundred healthy adult volunteers. While described as “generally well tolerated” and similar in rate to that in placebo recipients, adverse events included rash, pain, somnolence, and local infusion and hypersensitivity reactions. Premedication with diphenhydramine (an antihistamine) is recommended. Hepatotoxicity In human volunteer studies, raxibacumab was associated with local infusion and general hypersensitivity associated with administration of raxibacumab. Anthrax Antitoxins 3 Likelihood score: E (unlikely cause of liver injury, but it has had very limited use in humans). Mechanism of Injury Raxibacumab is a human monoclonal antibody and is unlikely to be inherently hepatotoxic. Recombinant proteins are often metabolized in the cells on which they act but are also metabolized in the liver, largely to small peptides and amino acids which may be reused to synthesize proteins and are unlikely to be toxic or immunogenic. Drug Class: Antiinfective Agents, Antitoxins; Monoclonal Antibodies PRODUCT INFORMATION REPRESENTATIVE TRADE NAMES Obiltoxaximab – Anthim® Raxibacumab – Raxibacumab® DRUG CLASS Antiinfective Agents COMPLETE LABELING (Obiltoxaximab) COMPLETE LABELING (Raxibacumab) Product labeling at DailyMed, National Library of Medicine, NIH CHEMICAL FORMULAS AND STRUCTURES DRUG CAS REGISTRY NO MOLECULAR FORMULA STRUCTURE Obiltoxaximab 1351337-07-9 Monoclonal Antibody Not Available Raxibacumab 565451-13-0 Monoclonal Antibody Not Available ANNOTATED BIBLIOGRAPHY References updated: 27 March 2017 Zimmerman HJ. Drugs used to treat rheumatic and musculospastic disease. In, Zimmerman HJ. Hepatotoxicity: the adverse effects of drugs and other chemicals on the liver. 2nd ed. Philadelphia: Lippincott, 1999, pp. 517-54. (Expert review of hepatotoxicity published in 1999, well before the availability of most monoclonal antibody therapies). Migone TS, Subramanian GM, Zhong J, Healey LM, Corey A, Devalaraja M, Lo L, et al. Raxibacumab for the treatment of inhalational anthrax. N Engl J Med. 2009;361:135–44. PubMed PMID: 19587338. (In both rabbits and monkeys exposed to lethal doses of B. anthracis spores,
