Myocarditis
KEYWORDS: myocarditis, patients, cardiac, heart, myocardial, failure, heart failure, arrhythmias, giant, symptoms, cell, ventricular, giant cell, infection, fulminant


Myocarditis is inflammation of the myocardium with necrosis of cardiac myocytes. Myocarditis may be caused by many disorders (eg, infection, cardiotoxins, medications, and systemic disorders such as sarcoidosis) but is often idiopathic. Symptoms can vary and can include fatigue, dyspnea, edema, palpitations, and sudden death. Diagnosis is based on symptoms and clinical findings of abnormal electrocardiography (ECG), cardiac biomarkers, and cardiac imaging in the absence of cardiovascular risk factors. Endomyocardial biopsy confirms clinical diagnosis of myocarditis. Treatment depends on the cause, but general measures include medications and devices to treat heart failure and arrhythmias and rarely surgery (eg, intra-aortic balloon pump, left ventricular assist device, transplantation). Immunosuppression is of use in certain types of myocarditis (eg, hypersensitivity myocarditis, giant cell myocarditis, myocarditis caused by sarcoidosis). Pathophysiology of Myocarditis Myocarditis is inflammation of the myocardium with necrosis of cardiac myocyte cells. Biopsy-proven myocarditis typically demonstrates inflammatory infiltrate of the myocardium with lymphocytes, neutrophils, eosinophils, giant cells, granulomas, or a mixture. The pathophysiology of myocarditis remains a subject of research. Potential mechanisms that lead to myocardial injury include Direct cardiomyocyte injury caused by an infectious or other cardiotoxic agent Myocardial injury caused by an autoimmune reaction to an infectious or other cardiotoxic agent Myocardial inflammation can be diffuse or focal. Inflammation can extend into the pericardium causing myopericarditis. The extent of myocardial involvement and extension into adjacent pericardium can determine the type of symptoms. Diffuse involvement can lead to heart failure, arrhythmias and sometimes sudden cardiac death. Focal involvement is less likely to cause heart failure but can lead to arrhythmias and sudden cardiac death. Involvement of the pericardium leads to chest pain and other symptoms typical of pericarditis. Some patients remain asymptomatic whether myocardial involvement is focal or diffuse. Etiology of Myocarditis Myocarditis may result from infectious or noninfectious causes. Many cases are idiopathic (see table Causes of Myocarditis). Infectious myocarditis is most often viral in the United States and other high income nations (1). The most common viral causes in the United States are parvovirus B19 and human herpes virus 6. In lower income nations, infectious myocarditis is most often associated with rheumatic carditis, Chagas disease, or HIV infection (2). Direct myocardial injury due to infection with SARS-CoV-2, with symptoms ranging from mild chest discomfort to fulminant myocarditis, is uncommon in patients with COVID-19, but the risk of myocarditis is 16 times higher in those with infection than in those
