Myocarditis
KEYWORDS: myocarditis, patients, cardiac, heart, myocardial, failure, heart failure, arrhythmias, giant, symptoms, cell, ventricular, giant cell, infection, fulminant


ranging from mild chest discomfort to fulminant myocarditis, is uncommon in patients with COVID-19, but the risk of myocarditis is 16 times higher in those with infection than in those not infected (3). Noninfectious causes include cardiotoxins, certain medications, and some systemic disorders. Myocarditis caused by medications is termed hypersensitivity myocarditis. Myocarditis after mRNA- based COVID-19 vaccination is rare and far less common than COVID-associated myocarditis (4). It occurs mostly in adolescent and young adult males, usually within a week of vaccination, and is generally mild. Eosinophilic myocarditis has various causes. It is an inflammatory cardiomyopathy characterized by eosinophilic infiltration; among the causes is hypersensitivity myocarditis (5). TABLE Causes of Myocarditis Cause Examples Giant cell arteritis Granulomatosis with polyangiitis Autoimmune disorders Systemic lupus erythematosus Takayasu arteritis Gram-negative bacilli Lyme disease Bacterial infections Group A streptococci Staphylococci Tuberculosis Cause Examples Alcohol Cardiotoxins Cocaine Blastomycosis Candidiasis Fungal infections Coccidioidomycosis Histoplasmosis Idiopathic — Inflammatory bowel disease Inflammatory disorders Sarcoidosis Clozapine Immune checkpoint inhibitors Medications Penicillins Thiazide diuretics Amebiasis Parasitic infections Chagas disease Toxoplasmosis Radiation therapy — Coxsackie B virus HIV Human herpes virus 6 Viral infections Influenza virus Parvovirus B19 SARS-CoV-2 Giant cell myocarditis Giant cell myocarditis is a rare form of myocarditis with a fulminant course. The etiology is unclear but may include an autoimmune mechanism. Biopsy shows characteristic multinucleated giant cells. Patients with giant cell myocarditis present in cardiogenic shock and frequently have intractable ventricular arrhythmias or complete heart block. Giant cell myocarditis has a poor prognosis but is important to rule out in the setting of an otherwise healthy patient presenting in fulminant heart failure or with intractable arrhythmias because immunosuppressive therapy can help improve survival. Symptoms and Signs of Myocarditis The clinical presentation of myocarditis is variable. Patients may be minimally symptomatic or have fulminant heart failure and fatal arrhythmias. Symptoms depend on the etiology of the myocarditis as well as the extent and severity of myocardial inflammation. Heart failure symptoms may include fatigue, dyspnea, and edema. Patients may show signs of fluid overload with crackles, elevated jugular venous pulses, and edema. Cardiac examination may be significant for a third (S3) or fourth (S4) heart sound. Systolic murmurs of mitral regurgitation and tricuspid regurgitation may be present in patients with ventricular enlargement. Sudden cardiac death due to a fatal arrhythmia is sometimes the presenting feature. Patients may experience preceding palpitations or syncope. When patients have concomitant pericardial inflammation, they
