Myocarditis
KEYWORDS: myocarditis, patients, cardiac, heart, myocardial, failure, heart failure, arrhythmias, giant, symptoms, cell, ventricular, giant cell, infection, fulminant


tissue are essential if tuberculosis (TB) is considered possible (TB myocarditis can be aggressive and can worsen rapidly with corticosteroid therapy). Myocardial samples are examined for giant cells, which are characteristic of giant cell myocarditis, and the granulomas that occur in sarcoidosis. Other tests include acute-phase reactants, routine chemistry tests, cultures, autoimmune tests, and, when appropriate, tests for HIV infection, SARS-CoV-2 infection, histoplasmosis complement fixation or Lyme disease titers (in endemic areas), and antibody tests for coxsackievirus, influenza virus, and streptococcus. Treatment of Myocarditis Treatment of heart failure and arrhythmias Treatment of underlying disorder Treatment of heart failure includes diuretics and nitrates for symptomatic relief. In cases of fulminant heart failure, intra-aortic balloon pump (IABP), left ventricular assist device (LVAD), or transplantation may be necessary. Long-term pharmacotherapy of heart failure involves angiotensin-converting enzyme (ACE) inhibitors, beta-blockers, aldosterone antagonists, angiotensin II receptor blockers (ARBs), or angiotensin receptor/neprilysin inhibitors (ARNIs). Atrial and ventricular arrhythmias are treated with antiarrhythmic therapy. Heart block can be treated with temporary pacing but may require insertion of a permanent pacemaker if conduction abnormalities persist. Infectious myocarditis is generally treated with supportive therapy for associated heart failure and arrhythmias. Antiviral therapy has not been shown to be helpful in the treatment of most viral etiologies, but nirmatrelvir and ritonavir can help treat myocarditis due to SARS-CoV2 infection (1), and oseltamivir can help treat myocarditis due to influenza (2). Corticosteroids may also help treat myocarditis due to SARS-CoV2 infection (3). Bacterial etiologies may be treated with antibiotics, but antibiotics have not been shown to be effective except possibly in the acute infectious phase. Parasitic infection should be treated with appropriate antiparasitic medications. Corticosteroids are appropriate for patients with eosinophilic or giant cell myocardial infiltrations or myocarditis due to systemic rheumatic disorders (4). Hypersensitivity myocarditis is treated by immediate discontinuation of the causative medication or cardiotoxin and corticosteroid therapy. Patients with giant cell myocarditis have improved survival when treated with immunosuppressants, usually corticosteroids and cyclosporine (5). Myocarditis caused by sarcoidosis can be treated with corticosteroids or other immunosuppressants (6). Key Points Clinical presentation of myocarditis is variable, ranging from subclinical symptoms to fulminant heart failure, intractable arrhythmias, and sudden cardiac death. Diagnosis is often based on clinical findings and noninvasive testing, including cardiac MRI; do endomyocardial biopsy if patients present with fulminant heart failure or intractable arrhythmias or if findings would change treatment. Treat patients with heart failure and arrhythmias;
