Cardiac Tumors
KEYWORDS: cardiac, tumors, symptoms, cardiac tumors, heart, primary, tumor, myxomas, malignant, cause, patients, benign, usually, common, signs


Cardiac tumors may be primary (benign or malignant) or metastatic (malignant). Myxoma, a benign tumor, is the most common type of primary cardiac tumor. Cardiac tumors may occur in any cardiac tissue. They can cause valvular or inflow-outflow tract obstruction, thromboembolism, arrhythmias, or pericardial disorders. Diagnosis is by echocardiography and frequently cardiac MRI. Treatment of benign tumors is usually surgical resection; tumors may recur. Treatment of metastatic cancer depends on tumor type and origin; prognosis is generally poor. Primary cardiac tumors are found in < 1/5000 people at autopsy (1). Metastatic tumors are much more common, occurring in one series in > 8% of patients with cancer (2). Usually, primary cardiac tumors originate in the myocardium or endocardium; they may also originate in valve tissue, cardiac connective tissue, or the pericardium. Metastatic cardiac tumors typically originate from the lung. Other common sources of cardiac metastases include breast and kidney carcinoma, melanoma, and lymphoma (2, 3). Classification of Cardiac Tumors Some of the more common primary and secondary cardiac tumors are listed in table Types of Cardiac Tumors. Primary cardiac tumors may be Benign (approximately 80% of cases [1]) 1/10 Malignant (the remaining approximately 20%) Benign primary cardiac tumors Examples are myxomas, papillary fibroelastomas, rhabdomyomas, fibromas, hemangiomas, teratomas, lipomas, paragangliomas, and pericardial cysts. Myxoma is most common, accounting for 40 to 60% of all primary cardiac tumors (2). Incidence in females is 2 to 3 times that in males (3). In uncommon familial forms (Carney complex), males are affected more often. Most myxomas occur in the left atrium (2), and the rest occur in the other chambers as a solitary tumor or, less commonly, at several sites. Myxomas may be up to 15 cm in diameter. Most are pedunculated and may prolapse through the mitral valve and obstruct ventricular filling during diastole. The remainder of the tumors are broad-based and sessile. Myxomas may be myxoid and gelatinous; smooth, firm, and lobular; or friable and irregular. Friable, irregular myxomas increase risk of systemic embolism. Carney complex is a familial, autosomal dominant syndrome of recurrent cardiac myxomas with some combination of cutaneous myxomas, myxoid mammary fibroadenomas, pigmented skin lesions (lentigines, ephelides, blue nevi), multiple endocrine neoplasia (primary pigmented nodular adrenocortical disease causing Cushing syndrome, growth hormone and prolactin-producing pituitary adenoma, testicular tumors, thyroid adenoma or carcinoma, and ovarian cysts), psammomatous melanotic schwannoma, breast ductal adenoma, and osteochondromyxoma. Patients are often young at presentation
