Cardiac Tumors
KEYWORDS: cardiac, tumors, symptoms, cardiac tumors, heart, primary, tumor, myxomas, malignant, cause, patients, benign, usually, common, signs


to the base of the heart near vagus nerve endings. They may manifest with symptoms due to catecholamine secretion (eg, increased heart rate and blood pressure, excessive sweating, tremor). Paragangliomas may be benign or malignant. Pericardial cysts may resemble a cardiac tumor or pericardial effusion on chest radiograph. They are usually asymptomatic, although some cause compressive symptoms (eg, chest pain, dyspnea, cough). Malignant primary cardiac tumors Malignant primary tumors include sarcomas, pericardial mesothelioma, and primary lymphomas. Sarcoma is the most common malignant cardiac tumor (1). Sarcomas affect mainly middle-aged adults (mean, 44 years). Almost 40% are angiosarcomas, most of which originate in the right atrium and involve the pericardium, causing right ventricular inflow tract obstruction, cardiac tamponade , and lung metastasis (6). Other types include undifferentiated sarcoma, malignant fibrous histiocytoma, leiomyosarcoma, fibrosarcoma, rhabdomyosarcoma, liposarcoma, and osteosarcoma; these types are more likely to originate in the left atrium, causing mitral valve obstruction and heart failure. Pericardial mesothelioma is rare. It affects all ages, males more than females (7). It causes cardiac tamponade and constriction, and can metastasize to the spine, adjacent soft tissues, and brain. Primary lymphoma is extremely rare. It usually occurs in patients with HIV or other people with immunodeficiency. These tumors grow rapidly and cause heart failure, arrhythmias, cardiac tamponade, and superior vena cava (SVC) syndrome. Metastatic tumors Metastatic tumor from other organs can involve the heart through hematogenous spread or direct invasion. Melanoma is a tumor with a high propensity for cardiac involvement. Lung and breast carcinoma, soft- tissue sarcoma, and renal cancer are also common sources of metastases to the heart (8, 9). Leukemia and lymphoma often metastasize to the heart, but cardiac involvement may be clinically silent and detected incidentally. When Kaposi sarcoma spreads systemically in patients with immunodeficiency (usually patients with HIV), it may spread to the heart, but clinical cardiac complications are uncommon. TABLE Types of Cardiac Tumors 3/10 Type Examples* Myxomas Papillary fibroelastomas Rhabdomyomas Fibromas Benign primary tumors Hemangiomas Teratomas Lipomas Paraganglionomas† Pericardial cysts Sarcomas Malignant primary tumors Pericardial mesothelioma Primary lymphomas Lung carcinoma Breast carcinoma Soft-tissue sarcoma Metastatic tumors Renal carcinoma Melanoma Leukemia Lymphoma * Listed from most common to least common. † Paragangliomas can also be malignant. Symptoms and Signs of Cardiac Tumors Cardiac tumors cause symptoms and signs typical of much more common disorders (eg, heart failure, stroke, coronary artery disease). Symptoms and signs of benign primary cardiac tumors
