Cardiac Tumors
KEYWORDS: cardiac, tumors, symptoms, cardiac tumors, heart, primary, tumor, myxomas, malignant, cause, patients, benign, usually, common, signs


of Cardiac Tumors Cardiac tumors cause symptoms and signs typical of much more common disorders (eg, heart failure, stroke, coronary artery disease). Symptoms and signs of benign primary cardiac tumors depend on tumor type, location, size, and friability. Types of symptoms and signs Symptoms can be classified as Extracardiac Intramyocardial Intracavitary Extracardiac symptoms and signs may be constitutional or mechanical. Constitutional symptoms of fever, chills, lethargy, arthralgias, and weight loss may be caused by myxomas, perhaps as a result of cytokine (eg, interleukin-6) release; however, constitutional symptoms are often absent with myxomas (1). Petechiae and Raynaud syndrome may also occur. These and other findings may erroneously suggest bacterial endocarditis, systemic rheumatic disorders, or occult cancer. With some tumors (especially gelatinous myxomas), thrombi or tumor fragments may embolize into the systemic circulation (eg, brain, coronary arteries, kidneys, spleen, extremities) or the lungs and cause manifestations specific to those organs. Mechanical symptoms (eg, dyspnea, chest discomfort) result from compression of cardiac chambers or coronary arteries or from pericardial irritation or tamponade caused by growth or hemorrhage within the pericardium. Pericardial tumors may cause pericardial friction rubs. Intramyocardial symptoms and signs are caused by arrhythmias, usually atrioventricular or intraventricular block or paroxysmal supraventricular or ventricular tachycardias due to compression or encroachment on the conduction system (notably rhabdomyomas and fibromas). 5/10 Intracavitary symptoms and signs are due to tumors that obstruct valvular function, blood flow, or both (causing valvular stenosis, valvular insufficiency, or heart failure). Intracavitary symptoms and signs may vary with body position, which can alter hemodynamics and physical forces associated with the tumor. Symptoms and signs by tumor type Myxomas may manifest with the triad of heart failure, embolic disease, and constitutional symptoms. Myxomas may cause a diastolic murmur that mimics the murmur of mitral stenosis but whose loudness and location vary from beat to beat with body position. About 15% of pedunculated left atrial myxomas produce an audible “tumor plop” as they drop into the mitral orifice during diastole (1). Myxomas may also cause arrhythmias. Raynaud syndrome and finger clubbing are less typical but may occur. Fibroelastomas, often discovered incidentally at autopsy, are usually asymptomatic; however, they may be a source of systemic emboli. Rhabdomyomas are usually asymptomatic. Fibromas cause arrhythmias, possibly causing sudden death, and obstructive symptoms. Hemangiomas are usually asymptomatic but may cause any of the extracardiac, intramyocardial, or intracavitary symptoms. Teratomas cause respiratory distress and cyanosis due to
