Cardiac Tumors
KEYWORDS: cardiac, tumors, symptoms, cardiac tumors, heart, primary, tumor, myxomas, malignant, cause, patients, benign, usually, common, signs


possibly causing sudden death, and obstructive symptoms. Hemangiomas are usually asymptomatic but may cause any of the extracardiac, intramyocardial, or intracavitary symptoms. Teratomas cause respiratory distress and cyanosis due to compression of the aortic and pulmonary artery, or SVC syndrome due to compression of the superior vena cava. Symptoms and signs of malignant cardiac tumors are more acute in onset and progress more rapidly than those of benign tumors. Cardiac sarcomas most commonly cause symptoms of ventricular inflow tract obstruction and cardiac tamponade. Mesothelioma causes symptoms of pericarditis or tamponade. Primary lymphoma causes refractory progressive heart failure, tamponade, arrhythmias, and SVC syndrome. Metastatic cardiac tumors may manifest as sudden cardiac enlargement, tamponade (due to rapid accumulation of hemorrhagic pericardial effusion), heart block, other arrhythmias, or sudden unexplained heart failure. Fever, malaise, weight loss, night sweats, and loss of appetite may also be present. Diagnosis of Cardiac Tumors Echocardiography Cardiac MRI Cardiac CT 6/10 PET scan Biopsy Diagnosis, which is often delayed because symptoms and signs mimic those of much more common disorders, is confirmed by echocardiography. Transesophageal echocardiography is better for visualizing atrial tumors, and transthoracic echocardiography is better for ventricular tumors. Due to its superior temporal resolution, echocardiography is the imaging modality of choice in visualizing very mobile cardiac tumors, particularly when they are small. Other imaging modalities are also used to further characterize the tumor (1, 2). Atrial Myxoma (Echocardiogram) Cardiac MRI is the imaging modality of choice for tumor tissue characterization and provides the best clues to tumor types. 7/10 Atrial Myxoma (Cardiac MRI Scan) Contrast-enhanced cardiac CT with its 3D acquisition and superior spatial resolution can provide more detailed anatomic information compared to other techniques. Positron emission tomography (PET) may provide the first evidence suggesting cardiac metastasis in patients with extracardiac malignant tumors. However, PET may not be able to discriminate between physiologic and pathologic uptake in cardiac tissues and cannot provide tissue characterization of the tumor as well as MRI or CT do. Biopsy is not usually done because imaging studies can often distinguish benign from malignant tumors, and biopsy may inadvertently spread cancerous cells in patients with a malignant primary tumor. In carefully selected patients, an echocardiography-guided percutaneous transcatheter biopsy can be done without the need for open heart surgery and provides information that affects management (3). Extensive testing often precedes echocardiography in patients with myxomas because their symptoms are nonspecific. Anemia; thrombocytopenia; and
