Cardiac Tumors
KEYWORDS: cardiac, tumors, symptoms, cardiac tumors, heart, primary, tumor, myxomas, malignant, cause, patients, benign, usually, common, signs


the need for open heart surgery and provides information that affects management (3). Extensive testing often precedes echocardiography in patients with myxomas because their symptoms are nonspecific. Anemia; thrombocytopenia; and elevation of white blood cell count, erythrocyte sedimentation rate, C-reactive protein, and gamma-globulins are common. ECG may show left atrial enlargement. Routine chest radiographs may show calcium deposits in right atrial myxomas or in teratomas seen as anterior mediastinal masses. Myxomas are sometimes diagnosed when tumor cells are found in a surgically removed embolus. Arrhythmias and heart failure in patients with features of tuberous sclerosis suggest rhabdomyomas or fibromas. New cardiac symptoms and signs in a patient with a known extracardiac cancer suggest cardiac metastases. Chest radiographs may show bizarre changes in the cardiac silhouette. Treatment of Cardiac Tumors Benign primary: Excision Malignant primary: Palliation Metastatic: Depends on tumor origin Treatment can involve excision, palliation, and/or other measures (1). Treatment of benign primary tumors is surgical excision followed by serial echocardiography over 5 to 6 years to monitor for recurrence. Tumors are excised unless another disorder (eg, dementia) contraindicates surgery. Surgery is usually curative (eg, in one series, survival rates of 96% at 1 year, 83% at 5 years, and 75% at 10 years [2]). Exceptions are rhabdomyomas, most of which regress spontaneously and do not require treatment, and pericardial teratoma, which may require urgent pericardiocentesis. Patients with fibroelastoma may also require valvular repair or replacement. When rhabdomyomas or fibromas are multifocal, surgical excision is usually ineffective, and prognosis is poor after the first year of life; survival at 5 years may be very low. Chemotherapy and/or radiation therapy are seldom indicated for benign primary cardiac tumors. In carefully selected patients, heart transplantation may be considered if the tumor is considered unresectable (3). Reports have also highlighted the feasibility of autotransplantation (a procedure that involves explantation of the heart, tumor resection, heart reconstruction, and reimplantation of the reconstructed heart) in carefully selected patients with complex tumors (ie, not easily excised in situ) and in experienced centers (4). Treatment of malignant primary tumors is usually palliative (eg, radiation therapy, chemotherapy, management of complications) because prognosis is poor. Treatment of metastatic cardiac tumors depends on tumor origin. It may include systemic chemotherapy or palliation. Key Points Most cardiac tumors are metastatic, most commonly from lung and breast carcinoma, melanoma, soft-tissue sarcoma, and renal carcinoma. Primary cardiac tumors are much less common; most
