Hypoglycemia in Neonates, Infants, and Children
KEYWORDS: hypoglycemia, glucose, hyperinsulinism, insulin, pubmed, plasma, children, fasting, free, diagnosis, levels, hours, plasma glucose, treatment, disorders


same time treating critical low blood glucose and stabilizing the person with hypoglycemia. In this chapter, we outline the basic physiology of glucose regulation, the change in glucose homeostasis in the immediate newborn period and describe the common diseases that cause hypoglycemia in childhood. We discuss the definitions of hypoglycemia, pitfalls in the measurement of blood glucose concentration, the critical importance of glucose as a fuel for energy in the brain, and the implications of hypoglycemia on brain damage. For information on hypoglycemia related to diabetes and its treatment see the chapter entitled “Hypoglycemia During Therapy of Diabetes” in the Diabetes Mellitus and Carbohydrate Metabolism---Diabetes Manager section of Endotext (1). PHYSIOLOGY OF GLUCOSE REGULATION An understanding of the physiology of glucose regulation is critical in order to understand the etiology of the different hypoglycemic disorders. By utilizing a fasting systems approach to diagnosis, one can rapidly pinpoint the general physiological system disrupted and with appropriate examination of blood and urine at the time of hypoglycemia (the critical sample) one can identify the diagnosis relatively quickly. This approach is particularly useful because apart from the newborn period (2), the vast majority of causes of hypoglycemia in children are caused by abnormalities of fasting adaptation. Rare exceptions to this rule include postprandial hypoglycemia typically related to gastrointestinal surgery such as Nissen fundoplication (3), or esophageal atresia repair (4), protein induced hypoglycemia of certain genetic forms of hyperinsulinism (5,6), and the hypoglycemia triggered by the ingestion of fructose in hereditary fructose intolerance (7). The recognition and identification of the etiology of hypoglycemic disorders in the immediate newborn period may be more complicated due to the changes in glucose homeostasis that occur during the transition from intra uterine to extra uterine life, typically defined as the first 12-72 hours of life, and will be discussed separately (2). The Physiology of Fasting The key to diagnosing the etiology of hypoglycemia is a good understanding of the three key metabolic systems that regulate the physiological response to fasting and the hormonal control over these systems. The first, glycogenolysis, involves the breakdown of glycogen and conversion to glucose 6 phosphate (G-6-phos). G-6-phos may either undergo glycolysis and be converted to lactate (8), or converted to glucose by glucose-6-phosphatase (G-6-Pase), and then released from the liver and transported to the brain for fuel. The second, gluconeogenesis, is the pathway by which fuels such as lactate, alanine, fructose and
