Hypoglycemia in Neonates, Infants, and Children
KEYWORDS: hypoglycemia, glucose, hyperinsulinism, insulin, pubmed, plasma, children, fasting, free, diagnosis, levels, hours, plasma glucose, treatment, disorders


glucose-6-phosphatase (G-6-Pase), and then released from the liver and transported to the brain for fuel. The second, gluconeogenesis, is the pathway by which fuels such as lactate, alanine, fructose and glycerol are converted into glucose. The third, fatty acid oxidation and ketogenesis, are the processes by which ingested fat and fat stores are converted either to acetyl-CoA for entry into the citric acid cycle (Krebs cycle) and generation of energy, or to beta-hydroxybutyrate which is then transported to tissue such as the brain for energy production. An essential role of fatty acid oxidation is the production of an alternate fuel to glucose for energy production. This process conserves glucose for those tissues that can only metabolize glucose (such as red blood cells). Each of these mechanisms of fasting adaptation are finely regulated to maintain the plasma glucose between 70 and 110 mg/dL (3.9 to 6.1 mmol/L) by a combination of insulin to utilize or store glucose, and the counter regulatory hormones to mobilize and release glucose (Table 1). Insulin, the main hormone secreted in the fed state, suppresses glycogenolysis, gluconeogenesis, lipolysis, and ketogenesis. The counter regulatory hormones glucagon, cortisol, growth hormone, and epinephrine are the predominant hormones secreted in the fasting state and have overlapping effects on these processes. Because of the critical importance of these 3 processes (glycogenolysis, gluconeogenesis and fatty acid oxidation) in preventing hypoglycemia, there is overlap in hormonal control of the systems with both glucagon and epinephrine stimulating glycogenolysis, cortisol and glucagon stimulating gluconeogenesis, growth hormone and epinephrine stimulating lipolysis and finally glucagon and epinephrine stimulating ketogenesis. Table 1. Hormonal Control of Fasting Adaptation View in own window Hormones Glycogenolysis Gluconeogenesis Lipolysis Ketogenesis Cortisol stimulates Growth Hormone stimulates Glucagon stimulates stimulates stimulate Epinephrine stimulates stimulates stimulates Hormonal Control of Fasting Following a meal, insulin is the predominant secreted hormone as glucose, and other fuels, are absorbed, facilitating glucose entry into cells and its utilization for energy. Under the influence of insulin, excess glucose is stored as glycogen in the liver for use later in fasting. As the plasma glucose starts to fall below 85 mg/dL insulin secretion is reduced and then suppressed (Figure 1). As the blood sugar continues to fall to around 70 mg/dL, the rapidly acting counter regulatory hormones glucagon and epinephrine are secreted. This initially drives glycogenolysis which supplies glucose from the liver for up to 4-8 hours in infants and 8-12 hours
