Hypoglycemia in Neonates, Infants, and Children
KEYWORDS: hypoglycemia, glucose, hyperinsulinism, insulin, pubmed, plasma, children, fasting, free, diagnosis, levels, hours, plasma glucose, treatment, disorders


rapidly acting counter regulatory hormones glucagon and epinephrine are secreted. This initially drives glycogenolysis which supplies glucose from the liver for up to 4-8 hours in infants and 8-12 hours in children and young adults. Cortisol and growth hormone secretion stimulate gluconeogenesis and lipolysis providing amino acids, glycerol, and free fatty acids for metabolism to ketones. Figure 1. Relationship of hormone secretion to plasma glucose levels. Brain Fuel Metabolism/Energy Production As the plasma glucose levels approach 50 mg/dL the ability of the blood brain barrier to transport glucose into the brain for maximal usage, begins to become limited (9). The brain responds by utilizing alternative fuels for energy (lactate, beta-hydroxybutyrate) or in the absence of alternate fuels (as occurs in hyperinsulinism) cuts down nonessential functions in order to conserve energy. When the glucose levels drop below 30 mg/dl cerebral blood flow increases in an attempt to increase glucose delivery (10). In conditions of prolonged fasting, as beta-hydroxybutyrate levels rise, monocarboxylate transporter 1 (MCT1) transports the beta-hydroxybutyrate across the blood brain barrier, which presents the brain with an alternative fuel for energy production. With very prolonged fasting, the brain is able to switch from utilizing almost 100% glucose for energy production to utilizing almost all ketones (11). In disease conditions such as glycogen storage disease (GSD) type 1, glycogenolysis results in elevated lactate levels because of the inability to de-phosphorylate G-6-phos and generate glucose that can be transported out of the liver. As a result, the plasma glucose falls rapidly, and the plasma lactate levels rise to 5-10 mmol/L (4-5 times normal levels). Carriers such as MCT1 transport this lactate across the blood brain barrier where the brain can efficiently metabolize it in the presence of oxygen through the citric acid cycle and produce the energy needed for brain function. Indeed, animal studies have demonstrated that the cerebral metabolic rate of oxygen consumption does not fall significantly during the initial phase of hypoglycemia when either ketones or lactate are available as an alternate substrate. In patients with diabetes, lactate infusions can prevent insulin induced neuroglycopenia (12). In addition, humans undergoing a ketogenic diet were able to transition from utilizing primarily glucose as brain fuel to ketones providing 17% of whole brain energy requirements with no overall change in the cerebral metabolic rate (13). It is for this reason that that hypoglycemia itself does not cause brain damage, it is a lack
