Hypoglycemia in Neonates, Infants, and Children
KEYWORDS: hypoglycemia, glucose, hyperinsulinism, insulin, pubmed, plasma, children, fasting, free, diagnosis, levels, hours, plasma glucose, treatment, disorders


energy requirements with no overall change in the cerebral metabolic rate (13). It is for this reason that that hypoglycemia itself does not cause brain damage, it is a lack of fuel (glucose, beta-hydroxybutyrate or lactate combined) that causes brain damage. In addition to a lack of fuels for energy production a lack of oxygen supply to the brain prevents the utilization of lactate which can dramatically worsen energy failure in the brain. In non-physiological conditions when the plasma glucose continues to drop down to 30 mg/dL or lower, cerebral spinal fluid glucose levels become almost zero and in the absence of either ketones or lactate essential functions of the brain stop and cell death begins to occur (14). Breakdown of the phospholipids in the brain provides free fatty acids and breakdown of protein provides gluconeogenic substrates but also increases brain ammonia levels 10-15 fold (15). Whilst breakdown of tissues provides fuel for energy production, this process also damages vital cells and organelles causing permanent cellular destruction. Once the production of energy is insufficient to maintain adequate high energy phosphate compounds, the infant or child will become comatose and have an isoelectric electroencephalogram. It is not known exactly how long glucose and the alternate fuel levels need to be low to cause harm nor how low the total fuels need to be prior to the onset of permanent brain damage; however, it is likely to differ based on availability of alternative fuels, rates of brain metabolism (increased in seizures), and degree of plasma oxygenation. In conditions such as hyperinsulinism, where there are no alternate fuels available and when patients may have seizures which both increase brain energy needs and decreases the availability of oxygen in the blood stream, all these factors combine and may cause profound brain damage (16). It is clear that not all hypoglycemia is equal, and the responsible physician must assess the etiology of the hypoglycemia, the likelihood of the presence of alternate fuels, and the presence of good blood flow and oxygenation in order to understand the danger of any given episode of hypoglycemia. The importance of correctly identifying the etiology of the hypoglycemia thus affects not just the long-term approach to management but also the immediate approach to the infant or child. This also explains why efforts to define a single blood glucose value that predicts brain damage is impossible and why efforts to define
