Hypoglycemia in Neonates, Infants, and Children
KEYWORDS: hypoglycemia, glucose, hyperinsulinism, insulin, pubmed, plasma, children, fasting, free, diagnosis, levels, hours, plasma glucose, treatment, disorders


immediate approach to the infant or child. This also explains why efforts to define a single blood glucose value that predicts brain damage is impossible and why efforts to define neurological outcome relative to glucose levels alone are not valid. DEFINITION OF HYPOGLYCEMIA For the reasons stated above, a single measurement of glucose does not reflect the total energy availability to the brain. Therefore, when one tries to define hypoglycemia, one should consider why a definition is required. We suggest that the definition of hypoglycemia needs to include three critical aspects. 1) Diagnostic hypoglycemia is the level of glucose required to make a diagnosis of the etiology of the hypoglycemia. 2) Therapeutic hypoglycemia is the level of glucose one should aim to stay above during treatment of hypoglycemic disorders. 3) The concentration of glucose at which hypoglycemia causes brain damage is unknown and practically there is no such value. Diagnostic Hypoglycemia Evaluation of a blood and urine sample when the plasma glucose is less than 50 mg/dL is essential in determining the etiology of hypoglycemia. This allows a determination of the metabolic profile at the time of hypoglycemia. This sample is often referred to as a “critical sample” and typically includes both blood (plasma) and urine samples, which are analyzed for the analytes in Table 2. Table 2. The Critical Sample: Blood and urine samples to be drawn at a time of hypoglycemia (plasma glucose <50mg/dL) to guide the diagnosis of the etiology of hypoglycemia with additional testing for certain conditions. View in own window Plasma Glucose Insulin Cortisol Growth hormone Beta-hydroxybutyrate Free fatty acids Acylcarnitine profile Ammonia Liver function tests Urine Urine organic acids In suspected insulin administration C-peptide Specific insulin assays to measure biological insulin only Sulfonylurea screen In suspected insulinoma Proinsulin C-peptide Sulfonylurea screen In suspected fatty acid oxidation defects Free and total carnitine The critical sample can be drawn either at a time of spontaneous hypoglycemia or at the end of a fasting study in which plasma glucose less than 50 mg/dL is deliberately induced. Once the plasma glucose is <50 mg/dL, the counter regulatory hormones should be elevated, and insulin suppressed. The metabolic systems of glycogenolysis, gluconeogenesis, fatty acid oxidation, and ketone utilization should be underway and with glucagon administration, there should be no glycemic response as the liver should have utilized all the glycogen stores. Interpretation of the critical sample is the key to
