Hypoglycemia in Neonates, Infants, and Children
KEYWORDS: hypoglycemia, glucose, hyperinsulinism, insulin, pubmed, plasma, children, fasting, free, diagnosis, levels, hours, plasma glucose, treatment, disorders


(20). Figure 2. Hypoglycemia diagnosis based on plasma metabolic fuel responses. Measurement of lactate as a gluconeogenic substrate, FFA from adipose tissue lipolysis, and BOHB at the time of hypoglycemia segregates major groups of hypoglycemia disorders. FFA, free fatty acids; GH, growth hormone; HCO 3 , bicarbonate; BOHB, beta-hydroxybutyrate. Adapted from Thornton PS, Stanley CA, De Leon DD, Harris D, Haymond MW, Hussain K, Levitsky LL, Murad MH, Rozance PJ, Simmons RA, Sperling MA, Weinstein DA, White NH, Wolfsdorf JI, Pediatric Endocrine S. Recommendations from the Pediatric Endocrine Society for Evaluation and Management of Persistent Hypoglycemia in Neonates, Infants, and Children. J Pediatr. 2015;167(2):238-245 (21). Therapeutic Hypoglycemia Generally, the target to treat infants and children with known hypoglycemic disorders is to keep the blood glucose above 70 mg/dL. There are certain conditions when the target maybe higher such as patients in acute decompensation with fatty acid oxidation defects where the goal is to stimulate insulin secretion which will prevent lipolysis and then fatty acid oxidation. In these circumstances it may require that the glucose levels are elevated to greater than 85 mg/dL. Thus, in this case, getting the blood sugar up to 70 mg/dL will prevent the consequences of hypoglycemia but will not rapidly reverse the breakdown of lipids to free fatty acids and glycerol and thus will not stop the accumulation the abnormal metabolites of fatty acid oxidation. In children with GSD 1 the provision of adequate glucose to get the blood sugar greater than 70 mg/dL will provide the brain with adequate glucose for energy, however raising the blood sugar too high will drive glucose to lactate and thus worsen lactate levels. So, for individuals with GSD 1 the goal is to maintain the glucose at a level that will maximally suppress lactate levels (70-85 mg/dL) without triggering insulin release. A second reason to maintain the plasma glucose greater than 70 mg/dL is to prevent hypoglycemic unawareness. Recurrent episodes of glucose levels less than 70 mg/dL over time will blunt the release of epinephrine by the autonomic nervous system. The secretion of epinephrine triggers awareness by the child and young adult of impending neuroglycopenia and allows them to react by food seeking behavior to prevent further hypoglycemia. After every episode of hypoglycemia, this counter regulatory response is blunted for up to 5 days and if the hypoglycemia recurs inside this period, the response is blunted even more. This
