Hypoglycemia in Neonates, Infants, and Children
KEYWORDS: hypoglycemia, glucose, hyperinsulinism, insulin, pubmed, plasma, children, fasting, free, diagnosis, levels, hours, plasma glucose, treatment, disorders


every episode of hypoglycemia, this counter regulatory response is blunted for up to 5 days and if the hypoglycemia recurs inside this period, the response is blunted even more. This failure to secrete epinephrine in response to hypoglycemia is hypoglycemia associated autonomic failure (HAAF) (22). NEONATAL TRANSITIONAL GLUCOSE REGULATION The transition from intrauterine to extra uterine life is a critical time for the neonate. In utero, the fetus is exposed to seemingly limitless supplies of glucose, amino acids, and other fuels necessary for growth and development, through the maternal placenta unit. Because of the insulin resistance of pregnancy, maternal plasma glucose levels are higher than in the non-pregnant state. Glucose is transported across the placenta by facilitated diffusion and fetal plasma glucose levels are approximately 8-15 mg/dL lower than maternal levels. Fetal plasma glucose levels are determined by maternal plasma glucose levels, however fetal insulin secretion is regulated by fetal plasma glucose levels. Recent data have shown that the threshold for insulin secretion in the fetus is lower than the adult and that this is controlled at the level of the K ATP channel by decreased trafficking of the channel to the beta cell plasma membrane (23). The function of insulin in the fetus is to act as the main anabolic hormone and drive fetal growth. At the time of birth and clamping of the umbilical cord this constant supply of glucose is interrupted. The now newborn has to suddenly adjust initially to no glucose and soon thereafter to limited glucose input via, intermittent feeding and a nutrition source that is primarily fat (colostrum). The recent glucose in well babies study (GLOW) has shown that this transition can last up to 72-96 hours in normal breast-fed babies and consists of two phases (24): initially a hypoketotic hypoglycemic phase, and then a ketotic euglycemic/hypoglycemic stage until the mother’s milk comes in (Figure 3). Figure 3. Glucose and beta-hydroxybutyrate levels in healthy term newborns over the first 96 hours of life demonstrating the period of transitional hyperinsulinism during adaptation to extrauterine life followed by the period of hyperketotic euglycemic/hypoglycemic phase of starvation until breast milk has come in and the neonate has adequate caloric intake. Stanley CA, et al. Figure 1. From Stanley CA, Thornton PS, De Leon DD. New approaches to screening and management of neonatal hypoglycemia based on improved understanding of the molecular mechanism of hypoglycemia. Front Pediatr. 2023;11:1071206 (25)
