Hypoglycemia in Neonates, Infants, and Children
KEYWORDS: hypoglycemia, glucose, hyperinsulinism, insulin, pubmed, plasma, children, fasting, free, diagnosis, levels, hours, plasma glucose, treatment, disorders


Stanley CA, Thornton PS, De Leon DD. New approaches to screening and management of neonatal hypoglycemia based on improved understanding of the molecular mechanism of hypoglycemia. Front Pediatr. 2023;11:1071206 (25) CC BY 4.0. Adapted from Harris DL, Weston PJ, Harding JE. Alternative Cerebral Fuels in the First Five Days in Healthy Term Infants: The Glucose in Well Babies (GLOW) Study. J Pediatr. 2021;231:81-86 e82 (26). In healthy newborns with normal birth weight, the glycogen stores from the liver built up during pregnancy, provide the initial glucose support. In the healthy newborn, liver glycogen concentration is the highest of all times in life and can supply the newborn with glucose for up to 12 hours. In preterm infants and infants born small for gestational age (SGA) or with intra-uterine growth retardation (IUGR), this supply is dramatically diminished thus increasing the risk of hypoglycemia in these babies. In addition, in the immediate newborn period, lactate levels are elevated (24), and gluconeogenesis from lactate rapidly increases over the first few hours of life, as the rate limiting enzyme of gluconeogenesis, phosphoenolpyruvate carboxy-kinase (PEPCK) increases to adult level by 24 hours of life. In the immediate post-natal hours, ketone levels are inappropriately low for the plasma glucose due to the lower threshold for insulin secretion but over the first 48 hours as the threshold for glucose stimulated insulin release rises, plasma ketone concentration begins to increase. In addition, medium chain fatty acids from colostrum are directly absorbed and transported to the liver through the portal circulation and undergo beta oxidation to generate ketones. In starved breastfed infants, ketones can reach 2 mmol/L by 48-72 hours of life (26). The newborn rapidly adjusts from living in a steady anabolic state to an intermittent catabolic state until nutrition becomes adequate to supply sufficient energy to grow. In the relatively hypoxemic environment of in-utero life, insulin has a lower threshold for secretion to ensure the fetus remains in an anabolic state. After birth the newborn must adjust rapidly from the steady secretion of insulin associated with consistent fetal glucose availability to rapidly changing plasma glucose levels with feeding and to be able to deal with intermittent fasting. Over the first 12-24 hours of life the threshold for insulin secretion rises to the more typical 80-85 mg/dL seen in older infants, children and adults. All of this occurs while awaiting maturation of all the enzymes needed for gluconeogenesis
