Hypoglycemia in Neonates, Infants, and Children
KEYWORDS: hypoglycemia, glucose, hyperinsulinism, insulin, pubmed, plasma, children, fasting, free, diagnosis, levels, hours, plasma glucose, treatment, disorders


insulin secretion rises to the more typical 80-85 mg/dL seen in older infants, children and adults. All of this occurs while awaiting maturation of all the enzymes needed for gluconeogenesis and fatty acid oxidation. The consequences of these changes are that in the first 1-2 hours of life the blood glucose concentration falls to a mean of approximately 55 mg/dL (Figure 3). Gradually over the next 12-48 hours the plasma glucose concentration starts to rise to levels (60 mg/dL) approaching normal adult levels and by 72-84 hours of life, transition is complete and plasma glucose levels are in essence similar to adults (70 to 110 mg/dL) (2,24). During the first 24-48 hours of life upwards of 35-45% of normal healthy term babies may have occasional plasma glucose levels less than 50 mg/dL, however by 72-84 hours of life persistent plasma glucose levels less than 60 mg/dL reflect an underlying pathological problem (21). Approach to Neonatal Glucose Screening and Treatment The dilemma for physicians caring for newborns is how to differentiate babies having normal transitional glucose regulation with transient hypoglycemia from those with pathological hypoglycemia due to conditions such as perinatal stress-induced hyperinsulinism (PSHI). The 2015 Pediatric Endocrine Society (PES) recommendations (21) guide the physician on how to differentiate physiological plasma glucose levels less than 50 mg/dL from pathological causes of hypoglycemia in the first days of life. They recommend that normal healthy term babies with no symptoms of hypoglycemia do not require glucose monitoring. Babies at risk for hypoglycemia such as those with IUGR, those born large for gestational age (LGA) or SGA, those born late pre-term, and those in whom maternal factors increase the risk of hypoglycemia such as maternal hypertension, preeclampsia, and eclampsia should be monitored. In addition, babies who have symptoms consistent with hypoglycemia (Table 4) should also be screened for hypoglycemia. Table 4. Symptoms and Signs of Hypoglycemia View in own window Neurogenic symptoms appear when glucose <70 mg/dL (<2.8mmol/L) Jitteriness (neonates), shakiness Tachycardia Pallor Hypothermia Hunger Sweating Weakness Neuroglycopenic symptoms appear when glucose <45-50 mg/dL (2.5-2.8 mmol/L) Poor feeding (neonates) Apnea (neonates) Floppiness (neonates) Weak/high-pitched cry (neonates) Lip smacking and eye twitching (neonates) Headache Confusion Irritability, outbursts of temper Bizarre neurological signs Motor and sensory disturbances Lethargy Decreased muscle tone Unconsciousness Seizure The PES guidelines recommend that the target to treat these infants be 50 mg/dL but if intravenous glucose is required indicating a more
