Hypoglycemia in Neonates, Infants, and Children
KEYWORDS: hypoglycemia, glucose, hyperinsulinism, insulin, pubmed, plasma, children, fasting, free, diagnosis, levels, hours, plasma glucose, treatment, disorders


disturbances Lethargy Decreased muscle tone Unconsciousness Seizure The PES guidelines recommend that the target to treat these infants be 50 mg/dL but if intravenous glucose is required indicating a more serious problem, the target should be 60-70 mg/dL. After 48 hours of life the target for treatment is 60 mg/dL. The recommendations also state that if a known hypoglycemic disorder is identified then the target for treatment is to maintain the blood glucose greater than 70 mg/dL. These goals should be achieved initially by appropriate resuscitation in the newborn period with the avoidance of cold stress to the baby, early skin to skin contact, early breast feeding or if chosen by mothers, bottle feeding (27). Supplemental glucose can be given with dextrose gel (28). In neonates with symptomatic hypoglycemia or those in whom the above measures fail to maintain the plasma glucose above 50 mg/dL intravenous glucose therapy should be initiated at a glucose infusion rate (GIR) of 4-6 mg/kg/min with or without a 200 mg/kg bolus of IV dextrose. As shown. in Figure 4, within 10 minutes following an IV dextrose bolus of 200 mg/kg followed by a GIR of 8 mg/kg/min, plasma glucose levels reach close to 90% of the glucose concentration measured at 60 minutes. Thus, in patients with dangerously low glucose levels (<30 mg/dL) plasma glucose levels should be rechecked in 10-15 minutes to demonstrate correction of the hypoglycemia and if the glucose has not achieved the target level, then a repeat bolus and increase in the IV infusion rate of glucose should be implemented. In this manner, severe hypoglycemia can be rapidly corrected without significant overcorrection. At all times during treatment of hypoglycemia, the newborn infant should be encouraged to continue to feed orally, unless the patient is seizing or has significant respiratory distress in which case feeding should be withheld temporarily. Figure 4. The effect of a 200 mg/kg IV mini-bolus in addition to starting a glucose infusion rate of 8 mg/kg/minute compared to just starting 8 mg/kg/minute infusion rate alone. Reprinted from J. Pediatr, 97(2), Lilien LD, Pildes RS, Srinivasan G, Voora S, Yeh TF., Treatment of neonatal hypoglycemia with minibolus and intravenous glucose infusion, 295-298, 1980, with permission from Elsevier (29). The single most important clinical differentiators of pathological hypoglycemia from transitional hypoglycemia in the newborn period are the presence of neuroglycopenic signs of hypoglycemia (apnea, lethargy, seizures) and the need for
