Hypoglycemia in Neonates, Infants, and Children
KEYWORDS: hypoglycemia, glucose, hyperinsulinism, insulin, pubmed, plasma, children, fasting, free, diagnosis, levels, hours, plasma glucose, treatment, disorders


single most important clinical differentiators of pathological hypoglycemia from transitional hypoglycemia in the newborn period are the presence of neuroglycopenic signs of hypoglycemia (apnea, lethargy, seizures) and the need for intravenous glucose treatment to correct low glucose levels. In both these circumstances the newborn should undergo a fasting study of 6-9 hours to demonstrate that normal glucose regulation has returned (ability to keep glucose >60-70 mg/dL for 6-9 hours) prior to discharge from the hospital. In babies who have hypoglycemia within 6-9 hours of commencing fasting an underlying pathological cause should be sought prior to discharge and appropriate therapy implemented. For babies with persistent glucose <60 mg/dL after 48 hours of life the use of point of care ketone screening may assist in detecting those babies with failed breast feeding from those with the more serious hypoketotic forms of hypoglycemia such as hyperinsulinism, hypopituitarism, or the fatty acid oxidation defects. In the case of persistent hypoglycemia with hypoketosis, further investigations need to be done to determine the etiology. CLINICAL SYMPTOMS AND SIGNS OF HYPOGLYCEMIA Classical symptoms and signs of hypoglycemia are outlined in Table 4. It is important to note that children <5 years of age will generally have hypoglycemic unawareness and not be able to recognize the neurogenic symptoms of hypoglycemia. Neonatal hypoglycemia, by virtue of neonates being unable to communicate in a complex way, may be difficult to detect as many of the signs of hypoglycemia occur in normal neonates (30). Subtle signs such as poor feeding, sleepiness, and jitteriness occur in many non-hypoglycemic babies and clinical judgement as to when to check glucose is required. However, if in doubt it is better to check blood glucose (21). For more serious symptoms, such as lethargy, seizures, apnea and coma, screening point of care glucose should be performed and hypoglycemia simultaneously confirmed by laboratory measured plasma glucose. Older children with acquired hypoglycemia such as that caused by insulinoma, often have hypoglycemic unawareness due to the frequency of hypoglycemia and only demonstrate neuroglycopenic signs. All neonates, infants, and children with neuroglycopenic symptoms or signs must have a plasma glucose concentration checked and if <60-70 mg/dL serious consideration of hypoglycemia as a cause should be entertained. HORMONAL CAUSES OF HYPOGLYCEMIA Hyperinsulinism Hyperinsulinism refers to the group of hypoglycemic disorders caused by dysregulated, excessive insulin secretion or action via signaling. Insulin secretion from pancreatic beta-cells is tightly regulated and predominantly controlled by
