Hypoglycemia in Neonates, Infants, and Children
KEYWORDS: hypoglycemia, glucose, hyperinsulinism, insulin, pubmed, plasma, children, fasting, free, diagnosis, levels, hours, plasma glucose, treatment, disorders


Hyperinsulinism refers to the group of hypoglycemic disorders caused by dysregulated, excessive insulin secretion or action via signaling. Insulin secretion from pancreatic beta-cells is tightly regulated and predominantly controlled by the plasma glucose concentration (Figure 5). In normal circumstances glucose enters the beta-cell via insulin-independent glucose transporters and is phosphorylated by glucokinase to G-6-phos. Glucokinase acts as the “glucose sensor” setting the threshold for insulin secretion; normally, insulin secretion is triggered when plasma glucose levels are above 85 mg/dL. Metabolism of G-6-phos leads to an increase in the intracellular adenosine triphosphate (ATP) to adenosine diphosphate (ADP) ratio which regulates subsequent closure of the ATP-sensitive plasma membrane K ATP channels, membrane depolarization, activation of voltage-gated calcium channels, calcium influx, and release of insulin from stored granules. Amino acid metabolism also influences insulin secretion. Leucine allosterically activates glutamate dehydrogenase, increasing oxidation of glutamate to alpha-ketoglutarate, thereby increasing the ATP-to-ADP ratio, triggering the insulin secretion cascade. Glutamine mediates glucagon-like peptide 1 (GLP-1) receptor signaling, which acts as an “amplification pathway” for insulin secretion. Figure 5. Diagram of the pathways stimulating beta-cell insulin secretion. Glucose enters the beta-cell via glucose transporters and is phosphorylated by GCK to G-6-phos. Oxidation of G-6-phos in mitochondria increases the ATP-to-ADP ratio, leading to closure of plasma membrane ATP-sensitive K ATP channels (comprised of SUR1 and Kir6.2 subunits), inhibition of K+ efflux, membrane depolarization, opening of voltage-dependent Ca++ channels, Ca++ influx, and release of insulin from storage granules. Amino acids stimulate insulin secretion through glutamine-mediated amplification of GLP-1 receptor signaling. Leucine stimulates insulin secretion by increasing the oxidation of glutamate via activation of GDH, thereby increasing the ATP-to-ADP ratio and triggering the insulin secretion cascade. HK1 and MCT1 are not normally present in the beta-cell. Diazoxide suppresses insulin secretion by activating the K ATP channel to remain open. Somatostatin suppresses insulin secretion downstream of Ca++ signaling. Known sites of defects associated with congenital hyperinsulinism are indicated by bold and underlined font and include GCK (glucokinase), HK1 (hexokinase 1), PGM1 (phosphoglucomutase 1), MCT1 (monocarboxylate transporter 1), UCP2 (uncoupling protein 2), SCHAD (short-chain 3-hydroxyacyl-coenzyme A dehydrogenase), GDH (glutamate dehydrogenase), HNF1A (hepatocyte nuclear factor 1A), HNFA (hepatocyte nuclear factor 4A), SUR1 (sulfonylurea receptor 1), Kir6.2 (inwardly rectifying potassium channel 6.2). Other abbreviations: OAA, oxaloacetate; PEP, phosphoenolpyruvate; α-KG, α-ketoglutarate; GAD, glutamic acid decarboxylase; GABA, γ-aminobutyrate, GHB, γ-hydroxybutyrate; SSA, succinic semialdehyde; Ins, insulin. Reprinted from Stanley CA, Perspective on the Genetics and Diagnosis of
