Hypoglycemia in Neonates, Infants, and Children
KEYWORDS: hypoglycemia, glucose, hyperinsulinism, insulin, pubmed, plasma, children, fasting, free, diagnosis, levels, hours, plasma glucose, treatment, disorders


CA, Vella A, Yorifuji T, Thornton PS. International Guidelines for the Diagnosis and Management of Hyperinsulinism. Horm Res Paediatr. 2023 (32). Notably, most children with hyperinsulinism due to mutations in genes encoding the K ATP channel will not respond to diazoxide. Histologically, there are several forms of K ATP channel hyperinsulinism including focal, diffuse and atypical. Many of these children will have a focal form of hyperinsulinism that can be cured by surgery (see below). In children with diazoxide-unresponsive hyperinsulinism, genetic testing that includes sequencing of K ATP channel genes should be sent on DNA from the affected child and their parents simultaneously. This approach permits timely identification of children likely to have focal hyperinsulinism, and who can be cured by surgery. Sending the parental DNA with the child saves 1-2 weeks of time and many of the laboratories perform the testing free of charge if a mutation is found in the child in which diagnosing the parent of origin will change the management. In addition, rapid genetic testing with a turnaround time of 4-7 days is critical in the management of diazoxide-unresponsive hyperinsulinism because this quickly allows the physician to determine who should be referred to a multidisciplinary hyperinsulinism center for imaging with 18F-DOPA PET scan which can currently be used only under an investigational new drug license (IND) and is only available in several places in the country. Obtaining results of the patient and both parents within 7 days compared to 28-40 days if sent to a conventional genetic laboratory could save upwards of $100,000 to $200,000 and 21 days of hospital stay during which time the patient is at risk of severe hypoglycemia, development of feeding intolerance, line infections, and other iatrogenic complications of prolonged hospitalization. Figure 6. HI Diagnostic and Treatment Algorithm. Once HI is diagnosed, effectiveness of diazoxide treatment needs to be assessed. Responsiveness to diazoxide is shown by demonstrating the ability to fast an age-appropriate interval (minimum 9 hours for neonate) with plasma glucose >70 mg/dL and/or generate beta-hydroxybutyrate >2 mmol/L prior to plasma glucose <50 mg/dL. For patients unresponsive to diazoxide, expedited genetic testing is obtained to differentiate diffuse and focal forms of HI. 18 F-DOPA PET/CT is performed when genetic testing is suggestive of possible focal disease. For patients with diffuse, diazoxide-unresponsive disease, intensive medical therapy is initiated, with near-total pancreatectomy reserved for medically unresponsive cases. 18 F-DOPA PET/CT 18-fluoro-L-3,4-dihydroxyphenylalanine positron emission
