Hypoglycemia in Neonates, Infants, and Children
KEYWORDS: hypoglycemia, glucose, hyperinsulinism, insulin, pubmed, plasma, children, fasting, free, diagnosis, levels, hours, plasma glucose, treatment, disorders


suggestive of possible focal disease. For patients with diffuse, diazoxide-unresponsive disease, intensive medical therapy is initiated, with near-total pancreatectomy reserved for medically unresponsive cases. 18 F-DOPA PET/CT 18-fluoro-L-3,4-dihydroxyphenylalanine positron emission tomography. Second-line medical management options include somatostatin analogues – octreotide and the long-acting analog lanreotide - and enteral dextrose. Enteral dextrose is administered as a continuous infusion of 20% dextrose solution via nasogastric or gastrostomy tube (maximum enteral GIR 10 mg/kg/min). Octreotide is a short-acting somatostatin analogue administered multiple times per day subcutaneously (dose range: 2-20 mcg/kg/day, divided every 6-8 hours). Octreotide should not be used in children <2 months of age due to an association with fatal necrotizing enterocolitis. Lanreotide is used in children >1 year of age (administered as 60 mg injection monthly) (41). Several new therapies, including glucagon analogues, oral somatostatin analogues, insulin receptor modulators, and GLP-1 receptor antagonists, are under development (42). In diffuse congenital hyperinsulinism cases that do not respond to medical treatment, near-total pancreatectomy is performed. Near-total pancreatectomy is palliative, not curative; significant hypoglycemia persists in up to 50% of children. Additionally, this procedure is complicated by development of exocrine pancreatic insufficiency and late-onset post-pancreatectomy diabetes. K ATP Hyperinsulinism (K ATP HI) The most common and severe form of congenital hyperinsulinism, K ATP HI, is caused by inactivating mutations in ABCC8 or KCNJ11 . Both located on chromosome 11p15.1, these genes each encode a subunit of the pancreatic beta-cell K ATP channel. Inactivation of the K ATP channel results in beta-cell depolarization (Figure 5), and inappropriate secretion of insulin. In addition to severe fasting hypoglycemia, K ATP HI is characterized by protein-induced hypoglycemia mediated by GLP-1 receptor signaling (6). K ATP HI is histologically classified as diffuse, in which all beta-cells are affected, focal, in which a localized subset beta-cells are affected, or less commonly, atypical (also termed Localized Islet Nuclear Enlargement [LINE-HI]). Focal K ATP HI results from a “two hit” mechanism involving paternal transmission of a recessive K ATP HI mutation and a somatic loss of heterozygosity for the maternal 11p15 region yielding imbalanced expression of imprinted tumor suppressor genes (43). Dominant or recessive mutations in K ATP HI genes cause diffuse K ATP HI. Often, children with atypical histology (LINE-HI) do not have an identifiable mutation in standard sequencing of peripheral blood; however, low-level mosaic mutations are increasingly recognized as causative (44). Infants with diffuse forms of K ATP HI are
