Hypoglycemia in Neonates, Infants, and Children
KEYWORDS: hypoglycemia, glucose, hyperinsulinism, insulin, pubmed, plasma, children, fasting, free, diagnosis, levels, hours, plasma glucose, treatment, disorders


not have an identifiable mutation in standard sequencing of peripheral blood; however, low-level mosaic mutations are increasingly recognized as causative (44). Infants with diffuse forms of K ATP HI are often born large for gestational age and present with symptomatic hypoglycemia in the first few days of life. While infants with the focal form of K ATP HI are more likely to have normal birth weight and present at an older age than those with diffuse disease, the two histologic forms are often indistinguishable in clinical practice (45). The recessive, focal, and atypical (LINE-HI) forms of K ATP HI are usually not responsive to diazoxide. In contrast, dominant K ATP HI may be diazoxide responsive due to retained partial function of K ATP channels. For infants with diazoxide-unresponsive hyperinsulinism, the goal is to identify those children with focal K ATP HI since these children can be cured by surgery. Findings of a single recessive K ATP mutation in the father, but not the mother, will have a 94% positive predictive value for focal hyperinsulinism (36) in the symptomatic infant. When suspected, 18-fluoro-L-3,4-dihydroxyphenylalanine positron emission tomography (18F-DOPA PET) is used to localize the focal lesion and guide surgical excision (46,47). Surgical cure rates for focal hyperinsulinism exceed 95%, when performed by experienced surgeons at a multidisciplinary hyperinsulinism center (48). For patients with diffuse K ATP HI, intensive medical management is attempted, initially with continuous enteral dextrose (maximum enteral GIR 10 mg/kg/min). Octreotide can be added after 2 months of age (as above). Surgical management (near-total pancreatectomy with gastrostomy tube placement) is reserved for patients who fail to achieve adequate glycemic control with intensive medical therapy because this procedure is not curative and carries long-term risks of exocrine pancreatic insufficiency and insulin-dependent diabetes mellitus (45,49). Notably, regardless of initial treatment, the severity of hypoglycemia tends to improve with age in children with diffuse K ATP HI. Determination of optimal management strategy thus depends on balancing short/intermediate-term risks of suboptimal hypoglycemia control and labor-intensive home management with potential further increased risk of long-term risk of adverse neurodevelopmental outcomes in the case of medical management versus inevitable post-pancreatectomy complications in the case of surgery. Management decisions are thus informed by the initial severity of hypoglycemia, responsiveness to intensive medical therapy, and the preferences and values of the child’s family. These children thus require specialized care and should be referred to a multidisciplinary hyperinsulinism center.
