Hypoglycemia in Neonates, Infants, and Children
KEYWORDS: hypoglycemia, glucose, hyperinsulinism, insulin, pubmed, plasma, children, fasting, free, diagnosis, levels, hours, plasma glucose, treatment, disorders


hypoglycemia, responsiveness to intensive medical therapy, and the preferences and values of the child’s family. These children thus require specialized care and should be referred to a multidisciplinary hyperinsulinism center. Glycemic status should be assessed in all children following pancreatectomy. Those children who do not require dextrose to maintain euglycemia postoperatively should undergo fasting study to demonstrate whether they are cured or need further medical management (Table 7) (32). Cure of HI can be demonstrated by the development of hyperketonemia (beta-hydroxybutyrate >1.8 mmol/L) prior to development of hypoglycemia (glucose <50 mg/dL). Later in life, dysregulated insulin secretion in diffuse K ATP HI may additionally manifest as gestational, and in some cases insulin-dependent, diabetes mellitus even in the absence of prior pancreatectomy. This finding has been observed both in dominant and recessive forms of diffuse K ATP HI (50,51). Mechanisms underlying the switch from hypoglycemia in early life to hyperglycemia later on remain incompletely understood. Impaired glucose-stimulated insulin secretion has been implicated based upon findings of reduced first-phase and maximal glucose-stimulated insulin secretion during oral glucose tolerance testing in adults with dominant K ATP (51), and reduced acute insulin response to graded IV glucose infusion in children with recessive K ATP HI (50). Impaired insulin secretory response to glucose (beta-cell “glucose blindness”) has also been proposed to underlie progression from hyperinsulinemic hypoglycemia to hyperglycemia in maturity-onset diabetes of the young (MODY) type 1 and type 3 (discussed below) (52-54). In mouse models of K ATP HI, increased beta-cell apoptosis has been observed prior to the development of hyperglycemia, suggesting that a progressive decline in beta-cell mass may also play a role (55). GCK Hyperinsulinism (GCK HI) Dominant activating mutations in the GCK gene (chromosome 7p13), encoding glucokinase, cause hyperinsulinism by increasing the affinity of glucokinase for glucose, thereby lowering the threshold for pancreatic beta-cell insulin secretion (Figure 5). Clinical phenotype is highly variable, even within the same family. Presentation ranges from severe hypoglycemia at birth with large for gestational age birth weight, to milder hypoglycemia detected in adulthood. Response to diazoxide is also variable. In severe cases, near-total pancreatectomy may be required. HK1 Hyperinsulinism (HK1 HI) The HK1 gene (chromosome 10q22.1) encodes hexokinase, which has a much higher affinity for glucose than glucokinase. Normally, expression of HK1 is suppressed in pancreatic beta-cells postnatally. Dominantly inherited variations in non-coding regions of the HK1 gene result in aberrant beta-cell expression of hexokinase. As
