Hypoglycemia in Neonates, Infants, and Children
KEYWORDS: hypoglycemia, glucose, hyperinsulinism, insulin, pubmed, plasma, children, fasting, free, diagnosis, levels, hours, plasma glucose, treatment, disorders


than glucokinase. Normally, expression of HK1 is suppressed in pancreatic beta-cells postnatally. Dominantly inherited variations in non-coding regions of the HK1 gene result in aberrant beta-cell expression of hexokinase. As a consequence, appropriate suppression of insulin secretion at low plasma glucose levels is impaired, resulting in hypoglycemia (56). The clinical phenotype is variable. Most affected individuals present in the first weeks of life, but delayed presentation is not infrequently reported. Severity ranges from severe symptoms at birth to mild symptoms detected only following identification of an affected relative. Response to diazoxide is similarly heterogeneous and some affected individuals have required pancreatectomy (56,57). GDH Hyperinsulinism (GDH HI) Dominant activating mutations in the GLUD1 gene (chromosome 10q23.2), encoding glutamate dehydrogenase (GDH), cause the hyperinsulinism hyperammonemia syndrome. Constitutively hyperactive GDH results in increased oxidation of glutamate to ammonia and alpha-ketoglutarate, the latter of which enters the citric acid cycle, thereby increasing the ATP-to-ADP ratio, triggering insulin secretion (58). Profound protein-induced hypoglycemia occurs because the amino acid leucine is potent allosteric activator of GDH (Figure 5). Individuals with GDH HI typically have normal birth weight and later age of presentation (median age 4-5 months). In addition to fasting and protein-induced hypoglycemia, GDH HI is associated with an increased risk of epilepsy as well as higher rates of intellectual impairment, both of which appear to be independent of hypoglycemic neurological injury (59). Rates of learning and intellectual impairments have ranged from 37-77% in studies of children with GDH HI in which these outcomes were measured (59-61). The characteristic seizure type observed is generalized, atypical absence (62). These seizures occur in the setting of euglycemia and notably are distinct from the focal-onset seizures that may occur following hypoglycemic brain injury (62). Aberrant GDH activity in the central nervous system, and resultant altered glutamate balance, have been hypothesized to underlie these neurological differences. However, the mechanism by which these deficits occur has not yet been definitively established. Persistent hyperammonemia (ammonia elevation 2-5 the normal range) due to GDH overactivity in the kidney is a cardinal feature but appears to be clinically asymptomatic (63). Importantly, affected individuals do not manifest symptoms of acute hyperammonemia encephalopathy (lethargy, headache, vomiting) as do children with urea cycle disorders. Plasma ammonia levels are not influenced by dietary protein load, nor are they lowered by typical therapies for hyperammonemia (sodium benzoate, N-carbamyl-glutamate) (64). The finding of hyperammonemia is thus useful in establishing a
