Hypoglycemia in Neonates, Infants, and Children
KEYWORDS: hypoglycemia, glucose, hyperinsulinism, insulin, pubmed, plasma, children, fasting, free, diagnosis, levels, hours, plasma glucose, treatment, disorders


are not influenced by dietary protein load, nor are they lowered by typical therapies for hyperammonemia (sodium benzoate, N-carbamyl-glutamate) (64). The finding of hyperammonemia is thus useful in establishing a clinical diagnosis of GDH HI. However, once identified, plasma ammonia levels do not require serial monitoring or targeted intervention. Hypoglycemia in GDH HI is usually well-managed with diazoxide and dietary modification. While dietary protein should not be restricted, it is imperative that affected individuals consume carbohydrate prior and concomitant to protein intake. Most individuals with GDH HI will respond to a 2:1 gram ratio of carbohydrates to protein to prevent protein induced hypoglycemia but some will need ratios of 3:1. Typically breast milk or formula milk will not trigger hypoglycemia, but once solid foods are introduced, especially meats, care must be taken to prevent protein induced hypoglycemia. The cardinal warning sign of this is patients in whom glucose control was adequate including fasting overnight but who suddenly develop post prandial hypoglycemia. A formalized protein challenge test (Table 8) may be performed to evaluate adequacy of treatment in individuals with GDH HI. This test is also helpful to evaluate protein sensitivity in K ATP HI, HADH HI (below), and congenital HI with negative genetic testing. A drop in the plasma glucose of more than 10 mg/dL or below 70 mg/dl is considered an abnormal result (evidence of protein sensitivity). Because this test must be done following a 3-4 hour fast to ensure the glucose levels are stable prior to starting the test it can only be done in patients whose fasting glucose is controlled. Patients who are very protein sensitive may drop the plasma glucose in the first 15-60 minutes. Table 8. Oral Protein Challenge Test Procedure View in own window Make patient NPO for food and carbohydrate containing fluids for 3-4 hours pre procedure Insert peripheral intravenous line and have dextrose 10% available for emergency use Measure baseline glucose and insulin Administer 1g/kg of food protein PO over 10-15 minutes. Alternatively, protein powder may be used (administered via nasogastric or gastrostomy tube). Measure glucose and insulin every 30 minutes for 3 hours If the plasma glucose drops to <60 mg/dL terminate test with carbohydrate drink of 15 g or intravenous push of 200 mg/kg (2ml/kg D10%) HADH Hyperinsulinism (HADH HI) Inactivating mutations in HADH (chromosome 4q25) cause a rare, autosomal recessive form of diazoxide-responsive hyperinsulinism. The HADH gene encodes short
