Hypoglycemia in Neonates, Infants, and Children
KEYWORDS: hypoglycemia, glucose, hyperinsulinism, insulin, pubmed, plasma, children, fasting, free, diagnosis, levels, hours, plasma glucose, treatment, disorders


push of 200 mg/kg (2ml/kg D10%) HADH Hyperinsulinism (HADH HI) Inactivating mutations in HADH (chromosome 4q25) cause a rare, autosomal recessive form of diazoxide-responsive hyperinsulinism. The HADH gene encodes short chain 3-hydroxyacyl-coenzyme A dehydrogenase (HADH, also referred to as SCHAD) which inhibits GDH and also plays a role in mitochondrial fatty acid beta-oxidation. Loss of normal GDH inhibition results in a similar phenotype as GDH HI with fasting and protein-induced hyperinsulinemic hypoglycemia, but without hyperammonemia. Elevated levels of 3-hydroxybutyryl-carnitine in plasma and 3-hydroxyglutaric acid in urine may serve as clues to the diagnosis in some but are not universally observed (65). Treatment is with diazoxide and dietary modification as in GDH HI. HNF1A and HNF4A Hyperinsulinism (HNF1A and HNF4A HI) Dominant inactivating mutations in the genes encoding transcription factors hepatocyte nuclear factor 1 alpha and hepatocyte nuclear factor 4 alpha, cause both hyperinsulinism and maturity-onset diabetes of the young (MODY3 and MODY1, respectively). Affected infants are often born large for gestational age. Severity of hyperinsulinism varies from transient neonatal hypoglycemia to persistent hyperinsulinism requiring treatment into school age (66). The p.Arg63Trp HNF4A mutation is associated with an additional extra-pancreatic phenotype of renal Fanconi syndrome and hepatic dysfunction (66,67). Response to diazoxide is often robust. Establishing the diagnosis has important implications both for the affected child, who requires ongoing surveillance after hyperinsulinism resolution due to the risk of developing diabetes later in life, and for family members carrying the mutation who could benefit from early diagnosis of diabetes or targeted therapy (i.e., sulfonylureas). MCT1 Hyperinsulinism (MCT1 HI) Dominant mutations in the non-coding regions of SLC16A1 (chromosome 1p13.2), encoding monocarboxylate transporter 1 (MCT1), result in exercise-induced hyperinsulinism (68). MCT1 catalyzes transport of monocarboxylates, such as lactate, pyruvate and beta-hydroxybutyrate, across the plasma membrane. Normally, MCT1 expression is disallowed in pancreatic beta cells. Promoter-activating mutations induce inappropriate MCT1 expression in beta cells, permitting uptake of pyruvate during exercise when plasma pyruvate is elevated. Pyruvate metabolism leads to increased ATP production, and resultant pyruvate-stimulated (exercise-induced) insulin release despite hypoglycemia (69). Response to diazoxide is variable, and carbohydrate loading prior to exercise is recommended to control hypoglycemia. Nonfunctional variants in the coding regions of SLC16A1 cause ketotic hypoglycemia (see section on Pathologic Ketotic Hypoglycemia and Ketone Utilization and Transport Defects). This is a very uncommon clinical entity. UCP2 Hyperinsulinism Dominant inactivating mutations in the UCP2 gene (chromosome 11q13.4) encoding uncoupling protein 2 (UCP2) have been
