Hypoglycemia in Neonates, Infants, and Children
KEYWORDS: hypoglycemia, glucose, hyperinsulinism, insulin, pubmed, plasma, children, fasting, free, diagnosis, levels, hours, plasma glucose, treatment, disorders


Ketone Utilization and Transport Defects). This is a very uncommon clinical entity. UCP2 Hyperinsulinism Dominant inactivating mutations in the UCP2 gene (chromosome 11q13.4) encoding uncoupling protein 2 (UCP2) have been associated with a diazoxide-responsive form of hyperinsulinism (70). Following initial reports, the prevalence of UCP2 variants in the general population has been found to be high, raising the role of UCP2 variants as a monogenic cause of hyperinsulinism into question (71). SYNDROMIC HYPERINSULINISM Hyperinsulinism is a feature of several recognized syndromes. These include the overgrowth syndromes: Beckwith-Wiedemann, Sotos, Simpson-Golabi-Behmel, and Perlman syndromes, as well as Kabuki syndrome, Turner syndrome, Tyrosinemia type 1, Usher syndrome type 1C (in which there is contiguous gene deletion at 11p15.2 including ABCC8 ), Rubinstein-Taybi syndrome, and several congenital disorders of glycosylation, among others (72). Beckwith-Wiedemann, Kabuki, and Turner syndromes are most frequently observed (72), and are discussed in the sections below along with the congenital disorders of glycosylation associated with hyperinsulinism. Beckwith-Wiedemann Syndrome Beckwith-Wiedemann syndrome, caused by genetic or epigenetic changes on chromosome 11p15.5, is an overgrowth disorder with classical features of macrosomia, macroglossia, hemihypertrophy, abdominal wall defects, and embryonal tumors. Due to the varying molecular etiologies, and the postzygotic nature of the epigenetic changes in most cases, affected children can present with a variety of clinical features along a spectrum of “classic” to “atypical” to isolated lateralized overgrowth (73). Hyperinsulinism occurs in approximately 50% of all cases and is the presenting symptom of Beckwith-Wiedemann syndrome in 16% of cases (73). While the hyperinsulinism is typically mild in severity and resolves within the first days to years of life, in roughly 5% of cases (particularly cases due to paternal uniparental isodisomy for chromosome 11p), it can be severe and persistent, requiring pancreatectomy (74). Hyperinsulinism persisting beyond the first week of life is considered a cardinal feature of Beckwith-Wiedemann syndrome (75). Thus, all patients presenting with hyperinsulinism should be evaluated for subtle limb asymmetry and other suggestive features (Table 9) (75). Molecular testing for investigation of Beckwith-Wiedemann syndrome should be considered in these patients. Additional suggestive features in the context of a hyperinsulinism evaluation include marked pancreatic enlargement and diffuse 18-F-DOPA uptake, or alternatively, very large areas of focal 18-F-DOPA uptake, on PET/CT imaging (76). In the latter setting, areas of increased involvement on PET imaging may be used to tailor the extent of pancreatectomy. Histologically, resected pancreatic tissue in cases of Beckwith-Wiedemann syndrome are characterized
