Hypoglycemia in Neonates, Infants, and Children
KEYWORDS: hypoglycemia, glucose, hyperinsulinism, insulin, pubmed, plasma, children, fasting, free, diagnosis, levels, hours, plasma glucose, treatment, disorders


the latter setting, areas of increased involvement on PET imaging may be used to tailor the extent of pancreatectomy. Histologically, resected pancreatic tissue in cases of Beckwith-Wiedemann syndrome are characterized by a dramatic increase in endocrine tissue relative to the amount of exocrine tissue, often with a loss of the normal lobular architecture, and prominent trabecular arrangement of endocrine cells (76,77). Since the genetic or epigenetic changes causing Beckwith-Wiedemann syndrome usually occur during embryonal development, yielding a mosaic pattern, failure to detect these changes in blood (leukocytes) is thus not conclusive, and additional testing (e.g., from skin or pancreas) may be required. Table 9. Clinical Features of Beckwith-Wiedemann Syndrome (BWS) View in own window Cardinal features (2 points per feature) Macroglossia Exomphalos Lateralized overgrowth Multifocal and/or bilateral Wilms tumor or nephroblastomatosis Hyperinsulinism (lasting >1 week and requiring escalated treatment) Pathology findings: adrenal cortex cytomegaly, placental mesenchymal dysplasia or pancreatic adenomatosis Suggestive features (1 point per feature) Birthweight >2SDS above the mean Facial nevus simplex Polyhydramnios and/or placentomegaly Ear creases and/or pits Transient hypoglycemia (lasting <1 week) Typical BWS tumors (neuroblastoma, rhabdomyosarcoma, unilateral Wilms tumor, hepatoblastoma, adrenocortical carcinoma or phaeochromocytoma) Nephromegaly and/or hepatomegaly Umbilical hernia and/or diastasis recti Score interpretation ≥4: Clinical diagnosis of classical BWS. Genetic testing for investigation and diagnosis of BWS recommended. Note that clinical diagnosis does not require the molecular confirmation of an 11p15 anomaly. ≥2: Merit genetic testing for investigation and diagnosis of BWS Patients with a score of ≥2 with negative genetic testing should be considered for an alternative diagnosis and/or referral to a BWS expert for further evaluation Adapted from Brioude F. et al, Expert consensus document: Clinical and molecular diagnosis, screening and management of Beckwith-Wiedemann syndrome: an international consensus statement. Nat Rev Endocrinol. 2018;14(4):229-249 (75). Kabuki Syndrome Kabuki syndrome is caused by dominant mutations in KMT2D (~75% of cases) or X-linked mutations in KDM6A . While the true incidence of hyperinsulinism in Kabuki syndrome is unknown, it is increasingly recognized as a feature of this disorder, often as the presenting feature (78). Clinically, affected children have distinctive facial features – long palpebral fissures with eversion of the lateral lower eyelid, arched eyebrows, and prominent ears – skeletal anomalies, intellectual disability, and post-natal growth deficiency. Congenital heart defects, genitourinary and gastrointestinal anomalies, and immune dysfunction may also be observed. Haploinsufficiency of KDM6A has been proposed as the pathophysiologic mechanism of hyperinsulinism, and human islets
