Hypoglycemia in Neonates, Infants, and Children
KEYWORDS: hypoglycemia, glucose, hyperinsulinism, insulin, pubmed, plasma, children, fasting, free, diagnosis, levels, hours, plasma glucose, treatment, disorders


deficiency. Congenital heart defects, genitourinary and gastrointestinal anomalies, and immune dysfunction may also be observed. Haploinsufficiency of KDM6A has been proposed as the pathophysiologic mechanism of hyperinsulinism, and human islets treated with KDM6A inhibitor demonstrate abnormal insulin secretion (79). Most cases are diazoxide-responsive. Somatostatin analogues have been used with success in cases where diazoxide was contraindicated due to cardiac comorbidity. Turner Syndrome The incidence of hyperinsulinism in infants with Turner syndrome is roughly 50 times that expected in the general population (79). As in Kabuki syndrome, haploinsufficiency of KDM6A (located on X chromosome) has been proposed as the underlying mechanism. Many, but not all, children with Turner syndrome and associated hyperinsulinism are diazoxide-responsive. FOXA2 Hyperinsulinism Inactivating mutations in FOXA2 , encoding the transcription factor forkhead box A2 (Foxa2), have been associated with a clinical phenotype of congenital hyperinsulinism, hypopituitarism, and endodermal-derived organ anomalies (80,81). Treatment with both pituitary hormone replacement and diazoxide has been reported to be effective. Congenital Disorders of Glycosylation Monogenic defects in the synthesis of oligosaccharides are responsible for congenital disorders of glycosylation (CDG), over 100 of which have been identified to date. Endocrine dysfunction (including growth failure, hypothyroidism, hypogonadotropic hypogonadism) is common to many congenital disorders of glycosylation because both endocrine peptides and their receptor targets are glycosylated. These disorders have a wide phenotypic spectrum, and three have been associated with hyperinsulinism: phosphomannomutase 2 deficiency (PMM2-CDG, formerly CDG-1a), mannose phosphate isomerase deficiency (MPI-CDG, formerly CDG-1b), and phosphoglucomutase 1 deficiency (PGM1-CDG, formerly CDG-1t, also formerly referred to as GSD XIV). PMM2-CDG is the most common congenital disorder of glycosylation. Hyperinsulinism in PMM2-CDG has been proposed to result from impaired function of beta-cell K ATP channels and most cases have been diazoxide-responsive (82). MPI-CDG predominantly manifests with gastrointestinal and hepatic involvement (protein losing enteropathy, liver dysfunction and fibrosis), and hyperinsulinemic hypoglycemia. MPI-CDG is treated with mannose, however hyperinsulinism-specific therapies (e.g., diazoxide) may also be required to adequately manage hypoglycemia (83). PGM1 catalyzes the interconversion of G-1-phos and G-6-phos and is thus involved in glycogenesis, glycogenolysis, and gluconeogenesis. Both fasting ketotic hypoglycemia, due to the role of PGM1 in these metabolic pathways, and post-prandial hyperinsulinemic hypoglycemia, due to a lowered threshold for glucose-stimulated insulin secretion, are observed in PGM1-CDG. Thus, this condition mimics GSD 0 and should be considered in that differential diagnosis. Diagnosis can be established by biochemical or molecular testing. Biochemical methods include analysis of serum transferrin
