Hypoglycemia in Neonates, Infants, and Children
KEYWORDS: hypoglycemia, glucose, hyperinsulinism, insulin, pubmed, plasma, children, fasting, free, diagnosis, levels, hours, plasma glucose, treatment, disorders


Thus, this condition mimics GSD 0 and should be considered in that differential diagnosis. Diagnosis can be established by biochemical or molecular testing. Biochemical methods include analysis of serum transferrin glycoforms (also termed carbohydrate-deficient transferrin analysis) by isoelectric focusing or by mass spectroscopy to determine the number and presence of incomplete sialylated N-linked oligosaccharide residues linked to serum transferrin (84). If biochemical testing is not suggestive of a particular CDG, molecular testing approaches include multigene panels or more comprehensive genomic (whole exome, whole genome) testing. TRANSIENT AND PERINATAL STRESS-INDUCED HYPERINSULINISM Transient hyperinsulinism occurs secondary to maternal factors, most commonly gestational diabetes mellitus. In uncontrolled gestational diabetes, hyperglycemia induces fetal hyperinsulinism resulting in macrosomia and hypoglycemia following delivery. Transient hyperinsulinism can also result from maternal use of medications affecting glucose homeostasis, including hypoglycemic agents (e.g., oral sulfonylureas), terbutaline, or propranolol. Hyperinsulinism due to these factors resolves within the first days of life. Resolution can be confirmed by performing a 6-9 hour fast and demonstrating the baby can maintain plasma glucose >60-70 mg/dL throughout. If hyperinsulinism persists beyond 5-7 days of life alternate causes should be sought, particularly perinatal stress-induced hyperinsulinism (see below). Perinatal factors are also associated with development of perinatal stress-induced hyperinsulinism (PSHI), which has a more prolonged course than transient hyperinsulinism. Neonates with perinatal complications such as birth asphyxia, maternal preeclampsia, prematurity, intrauterine growth retardation, or other peripartum stress may develop PSHI. As previously noted, fetal hypoxia results in decreased trafficking of K ATP channels to the beta-cell membrane, decreasing the threshold for insulin secretion (23,85). Hyperinsulinism spontaneously resolves within weeks to months as beta-cell insulin regulation normalizes. Median age of resolution is six months. By definition, PSHI resolves by one year of age. PSHI typically responds to treatment with diazoxide, typically at doses on the lower end of the therapeutic range (5-7.5 mg/kg/day). Rates of adverse effects of diazoxide may be higher in children with PSHI, and empiric initiation of diuretic and close monitoring are paramount (39). Given these factors, it is recommended to start with a diazoxide dose of 5 mg/kg/day, initially, and to increase the dose after 3-5 days of treatment if adequate response is not achieved. Timing of initiating diazoxide in cases of suspected PSHI should be tailored to the infant’s overall clinical course. For infants with ongoing intensive care nursery needs (e.g., intubation, warming bed, parenteral feeds), plasma glucose support with IV or enteral
