Hypoglycemia in Neonates, Infants, and Children
KEYWORDS: hypoglycemia, glucose, hyperinsulinism, insulin, pubmed, plasma, children, fasting, free, diagnosis, levels, hours, plasma glucose, treatment, disorders


should be tailored to the infant’s overall clinical course. For infants with ongoing intensive care nursery needs (e.g., intubation, warming bed, parenteral feeds), plasma glucose support with IV or enteral dextrose-containing fluids offers optimal initial management, especially as some infants will demonstrate resolution of hyperinsulinism before they are otherwise prepared for hospital discharge. In these cases, repeat fasting evaluation should be performed prior to discharge to assess for resolution versus need for initiation of targeted treatment. As above, in these at-risk infants in whom hypoglycemia is considered likely to resolve within a short time, resolution can be confirmed by performing a 6-9 hour fast and demonstrating the baby can maintain plasma glucose >60-70 mg/dL throughout. Diazoxide should be initiated for infants approaching discharge in whom hyperinsulinemic hypoglycemia has not yet resolved, and safety fast (Table 7) should be performed to confirm adequate diazoxide efficacy. While the diagnosis of PSHI may be suspected by the clinical history, it is established only when hyperinsulinism resolution is confirmed by a repeat fasting test after treatment has been discontinued, cure fast (Table 7). ACTIVATING MUTATIONS IN THE INSULIN SIGNALING PATHWAY Activating mutations in insulin signaling pathway genes, including AKT2 , AKT3 , and PIK3CA , cause hypoglycemia with biochemical findings of inappropriate insulin action, but with low or absent plasma insulin levels (86). Asymmetric somatic overgrowth may serve as a clinical clue to the diagnosis. Frequent feedings or continuous enteral dextrose are effective treatments. ACQUIRED FORMS OF HYPERINSULINISM Insulinoma Insulinomas are pancreatic neuroendocrine tumors. The incidence of pediatric insulinoma is unknown, however, these lesions are less common in children than in adults (1-3 cases per million per year) and are thus exceedingly rare. While most pediatric cases present in adolescence, presentation as young as 2 years of age has been described. Insulinomas are typically benign, solitary lesions. They can occur sporadically, or in association with multiple endocrine neoplasia, type 1 (MEN1). The frequency of MEN1 mutations in children with insulinoma has been reported to range 26-42% (87,88), which is higher than that in adults (5-10% in adults) (89). Clinically, insulinomas typically manifest with recurrent episodes of fasting hypoglycemia associated with neuroglycopenic symptoms. Weight gain is commonly noted at presentation, and occurs due to increased carbohydrate intake to treat symptoms of hypoglycemia (88). Notably, however, hypoglycemia unawareness is common. This is because repeated and prolonged hypoglycemia episodes can both decrease the counter regulatory hormonal response
