Hypoglycemia in Neonates, Infants, and Children
KEYWORDS: hypoglycemia, glucose, hyperinsulinism, insulin, pubmed, plasma, children, fasting, free, diagnosis, levels, hours, plasma glucose, treatment, disorders


carbohydrate intake to treat symptoms of hypoglycemia (88). Notably, however, hypoglycemia unawareness is common. This is because repeated and prolonged hypoglycemia episodes can both decrease the counter regulatory hormonal response to hypoglycemia and induce unawareness of the autonomic and neuroglycopenic symptoms of hypoglycemia (90). Consequently, delays in establishing the diagnosis and initial misdiagnosis with neurologic and psychiatric disorders are not uncommon (91). Suppressed beta-hydroxybutyrate, free fatty acids, and IGF-BP1, with inappropriately elevated proinsulin, insulin, and c-peptide levels at the time of hypoglycemia are consistent with the diagnosis. However, these biochemical findings do not differentiate insulinoma from sulfonylurea ingestion or congenital hyperinsulinism. Consequently, surreptitious use of insulin secretagogues (discussed in the section Exogenous hypoglycemia below) must be excluded in all suspected cases of insulinoma. Once the diagnosis is made, localization of the insulinoma is critical to direct the definitive treatment, surgery. Various imaging modalities have been used, including endoscopic ultrasound, computerized tomography (CT), magnetic resonance imaging (MRI), single-photon emission CT (SPECT), positron emission tomography (PET) and intraoperative ultrasound, each with variable sensitivity. The addition of GLP-1 receptor agonists (exendin-4) has increased the sensitivity of nuclear imaging modalities for detecting insulinomas, and exendin-4 PET/CT appears to be more sensitive than exendin-4 SPECT/CT (92). Historically, arterial calcium stimulation with venous insulin sampling was used, however, these invasive procedures have become less common with improvements in the imaging modalities available. Insulinomas are typically small lesions measuring <1 cm, and multiple lesions may be present. Preoperative localization can be challenging, and use of multiple imaging modalities may be required. Diazoxide may be effective treatment in patients awaiting surgery or for whom the lesion cannot be localized. Surgical excision is curative, and prognosis is generally excellent. Genetic testing for MEN1 should be conducted in all patients, and appropriate screening should be initiated if a mutation is found. Insulinomas may be recurrent, with higher risk of recurrence in those with MEN1. For more information on histopathology, risks of malignancy, and suggested follow up protocols see the chapter entitled “Insulinoma” in the Diffuse Hormonal Systems and Endocrine Tumor Syndromes section of Endotext (93). Autoimmune Hypoglycemia Autoimmune hypoglycemia may result from the development of antibodies to insulin, referred to as Hirata disease, or to the insulin receptor. Onset may be triggered by viral infection or medication in a susceptible individual, and association with specific HLA haplotypes has been reported. Biochemically, plasma beta-hydroxybutyrate and free fatty acids are inappropriately low
