Hypoglycemia in Neonates, Infants, and Children
KEYWORDS: hypoglycemia, glucose, hyperinsulinism, insulin, pubmed, plasma, children, fasting, free, diagnosis, levels, hours, plasma glucose, treatment, disorders


be triggered by viral infection or medication in a susceptible individual, and association with specific HLA haplotypes has been reported. Biochemically, plasma beta-hydroxybutyrate and free fatty acids are inappropriately low at the time of hypoglycemia, and c-peptide is suppressed. When autoimmune hypoglycemia occurs due to antibodies to insulin, plasma insulin levels may be very high (>1000 pmol/L), due to interference of insulin antibodies with the assay. Detection of insulin antibodies can confirm the diagnosis in patients naïve to exogenous insulin, which must be excluded. Autoimmune hypoglycemia is a spontaneously remitting condition. Various immune modulating treatments, including glucocorticoids, plasmapheresis, intravenous immunoglobulin, and rituximab have been utilized. A comparison of the different therapeutic approaches has not been conducted, owing to the rarity of this condition and its self-resolving course. Post-prandial Hypoglycemia (Late Dumping Syndrome) Post-prandial hypoglycemia (late dumping syndrome) occurs due to disrupted gastric motility, most commonly as a consequence of gastrointestinal surgery. In children, fundoplication surgery is implicated most frequently, whereas in adults, bariatric surgery is the most common cause. Hypoglycemia usually develops 1-3 hours after a meal, and results from imbalance between glucose absorption and insulin secretion. Rapid gastric emptying and intestinal absorption of carbohydrate, result in early hyperglycemia and exaggerated GLP-1 secretion, both of which trigger an exaggerated insulin response (94). The diagnosis can be confirmed by serial monitoring of insulin and glucose following feeding or with formal mixed meal tolerance testing. Fasting studies may be required to fully distinguish fasting hypoglycemia from post-prandial hypoglycemia (which may be comorbid in some patients). When conducting fasting studies in children with risk factors for (gastrostomy tube placement, Nissen fundoplication, esophageal or ileal surgery), or suspected, post-prandial hypoglycemia, it is important to slowly taper off feeds to avoid confounding of the fasting tolerance assessment by “dumping.” Treatment is often dietary manipulation. Decreasing the volume or rate of feeding, tapering the rate of feeding prior to stopping, increasing dietary fat, and decreasing simple carbohydrates may all be helpful. In older children, acarbose, which acts to slow carbohydrate digestion, has been used successfully. The efficacy of these approaches should be confirmed by repeat serial monitoring of glucose following at least two feeds to ensure plasma glucose is maintained within target range. In some cases, continuous enteral feeds, or enteral dextrose may be required. Typical treatments for genetic forms of HI such as diazoxide or octreotide generally have been unsuccessful. However, some of the novel
