Hypoglycemia in Neonates, Infants, and Children
KEYWORDS: hypoglycemia, glucose, hyperinsulinism, insulin, pubmed, plasma, children, fasting, free, diagnosis, levels, hours, plasma glucose, treatment, disorders


continuous enteral feeds, or enteral dextrose may be required. Typical treatments for genetic forms of HI such as diazoxide or octreotide generally have been unsuccessful. However, some of the novel therapies for HI under development (42,95), are also being studied in post bariatric surgery hypoglycemia. Exogenous Exogenous, factitious, and drug-induced hypoglycemia all refer to hypoglycemia that results from the use (intentional or accidental) of insulin or insulin secretagogues. Clinical clues to the diagnosis may include unusual or inconsistent histories, such as severe, recurrent hypoglycemia without typical precipitating factors (e.g., fasting, illness), or access to antidiabetic agents. Biochemical findings of elevated plasma insulin with suppressed c-peptide (or an insulin to c-peptide molar ratio >1) confirm exogenous insulin administration. Various insulin assays differ in their sensitivity to detect insulin analogs, so it is important to understand the detection abilities – and limitations – of the assay used. Failure to do so may result in incorrectly excluding the diagnosis of exogenous insulin administration. Information on the cross-reactivity of commercially available insulin formulations with the ordered insulin assay is available on the test information page of most laboratories and can also be requested. For example, currently, cross-reactivity of most insulin assays with glulisine is very low (96). When clinical suspicion is high, sending specimens for testing using different immunoassays with different insulin formulation cross-reactivity profiles may be helpful. In contrast, insulin secretagogues (e.g., sulfonylureas, meglitinides, GLP-1 receptor agonists) stimulate both insulin and c-peptide secretion. Consequently, the biochemical evaluation of hypoglycemia due to insulin secretagogue use may be indistinguishable from that of insulinoma. Specialized toxicology panels, including measurement of plasma or urine sulfonylureas, may be required to confirm the diagnosis. A high index of suspicion, and knowledge of hypoglycemia agents available in the home can help guide the evaluation. As with exogenous insulin administration, the laboratory evaluation is subject to pitfalls in sensitivity and interpretation, and consultation with the laboratory is recommended (97). Hypoglycemia Due to Growth Hormone and Cortisol Deficiencies Deficiencies in the counter regulatory hormones, growth hormone and cortisol – either in isolation, or more commonly, in combination – cause hypoglycemia. Growth hormone acts to stimulate lipolysis and decrease peripheral glucose uptake. Cortisol stimulates gluconeogenesis and release of gluconeogenic substrates, including alanine, from muscle. Although secretion of both growth hormone and cortisol is triggered by falling plasma glucose, findings of a single low growth hormone or cortisol level at the time of hypoglycemia
