Hypoglycemia in Neonates, Infants, and Children
KEYWORDS: hypoglycemia, glucose, hyperinsulinism, insulin, pubmed, plasma, children, fasting, free, diagnosis, levels, hours, plasma glucose, treatment, disorders


muscle. Although secretion of both growth hormone and cortisol is triggered by falling plasma glucose, findings of a single low growth hormone or cortisol level at the time of hypoglycemia has poor specificity for deficiency of either hormone (18,19). Stimulation testing may be needed to confirm the diagnosis. In the older child, hypoglycemia due to growth hormone and/or cortisol deficiency is ketotic. However, in neonates, the biochemical picture may mirror that of hyperinsulinism due to both inappropriate conservation of glycogen reserves during hypoglycemia and immature ketogenesis at this age. HYPOPITUITARISM Hypopituitarism may be congenital or acquired. Congenital hypopituitarism may result from malformation of the hypothalamus and pituitary (e.g., holoprosencephaly, septo-optic dysplasia) or from mutations in transcription factors vital for normal hypothalamic-pituitary development (see the chapter entitled “Genetic Etiology of Congenital Hypopituitarism” in the Pediatric Endocrinology section of Endotext (98)). As discussed above, mutations in FOXA2 cause both hypopituitarism and hyperinsulinism. Acquired hypopituitarism may develop following trauma, infection, tumor, intracranial surgery, or radiation. In neonates, hypoglycemia is often a presenting feature of panhypopituitarism. Other clinical clues in neonates include unconjugated hyperbilirubinemia, nystagmus, midline developmental defects (e.g., cleft lip and palate), and in males, micropenis or smaller than average penis. An MRI of the hypothalamic-pituitary region is essential and often reveals an ectopic “bright spot” indicating disruption of the normal descent of the neurohypophysis with interruption of hypothalamic releasing factors that regulate hormone secretion. In such cases, prolactin concentration may be elevated, whereas GH, TSH and ACTH are suppressed. In older children, the diagnosis may be suspected based upon clinical history, growth failure, or neuroimaging findings. Hypoglycemia is found more commonly in neonates with multiple pituitary hormone deficiencies compared to isolated growth hormone deficiency and therefore careful consideration of multiple hormonal deficiencies must be given when growth hormone deficiency is found to be the cause of hypoglycemia in neonates (99). Hypoglycemia is treated by replacement of the deficient hormones. From a practical aspect some neonates and infants will need a higher-than-expected dose of cortisol replacement and may even need growth hormone treatment divided twice daily. A safety fast (Table 7) should be performed prior to discharge to ensure the therapy is effective. ISOLATED GROWTH HORMONE DEFICIENCY Growth hormone deficiency has an estimated prevalence of between 1:4,000-1:10,000. Growth failure is the most common presenting feature, but this typically does not manifest until after the first year of life. Other clinical clues include midface
