Hypoglycemia in Neonates, Infants, and Children
KEYWORDS: hypoglycemia, glucose, hyperinsulinism, insulin, pubmed, plasma, children, fasting, free, diagnosis, levels, hours, plasma glucose, treatment, disorders


prevalence of between 1:4,000-1:10,000. Growth failure is the most common presenting feature, but this typically does not manifest until after the first year of life. Other clinical clues include midface hypoplasia and altered body composition with truncal adiposity. Most cases of isolated growth hormone deficiency are idiopathic. Genetic, anatomic, and acquired causes are detailed in the chapters entitled “Disorders of Growth Hormone in Childhood” and “Genetic Etiology of Congenital Hypopituitarism” in the Pediatric Endocrinology section of Endotext (98,100). Growth factors (IGF-1 and IGFBP-3) are low for age and bone age is delayed. The diagnosis is confirmed via stimulation testing. Treatment is with recombinant growth hormone. Importantly, depending on the underlying etiology, there is the potential for other pituitary hormone deficiencies to develop over time. Periodic screening of pituitary function is thus recommended. ISOLATED CORTISOL DEFICIENCY Cortisol deficiency may result either from defects in the ACTH signaling pathway or from congenital (e.g., congenital adrenal hyperplasia or hypoplasia) or acquired (e.g., bilateral adrenal hemorrhage) defects in adrenal steroidogenesis. Isolated ACTH deficiency is extremely rare. Several genetic etiologies have been described to date, including mutations in TBX19 , POMC , PCSK1 , and NFKB2 (see the chapter entitled “Genetic Etiology of Congenital Hypopituitarism” the Pediatric Endocrinology section of Endotext (98)). Of these, mutations in TBX19 are most frequently detected. Affected neonates universally present with severe hypoglycemia, often with hypoglycemic seizures. The mortality rate is up to 25%. In contrast to isolated ACTH deficiency, children with adrenal insufficiency due to ACTH resistance or primary adrenal disorders will have elevated plasma ACTH levels and associated skin hyperpigmentation. Primary disorders of the adrenal gland may also manifest with hyponatremia, hyperkalemia, and/or ambiguous genitalia. Congenital adrenal hyperplasia, and other disorders of the adrenal gland are detailed in the chapter entitled “Congenital Adrenal Hyperplasia” in the Adrenal Disease and Function section of Endotext (101). Treatment is with cortisol replacement. Initially, stress dose concentrations of hydrocortisone should be used. GLYCOGEN STORAGE DISORDERS The glycogen storage disorders (GSD) are a group of conditions in which there is either abnormal storage or release of glycogen resulting in hypoglycemia and acidosis. The acidosis may be lactic or ketoacidosis depending on the type of GSD. For the purpose of this discussion, we will include GSD 1 caused by glucose-6-phosphatase (G-6-Pase) deficiency as a glycogen storage disorder although the enzyme also represents the terminal step in gluconeogenesis. The GSDs may affect both liver and
