Hypoglycemia in Neonates, Infants, and Children
KEYWORDS: hypoglycemia, glucose, hyperinsulinism, insulin, pubmed, plasma, children, fasting, free, diagnosis, levels, hours, plasma glucose, treatment, disorders


include GSD 1 caused by glucose-6-phosphatase (G-6-Pase) deficiency as a glycogen storage disorder although the enzyme also represents the terminal step in gluconeogenesis. The GSDs may affect both liver and muscle glycogen storage and for this chapter we will focus on those with primarily liver expression, which are responsible for the hypoglycemic GSDs. Under fed circumstances, excess glucose is converted into glycogen and stored in liver and muscle. Liver glycogen (but not muscle glycogen as muscle does not have G-6-Pase) later becomes available during fasting to provide glucose for metabolism in the brain and the glucose dependent tissues (red blood cells and proximal convoluted tubule of the kidney). Glucose is phosphorylated to G-6-Phos by glucokinase and then to Glucose-1-phosphate (G-1-Phos) by phosphoglucomutase. G-1-Phos is the starting point for glycogen synthesis by glycogen synthase (GSD 0, gene GYS2 , inheritance autosomal recessive [AR]) to form chains with alpha 1-4 linkages. Branch points in these chains are formed by alpha 1-6 linkages approximately every 10 glucose units. During the early stages of fasting, glycogen is broken down by glycogen phosphorylase and then by glycogen debrancher enzymes. First the alpha 1-4 links are cleaved into G-1-Phos by glycogen phosphorylase (GSD VI, gene PGYL , inheritance AR) until 4 glucose units remain and then the debrancher transferase (GSD III, gene AGL , inheritance AR) moves the last 3 alpha 1-4 linked glucose over to another chain and then cleaves the alpha 1-6 branch point releasing a single glucose molecule. At this stage, the G-1-phos molecules are then converted to G-6-phos which then either undergoes glycolysis for energy or dephosphorylation by G-6-Pase (GSD 1, gene GCPC inheritance AR) and released into the blood stream as glucose. Glycogen Storage Disease Type 0 GSD 0 is caused by deficiency of glycogen synthetase, which is encoded by the GYS2 gene on chromosome 12p12.2 and inherited in an autosomal recessive manner. The main biochemical manifestations are both fasting ketotic hypoglycemia and postprandial hyperglycemia and hyperlactatemia (102). This is due to the inability of the liver to store excess postprandial glucose resulting in hyperglycemia and glycosuria. The G-6-phos undergoes glycolysis to pyruvate and then lactate. Later as fasting progresses, there are no liver glycogen stores available, and when the glucose drops below 85 mg/dL, insulin secretion is switched off and early ketosis occurs resulting in ketotic hypoglycemia. This typically happens after 6-12 hours of fasting. Dependence on gluconeogenesis also results
