Hypoglycemia in Neonates, Infants, and Children
KEYWORDS: hypoglycemia, glucose, hyperinsulinism, insulin, pubmed, plasma, children, fasting, free, diagnosis, levels, hours, plasma glucose, treatment, disorders


drops below 85 mg/dL, insulin secretion is switched off and early ketosis occurs resulting in ketotic hypoglycemia. This typically happens after 6-12 hours of fasting. Dependence on gluconeogenesis also results in over-utilization of protein, and protein deficiency is common. Clinical features of GSD 0 may range from asymptomatic to recurrent episodes of ketotic hypoglycemia. Typically, as infants transition off nighttime feeding, episodes of fasting hypoglycemia with hyperketonemia occur. Patients may also present during mild gastrointestinal disorders with ketotic hypoglycemia. They have no hepatomegaly and a normal critical sample with elevated counter regulatory hormones, elevated free fatty acids and ketones. They may have short stature, a history of failure to thrive and hyperlipidemia. In the most severe end of the spectrum, they may present with seizures and developmental delay in addition to hypoglycemia after a very short duration fasting. The condition should be suspected in children with a history of recurrent ketotic hypoglycemia or post prandial hyperglycemia and fasting ketonemia. Diagnosis is made by demonstrating shortened fasting tolerance with ketotic hypoglycemia (103) (typically <12 hours in children under 7 years of age and <18 hours in adolescents). In addition, an oral glucose tolerance test (OGTT) performed after an overnight fast using 1.75 g/kg up to 75 g (one of the few appropriate uses of the OGTT for diagnosis of etiology of hypoglycemia) will demonstrate postprandial hyperglycemia with elevated lactic acid. Finally, a fed (2 hours post meal) glucagon stimulation test will fail to show elevated glucose response to glucagon in the most severe cases but may cause an increase in milder cases. Once the clinical diagnosis is suspected, genetic testing for confirmation of diagnosis is strongly recommended rather than liver biopsy. Treatment is avoidance of fasting (>3-4 hours), utilizing low glycemic index carbohydrate, and a high protein diet (2-3g/kg/day) during the day with meals and snacks to provide adequate amino acids for gluconeogenesis and overnight dextrose via gastrostomy tube or uncooked cornstarch (UCS) after age 1 year (1.5g/kg every 6 hours overnight). Glycosade® a soluble extended-release form of amylopectin cornstarch is available in the US for children over the age of 5 years and may be used in place of uncooked cornstarch. Early diagnosis and treatment may prevent the long-term complications of short stature and osteopenia from the recurrent keto- and lactic acidosis. Glycogen Storage Disease Type I This is the most severe of the GSDs and causes profound hypoglycemia because
