Hypoglycemia in Neonates, Infants, and Children
KEYWORDS: hypoglycemia, glucose, hyperinsulinism, insulin, pubmed, plasma, children, fasting, free, diagnosis, levels, hours, plasma glucose, treatment, disorders


of short stature and osteopenia from the recurrent keto- and lactic acidosis. Glycogen Storage Disease Type I This is the most severe of the GSDs and causes profound hypoglycemia because of impaired glycogenolysis and gluconeogenesis with lactic acidosis, hyperuricemia, and hyperlipidemia. Glycogen and triglycerides are stored in the liver resulting in massive hepatomegaly. Long-term consequences of GSD I include hepatic adenoma, renal Fanconi syndrome, renal failure, short stature, and osteoporosis. It occurs in approximately 1:100,000 births (104), and is caused by mutations in the gene for G-6-Pase, G6PC (GSD Ia), or G-6-P translocase 1, G6PT1 (GSD Ib). Under normal circumstances G-6-P translocase 1 transports G-6-Phos into the endoplasmic reticulum, G-6-Pase then converts G-6-P to glucose which is then transported out of the endoplasmic reticulum by GLUT-2 (hence the similarity of Fanconi Bickel syndrome caused by GLUT2 deficiency to GSD 1). In the postprandial phase, glycogen stored in the liver is broken down to G-6-Phos and from here can enter 3 metabolic pathways: 1) G-6-Phos enters the pentose phosphate shunt resulting in formation of uric acid. 2) G-6-Phos undergoes glycolysis to form pyruvate and then to lactic acid (which is transported to brain and used as fuel for energy production). 3) G-6-Phos undergoes glycolysis and forms acetyl CoA which in turn is converted into malonyl CoA which inhibits carnitine palmitoyl-transferase I leading to decreased oxidation of fatty acids (impaired ketone body production) and increased formation of lipids causing hyperlipidemia. Thus, the cardinal biochemical features of GSD 1 occur (hypoglycemia, hyperuricemia, hyperlactatemia, and hypertriglyceridemia). Clinical features in the newborn may include hypoglycemia with a good response to feeding, however because many newborns breast feed every 2 hours GSD 1 is rarely identified in the new-born period. Despite the occurrence of hypoglycemia, newborns are rarely diagnosed because many physicians erroneously believe that if the glucose responds to feeding then ongoing glucose testing is not needed. However, if the PES recommendations (21) are followed and persistent glucose levels <50 mg/dL are noted in the first 48 hours of life and <60 mg/dL beyond that, then investigations should be done to determine the etiology. A six-hour fasting study will identify these patients and indeed great care must be taken if suspected because glucose levels typically fall very quickly (2.5-3.5 hours after a feed) and fall deeply to the 20-30 mg/dl range. As infants get older and feeding intervals start to stretch out to >6 hours
