Hypoglycemia in Neonates, Infants, and Children
KEYWORDS: hypoglycemia, glucose, hyperinsulinism, insulin, pubmed, plasma, children, fasting, free, diagnosis, levels, hours, plasma glucose, treatment, disorders


fall very quickly (2.5-3.5 hours after a feed) and fall deeply to the 20-30 mg/dl range. As infants get older and feeding intervals start to stretch out to >6 hours over night, significant hypoglycemia and lactic acidosis occurs and often the children present because of the tachypnea caused by the acid base disturbance, rather than the hypoglycemia. Neuroglycopenic symptoms are unlikely to occur due to the protective effect of lactate metabolism in the brain, but in circumstances of eating high carbohydrates and a rapid decline in glucose due to insulin release, the lactate levels may be low and the neuroprotective effects of lactate may not occur. In these circumstances seizures, coma, and sudden death may occur. Clinical features of undiagnosed GSD 1a include massive hepatomegaly, short stature, and failure to thrive. Biochemically, patients have high lactate levels (typically >5mmol/L) with hypoglycemia, low ketones, abnormal transaminases, high uric acid, and hypertriglyceridemia. GSD Ib is caused by defects in the G6PT1 (also known as SLC37A4 ) gene and has all the same clinical findings as above but in addition has significant neutrophil dysfunction resulting in recurrent skin infections and later in life severe inflammatory bowel disease similar to Crohn disease. This form of GSD 1 represents about 10% of cases of GSD 1 and is an AR inherited condition with the gene found on chromosome 11q23. It is estimated to occur in 1:1,000,000 births. It is important to note that untreated GSD 1a/b patients rarely present with neuroglycopenic symptoms of hypoglycemia because lactate may be used a fuel for the brain, and they also rarely present with neurogenic symptoms as they develop hypoglycemic unawareness. Thus, the hepatomegaly, short stature, intermittent tachypnea, and the finding of lipemic serum rather than symptoms of hypoglycemia raise the clinical suspicion. Diagnosis of GSD Ia or Ib is made by finding the clinical features above and performing genetic testing for mutations in G6PC or G6PT1 to confirm the diagnosis. Treatment is to prevent hypoglycemia by providing glucose every 2.5-3 hours in neonates using fructose/galactose free formula. In GSD 1, fructose and galactose cannot be converted to glucose due to deficiency of G-6-Pase and so if given will worsen lactic acidosis, hyperlipidemia, and hyperuricemia. The goal of treatment is to maintain the plasma glucose >75mg/dl which is the threshold for the secretion of counter-regulatory hormones that drive glycogenolysis and glycolysis to lactic acid. This can be achieved by
