Hypoglycemia in Neonates, Infants, and Children
KEYWORDS: hypoglycemia, glucose, hyperinsulinism, insulin, pubmed, plasma, children, fasting, free, diagnosis, levels, hours, plasma glucose, treatment, disorders


is to maintain the plasma glucose >75mg/dl which is the threshold for the secretion of counter-regulatory hormones that drive glycogenolysis and glycolysis to lactic acid. This can be achieved by frequent oral feeding in newborns, with continuous gastrostomy tube feeds overnight, and in older infants (>1 year), toddlers and children giving uncooked starch (UCS) 1- 1.5 g/kg every 3-6 hours including overnight. Glycosade®, an extended-release waxy maize cornstarch, can be used in older children to avoid overnight dosing with a duration of action of 6-8 hours, but is not recommended under 5 years of age. Placement of a gastrostomy tube to provide intra gastric glucose overnight often improves the family’s quality of life and the patient’s metabolic control. One caveat to feeding fast acting carbohydrates is that the insulin production suppresses glycogenolysis and production of lactic acid so treated patients have a higher risk of neuroglycopenic symptoms and brain damage from profound hypoglycemia without lactic acidosis if regular therapy is interrupted or delayed. Typical dietary treatments include 65% carbohydrates, 10-15% protein and low fat of approximately 20-25%. A simple rule of thumb when providing IV glucose or continuous enteral glucose is to start at around 8 mg/kg/min and titrate until lactate is <2 mmol/L and glucose >75mg/dl. Chronic provision of excess glucose is not beneficial so care must be taken to find the ideal amount of glucose (to paraphrase Goldilocks, not too much, not too little, just right!). Because hepatic production of glucose generally is equal to brain utilization of glucose, neonates have a higher glucose requirement than children and children than adults due to the relative sizes of the brain to body. Overall, 30-40% of the daily carbohydrate should be long-acting carbohydrates. Glycogen Storage Disease Type III GSD III is caused by glycogen debrancher enzyme deficiency. This is encoded by the AGL gene on chromosome 1p21 and is inherited in an autosomal recessive manner (105). It occurs in about 1:100,000 similar to GSD I. GSD IIIa occurs in both liver and muscle and represents the majority of cases in the US while GSD IIIb occurs in liver alone. Clinical features of GSD III include fasting ketotic hypoglycemia and massive and firm hepatomegaly. Unlike GSD I, GSD III is characterized by normal lactic and uric acid levels and more severe elevations in liver function enzymes. In those with GSD IIIa marked elevations of creatine kinase (CK) appear before the clinical
