Hypoglycemia in Neonates, Infants, and Children
KEYWORDS: hypoglycemia, glucose, hyperinsulinism, insulin, pubmed, plasma, children, fasting, free, diagnosis, levels, hours, plasma glucose, treatment, disorders


by normal lactic and uric acid levels and more severe elevations in liver function enzymes. In those with GSD IIIa marked elevations of creatine kinase (CK) appear before the clinical signs of proximal muscle wasting. Clinical diagnosis is made by the finding of short fasting induced hypoglycemia without lactic acidosis, hepatomegaly, marked elevation of transaminases often with high CK. At the time of hypoglycemia, glucagon will not cause a rise in the plasma glucose but 2 hours after a meal in the fed state it will trigger a rise in glucose unlike GSD I. Genetic testing will identify mutations in the AGL gene. Treatment is the avoidance of prolonged fasting using UCS in doses of 1-1.5g every 4-6 hours but unlike GSD I, patients with GSD III can utilize amino acids and efficiently carry out gluconeogenesis. Thus a high protein diet in addition to UCS can be very effective in preventing hypoglycemia, minimizing hepatomegaly, improving transaminases, improving growth and even proximal muscle wasting (106). Avoidance of too much carbohydrate is also important to avoid filling the liver, heart, and muscles with glycogen, which can cause long term harm. A hypertrophic cardiomyopathy is a complication of excessive glycogen storage, but the muscle disease appears to be secondary to lack of an energy substrate during activity. A ketotic diet may help improve muscle disease in adults, but it has been associated with worsening of the hepatic transaminases and suboptimal growth in the pediatric population. Glycogen Storage Disease VI and IX GSD VI is caused by glycogen phosphorylase and GSD IX by glycogen phosphorylase kinase. Both conditions are remarkably similar and the most common of all the hepatic GSDs. In fact there has been a suggestion that GSD VI and IX together may account for a significant number of children with recurrent ketotic hypoglycemia (107). GSD VI is caused by mutations in PYGL and is inherited in an autosomal recessive form. On the other hand, there are 4 subunits of the phosphorylase kinase enzyme, and each is encoded by different genes including the X-linked gene PHKA2. PHKB mutations lead to an autosomal recessive form of GSD IX as do mutations in PHKG . The most severe form tends to occur in patients with genetic mutations in PHKG . Clinical manifestations of GSD VI and IX are short stature and recurrent episodes of ketotic hypoglycemia. Unlike the hepatomegaly of GSDI and III in which
