Hypoglycemia in Neonates, Infants, and Children
KEYWORDS: hypoglycemia, glucose, hyperinsulinism, insulin, pubmed, plasma, children, fasting, free, diagnosis, levels, hours, plasma glucose, treatment, disorders


genetic mutations in PHKG . Clinical manifestations of GSD VI and IX are short stature and recurrent episodes of ketotic hypoglycemia. Unlike the hepatomegaly of GSDI and III in which the examiner will need to start palpating the liver from the anterior superior iliac spine in order not to miss a giant liver, the hepatomegaly of VI and IX may be very subtle or absent. Sometimes in younger children morning ketosis is found with euglycemia because after glycogen stores are depleted, gluconeogenesis and ketogenesis are activated and glucose levels remain normal. Thus, if suspecting GSD VI or IX, check morning beta-hydroxybutyrate and if >0.6 mmol/L after a normal overnight fast this would be suggestive of this disease. Also because of the reliance on gluconeogenesis, prealbumin and total protein levels may be low, and patients may complain of intermittent muscle aches without overt weakness. Diagnosis is suspected by finding shortened fasting tolerance with accelerated development of ketosis in a patient with mild short stature and hepatomegaly. Mild elevations of liver transaminases and hyperlipidemia may occur. Absence of hepatomegaly does not rule out GSD VI or IX. Genetic testing is the diagnostic test of choice for those with either recurrent episodes of ketotic hypoglycemia or persistent finding of elevated beta-hydroxybutyrate after a simple overnight fast. Treatment is avoidance of prolonged fasting and administration of UCS 1-2 g/kg at bedtime to prevent early morning ketosis. A high protein diet with complex carbohydrates is effective as gluconeogenesis is unaffected. A program of daytime carbohydrates for intercurrent illness and a plan for IV dextrose with vomiting is encouraged. By the time the child reaches adulthood fasting tolerance is of 12-18 hours overnight without ketones become possible and treatment is rarely required as an adult. FATTY ACID OXIDATION AND KETONE BODY DISORDERS Fatty Acid Oxidation Disorders Fatty acid oxidation (FAO) occurs in the mitochondria and is the major source of energy production in the fasted state i.e., when glucose metabolism is insufficient to provide for energy needs. Typically, FAO starts when glycogen reserves are depleted in conjunction with an increase in gluconeogenesis. As insulin levels fall, hormone-sensitive lipase acts in the adipocytes to release 3 free fatty acids and 1 glycerol from the triacyl-glycerol (triglyceride) stored in the adipose tissue (108). The metabolism of the free fatty acids occurs in 3 major steps: 1) transport into the mitochondria via the carnitine shuttle, 2) long chain fatty
