Hypoglycemia in Neonates, Infants, and Children
KEYWORDS: hypoglycemia, glucose, hyperinsulinism, insulin, pubmed, plasma, children, fasting, free, diagnosis, levels, hours, plasma glucose, treatment, disorders


in the adipose tissue (108). The metabolism of the free fatty acids occurs in 3 major steps: 1) transport into the mitochondria via the carnitine shuttle, 2) long chain fatty acids undergo beta oxidation at the inner mitochondrial membrane, and then 3) medium and short chain fatty acid oxidation (FAO) occurs in the mitochondrial matrix. The result of FAO is the production of acetyl-CoA, which in the heart and skeletal muscle enters into the citric acid cycle and by oxidative phosphorylation generates energy for these tissues. The liver however converts acetyl-CoA into ketone bodies known as beta-hydroxybutyrate (BOHB, the main ketone body in the blood) and acetoacetate via hydroxyl methyl glutaryl-coenzyme A (HMG-CoA) synthetase and HMG-CoA lyase. The ketone bodies are exported to the brain for energy use. The liver also metabolizes the amino acids leucine and isoleucine into acetyl-CoA. Because fatty acids cannot cross the blood brain barrier, fatty acid oxidation is limited in the brain due to a lack of substrate. MCT1, a member of the monocarboxylate transporter family, transports the ketone bodies across the blood brain barrier. BOHB is then converted back to acetoacetate and then to acetyl-CoA which enters the citric acid cycle and generates energy in the form of adenosine triphosphate (ATP). Studies have shown that as the plasma glucose falls the cerebral metabolic rate of glucose falls and as the plasma acetoacetate levels rise the cerebral metabolic rate acetoacetate rises replacing the lost metabolism of glucose (13). Thus, BOHB can add to glucose as a primary source of energy production by the brain. This protects the brain from hypoglycemic brain damage in circumstances of low glucose and high ketones (with the exception of patients with ketone utilization defects). This also highlights why untreated disorders of fatty acid oxidation plus ketone synthesis and utilization are dangerous as they result in accelerated development of hypoglycemia because of the loss of the glucose sparing ketones, resulting in energy failure in the brain. Abnormalities of FAO tend to present either in periods of prolonged fasting often precipitated by intercurrent illness when the need for energy at a cellular level, increases, or during severe strenuous exercise. Common clinical features of these defects include fasting hypoglycemia with liver failure, hepatic encephalopathy, and muscular hypotonia. Rhabdomyolysis following exercise is also common. Rare clinical effects might include cardiac arrhythmias and retinitis pigmentosa. The biochemical hallmark of FAO defects is hypoglycemia associated with
