Hypoglycemia in Neonates, Infants, and Children
KEYWORDS: hypoglycemia, glucose, hyperinsulinism, insulin, pubmed, plasma, children, fasting, free, diagnosis, levels, hours, plasma glucose, treatment, disorders


encephalopathy, and muscular hypotonia. Rhabdomyolysis following exercise is also common. Rare clinical effects might include cardiac arrhythmias and retinitis pigmentosa. The biochemical hallmark of FAO defects is hypoglycemia associated with elevated free fatty acids and inappropriately low ketone bodies (Table 3 and Figure 2). Coagulation defects, elevated liver function tests, and hyperammonemia may occur with massive elevation of serum CK levels. FAO disorders are inherited as autosomal recessive conditions. The overall incidence has been reported to be approximately 1:9000 (109). Since the development of newborn screening for FAO disorders, the clinical presentation has changed with almost no patients presenting with hypoglycemia. Indeed, the incidence of hypoglycemia caused by previously unknown FAO disorder presenting in emergency room situations is dramatically reduced. In a study of approximately 220,000 children presenting at an emergency room between the ages of 0 and 18 years, 160 patients had previously undiagnosed hypoglycemia and none of them had a FAO defect (110). This compares to a study by Weinstein et al prior to universal newborn screen of FAO disorders in which FAO disorders represented 19% of previously undiagnosed hypoglycemia (111). Although most FAO defects are detected on newborn screening, rarely errors in the process may account for a missed case and it is always important to demonstrate in cases of hypoketotic hypoglycemia the absence of a FAO disorder. This chapter will focus primarily on those disorders that primarily cause hypoglycemia and the acute treatment of the hypoglycemia. DISORDERS OF FATTY ACID UPTAKE INTO MITOCHONDRIA AND THE CARNITINE CYCLE Free fatty acids (FFA) are released from adipose tissue and travel to target cells where they are transported across the cell membrane by fatty acid transporter proteins. Once inside the cell they are esterified by acyl-CoA synthases and enter the carnitine cycle to enter the mitochondria. Carnitine palmitoyl transferase I (CPT I) catalyzes transfer of the acyl group from acyl-CoA to form acyl-carnitine and is the rate limiting step in FAO. The acyl-carnitine is transported across the mitochondrial membrane by carnitine acylcarnitine transferase (CACT) and once on the inside the acylcarnitine is converted back to acyl-CoA by CPT II. The acyl-CoA is now ready to undergo beta oxidation. The carnitine for these reactions is transported into the cell by the carnitine transporter. Disorders of the carnitine transporter, CPT I and CACT all cause hypoketotic hypoglycemia. Both CPT 1 and CACT cause fasting-induced Reye syndrome with acute liver failure and
