Hypoglycemia in Neonates, Infants, and Children
KEYWORDS: hypoglycemia, glucose, hyperinsulinism, insulin, pubmed, plasma, children, fasting, free, diagnosis, levels, hours, plasma glucose, treatment, disorders


the carnitine transporter. Disorders of the carnitine transporter, CPT I and CACT all cause hypoketotic hypoglycemia. Both CPT 1 and CACT cause fasting-induced Reye syndrome with acute liver failure and can be suspected when hyperammonemia is found with hypoketotic hypoglycemia, elevated free fatty acids, and abnormal acylcarnitine profile. Carnitine transporter deficiency cause severe carnitine deficiency and dilated cardiomyopathy that is progressive and generally presents before hypoglycemic episodes. Diagnosis of carnitine transporter deficiency is suspected when total carnitine levels are very low (<10% normal) in conjunction with hypoketotic hypoglycemia and elevated CK levels in a patient with cardiomyopathy. Reye syndrome and acute liver failure also occur in CPT I and CACT and acute myoglobinuria with rhabdomyolysis occur in CPT II. DISORDERS OF BETA OXIDATION Beta-oxidation is the process whereby sequential molecules of acetyl-CoAs are cleaved off the long acyl-CoA inside the mitochondria, until the entire acyl-CoA has been broken down to acetyl-CoA (thus an 18-carbon acyl-CoA will generate 9 acetyl-CoAs). The first step in this reaction is carried out by four individual acyl-CoA dehydrogenase enzymes each acting on a different chain length acyl-CoA. These are the short, medium, long and very long chain acyl CoA dehydrogenase (SCAD, MCAD, LCAD and VLCAD) enzymes. The next three steps of FAO are carried out in conjunction with the tri-functional protein and involve the hydratase enzymes and both long chain and short chain 3-hydroxyacyl-CoA dehydrogenases (LCHAD and SCHAD). Finally electron transport flavoproteins transfer electrons from reducing equivalents produced by multiple pathways to the electron transport chain . Defects in the electron transport chain cause multiple acyl-CoA dehydrogenase deficiency (MADD) also known as Glutaric Aciduria II. Clinical features of defects in beta-oxidation include hypoketotic hypoglycemia, associated with lethargy, vomiting, hypotonia seizures. Acute liver failure or Reye syndrome can occur, and cardiomyopathy is particularly severe in the longer chain disorders. It should be noted that ketones can be produced in variable amounts, but they are not sufficient to prevent hypoglycemia and the ratio of FFA to ketones is increased over normal. Individual FAO disorders have diagnostic acylcarnitine profiles and urine organic acid profiles and diagnosis may be made during an acute decompensation using these tools. However, one should never subject a patient suspected of having a FAO disorder to a fasting study for the purpose of diagnosis as it can precipitate an acute decompensation and death. If a FAO disorder is suspected, perform an acylcarnitine profile, total
