Hypoglycemia in Neonates, Infants, and Children
KEYWORDS: hypoglycemia, glucose, hyperinsulinism, insulin, pubmed, plasma, children, fasting, free, diagnosis, levels, hours, plasma glucose, treatment, disorders


disorder to a fasting study for the purpose of diagnosis as it can precipitate an acute decompensation and death. If a FAO disorder is suspected, perform an acylcarnitine profile, total and free carnitine and test for urine organic acids in the well state, which may diagnose the condition without triggering a decompensation. EMERGENCY TREATMENT OF FATTY ACID OXIDATION DISORDERS Emergency treatment of hypoketotic hypoglycemia caused by FAO disorders involves correcting the hypoglycemia with a 200 mg/kg bolus of dextrose (best provided as 2 ml/kg Dextrose 10%) followed by administration of 5-10 mg/kg/min dextrose infusion with the goal of getting the plasma glucose above 85 mg/dl to turn on insulin secretion and suppress lipolysis. Treatment of elevated ammonia may be required if levels do not promptly fall with glucose administration. Cardiopulmonary shock if present needs to be aggressively managed and liver failure and rhabdomyolysis need to be suspected and diagnosed early to implement treatment. Cerebral edema may occur particularly associated with elevated ammonia in undiagnosed cases of MCAD deficiency. Diuresis with possible alkalization of the urine can prevent acute renal failure in cases of extreme elevation of CK. Consultation with a metabolic expert is strongly recommended for endocrinologists not familiar with the ongoing management of children with FAO disorders. Ketogenesis and Ketone Utilization Defects Ketone synthesis involves two primary enzymes involved in converting acetyl-CoA to acetoacetate, hydroxyl methyl glutaryl-coenzyme A (HMG-CoA) synthase and HMG-CoA lyase. The ketone utilization defects are rare conditions in which ketogenesis is effective but there is an inability to either convert acetoacetate to aceto-acetyl-CoA by succinyl-CoA:acetoacetate transferase (SCOT) or acetoacetyl-CoA to acetyl-CoA by mitochondrial acetoacetic thiolase (MAT). These genetic defects are all autosomal recessive conditions. Finally, ketone transport into the brain can be diminished in patients with loss of function variations in SLC16A1 the gene encoding the monocarboxylate transporter 1 protein (MCT1) (112,113). KETOGENESIS There are significant similarities between the FAO defects and the ketogenesis disorders with hypoketotic hypoglycemia with or without hyperammonemia and hepatic encephalopathy. Patients present in the newborn period or during intercurrent illness with relatively short episodes of fasting (12-18 hours). The biochemical hallmarks of HMG-CoA synthase deficiency are hypoglycemia with decreased ketones, elevated FFA, normal lactate and ammonia and normal urine organic acids and plasma amino acids whereas HMG-CoA lyase deficiency presents with hypoketotic hypoglycemia with elevated lactate and ammonia and very abnormal urine organic acid profile and elevated 3-methylglutaryl carnitine in the
