Hypoglycemia in Neonates, Infants, and Children
KEYWORDS: hypoglycemia, glucose, hyperinsulinism, insulin, pubmed, plasma, children, fasting, free, diagnosis, levels, hours, plasma glucose, treatment, disorders


and plasma amino acids whereas HMG-CoA lyase deficiency presents with hypoketotic hypoglycemia with elevated lactate and ammonia and very abnormal urine organic acid profile and elevated 3-methylglutaryl carnitine in the acylcarnitine profile. Treatment is similar to the FAO defects and includes rapid correction of hypoglycemia with 200 mg/kg intravenous bolus of dextrose (2 ml/kg Dextrose 10%) followed by an infusion of 5-8 mg/kg/min of glucose (3-5 ml/kg/h of Dextrose 10%). Treatment of the lactic acidosis with bicarbonate is not indicated unless life threatening acidosis is occurring as provision of glucose generally corrects the acidosis. Supportive care for hyperammonemia and hepatic encephalopathy should be provided. KETONE UTILIZATION AND TRANSPORT DEFECTS Ketone utilization defects generally present in the newborn period however some patients will survive the neonatal period and present later with intermittent severe metabolic acidosis due to ketoacidosis associated with fasting or intercurrent illness. Outside of an acute episode they may have elevated plasma BOHB >0.4 -0.6 mmol/L even when well fed indicating an inability to suppress ketones. Hypoglycemia is not the most common finding but can occur after prolonged fasting with or without hyperammonemia, hepatomegaly and encephalopathy. During fasting studies plasma BOHB continues to rise until progressive ketoacidosis occurs which is different to the rising and then stable ketosis of physiological fasting that stabilizes out as ketone utilization and ketogenesis balance out. Treatment is to provide glucose to increase insulin levels and suppress fatty acid oxidation. This is typically achieved by providing a GIR of 8 mg/kg/min. Treatment of acidosis with bicarbonate therapy is controversial and should be used with caution in the severest cases. CLINICAL APPROACH TO THE DIAGNOSIS OF THE ETIOLOGY OF HYPOGLYCEMIA In order to diagnose the etiology of hypoglycemia one must first confirm the presence of hypoglycemia. Normal glucose levels are typically between 70 and 120 mg/dL and glucose levels less than 70 mg/dL in the face neurogenic or neuroglycopenic symptoms are suggestive of hypoglycemic disorders. In children (>5 to 7 years old) and young adults who are reliably able to report the symptoms of hypoglycemia, the finding of Whipple's triad (symptoms consistent with hypoglycemia, a measured plasma glucose confirming hypoglycemia, and improvement of symptoms with administration of glucose and correction of the hypoglycemia) is sufficient to warrant further investigation. For infants and younger children who are unable to reliably communicate symptoms, the Pediatric Endocrine Society (PES) guidelines suggests evaluation and management only of those whose
