Hypoglycemia in Neonates, Infants, and Children
KEYWORDS: hypoglycemia, glucose, hyperinsulinism, insulin, pubmed, plasma, children, fasting, free, diagnosis, levels, hours, plasma glucose, treatment, disorders


to warrant further investigation. For infants and younger children who are unable to reliably communicate symptoms, the Pediatric Endocrine Society (PES) guidelines suggests evaluation and management only of those whose plasma glucose concentrations are documented by laboratory quality assays to be below the normal threshold for neurogenic responses (60 mg/dL) (21). For any patient with a low glucose value measured either by point of care meter using a finger stick blood sample or using a continuous glucose monitoring system, a plasma glucose needs to be obtained to confirm hypoglycemia prior to commencing a complete evaluation. This recommendation has been made because of the known inaccuracy of point of care glucose testing and of continuous glucose monitor testing for detecting blood glucose less than 70 mg/dL. Rather than providing children and their families with a glucometer for screening for low blood sugars at home, whenever safely possible, a standing order for a plasma glucose to be analyzed immediately, should be offered to the family. When they experience symptoms consistent with hypoglycemia, they can have a plasma glucose drawn in the lab to either confirm the presence of hypoglycemia or to demonstrate that these symptoms are not related to hypoglycemia. Thus, the presence or absence of Whipple's triad may be confirmed and only those with a high likelihood of hypoglycemia undergo further investigations. Studies have shown that the frequency of pathological hypoglycemia in patients in high-risk situations (for example the emergency room or attending a hypoglycemia clinic) who have had a documented low blood sugar associated with intercurrent illness will have a risk of a serious form of hypoglycemia of approximately 10% (110,114). History The first step in the evaluation is to undertake a careful history specifically questioning for symptoms of hypoglycemia (Table 4), and timing of the symptoms, or measured hypoglycemia, relative to the last meal consumed. In pediatric patients, the vast majority of causes of hypoglycemia are precipitated by fasting. Documenting post prandial hypoglycemia in the absence of fasting hypoglycemic may suggest some very specific conditions, such as late dumping syndrome (Nissen fundoplication induced hypoglycemia, post bariatric surgery induced hypoglycemia), protein induced hypoglycemia found in GDH HI, HADH HI, and K ATP HI, hereditary fructose intolerance, or a very rare presentation of insulinoma. Careful review of the history for the presence of neurogenic or neuroglycopenic symptoms should be performed. Neuroglycopenic symptoms are strongly suggestive of a serious underlying form of
