Hypoglycemia in Neonates, Infants, and Children
KEYWORDS: hypoglycemia, glucose, hyperinsulinism, insulin, pubmed, plasma, children, fasting, free, diagnosis, levels, hours, plasma glucose, treatment, disorders


presentation of insulinoma. Careful review of the history for the presence of neurogenic or neuroglycopenic symptoms should be performed. Neuroglycopenic symptoms are strongly suggestive of a serious underlying form of hypoglycemia and need rapid evaluation. A history of poor growth might suggest growth hormone deficiency, adrenal insufficiency (either primary or secondary), or GSD. Recurrent abdominal pain with nausea and vomiting is a classical symptom of severe adrenal insufficiency. A history of salt craving or darkening skin also are clues to primary adrenal insufficiency. The most common time of presentation of hypoglycemia in childhood is in the neonatal period when the stress of transition from intrauterine to extra uterine life is greatest and genetic or metabolic forms of hypoglycemia most commonly present. It is important to always inquire about the neonatal period because of the possibility of missed diagnosis. Presentation to emergency rooms in association with intercurrent illness is the next most common time of presentation of hypoglycemia in childhood; it is recommended that emergency rooms should have protocols to draw the critical samples (Table 2) in patients who present with hypoglycemia, but with no previous etiology determined. If an emergency room does not have such protocols in place, we recommend their implementation, as up to 10% of all patients presenting to emergency rooms with previously undiagnosed hypoglycemia have a serious underlying condition requiring long-term treatment (110,114). Physical Exam The second step in the evaluation of the etiology of hypoglycemia is the physical exam. There are very few clues that can be obtained; however, it is critical not to miss those that are available. Short stature, with impaired growth velocity, or inappropriate height for the family, should suggest evaluation for growth hormone deficiency. Hyperpigmentation of the skin and or gums could indicate primary adrenal insufficiency with ACTH excess. Failure to thrive and weight loss could indicate chronic adrenal insufficiency. Central malformations such as cleft lip or palate could indicate an underlying pituitary problem. Scars on the abdominal wall or a gastrostomy tube could suggest a postsurgical form of hypoglycemia. Enlargement of the liver at a time when the patient is well would point to glycogen storage disorders, or if the patient is acutely unwell at the time of presentation a fatty acid oxidation defect might be more likely. Abnormal development of the genitalia might indicate adrenal hormonal production problems; a micropenis/small normal penis might indicate a growth hormone problem with or
