Hypoglycemia in Neonates, Infants, and Children
KEYWORDS: hypoglycemia, glucose, hyperinsulinism, insulin, pubmed, plasma, children, fasting, free, diagnosis, levels, hours, plasma glucose, treatment, disorders


acid oxidation defect might be more likely. Abnormal development of the genitalia might indicate adrenal hormonal production problems; a micropenis/small normal penis might indicate a growth hormone problem with or without hypogonadotropic hypogonadism. Asymmetry of the body, either hemiatrophy or hemihypertrophy, could suggest an underlying syndrome such is Russell Silver Syndrome or Beckwith-Wiedemann Syndrome. Certain syndromes such as Down syndrome are associated with an increased incidence of ketotic hypoglycemia. Overgrowth syndromes, Turner syndrome, and Kabuki syndrome may be associated with hyperinsulinism (72,78,79). Critical Sample at Time of Hypoglycemia As noted above, a critical sample including blood and urine (Table 2) should be collected at the time of glucose less than 50 mg/dL. In this sample, the levels of intermediary metabolites and hormones in blood, ketones and organic acids in urine, and in certain circumstances the presence or absence of drugs such as insulin or sulfonylureas, will aid the physician to diagnose the etiology of the hypoglycemia. Interpretation of the critical sample commences with the determination of the presence or absence of ketosis and lactic acidosis as in Figure 2 and Table 3. When a critical sample has not be obtained during a spontaneous episode of hypoglycemia, a fasting study should be performed to induce hypoglycemia (Table 10). Caution prior to admitting the patient for a fasting study, includes the need to rule out fatty acid oxidation defects by performing an acylcarnitine profile in the well state. Fasting studies should be performed in the inpatient setting in a unit of highly specialized nurses trained in the performance of fasting studies. Safety precautions such as having intravenous lines inserted for both blood drawing and infusing glucose in an emergency situation are very important. It is critical to have the ability to do accurate point of care glucose and ketone testing on venous samples or warmed capillary samples and to have a rapid turnaround on plasma glucose and plasma beta-hydroxybutyrate. Intravenous glucose should be available for rescue and glucagon should also be available both for stimulation testing and for rescue when hyperinsulinism is suspected. Table 10. Diagnostic Fasting Test View in own window Perform test only on a unit with trained medical and nursing staff who are experienced in the performance of fasting studies. Have IV access and D10% (2-5 ml/kg) for emergency resuscitation. Measure glucose by POC meter every 2-3 hours until glucose <70 mg/dL (<3.9 mmol/L); then every 2 hours until
