Hypoglycemia in Neonates, Infants, and Children
KEYWORDS: hypoglycemia, glucose, hyperinsulinism, insulin, pubmed, plasma, children, fasting, free, diagnosis, levels, hours, plasma glucose, treatment, disorders


indicated due to the morbidity of the procedure and genetic testing is now the preferred diagnostic method. This is also true for the disorders of fatty acid oxidation in which an acylcarnitine profile is not sufficient to make a diagnosis and genetic panels are preferable to skin biopsies the majority of the time. With current genetic testing technology, panels including many hypoglycemia disorder associated genes may be conducted for little more cost than a single gene test. Approach to the Patient with Ketotic Hypoglycemia There is a common misconception that children presenting with ketotic hypoglycemic, who do not possess an already identified underlying cause, have benign physiological idiopathic ketotic hypoglycemia. In recent years it has become clear that this is not correct (110,114). We outline an approach to patients with ketotic hypoglycemia that should allow differentiation between benign physiological ketotic hypoglycemia, pathological ketotic hypoglycemia associated with known underlying conditions and idiopathic pathological ketotic hypoglycemia (IPKH) in which there is clearly an abnormality of glucose regulation, but no genetic cause can be found (Figure 7). Figure 7. Physiological vs. Pathological Ketotic Hypoglycemia. BENIGN PHYSIOLOGICAL KETOTIC HYPOGLYCEMIA Based on the normal physiology of fasting, if a person is fasted for long enough, they will develop a glucose <50 mg/dL and plasma beta-hydroxybutyrate >2 mmol/L. Studies have looked at the normal duration of fasting and found that time to glucose <50 mg/dL increases with age. Children 0-2 years can generally fast about 15-18 hours, children >2 years to 5 years can fast >24 hours, children >5 years to 10 years can fast about 36 hours, and teenagers to adults can fast 48-72 hours (115). Recently Pamar et al. investigated children admitted for day surgery and found that only a small percentage developed beta-hydroxybutyrate levels >1 mmol/L by 12 hours of fasting (116). Thus, the finding of ketones in blood of >1 mmol/L after 12 hours of fasting in previously healthy and well-nourished children is unusual. However, the finding of ketosis after 24 -30 hours of no, or very poor, oral intake would be considered normal for most children over the age of 2 years. Thus, history is very important in differentiating benign physiological ketotic hypoglycemia due to prolonged starvation or intercurrent illness. It is our recommendation that previously healthy children who present with their first episode of ketotic hypoglycemia, who have a history consistent with prolonged starvation with or without intercurrent illness, who
