Hypoglycemia in Neonates, Infants, and Children
KEYWORDS: hypoglycemia, glucose, hyperinsulinism, insulin, pubmed, plasma, children, fasting, free, diagnosis, levels, hours, plasma glucose, treatment, disorders


is our recommendation that previously healthy children who present with their first episode of ketotic hypoglycemia, who have a history consistent with prolonged starvation with or without intercurrent illness, who have elevated ketones >2 mmol/L and a normal physical exam, should not require further investigations. Children with recurrent episodes of ketosis despite precautions to avoid prolonged fasting need further investigation which may include admission for a fasting study. In addition to evaluating for an underlying etiology, this permits determination of the time to development of ketosis (by monitoring serial ketone levels, not just at the time of the critical sample) and hypoglycemia, which informs intervention. This is best achieved by a formal fasting study (Table 10) following three days of good feeding. PATHOLOGICAL KETOTIC HYPOGLYCEMIA The term pathological ketotic hypoglycemia is used to indicate that some underlying abnormality is causing disordered fasting tolerance. The key manifestation of this is ketotic hypoglycemia that occurs after an abnormally short fasting period, morning ketosis without hypoglycemia, or symptomatic ketosis causing vomiting and a vicious cycle of worsening ketosis, vomiting and dehydration. This can be secondary to hormonal deficiencies such as isolated growth hormone deficiency or cortisol deficiency (primary, secondary or tertiary). It can be caused by enzyme deficiencies in the glycogen storage pathway, disorders of gluconeogenesis, or disorders of ketone utilization or transport. In a small number of children, no cause can be found despite extensive clinical and genetic investigations. These children have idiopathic pathological ketotic hypoglycemia (IPKH). The approach to management of these children requires knowledge of the duration of fasting required to keep the beta-hydroxybutyrate <0.6 mmol/L and knowledge of how low the glucose will fall despite rising ketone levels. Thus, the therapeutic plan needs to be individually tailored to each child. Typical components will include high protein diet of 3 g/kg/day protein to promote gluconeogenesis and prevent catabolism of muscle and slow-release carbohydrates such as uncooked corn starch (UCS) or Glycosade ® . Many infants and children can be successfully treated with nighttime UCS and frequent high protein snacks during the day, but some will require intensive diets with monitoring of glucose and ketones, similar to individuals with GSD III, VI or IX. Because so little is known of the natural history of the severe forms of IPKH, careful review of metabolic control should be undertaken every few years to prevent under treatment as the patient grows but also to
