Hypoglycemia in Neonates, Infants, and Children
KEYWORDS: hypoglycemia, glucose, hyperinsulinism, insulin, pubmed, plasma, children, fasting, free, diagnosis, levels, hours, plasma glucose, treatment, disorders


natural history of the severe forms of IPKH, careful review of metabolic control should be undertaken every few years to prevent under treatment as the patient grows but also to prevent over treatment since the natural ability to fast increases with advancing age. CONCLUSIONS Hypoglycemia in pediatric patients occurs predominately in the newborn period and during times of intercurrent illness, because it is most commonly caused by inherited hormonal or metabolic diseases. Rarer acquired forms of hypoglycemia must be suspected when initial presentation occurs in older children and adolescents. Because of the overlap of the normal transitional changes of glucose regulation in the newborn period with the most common time for the presentation of inherited hypoglycemic conditions, it is critical to screen for hypoglycemia and to determine the precise etiology so that rapid and appropriate interventions can be implemented. Newborn infants cannot be simply labeled as having hypoglycemia and discharged casually on frequent feeds. At the minimum a safety fast should be performed to ensure that the transient forms of hypoglycemia have truly resolved before discharge. Up to 10% of patients presenting with unexplained hypoglycemia in a pediatric emergency room setting will have a serious underlying metabolic or hormonal condition requiring long term care. It is critical that emergency rooms caring for children have protocols in place to identify these 10% of children, because these children are at risk of hypoglycemic brain damage. At all ages rapid intervention can prevent permanent neurological injury caused by the majority of conditions we discuss. REFERENCES 1. Davis HA, Spanakis EK, Cryer PE, Davis SN. Hypoglycemia During Therapy of Diabetes. In: Feingold KR, Anawalt B, Blackman MR, Boyce A, Chrousos G, Corpas E, de Herder WW, Dhatariya K, Dungan K, Hofland J, Kalra S, Kaltsas G, Kapoor N, Koch C, Kopp P, Korbonits M, Kovacs CS, Kuohung W, Laferrere B, Levy M, McGee EA, McLachlan R, New M, Purnell J, Sahay R, Shah AS, Singer F, Sperling MA, Stratakis CA, Trence DL, Wilson DP, eds. Endotext. South Dartmouth (MA)2000. 2. Stanley CA, Rozance PJ, Thornton PS, De Leon DD, Harris D, Haymond MW, Hussain K, Levitsky LL, Murad MH, Simmons RA, Sperling MA, Weinstein DA, White NH, Wolfsdorf JI. Re-evaluating "transitional neonatal hypoglycemia": mechanism and implications for management. J Pediatr. 2015;166(6):1520-1525 e1521. [ PMC free article : PMC4659381 ] [ PubMed : 25819173 ] 3. Calabria AC, Gallagher PR, Simmons R, Blinman T, De
