Diabetes in People Living with HIV
KEYWORDS: diabetes, pubmed, hiv, plwh, risk, free, pmc, pmc free, free article, article, article pubmed, patients, study, art, treatment


ABSTRACT People living with HIV (PLWH) are living longer and also have unique risk factors for developing several metabolic diseases, including diabetes. This has been observed in both high income and low to middle income countries. Risk factors for diabetes in PLWH consist of specific antiretroviral therapies (ART), including older generation protease inhibitors and nucleoside reverse transcriptase inhibitors, lipodystrophy, and hepatitis C co-infection. In addition, obese and overweight states are common in PLWH, and an increased risk of incident diabetes has been noted with weight gain after ART initiation in PLWH, compared to individuals without HIV. Inflammation associated with HIV has also been linked to incident diabetes. This chapter reviews points to consider in the diagnosis and monitoring of diabetes in PLWH and discusses interactions that may occur between specific ART agents and glucose-lowering medications. Moreover, PLWH have risk factors for complications involving organ systems that are also affected by microvascular disease in diabetes. Because PLWH have a greater risk for cardiovascular disease (CVD) than individuals without HIV, modifiable risk factors of CVD should be addressed in the care of PLWH, considering that dyslipidemia, hypertension, and cigarette smoking are all highly prevalent in PLWH. For complete coverage of all related areas of Endocrinology, please visit our on-line FREE web-text, WWW.ENDOTEXT.ORG . BACKGROUND HIV infection is prevalent in 38.4 million people worldwide as of 2021 ( 1 ) and 1.2 million people in the United States as of 2019. The incidence of HIV infection has decreased from 2015 to 2019 in the United States but has remained stable in some demographic groups, including African-Americans and Latinos ( 2 ). Untreated, HIV infection can lead to opportunistic infections including cytomegalovirus disease and pneumocystosis ( 3 ) associated with AIDS, which is defined as a CD4+ cell count < 200 cells/mL. With advances in antiretroviral therapy (ART), however, HIV infection has been transformed from a disease strongly linked to AIDS and opportunistic infections into a chronic disease that is associated with several cardiometabolic consequences, including diabetes ( 4 ), heart disease ( 5 ), and other non-AIDS related illnesses such as osteoporosis ( 6 ). In part, this phenomenon is secondary to the fact that people living with HIV (PLWH) are living longer and are more susceptible to diseases of aging. An important aspect to consider in the understanding of HIV associated cardiometabolic diseases is their growing global presence. The same factors that
