Diabetes in People Living with HIV
KEYWORDS: diabetes, pubmed, hiv, plwh, risk, free, pmc, pmc free, free article, article, article pubmed, patients, study, art, treatment


and are more susceptible to diseases of aging. An important aspect to consider in the understanding of HIV associated cardiometabolic diseases is their growing global presence. The same factors that are associated with cardiometabolic disease prevalence in PLWH in high-income countries are also present in low-income countries, in addition to unique factors including industrialization, with resultant decreased physical activity and increased energy consumption ( 7 ) ( 8 ). As such, the care of PLWH needs to focus not only on ART but also on the management of chronic co-morbidities. This chapter will focus primarily on diabetes in PLWH. EPIDEMIOLOGY AND RISK FACTORS FOR DIABETES IN PLWH Epidemiology PLWH have a unique set of risk factors that may increase their likelihood of developing diabetes. Illustrating the greater burden of diabetes in PLWH on ART, a study from 2005 on the Multicenter AIDS Cohort Study (MACS) of gay and bisexual men with (MWH) and without HIV (MWoH) found that the incidence of diabetes was found to be more than fourfold higher in MWH and that the prevalence of diabetes was 14% in MWH on ART and 7% in MWH not on ART, compared to 5% in MWoH. These differences were significant even after adjusting for age and body mass index (BMI). Of note, the majority of MWH on ART in the study were on first generation protease inhibitor (PI) therapy (discussed further in the section Protease Inhibitors) ( 9 ). Other studies have described incidence rates of diabetes in PLWH of 4.4 cases per 1000 person-years of follow-up in the Swiss HIV Cohort Study ( 10 ) and 5.72 cases per 1000 person-years of follow-up in the Data Collection on Adverse Events of Anti-HIV Drugs (D:A:D) Study of participants from Europe, the US, Australia, and Argentina ( 11 ). The effect of HIV disease on developing diabetes is also growing in low- and middle-income countries (LMIC), where the majority of the people with diabetes live ( 12 ). Prevalence of estimates of diabetes in PLWH in LMIC range from 6.8% in Chile ( 13 ) to 26% in Cameroon ( 14 ). PLWH and diabetes in LMIC are younger than those in high income countries ( 15 ). The wide range of prevalence estimates of diabetes in PLWH in LMIC may be in part because of differences in the definitions used to identifying diabetes. In addition to factors common to PLWH
