Diabetes in People Living with HIV
KEYWORDS: diabetes, pubmed, hiv, plwh, risk, free, pmc, pmc free, free article, article, article pubmed, patients, study, art, treatment


of prevalence estimates of diabetes in PLWH in LMIC may be in part because of differences in the definitions used to identifying diabetes. In addition to factors common to PLWH globally, urbanization may be a contributing factor to the development of diabetes in PLWH in LMIC ( 16 ). Antiretroviral Therapy (ART) PROTEASE INHIBITORS (PI) One risk factor for developing diabetes in PLWH is PI use. In 1995, saquinavir became the first FDA approved PI ( 17 ). Incidence rates of hyperglycemia as high as fivefold have been reported in the setting of PI use ( 18 ). In addition, PIs, including ritonavir, have been associated with hypertriglyceridemia ( 19 , 20 ) and lipodystrophy ( 21 ). Mechanisms that may account for these effects are multifold. In one study, insulin sensitivity, as measured by glucose infusion rate during hyperglycemic clamp, decreased significantly after 12 weeks of PI therapy compared to baseline. A defect in beta cell function, in particular, a decrease in the disposition index, was also observed after PI therapy ( 22 ). An in vitro study demonstrated that indinavir may lower the function of the glucose transporter GLUT4 ( 23 ). Additional mechanisms may include changes in the hormone adiponectin, which is associated with improved insulin sensitivity, although in vivo and in vitro effects of PIs on adiponectin have differed ( 24 , 25 ). The prescribing patterns of PI use have evolved. One study found that in the Veterans Affairs system, the prevalence of PI based regimen use decreased from 1997 to 2004 ( 26 ). In addition, the effects of all PIs, namely older generation versus newer generation PIs, including atazanavir and darunavir, on glucose homeostasis are not equal. In an in vitro study, atazanavir, which received FDA approval in 2003 ( 27 ), did not inhibit either GLUT1 or GLUT4 glucose transporters ( 28 ). In a clinical study of HIV- participants, atazanavir in combination with ritonavir had a significantly lower effect on insulin sensitivity compared to lopinavir/ritonavir, as measured by glucose disposal rate during hyperinsulinemic euglycemic clamp. ( 29 ). Moreover, the newer generation PIs have not been associated with an increased incidence of diabetes, with one study showing a lower risk of diabetes in individuals on these medications ( 30 ). NUCLEOSIDE REVERSE TRANSCRIPTASE INHIBITORS (NRTIs) In addition to PIs, certain nucleoside reverse transcriptase inhibitors (NRTIs) have been associated with diabetes. In
