Diabetes in People Living with HIV
KEYWORDS: diabetes, pubmed, hiv, plwh, risk, free, pmc, pmc free, free article, article, article pubmed, patients, study, art, treatment


diabetes in individuals on these medications ( 30 ). NUCLEOSIDE REVERSE TRANSCRIPTASE INHIBITORS (NRTIs) In addition to PIs, certain nucleoside reverse transcriptase inhibitors (NRTIs) have been associated with diabetes. In the D:A:D study, incident diabetes was associated with exposure to the NRTIs stavudine and zidovudine, both thymidine analogs, and didanosine, after adjusting for age, sex, race, and BMI ( 11 ). NRTIs have also been implicated in mitochondrial dysfunction, which may be another mechanism by which NRTIs are associated with diabetes. One study found that one month of treatment with stavudine was associated with significant decreases in mitochondrial DNA from muscle biopsies and insulin sensitivity, as measured by the glucose infusion rate during a hyperinsulinemic euglycemic clamp ( 31 ). Because of serious adverse effects linked to the use of these NRTIs, stavudine, zidovudine, and didanosine are not advised for use in the United States ( 32 ). Similar to the newer generation of PIs, the use of newer NRTIs, including emtricitabine, abacavir, and tenofovir, have been associated with a lower risk of diabetes ( 30 ). Supporting this finding, tenofovir disoproxil fumarate (TDF), in a study of participants without HIV or diabetes, did not significantly affect insulin sensitivity, as measured by hyperinsulinemic euglycemic clamp ( 33 ). Tenofovir alafenamide (TAF) is a newer prodrug of tenofovir and is associated with less renal and bone toxicity than TDF ( 33a ). However, TAF has been associated with weight gain in PLWH, compared with TDF ( 33b ). Weight gain leading to an overweight state or obesity is a risk factor for the development of type 2 diabetes. In a retrospective study of the ADVANCE trial, which included ART naïve PLWH randomized to 3 treatment arms, 2 of which included TDF and 1 of which included TAF, an increase in the 10-year predicted risk of type 2 diabetes was observed for participants in the TAF arm, compared to participants in one of the TDF arms, although the risk calculator that was used had not been validated for the population in the study ( 33c ). On the other hand, in a cohort study of more than 4,000 PWH on a TDF-based ART regimen for at least 6 months, of whom about 80% switched to a TAF-based ART regimen and about 20% continued on a TDF-based ART regimen, TAF was associated with a significant weight gain, compared to TDF, after 18 months,
