Diabetes in People Living with HIV
KEYWORDS: diabetes, pubmed, hiv, plwh, risk, free, pmc, pmc free, free article, article, article pubmed, patients, study, art, treatment


80% switched to a TAF-based ART regimen and about 20% continued on a TDF-based ART regimen, TAF was associated with a significant weight gain, compared to TDF, after 18 months, but it was not associated with incident diabetes. INTEGRASE STRAND TRANSFER INHIBITORS (INSTIs) Integrase strand transfer inhibitor (INSTI) based regimens are among the recommended initial ART regimens for PLWH ( 32 ) ( 34 ). Reasons for this include the effectiveness of and fewer adverse effects associated with INSTIs in studies of treatment-naïve patients ( 34 - 37 ). However, studies have discovered some metabolic effects of INSTIs. These include weight gain on average of 2.9 kilograms over 18 months, as observed in a retrospective study of patients who switched to an INSTI based regimen from previously being on a non-NRTI (NNRTI)-based regimen. This was in contrast to an average 0.7 kg weight gain in those participants who switched to a PI-based regimen and 0.9 kg weight gain in those who continued on a NNRTI-based regimen ( 38 ). In addition to weight gain, case reports of new onset diabetes have been reported in conjunction with INSTI use ( 39 , 40 ). One clinical trial compared the INSTI raltegravir to 2 boosted PI regimens and found that the increases in homeostasis model assessment-insulin resistance (HOMA-IR) in all 3 arms were not significantly different from one another, were noted by 4 weeks, and appeared to be independent of changes in visceral adipose tissue ( 41 ). However, other studies have not demonstrated an association between diabetes and INSTI use ( 41a ) or have found that the association between INSTI use and incident diabetes varies by individual INSTI ( 41b ). The exact mechanisms by which INSTIs may be related to weight gain and diabetes are not known. One proposed mechanism by which INSTIs may cause hyperglycemia is their effect on magnesium, which is a necessary cation for insulin action ( 40 ). In mice, INSTI use leads to an increase in fat mass and decreases brown and beige adipocyte differentiation, leading to lower energy expenditure and weight gain ( 41c ). Lipodystrophy Lipodystrophy associated with ART is characterized by either lipoatrophy in the face, arms, and legs, or lipoaccumulation that can lead to gynecomastia, dorsocervical fat tissue, and increased intra-abdominal fat, ( 42 , 43 ), or mixed lipodystrophy, in which lipoatrophy and lipoaccumulation occur together. As noted above,
