Diabetes in People Living with HIV
KEYWORDS: diabetes, pubmed, hiv, plwh, risk, free, pmc, pmc free, free article, article, article pubmed, patients, study, art, treatment


that can lead to gynecomastia, dorsocervical fat tissue, and increased intra-abdominal fat, ( 42 , 43 ), or mixed lipodystrophy, in which lipoatrophy and lipoaccumulation occur together. As noted above, lipodystrophy has been associated with PI use ( 21 ) and with older generation NRTI use, including stavudine ( 44 ), but less commonly with the newer generation NRTI tenofovir ( 45 ). In a cross-sectional study, HIV+ men with lipodystrophy had a greater insulin resistance than men without lipodystrophy ( 21 ). Lipodystrophy has also been associated with incident diabetes ( 46 , 47 ). In one study that measured body fat changes longitudinally using dual-energy x-ray absorptiometry (DXA) in PLWH on ART (specifically zidovudine and lamivudine or didanosine and stavudine in combination with nelfinavir, efavirenz, or both), 32% of participants had discordant changes in trunk and limb fat ( 48 ). Lipodystrophy may also be persistent in patients with exposure to thymidine analogs. Although improvements in limb fat mass were reported in patients who switched from taking the thymidine analog zidovudine to the NRTI abacavir, no significant improvement was noted in self-assessment of dorsocervical fat ( 49 ). Hepatitis C Co-Infection 25% of PLWH in the U.S. are co-infected with hepatitis C ( 50 ). Hepatitis C infection is associated with a higher risk of developing diabetes. Treatments for hepatitis C, including direct-acting antiviral treatment and pegylated interferon/ribivirin, have been found to lower the incidence of diabetes, with a larger effect in those patients with advanced fibrosis/cirrhosis. In addition among individuals who received treatment for hepatitis C, those with a sustained virologic response were less likely to develop diabetes than those without a sustained virologic response ( 51 ). Weight Gain, Overweight, and Obesity Weight gain that is observed after the initiation of ART in those patients with wasting associated with untreated HIV has been characterized as a “return to health” phenomenon. However, because of an emphasis on early ART initiation, the wasting that was previously seen with advanced HIV infection is less common in countries with access to ART ( 52 ). In one 2012 study conducted in Alabama, more than 40% of patients were overweight or obese at the time of starting ART. After 2 years on ART, the percentages of underweight and normal weight participants decreased significantly, and significant increases in the percentages of overweight and obese participants were observed. Having a lower baseline CD4
