Diabetes in People Living with HIV
KEYWORDS: diabetes, pubmed, hiv, plwh, risk, free, pmc, pmc free, free article, article, article pubmed, patients, study, art, treatment


on ART, the percentages of underweight and normal weight participants decreased significantly, and significant increases in the percentages of overweight and obese participants were observed. Having a lower baseline CD4 count and the use of a PI as a third drug were risk factors associated with a greater increase in BMI ( 53 ). The consequences of weight gain in PLWH may be different from those in the general population. In a study of U.S. Veterans, the risk of incident diabetes with 10 or more pounds of weight gain during the first year after ART initiation in HIV+ Veterans was significantly greater than in HIV- Veterans ( 54 ). Among cohorts of PLWH from different countries, prevalence estimates of an overweight state or obesity range from 25% to 68% ( 55 , 56 ). In one study of PLWH, risk factors for being overweight or obese in PLWH included increasing age and either no evidence of hepatitis C infection or evidence of cleared hepatitis C infection ( 57 ). Inflammation In addition to the risk factors for diabetes in PLWH outlined above, inflammation may play a role in the development of diabetes in PLWH. Systemic inflammation results from several factors: viral replication, immune activation, which leads to T cell depletion, as well as T cell loss specifically in the gastrointestinal tract, with associated translocation of microbial factors including lipopolysaccharide ( 58 ). Co-infection with viruses, including hepatitis C virus (as discussed above), hepatitis B virus, Epstein-Barr virus, and cytomegalovirus, perpetuate systemic inflammation ( 59 ). Although ART reduces some inflammatory biomarkers in PLWH ( 60 ), there is evidence of residual inflammation, with levels of other inflammatory biomarkers in PLWH on ART that do not decrease to levels seen in HIV- individuals ( 61 ). Persistent inflammation measured months after ART initiation has been associated with incident diabetes in PLWH ( 62 ). DIAGNOSIS OF AND MONOTORING DIABETES IN PLWH The American Diabetes Association (ADA) recommends the use of a fasting plasma glucose, hemoglobin A1c, or a 2-hour plasma glucose after a 75-gram oral glucose tolerance test to establish the diagnosis of diabetes in the general population. However, there is a caveat that for certain populations of patients, including PLWH, fasting plasma glucose is preferable to hemoglobin A1c ( 63 ). Hemoglobin A1c has been found to underestimate glycemia in PLWH ( 64 , 65 ). One reason for this
