Diabetes in People Living with HIV
KEYWORDS: diabetes, pubmed, hiv, plwh, risk, free, pmc, pmc free, free article, article, article pubmed, patients, study, art, treatment


fasting plasma glucose is preferable to hemoglobin A1c ( 63 ). Hemoglobin A1c has been found to underestimate glycemia in PLWH ( 64 , 65 ). One reason for this is the use of medications that cause hemolysis, including dapsone and trimethoprim-sulfamethoxazole, which are used for prophylaxis of Pneumocystis jiroveci , an opportunistic infection ( 65 ). However, another reason for the discrepancy between glucose levels and hemoglobin A1c is NRTI use. NRTIs, especially the thymidine analogs, are associated with an increased risk of macrocytosis ( 66 ), which can lower hemoglobin A1c. Finally, lower CD4 cell count (< 500 cells/mm 3 ) was associated with a significant discordance between expected and measured hemoglobin A1c in MWoH in the MACS ( 67 ). As such, self-monitoring of blood glucose in PLWH may be preferable to using hemoglobin A1c for monitoring glycemic control ( 64 ). The most recent Infectious Diseases Society of America guidelines on the primary care of PLWH recommends obtaining either a fasting plasma glucose and/or hemoglobin A1c at baseline and at 1 to 3 months after starting ART. In addition, hemoglobin A1c is preferred to fasting glucose for diagnosing diabetes because of the relative ease of obtaining a hemoglobin A1c over a fasting glucose. However, a hemoglobin A1c level ≥ 5.8% can be considered to diagnose diabetes in PLWH, instead of the ADA recommendation of ≥ 6.5%, as this improves the sensitivity of the test ( 68 , 69 ). Moreover, a hemoglobin A1c is recommended to be obtained every 6 months in PLWH and diabetes, with a goal hemoglobin A1c of < 7% ( 68 ). TREATMENT OF DIABETES IN PLWH Special considerations should be taken into account in the treatment of diabetes in PLWH. PLWH may not respond to treatment for diabetes in the same manner as HIV- individuals. Part of this observation may be because treatment responses were measured using hemoglobin A1c, which may be an inaccurate indicator of glycemia in PLWH ( 70 ), as noted above. Interactions between several diabetes medications and ART are known. In addition, some diabetes medications may present advantages or disadvantages in PLWH. These conditions are described in further detail below and are organized by diabetes medication. Lifestyle Interventions Both the 2023 ADA Standards of Care on Pharmacologic Approaches to Glycemic Treatment and the 2023 updated American Association of Clinical Endocrinology algorithm of the management of type 2
