Diabetes in People Living with HIV
KEYWORDS: diabetes, pubmed, hiv, plwh, risk, free, pmc, pmc free, free article, article, article pubmed, patients, study, art, treatment


Interventions Both the 2023 ADA Standards of Care on Pharmacologic Approaches to Glycemic Treatment and the 2023 updated American Association of Clinical Endocrinology algorithm of the management of type 2 diabetes highlight lifestyle interventions as part of the recommended treatment of type 2 diabetes ( 70a , 70b ). Lifestyle interventions include not only a healthy diet and exercise but also smoking cessation and moderating alcohol intake ( 70b ). Physical activity has benefits for PLWH, including decreasing waist circumference ( 70c ) and improvements in glucose and high-density lipoprotein cholesterol levels ( 70d ). However, low physical activity has been reported in some studies of PLWH ( 70e , 70f ). Metformin The 2023 ADA Standards of Care on Pharmacologic Approaches to Glycemic Treatment includes metformin as one first-line treatment to consider in patients in the general population with type 2 diabetes ( 70a ) ( 71 ). In PLWH with lipodystrophy and insulin resistance but without diabetes, 3 months of metformin 1000 mg twice daily was found to significantly decrease insulin area under the curve after an oral glucose tolerance test. Although no increased incidence in lactic acidosis was noted in the participants who received metformin, the study was not powered for this outcome, and liver and kidney dysfunction were exclusion criteria ( 72 ). The commonly used integrase transfer strand inhibitor, dolutegravir, increases plasma levels of metformin, and thus adjusting the dose of metformin upon dolutegravir initiation has been recommended ( 73 , 74 ). However, one retrospective study found that there was no significant difference in glycemic control before and after starting dolutegravir in PLWH and diabetes on metformin ( 75 ). In summary, there are no guidelines to suggest that metformin should not be a possible first-line treatment of type 2 diabetes in PLWH, after consideration of liver and kidney function and dolutegravir treatment. Sulfonylureas Sulfonylureas are a substrate of the CYP2C9 enzyme. The PIs ritonavir and nelfinavir are CYP2C9 inducers and can decrease sulfonylurea levels ( 76 , 77 ). In comparison with initial use of metformin in PLWH, no significant difference in glycemia after one year of therapy was noted with initial use of a sulfonylurea ( 78 ). The 2023 ADA guidelines note that sulfonylureas are a high efficacy drug class for glucose management and are less cost-prohibitive compared to many other drug classes ( 70a ) ( 71 ). However, adverse
