Diabetes in People Living with HIV
KEYWORDS: diabetes, pubmed, hiv, plwh, risk, free, pmc, pmc free, free article, article, article pubmed, patients, study, art, treatment


note that sulfonylureas are a high efficacy drug class for glucose management and are less cost-prohibitive compared to many other drug classes ( 70a ) ( 71 ). However, adverse effects of sulfonylureas include hypoglycemia and weight gain. In PLWH, consideration should be made if a patient is on ritonavir or nelfinavir and the possible loss of efficacy of sulfonylurea treatment. Thiazolidinediones The effect of thiazolidinediones on glycemic control in PLWH with diabetes specifically has not been studied, although some trials found that rosiglitazone lowered serum insulin levels in PLWH without diabetes ( 79 ) and improved insulin sensitivity in PLWH with hyperinsulinemia ( 80 ). Several studies have focused on the effect of thiazolidinediones (TZDs) on body fat in PLWH with lipodystrophy, with equivocal findings. One 24-week study on the effect of rosiglitazone on PLWH, all of whom were on a PI, found no significant difference in arm fat between the treatment and placebo groups ( 81 ). However, the study did not have enough power to detect a difference in this outcome ( 82 ). On the other hand, other studies demonstrated that rosiglitazone increased visceral and subcutaneous abdominal fat in MWH with lipodystrophy over 6 months ( 83 ) and subcutaneous leg fat in PLWH with lipodystrophy over 3 months ( 80 ). Adverse side effects of TZDs should be considered and discussed prior to initiation. These include fluid retention, osteoporosis, edema, and potential liver injury ( 84 ). Dipeptidyl Peptidase 4 Inhibitors Some clinical studies have demonstrated that dipeptidyl peptidase 4 (DPP4) inhibitors exert an anti-inflammatory effect in patients with type 2 diabetes ( 85 , 86 ). This idea was further examined in PLWH in a pilot study of 20 PLWH on ART randomized to either the DPP4 inhibitor sitagliptin or placebo for 24 weeks. A significant decrease was noted in the chemokine SDF-1α in the treatment group. In addition, an improvement in glucose tolerance was noted at week 8 in the treatment group, but the difference in glucose tolerance between the two groups was no longer significant at the end of the study ( 87 ). In another study of PLWH with impaired glucose tolerance, sitagliptin resulted in a significant improvement in glucose tolerance and decreases in the inflammatory markers hsCRP and CXCL10 from baseline after 8 weeks of treatment, compared to placebo ( 88 ). Similarly, in a larger study of 84 PLWH
