Diabetes in People Living with HIV
KEYWORDS: diabetes, pubmed, hiv, plwh, risk, free, pmc, pmc free, free article, article, article pubmed, patients, study, art, treatment


and decreases in the inflammatory markers hsCRP and CXCL10 from baseline after 8 weeks of treatment, compared to placebo ( 88 ). Similarly, in a larger study of 84 PLWH on ART with viral suppression and without diabetes who were randomized to 16 weeks of sitagliptin versus placebo, a significant decrease from baseline was seen at week 15 in CXCL10 in participants in the treatment group ( 89 ). Glucagon-Like Peptide-1 Receptor Agonists Several glucagon-like peptide-1 (GLP-1) receptor agonists have been shown to improve weight and cardiovascular outcomes, albeit in patient populations not specific to PLWH ( 90 , 91 ). Liraglutide, dulaglutide, and semaglutide have been shown to lower the risk of a composite outcome of nonfatal stroke, nonfatal myocardial infarction, and cardiovascular death in patients with type 2 diabetes ( 90 , 91 ). Liraglutide, semaglutide, and dulaglutide have indications from the Food and Drug Administration for lowering cardiovascular event risk in patients with cardiovascular disease and type 2 diabetes, and dulaglutide is also approved for lowering cardiovascular event risk in patients with multiple cardiovascular risk factors and type 2 diabetes. The 2023 ADA guidelines recommend the use of a GLP-1 receptor agonist as a first-line treatment in patients with cardiovascular disease and type 2 diabetes ( 70a ). One case report described a single PLWH who was able to discontinue insulin treatment (insulin glargine 60 units daily) and who experienced improvements in weight and hemoglobin A1c after starting liraglutide therapy ( 92 ). Another case report described improvements in hemoglobin A1c and fasting glucose on dulaglutide in a PLWH. Relatively scant literature exists on the effects of GLP-1 receptors agonists in PLWH and diabetes ( 93 , 94 ). Sodium-Glucose Co-Transporter-2 Inhibitors Similar to the GLP-1 receptor agonists, sodium-glucose co-transporter-2 (SGLT2) inhibitors have demonstrated reductions in adverse cardiovascular outcomes, including cardiovascular death and hospitalization for heart failure in general population studies ( 95 , 96 ). In addition, both dapagliflozin and canagliflozin have an FDA indication to reduce the risk of end-stage renal disease in patients with type 2 diabetes and diabetic nephropathy with albuminuria ( 96a ). As such, the 2023 ADA guidelines on pharmacologic treatment of diabetes recommend that in those patients with type 2 diabetes and chronic kidney disease, a SGLT2 inhibitor that has been shown to reduce risk of renal disease progression should be used ( 70a ). SGLT2 inhibitors are also approved
