Diabetes in People Living with HIV
KEYWORDS: diabetes, pubmed, hiv, plwh, risk, free, pmc, pmc free, free article, article, article pubmed, patients, study, art, treatment


diabetes and chronic kidney disease, a SGLT2 inhibitor that has been shown to reduce risk of renal disease progression should be used ( 70a ). SGLT2 inhibitors are also approved for reduction of adverse cardiovascular events and heart failure hospitalization in people with diabetes and have cardiovascular benefits for patients with either systolic or diastolic heart failure ( 96a ). Diastolic dysfunction is more common in PLWH compared with people without HIV. As such, the 2023 ADA guidelines recommend the use of an SGLT2 inhibitor with demonstrated benefit in patients with type 2 diabetes and heart failure ( 70a ). One small trial studied canagliflozin for 24 weeks in 8 obese PLWH with type 2 diabetes and hemoglobin A1c > 7% and observed improvements in weight and hemoglobin A1c at the end of the study compared to baseline ( 97 ). Adverse side effects of SGLT2 inhibitors include genital mycotic and urinary tract infections. In addition, 55 post-marketing cases of Fournier’s gangrene have been reported between March 2013 to January 2019 ( 98 ). A risk factor for Fournier’s gangrene is HIV infection ( 99 - 101 ), especially a CD4 cell count < 200 cells/μL ( 102 ). Insulin The 2023 ADA guidelines recommend considering insulin initiation in the patient 1) with a hemoglobin A1c > 11%, 2) with signs and symptoms of catabolism, 3) who has a presentation concerning for type 1 diabetes, and/or 4) whose hemoglobin A1c is not at goal despite taking 2 to 3 medications for diabetes, in addition to a GLP-1 receptor agonist. As with all patients with diabetes, side effects of insulin therapy to consider in a discussion with a patient with HIV disease and diabetes include the risks of hypoglycemia and weight gain. Sequence of Initiating Diabetes Medications in PLWH There are no specific guidelines for the treatment of diabetes in PLWH. The 2023 ADA guidelines recommend the treatment of type 2 diabetes be tailored to the individual patient and consider factors including cost of medications, weight loss goals, and comorbidities including chronic kidney disease, atherosclerotic cardiovascular disease, and heart failure. Healthy lifestyle interventions should be incorporated alongside the pharmacologic treatment of type 2 diabetes. For those patients with type 2 diabetes and ASCVD or who are at high risk for ASCVD, treatment with either a GLP-1 receptor agonist or SGLT2 inhibitor is recommended. If A1c is not at goal, then adding
