Diabetes in People Living with HIV
KEYWORDS: diabetes, pubmed, hiv, plwh, risk, free, pmc, pmc free, free article, article, article pubmed, patients, study, art, treatment


and ASCVD or who are at high risk for ASCVD, treatment with either a GLP-1 receptor agonist or SGLT2 inhibitor is recommended. If A1c is not at goal, then adding an additional agent, 1) such as a SGLT2 inhibitor, if the patient is already on a GLP-1 receptor agonist, or a GLP-1 receptor agonist, if the patient is already on a SGLT2 inhibitor, or 2) a thiazolidinedione, is recommended ( 70a ). For patients with type 2 diabetes and heart failure, a SGLT2 inhibitor is recommended, as noted above. For patients with type 2 diabetes and chronic kidney disease, a SGLT2 inhibitor, or if contraindicated, a GLP-1 receptor agonist is recommended. Finally, for those patients with type 2 diabetes for whom weight management is a priority, a medication with weight loss or weight neutral effects can be considered. With regards to weight loss, semaglutide and tirzepatide have the most effect, whereas metformin and DPP4 inhibitors are weight neutral. Dulaglutide and liraglutide have a high weight loss efficacy, and SGLT2 inhibitors have intermediate weight loss efficacy ( 70a ). In PLWH, an additional factor to consider is the possible interaction of a diabetes medication with specific ART. MICROVASCULAR COMPLICATIONS ASSOCIATED WITH DIABETES IN PLWH Peripheral Neuropathy HIV is associated with multiple peripheral neuropathies (PNs), including a distal, symmetric polyneuropathy (DSPN) ( 103 ). The prevalence of HIV-associated PN among PLWH varies < 10% to upwards of 50%, with the wide variability in prevalence estimates secondary in part to differences in methods used to assess PN ( 104 ). Risk factors for HIV-associated DSPN include use of the NRTIs zalcitabine, didanosine, and stavudine ( 105 ). In addition, HIV-associated DSPN has been observed in PLWH within 1 year of HIV transmission and is significantly associated with evidence of immune activation present in the central nervous system ( 106 ). HIV-associated PN, in addition to the risk of developing PN secondary to diabetes, may place PLWH and diabetes at increased risk of sequelae including falls, particularly in those PLWH with a detectable viral load ( 107 ), foot ulceration, and amputations. In summary, in addition to considering the risk of diabetic peripheral neuropathy, the risk of HIV-associated PNs should be kept in mind in the assessment and treatment of PLWH with diabetes. Nephropathy The prevalence estimates of chronic kidney disease (CKD) in PLWH vary depending on geographic region, with 7.9% of PLWH affected
