Diabetes in People Living with HIV
KEYWORDS: diabetes, pubmed, hiv, plwh, risk, free, pmc, pmc free, free article, article, article pubmed, patients, study, art, treatment


in the assessment and treatment of PLWH with diabetes. Nephropathy The prevalence estimates of chronic kidney disease (CKD) in PLWH vary depending on geographic region, with 7.9% of PLWH affected in Africa (with the highest prevalence among African regions in West Africa at 22%), compared to 3.7% in Europe. In addition, prevalence estimates of CKD in PLWH are significantly greater among those individuals with co-morbid diabetes ( 108 ). In the MACS, two independent risk factors associated with greater odds of proteinuria were HIV+ serostatus with ART use, compared to HIV- serostatus, and a history of diabetes ( 109 ). Moreover, glomerular hyperfiltration, or a supranormal estimated glomerular filtration rate, is more prevalent among HIV+ men without CKD than HIV- men without CKD ( 110 ). Glomerular hyperfiltration has been reported to be an initial state of dysfunction seen in patients with diabetic kidney disease and proteinuria ( 111 ). Other risk factors for CKD in PLWH include the following: recurrent acute kidney injury, African-American race, in part because of risk variants of the APOL1 gene, and persistent inflammation, even in the setting of ART ( 112 - 114 ). In addition, an HIV-associated nephropathy (HIVAN), which is characterized by several insults to the kidney, including focal and segmental glomerulosclerosis, exists. Certain ART drugs within the NRTI, NNRTI, and PI classes are also associated with renal injury ( 114 ). Among these are the NRTI tenofovir, which is associated with adverse kidney disease outcomes independent of diabetes ( 115 ), and the PI indinavir ( 116 ). Retinopathy Ocular opportunistic infections in PLWH include CMV retinitis and ischemic HIV retinopathy ( 117 ). In addition, patients with a history of CMV retinitis should be monitored periodically for retinitis recurrence by an ophthalmologist ( 118 ). However, these ocular opportunistic infections are less common in the setting of ART. However, retinal disease has been noted in PLWH on ART as part of a larger syndrome of the HIV-associated neuroretinal disorder ( 117 ), which has an incidence of more than 50% at 20 years after a diagnosis of AIDS ( 119 ). One study found that among HIV+ men with a median duration of ART use of 12 years and suppressed viremia did have a significant difference in total peripheral retinal thickness from HIV- men, although the long-term clinical relevance of this is unknown ( 117 ). There is limited literature
