Diabetes in People Living with HIV
KEYWORDS: diabetes, pubmed, hiv, plwh, risk, free, pmc, pmc free, free article, article, article pubmed, patients, study, art, treatment


viremia did have a significant difference in total peripheral retinal thickness from HIV- men, although the long-term clinical relevance of this is unknown ( 117 ). There is limited literature on the effect of co-morbid diabetes on HIV-associated retinal disease. MODIFIABLE FACTORS OF MACROVASCULAR COMPLICATIONS ASSOCIATED WITH DIABETES IN PLWH PLWH are at increased risk of developing atherosclerotic cardiovascular disease (ASCVD) compared to individuals without HIV, despite controlling for traditional cardiovascular (CV) risk factors such as diabetes ( 5 , 120 ). In addition, PLWH have a greater burden of traditional CV risk factors ( 120 ). Other non-traditional risk factors include some ART such as older generation PIs ( 121 ) and inflammation ( 122 ). As such, calculators developed for the general population to calculate ASCVD risk may not accurately capture risk in PLWH ( 123 ). Aspirin Recent American College of Cardiology/American Heart Association (ACC/AHA) recommend the use of aspirin for primary prevention of ASCVD in general population patients age 40 to 70 years with high ASCVD risk ( 124 ), and similarly the American Diabetes Association (ADA) guidelines also recommend aspirin use in select patients with diabetes < 70 years of age with high ASCVD risk and low bleeding risk ( 125 ). However, evidence has shown that aspirin use is lower in PLWH with CV risk factors than in HIV- individuals ( 126 ), and PLWH are less likely to be prescribed aspirin for primary prevention than HIV- individuals ( 127 ). Blood Pressure The prevalence of hypertension globally in PLWH is substantial. PLWH have several risk factors for developing hypertension, including a greater prevalence of smoking (as noted below) ( 128 , 129 ) and ART use ( 130 ). The relationship of ART to hypertension is thought to be in part from its association to weight gain. Moreover, in the MACS, ART use was associated with greater systolic hypertension but not diastolic hypertension. A mechanism for this could be a change in arterial compliance as a consequence of ART use ( 131 ). The 2023 ADA guidelines recommend a goal blood pressure of < 130/80 ( 132 ). Cholesterol Dyslipidemia is seen in both untreated PLWH and PLWH on ART ( 133 , 134 ). The decision to initiate a statin in a patient living with HIV for primary prevention should take into account the patient’s HIV serostatus, especially in those patients with
