Diabetes in People Living with HIV
KEYWORDS: diabetes, pubmed, hiv, plwh, risk, free, pmc, pmc free, free article, article, article pubmed, patients, study, art, treatment


134 ). The decision to initiate a statin in a patient living with HIV for primary prevention should take into account the patient’s HIV serostatus, especially in those patients with a 10-year ASCVD risk of 5 to < 20% ( 124 ). The primary prevention of atherosclerotic cardiovascular disease is a clinically important topic. The Evaluating the Use of Pitavastatin to Reduce Cardiovascular Disease in HIV-Infected Adults (REPRIEVE) study is a multicenter, international, randomized clinical trial on PWH on ART, in which participants with a low to moderate risk of ASCVD were randomized to either pitavastatin daily or placebo ( 134a ). In March 2023, the Data Safety and Monitoring Board recommended premature closure of the study based on the observed efficacy of the study treatment to reduce the primary endpoint of major adverse cardiovascular events (MACE) by 35% relative to the placebo. The incidence of a major adverse cardiovascular event was 4.81 per 1000 person-years in the pitavastatin group and 7.32 per 1000 person-years in the placebo group (hazard ratio, 0.65; 95% confidence interval, 0.48 to 0.90; P = 0.002). Of note, similar to other studies the risk of diabetes was increased in the pitavastatin group (diabetes mellitus occurred in 5.3% in pitavastatin group and 4.0% in the control group). These results suggest that many PLWH should be on statin therapy. Cigarette Smoking Cigarette smoking is more prevalent in PLWH than in individuals without HIV ( 129 ), and life expectancy is estimated to be lower in HIV+ men and women who are current smokers at the time of HIV care initiation than in HIV+ men and women who are former or never smokers, with a 2.9 year gain in life expectancy at 10 years after HIV care initiation ( 135 ). The ADA guidelines recommend that people with diabetes not smoke cigarettes and that smoking cessation treatment be offered for those patients with diabetes who do smoke ( 136 ). SUMMARY In summary, PLWH have unique risk factors that increase their risk of diabetes. Factors to take into consideration in the treatment of PLWH include the following: type of ART, evidence of lipodystrophy, co-infection with other viruses, and overweight or obese state. A caveat is that HbA1c may be inaccurate in diagnosing and monitoring diabetes in PLWH. PLWH have additional risk factors for developing microvascular complications of diabetes. Some glycemic agents may interact with ART, and other glycemic
