Thyroxine Poisoning
KEYWORDS: ingestion, levels, children, thyroid, tablets, serum, charcoal, probably, thyroxine, symptoms, total, lt-, activated, l-thyroxine, gastric


CLINICAL RECOGNITION A massive L-Thyroxine (T4) overdose may be accidentally and unintentionally ingested, most commonly by children and adolescents. It may occur intentionally in young and older adults in an attempt to lose weight, with suicidal intentions, or for undeclared purposes. In some localities thyroxine may be obtained at drugstores without prescription (mostly in the generic form). In some reports thyroxine preparations by a pharmacist had an erroneous LT4 dosage. Thyroid hormone pills used to treat hypothyroid dogs typically contains a much higher dose of thyroid hormone and if mistakenly taken by humans can lead to thyroxine poisoning. Ingested thyroxine, which is itself probably of modest physiologic significance, is rapidly partially converted to triiodothyronine (T3), the active form of thyroid hormone. Both thyroxine and triiodothyronine levels in serum rise within 1-2 hours of ingestion. Agents that inhibit T4>T3 conversion provide one approach to treatment. In children and adolescents, the clinical course is often very mild. Patients in this age range may ingest a full flask of LT4 with 90-100 tablets (100 or 150 mcg/tablet). Rarely, the overdose is discovered immediately and the patient is brought to the hospital 6-12 hours after the ingestion. At this time, the common clinical signs and symptoms include nervousness, insomnia, mild tremor of hands, tachycardia, mild elevation of body temperature, blood pressure elevation, and loose stools. Rarely more serious late effects occur, including coma, convulsions, and acute psychosis. Cardiac effects aside from tachycardia are seldom seen in young adults but may occur in middle age and older adults, with reported arrhythmias and acute myocardial infarction. However, only one fatality has been reported. Interestingly the onset of symptoms and signs ( Table 1 ) may be delayed for up to 3 to 10 days and does not correlate closely with plasma levels of serum total T4 and total T3. Medical consensus has indicated that serious symptoms are less frequent in children even though children usually have higher mean plasma levels of T4 and T3 than adults for the same overdose of LT4 ingested. One-time ingestion of up to 3 mg thyroxine rarely causes symptoms in adult or children. As already mentioned serious complications are not common, but they can appear days after ingestion, and therefore the patients should be closely monitored. TABLE 1: SYMPTOMS AND SIGNS AFTER INGESTION OF LT4 View in own window Severe toxicity is quite rare in children. Common-effects: Nervousness Insomnia Mild elevation
