Thyroxine Poisoning
KEYWORDS: ingestion, levels, children, thyroid, tablets, serum, charcoal, probably, thyroxine, symptoms, total, lt-, activated, l-thyroxine, gastric


patients should be closely monitored. TABLE 1: SYMPTOMS AND SIGNS AFTER INGESTION OF LT4 View in own window Severe toxicity is quite rare in children. Common-effects: Nervousness Insomnia Mild elevation of temperature Blood pressure elevation Loose stools Rare symptoms: Comma Convulsions Acute psychosis Thyroid storm Tachycardia, arrhythmias DIAGNOSIS and DIFFERENTIAL Elevated levels of total and free T4 and T3 have been described with suppressed serum TSH levels and otherwise typically a normal biochemical profile ( Table 2 ). The half-life of serum T4 may be shortened. In one study the half-life of LT4 was 5.7 days which is slightly shorter than the usual half-life of L-thyroxine. In one report total serum T3 levels reached the normal range five days after ingestion of 9.9 mg of LT4 (99 tablets of 100 mcg), although free T4 levels were still elevated. In many cases, there is a progressive rise in both serum total T4 and total T3 levels in the first 24 hours following the overdose, caused by continued absorption of the ingested LT4. Table 2: Biochemical Changes After Ingestion of LT4 View in own window Elevated serum total T4 and T3 Suppressed serum TSH Elevated Free T4 and Free T3 Normal biochemical profile THERAPY Therapeutic recommendations are made based only in the review of the available literature concerning a relatively large number of patients, most of them children. Acute levothyroxine overdose is much more common in children compared to adolescents and adults. Therapeutic options are related to the time elapsed after the ingestion of a large number of tablets of L-thyroxine and the actual beginning of emergency therapy ( Table 3 ). Acute massive doses of L-thyroxine typically have a mild clinical course that can be controlled by activated charcoal, or possibly cholestyramine, propranolol, dexamethasone, and supporting measures, with close medical evaluation. Rarely critical cardiac conditions, coma, seizures will follow massive doses of L-Thyroxine. If more than a few hours of ingestion of LT-4 tablets have elapsed, most probably the tablets have travelled from the gastric cavity to duodenum. Moreover, gastric lavage is difficult to conduct in small children. One way to confirm the presence of LT-4 tablets in the gastric cavity is endoscopy, easily conducted in many hospitals and emergency rooms. LT-4 tablets are dissolved by the gastric juice, but there are no data about the rate of dissolution of a large number of tablets of LT-4. Most probably LT-4 would
