Thyroxine Poisoning
KEYWORDS: ingestion, levels, children, thyroid, tablets, serum, charcoal, probably, thyroxine, symptoms, total, lt-, activated, l-thyroxine, gastric


LT-4 tablets are dissolved by the gastric juice, but there are no data about the rate of dissolution of a large number of tablets of LT-4. Most probably LT-4 would not be entirely dissolved by the gastric juice and may not be absorbed in the duodenum (normally about 10-15%) but would be absorbed in the jejuno-ileum (normally about 53% of absorption of LT4). Emetics both local (Ipecac) or central agents (apomorphine) should be avoided. Administration of activated charcoal is a common practice in many drug overdoses and is an agent that can prevent absorption of several drugs from the gastro-intestinal system. However, in many reports repeated doses of activated charcoal were ineffective in accelerating the elimination of levothyroxine, probably due to high uptake in the duodenum and jejuno-ileum. Hemoperfusion using activated charcoal is a rather complicated procedure but has been reported to be highly effective in decreasing total serum levels. It should be reserved for adult patients with severe intoxication by very large doses of thyroxine and the same applies to plasmapheresis which has been seldom used. Cholestyramine, an ion-exchange resin (Questran ®), can be administered in the usual dose of 4 grams every 8 hours orally. This drug binds thyroxine and enhances its elimination. Glucocorticoids (Dexamethasone 4 mg orally) decrease the conversion of LT4 to T3, the active hormone. Sodium Ipodate (oral cholecystographic agent) has also been used for blocking the conversion of LT4 to T3, but it is no longer generally available. Beta-blockers such as propranolol, are useful to ameliorate the metabolic effects of thyroid hormone, mostly on the cardiac system (controlling tachycardia, preventing arrhythmias). Seizures may be treated with phenytoin and phenobarbital. Propylthiouracil (PTU) might be used for blocking the conversion of T4 to T3 but may have very limited usefulness in the presence of a large load of LT4. Hemodialysis has been used in severe cases, but it is probably of limited value since both T3 and T4 are highly protein-bound. TABLE 3: TREATMENT OF INGESTION OF A MASSIVE DOSE OF L-THYROXINE View in own window Gastric lavage (within hours of ingestion). Emetic agents (not advised) Propranolol (10-40 mg 3 times daily) Activated Charcoal (1g/kg p.o.) Dexamethasone (4 mg p.o. daily) Sodium ipodate, if available Cholestyramine (4g every 8h p.o.) Propylthiouracil (PTU) (May inhibit conversion of T4>T3) Activated charcoal hemoperfusion Plasmapheresis (seldom necessary) Hemodialysis (probably of limited value) Thyroid storm: demands treatment in an Intensive Care
