REVIEW
KEYWORDS: doi, pneumoniae, transplant, etal, recipients, urinary, tract, klebsiella, urinary tract, infections, utis, kidney, infection, patients, strains


and generating drug resistance (Donlan, 2001; Rahdar may increase the capacity of these bacteria for colonizing the et al., 2019). Another role of type 1 fimbriae in pathogenesis is urinary tract and avoiding being flushed out by the stream of alsoknown.Theyhavebeenfoundtoenhancelectinophagocytosis urine, the influx of inflammatory cells and contact with by macrophages and neutrophils in vivo. Furthermore, a FimH antibiotics. In the intermediate and basal cells of the bladder, subunitmakesiteasierforbacteriatobindtoimmunecellssuchas bacteria may also enter a dormant state, becoming an inactive/ mast cells, which then leads to increased activation of immune resting intracellular reservoir that may periodically become cellsandneutrophilrecruitment.Thismayresultinanincreased active and cause UTIs (Rosen et al., 2008; Barber et al., 2013). clearance of K. pneumoniae (Struve et al., 2010; Ramirez et al., ThecapacityofK.pneumoniaeforsurvivingandproliferatingin 2012;PaczosaandMecsas,2016). tissuesandorgansisdeterminedbypresenceofappropriateions Type 3 fimbriae are also secreted through the chaperone- and nutrient substrates, with iron being essential for the ushersystemandencodedbythemrkgenes.mrkDencodesthe synthesis of cytochromes, ribonucleotide reductase and other adhesin, which binds to receptors or peptides accessible from enzymes. Therefore, survival of Klebsiella depends on previous cell damage. Type 3 fimbriae have been found to be siderophores in an environment with minimum quantities of necessaryfortheformationofK.pneumoniaebiofilm,bindingto free or unbound iron (Holden and Bachman, 2015). the extracellular matrix of living tissue and binding to abiotic Siderophores are molecules that show high affinity for Fe3+ surfaces, e.g. catheters, implants, covered with host tissue. In a ions. The quantity of free iron in urine is relatively high (1-3 study of 209 multidrug resistant bacterial strains isolated from mg under normal conditions) (van Swelm et al., 2020). All rectalswabstakeninthefirst48hoursbeforeoraftersolidorgan Klebsiella spp. produce enterobactin. The enterobactin transplantation (the study population consisted mostly of KT synthesis gene (ent) is a component of the core genome. recipients) 73% of K. pneumoniae strains showed moderate or Several other acquired loci associated with siderophore strongbiofilmproduction,incomparisontoonly16%ofE.coli synthesis (aerobactin, salmochelin and yersiniabactin) are strains(Ramos-Vivasetal.,2019).Presenceoftype3fimbriaein identified as common accessory genes. A bacteria may acquire bacteria has been shown to stimulate neutrophils to produce them through a horizontal gene transfer (Holt et al., 2015; reactive oxygen species (ROS) against which bacteria must Paczosa and Mecsas, 2016; Choby et al., 2020; van Swelm defend themselves (Sebghati et al., 1998; Schroll et al., 2010; et al., 2020). The presence of siderophores associated with Struveetal.,2009). genes such as ybtS, entB, irp2, fyuA and iutA may make it Besides type 3 fimbriae, polysaccharide capsules encoded by easier for the bacteria to colonise and survive in the patient’s
