REVIEW
KEYWORDS: doi, pneumoniae, transplant, etal, recipients, urinary, tract, klebsiella, urinary tract, infections, utis, kidney, infection, patients, strains


such as ybtS, entB, irp2, fyuA and iutA may make it Besides type 3 fimbriae, polysaccharide capsules encoded by easier for the bacteria to colonise and survive in the patient’s thecpsgene cluster are alsoinvolved inbiofilmformation. The body, ultimately exacerbating the infection . capsulesparticipateinthefirststageofadhesionduringbiofilm Yersiniabactin is found in approx. 30% of K. pneumoniae that formation and protect against the host immune system causeUTIs(Holtetal.,2015;Lametal.,2018a).Aerobactinand (phagocytosis, complement) to finally form a mature biofilm salmochelin are much less common (<5% of isolates), are FrontiersinCellularandInfectionMicrobiology | www.frontiersin.org 4 April2022 | Volume12 | Article861374 Krawczyketal. KlebsiellapneumoniaeUTIinKTx encoded by the iuc and iro loci, respectively, and are usually rmpA2 and iuc are found on virulence plasmids (Lam et al., transferredonavirulenceplasmid(Wyresetal.,2019;Lametal., 2018b; Wysocka et al., 2020). There are only a few reports of 2018b; Chen et al., 2004). Occasionally, salmochelin may be UTIs caused by hypermucoid K. pneumoniae in the literature found encoded on the same integrative conjugate as (Liu and Guo, 2019; Russo and Marr, 2019; Wysocka et al., yersiniabactinalongwithcolibactin,whichisagenotoxin. Wysocka et al. (2020) describes K. pneumoniae strains et al., 2018b). Furthermore, many recent studies report a high isolated from KTx recipients with asymptomatic bacteriuria, incidence of aerobactin in hvKp strains, suggesting that it is a whichhadtheabilitytoformahypermucoidphenotype.There criticalvirulencefactorinhvKp(Russoetal.,2014;Chobyetal., aremanyunresolvedquestionsaboutthebiochemicalnatureand 2020). All these acquired siderophores are associated with effectoftheHMphenotype.Interestingly,theseisolatesdidnot virulence and invasive diseases, often ending with patient’s haveanyrmpA/rmpA2andmagAdespitetheHMphenotype.It death(Rosenetal.,2008;Holtetal.,2015;Martinetal.,2018). has been hypothesised that the hypermucoid phenotype in LPSiscommonlybelievedtobeakeyvirulencefactor,helping hypervirulent K. pneumoniae strains may be responsible for K. pneumoniae survive in the host by suppressing the difficulties in catheter emptying and recurrent UTIs (Shon complement system. High levels of LPS are involved in et al., 2013). Genomic studies show how diverse the K. triggering an overreaction by the immune system (referred to pneumoniae population is. The proposed virulence genes and as the endotoxic shock), causing severe damage to the host. the hypervirulence phenotype lead often to confusion in the AlmostallbacteriainthegenusKlebsiellahaveapolysaccharide determination of “hypervirulence markers”. Putative capsule. They are encoded by loci of polysaccharide capsule determinants of hypervirulence K. pneumoniae are presented synthesisgenes(cpsorK),and79capsulartypes(Ktypes)have inTable2. been documented . Some capsule types are There is a wide variety ofvirulence factors instrains isolated associated withparticularbacterialvirulenceanddeterminethe frompatientswithUTI.Gołębiewskaetal.(2019)demonstrateda severity of disease in given patient (Wyres et al., 2015; Wyres verylargevariationinvirulencefactors,whenstudying61episodes etal.,2016). of K. pneumoniae UTIs in 54 kidney transplant recipients (KTx Inadditiontovariedcapsulartypes,K.pneumoniaemayalso recipients) with different immunosuppression regimens. It was contain additional rmpA and rmpA2 genes in its genome, also shown that the choice of immunosuppression
