REVIEW
KEYWORDS: doi, pneumoniae, transplant, etal, recipients, urinary, tract, klebsiella, urinary tract, infections, utis, kidney, infection, patients, strains


in 54 kidney transplant recipients (KTx Inadditiontovariedcapsulartypes,K.pneumoniaemayalso recipients) with different immunosuppression regimens. It was contain additional rmpA and rmpA2 genes in its genome, also shown that the choice of immunosuppression regimen determining positive regulation and overexpression of the seemed to influence the occurrence of different genes encoding capsule, resulting in a so-called hypermucoviscosity (HM) virulencefactors.Theuge,ycfM,andentBgeneswerelesscommon phenotype. It is now known that the HM phenotype is in isolates from patients receiving everolimus, basiliximab, and associated with rmpA and rmpA2 and is unrelated to the thymoglobulin, respectively. The iutA gene was, in turn, more capsule type (Kawai, 2006; Walker et al., 2019; Lam et al., common in strains isolated from patients taking thymoglobulin. 2018b). The rmpA and rmpA2 genes are usually located near Furthermore, strains isolated from patients taking tacrolimus theiroandiucgenesonthevirulenceplasmidsKpVP-1iKpVP- showed lower virulence. It was found that there was no 2,respectively.ThermpAandirogenesmayalsoco-occuronthe relationship between the profile of virulence factors and mobile integrativeconjugative element(ICE), ICEKp1,whereas infectionofparticularsections oftheurinarytract,as is thecase TABLE2| PutativedeterminantsofhypervirulenceK.pneumoniae(hvKp)(Hsuetal.,2011;Holtetal.,2015;Wyresetal.,2016;Lametal.,2018a;Lametal.,2018b; Russoetal.,2018;Walkeretal.,2019;Wyresetal.,2019). Capsularspecificgenes K1andK2capsules-highlyconservedevolutionarilywithinindividualhypervirulentclonesbutalsoinmanycloneswithlowervirulence. Hypervirulencemarkersrelatedtocapsuleloci:themagAgene(encodesthepolymeraseCPSoftheWzytype)andthewaggene(locuscomponentK1(Kl1),andKl6, Kl16,Kl54,Kl58,Kl63,Kl113). Hypermucoviscousphenotypedoesnotrequirehyperproductionofcapsule. Clone-specificmarkers kfu(mediatesiron(III)uptake)andallS(allantoinmetabolism)arepreservedinclonalgroup23(CG23)butnotinotherhypervirulentclones. kvgASisconservedinCG86,CG65,andCG25clonalgroupsbutitisnotfoundinCG23. Genesassociatedwiththehypermucoidphenotype rmpA-regulatorofmucoidyproteinA;rmpA2-transcriptionalregulators Hypermucoidityisnotlimitedtohypervirulentstrains,andnotallhypervirulentstrainsarehypermucoidinastringtest.Theagreementbetweenthestringtestand hypervirulenceinclinicaloranimalmodelsvaries(51–98%). HalfoftherecordedrmpAorrmpA2allelescontainframeshiftmutationsresultingfromindelsinthepoly(G)sequence,resultinginalossoffunctionandalackof hypermucoviscousphenotype Ironacquisitionsystems SalmocheliniroBCDN,aerobactiniutA,iucABCDandyersiniabactinybtgenes. ATonBdependentreceptorwithapproximately71%homologytotheaerobactiniutAreceptor(detectedbyPCRorsequencing)issometimesconfusedwithaerobactin despitethelackofiucABCDaerobactinsynthesisgenes FrontiersinCellularandInfectionMicrobiology | www.frontiersin.org 5 April2022 | Volume12 | Article861374 Krawczyketal. KlebsiellapneumoniaeUTIinKTx for UPEC strains (Gołębiewska et al., 2019). Differences were monobactams and cephalosporins (except for cephamycin) foundintheprofileofvirulencefactorsofK.pneumoniaeinvolved reduces the efficacy of treatment targeted at K. pneumoniae. UTIs that were isolated from KTx patients and in the control Studies on ESBL-producingisolates from Australia and South group (without KTx, with UTI). The uge gene prevalence was America showed that class 1 integrons may play a particular lowerinrenaltransplantrecipientstakingeverolimusascompared role as mobilized genetic elements in the rapid evolution of toisolatesfrompatientsnotreceivingmTORinhibitors(33.3%vs antibiotic resistance among Gram-negative pathogens and that 82.8%)(Gołębiewskaetal.,2019). they are epidemically associated with a specific geographic area (RoyChowdhuryetal.,2011).IS26elementswereassociatedwith Tn21-liketransposononIncL/Mplasmidsandtheycontributed ANTIBIOTIC RESISTANCE OF K. significantly to the spread of multidrug-resistant (MDR) loci in PNEUMONIAE AND TREATMENT OPTIONS Australia, with Tn1696-like transposon located on IncA/C FOR RENAL TRANSPLANT RECIPIENTS plasmid(s)commonintheSouthAmerica. Risk factors for UTIs include colonization with ESBL- It is extremely important to quickly initiate antibacterial producing bacteria, delayed graft function, diabetes, prior treatment of symptomatic UTIs, the goal of which is to antibiotic exposure and recurrent UTIs (Chuang et al., 2005; eliminate inflammation and reduce the risk of complications, Alangaden et al., 2006; Dantas et al., 2006; Lansang et al., 2006; such as progression to urosepsis. Preventive antibiotic therapy Linaresetal.,2007;Linaresetal.,2010;Gołębiewskaetal.,2014). administered to the recipient during perioperative period may TreatmentofinfectionscausedbyESBL-producingbacteriamay favour antibiotic-resistant pathogens . become effective by initiating b-lactamase
