REVIEW
KEYWORDS: doi, pneumoniae, transplant, etal, recipients, urinary, tract, klebsiella, urinary tract, infections, utis, kidney, infection, patients, strains


et al., 2006; such as progression to urosepsis. Preventive antibiotic therapy Linaresetal.,2007;Linaresetal.,2010;Gołębiewskaetal.,2014). administered to the recipient during perioperative period may TreatmentofinfectionscausedbyESBL-producingbacteriamay favour antibiotic-resistant pathogens . become effective by initiating b-lactamase inhibitors, such as: Nosocomial infections and multidrug-resistant (MDR) clavulanic acid, tazobactam, sulbactam. Sensitivity to penicillins bacteria, K. pneumoniae in particular, are distinguished among may be achieved by combining b-lactamase antibiotics and predictive factors for recurrent UTIs. It is unknown why b-lactamase inhibitors (Roy Chowdhury et al., 2011). But infections caused by MDR bacteria are associated with genes encoding b-lactamases often coexist with other types of recurrent UTIs. However, both often coincide in KTx patients resistance, such asresistance toaminoglycosides and quinolones with urine flow alterations, such as ureteral stenosis or (Blair etal., 2015). There are reports of the bla gene with CTX-M vesicoureteral reflux, or underlying urological abnormalities fluoroquinoloneresistance(FQ)(Blairetal.,2015).Thisismainly (e.g. neurogenic bladder or chronic vesicoureteral reflux) trueincaseofMediterraneancountries(Italy,Greece)withhigh (Freire et al., 2018; Gołębiewska et al., 2019). This may be FQconsumptionandrateofresistantstrains.Datacollectedbythe because resistance to extended spectrum cephalosporins ECDC (European Centre for Disease Prevention and Control. mediated by production of extended-spectrum b-lactamases Surveillance Atlas of Infectious Diseases) reveal that as far as K. (ESBLs) co-occurs with other factors associated with increased pneumoniae is concerned there is a high percentage of resistant cellinvasionandexpressionoffimbrialadhesins.Theseproteins strainsalsoinPoland,whichmayresultfromarelativelyfrequent determine the capacity of K. pneumoniae for forming biofilm- useofFQinclinicalpractice.Carbapenemsaredrugsofchoicein like intracellular bacterial communities (IBC) in bladder treatment ofinfectionscaused byK. pneumoniaestrains ESBL+. epithelial cells, and its higher expression increases the capacity Withtheuseofbroad-spectrumantibiotics,K.pneumoniaestrains of K. pneumoniae for colonizing the urinary tract and forming developed resistance mechanisms that also target this group of IBCsandbiofilms(Linaresetal.,2007;Linaresetal.,2010;Wu antibiotics.ItwasK.pneumoniaeinwhichKPC-1wasidentified et al., 2013; Silva et al., 2013; Lim et al., 2013; Anastasopoulos forthefirsttimeintheU.S.(NorthCarolina)in1996(Yigitetal., et al., 2015). On the other hand, it may be simply the repeated 2001).AccordingtoEuropeanCentreforDiseasePreventionand exposure to antibiotics administered because of recurrent Control[AnnualreportoftheEuropeanAntimicrobialResistance infections, that leads to selection of resistant strains, Surveillance Network (EARS-Net), www.ecdc.europa.eu/en/ irrespectively of the combination of virulence factors. In recent healthtopics/antimicrobial_resistance/database (22.05.2017)] and years,therearenumerousreportsofepidemicoutbreakscaused Grundmann et al. (2017) KPC is nowadays being identified in by K. pneumoniae strains, both ESBL+ (SHV, TEM, CTX-M) other species of the family Enterobacteriaceae. The bla gene KPC and strains producing carbapenemases (KPC) or metallo-b- producing class A carbapenemase (serine carbapenemase) was lactamases (MBL). Lautenbach et al. (2001), Biehl et al. (2014) found on Tn3-like transposons, Tn4401 (transposon) on mobile and Biehl et al. (2019) report bla gene to be the most plasmids and even as an
