| Editor’s Pick | Virology | Minireview
KEYWORDS: mammary, virus, milk, gland, mammary gland, viral, infection, dairy, influenza, cattle, transmission, lactating, cows, viruses, dairy cattle


Influenza infection of the mammary gland Alyson A. Kelvin,1 Pari H. Baker,2 Sourish Ghosh,3 Stacey Schultz-Cherry,4 Stephanie N. Langel2 AUTHOR AFFILIATIONS See affiliation list on p. 12. ABSTRACT The mammary gland is an essential organ for milk production, providing essential immune and nutritional support to offspring and supplying dairy products for human consumption. In both humans and animals, the lactating mammary gland is susceptible to bacterial and viral infections, which can lead to mastitis and, in some However, until recently, the role of respiratory viruses in mammary gland infection has been relatively understudied, particularly their ability to infect mammary epithelial cells and transmit through lactation. The recent emergence of highly pathogenic avian influenza H5N1 clade 2.3.4.4b in dairy cattle has demonstrated the virus’s capacity to replicate in the mammary gland, cause mastitis, and produce high viral loads in milk. This raises significant concerns about the potential for zoonotic transmission to humans and other animals in contact with infected dairy cows and unpasteurized milk. In this mini-review, we highlight key studies that demonstrate the replication of influenza and other viruses in the mammary gland, summarize recent findings from experimental and natural H5N1 clade 2.3.4.4b infections in dairy cows and small animal We emphasize the urgent need for an interdisciplinary collaboration across sectors to mitigate the risks posed by influenza viruses with pandemic potential. KEYWORDS highly pathogenic avian influenza, H5N1 clade 2.3.4.4b, mammary gland, The mammary gland is a specialized organ for producing milk, which nourishes offspring and provides critical immunological factors for early development (1, 2). During pregnancy, the mammary gland undergoes significant physiological changes including increased blood flow and extensive elongation and branching of the mammary epithelium (3). These changes prepare the gland for lactation, during which milk components are provided as colostrum during the first 48 hours postpartum and as mature milk after (4–6). The dynamic exchange between the mother and infant during suckling provides an opportunity for pathogens to transfer either to the infant or back to the mammary gland via retrograde flow (7). In agricultural species such as dairy cows, which supply large quantities of milk for the food industry rather than a suckling neonate, mechanical milking and environmental exposure contribute to an increased risk of infection (8). Controlling pathogen exposure in lactating mothers or milk-supplying supply. Bloomington, Bloomington, Indiana, USA Viruses are well known to infect cells within the lactating mammary gland and can be Address
