| Editor’s Pick | Virology | Minireview
KEYWORDS: mammary, virus, milk, gland, mammary gland, viral, infection, dairy, influenza, cattle, transmission, lactating, cows, viruses, dairy cattle


(8). Controlling pathogen exposure in lactating mothers or milk-supplying supply. Bloomington, Bloomington, Indiana, USA Viruses are well known to infect cells within the lactating mammary gland and can be Address correspondence to Stephanie N. Langel, transmitted to infants. Notable examples in humans include human immunodeficienc y . virus (HIV) and cytomegalovirus (CMV). Additionally, members of the flavivirus family The authors declare no conflict of interest. have been identified in human breast milk, including Zika virus (9), dengue virus (10, Published 12 August 2025 11), and yellow fever virus (12–14). In animal studies, milk-associated virus transmission article distributed under the terms of the Creative Nile virus in rodent models (16, 17), tick-borne encephalitis virus in cows and goats (18, Commons Attribution 4.0 International license. September 2025 Volume 99 Issue 9 1 Minireview Journal of Virology 19), and Langat virus in a mouse model (20). Ghosh and colleagues demonstrated in a mouse model that enteric viruses, rotavirus and norovirus, can replicate in the mammary gland and be transmitted to suckling neonates (21). Additionally, Middle East Respiratory Coronavirus (MERS-CoV) has been detected in camel milk (22, 23), and Foot-and-Mouth Disease virus (FMDV) can replicate in the bovine mammary gland (24, 25). Influenza virus, typically associated with respiratory infections, has not historically been associated with replication in the mammary gland or transmission through breastfeeding. However, in 2015, we demonstrated that H1N1 influenza virus can infect the lactating mammary glands of ferrets and transmit to offspring through breastfeeding (26), corroborating earlier reports suggesting that H1N1 can also infect the mammary glands of lactating dairy cattle (27). More recently, in March 2024, highly pathogenic avian influenza H5N1 clade 2.3.4.4b emerged in lactating dairy cattle, displaying a marked tropism for the mammary gland. Infected cows developed mastitis and harbored high viral titers in their milk (28–30). The mastitis was characterized by yellow, clotted milk, negatively impacting both milk quality and yield. The rapid spread of H5N1 clade 2.3.4.4b across dairy herds, now confirmed in dairy cattle across 17 states (as of July 2025) (31), raises concerns about the potential for zoonotic transmission to humans and animals with exposure to infected cattle and unpasteurized milk (32, 33). Understanding viral pathogenesis in the mammary gland and the potential for transmission through expressed milk is essential not only for protecting mammary health but also for preventing broader outbreaks. Significant knowledge gaps remain regarding the mechanisms of viral replication in the
