| Editor’s Pick | Virology | Minireview
KEYWORDS: mammary, virus, milk, gland, mammary gland, viral, infection, dairy, influenza, cattle, transmission, lactating, cows, viruses, dairy cattle


transmission through expressed milk is essential not only for protecting mammary health but also for preventing broader outbreaks. Significant knowledge gaps remain regarding the mechanisms of viral replication in the mammary gland and the pathways by which viruses are transmitted to neonates, other animals, or the environment. In this review, we will discuss the implications of viral infection on lactation, mammary gland immune responses, and cross-species transmission risks, with a particular focus on influenza viruses. We also revisit historical and underrecognized evidence of i nfluenza virus infection in the mammary gland and contextualize these findings considering the recent H5N1 outbreak in lactating dairy cattle. MAMMARY GLAND BIOLOGY AND IMPLICATIONS FOR VIRAL INFECTIONS Structurally, the mammary gland in both humans and cattle consists of two main tissue types: supportive stromal tissue, which includes a matrix of adipocytes, fibroblasts, lymphatics, blood vessels, and immune cells, and parenchymal tissue, such as luminal epithelial cells and myoepithelial cells (Fig. 1) (3). Luminal epithelial cells line the alveoli and ducts, producing and secreting milk in response to prolactin, a hormone produced by lactotroph cells in the anterior pituitary gland (2, 34). Myoepithelial cells surround these structures, contracting to facilitate milk ejection in response to oxytocin (35). Luminal epithelial cells are highly metabolically active and are responsible for synthesiz­ ing, storing, and secreting milk components such as proteins, lipids, and lactose during lactation (36). Their heightened metabolic activity and robust secretory capacity may render milk-producing epithelial cells especially vulnerable to viral replication as viruses readily exploit the abundant cellular machinery and energy resources inside cells (37). In humans, the mammary system consists of two mammary glands, while in dairy cows, the udder contains four independent mammary glands, enabling significantly higher milk production (Fig. 1). However, this higher milk output can also create conditions that favor pathogen growth, increasing the risk of disease transmission among dairy cattle. The lactating mammary gland is not only a potential site for active viral replication but can also serve as a reservoir for viruses replicating in distant tissues. Due to its rich vascularization and extensive network of epithelial and immune cells, the mammary gland is susceptible to viral entry from other parts of the body. In humans, viruses such as HIV and CMV can disseminate through the bloodstream or lymphatic system (38, 39), establishing a reservoir within the gland that could lead to viral shedding into breast milk, posing a risk
