| Editor’s Pick | Virology | Minireview
KEYWORDS: mammary, virus, milk, gland, mammary gland, viral, infection, dairy, influenza, cattle, transmission, lactating, cows, viruses, dairy cattle


and CMV can disseminate through the bloodstream or lymphatic system (38, 39), establishing a reservoir within the gland that could lead to viral shedding into breast milk, posing a risk of transmission to offspring or others. Overall, understanding the barrier functions of the mammary gland is crucial for elucidating viral transmission September 2025 Volume 99 Issue 9 2 Minireview Journal of Virology FIG 1 Comparative anatomy of human (left) and bovine (right) mammary gland structures. mechanisms to suckling neonates or preventing environmental contamination in agricultural settings. INFLUENZA VIRUS AND SIALIC ACIDS Influenza viruses (Orthomyxoviridae) are enveloped viruses with a negative-sense single-stranded segmented genome (40). The family is composed of four genera, types A, B, C, and D, where strains of types A and B circulate annually in humans (40–43). IAVs are of particular concern due to their association with more severe disease, their high genetic diversity within wild migratory bird reservoirs, and their substantial potential for spill over into other animal species, including humans. IAVs are defined by their immunogenic proteins hemagglutinin (HA) and neuraminidase (NA) on the surface of each virion. There are 19 different HAs and 11 NAs associated in various combinations to designate influenza subtypes such as H1N1, H3N2, or H5N1 (40, 44, 45). HA subtypes 1 through 16 mediate viral entry by binding to sialic acid (SA) receptors on host cells, specifically those presenting α2,6-linked sialic acid (α2,6 SA) or α2,3-linked (α2,3 SA) sialic acid. Sialic acids can be modified at various positions, such as by 5-N-acetyla­ tion, 5-N-glycolylation, or 9-O-acetylation, depending on the host species, and these modifications can influence viral binding and host specificity. Influenza viruses bearing HA subtypes H1–H16 occur as low pathogenic avian influenza (LPAI), with H5 and H7 subtypes also occurring as highly pathogenic avian influenza (HPAI) strains (46). LPAI viruses typically target epithelial cells of the respiratory tract in humans—similar to seasonal influenza viruses—and in other mammals, or the gastrointestinal tract in their avian reservoir hosts. Importantly, unlike seasonal LPAI strains, HPAI viruses such as H5N1 are capable of systemic spread in the body, efficiently infecting extra-respiratory tissues including the intestines and brain. This broader tissue tropism contributes to the more September 2025 Volume 99 Issue 9 3 Minireview Journal of Virology severe disease manifestations and multi-organ involvement observed in HPAI infections (47, 48). The localization of influenza virus infection is largely determined by the distribution of the viral entry
