| Editor’s Pick | Virology | Minireview
KEYWORDS: mammary, virus, milk, gland, mammary gland, viral, infection, dairy, influenza, cattle, transmission, lactating, cows, viruses, dairy cattle


of Virology severe disease manifestations and multi-organ involvement observed in HPAI infections (47, 48). The localization of influenza virus infection is largely determined by the distribution of the viral entry receptors α2,6 SA and α2,3 SA on target cells, as well as by specific sialic acid modifications. In humans, seasonal influenza viruses preferentially bind α2,6 SA, which is predominantly expressed in the upper respiratory tract, while avian i nfluenza viruses such as H5N1 preferentially bind α2,3 SA, which is more abundantly expressed in the lower respiratory tract (49). In addition to the receptor distribution, the spread of infection is influenced by HA cleavage, a prerequisite for viral fusion and entry. The multibasic cleavage site (MBCS), enriched with arginine and lysine residues and present in HPAI viruses, is a known virulence factor associated with systemic infection in both poultry and mammals (50–52). The presence of multiple basic amino acids found around the cleavage site in HPAI viruses allows recognition by subtilisin-like proteases such as furin, which are ubiquitously expressed in cells of many tissues, allowing the expanded HPAI H5N1 tropism (53). In humans, mammals, and birds, HPAI viruses—H5N1 in particular—have been shown to infect extrapulmonary tissues, including the eyes, brain, intestines, placenta, and spleen and, more recently, the mammary gland. This expanded tropism is supported by the presence of SAs in these tissues and the capacity of MBCS in HPAI viruses to facilitate HA activation outside the respiratory tract (54, 55). The recent emergence of H5N1 HPAI in lactating dairy cattle, marked by high levels of viral secretion in milk, has spurred further investigation into the influenza virus’s tropism for the mammary gland. Lectin staining of mammary gland tissues from dairy cattle with Maackia amurensis lectin II (MAL-II) revealed abundant expression of the H5N1 receptor, α2,3 SA, particularly on epithelial cells lining the secretory alveoli, whereas receptor expression in the trachea, bronchi, and pulmonary alveoli was low or undetect­ able (56–58). To confirm HA binding, Ríos Carrasco and colleagues demonstrated that HA from A/duck/France/161108 h/2016—a clade 2.3.4.4b virus with minimal amino acid differences from recent North American mammalian-derived strains—exhibited intense binding in mammary gland tissues. In contrast, HA proteins from classical H5 viruses with more extensive amino acid divergence, such as A/Vietnam/1203/2004 and A/Indonesia/05/2005, showed variable binding, while a clade 2.3.4.4 a virus displayed no detectable binding (57). These findings suggest that subtle structural variations in α2,3-linked sialic acids on bovine
