| Editor’s Pick | Virology | Minireview
KEYWORDS: mammary, virus, milk, gland, mammary gland, viral, infection, dairy, influenza, cattle, transmission, lactating, cows, viruses, dairy cattle


A/Vietnam/1203/2004 and A/Indonesia/05/2005, showed variable binding, while a clade 2.3.4.4 a virus displayed no detectable binding (57). These findings suggest that subtle structural variations in α2,3-linked sialic acids on bovine mammary epithelial cells, together with milk proteases such as plasmin (59) in bovine milk (60), may facilitate binding and replication of newer HPAI H5N1 strains. While previous studies have detected α2,6 SA in the lactating bovine mammary gland using the lectin Sambucus nigra agglutinin (SNA) (56, 58), Ríos Carrasco et al. did not observe binding of HA from human-adapted H1N1 virus A/Puerto Rico/8/1934 (PR8) human-adapted IAVs potentially due to having a modification such as 5-N-glycolyl, which does not support binding of a humanized virus. However, in vivo evidence indicates that human-adapted H1N1 strains, including PR8 and A/California/07/2009, replicated in the lactating mammary glands of both dairy cows (27) and ferrets (26), as detailed below. These findings underscore the need for in vivo experimental infection studies of the mammary gland to more precisely define its susceptibility to IAVs. MAMMARY GLAND SUSCEPTIBILITY TO INFLUENZA VIRUS INFECTION After the discovery of the influenza virus in 1933, researchers sought a method to expand the virus for experimental studies and vaccine development. A group in Quebec, Canada, suggested that the bovine mammary gland might support virus propagation due to dairy cows being selectively bred for high milk production and having enzymes needed for viral replication (27). To test this hypothesis, Mitchell and colleagues examined whether an ancestral human H1N1 influenza virus (now referred to as A/ Puerto Rico/8/1934 (PR8) virus strain) could infect and replicate in cow mammary glands. To administer the virus, all milk was removed from the quarters, and 2.0 cc of egg-grown September 2025 Volume 99 Issue 9 4 Minireview Journal of Virology virus was introduced directly into the mammary gland’s lactiferous sinus (cistern) in the right front quarter using a teat needle through the teat canal. Milk samples from each quarter were collected daily to determine if virus was being shed as an indication of productive infection. As a control, adjacent quarters in the same cow that were not virus-inoculated were also milked and subjected to the same virological assays. Upon collection, milk was centrifuged and incubated at 4°C to remove the cream (fat), and the semi-transparent phase was examined for virus by inoculation into the allantoic fluid of chicken eggs. Initial studies demonstrated that PR8 could replicate within the bovine
