| Editor’s Pick | Virology | Minireview
KEYWORDS: mammary, virus, milk, gland, mammary gland, viral, infection, dairy, influenza, cattle, transmission, lactating, cows, viruses, dairy cattle


the cream (fat), and the semi-transparent phase was examined for virus by inoculation into the allantoic fluid of chicken eggs. Initial studies demonstrated that PR8 could replicate within the bovine mammary gland and be shed into expressed milk, as confirmed by Egg Infectious Dose 50 (EID50). The viral titer of PR8 fluctuated, showing an increase on day 2 that was present at variable levels for another 9 days. The virus was cleared from the inoculated gland by day 14, following peak titers of 106 EID50 in the milk. Uninoculated quarters were not found to be positive for virus, which agrees with previous literature that the bovine mammary glands are separated by connective tissue (61), preventing the direct spread of infection between quarters. The virus was not detected in blood samples, indicating the infection remained localized and did not spread to other quarters or tissues. Blood and milk samples collected from infected cattle were investigated for the presence of virus-neutralizing antibodies. Virus-neutralizing antibodies were detected 14 days post-inoculation using the hemagglutinin inhibition assay (HAI), and their presence was further confirmed at 18 months post-infection using the chick embryo test (62– 64). No samples were positive for both virus and antibodies on the same day, which the authors suggest may indicate that the elicitation of neutralizing antibodies plays a role in viral clearance (63). Interestingly, neutralizing antibodies in the uninoculated quarter were not present until 6 days after the virus was cleared from the inoculated gland. Secondary inoculations of the virus into the previously infected mammary gland failed to establish a successful infection, suggesting the development of local protective immunity within the gland. The 1950 cattle studies above suggested the susceptibility of the mammary gland to influenza virus infection. However, prior to 2025, only the H1N1 virus had been directly linked to mammary gland infection in lactating dairy cattle, leaving the susceptibility of the mammary gland to other influenza A viral subtypes largely unknown. Notably, retrospective analyses published in the early 2000s reported reduced milk production in dairy cattle that were seropositive for H1N1 and H3N2 (65, 66). While indirect, these findings highlight the need to investigate bovine susceptibility to diverse i nfluenza A virus subtypes—both to protect the dairy industry and to reduce the risk of viral reassortment and cross-species transmission. Influenza virus infection and transmission in lactating ferrets In 2015, our group investigated the immune mechanisms influencing the severe outcomes
