| Editor’s Pick | Virology | Minireview
KEYWORDS: mammary, virus, milk, gland, mammary gland, viral, infection, dairy, influenza, cattle, transmission, lactating, cows, viruses, dairy cattle


to reduce the risk of viral reassortment and cross-species transmission. Influenza virus infection and transmission in lactating ferrets In 2015, our group investigated the immune mechanisms influencing the severe outcomes of 2009 H1N1 influenza virus infection in neonates, utilizing the ferret model (26). To investigate age-related influenza pathogenesis in ferrets, we established a breeding colony that provided access to influenza-free ferrets at various ages and stages of development. We used 4-week-old ferret kits from our colony for these studies, which required co-housing the kits with their entire litter, including their lactating mothers. These mothers provided milk as the sole source of nourishment for the ferret kits. What began as a pathogenesis study in ferret kits quickly evolved into an investiga­ tion of influenza virus transmission, with an unexpected focus on the mammary gland. Ferret kits were inoculated intranasally with 105 EID50 of A/California/07/2009 (Cal/07), resulting in high nasal wash viral titers that peaked on day 2 post-inoculation. This endpoints by day 8. Mothers shed virus from their nares and had an increase in temperature by days 3 and 4 post ferret kit inoculation. These results indicated that the virus was transmitted from the ferret kit to the mother’s respiratory tract. While respiratory transmission is crucial, we also recognized that the mammary gland serves September 2025 Volume 99 Issue 9 5 Minireview Journal of Virology as a frequent contact point between the ferret mother and her kits. This raised the question of whether the virus could be transmitted to the mammary glands during nursing, and whether the gland or expressed milk might contain infectious virus or viral antigens. By day 4 post-kit inoculation, analysis of milk and mammary gland tissues revealed infectious virus in at least two mammary glands (8 out of 12 total glands) and one teat per lactating ferret from the infected litters. Additionally, expressed milk tested positive for infectious influenza virus by day 6, suggesting viral shedding into the expressed milk. Immunohistochemistry confirmed the presence of viral antigens in the mammary gland, showing peak levels of influenza viral nucleoprotein (NP) by day 7. The presence of viral protein coincided with significant destruction of milk-producing epithelial cells in the mammary gland. Furthermore, infected mammary glands showed cessation of milk production, signatures of glandular involution, reduced STAT5 protein levels, and nuclear recruitment of STAT3 in mammary epithelial cells (26). Additionally, we observed transcriptional changes resembling those associated with breast cancer
