| Editor’s Pick | Virology | Minireview
KEYWORDS: mammary, virus, milk, gland, mammary gland, viral, infection, dairy, influenza, cattle, transmission, lactating, cows, viruses, dairy cattle


production, signatures of glandular involution, reduced STAT5 protein levels, and nuclear recruitment of STAT3 in mammary epithelial cells (26). Additionally, we observed transcriptional changes resembling those associated with breast cancer infections warrant further investigation (26). To confirm the susceptibility of the mammary gland to influenza virus infection and the gland’s ability to support viral replication, the lactating mammary glands of mother ferrets were directly inoculated with 105 EID50 of Cal/07 into the lactiferous ducts (26). Inoculation resulted in infectious viral shedding in the milk and positive viral detection in the mammary glands on days 2 and 4 post-inoculation. Additionally, mothers with tures on day 2 post-inoculation and weight loss, indicating that illness resulted from direct infection of the mammary gland. Interestingly, later in the course of infection, endpoints by day 7 following mammary gland inoculation. Ferret kits also exhibited respiratory tract infection, with infectious virus detected in their nasal washes on day 4 post-mammary gland inoculation, while the nasal washes of the mothers did not test positive until day 7. These results suggest that the mother’s respiratory tract was not infected by the mammary gland inoculation but instead by respiratory contact or aerosol transmission from the infected ferret kits. Furthermore, the earlier onset of respiratory tract infection in ferret kits compared to their mothers suggests that ingestion of virus-positive milk may have led to respiratory infection, a route not previously described for influenza virus transmission. Dairy cattle outbreak and role of mammary gland infection In December 2021, H5N1 clade 2.3.4.4b viruses were first detected in North America in poultry and free-living gulls in St. Johns Newfoundland, Canada (67). Since then, viruses of this clade from this introduction and others have spread across all wild bird migratory flyways in the continent. Continental spread has led to spillover infections in an unprecedented number of mammalian species, including to dairy cattle (68). Surprisingly, spillover to dairy cattle led to onward transmission, causing an expansive outbreak on dairy farms in the United States (U.S.) and facilitating further farm-to-farm spread. As of this writing , there are over 1,078 herds affected across 17 U.S. states (69, 70). Multiple introductions into dairy cattle are now hypothesized, as both B3.13 and D1.1 genotypes have been identified in positive cows (71). Although infections in cattle appear mild, the outbreaks have led to additional infections in humans, other farm animals, and wildlife. In total, the U.S. has reported 70
