| Editor’s Pick | Virology | Minireview
KEYWORDS: mammary, virus, milk, gland, mammary gland, viral, infection, dairy, influenza, cattle, transmission, lactating, cows, viruses, dairy cattle


positive cows (71). Although infections in cattle appear mild, the outbreaks have led to additional infections in humans, other farm animals, and wildlife. In total, the U.S. has reported 70 human cases of H5N1. The first case was identified in 2022 associated with exposure to infected birds. Since April 2024 to May 2025, there have been 41 human cases in the U.S. related specifically to exposure to infected dairy cattle. Human infections have been clinically presented as a mild illness, with the most striking symptom being subconjunctival hemorrhage with concomitant thin, serous drainage (72–75). One human death in the U.S. has been linked to infection with H5N1; however, the person was over 65 years of age and had underlying health conditions (76). The other notable transmission has been from dairy cattle to September 2025 Volume 99 Issue 9 6 Minireview Journal of Virology farm cats. Cats likely infected by consuming raw milk from diseased cattle developed severe systemic illness, leading to mortality—a progression more severe than typically seen in humans or cattle (77). Clinical examination of infected cats indicated systemic disease with neurological and cardiac involvement characterized by ataxia, stiff body movements, oculonasal discharge, blindness, and viral antigen-positive tissues (brain, lung, heart, and retina) (77). Investigations into the large outbreak in dairy cattle suggest that older, multiparous dairy cattle in the late lactation stage are most affected (70). The case reports describe nonspecific mild acute illness in infected cows clinically characterized by reduced feed intake, lethargy, respiratory secretions, slow rumination, temperature <41°C, anemia, leukocytopenia, and a significant decrease in milk production (28, 69, 77). The expressed milk from ill cows was thicker than typical milk and yellow, appearing like colostrum. resolution noted after 10 to 14 days. The drop in milk secretion lasted for 4 weeks even after recovering from clinical signs. Evaluation of the influenza virus-positive bovine mammary glands found neutrophilic multifocal lesions that were concomitantly positive for high viral NP within the mammary secretory alveolar epithelial cells. Less viral protein was found in the ductal epithelium (28, 56, 77). Viral RNA was detected at low Ct values (ranging from 12 and 23, depending on the target screened) in the mammary glands and expressed milk, indicating potentially high viral loads. In contrast other tissues, including those from the respiratory tract, showed inconsistent detection, with Ct values ranging from 30 and >40 in several naturally infected cows from outbreak farms
