| Editor’s Pick | Virology | Minireview
KEYWORDS: mammary, virus, milk, gland, mammary gland, viral, infection, dairy, influenza, cattle, transmission, lactating, cows, viruses, dairy cattle


loads. In contrast other tissues, including those from the respiratory tract, showed inconsistent detection, with Ct values ranging from 30 and >40 in several naturally infected cows from outbreak farms (77). Experimental infection of HPAI H5N1 in lactating dairy cows, heifers, and calves The routes of infection and transmission of the H5N1 virus among dairy cows and between herds remain unclear. To further explore the natural history of H5N1 infection in dairy cattle and potential transmission routes, experimental infection studies with clade 2.3.4.4b H5N1 have been performed. Baker and colleagues inoculated lactating Holstein cows and Holstein heifer calves with H5N1 clade 2.3.4.4b (A/dairy cattle/Texas/ 24008749-002/2024). The cows received an intramammary dose of 105 TCID50 in two of the four quarters, while the calves were inoculated via aerosol inhalation at 2 × 106 with those observed during herd outbreaks, including decreased rumination, lethargy, reduced food intake, dry or loose feces, nasal discharge, and discolored viscous milk. to ~70% of original milk yields by the end of the study (day 23 post-inoculation). Viral RNA (<25 Ct) was detected in expressed milk from the inoculated quarters as early as day 1 post-inoculation and persisted for 14 days. Infectious virus was concurrently detected in pooled milk samples through day 10 post-inoculation. Interestingly, low levels of viral RNA (>38 Ct) were inconsistently detected in milk from adjacent uninoculated quarters, while viral RNA was undetectable in blood and feces. Lactating cows were positive for NP antibodies on day 7 in serum and day 9 in milk. Virus-neutralizing antibodies were detected in both serum and milk from inoculated mammary glands as early as day 9 post-inoculation. Milk samples from uninoculated quarters were not positive for virus-neutralizing antibodies throughout the time course. Serum had a positive HAI of 1:80 and 1:160 for the two lactating cows on day 24 post-inoculation. Histopatholog­ ical evaluation at the study endpoint revealed influenza A NP protein in the nuclei and cytoplasm of epithelial cells lining the secretory alveoli of the directly inoculated mammary glands (78). . Aerosol inoculated heifers did not have overt signs of clinical disease presenting only with transient nasal secretions (78). Nasal, oropharyngeal, saliva, and ocular samples were collected and analyzed for viral RNA, but the results were inconsistent, showing low levels of viral RNA (>38 Ct). Additionally, the detection of infectious virus in these samples was also variable. Tissue samples were collected from two heifers on day 7
