| Editor’s Pick | Virology | Minireview
KEYWORDS: mammary, virus, milk, gland, mammary gland, viral, infection, dairy, influenza, cattle, transmission, lactating, cows, viruses, dairy cattle


showing low levels of viral RNA (>38 Ct). Additionally, the detection of infectious virus in these samples was also variable. Tissue samples were collected from two heifers on day 7 September 2025 Volume 99 Issue 9 7 Minireview Journal of Virology post-inoculation, while the other two heifers were monitored until day 20 post-aerosol inoculation. Both heifers sampled on day 7 had viral RNA-positive tissues, including the retropharyngeal lymph node, lung lobes, and nasal turbinates. Antibody analysis revealed low HAI and neutralizing antibody titers, which did not meet criteria for positivity. Minimal gross lung pathology was identified. Halwe et al. also presented findings from experimental infections of lactating dairy cows with HPAI H5N1 virus. In this study, lactating dairy cows were intramammary- inoculated with either 106.1 TCID50 of H5N1 B3.13 (A/Cattle/Texas/063224-[DATE]) or 105.9 TCID50 of EU genotype euDG H5N1 clade 2.3.4.4b (A/wild_goose/Germa­ nyNW/00581/2024, H5N1 euDG). Intramammary infection with both viruses resulted in fever, lethargy, and reduced feed intake. In each group, two out of the three cows milk yields dropped in all animals by over 90%. Milk tested positive for both viruses as early as 1-day post-infection, with viral genome loads peaking at 3 days post infection. Viral titers in the milk reached a peak of 108 TCID50/mL, but no systemic infection was observed. Virus isolated from the mammary gland tissue showed persistence longer in some cows infected with B3.13 than with euDG, indicating possible slight differences in tissue tropism or viral clearance. Interestingly, the euDG strain showed a notable mutation (PB2 E627K) after intramammary infection, suggesting adaptation for mammalian replication. The PB2 E627K mutation is notable for its association with human infections caused by avian influenza viruses and has been specifically implicated in enhancing mammalian transmission of these viruses (79). A single amino acid in the PB2 gene of influenza A virus is a determinant of host range (80). This mutation was not observed in the B3.13 strain, which maintained its bovine-adapted PB2 M631L mutation. Pathological assessment of the lactating tissue showed acute epithelial necrosis and intraluminal cellular debris with intralesional antigen detection. No significant histologi­ cal changes or viral antigen were observed in respiratory tissues. In cows, after intra­ mammary inoculation with H5N1 strains, serum antibodies were detected by 7 days post-infection, and neutralizing antibodies appeared in milk starting from day 9. These antibodies reached a peak and remained elevated throughout the study period. In addition, six calves were
