| Editor’s Pick | Virology | Minireview
KEYWORDS: mammary, virus, milk, gland, mammary gland, viral, infection, dairy, influenza, cattle, transmission, lactating, cows, viruses, dairy cattle


7 days post-infection, and neutralizing antibodies appeared in milk starting from day 9. These antibodies reached a peak and remained elevated throughout the study period. In addition, six calves were oronasally inoculated with the H5N1 B3.13 strain, which resulted in only mild respiratory symptoms such as nasal mucus secretion and occasional coughing, with no significant fever or systemic illness. Despite viral shedding from the nasal passages in five of the six calves for up to 8 days, no transmission occurred to sentinel calves housed with the infected animals. The virus was primarily detected in the upper respiratory tract, particularly in mucosa-associated lymphoid tissues, with no evidence of systemic spread or significant tissue damage. Although viral RNA was found in nasal and oral swabs, rectal and other bodily fluids remained largely negative. Importantly, the calves developed an immune response, producing influenza A- specific antibodies by 10–14 days post-infection. Taken together, experimental inoculation studies in cattle suggest efficient infection and disease development when lactating cows are inoculated through the intramam­ mary route, while respiratory tract exposure led to more variable results in respect to upper or lower respiratory tract. Studying bovine-origin H5N1 2.3.4.4b infection and transmission using small animal models Understanding the mechanisms regulating H5N1 infection, transmission, and immune protection in dairy cattle will be essential to stopping the current outbreak and preventing future outbreaks. However, controlled cattle studies are challenging and labor-intensive due to the complexities of infecting large animals in a biosafety level 3 facility. Considering these issues, developing preclinical models for H5N1 2.3.4.4b mammary gland infection and transmission is essential to advance our understanding of such infections across species. September 2025 Volume 99 Issue 9 8 Minireview Journal of Virology Mice and ferrets are standard preclinical models for studying influenza virus infection, transmission, and evaluation of therapeutics (26, 81–85). Guan and Eisfeld et al. utilized mice and ferrets to investigate the pathogenicity and transmission of the H5N1 2.3.4.4b dairy cattle virus in comparison to clade 1 H5N1 and seasonal H1N1 influenza virus infections (86). Oral inoculation of female BALB/c mice with milk from H5N1-infected dairy cattle led to an inconsistent number of mice experiencing significant weight loss and testing positive for virus in the respiratory tract and extrapulmonary organs (87). In contrast, intranasal inoculation with either the H5N1 2.3.4.4b dairy cattle virus or clade 1 H5N1 virus led to 100% mortality, with all mice showing infectious virus in the
