| Editor’s Pick | Virology | Minireview
KEYWORDS: mammary, virus, milk, gland, mammary gland, viral, infection, dairy, influenza, cattle, transmission, lactating, cows, viruses, dairy cattle


(87). In contrast, intranasal inoculation with either the H5N1 2.3.4.4b dairy cattle virus or clade 1 H5N1 virus led to 100% mortality, with all mice showing infectious virus in the respiratory tract and some exhibiting infection in extrapulmonary tissues (86). This suggests that oral ingestion is not a robust mode of infection in mice. Female, non-lactating ferrets were also assessed for respiratory infection following intranasal inoculation with either clade 2.3.4.4b or clade 1 H5N1 influenza virus. Inoculations with consistent viral replication in the respiratory tract and some infection in extrapulmonary organs including nonlactating mammary glands (86). The investigators also assessed the potential for virus transmission from an intra­ nasally infected lactating mouse to her co-housed pups. Pups housed with mothers infected intranasally with the H5N1 2.3.4.4b dairy cattle virus tested positive for infectious virus on days 7 and 9 post-maternal inoculation. In contrast, adult contact cage mates did not test positive, suggesting that virus transmission from the mother to pups likely occurred through nursing rather than via typical contact or aerosol routes. These findings were further supported by contact transmission studies in ferrets. Over a 13-day observation period, none of the recipient cage-mate ferrets tested positive for the virus after being housed with an H5N1 2.3.4.4b dairy cattle virus-infected donor ferret. Together, these findings suggest that the virus does not efficiently transmit through general contact between non-lactating ferrets but is transmitted from lactating female mice to pups, highlighting the mammary gland and nursing as critical factors in the current epizootic H5N1 spread among dairy cattle (86). In another study, C57Bl/6 mice were intraductally inoculated with A/bovine/Ohio.B24OSU-439/2024 (H5N1) i nfluenza virus into actively lactating nipples (an average of seven lactating nipples per mouse). After intraductal infection, 50% of the mice exhibited weight loss ranging from 5% to 30%, with one mouse succumbing to infection. The deceased mouse had high viral titers in the mammary glands, lung, and brain, suggesting systemic viral spread (88). However, when murine mammary glands were inoculated with pandemic H1N1 virus A/California/04/2009, the virus failed to replicate in the mammary epithelium of mice, in contrast to the successful replication previously observed in the ferret (26). Furthermore, our group recently conducted a similar study using lactating ferrets to investigate the transmission of H5N1 clade 2.3.4.4b through milk, as well as its pathogenesis in both dams and their suckling kits (89). Mammary glands of lactating dams were inoculated with A/bovine/Ohio/B24OSU-342/2024
