| Editor’s Pick | Virology | Minireview
KEYWORDS: mammary, virus, milk, gland, mammary gland, viral, infection, dairy, influenza, cattle, transmission, lactating, cows, viruses, dairy cattle


the transmission of H5N1 clade 2.3.4.4b through milk, as well as its pathogenesis in both dams and their suckling kits (89). Mammary glands of lactating dams were inoculated with A/bovine/Ohio/B24OSU-342/2024 (H5N1) influenza virus at 2.5 weeks postpartum. Both kits and dams reached humane endpoints by 4 and 6 days post-inoculation, respectively. Viral RNA increased over time in milk, with mammary tissue exhibiting the highest viral RNA levels compared to other tissues. Viral RNA was also detected in kit stomach contents, lungs, bronchoalveolar lavage (BAL) fluid, as well as nasal and oral swabs. The viral kinetics observed in the oral and nasal cavities of kits suggest that infection likely originated from ingestion of H5N1-positive milk, followed by respiratory transmission back to the dam via close naso-oral contact. This study highlights the high susceptibility of lactating ferrets and their offspring to HPAI H5N1 infection and the mammary gland as a potential site of viral replication and milk-borne transmission. Importantly, pre-existing influenza immunity influences outcomes of subsequent exposures, with preclinical models giving insights into the association of severe disease risk with sequential infections. Previously, we demonstrated that ferrets imprinted with a seasonal H1N1 virus were protected from challenge with a clade 1 H5N1 virus (90). Moreover, we recently showed that mice with pre-existing immunity to H1N1 were September 2025 Volume 99 Issue 9 9 Minireview Journal of Virology protected from H5N1 clade 2.3.4.4b-laden milk (91). Interestingly, repeated oral exposure using pasteurized milk containing inactivated H5N1 clade 2.3.4.4b virus did not prevent or accelerate mortality from lethal HPAI H5N1 challenge. However, it was associated with a ~ 0.5 log10 reduction in viral titers in the brain and delayed onset of clinical signs. Importantly, we have recently demonstrated that experimental animals (mice and ferrets) previously infected with seasonal H1N1 or vaccinated with a live-attenu­ ated influenza vaccine (LAIV) were protected from lethal H5N1 clade 2.3.4.4b disease, potentially due to cross-reactive T cell responses, which supports findings from other studies (92, 93). Immunology of the mammary gland: implications for therapeutic strategies The mammary gland represents a unique and understudied site for influenza virus replication. To reduce infection and disease in this tissue, it is critical to characterize the local immune response within the mammary gland following infection. Experimen­ tal intramammary infection of dairy cows with H5N1 influenza virus resulted in the detection of virus-neutralizing antibodies in milk as early as day 9 post-inoculation (28, 29). Moreover,
