| Editor’s Pick | Virology | Minireview
KEYWORDS: mammary, virus, milk, gland, mammary gland, viral, infection, dairy, influenza, cattle, transmission, lactating, cows, viruses, dairy cattle


infection. Experimen­ tal intramammary infection of dairy cows with H5N1 influenza virus resulted in the detection of virus-neutralizing antibodies in milk as early as day 9 post-inoculation (28, 29). Moreover, cows intramammarily infected with H5N1 were protected from reinfection 31 days post-inoculation, coinciding with sustained virus-neutralizing antibody levels in milk (94). This mirrors findings from the 1950s, when cattle inoculated with H1N1 also exhibited protection upon re-exposure, as previously discussed. These fi ndings suggest that intramammary infection with H5N1 virus in lactating dairy cows induces immunity either locally within the mammary gland or through serum-derived antibodies that transudate into the gland following systemic antigen stimulation. The durability of mammary gland immunity and the specific contributions of IgG and IgA to sustained protection are currently unknown. Several reviews have summarized the immunology of the lactating mammary gland (95, 96). Antibody composition varies by species; in humans, IgA is the predominant isotype, comprising >75% of the total immunoglobulin pool (97, 98), and is primarily produced by local IgA-secreting plasma cells within the mammary tissue (99). Human breast milk also contains IgG, which is thought to be predominantly serum-derived. In contrast, IgG is the predominant isotype in dairy cow milk, largely derived from serum, with minimal contributions from IgA (97). In dairy cows, boosting systemic H5N1-neutral­ izing IgG through intramuscular vaccination is a rational strategy to increase H5N1-spe­ cific IgG levels in milk, given the naturally high concentration of IgG in bovine milk. In humans, however, a more nuanced approach may be necessary to protect both the lactating mammary gland and the breastfeeding infant during an emerging H5N1 outbreak. Mucosal vaccination strategies that stimulate both local IgA production within the mammary gland and systemic IgG responses, which can transudate into milk, are likely to be ideal. Further research is needed to identify vaccination strategies that promote anti-influenza immunity within the mammary gland and in milk. Understanding the immune response to non-influenza viruses in the mammary gland may offer valuable insights into mammary gland susceptibility and broader antiviral defense mechanisms. Rotavirus and norovirus are leading causes of enteric infections, responsible for about 200,000 annual deaths, primarily in underdeveloped countries (100, 101). In a seminal study published in 2022, Ghosh and colleagues found that rotavirus and norovirus replicated in the salivary glands of suckling mouse pups. This resulted in the transfer of both viruses to the mammary gland, resulting in productive replication. Rotavirus and norovirus
