| Editor’s Pick | Virology | Minireview
KEYWORDS: mammary, virus, milk, gland, mammary gland, viral, infection, dairy, influenza, cattle, transmission, lactating, cows, viruses, dairy cattle


and norovirus replicated in the salivary glands of suckling mouse pups. This resulted in the transfer of both viruses to the mammary gland, resulting in productive replication. Rotavirus and norovirus infection led to increased viral genomes in milk and the mammary gland, accompanied by a sharp rise in secretory IgA in both maternal milk and the pups' gut, peaking at day 5 and remaining elevated through day 14. These findings highlight two important implications: first, milk secretory IgA likely plays a crucial role in antiviral immune responses within both the mammary gland and neonatal intestines; second, a feedback mechanism between the mother and pups appears to trigger the increased secretory IgA levels in maternal milk. These results parallel the September 2025 Volume 99 Issue 9 Minireview Journal of Virology FIG 2 Summary of experimental and natural H5N1 clade 2.3.4.4b infection in wildlife, livestock, and small animal models. antibody responses seen in cows following HPAI H5N1 infection, where an increase in milk antibodies occurs in response to viral replication. Although substantial research has been conducted on the transmission of CMV (39) and HIV-1 (102) from the mammary gland and breast milk to human infants, neither CMV nor HIV-1 appears to directly damage the secretory mammary epithelial cells, distinguishing these infections from viral mastitis-associated influenza virus infections observed in cows and small animal models. There is no direct evidence of influenza virus replication in the human mammary gland, and the U.S. Centers for Disease Control and Prevention recommends that breastfeeding should continue during maternal i nfluenza infection (103). However, the potential for influenza viruses to infect human mammary glands remains poorly studied. Women’s health should continue to be a priority in this evolving field. AVIAN SPECIES, AND OTHER MAMMALS The current clade 2.3.4.4b H5N1 outbreak in dairy cattle represents a complex One cally, infection in cows reduces production yields and profits for producers, while also increasing economic and healthcare costs associated with managing sick cattle. Additionally, the large volume of contaminated milk increases the risk of spread to wildlife, farm animals, dairy workers, and individuals involved in milk processing (77). Ongoing infections and transmission events in dairy cattle and other species heighten the risk of viral mutations that enhance its ability to infect and spread among humans or livestock, raising concerns for pandemic preparedness and the potential establishment of an enzootic reservoir in livestock populations. Although pasteurization is demonstrated to inactivate H5N1
