| Editor’s Pick | Virology | Minireview
KEYWORDS: mammary, virus, milk, gland, mammary gland, viral, infection, dairy, influenza, cattle, transmission, lactating, cows, viruses, dairy cattle


infect and spread among humans or livestock, raising concerns for pandemic preparedness and the potential establishment of an enzootic reservoir in livestock populations. Although pasteurization is demonstrated to inactivate H5N1 influenza virus (104, 105), the detection of viral genomic fragments in retail dairy products has raised September 2025 Volume 99 Issue 9 Minireview Journal of Virology concerns within the dairy industry that consumer fears could lead to decreased demand (106, 107) (communication with the Dairy Farmers of Ontario, Canada, and Ohio, USA). It remains unclear why viruses in this clade have been so successful at persisting and spreading among wild migratory birds while also gaining the ability to infect previously unassociated mammalian hosts, such as polar bears (108). Alarmingly, H5N1 2.3.4.4b has caused significant mortality in pinnipeds, including over 17,000 southern elephant seals in Argentina (109) and 811 sea lions in a single colony over 2 months (110). In the context of the recent H5N1 clade 2.3.4.4b outbreak in dairy cattle, the U.S. Department of Agriculture has determined that milk from infected cows is the primary source of virus transmission to other dairy cattle, animals, and humans (111). Preliminary studies suggest that contaminated milking equipment, as well as infected air and water, may play a role in transmission between cows (112, 113). Additionally, the geographic spread of the virus may be facilitated by the movement of infected dairy cattle between farms, including across state lines (114). Data from experimental and case reports (Fig. 2) indicate that lactating dairy cows shed the highest viral titers in milk, while shedding from the respiratory tract remains low, suggesting that respiratory transmission may not play a significant role in virus spread; however, further research is needed. If mammary gland infection and transmission are the primary drivers of the dairy cattle outbreak, prevention methods targeting the milking process—such as enhanced disinfection of milking equipment or improved worker personal protective equipment—may be more effective and feasible than strategies aimed at controlling airborne transmission. Further research is essential to clarify the site and mechanisms of viral replication within the mammary gland and to understand the potential implications for lactating humans. AUTHOR AFFILIATIONS Kolkata, West Bengal, India Memphis, Tennessee, USA AUTHOR ORCIDs Alyson A. Kelvin Stacey Schultz-Cherry Stephanie N. Langel AUTHOR CONTRIBUTIONS Alyson A. Kelvin, Conceptualization, Writing – original draft, Writing – review and editing | Pari H. Baker, Conceptualization, Writing – original draft, Writing – review and
