bs_bs_banner
KEYWORDS: patients, anti-, antibodies, intestinal, potential, deposits, culture, supernatants, iga, serum, mucosal, anti- antibodies, ptg, etal, using


that when specimens of denal biopsies were taken from all patients.Two fragments duodenalmucosaareculturedfor24–48hinmediumalone werefixedin10%formalin,embeddedinparaffin,andthen and with peptic–tryptic digest of gliadin (PTG) or treatedforhistologicalanalysis.Oneoftheduodenalspeci- withpeptide31–43(P31–43),thereisaproduction mens was embedded in an optimal cutting temperature ofanti-endomysialantibodiesinorganculturesupernatants compound (OCT; Tissue-Tek, Sakura Finetek Europe BV, inCDpatients,butnotincontrols. Zoeterwoude, the Netherlands) and stored in liquid nitro- More recently, similar data have been obtained measur- genuntilused.Theremainingtwofragmentswerecultured ing IgA anti-TG2 antibodies in supernatants of cultured for24hat37°CineitherthepresenceorabsenceofP31–43 biopsies from CD patients untreated and on a gluten-free (0·1mg/ml)/peptic–tryptic gliadin digest (PTG; 0·5mg/ diet [15–17]. This test has been proposed for diagnostic ml). Organ culture was performed as reported previously purposes, particularly in patients with normal mucosa. . After 24h of culture, the tissues were embedded in However, in this regard the information on potential CD OCT and stored in liquid nitrogen. The culture superna- patientsispoorandscanty. tants were collected and stored at -80°C until they were The aim of our work was to investigate the presence analysed. of anti-TG2 intestinal antibodies in patients with potential CD, and identify the most suitable detection test for Intestinaldepositsofanti-TG2IgAantibodies this purpose. We compared two assays: the search for intestinaldepositsofIgAanti-TG2andmeasurementofthe The presence of intestinal deposits of anti-TG2 IgA was same antibodies in the supernatants after organ culture of investigated before and after 24h of organ culture with duodenalbiopsies. P31–43orPTGormediumalone.Fivemmcryostatsections were stained using a double-immunofluorescence method, as described previously . The stained sections were Patients and methods evaluated using a confocal microscope (LSM510; Zeiss MicroImagingInc.,Milan,Italy). Patients Our study involved 40 patients (29 females, median age 7 Measurementofanti-TG2IgAantibodiessecretedinto years, range 2–17 years) who underwent a small intestinal culturesupernatants Mucosal anti-TG2 IgA antibodies secreted into culture erico II in Naples for suspicion of CD. All patients pre- supernatants were measured in undiluted supernatants by sented increased serum levels of anti-TG2 antibodies. enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay (ELISA; EU-tTG IgA Twelvepatientsshowedtotalvillousatrophy(Marshclassi- kit;EurospitalS.p.A,Trieste,Italy),accordingtothemanu- fication grade IIIc) and received a diagnosis of CD on the facturer’s instructions. When the value of anti-TG2 was basis of diagnostic criteria established by the European higher than the last point of standard curve, supernatants Society for Pediatric Gastroenterology, Hepatology and were diluted 1:2, 1:4, 1:10 and 1:20 in culture medium. Nutrition (ESPGHAN) . Twenty-eight of 40 patients The cut-off value for anti-TG2 IgA antibodies in culture showed architecturally normal small intestinal mucosa (11 supernatants was calculated using supernatants from cul- with grade 0 and 17 with Marsh classification grade I); tures with medium alone from the 39 controls and
