bs_bs_banner
KEYWORDS: patients, anti-, antibodies, intestinal, potential, deposits, culture, supernatants, iga, serum, mucosal, anti- antibodies, ptg, etal, using


of CD diagnosis in subjects with mild enteropathy and in increasingthetitresinculturesupernatants. patients negative for serum antibodies [15–17]. More Asmentionedpreviously,theclinicalrelevanceofdetect- recently,using immunofluorescence,Korponay-Szabo etal. ingintestinalanti-TG2antibodiesresidesintheirabilityto showed that IgA deposited in the intestine of CD predict evolution to mucosal damage and in identifying patients are directed against TG2. This assay, while having subjectswithglutensensitivity.Inthefirstcase,thepresence high sensitivity and specificity for the diagnosis, requires of intestinal deposits of anti-TG2 seems to be a marker of frozenintestinalsamplesandhighlyexperiencedoperators. forthcoming overt CD in patients with normal By means of phage display libraries, Marzari etal. intestinal mucosa. This ability, if confirmed by larger showed that anti-TG2 IgA antibodies are synthesized pri- studies,couldhelptosolvethevexedquestionofwhetheror marily by specific B lymphocytes in the small intestinal not potential CD patients must be put onto a gluten-free mucosa and that there is a preferential use of heavy chain diet or remain on a gluten-containing diet. Currently, our variable regions belonging to theVH5 gene family in anti- centre’s policy is to leave asymptomatic potential CD bodies from coeliac patients. The intestinal production of patients on a gluten-containing diet and follow them over anti-TG2 antibodies has been confirmed recently by time.With regard to the state of gluten sensitivity, impor- the finding of a high abundance of plasma cells secreting tantobservationshavebeenmademeasuringantibodiesin TG2-specific IgA autoantibodies with limited somatic intestinal fluids and using the phage library technique. hypermutation in CD intestinal lesions .In identifying Using the first approach, patients with gluten sensitivity patients with gluten sensitivity, the phage display libraries were identified among patients with irritable bowel syn- technique seems to be more sensitive than detection of drome who presented these antibodies in intestinal fluids, mucosal deposits of anti-TG2 antibodies using double but not in serum . Recently, Not etal. have immunofluorescence assay .At the same time, it must reportedthatalargeproportionofDQ2/DQ8-positiverela- be emphasized that, because of its complexity, this test tives of CD patients with normal mucosa and without cannot be proposed for routine use. measurable serum levels of anti-TG2 produce these ©2012TheAuthors 73 ClinicalandExperimentalImmunology©2012BritishSocietyforImmunology,ClinicalandExperimentalImmunology,171:69–75 A.Toscoetal. antibodiesintheintestineinresponsetogluten.Weshowed 7 Korponay-SzaboIR,HalttunenT,SzalaiZetal.Invivotargeting that two of the three patients in the control group who of intestinal and extraintestinal transglutaminase 2 by coeliac secreted anti-TG2 into culture supernatants were, in one autoantibodies.Gut2004;53:641–48. case,afirst-degreerelativeandinthesecondcaseapatient 8 Maglio M, Tosco A, Auricchio R etal. Intestinal deposits of anti-tissuetransglutaminaseIgAinchildhoodceliacdisease.Dig affectedbytype1diabetes.Thislastfindingisnotsurpris- LiverDis2011;43:604–8. ing,aswehavealreadydemonstratedthatpatientswithtype 9 Ludvigsson JF,Leffler DA,Bai JC etal.The Oslo definitions for 1diabetes,withoutserumanti-TG2andwithnormalduo- coeliacdiseaseandrelatedterms.Gut2012;inpress.[Epubahead denalmucosa,produceanddepositanti-TG2antibodiesin ofprint]. theirsmallintestinalmucosa.Finally,inthethirdcase, 10 Tosco A, Salvati MV, Auricchio R etal. Natural history of there was little clinical
