NLM Citation: LiverTox®: Clinical and Research Information on Drug-
KEYWORDS: omeprazole, liver, pmid, pubmed, pubmed pmid, injury, acute, esomeprazole, liver injury, alt, drug, hepatic, days, proton, patients


NLM Citation: LiverTox®: Clinical and Research Information on Drug- Induced Liver Injury [Internet]. Bethesda (MD): National Institute of Diabetes and Digestive and Kidney Diseases; 2012-. Omeprazole. [Updated 2019 Apr 15]. Bookshelf URL: Omeprazole Updated: April 15, 2019. OVERVIEW Introduction Omeprazole and esomeprazole are proton pump inhibitors (PPIs) and potent inhibitor of gastric acidity which are widely used in the therapy of gastroesophageal reflux and peptic ulcer disease. Omeprazole and esomeprazole therapy are both associated with a low rate of transient and asymptomatic serum aminotransferase elevations and are rare causes of clinically apparent liver injury. Background Omeprazole (oh mep' ra zole), like other PPIs, inhibits gastric acid production by binding to and inactivating the H+/K+-ATPase of gastric parietal cells, causing inhibition of the proton pump that transports H+ into the gastric lumen, the common final step in gastric acid production. Omeprazole is a prodrug and is converted to the active form (sulfenic acid) in the acidic secretory canaliculi of parietal cells. Because the inhibition is irreversible, acid secretion is suppressed for 24 to 48 hours, until new proton pump molecules have been synthesized and transported to the cell membrane. Omeprazole was the first PPI approved for use in the United States (1989), initially only for the indication of severe peptic ulcer disease and Zollinger-Ellison syndrome. Subsequently, the indications for its use have broadened to routine peptic ulcer disease, gastroesophageal r eflux disease and prevention of stress ulcers. Esomeprazole (es" oh mep' ra zole) is the S-isomer of omeprazole and exhibits delayed clearance and thus higher potency on a molar basis than omeprazole, which is a racemic mixture of both S- and R-isomers. Th e omeprazole. Esomeprazole was approved for use in the United States in 2001 with similar indications as omeprazole includig peptic ulcer disease, gastroesophageal reflux disease and prevention of stress ulcers. Omeprazole and esomeprazole are two of the most widely used medications in clinical practice with more than 20 million prescriptions filled yearly in the United States alone. Omeprazole is available in multiple forms including 10, 20 and 40 mg standard and delayed release capsules and powder for oral suspension in generic forms and under the brand name of Prilosec. The typical dose of omeprazole is 20 mg once daily with twice daily doses for more severe cases of gastrointestinal reflux and peptic ulcer disease, and doses of up to 120 mg daily for Zollinger-Ellison syndrome. A 10 to
