NLM Citation: LiverTox®: Clinical and Research Information on Drug-
KEYWORDS: omeprazole, liver, pmid, pubmed, pubmed pmid, injury, acute, esomeprazole, liver injury, alt, drug, hepatic, days, proton, patients


daily with twice daily doses for more severe cases of gastrointestinal reflux and peptic ulcer disease, and doses of up to 120 mg daily for Zollinger-Ellison syndrome. A 10 to 14 day course of omeprazole in combination with antibiotics is effective and recommended for the eradication of H. Pylori infection. Esomeprazole is also available in multiple forms and typically used in 20 mg delayed release capsules generically and under the brand name Nexium. On a molar basis, esomeprazole is more potent than omeprazole and the recommended dose in adults is 20 mg once daily, with twice daily doses for more severe cases of gastrointestinal 2 LiverTox® reflux and peptic ulcer disease, and doses of up to 60 mg daily for Zollinger-Ellison syndrome. Combinations of esomeprazole with antibiotics for 10 to 14 days are effective and recommended for eradication of H. pylori infection. Both omeprazole and esomeprazole are very well tolerated and both are now available without prescription in multiple over-the-counter forms. Side effects of omeprazole and esomeprazole are uncommon and usually mild; they include diarrhea, nausea, vomiting, abdominal discomfort, flatulence, skin rash, headaches and dizziness. Severe side effects are rare but can include hypersensitivity reactions. Long-term use of rabeprazole may be associated with bone fractures, acute interstitial nephritis, lupus erythematosus, vitamin B12 deficiency and hypomagnesemia. Hepatotoxicity Despite their wide use, omeprazole and esomeprazole have only rarely been associated with hepatic injury. In large scale, long term trials , serum ALT elevations occurred in less than 1% of patients and at rates similar to those that occurred with placebo or comparator drugs. A small number of cases of clinically apparent liver disease due to omeprazole or esomeprazole have been published, the frequency of these cases probably being less during the first 1 to 4 weeks of therapy and being marked by an acute hepatocellular pattern of injury, with rapid recovery upon withdrawal. Rash, fever and eosinophilia were rare, as is autoantibody formation. Liver biopsy typically shows prominent centrolobular necrosis, suggestive of an acute, toxic hepatic injury (acute hepatic necrosis); however, recurrence upon rechallenge has been documented in several cases. In some instances, other organ involvement is prominent including rhabdomyolysis, lactic acidosis, renal insufficiency or Stevens Johnson syndrome. In large case series of drug induced liver injury, omeprazole and esomeprazole have accounted for few instances of symptomatic acute liver injury and rare instances of acute liver failure. Likelihood score: B (rare but
