NLM Citation: LiverTox®: Clinical and Research Information on Drug-
KEYWORDS: omeprazole, liver, pmid, pubmed, pubmed pmid, injury, acute, esomeprazole, liver injury, alt, drug, hepatic, days, proton, patients


of drug induced liver injury, omeprazole and esomeprazole have accounted for few instances of symptomatic acute liver injury and rare instances of acute liver failure. Likelihood score: B (rare but likely cause of clinically apparent liver injury). Mechanism of Injury The acute onset and rapid recurrence of hepatic injury with omeprazole and esomeprazole suggests a hypersensitivity reaction, but may merely reflect altered metabolism or acute toxicity of a metabolic byproduct. The usual clinical phenotype is acute hepatic necrosis. Both omeprazole and esomeprazole are extensively metabolized by the hepatic P450 system and have multiple effects on the drug metabolizing system, including inhibition of CYP 2C19 and induction of CYP1A2, effects which may cause significant drug-drug interactions. Outcome and Management The mild and asymptomatic elevations in serum aminotransferase that have been observed during omeprazole and esomeprazole therapy are usually transient and may resolve even without dose modification. Clinically apparent liver injury due to these agents, however, generally calls for prompt withdrawal. Severe injury due to omeprazole and esomeprazole is uncommon and most cases resolve promptly upon withdrawal. Cases of acute liver failure due to proton pump inhibitors have been described, but they are exceedingly rare. There is no information about cross sensitivity to liver injury among the various PPIs, but some degree of cross reactivity should be expected between omeprazole and its S-isomer, esomeprazole. Furthermore, the PPIs all share a benzimidazole structure, and caution should be used in attempting to reintroduce another PPI after clinically apparent hepatic injury due to an unrelated PPI. Drug Class: Antiulcer Agents Other Drugs in the Subclass, Proton Pump Inhibitors: Dexlansoprazole, Lansoprazole, Pantoprazole, Rabeprazole Omeprazole 3 CASE REPORT Case 1. Acute liver failure attributed to omeprazole. [Modified from: Jochem V, Kirkpatrick R, Greenson J, Brogan M, Sturgis T, Cook-Glenn C. Fulminant hepatic failure related to omeprazole. Am J Gastroenterol 1992; 87: 523-5. PubMed Citation] A 62 year old man with gastroesophageal reflux was treated with ranitidine (150 mg twice daily) for 10 days without improvement, whereupon he was switched to omeprazole (20 mg daily). Seventeen days later, he presented with a 4 day history of abdominal pain, nausea, vomiting, poor appetite and weakness. He had no previous history of liver disease, alcohol abuse or risk factors for viral hepatitis. He had a long history of hypertension and coronary artery disease and had been taking atenolol (100 mg daily), diltiazem (60 mg twice daily) and aspirin (325 mg
