NLM Citation: LiverTox®: Clinical and Research Information on Drug-
KEYWORDS: omeprazole, liver, pmid, pubmed, pubmed pmid, injury, acute, esomeprazole, liver injury, alt, drug, hepatic, days, proton, patients


viral hepatitis. He had a long history of hypertension and coronary artery disease and had been taking atenolol (100 mg daily), diltiazem (60 mg twice daily) and aspirin (325 mg daily) chronically. He denied taking acetaminophen. On examination, he was jaundiced and had mild asterixis without rash or peripheral manifestations of cirrhosis. Laboratory testing showed marked elevations in serum aminotransferase levels (ALT 9234 U/L, AST 2952 U/L), bilirubin (8.4 mg/dL) and prothrombin time (>100 seconds), with minimal increase in alkaline phosphatase levels (254 U/L). Serum lactate was elevated at 26.6 mmol/L and ammonia at 38 µmol/L. The peripheral white blood cell count was elevated (18,100 cells/µL) without eosinophilia and creatinine was 2.6 mg/dL. All liver tests had been normal when measured one month previously. Tests for hepatitis A, B and C were negative. He was managed in the intensive care unit but worsened overnight, becoming obtunded and then comatose. He was transferred to a died five days after his initial presentation. On autopsy, his liver showed massive centrolobular necrosis without fibrosis. Key Points Medication: Omeprazole (20 mg daily) Pattern: Hepatocellular (R=100) Severity: 5+ (acute liver failure and death) Latency: 14 days to onset of symptoms Recovery: None Other medications: Atenolol, diltiazem and aspirin chronically, ranitidine for 10 days immediately before omeprazole was started Comment This patient developed fulminant hepatic failure and died within 3 weeks of starting omeprazole for gastroesophageal reflux. Spontaneous, idiopathic acute liver failure is very rare, but omeprazole use is common. For these reasons, a person taking omeprazole might develop acute liver failure by chance, unrelated to the medication. However, the onset of liver injury within a few weeks of starting omeprazole and the similarity in time to onset and enzyme pattern to other cases of omeprazole hepatotoxicity suggest that the proton pump inhibitor was the cause. Approximately 10% of causes of hepatocellular jaundice due to medications result in fatality, so that rare instances of proton pump inhibitor induced acute liver injury (which is typically hepatocellular) are likely to result in death. Acute liver failure with a short latency period (1 to 4 weeks) has also been reported with esomeprazole and with rabeprazole therapy. 4 LiverTox® PRODUCT INFORMATION REPRESENTATIVE TRADE NAMES Omeprazole – Generic, Prilosec® Esomeprazole – Generic, Nexium® DRUG CLASS Antiulcer Agents COMPLETE LABELING Product labeling at DailyMed, National Library of Medicine, NIH CHEMICAL FORMULAS AND STRUCTURES DRUG CAS REGISTRY NUMBER MOLECULAR FORMULA STRUCTURE Omeprazole 73590-58-6
