Hypertriglyceridemia: Pathophysiology, Role of Genetics, Consequences, and Treatment
KEYWORDS: pubmed, htg, levels, severe, hypertriglyceridemia, pancreatitis, risk, free, disease, lipoprotein, free article, article, pmc free, pmc, article pubmed


ABSTRACT Hypertriglyceridemia (HTG) can result from a variety of causes. Mild to moderate HTG tracks along with the metabolic syndrome, obesity and diabetes. HTG can be the result of multiple small gene variants or secondary to several diseases and drugs. Severe HTG with plasma triglyceride (TG) levels >1000-1500 mg/dL typically results from: ( 1 ) rare variants in the lipoprotein lipase (LPL) complex, where it is termed the familial chylomicronemia syndrome (FCS), and ( 2 ) the co-existence of genetic and secondary forms of HTG, termed the multifactorial chylomicronemia syndrome (MFCS), which is a much more common cause of severe HTG. Mild to moderate HTG is associated with an increased risk of premature cardiovascular disease (CVD), while severe HTG can lead to pancreatitis as well as an increased risk of premature CVD. Appropriate management of the patient with HTG requires knowledge of the likely cause of the HTG, to prevent its complications. For complete coverage of all related areas of Endocrinology, please visit our on-line FREE web-text, WWW.ENDOTEXT.ORG . PHYSIOLOGY A detailed overview of lipoprotein physiology is provided in the Endotext chapter on Lipoprotein Metabolism ( 1 ). Here we will briefly review some aspects the metabolism of the triglyceride (TG)-rich lipoproteins, very low-density lipoproteins (VLDL) and chylomicrons (CM) of particular relevance to this chapter. Secretion of TG-rich Lipoproteins Into Plasma TGs are transported through plasma as VLDL), which transport TGs primarily made in the liver, and as CM, which transport dietary (exogenous) fat. VLDL secretion by the liver is regulated in several ways. Each VLDL particle has one ApoB100 molecule, making ApoB100 availability a key determinant of the number of VLDL particles, and hence, TG secretion by the liver. In addition to one molecule of ApoB-100, each VLDL particle contains multiple copies of other apolipoproteins, together with varied amounts of TGs, cholesteryl esters, and phospholipids. The extent of TG synthesis is in part determined by the flux of free fatty acids (FFA) to the liver. The addition of TG to the developing VLDL particle in the endoplasmic reticulum is mediated by the enzyme microsomal triglyceride transfer protein (MTTP). The pool of ApoB100 in the liver is not typically regulated by its level of synthesis, which is relatively constant, but by its level of degradation, which can occur in several proteolytic pathways ( 2 ). Insulin also plays a role in the regulation of VLDL secretion - it decreases hepatic
