Hypertriglyceridemia: Pathophysiology, Role of Genetics, Consequences, and Treatment
KEYWORDS: pubmed, htg, levels, severe, hypertriglyceridemia, pancreatitis, risk, free, disease, lipoprotein, free article, article, pmc free, pmc, article pubmed


by its level of degradation, which can occur in several proteolytic pathways ( 2 ). Insulin also plays a role in the regulation of VLDL secretion - it decreases hepatic VLDL production by limiting fatty acid influx into the liver and decreases the stability of, and promotes the posttranslational degradation of ApoB100 ( 3 ). Recent studies have shown that ApoC-III, an Apolipoprotein thought to primarily play a role in inhibiting TG removal (see below), also is involved in the assembly and secretion of VLDL ( 4 ). VLDL particles (containing ApoB100) also increase in plasma in the postprandial state as well as CM that contain ApoB48 ( 5 ). Consumption of dietary fat results in the formation of CM by enterocytes. Fatty acids and monoacylglycerols that result from digestion of dietary TGs by acid and pancreatic lipases are transported into enterocytes by mechanisms that are not completely understood. In the enterocyte, monoacylglycerol and fatty acids are resynthesized into TGs by the action of the enzymes acyl-coenzyme A: monoacylglycerol acyltransferase and acyl-coenzyme A: diacylglycerol acyltransferase 1 and 2 (DGAT 1 and 2). The resulting TGs are packaged with ApoB48 to form CM, a process also mediated by MTTP ( 6 ). CM then pass into the thoracic duct from where they enter plasma and acquire additional apolipoproteins. Of particular relevance to their clearance from plasma is the acquisition of ApoC-II and ApoC-III. Catabolism of the TG-rich Lipoproteins TGs in both VLDL and CM are hydrolyzed by the lipoprotein lipase (LPL) complex. LPL is synthesized by several tissues, including adipose tissue, skeletal muscle, and cardiac myocytes. After secretion by adipocytes, the enzyme is transported by glycosylphosphatidylinositol-anchored high-density lipoprotein–binding protein 1 (GPIHBP1) to the luminal side of the capillary endothelium, where it becomes tethered to glycosaminoglycans (GAGs). This pool of LPL is referred to as “functional LPL”, since it is available to hydrolyze TGs in both VLDL and chylomicrons. LPL can be liberated from these GAG binding sites by heparin injection. Several other proteins, reviewed in ( 7 ), regulate LPL activity. These include ApoC-II, which activates LPL, and ApoC-III, which inhibits LPL in addition to its effect on VLDL secretion alluded to earlier. Both are produced by the liver and are present on TG-rich lipoproteins. ApoC-III also inhibits the turnover of TG-rich lipoproteins through a hepatic clearance mechanism involving the LDL receptor/LDL receptor-related protein 1 (LDLR/LRP1) axis ( 8 ). ApoE
