Hypertriglyceridemia: Pathophysiology, Role of Genetics, Consequences, and Treatment
KEYWORDS: pubmed, htg, levels, severe, hypertriglyceridemia, pancreatitis, risk, free, disease, lipoprotein, free article, article, pmc free, pmc, article pubmed


present on TG-rich lipoproteins. ApoC-III also inhibits the turnover of TG-rich lipoproteins through a hepatic clearance mechanism involving the LDL receptor/LDL receptor-related protein 1 (LDLR/LRP1) axis ( 8 ). ApoE also is present on the TG-rich lipoproteins and plays an important role in the uptake and clearance of the remnants of the TG-rich lipoproteins that result from hydrolysis of TGs in these lipoproteins. Other activators of LPL include ApoA-IV ( 9 ), ApoA-V ( 10 - 12 ) and lipase maturation factor 1 (LMF1) ( 13 , 14 ). In addition, several members of the angiopoietin-like (ANGPTL) protein family play a role in regulating LPL activity. ANGPTL3 is produced by the liver and is an endocrine regulator by inhibiting LPL in peripheral tissues ( 7 , 15 , 16 ). ANGPTL4 is produced in several tissues ( 7 ), where it inhibits LPL in a paracrine fashion ( 7 , 17 ). Both ANPGTL3 and ANGPTL4 delay the clearance of the TG-rich lipoproteins ( 7 ). The core TGs in VLDL and chylomicrons are hydrolyzed by ApoC-II activated LPL; FFA thus formed are taken up by adipocytes and re-incorporated into TGs for storage, or in skeletal and cardiac muscle, utilized for energy. Hydrolysis of chylomicron- and VLDL-TG results in TG-poor, cholesteryl ester and ApoE-enriched particles called chylomicron and VLDL remnants, respectively, which under physiological conditions are removed by the liver by binding to LDL receptors, LDL receptor related protein, and cell surface proteoglycans ( 12 , 18 ). Hepatic TG lipase and ApoA-V also are involved in the remnant clearance process ( 10 - 12 , 19 , 20 ). The clearance of TGs from plasma is saturable when plasma TGs exceed ~500-700 mg/dL ( 21 ). When removal mechanisms are saturated, additional chylomicrons and VLDL entering plasma cannot readily be removed and hence accumulate in the plasma. As a result, plasma TGs can increase dramatically, resulting in very high levels and the accumulation of chylomicrons in plasma obtained after an overnight fast. NORMAL RANGE FOR PLASMA TRIGLYCERIDES AND DEFIJITION OF HYPERTRIGLYCERIDEMIA Plasma TG levels reflect the TG content of multiple lipoprotein particles, primarily chylomicrons and VLDL. Fasting TG levels less than 150 mg/dL has been generally accepted as “normal” ( 22 , 23 ). A non-fasting TG of 175mg/dL represents ~75th percentile of the normal range, and levels of ~400mg/dL represent the 97th percentile ( 24 ). Plasma TGs
