Hypertriglyceridemia: Pathophysiology, Role of Genetics, Consequences, and Treatment
KEYWORDS: pubmed, htg, levels, severe, hypertriglyceridemia, pancreatitis, risk, free, disease, lipoprotein, free article, article, pmc free, pmc, article pubmed


( 22 , 23 ). A non-fasting TG of 175mg/dL represents ~75th percentile of the normal range, and levels of ~400mg/dL represent the 97th percentile ( 24 ). Plasma TGs are heavily skewed to the right in the general population with a tail towards highest levels and vary depending upon the population mix ( 25 ). The full range of TG extends from 30mg/dL to 10,000mg/dL ( 22 ). TG levels are different between sexes, being higher in males than in females, and increase with age and development of other coexisting conditions such as central adiposity, metabolic syndrome, and diabetes ( 24 ). TG levels also vary between geographic areas, among people of different ethnic backgrounds, with higher levels observed in certain populations such as Mexicans and South Asians. Lower TG levels have been observed in people of African descent and African-Americans but this may be changing due to adoption of urban lifestyles ( 26 ). Because of this skewed distribution, logarithmic transformation is required to establish statistical normal ranges of TG levels. There is no current widely accepted definition of elevated non-fasting TG levels, but some groups have utilized 175mg/dL as a cut point ( 27 , 28 ). Due to high variability of TG levels, precise definitions for non-fasting levels are difficult to establish. It is worthwhile noting that post-prandial TG levels rarely exceed 400mg/dL even after a high fat challenge. Normal Range Based on Risk of Complications of Hypertriglyceridemia The major complications of hypertriglyceridemia (HTG) are ( 1 ) acute pancreatitis and ( 2 ) increased risk of atherosclerotic cardiovascular disease (ASCVD). These two complications occur at different levels of TGs, the risk of pancreatitis occurring at much higher TG levels than the risk of premature ASCVD and are discussed in detail later in this chapter. Normal Range According to Guidelines Despite concerns regarding establishment of an upper limit of normal for TGs, most guidelines define values for HTG, often without a strong biological rationale. Definitions for the diagnosis of HTG provided in several guidelines are shown in Table 1 . Cut points for HTG were first defined by the National Cholesterol Education Program Adult Treatment Panel (NCEP-ATP). The terms mild, moderate and severe have been used based on degree of TG elevation ( table 1 ). In general, mild to moderate HTG reflects TG levels under 500mg/dL. Severe hypertriglyceridemia (sHTG) has been arbitrarily defined by different
