Hypertriglyceridemia: Pathophysiology, Role of Genetics, Consequences, and Treatment
KEYWORDS: pubmed, htg, levels, severe, hypertriglyceridemia, pancreatitis, risk, free, disease, lipoprotein, free article, article, pmc free, pmc, article pubmed


the past decade that the spectrum of plasma TG levels, ranging from mild elevation to very severe HTG, is modulated by a multitude of genes working in concert with non-genetic secondary and environmental contributors. Thus, in the vast majority of individuals, mutations in multiple genes with interaction from non-genetic factors result in altered TG-rich lipoprotein synthesis and catabolism and subsequent HTG. Historical Perspective Phenotypic heterogeneity among patients with HTG has been historically defined by qualitative and quantitative differences in plasma lipoproteins. In the pre-genomic era, the Fredrickson classification of hyperlipoproteinemia was based on electrophoretic patterns of lipoprotein fractions ( 37 ). The phenotypes are distinguished based on the specific class or classes of accumulated TG-rich lipoprotein particles, including chylomicrons, VLDL and VLDL-remnants. This classification included 6 phenotypes, five of which included HTG in their definition (except for Frederickson type 2 A hyperlipoproteinemia, which equates with genetic primary hypercholesterolemia). It has now become apparent that except for type 1 hyperlipoproteinemia (FCS), the HTG phenotypes, particularly Frederickson type 4 and type 5 hyperlipoproteinemia, are due to the accumulation of polygenic traits predisposing to HTG. However, this classification system is dated, has neither improved clinical or scientific insight, and therefore does not find wide use at this time ( 22 ). In 1973, Goldstein and colleagues characterized a variable pattern of lipid abnormalities in families of survivors of myocardial infarction that they termed familial combined hyperlipidemia (FCHL) ( 38 ). At the same time, this phenotype of mixed or combined hyperlipidemia was observed in another cohort, where it was called multiple-type familial hyperlipoproteinemia ( 39 ). Affected family members can present with hypercholesterolemia alone, HTG alone, or with elevations in both TGs and LDL. This pattern was estimated to have a population prevalence of 1-2% ( 40 ), making it the most common inherited form of dyslipidemia. In the aforementioned study, a pattern of isolated HTG, historically called familial HTG (FHTG) also was described ( 38 ). This condition was characterized by increased TG synthesis, with secretion of normal numbers of large TG-enriched VLDL particles ( 41 ), elevated VLDL levels, but normal levels of LDL and HDL cholesterol ( 42 ). FHTG did not appear to be associated with an increased risk of premature CVD in an early study ( 43 ), but baseline TG levels predicted subsequent CVD mortality after 20 years of follow up among relatives in families classified as
