Hypertriglyceridemia: Pathophysiology, Role of Genetics, Consequences, and Treatment
KEYWORDS: pubmed, htg, levels, severe, hypertriglyceridemia, pancreatitis, risk, free, disease, lipoprotein, free article, article, pmc free, pmc, article pubmed


of premature CVD in an early study ( 43 ), but baseline TG levels predicted subsequent CVD mortality after 20 years of follow up among relatives in families classified as having FHTG ( 44 , 45 ). FCHL and FHTG were initially believed to be monogenic disorders ( 38 ). However, more recent genetic characterization of individuals with familial forms of HTG indicates that these are not disorders associated with variation within a single gene, but rather polymorphisms in multiple genes associated with HTG, as detailed below. Therefore, classification of FCHL and FHTG is potentially misleading. Nevertheless, it is important to note that FCHL as originally described is associated with a very high prevalence of premature CVD ( 43 , 44 , 46 ). Genetic Forms of Hypertriglyceridemia It is now evident that clinically relevant abnormalities of plasma TG levels appear to require a polygenic foundation of common or rare genetic variants ( 22 ). Common small-effect gene variants confer a background predisposition that interact with rare large-effect heterozygous variants in genes that govern synthesis or catabolism of TG-rich lipoproteins, or nongenetic secondary factors , leading to the expression of a more severe TG phenotype ( 47 ). Recently, the most prevalent genetic feature underlying severe HTG was shown to be the polygenic accumulation of common (rather than rare) variants—more specifically, the accumulation of TG-raising alleles across multiple SNP loci ( 48 ). Thus, mild to moderate hypertriglyceridemic states are complex, genetically heterogeneous disorders. Mild-to-moderate HTG is typically polygenic and results from the cumulative burden of common and rare variants in more than 30 genes, as quantified by genetic risk scores. All genetic forms can be exacerbated by non-genetic factors. Because they are a consequence of interaction between multiple susceptibility genes and lifestyle factors, individuals with moderate HTG should be considered as a single group without distinction, irrespective of concomitant lipoprotein disturbances ( 22 ). Because of the complexity of these disorders, routine genetic testing is not recommended. Pathogenesis of Genetic Forms of Hypertriglyceridemia Genetic forms of HTG without other lipoprotein disturbances (i.e., pure HTG) are characterized by increased TG synthesis, where normal numbers of large TG-enriched VLDL particles are secreted ( 41 , 49 - 51 ). Reduced TG clearance also has been observed in some individuals ( 50 - 52 ). Affected people have elevated VLDL levels, but normal levels of LDL, and are generally asymptomatic unless clinical
