Hypertriglyceridemia: Pathophysiology, Role of Genetics, Consequences, and Treatment
KEYWORDS: pubmed, htg, levels, severe, hypertriglyceridemia, pancreatitis, risk, free, disease, lipoprotein, free article, article, pmc free, pmc, article pubmed


clearance also has been observed in some individuals ( 50 - 52 ). Affected people have elevated VLDL levels, but normal levels of LDL, and are generally asymptomatic unless clinical CVD or severe HTG develops. A variety of metabolic defects that differ among families are associated with the combined hyperlipidemia phenotype. The characteristic lipoprotein abnormalities are increased ApoB levels and increased number of small dense LDL particles ( 42 ), a phenotype similar to that seen in the metabolic syndrome and type 2 diabetes ( 53 ). These primary defects occur due to 1) hepatic overproduction of VLDL particles ( 41 ) due to increased ApoB synthesis in the setting of disordered adipose metabolism ( 54 , 55 ), insulin resistance ( 41 , 56 - 58 ), and liver fat accumulation, and, 2) impaired clearance of ApoB containing particles ( 59 , 60 ). Increased VLDL secretion results in an elevated plasma ApoB and HTG ( 56 ). Long residence time of VLDL particles favors the formation of small dense LDL ( 59 ). An abundance of small dense LDL particles traditionally is associated with the presence of HTG; however, these LDL characteristics remain even after correction of the HTG by treatment with fibrates ( 61 , 62 ). In addition to Apo B abnormalities, other lipoprotein disturbances include abnormal expression of ApoA-II, ApoC-III, and PCSK9. VLDL-TG levels in combined hyperlipidemia are modulated by ApoA-II and ApoC-III ( 63 ). Plasma PCSK9 levels are higher in these patients, and levels correlate with TG and Apo B levels ( 64 ). Visceral adiposity appears to be an important determinant of insulin resistance, which occurs commonly in subjects with both isolated HTG ( 65 ) and combined hyperlipidemia ( 65 - 69 ). Other abnormalities that have been reported in clinical FCHL include impaired lipolysis due to decreased cyclic AMP dependent signaling ( 54 , 69 ), abnormal adipocyte TG turnover ( 70 ), fatty liver ( 71 ), increased arterial stiffness ( 72 ), and increased carotid intimal-medial thickness ( 73 ). In all of the phenotypes described above, severe HTG can occur when secondary causes of HTG such as untreated diabetes, marked weight gain, or use of TG-raising drugs are present concurrently, leading to the Multifactorial Chylomicronemia Syndrome (MFCS), described later ( 74 ). Secondary Forms of Hypertriglyceridemia These are described in greater detail in the chapters on Secondary
