Hypertriglyceridemia: Pathophysiology, Role of Genetics, Consequences, and Treatment
KEYWORDS: pubmed, htg, levels, severe, hypertriglyceridemia, pancreatitis, risk, free, disease, lipoprotein, free article, article, pmc free, pmc, article pubmed


are present concurrently, leading to the Multifactorial Chylomicronemia Syndrome (MFCS), described later ( 74 ). Secondary Forms of Hypertriglyceridemia These are described in greater detail in the chapters on Secondary Disorders of Lipid and Lipoprotein Metabolism ( 75 - 78 ). However, in the section where we describe MFCS we will briefly touch on some aspects of secondary forms of HTG, since they assume importance in the pathogenesis of the severe HTG seen in the MFCS, where they often co-exist in individuals with genetic forms of HTG. In our experience, the commonest secondary forms of HTG that interact with genetic forms of HTG are type 2 diabetes (usually as part of the metabolic syndrome), obesity, recent weight gain, excessive alcohol consumption, the use of drugs that can raise TGs, and chronic kidney disease (CKD)( 74 , 79 , 80 ). ( Table 3 ) Severe Hypertriglyceridemia and the Chylomicronemia Syndrome In the late 1960s Fredrickson, Levy and Lees ( 37 ) classified HTG into types dependent on the pattern of lipoproteins on paper electrophoresis and the presence or absence of chylomicrons in fasting plasma. They recognized that acute pancreatitis and eruptive xanthomata occurred in the presence of chylomicronemia that accumulate in what they termed Type I and Type V hyperlipoproteinemia. Chylomicrons are present in the post-prandial state, and usually are present in fasting plasma when TG levels exceed 800 mg/dL, but absent in fasting plasma below that value ( 81 ). The term chylomicronemia syndrome was first used to describe a constellation of clinical findings such as abdominal pain, acute pancreatitis, eruptive xanthoma and lipemia retinalis that occurred in association with very high TG levels ( 82 ). Two groups of conditions can lead to severe HTG and clinical manifestations of the chylomicronemia syndrome; ( 1 ) familial chylomicronemia syndrome (FCS) due to variants in the LPL complex, and ( 2 ) multifactorial chylomicronemia syndrome (MFCS), in which genetic predisposition and secondary forms of HTG co-exist. FAMILIAL CHYLOMICRONEMIA SYNDROME (FCS) FCS is a monogenic disorder due to variants in one or more genes of the LPL complex that affect chylomicron catabolism. FCS incidence is very rare, with an estimated prevalence ranging from 1 in 20,000 to 300,000 ( 83 ). Genetics: Biallelic loss of function variants in five canonical genes lead to impaired hydrolysis of TG-rich lipoproteins, with subsequent increases in chylomicron particle numbers and markedly increased TG concentrations. The
