Hypertriglyceridemia: Pathophysiology, Role of Genetics, Consequences, and Treatment
KEYWORDS: pubmed, htg, levels, severe, hypertriglyceridemia, pancreatitis, risk, free, disease, lipoprotein, free article, article, pmc free, pmc, article pubmed


Genetics: Biallelic loss of function variants in five canonical genes lead to impaired hydrolysis of TG-rich lipoproteins, with subsequent increases in chylomicron particle numbers and markedly increased TG concentrations. The most common gene affected in FCS is LPL itself, in which patients are homozygous or compound heterozygous for two defective LPL alleles. Over 180 variants that result in LPL deficiency have been described with some clustered mutations due to founder effects ( 84 - 87 ). Loss of function variants account for over 90% of cases ( 83 ). Many are missense variants, some in catalytically important sites and some in regions that predispose to instability of the homodimeric structure of LPL required for enzyme activity ( 88 ). However, many common LPL gene variants have been described that have no clinical phenotype ( 89 ). Variants in the APOC2 gene, encoding ApoC-II, an activator of LPL, is another cause of FCS. Variants have been described in several families ( 90 , 91 ). In FCS thus far there is no known gene variant that affects synthesis or production of TG-rich lipoproteins. FCS can also occur from biallelic loss of function variants in other components of the LPL complex, namely APOA5, LMF1, and GPIHBP1 genes ( Table 2 ), each of which plays an important role in determining LPL function ( 92 ). The lipoprotein phenotype in these mimics that seen in classical LPL deficiency. Loss of function variants in GPIHBP1, which directs transendothelial LPL transport and helps anchor chylomicrons to the endothelial surface near LPL, thereby providing a platform for lipolysis, has been described in several families ( 83 ). Autoantibodies to GPIHBP1 also can lead to chylomicronemia ( 93 ). A small number of individuals with homozygous variants in Apo A-V, which stabilizes the lipoprotein–enzyme complex thereby enhancing lipolysis ( 10 ), have been described ( 94 ). Variants in LMF1, an endoplasmic reticulum chaperone protein required for post-translational activation of LPL, have also been identified in a few individuals ( 95 ). Clinical presentation: FCS usually manifests in childhood or early adolescence with nausea, vomiting, failure to thrive and recurrent abdominal pain in infancy and childhood. Occasionally it can present in adulthood ( 87 ) but this is often due to delayed diagnosis with median age at diagnosis being due to unfamiliarity in most healthcare providers ( 96 ). Adults may report “brain fog” or transient confusion.
