Hypertriglyceridemia: Pathophysiology, Role of Genetics, Consequences, and Treatment
KEYWORDS: pubmed, htg, levels, severe, hypertriglyceridemia, pancreatitis, risk, free, disease, lipoprotein, free article, article, pmc free, pmc, article pubmed


is often due to delayed diagnosis with median age at diagnosis being due to unfamiliarity in most healthcare providers ( 96 ). Adults may report “brain fog” or transient confusion. Classical clinical findings include eruptive xanthomas (often seen on buttocks, back, extensor surfaces of upper limbs), lipemia retinalis, and hepatosplenomegaly. Less common symptoms of FCS can include intestinal bleeding, anemia, and neurological features such as irritability and seizures. Patients present with TG levels ≥1000 mg/dL and often much higher, due to abnormal accumulation of chylomicrons, which can be detected by the appearance of lipemic/milky plasma. Despite prolonged overnight fasting, plasma TG levels are >1000mg/dL due to the presence of chylomicrons in the circulation as a result of impaired clearance. The most serious concern, however, is the development of acute pancreatitis, which can lead to systemic inflammatory response syndrome, multi-organ failure, and death. Table 2. Genetic Disorders Resulting in Familial Chylomicronemia Syndromes (FCS) View in own window Disorder Inheritance Incidence Lipid Phenotype Underlying Defect Clinical Features LPL deficiency Autosomal Recessive 1 in 1,000,000 Marked HTG/ chylomicronemia in infancy or childhood Very low or absent LPL activity; circulating inhibitor of LPL Hepato-splenomegaly; severe chylomicronemia Apo C-II deficiency Autosomal Recessive Rare Marked HTG/ chylomicronemia in infancy or childhood Absent Apo C-II Hepato-splenomegaly; severe chylomicronemia Apo A-V mutation Autosomal Recessive Rare Marked HTG/ chylomicronemia in adulthood Defective or absent Apo A-V Chylomicronemia GPIHBP1 mutation Autosomal Recessive Rare Marked HTG/ chylomicronemia in adulthood Defective or absent GPIHBP1 Chylomicronemia LFM1 mutation Autosomal Recessive Rare Marked HTG/ chylomicronemia in adulthood Defective or absent LFM1 Chylomicronemia Adapted from Ref ( 83 ). MULTIFACTORIAL CHYLOMICRONEMIA SYNDROME (MFCS) In contrast to FCS, MFCS is more common and complex. The prevalence of MFCS is much higher than FCS and estimated to be ~1:600-1000 ( 84 ). Genetics: MFCS has a genetic basis, but unlike FCS (where recessive or biallelic variants in the affected genes are causative), the genetic alteration does not always result in the phenotypic expression of the trait but only increases the possibility of the risk of developing the condition. Other factors, including non-genomic effects (epigenetics, methylation), gene-gene, or gene-environment interactions can also contribute. MFCS develops due to two main types of genetic factors that increase the odds that a patient will develop very high TG levels. First, heterozygous rare large-effect variants in one of the five canonical TG metabolism genes (LPL, Apo C-II, Apo A5, LMF-1 and GPIHBP-1)
