Hypertriglyceridemia: Pathophysiology, Role of Genetics, Consequences, and Treatment
KEYWORDS: pubmed, htg, levels, severe, hypertriglyceridemia, pancreatitis, risk, free, disease, lipoprotein, free article, article, pmc free, pmc, article pubmed


a patient will develop very high TG levels. First, heterozygous rare large-effect variants in one of the five canonical TG metabolism genes (LPL, Apo C-II, Apo A5, LMF-1 and GPIHBP-1) can contribute to TG elevations. These variants have variable penetrance, i.e.- clinical presentation can vary from normal to severe hypertriglyceridemia. Secondly, the presence of a high burden of common small-effect TG-raising SNPs; cumulatively, these common SNP alleles increase susceptibility for developing hypertriglyceridemia. These SNPs may have an indirect impact of the metabolism of TG-rich Lipoproteins. There is incomplete understanding of how an excess burden of SNPs contributes to TG levels, but their prevalence in patients with severe hypertriglyceridemia has been consistently demonstrated. Several polygenic risk scores (PRS) for TG levels have been published ( 97 ). A recent study found that 32.0% of patients had a high polygenic score of TG-raising alleles across 16 loci compared to only 9.5% of normolipidemic controls ( 25 ). When the PRS is high, there is a significantly increased risk of developing HTG but this is not diagnostic or definitive. Secondary Causes Contributing to Severe Hypertriglyceridemia in MFCS: The most common secondary cause in the past was undiagnosed or untreated diabetes ( 74 ), although earlier detection of diabetes may be making the association of marked hyperglycemia of untreated diabetes with very severe HTG less common. In addition, individuals with the metabolic syndrome and obesity have mild to moderate HTG which can become severe HTG; weight regain following successful weight loss can lead to marked HTG ( 23 , 84 ). These patients almost always have relatives with genetic forms of HTG, whose TG levels are considerably lower than the index patient with severe HTG, in whom secondary forms of HTG also are present ( 74 ). MFCS can result from the addition of specific drugs in patients with a genetic predisposition ( 23 ). These drugs include beta-adrenergic blocking agents (selective and non-selective) and/or diuretics (thiazides and loop-diuretics such as furosemide) used for hypertension, retinoid therapy for acne, oral estrogen therapy for menopause or birth control, selective estrogen receptor modulators (particularly raloxifene) for osteoporosis or breast cancer, protease inhibitors for HIV/AIDS, atypical anti-psychotic drugs, alcohol, and possibly sertraline ( 84 ). Rarer causes of very severe HTG include autoimmune disease (sometimes with LPL- or GPIHBP1- specific antibodies), asparaginase therapy for acute lymphoblastic leukemia ( 98 ) , ( 99 ) and bexarotene, a
