Hypertriglyceridemia: Pathophysiology, Role of Genetics, Consequences, and Treatment
KEYWORDS: pubmed, htg, levels, severe, hypertriglyceridemia, pancreatitis, risk, free, disease, lipoprotein, free article, article, pmc free, pmc, article pubmed


of very severe HTG include autoimmune disease (sometimes with LPL- or GPIHBP1- specific antibodies), asparaginase therapy for acute lymphoblastic leukemia ( 98 ) , ( 99 ) and bexarotene, a RXR agonist used in the treatment of cutaneous T cell lymphoma ( 100 ). Table 3. Secondary Causes That Can Contribute to Severe HTG View in own window Conditions Hypothyroidism Suboptimally managed or new onset diabetes Obesity Sudden weight gain, weight regain after weight loss Chronic kidney disease Nephrotic syndrome Pregnancy Acute hepatitis Sepsis Inflammatory disorders Cushing syndrome Autoimmune chylomicronemia Systemic lupus erythematosis Anti-LPL antibodies GPIHBP-1 antibodies Rare Genetic Causes Glycogen storage disorders Lipodystrophies Congenital- generalized or partial Acquired- HIV, autoimmune Drugs Alcohol ingestion Beta blockers Thiazide diuretics Oral estrogens Selective estrogen reuptake modulators - tamoxifen, raloxifene, clomiphene Androgens Glucocorticoids Atypical anti-psychotics Sertraline Bile acid resins Sirolimus, tacrolimus Cyclosporine RXR agonists -bexarotene, isotretinoin, acetretin HIV Protease inhibitors L- asparaginase Alpha-interferon Propofol Lipid emulsions Following correction of treatable secondary forms of HTG in the MFCS, TG levels usually decrease to the moderately elevated levels seen in their affected relatives ( 101 , 102 ). OTHER CONDITIONS RESULTING IN HYPERTRIGLYCERIDEMIA Familial Dysbetalipoproteinemia (FDB or Remnant Removal Disease) Familial dysbetalipoproteinemia, also referred to as remnant removal disease or type III hyperlipoproteinemia, is a rare autosomal recessive disorder that can present with elevated TG levels. This disorder is characterized by the accumulation of remnant lipoproteins. PATHOGENESIS AND GENETICS Remnant removal disease requires homozygosity for the ApoE2 genotype or a rare heterozygosity for a variant in the ApoE gene, which results in pathologic accumulation of remnant lipoproteins in the circulation due to impaired hepatic uptake of ApoE-containing lipoproteins ( 103 ). ApoE is a glycoprotein synthesized in the liver, brain and tissue macrophages and present on chylomicrons, VLDL and HDL. Apo E through interaction with the LDLR and heparan sulphate proteoglycans promotes the hepatic clearance of remnants of chylomicrons and VLDL ( 104 ); it also facilitates cholesterol efflux from macrophages to HDL ( 105 ). In humans, there are 3 common isoforms of ApoE , ApoE2, ApoE3, and ApoE4 ( 106 ). Each differs in isoelectric point by one charge unit, ApoE4 being the most basic isoform and ApoE2 the most acidic. ApoE3 (Cys112→Arg158) is the commonest isoform. ApoE2 (Arg158→Cys) and ApoE4 (Cys112→Arg) differ from ApoE3 by single amino acid substitutions at positions 158 and 112, respectively ( 107 ). In the majority of
