Hypertriglyceridemia: Pathophysiology, Role of Genetics, Consequences, and Treatment
KEYWORDS: pubmed, htg, levels, severe, hypertriglyceridemia, pancreatitis, risk, free, disease, lipoprotein, free article, article, pmc free, pmc, article pubmed


is the commonest isoform. ApoE2 (Arg158→Cys) and ApoE4 (Cys112→Arg) differ from ApoE3 by single amino acid substitutions at positions 158 and 112, respectively ( 107 ). In the majority of cases (90%), remnant removal disease is associated with the E2/E2 genotype and results from impaired binding to the Apo E receptor. It is an autosomal recessive disorder with the prevalence of ApoE2 homozygosity in Caucasian populations estimated to be about 1% ( 108 ). Rarer ApoE variants such as ApoE3-Leiden ( 109 ) and ApoE2 (Lys1463Gln) that also can cause remnant accumulation are dominantly inherited ( 110 ) and account for 10% of cases ( 111 , 112 ). Rare APOE variants in the population, other than the APOE2 and APOE4 alleles, play an important role in the development of isolated hypercholesterolemia ( 113 ) and mixed hyperlipidemia, with and without familial dysbetalipoproteinemia ( 114 ). Thus it is becoming apparent that two different DBL phenotypes may exist- a genetic Apo E dysfunction and a multifactorial form ( 115 ). Modern prevalence of FDB is estimated at 1-2% ( 116 ). In the absence of additional genetic, hormonal, or environmental factors, remnants do not accumulate to a degree sufficient to cause hyperlipidemia in ApoE2 homozygotes; in fact, lipid levels are commonly low. Remnant accumulation results when the E2/2 genotype is accompanied by a second genetic or acquired defect that causes overproduction of VLDL such as obesity or diabetes ( 117 ) ( 111 , 118 ) , a decrease in remnant clearance, or a reduction in LDL receptor activity (e.g., hypothyroidism ( 119 )). Thus, full phenotypic expression requires the presence of other environmental or genetic factors ( 120 ). In these circumstances, the reduced uptake of remnant lipoproteins by the liver results in reduced conversion of VLDL and intermediate density lipoproteins to LDL, with subsequent accumulation of remnant lipoproteins ( 121 , 122 ), hence the term remnant removal disease. DIAGNOSIS Patients with remnant removal disease have roughly equivalent elevations in plasma cholesterol and TGs. The disease rarely manifests before adulthood, and in some individuals never manifests clinically. It is more common in men than in women, where expression seldom occurs before menopause, since estrogen has a protective effect in women who are ApoE2 homozygotes ( 108 ). Palmar xanthomas ( Figure 1 ), orange lipid deposits in the palmar or plantar creases, are pathognomonic of remnant removal disease
