Hypertriglyceridemia: Pathophysiology, Role of Genetics, Consequences, and Treatment
KEYWORDS: pubmed, htg, levels, severe, hypertriglyceridemia, pancreatitis, risk, free, disease, lipoprotein, free article, article, pmc free, pmc, article pubmed


in women who are ApoE2 homozygotes ( 108 ). Palmar xanthomas ( Figure 1 ), orange lipid deposits in the palmar or plantar creases, are pathognomonic of remnant removal disease but are not always present ( 123 ). Tuberoeruptive xanthomas can be found at pressure sites on the elbows, knees and buttocks. The presence of remnant removal disease should be suspected when total cholesterol and TG levels range from 300 to 1000 mg/dL and are roughly equal in magnitude. Special diagnostic tests such as beta-quantification or lipoprotein electrophoresis are often required and are time consuming and not widely available. VLDL particles are cholesterol- enriched, which can be determined by isolation of VLDL by ultracentrifugation and by the demonstration of beta migrating VLDL on lipoprotein electrophoresis. A VLDL-cholesterol/plasma TG ratio of <0.30 is usually observed ( 124 ). A low ApoB/total cholesterol ratio of <0.33 also can be helpful in making the diagnosis ( 125 ). Simplified criteria for the diagnosis of DBL using a 3-step process has been proposed ( 126 ). The diagnosis of remnant removal disease should be confirmed by demonstrating the presence of the E2/E2 genotype. If the genotype result is not E2/E2, an autosomal dominant variant of APOE should be suspected. There is a high prevalence of premature coronary artery disease ( 127 - 129 ) and peripheral arterial disease ( 130 - 132 ). Occasionally severe HTG and an increased risk of pancreatitis can develop in the presence of a concomitant secondary form of HTG or TG-raising drugs. Figure 1. Palmar Xanthomas: Orange-yellow discoloration confined to the palmar creases. Familial Partial Lipodystrophy (FPLD) Syndromes A distinct entity that results in moderate and severe hypertriglyceridemia include partial lipodystrophy syndromes. Inherited lipodystrophies are a heterogeneous group of disorders considered to be rare, that manifest as complete or partial loss of white adipose tissue with accompanying severe metabolic dysregulation( 133 ) and are reviewed elsewhere in the Endotext chapter on Lipodystrophies ( 134 ). Loss of fat can be either localized to small discrete areas, in some cases partial with loss from extremities, or generalized with fat loss from nearly the entire body. Inherited lipodystrophies, while rare, can be autosomal dominant or recessive. Some forms manifest at birth, while others become evident later in life. Partial or generalized lipodystrophic disorders frequently are associated with significant metabolic derangements associated with severe insulin resistance, including HTG. The extent of fat
