Hypertriglyceridemia: Pathophysiology, Role of Genetics, Consequences, and Treatment
KEYWORDS: pubmed, htg, levels, severe, hypertriglyceridemia, pancreatitis, risk, free, disease, lipoprotein, free article, article, pmc free, pmc, article pubmed


while others become evident later in life. Partial or generalized lipodystrophic disorders frequently are associated with significant metabolic derangements associated with severe insulin resistance, including HTG. The extent of fat loss sometimes determines the severity of metabolic complications ( 135 ). HTG is a common accompaniment of many lipodystrophies, often in conjunction with low HDL-C levels. The pathophysiology of hypertriglyceridemia in these subjects is possibly related to the reduced ability to deposit free fatty acids in adipose tissue due to its maldevelopment, and accelerated lipolysis with increased hepatic VLDL synthesis and delayed clearance ( 135 ). Genetics: Several genes have been implicated in the manifestation of various forms including LMNA, PPARG, LIPE, CIDEC ( 136 ). In the Dunnigan variety, the most commonly identified genetic variant of FPLD, the commonest variants are in the LMNA gene and less frequently PPARG ( 133 ). No specific genetic defect has been identified in Köbberling’s FPLD, although recent evidence suggests a heavy polygenic burden in these individuals ( 137 , 138 ). Diagnosis: Congenital generalized lipodystrophy (CGL) is a rare autosomal recessive disorder in which near total absence of subcutaneous adipose tissue is evident from birth. HTG and hepatic steatosis are evident at a young age and are often difficult to control. Severe HTG, often associated with eruptive xanthoma and recurrent pancreatitis, can occur in patients with CGL. The prevalence of HTG in case series of CGL patients is over 70% ( 135 , 139 ). Plasma TGs are normal or slightly increased during early childhood, with severe HTG manifesting at puberty along with onset of diabetes mellitus. Familial partial lipodystrophies (FPLD) are complex metabolic disorders that are often not recognized clinically ( 140 ). Partial lipodystrophies are characterized by partial loss of adipose tissue and significant metabolic derangements. The Dunnigan variety of FPLD (FPLD type 2) is a rare autosomal dominant disorder in which fat loss mostly involves the extremities and the trunk. Onset of fat loss in the buttocks and extremities occurs at puberty or late adolescence, with gain of fat to the face and neck. Acanthosis nigricans, calf muscle hypertrophy, and phlebomegaly (prominent veins) due to lack of subcutaneous fat, can be observed. Significant metabolic dysfunction including diabetes, which is often very insulin resistant, resistant hypertension, and HTG often severe and difficult to treat, can occur. Myopathy, cardiomyopathy, and/or conduction system abnormalities can occur ( 141 ). ASCVD risk also
