Hypertriglyceridemia: Pathophysiology, Role of Genetics, Consequences, and Treatment
KEYWORDS: pubmed, htg, levels, severe, hypertriglyceridemia, pancreatitis, risk, free, disease, lipoprotein, free article, article, pmc free, pmc, article pubmed


often very insulin resistant, resistant hypertension, and HTG often severe and difficult to treat, can occur. Myopathy, cardiomyopathy, and/or conduction system abnormalities can occur ( 141 ). ASCVD risk also is increased ( 142 , 143 ). Some lipodystrophies, where fat loss appears to be proportionate to loss of total and lean body mass, do not result in dyslipidemia. Elevated TG levels have been reported in patients with atypical progeroid syndrome due to LMNA mutations ( 144 , 145 ). Of the acquired lipodystrophies, the HIV-associated form usually is characterized by more moderate HTG. HIV-associated lipodystrophy occurs in patients receiving protease inhibitor containing highly active anti-retroviral therapy regimens ( 146 ). Fat loss occurs in the face, buttocks, and extremities. CONSEQUENCES OF HYPERTRIGLYCERIDEMIA Atherosclerotic Cardiovascular Disease EPIDEMIOLOGY HTG has long been known to be a risk factor for ASCVD ( 33 , 147 - 150 ), which has been confirmed in meta-analyses ( 45 ). However, HTG also is frequently associated with low levels of HDL-cholesterol and an accumulation of remnants of the TG-rich lipoproteins, both known risk factors for ASCVD. When adjusted for both HDL-C and non-HDL-C, which contains both remnants of the TG-rich lipoproteins and LDL, the association of TGs with ASCVD risk remained significant, although somewhat attenuated ( 151 ). Postprandial TGs are elevated throughout the day in subjects with HTG, and postprandial TG-rich lipoproteins and their remnants also have been hypothesized to be important in the pathogenesis of atherosclerosis ( 150 ). It is therefore of interest that non-fasting TGs have been associated with ASCVD risk ( 150 , 152 , 153 ), despite non-fasting TGs being quite variable. However, unlike the situation with elevated LDL-C levels, the magnitude of the TG elevation does not appear to correlate with the extent of ASCVD risk. In particular, very severe HTG per se does not always appear to confer increased ASCVD risk, possibly because the chylomicrons that accumulate are too large to enter the arterial intima ( 154 , 155 ). TRIGLYCERIDES IN THE PATHOGENESIS OF ASCVD Although chylomicrons may be too large to enter the arterial intima, ApoE-and cholesterol-enriched remnants of the TG-rich lipoproteins can enter with ease ( 153 ) where they can bind to vascular proteoglycans, similar to LDL ( 156 , 157 ). Modification of these retained lipoproteins by either oxidative damage or enzyme digestion of some of the lipid components can liberate toxic
