Hypertriglyceridemia: Pathophysiology, Role of Genetics, Consequences, and Treatment
KEYWORDS: pubmed, htg, levels, severe, hypertriglyceridemia, pancreatitis, risk, free, disease, lipoprotein, free article, article, pmc free, pmc, article pubmed


proteoglycans, similar to LDL ( 156 , 157 ). Modification of these retained lipoproteins by either oxidative damage or enzyme digestion of some of the lipid components can liberate toxic by-products, which have been hypothesized to play a role in atherogenesis by facilitating local injury, generation of adhesion molecule, and cytokine expression and inflammation ( 157 ). Remnants of the TG-rich lipoproteins also can be taken up by macrophages leading to the formation of foam cells, an important component of atherosclerotic plaques. HTG also is associated with a preponderance of small, dense LDL, particles, reduced levels of HDL-C, and in the metabolic syndrome, with abnormalities of HDL composition (see earlier). Small, dense LDL can traverse the endothelial barrier more easily than large, buoyant LDL particles ( 158 ), are retained more avidly than large, buoyant LDL ( 159 ), and also are more readily oxidized ( 160 , 161 ), all of which may facilitate atherogenesis. HDL particles in some hypertriglyceridemic states, e.g., in association with the metabolic syndrome, might be dysfunctional with respect to their cholesterol efflux, anti-inflammatory, and anti-oxidant properties. Moreover, a hypercoagulable state has been reported in association with both HTG and the metabolic syndrome ( 162 ). Thus, HTG might accelerate atherosclerosis by several mechanisms, all of which could increase CVD risk. GENETIC EVIDENCE OF HYPERTRIGLYCERIDEMIA AND ATHEROSCLEROSIS Recent human genetic studies have provided important insight into the contribution of TGs to ASCVD. Several genetic approaches, including candidate gene sequencing, GWAS of common DNA sequence variants, and genetic analysis of TG phenotypes have unraveled new proteins and gene variants involved in plasma TG regulation ( 163 ). Some genetic variants that influence TG levels appear to be associated with increased CVD risk even after adjusting for their effects on other lipid traits ( 164 ). GWAS have identified common noncoding variants of the LPL gene locus associated with TG and CVD risk ( 165 , 166 ). A common gain-of-function mutation in the LPL gene, S447X (10% allele frequency), is associated with reduced TG levels and reduced risk of CVD ( 167 ) and an LPL variant associated with reduced TG and ApoB levels was associated with reduced CVD similar to LDL-C lowering variants, suggesting that the clinical benefit of lowering triglyceride and LDL-C levels may be proportional to the absolute change in ApoB ( 168 ). Conversely, several loss-of-function LPL variants linked with elevated TG
