Hypertriglyceridemia: Pathophysiology, Role of Genetics, Consequences, and Treatment
KEYWORDS: pubmed, htg, levels, severe, hypertriglyceridemia, pancreatitis, risk, free, disease, lipoprotein, free article, article, pmc free, pmc, article pubmed


the clinical benefit of lowering triglyceride and LDL-C levels may be proportional to the absolute change in ApoB ( 168 ). Conversely, several loss-of-function LPL variants linked with elevated TG levels are associated with increased CVD risk ( 169 ). Variants in the TRIB1 locus have been associated with LDL, HDL-C and TG levels ( 166 ), hepatic steatosis ( 170 ) and coronary artery disease ( 171 ). Mutations that disrupt APOC3 gene function and reduce plasma ApoC-III concentration are associated with lower TG levels and decreased risk of clinical CVD ( 172 , 173 ). In contrast, carriers of rare mutations in APOA5, encoding ApoA-V, an activator of LPL, are associated with elevated TGs and with increased risk of myocardial infarction ( 174 , 175 ). Loss of function variants in ANGPTL4 that had lower TG levels also were associated with reduced CVD risk ( 176 , 177 ). Thus, exciting new human genetics findings have causally implicated TG and TG-rich lipoproteins in the development of CVD risk. In particular, the LPL pathway and its reciprocal regulators ApoC-III and ApoA-V appear to have an important influence on atherosclerotic CVD risk. However, despite this mountain of evidence demonstrating a causal relationship of TG with atherosclerosis, the possible involvement of a correlated trait, usually low HDL-C levels, or other unmeasured traits, cannot be ruled out. CLINICAL TRIAL EVIDENCE OF TRIGLYCERIDE LOWERING AND ASCVD In the pre-statin era, use of gemfibrozil monotherapy demonstrated cardiovascular benefit in men with coronary heart disease. However, since the advent of statins, drugs that specifically lower plasma triglyceride levels have not clearly been shown to have a benefit with cardiovascular risk reduction in clinical trials when added to background statin therapy. Reasons for this are unclear. In genetic studies to get a comparable reduction in Apo B and coronary heart disease (CHD) risk in clinical trials, a TG reduction of ~70mg/dL is required compared to a decrease in LDL-C of only 14mg/dL. Additionally, lipid alterations due to genetics are lifelong and result in much bigger reductions in CHD than a 5-year drug study. Based on genetic studies, the magnitude of TG reduction required to demonstrate cardiovascular benefit is quite large. CARDIOVASCULAR DISEASE IN THE CHYLOMICRONEMIA SYNDROME As described earlier, chylomicrons have been considered to be too large to penetrate the vascular endothelium and play a role in atherogenesis ( 152 ), although remnants of the TG-rich
