Hypertriglyceridemia: Pathophysiology, Role of Genetics, Consequences, and Treatment
KEYWORDS: pubmed, htg, levels, severe, hypertriglyceridemia, pancreatitis, risk, free, disease, lipoprotein, free article, article, pmc free, pmc, article pubmed


As described earlier, chylomicrons have been considered to be too large to penetrate the vascular endothelium and play a role in atherogenesis ( 152 ), although remnants of the TG-rich lipoproteins may be atherogenic ( 152 , 178 - 181 ). The incidence of CVD is low in individuals with FCS ( 182 ), although premature atherosclerosis has been documented in well characterized subjects with this disorder ( 183 ). However, CVD risk clearly is increased in many patients with MFCS, although the exact frequency remains unclear. The frequency of CVD outcomes does not appear to relate to the magnitude of the TG elevations ( 184 ). It is not surprising that CVD is increased in MFCS considering the association between TGs and CVD that has been documented in many studies (reviewed in ( 150 , 185 , 186 )). Many subjects develop severe HTG due to the co-existence of polygenic mutations that result in mild to moderate HTG ( 22 ) with secondary causes of HTG. Residual HTG due to these genetic disorders persists even after severely elevated TG levels have been reduced by treatment of the secondary forms of HTG and treatment of the HTG per se. Moreover, many patients with the MFCS have other CVD risk factors such as diabetes, reduced levels of HDL-C, and hypertension, the latter resulting in use of diuretics and beta-blockers, which play a role in raising their TGs to levels at which chylomicrons accumulate due to saturation of clearance mechanisms. Therefore, strategies to prevent CVD need to be undertaken once the TGs have been lowered to a level where pancreatitis is unlikely to recur. Pancreatitis Severe hypertriglyceridemia is the third most common cause of acute pancreatitis after alcohol and gallstones. The chylomicronemia syndrome describes a constellation of findings that occur with severe elevations of plasma TG levels. There is some lack of consensus as to what constitutes severe HTG, values >1000-1500 mg/dL are generally classified as severe, although some groups consider values in the 500-1000 mg/dL range also severe hypertriglyceridemia ( 187 ). Individuals with both FCS and MFCS often present with hypertriglyceridemia induced acute pancreatitis, which can be recurrent if triglyceride levels remain elevated persistently. Women with genetic HTG can develop severe HTG and pancreatitis during pregnancy particularly during the third trimester ( 188 ). The pancreatitis that occurs with severe HTG can be recurrent. In a prospective study of patients
