Hypertriglyceridemia: Pathophysiology, Role of Genetics, Consequences, and Treatment
KEYWORDS: pubmed, htg, levels, severe, hypertriglyceridemia, pancreatitis, risk, free, disease, lipoprotein, free article, article, pmc free, pmc, article pubmed


severe HTG and pancreatitis during pregnancy particularly during the third trimester ( 188 ). The pancreatitis that occurs with severe HTG can be recurrent. In a prospective study of patients admitted with acute pancreatitis, the distribution of plasma TGs was bimodal when measured at the peak of the pain ( 101 , 102 ). TG levels <880 mg/dL were associated with gall bladder disease and chronic alcoholism, while those above 2000 mg/dL were associated with the simultaneous presence of familial and secondary forms of HTG. It has been suggested that individuals become prone to the development of TG-induced pancreatitis at TG values between 1500-2000 mg/dL ( 189 ). TG-induced pancreatitis has been reported with TG levels lower than 500 mg/dL( 190 , 191 ), although in our experience this usually occurs when patients with severe HTG stopped eating some time prior to the blood draw. The frequency of severe HTG leading to acute pancreatitis varies widely from about 6-20% of subjects, possibly related to the type of patient presenting to different type of medical centers ( 192 , 193 ). Pancreatitis often is recurrent if HTG is not appreciated to be the cause and if TG levels are not adequately controlled ( 87 ). With long term multiple episodes of acute, recurrent pancreatitis, exocrine pancreatic insufficiency or insulin deficient secondary diabetes may occur. A meta-analysis of observational studies suggests that TG-induced pancreatitis has worse outcomes than pancreatitis from other causes, with an approximate doubling of renal and respiratory failure, a nearly 4-fold increase of shock and a near doubling of mortality ( 194 ). Pancreatitis due to very severe HTG also may occur during infusion of lipid emulsions for parenteral feeding ( 195 ) or with use of the anesthetic agent propofol, which is infused in a 10% fat emulsion ( 196 ). MECHANISM OF SEVERE HYPERTRIGLYCERIDEMIC PANCREATITIS The mechanism by which very severe HTG leads to pancreatitis remains speculative. Suggested mechanisms include the local liberation of FFA from TGs and lysophosphatidylcholine from phosphatidycholine when pancreatic lipase encounters very high levels of TG-rich lipoproteins in the pancreatic capillaries ( 197 ). High local concentrations of FFA overwhelm the binding capacity of albumin with resultant aggregation into micellar structures with detergent properties. Both FFA and lysophosphatidylcholine have been shown to cause chemical pancreatitis when infused into pancreatic arteries in animal models ( 198 - 200 ). This leads to local liberation
