Hypertriglyceridemia: Pathophysiology, Role of Genetics, Consequences, and Treatment
KEYWORDS: pubmed, htg, levels, severe, hypertriglyceridemia, pancreatitis, risk, free, disease, lipoprotein, free article, article, pmc free, pmc, article pubmed


properties. Both FFA and lysophosphatidylcholine have been shown to cause chemical pancreatitis when infused into pancreatic arteries in animal models ( 198 - 200 ). This leads to local liberation of more lipases from the damaged pancreatic acini, resulting in a vicious cycle ( 198 , 201 ). It also has been hypothesized that increased plasma viscosity due to the presence of increased numbers of chylomicrons in the pancreatic microcirculation contributes to the development of pancreatitis ( 202 ). There also is recent evidence of gene associations in TG-induced pancreatitis; in a Chinese cohort with HTG, a CFTR variant and TNF alpha promoter polymorphism were found to be independent risk factors for developing pancreatitis ( 203 ), while another study found an increased frequency of ApoE4 ( 204 ). DIAGNOSIS OF SEVERE HYPERTRIGLYCERIDEMIC INDUCED PANCREATITIS The diagnosis of HTG-associated pancreatitis can be made by the presence of severely elevated TG levels in a patient with acute pancreatitis. Falsely low serum amylase levels can be encountered due to assay interference by the TG-rich lipoproteins ( 205 ). Pseudohyponatremia due to the presence of large numbers of TG-rich lipoproteins in plasma can be seen with very high TG levels. Interference with liver transaminase assays may also occur, giving spuriously high values making it difficult to exclude alcoholic liver disease ( 205 ). With chronic chylomicronemia, patients may develop eruptive xanthomata ( Figure 2 ). These xanthomas represent an inflammatory response to the deposition of chylomicron-associated lipids in tissues and are yellow-red papules that usually appear on the buttocks, back and extensor surfaces of the upper limbs. Histologically, these lesions contain lipid laden foamy macrophages ( 206 ). Figure 2. Eruptive Xanthomas. The commonest site is on the buttocks. The lesions are papular with an erythematous base. They often are itchy. Lipemia retinalis, where the retinal vessels take on a whitish hue with pallor of the optic fundus and retina can be observed with very high TG levels ( Figure 3 ). There is no associated visual impairment. Figure 3. Lipemia retinalis. Note the pale color of the retinal vessels. Acute recent memory loss and mental fogginess ( 82 ) can also occasionally be seen, but has not been extensively studied. Symptoms such as fatigue, blurred vision, dysesthesias, and transient ischemic attacks have been suggested to be related to hyperviscosity resulting from high TG levels ( 207 , 208 ). Hepatosplenomegaly is frequently
