Hypertriglyceridemia: Pathophysiology, Role of Genetics, Consequences, and Treatment
KEYWORDS: pubmed, htg, levels, severe, hypertriglyceridemia, pancreatitis, risk, free, disease, lipoprotein, free article, article, pmc free, pmc, article pubmed


as fatigue, blurred vision, dysesthesias, and transient ischemic attacks have been suggested to be related to hyperviscosity resulting from high TG levels ( 207 , 208 ). Hepatosplenomegaly is frequently present in FCS due to macrophage infiltration in response to the chylomicron accumulation. Fatty liver is a common finding on imaging in both FCS and MFCS. MANAGEMENT OF SEVERE HYPERTRIGLYCERIDEMIA Management of HTG by lifestyle and pharmacological means is discussed in detail in the Endotext chapters on The Effect of Diet on Cardiovascular Disease and Lipid and Lipoprotein Levels and Triglyceride Lowering Drugs ( 209 , 210 ). However, in this section we will make a few points specifically relevant to this chapter. Before initiating lifelong therapy for hypertriglyceridemia, evaluation for and treatment of reversible secondary disorders that can elevate plasma triglyceride levels is crucial. This includes appropriate management of diabetes and hypothyroidism and substituting drugs that can elevate triglyceride levels with lipid-neutral agents. Management of hypertension should include calcium channel blockers, angiotensin-converting enzyme inhibitors, angiotensin receptor blockers, and alpha-adrenergic blockers rather than beta-adrenergic blocking agents and diuretics. Cardiovascular Disease Prevention ASCVD risk in HTG is modulated by the presence of several other factors, including other lipoprotein abnormalities, other CVD risk factors, and family history of CVD, with some families with HTG appearing to have a greater risk of CVD than others ( 44 ). The role of TG lowering by pharmacological means remains controversial, but there is consensus that the presence of HTG imparts residual risk after LDL has been adequately lowered with statins. Statins: The best clinical trial data currently available for the prevention of ASCVD in patients with HTG demonstrate that statins are likely to confer the most benefit, even though their primary mode of action is not to reduce plasma TGs, nor are they very effective in so doing ( 211 ). In patients with elevated TG levels statins will result in a significant decrease in TG levels. Based on the results of the IMPROVE-IT trial ( 212 ), the addition of ezetimibe may be of additional benefit. Fibrates: Fibrates such as gemfibrozil and fenofibrate, are PPAR-α agonists, and very effective in lowering plasma TG levels (by up to 50%). Several studies have failed to demonstrate a benefit of fibrates on ASCVD events, either alone or in combination with statins. However, participants in these studies were not confined to individuals with HTG. Nonetheless, post-hoc analysis showed
