Hypertriglyceridemia: Pathophysiology, Role of Genetics, Consequences, and Treatment
KEYWORDS: pubmed, htg, levels, severe, hypertriglyceridemia, pancreatitis, risk, free, disease, lipoprotein, free article, article, pmc free, pmc, article pubmed


a benefit of fibrates on ASCVD events, either alone or in combination with statins. However, participants in these studies were not confined to individuals with HTG. Nonetheless, post-hoc analysis showed that subgroups of subjects who had mild HTG >200mg/dL and LDL-C <34mg/dL had a significant reduction of ASCVD events ( 213 - 216 ). In addition, the Action to Control Cardiovascular Risk in Diabetes (ACCORD)-LIPID trial, which was confined to subjects with diabetes, showed a similar outcome in the subgroups with HTG, although the trial was negative for all subjects ( 214 ). Recently a novel selective peroxisome proliferator-activated receptor α modulator, pemafibrate, that possesses unique PPARα activity and selectivity ( 217 ), was evaluated in individuals with HTG and diabetes in the Pemafibrate to Reduce Cardiovascular OutcoMes by Reducing Triglycerides IN patiENts With diabetes (PROMINENT) trial. Patients with type 2 diabetes, triglyceride level 200 to 499 mg/dL and HDL-C of </=40 mg/dL were assigned to pemafibrate or placebo. Unfortunately, pemafibrate failed to demonstrate cardiovascular benefit in patients with type 2 diabetes and mild to moderate HTG despite significantly lowering triglyceride levels ( 218 ). Thus, addition of a fibrate to a statin for cardiovascular risk reduction cannot be recommended at this time. Omega-3 fish oil: Omega-3 (n-3) fatty acids are polyunsaturated fatty acids that lower TGs. The two main n-3 fatty acids are eicosapentanoic acid (EPA) and docosahexanoic acid (DHA) which can lower VLDL secretion and are agonists of PPARa. However, their role in ASCVD prevention also has been controversial as several RCTs of various dosages of n-3 mixtures failed to demonstrate CV benefit in mild to moderate HTG ( 219 ). The Reduction of Cardiovascular Events with Icosapent Ethyl–Intervention Trial (REDUCE-IT), evaluated the addition of high dose icosapent ethyl (highly purified eicosapentanoic acid or EPA) compared to placebo in high-risk patients with mild to moderate HTG on statin therapy, demonstrated a surprising 25% lower CV risk in subjects. Notably this effect was independent of baseline TG levels and TG reduction. ( 220 ). Subsequently the STRENGTH (Statin Residual Risk Reduction With Epanova in High Cardiovascular Risk Patients with Hypertriglyceridemia) trial of n–3 fatty acid mixtures (EPA + DHA) failed to demonstrate cardiovascular benefit and was terminated early for futility ( 221 ). Similarly, use of an EPA/DHA mixture (1.8 g/d) in patients with a recent myocardial infarction in the OMega-3 fatty acids in Elderly with Myocardial Infarction (OMEMI)
