Hypertriglyceridemia: Pathophysiology, Role of Genetics, Consequences, and Treatment
KEYWORDS: pubmed, htg, levels, severe, hypertriglyceridemia, pancreatitis, risk, free, disease, lipoprotein, free article, article, pmc free, pmc, article pubmed


futility ( 221 ). Similarly, use of an EPA/DHA mixture (1.8 g/d) in patients with a recent myocardial infarction in the OMega-3 fatty acids in Elderly with Myocardial Infarction (OMEMI) trial ( 222 ) also failed to meet its primary endpoint. Tissue EPA levels may be a contributor to the positive results in the REDUCE-IT study, as there is evidence that EPA inhibits inflammation, causes membrane stabilization, and decreases plaque volume. The REDUCE-IT trial has generated controversy due to use of mineral oil in the control group which resulted in an increase in both LDL-C and C-reactive protein ( 223 , 224 ). Nonetheless, several current guidelines suggest addition of icosapent ethyl in addition to a statin for residual hypertriglyceridemia in high-risk individuals (those with known ASCVD or diabetes with additional risk factors). Niacin: Niacin effectively lowers triglycerides and LDL-C while raising HDL-C. Niacin inhibits lipolysis in adipocytes, therefore decreasing the available fatty acids for VLDL synthesis. However, it has fallen out of favor for ASCVD risk reduction. Two RCTs, Atherothrombosis Intervention in Metabolic Syndrome with Low HDL/High Triglycerides: Impact on Global Health Outcomes (AIM-HIGH) and Treatment of HDL to Reduce the Incidence of Vascular Events (HPS2-THRIVE) demonstrated no benefit to the addition of niacin to statins for decreasing cardiovascular risk. However, it is important to note that neither of these trials were confined to subjects with high TG levels. Therefore, due to the lack of efficacy and potential for increasing insulin resistance, niacin is not recommended for treatment of HTG. Newer Therapies for HTG Apo C-III inhibitors: ApoC-III is an endogenous inhibitor of LPL, by displacing ApoC-II an activator of LPL. This leads to inhibition of lipolysis and elevations in TG levels. Apo C-III can also increase TGs by LPL independent mechanisms. Currently, ApoC-III inhibitors include volanesorsen (a second-generation antisense oligonucleotide (ASO)), olezarsen (a third generation ASO), and ARO-APOC3 (a small interfering RNA), all of which are directed at APOC3 gene ( 225 ). Volanesorsen has been studied in individuals with FCS and MFCS and has been found to decrease TG levels by up to 70% from baseline and potentially prevent pancreatitis. However, thrombocytopenia and injection site reactions are common. This drug is therefore not approved for use by the FDA due to concerns of bleeding but is approved for use by the European Medicines Agency. Olezarsen is a third generation ASO for which early studies have been completed.
