Hypertriglyceridemia: Pathophysiology, Role of Genetics, Consequences, and Treatment
KEYWORDS: pubmed, htg, levels, severe, hypertriglyceridemia, pancreatitis, risk, free, disease, lipoprotein, free article, article, pmc free, pmc, article pubmed


the FDA due to concerns of bleeding but is approved for use by the European Medicines Agency. Olezarsen is a third generation ASO for which early studies have been completed. ANGPTL-3 inhibitors: ANGPTL3 is a key regulator of lipoprotein metabolism and is able to repress LPL and endothelial lipase activity, with resultant increase in TGs and TG rich lipoprotein levels ( 226 ). Homozygous loss of function variants in ANGPTL3 result in combined hypolipidemia with low TG and LDL-C levels. ANGPTL3 inhibition results in decreased LDL-C, and TGs. ANGPTL3 inhibitors include evinacumab, a monoclonal antibody, vupanorsen, an antisense oligonucleotide (ASO), and ARO-ANG3, a small-interfering ribonucleic acid (siRNA). Evinacumab has been studied in patients with sHTG. A phase 2 study of evinacumab in patients with sHTG, demonstrated significant reductions in TGs only in patients with MFCS with and without LPL mutations, but not in patients with FCS, suggesting that ANGPTL3 inhibition is dependent on presence of some LPL activity ( 227 ). In the cohort with polygenic sHTG and MCS, evinacumab 15 mg/kg IV every 4 weeks resulted in an 81.7% reduction in TGs. It should be noted that evinacumab is currently only approved for homozygous familial hypercholesterolemia. Management of Severe HTG-Induced Pancreatitis Because of the low frequency of severe HTG in the general population, and because only some patients with severe HTG develop pancreatitis, large random controlled clinical trials are difficult to perform and unlikely to be undertaken in the foreseeable future. Therefore, therapeutic decisions need to be based on less stringent criteria than might otherwise be desirable. However, keeping TG levels <500 mg/dL should prevent the onset of TG-induced pancreatitis ( 187 , 228 , 229 ). ACUTE MANAGEMENT The clinical presentation of HTG-induced pancreatitis is similar to that from other causes of acute pancreatitis and can be preceded by episodic nausea, epigastric pain radiating through to the back, and increasing heart-burn. Individuals with recurrent acute pancreatitis may present without severe elevations in pancreatic enzymes ( 230 ). The immediate goal is to lower TGs in hospitalized patients. Management is similar to the management of non-TG induced pancreatitis, which includes cessation of all oral intake for pancreatic rest, fluid resuscitation, pain management, and management of metabolic abnormalities. TGs fall rapidly with discontinuation of oral intake, often to under 1000mg/dL with cessation of oral intake. With clinical improvement, oral diet advancement should be done slowly and cautiously in the hospital
