Hypertriglyceridemia: Pathophysiology, Role of Genetics, Consequences, and Treatment
KEYWORDS: pubmed, htg, levels, severe, hypertriglyceridemia, pancreatitis, risk, free, disease, lipoprotein, free article, article, pmc free, pmc, article pubmed


rapidly with discontinuation of oral intake, often to under 1000mg/dL with cessation of oral intake. With clinical improvement, oral diet advancement should be done slowly and cautiously in the hospital as this can result in rebound TG elevations. Supportive care as needed should be instituted for organ failure. Lipid emulsions for parenteral feeding should be avoided since their use will further delay clearance and exacerbate the HTG. If long term nutrition is required for very ill individuals who cannot eat, total parental nutrition without lipids should be utilized. Heparin: Heparin will liberate LPL into plasma from its endothelial binding sites and hence rapidly lowers TGs ( 231 ). However, it also can cause rebound HTG due to rapid degradation of released LPL ( 232 ) and increases the risk of hemorrhagic pancreatitis. Therefore, the use of heparin is not recommended ( 233 ). Insulin: The rationale for the use of an IV insulin infusion of regular insulin (in conjunction with IV glucose administration as needed) is that it can activate LPL and enhance clearance of TG-rich lipoproteins ( 234 ). Intravenous insulin can be beneficial in individuals with diabetes needing glycemic control. Its use in TG--induced pancreatitis without diabetes has been reported in several case reports ( 235 - 239 ), and has become widespread but it is unclear whether similar changes would have occurred simply by restricting oral intake without the use of insulin. Regular insulin at 0.1-0.2 units/kg/hour with a separate iv dextrose infusion to prevent hypoglycemia in individuals without diabetes is often used. IV insulin can be stopped when TG drops to below 1000mg/dL. However, TGs will increase when the individual consumes an oral diet; therefore, caution should be exercised with slow advancement of the diet. In a study of chylomicronemia with uncontrolled diabetes, insulin infusion lowered TGs more rapidly than plasmapheresis ( 240 ). Plasmapheresis: The use of plasmapheresis to acutely lower TGs is controversial. Plasmapheresis is extracorporeal therapy where plasma is removed and replaced; plasma is separated from the blood and discarded removing chylomicrons. Substitute fluid is replaced to maintain blood volume. The procedure is highly effective in rapidly decreasing TG levels by 85% after 1 session. However, the effect is not persistent, without evidence of long-term efficacy or mortality and morbidity benefit demonstrated. Although recommended by some ( 241 , 242 ), the current evidence for the benefit of use of plasmapheresis is limited
