Hypertriglyceridemia: Pathophysiology, Role of Genetics, Consequences, and Treatment
KEYWORDS: pubmed, htg, levels, severe, hypertriglyceridemia, pancreatitis, risk, free, disease, lipoprotein, free article, article, pmc free, pmc, article pubmed


of long-term efficacy or mortality and morbidity benefit demonstrated. Although recommended by some ( 241 , 242 ), the current evidence for the benefit of use of plasmapheresis is limited to small uncontrolled anecdotal series ( 243 ) from which no firm conclusion can be made regarding its use in acute TG-induced pancreatitis ( 244 ). A recent retrospective analysis demonstrated no benefit on length of hospital stay or mortality when therapeutic plasma exchange was added to medical management of severely elevated plasma TGs ( 245 ). TG levels fall rapidly with cessation of oral intake and use of non-lipid-containing intravenous fluids. Plasmapheresis requires a specialized center, needs central venous access, and transient anticoagulation; it only temporarily improves TG levels without addressing the underlying cause ( 83 ). Risks include line sepsis, deep vein thrombosis, and bleeding. Therefore, we do not recommend its routine use in this situation unless clinical circumstances necessitate plasmapheresis such as severe acute necrotizing pancreatitis ( 246 ), shock, or pregnancy ( 247 ). LONG-TERM MANAGEMENT TO PREVENT PANCREATITIS After TG lowering in the setting of acute pancreatitis, it is essential to determine both the primary and secondary causes of the severe HTG that precipitated the acute pancreatitis. Continued management of any secondary form of HTG, as well as lifestyle and drug therapy to maintain low TG levels is required to prevent recurrent pancreatitis. If fasting plasma TG levels remain above 1000 mg/dL after treating or removing the precipitating causes of the severe HTG, life-long therapy with fibrates or n-3 fatty acids, as described earlier, might be considered for these patients. Limited evidence suggests that orlistat, a gastrointestinal lipase inhibitor that decreases absorption of ingested fat, thereby reducing intestinal chylomicron synthesis, may be of benefit in reducing TG levels when used in conjunction with fibrate therapy ( 248 , 249 ). TG and glucose control can be particularly challenging in individuals with familial partial lipodystrophy. Management of Specific Syndromes that Accompany Severe HTG FAMILIAL CHYLOMICRONEMIA SYNDROME (FCS) Treatment of FCS includes management of an acute crisis (pancreatitis) and long-term management of HTG. Management of acute HTG-induced pancreatitis is described in the previous section. Long-term management of individuals with FCS involves patient education and maintaining a very low-fat diet. Consumption of even small amounts of fat can lead to severe HTG in FCS due to the absence of functional LPL. Infants with FCS presenting with abdominal pain
