Hypertriglyceridemia: Pathophysiology, Role of Genetics, Consequences, and Treatment
KEYWORDS: pubmed, htg, levels, severe, hypertriglyceridemia, pancreatitis, risk, free, disease, lipoprotein, free article, article, pmc free, pmc, article pubmed


low-fat diet. Consumption of even small amounts of fat can lead to severe HTG in FCS due to the absence of functional LPL. Infants with FCS presenting with abdominal pain or failure to thrive require discontinuation of breast feeding with replacement by very low-fat formula feeding to decrease TG levels and symptoms. In children and adults with FCS, dietary fat calories should be severely restricted to control the severe HTG and abdominal pain. This translates to about 5% to 10% of total daily calories from fat, which is a major burden for these patients ( 250 ). Medium-chain TGs, which are taken up directly by the liver after absorption and do not enter plasma as chylomicrons via the thoracic duct, are a potential alternate fat source for these patients. n-3 fatty acids can aggravate the severe HTG of FCS and therefore are contraindicated in these individuals ( 251 , 252 ). Fibrates are not efficacious in FCS ( 253 ). There are limited studies showing that orlistat might be beneficial in patients with FCS ( 254 , 255 ). Alcohol, oral contraceptives, and other TG-elevating drugs (see Table 3 ) can exacerbate severe HTG and precipitate acute pancreatitis in FCS. Successful pregnancies in patients with FCS have become more common of late ( 256 , 257 ). Alipogene tiparvovec, an adeno-associated virus LPL gene therapy that was developed and resulted in significant improvement in postprandial chylomicron metabolism in patients with FCS has been abandoned and no longer available ( 258 ), Antisense oligonucleotide inhibitors of ApoC-III (volanesorsen is approved in Europe but no in the US) and of ANGPLT3 are in development for FCS ( 96 ). MULTIFACTORIAL CHYLOMICRONEMIA SYNDROME (MFCS) Management of acute HTG-induced pancreatitis is described in the previous section. Long term management: To prevent acute HTG-induced pancreatitis in MFCS, the goal is to maintain TG levels below the threshold for pancreatitis, preferably <500 mg/dL. This requires instituting lifestyle adjustments, reversal of any secondary causes of HTG, such as treatment of suboptimally managed or undiagnosed diabetes, treating hypertension with lipid neutral agents such as ACE inhibitors, ARBs, calcium channel inhibitors, or alpha blockers rather than beta-adrenergic blockers and diuretics, and discontinuing other TG-raising drugs ( table 3 ) where possible. Alcohol intake should be limited or eliminated, since even small amounts of alcohol can substantially raise TG levels in individuals with baseline HTG. Attention should be paid to
