Journal of Crohn's and Colitis, 2016, 239–254
KEYWORDS: ibd, patients, disease, risk, treatment, psc, ecco, associated, ibd patients, reported, liver, inflammation, statement, ecco statement, uveitis


Journal of Crohn's and Colitis, 2016, 239–254 doi: Advance Access publication November 27, 2015 ECCO Guideline/Consensus Paper ECCO Guideline/Consensus Paper The First European Evidence-based Consensus on Extra-intestinal Manifestations in Inflammatory Bowel Disease Marcus Harbord,a,† Vito Annese,b Stephan R. Vavricka,c Matthieu Allez,d Manuel Barreiro-de Acosta,e Kirsten Muri Boberg,f,l Johan Burisch,g Martine De Vos,h Anne-Marie De Vries,i Andrew D. Dick,j Pascal Juillerat,k Tom H. Karlsen,f,l Ioannis Koutroubakis,m Peter L. Lakatos,n Tim Orchard,o Pavol Papay,p Tim Raine,q Max Reinshagen,r Diamant Thaci,s Herbert Tilg,t Franck Carbonnel;u,† for the European Crohn’s and Colitis Organisation [ECCO] aDepartment of Gastroenterology, Chelsea and Westminster NHS Foundation Trust, London, UK bDepartment Spain fDepartment of Transplantation Medicine, Division of Cancer Medicine, Surgery and Transplantation, Cambridge, UK rMedizinische Klinik I, Klinikum Braunschweig, Germany sComprehensive Center of Inflammation Paris, France †These authors acted as convenors of the Consensus and contributed equally to this paper. Corresponding author: Marcus Harbord, Chelsea and Westminster NHS Foundation Trust, 369 Fulham Road, London SW10 9NH, UK. Tel: +44 203 315 1073; email: Keywords: ECCO; inflammatory bowel disease; extra-intestinal manifestation; Crohn’s disease; ulcerative colitis 1. Introduction [EIMs] in inflammatory bowel disease [IBD]. It has been drafted by 21 ECCO members from 13 European countries. Although this is This is the first European Crohn’s and Colitis Organisation [ECCO] the first ECCO consensus guideline that primarily addresses EIMs, consensus guideline that addresses extra-intestinal manifestations it is partly derived from, updates, and replaces previous ECCO Copyright © 2015 European Crohn’s and Colitis Organisation (ECCO). Published by Oxford University Press. All rights reserved. 239 For permissions, please email: 240 M. Harbord et al. consensus advice on EIMs, contained within the consensus guide- lines for Crohn’s disease1 [CD] and ulcerative colitis2 [UC]. The ECCO Statement 2C strategy to define consensus was similar to that previously described Radiological evidence of sacroiliitis occurs in 20–50% in other ECCO consensus guidelines [available at www.ecco-ibd. of patients with UC and CD, but progressive ankylosing eu]. Briefly, topics were selected by the ECCO guidelines committee spondylitis occurs in only 1–10% of patients [EL2]. MRI [GuiCom]. ECCO members were selected to form working groups. may identify early sacroiliitis in symptomatic patients Provisional ECCO Statements and supporting text were written fol- with normal plain radiology [non-radiographic SpA] [EL2] lowing a comprehensive literature review, then refined following two voting rounds which included national representative participation Arthropathies associated with IBD belong to the SpA group of con- by ECCO’s 35 member countries.
