Journal of Crohn's and Colitis, 2016, 239–254
KEYWORDS: ibd, patients, disease, risk, treatment, psc, ecco, associated, ibd patients, reported, liver, inflammation, statement, ecco statement, uveitis


more common in CD than UC,7,8 particularly in patients with ECCO Statement 2D colonic CD; some EIMs, such as iritis/uveitis, are more common in Diagnosis of peripheral arthropathy and/or enthesitis women whereas PSC and ankylosing spondylitis are more common associated with IBD is based on signs of inflammation and in males.3 Most EIMs run in parallel with intestinal disease activity,4 exclusion of other specific forms of arthritis [EL3]. Type I is with the exception of ankylosing spondylitis and uveitis and with an acute pauciarticular arthritis, affecting large joints, and uncertainty regarding PSC and pyoderma gangrenosum [PG].9 The is usually associated with active IBD. Type II is polyarticu- management of complex EIMs should be discussed in a multidisci- lar, affecting a larger number of peripheral joints, and is plinary team meeting. independent of IBD activity [EL4] 2. Arthropathy and arthritis The peripheral arthritis of IBD is an inflammatory arthropathy but, 2.1. Investigation and diagnostic criteria unlike psoriatic arthritis and other inflammatory arthropathies, it is generally non-erosive. The ASAS guidelines for peripheral SpA included ECCO Statement 2A peripheral arthropathies is usually based on a larger study of IBD patients.25 On the basis of articular involvement and natural history, Both peripheral and axial arthropathies occur in UC and two different types have been empirically identified. Type 1 is defined CD, and belong to the spondyloarthritis [SpA] group of as joint pain with evidence of swelling or effusion affecting fewer than conditions (evidence level 2 [EL2]). They should be distin- five joints, mainly the large weight-bearing joints of the lower limb. guished from arthralgia, which is more common. The prev- The symptoms are usually acute and self-limiting [less than 10 weeks] alence of axial disease is equal between sexes and forms without permanent joint damage, and usually correlate with IBD flares. of IBD, but peripheral arthropathies are more common in Type 2 affects more than five joints, has a symmetrical distribution, and CD [particularly affecting the colon] and in females [EL3] predominantly affects the upper limbs. Symptoms persist for months grounds based on characteristic features of inflammation and exclu- ECCO Statement 2B sion of other specific forms of arthritis. Imaging excludes deformity, in contrast to osteoarthritis, rheumatoid arthritis, and connective tis- Diagnosis of axial SpA is based on the clinical feature of sue diseases. IBD-associated peripheral arthritis has to be differentiated inflammatory low back pain associated with magnetic from arthralgia [which may complicate corticosteroid
