Journal of Crohn's and Colitis, 2016, 239–254
KEYWORDS: ibd, patients, disease, risk, treatment, psc, ecco, associated, ibd patients, reported, liver, inflammation, statement, ecco statement, uveitis


SpA is based on the clinical feature of sue diseases. IBD-associated peripheral arthritis has to be differentiated inflammatory low back pain associated with magnetic from arthralgia [which may complicate corticosteroid withdrawal], resonance imaging [MRI ]or radiographic features of sac- osteonecrosis related to corticosteroids, and infliximab-related lupus- roiliitis [EL 2]. Human leukocyte antigen B27 [HLA-B27] is like syndrome.26 associated with axial arthritis, but it has a lower preva- Enthesopathies and dactylitis have been studied less extensively in lence than in idiopathic ankylosing spondylitis, making it IBD. Enthesitis describes inflammation at the insertion of a tendon to unreliable as a diagnostic test in IBD [EL2] the bone leading to erosions and bone proliferation [spur formation]. Patients suffer pain, tenderness, and swelling. Dactylitis [sausage-like ECCO Guideline/Consensus Paper 241 fingers or toes] is characteristic of SpA, with a prevalence of 2–4% in in IBD have not been published; only small open-label trials or case IBD.21,25 reports are reported.34,35,36,37 Patients with axial SpA should be jointly managed with rheuma- 2.2. Natural history and pathogenesis tologists because of the potential disabling disease course. Evidence supports the use of intensive physiotherapy and non-steroidal anti- Peripheral arthritis in IBD is usually asymmetrical and oligoarticular, inflammatory drug [NSAIDs] in axial arthropathy, but long-term and more common in CD, particularly in those with colonic disease. treatment with NSAIDs is best avoided in IBD.38 Although NSAIDs Its onset may precede that of bowel symptoms, although it usually increase the risk for relapse,39,40 a larger cohort study including 426 coincides with or presents after the appearance of IBD.27,28 Its preva- CD patients and 203 UC patients illustrated that short-term ther- lence in IBD ranges from 5% to 20% [5–14% in UC and 10–20% apy with low doses of NSAIDs was well tolerated41; use of high- in CD].14,26,27 In general, the prognosis of peripheral arthritis is good, dose NSAIDs was associated with higher disease activity among only becoming chronic and erosive in a minority of patients. The those with Crohn’s colitis, but this was not reflected by a significant prognosis of axial involvement is less favourable and is related to increase in disease flares. The use of COX-2 inhibitors such as etori- the prognosis of AS, and not the progress of IBD. Classic AS is a coxib and celecoxib may be safer, with a lower risk of disease flare, progressive condition with structural damage and disability affecting than conventional NSAIDs.42,43 Methotrexate and thiopurines,
