Journal of Crohn's and Colitis, 2016, 239–254
KEYWORDS: ibd, patients, disease, risk, treatment, psc, ecco, associated, ibd patients, reported, liver, inflammation, statement, ecco statement, uveitis


they should receive treatment, since the fracture risk increases prevent further bone loss [EL2] about 2-fold for each standard deviation decline in BMD below the population mean.66,67 Vertebral fractures have been documented in patients with both reduced and normal bone density, challenging Treatment should be considered in patients with low BMD and/or the concept that osteoporosis is the main risk factor for vertebral additional risk factors. Fracture prediction tools such as FRAX, which fractures in young patients with IBD.68,6,970 No linear association calculates fracture risk in the absence of a direct measurement of BMD, may be useful in determining who requires treatment,89,90 although FRAX between lumbar bone density and spontaneous fracture risk exists. has not been validated in IBD populations nor in individuals aged < The strongest predictor of future fracture is a previous vertebral 50 years. Exposure to factors known to increase bone loss and/or fracture fracture. should be limited. Measures like weight-bearing or resistive exercises, smoking and excess alcohol cessation, and maintaining adequate dietary 3.2. Natural history and pathogenesis calcium [1 g/d]91 from diet and/or supplements should be implemented. When measured by DXA, bone density of the lumbar spine is Vitamin D should be maintained in the recommended range; this significantly reduced in the majority of patients with IBD, who usually requires supplements at a dose of ~ 1000 IU [25 µg] daily, are predominantly young patients aged between 20 and 40 years; or higher dose if known vitamin D deficiency. Supplemental calcium 40–50% of all patients have osteopenia, with a T-score < −1 should be given only if dietary calcium is < 800 mg/d. Treatment with and > −2.5. Osteoporosis has been reported in 5–37% of IBD calcium 500–1000 mg/day and vitamin D [800–1000 IU/day] increases patients.71,72,73,7475 bone density in patients with IBD.57 A recent large study in CD showed A significant proportion of IBD patients can normalise their bone that tight control of disease activity and supplementation of calcium and density after 3 years in stable remission.76 Only a few studies have vitamin D were associated with a median annual increase in BMD of investigated longitudinal changes in BMD prospectively. Treatment 0.76% over 4 years.92 The value of calcium and vitamin D in preventing with anti-TNF often improves bone density.77 Population-based fractures has not been demonstrated in patients with IBD, although effi- studies have shown that factors predicting changes in BMD are simi- cacious in postmenopausal
