Journal of Crohn's and Colitis, 2016, 239–254
KEYWORDS: ibd, patients, disease, risk, treatment, psc, ecco, associated, ibd patients, reported, liver, inflammation, statement, ecco statement, uveitis


often improves bone density.77 Population-based fractures has not been demonstrated in patients with IBD, although effi- studies have shown that factors predicting changes in BMD are simi- cacious in postmenopausal or steroid-induced osteoporosis.93 Vitamin lar in IBD to those seen in the general population.21,22 The relative D deficiency is common in patients with IBD and should be corrected importance of each risk factor remains to be established. as necessary.94 Patients receiving systemic steroid therapy should receive Recently there has been increasing recognition of the immuno- calcium and vitamin D for prophylaxis. logical role of vitamin D.78,79,80,8182 Deficiency can be a consequence Meta-analysis showed that bisphosphonates are effective for the of IBD.81,82,83 Vitamin D deficiency is common in newly diagnosed treatment of low BMD in IBD and reduce the risk of vertebral but IBD patients, and so may contribute to increased risk of IBD.84 not non-vertebral fractures95 and can therefore be recommended A recent cohort study suggests a possible role for vitamin D in IBD for fracture prevention in IBD patients. Due to the heterogeneity pathogenesis: women living in southern latitudes had a lower risk of of studies, a general recommendation for fracture prevention with CD (hazard ratio [HR] 0.48, 95% confidence interval [CI] 0.3–0.7) bisphosphonates is not feasible in young, premenopausal women and UC [HR 0.62, 95% CI 0.4–0.9] than those living in northern or young men. Bisphosphonate-related osteonecrosis of the jaw is latitudes.85 These findings are consistent with previous data suggest- a rare side effect [< 1%] and should be considered in patients with ing a north-south gradient in disease incidence,86 mimicking expo- poor dental status or insufficient dental hygiene. In these patients, sure to ultraviolet light, a major determinant of vitamin D status.87,88 a dental examination including radiographs before therapy might ECCO Guideline/Consensus Paper 243 be appropriate.96 Other emergent side effects are atypical femoral opposed to scleritis which is often very painful. Uveitis is less com- fracture and oesophagitis. Rheumatologists have virtually stopped mon but has potentially more severe consequences. When related to using calcitonin or raloxifene as these are associated with only small CD, uveitis is frequently bilateral, insidious in onset, and longlast- increases in bone density and small reductions in vertebral fracture ing,101,104 although characteristic acute anterior uveitis with sud- risk. There is no evidence that they reduce hip or other peripheral den onset may occur. Patients complain of a variety of symptoms fractures. including the
