Journal of Crohn's and Colitis, 2016, 239–254
KEYWORDS: ibd, patients, disease, risk, treatment, psc, ecco, associated, ibd patients, reported, liver, inflammation, statement, ecco statement, uveitis


anterior uveitis with sud- risk. There is no evidence that they reduce hip or other peripheral den onset may occur. Patients complain of a variety of symptoms fractures. including the classical features of uveitis: eye pain, blurred vision, The evidence for treatment and prevention of osteoporosis in photophobia, and headache. The possibility of progression to loss young patients is limited. All patients with persistently active dis- of vision should prompt urgent referral to an ophthalmologist with ease should be treated according to guidelines with immunosup- expertise in the management of ocular inflammation, and the use pressive therapy [thiopurines, anti-integrins, anti-TNF] to avoid of immunomodulatory and biological agents. Slit-lamp examination prolonged steroid treatment and inflammatory activity, in order to will confirm the diagnosis and permit the differentiation between prevent bone loss.97 Newer drugs like teriparatide, strontium rane- anterior and posterior uveitis. late, or denosumab should be prospectively studied in patients with Mild pain associated with hyperaemia of the conjunctiva and IBD before their use can be recommended. Recent data showed an episclera, without visual changes, often allows episcleritis to be dif- increased cardiovascular risk for patients treated with strontium ferentiated from scleritis. Visual disturbance, photophobia, mod- ranelate.98 Patients with more severe osteoporosis should be referred erate to severe pain, or other ocular involvement should prompt to a specialist. ophthalmic referral for examination using a slit-lamp to assess for the presence of inflammatory cells and/or scleritis. For uveitis, both the SUN guidelines99 and those of the 4. Eye disease International Uveitis Study Group [IUSG]105 are useful in disease 4.1. Investigation and diagnostic criteria classification. Severity assessment may also be useful in episcleritis and scleritis.106 ECCO Statement 4A 4.2. Natural history and pathogenesis Simple episcleritis does not require referral to an ophthal- Reports of the incidence of ocular manifestations range from 4–12% mologist. This should be differentiated from uveitis and of IBD cases although in some cohorts this rises to 29%.107 None of scleritis, based upon the absence of moderate-severe eye these percentages is population based,and they tend to be limited to pain, photophobia, blurring, and diminished vision. When small numbers of patients studied in tertiary centres—hence are proba- this is not possible, or in patients with possible sight- bly overestimates. One community study [only surveying 112 individu- threatening ocular manifestations [scleritis and uveitis], als of whom only 88 had IBD] showed that patients with IBD are more patients should be treated by
