Journal of Crohn's and Colitis, 2016, 239–254
KEYWORDS: ibd, patients, disease, risk, treatment, psc, ecco, associated, ibd patients, reported, liver, inflammation, statement, ecco statement, uveitis


study [only surveying 112 individu- threatening ocular manifestations [scleritis and uveitis], als of whom only 88 had IBD] showed that patients with IBD are more patients should be treated by an ophthalmologist with likely to complain of ocular symptoms compared with controls.108 expertise in ocular inflammatory disease [EL5] Ocular [episcleritis and scleritis] and intraocular inflammatory disease [uveitis] as EIMs of IBD represent diverse pathologies, asso- ciated with activation and infiltration of both innate and adaptive Anterior uveitis and episcleritis are the most common ocular mani- immune cells into the tissue or intraocular environment. In severe festations of IBD. Some ocular manifestations in IBD can be secondary to cases, this may be associated with scleritis with fibrinoid necrosis treatment and/or effects of the intestinal disease itself. The classification of uveitis has been set out in the Standardization of Uveitis Nomenclature and vasculitis. Genetic associations supporting innate activation in [SUN] guidelines99 [Table 1]. uveitis include association with NOD2 mutations and MICA on The most commonly reported ocular manifestations are dry eye, MHC class I and are supported by animal models.109 blepharitis, episcleritis, or anterior uveitis. Scleritis and intermediate or posterior uveitis [which are more likely to be sight-threatening] are 4.3. Treatment much rarer, occurring in less than 1%, but left untreated may pro- gress to permanent visual deficits. Reports of posterior uveitis include ECCO Statement 4B a series of 13 cases exhibiting a spectrum of features from choroiditis Episcleritis may self-resolve. Topical or systemic NSAIDs to retrobulbar neuritis.100 Whereas episcleritis tends to reflect disease or topical corticosteroids can be used for symptomatic activity in the bowel and other extra-intestinal sites, uveitis can be treatment [EL4]. Treatment for scleritis or uveitis should independent of bowel symptoms and other EIMs and may precede the be guided by an ophthalmologist, and includes topical or onset of bowel symptoms.101 Other rare causes of ocular involvement systemic corticosteroids, conventional immunosuppres- with devastating consequences include vascular occlusion potentially sants, and anti-TNF agents [EL4] secondary to vasculitis [including central retinal artery occlusion],102 anterior ischaemic optic neuropathy,103 and orbital inflammation. Episcleritis may be relatively painless, presenting with hyperae- Once a firm diagnosis is established, the treatment of most ocular mic sclera and conjunctiva, and itching and burning may occur,104 as symptoms is straightforward. Dry eyes may be treated with topi- cal lubricants. Episcleritis responds following management of the Table 1. Classification of uveitis. underlying bowel disease, and to the addition
