Journal of Crohn's and Colitis, 2016, 239–254
KEYWORDS: ibd, patients, disease, risk, treatment, psc, ecco, associated, ibd patients, reported, liver, inflammation, statement, ecco statement, uveitis


symptoms is straightforward. Dry eyes may be treated with topi- cal lubricants. Episcleritis responds following management of the Table 1. Classification of uveitis. underlying bowel disease, and to the addition of topical NSAIDs [for analgesia] and glucocorticoids.104,110 Anterior uveitis should be Anterior uveitis: Primary site of inflammation: anterior chamber treated with topical corticosteroids and cycloplegics. For refractory Intermediate uveitis: Primary site of inflammation: vitreous uveitis and other rarer manifestations, the level of evidence remains Posterior uveitis: Primary site of inflammation: retina or choroid low, with the evidence for efficacy of therapies being higher in Pan-uveitis: Primary site of inflammation: anterior chamber, vitreous, patients with uveitis but without IBD. Successful use of topical and retina or choroid systemic corticosteroids, immunomodulator therapy, or biologicals 244 M. Harbord et al. have all been reported, mainly from non-controlled retrospective relapses, immunomodulation with azathioprine, infliximab, or adali- cohorts [level 3 or 4 evidence]. Expert opinion favours the use of mumab may be used.128,129 immunomodulators and biologicals in posterior uveitis and scleri- tis,111,112,113 but is based upon evidence taken from the treatment of 6.2. Pyoderma gangrenosum uveitis, where only a minority had IBD. Azathioprine, methotrexate, 6.2.1. Investigation and diagnostic criteria infliximab, and adalimumab have each been reported to be valuable Pyoderma gangrenosum [PG] can occur anywhere on the body, in resistant cases. including the genitalia, but the commonest sites are the shins and adjacent to stomas.9 Initially PG takes the form of single or multi- ple erythematous papules or pustules, but subsequent necrosis of the 5. Oral, aural and nasal disease dermis leads to the development of deep excavating ulcerations that Oral CD includes deep ulcerations, pseudopolyps, and labial or buc- contain purulent material that is sterile on culture unless secondary cal swelling. It is often associated with perineal disease and has a wound infection has occurred. PG is characterised by the appear- protracted course.114 Metastatic CD involvement of nasal mucosa, ance of a skin pustule that quickly becomes a burrowing ulcer with and aseptic nasal septal abscess associated with UC, have been violaceous edges, with a size between 2 cm and 20 cm in diameter. It reported.115,116,117 Sensorineural hearing loss has been described in can expose tendons, muscles, and deep tissues. PG is usually diag- association with IBD, particularly in patients with UC,118 and may be nosed clinically, based on the characteristic appearance of the lesions due to inner-ear obliteration, demonstrated by inner-ear T2-weighted following
