Journal of Crohn's and Colitis, 2016, 239–254
KEYWORDS: ibd, patients, disease, risk, treatment, psc, ecco, associated, ibd patients, reported, liver, inflammation, statement, ecco statement, uveitis


association with IBD, particularly in patients with UC,118 and may be nosed clinically, based on the characteristic appearance of the lesions due to inner-ear obliteration, demonstrated by inner-ear T2-weighted following exclusion of other possible skin diseases [e.g. ecthyma, MRI.119 Cogan’s syndrome is a rare autoimmune disease that results necrotising vasculitis, necrobiosis lipoidica, arterial or venous insuf- in non-syphilitic keratitis and vestibular-auditory symptoms that ficiency ulceration]. Since PG is a diagnosis of exclusion, it can be often lead to deafness. It can be associated with IBD.120 misdiagnosed in a substantial percentage of cases.130 In some cases a biopsy from the periphery of the lesion can help; findings in PG are non-specific, but biopsy can be helpful to exclude other skin 6. Skin disease disorders. 6.1. Erythema nodosum 6.2.2. Natural history and pathogenesis ECCO Statement 6A In recent publications, 0.6–2.1% of UC patients developed PG, a higher frequency than that observed in CD.124,125,131,132 The patho- Diagnosis of erythema nodosum [EN] is made on clinical physiology is unknown, but PG has been hypothesised to involve grounds. In atypical cases a skin biopsy might be helpful abnormal neutrophil function and impaired cellular immunity.133 [EL3]. Treatment is usually based on that of the underlying Lesions are often preceded by trauma [pathergy].134 Controversy IBD. Systemic corticosteroids are required in severe cases exists regarding the correlation between PG and IBD activity, as it [EL4]. Relapsing and resistant forms can be treated with may parallel IBD activity or run an independent course. PG has a immunomodulators or anti-TNF [EL4] tendency to recur following successful treatment in more than 25% of cases, often in the same place as the initial episode.124 6.1.1. Investigation and diagnostic criteria EN is readily recognised and characterised by raised, tender, red, or 6.2.3. Treatment violet subcutaneous nodules, of 1–5cm in diameter. It commonly affects the extensor surface of the extremities, particularly the ante- ECCO Statement 6B rior tibial areas, and usually occurs at times of IBD activity. EN often Pyoderma gangrenosum [PG] can be treated with sys- presents in association with systemic symptoms including arthralgia temic corticosteroids, infliximab [EL1b] or adalimumab and fatigue. The differential diagnosis includes metastatic CD, which [EL3b], or topical or oral calcineurin inhibitors [EL4] may appear at any site as solitary or multiple nodules, plaques, ulcers, or violaceous perifollicular papules, with non-caseating gran- The therapeutic goal should be rapid healing, as it can be a debili- ulomas present histologically.121 EN
