Journal of Crohn's and Colitis, 2016, 239–254
KEYWORDS: ibd, patients, disease, risk, treatment, psc, ecco, associated, ibd patients, reported, liver, inflammation, statement, ecco statement, uveitis


with IBD activity, but were more of 67 IBD patients with PG, 46% needed anti-TNF treatment, with frequent among females and occurred with any type of anti-TNF response close to 90%.141 As yet no trial has compared the efficacy agent [infliximab, adalimumab, or certolizumab]. Anti-neutrophilic of different immunosuppressive drugs. Infliximab should be consid- antibodies were positively associated with skin paradoxical inflam- ered if a rapid response to corticosteroids cannot be achieved. Case mation.154 A role for T helper 17 and interferon-γ-secreting T helper series have demonstrated the efficacy of adalimumab in the treat- 1 cells, and IFN-α-expressing cells, has been described.155 ment of PG.142,143,144 In patients with peristomal PG, closure of the stoma might lead to resolution of the PG lesions.145 The use of topi- 6.4.3. Treatment cal calcineurin inhibitors [pimecrolimus or tacrolimus] is an alter- native, but the advice of a dermatologist should be sought. Daily ECCO Statement 6C wound care should be performed in collaboration with a wound- care specialist. Anti-TNF treatment can induce paradoxical inflammation of the skin [EL3], which is a drug-class effect and is usually 6.3. Sweet syndrome [acute febrile neutrophilic reversible upon drug cessation. Referral to a dermatologist dermatosis] is recommended. Most cases are controlled with topical treatment and anti-TNF can usually be maintained [EL3] 6.3.1. Investigation and diagnostic criteria Sweet’s syndrome is part of the group of acute neutrophilic derma- toses that includes PG, but can be distinguished by its appearance, All cases should be managed together with the advice of a derma- distribution, and histological features. It is characterised by tender, tologist. Topical therapy with corticosteroids, keratolytics [salicylic acid, red, inflammatory nodules or papules, usually affecting the upper urea], emollients, vitamin D analogues, and ultraviolet therapy [UVA or limbs, face or neck.9,146 Fever can be present. It can be preceded narrow-band UVB] result in partial or total remission in almost 50% by trauma [pathergy]. It has only been recognised as an IBD EIM of patients. Patients with psoriatic lesions that did not improve with recently.147,148 It is more common in women and in patients with topical therapy and who switched anti-TNF therapies occasionally devel- colonic involvement or other EIMs. The rash is mostly associated oped recurrent lesions, suggesting a class effect. Ustekinumab has been with active disease. reported to be useful in the treatment of the paradoxical effects of anti- TNF therapy.155,156 However, recent reports have also emerged of pus- 6.3.2. Natural
