Journal of Crohn's and Colitis, 2016, 239–254
KEYWORDS: ibd, patients, disease, risk, treatment, psc, ecco, associated, ibd patients, reported, liver, inflammation, statement, ecco statement, uveitis


has been with active disease. reported to be useful in the treatment of the paradoxical effects of anti- TNF therapy.155,156 However, recent reports have also emerged of pus- 6.3.2. Natural history and pathogenesis tular psoriasis attributed to treatment with ustekinumab.157 The largest case series, however, is derived from the rheumatology literature, and the Accurate data about incidence or prevalence are lacking. The patho- treatment is mainly based on expert opinion.158,159 genesis remains unclear, although several potential mechanisms have been suggested, such as a type III hypersensitivity, T-lymphocyte dys- function, or an association with histocompatibility antigens.149 There 7. Hepato-pancreato-biliary disease are various associations, including para-inflammatory, drug-induced, 7.1. Primary sclerosing cholangitis pregnancy-related, and para-neoplastic disease. 7.1.1. Investigation and diagnostic criteria Up to 30% of patients with IBD have altered biochemical liver tests.160 6.3.3. Treatment PSC, drug-induced liver injury [DILI], and liver disease independent Systemic corticosteroids have been reported to be effective; immunosup- of IBD should be considered.161 PSC is the most common liver disease pressants should be considered in resistant or highly relapsing cases.150 specific to IBD,162 and may affect up to 4–5% of patients in some geo- graphical areas.163,164 Biliary strictures have been observed in IBD patients 6.4. Anti-TNF induced skin inflammation with normal liver function tests.165 In populations of Northern European Immunomodulators and anti-TNF may induce cutaneous side descent, 70–80% of patients with PSC have concomitant IBD.162 doxical inflammation [see Table 2]. in PSC is mainly classified as UC and less frequently as Crohn´s disease.166 Causes of secondary sclerosing cholangitis167 such as infection, 6.4.1. Investigation and diagnostic criteria immunodeficiency, ischaemia, pancreatic disease, or immunoglobu- Several centres have reported the development of psoriatic and lin [Ig]G4-related conditions have to be excluded.168 Secondary scle- eczematous lesions in patients with CD and UC receiving anti-TNF rosing cholangitis has similar histopathological and/or radiological therapy, an observation which does not seem to relate to the age of features, but usually in the absence of IBD.169 the patient or the duration of treatment.151,152 Psoriasiform eczema, Symptoms of PSC include malaise, pruritus, fever, chills, night eczema, and xerosis were the most commonly observed type of skin sweats, and right upper abdominal quadrant pain. Symptoms are lesions. Case reports have been described, and controlled case series intermittent and may be confounded by those of underlying IBD. In disease commonly presents asymptomatically. 6.4.2. Natural history and pathogenesis In patients with cholestasis in whom secondary causes of scleros- Skin lesions
