Journal of Crohn's and Colitis, 2016, 239–254
KEYWORDS: ibd, patients, disease, risk, treatment, psc, ecco, associated, ibd patients, reported, liver, inflammation, statement, ecco statement, uveitis


cannot be explained currently by genetic findings. It suggests that PSC-associated IBD has ECCO Statement 7F a unique phenotype that may require separate classification.163,190 PSC patients with end-stage liver disease or with debili- PSC has a strong hereditary component. Early studies showed tating symptoms of cholestasis should be considered for that PSC is associated with prototypical HLA, as in many other auto- liver transplantation [EL1]. Liver transplantation may be immune diseases. Recent genome-wide association studies [GWAS] considered in selected patients with cholangiocellular have identified new loci. The first GWAS study identified important dysplasia on brush cytology [EL5] associations in MST1 and BCL2L11.197 Interestingly, MST1 has been linked to IBD pathogenesis in contrast to BCL2L11, which is mainly involved in apoptotic processes. IL-2, CARD9, and REL are further Liver transplantation is the only therapy that can cure PSC. Outcomes susceptibility loci in PSC; they all play a role in innate and adaptive are favourable, with 5-year survival rates close to 85%.205,206 PSC patients immunity.198 The largest genetic study was reported in 2013.199 Here, with end-stage liver disease should be assessed for liver transplantation the authors investigated 3789 PSC cases of European ancestry using according to standard guidelines. Patients with intractable pruritus and the immunochip and identified 12 genome-wide significant associa- selected cases with recurrent, severe bacterial cholangitis can be referred tions outside the HLA complex, increasing the number of known PSC for liver transplantation. The selection for, and timing of, transplanta- risk loci to 16. Six of these 12 loci showed a much stronger association tion in PSC patients is difficult, due to the unpredictable disease course with PSC than with IBD, suggesting the presence of genetically deter- and the risk of cholangiocarcinoma. Selected PSC patients with biliary mined disease processes in PSC that are distinct from those of IBD. brush cytology dysplasia appear to benefit from liver transplantation,207 although this indication has not been widely implemented. There is a 7.1.3 Treatment definite need for novel biomarkers that can improve the diagnostic accu- racy of malignancy in biliary specimens. ECCO Statement 7D 7.1.3.1. Follow-up No medical therapy has been shown to reduce time to liver transplantation, cholangiocarcinoma, or death in ECCO Statement 7G PSC or small-duct PSC [EL1]. Although ursodeoxycholic acid [15–20 mg/kg/d] improves serum liver tests [EL1], Surveillance colonoscopy in PSC patients with IBD is higher doses should be avoided [EL1]. Corticosteroids recommended every 1 to 2 years after diagnosis
