Journal of Crohn's and Colitis, 2016, 239–254
KEYWORDS: ibd, patients, disease, risk, treatment, psc, ecco, associated, ibd patients, reported, liver, inflammation, statement, ecco statement, uveitis


insufficiency and pancreatic trexate.217 Additional risk factors for liver disease [eg obesity and duct abnormalities are more frequent [EL3] alcohol use] increase the risk of methotrexate-induced liver injury.218 Withdrawal of methotrexate because of hepatotoxicity is unusual [5%]. Fibrosis may occur in patients treated with methotrexate, and 7.3.1. Investigation and diagnostic criteria can be assessed using serum biomarkers and transient elastography. The standardized incidence ratio for acute pancreatitis is approxi- ate.219 The reported incidence of azathioprine- and 6-mercaptopu- and course of acute pancreatitis in IBD are similar to the general rine-hepatotoxicity varies among studies [3% to 15%].220 Most population.241,242,243 Diagnosis is based on the presence of at least cases occur within the first few months of treatment.220,221 The hepa- two of three criteria: upper abdominal pain, elevated serum lipase, totoxic effect may be dose-dependent and usually manifests with elevated amylase level [above three times the upper limit of normal], aminotransferases and/or cholestatic enzyme elevation that return to and consistent abdominal imaging. These criteria are sometimes dif- normal after discontinuation of the drug.222 Up to 81% of patients ficult to apply in IBD, as abdominal pain due to pancreatitis can be who have liver toxicity while receiving azathioprine tolerate 6-mer- difficult to differentiate from that caused by active IBD. In addition, captopurine.223,224 Thiopurines [including 6-thioguanine] may cause an asymptomatic elevated lipase is found in 7% of IBD patients.244 damage to the hepatic vascular endothelium, causing veno-occlusive disease, peliosis hepatis, and nodular regenerative hyperplasia. These 7.3.2. Natural history and pathogenesis should be suspected in the context of an elevated gamma GT and Two IBD-specific forms of acute pancreatitis exist. The first is pre- a thrombopenia, and confirmed by liver biopsy. Occasionally, aza- sumably related to shared pathogenic pathways and comprises thioprine and 6-mercaptopurine cause severe cholestatic jaundice autoimmune pancreatitis, idiopathic pancreatitis, granulomatous that does not improve despite drug withdrawal. Several cases of anti pancreatitis, and pancreatitis associated with PSC. The second is due TNF-induced AIH and cholestatic liver disease have been reported.225 to the management of IBD or due to its associated diseases [eg PSC], which includes biliary pancreatitis, drug-induced pancreatitis, pan- 7.2.3. Portal vein thrombosis creatitis secondary to duodenal CD; and post-ERCP or post-enteros- Portal vein thrombosis is a severe complication of IBD.226 It is copy pancreatitis.238,239,240 more frequent in the postoperative setting.227 Measures to prevent The most common causes are, by decreasing order of frequency, thromboembolism during hospitalisation or IBD exacerbations
