Journal of Crohn's and Colitis, 2016, 239–254
KEYWORDS: ibd, patients, disease, risk, treatment, psc, ecco, associated, ibd patients, reported, liver, inflammation, statement, ecco statement, uveitis


of irre- be advised to avoid known cardiovascular risk factors, including versible destruction of the airways, resulting in subglottic/tracheal cigarette smoking. strictures,329,333,334,335,336,337,338,339,340 chronic bronchitis, bronchiectasis, or bronchiolitis obliterans. These manifestations are more frequently 10. Pulmonary manifestations of IBD observed after colonic surgery.329,341 Chronic bronchitis is diagnosed with cough and mucus expectoration for more than 3 months a year 10.1. Investigation and diagnostic criteria during 2 consecutive years, with a normal high resolution CT scan. Bronchiectasis is diagnosed by high resolution CT, with a bronchial ECCO Statement 10A calibre greater than the adjacent vessel. Bronchiolitis or small airway diseases are diagnosed by high resolution CT, with centrolobular micro- Different types of airway disease, involving different parts of nodules and a ‘tree in a bud’ aspect, with air trapping on the expiratory the bronchial tree from the glottis to small airways, can occur sequence. as an extra-intestinal manifestation of IBD [EL4], most com- Interstitial lung diseases are caused by infiltration of the alveolar monly the large airways [EL4].T here is an association between air spaces or thickening of pulmonary interstitial structures. A clas- IBD and chronic obstructive pulmonary disease [EL3] sification can be used to distinguish the different types of interstitial pneumonia.342 Granulomatous interstitial lung disease, mimicking parenchymal sarcoidosis, may be observed in CD patients. Many ECCO Statement 10B patients with CD and concomitant sarcoidosis have been reported in the literature, suggesting a link between the two diseases,316,330 which Interstitial pneumonia associated with IBD has been share susceptibility genes.343 Other types of interstitial pneumonia described, the most common form being organising have been described in IBD patients. These include non-specific inter- pneumonia [EL4]. Infections or medication [salicylates, stitial pneumonia, usual interstitial pneumonia, organising pneumonia methotrexate, thiopurines, anti-TNF] can cause parenchy- (formerly termed bronchiolitis obliterans with organising pneumonia mal lung disease [BOOP]), lymphocytic interstitial pneumonia, desquamative intersti- tial pneumonia, eosinophilic interstitial pneumonia, and hypersensitiv- Bronchopulmonary disease is a rare EIM of IBD.316,317 The true ity interstitial pneumonia. In most patients the development of pul- prevalence is unknown. Pulmonary function tests are frequently monary disease parallels that of the intestinal disease activity and/or abnormal in IBD, even in the absence of respiratory symptoms. other EIMs.332 The most common pattern of interstitial lung involve- Several studies report latent interstitial pulmonary involvement in ment is organising pneumonia, which may also occur secondary to 20% to 55% of IBD patients. These abnormalities include bronchial other inflammatory disorders
