Journal of Crohn's and Colitis, 2016, 239–254
KEYWORDS: ibd, patients, disease, risk, treatment, psc, ecco, associated, ibd patients, reported, liver, inflammation, statement, ecco statement, uveitis


studies report latent interstitial pulmonary involvement in ment is organising pneumonia, which may also occur secondary to 20% to 55% of IBD patients. These abnormalities include bronchial other inflammatory disorders such as rheumatoid arthritis. It is char- hyper-responsiveness, ventilation defects, and sputum or bronchoal- acterised histologically by intraluminal plugs of connective tissue in veolar lavage lymphocytosis, as well as histological and radiological the bronchioles that extend distally into adjacent alveolar ducts and abnormalities.318,319,320,321,322,323 alveoli. Pulmonary infiltrates with eosinophilia have been reported in 252 M. Harbord et al. Table 4. Respiratory manifestations associated with IBD—sites and patterns of involvement. Anatomical site Pathology Symptoms/investigations Larynx, glottis, trachea Inflammation and stenosis Stridor, hoarseness, cough Bronchoscopy ± biopsy Bronchi Chronic bronchitis [non-specific, granulomatous] Cough, sputum production Bronchiectasis Bronchoscopy ± biopsy High resolution CT scan Bronchioles Granulomatous bronchiolitis Dyspnoea, cough, bronchorrhoea, wheezing Diffuse pan-bronchiolitis Bronchoscopy ± biopsy High resolution CT scan Parenchymal tissues Usual interstitial pneumonia Dyspnoea, fever, acute respiratory failure, chest Organising pneumonia pain Lymphocytic interstitial pneumonia High resolution CT scan Desquamative interstitial pneumonia Lung biopsy Eosinophilic interstitial pneumonia Granulomatous interstitial lung disease IBD patients who did not receive salicylates. Diagnosis of these entities beclomethasone] are particularly effective in large-airway involve- lavage, and may require lung biopsy. Other rare bronchopulmonary used in parenchymal involvement and in large-airway disease resist- manifestations have been reported including pulmonary fistulae of ant to inhaled corticosteroids. Ineffectiveness of inhaled corticos- ileal, colonic, or even oesophageal origin, necrotic nodules due to neu- teroids may be due to limited diffusion in secretion-filled airways; trophilic infiltrates, pulmonary vasculitis, and pleuritis.316,317,329 nebulised corticosteroids can be used in these cases. Patients with steroid resistance or high-dose steroid-dependent refractory lung 10.2. Natural history and pathogenesis disease should be treated with immunomodulators and/or biologi- cal therapy. Efficacy of anti-TNF therapy has been reported in lung There is an association between IBD and chronic obstructive disease associated with CD.346 pulmonary disease, characterised by chronic inflammation of the airways. A population-based cohort study showed that patients with chronic obstructive pulmonary disease had a significantly 11. Urogenital manifestations of IBD higher risk of both UC (HR 1.83 [95% CI, 1.61–2.09]) and CD (HR 2.72 [95% CI, 2.33–3.18]), as compared with healthy con- The prevalence of renal insufficiency has been reported to be 2% in trols.344 The risk of CD among patients with chronic obstructive CD patients347 and as high as 15% in a series of inpatients with CD pulmonary
