Gut, 1983, 24, 812-817
KEYWORDS: biopsies, culture, activity, patients, phosphatase, alkaline, alkaline phosphatase, disease, rectal, phosphatase activity, colitis, rise, medium, crohn, ulcerative


Gut, 1983, 24, 812-817 In vitro model for the assessment of luminal factors on rectal mucosa A ALLAN AND D P JEWELL FromtheGastroenterology Unit, RadcliffeInfirmary, Oxford SUMMARY An organ culture method for the maintenance of rectal biopsies over a period of 24 hours is described. Good preservation of histological architecture and continued crypt cell proliferation were shown over the culture period. The colonic enzyme alkaline phosphatase was found to rise over the period of culture. This rise was dependent upon continued protein synthesis by the cell. Changes in alkaline phosphatase activity during culture in biopsies from patients with ulcerative colitis and Crohn's disease are reported. This organ culture system and the measurement ofalkaline phosphatase activity during culture provides a new approach to the assessment of luminal antigens as possible effectors of colonic epithelial cell damage. Organ culture of intestinal tissue has been well are given in Table 1. All patients had a clinical described and good preservation ofsmall intestinal indication for sigmoidoscopy and informed consent and rectal tissue can be achieved over a 24 hour was obtained from each patient. Biopsies from period. This system has been used to study the patients with Crohn's disease were taken from effects of gluten on small intestinal mucosal and non-ulcerated areas wherever possible. Ethics has also been used to study prostaglandin metabolism in rectal tissue.3 For jejunal biopsies, some studies have shown that there is a rise in the Table1 Sourceoftherectalbiopsies activityofalkalinephosphatase duringtheperiod of culture and this has formed one indicator by which Biopsies Subgroup gluten toxicity has been assessed using tissue from Diagnosis (no) Groupsubdivision (no) patients with coeliac disease.1 2 This study has Control investigated the activity of alkaline phosphatase in group 36 Irritablecolon 17 rectalbiopsiesduring24hoursoforganculture. The Haemorrhoids 10 purpose of the study has been to provide a new Diverticulardisease 2 modeltoinvestigate the roleofbacterialantigensin Post-repairof rect prolapse 2 the pathogenesis of ulcerative colitis and Crohn's Normalcolon 2 disease. Followupof tubularadenoma 1 Methods Cldifficilecolitis (recentattack) 1 Eosinophilic PATIENTS gastroenteritis 1 Normal rectal tissue was obtained from patients Ulcerative coming to sigmoidoscopy in whom the mucosa colitis 27 Remission 8 Mild 9 appearednormal. Thesebiopsiesweresubsequently Moderate 10 shown to be histologically normal. Rectal biopsies Severe 0 were also obtained from patients with ulcerative Crohn's colitis or Crohn's disease. A total of 77 rectal disease 14 Smallbowel Remission 1 biopsies were obtained from 72 patients; the details Mild 1 Colonic Remission 4 A In d
