Gut, 1983, 24, 812-817
KEYWORDS: biopsies, culture, activity, patients, phosphatase, alkaline, alkaline phosphatase, disease, rectal, phosphatase activity, colitis, rise, medium, crohn, ulcerative


colitis or Crohn's disease. A total of 77 rectal disease 14 Smallbowel Remission 1 biopsies were obtained from 72 patients; the details Mild 1 Colonic Remission 4 A In d f d i r r e m s a s ry f , or Ox c f or o r r e d sp O o X nd en c H e E : . DrDPJewell.GastroenterologyUnit.Radcliffe Mild 1 Moderate 7 Receivedforpublication29December1982 In vitro modelofthe assessment ofluminalfactors on rectal mucosa 813 Committee approval for the study was obtained. Triton X-100, was used as substrate. The reaction The diagnosis of ulcerative colitis and Crohn's wasshowntobezeroorderwithrespecttosubstrate diseasewasestablishedbyclinical, radiological, and concentration andlinearoveratwo hourincubation histological criteria. Disease severity was graded period at 37°C. The reaction rate was proportional according to the criteria ofTruelove and Witts4 for to homogenate volume and the pH optimum was patients with ulcerative colitis and ofde Dombal et 8.2. All samples were read in an AminCo SPF-125 als for those with Crohn's disease. spectrofluorimeteratexcitationwavelength 365nm, emission wavelength 445 nm. Each assay was BIOPSY PREPARATION performed in duplicate and read against a fresh set Biopsies were placed in a sterile Petri dish of 4-methylumbelliferone standards (Koch light). containing a small amount of 150 mM NaCI at TheDNAcontentoftissueandculturemediumwas ambient temperature. The luminal surface of the measured fluorimetrically by the method ofle Pecq biopsy was uppermost. Biopsies were cut into two and Paoletti6 with calf thymus DNA as standard. halves. Onehalfwashomogenised, onice,in0.25M RNA was precipitated by incubation of 250 ,ul of sucrose containing 1 mM disodium EDTA pH 7.4. homogenate with 20 ,ul of fresh bovine pancreas Homogenisation was carried out using an all glass ribonuclease (EC3.1.4.22) (SigmaLtd). Incubation Uniform homogeniser (Jencons Ltd) for three was for 60 minutes at 50°C, buffered at pH 7.5. minutes. The other half was diced into pieces, DNA was measured fluorimetrically after addition approximately 3 mm in diameter, suitable fororgan of 1 ml ethidium bromide to each test sample. culture. Standard curves for the assays were plotted by computer. ORGAN CULTURE Rectal biopsies were placed on the wire grids of an EXPRESSION OF RESULTS organ culture dish (Falcon Plastics, Los Angeles, The alkaline phosphatase activity of fresh biopsy USA), the mucosal surface being uppermost. homogenate was expressed as milliunits alkaline Biopsies w,ere transferred from the patient to the phosphatase activity/,ug DNA (muap/,ug DNA). organ culture dishes within five minutes. The organ The alkaline phosphatase activity of the cultured
