Gut, 1983, 24, 812-817
KEYWORDS: biopsies, culture, activity, patients, phosphatase, alkaline, alkaline phosphatase, disease, rectal, phosphatase activity, colitis, rise, medium, crohn, ulcerative


milliunits alkaline Biopsies w,ere transferred from the patient to the phosphatase activity/,ug DNA (muap/,ug DNA). organ culture dishes within five minutes. The organ The alkaline phosphatase activity of the cultured culture medium was equilibrated with 95% 02 and biopsies was expressed as the activity of the whole 5% CO2 at 37°C for one hour before use. Over the system: 24 hour incubation period, the organ culture dishes muap/mlhomogenate x 4 + muap/mlculture were maintained in a gastight jarin an atmosphere medium - muap/mlcontrolmedium of 95% 02 and 5% CO2. The jar stood in a thermostatically controlled water bath at 37°C. ,ugDNA/mlhomogenate x 4 + ,ugDNA/ml The culture medium was RPM1 1640 (GIBCO culturemedium - ,ugDNA/ml controlmedium Labs) containing 2 mM glutamine, 25 mM hepes homogenate volume = 4 ml, culture medium buffer, 24 mM NaHCO3, 90% v/v and heat volume = 1 ml. inactivated fetalcalfserum 10% v/v. Gentamicin 40 ,ug/ml and penicillin 100 IU/ml were added to the ASSESSMENT OF VIABILITY culture medium. One millilitre of the complete Viability was assessed by the uptake of 3H- medium was passed through a 0.22 ,um millipore thymidine and subsequent autoradiography. Two filter (Millipore Ltd) directly onto each organ biopsies were taken from each of five patients. culture plate. One hour after the biopsies were Thesewereculturedoverisotopefree organ culture placed on the grids, the medium was changed for medium, one for one hour, the other for 20 hours. identical fresh medium and the plates regassed and After this, each biopsy was cultured over medium resealed. containing 10,Ci/ml 3H-thymidine (specific activity Theouterwelloftheorgan culture dishwasfilled 2 ,Ci/nmol) for a further four hours. with4ml 150mMNaCItopreventdryingoutofthe Forautoradiography, 5,umsectionswerecutfrom biopsy. The mean change in culture medium wax-embedded specimens. The sections were osmolarity over 24 hours' culture was 2 3% (range dewaxed and covered with Kodak AR10 stripping 2-0-2.9%, n=5). film followed by exposure in light roofboxes at4°C forthreetofiveweeks. Theslidesweredevelopedin ENZYME ASSAYS Kodak '19' developer, washed for two minutes in Alkaline phosphatase activity was measured fluori- distilled water and fixed in Amfix (Kodak Ltd), metrically. Five millirnoles 4-methylumbelliferyl diluted 1:3withdistilledwater. Furtherwashingand phosphate (Koch light), buffered with Na2B407- air drying was followed by staining with H3B03 system containing 5 mM MgC12 and 0.1% haematoxylin for one minute. Assessment of 814 Allan andJewell labelling ofcells in the proliferative zone was done Results without knowledge of how many hours the biopsy had been cultured. Between three and eight fields TISSUE PRESERVATION were counted
