Gut, 1983, 24, 812-817
KEYWORDS: biopsies, culture, activity, patients, phosphatase, alkaline, alkaline phosphatase, disease, rectal, phosphatase activity, colitis, rise, medium, crohn, ulcerative


however, wasonlysignificantforthetotalgroupandforthose EFFECT OF LEVAMISOLE with mild disease. No rise in enzyme activity was Two biopsies were assayed in the presence of seen in biopsies from patients in remission or with levamisole (SigmaLtd) at 1 mMconcentration. One moderate disease. For patients with Crohn's biopsy came from a patient with active Crohn's disease, enzyme activityinrectal biopsies tended to colitis and the otherfrom apatientwith anirritable increase with increasing severity of colonic disease colonsyndrome. Levamisoleinhibitedtheactivityof and a rise in enzyme activity was observed during the alkaline phosphatase in these biopsy theculture period. Thesechanges, however, didnot homogenates by 27% compared with biopsies from reach statistical significance because of wide the same patients assayed in the absence of variability and the small number of patients. levamisole. The much greaterscatter ofalkaline phosphatase activityin rectal tissue from patients with ulcerative Discussion colitis or Crohn's disease, when compared with normal tissue, may represent altered kinetics ofthe Two systems have been described for maintaining epithelial cells. Increased cell turnover has been intestinal tissue in culture namely, the organ shown in patients with active ulcerative colitis8 11 culture dish technique7 and the roller drum tech- although not all studies have confirmed this nique.9 We were unable to obtain satisfactory finding.12 Colonic epithelial cell mitotic activity has histological preservation using the roller drum been poorly documented in patients with Crohn's method (unpublished observations) but obtained disease but one study has shown that the cell excellent viability with the organ culture dish turnover time is not significantly different from technique. Viability was shown by the preservation normal.3 of mucosal architecture, assessed by light Measurement of alkaline phosphatase activity in microscopy, and by showing that the uptake of rectal biopsies over a period ofin vitro culture may tritiated thymidine remained constant during the provide a new approach to the investigation of culture period. The percentage labelling of rectal inflammatory diseases of the colon. For normal crypt cells was similar to those previously reported tissue, the rise in alkaline phosphatase activity is by Eastwood etal.8 sufficiently reproducible andconsistent to allowthe The enzyme studies show that the alkaline effects of a variety of antigens and toxins to be phosphatase activity rises in normal rectal tissue studied. The toxin of Clostridium difficile has during a 24 hour period of culture. This rise was already been studied in this way.14 Further work is inhibitedbytheadditionofpuromycintotheculture required to investigate the changes observed in medium indicating that the increase in
