Hayfordetal.RespiratoryResearch (2020) 21:223
KEYWORDS: treatment, etal, sputum, vitamin, study, conversion, studies, smear, group, mesh, sputum smear, terms, culture, trials, rate


yielded conflicting re- single infectious agent worldwide, surpassing HIV/AIDS sults. . Despite the decrease in numbers of TB deaths by In addition to their anti-inflammatory functions, HDT 22% between 2000 and 2015 and that the incidence rate may also provide other immune-modulating advantages. continuestofallglobally,thecostofTBtreatmentisstill Vitamin D (cholecalciferol-D3) is a known immune high. About US$ 10.4 billion was required in low- and modulator in TB, associated with cathelicidin-mediated middle-income countries to successfully continue with killing of mycobacterium . It has also been shown the Global Plan to End TB 2016–2020 by The Stop TB to suppress NF-κB signalling pathways, expression of Partnershipin2018. matrixmetalloproteinases(MMPs),andpro-inflammatory Even thoughmultiple antibiotictherapies administered cytokines and chemokines, thus accelerating the reso- for 6 months are used to prevent the development of lutionofinflammation.Prednisoneisaglucocorticoid drug resistance, the prolonged treatment duration, receptor antagonist that has the ability to downregulate coupled with the toxicity of the drugs, contributes to pa- the production of pro-inflammatory cytokines such as tient non-compliance . This can contribute to the tumour necrosis factor (TNF) . Recombinant human development of drug-resistant Mycobacteria tuberculosis interleukin,usedasHDT,alsoenhancesboththebacterial (Mtb), multi-drug-resistant (MDR) and extensive drug- clearance and immune responsewhenadministeredtwice resistant (XDR) strains . Host-directed therapy (HDT) dailyfor30days.N-acetylcysteine,anotherHDTmol- is an emerging concept in the treatment of TB, aimed at ecule, effectively increases glutathione (GSH), which is directly modulating host cell functions, and is adminis- usuallylowinTBpatientsduetooxidativestress. teredinadditiontoantimicrobialtreatment.Thus,thede- IncreasedlevelsofGSHhavebeendemonstratedtoplaya velopment of drug resistance by Mtb may be reduced or positive role in phagocytosis, T-cell activation responses evenavoidedandbettercontrolofTBmaybeachieved[5, and balancing in TB . In human monocyte-derived 6]. Functionally, HDT agents improve the antimicrobial macrophage cell lines, recombinant human granulocyte- activitiesofhostimmunecellsandlimitinflammationand macrophagecolony-stimulatingfactor,whichhascytokine tissuedamageassociatedwithTB. regulatory abilities, was observed to reduce Mycobacter- targets on the Mtb bacillus ; this means that even treatment . All this evidence supports the potential after cure, TBpatientsare at risk of residual damage due useofHDTmoleculestoenhanceTBtreatment. to inflammatory effects (post TB fibrosis and bronchiec- Currently, most meta-analyses conducted in the area tasis) . Thus, supplementing anti-TB drug treatment of HDT in TB are on vitamin D, and results seem to with host immune modulators may lead to shorter treat- suggest that it does not influence the time to sputum ment time, reduced lung damage, lower risk of relapse culture and/or smear conversion [6, 30–32]. However, or reinfection and also improvement of other clinical one meta-analysis indicated that vitamin D accelerated outcomes[2,10,12–14]. sputum culture conversion rate in patients with MDR The role of anti-inflammatory agents such as
