Hayfordetal.RespiratoryResearch (2020) 21:223
KEYWORDS: treatment, etal, sputum, vitamin, study, conversion, studies, smear, group, mesh, sputum smear, terms, culture, trials, rate


relevant studies. These searches were supplemented by als that were conducted in newly diagnosed PTB pa- searches of review articles and reference lists of trial tients who were on initial anti-tuberculosis treatment publications. When full-length articleswere not available with sputum smear-positive for acid-fast bacilli or cul- from the databases, these were requested from the au- ture positive for Mtb at baseline, 3) the HDT agent was thors. Four authors then determined which studies met 4) trials were conducted in patients aged ≥18years, 5) treatment outcome measured between 4 and 8weeks, Dataextractionandqualityassessment and 6) trials reporting the sputum smear or culture con- Four authors were involved in data extraction and qual- version rate (proportion of participants with sputum ity assessment. Two authors independently performed smear or culture conversion from positive to negative). theinitialextractionofdata. Furthermore, trials in which a factorial design was used Data relating to the following study characteristics to investigate the effects of other therapies alongside the were collected: authors, publication year, trial registra- anti-inflammatory therapy of interest (such that they tion number, study setting, mode of anti-TB therapy ad- could be isolated) were also included. Trials conducted ministration, details of adjunctive therapies being in children or adolescents; single-blinded RCTs, non- evaluated in each trial (type, dose and route of treat- PTB, controlled experiments that were not randomised ment) and primary study outcome. Baseline characteris- (quasi-experimental studies) and open-label trials that tics of trial participant data were extracted for the were notblinded,wereexcluded. following variables: age, sex ratio, body mass index (BMI), mid-upper arm circumference (MUAC), number Searchstrategies of participants randomised and those included, interven- In this meta-analysis, two authors searched Medline tion treatment duration and follow-up period, HIV sta- (Additional file 2), Cochrane Central Register of Con- tus, proportion with MDR-TB, extent of disease on trolled Trials, embase, Web of Science and Google baseline chest radiograph (as measured by the propor- scholar for trials, using the keywords “pulmonary tuber- tion of zones involved and the presence or absence of culosis” or “tuberculoses”, “anti-inflammatory agents” cavitation), TB score, C-reactive protein (CRP), erythro- and “host-directed-therapeutics”, with no limitations in cyte sedimentation rate (ESR), other blood indices, ad- the publication type, language or period. The detailed verse effects and mortality in a standard form as search string was as follows: Tuberculosis [MeSH recommended by Cochrane . Follow-up data Terms] OR tuberculoses [MeSH Terms] OR Mycobac- after 4–8weeks of initiating antimicrobial and adjunct terium
