Hayfordetal.RespiratoryResearch (2020) 21:223
KEYWORDS: treatment, etal, sputum, vitamin, study, conversion, studies, smear, group, mesh, sputum smear, terms, culture, trials, rate


was conducted using STATA, vers age of smear-positive PTB (PTB+) cases registered in a 15. Meta-analysis was performed using the metan func- specified period that converted to smear-negative status tion. Funnel plots, Egger’s test and influence analyses . Secondary outcomes included sputum smear and were performed using the metafunnel, metabias and the culture time to conversion, sputum culture conversion metainf functions, respectively. P value less than 0.05 rate, TB score, chest radiography, weight gain, BMI, wasconsideredstatisticallysignificant. MUAC, CRP, ESR, other blood indices associated with infectivity and inflammation (total white blood cells, Results lymphocytes, neutrophils, monocytes, interferon gamma Descriptionandqualityassessmentofincludedstudies (IFN-γ), and TNF-α), incidence of potential adverse re- The initial search yielded more than 1000 records (Add- actions attributable to the study intervention agents and itional file 1). After the initial screening and duplicates all-cause mortality. These outcome measures are consid- were removed, the remaining 55 unique studies identi- ered very relevant in TB disease progression and treat- fied were further screened for eligibility. Out of the 18 mentsuccess. full-text articles identified and assessed for eligibility, 15 studies met the inclusion criteria of this meta-analysis. Riskofbiasacrossandwithinindividualstudies Some reasons for excluding articles, were that the ad- Risk of bias assessment was conducted using the junct treatments used could not be isolated and some of Cochrane Collaboration Risk of Bias tool , consider- the articles were sub-studies of an article that was ing the following parameters: sequence generation, allo- already included. Fifteen articles were included in the cation concealment, blinding of participants, personnel qualitative, whereas only 11 in the final quantitative syn- and outcome assessors, completeness of outcome data, thesis due tothe unavailabilityofdata from authors.The evidence of selective outcome reporting, and other po- detailed literature search and selection process is shown tential threats to validity. The Cochrane risk of bias tool in Fig. 1. The clinical trials were conducted in 12 coun- was used for the assessment of risk of bias in estimating tries and most of them were registered as described in the study outcomes. The selective reporting within stud- Table 1. Ten studies investigated the effect of vitamin D fully reported, as the study was pre-specified (for ex- while five studies used either recombinant human inter- ample, if all the results were reported at all follow-up leukin , prednisolone , pentoxifylline , N- time points). For the primary analysis, the likelihood of acetylcysteine or recombinant human granulocyte- publication bias was investigated through
