Hayfordetal.RespiratoryResearch (2020) 21:223
KEYWORDS: treatment, etal, sputum, vitamin, study, conversion, studies, smear, group, mesh, sputum smear, terms, culture, trials, rate


tool. The study led clusion of the study from Salahuddin et al. reduced by Nursyam and colleagues had an unclear risk bias the between-study heterogeneity to 53.3%. Overall, influ- due to selection bias (adequate sequence generation) ence analysis did not detect any relevant difference in and detection bias (blinding). Methods used in random the relative risk (RR) estimate when excluding single sequence generation, blinding of participants, personnel studies. Likewise, no study was excluded due to dubious and outcome assessments were not clearly or adequately decisions as a result of the sensitivity analysis conducted described. Even though this could have affected the out- toexcludeany study. come, no evidence was found that it did. Selection bias was also observed in the trial by Pedral-Sampaio and Primaryoutcome colleagues, as it did not adequately describe a clear The results represent the sputum smear conversion rate method used in random sequence generation . RCTs upon HDT treatment measured after a period of 4–8 conducted by Daley, Mahakalkar, Mily, Wejse and Ralph weeks. It was observed that there was a 38% increased had an unclear risk of attrition bias due to incomplete rateofsputumsmearnegativityamongpatientsadminis- outcome data as a result of relatively tered with vitamin D, compared to those receiving only high rates of loss to follow-up (LFU) of participants (> the TB treatment (RR 1.38, 95% CI 1.03 to 1.84). There 20%). In addition, no evidence was found that it affected was moderate to high between-study heterogeneity ob- the overall final outcome of these studies, since the LFU served in this group (p =0.006 and I2 =69.5%) (Fig. 2). was similar amongst groups. Some reasons for the LFU Similarly, patients treated with other anti-inflammatory common to these studies included defaulting, death or HDT agents had a 29% increased sputum smear conver- transfer of patients to other locations of residence or for sion rate (RR 1.29, 95% CI 1.09 to 1.53). No heterogen- treatment.Details ontheriskofbiasassessmentarepro- eity was observed between studies in this group (p = vided in supplementary Table 2 (Additional file 2). 0.342andI2=11.2%)(Fig.3). There was a low statistical heterogeneity observed be- tween/within treatments using other anti-inflammatory Secondaryoutcomes agents (I2 =11.2%, p =0.342), compared to the vitamin Sputum smear and culture time to conversion tended to D supplementation group (I2 =69.5%, p =0.006) in the be faster in the treatment group than in placebo in both proportion of the rate of sputum smear conversion vitamin Dandotheranti-inflammatory adjunct therapies
