Hayfordetal.RespiratoryResearch (2020) 21:223
KEYWORDS: treatment, etal, sputum, vitamin, study, conversion, studies, smear, group, mesh, sputum smear, terms, culture, trials, rate


similar trend toward reduced TNF-α pro- study arms. There was no difference in adverse effect duction in the pentoxifylline arm, although the differ- and mortality reported between the study arms for all (pentoxifylline vs placebo,0.4 vs 0.6 respectively; p = demonstrating the safety of their use. This finding was 0.27)(SupplementaryTable4c).. in accordance with previously reported systematic re- views and meta-analysis previously mentioned . Discussion Though there were some adverse effects such as hyper- Sputum smear or culture conversion rate is a key bio- pigmentation,painatinjectionsiteanderythemaasare- marker used to predict TB cure. This biomarker has sult of recombinant human interlukin administration, been found to be directly associated with relapse risk they were mild to moderate in severity and the duration when regimens of equal duration were compared, and wasshort.Noneofthesubjects hadtodiscontinueorre- patients were on a modern short-course TB regimen quired dose reduction as a result of these side effects, as . The results of this systematic review and the interlukin was generally well-tolerated. Also, even meta-analysis revealed that there was a faster sputum though Mayanja-Kizza et al. reported mortality in smear conversationrate amongpatientsonadjunctther- the prednisolone arm of the study, only 1 was classified apy, compared to those on placebo between 4 and 8 as probably related and 2 were classified as possibly re- weeks of anti-TB treatment. This finding was consistent lated to the study intervention. There was no difference with a meta-analysis published by Jingyan et al. in 2014 in short-term survival between the intervention and pla- , which indicated that patients on vitamin D supple- cebo arms. Notwithstanding, Critchley et al. indicated mentation were at a reduced risk of remaining sputum that corticosteroids could be effective in reducing mor- positive after 6 weeks of anti-TB treatment compared to tality in persons with pulmonary tuberculosis, though those in the control group, though not statistically sig- more evidenceisneeded . nificant. The non-significant effect observed in Jingyan’s There was also limited evidence observed for the dif- study could be as a result of the limited number of trials ference in changes in time to clinical improvement with Hayfordetal.RespiratoryResearch (2020) 21:223 Page12of14 regards to chest radiograph, MUAC, weight gain or BMI There are some limitations of this study: firstly, im- changes,and the overall TB score between the treatment munological characteristics were only determined in a and control groups. However, significant improvement minority of the studies, therefore,their immunomodula- of chest radiographs was observed between study arms
