Hayfordetal.RespiratoryResearch (2020) 21:223
KEYWORDS: treatment, etal, sputum, vitamin, study, conversion, studies, smear, group, mesh, sputum smear, terms, culture, trials, rate


between the treatment munological characteristics were only determined in a and control groups. However, significant improvement minority of the studies, therefore,their immunomodula- of chest radiographs was observed between study arms tory effect in TB should be further investigated to in- in favour of the treatment group, where vitamin D and clude more TB sensitive inflammatory biomarkers to N-acetylcysteine were administered , which was confirm these potential properties. Secondly, the dose, consistent with the findings of Wu et al. . However, timing and duration of treatment in both the vitamin D considering the limited number of studies that reported group and the other anti-inflammatory agents were dif- this outcome, more studies are required to either con- ferent and not standardised. This could have influenced firm this observation or not. Results on weight gain be- the results to some extent, such as the increased hetero- tween the two study arms were consistent with other geneity observed among the vitamin adjunct treatment. reportedstudies . Thus, the need to standardise the dosing and also opti- Although no significant effect of improvement was ob- mise the schedule of administration is vital for future served in either group in the concentrations of CRP and clinical trials. Interpretation of the funnel plot in the ESR, which are biomarkers of inflammation , the vitamin D supplemented group indicated publication lymphocyte to monocyte ratio was shown to be signifi- bias. This could be attributed to the number of studies cantly higher in the intervention administered with vita- included in the group, which may have influenced the min D than in the control group . This marker is results. a recognised biomarker of resolution of pulmonary in- flammation in human and animal TB models . A Conclusion trend toward reduced TNF-α production was also ob- In summary, this meta-analysis found that adjunctive served in participants treated with adjunctive prednisol- treatmentwithvitaminD,pentoxifylline,N-acetylcysteine, one and pentoxifylline treatments. Pentoxifylline has prednisolone, recombinant human Interleukin and Rhu- been shown to suppress the synthesis of TNF—α from GM-CSFmaybeawell-toleratedandeffectiveadditionto lipopolysaccharide-stimulated (LPS) human monocytes thetreatment of TBpatients.Theywereshowntosignifi- in cell cultures , inhibits LPS-induced TNF—α pro- cantly improve sputum conversion, chest radiographs ap- duction from peripheral blood monocytes and alveolar pearance and also exhibit inflammation resolution macrophages, and can also inhibit the spontaneous properties. Thus, supplementing pulmonary TB patients TNF-α production . Tumour necrosis factor-α is es- onstandarddrugtreatmentwiththeseHDTadjunctther- sential for immune control of infection with Mtb but apies may
