Protein Cell, 2023, 14, 762–775
KEYWORDS: gut, microbiota, gut microbiota, brain, cells, asd, social, cell, adhd, axis, autism, role, disorders, immune, cns


Protein Cell, 2023, 14, 762–775 Advance access publication 11 May 2023 Review Protein & Cell lleC & nietorP Review The microbiota–gut–brain axis and neurodevelopmental disorders Qinwen Wang1,2,‡, Qianyue Yang1,2,‡, Xingyin Liu1,2,3,4,* 2Department of Pathogen Biology-Microbiology Division, Key Laboratory of Pathogen of Jiangsu Province Key Laboratory of Human Functional Genomics of Jiangsu ‡These two authors contributed equally to this work. *Correspondence: (X. Liu) Abstract The gut microbiota has been found to interact with the brain through the microbiota–gut–brain axis, regulating various physiological processes. In recent years, the impacts of the gut microbiota on neurodevelopment through this axis have been increasingly appre- ciated. The gut microbiota is commonly considered to regulate neurodevelopment through three pathways, the immune pathway, the neuronal pathway, and the endocrine/systemic pathway, with overlaps and crosstalks in between. Accumulating studies have identified the role of the microbiota–gut–brain axis in neurodevelopmental disorders including autism spectrum disorder, attention deficit hyperactivity disorder, and Rett Syndrome. Numerous researchers have examined the physiological and pathophysiological mechanisms influenced by the gut microbiota in neurodevelopmental disorders (NDDs). This review aims to provide a comprehen- sive overview of advancements in research pertaining to the microbiota-gut-brain axis in NDDs. Furthermore, we analyzed both the current state of research progress and discuss future perspectives in this field. Keywords neurodevelopmental disorders, gut microbiome, microbiota, gut, brain axis Introduction developmental period and typically occurs in early development. NDDs are generally characterized by deficits in terms of personal, A staggering amount of research has found that the gut interacts social, academic, and occupational functions. Typical NDDs with the brain in a bidirectional manner, known as the gut–brain include autism spectrum disorder (ASD), attention deficit hyper- activity disorder (ADHD), as well as certain types of learning and acting as a key regulator of the gut–brain axis have attracted motor disabilities. even more attention. These communities include bacteria, fungi, As researchers look deeper into the overlapped area between viruses, and other forms of life, collectively known as the micro- microbiology and neuroscience, it is becoming more apparent biome . On the one hand, diverse physi- that the gut microbiota has a strong correlation with NDDs (Table ological processes in the intestine, such as gastrointestinal (GI) 1). Numerous researchers have examined the physiological and motility, secretion, and digestive functions are modulated by the pathophysiological mechanisms influenced by the gut microbiota central nervous system (CNS) (Taché et al., 1980; Browning and in NDDs. This review aims
