Protein Cell, 2023, 14, 762–775
KEYWORDS: gut, microbiota, gut microbiota, brain, cells, asd, social, cell, adhd, axis, autism, role, disorders, immune, cns


the gut, al., 2016). In contrast, dysbiosis of the gut microbiota may lead to affecting the CNS through systemic circulation, and also play a alterations in the gut barrier, resulting in a “leaky gut” (Fasano, modulating role with microglia as a mediator (Fig. 1). 2020) and making for the translocation of pathogens into the por- Gut microbiota act as important regulators of the enteric tal and systemic circulation, which contributes to neuroinflam- immunity locally. Bacteria, along with bacterial-derived metab- mation in CNS disorders such as ASD (Theoharides et al., 2013; olites, are required to traverse the intestinal barrier to enter the Fasano, 2020). Apart from regulating the intestinal barrier, the gut circulation. Consequently, the intestinal barrier assumes a signifi- microbiota also plays a role in the translocation of immune cells cant role in various physiological processes, as well as in the pres- from the gut to the brain. In some cases, the term “translocation” ervation of homeostasis within the CNS (Rothhammer et al. 2016; stands for the process during which the gut microbiota interacts Fung et al. 2017; Pellegrini et al. 2018; Brescia and Rescigno 2021). with immune cells locally and “trains” them to relocate to the For instance, one of the most explored microbial-derived metab- CNS in order to perform certain functions. One example is that olites, SCFAs, which are saturated fatty acids with fewer than six the gut microbiota activates a group of IFNγ+ NK cells that will 764 | Wang et al. lleC & nietorP Figure 1. The immune pathway. Along the immune pathway, the gut microbiota regulates the brain by the bacteria themselves, microbial-derived metabolites (e.g., SCFAs, secondary bile acids, and amino acid metabolites), bacterial cell wall components (e.g., peptidoglycan, LPS), as well as microbial- intrigued immune cells and their secretory factors. The gut microbiota modulates enteric immunity in terms of the intestinal barrier, peripheral immune cells, and cytokines. For example, SCFAs derived by the gut microbiota seem to maintain a symbiotic relationship with the host by suppressing immune responses and protecting commensal bacteria from elimination, while also enhancing enteric barriers and reduce gut permeability to prevent invasion by harmful microorganisms. Proofs are that SCFAs have restrictive effects on neutrophil chemotaxis and mononuclear phagocyte system, promoting effect on regulatory T cells (Treg cells) and SCFAs can alleviate gut epithelium injury and regulate tight junctions. Meanwhile, in the CNS, microglia act as an important agent in neurodevelopment
