Protein Cell, 2023, 14, 762–775
KEYWORDS: gut, microbiota, gut microbiota, brain, cells, asd, social, cell, adhd, axis, autism, role, disorders, immune, cns


effect on regulatory T cells (Treg cells) and SCFAs can alleviate gut epithelium injury and regulate tight junctions. Meanwhile, in the CNS, microglia act as an important agent in neurodevelopment through their functions of synaptic pruning, neural progenitor cells (NPCs) pool supervision, neurogenesis regulation, etc. The gut microbiota affects microglia from different ways, exerting considerable effects on the neurodevelopmental process. in turn migrate to the CNS and induce the production of a type homeostasis, and CXCR6 Th17 cells may migrate to the CNS to of anti-inflammatory astrocytes. These astrocytes induce cellular cause neuroinflammation . apoptosis in T cells through Tumor necrosis factor-related apop- Meanwhile, the gut microbiota modulates neurodevelop- tosis-inducing ligand-decoy receptor 5 (TRAIL-DR5) signals and ment through its cell wall components as well as its regulation inhibit neuroinflammation as a result . In of cytokines via the systemic circulation. In terms of the circu- addition to IFNγ+ NK cells, meningeal IgA+ plasma cells that are lating cell wall components, an important molecule is peptido- missing or decreased in germ-free (GF) mice are also confirmed glycan. Peptidoglycan fragments are derived from bacterial cell by B-cell receptor sequencing to be originated from the gut. This walls and can cross the blood–brain barrier and activate pattern type of plasma cells can migrate from the gut to the CNS, espe- recognition receptors (PRRs) in the brain. These PRRs are widely cially the meninges. Once into the meninges, these IgA+ plasma expressed in the perinatal placenta and the brain at different cells will prevent pathogenic factors from entering by trapping neurodevelopmental stages (Gonzalez-Santana and Diaz Heijtz, them in the dural sinuses, thus guarding the developing brain 2020). For example, the recognition of peptidoglycan in the devel- against infection, which highlights the role of the gut microbiota oping prefrontal cortex, the striatum, and the cerebellum may in preventing infectious encephalitis caused by pathogenic bac- act to regulate synaptogenesis . Through teria through training B-cell immunity . the modulation of neurodevelopmental processes, peptidoglycan Interestingly, in the case of T helper 17 cells (Th17 cells), translo- can further affect social behavior, anxiety, and stress responses, cation can produce inverse effects under certain circumstances. which play a role in autism spectrum disorder (Gonzalez- Th17 cells normally play a role in maintaining homeostasis in Santana and Diaz Heijtz, 2020). In addition to cell wall compo- the gut and can exhibit proinflammatory effects when they nents, cytokines can also be
