Protein Cell, 2023, 14, 762–775
KEYWORDS: gut, microbiota, gut microbiota, brain, cells, asd, social, cell, adhd, axis, autism, role, disorders, immune, cns


role in maintaining homeostasis in Santana and Diaz Heijtz, 2020). In addition to cell wall compo- the gut and can exhibit proinflammatory effects when they nents, cytokines can also be found in the circulation and when migrate to the CNS, which is related to the tissue heterogeneity of reaching the CNS, may have diverse impacts on various neu- these cells. In the experimental autoimmune encephalomyelitis rodevelopmental processes, including neurogenesis, gliogenesis, (EAE) mouse models, there are both SLAMF6+ stem cell-like Th17 and neuronal migration, etc. (Garlanda et al., 2013; Zengeler and cells, which are modulated by the gut microbiota, that maintain Lukens, 2021). As such, the involvement of cytokines in NDDs A review of gut microbiota in neurodevelopmental disorders | 765 lleC & nietorP Figure 2. Maternal immune activation. MIA is associated with an increased risk of NDDs in the fetuses. One of the important cytokines for MIA is IL-17, which is produced mainly by Th17 cells. The gut microbiota is able to affect IL-17a levels and mucosal immunity as a whole by regulating the balance between Th17 cells and Treg cells. Besides, the production of IL-17 is also stimulated by elevated IL-6 levels during inflammation in pregnant females. Based on evidence from animal models, inside the CNS, IL17RA is located predominantly in the cortical neurons of S1DZ and elevated IL-17a levels lead to overactivation in these neurons, which then induces abnormalities in terms of social behaviors in MIA offsprings. Another important cytokine is IL-6. IL-6 not only affects the activation of Th17 cells, as is discussed above, but also affects neurons themselves by inducing transcriptional synaptogenesis through STAT3-dependent production of RGS4, which increase glutamatergic synapse density and disrupt hippocampal connectivity. proves a promising subject, and in recent years, this has been between Treg and Th17 cells, the production of IL-17a is also supported by studies on maternal immune activation (MIA). stimulated by the other interleukins. For example, the secre- Various inflammatory factors in the maternal generation are tion of IL-6 by the dendritic cells in the small intestine has been associated with an increased risk of NDDs in the fetuses, which found to promote IL-17a production in pregnant females during is possibly related to an underdeveloped blood–brain barrier inflammation, which indicates its role in MIA . (Han et al., 2021; Lu et al., 2023). Since retinoic acid receptor-re- Based on evidence from animal models, interleukin-17 receptor A lated orphan nuclear
