Protein Cell, 2023, 14, 762–775
KEYWORDS: gut, microbiota, gut microbiota, brain, cells, asd, social, cell, adhd, axis, autism, role, disorders, immune, cns


indicates its role in MIA . (Han et al., 2021; Lu et al., 2023). Since retinoic acid receptor-re- Based on evidence from animal models, interleukin-17 receptor A lated orphan nuclear receptor gamma t (RORγt)-dependent effec- (IL17RA) has been detected predominantly in the primary soma- tor T lymphocytes are reported to be necessary for MIA-induced tosensory cortex dysgranular zone(S1DZ), and elevated IL-17a behavioral abnormalities , and Th17 cells not levels lead to overactivation in the neurons of this area, which only fit into the RORγt-dependent effector T cell family but also then induces abnormalities in terms of social behaviors in MIA experience a significant upregulation in MIA offspring, it can be offspring (Hoogenraad and Riol-Blanco, 2020). However, S1DZ is inferred that interleukin-17 (IL-17) is one of the indispensable just a tiny part of a potentially extensive network that regulates cytokines in MIA (Choi et al., 2016; Hoogenraad and Riol-Blanco, MIA-related behavior, and more brain regions remain to be fur- 2020). The gut microbiota is able to affect IL-17a levels and ther appreciated (Shin Yim et al., 2017). Another cytokine that mucosal immunity as a whole by regulating the balance between plays a role in MIA is interleukin-6 (IL-6). As mentioned above, Th17 cells and Treg cells . For example, the IL-6 may affect the activation of Th17 cells and in turn, impact administration of microbial-derived secondary bile acids, such IL-17 concentrations. Besides this indirect function, IL-6 also acts as 3-oxoLCA and isoalloLCA, inhibits the differentiation of Th17 directly on neurons to induce transcriptional synaptogenesis cells and promotes the differentiation of Treg cells by binding to through STAT3-dependent production of the regulator of G pro- RORγt and inducing the production of reactive oxygen species tein signaling 4 gene (RGS4) downstream, and increased prenatal (ROS), respectively . SCFAs are another metab- IL-6 levels promote the density of glutamatergic synapses and olite that has also been found to regulate Th17 and Treg cells. disrupt hippocampal connectivity . Still, it In the case of SCFAs, this is mainly achieved through histone should also be noted that the correlation between abnormalities deacetylase (HDAC) inhibition and G-protein coupled receptor in the gut microbiota, cytokines, and neurodevelopment makes (GPR) activation . Interestingly, an overproduc- it possible to target NDDs by managing microbial compositions. tion of SCFAs increases Th17 cells and leads to the dysfunction In a recent study, the supplementation of Lactobacillus reuteri is of Treg cells during
