Protein Cell, 2023, 14, 762–775
KEYWORDS: gut, microbiota, gut microbiota, brain, cells, asd, social, cell, adhd, axis, autism, role, disorders, immune, cns


NDDs by managing microbial compositions. tion of SCFAs increases Th17 cells and leads to the dysfunction In a recent study, the supplementation of Lactobacillus reuteri is of Treg cells during inflammation, suggesting that their functions found to improve the β-diversity of the gut microbiota in the off- could be paradoxical or concentration-dependent (Pandiyan et springs and promote the metabolic functions of their brain (Lu al., 2019). Aside from the microbial regulation of the balance et al., 2023) (Fig. 2). 766 | Wang et al. lleC & nietorP Aside from regulating local immune players to impact the CNS gamma-aminobutyric acid (GABA), serotonin, dopamine, norep- indirectly and modulating the developing brain systemically, the inephrine, acetylcholine, histamine, secondary bile acid, 4-eth- gut microbiota also affects neurodevelopment with microglia as ylphenyl sulfate (4EPS), SCFAs, and so on (Agirman and Hsiao, the mediator. This deserves our attention because microglia have 2021; Lh et al., 2021; Needham et al., 2022). Increasing evidence been identified to be closely involved in neurodevelopment, and showed that bacterial-derived metabolites can promote neu- abnormalities in their morphology, as well as functions, may play rodevelopment; however, some bacteria may also play a causal a role in NDDs [reviewed by (Zengeler and Lukens, 2021)]. As the role in NDDs. An example of microbial-derived metabolites with professional phagocytes of the brain, these cells serve the func- the former function would be taurine, which is a neuroactive tion of clearing debris during the proliferation of nerve cells as amino acid metabolite of the gut microbiota that is deficient in well as engulfing various live cells, known as “phagoptosis” (Harry, the dams of ASD mouse models. Indeed, the oral administration 2013; Brown and Neher, 2014). In the developing CNS, microglia of taurine to the ASD dams during pregnancy has been found to perform the critical function of monitoring the pool of neural reduce repetitive behaviors in their offspring. Similarly, 5-ami- progenitor cells (NPCs) and regulating the process of neurogen- novaleric acid (5AV), another amino acid metabolite of the gut esis. This regulatory role is achieved through the engulfment of microbiota, also leads to a decrease in repetitive behaviors and oligodendrocyte progenitor cells (OPCs) and the modulation of an improvement in social interactions. This indicates their posi- neural precursor cell size in the cerebral cortex (Cunningham tive role in neurodevelopment . Additionally, et al., 2013; Nemes-Baran et al., 2020). Additionally, microglia it has been found that tetrahydrobiopterin
