Protein Cell, 2023, 14, 762–775
KEYWORDS: gut, microbiota, gut microbiota, brain, cells, asd, social, cell, adhd, axis, autism, role, disorders, immune, cns


neural precursor cell size in the cerebral cortex (Cunningham tive role in neurodevelopment . Additionally, et al., 2013; Nemes-Baran et al., 2020). Additionally, microglia it has been found that tetrahydrobiopterin (BH4), a metabolite selectively eliminate excess myelin sheaths, thereby modify- induced by L. reuteri, can improve social deficits in mouse models ing myelination during neurodevelopment (Hughes and Appel, of ASD, which may be explained by a BH4-induced promotion in 2020). Microglia can also prune synapses, and once this ability synaptic transmission mediated by the social reward mechanism is compromised, there will be an excess of dendritic spines and in the brain . In contrast, 4-ethylphenyl immature synapses, which may lead to immature brain circuitry (sulfate), or 4EP(S), which is produced by certain members of the . This process possibly occurs through the Firmicutes phylum, such as Bacteroides ovatus, has emerged to be complement system, especially the complement component 3 negatively related to neurodevelopment (Hsiao et al., 2013; Lh (C3) and complement component 3 receptor (CR3) signaling, since et al., 2021; Needham et al., 2022) since elevated levels of 4EP(S) mice without CR3, C3, and the C-X3-C motif chemokine receptor are detected in ASD patients and the CNTNAP2 (contactin asso- 1 gene (CX3CR1) undergo a decrease in microglial synaptic prun- ciated protein 2) mouse models of ASD . A ing in the developing visual system as well as the hippocampus positive correlation has been found between 4EP(S) and repeti- (Paolicelli et al., 2011; Schafer et al., 2012). The gut microbiota tive behaviors whereas a negative correlation exists between this plays a part in diverse events of the microglia, including their mat- metabolite and communication, which suggests that 4EP(S) plays uration and aging, as well as their functions, and microbial-de- a role in the demonstrated manifestations of ASD (Hsiao et al., rived metabolites promote microglia restoration in GF mice . Mechanisms have been elucidated by some studies that, et al., 2021; Mossad et al., 2022). Indeed, an intact microbiota is once inside the CNS, 4EP(S) can inversely impact myelination, an not only indispensable for the localization of forebrain microglia important process in the development of the brain, and thus will during neurodevelopment but is also important in modulating influence ASD-related behaviors as a consequence (Berer et al., the microglial expression of the complement signaling pathway 2011; Hoban et al., 2016; Bonnefil et al., 2019; Pan et al., 2020) and the synaptic remodeling
