Protein Cell, 2023, 14, 762–775
KEYWORDS: gut, microbiota, gut microbiota, brain, cells, asd, social, cell, adhd, axis, autism, role, disorders, immune, cns


a consequence (Berer et al., the microglial expression of the complement signaling pathway 2011; Hoban et al., 2016; Bonnefil et al., 2019; Pan et al., 2020) and the synaptic remodeling factor complement C1q. This allows (Fig. 3B). it to restrain neurite complexity and regulate forebrain neu- Apart from producing the above metabolites that are able to rons to have a promotive function in social behaviors (Bruckner regulate neurodevelopment as well as other neurotransmitters et al., 2022). Meanwhile, GF mice are found to exhibit a different and neuromodulators themselves, the gut microbiota also inter- landscape of genes that are related to the complement system acts with the enteroendocrine system to regulate neurodevel- , since microbial-derived metab- opment. The enteroendocrine system is composed of various olites such as SCFAs, have been found to regulate the C3 signal- enteroendocrine cells (EECs) which are capable of producing ing within the CNS and may play a role in the C3/CR3-dependent glucagon-like peptide 1 (GLP-1), peptide YY (PYY), cholecysto- microglial elimination of synapses . Other than kinin (CCK), substance P, and 5-HT (Gribble and Reimann, 2016). SCFAs, aryl hydrocarbon receptor (AHR) agonists such as indole, EECs can sense various microbial signals and also synapse with indoxyl 3-sulfate, indole-3-propionic acid, and indole-3-aldehyde the vagal neurons to communicate with the CNS (Gribble and , which are metabolized from dietary Reimann, 2016; Bellono et al., 2017). Specifically, certain bacte- tryptophan by the gut microbiota (Quintana and Sherr, 2013), also ria strains act through deoxycholic acid, SCFAs, as well as other modulate the production of transforming growth factor α (TGFα) metabolites, to upregulate the levels of the rate-limiting enzyme and vascular endothelial growth factor B (VEGF-B) by the micro- in 5-HT biosynthesis, tryptophan hydroxylase 1 (TPH1), which can glia, controlling the inflammation in the CNS as a consequence increase 5-HT levels in a subtype of EECs called the enterochro- . maffin cells (ECCs) (Alemi et al., 2013; Reigstad et al., 2015; Yano et al., 2015). Besides, LPS has also been found to play a part through toll-like receptor 4 (TLR4) despite that supporting evidence is lim- The endocrine/systemic pathway in ited (kidd et al., 2009). 5-HT concentration is suggested to affect neurodevelopment regulated by gut social behaviors in ASD, which implies its potential role in the microbiome modulation of NDDs (de Theije et al., 2014). However, peripheral The gut microbiota releases diverse metabolites and pro- 5-HT is not able to
