Protein Cell, 2023, 14, 762–775
KEYWORDS: gut, microbiota, gut microbiota, brain, cells, asd, social, cell, adhd, axis, autism, role, disorders, immune, cns


implies its potential role in the microbiome modulation of NDDs (de Theije et al., 2014). However, peripheral The gut microbiota releases diverse metabolites and pro- 5-HT is not able to pass through the blood–brain barrier (Donovan duces neurotransmitters and neuromodulators (Cussotto et al., and Tecott, 2013). In recent years, an interconnected communi- 2018; Agirman and Hsiao, 2021), both of which can modulate cation system between the gut microbiota, ECCs, and the vagus neurodevelopment. These metabolites or products include nerve has been discovered to explain the impact of peripheral A review of gut microbiota in neurodevelopmental disorders | 767 lleC & nietorP Figure 3. The endocrine (systemic) pathway and the neuronal pathway. (A) The HN axis and the HPA axis play an important role in the endocrine (systemic) pathway. The neuropeptide oxytocin acts as an important component of the HN axis, modulates the interplay within the serotonergic system in the nucleus accumbens and the marginal activity in the amygdala, thus regulating social functions. Along the HPA axis, peripheral cortisol levels have been found to be significantly higher in patients with ASD and bacterial species, such as Enterococcus faecalis, inhibit the elevated glucocorticoid levels after social stress and promote social behaviors in mice, indicating that the gut microbiota is capable of influencing HPA axis. (B) The gut microbiota can produce neuroactive molecules (e.g., 5AV, taurine, and 4EPS) directly and these molecules have diverse effects on neurodevelopment processes (i.e., myelination, oligodendrocytes maturation). The gut microbiota also regulates the production of 5-HT in ECCs. However, metabolites like 5-HT cannot across the blood–brain barrier without the vagus nerve. Microbial-derived metabolites and other substances not only interact with the vagus nerve but also impact the ENS and the intestinal mechanosensory. The vagus nerve is an important agent between the endocrine (systemic) pathway and the neuronal pathway. 5-HT on neurodevelopment . 5-HT3 and social defects related to the crosstalk between the gut microbi- 5-HT4 receptors have been found on the vagus nerve, indicating ota and oxytocin is the maternal high-fat diet (MHFD) since in that 5-HT may indirectly impact the CNS by acting through the MHDF offspring, there is a decrease in both synaptic improve- vagus nerve (Bonaz et al., 2018; Bhattarai et al., 2018). Meanwhile, ments of the ventral tegmental area (VTA) during social inter- emerging studies have provided new clues to the direct connec- action and the number of oxytocin immunoreactive neurons in tion between
