Protein Cell, 2023, 14, 762–775
KEYWORDS: gut, microbiota, gut microbiota, brain, cells, asd, social, cell, adhd, axis, autism, role, disorders, immune, cns


of the ventral tegmental area (VTA) during social inter- emerging studies have provided new clues to the direct connec- action and the number of oxytocin immunoreactive neurons in tion between the EECs and the vagus nerve, suggesting that there the hypothalamus . In mouse models, is a specific cell type named the neuropods which form synapses the administration of L. reuteri, a bacterial strain that can be with the vagus nerve. This allows for the fast transmission of sig- downregulated by MHFD, reserves oxytocin decrease, synap- nals from the gut to the brain . tic deficits, and the plasticity of VTA, thereby improving social In terms of neuroendocrine signaling, hormones such as oxy- behaviors and consequently relieving ASD (Buffington et al., tocin, vasopressin, and glucocorticoid have been reported to be 2016; Francis and Dominguez-Bello, 2019). This function is pos- regulated by the gut microbiota and, in turn, affect neurode- sibly associated with the afferent vagus nerve as well because velopment (Cussotto et al., 2018; Lh et al., 2021). It should also L. reuteri-derived metabolites can act on the vagus nerve and be noted that the gut microbiota can decompose and produce monitor the oxytocin–dopamine reward system in the brain hormones as well. For example, Klebsiella aerogenes are shown . Second, along the HPA axis, peripheral to degrade estradiol because of the expression of the 3β-HSD cortisol levels have been found to be significantly higher in (3β-hydroxysteroid dehydrogenase) gene. Two of patients with ASD, indicating that the HPA axis plays a role in the related axes in this process are the hypothalamic–neuro- ASD . In 2021, Wu et al. identified a decrease hypophyseal (HN) axis and the hypothalamic–pituitary–adrenal in social activities and an increase in neuronal activity after (HPA) axis (Dayanithi et al., 1987; Stephens and Wand, 2012). social stress that are both related to abnormal corticosterone First, as an important component of the HN axis, the neuropep- levels, suggesting that the crosstalk between the gut microbiota tide oxytocin modulates the interplay within the serotonergic and the HPA axis may play a role in social behaviors (Wu et al., system in the nucleus accumbens and the marginal activity in 2021). Bacterial species, such as Enterococcus faecalis, inhibit the the amygdala, thus regulating attachment, aggression, social elevated glucocorticoid levels after social stress and promote fear, social learning, as well as other complex social functions social behaviors in mice . Altered mRNA expres-
