Protein Cell, 2023, 14, 762–775
KEYWORDS: gut, microbiota, gut microbiota, brain, cells, asd, social, cell, adhd, axis, autism, role, disorders, immune, cns


regulating attachment, aggression, social elevated glucocorticoid levels after social stress and promote fear, social learning, as well as other complex social functions social behaviors in mice . Altered mRNA expres- (Heinrichs et al., 2009; Dölen et al., 2013; Neumann and Slattery, sion can be detected in both NMDA and 5-HT1A receptors in GF 2016; Fineberg and Ross, 2017). A critical etiological factor in mice, suggesting that this is related to the regulation of the gut 768 | Wang et al. lleC & nietorP microbiota on the expressions of the receptors. Once NMDA and to mention that vagus nerve stimulation (VNS) may potentially 5-HT1A receptors are regulated, corticotropin-releasing factors serve as a therapeutic intervention for NDDs owing to its potent (CRFs) released from the hypothalamus will be affected as a anti-inflammatory effects. Apart from the vagus nerve, the ENS, result (Fig. 3A). also acts as an essential mediator along the microbiota–gut–brain axis. Both animal experiments and cross-sectional studies have indicated that the ENS is involved in CNS disorders, especially Neuronal pathways of bidirectional gut– in ASD, where GI comorbidities are frequently present (Rao and brain communications Gershon, 2016). Current evidence suggests that microbes-de- rived metabolites are capable of regulating enteric neuron func- Neuronal pathways of bidirectional gut–brain communica- tions, such as the excitability of enteric nerve endings, affecting tions are intuitive. Unique among visceral organs, the GI tract has the endocrine as well as immune pathways in an indirect man- its own intrinsic nervous system—the enteric nervous system ner and consequently interacting with the CNS (Vickers, 2017; (ENS) (Uesaka et al., 2016; Marklund, 2022). The extrinsic nervous Agirman and Hsiao, 2021). This type of overlap and crosstalk is system plays a significant role in GI physiology, among which the also discussed in other sections of the review. vagus nerve has been a key focus in recent research. The vagus The GI tract is insensitive to cutting, crushing, or burning (Gray nerve is the tenth cranial nerve, of which the hepatic and celiac et al., 2021). However, mechanical signals (i.e., distension, con- branches innervate the gut. Sensory/afferent and motor/efferent traction, flow (shear)) are significant to the gut since nearly all gut fibers are intermingled in the vagus nerve. The sensory fibers orig- functions require the sense of forces emanating from the diges- inate from neurons of the nodose ganglion, whereas the motor tion of intraluminal contents and organ activity (Mercado-Perez fibers come
