Protein Cell, 2023, 14, 762–775
KEYWORDS: gut, microbiota, gut microbiota, brain, cells, asd, social, cell, adhd, axis, autism, role, disorders, immune, cns


functions require the sense of forces emanating from the diges- inate from neurons of the nodose ganglion, whereas the motor tion of intraluminal contents and organ activity (Mercado-Perez fibers come from neurons of the dorsal motor nucleus of the and Beyder, 2022). In addition, organoid evidence continues to vagus (DMV) and the nucleus ambiguous. Vagal afferents treat emerge in support of the important role mechanical signals have chemical signals as important gut inputs. As previously men- played in the morphogenesis of the GI tract (Poling et al., 2018; tioned, EECs release neurohormones including CCK, GLP-1, PYY, Yavitt et al., 2023). The term “mechanosensor” refers to mechan- serotonin, etc. . These hormones spread ical signal receivers, proteins that convert mechanical stimulus to adjacent afferent terminals and bind vagal sensory neurons’ into an intracellular electrochemical signal. The landscape of receptors. Such chemoreceptors include CCKAR (for CCK), GLP1R molecular mechanosensors of the vagus nerve of the GI tract (for GLP-1), and HTR3A (for serotonin) . CCK is currently unclear. Nevertheless, two comprehensive reviews , GLP-1 (Müller et al., 2019; Borgmann et al., 2021), covering this topic have given the readers an overview of mech- and PYY function mainly as the regulators of anosensing in the GI tract (Kim et al., 2022; Mercado-Perez and food intake and digestion either directly on the brain through the Beyder, 2022). Mechanosensors sense mechanical stimulus by dif- circulatory system, or indirectly via the vagal-brain pathway. In ferent ion channels (such as TRP, ASICs, PIEZO, etc.), and signals addition, CCK can cause some direct central nervous responses. are transported to the brain partly by the vagus nerve, and even- By practicing the bilateral injection into the nodose ganglia of tually different mechanosensory circuits form. Other than chem- CCK-SAP to decrease CCKAR expression, a study proves that such ical signals and mechanical signals, there are some other signals CCK block up causes GI vagal afferents inhibition and results in vagal afferents detect from the gut. In 2015, Bohórquez et al. attenuated anxiogenic effects of refeeding . discovered a direct connection between a special subset of EECs Importantly, by performing vagotomy, studies have found pep- and vagal neurons by making synapses (Bohórquez et al., 2015). tides or neurotransmitters like serotonin, oxytocin (Sgritta et Such EECs are named neuropods and following research found al., 2019b), GABA , and brain-derived neuro- that they use glutamate as a neurotransmitter to transmit excit- trophic factor
