Protein Cell, 2023, 14, 762–775
KEYWORDS: gut, microbiota, gut microbiota, brain, cells, asd, social, cell, adhd, axis, autism, role, disorders, immune, cns


(Sgritta et Such EECs are named neuropods and following research found al., 2019b), GABA , and brain-derived neuro- that they use glutamate as a neurotransmitter to transmit excit- trophic factor (BDNF) which are derived from atory signals to vagal neurons. Glutamate is a fast-passing neu- microbes-derived metabolites or microbe-triggered host secretion rotransmitter, while neuropeptides such as CCK are slow-passing are not able to have the supposed effect on the brain without neurotransmitters (paracrine communication) (Kaelberer et al., the vagus nerve. For instance, Lactobacillus rhamnosus (JB-1) has 2018). The formed synapses enable ultrafast millisecond trans- a direct effect on neurotransmitter receptors that it can induce mission from EECs to vagal sensory neurons. Further studies of region-dependent alterations in GABAB1b mRNA in the brain. The neuropods have found out that neuropods resemble sensory cells process is mediated by the vagus nerve because such rescue can- of the nervous system. They influence the preference for sugar not be achieved in mice operated with a bilateral subdiaphrag- over sweeteners by sensing the difference between these two matic vagotomy (Fig. 3B). and releasing different neurotransmitters to different cells in the Apart from the molecules mentioned above, some immune vagus nerve . Another new vagal sensory factors produced by the stimuli of the microbiome may also have modality has been identified that sensory neurons can detect vis- the capability of activating the vagal afferents to prepare for the ceral osmolality changes and translate them into hormonal sig- immune response. For example, in an early study, gut inocula- nals to regulate thirst circuit activity through the HPA pathway tion of Campylobacter jejuni in mice has been reported to result . Notably, as can be inferred from above, the gut in direct activation of the vagal sensory ganglia and the nucleus microbiota mainly interacts with the mechanosensors indirectly tractus solitarius (NTS) in the medulla oblongata (Goehler et to regulate neurodevelopment, but direct evidence remains to be al., 2005). Campylobacter jejuni is the leading cause of bacterial explored (Fig. 3B). diarrhoeal disease in many areas of the world (Burnham and Hendrixson, 2018; Malik et al., 2022) and its administration has The gut microbiota and NDDs been reported to induce anxiety-related behaviors (Lyte et al., 2002). Campylobacter jejuni is also causally linked with the devel- ASD is an early-onset NDD that is defined by impaired social inter- opment of the autoimmune peripheral neuropathy Guillain Barré action, deficits in communication, and
