Protein Cell, 2023, 14, 762–775
KEYWORDS: gut, microbiota, gut microbiota, brain, cells, asd, social, cell, adhd, axis, autism, role, disorders, immune, cns


causally linked with the devel- ASD is an early-onset NDD that is defined by impaired social inter- opment of the autoimmune peripheral neuropathy Guillain Barré action, deficits in communication, and the presence of repetitive, Syndrome (GBS) . Such responses caused by C. stereotyped behaviors (American Psychiatric Association, 2013). jejuni may be mediated by the vagal afferents. It is noteworthy The etiology of ASD is a hot issue that has not been completely A review of gut microbiota in neurodevelopmental disorders | 769 lleC & nietorP elucidated while two main factors are regarded as the attributions in autism-associated gene KDM5 can alter intestinal immu- for ASD—the genetic and the environmental factors. Some large- nity, thereby affecting the behavior of the fruit fly through the scale sequencing studies have identified more than a hundred influence of the gut microbiota . Similarly, as a ASD highly relatable genes and SNVs/indels, SVs, tandem repeats, recent publication in ASD omics research suggested, long-chain etc. (Satterstrom et al., 2020; Willsey et al., 2022; Trost et al., 2022; polyunsaturated fatty acids may causally contribute to sleep dis- Yuan et al., 2023). Environmental factors include pathogen expo- turbances mediated by the FADS gene cluster and with potential sure, nutritional deficiencies or overload, toxic exposure, aller- mediation by the microbiota, sleep disturbances and unhealthy gies, etc. . As mentioned above, MIA is diet have a convergent lipidome profile . a representative example of how environmental factors increase Various treatments that target the microbiota–gut–brain axis the risk of developing ASD. Individuals with ASD often experi- have been put forward in recent years, with the aim of restoring ence co-occurring GI symptoms, including constipation, diarrhea, the balance of the gut microbiota. Probiotics are one of the most and abdominal pain (Jolanta Wasilewska and Klukowski, 2015), explored therapeutic methods and have already produced posi- and patients with GI symptoms are inclined to be more irrita- tive outcomes in NDDs (George Kerry et al., 2018). Several studies ble, withdrawn, or hyperactive . The existence addressed the effects of the administration of probiotics in ASD. of such GI symptoms has raised interest in studying the possi- For example, in ASD murine models, the supplementation of the ble influence of gut microbiota on the pathogenesis of autism. probiotic L. reuteri proved effective in improving social behaviors, microbiome composition between patients with ASD and healthy Another commensal bacterium, Bacteroides fragilis, is also believed controls (see Table
