Protein Cell, 2023, 14, 762–775
KEYWORDS: gut, microbiota, gut microbiota, brain, cells, asd, social, cell, adhd, axis, autism, role, disorders, immune, cns


of autism. probiotic L. reuteri proved effective in improving social behaviors, microbiome composition between patients with ASD and healthy Another commensal bacterium, Bacteroides fragilis, is also believed controls (see Table 1). As can be observed in several studies, there to act as a probiotic and can fix the permeability of the gut and, in is an increase in the abundance of the Clostridioides genus (Liu turn, alleviate ASD symptoms . Furthermore, et al., 2019; Wan et al., 2022). In fact, the Clostridioides genus is a recent study revealed that Chd8+/− mouse models of ASD exhibit one of the most frequently detected dysregulated bacteria in elevated serum glutamine levels due to a high expression of patients with ASD despite unpreventable bias from the hetero- amino acid transporters in the intestine as well as increased glu- geneity . Interestingly, two specific metabolites tamine levels in the brain, which is associated with the manifes- derived from microbiota, especially from the Clostridioides genus, tation of ASD symptoms. The supplementation of Bifidobacterium have been well studied for their effects on microglial cells and longum has been found to downregulate intestinal amino acid processes like neuroinflammation and microglial phagocytosis. transporter expression and thus ameliorate ASD-like behaviors in One is 4-EP(S), which has been previously reviewed at the endo- mouse models, which also demonstrates its therapeutic potential crine/systemic pathway section and the other is p-Cresol sulfate in ASD . Apart from probiotics, prebiotics is also (pCS) which originates from bacterially produced p-Cresol. Both under exploration. Accompanied by the exclusion diet, a 6-week pCS and 4EPS are products of microbial degradation of aromatic administration of the prebiotic, Bimuno® galactooligosaccharide amino acids (AAAs) and some other AAAs and their intermediate (B-GOS®) in 30 autistic children showed positive results, indi- or final products such as phenylalanine, tryptophan, and tyrosine cating that the supplementation of prebiotics is also potentially are also important metabolites in ASD studies. The most classical beneficial . Additionally, studies on fecal example is serotonin, of which tryptophan is its precursor. Since microbiota transplantation (FMT), or microbiota transfer therapy the 1970s, it has been widely reported that inside autistic patients' (MTT), have also identified its efficacy in ASD treatment. A clin- blood, the concentration of serotonin is abnormally high (Hanley, ical trial that followed up 18 ASD participants found that FMT 1977) while contradictorily, the concentration inside the brain is restored bacterial diversity and richness in both Bifidobacteria
