Protein Cell, 2023, 14, 762–775
KEYWORDS: gut, microbiota, gut microbiota, brain, cells, asd, social, cell, adhd, axis, autism, role, disorders, immune, cns


high (Hanley, ical trial that followed up 18 ASD participants found that FMT 1977) while contradictorily, the concentration inside the brain is restored bacterial diversity and richness in both Bifidobacteria and rather low . Nevertheless, the specific mech- Prevotella. Besides, an improvement in both GI symptoms as well anism behind this phenotype has not been explained clearly and as the core symptoms of ASD that were maintained throughout 2 the application of selective serotonin reuptake inhibitors (SSRIs) years of time was also observed . In favor of this has not been proven effective . Recently, result, in 2021, Li et al. also observed a long-lasting benefit in GI the metabolism of another product of tryptophan—kynurenine, and behavioral symptoms, which was associated with Eubacterium has been reported as abnormal in ASD murine models (Lavelle coprostanoligene . It should be noted that the effect and Sokol, 2020). Brain samples obtained from the frontal cor- of FMT is not only affected by the gut microbiota composition of tex showed higher concentrations of 3-hydroxy kynurenine and the donor but also that of the recipient. Other factors, such as the 3-hydroxy anthranilic acid which are neurotoxic and often con- methods of administration and the choice of preservation of the verted into quinolinic acid in reactive microglial cells and there- FMT sample, also play a role in the effects of FMT . fore very likely to cause neuroinflammatory outcomes (Parrott Therefore, FMT is not a one-size-fits-all solution in the treatment et al., 2016; Murakami et al., 2019). Additionally, an 'inflamma- of ASD.Notably, Centers for Disease Control and Prevention esti- tion hypothesis' was raised to explain the GI symptoms in autis- mates that about 26% of people with ASD suffer from depression, tic children. There is increasing evidence that GI symptoms in and people with ASD are three times more likely to suffer from autistic children may be due to the inflammatory state in the gut depression than the general population. Moreover, there are also and the microbiota has played a potential role in promoting this considerable studies emphasizing the role of the gut microbi- process . Autistic children are more likely to ota in depression (Chang et al., 2022; Liu et al., 2023). Therefore, have a 'leaky gut' and owing to this higher permeability, the CNS potential relations and mechanism between depression and ASD, is highly exposed to proinflammatory cytokines (Ashwood et al., are worth further
