Protein Cell, 2023, 14, 762–775
KEYWORDS: gut, microbiota, gut microbiota, brain, cells, asd, social, cell, adhd, axis, autism, role, disorders, immune, cns


'leaky gut' and owing to this higher permeability, the CNS potential relations and mechanism between depression and ASD, is highly exposed to proinflammatory cytokines (Ashwood et al., are worth further studying. 2011). As stated above, under the dominance of genetic factors, ADHD is another commonly occurred NDD with an estimated the investigation of the mechanistic relationship between the gut prevalence of ~5% worldwide . As shown in Table 1, microbiota, as an environmental factor within the host, and the alterations in the composition of the gut microbiota are found to be host in regulating the occurrence and development of ASD, rep- presented in people with ADHD. For example, decreased abundance resents a highly worthy scientific inquiry. In 2019, our research of actinobacteria reduces the ADHD-RS-IV scores, and an increase team demonstrated in Drosophila melanogaster that mutations in the genus Bifidobacterium and the family Bacteroidaceae has also 770 | Wang et al. lleC & nietorP been observed in adolescents with ADHD (Aarts et al., 2017a; brought us closer to understanding the microbiota–gut–brain axis Prehn-Kristensen et al., 2018a; Stevens et al., 2019). Additionally, low [reviewed by ]. Evidence from both preclinical B. ovatus is also associated with cognitive deficits in ADHD (Li et al.). and clinical research has indicated that the gut microbiota modu- In terms of alpha and beta diversity, however, the results have been lates diverse processes in the CNS and neurodevelopment, among contradictory possibly due to the differences in the methodologies which data accumulated primarily from preclinical studies have between studies. Meanwhile, the transplantation of the gut micro- shown that the gut microbiota acts through the aforementioned biota from people with ADHD generates ADHD-like behaviors in GF three pathways along the microbiota–gut–brian axis to impact C57BL/6JOlaHsd mice, suggesting that altered gut microbiota com- blood−brain barrier permeability, synaptic pruning, neurogenesis, position plays a role in ADHD pathogenesis . neuronal signaling, and behaviors or emotions such as sociability, Indeed, an altered microbiota–gut–brain axis contributes to the sensory, memory, learning, and stress (Erny et al., 2017; Vuong et presence of the core symptoms of ADHD as well as the comorbid- al., 2017; Pronovost and Hsiao, 2019; Morais et al., 2021). However, ities, such as sleep disorders [reviewed by ]. various questions remain unsolved, and in some cases, informa- In terms of treatment, probiotics, prebiotics, and synbiotics have tion from studies may be conflicting. all been demonstrated to be beneficial in the therapeutic
