Protein Cell, 2023, 14, 762–775
KEYWORDS: gut, microbiota, gut microbiota, brain, cells, asd, social, cell, adhd, axis, autism, role, disorders, immune, cns


unsolved, and in some cases, informa- In terms of treatment, probiotics, prebiotics, and synbiotics have tion from studies may be conflicting. all been demonstrated to be beneficial in the therapeutic interven- Firstly, studies so far have established that there are three path- tions of ADHD, both directly and indirectly [reviewed by (Kalenik ways along the microbiota–gut–brain axis, the endocrine/systemic et al., 2021)]. For one thing, a double-blind randomized controlled pathway, the immune pathway, and the neuronal pathway, and trial has revealed that the application of synbiotics, which are interactions as well as overlaps between pathways have also been a combination of pre-and probiotics, has been found effective in studied. However, there are potentially other novel components that enhancing the emotional regulation of ADHD adults (Skott et al., might be involved in these pathways, such as autophagy and the 2020). For another, there have been accumulating studies prov- endocannabinoid system, that are being increasingly recognized ing that L. rhamnosus might improve the stability of the intestinal [reviewed by ]. The roles and categorization barrier locally and regulate GABA and GABA receptors in the CNS of these components require further exploration. Despite our grow- through the vagus nerve in the meantime. Both of them have an ing understanding, the exact mechanism of how various physiologi- alleviating effect on ADHD development and symptoms (Isolauri cal processes of the CNS are affected by the gut microbiota remains et al., 2008; Enticott et al., 2010; Bravo et al., 2011b; Pärtty et al., to be addressed more elaborately as well. 2015). In addition, diet also proves a possible solution. For instance, Secondly, in spite of the accumulating evidence on the impacts once metabolized by the gut microbiota, omega-3 (n-3) polyunsatu- of the gut microbiota on the differentiation and maturation of rated fatty acids (PUFAs) will reduce ADHD-like behaviors by acting immune cells, studies on certain enteric immune cells remain through the reinforcement-insensitive mechanism (Dervola et al., immature. For instance, there have been limited studies on the 2012). Along the immune pathway, omega-3 PUFAs also inhibit the microbial impacts on mast cells. Besides, it has long been estab- activation of the NOD-, LRR-, and pyrin domain-containing protein lished that the local immune systems are important in other 3 (NLRP3) inflammasome, which further decreases the secretion of organs such as the lung and the liver. Indeed, microbial dysbiosis IL-1β . In a meta-analysis, the administration of of the
