Protein Cell, 2023, 14, 762–775
KEYWORDS: gut, microbiota, gut microbiota, brain, cells, asd, social, cell, adhd, axis, autism, role, disorders, immune, cns


3 (NLRP3) inflammasome, which further decreases the secretion of organs such as the lung and the liver. Indeed, microbial dysbiosis IL-1β . In a meta-analysis, the administration of of the lung has been found to impact the immunity of the lung, PUFAs is found to be favorable in ameliorating ADHD symptoms which plays a role in chronic lung diseases (O’Dwyer et al., 2016). as well, although the credibility is not strong enough (Gao et al., However, the way that the gut microbiota regulates the immune 2022b). Still, PUFA supplementation is potentially promising in alle- systems in these organs to affect neurodevelopmental processes viating ADHD. still needs to be further explored. Besides ASD and ADHD, Rett Syndrome (RTT) is also a severe In addition, there have been data supporting both the genomic NDD. RTT is observed in girls and is characterized by progres- and non-genomic influence of the gut microbiota, especially the sive mental decline, motor dysfunction, and ASD-like behaviors. interplay of gut microbiota-derived metabolites and epigenetics Dysbiosis in the gut has been observed in patients with RTT, sug- involved in diverse cellular processes (Woo and Alenghat, 2022). gesting that the gut microbiota plays a role in this NDD (Neier et As mentioned above, the most studied metabolites are SCFAs, al., 2021). Specifically, reduced richness in certain microbial taxa with various studies on their effects on epigenetics as well as cel- in Bifidobacterium, Anaerostipes, Clostridium XIVa, Clostridium XIVb, lular receptors and intracellular signaling cascades (Dalile et al., Erysipelotrichaceae, Actinomyces, Lactobacillus, Enterococcus, as well as 2019). However, there is still a paucity of data on the exact mech- Eggerthella, has been identified in RTT patients , anisms of how various other microbial-derived metabolites, and while an enrichment was found in Bacteroidaceae, Clostridium spp., microbial cell wall components affect neurodevelopmental pro- and Sutterella spp. . It should be noted that an cesses through the immune, neuronal, and endocrine pathways inflammatory profile is seen in female mouse models of RTT, sug- via epigenetics regulations. gesting that the immune pathway is possibly involved (Neier et Meanwhile, in recent years, optogenetic technology has emerged al., 2021). Indeed, microglia have been found to play a part since as a promising assistance in neuroscience research. With the help activated microglia and loss of microglia through apoptosis are of this technology, the crosstalks between the heart and the brain associated with the development of the condition (Lukens and have
