Protein Cell, 2023, 14, 762–775
KEYWORDS: gut, microbiota, gut microbiota, brain, cells, asd, social, cell, adhd, axis, autism, role, disorders, immune, cns


activated microglia and loss of microglia through apoptosis are of this technology, the crosstalks between the heart and the brain associated with the development of the condition (Lukens and have gradually been revealed (Veerakumar et al., 2022; Hsueh et al., Eyo, 2022). On the therapeutic scale, both prebiotics and probiot- 2023). However, the application of this technology in understanding ics are believed to have the potential for GI as well as behavioral the crosstalks between the gut and the brain in NDDs remains in its dysfunctions in RTT, although specific solutions remain to be fur- infancy. Optogenetic technology has been found to be able to con- ther appreciated . trol the metabolism of the gut microbiota and regulate engineering bacteria that are taken in for therapeutic purposes, demonstrat- ing its potential in neuroscience research . Conclusion and future perspectives Therefore, more studies need to be carried out to make full use of Currently, the application of GF models, antibiotics, FMT, brain optogenetic technology to further appreciate the impacts of the gut imaging, microbiome sequencing, and bioinformatics has microbiota on neural circuits. A review of gut microbiota in neurodevelopmental disorders | 771 lleC & nietorP Finally, as discussed in the previous reseaches, therapeu- Authors’ contributions tic interventions such as probiotics, prebiotics, synbiotics, diet, X.L. conceived, designed, and supervised the project; Q.W. and and FMT, have been accepted as promising in NDDs. However, Q.Y. to write the manuscript. X.L. revised the manuscript; All of although there have been a large amount of data coming from authors validated and approved the final manuscript. animal experiments, evidence from humans is still insufficient . Meanwhile, customized plans for different patients need to be standardized so that the effects of the afore- References mentioned therapeutic methods can be brought to full play. Aarts E, Ederveen THA, Naaijen J et al. Gut microbiome in ADHD and its relation to neural reward anticipation. PLoS One Acknowledgements 2017a;12:e0183509. Aarts E, Ederveen THA, Naaijen J et al. Gut microbiome in ADHD All the figures are created with biorender and Procreate and its relation to neural reward anticipation. PLoS One 2017b;12:e0183509. Abbreviation Agirman G, Hsiao EY. SnapShot: the microbiota-gut-brain axis. Cell 3β-HSD, 3β-hydroxysteroid dehydrogenase; 4EPS, 4-ethylphenyl 2021;184:2524–2524.e1. (sulfate); 5AV, 5-aminovaleric acid; 5-HT, 5-hydroxytryptamine; Agustí A, García-Pardo MP, López-Almela I et al. Interplay between AAAs, aromatic amino acids; ACTH, adrenocorticotropic hor- the gut-brain axis, obesity and cognitive function. Front Neurosci mone; ADHD,
