REVIEW
KEYWORDS: australia, ticks, tick, humans, fever, tick-borne, pathogens, species, human, disease, reported, holocyclus, transmitted, virus, including


receive pathogenic bacteria, helminths, protozoa, and viruses in Figure2. Amongst them, Argas persicus, Haemaphysalis to/fromtheirhostanimalsandhumans.Althoughmoststudies longicornis, Otobius megnini, Rhipicephalus australis, and have found that ticks and tick-borne illnesses are often Rhipicephalussanguineushavebeenaccidentallyintroducedinto limited to specific geographical regions, they may potentially Australiabyhumans(Barkeretal.,2014). be found anywhere in the world. International travel from Ornithodoros capensis, previously known as Carios capensis, endemic regions to non-endemic regions by people, animals feeds primarily on seabirds, although it can bite humans if and cargo can transport ticks. Whilst tick bites in Australia the opportunity is provided. Off-shore islands are the most potentially can cause various diseases including bacterial and likely place that this tick bites humans because they provide viralinfections,paralysis,allergies,autoimmunedisorders,post- nestinggroundsforseabirds;therefore,campers,explorers,and infection fatigue and allegedly poorly quantified illnesses, the those who participate in recreational and professional fishing exact incidence of tick-borne disease in Australia is unknown are at higher risk. Ornithodoros gurneyi is exclusively a desert- (GravesandStenos,2017).Characterizationoftickbiology,tick- dwelling tick in Australia that lives mainly in the wallows of borne infections, and the distribution of ticks and tick-borne desert-dwellingkangaroosandhencerarelyencounterslivestock diseases can provide knowledge on their biological processes or humans. However, this tick quests in soil and ambushes including tick immunity, reproduction, salivation, as well as humans and other mammals if they rest under a desert-tree or tick-bornepathogens.Thisinformationiscrucialfordeveloping in a desert-cave. The bites of O. capensis and O. gurneyi cause innovative strategies to control ticks and tick-borne disease. inflammationandseverelocalandsystemicreactionsinhumans, Understanding the microorganisms-host relationship could be respectively. In addition, a bite from the former tick species exploitedforourbenefits(Dehhaghietal.,2018).Incaseoftick- maycauseblistering,dullache,erythema,generallassitudeand bornepathogens,suchknowledgecouldbeusedfordeveloping discomfort, intense pruritus, lesions, lymphangitis, rheumatic preventive mechanisms either for establishment of pathogens pain, and weeping; whereas the latter may cause headache, or their transmission. In this review, we will examine the impaired vision, temporary blindness, swelling, and vomiting geographicaldistributionofhuman-bitingticksinAustralia,the (Henary,1938;BarkerandWalker,2014).O.megniniiseyeless reportedtick-bornediseases,andpotentialofthesetickstocarry and may feed on people who are in close contact with horses. emergingpathogensofhumansandtheirpossibletransmission Therearenoreportsoftransmissionofanypathogensbythistick tohumans.Allergicmanifestationsoftickbitearepotentiallylife- toitshosts.However,tickspinesaswellasfeedingintheearcanal threateningandnotuncommonbutareoutsidethescopeofthis causesconsiderableirritation,inflammation,andtissuenecrosis paper. oftheearwhichmayleadtobacterialinfections. Of the 18 valid species of Amblyomma in Australia, only AUSTRALIAN TICKS Amblyomma triguttatum is regularly reported on domestic animalsandhasbeentakenfromhumans(BarkerandWalker, There are 896 valid species of ticks worldwide, distributed 2014). Bothriocroton auruginans is a tick with an unknown in two main families of Argasidae (soft ticks) and Ixodidae life-cycle but its larvae and nymphs may attack domestic dogs (hard ticks) (Guglielmone et al., 2010; Barker et al., 2014). The withoutdevelopinganyillness.However,theadulttickisstrictly major proposed events in the evolution of ticks are shown hostspecificandtodateitsadultformhasbeenonlyfoundon in Figure1 (Klompen et al., 1996; Dobson and Barker,
