REVIEW
KEYWORDS: australia, ticks, tick, humans, fever, tick-borne, pathogens, species, human, disease, reported, holocyclus, transmitted, virus, including


more humans to tick-borne pathogens. Hence, drowning, extreme temperature) characteristics of any one the epidemiology of ticks and tick-borne pathogens of humans location influence the host density. Moreover, environmental also must be studied in respect to climate change and factors are a determinant for mortality rates of free-living ecology. It should be also noted that any variation in fauna tick; therefore, the suitability of specific habitat for tick could change the transmission risk for tick-borne diseases FrontiersinCellularandInfectionMicrobiology|www.frontiersin.org 5 January2019|Volume9|Article3 Dehhaghietal. Tick-BorneDiseasesinAustralia persistasymptomatically.Furthermore,C.burnetiidemonstrates antigenicshift,aphenomenonthatisthebasisofserologytests used to differentiate acute from chronic Q fever (Million et al., 2010). Q fever notification rates decreased over 50% from 2002 to 2005, following the introduction of a nationally funded Q fever vaccination program in Australia . However, this vaccine has significant side effects in persons exposed to C. burnetii and therefore requires pre-vaccination screening (Madariaga et al., 2003; Gidding et al., 2009). This pathogen affects a large variety of domestic (e.g., cattle, cats, goats, sheep) and wild animals as well as humans. According rate of Q fever in Australia in 2005 was 17.2 per each million of the population. Currently, this disease is the most reported zoonosis in Australia. However, it should be noted that many people suffering from Q fever remain asymptomatic or only show a self-limiting febrile illness and hence are not included in calculations of incidence rate. The geographical distributionofQfeverincludesQueenslandandnortheastNew South Wales; however, it is emerging in other regions, for FIGURE3|Geographicaldistributionof10potentiallyhumanbiting-ticksof Australia;Tick-bornediseasesofhumansthataretransmitted(redand1)and examples,NorthernTerritoryandsouthwestWesternAustralia potentialtick-bornediseasesofhumansthatmaybetransmitted (Giddingetal.,2009). (yellowand2). More than 40 species of ticks can carry C. burnetii worldwide;thereis,however,controversyovertheirimportance in epidemiology of Q fever because inhalation of infectious aerosols or dust particles remains through addition of new reservoir and/or amplification of the main route of the disease transmission. Ticks, including the circulation of native or exotic pathogens (Marsot et al., Haemaphysalisbispinosa,Haemaphysalishumerosa,I.holocyclus, 2013). Rhipicephalus microplus, and R. sanguineus may have roles in Q fever epidemiology in Australia (Smith, 1941). Accordingly, BACTERIAL TICK-BORNE INFECTIONS H. humerosa and I. holocyclus are competent vectors for C. burnetii and can acquire the pathogen from an infected animal Q fever and some rickettsial infections (see section -Q fever andtransmitittoanuninfectedanimal,butfortheotherthree and Rickettsial infections) are the only bacterial diseases ticks not enough information is available to assess the vector that are believed to be transmitted by human-biting ticks competencyforthispathogen(Smith,1941). in Australia. However, ticks that bite humans may also The pathogen is vertically transmitted trans-stadailly from be potential vectors for transmitting human pathogens that
