REVIEW
KEYWORDS: australia, ticks, tick, humans, fever, tick-borne, pathogens, species, human, disease, reported, holocyclus, transmitted, virus, including


be transmitted by human-biting ticks competencyforthispathogen(Smith,1941). in Australia. However, ticks that bite humans may also The pathogen is vertically transmitted trans-stadailly from be potential vectors for transmitting human pathogens that larvatonymphandfromnymphtoadultintheabovementioned causeanaplasmosis,bartonellosis,Lyme-likedisease,melioidosis, ticks, with the exception of H. bispinosa and R. microplus. H. and tularemia in this country. The phylogenetic analysis bispinosa show trans-stadial transmission only from larva to of the causative pathogens of these diseases is shown in nymph(Duronetal.,2015).Noinformationhasbeenprovided Figure4. on the ability of H. bispinosa and R. sanguineus to transmit C. burnetii to animals. However, studies showed that I. holocyclus Q Fever and R. microplus could only transmit infection from these Coxiella is a genus of bacteria of the family Coxiellaceae, ticks to guinea pigs by feces and bite, respectively. Despite order Legionellales, class Gammaproteobacteria, and phylum the demonstrated transmission of C. burnetii in experimental Proteobacteria. Coxiella burnetii is the causative agent of Q systems,ticksonlyoccasionallytransmitthepathogeninthefield fever. It was previously classified as a Rickettsia species due to . No solid information is available on tick- morphologicalsimilarities.However,ithasnowbeenplacedinto borneQfeverinAustralianpopulations.Occasionalcasereports the gamma subdivision of Proteobacteria based on genetic and onlysuggestthepossibility.Forexample,ahumancaseofacute physiologic characteristics, with closer similarities to Legionella Qfeverwithpericarditisnorth-eastofPerthinWesternAustralia and Francisella than to Rickettsia . This has been described (Beaman and Hung, 1989) as transmitted obligate intracellular Gram-negative bacterium protects itself directlybyA.triguttatumbite.Symptomsmayincludeabdominal in hostile environments by forming spores which can survive and thoracic pain, bradycardia, chills, headache, high fever, for long periods, for example 586 days in tick feces at myalgia, and pharyngitis after a 2–4-week incubation period. room temperature (Philip, 1948). In mammals, macrophages Compared to rickettsial infections, Q fever is unlikely to be are unable to kill Coxiella burnetii and the pathogen may associated with a rash. Apparent lung involvement may be FrontiersinCellularandInfectionMicrobiology|www.frontiersin.org 6 January2019|Volume9|Article3 Dehhaghietal. Tick-BorneDiseasesinAustralia FIGURE4|Phylogeneticanalysisofpathogenicbacteriaofhumansthataretransmitted(redand*)orcouldpotentiallybetransmittedbyhuman-bitingticks(black)in AustraliainferredusingaMaximumLikelihoodmethodbasedonthe16SrRNAgenesequencecomparison(1,400to1,500nucleotides). absentasmanycasespresentwithfever,withnolocalizingsigns, in residents of endemic areas as well as campers, travelers, and although hepatitis is common. Q fever is typically diagnosed hikerstoendemicareas.Theseverityanddurationofrickettsial by serology but can also be confirmed by more specialized, diseasesvaryconsiderably.Table2presentssomeinformationon albeit less accessible, tests such as immunohistochemistry and differentSFGrickettsialdiseasesinAustralia. polymerase chain reaction (PCR). Isolation of C. burnetii can The genetic variation in Australian SFG rickettsia has been onlybeperformedinbiosafetythree(BSL-3)facilities,owingto classified into two populations . R. australis itshighinfectivity. andR.honeiweredesignatedasetiologicalagentsofQueensland tick typhus (QTT) and Flinders Island spotted fever (FISF), Rickettsial Infections respectively. Furthermore, R. honei strain marmionii causes Rickettsiaisagenusofnon-motile,non-sporeforming,obligate Australian spotted fever (ASF). Whilst, ASF, FISF and QTT intracellular, Gram-negative bacteria that belongs to family diseaseshavesimilarclinicalandserologicalcharacteristics,their Rickettsiaceae, order Rickettsiales, class Alphaproteobacteria, causative
