REVIEW
KEYWORDS: australia, ticks, tick, humans, fever, tick-borne, pathogens, species, human, disease, reported, holocyclus, transmitted, virus, including


in summer, Ehrlichiaceae,orderRickettsiales,classAlphaproteobacteria,and but new cases from previously non-endemic areas for this phylum Proteobacteria. This pathogen infects granulocytes and infection, including south-western coastal areas of Western survives by suppressing or postponing vital antimicrobial Australia in Salisbury Island and Walpole, and south-eastern mechanisms including apoptosis, oxidative burst, and coastal regions of South Australia near Adelaide have been phagocytosis as well as by reducing expression of defense reported(Gravesetal.,1991,1993;Dyeretal.,2005;Unsworth genesinhostcells.Theclinicalpresentationisanacute,febrile, etal.,2007). non-specific,viral-likediseasewithcommonearlysymptomsof In2007,sevencasesofSFGrickettsialdiseasessimilartoFISF headache,elevatedhepatictransaminase,leukopaenia,myalgias, were reported from eastern Australia . andthrombocytopaenia. FrontiersinCellularandInfectionMicrobiology|www.frontiersin.org 8 January2019|Volume9|Article3 Dehhaghietal. Tick-BorneDiseasesinAustralia TheincidenceofHGA(cases/million/year)jumpedfrom1.4 cinereus), rodents, woylies (Bettongia penicillata), or yellow- in2000to6.1in2010and6.3in2012.Although,thereareasyet footed antechinus (Antechinus flavipes). Despite these findings, noreportsofHGAinAustralia,dataislimited.Bacterialprofiling thereiscurrentlynoconvincingevidencethatverifiestick-borne of 460 ticks from four Australian human-biting tick species, transmission of Bartonella infection to humans, in Australia. namely,A.triguttatum,Haemaphysalisbancrofti,H.longicornis, However,thispossibilityshouldnotbeexcludeduntiltick-borne andI.holocycluswererecentlyconducted(Goftonetal.,2015a). bartonellosis is either rejected or accepted by the performance A novel Anaplasma sp. was identified in about 2% of A. of well-conducted, detailed studies of the relationship between triguttatumticks.Otherstudiesdrawattentiontothecompetence humans, ticks and tick-associated Bartonella species (CDC, of R. sanguineus and R. australis in transmission of Anaplasma 2015). spp. (Bock et al., 1999; Rymaszewska and Grenda, 2008), both of which are also found in Australia. Further investigation LymeandLyme-LikeDiseases is required to determine whether these ticks or other ticks Lymedisease(orlymeborreliosis)isanothertick-bornedisease withinAustraliacanactasavectorforA.phagocytophilumand caused by genus Borrelia in family Spirochaetaceae, order subsequentlytransmitAnaplasmatohumansornot. Spirochaetales, and phylum Spirochates (Paster and Dewhirst, 2000) This spirochete is generally transmitted by Ixodes ticks with life-cycles that involve birds and non-human mammalian Bartonellosis hosts(Chaladaetal.,2016).TheannualincidenceratesofLyme Bartonella is a genus of facultative intracellular, Gram-negative diseaseinEnglandandWalesare<2per100,000(Lorencetal., bacteria belonging to family Bartonellaceae, order Rhizobiales, 2017), whereas that of United States is higher than 300,000 class Alphaproteobacteria, phylum Proteobacteria. The three (CDC, 2017b). According to the USA CDC, this rate is based most common human diseases caused by this genus are onapproximatelyonetenthofactualcaseswithmostremaining Carrion’s disease, cat scratch disease, and trench fever. The undiagnosed or unreported in the United States. Importantly, pathogenic agents of these diseases are Bartonella bacilliformis, there is no convincing evidence for the presence of locally Bartonella henselae, and Bartonella quintana, respectively. The acquiredLymediseaseinAustralia.Thediseasecanbetypically only information about incidence of bartonellosis belongs to initiated with an erythema migrans rash (bull’s eye) at the cat scratch disease in United States (94 cases/million people) place of tick bite followed by arthritis, influenza-like signs, and between2005and2013(Nelsonetal.,2016).Thesediseasesare neurologicaldisorders(Chaladaetal.,2016). transmitted when humans are scratched by domestic or feral The causative Borrelia species are classified in the Borrelia cats or by contact with arthropods including body louse, fleas, burgdorferi sensu
