REVIEW
KEYWORDS: australia, ticks, tick, humans, fever, tick-borne, pathogens, species, human, disease, reported, holocyclus, transmitted, virus, including


was transmitted from infected rabbits to in 41.9% of all Australian collected ticks. In addition, ELISA, thoseticks(Kharbovetal.,1981).ThreespeciesofHaemaphysalis immunofluorescence,andwesternblottingrevealedthatatleast ticks (H. bancrofti, H. longicornis, H. novaeguineae) and two four bacterial isolates had similar antigenic epitopes with B. species of Rhipicephalus ticks (R. australis, R. sanguineus) can burgdorferi. Crucially, however, the identity of isolates was not attach to and feed on humans in Australia. Despite these facts, confirmed using PCR or further sequencing (Wills and Barry, theroleofticksasvectorsofB.pseudomalleihasbeenextensively 1991). ignoredinAustralia.Therefore,itiscrucialtovalidatetheseticks In another Australian study, 12,000 ticks consisting of H. orotherAustralianhuman-bitingticksfortheirabilitytoactas bancrofti, H. longicornis, and I. holocyclus were collected from vectorsforthispathogen. the New South Wales coast and their midguts were cultured on BSK-II media. In 92 cultures straight, rigid, non-motile Tularemia SLOs were detected. Further studies using electron microscopy Tularemiaisre-emerginginmanypartsofworld.Unfortunately, (EM) indicated aggregates of bacterial flagellae in SLOs. Of there is no report of tularemia frequency in Australian these, 18 SLOs showed positive binding results of polyclonal population;however,itiscurrentlyconsideredasaninfrequent B. burgdorferi antibodies; however, no isolates showed positive diseaseintheSouthernHemisphere.AmongEuropeancountries, binding of monoclonal B. burgdorferi antibodies (Russell et al., the highest incidence rate of 52/million belonged to Kozovo FrontiersinCellularandInfectionMicrobiology|www.frontiersin.org 10 January2019|Volume9|Article3 Dehhaghietal. Tick-BorneDiseasesinAustralia FIGURE5|LifecycleofBorreliaintickIxodesspp. during 2001–2010. It was followed by (per million people) In 2011, a case of infection with F. tularensis holarctica that Sweden, 28; Finland, 11.9; Slovakia, 10.0; Czech Republic, 8.1; was transmitted through bites of an infected ringtail possum Norway,4.2;Serbia-Montenegro,4.0;Hungry,3.6;Bulgaria,2.1; in Tasmania was reported . Six years later, and Croatia, 1.5. The rate for United States is 0.5–5 for same F. tularensis holarctica was isolated from ringtail possums in numberofpopulation(Gürcan,2014). Sydney . Additionally, two Francisella spp. Tularemia is caused by bacterium Francisella tularensis were separately isolated from two infected women in Australia or its subspecies. The genus Francisella is a member and both isolates were identified as Francisella hispaniensis of family Francisellaceae in order Thiotrichales, class (Whipp et al., 2003; Aravena Román et al., 2015). These Gammaproteobacteria, and phylum Proteobacteria. There studies proved the presence of Francisella spp. in New South arefoursubspeciesofthisaerobic,facultative,intracellular,non- Wales, Northern Territory, Tasmania, and Western Australia motile, non-spore forming, Gram-negative bacterium, namely, at least since 2003. The known tick vectors for tularemia F. tularensis tularensis (type A), F. tularensis holarctica (type are Amblyomma americanum, Dermacentor andersoni, and Dermacentor variabilis. Although these ticks are not present in B), F. tularensis mediasiatica, and F. tularensis novicida. Where Australia, ringtail possums are hosts for some ticks that bite present,itisahighlycontagiouspathogenindomesticanimals humans e.g., I. hirsti and
