REVIEW
KEYWORDS: australia, ticks, tick, humans, fever, tick-borne, pathogens, species, human, disease, reported, holocyclus, transmitted, virus, including


ticks are not present in B), F. tularensis mediasiatica, and F. tularensis novicida. Where Australia, ringtail possums are hosts for some ticks that bite present,itisahighlycontagiouspathogenindomesticanimals humans e.g., I. hirsti and I. holocyclus. Therefore, researchers and humans. It persists in soil and water and ubiquitously must thoroughly evaluatetheseticksfor theirabilitytoacquire occurs in arthropod vectors as well as wildlife. Tularemia may endemicFrancisellaspp.fromringtailpossumsandthentransmit be transmitted through direct contact, ingestion or inhalation, them to humans. Additionally, it will be important to evaluate and indirectly through bites of infected deer flies, ticks, or whether additional animals, such as kangaroos or domestic eveninfectedanimal.Thediseaseiscategorizedintosixgroups animals, may act as possible hosts for Francisella sp. as well as of glandular, oculoglandular, oropharyngeal, pneumonic, thepossibilityofindirecttransmissiontohumansbytickswhich typhoidal, and ulceroglandular (CDC, 2017a). Symptoms may inAustraliathathavebothhumansandtheseanimalsashosts. appear 3–5 days after exposure and include abdominal pain, anorexia,chestdiscomfort,cough,chills,diarrhea,fatigue,fever, headache, malaise, myalgia, sore throat, and vomiting. The VIRAL TICK-BORNE INFECTIONS bite of an infected tick or animal causes an ulceroglandular form of tularemia, in which pain and inflammation develops Arboviruses(arthropod-borneviruses)areamajorpublichealth at the bite site accompanied by enlargement of nearby lymph concern in Australia, with more than 75 arboviruses identified nodes. In Australia, the ringtail possum (Pseudocheirus inAustralia,someofwhichareassociatedwithhumandiseases, peregrinus) is, so far proven to be, the only natural host of and are almost exclusively female mosquito-borne (Russell and tularemia. Dwyer, 2000; Smith et al., 2011). Dera Ghazi Khan virus FrontiersinCellularandInfectionMicrobiology|www.frontiersin.org 11 January2019|Volume9|Article3 Dehhaghietal. Tick-BorneDiseasesinAustralia (DGKV), I. holocyclus Iflavirus (IhIV), Lake Clarendon virus V). UPOV extensively infects African green monkey kidney, (LCV),SaumarezReefvirus(SREV),Upoluvirus(UPOV),and baby hamster kidney, human embryonic kidney 293 and is Vinegar Hill virus (VINHV) are, to date, the only reported lethaltonewbornmicewheninoculatedintracerebrally(Doherty viruses endemic in Australia that have been isolated from et al., 1969; Briese et al., 2014). Despite the apparent lack human-biting ticks. DGKV was isolated from Argas robertsi of pathogenicity factor, UPOV can cause disease in humans. in Darwin (Northern Territory), whereas LCV and VINHV Furthermore,anovelThogotovirusmember,Bourbonvirus,was were independently taken from the same tick species that most likely transmitted by tick bite to a healthy man on North were attached to and fed on the eastern subspecies cattle America and took his life within 11 days under medical care egrets (Bubulcus ibis coromandus) and the western cattle egrets due to cardiopulmonary arrest . He was (Bubulcusibis)atGattoninsouth-eastQueensland,respectively unresponsive to doxycycline therapy and showed fatigue, fever, (Dohertyetal.,1976;StGeorgeetal.,1984;Gaucietal.,2017). multiorganfailure,leukopenia,andthrombocytopenia. LCV belongs to genus Orbivirus, family Reoviridae (double- Despite the isolation of all the aforementioned arboviruses stranded RNA virus). DGKV and VINHV
