REVIEW
KEYWORDS: australia, ticks, tick, humans, fever, tick-borne, pathogens, species, human, disease, reported, holocyclus, transmitted, virus, including


doxycycline therapy and showed fatigue, fever, (Dohertyetal.,1976;StGeorgeetal.,1984;Gaucietal.,2017). multiorganfailure,leukopenia,andthrombocytopenia. LCV belongs to genus Orbivirus, family Reoviridae (double- Despite the isolation of all the aforementioned arboviruses stranded RNA virus). DGKV and VINHV consist of three more than 35 years ago, no information on their pathogenicity negative-sense, single-stranded RNA that classified in genus for humans is available. RNA viruses are abundant infectious Orthonairovirus, family Nairoviridae, and order Bunyavirales. agents that can be transmitted by about 10% of all species It is worthy of mention that the genus Orthonairovirus of tick in the world, owning to highly specific nature of includesseveralvirusesthatareassociatedwithsevereinfections the relationships among viruses, ticks, and vertebrate hosts. in humans or other vertebrate hosts like Crimean-Congo RNA viruses result in more fatalities than tick-borne microbes. haemorrhagicfeverandNairobisheepdisease.SREVandUPOV Therefore,comprehensivesurveillancesandcharacterizationsof were independently isolated from O. capensis associated with these viruses to carefully monitor their potential as emerging sootyterns(Onychoprionfuscatus)oncoralcaysofftheeastcoast pathogens in regard to virus survival and its ability to replicate ofQueenslandandonUpoluCayinacoralatollofGreatBarrier and infect both tick and human cells are crucial. Metagenomic ReefinQueensland,respectively(Georgeetal.,1977). sequencingtechnologynowoffersawayofeffectivelyscreening SREVwasalsoisolatedfromIxodeseudyptidisassociatedwith samplesforthepresenceofpotentialtick-bornehumanviruses. adeadsilvergull(Chroicocephalusnovaehollandiae)inNorthern The potentially serious health consequences of infection with Tasmania. However, as I. eudyptidis does not attach to and these viruses highlights the vital need for comprehensive SREV belongs to genus Flavivirus in the family Flaviviridae causedbythem,asmoreinvestigationisrequiredtodetermine that possesses positive-sense single-stranded RNA. The genus theirpotentialtobeemergingpathogens. Flavivirusincludesarbovirusessuchasdenguevirus,tick-borne encephalitis virus (TBEV), yellow fever virus, Zika virus, and OTHER TICK-BORNE DISEASES WestNilevirusthatcancausesevereillnessesinhumans. Tick-borne encephalitis (TBE) is caused by TBEV that is Babesiosis transmitted by consumption of unpasteurized/raw milk as well Among more than 100 Babesia spp. reported worldwide, only as bites of Ixodes ticks, although there is no evidence that it a few species including B. divergens, B. duncani, B. microti, exists in Australia aside from those who have been infected and B. MO-1 can cause disease in humans. Of these, B. overseas.TBEisasystemicdiseaseofhumans,withapronounced divergens and B. microti have been identified in most human effect on the central nervous system, and complications are babesiosis. In Australia, B. duncani and B. microti have been not unusual (Brown, 1994). The virus may access the central identified through sequencing and/or serology (Sanjaya et al., nervous system by either haematogenous or neuronal routes. 2012). The genus Babesia is classified in family Babesiidae, Since its first isolation in 1937, three virus sub-types have been order Piroplasmida, class Aconoidasida, phylum Apicomplexa. described; namely, European or Western TBEV, Far eastern Thisprotozoanistransmittedbyticks,mainlyIxodesscapularis TBEV(previouslyknownasRussianSpringSummerencephalitis (not present in Australia), and is the most common cause of
