REVIEW
KEYWORDS: australia, ticks, tick, humans, fever, tick-borne, pathogens, species, human, disease, reported, holocyclus, transmitted, virus, including


sub-types have been order Piroplasmida, class Aconoidasida, phylum Apicomplexa. described; namely, European or Western TBEV, Far eastern Thisprotozoanistransmittedbyticks,mainlyIxodesscapularis TBEV(previouslyknownasRussianSpringSummerencephalitis (not present in Australia), and is the most common cause of virus),andSiberianTBEV(CDC,2014).TBEwascharacterized babesiosis in humans. It can either reproduce asexually in its inanAustralianmanfollowinga6-weektriptravelingthrough mammalianhosterythrocytesorsexuallyinitsarthropodvector. Russia(ChaudhuriandRu˚žek,2013). NoinformationonitsincidencerateinAustraliaorinworldis Iflaviridae is another family that belongs to Group IV available;however,itsincidencerateislowerthanthatofLyme (positive-sense, single-stranded RNA) viruses with Iflavirus as diseasesduetohigherdifficultyindiagnosis,higherproportion i.e., IhIV has been identified from I. holocyclus populations lower tick infection rate, and more restricted geographic range from northern New South Wales and Queensland. Currently, . This protozoan is the parasite of human no human disease has been caused by any members of family red blood cells. Within these cells, trophozoites of B. microti Iflaviridae(O’Brienetal.,2018).Almost50yearsafterisolation reproduce by budding and undergo two successive divisions to of UPOV, an enveloped spherical virus, form Maltese Cross (tetrad morphology). Then, merozoites are provided clear demonstration that UPOV is a member of release into bloodstream, with simultaneous lysis of red blood Thogotovirus in family Orthomyxoviridae. Its genome consists cells, and attach to and invade other red blood cells. Although of six segmentsof negative-sense,single-stranded RNA (Group babesiosis is a well-documented infection of domestic animals FrontiersinCellularandInfectionMicrobiology|www.frontiersin.org 12 January2019|Volume9|Article3 Dehhaghietal. Tick-BorneDiseasesinAustralia including cattle and dogs, there is, to date, only one human reducesthereleaseofacetylcholineatthepresynapticmembrane case has been reported from Australia. The case was identified whichmayleadtoacuteanaphylacticshockandparalysis(Chand on the south coast of New South Wales in 2012 (Sanjaya etal.,2016). et al., 2012). This patient developed cholestatic liver function Tick paralysis extensively occurs in Australia and many disorder, moderate-to-severe thrombocytopenia, pancytopenia researchers have reported human case studies. It is worth with fluctuating anemia, multiorgan failure, and required mentioning that the geographical distribution of such cases is ongoing blood product transfusions as well as haemodialysis. highlyrestrictedtotheenzooticrangeoftheparalysistick.The Thepatientdidnotrecoverfrommultiorganfailure,andsevere most commonly affected group is children 1–5 years of age thrombocytopenia led to acute gastrointestinal bleeding and andinfectedchildrenusuallybecomesubdued,refusefood,and a fatal asystolic arrest . The causative sleepexcessiveperiods(GrattanSmithetal.,1997).Thetypical agentwasconfirmedasB.microtithroughcompleteandpartial presentation is a prodrome with the subsequent development sequencingofthe18SrRNAgene(18SrDNA)andtheβ-tubulin of an unsteady gait followed by ascending, symmetrical, flaccid gene. Asymptomatic parasitaemia is common in babesiosis paralysis(GrattanSmithetal.,1997).Thediseaseischaracterized duringprimaryinfectionand/orfollowingtreatmentofsystemic byearlycranialnerveinvolvement,especially,withthepresence infection (Vannier et al., 2008; Sanjaya et al., 2012). This of both internal and external ophthalmoplegia (Grattan Smith disease is primarily transmitted through the infected tick bites et al., 1997). It is noteworthy that the progress of paralysis (commonly Ixodes spp.) with occasional transmission through commonly continues for 24–48h after removal of Australian thetransfusionofbloodproducts.Unlikeseveralcountriessuch paralysis tick, unlike
