REVIEW
KEYWORDS: australia, ticks, tick, humans, fever, tick-borne, pathogens, species, human, disease, reported, holocyclus, transmitted, virus, including


et al., 1997). It is noteworthy that the progress of paralysis (commonly Ixodes spp.) with occasional transmission through commonly continues for 24–48h after removal of Australian thetransfusionofbloodproducts.Unlikeseveralcountriessuch paralysis tick, unlike the short duration seen with North asUS,bloodproductsarenotscreenedforBabesiainAustralia, American ticks. Therefore, it is crucial to carefully observe whichposethedangeroftransmissionthroughblooddonation the affected child during this period. Since the second-half by unrecognized babesiosis patients (Ngo and Civen, 2009; of the twentieth century, death due to respiratory failure has Government,2018).Patientsmayhavefever,haemolyticanemia, been relatively uncommon if appropriate early diagnosis and influenza-likedisease,andthrombocytopenia.Asplenicstypically supportivemedicalcareareprovided. aresusceptibletoseverelife-threateningillness. No documented fatality has been reported in Australia Babesiosis may be suspected in Australia in patients with a since 1945. Respiratory support may be needed for more historyofoverseastraveltoanendemicarea,withorwithouta than a week (Grattan Smith et al., 1997) and a recovering documentedhistoryoftickbite,orahistoryofbloodtransfusion. child requires several weeks to walk unaided. It should be A tick-borne route was assumed because the parasitaemia was pointed out that currently no study has ever been investigated neithertransfusionrelatednoracquiredoverseas(Sanjayaetal., tick paralysis recovery in a longitudinal pattern. In older 2012). A later study (Storey Lewis et al., 2017) extracted DNA children and adults, the initial symptoms may be difficulty from 1,154 ticks that where collected from across Australia in reading with double vision, nystagmus, or photophobia to characterize Babesia spp. However, no B. microti could be (Sutherland and Tibballs, 2001; Barker and Walker, 2014). identified in these Australian ticks. Only several closely related According to these reports, there is no increase in body sequences to B. macropus were reported from ticks of genera temperature unless the disease is complicated by bacterial Bothriocroton,Haemaphysalis,andIxodes.Therefore,theanimal infection. hostandtickvectorareyettobeidentifiedinAustralia. There have been three exported cases of I. holocyclus attachments reported in the literature, although there are Tick Paralysis probably other cases that have occurred in the past but were Tickparalysisistheonlytick-bornediseasethatisnotattributed not recognized. The first case was a Japanese man traveled to topathogens.Thebiteofasingletickissufficienttoparalyzeone the Gold Coast in Queensland in late 2002 (Inokuma et al., animal.Theinjectionofchemicalcompounds,i.e.,neurotoxins 2003). After his return to Japan, he removed a semi-engorged andparalysisisusuallyduetotheattachmentofanadultfemale female tick that had attached to his scalp 3 days earlier. The I.holocyclus,mostlyinthespringandsummermonths.Larvaof patient developed an illness consistent with SFG rickettsia, but I.holocycluscannotfeedonhumans;however,theirattachments without rash. Serology was positive for antibodies to SFG, but to humans usually cause no more than localized dermatitis. PCR did not detect rickettsia in the tick. The second case For example, a larva of I. holocyclus was found attached to was reported in 2014 from an English right temporal conjunctiva
