REVIEW
KEYWORDS: australia, ticks, tick, humans, fever, tick-borne, pathogens, species, human, disease, reported, holocyclus, transmitted, virus, including


not detect rickettsia in the tick. The second case For example, a larva of I. holocyclus was found attached to was reported in 2014 from an English right temporal conjunctiva of a 10-year-old boy from Sydney travelerreturningbacktoLondonfromEastcoastofAustralia. in New South Wales . The only symptoms She displayed swelling and a small black lump in the groin developedwereeyeitchandconjunctivalvesseldilatationaround area. The ticks were finally discovered and removed from her the organism. In contrast to larva, nymphs and to a greater lower leg. Two years later, a paralysis tick was attached to a extent female I. holocyclus, frequently attach to humans and woman’srighttemporalregionofscalpfollowingatriptoSydney afterseveraldayscanabundantlyfeedandengorge(Barkerand . She presented to a Singapore Emergency offeeding,sufficientchemicalcompoundsincludingneurotoxins swollen skin tag over her right temporal region, that proved (holocyclotoxin), secreted by female tick salivary glands, are to be a female adult I. holocyclus tick. She developed motor injected into hosts. The neurotoxin may bind to the location and sensory changes with weakness in the distribution of the where nerves meet muscles, i.e., neuromuscular junction and temporal branch of the facial nerve with dysesthesiae over FrontiersinCellularandInfectionMicrobiology|www.frontiersin.org 13 January2019|Volume9|Article3 Dehhaghietal. Tick-BorneDiseasesinAustralia scalp in the sensory distribution of that nerve (Pek et al., thatarenotamenabletosimpleregulation,suchastourism,trade, 2016). birdoranimalmigration. Aside from pathogen transmission, there are an increasing CONCLUSIONS number of allergic, inflammatory and potentially autoimmune illnesses attributed to tick bites. I. holocyclus, O. capensis, and The Australian climatic and environmental conditions provide O.gurneyiarethreetickspeciesthattriggersuchcomplications suitable conditions for many ticks. Australia is known to be in humans and are also present in Australia. Currently, only endemicfor70oftheknown896tickspecies.Atleast17species some areas in Northern Territory and South Australia may be of Australian ticks attach to and feed on domestic animals and freefromhuman-bitingticksandtick-bornediseases.Tick-borne humans.Althoughhumansareaccidentalhostsformanyofthese infections and illness have been reported in all other states not appear to contribute to Australia’s overall communicable new disease threats associated with tick-bite, all of which diseaseburden,thisperceptionmustbere-examinedusingnew can only be countered by improving our knowledge of the laboratory and epidemiological tools that we now have at our ticks, the pathogens and the epidemiology of tick bite and its disposal. Against a true baseline estimate of the burden of consequences. There is an urgent need for a comprehensive illness associated with tick bite, we can then prepare for the study to determine the role of Australian human-biting ticks future when changes in climate, lifestyle, human and animal in the transmission of emerging pathogens to humans in populationswillinvariablyimpactonthelikelihoodthattickbite Australia. willlikelyincreaseinmanypartsofAustralia.Introducedspecies of ticks, many of which harbor pathogens not previously
