Sequence-based detection of emerging
KEYWORDS: antigenic, niavid, data, cluster, influenza, figure, physico-chemical, validation, transitions, transition, material, supplementary material, electronic, supplementary, electronic supplementary


during routine surveillance, it should not be assumed that there will always be sufficient mutant strains from large samples for effective supervised antigenicity prediction. Thus, despite abundant genetic data about cocirculating viruses, one might not be able to perform antigenic assays on these strains due to their low presence. As genomic surveillance continues to expand, this challenge will become increasingly prominent. If sufficiently accurate, unsupervised learning approaches would not only be independent of inhibition assay measurements but would also be more robust to smaller datasets and imbalances in the frequency of antigenic cluster-to-non-cluster transitions, particularly in instances where antigenicity is modelled as a binary outcome of few antigenic transitions compared with more non-antigenic transitions. We, therefore, propose that since evolutionary innovations that result in a cluster transition are comparatively rare, even with extensive differences within antigenic clusters , one should view the identification of novel variants as a kind of anomaly detection within an unsupervised learning framework. Isolation forests and one-class support vector machines (SVMs) are examples of unsupervised learning methods that have been used extensively in other domains to detect anomalies without mapping to a targeted outcome during model development . In the biological sciences, these techniques have been used extensively for the structural and functional characterization of proteins. For instance, a previous study suggests that scaling unsupervised learning to 250 million protein sequences could reveal biological structure and function using only sequence data . However, such powerful techniques have not yet been applied to virus variant detection, even for benchmark datasets. A review of computational tools used to predict influenza phenotype identified only one study that characterized antigenicity using unlabelled data . Further, noting that protein fold recognition and structural class predictions were made using modelled physico-chemical properties calculated from amino acid sequences , we hypothesize that an unsupervised algorithm that makes use of HA1 amino acid sequences and associated physico-chemical properties could enable rapid detection of new antigenic variants of the H3N2 virus. For this reason, we considered five physico-chemical properties—the Boman’s index, isoelectric point, hydrophobicity, electrostatic charge and instability index—of mechanistic relevance to viral antigenicity . The Boman’s index estimates the potential of peptides/proteins to bind to other proteins . The isoelectric point is the pH at which a protein carries no net electrical charge, relevant to antigenicity as isoelectricity affects the interaction of proteins with other molecules . Hydrophobicity, the tendency of protein regions to
