Sequence-based detection of emerging
KEYWORDS: antigenic, niavid, data, cluster, influenza, figure, physico-chemical, validation, transitions, transition, material, supplementary material, electronic, supplementary, electronic supplementary


at which a protein carries no net electrical charge, relevant to antigenicity as isoelectricity affects the interaction of proteins with other molecules . Hydrophobicity, the tendency of protein regions to repel water, influences protein folding and stability, crucial for the formation of antigenic determinants by exposing or masking potential epitopes . Electrostatic charge affects the formation of immune complexes, with charge interactions influencing the antigenicity . Lastly, the instability index predicts the in vivo half-life and thermostability of proteins, impacting their degradation and the presentation of antigenic peptides, key for initiating immune responses . Here, we report on an unsupervised influenza prediction tool—Novel Influenza Virus A Detector (NIAViD) (figure 1)—that takes these physico-chemical covariates derived from HA1 amino acid sequences as input and returns a binary antigenic transition/antigenic non-transition label for each viral sequence. With NIAViD, we model the evolving set of antigenic clusters to demonstrate the sequence-based detection of emerging antigenically novel influenza A (H3N2) viruses. By leveraging existing sequenced-based data streams, our tool can efficiently complement routine virological surveillance for vaccine strain selection. To familiarize readers with the technical terminology used throughout this article, we have provided a glossary of key specialists’ terms in electronic supplementary material, table S1. 2. Results NIAViD is a process (figure 1) to predict the antigenic transition of influenza isolates from five physico-chemical covariates calculated directly from HA1 sequence data (the Boman’s index, isoelectric point, hydrophobicity, electrostatic charge and an instability index) and does not depend on other assay scores (e.g. HAI, FRA and HINT) . To demonstrate the NIAViD process, we used the 273 H3N2 isolates reported in the classic study of Smith et al. , which have become a benchmark to compare influenza antigenicity prediction algorithms . The trends from 1968 to 2003 in each virus physico-chemical covariate are shown in figure 2 and are statistically different from a randomized sample of the same sequences (i.e. all non-parametric Wilcoxon rank-sum test p-values comparing the physico-chemical trends are <0.05) (electronic supplementary material, appendix S1, table S2 and figure S1). Our pipeline successfully anticipated the majority of antigenic transitions over this time span. Estimated sensitivity (true- positive rate) on the training data was 88.9% (95% CI, 56.5−98.0%), which compares favourably to the performance on a royalsocietypublishing.org/journal/rspb Proc. R. Soc. B 291: (a) (b) (f) HA1 protein sequences NIAViD training and validation (c) (d) Physico-chemical properties (e) Trained NIAViD predictive model Physico-chemical properties Transitions
