Sequence-based detection of emerging
KEYWORDS: antigenic, niavid, data, cluster, influenza, figure, physico-chemical, validation, transitions, transition, material, supplementary material, electronic, supplementary, electronic supplementary


on a royalsocietypublishing.org/journal/rspb Proc. R. Soc. B 291: (a) (b) (f) HA1 protein sequences NIAViD training and validation (c) (d) Physico-chemical properties (e) Trained NIAViD predictive model Physico-chemical properties Transitions Figure 1. NIAViD is a model for detecting antigenic transitions in influenza A (H3N2) without knowledge of cluster identity. This figure illustrates the computational workflow used to fit and validate NIAViD. Input data for NIAViD are the amino acids at 329 positions from the HA1 region of the haemagglutinin protein for isolates in the data (a). For each isolate, we calculate the average over the 329 amino acid sites for each of five physico-chemical properties—hydrophobicity, isoelemctric point, Boman’s index, electric charge and a measure of instability—which constitute the m × 5 prediction matrix P (c). Prior to model training, isolates were randomly assigned to training and validation datasets after stratifying by cluster. The training was performed iteratively by sequentially introducing each isolate into the analysis (f). With each iteration, outlier detection was used to assign an anomaly score for the new isolate with respect to all prior isolates. Isolates that receive a high anomaly score at their first appearance are considered candidates for antigenic transition, i.e. the appearance of a new antigenic cluster. We perform the validation by constructing a sample from all datasets with the validation isolate withheld. Thus, for validation (but not for training), we require information on the antigenic cluster C (d) to which each isolate belongs, obtained from haemagglutinin inhibition assays (b). For each isolate in the validation data, the cluster identity is examined and compared with all prior isolates in the validation data. If the cluster is new, then that isolate is labelled a ‘validation transition’. Otherwise, it is not a transition. For non-transitions, the input data are all the training data together with any validation data from prior iterations of the validation. For validation transitions, the input data are all the training data less any isolates from the cluster to be predicted (because the model cannot have seen any information on a new cluster) together with any validation data from prior iterations of the validation (f). The mapping produces a binary output (e). This output can be compared with the true transitions and non-transitions in a confusion matrix. See electronic supplementary material for the pseudocode. null model (33.3%, 95% CI, 12.1−64.6%; table 1 and figure 3a). (Detailed methods are provided in electronic supplementary material,
