Sequence-based detection of emerging
KEYWORDS: antigenic, niavid, data, cluster, influenza, figure, physico-chemical, validation, transitions, transition, material, supplementary material, electronic, supplementary, electronic supplementary


The five physico-chemical covariates of influenza virus A (H3N2) virus HA1 sequences are plotted against the year of isolation, with the 11 antigenic clusters marked by distinct colours and the two cluster transitions marked by different shapes. The horizontal black line in each panel represents the rolling average of each physico-chemical property, calculated using a rolling window of 10 influenza A viruses. royalsocietypublishing.org/journal/rspb Proc. R. Soc. B 291: Table 1. The number of cluster transitions to be predicted and four terms used in quantifying the predictions. 5 novel influenza A virus detector (NIAViD) null model training phase validation phase transition clusters to predict 9 9 11 TP 3 8 8 FN 6 1 3 FP 62 57 8 TN 132 137 36 The four terms include: TP—the antigenic transitions identified correctly. FN—the antigenic transitions identified incorrectly. FP—the antigenic non-transitions identified as transitions. TN—the antigenic non-transitions identified correctly. The null model for isolation forest and one-class SVM is the model for which the antigenic transitions have been assigned randomly. FN, false negatives; FP, false positives; SVM, support vector machine; TN, true negatives; TP, true positives. 3. Discussion A key challenge for seasonal influenza surveillance and response is the sensitive and rapid identification of novel antigenic clusters. We have shown that antigenic cluster transitions in influenza A (H3N2) viruses can be anticipated from calculable, sequence-based physico-chemical properties and amino acid substitutions in the HA1 protein. In fact, physico-chemical properties outperform (in the training phase), and at least match (in the validation phase) the perform- ance of a model built on the counts of amino acid changes in HA1 (electronic supplementary material, appendix S1 and figure S8). Furthermore, unlike these amino acid counts that depend on a suitable and meaningful reference virus, the physico-chemical properties can be extracted from independent viral isolates. Another notable characteristic of influenza viruses is the glycosylation in the globular head of the HA1 proteins. While these glycosylation sites are important in the immune escape of HIN1 viruses , our study indicated no notable relationship between acquisition or loss of glycosylation and antigenic cluster transition in the H3N2 viruses we investigated in this study (electronic supplementary material, appendix S1 and figure S9). A reliable unsupervised tool like NIAViD that detects antigenically novel viral strains could be used to aid vaccine formulation or pandemic preparedness planning. Moreover, NIAViD could serve as a cost-effective complement to deep mutational scanning and reverse
