Sequence-based detection of emerging
KEYWORDS: antigenic, niavid, data, cluster, influenza, figure, physico-chemical, validation, transitions, transition, material, supplementary material, electronic, supplementary, electronic supplementary


detects antigenically novel viral strains could be used to aid vaccine formulation or pandemic preparedness planning. Moreover, NIAViD could serve as a cost-effective complement to deep mutational scanning and reverse genetics , streamlining the process by pinpoint- ing specific viral strains for further laboratory testing and validation. NIAViD detected 8 out of the 11 antigenic cluster transitions identified by 2002. The high sensitivity of NIAViD could be valuable for decision contexts where the cost of false negatives is high (e.g. pandemic response). Impressively, the sensitivity estimates obtained with our unsupervised approach are comparable to those reported in studies where supervised learning was employed [4,7–9,38,39]. NIAViD also quantifies the contribution of different biological drivers of antigenic transitions and once we account for specific antigenic transitions, none of the physico-chemical properties individually dominate the transition process. Thus, the global (i.e. full dataset) biological inference might be masking subtle changes in the physico-chemical properties driving individual antigenic transition. Mutations, driving these physico-chemical changes, enhancing the fusion of the full viral HA sequences to cell membranes have been previously identified as novel mechanisms through which the influenza A virus escapes antibody neutralization . Also, the importance of the Boman’s index, which measures the protein–pro- tein interaction within the HA1 protein and not with a receptor, suggests that characterization of antigenicity should focus on these interunit interactions especially when interactions with HA2 are considered . Future iterations of this work could further explore these HA2 interactions. Our discovery that certain amino acid sites on the HA1 sequence are highly predictive of antigenic transition is corroborated by Koel et al. . However, we also identify additional sites that warrant further investigation (i.e. residues 54, 62, 137, 143, 146, 160, 244, 248, 260 and 307). While these findings provide insight into population averages, we caution that NIAViD does not account for individual-level immune dynamics which are known to play a role in viral antigenicity . One recent study shows how dynamic interactions of immune components may drive cyclic patterns of immunity, including antibodies . Furthermore, within-cluster antigenic differences have been well characterized in previous studies suggesting that other factors, including host immune history and seasonal patterns not captured in our process might also be contributing to viral antigenic evolution. Nonetheless, NIAViD shows that sequence-based approaches to understanding influenza A antigenic evolution can be successful even without antigenic labelling of individual viral isolates. Supervised learning approaches, such as
