Sequence-based detection of emerging
KEYWORDS: antigenic, niavid, data, cluster, influenza, figure, physico-chemical, validation, transitions, transition, material, supplementary material, electronic, supplementary, electronic supplementary


antigenic evolution. Nonetheless, NIAViD shows that sequence-based approaches to understanding influenza A antigenic evolution can be successful even without antigenic labelling of individual viral isolates. Supervised learning approaches, such as deep neural network models, have been demonstrated to be effective in accurately predicting HI titres of influenza A (H3N2) viruses using only sequence information . We chose to exclude modelled HI titres as NIAViD covariates due to an ongoing shift away from measuring HI titres for virus characterization. Our unsupervised approach with NIAViD, which uses only HA1 sequences, has shown some decrease in performance over time, which may be attributed to changes in the viral population or emergence of new strains not included in the data . In fact, further analysis (electronic supplementary material, appendix S1 and figure S10) shows that NIAViD is robust to historical depth for prediction confirming that the process depends on the signals from all viruses irrespective of the time they were first identified. This suggests the physico-chemical features capture intrinsic antigenic properties rather than time-dependent epidemiological patterns, enabling generalization across historical periods. Thus, re-emphasizing the need to periodically update NIAViD to royalsocietypublishing.org/journal/rspb Proc. R. Soc. B 291: expand its training data with new strains when they become available. Nonetheless, the model still detects antigenic transitions, even before they persist in the population, further demonstrating that NIAViD is a potentially powerful tool for the detection and characterization of influenza A antigenicity even in the presence of considerable temporal heterogeneity. As further analysis with the more recent data show, earlier H3N2 antigenic evolution presented punctuated cluster transi- tions that enabled optimistic model validation, recent years show less-defined groupings with the corresponding decrease in validation performance. With blurring boundaries, binary transition classification becomes more challenging. Assessing incremental viral novelty along an antigenic continuum may be more appropriate in future framework expansions. Nonethe- less, NIAViD demonstrated reliable identification of outliers in earlier periods with improved discriminability. Ongoing updates by integrating additional sequenced isolates will likely enhance the detection of emerging viral variants. Finally, while we fitted NIAViD using both isolation forests and a one-class SVM, other unsupervised learning methods could further improve the performance of NIAViD. For instance, more recent anomaly detection models such as Empirical- Cumulative-distribution-based Outlier Detection warrant future testing in NIAViD . NIAViD can be effectively applied to a wide range of influenza A (H3N2) viral sequences without the need for significant modifications or fine-tuning. Therefore,
