Sequence-based detection of emerging
KEYWORDS: antigenic, niavid, data, cluster, influenza, figure, physico-chemical, validation, transitions, transition, material, supplementary material, electronic, supplementary, electronic supplementary


warrant future testing in NIAViD . NIAViD can be effectively applied to a wide range of influenza A (H3N2) viral sequences without the need for significant modifications or fine-tuning. Therefore, in future work, we will seek to confirm the robustness of NIAViD using other datasets. Perhaps, models with data-agnostic hyperparameters could improve the performance of NIAViD . Overall, the ability to incorporate different unsupervised learning models is a powerful feature of NIAViD (the pseudocode is provided in electronic supplementary material, appendix S1 and text S3, S4 and S5), as it allows the tool to incorporate improved unsupervised learners as they become available. In conclusion, as proof-of-concept we have shown that cluster transitions in influenza A (H3N2) antigenicity can be rapidly and sensitively detected using NIAViD without explicitly modelling haemagglutinin inhibition. We suggest that NIAViD be used to help interpret and inform influenza surveillance in both seasonal and pandemic settings. erocs ecnamrofreP Model: Null Training phase Validation phase (a) (b) 1.00 0.75 0.50 0.25 0.00 AUC ytivitisneS 1.00 0.75 0.50 0.25 0.00 F Measure Precision Sensitivity/ 0.00 0.25 0.50 0.75 1.00 Recall 1-Specificity Figure 3. The null, training and validation performance of NIAViD. Panel (a) shows the mean performance of NIAViD, along with 95% CIs, as measured by the AUC, F measure, precision and sensitivity/recall. The AUC represents the correlation between true-positive and false-positive rates, with values ranging from 0.5 (50%) to 1.0 (100%), where 0.5 (50%) indicates no better than random prediction and 1.0 (100%) indicates perfect agreement between predicted and observed antigenic transitions. The F measure is the harmonic mean of the precision and recall. Panel (b) shows the ROC curves for the null, training and validation phase performances, with the separate phases marked by distinct colours. The diagonal (broken) line on the ROC reflects theoretical performance that is no better than chance, with uncorrelated antigenic transition status. ROC, receiver operating characteristic. royalsocietypublishing.org/journal/rspb Proc. R. Soc. B 291: 4. Material and methods (a) Physico-chemical covariates Physico-chemical properties of protein sequences can often be associated with these proteins’ functions . We calculated physico-chemical covariates from HA1 sequences via the seqinr and Peptide packages in R v. 4.2.0 . These R packages enable the extraction of physico-chemical properties from individual amino acid sequences. All values were normalized (i.e. 0 mean and unit variance) to ensure that the predicted relationship to antigenic transition was not influenced by the scale of each covariate.
