Sequence-based detection of emerging
KEYWORDS: antigenic, niavid, data, cluster, influenza, figure, physico-chemical, validation, transitions, transition, material, supplementary material, electronic, supplementary, electronic supplementary


acid sequences. All values were normalized (i.e. 0 mean and unit variance) to ensure that the predicted relationship to antigenic transition was not influenced by the scale of each covariate. We assigned antigenic transition outcomes to each influenza isolate based on these covariates. (See electronic supplementary material, appendix S1 for more information.) (b) Data preprocessing and modelling Influenza A (H3N2) virus HA1 sequence data and cluster identity were obtained from Smith et al. . Clusters are named after the first vaccine strain in the cluster and include information about the location and year of isolation, in chronological order HK68, EN72, VI75, TX77, BK79, SI87, BE89, BE92, WU95, SY97 and FU02. Before training models, we stratified the data by antigenic cluster and randomly assigned isolates to the training and validation datasets (see electronic supplementary material, appendix S1 and text S1). We then randomly sampled 80% of isolates without replacement within each antigenic cluster (HK68, EN72, VI75, TX77, BK79, SI87, BE89, BE92, WU95, SY97 and FU02) to create the training set; the remaining 20% from each cluster were retained for validation. Then, isolates belonging to each cluster were ordered by year (the lowest chronological resolution available for the Smith et al. data). One isolate randomly selected in the earliest year of each cluster was notionally designated an antigenic transition with other isolates designated as non-transitions (see figure 1 and electronic supplementary material, appendix S1, test S2). (c) Anomaly detection To detect outlying isolates and identify candidates for antigenic transition (i.e. the appearance of a new antigenic cluster), we trained NIAViD by sequentially adding each isolate to the analysis and used isolation forest and one-class SVMs (electronic supplementary material, appendix S1 and text S3) for outlier detection and biological inference, respectively (electronic supplementary material, appendix S1 and text S3). Isolation forest is a method for detecting anomalies that does not use a distance or density measure, while one-class SVM uses a distance metric to learn a hyperplane between normal and anomalous data points . The isolation forest performed better at detecting antigenic transitions, so for outlier detection, we present results for NIAViD fitted with isolation forest. In isolation forests, the anomaly score is calculated as the average path length for a sample over all the trees in the forest, with shorter path lengths corresponding to higher anomaly scores . However, to evaluate inferential performance for amino acid substitutions, we fitted NIAViD with one-class
