Sequence-based detection of emerging
KEYWORDS: antigenic, niavid, data, cluster, influenza, figure, physico-chemical, validation, transitions, transition, material, supplementary material, electronic, supplementary, electronic supplementary


previously validated in the literature . Ethics. This work did not require ethical approval from a human subject or animal welfare committee. Data accessibility. All data are publicly available from Smith et al. , Han et al. and electronic supporting material, S1 appendix. The data files are publicly available at . The related software files are being hosted by Zenodo at . Supplementary material is available online . Declaration of AI use. We have not used AI-assisted technologies in creating this article. Authors’ contributions. A.F.: conceptualization, data curation, formal analysis, methodology, project administration, validation, visualization, writing —original draft, writing—review and editing; K.B.W.: data curation, formal analysis, writing—review and editing; L.D.: data curation, formal analysis; N.H.: investigation, project administration, writing—review and editing; R.K.: conceptualization, funding acquisition, investigation, project administration, resources, writing—review and editing; J.B.: conceptualization, funding acquisition, investigation, methodology, project administration, resources, supervision, validation, writing—review and editing; J.D.: conceptualization, formal analysis, funding acquisition, investigation, methodology, project administration, resources, validation, visualization, writing—review and editing; P.R.: conceptualization, data curation, formal analysis, funding acquisition, investigation, methodology, project administration, resources, supervision, validation, visualization, writing—review and editing. All authors gave final approval for publication and agreed to be held accountable for the work performed therein. Conflict of interest declaration. The findings and conclusions in this report are those of the authors and do not necessarily represent the official position of the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. The authors declare no competing interest. Funding. This work is funded by the US CDC (Centers for Disease Control and Prevention) through the Genomics-based system to predict the seasonal influenza virus evolution and epidemic dominance Study Grant BAA 75D301-21-R-71738 (Contracts 75D30119C06826 and 75D30121C11990). J.B., J.M.D. and P.R. also received support from the Center for Applied Pathogen Genomics (NU50CK000626). P.R. was Acknowledgements. We thank Dr. Christian E. Gunning, Dr. Tobias Brett, Dr. Deven Gokhale, Omid Arhami and Dr. Shahid Nadim Sheikh for useful discussion and comments. We thank Eric Marty for support with data visualization.
