Complications of Acute Coronary Syndromes
KEYWORDS: ventricular, atrial, infarction, patients, left, usually, left ventricular, myocardial, heart, fibrillation, block, hypotension, myocardial infarction, failure, tachycardia


Numerous complications can occur as a result of an acute coronary syndrome and increase morbidity and mortality. Complications can be roughly categorized as Electrical dysfunction (conduction disturbance, arrhythmias) Mechanical dysfunction (heart failure, myocardial rupture or aneurysm, papillary muscle dysfunction) Thrombotic complications (recurrent coronary ischemia, mural thrombosis) Inflammatory complications (pericarditis, post-myocardial infarction syndrome) Electrical dysfunction occurs in > 90% of patients with myocardial infarction (MI) (see also Arrhythmias and Conduction Disorders). Electrical dysfunction that commonly causes mortality in the first 72 hours includes tachycardia (from any focus) rapid enough to reduce cardiac output and lower blood pressure, Mobitz type II block (second degree) or complete (third degree) atrioventricular (AV) block, ventricular tachycardia (VT), and ventricular fibrillation (VF). Asystole is uncommon, except as a terminal manifestation of progressive left ventricular failure and shock. Patients with disturbances of cardiac rhythm are evaluated for hypoxia and electrolyte abnormalities, which can be causative or contributory. Sinus Node Disturbances If the artery supplying the sinus node is affected by an acute coronary syndrome, sinus node disturbances can occur; they are more likely if there is a preexisting sinus node disorder (common among older patients). Sinus bradycardia Sinus bradycardia, the most common sinus node disturbance, is usually not treated unless there is hypotension or the heart rate is < 50 beats/minute. A lower heart rate, if not extreme, means reduced cardiac workload and possibly reduced infarct size. For bradycardia with hypotension (which may reduce myocardial perfusion), atropine 0.5 to 1 mg IV is used; it can be repeated after several minutes if response is inadequate. Several small doses are best because high doses may induce tachycardia. Occasionally, a temporary transvenous pacemaker must be inserted. 1/14 Sinus tachycardia Persistent sinus tachycardia is usually ominous, often reflecting left ventricular failure and low cardiac output. Without heart failure or another evident cause, this arrhythmia may respond to a beta-blocker, given orally or intravenously depending on degree of urgency. Atrial Arrhythmias Atrial arrhythmias (atrial ectopic beats, atrial fibrillation, and, less commonly, atrial flutter) occur in approximately 10 to 20% of patients who have had a myocardial infarction and may reflect left ventricular failure or right atrial infarction (1). Paroxysmal atrial tachycardia is uncommon and usually occurs in patients who have had previous episodes of it. Atrial ectopy is usually benign, but if frequency increases, causes, particularly heart failure, are sought. Frequent atrial ectopic beats may respond to a beta-blocker. Atrial fibrillation
