Complications of Acute Coronary Syndromes
KEYWORDS: ventricular, atrial, infarction, patients, left, usually, left ventricular, myocardial, heart, fibrillation, block, hypotension, myocardial infarction, failure, tachycardia


strategy may not be preferred. However, if atrial fibrillation compromises circulatory status (eg, causing left ventricular failure, hypotension, or chest pain), urgent electrical synchronized cardioversion is done. If atrial fibrillation returns after cardioversion, IV amiodarone should be considered for patients who continue to experience symptoms (eg chest pain) or remain hemodynamically compromised. Atrial flutter For atrial flutter (see also figure Atrial Flutter), rate is controlled as for atrial fibrillation; a heparin (unfractionated or low molecular weight) is required because the risk of thromboembolism is similar to that with atrial fibrillation. Rate control for atrial flutter in patients with acute MI is usually unsatisfactory. Low-energy direct current (DC) synchronized cardioversion will usually terminate atrial flutter. 3/14 Atrial Flutter (Note: Conducted with right bundle branch block.) Conduction Defects Mobitz type I block (Wenckebach block, progressive prolongation of PR interval with eventual dropped beats) is relatively common with an inferior-diaphragmatic infarction (see figure Mobitz Type I Second- Degree Atrioventricular Block); it is usually self-limited and rarely progresses to higher grade block. 4/14 Classic Mobitz Type I Second-Degree Atrioventricular Block The PR interval progressively lengthens with each beat until the atrial impulse is not conducted and the QRS complex is dropped (Wenckebach phenomenon); atrioventricular nodal conduction resumes with the next beat, which has the shortest PR interval, and the sequence is repeated. Mobitz type II block (dropped beats) usually indicates massive anterior myocardial infarction, as does complete heart block with wide QRS complexes (atrial impulses do not reach the ventricle); both are uncommon. Frequency of third degree atrioventricular (complete) block depends on site of infarction (see figure Third-Degree Atrioventricular Block). Complete AV block occurs in 5 to 10% of patients with inferior infarction and is usually transient. It occurs in < 5% of patients with uncomplicated anterior infarction but in up to 26% of those with right bundle branch block and left posterior hemiblock. Even transient complete AV block with an anterior myocardial infarction is an indication for permanent pacemaker insertion because without pacing the risk of sudden death is significant. Third-Degree Atrioventricular Block Treatment of heart block following MI Mobitz type I block usually does not warrant treatment. For true Mobitz type II block with dropped beats or for AV block with slow, wide QRS complexes, temporary transvenous pacing is the treatment of choice. External pacing can be used until a temporary transvenous pacemaker can be placed. A permanent pacemaker is required for
