Complications of Acute Coronary Syndromes
KEYWORDS: ventricular, atrial, infarction, patients, left, usually, left ventricular, myocardial, heart, fibrillation, block, hypotension, myocardial infarction, failure, tachycardia


wide QRS complexes, temporary transvenous pacing is the treatment of choice. External pacing can be used until a temporary transvenous pacemaker can be placed. A permanent pacemaker is required for patients with third degree block and those with persistent second degree AV block, especially if symptomatic. Although isoproterenol infusion may restore rhythm and rate temporarily, it is not used because it increases oxygen demand and risk of rhythm abnormalities. IV atropine (eg, 0.5 mg IV every 3 to 5 minutes to a total dose of 3 mg) may be useful for narrow-complex atrioventricular block with a slow ventricular rate but is not recommended for new wide-complex atrioventricular block. 5/14 Ventricular Arrhythmias Ventricular arrhythmias are common and may result from hypoxia, electrolyte imbalance (hypokalemia, possibly hypomagnesemia), or sympathetic overactivity in ischemic cells adjacent to infarcted tissue (which is not electrically active). Treatable causes of ventricular arrhythmias are sought and corrected. Serum potassium should be kept above 4.0 mEq/L (4.0 mmol/L). IV potassium chloride is recommended; usually 10 mEq/hour (10 mmol/hour) can be infused, but for severe hypokalemia (potassium level < 2.5 mEq/L [2.5 mmol/L]), 20 to 40 mEq/hour (20 to 40 mmol/hour) can be infused through a central venous line. Ventricular ectopic beats, which are common after myocardial infarction, do not warrant specific treatment. An IV beta-blocker early in myocardial infarction followed by continued oral beta-blockers reduces the incidence of ventricular arrhythmias (including ventricular fibrillation) and mortality in patients who do not have heart failure or hypotension (1). Prophylaxis with other medications (eg, lidocaine) increases mortality risk and is not recommended. After the acute phase, the presence of complex ventricular arrhythmias or nonsustained ventricular tachycardia, especially with significant left ventricular systolic dysfunction, increases mortality risk. An implantable cardioverter-defibrillator (ICD) should be considered and is indicated when the left ventricular ejection fraction is < 35%. Programmed endocardial stimulation can help select the most effective antiarrhythmics or determine the need for an ICD. Before treatment with an antiarrhythmic or ICD, coronary angiography and other tests are done to look for recurrent myocardial ischemia, which may require percutaneous coronary intervention or coronary artery bypass grafting. Ventricular tachycardia Nonsustained ventricular tachycardia (ie, < 30 seconds) and even sustained slow ventricular tachycardia (accelerated idioventricular rhythm) without hemodynamic instability do not usually require treatment in the first 24 to 48 hours (see figure Broad QRS Ventricular Tachycardia). Synchronized cardioversion is done for Polymorphic ventricular tachycardia Sustained (≥
