Complications of Acute Coronary Syndromes
KEYWORDS: ventricular, atrial, infarction, patients, left, usually, left ventricular, myocardial, heart, fibrillation, block, hypotension, myocardial infarction, failure, tachycardia


hemodynamic instability do not usually require treatment in the first 24 to 48 hours (see figure Broad QRS Ventricular Tachycardia). Synchronized cardioversion is done for Polymorphic ventricular tachycardia Sustained (≥ 30 seconds) monomorphic ventricular tachycardia Any ventricular tachycardia with symptoms of instability (eg, heart failure, hypotension, chest pain) Ventricular tachycardia without hemodynamic instability may be treated with IV lidocaine, procainamide, or amiodarone. Some clinicians also treat complex ventricular arrhythmias with magnesium sulfate 2 g IV over 5 minutes whether or not serum magnesium level is low. Ventricular tachycardia may occur months after myocardial infarction. Late ventricular tachycardia is more likely to occur in patients with transmural infarction and to be sustained. 6/14 Broad QRS Ventricular Tachycardia The QRS duration is 160 millisecond. An independent P wave can be seen in II (arrows). There is a leftward mean frontal axis shift. Ventricular fibrillation Ventricular Fibrillation Ventricular fibrillation occurs in some patients during the first 24 hours after myocardial infarction, usually within 6 hours. Late ventricular fibrillation usually indicates continued or recurrent myocardial ischemia and, when accompanied by hemodynamic deterioration, is a poor prognostic sign. Ventricular fibrillation is treated with immediate unsynchronized cardioversion. Heart Failure Heart failure is more likely in patients with Large infarctions (determined by ECG or cardiac biomarkers) Mechanical complications (eg, myocardial rupture or aneurysm, papillary muscle dysfunction) Hypertension Diastolic dysfunction Clinical findings depend on infarct size, elevation of left ventricular filling pressure, and degree of reduction in cardiac output. Dyspnea, inspiratory crackles at the lung bases, and hypoxemia are common. Treatment depends on severity. For mild cases, a loop diuretic (eg, furosemide 20 to 40 mg IV once or twice a day) to reduce ventricular filling pressure is often sufficient. For severe cases, vasodilators (eg, IV nitroglycerin, nitroprusside) are often used to reduce preload and afterload; these agents are effective acutely (eg, in acute pulmonary edema) and may be continued over 24 to 72 hours as necessary. During treatment, pulmonary artery occlusion pressure may be measured via right heart (pulmonary artery) catheterization, especially if the response to therapy is not as desired. Angiotensin-converting enzyme (ACE) inhibitors are used as long as systolic blood pressure remains > 100 mm Hg. A short-acting ACE inhibitor given in low doses (eg, captopril 3.125 to 6.25 mg orally every 4 to 6 hours, increasing doses as tolerated) is best for initial treatment. Once the maximum dose is reached (eg, maximum for captopril,
