Complications of Acute Coronary Syndromes
KEYWORDS: ventricular, atrial, infarction, patients, left, usually, left ventricular, myocardial, heart, fibrillation, block, hypotension, myocardial infarction, failure, tachycardia


characterized by the sudden appearance of a loud systolic murmur and thrill medial to the apex along the left sternal border in the third or fourth intercostal space, accompanied by hypotension with or without signs of left ventricular failure. Diagnosis may be confirmed using a balloon-tipped catheter and comparing blood oxygen saturation or partial pressure of oxygen (PO2) of right atrial, right ventricular, and pulmonary artery samples. A significant increase in right ventricular PO2 is diagnostic, as is Doppler echocardiography, which may demonstrate the actual shunt of blood across the ventricular septum. Treatment is surgery, which should be delayed if possible for up to 6 weeks after MI so that infarcted myocardium can heal maximally; if hemodynamic instability persists, earlier surgery is indicated despite a high mortality risk. Free wall rupture increases in incidence with age and is more common among women. It is characterized by sudden loss of arterial pressure with momentary persistence of sinus rhythm and often by signs of cardiac tamponade. Surgery is rarely successful. Rupture of a free wall is almost always fatal. 9/14 Ventricular Aneurysm A localized bulge in the ventricular wall, usually the left ventricular wall, can occur at the site of a large infarction. Ventricular aneurysms are common, especially with a large transmural infarct (usually anterior). Aneurysms may develop in a few days, weeks, or months. They are unlikely to rupture but may lead to recurrent ventricular arrhythmias, low cardiac output, and mural thrombosis with systemic embolism. A ventricular aneurysm may be suspected when paradoxical precordial movements are seen or felt, ECG shows persistent ST-segment elevation, and chest x-ray shows a characteristic bulge of the cardiac shadow. Because these findings are not diagnostic of an aneurysm, echocardiography is done to confirm the diagnosis and determine whether a thrombus is present. Surgical excision may be indicated when left ventricular failure or arrhythmia persists. Early revascularization and probably the use of angiotensin-converting enzyme (ACE) inhibitors during acute myocardial infarction modify left ventricular remodeling and have reduced the incidence of aneurysm. Pseudoaneurysm is incomplete rupture of the free left ventricular wall; it is limited by the pericardium. Pseudoaneurysms may be large, contributing to heart failure, almost always contain a thrombus, and often rupture completely. They are repaired surgically. Hypotension and Cardiogenic Shock Hypotension Hypotension may be due to Decreased ventricular filling Loss of contractile force secondary to massive myocardial infarction Marked hypotension (eg, systolic blood pressure
