Complications of Acute Coronary Syndromes
KEYWORDS: ventricular, atrial, infarction, patients, left, usually, left ventricular, myocardial, heart, fibrillation, block, hypotension, myocardial infarction, failure, tachycardia


repaired surgically. Hypotension and Cardiogenic Shock Hypotension Hypotension may be due to Decreased ventricular filling Loss of contractile force secondary to massive myocardial infarction Marked hypotension (eg, systolic blood pressure < 90 mm Hg) with tachycardia and symptoms of end- organ hypoperfusion (reduced urine output, mental confusion, diaphoresis, cold extremities) is termed cardiogenic shock. Pulmonary congestion develops rapidly in cardiogenic shock. Decreased left ventricular filling is most often caused by reduced venous return secondary to hypovolemia, especially in patients receiving intensive loop diuretic therapy, but it may reflect right ventricular infarction. Marked pulmonary congestion suggests loss of left ventricular contractile force (left ventricular failure) as the cause. Treatment depends on the cause. In some patients, determining the cause requires use of a pulmonary artery catheter to measure intracardiac pressures. For hypotension due to hypovolemia, cautious fluid replacement with 0.9% saline is usually possible without left heart overload (excessive rise in left atrial pressure). However, sometimes left ventricular function is so compromised that adequate fluid replacement sharply increases pulmonary artery 10/14 occlusion pressure to levels associated with pulmonary edema (> 25 mm Hg). If left atrial pressure is high, hypotension is probably due to left ventricular failure, and if diuretics are ineffective, inotropic therapy or circulatory support may be required. Cardiogenic shock Approximately 5 to 10% of patients with acute myocardial infarction have cardiogenic shock (1). In cardiogenic shock, an alpha-agonist or beta-agonist may be temporarily effective. Dopamine, a catecholamine with alpha and beta 1 effects, is given IV at 0.5 to 1 mcg/kg/minute, increased until response is satisfactory or the dose is about 10 mcg/kg/minute. Higher doses induce vasoconstriction and atrial and ventricular arrhythmias. Dobutamine, a beta-agonist, is another agent that may be given IV at 2.5 to 10 mcg/kg/minute or in higher doses. It often causes or exacerbates hypotension; it is most effective when hypotension is secondary to low cardiac output with increased peripheral vascular resistance. Dopamine is more effective than dobutamine when a vasopressor effect is also required. In refractory cases of cardiogenic shock, dobutamine and dopamine may be combined. The combination of dobutamine plus a drug with more alpha-adrenergic effects (phenylephrine, norepinephrine) may be effective without causing excessive arrhythmias. An intraortic counterpulsation balloon pump may often temporarily support the patient, but it is not clear whether there is short-term or long-term benefit to this approach. Alternatives include a percutaneous or surgically implanted left ventricular assist device and
