Complications of Acute Coronary Syndromes
KEYWORDS: ventricular, atrial, infarction, patients, left, usually, left ventricular, myocardial, heart, fibrillation, block, hypotension, myocardial infarction, failure, tachycardia


support the patient, but it is not clear whether there is short-term or long-term benefit to this approach. Alternatives include a percutaneous or surgically implanted left ventricular assist device and occasionally heart transplantation. Definitive treatment for postinfarction cardiogenic shock is revascularization by thrombolysis of the clot, angioplasty, or emergency coronary artery bypass grafting. Revascularization usually greatly improves ventricular function. If coronary anatomy is suitable, percutaneous coronary intervention or coronary artery bypass grafting may be considered for persistent ischemia, refractory ventricular arrhythmia, hemodynamic instability, or shock. Right Ventricular Ischemia or Infarction Right ventricular infarction rarely occurs in isolation; it usually accompanies inferior left ventricular infarction. The first sign may be hypotension developing in a previously stable patient. Right-sided ECG leads may show ST-segment changes. Volume loading with 1 to 2 L of 0.9% saline is often effective. Dobutamine or milrinone (which has better dilating effects on the pulmonary circulation) 11/14 may help. Nitrates and diuretics are not used; they reduce preload (and hence cardiac output), causing severe hypotension. Increased right-sided filling pressure should be maintained by IV fluid infusion, but excessive volume overload may compromise left ventricular filling and cardiac output. Pearls & Pitfalls With hypotension after myocardial infarction or inferior STEMI, do ECG with right-sided leads to diagnose right ventricular infarction, and, if confirmed, avoid nitrates and diuretics. Recurrent Ischemia Any chest pain that remains or recurs 12 to 24 hours after myocardial infarction may represent recurrent ischemia. Post-MI ischemic pain indicates that more myocardium is at risk of infarction. Usually, recurrent ischemia can be identified by reversible ST-T changes on the ECG; blood pressure may be elevated. Recurrent ischemia is silent (ECG changes without pain) in up to one third of patients, so serial ECGs are routinely done every 8 hours for 1 day and then daily. Recurrent ischemia is treated similarly to unstable angina. Sublingual or IV nitroglycerin is usually effective. Coronary angiography and revascularization with percutaneous coronary intervention or coronary artery bypass grafting should be considered to salvage ischemic myocardium. Mural Thrombosis A retrospective cohort study including 2136 patients with acute anterior MI who were treated with PCI found that 3.9% of patients developed a left ventricular mural thrombosis during the hospitalization (1). Because risk is low, routine prophylaxis with anticoagulation is not indicated. Anticoagulant therapy may be considered for patients with STEMI and anterior wall akinesis or dyskinesis, but the patient's risk of bleeding must also
