Complications of Acute Coronary Syndromes
KEYWORDS: ventricular, atrial, infarction, patients, left, usually, left ventricular, myocardial, heart, fibrillation, block, hypotension, myocardial infarction, failure, tachycardia


routine prophylaxis with anticoagulation is not indicated. Anticoagulant therapy may be considered for patients with STEMI and anterior wall akinesis or dyskinesis, but the patient's risk of bleeding must also be evaluated in light of dual antiplatelet therapy and resultant triple therapy should anticoagulation be chosen. Anticoagulants are recommended for patients after ACS with concomitant: Atrial fibrillation and high thromboembolic risk (eg, see table CHA2DS2-VASc score of ≥ 2) Mechanical heart valves Venous thromboembolism Hypercoagulable disorders It also is reasonable to give anticoagulants to patients with STEMI and asymptomatic confirmed LV mural thrombi (2). 12/14 The American Heart Association has published guidelines regarding the management of patients at risk for left ventricular thrombus, including patients at risk after acute MI (2). Pericarditis Pericarditis results from extension of myocardial necrosis through the wall to the epicardium; it develops in about one third of patients with acute transmural myocardial infarction, although the rate appears to be much less in patients who have early reperfusion done. A friction rub usually begins 24 to 96 hours after myocardial infarction onset. Earlier onset of the friction rub is unusual, although hemorrhagic pericarditis occasionally complicates the early phase of myocardial infarction. Acute tamponade is rare. Pericarditis is diagnosed by ECG, which shows diffuse ST-segment elevation and sometimes PR-interval depression. Echocardiography is frequently done, but results are usually normal. Occasionally, small pericardial effusions and even unsuspected tamponade are detected. Aspirin or another nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drug (NSAID) usually relieves symptoms. Colchicine 0.5 to 1 mg orally once a day, alone, and especially added to conventional treatment, speeds recovery and helps prevent recurrences. High doses or prolonged use of NSAIDs or corticosteroids may impair infarct healing and should be avoided; corticosteroids may also increase the likelihood of recurrence. Anticoagulation is not contraindicated in early peri-infarction pericarditis but is contraindicated in later post-MI (Dressler) syndrome. Post-MI Syndrome (Dressler Syndrome) Post-MI syndrome develops in a few patients several days to weeks or even months after acute myocardial infarction; incidence also appears to have decreased in recent years. It is characterized by fever, pericarditis with a friction rub, pericardial effusion, pleuritis, pleural effusions, pulmonary infiltrates, and joint pain. This syndrome is caused by an autoimmune reaction to material from necrotic myocytes. It may recur. Differentiating post-MI syndrome from extension or recurrence of infarction may be difficult. However, in post-MI syndrome, cardiac biomarkers do not increase significantly, and ECG changes are nonspecific. 13/14
