Severe Hypothyroidism in the Elderly
KEYWORDS: hypothyroidism, level, tsh, tsh level, patients, low, treatment, dose, elderly, thyroid, levothyroxine, thyroiditis, doses, total, include


CLINICAL RECOGNITION Elderly patients with severe hypothyroidism often present with variable symptoms that may be masked or potentiated by co-morbid conditions. Characteristic symptoms may include fatigue, weight gain, cold intolerance, hoarseness, constipation, and myalgias. Neurologic symptoms may include ataxia, depression, and mental status changes ranging from mild confusion to overt dementia. Clinical findings that may raise suspicion of thyroid hormone deficiency include hypothermia, bradycardia, goitrous enlargement of the thyroid, cool dry skin, myxedema, delayed relaxation of deep tendon reflexes, a pericardial or abdominal effusion, hyponatremia, and hypercholesterolemia. PATHOPHYSIOLOGY See WWW.THYROIDMANAGER.ORG DIAGNOSIS AND DIFFERENTIAL Autoimmune (Hashimoto’s) thyroiditis with destruction of functioning tissue is the most common endogenous cause of hypothyroidism in elderly patients. Checkpoint inhibitors targeting PD-1 that are used to treat a range of malignancies can induce a rapidly progressing form of autoimmune thyroiditis. Unrecognized or untreated cases can progress to a state of pronounced thyroid hormone deficiency over weeks to months. Administration of radioactive iodine to treat hyperthyroidism ascribed to Graves’ disease usually causes permanent hypothyroidism. Surgery performed to remove thyroid cancer or an enlarged multinodular goiter inevitably leads to overt hypothyroidism. External beam radiation used to treat lymphoid malignancies and head and neck cancer can lead to rapid or delayed development of hypothyroidism. Pituitary dysfunction that inhibits secretion of TSH may be caused by growth of a mass in the sella turcica or may develop as a complication of surgery performed to remove a tumor. Table 1: Causes of Hypothyroidism in the Elderly View in own window Primary hypothyroidism Autoimmune (Hashimoto’s) thyroiditis Post-ablative hypothyroidism Post-surgical hypothyroidism Radiation-induced hypothyroidism Thyroiditis induced by interferon alpha or CAMPATH Central hypothyroidism Pituitary or hypothalamic dysfunction Decreased absorption of levothyroxine Celiac disease Drugs: iron sulfate, bile acid resins, sucralfate, calcium Accelerated metabolism of thyroid hormone Increased deiodinase activity (consumptive hypothyroidism) Drugs: phenytoin, phenobarbital, carbamazepine, rifampin DIAGNOSTIC TESTS NEEDED AND SUGGESTED Lab tests that demonstrate an elevated TSH level in tandem with a low free or total T4 level confirm a diagnosis of primary hypothyroidism. Commonly used drugs including ASA and phenytoin lower total T4 levels and may cause interference with FT4 assays. Anti-thyroid peroxidase and anti-thyroglobulin antibody levels may be checked to confirm the presence of autoimmune thyroiditis, but this usually isn’t necessary as it is the presumptive diagnosis in patients who haven’t been treated with other predisposing therapies. A low free or total T4 level detected in tandem with a low or
