Severe Hypothyroidism in the Elderly
KEYWORDS: hypothyroidism, level, tsh, tsh level, patients, low, treatment, dose, elderly, thyroid, levothyroxine, thyroiditis, doses, total, include


as it is the presumptive diagnosis in patients who haven’t been treated with other predisposing therapies. A low free or total T4 level detected in tandem with a low or inappropriately normal TSH level may raise suspicion of central hypothyroidism. This may prompt further biochemical evaluation of other pituitary hormones and anatomic imaging of the pituitary and hypothalamus. Serious illness in the elderly is often accompanied by the non-thyroidal illness (euthyroid sick) syndrome that presents with a normal or low total T4 level, a low total T3 level, and an inappropriately low or normal TSH level. Recognition of this syndrome requires exclusion of other causes of hypothyroidism or pituitary dysfunction. Appropriate treatment of this condition is controversial. Subclinical hypothyroidism, with a normal range freeT4 level and elevated TSH level is not infrequent in elderly patients, and if due to autoimmune thyroiditis, often progresses to overt hypothyroidism. THERAPY Levothyroxine (T4) is the principal thyroid hormone preparation used to treat hypothyroidism. Regimens that include liothyronine (T3) have not been shown to be any more efficacious and run the risk of triggering atrial arrhythmias in susceptible individuals. Most adults require a full replacement dose of 0.8 mcg per pound of body weight. The major concern in elderly patients with known or suspected cardiovascular disease is to avoid exacerbating underlying conditions. Levothyroxine should be started at a low dose of 12.5-25 mcg daily. If this dose does not provoke ischemic symptoms or an atrial arrhythmia, it can be increased in 25 mcg increment at 4-week intervals. Patients who develop hypothyroidism after treatment of hyperthyroidism can be treated with full replacement doses from the outset. Agents that may block absorption of levothyroxine include iron sulfate, bile acid resins, sucralfate, and supplemental forms of calcium. Doses should be separated from ingestion of these agents by at least 4 hours. Higher than anticipated doses may be required in patients treated with other agents that increase metabolism of levothyroxine including phenytoin, phenobarbital, carbamazepine, and rifampin. Appropriate treatment of subclinical hypothyroidism is open to debate. Many clinicians feel that treatment is indicated with any confirmed and unexplained elevation of TSH above normal, and there is consensus that replacement T4 should be given if a TSH level is > 10uU/ml. FOLLOW-UP When treating primary hypothyroidism, a TSH level should be checked 6 weeks after starting a dose or 4 weeks after changing a dose of levothyroxine. Doses should be adjusted
