Original Research
KEYWORDS: patients, algorithm, algorithms, ibd, identified, disease, claims, study, data, database, health, patients identified, ibd patients, studies, patient


Original Research INQUIRY: The Journal of Health Care Identifying Patients With Inflammatory Organization, Provision, and Financing Volume 56: 1 –8 Bowel Diseases in an Administrative © The Author(s) 2019 Article reuse guidelines: sagepub.com/journals-permissions Health Claims Database: Do httpDs:O//dIo: i1.o0r.g1/1107.711/0707/406094659850810918988877881166 journals.sagepub.com/home/inq Algorithms Generate Similar Findings? Yizhou Ye, PhD1 , Sudhakar Manne, MS1, and Dimitri Bennett, MD1,2 Abstract Application of selective algorithms to administrative health claims databases allows detection of specific patients and disease or treatment outcomes. This study identified and applied different algorithms to a single data set to compare the numbers of patients with different inflammatory bowel disease classifications identified by each algorithm. A literature review was performed to identify algorithms developed to define inflammatory bowel disease patients, including ulcerative colitis, Crohn’s disease, and inflammatory bowel disease unspecified in routinely collected administrative claims databases. Based on the study population, validation methods, and results, selected algorithms were applied to the Optum Clinformatics® Data Mart database from June 2000 to March 2017. The patient cohorts identified by each algorithm were compared. Three different algorithms were identified from literature review and selected for comparison (A, B, and C). Each identified different numbers of patients with any form of inflammatory bowel disease (323 833; 246 953, and 171 537 patients, respectively). The proportions of patients with ulcerative colitis, Crohn’s disease, and inflammatory bowel disease unspecified were 32.0% to 47.5%, 38.6% to 43.8%, and 8.7% to 26.6% of the total population with inflammatory bowel disease, respectively, depending on the algorithm applied. Only 5.1% of patients with inflammatory bowel disease unspecified were identified by all 3 algorithms. Algorithm C identified the smallest cohort for each disease category except inflammatory bowel disease unspecified. This study is the first to compare numbers of inflammatory bowel disease patients identified by different algorithms from a single database. The differences between results highlight the need for validation of algorithms to accurately identify inflammatory bowel disease patients. Keywords administrative claims database, Crohn’s disease, inflammatory bowel diseases, observational study, retrospective studies, ulcerative colitis What do we already know about this topic? Using validated case definitions in secondary databases is critical for ensuring comparability between retrospective observational studies. To our knowledge, no study has directly compared the differences in IBD patients identified using different algorithms in the same claims database. How does your research contribute to the field? By investigating difference between numbers of identified IBD patients with different algorithms in the same database,
