Original Research
KEYWORDS: patients, algorithm, algorithms, ibd, identified, disease, claims, study, data, database, health, patients identified, ibd patients, studies, patient


used to detect patients and monitor their disease outcomes journal articles used to detect IBD patients. We included and treatment use. studies that met the following criteria: (1) published before Specific diseases and medical conditions are classified September 30, 2017; (2) retrospective; (3) identified IBD within administrative health claims databases using diagnos- patients using claims databases; and (4) published in English. tic codes, such as the International Classification of Diseases After screening of titles and abstracts, the remaining studies (ICD) codes.4 These unique alphanumeric codes can be used underwent full-text review for final selection of relevant alone or combined with claims information to create an algo- algorithms. Publications from the bibliographies of selected rithm for detecting patients of interest, or selecting disease or studies were also examined against the above inclusion crite- treatment outcomes. ria. Information extracted from identified studies included Algorithms for a certain disease state or treatment out- the operational algorithm and administrative codes used for come require validation in the context that they are going to IBD identification, publication year, study setting, and popu- be applied. Validation is performed by verifying patients lation. Algorithms to be tested in this study were selected identified using an algorithm against patients identified from based on their quality, novelty, validation results, and cita- medical records to evaluate the capacity of the algorithm for tion numbers. accurate detection. Sensitivity, specificity, positive predic- tive value (PPV), and negative predictive value (NPV) are Data Source commonly used quantitative measurements of this capacity; a high PPV is considered to reflect an efficient and robust Patients with UC, CD, or inflammatory bowel disease unspec- tool.5 Retrospective studies of administrative health claims ified (IBDU; also known as indeterminate colitis) were iden- data should be conducted, when possible, using validated tified from the Clinformatics® Data Mart (CDM; Optum, algorithms to ensure quality and comparability with other Eden Prairie, MN, USA) database, using the selected algo- able from the literature and studies may make use of different base that is geographically diverse, and includes patients algorithms. Therefore, researchers should establish the best from all 50 states in the United States. It comprises adminis- methodology for performing these studies to ensure that trative health claims for patients with a health insurance plan Several observational studies have been performed using including Medicare Advantage coverage. The database was routinely collected health data sources such as claims developed for billing and reimbursement purposes
