Original Research
KEYWORDS: patients, algorithm, algorithms, ibd, identified, disease, claims, study, data, database, health, patients identified, ibd patients, studies, patient


2 IBDU: −2 ≤ IBD score ≤ 2 Disease index The first of either the qualifying date of The later qualifying date of The earliest among all eligible dates of date IBD diagnosis or prescription dispensing IBD diagnosis service in claims Note. IBD = inflammatory bowel disease; UC = ulcerative colitis; CD = Crohn’s disease; IBDU = inflammatory bowel disease unspecified. aPatients with diagnosis of both UC and CD were excluded from the original study to reduce disease misclassification. This category has been created for comparison purposes. tient visits, hospitalizations, ambulatory care visits, emer- the numbers of patients identified by each algorithm for encompasses 17 to 19 million lives annually and a total of tified by more than 1 algorithm or exclusively by a single approximately 57 million unique lives over the 10-year period algorithm. A set of ICD-9 (555.x, 556.x) and ICD-10 from 2007 to 2017. The demographics of the population is (K50.x, K51.x) codes in any position were used to aid iden- similar to the US general population regarding age and sex: tification of IBD patients in the database (Table 1). Venn 22% enrollees are 0 to 17 years of age, 41% are 18 to 44 years diagrams were created for a visual representation of the old, 23% are 45 to 64 years old, and 14% are more than 65 size of the cohorts identified by each algorithm, including years old; 49% are male and 51% are female.13 The database patients identified by single or multiple algorithms. Cohen contains statistically deidentified data in compliance with the Kappa statistic has been used to measure agreement including demographic, diagnostic, and procedural informa- tion in the medical claims, and outpatient dispensed medica- Results tions in the pharmacy claims. An important advantage of claims databases is complete data from a large number of par- Literature Review ticipants, which provides the capability to study medication utilization longitudinally.14 Eligibility files, medical, and Three appropriate algorithms were selected from the litera- pharmacy claims data from June 1, 2000 to March 31, 2017 ture review (Table 1). Algorithm A, developed by Herrinton were used for this study. et al, was based on medical claims with diagnosis codes for CD and UC, as well as pharmacy claims for IBD-specific medications to aid the identification of patients with Application of Algorithms IBDU.7 Algorithm B was selected from a paper by Each selected algorithm was applied to the CDM
