Original Research
KEYWORDS: patients, algorithm, algorithms, ibd, identified, disease, claims, study, data, database, health, patients identified, ibd patients, studies, patient


patients (30.3%) was insured US population were therefore ruled out for consider- captured by all 3 algorithms. Algorithm A exclusively ation. Algorithm A was validated in a regional comprehensive 6 INQUIRY health records database containing both administrative claims lower number of patients inappropriately identified as hav- and electronic health records. Algorithm B was used in ing IBD. This high specificity is achieved by sacrificing sen- another US national administrative health claims database sitivity (although specificity was still more than 80%) and which is the most similar to our study population. Last but not generalizability. The patient cohorts identified are different the least, algorithm C was validated in a single-payer univer- to the patients captured by the other 2 algorithms, exempli- sal health system in 1 Canadian province. Algorithm A by fied by the reduced overlap between the patient cohorts iden- Herrinton et al demonstrated the most lenient criteria and tified by this algorithm and the other 2 algorithms. The identified the largest patient cohorts for each disease category, stringent inclusion criteria may also select for patients with whereas algorithm C by Rezaie et al had high sensitivity and more severe and active IBD who require regular health care specificity and proved to be the most rigorous algorithm, con- visits. As a result, algorithm C may be useful for performing sistently identifying the smallest patient cohort in each dis- studies in large data sets in which patients with confirmed ease category except IBDU. The largest overlap between disease and potentially more severe disease are of interest. captured patient cohorts was seen with algorithms A and B, The algorithms differed greatly in the criteria used to whereas algorithm C had the smallest overlap. This demon- define IBDU, and there were large differences in the patient strates that even validated algorithms can result in the selec- cohorts identified for this disease category. Of the 97 604 tion of different patient cohorts from the same data set. patients identified by any of the algorithms, only 4970 Algorithm A was the most lenient, with the least restric- patients (5.1%) were identified by all 3 algorithms. This tions among the 3 algorithms included. Unsurprisingly, this inconsistency was also illustrated in the original Herrinton algorithm picked up the most patients. The time between et al study, where the application of the single algorithm to a and this may have resulted in the inclusion of patients that ages
