Original Research
KEYWORDS: patients, algorithm, algorithms, ibd, identified, disease, claims, study, data, database, health, patients identified, ibd patients, studies, patient


the most patients. The time between et al study, where the application of the single algorithm to a and this may have resulted in the inclusion of patients that ages of patients with IBDU.7 The results of this study high- had been misclassified as having UC or CD. light how each data source and the behavior of each algorithm Algorithm B by McAuliffe et al, adapted from algorithm can differ, and the necessity of selecting an appropriate algo- A, is refined by the requirement of at least 2 diagnoses of UC rithm for use in different data sources. Using pharmacy or CD separated by at least 30 days. The 2 outpatient diagno- information alone to identify IBD patients, without access to ses more than 30 days apart is a commonly used method for medical records detailing a specific diagnosis or IBD classi- identifying chronic conditions in claims databases due to the fication, may increase the number of patients recorded as potential for clustering of care immediately following the first having IBDU. Clinical notes are not available in health diagnosis.17,18 As anticipated, there was a large degree of claims data, which can lead to further difficulty in identify- overlap between the patient cohorts captured by these 2 algo- ing appropriate patients with certainty.12 rithms. The timeframe specified between diagnoses as part of Variation in real-world settings may also contribute to the algorithm B criteria may have helped exclude patients discrepancies in data. Inconsistencies in clinical practice who had only a “rule-out” diagnosis recorded in their claims; regarding IBD classification and treatment may lead to it may also have increased the accuracy of detection by filter- irregular coding across different points of health care con- ing out patients receiving multiple diagnoses as part of their tact and can result in 1 patient being registered with multiple initial presentation, thus reducing the number of potentially diagnoses.12 Variation in characteristics across the patient misclassified patients. This timeframe of separation between population within the database, such as age or disease sever- diagnoses is commonly used in algorithms to identify patients ity, may also affect the sensitivity of the algorithms. For accuracy for identifying patients than those with unspecified other than IBD, which may lead to the appropriate IBD code timeframes.19,20 potentially being omitted on patient documentation as a Algorithm C identified the smallest IBD cohorts and can result. The variation in the ability of the
