Original Research
KEYWORDS: patients, algorithm, algorithms, ibd, identified, disease, claims, study, data, database, health, patients identified, ibd patients, studies, patient


the appropriate IBD code timeframes.19,20 potentially being omitted on patient documentation as a Algorithm C identified the smallest IBD cohorts and can result. The variation in the ability of the algorithms to iden- be considered the most rigorous and conservative algorithm. tify patients with IBDU indicates that caution should be It differs from the other algorithms because it includes more used when applying these algorithms, and, without further ambulatory care visits, and requires the generation of a certainty of detection.12 patient “IBD score” to distinguish between UC and CD. This No studies have previously compared different claims- algorithm not only addresses the clustering of care but also based algorithms for identifying IBD patients in the same evaluates a patient’s claims comprehensively to address for database. The findings of this study help establish standard- potential diagnosis switch from CD to UC. It has higher ized methodology for conducting analyses of claims-based specificity and PPV compared with algorithm A (about data on IBD, as well as helping interpret the validity and 80%)7 and can be assumed to identify IBD patients with results for observational studies in IBD. In addition, this more certainty than the other 2 algorithms, resulting in a study supports and highlights the importance of Ye et al 7 defining disease in determining the outcome for prevalence This study did not aim to determine the superiority of estimation and also shows that modification in case defini- the selected algorithms, but to demonstrate the capability tions can result in considerable variance in prevalence esti- of these algorithms in real-world observational studies by mates. In the area of observational research, we know that comparing the numbers of IBD patients identified from a ogy and can provide critical RWE that impacts numerous priate methods for identifying patients from a database. number of patients with IBDU found by each algorithm may forming observational studies in IBD, the choice of algo- relate to newly developed or incident cases of IBD, which rithm depends on the desired population of interest or the may explain the lack of clarity around official diagnoses. type of outcomes to be analyzed. The algorithms should be Equally, patients with confirmed diagnoses of CD or UC validated in identical or similar populations to those in may feature in the number of IBD patients. which research will be performed to ensure that observa- This study has several strengths. We used a large US
