Original Research
KEYWORDS: patients, algorithm, algorithms, ibd, identified, disease, claims, study, data, database, health, patients identified, ibd patients, studies, patient


to those in may feature in the number of IBD patients. which research will be performed to ensure that observa- This study has several strengths. We used a large US lon- tional studies are conducted as robustly as possible, and gitudinal population–based data source that contained many with limited bias. IBD patients and provided sufficiently sized patient cohorts for comparison of algorithms. Importantly, the population in Acknowledgments this database was diverse, spanning all 50 US states. In addi- The authors would like to thank our colleague Dr. Chao Chen for tion, this data source can be considered typical of a large his contributions to the manuscript. proprietary claims database, in which such research would Medical writing assistance was provided by Alexandra Kisbey of be performed, and is representative of a privately insured Oxford PharmaGenesis, Oxford, UK. employed US population. Conversely, we also note several limitations to our study. Author Contributions The database used was claims based and therefore this study Y.Y., S.M., and D.B. contributed to conception and design. Y.Y. is subject to the same limitations as other studies using simi- and S.M. conducted the analysis. All authors made substantial con- lar data sources, such as potential misclassification due to tributions to the interpretation of data and drafting of the article. All inaccurate and inconsistent coding practice.23 In addition, authors reviewed and revised the article critically for crucial intel- algorithm A was validated in Kaiser Permanent database lectual content and approved the final version of the manuscript. which contains both administrative health claims and elec- a single-payer universal health system in 1 Canadian prov- The author(s) declared the following potential conflicts of interest ince.11 As we know that claims data were collected for billing with respect to the research, authorship, and/or publication of this and reimbursement purposes, algorithms might perform dif- article: All authors are employees of Takeda Pharmaceutical ferently in populations with different practice, billing, and Company, Ltd. This study did not relate to any investigational prod- coding patterns. However, it is not uncommon to conduct ucts or have any patient contact that necessitated ethical approval at high-quality RWE studies using algorithms validated in dif- the national or institutional level. ferent but similar populations.10,24-28 Another limitation of Funding this study is the generalizability outside of the insured popu- lation, as elderly and low-income populations are underrep- The author(s) disclosed receipt of the following financial support resented, and its results
