Primary Disorders of Phosphate Metabolism
KEYWORDS: pubmed, phosphate, renal, rickets, free, article, free article, pmc free, pmc, article pubmed, hypophosphatemia, bone, hypophosphatemic, levels, x-linked


ABSTRACT Phosphorus is critical to many functions in human biology. Deprivation of phosphorus may manifest as disorders of the musculoskeletal system, reflecting its important role in energy metabolism and skeletal mineralization. Phosphorus excess can promote heterotopic mineralization and is associated with mortality, particularly in the setting of chronic kidney disease. Inorganic phosphorus, primarily occurring as phosphate (PO 4 ), is highly regulated by transport systems in intestine and kidney, and is essential for the formation of a mineralized skeleton. Parathyroid hormone (PTH) and Fibroblast Growth Factor 23 (FGF23) are major hormonal regulators of phosphate homeostasis and membrane abundance of PO 4 transporters. Tissue distribution of alpha-klotho permits a primary renal specificity for FGF23 actions. Disorders of phosphate metabolism that are encountered in clinical practice are described in this Endotext chapter, with an emphasis on pathophysiologic processes, diagnostic measures, and treatment. The identification of FGF23 as an important mediator of phosphate homeostasis has brought to light the underlying disease processes in many of these conditions, along with the possibility of novel, physiologic-based therapies. For complete coverage of all related areas of Endocrinology, please visit our on-line FREE web-text, WWW.ENDOTEXT.ORG . INTRODUCTION Phosphorus plays an important role in growth, development, bone formation, acid-base regulation, and cellular metabolism. Inorganic phosphorus exists primarily as the critical structural ion, phosphate (PO 4 ), which serves as a constituent of hydroxyapatite, the mineral basis of the vertebrate skeleton, and at the molecular level, providing the molecular backbone of DNA. Its chemical properties allow its use as a biological energy store as adenosine triphosphate. Additionally, phosphorus influences a variety of enzymatic reactions (e.g., glycolysis) and protein functions (e.g., the oxygen-carrying capacity of hemoglobin by regulation of 2,3-diphosphoglycerate synthesis). Finally, phosphorus is an important signaling moiety, as phosphorylation and dephosphorylation of protein structures serves as an activation signal. Indeed, phosphorus is one of the most abundant components of all tissues, and disturbances in its homeostasis can affect almost any organ system. Most phosphorus within the body is in bone (600-700 g), while the remainder is largely distributed in soft tissue (100-200 g). The plasma contains 11-12 mg/dL of total phosphorus (in both organic and inorganic states) in adults. Inorganic phosphorus (Pi) primarily exists as phosphate (PO 4 ), and is the commonly measured fraction, found in plasma at concentrations averaging 3-4 mg/dl in older children and adults. Plasma Pi concentrations values in children are higher, not infrequently as
