Primary Disorders of Phosphate Metabolism
KEYWORDS: pubmed, phosphate, renal, rickets, free, article, free article, pmc free, pmc, article pubmed, hypophosphatemia, bone, hypophosphatemic, levels, x-linked


and is the commonly measured fraction, found in plasma at concentrations averaging 3-4 mg/dl in older children and adults. Plasma Pi concentrations values in children are higher, not infrequently as high as 8 mg/dl in small infants and gradually declining steeply throughout the first year of life, and further in later childhood to adult values. The organic phosphorus component is primarily found in phospholipids. Although this fraction is not routinely assessed clinically, it comprises approximately two-thirds of the total plasma phosphorus ( 1 ). Thus, the term “plasma phosphorus” generally is used when referring to plasma inorganic Pi concentrations, and because plasma inorganic Pi is nearly all in the form of the PO 4 ion, the terms phosphorus and phosphate are often interchangeably used in the clinical chemistry laboratory. It should be noted that this terminology can be confusing when using mass units (i.e., mg/dl) as the weight of the phosphorus content of the phosphate is reported, yet “serum phosphate” is often used in the clinic setting. When using molar units, the concentration of the phosphate and of the phosphorus are equivalent, and less confusion may arise. Elaborate mechanisms have evolved to maintain phosphate balance, reflecting the critical role that phosphorus plays in cell and organism physiology. Adaptive changes are manifested by a variety of measurable responses, as modified by metabolic Pi need and exogenous Pi supply. Such regulation maintains the plasma and extracellular fluid phosphorus within a relatively narrow range and depends primarily upon gastrointestinal absorption and renal excretion as adjustable mechanisms to affect homeostasis. Although investigators have recognized a variety of hormones and transporter proteins which influence these various processes, in concert with associated changes in other metabolic pathways, the sensory system, the messenger and the mechanisms underlying discriminant regulation of Pi balance remain incompletely understood. While long-term changes in Pi balance depend on these variables, short-term changes in Pi concentrations can occur due to redistribution between the extracellular fluid and either bone or cell constituents. Such redistribution results secondary to various mechanisms including elevated levels of insulin and/or glucose; increased concentrations of circulating catecholamines; respiratory alkalosis; enhanced cell production or anabolism; and rapid bone remineralization. REGULATION OF PHOSPHORUS HOMEOSTASIS The majority of ingested phosphorus is absorbed in the small intestine. Active transport is mediated by sodium dependent transporter protein(s), and sodium-independent P-transport also occurs. Hormonal mechanisms regulating Pi homeostasis in the kidney are established in more detail.
