Primary Disorders of Phosphate Metabolism
KEYWORDS: pubmed, phosphate, renal, rickets, free, article, free article, pmc free, pmc, article pubmed, hypophosphatemia, bone, hypophosphatemic, levels, x-linked


the small intestine. Active transport is mediated by sodium dependent transporter protein(s), and sodium-independent P-transport also occurs. Hormonal mechanisms regulating Pi homeostasis in the kidney are established in more detail. Indeed, the kidney has long been considered the dominant site of regulation of Pi balance, as renal tubular reclamation of filtered Pi occurs in response to complex regulatory mechanisms. Although the fate of Pi has generally been considered a matter of renal elimination, incorporation into organic forms in proliferating cells, or deposition into the mineral phase of bone as hydroxyapatite, the role of intestinal phosphate transport warrants further study. Indeed, it appears that presentation of Pi to the intestine can affect systemic phosphate handling before changes in serum Pi concentration are evident. Moreover, in the setting of severe phosphorus deprivation, the phosphate contained in bone mineral provides a source of phosphorus for the metabolic needs of the organism. The specific roles that the intestine and kidney play in this complex process are discussed below. Gastrointestinal Absorption Of Phosphorus Studies of Pi absorption in the intestine have yielded variable results, in part due to confounding influences of nutritional status, the effects of anesthesia on gut transit, species differences, and potential effects of studying whole organisms as opposed to isolated bowel segments. The small intestine is the dominant site of Pi absorption; in mice Pi is absorbed along the entire length of small bowel, but at the highest rate in the ileum. In rats, duodenum and jejunum provide the primary sites of Pi absorption, whereas very little occurs in ileum. This is felt to be more consistent with the pattern of Pi absorption in humans; however, studies are subject to the confounding issues noted above. In normal adults net Pi absorption is a linear function of dietary Pi intake. For a dietary Pi range of 4 to 30 mg/kg/day, the net Pi absorption averages 60 to 65% of the intake ( 2 ). Intestinal Pi absorption occurs via two routes ( Figure 1 ), a cellularly mediated sodium-dependent active transport mechanism, and sodium independent transport, which is not well characterized. Mechanisms for the latter have been attributed in part to paracellular pathways ( 3 ), however recent findings suggest that for glucose, this pathway only accounts for 1-2% of passive glucose uptake in the intestine, far less that once speculated. Finally, the relative roles of these processes appear to be age dependent
