Primary Disorders of Phosphate Metabolism
KEYWORDS: pubmed, phosphate, renal, rickets, free, article, free article, pmc free, pmc, article pubmed, hypophosphatemia, bone, hypophosphatemic, levels, x-linked


this pathway only accounts for 1-2% of passive glucose uptake in the intestine, far less that once speculated. Finally, the relative roles of these processes appear to be age dependent ( 4 ). Animal models suggest that weanling mice have both greater intestinal P transport (and greater expression of NaPi-IIb) than at other ages, presumably to support skeletal growth. Controversy exists as to what proportion of intestinal Pi absorption is absorbed via sodium-dependent mechanisms and what proportion is sodium-independent. In this regard, the major Na + -dependent phosphate cotransporter identified in intestinal brush border membranes is NPT2b, a member of the SLC34 solute carrier family, also referred to as type II sodium-phosphate cotransporters ( 5 ). Earlier studies suggested that approximately 50% of intestinal P transport occurs by sodium-dependent mechanisms, and that most of this activity can be accounted for by the sodium-dependent transporter NPT2b. A lesser contribution to sodium-independent transport has been attributed to either type III transporters (PiT1 and PiT2, see below), and other unknown mechanisms. NPT2b is also expressed in lung, colon, testis/epididymis, liver, and in mammary and salivary glands, with most abundant expression in mammary glands ( 4 ). NPT2b is electrogenic, maintains a 3:1 stoichiometry of Na: Pi, prefers the divalent P species, and has a high affinity for Pi binding ( 6 - 10 ). Depending upon species and bowel segment, NPT2b transporters can be regulated by 1,25 dihydroxyvitamin D (↑), FGF23 (↓), low Pi diet (↑), and acute phosphate loading (↑). Energy for the electrochemical uphill process is provided by the sodium gradient, which is maintained by sodium-potassium ATPase. The phosphate incorporated into intestinal cells by this mechanism is ferried from the apical pole to the basolateral pole likely through restricted channels such as the microtubules. Exit of Pi from the enterocyte across the basolateral membrane and into the circulation is a poorly understood process. More recently widely-expressed members of the SLC20 solute carrier family, the type III sodium-phosphate cotransporters PiT1 and PiT2, have been found to be variably expressed in the intestine ( 11 ), and PiT2 primarily in ileum. Pit1 and Pit2 prefer to transport the monovalent Pi species (HPO 4 - ) and maintain a 2 Na: 1 P stoichiometry. These transporters may play a greater role in adaptive responses to intestinal Pi transport than previously recognized. PiT1 upregulates in response to phosphate deprivation, but in a relatively slow time
