Primary Disorders of Phosphate Metabolism
KEYWORDS: pubmed, phosphate, renal, rickets, free, article, free article, pmc free, pmc, article pubmed, hypophosphatemia, bone, hypophosphatemic, levels, x-linked


These transporters may play a greater role in adaptive responses to intestinal Pi transport than previously recognized. PiT1 upregulates in response to phosphate deprivation, but in a relatively slow time frame, whereas expression of PiT2 and NPT2b upregulate within 24 hrs ( 12 ). In NPT2b -/- mice there is approximately 10% sodium-dependent Pi transport activity, suggesting that the type III transporters are of limited significance in the intestine in murine models. The process is further complicated by significant effects of alkaline pH as inhibitory to intestinal Pi transport, Moreover, the adaptation to P deprivation occurs with greater rates of transport occurring at more acidic pH ( 12 ) Given the variable nature and segment-specific regulation of NPT2b, the ultimate impact on overall phosphate homeostasis appears to be less well understood at the intestine than at the kidney. The presence of different classes of transporters in the intestine provide for Pi transport under a variety of different conditions such as variable pH, species of PO4 substrate, and Pi supply. Indeed, recent work leads to speculation that much of the adaptive response to intestinal phosphate transport likely occurs by yet unrecognized transporters or transport processes ( 12 ). Figure 1. Model of inorganic phosphate (HPO4 = ) transport in the intestine. At the luminal surface of the enterocyte the brush border membrane harbors sodium-dependent phosphate transporters of the NPT2b type. NPT2b transporters are electrogenic, have high affinity for Pi, and a stoichiometry of 3 Na ions: 1 phosphate. Energy for this transport process is provided by an inward downhill sodium gradient, maintained by transport of Na + from the cell via a Na + /K + ATPase cotransporter at the basolateral membrane. The HPO4 = incorporated into the enterocytes by this mechanism is transferred to the circulation by poorly understood mechanisms. Type III sodium-dependent transporters are also expressed on the intestinal luminal surface (PiT1 and PiT2) and contribute to this process. Considerable HPO4 = absorption occurs via a sodium-independent process(es) such diffusional absorption across the intercellular spaces in the intestine. Other processes have also been hypothesized. As most diets contain an abundance of Pi, the quantity absorbed nearly always exceeds the need. Factors which may adversely influence the non-regulable, sodium-independent process are the formation of nonabsorbable calcium, aluminum or magnesium phosphate salts in the intestine and age, which reduces Pi absorption by as much as 50%. Renal Excretion Of Phosphorus The
