Primary Disorders of Phosphate Metabolism
KEYWORDS: pubmed, phosphate, renal, rickets, free, article, free article, pmc free, pmc, article pubmed, hypophosphatemia, bone, hypophosphatemic, levels, x-linked


are the formation of nonabsorbable calcium, aluminum or magnesium phosphate salts in the intestine and age, which reduces Pi absorption by as much as 50%. Renal Excretion Of Phosphorus The kidney responds rapidly to changes in serum Pi levels or to dietary Pi intake. The balance between the rates of glomerular filtration and tubular reabsorption ( 13 ) determines net renal handling of Pi. Pi concentration in the glomerular ultrafiltrate is approximately 90% of that in plasma, as not all of the plasma Pi is ultrafilterable ( 14 ). Since the product of the serum Pi concentration and the glomerular filtration rate (GFR) approximates the filtered load of Pi, a change in the GFR may influence Pi homeostasis if uncompensated by commensurate changes in tubular reabsorption. The major site of phosphate reabsorption is the proximal convoluted tubule, at which 60% to 70% of reabsorption occurs ( Figure 2 ). Along the proximal convoluted tubule, the transport is heterogeneous, with greatest activity in the S1 segment. Further, increasing, but not conclusive, data supports the existence of a Pi reabsorptive mechanism in the distal tubule. Currently, however, conclusive proof for tubular secretion of Pi in humans is lacking ( 15 ). Figure 2. Distribution of Pi reabsorption and hormone-dependent adenylate cyclase activity throughout the renal tubule. The renal tubules consist of a proximal convoluted tubule (PCT), composed of an S1, S2 and S3 segment, a proximal straight tubule (PST), also known as the S3 segment, the loop of Henle, the medullary ascending limb (MAL), the cortical ascending limb (CAL), the distal convoluted tubule (DCT) and three segments of the collecting tubule: the cortical collecting tubule (CCT); the outer medullary collecting tubule (OMCT); and the inner medullary collecting tubule (IMCT). Pi reabsorption occurs primarily in the PCT but is present is the PST and DCT, sites at which parathyroid hormone (PTH) dependent adenylate cyclase is localized. In contrast, calcitonin alters Pi transport at sites devoid of calcitonin dependent adenylate cyclase, suggesting that Pi reabsorption in response to this stimulus occurs by a distinctly different mechanism. At all three sites of Pi reabsorption, the proximal convoluted tubule, proximal straight tubule and distal tubule, PTH has been shown to decrease Pi reabsorption either by a cAMP-dependent process, or in some cases a cAMP-independent signaling mechanism. In contrast, calcitonin-sensitive adenylate cyclase maps to the medullary and cortical thick ascending limbs and the distal tubule ( Figure
