Primary Disorders of Phosphate Metabolism
KEYWORDS: pubmed, phosphate, renal, rickets, free, article, free article, pmc free, pmc, article pubmed, hypophosphatemia, bone, hypophosphatemic, levels, x-linked


cAMP-dependent process, or in some cases a cAMP-independent signaling mechanism. In contrast, calcitonin-sensitive adenylate cyclase maps to the medullary and cortical thick ascending limbs and the distal tubule ( Figure 2 ) ( 16 ). Although calcitonin has been shown to inhibit Pi reabsorption in proximal convoluted and straight tubules by a cAMP-independent mechanism, the physiologic importance of this action is likely limited. It appears that the major regulators of renal tubular phosphate retention are PTH and the endocrine fibroblast growth factor, FGF23 (see below). MECHANISM OF PHOSPHATE TRANSPORT Investigations of the cellular events involved in Pi movement from the renal tubule luminal fluid to the peritubular capillary blood indicate that Pi reabsorption occurs principally by a unidirectional process that proceeds transcellularly. Entry of Pi into the tubular cell across the luminal membrane proceeds by way of a saturable active transport system that is sodium-dependent (analogous to the sodium-dependent co-transport in the intestine) ( Figure 3 ). The rate of Pi transport is dependent on the abundance of transporters functioning in the membrane, and the magnitude of the Na + gradient maintained across the luminal membrane. This gradient depends on the Na + /ATPase or sodium pump on the basolateral membrane. The rate limiting step in transcellular transport is likely the Na + -dependent entry of Pi across the luminal membrane, a process with a low Km for luminal phosphate (~0.43M) which permits highly efficient transport. Figure 3. Model of inorganic phosphate transcellular transport in the proximal tubule. At the brush border a Na+/H+ exchanger and NPT2 co-transporters operate. Nearly all proximal tubular reabsorption can be accounted for by the SLC34 (type II) family of sodium-dependent Pi transporters. In mice, NPT2a appears to be the more abundant transporter; it is electrogenic with a 3:1 (Na: PO4) stoichiometry, preferentially transporting the divalent phosphate anion. The lesser abundant NPT2c transporter is electroneutral with a 2:1 (Na: PO4) stoichiometry but also prefers the divalent phosphate species. In humans NP2c appears to have a more significant role than in mice. The HPO4- that enters the cell across the luminal surface mixes with the intracellular pool of Pi and is transported across the basolateral membrane. This process is poorly understood, but anion exchange mechanisms have been suggested. A Na+/K+ ATPase located on the basolateral membrane pumps Na+ out of the cell maintaining the inward downhill Na gradient, which serves as the driving force for luminal
