Primary Disorders of Phosphate Metabolism
KEYWORDS: pubmed, phosphate, renal, rickets, free, article, free article, pmc free, pmc, article pubmed, hypophosphatemia, bone, hypophosphatemic, levels, x-linked


been suggested. A Na+/K+ ATPase located on the basolateral membrane pumps Na+ out of the cell maintaining the inward downhill Na gradient, which serves as the driving force for luminal entry of Na+. The phosphate that enters the tubule cell plays a major role in governing various aspects of cell metabolism and function and is in rapid exchange with intracellular phosphate. Under these conditions the relatively stable free Pi concentration in the cytosol implies that Pi entry into the cell across the brush border membrane must be tightly coupled with either subcellular compartmentalization, organification, or exit across the basolateral membrane ( Figure 3 ). The transport of phosphate across the basolateral membrane is poorly understood, however, several P transport pathways have been postulated, including Na+-Pi cotransport via type III Na-Pi cotransporters, passive diffusion, and anion exchange. The XPR1 transporter has been implicated in transport of phosphate out of cells but the significance of its role in total body P homeostasis is uncertain in humans ( 17 ). One animal study provides reasonable evidence for a critical role for this transporter in generalized tubular function ( 18 ). In any case, the basolateral Pi transport serves at least two functions: 1) complete transcellular Pi reabsorption when luminal Pi entry exceeds the cellular Pi requirements; and 2) basolateral Pi influx if apical Pi entry is insufficient to satisfy cellular requirements ( 19 ). Pi entry into renal epithelium is primarily performed by the type II class of Na-Pi cotransporters (SLC34 family members), although recently the finding of type III transporters (SLC20 family members, PiT1 and PiT2) in kidney have raised the possibility of a potential role for this class as well ( 20 ).These two families of Na-Pi cotransporters share no significant homology in their primary amino acid sequence and as noted above, exhibit substantial variability in substrate affinity, pH dependence and tissue expression. The NPT2 class of transporters account for the bulk of regulated phosphate transport in kidney, and disruption of this regulation may result in significant disease, documenting their physiological importance ( 21 , 22 ). As with intestinal Pi transport, physiologic differences between these families of Pi transporters provides for functional diversity allowing the body to transfer Pi between compartments in a variety of situations. Of the class II transporters NPT2a and NPT2c transporters are the predominant actors in the proximal renal tubule. NPT2a, the more abundant species in
