Primary Disorders of Phosphate Metabolism
KEYWORDS: pubmed, phosphate, renal, rickets, free, article, free article, pmc free, pmc, article pubmed, hypophosphatemia, bone, hypophosphatemic, levels, x-linked


compartments in a variety of situations. Of the class II transporters NPT2a and NPT2c transporters are the predominant actors in the proximal renal tubule. NPT2a, the more abundant species in mice, is electrogenic with a 3:1 (Na: PO 4 ) stoichiometry, preferentially transporting the divalent phosphate anion, and has a high affinity for Pi (all features of the NPT2b member of this family, the predominant intestinal sodium-dependent Pi transporter, see above). NPT2c differs from its type 2a/b family members in that is electroneutral with a 2:1 (Na: PO 4 ) stoichiometry but also prefers the divalent phosphate species. It has a much lower affinity for Pi, but is an efficient transporter due to its electroneutrality. An aspartic acid residue (Asp 224 in human NaPi-IIa) in a sodium binding site within a conserved amino acid cluster in the electrogenic transporters NPT2a and NPT2b, appears to be critical for electrogenicity. It is replaced with a glycine residue (Gly 196 in human NPT2c) in the electroneutral type IIc transporter ( 23 ). Initial attention focused on NPT2a, as it was determined to be the most abundant Na-Pi cotransporter in kidney. Molecular and/or genetic suppression of NPT2a supports its role in mediating brush-border membrane Na-Pi cotransport. Intravenous injection of specific antisense oligonucleotides reduces brush-border membrane Na-Pi cotransport activity in accord with a decrease in NPT2a protein ( 24 ). In addition, disruption of the gene encoding NPT2a in mice ( Slc34a1 ) leads to a 70% reduction in brush-border Na-Pi cotransport rate and complete loss of the protein ( 25 , 26 ). However, the NPT2c transporter may have a relatively more important role for Pi transport in humans as compared to rodents and appears to have a more widespread tissue distribution. The identification of a unique form of hypophosphatemia, Hereditary Hypophosphatemic Rickets with Hypercalciuria (HHRH) as a loss-of-function mutation in NPT2c has demonstrated an important physiologic role in humans for this transporter ( 27 ). The roles of type III transporters in this process are not established at this time, and the previously described class of type I sodium-dependent phosphate transporters (of the SLC17 family) are not specific Pi transporters and do not appear to be central to the regulation of phosphate homeostasis. REGULATION OF RENAL TUBULAR PHOSPHATE HANDLING Several hormones and metabolic perturbations are able to modulate phosphate reabsorption by the kidney. Among these FGF23, PTH, PTHrP, calcitonin, atrial natriuretic peptide, acidosis,
