Primary Disorders of Phosphate Metabolism
KEYWORDS: pubmed, phosphate, renal, rickets, free, article, free article, pmc free, pmc, article pubmed, hypophosphatemia, bone, hypophosphatemic, levels, x-linked


REGULATION OF RENAL TUBULAR PHOSPHATE HANDLING Several hormones and metabolic perturbations are able to modulate phosphate reabsorption by the kidney. Among these FGF23, PTH, PTHrP, calcitonin, atrial natriuretic peptide, acidosis, TGFb, glucocorticoids, hypercalcemia, and phosphate loading inhibit renal phosphate reclamation (for review, see reference 28 ). In contrast, IGF-1, growth hormone, insulin, thyroid hormone, EGF, alkalosis, hypocalcemia, and phosphate deprivation (depletion) stimulate renal phosphate reabsorption. The central role of FGF23 in this regard, revealed by the study of clinical disorders of renal phosphate wasting. Indeed, PTH and FGF23 are likely the two most important regulators of renal tubular phosphate handling and are discussed in greater detail below. The common target for regulation by these factors is the renal proximal tubular cell. Effects of 1,25(OH) 2 D are less clearly delineated, and such effects in vivo may be mediated by PTH or FGF23. PTH Investigations of classical PTH effects on proximal tubule phosphate transport indicate that both the cAMP-protein kinase A (PKA) and the phospholipase C-protein kinase C (PKC) signal transduction pathways are able to modulate this process. The PTH mediated inhibition of phosphate reabsorption operates through the PKC system at low hormone concentrations (10-8 to 10-10 M) and via PKA at higher concentrations. The PKA pathway is the more important mediator of PTH’s role on P handling at the kidney. PTH, after interaction with its receptor, PTHR1, effects a rapid and irreversible endocytosis of NaPi-IIa transporters to the lysosomal compartment, where subsequent proteolytic degradation occurs ( 29 ). Stabilization of NPT2a is mediated by NHERF1 which is phosphorylated by PTH’s activation of the PKA and PKC pathways. NHERF3 also binds to NPT2a, but it does not appear to be necessary for apical retention of the transporter. In contrast to NPT2a, NPT2c transporters are not targeted to lysosomes and their removal from the apical membrane may not be entirely irreversible ( 30 , 31 ). Although recovery of NPT2a cotransport activity following PTH inhibition requires protein synthesis, this may not be the case for NPT2c. In addition, the abundance of NPT2a-specific mRNA is not changed by parathyroidectomy but is minimally decreased in response to PTH administration. These data implicate PTH as a regulator of renal Na-Pi cotransport in an acute time frame, and that the regulation is determined by changes in the abundance of NaPi-II proteins in the renal brush border membrane ( 32 ). Certain aspects of Pi homeostasis at
