Primary Disorders of Phosphate Metabolism
KEYWORDS: pubmed, phosphate, renal, rickets, free, article, free article, pmc free, pmc, article pubmed, hypophosphatemia, bone, hypophosphatemic, levels, x-linked


frame, and that the regulation is determined by changes in the abundance of NaPi-II proteins in the renal brush border membrane ( 32 ). Certain aspects of Pi homeostasis at the renal level, however, are not explained by actions of PTH. For instance, even in the setting where parathyroid glands have been removed, regulation of renal P transport by dietary P content still exists, implying that other mediators of this process are at work. FGF23 FGF23 is the most recently identified important physiologic regulator of renal Pi excretion ( 33 ). This novel member of the fibroblast growth factor (FGF) family is produced by osteocytes and osteoblasts, thereby serving as a mechanism by which skeletal mineral demands can be communicated to the kidney, and influencing phosphate economy of the entire organism. In rodents and humans, after days of dietary phosphate loading, circulating FGF23 levels increase, and similarly, with dietary Pi deprivation, FGF23 levels decrease ( 34 ). FGF23 activates FGF receptors on the basolateral membrane of renal tubules resulting in removal of type II sodium-dependent Pi transporters from the apical surface of the tubular cell by a NHERF1 dependent process, similar to the mechanism described for PTH above. However, in contrast to PTH, FGF23 actions are mediated activation of ERK1/2 rather than the PTH driven PKA dependent pathway. Evidence also exists for decreased expression of type II sodium-dependent Pi via genomic mechanisms. FGF23 interacts with its receptor via a mechanism now identified as characteristic of the endocrine FGFs. FGF23 recognizes its cognate FGFR only in the presence of the co-receptor, alpha-klotho ( 35 ). Activation of this complex results in downstream ERK phosphorylation, and subsequently reduced expression of NaPi-IIa and NaPi-IIc, and CYP27B1 (1-hydroxylase), with an increase in expression of CYP24A1 (24-hydroxylase). This mechanism of signaling is apparent for the endocrine FGFs, FGF19 and FGF21, which require a separate member of the klotho family (beta-klotho) for specific tissue specific activation of FGFRs (for detailed review, see reference 36 ). FGF23 contains a unique C-terminal domain, thought to be the site of the interaction with klotho. The FGF-like domain, N-terminal to a furin protease recognition site, is the basis for the interaction of FGF23 with FGFR. Alpha-klotho appears to be able to associate with “c” isoforms of FGFR1 and FGFR3, and also FGFR4 ( 35 ). Renal signaling is thought to occur via FGFR1c, thereby rendering the reduced expression of the
