Primary Disorders of Phosphate Metabolism
KEYWORDS: pubmed, phosphate, renal, rickets, free, article, free article, pmc free, pmc, article pubmed, hypophosphatemia, bone, hypophosphatemic, levels, x-linked


to associate with “c” isoforms of FGFR1 and FGFR3, and also FGFR4 ( 35 ). Renal signaling is thought to occur via FGFR1c, thereby rendering the reduced expression of the apical membrane NaPi-II transporters. FGF23 also may play a role movement of transporters from the apical membrane; PTH may play a modulatory or necessary role for this effect ( 37 ). The physiologic importance of this system has been demonstrated in several ways. First, mice overexpressing FGF23 demonstrate increased renal Pi clearance and concomitant hypophosphatemia ( 38 ). Secondly, FGF23 null mice retain P at the kidney and are hyperphosphatemic ( 39 ). Thirdly, administration to mice of an FGF23 neutralizing antibody increases serum Pi ( 40 ). Nevertheless, gaps in our understanding of this pathway remain. Alpha-klotho appears to be more abundantly expressed in distal renal tubules as compared to proximal tubular sites. Thus, the mechanism by which this pathway affects the transporters in the proximal tubule is unclear. Most recently klotho alone has been shown to increase expression of FGF23, and appears to be able to reduce renal tubular phosphate reabsorption, independent of FGF23 ( 41 ). These findings are consistent with a unique case of hypophosphatemia associated with a mutation in the klotho region resulting in overexpression of the protein and an abundance of circulating klotho ( 42 ). Finally, recent evidence indicating that it certain tissues (heart) FGF signaling may occur in the absence of alpha-klotho, although the physiologic significance of this finding is not certain ( 43 ). The actions of FGF23 and other related proteins as mediators of disease are discussed in detail in the section on Pathophysiology of XLH (see below). Other potential regulators of renal Pi handling have been suggested. These include fragments of matrix extracellular glycoprotein (MEPE), secreted frizzled related protein-4 (sFRP4), stanniocalcin, and other FGFs, including FGF2, and FGF7 ( 44 - 47 ). The Osteocyte As A Coordinating Center For Phosphate Homeostasis Osteocytes are distributed throughout lamellar bone in an organized array with interconnections occurring through small tunneling caniculi (for review, see reference 48 ). Cellular processes extending from the cell body of the osteocyte pass through these caniculi and serve as a means of communication with other cells and to bony surfaces. Interestingly, many of the proteins involved in phosphate regulation are secreted by the osteocyte, including: 1) PHEX, which regulates FGF23 secretion, with loss-of-function resulting in elevated
