Primary Disorders of Phosphate Metabolism
KEYWORDS: pubmed, phosphate, renal, rickets, free, article, free article, pmc free, pmc, article pubmed, hypophosphatemia, bone, hypophosphatemic, levels, x-linked


and to bony surfaces. Interestingly, many of the proteins involved in phosphate regulation are secreted by the osteocyte, including: 1) PHEX, which regulates FGF23 secretion, with loss-of-function resulting in elevated circulating FGF23; 2) DMP1, a SIBLING protein, in which loss-of-function also results in elevated circulating FGF23; 3) FGF23 itself, and 4) FGFR1 which appears to be activated in osteocytes resulting in elevated FGF23 expression. These observations have led to the consideration that the osteocyte may directly respond to phosphate nutritional status, and the osteocytic network throughout the skeleton may relay the mineral demands for bone maintenance to the kidney, where phosphate conservation is regulated. The osteocyte’s response to phosphate status does not appear to be an acute process, as that observed with the extracellular calcium sensing receptor system that regulates PTH secretion in PT glands. The coordination of certain specific matrix proteins may play a role in the local regulation of phosphate supply and mineralization. For instance, skeletal pyrophosphate (PPi) has been identified in increased abundance in the perilacunar bone of Hyp mice, suggesting a potential role of this potent inhibitor of mineralization in the skeletal pathophysiology of the disease ( 49 ). Others have demonstrated aberrations in osteopontin in skeletal matrix ( 50 ). It follows that genetic disruption of this pathway may result in the profound systemic disturbances observed in the diseases discussed herein. In sum, repeated observations have confirmed that the balance between urinary excretion and dietary input of Pi is maintained in normal humans, in patients with hyper- and hypoparathyroidism, and under man conditions. This is predominantly due to the ability of the renal tubule to adjust Pi reabsorption rate according to the body’s Pi supply and demand. Thus, Pi reabsorption is increased under conditions of greater need, such as rapid growth, pregnancy, lactation and dietary restriction. Conversely, in times of surfeit, such as slow growth, chronic renal failure or dietary excess, renal Pi reabsorption is curtailed. Such changes in response to chronic changes in Pi availability are characterized by parallel changes in Na-phosphate cotransporter activity, the NPT2 mRNA level and NPT2 protein abundance. These changes are likely mediated by FGF23, as well as other possible factors. Removal of NPT2 cotransporters from the apical membrane of renal tubular cells is an acute process, mediated by PTH. The interaction of these two agents on the overall process may also be important. Indeed, ablation of PTH in a
