Primary Disorders of Phosphate Metabolism
KEYWORDS: pubmed, phosphate, renal, rickets, free, article, free article, pmc free, pmc, article pubmed, hypophosphatemia, bone, hypophosphatemic, levels, x-linked


renal tubular cells is an acute process, mediated by PTH. The interaction of these two agents on the overall process may also be important. Indeed, ablation of PTH in a murine model of excess FGF23 abrogates hypophosphatemia. Likewise, suppression of PTH may reduce phosphate losses even with persistence of high FGF23 ( 51 , 52 ), suggesting an interaction between the two pathways at the renal tubule ( 53 ). CLINICAL DISORDERS OF PHOSPHATE METABOLISM Primary disorders of phosphate homeostasis are listed in Table 1 . Phosphate abnormalities may also occur in the setting of chronic kidney disease, as effects of therapeutic agents, and nutritional or intestinal absorption problems. Not surprisingly, since the kidney is the primary regulatory site for phosphate homeostasis, aberrant phosphate metabolism results most commonly from altered renal Pi handling. Moreover, the majority of the primary diseases are phosphate-losing disorders in which renal Pi wasting and hypophosphatemia predominate and osteomalacia and rickets are characteristic. Osteomalacia and rickets are disorders of calcification characterized by defects of bone mineralization in adults and bone and cartilage mineralization during growth. In osteomalacia, there is a failure to normally mineralize the newly formed organic matrix (osteoid) of bone. In rickets, a disease of children, there is not only abnormal mineralization of bone but defective cartilage growth plate calcification at the epiphyses as well. Apoptosis of chondrocytes in the hypertrophic zone is reduced, typically resulting in an expanded hypertrophic zone, delayed mineralization and vascularization of the calcification front, with an overall appearance of a widened and disorganized growth plate ( 54 ). The remainder of this chapter reviews the pathophysiology of hypophosphatemic rachitic and osteomalacic disorders and provides a systematic approach to the diagnosis and management of these diseases. The discussion will focus on disorders in which primary disturbances in phosphate homeostasis occur, emphasizing X-linked hypophosphatemic rickets/osteomalacia (XLH). Other FGF23-mediated disorders including autosomal dominant and autosomal recessive hypophosphatemic rickets (ADHR, ADHR, ARHR1, ARHR2, ARHR3), and tumor-induced osteomalacia (TIO) will be discussed. Hereditary hypophosphatemic rickets with hypercalciuria (HHRH) and Dent's disease will be described as examples of FGF23-independent hypophosphatemia. Table 1. Primary Disorders of Phosphate Homeostasis View in own window Gene Mutation FGF23-mediated Hypophosphatemia (XLH) Autosomal dominant hypophosphatemic rickets (ADHR) Autosomal recessive hypophosphatemic rickets 1 (ARHR1) Autosomal recessive hypophosphatemic rickets 2 (ARHR2) Autosomal recessive hypophosphatemic rickets 2/Raine syndrome related hypophosphatemia (ARHR3) McCune-Albright syndrome/fibrous dysplasia Osteoglophonic dysplasia Jansen metaphyseal chondrodysplasia Klotho overexpression Epidermal nevus syndrome
