Primary Disorders of Phosphate Metabolism
KEYWORDS: pubmed, phosphate, renal, rickets, free, article, free article, pmc free, pmc, article pubmed, hypophosphatemia, bone, hypophosphatemic, levels, x-linked


(the percentage of osteoid-covered bone-forming surface undergoing calcification). The critical dynamic parameter used to confirm that osteoid accumulation is due to osteomalacia is the mineral apposition rate. Inadequate growth plate cartilage mineralization in rickets is primarily observed in the hypertrophic zone of chondrocytes. Irregular alignment and more extensive disorganization of the growth plate may be evident with increasing severity of disease. Calcification in the interstitial regions of this hypertrophic zone is defective. Grossly, these changes result in increased thickness of the epiphyseal plate, and an increase in transverse diameter that often extends beyond the ends of the bone and causes characteristic cupping or flaring. Clinical Disorders: FGF23-Mediated Hypophosphatemia X-LINKED HYPOPHOSPHATEMIC RICKETS/OSTEOMALACIA X-linked hypophosphatemic rickets/osteomalacia (XLH) was initially recognized in the 1930s as a form of “vitamin D resistant" and only later, as disorder of renal phosphate wasting. The disorder is inherited in X-linked dominant fashion and is manifest biochemically by a low renal threshold maximum for renal tubular phosphate reabsorption, consequent hypophosphatemia, and low, or inappropriate circulating levels of 1,25(OH) 2 D. Known biochemical characteristics of XLH and other hypophosphatemic disorders are shown in Table 2 . Characteristic features of the disease include growth retardation, osteomalacia and rickets in growing children. The clinical expression of the disease is widely variable, ranging from mild skeletal abnormalities to severe bone disease. Most would agree that a wide spectrum of phenotypic severity occurs in both males (with a mutated gene on their only X chromosome) and females (who are heterozygous for the defective X-linked gene), although clinical experience suggests that females, particularly with certain mutations may express less severe disease ( 58 ). Bowing of the lower extremities is usually the first physical sign of the disorder, but is not often evident until 1-2 yrs of age, after the child is standing or walking ( 59 ). Biochemical evidence of disease can be detected shortly after birth, however, may not become apparent until several weeks to months of age. Short stature generally becomes evident after the first year of life, as well ( 60 ), coincident with the timing of bow deformities. Growth abnormalities and limb deformities are both more evident in the lower extremities, since they represent the fastest growing body segment before puberty. Table 2. Biochemical Characteristics of XLH and Other Hypophosphatemic Disorders View in own window Calcium Metabolism Phosphate Metabolism Vitamin D Metabolism Serum Calcium Urine Calcium Serum PTH GI
