Primary Disorders of Phosphate Metabolism
KEYWORDS: pubmed, phosphate, renal, rickets, free, article, free article, pmc free, pmc, article pubmed, hypophosphatemia, bone, hypophosphatemic, levels, x-linked


before puberty. Table 2. Biochemical Characteristics of XLH and Other Hypophosphatemic Disorders View in own window Calcium Metabolism Phosphate Metabolism Vitamin D Metabolism Serum Calcium Urine Calcium Serum PTH GI Calcium Absorption Serum Pi TmP/ GFR GI Pi Absorption Serum 25(OH)D Serum 1,25(OH) 2 D XLH N N, N ( ) ADHR N N N ( ) ARHR N N ? ? N ( ) TIO N N N XLRH N N, N HHRH N N, N ( ) XLH, X-linked hypophosphatemia; ADHR, Autosomal dominant hypophosphatemic rickets; ARHR, Autosomal recessive hypophosphatemic rickets; TIO, Tumor-induced osteomalacia; XLHR, X-linked recessive hypophosphatemia (Dent's Disease); HHRH, Hereditary hypophosphatemic rickets with hypercalciuria. N, normal; , decreased; , increased, ( ), decreased relative to the serum phosphorus concentration; ?, unknown. The majority of affected children exhibit clinical evidence of rickets ( Figure 4 ), varying from enlargement of the wrists and/or knees to severe malalignment defects such as bowing or knock-knee deformities. ( Figure 4 ). Such defects may result in waddling gait and leg length abnormalities ( 61 ). X-ray examination reveals expanded areas of non-mineralized cartilage in epiphyseal regions and lateral curvature of the femora and/or tibia. Strikingly absent are features observed in vitamin D deficiency rickets attributable to hypocalcemia, such as tetany and convulsions. Muscle weakness and pain are not usually presentations of XLH in early childhood but emerge later in life. Figure 4. Radiograph of the lower extremities in a patient with X-linked hypophosphatemia. Bowing of the femurs is evident bilaterally. The distal femoral metaphysis is cupped, frayed and widened, radiographic features of an expanded and disorganized growth plate. Additional signs of the disease may include delayed dentition and dental abscesses ( 62 , 63 ), which are usually manifest clinically by pain and a gingival papule at the site of involvement. Radiographically there is an enlarged air compartment seen around the root of the affected tooth and an enlarged pulp chamber. Other dental findings that may play a role in the process include impaired mineralization of the dentine compartment of the tooth, and diminished cementum. Craniofacial structural anomalies may also result in crowding of teeth, requiring orthodontic management. Indeed, suture fusion of the cranial bones is aberrant, and craniosynostosis to some degree occurs frequently, and in severe cases require neurosurgical intervention. Adults with XLH manifest a broad spectrum of disease. They may be asymptomatic or present with severe bone pain. On
