Primary Disorders of Phosphate Metabolism
KEYWORDS: pubmed, phosphate, renal, rickets, free, article, free article, pmc free, pmc, article pubmed, hypophosphatemia, bone, hypophosphatemic, levels, x-linked


degree occurs frequently, and in severe cases require neurosurgical intervention. Adults with XLH manifest a broad spectrum of disease. They may be asymptomatic or present with severe bone pain. On clinical examination they often display evidence of post-rachitic deformities, such as bowed legs or short stature. However, overt biochemical changes such as elevated serum alkaline phosphatase activity or other biomarkers of bone turnover may not be evident. Adult patients frequently demonstrate features of "active" osteomalacia, characterized radiographically by pseudofractures, coarsened trabeculation, rarified areas and/or non-union fractures, and although variably present, may have elevated serum alkaline phosphatase activity. Symptoms at presentation may reflect the end-result of chronic changes and may not correlate with apparent current activity of the disease. In spite of marked variability in the clinical presentation of the disease, bone biopsy in affected children and adults nearly always reveals osteomalacia without osteopenia ( Figure 5 ). Histomorphometry of biopsy samples usually demonstrates a reduced rate of formation, diffuse patchy hypomineralization, a decrease in mineralizing surfaces and characteristic areas of hypomineralization of the periosteocytic lacunae ( 64 ). Of note, as noted above, increased skeletal PPi identified in the perilacunar bone of Hyp mice, the syngeneic animal model of XLH, may serve to inhibit mineralization locally as well ( 49 ). Figure 5. Section from an undecalcified bone biopsy in an untreated patient with X-linked hypophosphatemia. The Goldner stain reveals mineralized bone (blue/green) and an abundance of unmineralized osteoid (red) covering a substantial portion of the surfaces. The width of the osteoid seams is substantially increased. Osteophytes and other findings of a mineralizing enthesopathy ( 65 ) occur frequently and may result in the most severe clinical symptomatology in adulthood. A great deal of the morbidity of XLH in adults arises from the high incidence of arthritis, calcified entheses, and osteophytes. Enthesopathy generally is first detectable radiographically by late in the second decade, or early in the third decade. Older subjects have more sites of involvement and generally increasing involvement with age; the frequency of involvement appears to be greater in males. With progressive enthesopathy and bony overgrowth, excruciating pain may occur, particularly with fusion of the sacroiliac joint(s) and spinal stenosis ( 66 ). These manifestations do not appear to be affected for the better or worse with respect to exposure to currently available therapies ( 67 ). It is peculiar that XLH represents a deficiency of mineralization at
