Primary Disorders of Phosphate Metabolism
KEYWORDS: pubmed, phosphate, renal, rickets, free, article, free article, pmc free, pmc, article pubmed, hypophosphatemia, bone, hypophosphatemic, levels, x-linked


to be affected for the better or worse with respect to exposure to currently available therapies ( 67 ). It is peculiar that XLH represents a deficiency of mineralization at many skeletal sites, and pathologic ectopic mineralization elsewhere. This paradoxical situation raises the possibility that aberrant humoral factors, in addition to the ambient hypophosphatemia, may play a role in the discordant mineralization abnormalities observed. Clinical Biochemistry As previously noted, the primary biochemical abnormality of XLH is hypophosphatemia due to increased urinary phosphate excretion. Moreover, mild gastrointestinal phosphate malabsorption is present in the majority of patients, which may contribute to the evolution of the hypophosphatemia ( Table 2 ) ( 68 , 69 ). In contrast, the serum calcium concentration in affected subjects is normal despite gastrointestinal malabsorption of calcium. However, as a consequence of this defect, urinary calcium is often decreased. The severe secondary hyperparathyroidism that occurs in vitamin D deficiency is not present as the degree of calcium malabsorption is not severe in that condition. However, mildly elevated circulating levels of PTH occur in many patients naive to therapy and thought to represent the inadequate production of 1,25(OH) 2 D. Other non-specific but typical findings include elevated serum alkaline phosphatase activity. Serum alkaline phosphatase activity, although usually elevated to 2-3 times the upper limit of normal in childhood, is generally less than the levels observed in nutritional rickets. As noted above, circulating PTH levels may be normal to modestly elevated in naïve patients, but treatment with phosphate salts often aggravate this tendency such that persistent secondary hyperparathyroidism may occur. Because of variability in adulthood, this measure is not a reliable marker of disease involvement in the older age group. Prior to the initiation of therapy, serum 25-OHD levels are normal, and serum 1,25(OH) 2 D levels are in the low normal range ( 70 , 71 ). The paradoxical occurrence of hypophosphatemia and normal serum calcitriol levels in affected subjects is consistent with aberrant regulation of both synthesis and clearance of this metabolite (due to increased 25-OHD-24-hydroxylase activity) ( 72 , 73 ). Circulating levels of FGF23 are generally elevated in individuals with XLH, although overlap may occur. Thus, caution should be applied when using this measure as a strict diagnostic criterion for the diagnosis of XLH, as some subjects have been shown to have circulating FGF23 levels within the normal range, and commercially available assays (which recognize “intact”
