Primary Disorders of Phosphate Metabolism
KEYWORDS: pubmed, phosphate, renal, rickets, free, article, free article, pmc free, pmc, article pubmed, hypophosphatemia, bone, hypophosphatemic, levels, x-linked


strict diagnostic criterion for the diagnosis of XLH, as some subjects have been shown to have circulating FGF23 levels within the normal range, and commercially available assays (which recognize “intact” species or both intact and C-terminal species) do not always provide concordant results. Genetics With the recognition that hypophosphatemia is the definitive marker for XLH, Winters et al ( 74 ) and Burnett et al ( 75 ) discovered that this disease is transmitted as an X-linked dominant disorder. Analysis of data from 13 multigenerational pedigrees identified PHEX (for phosphate regulating gene with homologies to endopeptidases located on the X chromosome) as the gene disrupted in XLH ( 76 ). PHEX is located on chromosome Xp22.1 and encodes a 749-amino acid protein with three putative domains: 1) a small amino-terminal intracellular tail; 2) a single, short transmembrane domain; and 3) a large carboxyterminal extracellular domain, containing ten conserved cysteine residues and a HEXXH pentapeptide motif, which characterizes many zinc metalloproteases. Further studies have revealed that PHEX is homologous to the M13 family of membrane-bound metalloproteases, or neutral endopeptidases. M13 family members, including neutral endopeptidase 24.11 (NEP), endothelin-converting enzymes 1 and 2 (ECE-1 and ECE-2), the Kell blood group antigen (KELL), neprilysin-like peptide (NL1), and endothelin converting enzyme-like 1 (ECEL1), degrade or activate a variety of peptide hormones. In addition, like other neutral endopeptidases, immunofluorescent studies have revealed a cell-surface location for PHEX in an orientation consistent with a type II integral membrane glycoprotein ( 77 ). It has been demonstrated that certain missense variants in PHEX that substitute a highly conserved cysteine residue will interfere with normal trafficking of the molecule to the plasma membrane ( 78 ). Thus, it appears that one mechanism associated with the pathophysiology of XLH is to prevent PHEX from locating to the cell membrane. Other missense variants have been shown in in vitro studies to disrupt enzymatic function of the protein, alter its conformation, or disrupt cellular processing in other ways ( 79 , 80 ). Studies in rodents have demonstrated that Phex is predominantly expressed in bones (in osteoblasts/osteocytes) and teeth (in odontoblasts/ameloblasts) ( 81 - 84 ); mRNA, protein or both have also been found in lung, brain, muscle, gonads, skin and parathyroid glands. Subcellular locations appear to be the plasma membrane, endoplasmic reticulum and Golgi organelle. Immunohistochemistry studies suggest that Phex is most abundant on the cell surface of the osteocyte.
