Primary Disorders of Phosphate Metabolism
KEYWORDS: pubmed, phosphate, renal, rickets, free, article, free article, pmc free, pmc, article pubmed, hypophosphatemia, bone, hypophosphatemic, levels, x-linked


parathyroid glands. Subcellular locations appear to be the plasma membrane, endoplasmic reticulum and Golgi organelle. Immunohistochemistry studies suggest that Phex is most abundant on the cell surface of the osteocyte. In sum, the ontogeny of Phex expression suggests a possible role in mineralization in vivo. Recently combined efforts of many investigators and genetic sequencing laboratories have documented over 850 pathogenic PHEX variants ( 85 ). Most of these (>70%) are predicted to generate a truncated PHEX protein. Overall, frameshift, splicing, copy-number, nonsense, and missense variants have been described, and are predicted to cause loss of function of the PHEX protein. A recently updated on-line database of PHEX variants can be accessed at: https://www.rarediseasegenes.com/ The location of Phex expression in bone cells have led to the hypothesis that diminished PHEX/Phex expression in bone initiates the cascade of events responsible for the pathogenesis of XLH. In order to confirm this possibility, several investigators have used targeted over-expression of Phex in attempts to normalize osteoblast mineralization, in vitro, and rescue the Hyp phenotype in vivo ( 86 - 88 ). Results from these studies have not resulted in a complete skeletal rescue, raising questions as to the role of early developmental expression of PHEX , or at least the success of expression when targeted with osteocalcin or type I collagen promoters. Nevertheless, partial rescue of the mineralization defect in Hyp mice occurs, suggesting that local effects of the PHEX mutation may play some role in the mineralization process, but cannot completely restore the skeleton to normality. Of note, this partial rescue occurs in concert with a reduction in FGF23 levels, although not lowered to a truly normal range ( 88 ). In sum, although a physiologic substrate for PHEX has not been identified, the consequence of loss-of-function of PHEX is an elevation in the circulating FGF23 level. Failure of targeted osteoblastic PHEX overexpression to completely rescue Hyp mice may reflect that critical sites (or developmental timing) for PHEX expression are not effectively generated with these models to effectively rescue the skeletal phenotype; this effect may be dependent upon the resultant capacity in these transgenic models of normal PHEX to reduce FGF23 production in mutant cells. ASARM peptides, fragments of SIBLING ( s mall i ntegrin b inding li gand N-g lycated) proteins, have been shown to inhibit mineralization and potentially play a role in modulation of renal P transport; these peptides have also
