Primary Disorders of Phosphate Metabolism
KEYWORDS: pubmed, phosphate, renal, rickets, free, article, free article, pmc free, pmc, article pubmed, hypophosphatemia, bone, hypophosphatemic, levels, x-linked


i ntegrin b inding li gand N-g lycated) proteins, have been shown to inhibit mineralization and potentially play a role in modulation of renal P transport; these peptides have also been shown to be degraded by PHEX ( 89 ). Other evidence has suggested that expression of osteopontin expression may be altered in the context of PHEX loss of function as well ( 50 ). Pathophysiology Hypophosphatemia in XLH results from the impaired renal proximal tubule function of Pi reabsorption. For some time, XLH was thought to be a primary disorder of the renal tubule, however the consideration that humoral mediation of phosphate wasting in XLH was suggested by two novel clinical findings. First, the persistence of renal phosphate wasting after renal transplantation in a man with XLH indicated a new donor kidney continued to manifest the defect ( 90 ). Second, the clinical course of a similar phosphate-wasting syndrome, Tumor Induced Osteomalacia (also referred to as Oncogenic Osteomalacia), resolved upon removal of a tumor, suggesting that the tumor was the source of a mediating factor. Further evidence for humoral mediation was provided by classical parabiosis experiments, suggested that a cross-circulating factor could mediate renal phosphate wasting ( 91 ), and by renal cross-transplantation between Hyp and normal mice. These experiments demonstrated continued normal renal phosphate handling after transplantation of Hyp kidney to a normal host, as well as the failure to correct the mutant phenotype upon introduction of a normal kidney to a Hyp host ( 92 ). These findings, most consistent with humoral mediation of the Pi wasting in the disease, led to the search for candidate mediators of renal phosphate handling, and eventually to the discovery that FGF23 is an important regulator of renal phosphate homeostasis. Subsequently, circulating FGF23 concentrations were found to be greater in XLH patients than in unaffected control subjects, providing evidence for the role of this endocrine FGF in XLH. Renal tubular wasting occurs on the basis of a decreased abundance of NPT2 transporters in the proximal convoluted tubule cells ( 93 - 95 ), and in turn, this reduction in NPT2 abundance is mediated by increased circulating levels of FGF23 (see above, Regulation of Renal Tubular Phosphate Handling ). Increased FGF23 occurs in the context of disruption of PHEX, which, like FGF23, is primarily expressed in osteocytes, and FGF23 appears to be produced in a phosphate-sensitive manner. It remains unclear as to
