Primary Disorders of Phosphate Metabolism
KEYWORDS: pubmed, phosphate, renal, rickets, free, article, free article, pmc free, pmc, article pubmed, hypophosphatemia, bone, hypophosphatemic, levels, x-linked


in the context of disruption of PHEX, which, like FGF23, is primarily expressed in osteocytes, and FGF23 appears to be produced in a phosphate-sensitive manner. It remains unclear as to how the loss-of-function of PHEX results in elevated FGF23 levels. The hypothesis that PHEX (a member of the M13 family of zinc-dependent type II cell surface membrane metalloproteinases) could serve as a processor of a phosphaturic hormone such as FGF23 has not been borne out, and the role PHEX plays in this pathway is not clear. Several other phosphate wasting disorders have been described (see below) in which elevated FGF23 occurs in the setting of (presumably) normal PHEX. Such conditions include TIO, where overproduction of FGF23 results in a comparable Pi wasting phenotype. In Autosomal Dominant Hypophosphatemic Rickets (ADHR) specific mutations in FGF23 result in gain of function of the protein ( 96 , 97 ). The specific mutations disrupt an RXXR protease recognition site, and thereby protect FGF23 from proteolysis, resulting in reduced clearance and elevating circulating levels of this protein, with coincident renal Pi wasting. In yet another genetic disorder, Autosomal Recessive Hypophosphatemic Rickets type I ( 98 ), due to homozygous loss of function mutations in dentin matrix protein-1 (DMP1), renal tubular Pi wasting occurs in the setting of increased FGF23 levels. DMP1 is a matrix protein of the SIBLING family, and, like PHEX and FGF23, has been primarily identified in osteocytes. In Autosomal Recessive Hypophosphatemic Rickets type II, due to mutations in ENPP1 , elevated FGF23 concentrations occur ( 99 , 100 ). ENPP1 encodes a phosphatase with a critical local role in mineralization, serving to generate the mineralization inhibitor, pyrophosphate (PPi); loss of function of ENPP1 may result in Generalized Arterial Calcification of Infancy (GACI), a fatal disease of infants in which rampant vascular mineralization occurs ( 101 ). These findings have suggested the hypothesis that loss of the mineralization inhibitor PPi prompts a signal to compensate for the severe excess vascular mineralization, and increasing FGF23 levels results in an attempt to induce renal phosphate excretion and to limit further excessive mineralization. Nearly all patients who have survived GACI develop renal phosphate wasting and often consequent rickets ( 102 ). Furthermore, FGF23 levels are elevated in mice with biallelic disruptions of DMP1 and with biallelic loss of ENPP1 . Transgenic mice which overexpress FGF23, exhibit retarded growth, hypophosphatemia, decreased (or inappropriately normal) serum 1,25(OH) 2
