Primary Disorders of Phosphate Metabolism
KEYWORDS: pubmed, phosphate, renal, rickets, free, article, free article, pmc free, pmc, article pubmed, hypophosphatemia, bone, hypophosphatemic, levels, x-linked


in mice with biallelic disruptions of DMP1 and with biallelic loss of ENPP1 . Transgenic mice which overexpress FGF23, exhibit retarded growth, hypophosphatemia, decreased (or inappropriately normal) serum 1,25(OH) 2 D levels and rickets/osteomalacia, all features of XLH. Indeed, murine models of all of these disorders (XLH, ADHR, TIO, and ARHR) similarly demonstrate elevated circulating FGF23 levels with concomitant renal phosphate wasting. In sum, enhanced FGF23 activity is common to several phosphate-wasting disorders. In particular, those disorders that share the combined defects of inappropriately low circulating levels of 1,25(OH) 2 D and renal tubular Pi wasting are associated with increased FGF23 levels. This coincidence of findings holds for XLH, ADHR, ARHR (types I, II, and III), and TIO, and are consistent with the notion that FGF23 is a both a direct regulator of Pi homeostasis at the renal level, a down-regulator of 1α-hydroxylase activity, responsible for the catalysis of 25-OH vitamin D to its active form, and stimulus for its clearance via the 24-hydroxylation pathway. The teleological appeal to this argument stems from the provision of 2 major Pi regulating hormones in the body: firstly, PTH (primarily responsive to serum Ca levels), which also serves to increase Ca levels via an increase in circulating 1,25(OH) 2 D, and secondly, FGF23 (primarily responsive to Pi), which counters PTH’s calcemic effect by reducing 1,25(OH) 2 D levels ( Figure 6 ). Figure 6. Scheme for the speculated pathophysiology of XLH, ARHR, TIO, and ADHR. Upper panel, osteocytes, comprising a network of connected cells embedded in mineralized bone are the cellular source of PHEX (which is mutated in XLH), DMP1 (which is mutated in ARHR), and FGF23 (which is found in high concentrations in all four of these hypophosphatemic disorders). It follows that loss of PHEX or DMP1 results in increased FGF23 production/secretion by mechanisms that are not currently understood. Circulating FGF23 concentrations may also occur secondary to the increased production associated with various tumors. Lower panel, circulating FGF23 interacts with an FGF receptor (presumably FGFR1) on the basolateral surface of the proximal renal tubular cell. Klotho, produced by the distal renal tubule in both membrane bound and secretory forms, is necessary for the FGF23/FGFR interaction. Signaling through this pathway results in a decrease in NPT2 mRNAs, thereby reducing the abundance of Pi cotransporters on the apical membrane as well as a more rapid action of translocating the transporter off of the apical
