Primary Disorders of Phosphate Metabolism
KEYWORDS: pubmed, phosphate, renal, rickets, free, article, free article, pmc free, pmc, article pubmed, hypophosphatemia, bone, hypophosphatemic, levels, x-linked


decrease in NPT2 mRNAs, thereby reducing the abundance of Pi cotransporters on the apical membrane as well as a more rapid action of translocating the transporter off of the apical membrane. Thus, impairment of renal tubular Pi reabsorption results. Likewise, synthesis of 1,25(OH)2D is impaired, while its clearance is augmented. In XLH and ARHR, increased production of FGF23 occurs in the skeleton; in TIO, increased production of FGF23 occurs in tumors; in ADHR, enhanced activity of FGF23 occurs as a result of the specific mutations that retard its metabolic clearance. Other recent findings have provided support for the role of klotho in the FGF23-mediated hypophosphatemia pathway. An unusual patient with renal tubular Pi wasting and abnormally increased serum klotho has been described ( 42 ). Investigation revealed a translocation breakpoint disrupting the region upstream of that encoding klotho. Indeed, mice with disruption of the klotho gene manifest hyper phosphatemia and elevated circulating 1,25(OH) 2 D levels ( 103 ). The proof that klotho is distal to PHEX in this regulatory pathway was shown by crossing the klotho disrupted mice with Hyp ( PHEX -deletion) mice. The double mutant ( Hyp /Kl -/- ) mice were hyperphosphatemic, with elevated 1,25(OH) 2 D levels, despite having extremely elevated circulating FGF23 levels due to PHEX loss-of-function ( 104 ). The unexpected finding that overexpression of klotho can upregulate FGF23 production has also been reported ( 105 ). Indeed, further evidence for the central role of FGF23 in the Pi-regulating process comes from the investigation of another group of rare disorders of Pi homeostasis in which renal Pi conservation is excessive in the setting of increased circulating Pi levels. This group of disorders, known as hyperphosphatemic tumoral calcinosis (HTC), is manifest clinically by precipitation of amorphous calcium-phosphate crystals in soft tissues. This phenomenon is thought to result from an increase in the ambient Ca x Pi solubility product, and occurs as a direct result of enhanced renal tubular reabsorption of Pi ( 106 ). In addition, circulating 1,25(OH) 2 D levels are inappropriately in the high-normal to high range. Thus, the precise converse of primary metabolic derangements occurs, as compared to the XLH-related group of diseases. Initially, HTC was shown to directly result from loss of function mutations in GALNT3 , a glycosylating enzyme important for appropriate O-glycosylation of proteins. This modification appears to be necessary for efficient Golgi secretion of full length FGF23
