Primary Disorders of Phosphate Metabolism
KEYWORDS: pubmed, phosphate, renal, rickets, free, article, free article, pmc free, pmc, article pubmed, hypophosphatemia, bone, hypophosphatemic, levels, x-linked


loss of function mutations in GALNT3 , a glycosylating enzyme important for appropriate O-glycosylation of proteins. This modification appears to be necessary for efficient Golgi secretion of full length FGF23 ( 107 ). Interestingly patients with HTC due to GALNT3 mutations have increased circulating levels of the inactive C-terminal fragment of FGF23, but low circulating levels of intact active form of FGF23 ( 108 ). Recent evidence implicates that variant post-translational modification of FGF23 can also be modulated by FAM20C: mutations in this gene can result in elevated FGF23 levels, renal phosphate wasting and hypophosphatemia, and referred to as Autosomal Recessive Hypophosphatemic Rickets, type III (ARHR3) and may have clinical features described as Raine syndrome (see table 1 ) ( 109 , 110 ). HTC may also occur in the setting of loss-of-function mutations of FGF23 ( 111 ). As with GALNT3-related HTC, these patients have low intact FGF23 level. Loss of function of klotho has also been described in a case of HTC, despite the finding of elevated FGF23 levels, thus rendering the FGF23 inactive at the renal proximal tubule ( 112 ). As with hypophosphatemia syndromes, animal models have confirmed the physiologic implications of these clinical scenarios: FGF23 null mice develop a hyperphosphatemic, calcifying phenotype with elevated 1,25(OH) 2 D levels ( 39 ), similar to mice with disruption of the klotho gene ( 103 , 113 ). As noted above, the klotho protein is now known to be an essential co-factor in FGFR1c activation when FGF23 serves as the activating ligand ( 35 ). The overall physiologic importance of this regulating system requires further study. It is not clear how PHEX or DMP1 result in elevated FGF23 levels. The intriguing aspect of the osteocyte as a potential central cell in this pathway also bears further study. Treatment Decades ago, physicians employed pharmacological doses of vitamin D as the cornerstone for treatment of XLH. However, long-term observations indicate that this therapy fails to cure the disease and poses the serious problem of recurrent vitamin D intoxication and renal damage. Indeed, such treatment results only in incomplete healing of the rachitic abnormality, while hypophosphatemia and impaired growth remain. Similar unresponsiveness is typical with use of 25(OH)D. With the recognition that phosphate depletion is an important contributor to impaired skeletal mineralization, physicians began to devise treatment strategies that employed oral phosphate supplementation to compensate for the renal phosphate wasting and
