Primary Disorders of Phosphate Metabolism
KEYWORDS: pubmed, phosphate, renal, rickets, free, article, free article, pmc free, pmc, article pubmed, hypophosphatemia, bone, hypophosphatemic, levels, x-linked


that phosphate depletion is an important contributor to impaired skeletal mineralization, physicians began to devise treatment strategies that employed oral phosphate supplementation to compensate for the renal phosphate wasting and thereby increasing the available Pi to the mineralizing skeleton. This strategy was somewhat successful in terms of improving skeletal lesions, although it was soon realized that pharmacologic amounts of vitamin D were necessary in combination with phosphate supplements to counter the exacerbation of hyperparathyroidism observed in this setting. Such combination therapy was found to be more effective than either administering vitamin D or phosphate alone. With the recognition that circulating 1,25(OH) 2 D levels are not appropriately regulated in XLH, the use of this metabolite (or another pharmacologically activated metabolite, alfacalcidol) in combination with phosphate was subsequently used to treat the disease ( 67 , 114 - 116 ) and directly addressed the combined calcitriol and phosphorus deficiency characteristic of the disorder. Although this combination therapy served as the mainstay of therapy for nearly 4 decades, complete healing of the skeletal lesions was usually not the case, and late complications of the disease persisted. In many areas of the world this therapy has been replaced with periodic injections of burosumab, a monoclonal antibody developed to bind to FGF23 and thereby inhibit its activity (see below). Nevertheless, where burosumab is not available, oral calcitriol and phosphate therapy is often used. In children the treatment regimen typically includes a period of titration to achieve a maximum dose of 1,25(OH) 2 D 3 (Rocaltrol® or calcitriol), 20-50 ng/kg/day in two divided doses, and phosphorus, (20-50 mg/kg/day, to a maximum of 1-2 gms/day) in 3-5 divided doses. Dosing of alfacalcidol is usually in the range of 25-40 ng/kg/day. Adherence to this regimen is a difficult challenge, particularly in children, in view of the multiple daily dosings, gastrointestinal complications (including stomach pain and diarrhea), and an unpleasant taste of many oral phosphate preparations. In view of these difficulties, optimal exposure to the medications is considerably compromised. Furthermore, potential toxicity of excess dosing requires frequent blood and urine monitoring to optimize the dose for both safety and efficacy. Therapy with the combination of 1,25(OH) 2 D 3 and oral phosphorus can result in hypercalcemia, hypercalciuria, renal calcinosis, and hyperparathyroidism. These complications may increase in severity when monitoring is infrequent, as clinical features may become evident only in late stages when severe degrees of impairment are present
