Primary Disorders of Phosphate Metabolism
KEYWORDS: pubmed, phosphate, renal, rickets, free, article, free article, pmc free, pmc, article pubmed, hypophosphatemia, bone, hypophosphatemic, levels, x-linked


calcinosis, and hyperparathyroidism. These complications may increase in severity when monitoring is infrequent, as clinical features may become evident only in late stages when severe degrees of impairment are present and potentially irreversible. Detrimental effects on renal function were particularly common prior to the frequent monitoring now generally employed with this therapy. Indeed, hypercalcemia, severe nephrocalcinosis and/or diminished creatinine clearance necessitates appropriate dose adjustment, and in some cases discontinuation of therapy. Throughout the treatment course careful attention to renal function, as well as serum and urine calcium is extremely important. Balancing the dosing of both medications to prevent hyperparathyroidism (exacerbated by excess phosphate loads) is a particularly important measure when using this approach. In children the goal of therapy is to improve growth velocity, normalize any lower extremity defects, and heal the attendant bone disease. Although the combined oral agents often improve growth velocity, at least in the short-term after beginning therapy, children who present with markedly short stature prior to 4 years of age may not adequately catch up to normal growth centiles . For that reason, recombinant growth hormone as additional treatment has been suggested ( 117 ), however this approach has not been universally recommended in view of the lack of definitive benefits in controlled studies, and a risk of resultant worsening of the disproportional stature ( 118 ), although others have not identified significant concerns in this regard ( 119 ). A recent meta-analysis concluded there is insufficient evidence to support recommendation of its use ( 120 ). With the advent of burosumab therapy, several reports suggest a potential synergistic growth effect of this newer agent with growth hormone, but long-term controlled trials remain to be performed (120A, 120B). Therapy in adults with XLH has been less universally applied, but considerable benefit for many adult patients is becoming increasingly evident, particularly with the use of burosumab. Oral therapy of symptomatic adults has utilized the combination of phosphate (elemental phosphorus of 750-2000 mg/day) divided into 3-4 doses daily, and active vitamin D (calcitriol (0.5 to 1 µg/day) or alfacalcidol (0.75–1.5 μg daily). Doses may be lowered during the maintenance phase of treatment to minimize long term complications. In some mild cases calcitriol alone has been used. Intractable bone pain and refractory non-union fractures often respond to treatment with calcitriol and phosphorus ( 121 ). However, data remain unclear regarding the effects of treatment on fracture incidence (which
