Primary Disorders of Phosphate Metabolism
KEYWORDS: pubmed, phosphate, renal, rickets, free, article, free article, pmc free, pmc, article pubmed, hypophosphatemia, bone, hypophosphatemic, levels, x-linked


bone pain and refractory non-union fractures often respond to treatment with calcitriol and phosphorus ( 121 ). However, data remain unclear regarding the effects of treatment on fracture incidence (which may not be increased in untreated patients). There does not appear to be any effect of this therapy on enthesopathy, however superior dentition appears to occur in the setting of higher medication exposure through adulthood as well as the entire life span (67, 121A). Improvement in muscle weakness and general well-being may occur with oral phosphate/active vitamin D therapy in some adults. The decision to treat affected adults is best individualized; in general, it is beneficial to offer adults with significant symptomatology a trial of a therapy, but biochemical monitoring and periodic follow up are necessary. Several detailed strategies for the management of children and adults with XLH are available (122-124,124A, 124B, 124C). Over the past several years the use of burosumab, an anti-FGF23 antibody that serves to inhibit its activity has become widely used to treat XLH ( 125 - 133 ). This more directed approach to the etiology of the renal phosphate loss has been widely employed internationally. Trials in children with XLH demonstrated improvement of radiographic features of rickets, in concert with correction of abnormal biochemical indices after previous treatment with conventional phosphate and active vitamin D therapy ( 127 ). Superiority in a direct comparison with conventional therapy with respect to growth, radiographic rickets and biomarkers of disease such as serum alkaline phosphatase activity and phosphorus levels was also shown ( 133 ). Studies in adults have identified improvement in osteomalacia, dramatic healing of fractures and pseudofractures, and improvement in selected patient-reported outcomes (PROs). This therapy, where available, has proven to be generally better tolerated and more convenient than the older oral medication regimens that have been poorly tolerated. Starting doses are generally in the 1mg/kg range, given every 2 weeks in children and every 4 weeks in adults. Overall, the improved musculoskeletal status, biomarkers, and patient reported outcomes have persisted as observed in follow up extension studies for up to 3 years. ( 132 ). Longer term observational studies are ongoing and have demonstrated durability of the favorable effects of burosumab over a wide range of age groups (133A). One recent report has indicated significant improvement in skeletal deformities in children after switching treatment from conventional therapy to burosumab, potentially reducing the necessity of surgery
