Primary Disorders of Phosphate Metabolism
KEYWORDS: pubmed, phosphate, renal, rickets, free, article, free article, pmc free, pmc, article pubmed, hypophosphatemia, bone, hypophosphatemic, levels, x-linked


of age groups (133A). One recent report has indicated significant improvement in skeletal deformities in children after switching treatment from conventional therapy to burosumab, potentially reducing the necessity of surgery in some cases (133B). Recent studies using “3D Shaper” technology indicate positive effects on mineralization of cortical bone in the femoral neck in adults treated with burosumab (133C), AUTOSOMAL DOMINANT HYPOPHOSPHATEMIC RICKETS (ADHR) Several studies have documented autosomal dominant inheritance of a hypophosphatemic disorder similar to XLH ( 134 , 135 ). The phenotypic manifestations of this disorder include the expected hypophosphatemia due to renal phosphate wasting, lower extremity deformities, and rickets/osteomalacia. Affected patients also demonstrate normal serum 25(OH)D levels, while maintaining inappropriately normal serum concentrations of 1,25(OH)2D, in the presence of hypophosphatemia, all hallmarks of XLH ( Table 2 ). PTH levels are normal. Long-term studies indicate that a few of the affected female patients demonstrate delayed penetrance of clinically apparent disease and an increased tendency for bone fracture, uncommon occurrences in XLH. In addition, among patients with the expected biochemical features documented in childhood, rare individuals lose the renal phosphate-wasting defect after puberty. As noted above, specific mutations in FGF23 in the 176-179 amino acid residue sequence are present in patients with ADHR ( 97 ). These mutations disrupt an RXXR furin protease recognition site, and the resultant mutant molecule is thereby protected from proteolysis, and resultant elevated circulating levels of FGF23 are the likely cause of the renal Pi wasting. Interestingly, circulating FGF23 levels can vary and reflect the activity of disease status ( 136 ). Exploration of the waxing/waning severity of disease in ADHR has identified that iron may play a significant role in the regulation of circulating FGF23 ( 137 ). Iron deficiency appears to upregulate FGF23 expression, and in normal individuals, processing of the intact protein to its inactive N- and C-terminal fragments is efficient, thereby compensating for the increased intact FGF23 production seen with iron deficiency. Thus, in normal individuals who become iron deficient normal circulating levels of intact FGF23 are maintained despite the increase in production. However, in ADHR, inefficient processing of FGF23, due to the lack of protease recognition at the usual amino acid 179/180 cleavage site, may not be able to compensate for increased FGF23 synthesis during periods of iron deficiency. Thus, the waxing and waning clinical severity observed in some cases of ADHR may be amenable to iron supplementation
