Primary Disorders of Phosphate Metabolism
KEYWORDS: pubmed, phosphate, renal, rickets, free, article, free article, pmc free, pmc, article pubmed, hypophosphatemia, bone, hypophosphatemic, levels, x-linked


to compensate for increased FGF23 synthesis during periods of iron deficiency. Thus, the waxing and waning clinical severity observed in some cases of ADHR may be amenable to iron supplementation and provide a straightforward approach to therapy. Correction of serum iron levels to high normal levels in one reported case allowed for discontinuation of conventional rickets medications ( 138 ), and a randomized controlled trial to this effect normalized circulating FGF23 levels (that were elevated at baseline) and suggests that iron supplementation may be a reasonable first approach to treatment of this disease, particularly in the context of low serum iron or low ferritin levels (138A). An apparent forme fruste of ADHR (autosomal dominant) hypophosphatemic bone disease has many of the characteristics of XLH and ADHR, but recent reports indicate that affected children display no evidence of rachitic disease. Because this syndrome is described in only a few small kindreds, and radiographically evident rickets are not universal in children with familial hypophosphatemia, these families may have ADHR. Further observations are necessary to discriminate this possibility. AUTOSOMAL RECESSIVE HYPOPHOSPHATEMIC RICKETS (ARHR) Families with phosphate wasting rickets inherited in an autosomal recessive manner have been described and demonstrate the same constellation of progressive rachitic deformities seen in both XLH and ADHR ( 98 , 139 ). Moreover, the biochemical phenotype is manifest by the same measures of hypophosphatemia, excess urinary Pi losses, and aberrant vitamin D metabolism (normal circulating 25-OHD and 1,25(OH)2D levels, despite ambient hypophosphatemia) as observed in both XLH and ADHR. In addition to the expected phenotypic features, and in contrast to XLH, spinal radiographs of patients with ARHR reveal noticeably sclerotic vertebral bodies. In addition to the enlarged pulp chamber characteristic of teeth in individuals with XLH, enamel hypoplasia can be evident in heterozygotes. Of particular interest is the identification of elevated levels of FGF23 in the affected individuals. Experience with long-term follow-up is not widespread in ARHR and therapeutic response or guidelines have not been definitively established. The identification of a progressive mineralization defect associated with hypophosphatemia in Dmp1 knockout mice led to the consideration of homozygous loss of function in this candidate gene as a cause of ARHR (ARHR1). Indeed, this was proven to be the case for the first families identified with the disorder. Thus, the role of the osteocyte product, DMP1, appears as either part of the PHEX-FGF23 pathway, or at least can affect circulating
