Primary Disorders of Phosphate Metabolism
KEYWORDS: pubmed, phosphate, renal, rickets, free, article, free article, pmc free, pmc, article pubmed, hypophosphatemia, bone, hypophosphatemic, levels, x-linked


for the first families identified with the disorder. Thus, the role of the osteocyte product, DMP1, appears as either part of the PHEX-FGF23 pathway, or at least can affect circulating FGF23 levels, perhaps independently of PHEX. These observations reinforce the central role that the osteocyte plays in mineral homeostasis. Moreover, hypophosphatemic rickets in association with renal Pi wasting has been recently described in the setting of the extremely rare disorder, generalized arterial calcification of infancy (GACI) ( 99 - 101 ). This disorder, termed ARHR2, occurs with homozygous loss-of-function mutations of ectonucleotide pyrophosphatase/phosphodiesterase-1 (ENPP1). Loss-of-function of ENPP1 results in the inability to generate the mineralization inhibitor, pyrophosphate, thereby disrupting the restriction of heterotopic (e.g., vascular) mineralization. GACI is often fatal, but hypophosphatemia, identified in the setting of elevated FGF23 levels in an adult with a homozygous ENPP1 mutation, raised the consideration that rickets may be present in survivors of GACI ( 140 ). Indeed, this patient’s son was affected with both GACI and hypophosphatemia. The mechanism by which this enzyme influences renal tubular phosphate wasting is not evident, and further study is necessary to understand this intriguing problem. One speculated mechanism may reflect a bone cell response to a relatively hypermineralized (or high-phosphate/low pyrophosphate) milieu which results in a compensatory, prolonged secretion of FGF23. Such a mechanism may effectively signal the kidney to reduce the body’s mineral load but apparently cannot be down-regulated to protect against excessive Pi losses. Although there has been concern that the treatment of rickets in patients affected with ENPP1 deficiency may promote worsening of vascular calcification, this complication has not borne out, at least in the short term, when using oral phosphate and activated vitamin D analogues (calcitriol or alfacalcidol) (140A). One long term observational report suggests that treatment does not worsen this finding ( 141 ). A recent phenotyping study with long-term observations in this regard corroborates this initial impression ( 102 ). One report describes worsening of heterotopic calcification with burosumab therapy in a patient with ARHR2, although the course is confounded by the concomitant discontinuation of bisphosphonate therapy (141A). Finally, current trials are examining effects of enzyme replacement therapy with recombinant ENPP1, which has had beneficial effects in ENPP1 deficient mice (141B). The author advises careful evaluation of such patients together with cardiovascular specialists, and individualization of the approach to therapy. The use of lower range initial dosing of phosphate and activated
