Primary Disorders of Phosphate Metabolism
KEYWORDS: pubmed, phosphate, renal, rickets, free, article, free article, pmc free, pmc, article pubmed, hypophosphatemia, bone, hypophosphatemic, levels, x-linked


The author advises careful evaluation of such patients together with cardiovascular specialists, and individualization of the approach to therapy. The use of lower range initial dosing of phosphate and activated vitamin D seems prudent, at least until other therapies are more substantially evaluated. Cautious monitoring involving cardiovascular imaging after initiating therapy is strongly advised. TUMOR-INDUCED OSTEOMALACIA Rickets and/or osteomalacia have been associated with various types of tumors ( 96 ). In many cases, the metabolic disturbances improved or completely disappeared upon removal of the tumor, indicating a causal role of the tumor. Affected patients generally present with bone and muscle pain, muscle weakness, rickets/osteomalacia and occasionally recurrent fractures of long bones. Biochemistries include hypophosphatemia secondary to renal phosphate wasting and normal serum levels of calcium and 25(OH)D. Serum 1,25(OH)2D is often overtly low or is otherwise inappropriately normal in the setting of hypophosphatemia ( Table 2 ). Aminoaciduria and/or glucosuria may be present. Radiographic abnormalities include generalized osteopenia, pseudofractures and coarsened trabeculae, as well as widened epiphyseal plates in children. The histologic appearance of trabecular bone in affected subjects most often reflects the presence of a low turnover osteomalacia. The large majority of patients with this syndrome harbor tumors of mesenchymal origin, including primitive-appearing, mixed connective tissue lesions. These tumors are often classified as osteoblastomas, osteochondromas, nonossifying fibromas and ossifying fibromas. In addition, tumors of epidermal and endodermal derivation have been implicated as causal of the disease. Indeed, the observation of tumor-induced osteomalacia concurrent with breast carcinoma, prostate carcinoma oat cell carcinoma, small cell carcinoma, multiple myeloma and chronic lymphocytic leukemia have been reported. Although this syndrome is relatively rare compared to XLH, investigation of causative tumors eventually led to the identification and isolation of FGF23 ( 38 , 142 ), the mediator of many heritable hypophosphatemic disorders, and the recognition that this protein is the central factor in a major regulatory system affecting Pi homeostasis. Moreover, the discovery represented the first disorder related to the endocrine subfamily of FGFs, acting at distant sites with specificity of site activity conferred by the family of klotho co-receptors. Regardless of the tumor cell type, the lesions at fault for the syndrome are often small, difficult to locate and present in obscure areas which include the nasopharynx, jaw, sinuses, the popliteal region and the suprapatellar area. In any case, a careful and thorough examination is necessary to document/exclude the presence of such a
