Primary Disorders of Phosphate Metabolism
KEYWORDS: pubmed, phosphate, renal, rickets, free, article, free article, pmc free, pmc, article pubmed, hypophosphatemia, bone, hypophosphatemic, levels, x-linked


which include the nasopharynx, jaw, sinuses, the popliteal region and the suprapatellar area. In any case, a careful and thorough examination is necessary to document/exclude the presence of such a tumor. Indeed, CT and/or MRI scan of a clinically suspicious area should be undertaken. Recently newer imaging techniques such as octreotide scintigraphy or PET scans have been used to successfully identify tumors that remain unidentified by other means of localization. Newer agents with greater specificity for somatostatin receptors type 2 and type 5 appear to increase the sensitivity of PET scanning ( 143 , 144 ), and co-registry with high resolution anatomic imaging has considerably advanced detection of small tumors. Selective venous sampling has been suggested as a complementary approach to diagnosis. This technique may provide confirmation of local FGF23 secretion in suspicious areas identified by imaging (as to avoid unnecessary operations from false-positive imaging studies). The technique may serve to direct local imaging to anatomic regions defined by step-ups in FGF23 concentrations but is limited by the relatively long half-life of FGF23, which may be misleading if the sampling is not in very close proximity to the offending tumor. Although useful in the settings mentioned above, the technique is not thought to be an optimal first-line approach in identification of TIO causing tumors ( 145 ). Pathophysiology TIO is a result of Pi wasting secondary to circulating factor(s) secreted by causal tumors. FGF23 has proven to be the primary factor identified in most patients where examination of serum levels or tumor material has occurred. Nevertheless, a variety of other factors have been considered as a potential part of the cascade that can lead to renal Pi wasting including: 1) FRP4 (frizzled related protein 4) ( 45 ), a secreted protein with phosphaturic properties, 2) FGF7, a paracrine FGF identified in TIO tumors that has been shown to directly inhibit renal Pi transport ( 47 ), 3) the SIBLING protein, MEPE (matrix extracellular phosphglycoprotein), which has been reported to generate fragments (ASARM peptide) with potential Pi wasting activity ( 44 ), 4) the SIBLING protein, DMP1, which has now been implicated in ARHR, and has been shown to be in particularly high abundance in TIO tumors ( 38 , 98 , 140 , 146 ), and 5) the high molecular weight isoform of FGF2 (another paracrine FGF), which when expressed transgenically in mice, results in hypophosphatemic rickets ( 147 ).
