Primary Disorders of Phosphate Metabolism
KEYWORDS: pubmed, phosphate, renal, rickets, free, article, free article, pmc free, pmc, article pubmed, hypophosphatemia, bone, hypophosphatemic, levels, x-linked


, 140 , 146 ), and 5) the high molecular weight isoform of FGF2 (another paracrine FGF), which when expressed transgenically in mice, results in hypophosphatemic rickets ( 147 ). It is also possible that these or other tumor products may have direct effects on the mineralization function of the skeleton. A novel genetic mechanism by which TIO tumors may develop autonomous FGF23 production involves a somatic chromosomal rearrangement which has been identified in a high proportion of TIO tumors ( 142 ). The rearrangement sequence predicts a fusion protein consisting of the N-terminal portion of fibronectin and the FGFR1 receptor. The extracellular fibronectin domain is proposed to promote dimerization and activation of the complex leading to downstream signaling resulting in FGF23 secretion. FGF23 itself is further proposed as an additive stimulus, amplifying FGF23 production as part of a feed-forward loop resulting in the substantial FGF23 production characteristic of TIO ( 148 ). Somatic rearrangements generating fibronectin/FGF1 fusion proteins have also been described in TIO tumors ( 149 ). Finally detailed analysis of TIO tumors in which fibronection fusion proteins are not present has revealed that a large proportion overexpress alpha-klotho, yet another enhancer of FGF23 secretion, which may accelerate such a “feed-forward” mechanism (149A). In contrast to these observations, other rare patients with TIO secondary to hematogenous malignancy manifest abnormalities that would suggest a different pathophysiologic mechanism. In these subjects a nephropathy induced with light chain proteinuria or other immunoglobulin derivatives appears to result in decreased renal tubular reabsorption of phosphate. Thus, light-chain nephropathy has been considered a possible mechanism for the TIO syndrome. Treatment The first and foremost treatment of TIO is complete resection of the tumor. However, recurrence of mesenchymal tumors, such as giant cell tumors of bone, or inability to resect completely certain malignancies, such as prostatic carcinoma, has resulted in development of alternative therapeutic intervention for the syndrome. In this regard, administration of 1,25(OH)2D alone or in combination with phosphorus supplementation has served as effective therapy for TIO. Doses of calcitriol required range from 1.5-3.0 µg/d, while those of phosphorus are 2-4 g/d. Although little information is available regarding the long-term consequences of such treatment, the high doses of medicine required raise the possibility that nephrolithiasis, nephrocalcinosis and hypercalcemia may complicate the therapeutic course. Hypercalcemia secondary to parathyroid hyperfunction has been documented in several subjects. Generally, these patients receive phosphorus as part of a combination
