Primary Disorders of Phosphate Metabolism
KEYWORDS: pubmed, phosphate, renal, rickets, free, article, free article, pmc free, pmc, article pubmed, hypophosphatemia, bone, hypophosphatemic, levels, x-linked


nephrolithiasis, nephrocalcinosis and hypercalcemia may complicate the therapeutic course. Hypercalcemia secondary to parathyroid hyperfunction has been documented in several subjects. Generally, these patients receive phosphorus as part of a combination regimen, exacerbating the path to parathyroid autonomy. Thus, as with treatment of XLH, careful assessment of parathyroid function, serum and urinary calcium and renal function are essential to ensure safe and efficacious therapy. Burosumab, the anti-FGF23 antibody described above has a favorable therapy for XLH, has now been shown to be a safe and effective therapy for TIO, particularly in the context of residual tumor following an incomplete removal, unidentifiable tumor mass, or where the location of tumor is not amenable to a surgical approach. Both biochemical indices and biopsy parameters of osteomalacia were improved with burosumab therapy in a series of patients with inoperable TIO ( 150 ), and the drug is now approved for treatment of TIO. OTHER FGF23 MEDIATED FORMS OF HYPOPHOSPHATEMIA In widespread fibrous dysplasia of bone (due to mosaic activating mutations in GNAS), neurofibromatosis and cutaneous skeletal hypophosphatemic syndrome (CSHS, associated with somatic mutations in HRAS and NRAS ) ( 151 ), hypophosphatemic osteomalacia/rickets can occur as a result of elevated circulating FGF23 levels ( 152 ). Burosumab has been successfully used to treat CSHS (152A, 152B). Furthermore, variable degrees of decreased renal tubular phosphate reabsorption, as assessed by TMP/GFR assessments, occur in patients with fibrous dysplasia of bone, and investigation of the use of burosumab for this condition is ongoing, with preliminary results suggesting improvement with this agent (152C). Other primary skeletal disorders in which elevated FGF23 levels have been reported include osteoglophonic dysplasia (due to mutations in the FGFR1 receptor) ( 153 ), Jansen metaphyseal chondrodysplasia, (due to activating mutations of the PTH1 receptor) ( 154 ), opsismodysplasia ( 155 ), and in FAM20C mutations ( 110 ). The mechanism(s) by which elevations in FGF23 occur in these settings is not certain at this time. Clinical Disorders: FGF23-independent Hypophosphatemia HEREDITARY HYPOPHOSPHATEMIC RICKETS WITH HYPERCALCIURIA (HHRH) This rare autosomal recessive disease is marked by hypophosphatemic rickets with hypercalciuria ( 156 ). Initial symptoms of the disorder generally manifest between 6 months to 7 years of age and usually consist of bone pain and/or deformities of the lower extremities. Such deformities may include genu varum or genu valgum or anterior bowing of the femur and coxa vara. Additional disease features include short stature, and radiographic
