Primary Disorders of Phosphate Metabolism
KEYWORDS: pubmed, phosphate, renal, rickets, free, article, free article, pmc free, pmc, article pubmed, hypophosphatemia, bone, hypophosphatemic, levels, x-linked


of the lower extremities. Such deformities may include genu varum or genu valgum or anterior bowing of the femur and coxa vara. Additional disease features include short stature, and radiographic signs of rickets or osteopenia. Many of the distinguishing characteristics of HHRH stem from the fact that HHRH is not a disorder of FGF23-mediated hypophosphatemia. In fact, circulating intact FGF23 levels are often decreased compared to those observed in the normal population. Consequently, in contrast to the previously described disorders in which renal phosphate transport is limited, patients with HHRH exhibit increased 1,25(OH)2D production. The resultant elevated serum calcitriol levels enhance gastrointestinal calcium absorption, which in turn increases the filtered renal calcium load and inhibits PTH secretion. Collectively these events produce the hypercalciuria observed in affected patients ( Table 2 ). Although initially not thought to be part of the syndrome, the propensity for kidney stones to occur has been reported in several patients. In general, the severity of the bone mineralization defect correlates inversely with the prevailing serum Pi concentration. Relatives of patients with evident HHRH may exhibit an additional mode of disease expression ( 157 ). These subjects manifest hypercalciuria and hypophosphatemia, but the abnormalities are less marked and occur in the absence of discernible bone disease, which would suggest a mild phenotype in the heterozygous state with certain mutations. After mutations in the candidate NaPi-IIa gene were excluded as causal to HHRH, the genetic defect was identified in NaPi-IIc (encoded by SLC34A3 ) ( 27 , 158 ), previously thought to be of less importance than the type IIa transporter. As would be predicted by the isolated loss of function of a Pi transporter, reduced serum Pi and increased renal Pi losses occur, independent of FGF23 status. However, unlike the findings in XLH, Pi wasting does not coexist with limitations in 1,25(OH)2D production, and the system retains its capacity to increase 1,25(OH)2D levels in response to the ambient hypophosphatemia. Recently it has been suggested that specific mutations in NaPi-IIc/ SLC34A3 may be associated with sodium wasting and potentially the tendency to form urinary tract stones ( 159 ). Finally, although thought to be an autosomal recessive disorder, recent studies have indicated a significant phenotype to occur in the setting of heterozygous loss-of-function SLC34A3 variants (159A). Such individuals appear to have a clinically apparent renal phenotype, with a less overt effect on the skeleton, although there is a
