Primary Disorders of Phosphate Metabolism
KEYWORDS: pubmed, phosphate, renal, rickets, free, article, free article, pmc free, pmc, article pubmed, hypophosphatemia, bone, hypophosphatemic, levels, x-linked


the setting of heterozygous loss-of-function SLC34A3 variants (159A). Such individuals appear to have a clinically apparent renal phenotype, with a less overt effect on the skeleton, although there is a broad spectrum of findings in this group. Patients with HHRH have been treated successfully with high-dose phosphorus (1 to 2.5 g/day in five divided doses) alone. In response to therapy, bone pain disappears and muscular strength improves substantially. Moreover, the majority of treated subjects exhibit accelerated linear growth, and radiologic signs of rickets are completely absent within several months. Despite this favorable response, limited studies indicate that such treatment does not completely heal the associated osteomalacia. Indeed, there is no collective experience with long-term follow-up of this rare disorder, and the necessity and/or complications of long-term therapy are not well-established. Curiously an accompanying osteoporosis appears to occur in concert, a finding that is also quite different from the usual picture in XLH. AUTOSOMAL RECESSIVE HYPOPHOSPHATEMIC RICKETS WITH FANCONI SYNDROME AND PHOSPHATURIA ASSOCIATED WITH INFANTILE HYPERCALEMIA OF INFANCY Although SLC34A3 (Na-Pi2c) mutations were identified as the mutated gene in the specific disorder of HHRH, homozygous loss-of-function mutations in SLC34A1 (Na-Pi2a) occur in yet another syndrome of autosomal recessive hypophosphatemic rickets, which can be accompanied by a generalized renal tubular disorder consistent with Fanconi syndrome ( 160 ). This disorder appears to occur with less frequency than HHRH, however in a recent search for genetic causes of idiopathic infantile hypercalcemia (IIH), loss-of-function mutations in SLC34A1 have been identified ( 161 ). Rickets is not a prominent feature of this disorder, but rather hypercalcemia, hypercalciuria, nephrocalcinosis and renal phosphate wasting. Resultant elevations in circulating 1,25(OH)2D levels lead to the hypercalcemia. It is important to distinguish this cause of IIH from those attributable to defects in CYP24A1 (vitamin D 24-hydroxylase) as therapy in cases attributable to NaPi2a deficiency should respond to phosphate supplementation whereas restriction of dietary calcium and vitamin D are recommended in cases due to CYP24A1 mutations. DENT'S DISEASE (X-LINKED RECESSIVE HYPOPHOSPHATEMIA; XLRH) The initial description of X-linked recessive hypophosphatemic rickets involved a family in which males presented with rickets or osteomalacia, hypophosphatemia, and a reduced renal threshhold for phosphate reabsorption. In contrast to patients with XLH, affected subjects exhibited hypercalciuria, elevated serum 1,25(OH)2D levels ( Table 1 ), and proteinuria of up to 3 g/day. Patients also developed nephrolithiasis and nephrocalcinosis with progressive renal failure in early adulthood. Female carriers in
