Primary Disorders of Phosphate Metabolism
KEYWORDS: pubmed, phosphate, renal, rickets, free, article, free article, pmc free, pmc, article pubmed, hypophosphatemia, bone, hypophosphatemic, levels, x-linked


serum 1,25(OH)2D levels ( Table 1 ), and proteinuria of up to 3 g/day. Patients also developed nephrolithiasis and nephrocalcinosis with progressive renal failure in early adulthood. Female carriers in the family were not hypophosphatemic and lacked any biochemical abnormalities other than hypercalciuria. Three related syndromes have been reported independently: X-linked recessive nephrolithiasis with renal failure, Dent's disease, and low-molecular-weight proteinuria with hypercalciuria and nephrocalcinosis. These syndromes differ in degree from each other, but common themes include proximal tubular reabsorptive failure, nephrolithiasis, nephrocalcinosis, progressive renal insufficiency, and, in some cases, rickets or osteomalacia. Identification of mutations in the voltage-gated chloride-channel gene CLCN5 in all four syndromes has established that they are phenotypic variants of a single disease and are not separate entities ( 162 , 163 ). However, the varied manifestations that may be associated with mutations in this gene, particularly the presence of hypophosphatemia and rickets/osteomalacia, underscore that environmental differences, diet, and/or modifying genetic backgrounds may influence phenotypic expression of the disease. INTESTINAL MALABSORPTION OF PHOSPHATE Although primary disorders of intestinal phosphate absorption have not generally been considered of clinical significance, we have encountered a curious phenomenon of phosphate malabsorption in children with complex disorders associated with intestinal compromise, when fed amino-acid based elemental formula ( 164 , 165 ). Associated tube-feeding and use of antacid medications appear to be risk factors. The phenomenon does not appear to occur when used for the labeled indication of milk protein allergy in children who are otherwise healthy ( 166 ), and product reformulation has led to a resolution of this problem in the US. Nevertheless, it may be useful to monitor serum phosphorus levels periodically with the use of such formulas. REFERENCES 1. Yanagawa N, Nakhoul F, Kurokawa K, Lee DBN. Physiology of phosphorus metabolism. In: Narins RG, ed. Clinical disorders of fluid and electrolyte metabolism. 5th ed. New York: McGraw Hill,1994; 307-371. 2. Lee DBN, Walling MW, Brautbar N . Intestinal phosphate absorption: Influence of vitamin D and non-vitamin D factors. Am J Physiol. 1986; 250: G369-G373. [ PubMed : 2420210 ] 3. Cross HS, Debiec H, Peterlik M. Mechanism and regulation of intestinal phosphate absorption. Miner Electrolyte Metab. 1990;16:115-124. [ PubMed : 2250617 ] 4. Marks J, Debnam ES, Unwin RJ. The role of the gastrointestinal tract in phosphate homeostasis in health and chronic kidney disease. Curr Opin Nephrol Hypertens. 2013; 22:481-487. [ PMC free article : PMC4196778 ]
