Diabetes and Depression
KEYWORDS: diabetes, depression, pubmed, people, type, risk, type diabetes, meta-analysis, health, care, symptoms, depressive, article, free, pmc


ABSTRACT Depression is characterized by a disturbance of mood, affecting between 3–5% of the general population at any one time. The prevalence of depression is approximately doubled in people with diabetes compared to the general population, with similar rates between type 1 diabetes and type 2 diabetes. Although many cases of depression are coincidental to the presence of diabetes, certain diabetes factors including diabetes-related complications, diabetes treatments and obesity are associated with an increased risk of depression. There is a bi-directional relationship between diabetes and depression with specific disease and treatment factors explaining why diabetes pre-disposes to depression and vice versa. Genetics, early intra-uterine development, and social determinants of health may create a “common soil” for both conditions. The presence of depression in people with diabetes worsens both diabetes and depression outcomes. Mortality is increased, quality of life diminished, and healthcare costs are increased. Diabetes self-management is also impaired. It may be possible to reduce the incidence of depression in people with diabetes by considering the way in which the diagnosis of diabetes is conveyed and the psychosocial support that is given through an individual’s journey with diabetes. Several short screening questionnaires have been validated in people with diabetes. A diagnosis should be confirmed by a diagnostic interview. The main aims of treatment are to improve both diabetes and mental health outcomes with complete remission of depressive symptoms. Various psychological treatments, including cognitive behavioral therapy, problem-solving, and psychodynamic techniques have been used to treat depression in people with diabetes. Antidepressants reduce depressive symptoms in people with diabetes as well as the general population. All antidepressants appear to have similar effects on depressive symptoms as long as adequate doses are used. Treatment should be maintained for at least 4–6 months after remission of symptoms to reduce the risk of relapse and recurrence. The choice of antidepressant depends largely on the side-effect profile, individual preference, and response. Selective serotonin reuptake inhibitors are widely used as first-choice agents. A common model of care for depression is the Stepped Care Model which is designed to provide a rational approach to the treatment of depression, while reducing costs and side effects of antidepressants through more appropriate prescribing. A case management model known as collaborative care is a clinical- and cost-effective treatment of depression that also improves diabetes outcomes by involving a multidisciplinary team that works together to identify and treat depression within primary care settings.
