Diabetes and Depression
KEYWORDS: diabetes, depression, pubmed, people, type, risk, type diabetes, meta-analysis, health, care, symptoms, depressive, article, free, pmc


is a clinical- and cost-effective treatment of depression that also improves diabetes outcomes by involving a multidisciplinary team that works together to identify and treat depression within primary care settings. Although diabetes and depression remain a considerable clinical challenge, there are grounds for considerable optimism as the scientific knowledge that underpins clinical practices has expanded markedly in the last two decades. However, further research is needed to understand what can be done to prevent depression in people with diabetes and to identify the optimal treatment for an individual that improves both depressive symptoms and diabetes outcomes. For complete coverage of all related areas of Endocrinology, please visit our on-line FREE web-text, WWW.ENDOTEXT.ORG . INTRODUCTION The importance of considering the interaction between mind and body in the management and outcome of chronic diseases has been recognized for over 2,500 years but is particularly poignant for people with diabetes. Diabetes places high behavioral demands on those living with the condition whilst mental disorders, such as depression, may compromise an individual’s ability to perform the self-care needed to optimize health and prevent the long-term consequences of diabetes. Much of diabetes care is focused around the identification and treatment of long-term diabetes-related complications and diabetes healthcare professionals are adept in managing microvascular and macrovascular conditions. An appreciation, however, of the psychological consequences of diabetes has lagged behind, despite these being common and the morbidity, mortality, and health costs associated with the co-morbidity being disproportionately increased compared with the effects of either condition alone ( 1 , 2 ). Several factors contribute to the poorer health outcomes seen in people with diabetes and mental disorders. Despite the increased burden of disease, people with co-morbid mental disorders have often been disadvantaged by health services and have received sub-optimal medical care ( 3 ). They have been less likely to receive the necessary diabetes processes of care, self-management education, and cardiovascular preventative medication despite increased visits to their primary healthcare teams and despite similar interest in caring for their physical illness as the general population ( 4 ). Clinicians may fail to recognize that those with mental illness are more likely to develop physical illnesses and so physical complaints are either ignored or not taken seriously. Mental health symptoms often “over-shadow” other complaints leading healthcare professionals to focus on the mental illness to the detriment of any physical illness ( 5 ). Health services are often poorly
