Diabetes and Depression
KEYWORDS: diabetes, depression, pubmed, people, type, risk, type diabetes, meta-analysis, health, care, symptoms, depressive, article, free, pmc


health symptoms often “over-shadow” other complaints leading healthcare professionals to focus on the mental illness to the detriment of any physical illness ( 5 ). Health services are often poorly configured with clinics focusing on either the treatment of physical illnesses or mental disorders rather than treating both conditions at the same time ( 3 ). The stigma associated with mental illness may prevent people and their families from seeking help for mental illness, thereby depriving them of effective treatments, which not only harms mental well-being but is detrimental to diabetes management ( 6 ). Diabetes and mental disorders are both common, and so a degree of co-occurrence would be expected purely by chance. The evidence suggests, however, that diabetes is more frequently associated with a range of mental and psychosocial disorders than expected ( 7 , 8 ). Furthermore, several mental disorders, including depression, are associated with an increased risk of developing diabetes. An understanding of this complex interaction is crucial to the management and outcome of people with diabetes. This chapter focuses on the co-morbidity of diabetes and depression; both are common, are relatively easy to diagnose, and have established effective treatments ( 8 ). They may also serve as an exemplar for other mental disorders and provide a model for the successful management of other co-morbid mental and physical health conditions. The chapter will describe the epidemiology of diabetes and depression and will discuss the mechanisms underlying the association between diabetes and depression. It will also highlight the clinical implications and consequences of co-occurring diabetes and depression. Diabetes healthcare professionals need to be aware of how to screen for depression and to provide “first response” management, while recognizing when to refer for specialist psychiatric care ( 9 ). DEPRESSION Depression belongs to a group of mental disorders where the primary abnormality is a disturbance of mood. The cardinal features of depression are low mood, and loss of interest or pleasure, lasting longer than two weeks. During a depressive episode, other symptoms may include poor concentration, feelings of excessive guilt or low self-worth, hopelessness about the future, thoughts about dying or suicide, disrupted sleep, changes in appetite or weight, and feeling especially tired or low in energy. People with depression are at an increased risk of suicide. Depressive symptoms exist on a continuum of severity, and it is important to recognize that depression is different from usual fluctuations
