Diabetes and Depression
KEYWORDS: diabetes, depression, pubmed, people, type, risk, type diabetes, meta-analysis, health, care, symptoms, depressive, article, free, pmc


with depression are at an increased risk of suicide. Depressive symptoms exist on a continuum of severity, and it is important to recognize that depression is different from usual fluctuations in mood that occur with everyday life. Major depressive disorder (also known as clinical depression, unipolar depression, or major depression) is defined by the diagnostic criteria of the American Psychiatric Association Diagnostic and Statistical Manual of Mental Disorders (DSM-5), based on the number and duration of symptoms ( Table 1 ) ( 10 ). The DSM-5 definition approximates a level of severity of symptoms that is associated with both disability and dysfunction. DSM-5 also recognizes several sub-types of depressive disorder where the symptoms are less severe but nevertheless may still compromise diabetes self-care and outcomes. Table 1. DSM-5 “Major” Depressive Episode View in own window A. Five (or more) of the following symptoms have been present during the same 2-week period and represent a change from previous functioning; at least one of the symptoms is either ( 1 ) depressed mood, or ( 2 ) loss of interest or pleasure. • Depressed mood most of the day, nearly every day, as indicated by either subjective report (e.g. feels sad or empty) or observation made by others (e.g. appears tearful). • Markedly diminished interest or pleasure in all, or almost all, activities most of the day, nearly every day (as indicated by either subjective account or observation made by others). • Significant weight loss when not dieting or weight gain (e.g. a change of >5% of body weight in a month) or decrease or increase in appetite nearly every day. • Insomnia or hypersomnia nearly every day. • Psychomotor agitation or retardation nearly every day (observable by others, not merely subjective feelings of restlessness or being slowed down). • Fatigue or loss of energy nearly every day. • Feelings of worthlessness or excessive or inappropriate guilt (which may be delusional) nearly every day (not merely self-reproach or guilt about being sick). • Diminished ability to think or concentrate, or indecisiveness, nearly every day (either by subjective account or as observed by others). • Recurrent thoughts of death (not just fear of dying), recurrent suicidal ideation without a specific plan, or a suicide attempt or a specific plan for committing suicide. B. The symptoms cause clinically significant distress or impairment in social, occupational, or other important areas of functioning. C. The symptoms
