Diabetes and Depression
KEYWORDS: diabetes, depression, pubmed, people, type, risk, type diabetes, meta-analysis, health, care, symptoms, depressive, article, free, pmc


suicide attempt or a specific plan for committing suicide. B. The symptoms cause clinically significant distress or impairment in social, occupational, or other important areas of functioning. C. The symptoms are not due to the direct physiological effects of a substance (e.g. a drug of abuse, a medication) or a general medical condition (e.g. hypothyroidism). Epidemiology of Depression Depression is one of the commonest mental disorders, affecting between 3–5% of the general population at any one time; the lifetime prevalence is 8-12% but there is considerable geographical variation ranging from 3% in Japan to 17% in India. The highest rates of depression are found in the United States of America (USA), the Middle East and South Asia ( 11 ). In 2019, 280 million people were living with depression, including 23 million children and adolescents ( 12 ). The incidence of depression worldwide increased by 50% between 1990 and 2017 to an age standardized rate of 3.25 per 1000 ( 13 ). Depressive disorders are now ranked as the single largest contributor to non-fatal health loss (7.5% of all years lost to disability) ( 14 ). Depression can affect any age group, with depression being seen in infants as young as 6 months old after separation from their mothers ( 15 ). The commonest age of onset is between the ages of 30 and 40 years, but there is a second, smaller peak in incidence between ages 50 and 60 years ( 16 ). The risk of depression is doubled in women compared with men ( 17 ). Although the cause of depression remains uncertain, other risk factors for a depressive episode are recognized and include a family history of depression, certain personality types, childhood adversity, the postpartum period, social isolation, and a lack of close interpersonal relationships ( 18 ). An episode of depression is often triggered by a stressful life event, particularly for the first few depressive episodes ( Table 2 ). Depression may accompany other mental illnesses and long-term physical conditions ( 19 ). All these risk factors apply to people living with diabetes and so consequently much of the depression seen in people living with diabetes is coincidental to the diabetes. Table 2. Risk Factors for Depression View in own window Female gender Age Family History Genetics Shared Environment Personality type Introversion Neuroticism Insecure, worried Obsessive Unassertive, dependent Low conscientiousness Disorganization Stress-sensitive Childhood adversity Separation Neglect
