Diabetes and Depression
KEYWORDS: diabetes, depression, pubmed, people, type, risk, type diabetes, meta-analysis, health, care, symptoms, depressive, article, free, pmc


treatment changes, or during the development or worsening of long-term complications ( Table 3 ). Diabetes distress is distinct from depression in its association with self-management and glycemic levels, but the two conditions may co-exist in about 5-15% of people with diabetes. By contrast depression occurs without distress in 5-10% of people while distress alone affects 20-30% ( 28 ). The importance of diabetes distress was first proposed in 1995, and it is likely that early studies of diabetes and depression were capturing distress as well as depression, thereby contributing to an overestimate of the prevalence of depression. Table 3. Common Features of Diabetes Distress View in own window • Feeling overwhelmed by the demands of living with diabetes • Feeling concerned about “failures” with diabetes management • Feeling powerless or hopeless • Worrying over the risk of low blood glucose or long-term complications • Feeling frustrated that diabetes cannot be predicted or controlled from one day to the next • Feeling frustrated with care givers • Feeling guilty when the diabetes management go ‘off track’. Despite these caveats, several meta-analyses have indicated that the prevalence of depression is approximately doubled in people with diabetes compared to the background population ( 23 , 26 ), with the prevalence of depression similar between type 1 diabetes (22%) and type 2 diabetes (19%) ( 26 ). Although most studies come from Western Europe or North America, the increased rates of depression or depressive symptoms have been found across the world ( 29 , 30 ), with the prevalence being higher in low- and middle-income countries ( 26 ). A meta-analysis of 248 observational studies including over 8 million people with type 2 diabetes found a global prevalence of depression of 28%, with the highest rates observed in Asia and Australia whilst the lowest rates were found in studies from Europe ( 31 ). Cohort studies have shown an increase in incident depression in people with diabetes; one meta-analysis of 11 studies involving approximately 50,000 people with type 2 diabetes but without depression at baseline reported that the incidence of depression was 24% higher in people with diabetes ( 32 ), while another meta-analysis of 13 studies found incident depression was increased by 15% in people with diabetes ( 33 ). An increased prevalence of depression has also been found in children with diabetes. A meta-analysis of 109 studies involving over 50,000 children
