Diabetes and Depression
KEYWORDS: diabetes, depression, pubmed, people, type, risk, type diabetes, meta-analysis, health, care, symptoms, depressive, article, free, pmc


15% in people with diabetes ( 33 ). An increased prevalence of depression has also been found in children with diabetes. A meta-analysis of 109 studies involving over 50,000 children with diabetes estimated that the prevalence of depression was 22.2% among children with type 1 diabetes and 22.7% in children with type 2 diabetes ( 34 ). Consistent with studies in adults, the prevalence of depression was higher among girls than boys (29.7% vs. 19.7%) and in low- to- middle-income countries. Type 2 diabetes is a common comorbidity in people with mental disorders, with a reported prevalence ranging from 5% to 22% depending on the specific psychiatric disorder. Overall, the prevalence of diabetes in people with depression is 9% but there is considerable heterogeneity between studies ( 35 ). Consistent with this finding, the incidence of diabetes in people with depression is increased by 18-60% ( 33 , 36 , 37 ). People with depression, however, may receive more screening for diabetes than those without because of their increased contact with healthcare professionals and an awareness of the risk of diabetes by mental health practitioners, which may lead to an overestimate of the difference in diabetes risk between those with and without depression, particularly in studies that rely on routinely collected healthcare data. Diabetes Factors That Increase the Risk of Depression Although many cases of depression are coincidental to the presence of diabetes, certain diabetes factors including diabetes-related complications and obesity are associated with an increased risk of depression ( 38 ). DIABETES COMPLICATIONS The development of macrovascular and microvascular complications increases the risk of depression in people with type 1 diabetes and type 2 diabetes ( 24 , 39 ). Overall, the presence of diabetes complications increases the risk of incident depressive disorder by 14% but the increased risk of developing depression is 24% higher for microvascular complications compared with 9% higher for those with macrovascular complications ( 39 ). The risk of depression increases as more complications develop such that the presence of two or more complications more than doubled the risk of depression in people with type 2 diabetes in one specialized outpatient clinic, with neuropathy and nephropathy showing the strongest association ( 40 ). DIABETES TREATMENTS The use of insulin in type 2 diabetes is associated with higher rates of depression compared to non-insulin medications or dietary and lifestyle interventions alone. One meta-analysis of 28 studies
