Diabetes and Depression
KEYWORDS: diabetes, depression, pubmed, people, type, risk, type diabetes, meta-analysis, health, care, symptoms, depressive, article, free, pmc


The use of insulin in type 2 diabetes is associated with higher rates of depression compared to non-insulin medications or dietary and lifestyle interventions alone. One meta-analysis of 28 studies reported an overall 59% higher risk of developing depression in people taking insulin and 42% higher risk when compared with oral anti-diabetes agents ( 41 ). It seems unlikely that insulin per se increases depressive symptoms, but insulin is associated with higher treatment demands that not only include self-injection but more intensive self-monitoring, which may adversely affect depressive symptoms ( 42 ). Insulin is also used in those with longer duration of type 2 diabetes, which may be associated with a higher prevalence of diabetes-related complications and elevated HbA 1c , a further risk factor of depression ( 43 ). Insulin has been used erroneously as a threat by healthcare professionals to encourage people to follow certain health behaviors or take medications. As type 2 diabetes is associated with progressive β-cell decline, many people ultimately need insulin. Where insulin has been used as a threat, commencing insulin can evoke feelings of guilt, blame or failure, which may increase the likelihood of depression. Furthermore, people may have strongly held beliefs about insulin usage, seeing it as an “end of the road” treatment. They may also associate insulin with the development of diabetes complications or death if they have seen a family member with diabetes developing complications while using insulin. Insulin therapy is associated with significant weight gain, again a risk factor for depression, and an increased risk of hypoglycemia. In a 10-year study of 3,742 people with type 1 diabetes requiring emergency room visit or hospitalization, those admitted with a hypoglycemic event were 74% more likely to develop depression ( 43 ). Other anti-diabetes treatments, by contrast, may be associated with a reduced risk of depression and there has been discussion about whether these could be re-purposed as treatments for depression ( 44 ). A meta-analysis of current therapies indicated that pioglitazone was associated with improved depressive symptoms, more so in women, but metformin had no consistent benefit ( 44 ). A more recent systematic review, however, suggested that metformin might help treat comorbid depression, although the evidence was too weak to recommend its use for this indication ( 45 ). A review of observational studies also indicated that metformin was associated with reduced depressive symptoms ( 46 ). GLP-1 receptors
