Diabetes and Depression
KEYWORDS: diabetes, depression, pubmed, people, type, risk, type diabetes, meta-analysis, health, care, symptoms, depressive, article, free, pmc


to recommend its use for this indication ( 45 ). A review of observational studies also indicated that metformin was associated with reduced depressive symptoms ( 46 ). GLP-1 receptors are widely expressed in the brain and have putative neuroprotective properties. A meta-analysis of six studies including 2,071 participants showed a small but significant reduction in depressive symptoms in those treated with GLP-1 receptor agonists ( 47 ). Whether the improvement is a direct effect or mediated through weight loss is unknown. This observation was also seen in a large population-based cohort and nested case-control study that found that low doses of metformin, dipeptidyl peptidase-4 (DPP4) inhibitors, GLP-1 receptor agonists, and sodium-glucose transporter 2 (SGLT2) inhibitors were associated with lower risk of depression in people with diabetes compared to those using other treatments, with the lowest risk seen with SGLT2 inhibitors ( 48 ). Further studies of the impact of SGLT2 inhibitors are warranted as abnormal brain bioenergetic metabolism occurs in depression and endogenous ketones may exert a neuroprotective effect that might improve mood. As SGLT2 inhibitors induce ketogenesis, there is a rationale to test whether SGLT2 inhibitors improve depressive symptoms ( 49 ). MECHANISMS TO EXPLAIN THE LINK BETWEEN DIABETES AND DEPRESSION No one mechanism explains the association between diabetes and depression, but specific disease and treatment factors may account for why diabetes pre-disposes to depression and vice versa ( Figure 1 ). These are, however, superimposed on other factors, such as genetics, early intra-uterine development, and social determinants of health, that create a “common soil” for both conditions. Figure 1. The possible mechanisms that lead to the co-morbidity of diabetes and depression. Underlying Factors That Predispose to Both Diabetes and Depression GENETICS Modern genetic technologies, such as genome-wide association (GWAS) studies and Mendelian randomization analyses have revolutionized our understanding of how genetics may underlie many polygenic mental and physical disorders and their association as well as health behavior traits, such as smoking and alcohol consumption that influence health. These studies have shown overlap of genetic polymorphisms that increase the risk of several mental disorders, including depression, and physical disorders, including diabetes, metabolic syndrome, and obesity ( 50 ). There are nearly 500 single nuclear polymorphisms that are associated with an increased risk of both diabetes and depression across a broad range of pathways that include immune function, lipid metabolism, cancer-related pathways, and cell signaling ( 51 ). FETAL
