Diabetes and Depression
KEYWORDS: diabetes, depression, pubmed, people, type, risk, type diabetes, meta-analysis, health, care, symptoms, depressive, article, free, pmc


with an increased risk of both diabetes and depression across a broad range of pathways that include immune function, lipid metabolism, cancer-related pathways, and cell signaling ( 51 ). FETAL DEVELOPMENT The ‘developmental origins of health and disease’ hypothesis emerged from epidemiological studies that found that infants with low birth weight had an increased risk of cardiovascular disease, diabetes, and other chronic conditions in adulthood ( 52 , 53 ). Although the early studies focused on physical illness, the fetal environment is linked to psychiatric conditions, including depression, although the effect size is weak and inconsistent across studies ( 54 ). SOCIAL DETERMINANTS OF HEALTH The broad conditions in which people are born, live, learn, work, play, worship, and age affect a wide range of health, functioning, and quality-of-life outcomes and risks throughout the life course, which together are known as the ‘social determinants of health’ ( 55 ). These can be divided into macro-level factors, such as government policy, meso-level factors, such as neighborhood and workplace, and individual factors, such as health behaviors and are broadly grouped into five domains: economic stability, educational access and quality, health care access and quality, neighborhood and built environment, and social and community context, which include gender and race. These social factors are more robust predictors of population health than either the provision of healthcare services or individual health behaviors and explain up to 80% of a person’s health ( 56 ). Many of the risk factors for depression described earlier in the chapter include or are affected by social factors, such as childhood adversity, low socio-economic status, or lived environment. Many of these same factors also affect the risk of diabetes. For example, access to recreational spaces, safe housing and surroundings, clean air, and shops that sell nutritious and wholesome foods provide an environment where an individual can more easily choose behaviors that would reduce the risk of diabetes. Diabetes-Specific Factor s Both psychological and biological mechanisms contribute to the increased risk of depression in people with diabetes. PSYCHOLOGIOCAL FACTORS The psychological model proposes that depression is an understandable response to the difficulties of living with a demanding and life-shortening long-term physical illness that is associated with potentially debilitating complications. This model is supported by a systematic review of 11 studies that found no difference in the prevalence of depression between those with undiagnosed diabetes, those with impaired glucose metabolism, and people
