Diabetes and Depression
KEYWORDS: diabetes, depression, pubmed, people, type, risk, type diabetes, meta-analysis, health, care, symptoms, depressive, article, free, pmc


is supported by a systematic review of 11 studies that found no difference in the prevalence of depression between those with undiagnosed diabetes, those with impaired glucose metabolism, and people with normal glucose metabolism ( 57 ). By contrast, an increased prevalence of depression was only found in those with diagnosed diabetes suggesting that the knowledge of the diagnosis and the burden of managing the condition and its complications are associated with the development of depression. A more recent meta-analysis showed an 11% and 27% increased risk of depression in those with pre-diabetes and undiagnosed diabetes, respectively, compared with people with normal glucose metabolism but this was lower than the 80% increase in those with known diabetes ( 58 ). The increase was only seen in people aged less than 60 years old and was partially explained by the presence of comorbid cardiovascular disease. Since this publication, studies from Mexico ( 59 ), Germany ( 60 ) and rural China ( 61 ) did not find increased rates of depression in people with undiagnosed diabetes. However, a large study from the Netherlands found a similarly increased rate of depression in those with diagnosed and undiagnosed diabetes ( 62 ). Although these findings generally support the psychological model, it is important to recognize that the people with undiagnosed diabetes differ from those with diagnosed diabetes by more than just the knowledge of their condition. For example, those with diagnosed diabetes are likely to have had diabetes for longer and have developed complications and other co-morbidities that may affect their risk of depression. EFFECT OF DIABETES ON BRAIN STRUCTURE AND FUNCTION It is well recognized that acute hyperglycemia and hypoglycemia can affect mood ( 63 , 64 ). This is unsurprising because the brain is dependent on a continuous supply of glucose as its principal source of energy, and changes in blood glucose levels rapidly affect cerebral function. However, longer term effects of diabetes on brain structure and function have also been seen in animal models of diabetes and in humans. In animals, diabetes negatively affects hippocampal integrity and neurogenesis, both of which are areas that are important in cognition and mood ( 65 ). In adults with type 1 diabetes, magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) studies have shown hippocampal atrophy together with increased prefrontal glutamate-glutamine-gamma-aminobutyric acid (GABA) levels in a way that correlates with mild depressive symptoms ( 65 , 66 ).
