Diabetes and Depression
KEYWORDS: diabetes, depression, pubmed, people, type, risk, type diabetes, meta-analysis, health, care, symptoms, depressive, article, free, pmc


resonance imaging (MRI) studies have shown hippocampal atrophy together with increased prefrontal glutamate-glutamine-gamma-aminobutyric acid (GABA) levels in a way that correlates with mild depressive symptoms ( 65 , 66 ). In the brain, insulin stimulates glucose uptake, in part by increasing the synthesis of the glucose transporters in neurons and neuroglia ( 67 ). Consequently, abnormal insulin signaling in the brain could affect glucose transport across the blood-brain barrier leading to reduced neuronal glucose uptake and neuronal loss. As the amygdala and hippocampus are the regions that contain a high density of insulin receptors, they may be disproportionately affected by insulin resistance, which is independently associated with depression ( 68 ). At a cellular level within the hippocampus, diabetes is associated with an increase in astrocytes and microglia reactivity and apoptosis of pyramidal neurons, and reduced neurogenesis and synaptic plasticity with dendritic retraction ( 69 ). In addition to the changes in GABA, there are other molecular changes, including increased glucocorticoid signaling, reduced brain-derived neurotrophic factor (BDNF) production, increased mGluR2/3 activity and caspase 3 activation, and an increase in the TLR4/NFκB signaling pathway, together with increased production of reactive oxygen species and pro-inflammatory cytokines, such as TNF-β. These changes lead to increased apoptosis and decreased progenitor proliferation, which in turn lead to a decrease in the hippocampal size. Depression-Specific Factors Depression may increase the risk of diabetes through health behaviors as well as the biological effects of depression and its treatment with antidepressants. ADULT HEALTH BEHAVIORS Health behaviors play an important role in determining an individual’s risk of developing diabetes. Diet A healthy diet protects against many long-term conditions including diabetes, obesity, and depression. Both epidemiological studies and intervention studies have shown how maintaining normal weight, reducing fat, particularly saturated fat, and increasing the fiber content of the diet reduces the risk of type 2 diabetes ( 70 , 71 ). Certain dietary patterns, such as the Mediterranean diet, are associated with a lower risk of diabetes ( 72 ). High levels of refined sugars and saturated fats may also increase the risk of depression, while a Mediterranean diet and diets that include more vegetables, fruits, fish, and whole grains seem to be protective ( 73 ). Once present, depression may entrench less prudent eating habits, creating a vicious cycle where poor diet and depression reinforce each other while simultaneously increasing the risk of diabetes. Depression increases the risk of
