Diabetes and Depression
KEYWORDS: diabetes, depression, pubmed, people, type, risk, type diabetes, meta-analysis, health, care, symptoms, depressive, article, free, pmc


may entrench less prudent eating habits, creating a vicious cycle where poor diet and depression reinforce each other while simultaneously increasing the risk of diabetes. Depression increases the risk of obesity, with those with depression being 58% more likely to develop obesity than those without ( 74 ). Excessive alcohol intake is associated with an increased risk of diabetes ( 75 ). Alcohol misuse is one of the most prevalent mental disorders, especially in more affluent countries ( 76 ). About a quarter of those with alcohol dependency have co-morbid mental disorders including depression, where alcohol is often used as a coping mechanism to manage stress, anxiety, or depressive symptoms. Physical Activity The health benefits of physical activity are overwhelming and include a lowered risk of type 2 diabetes and depression. There is a graded response with some physical activity being better than none, but further benefits accrue with more physical activity. Avoidance of sedentary behavior is also important for health. People with depression are less physically active than the general population; a meta-analysis of 24 studies including 2901 people with major depression disorder found that compared to the general population, those with depression spent less time engaged in overall and moderate to vigorous physical activity and were more likely to be sedentary. People with depression were 50% less likely to meet the recommended physical activity guidelines of taking at least 150 minutes of moderate-to-high intensity physical activity in a week through a variety of activities ( 77 ). Over two-thirds of people with depression do not reach this target ( 78 ). Smoking Tobacco use is the single most preventable cause of death and disease throughout the life-course and increases the risk of diabetes by 30-40% ( 79 , 80 ). Smoking is one of the most important modifiable risk factors of physical morbidity and mortality in people with mental illness ( 81 ). Adults with depression are twice as likely to smoke as adults without depression. There also appears to be a bi-directional relationship where smoking increases the risk of depression while people with depression are more likely to start smoking ( 82 ). Sleep The health benefits of sleep include a lower risk of diabetes and maintenance of a healthy weight ( 83 ). Sleep problems are a cardinal feature of depression with difficulty falling asleep and waking during the night, being common symptoms of depression (
