Diabetes and Depression
KEYWORDS: diabetes, depression, pubmed, people, type, risk, type diabetes, meta-analysis, health, care, symptoms, depressive, article, free, pmc


of a healthy weight ( 83 ). Sleep problems are a cardinal feature of depression with difficulty falling asleep and waking during the night, being common symptoms of depression ( 10 ). BIOLOGICAL EFFECTS OF DEPRESSION Several biological changes occur during an episode of depression that might increase the risk of diabetes. First, acute episodes of depression are associated with hyperinsulinemia and insulin resistance and are unaffected by antidepressant treatment ( 68 ). Depression is also associated with a state of chronic inflammation that is characterized by increased C-reactive protein, TNF-α, and proinflammatory cytokines that might partially explain the change in insulin sensitivity. These proteins are linked to sickness behavior in animal models of depression and in humans are associated with an increase in type 2 diabetes and the metabolic syndrome ( 84 , 85 ). Depression is further associated with abnormalities of hypothalamic-pituitary adrenal (HPA) axis function, which manifests as subclinical hypercortisolism, blunted diurnal cortisol rhythm, or hypocortisolism with impaired glucocorticoid sensitivity ( 86 ). Brain-derived neurotrophic factor (BDNF) is a neurotrophic factor expressed in several tissues, including the brain, gut, and pancreas. As described earlier, BDNF plays an important role in maintaining neuronal plasticity, including neurogenesis, synaptogenesis, and neuronal maturation. Depression decreases BDNF expression in the hippocampus and prefrontal cortex ( 87 ). Outside the brain, BDNF activation leads to reduced hepatic gluconeogenesis, increased hepatic insulin signal transduction, and protects against pancreatic β-cell loss. Serum BDNF concentrations are lower in people with diabetes ( 88 ). ANTIDEPRESSANTS Although essential components of the management of depression, it is possible that the use of antidepressants contribute to the risk of diabetes. Case reports, and observational studies have generally shown that people receiving antidepressant medications have a higher risk of diabetes but whether this relationship is causative remains unproven ( 89 , 90 ). Randomized controlled trials have emphasized that antidepressants vary considerably in their association with weight gain and both hyperglycemia and hypoglycemic effects have been observed ( 89 ). Some antidepressants, including paroxetine, mirtazapine, and various tricyclic antidepressants are associated with significant weight gain which could increase the risk of diabetes in the long term. By contrast, buproprion is associated with weight loss ( 91 ). CONSEQUENCES OF DIABETES AND DEPRESSION CO-MORBIDITY The presence of depression in people with diabetes worsens both diabetes and depression outcomes ( Figure 2 ). Figure 2. The consequences of living with diabetes and
