Diabetes and Depression
KEYWORDS: diabetes, depression, pubmed, people, type, risk, type diabetes, meta-analysis, health, care, symptoms, depressive, article, free, pmc


AND DEPRESSION CO-MORBIDITY The presence of depression in people with diabetes worsens both diabetes and depression outcomes ( Figure 2 ). Figure 2. The consequences of living with diabetes and depression. Mortality Mortality rates from physical illnesses, including cardiovascular disease, cancer, and diabetes, are higher in people with depression. Among people with diabetes, depression increases the risk of mortality by approximately 50% ( 92 , 93 ). Where depression co-exists with anxiety, which is also more common in people with diabetes, mortality rates are further increased ( 94 ). Depression Outcomes Once depressive symptoms occur or a diagnosis of depression is made, the symptoms appear to be persistent and likely to recur in people with diabetes. A longitudinal study of 2,460 people with type 2 diabetes in a primary care setting found that 26% met the criterion for depression on at least one occasion, with incident depression occurring in 14% over a 3-year period ( 95 ). Recurrent or persistent depression occurred in two-thirds of those with baseline depression. In two other studies from the USA, self-reported depressive symptoms persisted in 73% of people 12 months after a diabetes education program ( 96 ) while major depressive disorder relapsed in 79% of people with diabetes over a 5-year period ( 97 ). Depression is a major cause of excess hospitalization in people with diabetes and is the leading cause of psychiatric admissions in people with diabetes accounting for 6.1 admissions per 1,000 person years in people with type 1 diabetes and 7.05 admissions in people with type 2 diabetes in Australia, with higher admission rates for women ( 98 ). These rates are 2-3-fold higher than the general Australian population ( 99 ). People with diabetes have an increased risk of completed suicide compared with the general population and are more likely to report suicidal ideation, one of the strongest predictors of completed suicide, and intentional self-harm ( 100 ). The risk of suicidal behavior is highest in young people with type 1 diabetes, in whom suicide may account for up to 7% of deaths. Suicidal ideation is also increased among adolescents and young adults with type 1 diabetes compared with the general population (15.0% vs. 9.4%) and is seen in all ethnic groups ( 101 ). It is likely, however, that the true incidence of suicidal attempts and completed suicides is considerably higher amongst people with diabetes because of
