Diabetes and Depression
KEYWORDS: diabetes, depression, pubmed, people, type, risk, type diabetes, meta-analysis, health, care, symptoms, depressive, article, free, pmc


in all ethnic groups ( 101 ). It is likely, however, that the true incidence of suicidal attempts and completed suicides is considerably higher amongst people with diabetes because of ineffective identification and coding ( 100 ). Many hospital admissions for diabetes ketoacidosis or hypoglycemia of ‘unknown’ etiology result from insulin omission or overdose, but whether these are deliberate acts is frequently unrecognized or unrecorded. There is also anecdotal evidence that healthcare professionals are unwilling to record suicide as a cause of death because of the associated stigma. Suicide rates are higher in people with long-term health conditions than in people in the general population, but what makes diabetes stand out is access to insulin, providing a means for suicide either by omission or overdose, the latter of which is the commonest method of suicide in people with insulin-treated diabetes. Diabetes Outcomes ACUTE METABOLIC COMPLICATIONS People with type 1 diabetes and depression have an increased risk of admission to hospital with diabetic ketoacidosis and severe hypoglycemia. In one study involving 3,742 people with type 1 diabetes who attended the emergency room or who were admitted to hospital between 1996 and 2015, those with depression had a 2.5-fold increased risk of severe hyperglycemia events and an 89% increased risk of severe hypoglycemia ( 43 ). The risk was greatest within the first 6 months following a diagnosis of depression, when the risk was 7.14-fold higher for hyperglycemia events and 5.58-fold higher for hypoglycemia. MICROVASCULAR COMPLICATIONS An early meta-analysis showed that the risk of microvascular complications was increased with small to moderate weighted effect sizes of 0.17 to 0.32 ( 24 ). The increased risk was similar in people with type 1 diabetes and people with type 2 diabetes while sexual dysfunction and painful peripheral neuropathy seemed to be associated with the highest risk. Most of these studies were cross-sectional but a more recent meta-analysis of 16 studies that examined the relationship between baseline depression and incident diabetes complications found that depression was associated with a 33% increased risk of incident microvascular disease ( 39 ). Most studies reported a composite of neuropathy, retinopathy, and nephropathy but one study reported nephropathy alone and found a 18% increase in incident chronic kidney disease ( 102 ). Depression is associated with a 68% increased risk of a first diabetes-related foot ulcer but not ulcer recurrence ( 103 ). This contrasted an earlier study that
