Diabetes and Depression
KEYWORDS: diabetes, depression, pubmed, people, type, risk, type diabetes, meta-analysis, health, care, symptoms, depressive, article, free, pmc


Surveillance System, those with a diagnosis of a depressive disorder were 82% more likely to report not seeing a doctor because of healthcare costs in the previous year ( 109 ). DIABETES MANAGEMENT Glycemic Levels It has been hypothesized that changes in glycemic levels may mediate the association between depression and diabetes micro- and macrovascular complications and mortality. However, studies that have investigated this have produced inconsistent findings. An early meta-analysis reported a small to moderate association between depression and elevated HbA 1c for type 1 diabetes and type 2 diabetes, but included mainly cross-sectional studies that precluded an inference on temporality ( 110 ). A recent meta-analysis investigated the longitudinal association between self-reported depressive symptoms and HbA 1c . The six longitudinal studies had a combined sample size of 3,683 participants who were followed for a mean period of 37 months (range six months to five years). There was a small significant association between baseline depressive symptoms and subsequent HbA 1c levels ( 111 ). A further meta-analysis of 14 studies in children and adolescents with type 1 diabetes reported a correlation between depressive symptoms and HbA 1c ( 112 ). The timing of the diagnosis of diabetes and depression may also be important. In a study of 11,837 people with type 2 diabetes registered with the UK Biobank followed for a median of 6.9 years, those diagnosed with major depression decades prior to type 2 diabetes had lower HbA 1c over time compared to individuals without depression and those diagnosed closer to their diabetes diagnosis date ( 113 ). For individuals whose depression was diagnosed after diabetes, the time since the onset of depression also shaped the trajectory of HbA 1c , with the adverse effect of a diagnosis of depression on HbA 1c being greatest in those whose diagnosis occurred shortly after the onset of diabetes. Furthermore, the variability of HbA 1c within any individual was 16% higher in those with post-diabetes depression ( 113 ). Diabetes Self-Management Optimizing glucose levels is highly dependent on self-care activities that include regular glucose monitoring, taking medication as prescribed, and engaging in health behavior change to improve diet and physical activity. Depression compromises an individual’s ability to self-manage their diabetes. A meta-analysis of 47 studies reported that depression significantly reduced the likelihood of engaging in self-management behaviors, including missed medical appointments, less medication taking and glucose monitoring, and less foot
