Diabetes and Depression
KEYWORDS: diabetes, depression, pubmed, people, type, risk, type diabetes, meta-analysis, health, care, symptoms, depressive, article, free, pmc


A meta-analysis of 47 studies reported that depression significantly reduced the likelihood of engaging in self-management behaviors, including missed medical appointments, less medication taking and glucose monitoring, and less foot care ( 114 , 115 ). Similar to anti-diabetes medications, people with co-morbid depression are also less likely to take anti-hypertensive medications and lipid-lowering therapy ( 115 ). Depression is associated with a less nutritious diet that is characterized by lower consumption of fruit and vegetables and increased refined carbohydrates ( 116 ). Physical activity is reduced while smoking and alcohol consumption is increased ( 115 ). The effect of depression appears to be mediated through its adverse effects on self-efficacy and illness perception ( 115 ). MANAGEMENT OF DIABETES AND DEPRESSION Preventing Depression in People with Diabetes The implication of the psychological model of depression in diabetes is that healthcare professionals could play an important role in moderating the psychological burden associated with diabetes by considering the way in which the diagnosis of diabetes is conveyed and the psychosocial support that is given through an individual’s journey with diabetes. Many people with diabetes experience stigma, some of which stem from their healthcare team. They report feelings of shame and blame because they are held responsible for developing overweight, obesity, or diabetes ( 117 ). However well-intentioned the healthcare professional is, it is clear that evoking these feelings is associated with worse clinical outcomes. By contrast, the use of person-centered, non-stigmatizing language can create a trusted and safe space for meaningful clinical discussion ( 118 ). Several individual and group-based interventions with the aim of preventing the development of depressive symptoms have been trialed in people with diabetes. Of the twelve studies reported in a recent narrative review, half had a positive effect ( 119 ). Features associated with a reduction in the likelihood of developing depressive symptoms included diabetes self-management education and support, problem-solving and resilience-focused approaches, and emotion-targeted techniques. Screening and Diagnosis of Depression Given the importance of depression in people with diabetes and the availability of effective treatment, there is a strong rationale to screen for depression in people with diabetes ( 120 ), not least because depression is under-recognized in clinical practice. Primary care doctors do not diagnose and treat depression in 50–77% of cases ( 121 , 122 ), while diabetologists only initiate antidepressant treatment in approximately one-third of their patients with clinical depression (
