Diabetes and Depression
KEYWORDS: diabetes, depression, pubmed, people, type, risk, type diabetes, meta-analysis, health, care, symptoms, depressive, article, free, pmc


89.0 59.0 - 89.0 82.0 - 97.0 HADS 74.0 - 85.0 37.5 – 86.0 28.0 – 49.0 95.0 - 96.0 0.55 – 0.78 Sensitivity= Number of true positives (cases of depression)/Number of true positives + number of false negatives; Specificity = Number of true negatives/ Number of true negatives + false positives; Positive Predictive Value (PPV) = the proportion of cases with positive test results who are correctly diagnosed. Negative Predictive Value (NPV) = the proportion of cases with negative test results who are correctly diagnosed. Another simple approach with good sensitivity and reasonable specificity is to ask two questions ( 127 ): During the past month, have you been bothered by having little interest or pleasure in doing things? During the past month, have you been bothered by feeling down, depressed, or hopeless? If the answer to either is yes , and the person with diabetes wants helps with this problem, the healthcare professional should undertake a diagnostic interview and offer appropriate referral and treatment. Although screening for depression is acceptable to people living with diabetes ( 128 ), its value has not been proven and remains controversial despite being recommended by several professional bodies, including the International Diabetes Federation ( 129 ), American Diabetes Association ( 130 ), and the UK National Institute for Health and Clinical Excellence ( 131 ). A 2008 Cochrane review reported that depression screening alone in the general population had little or no impact on the detection and management of depression ( 132 ). However, a more recent meta-analysis of depression screening interventions, many of which included additional components beyond screening, showed these were associated with less depression or depressive symptoms in the general population 6-12 months after screening ( 133 ). This issue is important because of the potential harms of screening, which include the stigma associated with depression, the risk of transient distress being labelled as having depression, and discrimination from insurance companies, and so studies demonstrating the effectiveness of screening in people with diabetes are needed. Primary care depression screening in people with diabetes was introduced in the UK in 2006 as part of the Quality and Outcomes Framework (a performance management and payment scheme for NHS general practitioners) with mixed results. In one semi-rural general practice, 365 of 435 eligible people with diabetes or ischemia heart disease were screened, but only three people without a current diagnosis of depression
