Diabetes and Depression
KEYWORDS: diabetes, depression, pubmed, people, type, risk, type diabetes, meta-analysis, health, care, symptoms, depressive, article, free, pmc


mixed results. In one semi-rural general practice, 365 of 435 eligible people with diabetes or ischemia heart disease were screened, but only three people without a current diagnosis of depression screened positive and none were subsequently diagnosed with depression ( 134 ). By contrast, in a study of 112 general practices in Leeds, UK, the rates of diagnosis of depression increased from 21 to 94 per 100,000 population per month after introduction of the screening compared with 27 to 77 per 100,000 population per month in people without screening ( 135 ). Despite the increased diagnosis, after an initial increase in antidepressant treatment, screening had little impact on prescribing habits. Two clinical trials of depression screening in people with diabetes have not demonstrated a benefit. In the first study from the Netherlands, written feedback was provided to both the person with diabetes and the doctor following depression screening, but this did not change use of mental health services or improve depression scores compared with routine care ( 136 ). The second study from the USA examined the benefits of training healthcare technicians about the importance of discussing mental health with their patients ( 137 ). Although there was an improvement in depressive symptoms, this was no different from the control group and all the participants continued to have moderate to severe depressive symptoms. Several reasons may explain the lack of effectiveness of depression screening in people with diabetes including a low acceptance of screening and subsequent referral to further care by people with diabetes, failure to screen those at highest risk of depression, reluctance by healthcare professionals, and generally poor quality of depression care in primary care systems ( 138 ). While identification of those with depression is an essential first step in treatment, screening alone will not improve clinical outcomes unless linked to appropriate care pathways and treatment ( 120 , 139 ). By contrast, studies of care pathways that have clearly linked screening to diagnosis and treatment improved depression outcomes ( 140 , 141 ). Treatment of Depression The main aims of treatment are to improve both mental health and diabetes outcomes ( Table 5 ). Ideally, any depression treatment for people with diabetes would simultaneously improve both sets of outcomes, but from a clinical perspective, the rapid improvement or remission of depression should be the first priority ( 138 ). This recommendation partly reflects the time course
