Diabetes and Depression
KEYWORDS: diabetes, depression, pubmed, people, type, risk, type diabetes, meta-analysis, health, care, symptoms, depressive, article, free, pmc


sets of outcomes, but from a clinical perspective, the rapid improvement or remission of depression should be the first priority ( 138 ). This recommendation partly reflects the time course of treatment responses, which can be seen within 2–4 weeks for depression but also because treating the depression may aid optimal diabetes self-management. Table 5. Aims of Depression Treatment in People with Diabetes View in own window Mental health outcomes Diabetes outcomes Decreased depressive symptoms Optimal diabetes self-management Remission of depression Decreased HbA 1c Suicide prevention Increased time in glucose range Improved health-related quality of life Less hypoglycemia Restoration of psychosocial functioning Reduced long-term complications Reduced mortality Until relatively recently, people with diabetes have been under-represented in trials of depression treatment and so, there were few studies examining antidepressant and psychological treatment of depression. However, over the last two decades, the evidence base for treatment has grown substantially and has clearly indicated that treatment with either psychological therapies or antidepressant medication is effective ( 142 ) . PSYCHOLOGICAL TREATMENT Various psychological treatments, including cognitive behavioral therapy, problem-solving, and psychodynamic techniques have been used to treat depression in people with diabetes. Different members of the healthcare team have been utilized to deliver these interventions in primary and secondary care either in person or virtually through the internet or telephone ( 142 , 143 ). The majority of trials have included people with type 2 diabetes with no trials conducted solely in people with type 1 diabetes. A meta-analysis of psychological treatments, including group-based and online therapies, reported they were effective for the treatment of depression with large effect sizes ( 142 ). The follow-up ranged between 4 weeks and 1 year and thus, the longer-term effects are unknown. Cognitive behavioral therapy is the most studied intervention, with its core components being cognitive restructuring, behavioral activation, and problem solving. This intervention was judged to be moderately effective in two recent meta-analyses ( 144 , 145 ). Mindfulness also has an moderate benefit in treating depression ( 146 ), but there is mixed evidence on the benefit of motivational interviewing in reducing depressive symptoms ( 147 , 148 ). Although psychological treatments are better than no treatment, the rates of recovery are low post-psychological intervention (17% vs 9% in controls) ( 149 ), indicating that many people will need additional support if they are to recover fully from their depression. There is more
