Diabetes and Depression
KEYWORDS: diabetes, depression, pubmed, people, type, risk, type diabetes, meta-analysis, health, care, symptoms, depressive, article, free, pmc


post-psychological intervention (17% vs 9% in controls) ( 149 ), indicating that many people will need additional support if they are to recover fully from their depression. There is more debate about the effect of psychological interventions on diabetes outcomes ( 138 ) with one systematic review reporting a reduction in HbA 1c of ~0.6% (6 mmol/mol) ( 150 ) while another only reporting a non-significant improvement in glycemic levels ( 151 ). A meta-analysis of cognitive behavioral therapy showed a statistically significant but clinically insignificant reduction in HbA 1c of 0.14% (1 mmol/mol). There was a greater effect on HbA 1c if the intervention was delivered in a group-based and face-to-face fashion and included psycho-education, behavioral, cognitive, goal-setting, and homework assignment strategies as central components ( 145 ). One of the challenges in delivering psychological interventions is the lack of trained personnel, a situation which appears to be worsening, at least in the United Kingdom ( 152 ). To address this deficiency, interventions have been designed to be delivered online or using mobile technologies, a trend which has increased dramatically since the Covid-19 pandemic. This has the potential to increase accessibility to treatment while limiting costs ( 142 ). One meta-analysis reported large effect sizes on depressive symptoms for online therapy and a moderate effect for telephone interventions, although no change in diabetes outcomes was seen ( 142 ). The beneficial effect on depressive symptoms up to 12 months after the interventions was supported by another systematic review, albeit again without improvement in diabetes outcomes ( 153 ). However, this finding was contradicted by a recent meta-analysis of 24 randomized controlled trials, 14 non-randomized controlled trials and three observational studies which reported no significant effect on depression outcomes ( 154 ). The discrepancy may partly explained by drop-out rates which vary from 13% to 42%; for those who remain in treatment, the interventions appear effective ( 155 ) and so the challenge will be to deliver services that engage people with diabetes and depression. In the United Kingdom in 2008, the National Health Service introduced the Improving Access to Psychological Therapies (now NHS Talking Therapies for anxiety and depression) program to improve the delivery of, and access to, psychological therapies for depression. By 2021/22, nearly 1.2 million people had accessed these services. Although the clinical workforce is appropriately trained and supervised, many practitioners do not have experience of the
