Diabetes and Depression
KEYWORDS: diabetes, depression, pubmed, people, type, risk, type diabetes, meta-analysis, health, care, symptoms, depressive, article, free, pmc


therapies for depression. By 2021/22, nearly 1.2 million people had accessed these services. Although the clinical workforce is appropriately trained and supervised, many practitioners do not have experience of the challenges of living with diabetes. To address this issue, the Southampton diabetes team has formed a partnership with the local NHS Talking Therapies service. A practitioner joins the multidisciplinary team in the young adult clinic once a fortnight, helping to engage the person with diabetes and facilitate referral and access to the service. There is also a wider benefit to the city as the NHS Talking Therapies team have become much more aware of the challenges of living with diabetes. Introducing this service led to reductions in depressive symptoms and diabetes distress and was well received by people with diabetes and staff alike ( 156 ). ANTIDEPRESSANTS Antidepressants have been used to treat depressive symptoms since the late 1950s. There are many different antidepressants, but these fall into five main categories: Selective Serotonin Reuptake Inhibitors (SSRI) Serotonin and Noradrenaline Reuptake Inhibitors (SNRI) Noradrenaline and Specific Serotoninergic Antidepressants (NASSA) Tricyclics (TCA) Monoamine Oxidase Inhibitors (MAOI) The discovery of the first clinically useful antidepressants paved the way for an understanding of the underlying biological or neuroanatomical basis for depression. The first antidepressant was the tricyclic antidepressant (TCA), imipramine. It was first synthesized in 1951 as a potential antipsychotic and derived from work on chlorpromazine, which had pronounced sedative and antihistamine effects ( 157 ). Although imipramine has no antipsychotic effect, it was found to possess antidepressant effects. Other TCAs, such as amitriptyline, were subsequently synthesized by modifying the structure of imipramine. Iproniazid, a monoamine oxidase inhibitor (MAOI), was the next antidepressant to be discovered; again, this drug was initially developed for a different purpose, the treatment of tuberculosis, before its antidepressant effect was recognized. MAOIs prevent the breakdown of monoamine neurotransmitters (e.g. noradrenaline, dopamine and serotonin) while TCAs block the uptake of serotonin and noradrenaline resulting in an elevation of the synaptic concentrations of these transmitters. An understanding of the pharmacology led to the hypothesis that depression was caused by low catecholamine levels in the central nervous system ( 158 ). Both TCA and MAOI affect the serotonin system and in 1967, Coppen proposed that this was a more important neurotransmitter in depression than noradrenaline ( 159 ). Fluoxetine was the first in the class of selective serotonin re-uptake inhibitors (SSRI) and
