Diabetes and Depression
KEYWORDS: diabetes, depression, pubmed, people, type, risk, type diabetes, meta-analysis, health, care, symptoms, depressive, article, free, pmc


Coppen proposed that this was a more important neurotransmitter in depression than noradrenaline ( 159 ). Fluoxetine was the first in the class of selective serotonin re-uptake inhibitors (SSRI) and was developed by design following a search for molecules that could selectively block the re-uptake of serotonin. A major advantage of this approach was that it minimized adverse effects such as cardiovascular toxicity and anticholinergic effects. First synthesized in 1972 and launched in 1987, fluoxetine became the most widely prescribed drug in North America by 1990 ( 157 ). Although better tolerated than earlier antidepressants, SSRI still caused side effects, including sexual dysfunction, appetite change, nausea and vomiting, irritability, anxiety, insomnia, and headaches. In an attempt to reduce these adverse effects, other antidepressant classes were developed, including serotonin and noradrenaline reuptake inhibitors (SNRI, e.g. venlafaxine) and noradrenaline and specific serotoninergic antidepressants (NASSA, e.g. mirtazapine). Antidepressants reduce depressive symptoms in people with diabetes as well as the general population; however, there have been relatively few formal efficacy trials in people with diabetes and even these have been are limited to a small group of antidepressants, including fluoxetine, sertraline, paroxetine, citalopram, escitalopram, agomelatine, nortriptyline, and vortioxetine ( 138 , 160 ). Furthermore, most studies are short-term and so the medium- and long-term sustainability of pharmacological interventions after treatment cessation is uncertain. A systematic review and meta-analysis suggested that all antidepressants have similarly large effect size on depression outcomes as long as adequate doses are used ( 151 ). However, a more recent network meta-analysis of 12 randomized controlled trials involving 792 participants reported that there may be a greater reduction in depressive symptoms with escitalopram and agomelatine ( 160 ). Vortioxetine was associated with the greatest reduction in HbA 1c with escitalopram, agomelatine, sertraline and fluoxetine also associated with a fall in HbA 1c . No antidepressant was found to disrupt glucose levels ( 160 ). These differences should be viewed with caution as the number of trials and participants for each drug is small. Further head-to-head randomized controlled trials would help us understand more about the relative benefits and safety of different antidepressants on depression and glucose metabolism. Given the similar efficacy between antidepressants, the treatment of choice depends largely on the side-effect profile, individual preference, and response. SSRI are widely used as first-choice agents because they are less cardiotoxic than TCA and are safer in overdose. Some antidepressants, notably mirtazapine,
