Diabetes and Depression
KEYWORDS: diabetes, depression, pubmed, people, type, risk, type diabetes, meta-analysis, health, care, symptoms, depressive, article, free, pmc


the side-effect profile, individual preference, and response. SSRI are widely used as first-choice agents because they are less cardiotoxic than TCA and are safer in overdose. Some antidepressants, notably mirtazapine, paroxetine and some TCA, may cause undesirable weight gain ( 91 ) and should be used with caution in people with type 2 diabetes. By contrast, buproprion, which is available in the USA, is associated with weight loss and, unlike SSRIs, does not appear to worsen sexual function ( 161 ). The aim of treatment is complete remission of depressive symptoms. Treatment should be maintained at an adequate dose for at least 4–6 months after remission of symptoms to reduce the risk of relapse and recurrence. Recovery from depression may lead to a change in the individual’s behavior and routine which may have an effect on diabetes self-management. For example, if appetite improves, insulin requirements may increase, while on the other hand, if the person becomes more active, they may decrease. An individual approach is therefore needed to support the person’s glycemic management. There are important drug–drug interactions between antidepressants and oral anti-diabetes agents through inhibition of the cytochrome P450 3A4 and 2C9 isoenzyme. For example, the use of fluoxetine may potentiate the effect of sulfonylureas precipitating hypoglycemia ( 84 ). EXERCISE Many depression guidelines recommend exercise and other aspects of a healthy lifestyle as an integral component of management. Coupled with the importance of exercise in glycemic management, interventions to increase physical activity have been trialed and shown to be effective in reducing depressive symptoms and improving glycemic measures ( 162 ). PREVENTING SUICIDE A detailed description of the many effective interventions to prevent suicide is beyond the scope of this article ( 163 ), however, it is important for diabetes healthcare professionals to understand how to identify those at risk, particularly given the high prevalence of suicidal ideation and acts and immediate availability of a means of suicide. It is crucial that suicide can be discussed with people with diabetes in a safe and non-judgmental way. Talking about suicide remains highly stigmatized and choosing to reveal suicidal ideation can be difficult. The isolation that suicidal people feel can be reinforced by a critical response from the healthcare team. A recent survey of diabetes healthcare professionals found that the vast majority of respondents believed it is their professional responsibility to ask about suicide and self-harm, with nearly half reporting
