Diabetes and Depression
KEYWORDS: diabetes, depression, pubmed, people, type, risk, type diabetes, meta-analysis, health, care, symptoms, depressive, article, free, pmc


A recent survey of diabetes healthcare professionals found that the vast majority of respondents believed it is their professional responsibility to ask about suicide and self-harm, with nearly half reporting that this should be addressed every visit ( 164 ). Around three-quarters reported feeling comfortable discussing these issues, but those who were more reluctant to do so were concerned about their lack of training and uncertainty about what to do if someone reported self-harming behavior. Once an individual has discussed suicidal intention, it is important that the person is supported and has access to mental healthcare and suicide prevention interventions. ORGANIZATION OF CARE A common model of care of depression is the Stepped Care Model which provides a framework in which service delivery is organized to help those with depression, their caregivers, and healthcare professionals identify and access the most effective interventions ( Figure 3 ) ( 131 ). The model utilizes a sequenced treatment process depending on the severity of depressive symptoms and response to previous treatments. The model allows a rational approach to the treatment of depression, while reducing costs and side effects of antidepressant through more appropriate prescribing. Figure 3. Stepped Care Model for management of depression ( 131 ). The first step involves the recognition of depression through screening and diagnostic interview and is reserved for those with suspected depression. For those with mild depression, step 2 involves the use of guided self-help, computerized CBT, and brief psychological interventions which can be delivered by the primary healthcare team or psychologist. The third step, which is also delivered in primary care settings, is indicated for those who do not respond to step 2 interventions, or for those with moderate and severe depression. Treatments include medication, high-intensity psychological interventions, or combined treatment. Step 4 corresponds to severe or treatment-resistant depression; the interventions are similar to those used in step 3 but now involve the mental health team. The final step is for those with life-threatening depression and/or severe self-neglect. In addition to medication and high-intensity psychological interventions, electroconvulsive therapy may be required under the supervision of a mental health crisis services and involve hospitalization. A meta-analysis of 18 randomized controlled trial of stepped care showed improvements in depressive symptoms and better remission rates ( 165 ). A significant benefit on quality of life was also observed. More people in the stepped care model were prescribed antidepressants. The increasing
