Diabetes and Depression
KEYWORDS: diabetes, depression, pubmed, people, type, risk, type diabetes, meta-analysis, health, care, symptoms, depressive, article, free, pmc


symptoms and better remission rates ( 165 ). A significant benefit on quality of life was also observed. More people in the stepped care model were prescribed antidepressants. The increasing fragmentation of medical services and super-specialization in modern medicine has resulted in clinicians focusing on the conditions with which they are most familiar and being unable or unwilling to recognize and treat comorbid illnesses when they occur ( 166 ). The need for integrated holistic healthcare has never been greater but many diabetes healthcare professionals feel ill-equipped to manage depression. To address this, a case management model known as collaborative care was developed in the U.S., that involves a multidisciplinary team working together to identify and treat depression within primary care settings. The prototype intervention led to improvements in depression symptoms but without change in glycemia ( 167 ). Subsequently, greater attention was paid to intervention strategies for diabetes, resulting in simultaneous improvements in glycemic and blood pressure management and improved depressive symptoms ( 140 ). In a meta-analysis of five studies from the U.S., collaborative care was shown to be a clinical- and cost-effective treatment of depression, with a moderate effect size for depression outcomes and a small effect size for glycemic levels ( 142 , 168 ). CONCLUSION Diabetes and depression remain a considerable clinical challenge. While an awareness of this co-morbidity has increased in recent years, this has not necessarily translated into better care or outcomes. Effective treatments are available and these need to be made available to those with diabetes and depression in clear treatment pathways. There are grounds for considerable optimism as the scientific knowledge that underpins clinical practices has expanded markedly in the last two decades. However, further research is needed to understand what can be done to prevent depression in people with diabetes and to identify the optimal treatment for an individual that improves both depressive symptoms and diabetes outcomes. REFERENCES 1. Katon WJ. Epidemiology and treatment of depression in patients with chronic medical illness. Dialogues Clin Neurosci. 2011;13(1):7-23. [ PMC free article : PMC3181964 ] [ PubMed : 21485743 ] 2. Ciechanowski PS, Katon WJ, Russo JE. Depression and diabetes: impact of depressive symptoms on adherence, function, and costs. Arch Intern Med. 2000;160(21):3278-85. [ PubMed : 11088090 ] 3. Mitchell AJ, Malone D, Doebbeling CC. Quality of medical care for people with and without comorbid mental illness and substance misuse: systematic review
