Primary Generalized Glucocorticoid Resistance Syndrome
KEYWORDS: glucocorticoid, receptor, pubmed, mutation, mutations, glucocorticoid receptor, free, activity, resistance, free article, article, pmc, pmc free, gene, article pubmed


ABSTRACT Primary generalized glucocorticoid resistance syndrome is a rare genetic disorder characterized by resistance of entire tissues to glucocorticoids. Affected subjects demonstrate elevation of serum cortisol without Cushingoid manifestations, as the hypothalamic-pituitary-adrenal (HPA) axis is upregulated to compensate for the reduced action of this steroid in local tissues. Instead, these patients develop hypertension and/or signs of hyperandrogenism, because hyper-secreted adrenocorticotropic hormone (ACTH) stimulates production of adrenal mineralocorticoids and/or androgens in addition to the glucocorticoid cortisol. At the molecular level, this syndrome is caused by inactivating mutations in the NR3C1 gene that encodes the human glucocorticoid receptor (hGR) protein. Biochemical, molecular and structural exploration on pathologic mutant receptors revealed a variety of functional defects, such as reduced affinity to glucocorticoids or target DNA, inability to transactivate glucocorticoid-responsive genes, and slowing of the cytoplasmic to nuclear translocation. The clinical spectrum of this syndrome is thus broad, ranging from asymptomatic to severe cases of mineralocorticoid and/or androgen excess depending on the severity of genetic defects and resulting dysfunction of the mutated receptors. When this syndrome is suspected, a detailed personal and family history should be obtained. Physical examination should include an assessment for signs of mineralocorticoid and/or androgen excess. In neonates and young children, severe hypoglycemia and loss of consciousness due to reduced actions of glucocorticoids in the liver may be present as initial manifestations in addition to hypertension and/or genital abnormalities. Suspected subjects should undergo a detailed endocrinologic evaluation with particular emphasis on the measurement of diurnal serum cortisol and plasma ACTH concentrations and determination of the 24-hour urinary free cortisol excretion to identify upregulation of the HPA axis with preservation of the normal circadian rhythmicity. The diagnosis of this syndrome should be confirmed by sequencing of the NR3C1 gene including exon/intron junctions and subsequent validation of functional defects of the mutated receptors. Treatment involves administration of high doses of mineralocorticoid activity-sparing pure glucocorticoids like dexamethasone, which stimulate the mutant and/or the wild-type hGR, and suppress the endogenous secretion of ACTH and adrenal steroids in the affected subjects. For complete coverage of all related areas of Endocrinology, please visit our on-line FREE web-text, WWW.ENDOTEXT.ORG . INTRODUCTION Organisms are exposed continuously to internal and external stressors, and live through them by maintaining the internal equilibrium called homeostasis ( 1 ). In order to respond adequately to such stressors through coordinating various body activities, we humans are equipped with a highly sophisticated stress responsive
