Primary Generalized Glucocorticoid Resistance Syndrome
KEYWORDS: glucocorticoid, receptor, pubmed, mutation, mutations, glucocorticoid receptor, free, activity, resistance, free article, article, pmc, pmc free, gene, article pubmed


internal equilibrium called homeostasis ( 1 ). In order to respond adequately to such stressors through coordinating various body activities, we humans are equipped with a highly sophisticated stress responsive system, the hypothalamic-pituitary-adrenal (HPA) axis, which consists of the brain hypothalamus, the anterior pituitary gland, and the adrenal cortex, and employs glucocorticoids as its end-effector hormones. Actions of glucocorticoids, which are essential for life, can be determined by a balance between circulating levels of these hormones and local tissue sensitivity ( 2 , 3 ). Exceeding appropriate ranges of tissue sensitivity to glucocorticoids may present either as glucocorticoid resistance or glucocorticoid hypersensitivity with their specific manifestations ( 3 , 4 ). Such alterations in tissue glucocorticoid actions can occur in general (that is, throughout the body) or in tissue-specific manner (restricted in some organs and tissues; e.g., immune organs/cells, central nervous system (CNS), liver and fat tissues) ( 3 ). They are caused primarily by genetic defects of the molecules involved in the glucocorticoid signaling pathway or secondary through modulation of this pathway by other pathologic conditions, such as infectious, inflammatory and autoimmune diseases, obesity, and insulin resistance/overt diabetes mellitus. One such condition is the primary generalized glucocorticoid resistance syndrome, which is caused by inactivating mutations in the glucocorticoid receptor gene ( 5 ). Affected subjects develop partial glucocorticoid resistance observed in entire organs and tissues of the affected subjects ( 5 ). In recognition of Professor George P. Chrousos' novel and extensive research work in this field, the term “Chrousos Syndrome” may be used for this syndrome ( 6 , 7 ). GLUCOCORTICOIDS Glucocorticoids (cortisol in humans and corticosterone in rodents) are produced from cholesterol through multiple enzymatic reactions in the zona fasciculata of the adrenal cortex in response to the adrenocorticotropic hormone (ACTH) released from the pituitary gland ( 1 ). Glucocorticoids regulate a broad spectrum of physiologic functions essential for life, such as growth, reproduction, immunity, intermediary metabolism, cardiovascular tone, and CNS functions, playing essential and indispensable roles in the maintenance of resting and stress-related homeostasis ( 1 , 7 , 8 ). In addition, glucocorticoids exert potent anti-inflammatory and immunomodulatory effects particularly with their stress-equivalent or pharmacologic doses, thus they are widely used in the treatment of inflammatory, autoimmune, and lymphoproliferative diseases ( 8 ). GLUCOCORTICOID RECEPTOR PROTEINS, ISOFORMS AND ITS ENCODING GENE, NR3C1 Circulating cortisol freely passes through the cytoplasmic membrane and enters into the
