Primary Generalized Glucocorticoid Resistance Syndrome
KEYWORDS: glucocorticoid, receptor, pubmed, mutation, mutations, glucocorticoid receptor, free, activity, resistance, free article, article, pmc, pmc free, gene, article pubmed


of inflammatory, autoimmune, and lymphoproliferative diseases ( 8 ). GLUCOCORTICOID RECEPTOR PROTEINS, ISOFORMS AND ITS ENCODING GENE, NR3C1 Circulating cortisol freely passes through the cytoplasmic membrane and enters into the cytoplasm of its target cells, and binds to an intracellular protein, the glucocorticoid receptor (GR) ( 9 , 10 ). The human (h) GR is one of the steroid/thyroid/retinoic acid nuclear hormone receptor superfamily proteins, which consist of over 600 members in the animal kingdom ( 11 ). Many of them mediate extracellular signals transduced mainly by lipophilic hormones/compounds into the cell nucleus by binding them as ligands and by acting as ligand-dependent transcription factors ( 12 , 13 ). hGR influences transcription rates of numerous glucocorticoid-responsive genes (up to 3~5% of the entire protein-coding genes) in a positive or a negative fashion by interacting directly or indirectly with promoter/enhancer regions of these genes ( 14 ). The hGR gene ( NR3C1 : nuclear receptor subfamily 3, group C, member 1) consists of 9 exons and is located at chromosome 5q31.3. Exons 2-9 constitute the protein-coding sequence, whereas exon 1 encodes an untranslated region ( 12 , 14 , 15 ). The human NR3C1 gene has multiple exon 1s (see below) that harbor specific promoters containing a respective transcription start site for conferring tissue-specific expression of the receptor protein ( 15 ). Alternative splicing of the NR3C1 gene in exon 9s generates two highly homologous receptor isoforms, the hGRα and the hGRβ ( 16 ). They share amino (N)-terminal 727 common amino acids, but then diverge, with hGRα having an additional 50 amino acids and hGRβ having an additional, nonhomologous 15 amino acids at their carboxyl (C)-termini ( 17 ). hGRα resides primarily in the cytoplasm of cells and represents the classic GR that binds natural and synthetic glucocorticoids and mediates most of the actions of these hormones ( 15 ). On the other hand, hGRβ does not bind glucocorticoids, has intrinsic, gene-specific transcriptional activity, and exerts a dominant negative effect on the transcriptional activity of hGRα ( 18 ). Although physiologic and pathologic roles of hGRβ are still largely unknown ( 19 , 20 ), recent studies demonstrated that this isoform is implicated in modulation of the insulin signaling and participates in the pathogenesis of brain gliomas ( 21 - 23 ). The hGRα mRNA expresses not only the classic, full-length hGRα, but also multiple translational isoforms by using
