Primary Generalized Glucocorticoid Resistance Syndrome
KEYWORDS: glucocorticoid, receptor, pubmed, mutation, mutations, glucocorticoid receptor, free, activity, resistance, free article, article, pmc, pmc free, gene, article pubmed


and participates in the pathogenesis of brain gliomas ( 21 - 23 ). The hGRα mRNA expresses not only the classic, full-length hGRα, but also multiple translational isoforms by using at least eight alternative amino-terminal translation initiation sites ( 24 ). All these hGRα isoforms are differentially distributed in the cytoplasm and/or the nucleus in the absence of ligand, have different transcriptional activity, and display distinct transactivating or transrepressing activities on various glucocorticoid-responsive genes ( 24 ). Since hGRβ shares with hGRα a common amino-terminal domain that contains the same translation initiation sites, the hGRβ variant mRNA might also be translated through the same translation initiation sites to a similar host of hGRβ isoforms ( 14 ). The human NR3C1 has 11 different promoters with their alternative first exons (1A1, 1A2, 1A3, 1B, 1C, 1D, 1E, 1F, 1H, 1I and 1J) ( 25 , 26 ). Therefore, it can produce 11 different hGRα mRNA transcripts from different promoters that encode the same hGRα protein, as these transcripts share common exon 2 to exon 9α that contains the same translation initiation codon. 1A1, 1A2, 1A3 and 1I are located in the distal promoter region spanning ~32,000-36,000 bps upstream of the translation initiation site, while 1B, 1C, 1D, 1E, 1F, 1H and 1J position in the proximal promoter region located up to ~5,000 bps upstream of this site ( 25 ). Through differential use of these promoters, expression levels of hGRα can vary among tissues in different physiologic and pathologic conditions, as each tissue has specific expression profiles of local transcription factors and epigenetic modification of chromatin-associated molecules bound on these exon 1-associated promoters ( 25 , 27 , 28 ). Again, differential tissue-specific expression of hGRβ through the use of these promoters appears to be present. The above-indicated marked complexity in transcription/translation of the human NR3C1 gene enables target tissues to respond differently to circulating cortisol and accounts for stochastic, but still a highly organized nature of tissue glucocorticoid actions, in order to fulfil specific local needs of glucocorticoid hormonal effects ( 14 ). Such complexity of the glucocorticoid signaling at the receptor level also indicates that the proper biologic action of glucocorticoids in every target tissue is extremely important. The hGRα protein consists of three major domains and one region, namely the N-terminal (NTD), DNA-binding (DBD) and ligand-binding domain (LBD), and the hinge region (HR) ( 15 ). Exact amino
