Primary Generalized Glucocorticoid Resistance Syndrome
KEYWORDS: glucocorticoid, receptor, pubmed, mutation, mutations, glucocorticoid receptor, free, activity, resistance, free article, article, pmc, pmc free, gene, article pubmed


hGRα protein consists of three major domains and one region, namely the N-terminal (NTD), DNA-binding (DBD) and ligand-binding domain (LBD), and the hinge region (HR) ( 15 ). Exact amino acid location of these domains/region in the hGRα protein explained below is based on the data retrieved from the Pfam source of the Ensembl database (www.ensembl.org). NTD is encoded by exon 2 and represents the largest domain of the receptor, spanning over amino acids 1 to 401. It contains an unstructured acidic transactivation surface called activation function (AF) -1, which is used as a molecular platform for modulating the transcription of glucocorticoid-responsive genes ( 10 ). This domain also undergoes several post-translational modifications particularly at AF-1. DBD is expressed from exons 3 and 4, and lies between amino acids 417 and 494. This domain consists of two 4C (cysteine)-type zinc fingers and support the interaction between the receptor and its target DNA sequences known as glucocorticoid response elements (GREs) ( 10 , 29 ). LBD is encoded by exons 5-9 and positions at the C-terminal end of the receptor corresponding to amino acids 531 to 777. This domain is structurally formed with 12 α-helices and four β-sheets, and contains two functional structures, the ligand-binding pocket (LBP) and the second transactivation surface called AF-2, as well as several other molecular platforms including the one responsible for nuclear translocation of the receptor ( 29 , 30 ). Most of the protein surfaces of LBD that mediate these LBD-specific functions are formed upon binding of the receptor to a ligand and following conformational changes of this domain ( 15 ). Finally, HR lies between DBD and LBD, is encoded by 5’ part of exon 5, and spans between amino acids 495 and 530. This region provides appropriate structural flexibility to the receptor and allows the dimerized receptors to interact with different classic/alternative tandem GREs with various length of spacing nucleotides (the classic tandem GREs has three spacing nucleotides) ( 15 ). MOLECULAR ACTIONS OF hGRα Intracellular Shuttling of hGRα and its Regulators At target cells, hGRα in the absence of glucocorticoids resides primarily in the cytoplasm as part of the hetero-oligomeric complex consisting of chaperone heat shock proteins (HSPs) 90, 70 and 50, immunophilins (e.g., FK506-binding protein (FKBP)), and possibly other proteins ( 31 ) ( Figure 1 ). Binding of HSP90 to hGRα induces a conformational change in receptor’s LBD, and confers
