Primary Generalized Glucocorticoid Resistance Syndrome
KEYWORDS: glucocorticoid, receptor, pubmed, mutation, mutations, glucocorticoid receptor, free, activity, resistance, free article, article, pmc, pmc free, gene, article pubmed


immunophilins (e.g., FK506-binding protein (FKBP)), and possibly other proteins ( 31 ) ( Figure 1 ). Binding of HSP90 to hGRα induces a conformational change in receptor’s LBD, and confers its ligand-friendly state, exposing the LBP to glucocorticoids and masking two nuclear localization signals (NLS), NL1 and NL2. Upon binding to a ligand, hGRα dissociates from the complex, exposes NL1 and NL2 to their counterpart molecular machinery, and translocates into the nucleus through the nuclear pore. NL1 harbors a classic NLS and is located between the C-terminal portion of DBD and the N-terminal part of HR ( 32 ). The function of NL1 is dependent on the importin α, a protein component of the nuclear pore-associated nuclear import system, which transports a liganded GRα as a cargo from the cytoplasm to the nucleus through the nuclear pore in an ATP-dependent fashion ( 33 ). NL2 spans over most of the LBD whose molecular mechanism(s) for supporting nuclear translocation of the receptor has(ve) not yet been elucidated ( 31 , 34 ). Inside the nucleus, ligand-bound hGRα dimerizes and modulates transcription rates of glucocorticoid-responsive genes by associating with promoter/enhancer regions of their encoding genes ( 15 ) ( Figure 1 ). The receptor subsequently liberates the ligand and is dissociated from its target genes and slowly translocates back to the cytoplasm with the molecular mechanisms described below ( 15 ). The ubiquitin-proteasomal pathway degrades some of the liganded hGRα in the nucleus, facilitating clearance of the receptor from GREs; thus this system negatively regulates the transcriptional activity of hGRα ( 35 ). In addition to translocating into the nucleus, some liganded hGRαs migrate to the cytoplasmic membrane where they modulate the activity of cell surface receptors by associating with their intracellular signaling molecules, such as classic and small GTP-binding (G) proteins, and several serine/threonine and tyrosine kinases ( 36 - 38 ). The ligand-bound hGRα is also known to translocate into the mitochondria and to modulate the activity of this intracellular organelle ( 39 ). After modulating transcription rates of glucocorticoid-responsive genes in the nucleus, ligand-liberated hGRα is exported back to the cytoplasm and is re-incorporated into the HSP-containing multiprotein complex to function again as a ligand-binding competent receptor ( 31 , 40 ) ( Figure 1 ). Several mechanisms are postulated for mediating the GRα export from the nucleus to the cytoplasm. The Ca 2+ -binding protein calreticulin plays a
