Primary Generalized Glucocorticoid Resistance Syndrome
KEYWORDS: glucocorticoid, receptor, pubmed, mutation, mutations, glucocorticoid receptor, free, activity, resistance, free article, article, pmc, pmc free, gene, article pubmed


, 40 ) ( Figure 1 ). Several mechanisms are postulated for mediating the GRα export from the nucleus to the cytoplasm. The Ca 2+ -binding protein calreticulin plays a role in this process, directly binding to DBD of the receptor ( 41 - 43 ). The chromosomal maintenance 1 (CRM1, also known as exportin 1)- and the classic nuclear export signal (NES)-mediated nuclear export machinery does not appear to function directly on hGRα ( 32 , 42 ). Rather, NES-harboring and phospho-serine/threonine-binding proteins 14-3-3s can bind hGRα, and shift its intracellular localization toward the cytoplasm ( 44 , 45 ). This action of 14-3-3s on hGRα appears to be independent to the ligand-induced nuclear translocation of the receptor, which is mediated in part by the NL1/importin α-associated nuclear pore complex. Numbers of serine and threonine residues of hGRα are phosphorylated by several serine/threonine kinases at their specific target residues, some of which function as phosphorylation-dependent binding sites of 14-3-3 proteins ( 46 ). For example, the v-akt murine thymoma viral oncogene homolog 1 (AKT1) (or the protein kinase B α) phosphorylates serine (S) 134 of the hGRα, and 14-3-3 binds to phosphorylated S134. Binding of 14-3-3 on hGRα at this site shifts subcellular localization of the latter to the cytoplasm and downregulates its transcriptional activity inside the nucleus ( 45 , 47 ). The misshapen-like kinase 1 (MINK1) and the Rho-associated protein kinase (ROCK) respectively phosphorylate threonine (T) 524 and S617 ( 48 ). 14-3-3s bind phosphorylated forms of these residues as a dimer ( 48 ), possibly modulating subcellular localization and transcriptional activity of the hGRα. Figure 1: Intracellular circulation and actions of hGRα. hGRα resides in the cytoplasm in the absence of ligand by forming a heterocomplex with several heat shock proteins (HSPs), immunophilins (e.g., FKBP), and some other proteins. Upon binding to ligand cortisol, hGRα dissociates from the complex and translocates into the nucleus through the nuclear pore. Inside the nucleus, hGRα binds directly to glucocorticoid response elements (GREs) located in promoter/enhancer regions of glucocorticoid-responsive genes. DNA-bound hGRα then stimulates transcription rates of glucocorticoid-responsive genes by attracting the regulatory regions the transcription regulatory complex including the RNA polymerase II (RNPII) and its ancillary components through bridging coactivators, such as p300/CBP and p160 proteins. Promoter/enhancer-bound hGRα also recruits in collaboration with these coactivators various chromatin remodeling molecules, including the DRIP/TRAP complex (DRIP/TRAP), the SWI/SNF chromatin modulator (SWI/SNF),
