Primary Generalized Glucocorticoid Resistance Syndrome
KEYWORDS: glucocorticoid, receptor, pubmed, mutation, mutations, glucocorticoid receptor, free, activity, resistance, free article, article, pmc, pmc free, gene, article pubmed


coactivators, such as p300/CBP and p160 proteins. Promoter/enhancer-bound hGRα also recruits in collaboration with these coactivators various chromatin remodeling molecules, including the DRIP/TRAP complex (DRIP/TRAP), the SWI/SNF chromatin modulator (SWI/SNF), and the Mediator complex (MED). In addition to binding directly to DNA and regulating transcription, hGRα interacts indirectly with regulatory regions of glucocorticoid-responsive genes via protein-protein interaction with other transcription factors (TFs) and/or attracted cofactor molecules, ultimately modulating positively and negatively the transcriptional activity of GRE- and non-GRE-containing glucocorticoid-responsive genes. hGRα then moves back to the cytoplasm to re-form a heterocomplex with HSPs for regaining a ligand-friendly status or is cleared from DNA by proteasomal degradation. Further, hGRα can influence the action of cell surface receptors by associating with their intracellular signaling molecules, such as classic and small G-proteins, and several serine/threonine and tyrosine kinases (known as non-genomic actions of glucocorticoids). Accumulating evidence suggests that liganded hGRα also influences the transcription of mitochondrial genes by translocating into this intracellular organelle. CBP: cAMP-responsive element-binding protein (CREB)-binding protein; DRIP/TRAP: vitamin D receptor-interacting protein/thyroid hormone receptor-associated protein complex; FKBPs: FK506-binding proteins; GREs: glucocorticoid response elements; GR: glucocorticoid receptor; HSPs: heat shock proteins; MED: Mediator complex; p160: p160-type nuclear receptor coactivator; RNPII: RNA polymerase II; SWI/SNF: switching/sucrose non-fermenting complex; TFs: transcription factors; TREs: transcription factor response elements. Genomic and Non-genomic Actions of hGRα After binding to glucocorticoids and translocating into the nucleus, hGRα binds as a dimer to a tandem GREs located in promoter/enhancer regions of glucocorticoid-responsive genes, and regulates their mRNA expression positively or negatively, depending on the GRE sequence and the promoter/enhancer context ( 15 , 49 , 50 ) ( Figure 1 ). GRE-bound hGRα stimulates transcription of responsive genes by facilitating formation of the transcription regulatory complex, which includes the RNA polymerase II (RNPII) and its ancillary components ( 51 ). Mechanically, hGRα uses its two transactivation domains, AF-1 and AF-2, as protein surfaces for interacting with and attracting nuclear receptor coactivators ( 51 ). These proteins then act as bridges between the DNA-bound hGRα and the RNPII-containing transcription initiation complex ( 52 , 53 ) ( Figure 1 ). In addition, they act in themselves as histone acetyltransferases (HAT) as well as attract other enzymatic proteins, and loosen tightly packed chromatin DNA by chemically modulating specific amino acid residues of histones and other chromatin-associated molecules ( 54 ). Representatives of these HAT coactivators include p300 and its homologous cAMP-responsive
