Primary Generalized Glucocorticoid Resistance Syndrome
KEYWORDS: glucocorticoid, receptor, pubmed, mutation, mutations, glucocorticoid receptor, free, activity, resistance, free article, article, pmc, pmc free, gene, article pubmed


packed chromatin DNA by chemically modulating specific amino acid residues of histones and other chromatin-associated molecules ( 54 ). Representatives of these HAT coactivators include p300 and its homologous cAMP-responsive element-binding protein (CREB)-binding protein (CBP), and the p160 family of nuclear receptor coactivators (NCoAs). The former proteins serve as macromolecular docking “platforms” for many transcription factors, including nuclear hormone receptors, CREB, activator protein-1 (AP-1), nuclear factor-κB (NF-κB), p53, and signal transducers and activators of transcription (STATs), and thus, are called co-integrators ( 55 ). On the other hand, the p160 family of nuclear receptor coactivators (NCoAs) is more specific to nuclear hormone receptors including hGRα, and play a central role in the initiation of transcription by hGRα, as they are first attracted to the DNA-bound receptor molecule ( 55 , 56 ). For physical interaction with hGRα, p160-type coactivators employ the LxxLL motif in which “L” is leucine and “x” is any amino acids. They harbor in their nuclear receptor-binding domain (NRB) multiple LxxLL motifs, each of which have different affinity to respective nuclear hormone receptors ( 55 - 58 ). The LxxLL motif forms the α-helical structure and is deeply buried into the molecular cleft formed by the AF-2 surface of the liganded hGRα ( 58 ). Interestingly, p160 family proteins also serve as transcriptional coactivators for some other transcription factors (e.g., NF-κB) ( 59 , 60 ). In collaboration with these transcriptional coactivators and promoter/enhancer-bound other transcription factors, hGRα interacts with and attracts several distinct chromatin remodeling complexes (e.g., the mating-type switching/sucrose non-fermenting (SWI/SNF) complex, the vitamin D receptor-interacting protein/thyroid hormone receptor-associated protein (DRIP/TRAP) complex, and the Mediator (MED) complex) as well as various enzymatic molecules, scaffold proteins, and long non-coding RNAs (e.g., the steroid receptor RNA coactivator (SRA) and the growth arrest-specific 5 (Gas5)), ultimately forming a huge transcriptional regulatory complex for initiating transcription of the downstream coding sequence though the attracted RNPII ( 61 - 64 ). These newly identified functional oligonucleotides exert their transcriptional regulatory activity in part by modulating the liquid-liquid phase separation among various proteins inside the transcription regulatory complex formed on the DNA-bound hGRα ( 65 ). Similar to the transcription factors incorporated in the transcriptional regulatory complex recruited by GREs-bound hGRα, liganded hGRα is also attracted to the transcription regulatory complex formed by DNA-bound other transcription factors (e.g., AP-1, NF-κB, p53, STATs, and forkhead transcription factors: FOXOs). This incorporation of hGRα
