Primary Generalized Glucocorticoid Resistance Syndrome
KEYWORDS: glucocorticoid, receptor, pubmed, mutation, mutations, glucocorticoid receptor, free, activity, resistance, free article, article, pmc, pmc free, gene, article pubmed


liganded hGRα is also attracted to the transcription regulatory complex formed by DNA-bound other transcription factors (e.g., AP-1, NF-κB, p53, STATs, and forkhead transcription factors: FOXOs). This incorporation of hGRα can be independent to its physical association with DNA GREs, and the recruited hGRα modulates their transcriptional activity positively or negatively ( 15 , 66 ) ( Figure 1 ). The interaction between hGRα and these transcription factors are mediated by mutual protein-protein interactions between these proteins or indirectly through bridging coactivators, such as p300/CBP and p160-type coactivators ( 15 ). This GRE-independent activity of hGRα may be more important than the GRE-mediated one, given that the mice harboring a mutant GR defective in the dimerization surface, and thus, active in protein-protein interaction but inactive in transactivation via tandem GREs, survive and procreate, in contrast to the mice with Nr3c1 gene knock-out, which die immediately after birth due to respiratory failure ( 67 ). Suppression of transactivation of other transcription factors through such protein-protein interactions appears to be important particularly in the suppression of immune functions and inflammation by glucocorticoids ( 68 - 70 ). Mounting evidence suggests that glucocorticoids also signal within seconds or minutes. These effects are called “non-genomic”, since they do not require the transcriptional activity of hGRα ( 15 ). Representative examples of these actions are: (i) the immediate suppression of ACTH release from the anterior pituitary gland by glucocorticoids ( 71 ); (ii) the increased frequency of excitatory post-synaptic potentials by glucocorticoids in the brain hippocampus ( 72 ); (iii) the cardioprotective role of glucocorticoids through nitric oxide-mediated vasorelaxation ( 73 ); and (iv) some immunomodulatory effects of glucocorticoids via inhibition of the T-cell receptor signaling ( 74 ). Some of the molecular mechanisms underlying these actions of hGRα have been proposed. For example, ligand-activated hGRα physically interacts with the classic G protein β through its NTD, and may modulate the action of G protein-coupled receptors located at the cytoplasmic membrane ( 36 ). Recent studies also demonstrated that hGRα influences the activity of kinase-mediated signaling, such as of the mitogen-activated protein kinase and the phosphatidylinositol 3-kinase through interacting with their key signaling molecules residing under the cytoplasmic membrane or in the cytoplasm ( 71 - 75 ) ( Figure 1 ). These non-genomic effects of hGRα modulate the action of some intracellular signaling pathways, whereas the latter can influence the activity of hGRα through
