Primary Generalized Glucocorticoid Resistance Syndrome
KEYWORDS: glucocorticoid, receptor, pubmed, mutation, mutations, glucocorticoid receptor, free, activity, resistance, free article, article, pmc, pmc free, gene, article pubmed


- 75 ) ( Figure 1 ). These non-genomic effects of hGRα modulate the action of some intracellular signaling pathways, whereas the latter can influence the activity of hGRα through post-translational modifications (PTMs) of this receptor protein. Such PTMs include phosphorylation, ubiquitination, acetylation, and sumoylation ( 15 ). These covalent changes may influence receptor stability, subcellular localization, as well as its interaction with other proteins including transcription factors and transcriptional cofactors/regulators ( 10 ). Thus, enzymes catalyzing these PTMs act as molecular effectors of their upstream intracellular signaling pathways for modulating the biologic effects of glucocorticoids by targeting the hGRα protein. In addition to the above-explained diverse actions, glucocorticoids can modulate expression of the mitochondrial genes by translocating into this cytoplasmic organelle, and by binding to the classic GREs located in some regulatory sites (D-loop) of these genes ( 76 - 78 ) ( Figure 1 ). This action of hGRα in the mitochondria appears to play a role in the glucocorticoid-mediated modulation of apoptosis, a well-known process of the programmed cell death, and may contribute to the therapeutic effects of glucocorticoids on hematologic and other malignancies ( 79 ). PRIMARY GENERALIZED GLUCOCORTICOID RESISTANCE SYNDROME Pathophysiology and Clinical Manifestations This syndrome is a condition first described by Chrousos, et.al., as a rare, familial or sporadic, genetic disorder characterized by generalized, partial target tissue insensitivity to glucocorticoids ( 80 ). Because of glucocorticoid insensitivity in the central components of the HPA axis, glucocorticoid-mediated negative feedback inhibition on the brain hypothalamus and the anterior pituitary gland is decreased ( 5 , 81 ) ( Figure 2 ). These changes result in compensatory elevation of the corticotropin-releasing hormone (CRH) and the arginine-vasopressin (AVP) at the hypothalamus and systemic release of the ACTH from the anterior pituitary gland. Excess ACTH secretion then causes bilateral adrenocortical hyperplasia and increased production/secretion of cortisol, which compensates for its reduced actions in target tissues. However, elevated circulating ACTH also stimulates production of other adrenal steroids, such as mineralocorticoids (e.g., deoxycorticosterone (DOC) and corticosterone) and/or adrenal androgens (e.g., androstenedione, dehydroepiandrosterone (DHEA), and DHEA-sulfate (DHEA-S)), leading to the development of excess manifestations of these hormones, because tissue sensitivity to these steroids is not altered. Increased mineralocorticoids may cause hypertension and/or hypokalemic alkalosis, whereas elevated adrenal androgens may develop manifestations (see below) through their direct effects on target tissues and/or indirect actions via modulation of the hypothalamic-pituitary-gonadal axis. Figure 2. Pathophysiologic
