Primary Generalized Glucocorticoid Resistance Syndrome
KEYWORDS: glucocorticoid, receptor, pubmed, mutation, mutations, glucocorticoid receptor, free, activity, resistance, free article, article, pmc, pmc free, gene, article pubmed


hypokalemic alkalosis, whereas elevated adrenal androgens may develop manifestations (see below) through their direct effects on target tissues and/or indirect actions via modulation of the hypothalamic-pituitary-gonadal axis. Figure 2. Pathophysiologic mechanisms and clinical manifestations of primary generalized glucocorticoid resistance syndrome (PGGRS). The HPA axis consists of the brain hypothalamus, the anterior pituitary gland, and the adrenal cortex with their secreting hormones/peptides, CRH/AVP, ACTH and cortisol, respectively. In patients with this syndrome, their HPA axis is re-set to upward with preservation of circadian rhythmicity due to generalized, partial insensitivity to glucocorticoids in entire tissues. Thus, hypothalamic CRH/AVP, pituitary ACTH and adrenal cortisol are all hyper-secreted in order to compensate for the reduced actions of cortisol in both CNS and peripheral tissues. In addition to augmenting production of cortisol in the adrenal glands, elevated ACTH stimulates secretion of mineralocorticoids (e.g., deoxycorticosterone and corticosterone) and androgens (e.g., androstenedione, dehydroepiandrosterone (DHEA) and DHEA-sulfate(S)), which in turn cause a variety of manifestations associated with excess secretion of these hormones. In contrast, manifestations associated with overproduction of cortisol are rare in adult patients but neonates/young children may develop hypoglycemia and associated seizures due to reduced actions of cortisol in the liver. Elevated CRH/AVP in CNS may precipitate anxiety and depression in some patients. Solid lines indicate positive effects, whereas dashed lines show negative effects. Manifestations associated with elevation of the indicated molecules/compounds are shown with red letters. ACTH: adrenocorticotropic hormone; AVP: arginine vasopressin; CNS: central nervous system; CRH: corticotropin-releasing hormone; DHEA: dehydroepiandrosterone; DHEA-S: DHEA-sulfate; PGGRS; primary generalized glucocorticoid resistance syndrome. Manifestations associated with excess adrenal androgens observed in patients with this syndrome include acne, hirsutism (more common in females), decreased fertility in both sexes, male-pattern hair loss, menstrual irregularities and oligo-anovulation in females, and oligospermia in males. Affected children may develop advanced bone age and subsequent short stature in their adulthood. In female new born babies, clitoromegaly/ambiguous genitalia may be seen ( 5 , 82 , 83 ). Clinical manifestations of glucocorticoid deficiency are rare in adult patients but are reported in neonates/young children as severe hypoglycemia and associated seizures/coma, because gluconeogenesis depends on the proper action of glucocorticoids in the liver during early childhood ( 84 - 86 ). Some adult patients develop anxiety and/or chronic fatigue, which appear to be caused by elevated hypothalamic CRH and/or AVP ( 87 - 92 ). Increased circulating ACTH may cause bilateral adrenal hyperplasia ( 5 ). Some
