Primary Generalized Glucocorticoid Resistance Syndrome
KEYWORDS: glucocorticoid, receptor, pubmed, mutation, mutations, glucocorticoid receptor, free, activity, resistance, free article, article, pmc, pmc free, gene, article pubmed


chronic fatigue, which appear to be caused by elevated hypothalamic CRH and/or AVP ( 87 - 92 ). Increased circulating ACTH may cause bilateral adrenal hyperplasia ( 5 ). Some patients harbor adrenal incidentalomas ( 93 , 94 ). Although this adrenal neoplasm is very common in general population ( 95 ), elevated circulating ACTH may facilitate tumor development and/or its growth. Further, one patient with this syndrome harbored an ACTH-producing pituitary adenoma, which might have been caused/facilitated by the elevated CRH/AVP ( 96 ). Finally, the clinical spectrum of this syndrome is broad, ranging from severe to mild forms, and a number of patients may even be asymptomatic, displaying biochemical alterations only ( 5 , 93 , 97 , 98 ). This heterogeneity is mainly due to variable impact of the patients’ genetic changes in the receptor protein, but other factors, such as their genetic backgrounds and/or epigenetic and biochemical changes, for example, associated with their ageing and lifestyles, may also contribute to variability of disease expression. NR3C1 Gene Mutations That Cause Primary Generalized Glucocorticoid Resistance Syndrome The molecular basis of this syndrome is ascribed to inactivating mutations in the NR3C1 gene, which impair molecular actions of hGRα and hence decrease tissue sensitivity to glucocorticoids. Currently, 36 pathologic mutations that cause this syndrome have been reported ( Table 1 and Figure 3 ). Chrousos, et. al. , reported the first family of this syndrome who carried a homozygous miss-sense mutation, which replaces adenine by thymine at nucleotide position 1,922 ( 80 ). The NR3C1 gene harboring this mutation expresses the hGRαD641V mutant receptor, which has valine (V) instead of aspartic acid (D) at amino acid position 641 in the LBD ( 80 ). Since then, numbers of patients were reported whose pathologic mutations were identified mostly as heterozygous in the coding sequence of LBD ( 90 , 96 , 99 - 102 ). Most of these patients demonstrated characteristic manifestations, such as those of mineralocorticoid and androgen excess, similar to the original case of Chrousos, et. al. , thus they may be considered as “classic cases”. More recently, technological progress in the genome sequencing including the use of capillary or high through-put next generation sequencers enabled clinical researchers to conduct large studies with recruitment of the subjects with conventional/unconventional manifestations, (e.g., obesity and bilateral adrenal incidentalomas, as evident in the French Muta-GR study (ClinicalTrials.gov Identifier: NCT02810496 ) ( 97
