Primary Generalized Glucocorticoid Resistance Syndrome
KEYWORDS: glucocorticoid, receptor, pubmed, mutation, mutations, glucocorticoid receptor, free, activity, resistance, free article, article, pmc, pmc free, gene, article pubmed


conduct large studies with recruitment of the subjects with conventional/unconventional manifestations, (e.g., obesity and bilateral adrenal incidentalomas, as evident in the French Muta-GR study (ClinicalTrials.gov Identifier: NCT02810496 ) ( 97 )). Clinicians are now able to obtain much easier and faster than before the data of patients’ genome sequence around the NR3C1 gene. Together with growing acknowledgement of this syndrome among clinicians and clinical researchers, such technological progress appears to have facilitated the discovery of new cases with classic symptoms, as well as those with much milder and/or alternative manifestations or even with biochemical changes only. Further, the identified mutations tend to distribute over the entire NR3C1 gene including coding areas of all three major domains and intronic sequences ( Table 1 and Figure3 ). Among 36 pathologic NR3C1 mutations, only three are homozygous mutations, while the other 33 are heterozygous ( Table 1 and Figure 3 ). One patient harbors two different NR3C1 mutations each of which are identified in different alleles (thus, compound heterozygous) ( 86 ). Among 34 mutations found in the NR3C1 coding sequence, 24 are miss-sense mutations, which replace one amino acid with another (thus, point mutations), five are non-sense mutations, which introduce a stop codon and generate truncated receptor proteins, and another five are frame-shift mutations, which also develop truncated receptors but with additional unrelated amino acids after the mutation point. At the receptor protein level, 22 mutations are located in LBD, two in HR, seven in DBD, and four are in NTD ( Figure 3 ). In addition to these coding sequence mutations, two mutations are identified in the intronic sequence, located in intron F (between exon 5 and 6) and in intron I (between exon 7 and 8), respectively ( 91 , 103 ). Table 1. The NR3C1 Gene Mutations that Cause Primary Generalized Glucocorticoid Resistance Syndrome † . View in own window Amino Acid Change Nucleotide Change Zygosity Mutation Type Proband’s Gender and Age Clinical Manifestations Molecular Defects References NTD Mutations P9R 26C>G Heterozygous Point Mutation M, 33 Hypertension N.D. ( 104 ) Q123X 367G>T Heterozygous Point Mutation F, 31 Fatigue, Anxiety, Hirsutism, Irregular menstruation, Infertility N.D. ( 87 ) E198X 592G>T Compound heterozygous with 2141G>A mutation Point Mutation F, 3 Hypoglycemia Hypertension Also harbors R714Q expressed from a different allele ( 86 ) D401H † 1201G>T Heterozygous Point Mutation F, 43 Hypertension Hyperglycemia Increased transcriptional activity ( 105 ) DBD
