Primary Generalized Glucocorticoid Resistance Syndrome
KEYWORDS: glucocorticoid, receptor, pubmed, mutation, mutations, glucocorticoid receptor, free, activity, resistance, free article, article, pmc, pmc free, gene, article pubmed


† . Currently, 36 independent mutations are reported. The mutations identified in the coding sequence of LBD, HR, DBD and NTD are shown in a light green, green, yellow and red box, respectively. Miss-sense mutations, non-sense mutations and frame-shift mutations are shown with black, purple and blue letters, respectively. Two mutations identified in the intronic sequence are shown with red letters. Homozygous mutations are shown with underlines. † : The 1201G>T D410H mutation causes mild glucocorticoid hypersensitivity; *: The same miss-sense mutation but found in unrelated subjects/families; $ : Prediction only (the mutated hGRα protein was not biologically identified); # : These two mutations were found as compound heterozygous in one affected subject. Numbers of nucleotides and amino acids are based on the transcription initiation site and the first methionine of the hGRα protein, respectively. DBD: DNA-binding domain; HR: hinge region; LBD: ligand-binding domain; NTD: N-terminal domain. Molecular Defects of Pathologic hGRα Mutants Molecular defects of pathologic mutant receptors have been extensively investigated by focusing on their defects in ligand-association, transactivation of glucocorticoid-responsive genes, cytoplasmic to nuclear translocation, and others ( 5 ). Recently, computer-based in silico structural simulation has also been used for estimating the structural impact of mutations to hGRα LBD and DBD ( 88 , 114 ). Pathologic mutant receptors generally cause inactivation/reduction of one or some of the receptor functions, whereas they are in most cases heterozygous mutations that enables affected subjects to harbor both mutated and intact hGRα protein in their tissues ( 5 , 6 ). Thus, affected subjects of this syndrome demonstrate partial loss of glucocorticoid actions in their tissues, consistent with the experimental evidence that genetic knock-out (inactivation) of the Nr3c1 gene in mice (thus, complete abbreviation of the GR protein and its actions) is lethal ( 115 ). However, one homozygous case who only expresses a mutant receptor with complete loss of the ligand-binding activity was reported (2318-2319delTG F774SfsX24) ( 85 ). Given that the ligand-binding is essential for subsequent receptor activation, this mutant receptor might have residual activities including minimal association to glucocorticoids or other steroids, enabling the patient to survive even though he only expresses this highly damaged receptor. LBD MUTATIONS There are 22 pathologic mutations whose amino acid changes are identified in the LBD. Among them, 17 are miss-sense mutations (see Table 1 and Figure 3 for details), one is a non-sense mutation (1992A>T Y660X) ( 115 ),
