Primary Generalized Glucocorticoid Resistance Syndrome
KEYWORDS: glucocorticoid, receptor, pubmed, mutation, mutations, glucocorticoid receptor, free, activity, resistance, free article, article, pmc, pmc free, gene, article pubmed


the molecular structures, which directly mediate these two major functions, LBP and the AF-2 surface, respectively ( 114 ). The latter is used for physical interaction with the LxxLL motif of p160-type coactivators ( 58 ). Further analysis revealed that these point mutations damage and/or alter multiple intramolecular amino acid interactions necessary for maintaining the proper structural conformation of LBD, resulting in the alteration in these two protein surfaces indirectly but simultaneously ( 114 ). More detailed structural analysis revealed that the amino acid replacements damage LBP by indirectly reducing the electrostatic interaction between key residues of LBP and those of the dexamethasone molecule (especially, the interaction formed against the carbonyl oxygen of carbon (C) 3 of this steroid) ( 114 ). Their impact on the interaction between the AF-2 surface and the LxxLL motif of the p160-type coactivator GRIP1 protein is variable, but tends to damage the ionic interaction (or salt bridge) of non-core leucines of this motif as well as the noncovalent interaction of its core leucine residues formed against key amino acids of the AF-2 surface, ultimately reducing the affinity of this motif to the hydrophobic cleft of the AF-2 surface ( 114 ). The C-terminal portion of the hGRα LBD that follows the α-helix-12 of this domain is one of the hot spots of pathologic hGRα mutations, as evident in the accumulation of three independent mutations to this region (L773P, L773VfsX25 and F774fsX24) ( 85 , 90 , 113 ). Indeed, this molecular area is particularly important for creating the AF-2 surface and for maintaining the ligand-bound LPB conformation through its dramatic intramolecular shift upon binding to a ligand ( 30 ). Arginine (R) at amino acid position 714 is another hot spot of the point mutations, as three patients independently harbor this mutation that replaces this amino acid to glutamine (Q) ( 84 , 86 , 112 ). In the structural simulation analysis on the R714Q mutant receptor, substitution of R for Q in LBD causes a rearrangement of the side chains resulting in forming a new salt bridge between R704 and D662 and displacing Q714 ( 84 ). This relaxes some constraint on the helix-10 and results in structural changes throughout the LBD, indirectly damaging conformation of both LBP and the AF-2 surface ( 84 ). Interestingly, the third case with the R714Q mutation harbors another point mutation (592G>T E198X) in the other allele
