Primary Generalized Glucocorticoid Resistance Syndrome
KEYWORDS: glucocorticoid, receptor, pubmed, mutation, mutations, glucocorticoid receptor, free, activity, resistance, free article, article, pmc, pmc free, gene, article pubmed


receptor protein is only expressed from the intact allele ( 103 ). The other mutation is the 2024G>T, which replaces G with T at the position one nucleotide 5’ terminally to exon 8 (thus, located at the 3’-terminal portion of intron I) ( 91 ). Although biochemical characterization on the mutant receptor was not performed, the computer-based prediction indicated that the mutation appears to cause a skip of the entire exon 8 and to generate the V675GfsX10 truncated receptor whose molecular function appears to be highly damaged ( 91 ). It is also possible that the mutation reduces stability of its mRNA, leading to functional “knock-out” of NR3C1 of the affected allele similar to the 1891-1894 delGAGT NR mutation ( 103 ). Thus, biochemical evaluation on the mutated mRNA and hGRα protein is needed. Clinical Evaluation of Patients with Primary Generalized Glucocorticoid Resistance Syndrome Key for evaluating patients with this syndrome is to identify the manifestations suggesting upregulation of the HPA axis without Cushingoid features ( 5 ) ( Table 2 ). Circadian rhythmicity of circulating ACTH and cortisol should be preserved, in contrast to the patients with Cushing syndrome ( 5 ). In addition, any evidence suggesting psychiatric problems (e.g., anxiety and depression), possibly through upregulation of brain CRH and/or AVP may be noted ( 5 ). Physical examination should include an assessment for signs of hypertension and associated metabolic alkalosis caused by elevated levels of adrenal mineralocorticoids ( 5 ). Arterial blood pressure should be recorded and should be monitored over a 24-hour period. Signs of hyperandrogenism and/or virilization caused by over-production of the adrenal androgens, such as acne, hirsutism, pubic and axillary hair development, male-pattern hair loss, and clitoromegaly, should be evaluated. Hirsutism should be assessed using the Ferriman-Gallwey score ( 123 ), while pubic hair development should be classified according to the Tanner scale ( 124 , 125 ). All subjects should be screened for signs associated with Cushing syndrome or therapeutic use of high-dose glucocorticoids. Table 2. Clinical Manifestations and Diagnostic Evaluation of Primary Generalized Glucocorticoid Resistance Syndrome View in own window Clinical Presentation Glucocorticoid excess Apparently normal glucocorticoid actions without Cushingoid features (However, hypoglycemia and associated coma/seizures can be observed in affected neonates/young children) Mineralocorticoid excess Hypertension Hypokalemic alkalosis Adrenal androgen excess Children: Ambiguous genitalia at birth*, clitoromegaly, premature adrenarche, gonadotropin-independent precocious puberty Females: Acne, hirsutism, male-pattern hair loss, menstrual irregularities, oligo-anovulation, infertility Males:
