Primary Generalized Glucocorticoid Resistance Syndrome
KEYWORDS: glucocorticoid, receptor, pubmed, mutation, mutations, glucocorticoid receptor, free, activity, resistance, free article, article, pmc, pmc free, gene, article pubmed


axis to administered dexamethasone but can respond to higher doses. Concurrent measurement of serum dexamethasone concentrations is recommended in order to exclude the possibility of increased metabolic clearance or decreased absorption of this compound ( 83 ). Pituitary and adrenal imaging studies should be performed, because patients with this syndrome frequently harbor hypertrophy of these organs or may develop their benign tumors. Cellular and Molecular Studies on Patients with Primary Generalized Glucocorticoid Resistance Syndrome The purpose of cellular studies is to identify the presence of tissue resistance to glucocorticoids in actual tissues of the affected subjects. The thymidine incorporation assay and the dexamethasone binding assay employing subjects’ peripheral blood mononuclear cells (PBMCs) are generally employed ( 5 , 126 ) ( Table 2 ). In the former assay, dexamethasone administration strongly suppresses phytohemagglutinin-stimulated thymidine incorporation of PBMCs in normal subjects. However, this response is significantly blunted in the affected subjects due to reduced affinity/actions of this steroid in these cells. The dexamethasone binding assay can address reduction in the affinity of patients’ tissue hGRα to dexamethasone, because mutant receptors harboring their defects in LBD almost always show reduced affinity for this steroid. As part of the molecular examination for verifying pathologic causes and their molecular mechanisms, sequencing of the coding region of the NR3C1 gene including exon/intron junctions should be performed ( 126 ). Identification of mutations in the NR3C1 gene is critical for diagnosing this syndrome. Once mutations are identified, the next step is to prove that the identified mutations have biologic impact. Because the NR3C1 gene harbors so many neutral polymorphisms ( 13 ), there is always a possibility that the identified nucleotide changes are just coincidental but not pathologic. Population incidence of the identified nucleotide changes is important if available, as pathologic mutations generally have a very low allele frequency. Molecular studies can be started by constructing the mutant hGRα-expressing plasmids. Then, molecular actions of mutant receptors can be examined by transfecting the created plasmids (transiently or stably) to appropriate cell lines (e.g., GR-negative African green monkey kidney CV1 and COS7 cells, and GR-positive human cervical cancer HeLa cells). Using mutant receptor-expressing cultured cells, reporter transactivation assays using the GREs-driven luciferase gene can be performed to address the reduced transcriptional activity of mutant receptors. The dexamethasone binding assay can also be performed in the COS7 cells transiently expressing mutant receptors to evaluate their affinity to dexamethasone in
