Primary Generalized Glucocorticoid Resistance Syndrome
KEYWORDS: glucocorticoid, receptor, pubmed, mutation, mutations, glucocorticoid receptor, free, activity, resistance, free article, article, pmc, pmc free, gene, article pubmed


the reduced transcriptional activity of mutant receptors. The dexamethasone binding assay can also be performed in the COS7 cells transiently expressing mutant receptors to evaluate their affinity to dexamethasone in the absence of the wild-type GR. In microscope-based imaging studies on the cells transfected with plasmids expressing mutant receptors, their abnormal subcellular localization and delayed nuclear translocation in response to dexamethasone can be evaluated. Management of Patients with Primary Generalized Glucocorticoid Resistance Syndrome The aim of the treatment for patients with this syndrome is to suppress the excess ACTH secretion in order to reduce production of the adrenal steroids with mineralocorticoid and/or androgenic activity to minimize their pathologic effects ( 5 ). Treatment involves the administration of high doses of mineralocorticoid activity-sparing pure glucocorticoids (e.g., dexamethasone), which activate mutated and/or wild-type hGRα in the hypothalamus/pituitary gland of the affected subjects and suppress their ACTH secretion. Adequate suppression of the HPA axis is of particular importance, given that the treatment is virtually life-long, thus any side effects of exogenous glucocorticoids should be avoided as much as possible. Long-term dexamethasone treatment should be titrated carefully according to the clinical manifestations and biochemical profiles of the affected subjects. CONCLUSIVE REMARKS AND FUTURE PERSPECTIVES Primary generalized glucocorticoid resistance syndrome is characterized by hypercortisolism without Cushingoid features but with manifestations caused by upregulation of the HPA axis, such as hypertension (by mineralocorticoid excess) and signs of hyperandrogenism (by adrenal androgen excess) ( 81 ). The pathologic cause of this syndrome is ascribed to mutations in the NR3C1 gene, which decrease the action of its encoding protein hGRα, a ligand-dependent transcription factor ( 15 , 81 ). In honor to Professor George P. Chrousos who discovered the first case and significantly contributed to the progress of this field, this syndrome may be called “Chrousos syndrome”, particularly for the cases who demonstrate classic and characteristic manifestations of this syndrome ( 6 , 80 ). Recent progress in genome technology including high through-put sequencing has enabled clinical researchers to handle large patient cohorts and clinicians can get access to the NR3C1 gene sequencing much easier and faster than before. Consequently, 35 cases/families of this syndrome are currently reported world-wide who harbor pathologic mutations in the NR3C1 gene. It is of note that some of the recent cases tend to demonstrate much milder manifestations compared to the classic cases of Chrousos syndrome ( 97 , 110 ). Further, some
