Orthostatic Hypotension
KEYWORDS: symptoms, orthostatic, hypotension, autonomic, orthostatic hypotension, patients, heart, causes, standing, peripheral, failure, dysfunction, cause, disease, sodium


Orthostatic (postural) hypotension is an excessive fall in blood pressure (BP) when an upright position is assumed. The consensus definition is a drop of > 20 mm Hg systolic, > 10 mm Hg diastolic, or both (1). Symptoms of faintness, light-headedness, dizziness, confusion, or blurred vision occur within seconds to a few minutes of standing and resolve rapidly on lying down. Some patients experience falls, syncope, or even rarely generalized seizures. Exercise or a heavy meal may exacerbate symptoms. Most other associated symptoms and signs relate to the cause. Orthostatic hypotension is a manifestation of abnormal BP regulation due to various conditions, not a specific disorder. Evidence suggests that disorders of postural hemodynamic control increase risk of cardiovascular disease and all-cause mortality (2, 3). Postural orthostatic tachycardia syndrome (POTS) POTS (also called postural autonomic tachycardia, or chronic or idiopathic orthostatic intolerance) is a syndrome of orthostatic intolerance in younger patients. POTS is defined by a heart rate of ≥ 120 beats/minute or an increase of ≥ 30 beats/minute when a patient moves from supine to a standing position. Various symptoms (eg, fatigue, light-headedness, exercise intolerance, cognitive impairment) and tachycardia occur upon standing; however, there is little or no fall in BP. The reason for symptoms is unclear. Pathophysiology of Orthostatic Hypotension Normally, the gravitational stress of suddenly standing causes blood (½ to 1 L) to pool in the veins of the legs and trunk. The subsequent transient decrease in venous return reduces cardiac output and thus BP. In response, baroreceptors in the aortic arch and carotid sinus activate autonomic reflexes to rapidly return BP to normal. The sympathetic nervous system increases heart rate and contractility and increases vasomotor tone of the capacitance vessels. Simultaneous parasympathetic (vagal) inhibition also increases heart rate. In most people, changes in BP and heart rate upon standing are minimal and transient, and symptoms do not occur. With continued standing, activation of the renin-angiotensin-aldosterone system and vasopressin (antidiuretic hormone [ADH]) secretion cause sodium and water retention and increase circulating blood volume. Etiology of Orthostatic Hypotension Homeostatic mechanisms may be inadequate to restore low BP if afferent, central, or efferent portions of the autonomic reflex arc are impaired by disorders or medications, if myocardial contractility or vascular responsiveness is depressed, if hypovolemia is present, or if hormonal responses are faulty (see table Causes of Orthostatic Hypotension). Causes differ depending on whether symptoms are acute or chronic. The
