Orthostatic Hypotension
KEYWORDS: symptoms, orthostatic, hypotension, autonomic, orthostatic hypotension, patients, heart, causes, standing, peripheral, failure, dysfunction, cause, disease, sodium


heat intolerance (due to impaired sweating), and erectile dysfunction. Other important symptoms include tremor, rigidity, and difficulty walking (Parkinson disease, multiple system atrophy); weakness and fatigue (adrenal insufficiency, anemia); and black, tarry stool (gastrointestinal hemorrhage). Other symptoms of neurologic and cardiovascular disorders and cancer are noted. Past medical history should identify known potential causes, including diabetes, Parkinson disease, and cancer (ie, causing a paraneoplastic syndrome). The medication profile should be reviewed for offending prescription medications (see table Causes of Orthostatic Hypotension), particularly antihypertensives and nitrates. A family history of orthostatic symptoms suggests possible familial dysautonomia. Physical examination BP and heart rate are measured after 5 minutes supine and at 1 and 3 minutes after standing; patients unable to stand may be assessed while sitting upright. Hypotension without a compensatory increase in heart rate (< 10 beats/minute) suggests autonomic impairment. Marked increase (to > 100 beats/minute or by > 30 beats/minute) suggests hypovolemia or, if symptoms develop without hypotension, POTS. The skin and mucosae are inspected for signs of dehydration and for pigment changes suggestive of Addison disease (eg, hyperpigmented areas, vitiligo). The extent of physical examination is guided by clinical suspicion. A rectal examination is done to evaluate for gastrointestinal bleeding. A detailed neurologic examination should include evaluation for peripheral neuropathy (eg, abnormalities of strength, sensation, and deep tendon reflexes). Red flags Certain findings suggest a more serious etiology: Bloody or heme-positive stool Abnormal neurologic examination Interpretation of findings 5/9 In patients with acute symptoms, the most common causes—medications, bed rest, and volume depletion—are often apparent clinically. In patients with chronic symptoms, an important goal is to detect any neurologic disorder causing autonomic dysfunction. Patients with movement abnormalities may have Parkinson disease or multiple system atrophy. Patients with findings of peripheral neuropathy may have an apparent cause (eg, diabetes, alcohol use disorder), but a paraneoplastic syndrome due to an occult cancer and amyloidosis must be considered. Patients who have only peripheral autonomic symptoms may have pure autonomic failure. Testing ECG, serum electrolytes, creatinine, and glucose are routinely checked. However, these and other tests are usually of little benefit unless suggested by specific symptoms. The dose of a suspected medication may be reduced or the medication stopped to confirm the medication as the cause. Tilt table testing may be done when autonomic dysfunction is suspected; it gives more consistent results than supine and upright BP assessment and eliminates augmentation of venous
