Orthostatic Hypotension
KEYWORDS: symptoms, orthostatic, hypotension, autonomic, orthostatic hypotension, patients, heart, causes, standing, peripheral, failure, dysfunction, cause, disease, sodium


as the cause. Tilt table testing may be done when autonomic dysfunction is suspected; it gives more consistent results than supine and upright BP assessment and eliminates augmentation of venous return by leg muscle contraction. The patient may remain upright for 30 to 45 minutes of BP assessment. Patients with autonomic symptoms or signs require further evaluation for diabetes, Parkinson disease, and possibly multiple system atrophy and pure autonomic failure. Testing for pure autonomic failure may require plasma norepinephrine or vasopressin (ADH) measurements with the patient supine and upright. Autonomic function can also be evaluated with bedside cardiac monitoring, although this test is not often done. When the autonomic system is intact, heart rate increases in response to inspiration. The heart is monitored as the patient breathes slowly and deeply (about a 5-second inspiration and a 7- second expiration) for 1 minute. The longest inter-beat (R-R) interval during expiration is normally at least 1.15 times the minimum R-R interval during inspiration; a shorter interval suggests autonomic dysfunction, but this response to inspiration may decrease with aging. A similar variation in R-R interval should exist between rest and a 10- to 15-second Valsalva maneuver. Treatment of Orthostatic Hypotension Nonpharmacologic interventions Patients requiring prolonged bed rest should sit up each day and exercise in bed when possible. Patients should rise slowly from a recumbent or sitting position, consume adequate fluids, limit or avoid alcohol, and exercise regularly when feasible. Regular modest-intensity exercise promotes overall vascular tone and reduces venous pooling. Older patients should avoid prolonged standing. Sleeping with the head of the bed raised may relieve symptoms by promoting sodium retention and reducing nocturnal diuresis. 6/9 Postprandial hypotension can often be prevented by reducing the size and carbohydrate content of meals, minimizing alcohol intake, and avoiding sudden standing after meals. Waist-high fitted elastic hose may increase venous return, cardiac output, and BP after standing. In severe cases, inflatable aviator-type antigravity suits, although often poorly tolerated, may be needed to produce adequate leg and abdominal counterpressure. Increasing sodium and water intake may expand intravascular volume and lessen symptoms. In the absence of heart failure or hypertension, sodium intake can be increased to 6 to 10 g daily by liberally salting food or taking sodium chloride tablets. This approach risks heart failure, particularly in older patients and in patients with impaired myocardial function; development of dependent edema without heart failure does not contraindicate continuing
