Orthostatic Hypotension
KEYWORDS: symptoms, orthostatic, hypotension, autonomic, orthostatic hypotension, patients, heart, causes, standing, peripheral, failure, dysfunction, cause, disease, sodium


sodium chloride tablets. This approach risks heart failure, particularly in older patients and in patients with impaired myocardial function; development of dependent edema without heart failure does not contraindicate continuing this approach. Pharmacotherapy Fludrocortisone, a mineralocorticoid, causes sodium retention, which expands plasma volume, and often lessens symptoms but is effective only when sodium intake is adequate. Dosage is 0.1 mg orally at bedtime, increased weekly to 1 mg or until peripheral edema occurs. This medication may also improve the peripheral vasoconstrictor response to sympathetic stimulation. Supine hypertension, heart failure, and hypokalemia may occur; potassium supplements may be needed. Midodrine, a peripheral alpha-agonist that is both an arterial and a venous constrictor, is often effective. Dosage is 2.5 mg to 10 mg orally 3 times a day. Adverse effects include paresthesias and itching (probably secondary to piloerection). This medication is not recommended for patients with coronary artery or peripheral arterial disease. Nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs (NSAIDs—eg, indomethacin 25 to 50 mg orally 3 times a day) may inhibit prostaglandin-induced vasodilation, increasing peripheral vascular resistance. However, NSAIDs may cause gastrointestinal symptoms and unwanted vasopressor reactions (reported with concurrent use of indomethacin and sympathomimetic medications). Droxidopa, a norepinephrine precursor, may be beneficial for autonomic dysfunction. Propranolol or other beta-blockers may enhance the beneficial effects of sodium and mineralocorticoid therapy. Beta-blockade with propranolol leads to unopposed alpha-adrenergic peripheral vascular vasoconstriction, preventing the vasodilation that occurs when some patients stand. Pyridostigmine (1) and octreotide (2) have been effective in small clinical studies. Geriatrics Essentials: Orthostatic Hypotension Orthostatic hypotension occurs in approximately 15 to 20% of older adults (1). It is more common among people with coexisting disorders, especially hypertension, and among residents of long-term care facilities. Many falls may result from unrecognized orthostatic hypotension. The increased incidence in older adults is due to decreased baroreceptor responsiveness plus decreased arterial compliance. Decreased baroreceptor responsiveness delays cardioacceleration and peripheral vasoconstriction in response to standing. Paradoxically, hypertension may contribute to poor baroreceptor sensitivity, increasing vulnerability to orthostatic hypotension. Older adults also have decreased resting parasympathetic tone, so that cardioacceleration due to reflex vagal withdrawal is lessened. Key Points Orthostatic hypotension typically involves volume depletion or autonomic dysfunction. Some degree of autonomic dysfunction is common in older adults, but neurologic disorders must be ruled out. Tilt table testing is sometimes done. Treatment involves physical measures to reduce venous pooling, increased sodium intake, and sometimes fludrocortisone or midodrine.
