| TYPEOriginalResearch
KEYWORDS: school, children, gastrointestinal, organic, symptoms, disease, absenteeism, fgids, school absenteeism, functional, month, missed, days, suffering, organic disease


were considered “homebound” if they had not attended a single dayof school (20 Chronic abdominal pain and constipation account for 30%– absences) over the past four weeks. At least six months after their visit, chart review was performed to ascertain each child’s 38% of acute care visits to pediatricians (1). The overwhelming final diagnosis. Diagnoses were categorized as either FGIDs or majority (>95%) of children who present to their primary care organic gastrointestinal diseases. The extent of the diagnostic provider due to chronic gastrointestinal complaints do not have any identifiable organic cause for their symptoms and are workup performed prior to and after their consultation varied from patient-to-patient, but tests commonly performed included suffering from functional gastrointestinal disorders (FGIDs) (2). complete blood count, routine chemistries, serum lipase, The predominance of chronic gastrointestinal complaints being erythrocyte sedimentation rate, c-reactive protein level, iron due to FGIDs persists amongst children referred to pediatric studies, tissue IgA transglutaminase antibody level, total serum gastroenterologists, with more than 50% of children undergoing IgA, fecal calprotectin and upper and lower endoscopy with evaluation by a pediatric gastroenterologist meeting diagnostic biopsies. The child was considered to be suffering from a FGID criteria for at least one FGID, the majority of which are pain- relatedFGIDs (3–5). when evaluation by a pediatric gastroenterologist did not identify an inflammatory, anatomic, infectious, or allergic condition that While it is reassuring most children experiencing chronic could account for the child’s gastrointestinal symptoms. gastrointestinal complaints are not suffering a serious underlying Functional diagnoses included functional abdominal pain, disease and rather are suffering from a FGID, their symptoms are real and can have a very negative effect on the child’s quality irritable bowel syndrome, non-ulcer dyspepsia, functional nausea, abdominal migraine, chronic constipation and/or encopresis, of life (6). Patients with FGIDs who seek medical attention rumination disorder, functional vomiting, and functional perceive their symptoms to be as severe as patients suffering dysphagia. Differences in school absenteeism between children from organic gastrointestinal disease (6, 7). Additionally, FGIDs suffering from functional disorders and those suffering from remain diagnoses of exclusion, and affected patients often suffer from symptoms for extended periods of time before a definitive organicdiseases were comparedusing unpairedt-tests. diagnosis is made (8). The long period of time without a clear explanation for symptoms and/or the family’s discomfort with the diagnosis of a FGID may exacerbate the child’s and family’s Results fears as to the cause of the
