| TYPEOriginalResearch
KEYWORDS: school, children, gastrointestinal, organic, symptoms, disease, absenteeism, fgids, school absenteeism, functional, month, missed, days, suffering, organic disease


emphasis on pain-related fear and an inability to divert attention away from the pain or fear of pain (14). Pain catastrophizing (or catastrophizing in general) is associated with decreased quality of Itisimportanttorecognizethatthemajorityofchildreninour life, greater functional disability, increased risk for depression, study missed very little school as a result of their gastrointestinal and school absenteeism (9). In adults with FGIDs, symptoms. Nearly 75% of children with both FGIDs and organic catastrophizing is associated with high rates of work absenteeism gastrointestinal diseases missed no school over the previous and social impairment (7, 15). Our data suggest that some month, and 80%of children missed three daysof school orfewer children and adolescents with FGIDs experience similar over the previous month. For only 106 of the 674 visits (16%) disruption intheir livesas aresult oftheir symptoms (3). did a child miss more than three days of school over the In some children with FGIDs, the length and extent of the previous month and only 26 (4%) were homebound over the diagnostic process coupled with the lack of a definitive “answer” previous month (Table 2). Given our relatively small sample size, for the cause of their symptoms and the seeming lack of an more data areneeded to better understand the potential utilityof ability to cure their symptoms may contribute to the school absenteeism to help distinguish between organic and catastrophizing (10). Application of the Rome IV criteria, functional causes of chronic gastrointestinal symptoms. However, combined with elimination of “red flag” symptoms and signs is FrontiersinPediatrics 05 frontiersin.org TersteegandBorowitz the standard means of diagnosing FGIDs in adults, however, the interestingtoinvestigatewhetherthis is acorrelationbetween the diagnostic accuracyof these criteria is less certain in thepediatric duration of symptoms prior to initial consultation and the final population. As compared to adults, the Rome IV criteria have diagnosis, howeverwedid notcollectthose data. decreased specificity and PPV in children and adolescents It makes intuitive sense that children who miss more school (8, 16). Because FGIDs remain diagnoses of exclusion, have more severe/extensive disease, and there is some literature establishing with high certainty that a patient is suffering from a supporting the notion that both children with FGIDs FGID rather than an organic disease may involve subjecting (specifically, functional abdominal pain) and inflammatory bowel children to an extensive battery of tests and/or procedures disease miss significantly more school than those with other without any positive results indicating the exact cause of their chronic gastrointestinal complaints (1).
