| TYPEOriginalResearch
KEYWORDS: school, children, gastrointestinal, organic, symptoms, disease, absenteeism, fgids, school absenteeism, functional, month, missed, days, suffering, organic disease


an extensive battery of tests and/or procedures disease miss significantly more school than those with other without any positive results indicating the exact cause of their chronic gastrointestinal complaints (1). It seems reasonable to symptoms and how they can be addressed. Additionally, per the suspect that patients suffering from FGIDs would follow this Rome IV criteria, most of the conditions categorized as FGIDs pattern as well, and those with more severe symptoms would require patients to experience symptoms for at least two months, experience more school absenteeism. We speculate major school with some diagnoses requiring symptoms to persist for at least absenteeism may have prognostic significance in for children six months (8). The lengthy and involved diagnostic process suffering from FGIDs, as children who miss more school may is almost certainly emotionally taxing on patients and their have more severe symptoms and/or be more difficult to treat. If families, as they may have symptoms for many months without additional studies were to demonstrate a relationship between the an explanation or means of alleviating their symptoms. extent of school absenteeism and the severity of symptoms and/ Furthermore, when enough diagnostic information has been or resistance to treatment, we posit substantial school collected for clinicians to confidently rule out organic disease in absenteeism might aid in guiding both the diagnostic evaluation favor of a FGID, the result of this process not being a definitive and therapeutic planning. Children exhibiting greater school explanation for their symptomatology may make patients feel absenteeism might warrant a more thorough and expedited that their concerns are being minimized or stigmatized. All of diagnostic evaluation to quickly exclude organic disease and these factors, in combination with the understandable when the diagnostic evaluation proves negative, it might be disappointment families may experience when their expectations appropriate to quickly move to intensive multimodal therapy to of being cured are deemed unrealistic, can contribute to learned assure the best chance of success. Having said this, while major helplessness, hypervigilance tosymptoms, and thecatastrophizing school absenteeism may point away from organic disease, the observed amongst some patients suffering from FGIDs (6, 10). It negative predictive value of school absenteeism is not sufficient would be interesting to know if the duration of time before a to exclude an organic disease and children exhibiting severe or definitive diagnosis is established (and embraced) is greater worrisome “red flag” symptoms or signs should certainly among children with
