| TYPEOriginalResearch
KEYWORDS: school, children, gastrointestinal, organic, symptoms, disease, absenteeism, fgids, school absenteeism, functional, month, missed, days, suffering, organic disease


a to exclude an organic disease and children exhibiting severe or definitive diagnosis is established (and embraced) is greater worrisome “red flag” symptoms or signs should certainly among children with both FGIDs and organic diseases who miss undergo diagnostic evaluation regardless of the extent of their substantial amounts of school than those who don’t. Similarly, it schoolabsenteeism. would also be interesting to directly explore if length of Anotherlimitationofthisstudyisthatwedid notcollectany symptomatology without receiving a diagnosis is related to data about other reasons for children missing school, such as likelihoodto catastrophize. bullying, difficulties at home, etc. It is very possible that the Our study has a number of limitations. 53% of the children population of children suffering from FGIDs are diagnosed with an organic gastrointestinal disease who missed disproportionately affected by other factors that could negatively more than three days of school over the previous month, as well influence school attendance. There is a well-established organic disease, were diagnosed with inflammatory bowel disease. and depression, and FGIDs in children (4, 17). This association While this is a very small sample size (n=3 for homebound persists into adulthood, as children with FGIDs are more likely children with organic disease), our data suggest children with to experience headaches/migraines, anxiety, and depression as organic diseases who miss large amounts of school due to their adults than those without (4, 17, 18). A study examining school gastrointestinal symptoms are most likely to be suffering from absenteeism in children with FGIDs found a predominance of inflammatory bowel disease. This raises another limitation of this children coming from low-income households, suggesting an study, which is the absence of systematically collected inverse correlation between symptom severity and household information about symptom severity (pain scale, stool frequency, income (5). This is significant, as it is well-established that stool caliber, presence of nausea/vomiting, etc.), initial symptom children from low-income households are more likely to (s) at presentation (and whether patients were presenting with experience chronic school absenteeism (19). These potentially isolated or a combination of symptoms), or symptom duration confounding factors are an additional limitation to our study, as prior to first presentation for their pediatric gastroenterology students with FGIDs who missed more days of school may have consultation and their relationship to school absenteeism. had other reasons for their absenteeism, and the relationship Although no particular group of FGIDs exhibited significantly between these other factors and gastrointestinal symptoms were greater
