| TYPEOriginalResearch
KEYWORDS: school, children, gastrointestinal, organic, symptoms, disease, absenteeism, fgids, school absenteeism, functional, month, missed, days, suffering, organic disease


relationship to school absenteeism. had other reasons for their absenteeism, and the relationship Although no particular group of FGIDs exhibited significantly between these other factors and gastrointestinal symptoms were greater absenteeism compared to the others in this study, not examined. Furthermore, these factors mayobscure ourability including those ultimately diagnosed with multiple FGIDs, to be certain that school absences that the children/families further studies may reveal stronger relationships between specific attributed strictly to gastrointestinal symptoms were solely due to FGID diagnoses and school absenteeism. It would also be thosesymptomsand notdue toothersocialissues. FrontiersinPediatrics 06 frontiersin.org TersteegandBorowitz Conclusion Author contributions Our data suggest children with chronic gastrointestinal ST: Data curation, Formal Analysis, Writing – original draft, complaints who experience significant school absenteeism are Writing – review& editing. SB: Conceptualization, Datacuration, more likely to be suffering from a FGID than an organic disease. Formal Analysis, Investigation, Methodology, Project Missing more than three days of school over the previous month administration, Supervision, Writing – original draft, Writing – due to gastrointestinal symptoms was associated with a NPV of review&editing. 82% for an organic disease. Similarly, children with organic diseases were very unlikely to have missed more than three days Funding of school in the previous month due to their gastrointestinal symptoms (sensitivity=93%). Children who remain homebound for an entire month of school due to gastrointestinal symptoms Theauthor(s)declarethatnofinancialsupportwasreceivedfor are even less likely to be suffering from an organic disease theresearch,authorship, and/orpublication ofthisarticle. (sensitivity=99%, NPV=88%). Nevertheless, there are some children with gastrointestinal diseases, particularly inflammatory bowel disease, who miss a significant amount of school before Acknowledgments their diagnosis is established. Given that the prevalence of organic disease amongst children presenting with chronic We would like to extend our gratitude to the Department of gastrointestinal complaints in the primary care setting is Pediatrics at the University of Virginia and the faculty within the Department of Pediatric Gastroenterology whose clinical work substantially lower than those referred for specialty evaluation, wasinstrumentalincreatingthedataused here. the presence of major school absenteeism (greater than three days in the past month) coupled with the absence of any “red flag” signs or symptoms makes the likelihood of serious organic Conflict of interest disease verylow. The authors declare that the research was conducted in the absence of any commercial or financial relationships that could Data availability statement beconstrued asapotential conflictofinterest. Therawdatasupportingtheconclusionsofthisarticlewillbe Generative AI statement made available bytheauthors, withoutundue reservation. The author(s) declare that no Generative AI was
